{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1825__welby___signs_before_death.pdf","mytitle":"Signs Before Death","mylang":"de"}
AllD
AUTHENTICATED APPARITIONS:
JN ONE HUNDRED NARRATIVES.
COLLECTED IY
HORACE WELBY.
" Set thine hou1e In order, for thou •halt di•, and not lh·e."
fsA.tAB, Chap. :1:1~1'iii.
LONDON: MDCCCXXV.
W. SIMPKIN, AND R. MARSHALL.
STATIONERS' HALI. COURT.
0895 6663
-- -- -~----- - -o,o-;;;;;cibyGoogle
' ~
Legaat
G. Zorah
1990
.~ 126.. 207. \77
..,~
,,....--......_,
_/ '/l'";\11'·U~ t ,.,,.•
1 , . I ' · • •·- ,.J ,,.
~ ~;~~i_,,i ~ ·~~~:·.\ ;
•·\ _... ,/
' ..__,,-'
LONDOS:
IKACl:ELL AND AllR01UHITll, .JOHNSON'S-COURT, f'LEET· iTR&.ET.
rng;1;zed by Google
INTRODUCTJON.
Millloo1 of 1pirltual cnatUl'ea walk the earth
Unaeen, hoth when we wake, and when we aleep.-MrLTON.
IN common questions of ordinary life, and on
subjects of every-day occurrence, there can scarce
he said to exist any two parallel opinions. This
gave rise to that very pertinent axiom
Quot homines tot sententiie•
.If, therefore, shades or shadowa of opinion are so
frequently met wilh on matters of momentary im.
' port, there is no just cause for surprise when we
find certain disputable points received with every
sort of tone and temper which the human mind is
capable of assuming. Thus it is with the reception
of the ever-to-be-controverted theory of apparitioos
and presentiments of death.
It sho~ld be remembered that man occupies bot
a middle rank, and as-Locke justly observes
" Things as far as we can observe, lessen aud· augment a&
.the quantity does in a regular cone; where though there be.
a manifest di1ference in the diameter at remote distances, yet
in tltoae puts which immediately toiich .one anothet0 it is
a 2
iv INTRODUCTION.
hardly discernible. The di1ference is exceeding great between
I1ome men and some animals; but if we compare the under-
'
standing and abilities of some men and some brutes, we shall
find so little, that it will be difficult to say, that that of the
man is either clearer or more capacious. Observing such
gradual and gentle descents downwards in those parts of the
creation that are beneath man, the rule of analogy makes it
probable, that it is so also in things above him, and beyond ·
his observation."
May it not be so in his imperfect idea of' the
1oul, or quickening spirit? This concession is al-
most universally made ; whilst the idea of' the
intermediate revivification is frequently questioned,
and even ridiculed by those who voluntarily concur
in the former principle.
Custom rules mankind with a rod of' iron, settles
habits of thinking in the understanding, and is
commonly too strong for the resolute resolver,
though furnished for the assault with all the wea-
pons of philosophy. Hence every attempt to ex-
plain the mysteries of spirits appearing before and
after death is termed superstition, the bugbear of
the people; although commonly raised by them;
but besotted man should remember that
I "There is a superstition in avoiding superstition, when melt
think to do the best if they go farthest from the 1upentitioa
already received.''-LoBD &coif.
not forgetting that inveterate unbelief' is but tanta-
mount to the weakness of overstrained credulity.
But it has now beco~e the faB~ to dilcredi.t
oigiLeJbvGoogle
DITRODUCTtOM. v
the theory of apparitions. This may in some de-
gree be attributed to the mummery and mysticism
with which the reco.-ds of such circumstances haye
been encumbered. They have supplied the imagery
of poetry, and have been so mixed up with well-
wrought fiction, as ·to have sometimes parted with
their m~tter-of-fact character. Again, they havebeen
associated ·with the scourge of priestcraft, and have
often: been made subservient to the basest ends of
ambition. Darkness has been chosen as the time
of their occurrence, although apparitions have
really no more to do with darkness than with light.
This association of ideas was perfectly gratu~tons,
was settled by chance, and is, to this moment, con-
tinued by custom.•
There has been, notwithstand~g this scepticism,
in all ages and countries, a partial credence given
to presentiments of death ; and this -concession il'I
to be met with among men of strong minds, and
'vho are strangers to fear ; for there is nothing
. • Mr. ~ke, in bis chapter of the Association of Ideas, bM yery
curious remark& to shew bow'·by the prejudice of education, one idea
often introduces Into the mind a whole set that btur no re•emblance
one toano.tber lntbe natureof things. Among several examplesof this
kind be produces the following instance. "The ideas of goblins and
sprites bav~reallyno more todo with darkness than light: yetlel but a
foolish maid inr,ulcate these often on the mind of a child, .and raiae
them there together; possibly be shall never be able to separate them
again so long be lives; but darkness sb!lll ever afterwrlrds bring
11'ith it those frightful ideas, and they shall be so joined, that be caD
ao more bear the-one than the other."
.,, INTRODUCTION•
irreconcilable or inconsistent with common reason-
ing to suppose, that the Being who is omniscient,
omnipresent, and omnipc;ten~, is as capable of ex-
tinguishing and quickening the soul in an inter-
mediate state of existence,• as he is of creating it in
the -first instance, ·and rendering it subject and
subordinate to his will. But sceptics will say, how
are we to ascertain this point? 'This is difficult of
solution for the reasons already quoted from Locke,
and on account of the impossibility of establishing
,
cause and effect without being able to refer it to a
simple and definite origin. Is it then to be allowed,
that because the mischievous waggery of a few im-
,potent reasoners, (who have got out of' their depth
in this matter) has contrived t<;> hoax mankind in
some instances,' the whole theory is to be rejected
as wor8e than fabulous. No ! we might almost as
well urge, that because all alleged offenders are not
found guilty on trial, the scheme is altogether false,
and in no,instance worthy of our credence or re-
spect. Hence, the folly and weakness of taking
for granted all that we read ; and hence, the com~
mon interest of every one to weigh and consi.der.t
I am aware that the free expression of-such
analogies as the foregoing, is calculated to startle
.some who have thought listlessly on my subject, _
• Intermediate is not !lltogetber the phrase here understood, be-
cause death should only be considered as an incident in one course of
exis1eoce. · t BAco11.
oigiLeJbvGoogle
1
,
INTRODUCTION, Yli
and others who have given it more serious attention.
ScYeral writers have set out to elucidate the qu5.
tion, but have left it in a more confused and le88
decided state than they found it. This, of a truth,
is " fishing in troubled waters." Others have been
so far convinced on the matter as to avow their
assent, which has drawn upon them theanathemas of
their arrogant successors,• who have classed them
among the " credulous and superstitious;" and a still
greater number have started in their task with pre-
judice, and prepossession for ridicule, which has
precluded every liberal opinion on the topic, and
rendered them unworthy of notice, otherwise than
as objects for our scorn and contempt.
But as this little volume is a collection of facts,
and not of reasonings, this argument may perhaps
appear rather as a digression. I shall, therefore,
proceed to illustrate the subject from the principal
authors who have treated on it, and leave the reader
to form his own inferences and analogies.
The opinions of the antients as to the disposal of the soul
are curious and interesting; but here their value ceases. They
imagine that the soul wandered auout in the air, till such time
as the body obtained its due funeral rites : from this notion,
• There is 11 vague opinion abroad, tbat tbe world im11roves with
its age : I. e. that mankind are wiser in the nineteenth than In tbe
e1,hteenth centory.-As participators in 111cb disUnction, our vanit1
prom11ts us to as..-ent, without examination. Again, superst.itioo i1
for tbe mOllt part an o.rbitrary usumption, founded on ·lh9des of
belief, which, In tMmi;elres are unsettled.
Tiii . INTRODUCTION.
the friends of the deceased were concerned to see th~ funeral
pile erected for their departed friends, and to have the body
honourably burned ; th.en the ashes of the bones were depo-
lited in an urn, and that urn buried in the earth ·: when this
was done the soul was admitted to pass the Hood, to be trans-
ported into tlie Elysian fields, from whence they never should
return any more : but in case these rites were not performed
for any person, tb-e soul wandered restless, and unfixed, in a
atate of perplexity, for an hundred years:-
"- omnia, quam cemi• loops inbumataque turba est :
Portltor ille, Charon: hi, quo• veluit unda, aepulti.
N~ ripaa datur horrsndaa nee rauea ftue"ta
Transportare prius, quam iiedibuo oosa qulerunt.
Centum errant annos, volitantque bee littora eircum :
Tum llemum admissi atagna exoptata reviaunt. Viacr~.
f
Now between this time, or during this interval, that is to
say, between death and the funeral pile, they pretended they ,
allowed the separated or unembodied souls of men might ap-·
pear, and visit their friends, or harass their enemies; and on
this occasion, the ghost of Patroclus, slain by Hector at the
Siege of Troy, is brought in visiting his friend Achilles, and
begging of him to get his funeral rites performed, that be
might be admitted to rest:
Thus the phantom said,
Sleeps my Aebille1, his Patroelu• dead?
Living, I seemed his dearest, tenderest care,
But now forgot, I wander In the air:
Let my pale corpse the rights of burial know,
.And give me entrllnce Into the ohades below ;
'Till then the spirit findo no ~eating place,
But here and there th' unbodied opectres chace
The vagrant dead Iliad, lib. xnili.
Homer's idea of the state of the dead, was something
like the antient philosophy of the Egyptians, which gave the
aoul a shape like the body, and that it was only a receptacle
of the mind ; the mind theymade to be the sublime and au-
perior part, and that only.
Thus in the case of apparitions, they allowed that this cue
or 1hell called the soul, might appear.after death, but the mind
INTRODUCTION.
eould not, but was esalted ·among .iie god&, a!ld took up its J
eternal abode from whence-" It could return no more."
LuTHEa i!l his "Colloquia Mensalia," says, " when I lived
at Zurica, in Franconia, a child that could hardly speak or
walk was got into a wood near the. house, (there are foreeta
every where in that country) an une1pected snow coveriJI«
and altering the surface of the ground, the child could not
find the way back again to the house. Th; snow ·continuing
to fall in great abundance, he remained there covered oYer
with it two days and three nights. During that time an un:
known man brought him meat and drink ; but at the begin-
ning of the third day, he led the child near his father's house,
and there left him. I was present when he came in, and I
protelt,be told all that bad happened to him, as clearly and in
ae good terms as I could have done myself; notwithstanding
lrom that time for tbree whole years, he was not capable of
putting any :words together, that one could easily understand.
I am therefore persuaded (adds Luther) that the man that
pteserved him was a good angel!'
TASSO, the prince of Italian poets, asserted that he was
constantly attended by a good genius, with whom he had fa-
miliar conv~rse. SocaATES owned that he had a guardian
.angel that preserved him. S1xoNIDES had also a good geniut,
for according to Valerius Maximus, he or it forced him out
of a house which fell down a moment after. VALEiuus MA~-
111us describes 11 ch. s, the ghost, or caco-diemon, which
C-ius Severus, of Panna, saw. As Augustus had sent to
kill him, this spirit was supposed to be a forewarner. PL111v
relates of an Athenian ghost, who wandered visibly about the
house rattling his chains.
JosEPHus relates that Glaphyra, the <laughter_of king Ar-
chelaus, after the death of her two first husbands (being mar-
ried to a third, who was brother to.her first husband, and 10
passionately in Jove with her, that he turned off his former
wife to make room for this marriage) had a very odd kind of
dream. She fancied that she saw her first husband cominc
,towards her, and that she embraced him with great tender-
a 8
x INTJ\ODUCTIOY.
nees; when in the midst of the pleasure whieh she expreeeed
at the sight of him, he reproached her after the following
manner ; " Glaphyra," says he, " thou hast made good the
old saying, that women are not to be trusted. Wa11 not I the
husband of thy virginity? Have I not children by thee i
How couldst thou forget our loTes so far as to enter into a
second marriage, •nd after that into a third, nay to take. far
thy husband a man who has so shamelessly crept into the bed
of his brother? However, for the sake of our passed loves,
I shall free .thee from thy present reproach, and make thee
mine for ever." Glaphyra told this dream to several women
of her acquaintance, and died soon after.
, AnD1soN, in one oC hie papers in the Spectator, (No. 110.)
---;here the scene is laid in the country, at the houee of Sir
ft.Oger de Coverley, in Worcestershire, observes, that they are
more excuseable who believe in apparitions, than those who
reject all extraordinary revelations of this kind, contrary to
the reports of all historians, sacred and profane, ancient an4
modern, and to the tradition& of all nations, and think the
appearance of spirits fabulous and groundless. Could we not
give ourselTes up to the general testimony of mankind, we
shouldto the relations ofparticular persons who are living, an4
whom we know, and cannot distrust in other matters of fact.
_ ~.s, though by the course of his philosophy he was
.,_ obliged to maintain, that the soul did not exist separate from
the.body, fil$es no doubt of the reality of apparitions, an4
that men have olfen appeared after their death. He tells ue,
that the surfaces of all bodies are perpetually flying off from
their respective bodies, one after another; and that these
surfaces, or thin cases, that included each other whilst they
were joined in the body like the coats ofan onion, ate some-
times seen intire when they are separated from .it ; by which
means he pretended to account for the appearance of the
shapes of deceased or absent persons.
Dr. FERRIER, in his Euay on Apparitio111, observes, that the
1sth century has produced a learned, and what is still more,
a fashionable theorist in support of this doctrine; and this is
INTRODUCTION. :zi
no other than the celebrated LAvATER • of Zuric. This
writer, generally interesting and instructive, often enthusiastic,
but always amiable, may pos11ibly give a turn to the fortune of
an opinion that many persons are more willing to destroy,
than able to confute. He applies this doctrine, in tome
measure, to the theory of spectral phamomena, which is like.-
wise the doctrine of Fll'NUB, LORD VERULAM, Da. Ht:NRY
MORE, and others. ·
The book of JoB, the antiquity of which is supposed by
some coeval with Moses, is full to the purpose, who had
read particularly the thirty-third chapter, where Elipbaz ob-
aerves, that God oftentimes calls man to repentance by visions
and dreams.
DR. Buie, in his poem of the Gra'Dt!, say&:-
Toll u., ye dead, if ye in pity can,
Beyond thio ophcl'e what io the future plan;
Some courteous ghost, if any such there bP,
Tell n• In al\er.Jife, what thlngt ye oee ;
For •ome of you, we know iq days of old,
The fatal story to mankind haTe told ;
Forewarning them of death-Oh then comply,
And teil In charity, what 'tis to die;-
But 1·ou're witlthe!d, no matter, dt>nth must call,
The curtain drop, and time will clear up all.
It is the common opinion of the Turks and Persians, that,
near the close oflife, every. person has some sort o( extraordi-
nary revelation of that event. Even the most antient of their
writings prove this. HERB~'.LOT, in his oriental library re-
lates, the Sultan Moctandi Bemvilla, as he rose one day from
table; said to one of his wives who was present, who are these
people that are come in here without leave? Upon looking
round, she could see no one, but observed that he grew pnle,
and immediately fell down dead. The l\IAHo~mTAN writings
are full of narratives, which shew that the doctrine of spirits
has, from the earliest times, prevailed amongst them.
•An n•11hor ofthe same name very early In the !<1st century pub-
lished a complete treatiFe on the subjt-ct in Latin, intitled, De
Spectris.
XII ,INTRODUCTION.
/ Ouus MAoNus, who was Archbishop of Upeal, in hil work
upon the antiquity of the Northem nations, observes, that ia
Sweden, Norway, Finland, and Lapland, there are frequently
seen spirits, or spectres; who are very troublesome to such u
are there indued with what, with us, goes by the name of the
1eco~•
....--'Tile LapTu.nders, both such as profess Christianity, and 1uch
as continue in idolatry, have a strong belief in apparitions of
departed souls.
The well known opinion of D.a. JoHN&oN on this subject,
it contained in the following argument.
he credibility of spectral appearances has been argued oa
tensive grounds. We are told it is not the notion of a few
'riduals only-it has been the belief of all ages and nations• .
In every country where mankind have believed at all in a fu-
ture state, and the separate existence ofsouls, the opinion has
prevailed that the spirits of the dead may have communica-
tion with the living. There is, it is said, no people, whether
rude or learned, however remote or insulated, among whom
such instances have not been related and believed, Whence
could arise this general agreement among nations so distant
from each other, and hnving no interoourse, no bond of con-
nectien, but a common nature, and a common destiny? Dif-
fering widely from each other in almost all other things, their
testimony on this extraordinary subject bas been the same.
Would this notion have become universal, if it were not
founded in truth? Would so many nations who had never
heard of one another, have agreed in one tale, if fact and
experience had not given it credibility ? The doubts and
cavils of the few cannot set aside the testimony of the 111any,
especially as we know there is not a small number of mankind,
who, though they deny it with their tongues, betray plainly
enough by their fears, they believe it with their hearts.
STACKnousE, the erudite historian of the Bible, asserts the
reality of spectrnl app,earances. He says " that the souls of
men departed have a capacity, and no doubt an inclination,
to be employed in ~he service of men alive, as having the
same nature and affections, and being more sensible of our
•
INTRODUCTION. xiii
infirmities than any pure and abstracted spiriu are, can hardly
be contested; that in their absent' state, they are embodied
with aerial of' etherial vehicles, which they can condense or
rarefy at pleasure, and so appear or not appear to human sight,
is what some of the greatest men, both of the heathen and
Christian religionsbave maintained; and that frequent appa·
ritions of this kind have happened, since the world began,
cannot be denied by any who is conversant in its history.''
The cautious ORTON in his exposition of the 28th chapter
, of the first book of Samuel says," with regard to apparitiona,
this sto7 seems to me to prove that God, for wise and good
l'easons, may su1fer spirits to take some vehicle, or light body
by which they may become objects ofsense, and be capable of
conversing with us. Such instances I believe have been; yet
never but on extraordinary occasions.'' •
I might crowd my pages with theories and opi-
nions of writers of equal celebrity, and authenti-
cated character. It will suffice for me to illustrate
in a cursory manner, the principal authorities
quoted in the following sheets.. Among these are,\
~ Beaumont's History ofApparitions; GlanviCa°'!§a_
~· J ""clwziowilM"8 Triumpltatus; Baxter's Visits from
;:V + J,
./!P~"'J the World of Spirits; Sinclair's Invisible World,
.&c. ,
BEAUMONT'S Volume is the chef d'reuvre of a
man of talent, but whose modes of reasoning have
led him into many vulgar errors. His book ia
overcharged with witchcraft and abstruse reading;
but some few of his relations ~11 be perused wi~h J _. /
interest, and his ." Confession," page~,is_,Jt<>-' ft..t/lt..
gether the result of unshaken conviction. In short,
he feels what he writes, but his enthusiasm occa-.
xiv INTRODUCTION.
sionally carries him beyond the bounds of proba-
bility and credible drcumstance.
GLANVIL was an English Divine of some note,
horn ,at Plymouth, in 1636. He was first of
Exeter Coll~ge, Oxford, and aftE'rwards of Lin..
coin College. At the Restoration he became a
member of·the Royal Society, being a zealous ad-
vocate for the new philosophy. In 1666 he was
presented to the Rectory of the Abbey Church,
~..,at Bath; about which time he published his first
::ef~edition of -&1rlasa~fTriurnphatus, which ex-
~::,......, ~ended to three editions. Besides this, he wrote ·
several pieces in defence of revealed religion and
experimental philosophy. His work is too positive
in its inferences, notwithstanding as an assem-
blage of facts connected with narratives of prog-
nostications of death and apparitions, it is highly
curious, and in many insta11ces to be relied on.
The greatest blow to his fame was the implicit cre-
dence which he gave to the memorable story of the
Demon of Tedi*orth, which certainly savours of the
marvellous. It nevertheless has many reconcile-
able facts, and as it is one of the most popular nar·
ratives on record, I have given it place in this
collection.
BAXTER's Vi8its.. from the World of Spirit., was
first published in 179I, and is prefaced by a sober
dissertation on the theories of different write"
on the subject. The narratives are, however, for
lllTRODUCTJON•- xv
the most part, compiled from SrNCLAlR's Invisible
World, smnll Svo. with several engravings. These
works are unquestionably of more moderate and
probable character than either of the preceding;
and hence they are more interestiag and important.
I have therefore extracted their quintessence,- by
adapting their relations, in language suitable to the
taste of readers in the present day.
The narratives of a few irrational frolics have
been introduced with a view to expose the waggery
of those who have calculated too largely on the
credulity of mankind ; and to caution the reader
against inconsistencies and discrepancies, which
may not be evident at first sight. This is pecu-
liarly instanced in the ".J.bbey Vault," in which
every circumstance is accounted for, and nothing
remains unexplained. .
The last writer on my subject .is Dr. Samuel ..
Hibbert, F.R.s.E. &c., who, in 1824,Dlilill8hedpu
ished
--=--
his "Slcelches ofthe Philosophy of Apparitions,"
a work displaying the most erudite research, and
evidently the result of tedious and unwearied in-
vestigation. In this volume, Dr. Hibbert has en-
deavoured to trace apparitions to their physical
causes; and he has partly succeeded, especially as
regards dreams and the co-operation of moi;bific and
moral causes of mental excitement. But he-is-evi-
dently prepossessed on. his subject, and joins in
the general sarcasm aimed at it, except in those-
ui INT.RODUCTIOJr.
eases where his own professional acquirements assist
his discrimination.
It now only remains for me to commend my little
Tofom~ to the liberal reader. In no instance have
I pressed my enquiries into _metaphysical research,
because I wish the circumstances to speak for
themselves. I am aware that I have much· seep.
ticism and ill-will to combat; and above all, that I
have the conceit of hundreds of contemporaries to
· withstand.
The candid reader' will, however, appreciate my
motive; and " if any man thinks these facts in-
credible, let him enjoy bis own opinion to himself,
but let him not endeavour to disturb the belief of
others, who by instances of this m,itut:e are exciiN
to the study of virtue."
With this purity of conscience and rectitude of
intention, and·confiding my volume to such liberal
minds, I trust that it .will meet with their favour- ·
able consideration.
London,
January, H12.S.
HORACE WELBY.
CONTENTS.
Ominous Composition of Hogarth's Tail-Pie~ ••••••••••••
Discotery of a Murder, by an Apparition, at Chester, in 1632
Apparition and Highwayman, in Guildford Gaol ••••••••••
Tba Avarice oC a Step-mother, defeated liy the Apparition of
her Son, whom she had attempted to disinherit• •••••••·
The Two Brothers • • • • • ••••••••••••• •••••••• •••••••
Apparition at Star-Cross, Devoll8bire, in 1823
Apparition of Mrs. Pearson to her Father, Dr. Farrar, in 16'T8
Tbe Drummer or Demon of Tedwortb, Wilts, at the House
of Mr. John Mompesson, as related by Glanl'il ••••••••
Murder committed in Lancashire, by a Clerk and Sexton, dls-
ccmlmd to the Curate of the Parish •• ••••••••••••••
W11ming to J11mes the Fourth, at Liolitbgow, as related by
Buchanan •• • • •••••••• ••••••••••••••••••••• • ••••
Apparition at Belfast, in Ireland ••••••••• , •• , , ••••••••••
I:ltraordlnary Presentiment of Death, ~ a l\fercbar1t's Ap·
prentice • :••••••••••••.•_. ••.••••••••• • •••••• , ,•.•
A11parition to Miss Lee, Daughter of Sir C. Lee, in 1662••••
Prognosticated Death of Counsellor John Bourne ••••••••
Omens of the Murder of Mr. Blandy, at Henley, Oxon •• • •
Presages of·Victory to Robert Bruce, of SOOtland ••••••••
Omens of the Fate of Captain Porteous, at Edinburgh ••••••
Vision of Theodosius, the Roman Emperor ••••••••• , .1 ••
Apparition of Captain Sydenham to Captain Dyke ••.••••••
Letter written by James Earl of Marlborough, a few d11y1
previous to bis Death, in 160.S•••• • •••••••••••••••••
Apparition ofMr. WynyarJ, to Sir John Sherbroke and Gen. 1
Wynyard •••••••.••••••••••••••••••••••. . •••••
Page.
21
%5
26
28
36
40
44
44
-
.n
58
.sg
.J&J
_,.,
43
64
114
66
6T
TO
Tl
Tl
TT
--
xviii CONTgNTS,
Apparition of n Murderer to Mr. Thomas Goddard, o( Marl·
Page.
· borough, Wilts; from Glanvil •• . ••••••••• .. • •• •• • 82
- - Apparition or n Mother to her Son, while at Sea •••·•• •• ••• 87
~arrative of Disturbances nt Little Burton, Somerset, in 16TT;
from Glanvil ••••••••••. ~................ •.• •• ••• 88
Apparition seen by David Hunter, Neatherd, nt Portmore, in
• lreh1nd ....................................... : 93
E1traordi11ary Presages to the Commissioners of W~ nnd
/ Fol'l'Sts, at Woodstock, O.ton, in 1649 • •••••• •• •• •• • 95
__.Apparition of the Duche~s of Mazarine to Madame de Beau-
clair; Mistresses of Charles the Second 100
- Apparition of Sir George ViHiers, to the Servant of the first '
Duke of Buckingham, with other Omens of his Aasassi-
nation, by Ft!lton •• • ••• • ••.. •.. • • •••• •• •• ••.. •• • 105
- .Apparition of Mrs. to Dr. Donne, related by Isaac Walton.. 108
~urder prevented by a Drenm of Mr. Thornton, at Fulham. 109
____.furioua Recovery of a Tit~~-Deed, by an Appurition to Dr.
Scott........................................... 111
Apparition seen by a Doy, as related~ the Rev. Mr. Rnddle,
at Launceston, in Cornwall, in 166.S • •.. • •••• •• • •••• 118
_Apparition of Miss Priugle to her Father, in 114:'>...... . •• • 126
Apparition seen by Count Falkesheim, Professor of Moral
Philosophy at Konigsberg .. ••••• .. •.. •••.... ••••• . 12'7
The Rochester Apparition; in a Letter from the Rev. T. Til-
son, of Aylsworth, Kent :•• ••••• ,.. •••• •• ••••••••• 132
Apparition seen by Cashio Burroughs •••• . •••• •••••• •• • 13.S
Appurition to Capt. Rogers, in a Voyage from England to
Virginia.. ••• •• •••• •• ••• .. ••• ••• •....."~,.... 136
Apparition of Lord Bacon to Lord Middleton, as related by
Sir W. Dugdale ......................... ;.. ... 138
Apparition of Henry, to his Cousin, Dr. Jacob, at Canterbury. 139
Apparition of Robert Nelson, Esq. to Lady E. Hastings.... 140
Fortunate Dream of an Engjish Merchaat, lly which he es-
caped Assassination.............................. 141
Discovery of the Murderers of Mr. Stockdf!n, ofCrlpplegate IH
CONTENTS.
Omens of Murders, from Baker's Chronicle ••••••••••••...
Apparition of James Haddock to Francis Taverner, in 1602.
Apparition to Cupt. Henry Bell, as_relatlld In Luther's Table
Talk ••••••••••• ."••.••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Memoir of Lady D:n·les, of Prophetic celebrity ••••••••••
Apparition of Loni Mohun to bis Mistress •••• ~ •••••••••••
Omen to Mrs. Stephens, of Spltalftelds .. ................ .
The Parliamentary Arrest ••.••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Apparition seen by Richard Bovet, in 1667 ••••••••••••••
Ap11aritlon seen by the late Marquis of Londonderry ••••••
Confession of John Beaumont! Author of the. " Treatise on
xix
Pago.
145
147
162
166-
167
l.S9
162
·Spirits and Apparitions" •••• •••• • • •• • ••• •• • • •• • •.. • 16.S
Apparition of Robert LiDdsay, E~q., of Edinburgh, to his
Friend at Paris •••••••••••• : ••• •• • • • .. • • • • ••• .. • 167
Apparition seen by Mr. B. L. in York Cathedral .......... 168
Prognosticated Death, from Aubrey's Miscellanies •• • •..• • ITO
Apparitions recorded In Boswell's Life of JohnsO!l; Edward
Cave, the Printer, at St. John's Gate; Pendergast, an
Officer in the Army, nnd Parson Ford • •• • • •• • •• • • 171-2
Extraordinary Case of Anne Taylor, of Tiverton, In 1814 • • 173
Apparition seen by Lady Pennyrnon and Mrs Atkim•, 11t Lisle 174
The Midnight Storm, tmnslate<J from tbe French • • • • ••• • • • 181
Apparition seen by llfr. Walker, Curate of \Varblington, Hunts 192
Lord Orrery, and the Irish Butler •.. • • • .. .. •• •.. •• •.. 19T
Apparition of Lord Tyrone to Lady Bel't'sford • •• • •• • •• •. • ZOI>
Two Apparitions to Mr. William Lilly, of Kelso, Roxburg-
shire, in l 749 • •• • • • • • • • •• • •• • • •• •• •• ••• • •• •• • •• 208
Apparitions of Mr. Thomkins to the Re,·. llfr. Warre11 ..... 212
Narrative of Disturbances at Epworth, Llncolo, drawn up by
the Rev. John Wesley, with complete Documents, from
bis Life ........................: ................. 212~
Apparition of Ficinus to Michael Mercato .. • •• .• • • ••• •• •• • 230
Apparitions seen at Portnedown Bridge, af'tlll· the Irish Mas-
S8Cre....... , ••• • , ., , ......... ; •••• • .......... , • • 231
Apparition of Major Blomberg, to the Governor of Domioica.. 234 -
The Westminster Abbey Va11lt, as related by Sincl11irM... ••• 236
o,oi1ized by Google
xx CONTENTS.
Part.
,......The Disobedient Son reproved.. •••• ••••••.. • ••• •.. •.. .. • 240
The Yatton Demoniac, with complete Documents........... !42
Ominous Swords............. .. .......... , •.. •... .. •.. 2.SO
Apparition to Lady Fansbaw. .. •• • .............: .. .. .. • 2Sl
Apparition to Philip Melancthon, at the Second Diet of Spires,
in 1529.................................. . ....... !62
Original Account of the Apparition of Mrs. Bargrave to Mn.
Veal, at Canterbury ............................ .
Remarkable Case of Mr. Booty and the Ship's Crew••••••••
Extraordinary Dream of the Rev. Joseph Wilkins.......... .
~pparltion of Desfontaines to Mr: Bezeul.................. .
Apparition of Sir John to Lady Owen and her servant....... .
Omen to Charles II, in 1680•.•~ ........................ .
Conversioa of Judge Brograve; from Aubrey •••••••••••..•
Siogiilar Death of Commissioner Fostree, in l T6T••••••••••
-4.pparitlon to Lord Lyttleton, at Pitt Place, Epsom.......... .
~pparition ofMr..,Barlow's Huntsman, in 18ll............ .
,.--~··, · ,Evidence of an Apparition, in the High Court of Josticiary, in
Edinburgh............. .. ......... , ............. .
!$4
284
2611
288
2TO
2T4
274
2T4
21.s'
2'8
Circumstantial Anecdotes of the llfassncre of St. Bartholomew 288
Prognosticated Death of Henry Ill. of France... • . •• •• ••••• 282
Prediction of Alexander Peden........................ ..
Remarkable Drenm of Miss Hutton••••••••••••..••••••••
Conversion of Henry de Joyeu.o;e........................ .
Apparition to the celebrated Ninon de l'Enclos•••.•••.•••••
,_Apparition to Miss Hepburue, of Garleton, NB~ •••• , •.•••••
Apparition seen by Mr. Weston, of Old Swinford, Worcester.•
-._~dJ!l~from Martin, Dr. Johoson, and others,. ...... .
. ,...,_...:.A Duel between two Sons prevl'nteJ by the Apparition of
their F11ther..................................... .
Narration oftbe Sampford Ghost, in 1810, with Aftidavitund
HJ
ib.
2R4
28.S
:.?80
:.?90
281
29T
other Documents, &c. • .. •.. • .. .. .. ••... • .. .. .. . • • 801
DigiHwd by Google
.·..Dl
J[.NG§ ."
'J.90_rf/i,.
SIGNS BEFORE DEA TH,
A!CD
AUTHENTICATED APPARITIONS.
lo eumptuoua yet to perishing withal !
• • • • •
A thousand mo11rners deck the pomp of death,
To day the breathing marble glow11 above
To det'orate ita memory, and tongue•
Are busy of its life; to-morrow worms
In 1ilence and in darknea11 seize their pr(!y.
SRl:LLl:Y.
THE END OF ALL THINGS.
(See Fronti8]Jiece.)
Englishmen will always reve~e the kindred genius of
their celeijrated countryman, WILLIAM HOGARTB. The
efforts of bis pencil are admirably suited to their ta.le,
beca1.1se they simultaneously appeal to the eye and tbe
B
o,9;1ized by Google
22 HOGARTH'S TAIL-PIECE.
understanding, in bold and \'igorous language, the effect
of which is universally felt ·and acknowledged. To
this school belongs his " Tail Piece," which is in every
point, one of the happiest conceptions of his ingenious
mind ; and of which the frqnlz"spiece is a fac-siruile.
But the circumstances of the design and completion of
tliis picture are the most remarkable.
The first idea is said to have been started in company,
while the convivial glass was circulating round the artist's
own table. " My next undertaking," said Hogarth,
"shall be the end of all things."-" If that is the case,"
replied one of his friends, " !JOUr business will be
finished, for there will be an end of the painter."-
" The~e will so," answered Hol!;arth, i.ighing heavily,
"and the sooner my work ia done the better.'' Aceord-
ingly he began the next day, and continued his design
with a diligence which seemed to indicate that he should
not live till he bad completed it. He however finished
it, but never again took the pale~te in hand, for about a
month after this, on the 25th of October, I i64, he
died suddenly of an aneurism in hi.<; chest,' in the sixt;y-
sevcnth or sixty-eighth year of his age, and was interred
at Chiswick. ·
The design ofthe Tail-Piece is two-fold,fir1t,to collect such
objects as denoted the end oftime, and 1econdl!J, to ridicule the
gross absurdities which are to be seen in the serious works of
some of the ancient masft!rs, who have blended the grave
with the sublime, and the trIBing with subjects of importance.
Alluding to Swift's humorous art ef linking p'oetry, Hogarth
HOGARTH'S TAIL·PIECE. 23
called it the Batlw, or manner of rifzltittg m1u/Jlw ~g1,
and ioscribed the plate to the dealers in dark pictures.
As there ia no great connection among · the variety of
objects denoted in thiii print, except a conformity with
the end, we shall mention the various articles as they present
themselves to our view. On the left is a ruinous tower, hav-
ing a decayed time-piece or dial-plate in front; contiguous
to that is a tomb-stone decorated with a death's head, and
leaning on the remains of a column, we perceive Time in the
utmost agony breathing out his last ; his usual accompani-
ments, the scythe, tube, and hour-glass are broken; his sinews
are unstrung, and his course is run. In one hand he holds a
parchment scroll containing his will, in which he has be-
queathed every atom of thU world to chaos, whom he has
appointed'sole executor. This testament is duly executed by
the three sister fates, C/.otho, Lachetis, and Atropot;
Beneath the will or time, lies a shoemaker's last, around
which ~ entwined the cobbler's end. On the left of these, are
an empty ragged purse, a commission of bankruptcy with the
seal annexed, supposed to be issued against poor dame Nature,
and a play book opened at the last page.
In the centre, appear a broken bow, a broken crown, and
a worn out scrubbing-brush. On the other side of the plate
is opposed a withered tree, beneath which stands an un-
thatched cottage, together with -a falling sign of the world's
end, described by a terrestrial globe bursting out into flames.
At the foot is the artist's own print of the times, set on fire
by an inch of candle.
Near this, a cracked hell is contrasted by a broken bottle,
a worn out broom, the stock of a musket, a rope's end, a
whip without its lash, a mutilated capital of the Ionic order,
and a painter's broken palette. . At some distance a man i~
gibbeted in chains, and a ship is seen foundering at sea. To
HOGARTH'S TAIL·PIECE,
eomplete the whole, in the firmament above, the moon ii
darkened by the death of Phcebus (the sun) who (with his
lifeless coursers) lies extended on a cloud~ while his chariot
wheels are broken, and consequently the source of light is
extinguished :- -
The stars shall fade away, the All him11elf
Grow dim with age, and nature 11ink in yean.
ADDllOJ".
A more intellectual print was perhaps never executed,
and is a just £atire on the unmeaning frippery of modem.
art. It speaks volumes, and will always be a treasure in
the chamber of the man of reflection, to keep in remem-
brance the road to eternity, and with its beacons to fore-
warn him of the instability of all earthly grandeur :
These our actors
As I foretold you, were all &pirit, and
Are melted into air, into thin air:
And like the baseless fabric of this vision,
The cloud-capp'd tow'r's, the gorgeous palaccN,
The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve;
And like the unsubstantial pageant failed,
Leave not a track behind: We are such stulf
As dreams are made oC, and our little life
h rouuded with a1leep. ~-'AK&PEARE.
rngitizedbyGoogle
l>ISCOVERY OF A. MURDER A.T CHESTER,
ABOUT the year 1632, near Chcster-in-theooStreet,
there lived one Walker, a yE!omun of good estate, and
a widower, with a handsome young house-keeper, who
was, by the ·neighbours, suspected to be with child.
Towards the dusk of an evening, in autumn, she was
sent away with one Mark Sharpe, a collier. She was
not heard of for a long time, but little or no further notice
was taken. In the following winter, one James Gra-
ham, or Grime, a miller, residing about two miles
from the place where Walker lived, was one night
alone very late in the mill, grinding corn. .About twelve
at uight, he came down stairs, having finished putting
corn in the hopper, and the mill doors being shut, when
there stood before him a woman in the midst ofthefl.oor,
with her hair about her head hanging down, and stained
with blood, with five large wounds on her lwad. He
-asked her who she was, and what she wanted ? To
which she said, I am the spirit of - - - , who
iived with Walker ; and having been seduced by him,
he promised ·to send me to a private place, where I
should be well attended to, until I was brought to bed
and well again, and then I should return and keep
·his house. ·
Accordingly, continued the Apparition, I was one
night late sent away with one Mark Sharpe,· who upon
a moor (naming a place which the miller knew) slewme
with a pick (such as men use in digging coals), and
gave me these five wounds, and afterwards threw my
body into a coal-pit hard by, and hid the pick under a
bank: and his shoes and stockings being bloody, he
endeavoured to wash them, but seeing the blood would
not wash out, he hidthem there. The Apparition further
told the MiUer that he must be the man to reveal it, or
c
0;9;1,,edbyGoogle
26 TllB CffESTE& MURDER.
else she must still appear and haunt him. The Miller
returned home very sad and heavy, but spoke not one
word of what he hadseen. He, however, avoided stay·
ing in the mill at night without company, thinking
thereby to e§cape this frightful Apparition. ·
Notwithstanding this precaution, one night, when it
began .to grow dark, the Apparition met him again, and
threatened,thatifhe did notreveal the murder, she would
continually pursue and haunt him. He still coLcealed
it till St. Thomas's eve, before Christmas, when being
after sun-set, walkingin his garden, she appeared again,
and then so threatened and terrific~ him, that he faith•
fully promised to reveal it next morning.
In the morning he went to a magistrate, and commu~
nicated the whole matter, with all the circumstances ;
and diligent search being made, the body was found in
a coal-pit, with five wounds in the head, and the pick,
and shoes, and stockings yet bloody, in every circum-
~tance as the Apparition bad described to the Miller.
Walker and Mark Sharpe were both apprehended, but
would confess nothing. At the following Durham
Ufiz~ they were arraigned before Judge Davenport,
.found. guilty, condemned, and executed. During the
trial, one Mr. Fairbair gave it in evidence upon oath,
that be saw the likeness ofa child ~iand upon Walker's.•
should.en !
- THE APPARITION AND THE HIGHWAYMANo
I11 Guildford Gaol.
IN the year 1780, ·one Mr. Bower, an aged man,
living at Guildford, in Surrey, was, upon the highway,
.not far from that town, found barbarously murdere~, hav-
ing one great cut across the throat, and another down his
.breast. Two men were taken up on suspicion, and im·
prisoned in Guildfordgaol,with another, who had before
DiglizedbyGoogle
•
APPARITION IN Gll'ILDPORD GAOL. 2i
been committed for robbery. During the night, this
third man was awakened about twelve o'clock, and
greatly terrified by an old man, who had a wide gash
across his throat, almost from ear to ear, and a wound
down his breast. ·He also came in' stooping, and hold-
ing his hand on his back. The thief called to his new
companions, who grumbled at aim, but made nG
answer.
In the morning ho retained t'<> lively an impression
of w~at he had seen, that he sp'*o to them to the same
effect again, when they told him it was nothing but his
phantasy. But he was so fully persuaded of the re-
ality of this apparition, that he told others of it, and it
reached the ears of a magistrate 'of Surrey, whC\ was
cousin to the murdered geDtlewan.
He immediat.ely sent for the pwisonec, and asked hitn,
in the ,first place, whether he was born <1r bad lived
near Guildford? To which he ,answered no. Se-
condly, he enquired if he knew any of the inhabitants'
of that town, or of the neighbourhood? He replied
that he was an entire stranger to aH .that part of the
~untry. He then enquired if he had ever heard of one
Mr. Bower? He said no. After this be asked for
what cause the other two men were imprisoned;
to which be answered he knew not, but supposed for
some robbery.
After these preliminary interrogatories, he desired
him to tell him what he had seen in the night, which
he immediately did. He described the old gentleman
by hlli picked beard, and that he was rough · on his
cheeks, and that the hairs on bis face were black and
white ; when the magistrate said that he himself could
not have given a moreilxaet description of Mr. Bower.
Tb~ magistrate concealed this story from the jury at
c 2
Digitize(_ by GoogIe
f- A._. vd ~· ~ ...::
Jt11J-';.,;_ ~ •1 41. .WI
28 'l'HE WICKED STEP•MOTHER.
the assizes, knowing t~at this would not be evidence
according to law. However the friends ofthe murdered
gentleman had been very inquisitive, and discovered
several suspicious circumstance!! ; one of -which was,
that these two men 'had washed their clothes, but some
stains of blood still remained; and another, that one of
them bad denied ever h~ving heard that Mr. Bower was
dead, when be bad in another place confessed .it two
hours before. Upon this, and similar evidence, the
tnen were .condemned and executed, but they both
denied ,n knowledge of the murder to the last moment.
Some time after a tinker was hanged, who, at.his death
said, that the murder of Mr. Bower at Guildford, waq his
greatest trouble; for he had a hand in it. He confessed
be struck him a blow on the hack which brought him
from his horse, and when he was down, -the other two
men who had been arraigned and executed, .cut his
throat, and rifled him.-Dr. H. More.
THE WICKED STEP·MOTHER.
A gentleman of good estate married. a lady of fortune,
by whom he had one son and one daughter. After a
few years the lady died. He then married a second
wife with less fortune than the other, who maltreated
the children he had by his first wife.
The first misunderstanding between the parties, was
owing to the eldest son's wish to go abroad, which the
mother-in-lawwould gladly have acquiesced in; had itnot
been forthe expense of his father's supportinghim abroad,
whichsl1e feared mightprovevery heavy. Tlrn young gen-
tlemannotobtainingleave, appliedto hisown mother's bro-
ther, who countenancing himin l1isdesign, he setout onhis
intended journey, contrary to the wish of his father.
The father c_onstantly received intelligence from him
TH& WICKED STBP·MOTHER. 29.
fer some time, and bad been prevailed on to make him
a reasonable allowance ; but owing to the influence of
hi11 step-mother, this remittance was suddenly discon-
tinued, after which the correspondence ceased fo~ four
years.
During this long silence, the mother-in-law used her
influence in several instances : she first intimated to his
father that he must be dead; and, consequently, that
his estate should be settled upon Iler eldest son, she
having several children. His father opposed this pro-
position very firmly, but the wife became impOltunate;
and she argued upon two points against the son.
First; Ifhe were dead, then there could be no room to
ooject to her so.n's being heir at law.
Secondly ; If he were .not dead, his neglect '>f bis
father was inexcusable, and he. ought to resen' it, and
settle the estate as though he were dead ; that nothing
could be more disobedient, and that he who thus abused
.his father, should be considered as dead in his filial
relation, and be treated accordingly.
His father, boweYer, withstood the importunities of
tho mother for a long time. Her restless 1101icitations at
last produced this provisional arrangement; that if he
did not heu from his son within four years, he would
consent to resettling the estate. She was not satisfied
with this conditional agreement. He grew angry at her
discontent, still sh& teazed him so continually that at
last she reduced the time to one year; but before she
brought him to this agreement, she told him one day in
a passion, that she hoped his spirit would appear to
him, and tell him that he was dead, and that he ought
to do justice to his other children. When he was
about to consent to shorten the time to one year, he
told her that he hoped his son's spirit, though he were
o,oitized by Google
30 TBB WICltRD STEP•MO'l'JIER.
Mt dead, would appear to her, and tell her lie was alive,
before th&time expired.
It he.ppened oae evening soon afterwards that they bad
a violent quarrel upon this subjeet, when St1ddenly a hand
appeared at the casement, endeavouring to open it.
The gentleman ciid 11<» see it, but his wife did, and she
presently &W'ted up, as if frightened; and, forgetting
the quarrel exclaimed, " Lord bless me ! there are
thieves in the gardee." Her husband ran immediately
to the door oE the room, and opening it, looked' out;
TbeN is 11obody in the garden, said he ; and then
shut the door again, and re-seated himself:
I am sure, said she, I saw a man there.
It must he the devil then, replied he; for I am sure
there is nobody in the garden.
I'll swear,.said she, I saw a man put bis hand up to
open tDe casement; but.finding it fast, and I BUppose,
8ffing us in the room, he walked ofE.
It is'impossible he could be goue, saMl he; did Dot 1
run to the door immediate})' ? and you know the garden
walls on. bot& sides would prevent escape.
Pr'ythee, said she angrily, I am neither drank nor
in a dream ; I know a man when I see him, and it is
not yet dark, and the sun is not fiuite down.
You are only frighteneJl with shadows, said be, and
ill-natureil folks generally are so when haunted with
an evil conscience; may be 'twas. the devil
No, I am not so soon frightened, replied she ; if 'twaa
tbe devil, 'twas the ghost of your son, who perhaps ma)l
be come to tell you he was gone to the devil, and yo11
..} might give your estate to your eldest illegitimate, since
you won't settle it on the lawful heir.
If it was my son, said he, he is come to tell us he
is alive, l warrant you ; and to ask how you call
TBB WICK.BO ITBP·MMBBa. 31
'
be so wicked as to desire me to disinherit him,
and with these W-Ords "Alexander," eried he aloud,
repeating it twice, and starting up out of bis chair, ''if
you are alive, show younelf, and don't let 'me be
vexed thus daily with the story of your being dead."
At those words the casement flew open, and his son
Alexander fooked in, and staring directly ttpon the
mother with an angry cmm~ance, Cl'ied out ltere ;
and then vanished! The woman, who was eo spirited·
befoN, now shrieked out, so as to alarm the whole
house; the maid'ran into the parlour, to see what wa&
the matt.er ; but her mistress had ftli.Bted away in her
chair. Her husband ran immMiawty from the parlolll"
into the garden, and from thence to two. other do<m
which opened out of bis garden, one into the stabJe..
_yard, and another into the field beyond the garden, but
found them all fast shut and barred. On returning int&
~e garden, he found his gardener 8.nd a boy drawiog a
•tone-roller : he asked them if any otner person had'
been in the guden, but they both solemnly aft!rmed
that none bad been there.
lJpon this he returned to the room, seated himselft·
and remained silent for some time. After a while his
wife recovered herself, when the first words she said
were, Lord bless me! what was it.? Nay, said bet
husband, ·'twas Alexander. She now fell into ·a fit,
violently S<.Teamiog and shrieking out; and she con-
tinued very ill for se~ral days afterwards from the
effect ofthe fright.
This pu\an end for some considerable time to her
solicitations about disinheriting her son-in-law. · But
time wore this offalso by degrees, and she began to revive
the old cause 8t,Cl'8in; though not at fustso eagerly as
before. This gave rise to serious dispute11, in which
:Ji 'l"RE W'ICKED STGP..lrfOTUft'.'-
the husband 1ncautiously alluded to the recent apparP-- _
tion, and threate11ed io recall him. 'Ihe enraged·wife,.
at length$ indicted him as a wizard, and accused him of
horrible h'affickiDgs in witchcraft and sorcery. At
length, for what will not the discontent of woman effectr
she so far prevailed on him, that be offered to refer the dis-
. pute to iDdifferent pemons, or friends on bothsides ·; and
they met several times, but eould bring the matter to no
conclusion. His friends said, that hecalledforltisson,: and
some one opened the casement and cried Here; asserliug
that there Wa.<i not the least evidence of witchcraft in
that, and insisted that sbe could make nothing of it.
She offered to swear, that he bad threatened her before
with his son's ghost; that now he bad visibly raised ll
spectre, for that upon calling his son, who was known to.
be dead, the spirit immediately appeared. After inuch .
altercationtheywerereconciled.again, and accordinglyhe
gave her the writing ; but when he delivered it to her, in
the presence of hertwo arbitrators, be thus addressed her:
" Look you, you have worried IDA into this agreement
by your fiery temper, ar1d I have signed ii against
justice, conscience, and reason ; but depend ·upon it I
shall never perform it."
One of the arbitrators said,-Why, Sir, this is all to
no purpo~e ; for if you resolve not to perform it, where
is the utility of the wriiing? Why do y9u promise
what you do not intend to perform? This will but kindle
a new 6ame to bcgiu with,. when the fixed time_expires.
Why, said he, I am satis.fied in my mind, that my son
is alive. Come, said bis wife, speaking to the gentle -
man who bad argued with her husband, let him sign
the agreement, and let me alone to make him perfonn
the conditions. Well, said the husband, you shall have.
the writing, and you shall he let alone, bnt I am satisfied
TSE WICKED STBP•MOTBBR. 33
you will never ask· me to pefform it. At the end of
four months; she challenged the performance ; accord-
ingly a day was appointed, and her two friends, tho
arbitrators, were invited to dinner upon this occasion,
believing that her husband. would have executed the
deeds. · Accordingly the writings were brought forth,
engrossed and read over; and tho husband being won
over, executed the deeds and thus disinherited bis son.
When they bad. settled the particulars, and the new
deeds were read over, she took up the old writings to
cancel them ; and, on her tearing off the seal, they
suddenly heard a mshing noise in ·the parlour where
they sat, as if somebody had come in aUhe door of the
room which opened from the ball, and went through the
room towards the garden door, which was shut.
'fhey were all much surprised at it, for the noise was
· very distinct ; but they saw nothing. The woman
iumed pale, and was in a terrible fright; however, as
J!Othing was seen, she seon recovered, and began to
ruflle her husband again. What, said ·she, .have you
laid your plot to bring up more devils again ? The
man sat composed though be wa.11 not .Ies8 surprised.
One ofthe gentlemen said to him, What is the meanfog
of all this? I protei:1t, Sir, says be, I know no more of
it, than you do. What can it be then ? said the other
gentleman. I cannot conceive, said be, for I am utterly
unacquainted with such things. Have you heard
nothing from your son? asked the gentleman. Not
one word, said the father, these five years. Have you
not written to him,· said the gentleman, about this
transaction ? Not a wotd, replied he, for I know not
where to address a letter to him. Sir, said the gentle-
man, I have heard much ofapparitions, but I never saw·
.one in my life, nor did I ever believe there was any
(! 3
34 TBll WICKED STBP·MOT&Et<.
reality in them; and indeed I have Reen notliing: hut
the passing of SOllle body. or. spirit. across the rooi:n just
now, was plaia; I heard it distinctly. Nay, said the
other arbitra"tor, I felt the wind of it as itpassed by me.
Pray, &Gded he, t.mning t.o the husband, did you see
auy thing JI01U9elf? No, replied he. Pray, Sir, said the
first.arbitrator, Jaave yo• seen any thing at· any other
time, or heard uy voiceit or noises, or had any dreams
, ahout this matter ? Indeed,. said he, I have several
times dreamt my son was alive, and that I had spoken
with him; and once I bad asked him why he w&11 so
undutUul, and slight.6'1 me, so as not t.o let me heu
from him in so many years, seeing he knew (bat I h84
it in my power to disinherit him. Well, Sir, and what
answer did he give? I never dreamt so far on as to have
bis answer; but always awoke me. And what do you
think of it yourself, said the arbitrator, do you think he
is dead? No, indeed, said the father, I believe be is.
alive, and that I am about to commit myself. Truly,
said the second arbitrator, it begins ·to shock me ; I
don't care to meddle any more with it. The wife hav-
ing somewhat recovered her spirits, and being specially
encouraged because she saw nothing, now started up ;
What's all this discourse to the purpose, said she, is it
not already agreed upon? what do we come hero for ?
Nay, said the first arbitrator, I think we meet now not
to enquire into why it is done; but to execute things
according to agreement, and what are we fright.ened at ?
I am not frightened, said the wife ; cqme, said she to
her husband, haughtily, sign the deed, I'll cancel the
old writings, if forty devils were in the room ; upon '
tbii; she took up one of the deeds, and was about to t.ear
off the seal.
That mornQat the aame casemont flew open agii.io
THR WICK.RD STEP·MOTHBB.. 35
end the shadow of a body was seen, as standing in tho
garden, and th~ head reaching up to the window, the
face luoking into the room, and staring directly at the
woman with a stem countenance: Hold, said the spectre,
as ifspeaking to the woman, and immediately shut the
casement, and disappeared.
It is impossible to describe the consternation which
this second apparition· created in the whole company ;
1he wife screamed out, fell into fits, and let the writing
.fall out of her hands: the two arbitrators were exceed-
ingly terrified, and one of them ~k up the award
signed by them, and in which they empower~d the
husband to execute th~ deed, to dispose of the estate
from the son.
I dare say, said he, be the spirit a good spirit ~r a bad
one, it will no~ be against cancelling this ; accordingly
be tore his name out of the award, a.~ did the other, and
both of them rose from their seats, and said they would
have no more to do in the affair. This put an end to.
the whole business.
In abo11t four or five moiiths more after the second
apparition, the son arrived from the East Indies, whither
;he boosailed four years before, in a Portuguese ship from
.Lisbon. Upon being particularly enquired of about
these things, and especially whether he bad any know-
.ledge of them, or had seen any apparition, or other ex,
traordinary intimation concerning what was plotting
again$f. him here at home ; he constantly atlinned that
he had not, exoept that he once dreamt his father had
written him a very angry letter, threatening him, that if
he did not come home, he would disinherit him, and cut
him off without a shilling. This he added, was one of
.the principal reasonsofhis desire to return to England by
.thetint op~mmity.-Moreton'•HistoryofApparitioa<J.
S6
tRE T\Vo BROTHERS.
Ma. R--· N--, and Mr. J-- N--, tw<1
brothers, whose education had been equally liberal, u
they had both been bred at the university of Oxford,
imbibed in that excellent institution principles. diame..
trically opposite.-The former was for venturing every
thing, and running all hazards, in order to push his for-
tune; whilst the maxim of the latter, was to regulate
his conduct by the strictest prudence and economy, and
to leave nothing to chance.
When their studies were finished, they both returned
to their father at Bristol, who was an eminent mer-
chant of that city. For l'ome time after their return,
their minds were entirely taken up with deliberating
what profession they should attach themselves to, and
\-Yhat plan of life they should pursue for the remainder
of their days.
In the midst of these golden dreams, the father, by a
sudden and unexpected tum of fortune, failed, apd took
so to heart the lO!!s of his wealth, that be died in a few
days, and left his two sobs in· a state of indigence.
The eldest brother declared, that be was resolved· rather
to venture death than to. stay_ at Bristol, where he had
formerly lived in afiluence, and be an object of scorn or
pity to those by whom he bad once been beheld with
envy.
The two brothers accordingly took leave of each
other, the former bent upon buffeting fortune, and the
latter resolving to avail himself of the few resources
which he might find in the place of bis nativity.
He accordingly went to live with a merchant, an ac·
quaintance of his father's, by whom he was employed
as clerk, whilst Mr. R-- N- went to London.
Here the money of the latter wassoon exhausted, and he
TRlil TWO BROTBE!IS. 31
became redu.ced to distress, so thathaving been four day'
without food, he one evening wandered about St.James'!!
Park in despair, and es soon es it was dark, sat down
upon one of the benches, and taking a knUe out of hiit
pocket, was upon the point of piercing his breast, when
on a sudden looking up, he saw a figure ofgreat beauty.
It appeared to him to be a handsome youth, whose
eyes shone with a starry hrightness, whilst a !ambient
flame or glory played about his hair.
R-- N- , who had formed the desperate res~
lution of suicide, on lifting up his eyes to this angelic
appearance, heard these words distinctly pronounced :
" ·Hold, rash mortal!" He immediately desisted, and
the phantom advancing forward, and beckoning to him,
he rose up and followed it: it ~uddenly vanished, and
hewalked onwith.exultation, which he could not account
for; till at last he met a soldier, who pressed him to
enter a public-house, which was the rendezvous of a
recruiting party• .
Herc the obstreperous mirth but little suited the
serious turn of Mr. R-- N-- ; but as he was quite
destitute, he readily accepted their proposal of en·
listing; ruid the regiment which he joined being
soon after commanded abroad, he signalized himself at
the siege of Quebec, and upon other occasions ; by
which means he rose to a lieutenancy. Upon his
return to England;he found bimself reduced to halfpay,
which proved insufficient to support his extravagant
round of pleasure.
The greatest source of his expences was, his aUach-
ment to e fine woman; With her he visited all the
places of public amusement; the Theatres, the Opera,
Yauxhall, Ranelagh, Mary-le-bone, &c. She had
o,9;1ized by Google
38 TB£ TWO BRO'l'BDS.
Jikewi-se as great a passion for dress; and her wardrobe
excelled that of a duchess;
But her attractions served only to render her
·moro dangerous : in truth, she possessed the most fasci-
nating loveliness, which was greatly heightened by her
conversational charms in whatever circle she moved.
In the meantime her gay admj.rer, by gentlemanly ap-
pearance and plausible address, easily obtained credit to
a large amount; but, at length, the clamours of his cre--
ditors became so importunate, that he was in incon-
ceivable perplexity,. and the thought of having imposed ·
upon persons, who had so generously obliged him, drove
him almost into a phrenzy. His evil geniu!I now sug-
gested to him a course almost equally desperate as tnat
ofsui~ide, which he had already attempted, namely, that
of going upon the highway.
Ho accordingly provided himself with pistols, and one
-evening wentio Blackheath. He rode to and fro in the
utmost perturbation of mind; his terror still increasing
as the night approached, till at last he beheld the same
angelic appearance thftt .he had seen before, which
~ed to point to the road to London. Ernn in the
darkness of the uight the whole figure· appeared very
· manifest, and no sooner had Mr. R-- N-- be-
held it, but all his agitation and disorder subsided,
and, with the utmost composure of mif!d, he returned to
London, having taken the precaution of throwing away
.his pistols, the in~truments·of destruction with which bis
evil genius had armed him; lest they might give rise to
any suspicion of the pw·pose which ha had in leaving
town.
Upan his return to his lodgings, he broke up his con-
nexion with the pernicious woman who bad give11 him
rng;1;zed by Google
TRI& 'l'WO ll'ROTDRRS. 39
1lUCh horrid advice, as his love for her was entirely con-
verted into hatred, when he considered that h~r vile
suggestion~ might have brought him to infamy arid dis-
grace.
The grand source of his in~uietude still remained.
He was apprehensive every.moment of being arrested,
and thrown into jail by his creditors. He now formed
a resolution to go over to Ireland, thinking be could
there be secure· from his creditoJS. Whilst his mind
was occupied with these thoughts he was arrested,
and there being several actions against him at the same
time, he was obliged to get himself removed to the Fleet
·' by Habeas Corpus. A man of his high .tone of mind
could but ill brook confinement. The days hung
hee'.vily on his hands, and he was obliged to have re-·
course to wlne to dispel the gloom by which his mind .
was overcast. Whilst Mr. R-- N-- led this life
of care and inquietude, he one night .had a dream,
which revived his drooping spirit. He dreamed that
the same spirit which had appeared to him twice before
came in the night, and opened the gates of his prison ;
and the ideas which passed in his imagination took so
5trong a possession of his mind, that when he awoke in
the momin~, he oould not for some time be persuaded
that be was still in prison. The delusion soon vanished,
but he still retained his alacrity of mind. This seem-
ingly groundless joy was soon followed by a real one.
About noon he heard himself enquired for, and imme-
.diately knew the voice to be that 1Jf his brother. He
ru.'!hed into his arms, and embraced him with the ut-
most transport. When their first emotions ofjoy were
somewhat subsided, Mr. J-- N- gave his brothei
to understand that he had accumulated a fortune by
East-India trade; and enquiring into the state of hi1-
oigiLeJbvGoogle
«) APPARITION AT STAR CROSS,
affairs, and the slim for which he was in eonfinemeni,
he paid the debt and set him at liberty that evening.
APPARITION AT STAR CROSS, DEVONSHIRE, iuLY 23, 1823•.
TaE following very interesting narrative was com-
municated to the New Monthly Magazine. The cor-
respondent prefaces the relation of the circumstances
with the following observations :-
It may not be unimportant to remark, that so far
from my being subject to the blue devils and vapours,
with which hypochondriacs and invalids are haunted, I
possess that happy physical organization, which eii.."1lres
almost uninterrupted health of body and mind, and
which, in the elasticity and buoyancy of my spirit,
renders the sensation of mere existence an enjoyment.
Though I reside in the country, winter has for me no
11:loom ; nature bas prepared herself for its ·rigours; they
are customary;. and every thing seems to harmonize
witb their infliction ; but for the same reason that the
solitude of a town is desolating and oppressive, while
the loneliness of the country is soothing and grateful, I
do feel the sadness of perpetual fogs and rains in July,
although they excite no melancholy feeling at the season
of their natural occurrence. To see .one's favourite
fl.ow:ers laying down their heads to die; one's plantation
strewed with leaves not shaken off in the fulness of age,
but beaten to earth in the bloom ofyouth: here a noble
tree laid prostrate ; and there a valuable field of corn
lodged in the swampy soil (which were familiar objects
in July last), is sufficient to excite melancholy associa-
tions in the most cheerful temiierament. Confessing
thRt mine was not altogether proof against their influence,
and leaving to the caviller and the sceptic the full be-
nefit of this admission, I proceed to a simple stateme.11t
DE'VONSBIRE. 41
ot the facts, which bas elicited these preliminary obser·
vations.
Actuated by th.e disheartening dulness of the scene
to which I have alluded, I bad written to my friend,
Mr. George Staples, of Exeter, requesting him to walk
over some day: and di~e with me, as I well knew his
presence was,an instant antidote to mental depression.
On the day following the transmiimion of this letter; as
I wa.s sitting in an aICove to indulge my afternoon medi·
tation, I found myself disturbed by what I imagined
to be the ticking of my repeater ; but, recoll1>cting that I
had left it in the house, I discovered the noise proceeded
from that little insect of inauspicious augury, the death-
watch. Despising the puerile super3titions connected
with this pulsation, I gave it no farther notice, and pro.
ceeded towards the house, when, as I passed an um·
bragoous plantation; I was startled by a loud- wailing -
shriek, and presently a screech-owl flew outimmediately
· before me. It was the first time one of those ill-omened
·birds had ever crossed my path ; I combined it with the
1nemento-mori I had jtist heard, although I blushed at
my own weakness in thinking them worthy of an a.Sso·
ciation ; and, as ( walked forward, -I encountered my
servant, who put a letter into my hand, which I observed
to be sealed with black wax. It was from the clerk of
my poor friend, informing me that he had been that
morning struck by an apoplectic fit, which had occa·
sioned his almost instantaneous death ! The reader
may spare the sneer that is flickering upon his features:
I draw no inference whatever from the omens that pre-
ceded this intelligence : I am willing t~idcr them
as cu1ious coincidences, totally tJuconnccted with tho
l'tartling apparition which shortlyafterwards assailed me,
There was something so awful in the manner of rny
o,oitized by Google
t APPARITI():-f AT STAR CROSS,
's death, the hilarity I bad anticipated fro~ his
pr~sence formed so appalling a contrast with his- actual
condition, that my mind naturally sunk into a mood of
deep sadness and solemnity. Reaching the house in
this frame o~ thou!!;ht, I closed the library window4
shutters as I pas.'led, and entering the room by a glass·
door, seatecl lllyself in a chair that fronted the garden.
Scarcely a m~nute had elapsed, when I was thrilled by
the strange wailful howl of my favourite spaniel, who
had followed me into the apartment, and came trembling
and crouching to my feet, occasionally turning his eyes
to the back of the chamber, and again instantly revert-
ing them with every demonstration of terror and agony.
Mine ~stinctively took the . same direction, when,
notwithstanding the dimness of the light, I plainly and'
indisputably recognized the-apparition of my friend sit-
. tixig motionless in the great arm-chair ! ! It is easy to
he courageous in theory, not difficult to be bold in
.practice, when the mind has Ume to coUect its energiei ;
but taken as I was by s11rprise,.l confess, that astonish-
ment and terror so fu mastere« all my faculties, that, _
without daringto cast a second glance towards the vision,
I walked rapidly back into the garden, followed by'the
dog, who still testified: the same agitation and alarm.
Here I had leisure to recover from my first perturba-
tion ; and as my thoughts rallied, I endeavoured to per-
suadA myself that I had been deluded by ~ome conju-
ration of the mind, or some spectral deception of the
visual organ. But in either case, how account for the
terror of the dog ? He could neither be influenced by
superstition, nor could his unerring sight betray him
into groundless alarm; yet it was incontestable that we
had both been appalled by the same ohject. Soon re-
covering my!1atural fortitude of spirit, I resolved, what-
DEVONSHIRE. 43
ever might be the consequences, to retu~ and address
the apparition. I even began to fear it might have
Mnished. I returned, therefore, with some rapidity
towards tho library ; and although the dog stood im-
moveable still at some distance, in spite of n:iy solicita-
tions, and kept earnestly gazing upon me, as if in appre-
hension of an approaching catastrophe, I proceeded
onward, and turning back the shutters which I had
closed, determined not to be imposed upon by any du-
biousness of the light. Thus fortified against deception,,
I re-entered the room with a firm stP.p, and there in the·
full glare of day did I again clearly and vividly behold
the identical apparition, sitting in iho same posture as
before, and having his eyes closed! !
My heart somewhat failed me under this sensible
confirmation of the vision, but, summoning all my cou-
rage, I walked up to the chair, exclaiming with a des-
perate energy-<• In the name of, heaven and of all its
angels, what dost thou ireek here ?"-when the figure,
·slowly rising up, opening its eyes, and st~etching out
its arms, replied-" A leg of mutton and carer-sauce,
wi~h a bottle of prime old port,,for such is the dinner
you promised me." " Good God!" I ejaculated,
" what can this mean ? Are you not really dead ?'"
" No more t)lan you a.re," replied the figure. " Some
open-mouthed fool told my clerk that I was, and he
instantly wrote to tell you of it ; but it was my name-
sake, George Staples, of Castle-street, not me, nor even
one of my. relations, so let us have dinner as soon as you
please, for I am as hungry as a bunter.''
The promised dinner being soon upon the table, my
friend informed me, in the intervals of his over-ready
laughter, that as i;oon as he had undeceived his clerk, he
walked over to Starr Cross to do me the same favour;
o'g'''"'d by Google
aA~£;~7
44 DR. FARRl.R .um BIS DAUGBT£Jl,
· that he had fallen asleep in the arm-chair while waiting
my return from the grounds ; o.nd as to the dog, he re-
minded me that he had severely punished hitn at his last
visit for killing a chicken, which explained his terror,
and his crouching to me for protection, when he recog-
nized his chastiser.
In the preceding narrat_ive much remains unexplained
and unaccounted for, notwithstanding the principal cir-
cumstance<! arc developed. The ticking heard in the
alcove and the wailing of the owl remain in mystery.
DR. FARRAR AND HIS DAUGHTER.
IN 1678, Dr. Farrar, physician to Charles the Second,
made a compact with bis daugliter, Mrs. Pearson, that
the first of them that died, if happy, should appear, after
death, to the survivor.
Some time after, the daughter, who lived at Gil-
lingham-Lodge, two milesfrom Salisbury, fell in labour,
and by a mistake in a noxious draught being given in-
stead of another prepared for her, she suddenly died.
Her father lived in London, and the night on wh!W
, she died, she opened his curtains and gazed upon him.
He had beforo heard nothing of her illness; but upon
this apparition confidently told his maid that his daugh-
ter was dead, and two dayti after he received the news.
. Dr. H•.More.
-t THE DRUMMER OF TRDWORTH.
EVERY one hasheard ofthe ·comedy of'' The Drummer,
or the Haunted House;• celebrated cnongh i~ its day;
but the popularity of which ceased when tbe affair was
no longer a topic of puhlic conversation. The circum-
atances which gave rise to this performance are detailed
as follow, by Glanvil, by whose statement it appeari
that the matter turned out to be no farce for Mr.
DllUMMER OF TEDWORTH. 46
Mompesson, the proprietor of the house. As there is
an air of incredibility about 'the narrative, we give it
in Glanvil's precise words.
Mr. John Mompesson of Tedworth, in the county of
Wilts, being about the middle or' March, in the year
1661, at a neighbouring town, called Ludgarsba1, and
hearing a drum beat there, he inq\lired of the bailiff of
the town, at whose house he then was, what it meant.
The bailiff told him, that they had for some days been
troubled with an idle drummer, who demanded money
of the constable by virtue of a pretended pass, which he
thought was . counterfeit. Upon this Mr. Mompesson
sent for the fellow, and asked him by what authority
he went up and down the country in that manner with
his drum. The dmmmer answered, he had good autho·
rity, and produced his pass, with a warrant under the
hands of Sir William Cawley and Colonel Ayliff, of
Gretonham. Mr. Mompesson knowing these gentle-
men's hands, discovered that the pass and warrant were
counterfeit, and thereupon commanded the vagrant to
put off his drum, and charged the constable to carry
him before the next Justice of the Peace, to be farther
examined and punished. The fellow then confessed
the cheat, and begged earnestly to have his drum. Mr.
Mompesson told him, that if he understood from Colonel
Ayliff, whose drummer he said he was, that be had
been an bonei;t man, he should have it again, but in the
mean time he would secure it; so he left tbe drum with
the bailiff, and the drummer in the constable's hands,
who it seems was preYailed on by the fellow's intreaties
to let him go.
About the middle of April following, when Mr. Mom-
peiiion was preparing for a journey to Lon.don, the
bailiff sent the drum to his house; on his return
46 DRUMMER or TEDWORTH.
from bis journey, his wife told him that they bad
been much frightened in the night by thieves, and tha.t
the house had. like to have been broken iuto. And he
had not been at home above three nights, when the
same noil!0 was beard that had disturbed his family
in his absence. It .was a very great knocking at
his doors and tho outside of his house : hereupon he
got up, and went about the house with a brace of pistols
in his hands ; he opened the door where ihe great
knocking was, and then he heard the noise at another
door, he opened that also, aod went out round the
house, but could discover nothing, only he still beard
a strange noise and hollow sound. When he was got
back to bed, the noise was a thumping and drumming
on the top of bis house which continued for some time,
and then by degrees subsided.
After this the noise of thumping and ~rumming was
very frequent, usually five nights together, and then it
would intcrmit three. It .was on the outside of the
house, which was most principally board. It constantly
came as they were going to sleep, whether early or late.
After a month's disturbance without, it came into the
room where the drum lay, four or fiM nights iD ,INm!D,
within half an hour after they were in bed, continuing
almost tw<>. The sign of it just before it came was,
they still heard an hurling in the air over the house,
and, at its going off' the beating of a drum, like that at
the breaking up of a guard. It continued in this room
for the space of two months, which time Mr. Mompes-
son himself lay there to observe it. In the fore part of
the night, it used to be very troublesome, but after two
hours all was quiet.
Mm. Mompesson being brought to bed, there waa
but lit1.le,noise the night she was in tra¥ail, nor any for
, rng;1;zed by Google
1>RUMMER OF T-EDWORTH. 4i
three weeks after, till shehad recovered her strength. B11t
after this cessation, it returned in a roder manner than
before, and followed and vexed the youngest children,
beating their bedstead.~ with ~uch violence, that all
11resent expected they would fall in pieces. In
laying hands on them, one could feel no blows, but
might perceive them to shake exceedingly : for an hour
together'it would beat Round-heads and Cuckolds, the
Tat-too, and several other points of war, as well as any
drummer. After this, they would hear a scratching ·
under the children's beds, as ifby somethingthat had iron
talons. It would lift the children· up in their beds,
follow them from one room to another, and for a while
haunted none particularly but them.
There was a cook-loft in the house which had-not
been observed to Le troubled, whither they removed the
children, putting them to bed while it was fair day,
where they were no sooner laid, but their troubler was
with them as before.
On the fifth of November, 1661, it kept a mighty
noise, and a sel'\lant observing two boards in the
children's room seeming to mov~ he bid it give him one
ofihem; ~pon which the board came (nothing moving
it that he saw) within a yard of him ; the man added,
"Nay let me have it in my hand;" upon which it
was shoved quite home to him again, and so .up and
down, to and fro, at least twenty times together, till Mr.
Mompesson forbad his servant such familiarities. This
was.in the day-time, and seen by a whole room-full of
people. That morning it left a sulphurous smell behind
it, which was very offensive. At night the minister,
one Mr. Cragg, and divers of the neighbours, came to
the house on a visit. The minister went t? prayers
with them, kneeling at the cbildron'11 hed-11ide. where it
o,9;1ized by Google
WWW - - - · -
DRUMMER OF TEDWORTR.
-· -:
was then very troublesome and loud. During prayer-
time it withdrew into the cock-loft, but returned as soon
81! prayers were done, and then in sight of the company
the chairs walked about the room of themselves, the
children's shoes were hurled over their beads, and every
loose thing moved about the chamber. At the same time
a bed-staff was thrown at the minister, which hit him on
the .leg, but so favourably that a lock of wool could not
fall more softly, and it was observed, that it stopt just
where it lighted, without rolling or mo\ing from the
place. '
Mr.Mompesson perceiving that it so much persecuted.
the little children, lodged them out at a neighbour's
house, ta.king bis eldest daughter, who was about tep.
years of age, into his own chamber, where it had not
been a month before: As soon as she was in bed, the
disturbance began there again, continuing three weeks
drumming, and making other noises, and it was ob-
served, that it would exactly answer in drumming any
thing that was beaten or called for. After this, the
house where the children lodged out, happening to be
full ofstrangers, they were taken home, aud no distur-
bance having been known in the parlour, they were
lodged there, where also their persecutor· found them,
but then only plucked them by the hair and night-
clothes, without any other disturbance.
~ It was noted, that when the noise was loudest, and
came with the most sudden and surprising violer1ce, no
dog about tho house would move, though the knocking
was often so boisterous and rude, that it had been heard
at a considerable distance in the fields, aud awakened
.the .neighbours in the village, none of which lived very
near this house. The servants sometimes were lifted
up in their beds, and let gently down again with•
l>fU'.IMM~R OF 'l'&DWORTR. 49
uut hurt, at other times it would lie like a great w9ight
upon their feet. ·
About the latter end of December, 1661, the drum-
ming was less frequent, and then they beard a noise like
the ginglirig of money, occasioned as it was thought, by
something Mr. Mompesson's mother had spoken the
day before to a neighbour, who talked of fairies leaving
money, viz.:. that she should like it well, it it would
leave them some to. make amends for their trouble.
The night after the speaking of which, there was a
greatchinking of money over all the house.
After this itdesisted from the ruder noises, and employ-
ed itself in tritlingapish and less troublesome tricks. On
Chri~tmas-eve, a little before day, one of the young boys
ari"'ing out of his bed, was hit on a sore place upoa his
heel, with the latch of the door, the pin that it waa
fastened with was so small, that it was a difticult mat-
ter to pick it out. The niil;ht after Christmas-day, it
threw the old gentlewoman's clothes about the room,
and hid her bible in the ashes. In such silly tricks it
frequently indulged.
After this, it was very troublesome to a servant of
Mr. Mompe8$0n's, who was a stout fellow, and of 11ober
conversation; this man lay within during the greatest
disturbance, and for several nights something would
endeavour to pluck bis clothes off the bed, so that he
was fain to tug hard to keep them on, and 10metimes
they would be plucked from him by main force, and
his shoes thrown at his bead ; and now and then he
should find himself forcibly held as it were, bound band
and foot, but he found that whenever he could make
use of his sword, and struck with it, the spirit quitted
i~ hold.
A little after these contest'!, ! son of Mr. Tbomu .
D
°'"''"edbyGoogle
- -- -- ------ -- - --~- ~
~t, whose wqrbian the drumlPw had: sometima
been, came to the hollie and told Mr• .Mowp.,.,o eome
words tlvlt ~ hci.d spoken, which it see1.I)& were not well
z:ooeived ; for WI soon as they were in ~ the drum
was beatup very violently andloudly; tho gen\lemanarose
and called his man to hilll, who lay with Mr. Mom-
~on's servant, just mentioned, 0
whose name w~
John. .Al sQOn 8.\1 1'4.r. Ben~t's man was gone, John
he!U'd a rulDing n~ ~ hill chamber, and: something
eatrl() to bis bedsi~, as if ii. had been one in silk ; tbe
man prescnf.ly re~hed after his sword, which he
found held from him, and it was with difficulty
ud much tugging ihat he got it into his power,
which 1111 soon as be had done, the spectre left
htm, and i.t was always observed that it still avoided a
sword.
About. the beginning of Janu11ry, 1662, they were
wont to hear a singing in t.he el1imney bei>re it came
down ; ttJ!.d one nigbt, 11-hout this time, light.II wero
i>een in tho house. One of them came into Mr. Mom-
pesson's chamber, which seemed blue u.nd glimmering.
•Pd c~d, great stiffoes; in the eyes of those tut saw
jt, Afte' t};ie light, sumething was heard coming up
tlie stairs, as if it had ooan QM without shoes. The
light was soor1 al$0 fo\11' or fiv~ timet1 ifl the.children's
ch.amh~ ; and the. m.,,ic4 <:QDUdently affirm, that the
doon were at le~ ~ tj~e& open\*l &nd slwt in their
sigh,t, ~d when th~ W0l'e optin, they heard 8. n<>iae·
l\4i. if ha.If a dQ.Zer;i had ente.fed iogother, "1ler whicl..
so!lle' w;ere heard to walk. alwut tlu~ r~.Ql,. SJ><!. one.
rotlled • if it bad beQll sil~; ¥~. M~p~Oll hil'.ll!leli
~ lu.iar4 these uoislll!.
During the time of the knocking, when many w:ero
~l\t. .a. ~tl&m~ Qf tb& El'l"1P~ .td, " So.tal\ if
DigiHwd by Google
DRUBlMBa 011' TBDWOJVl'W. Sl
the drummer set thee to work, give tlrree knocks- ad.
no more;" which it did very distinctly, aa~ stopt.--
Then the genUeman knocked to see if it would aMWer
him as it was wont, but it did not : iJr tarther trial, i.t
bid afor confirmation, ifit werethe drummer, togive flye
knocks and no more that night, which it did, and left -
the house quiet all the night after. Ta was ®ne in
the presence ofSir Thomas Chamberlain, ofOxfordshire;
· and divers others.
On Saturday morning, an hour before day, January
10, a arum was heard to beat upon the outside of Mr.
Mompeuon's chamber, :ti-om whence it went to the
other end of the house, where some gentlemen strangers
lay, playing at their· door and without, four or five
several tunes, and so went oft' into the air.
The next night, a smith in the village lying with
.Joho, the man, heard a nois& in the room, as one
had boon shoeing a horse, and aomewhat came; • if
it were with a.pair of pincers, soipping at the smith's
nose most part of the night.
One morning Mr. Mompesson rising early to go a
ourney, heard a great noi9e below where the ehildren
lay, and running down with a p~tol in hie hand, he
h08ld a voi.ce crying " A witch, a witch," as the1 also
· had heud it once before. Upon his entrance aU'was
111.:iet.
Having one night played some little tricks at- Mr.
Mompe.sson•s bed's feet, it went into another bed, where
one of his daughters lay; thare it went from side to
"ide. lifting her up as it pajsed under. At the time that
there wue three kindui nois!W in the ~ they end..
Youred.wthrust at it:with a swoid, bot it still shiftei ad
eerefuUy aroi••l the thrast, still getting uode? the
ebild, when they· otleml at it. The night after h
D 2 ..
DRUMMER OF TEDWORTB.
camo panting like a dog out of breath; upon which
one took a bed-~tatf to knock, which was caught out
of her hand, and thrown away, and company coming
up, the room was pre~ently filled with a bloomy
noisome smell, and wa'! very hot, though without fire,
in a YRry, sharp and severe.winter. It continued in the
bed panting and scratching for an hour and half, and
then went into the next chamber, where it knocked a
little, and seemed io rattle a chain; thus it did for tw~
or three nights together.
After this, the lady's bible was found in the ashe?,
the paper sides being downwards. .Mr. Mompesson
took it up, and observed that it lay open at the third
chapter ofSt.. Mark, v.•hercthere is mention ofthe unclean
spirits falling down before our Saviour, and ofhis gh·ing
.power to the twelve to cast out devils, and of the
scr~bes opinion, \hat he cast them out through Beelzebub.
The next night they strewed ashes over the chamber,
to see what impressions it would leave ; in the morning
they found in one place the resemblance of a great
claw, in another of a. lesser, some letters in another,
which they could make nothing of, besides many circle~
and scratches in the ashes.
About thistime, says Glanvil,I went to the house to enquire
the truth of those passages, of which there was so loud a
report. It had ceased from its drumming and ruder noises
before I came thither, but most of the more remarkable cir-
cumstances before related, were confirmed to me there, by
several of the neighbours together, who had been present at
them. At thi11 time it used to haunt the children, and that as
soon as they were laid. They went to bed that night I was
there about eight o' clock, when a maid servant coming down
from them, told us it was come. The neighbours who were
there, and twoministerswhohad seenand heardit diverstimes,
went away, but Mr. Mompeason and I, and a gentleman whQ
,
o;g,,,,. - by Google
bRUMMEl'l 01" TEl>WORTB. 53
~e with l'iie went up. l heatd a strange scratching as l
wen't up the stairs, and when we came into the room, I per•
ceived it was just behind the bolster ofthe·children's bed, and
seemed to be against the tick. It was as loud a scratching as
one with long nails could make upon a bolster. There were
two little modest girls in the bed, between seven and eight ·
·years old, as I guessed. I saw their hands out of the cloathes,
and they could not contn"bute to the noise that was behind
their'heads; they had been used to it, and had still some-
body or other in the chamber with them, and therefore
seemed not to be much atfrighted. l, standing at the bed's
head, thrust my hand behind the bolster, directing it to the
place whence'the noise seemed to come, whereupon the noise
ceased there, and was heard in another part of the bed ; but
when I_had taken.out my hand it returned, and Was heard in
the same place as.befort>. I had been told it would imitate
noiaei, and made trial by scratching several times upon the
sheet, as five and seven and ten, which it followed, still
stopping at my number. ;J searched under and behind the bed,
turned up the -clothes to the bed-cords, gruped the bolster,
-sounded>the wall behind, and made all the search that possi·
bly I could, to find if there were any trick, contrivance, or
<:ommon cause of it ; the like did my friend, but we could
discover nothing. So that I was then verily penuaded, and
am so still, that the noise was made by some demon or spirit.
After it had scratched about half an hour more, it went into
the midst of the bed under the children, and there seemed to
pant like a dog out of breath, very loudly. I put my hand
to the place, and felt the bed bearing up against it, as if
something within had thrust it up. I gmaped the feathers,
'\o· feel if any living thing were in it. I looked under
and every where about, to see if there were any dog or cat
or any such creature in the room, and so did we all, but
found nothing. The motion it caused by this panting was. so
strong, that ~t ahook the room and windows very sensibly.
it continued thus more than half an hour, while my friend
and I stayed in the room, and as long after, as we were tolct.
During the panting, I chanced to see as it had been some--
thing (which I thought was a rat or mouse) moving in a linen-
~&UMMRR O' TilDWORTH.
Hg. that hmig up against another bed that was ill &be rGG111.
I steppe!l awl caught it by the upper end with one.hand, with
which I held it., ud drew it through the other, but· iOUD4
nothing at all init. There was nobody near to abake die bag,
or if there had, no onecould havemade aocha motion, which
aeemed to be from within,aa if a liv.ing c:reUure had moted·
ill it. Thia plll8l6fl I mentioned not in &he Canis Nlatiolllew
becalUe it depmded upon m1 aiDgle teatimooy. and may be
aubjectto more evasioas than the otber1 related J W ltavilrg
told it to divers learned and inquiaitive mea, wi.. thoughtit
DOt altogether iacomiderable. l have DOW added R llere. It
will J.k.Dow be-aaid by eome, that myfriend and I ·waoe mMler
liOIDe fright, and .eo faaciod .neisea &IMil aiglu. that weenot.
This ii the etemal evaaiOD. Dut if it be po11ihle to bow
how a man ia aB'ected wllea in fear, ud when unconaemed;
I certainly know for my o.wn part. that 4uriag &he wwle time
gf my being in the room, &Dd ill the house, I •• muler DO
more aft'right, tJaan I am wli.ile I write this relatim. And if
I .bow that I am now awake.ani that I eee the otUeaa t.bllt
are beCo.re me,. I know that I heard and AW the paniCD-
. Ian I wetold. There is, I am sensible, no gn!at llllltar a .
story iD thew. but tltere ia •much • eomineeth me, did
daere wu aomewlaat extraordinary, and 11ihat we mually cell
pretenaaturAI in the buaiaeu. There were other J*l8ll'
at my being at T$lwor.tb, which I publiehed 111>t, becallle
tlle7 are not au.ch plaiD and \Dle&eeptiomllie proofa. I tbaU
POW brieBy mention them, F.,_. patu. """'- -pourmJ.
My friend and I lay fo tbe chamber where tJ.e fintaml dlief
dis~bancc had been. We alept well all night, but early
before day m the morning, I was awakened (and I ankened
my bed-fellow), by a loud knockiag jllst withotat i>Uf chamber
door. I asked who waa there several times, but the bockimg
still coatinued without answer. .At last I uid, "la tile name
gfGod wbo.ia it, aod what would you lume?" To wbicla •
Yoice answered," notbi11,g with you." We thinking it hall
t>een S01De aenallt of the house, went to a1eep .ai. But
apeaking of it to Mr. M.oPlpeuon when we came down, .he
uaured ua, that no one of the house lay that way. or bad
~ tbeNllllo\lt, and that bia aervanta were Dot up till u
DltUMllBR t>P TllDW'Oll'l'll. ,
$lied them. which wll& all:er it Wiii day. They all _.
firmed, and,proteiited that the noise was not made bydlem.
Mr. Mompesson had told us before, that it would be goDe in
the middle of the night, and come again divers times early ila
the rooming, about lour o'clock, and this·1 suppo1e was about
that time.
But to proceed with Mr. Mompes.9on's own par-
tieullll'S. There camo one morning a light into the
ehild-ren'• chamber, and a voice crying " A witcb, a
"itch," for at least an hlllldred times together.
Mr. Mompesson at another time (being in ihe day),
~ing some wood mo\"e that was in the chimney of a
room where he was, as of itself, discharge( a pistol
·iuto it, after which they found several drops of blood
on the hearth, and in divero places of tbe staj.rs.
For two l>r three ui~hts after the discharge of the
pistol, there WBS a calm in the house, but then it came
again, applying itself to a little child newly taken from
nune, which it so pcrs-ecu~d, that it woula not Jct
the poor infant rest for two nights together, nor su'tl'er
ea12dles in the room, but carried them away lighted,
up the chimney, or threw them uncler the bed. ns&
~ared this child \Jy leaping upon it, that for some
houtS it could not be recovered £rom the Fright, so that
they Wero forMd again to remove the chil<lren out 0£ the
house. 1'he ne~t night after which, something about
midnight came up stairs, and knockea at Mr. Mom-
peeaon's cloor, but he ~aing still, it went up another pair
of stairs, to bis man's chamber, to whom it ap-
peered, etandiDg llt bis hed's-foot; the exact shape and
proportion he could not discover, but be saith he saw
a great body, with two rc.Y.nnd glaring eyes, which,
for BOft'tetlme, ·wP.rll fixed steadily upon him, and at
length disappM~d. ·
A.bout the beginninit of April, I663, a gentleman
l
DRUMMER .op TJilowoaTtt.
who lay in the house, had all his money tumed
black in his pockets ; and Mr. Mompesson ooming one
morning into his stable, found the horse he was wont
to ride on the ground, h.aving one of his hinder le~
in his mouth, and so·fastened there, that it was difficult
for several men to get it out with a lever. After this,
there were some other remarkable things, but the ac-
count goes no further; only Mr. Mompesson positively
asserted, that afterwards the house was several nights
beset with seven or eight in the shape of men, ~ho,
as soon as a gun was discharged, would shuftle away
together into hiitbour.
The drummer was tried at the assizes at Salisbury
upon this occasion. He was committed first to Glou-
cester gaol for stealing, and a Wiltshire man coming to
see him, he asked what news in Wiltshire ; the visitant
said, he knew of none. " No," saith the drummer," do
not you hear of the drumming at a gentlemtµi's house at
Tedworth ?" "That I d.o enough,'' said the other. " I,"
quoth the dmmmer," I have plagued him (or to that
purpose) and he shall never be quiet until be hath
made rile satisfaction for taking away my drum." Upon
fofonration ofthis, the fellow was tried for a witch at
Sarum, and all the main circumstances here related, were
sworn at the a.~sizes, by the minister of the parish, and
divers others of the most i~telligent and substantial
inhabitants, who had been eye and ear witnesses of
them, time after time, for 8everal ye9.1'8 together.
The fellow was condemned to transportation, and
accordingly sent away; but by some means, (it is said
by raising storms, and affrighting the seamen) . he made
shift to come back again. And it is observable, that
during all the time of his restraint and absence, the -
house ww:i quiet, but as soon as he was set at liberty,
the disturbance returned.
oigiLeJbvGoogle
J.AN<!ASBIRE CURATE, CLBBK, AND SEXTON. 51
He had been a soldier under Cromwell, and uied to
talk much ofgallant books he bad of an old fellow, who
was accounted a wizal'd.
This is the sum of Mr:_Mompessori's disturbatlce,
partly-from his own mouth, related before many persons,
who had been witnesses ofall, and confirmed his relation;
and partly from his own letters, from which the orderand
-series of things is taken. The same particulars he sent
also to Dr. Creed, who was at that.time Doctor of the
Chair in Oxford.
Mr. Mompes.-mn suffered 'by 'it 'in his name, in his
estate, in all bis affairs, and in the general peace of his
family. The unbelievers in ·spirils and witches took
him for an impostor. Many others judged the permis-
sion of such ati extraordinary evil to b~ the judgment
.of God upon him, for some notorious wickedness or
impiety. Thus his name was continually cxposea to
cen~ure, and his estate suffered, by the concourse of
people from all parts to his house, by the diversion it
gave him from his aftairs, by the di<lcouragcment of
servants, by reason of whirh he could hardly get any to
Jive with him.
The ~mmer of Tedworth met with great opposition
when ,first narrated, and several vio]Qnt c6mrav.ersies
took place.
'THE ,LANOASBlltR CURATE, CLBRIC, A'ND OXTON
'TOWARDS the end of the last centu&, a clergyman,
in Lancashire, before he began to read prayers, at
church, saw a paper lying in his book, which he sup·
p~ to be the banns of marriage. He opened it, and
saw written in a fair and distinct hand, to the following
purport: ''That John P..and James D. had murdered
a .travelling man, bad robbed him of his effects; and
n .3
" W..lalftHG TO -;,4aa ·rv., A't LIM.lffGOW'.
1"lriM him in suell an orchard/' The minil1er WM
.eatlcJDel7 ttartled; and asked his elm basiily if he had
placed any paper in the prayer-book. The clerk de--
cJ.ued·he had ~; but the minister prudently coscealed
~ COlltenia of the peper, for '11e two Dame& therein
CQUWned we.re thoH of the clerk aud sexton of the
~.
The mi.GU(er th• went direcUy to a magi.Wale, told
a;,. what had ~pe.oed, and.took the paper o\lt of hw
pocket to read it, •hen, to his great surprise, nothing
appeared thereon, ht it wu a plain piece of white
paper! The maptrate now said that his head must
1:erttr.inly have be~ distempered. when he imagined
•uch strange CQnteQU upou e. i>lwik pieee of paper. The
clergyman, by earnest entreaties, however, ptevailed on
the justice to graot his warrant agaill!t the clerk and
$11XWDi who were ~ken Up OD SUllpicion, MQ !eparate}y
confined and examined, when many contradictions ap-
peared in their examination; for the sexto11, who
kept an alehouse, owned having lodged such a. man at
bis house, aud tbe·elerk said he WM that evening at the
sexton's. It was now thought proper to searoh their
·bome$, in which were found several pieces of gold, and
'QQdll b$1QQgiug to meit.that travel the count?)' ; yet
they gave so tolerable an account of these that no posi-
tive proofcould be made out, till the clergyman, recol-
leetiJ\I iltaMbe paper mttntioned the dead i>ody to be
_
buried in $ttCh lltl orchard, a cltcumstance which had
\lefore escap$l his memory, the place was searched,
and. the bQdy W8.!I found ; on bee.ring which the sexton
CJQnfe!!!ied the fac.t, accu~ ,the clerk as his accomplice,
o.iit! they w11re boUt ~x~ted MC-Ol'diugly.
··WA.IUIJNO TO .JAJIBI iT. AT LIMLITBSOW.
Rue.BAN.u1, in bis lrIStory of Scetlantl, gives ·the fol•
lowing extraordinary adve1tture :-
ll"PAatttollf '11' Bl'r.Y.tlT, lW J&aL.UfD. ' •
While Jamee n·. staid at LinliU&pw, 10' pt)let °'
'&he scMt.ered TemainS of bis array~ v"hich had htea cltA
fea11ad b)- the Earl of hrr•yt li.t Flodclea-field, M wMt.
.into tie charch of St. Michael there, to heat w.wmg
pra1et. Wbile he was a& his devotion, a remanaW.
figure oian cioient maa, with flowiag ambeM!O~
hair hauging over his shoulde111~ hi! fo~hfad ~h; Mi
.iucli.Uag t.l baldDllill, his gamienta ofa6ae blue eolobt, '
sortaewW long and girded together ·with a fiDll whiM
1*lotb1 and of vety te'n!rewl aspeet, WE eeen in~
for the king; when ail majeat..1 beidg p9iotlcl Wt' M
'IWa, he made JM war ibrough the •wcl till he ....
to him, and thou, with a olo\Vtriih simp&Uy, WaAiaf
over the tanon's seat, he .idralsed llim in .
tJul i>llowirJ8
words • " Sir. I am sen~ hither io eDU:eat y.ou to .Wq
J'OUt Wended 4tMdltiog fur •bis UmGt am~ M
feithet, for ifyou do, you will be wifonu8*die, lllld 11o&
prpsper in y01¥ enterprise, nor a~y of yt!ltU follawem.-
.I am furtller ebarged to warn y•• ndt ~ foDO'ff. tbu ~
~uaintanee, oempany, or C1Wotel .r wemen, u r•·
value10..rlife, honout, and Mtate," AAergivii:i&linithis
.admonia~ he witlldrew ail:dllelfback: aplitbrotl§b ..
erowd, and disappeared. When service w&S enW, tM
·king enquired earn~ after ltim; but- lie ciotlld aOL be
,found oz heard of any where, aeitller c<>lild my -' •u
\>1-staniers feel or peroeive how? wll&Dt or .wltere ht
.puaed from them, having in a manner -van•cl froa
. their sight.
A.PP.ud'l'ION •T' BSLrABT IN ?JUIL.llf'D,
, TMRll was once a leog con'te&t betWeen I~'ffi
Matthew&, atelidell«IA hi the eoumy of 'Down, lid
Claudius Gilbert, minister of Belfast, about.their right to
,Drumbeg, a small parish near Belfast; and i~proved trou-
,les,ome t6 the parishioners, whc»had paid their d~es tQ
.Mr. Gilbert, the incuDlbent. The archdeacon clailne'1
00 Td MUCIUNT's Al'PRJINTTC81.
it te be paid to hiq> also, for which he procured a w'ar...
rant1 and in the execution of U by his servants, at
the house of one Charles Loftin1 they offered some
•iolP.ace ·to hie wi.fu, who refused entl'ance, and who
died of the iojury a few weeks after. Ml'B. L. being an
infirm woman, little notice was taken of her death, till
some time after, by her strange appearance to one
Thomaa Donelson, (a witness ·of Ule violence done to
her) when slie indutied him to commence a ptolecution
_against Robert Eccleson, the criminal. Siie appeared
&e\'8ral times, ht chiefly upon one Sanday evening.
Before her last comirig lfor she appeared three times
that day), several neighbours were called in, to whom
he gave notice that she should re-appear, and beckoned
io him to come out; upon ·which they were about to
shut the door, but he forbad it. His fritinds detained
him, notwithstanding which she agaiu charged him to
prosecute Eccleson ; which.voice, as also Donel~on·s
reply, the people heard, though they saw no shape.
'filere are muy witnesses of this circumstance yet alive,
particularly Sarah, the wife of Charles Loftin, son to·
the deoea&ed woman; and one William Holiday and
his wife.
Upon this, Donelson deposed what he knew, befor~
Mr. Randal Brice, a justiceof the peace, and confirmed
all at the assizes at Down, in the year 168$, where the
eeveral Witne1111ea were sworn; and their examinations-
were entered in the records of the assize, to the amaze-
ment and satisfaction of all the country, and of the
judges. Eccleson hardly escaped with his life, but wu
~nit in the hand.-Bazter'..J WtWld of Spirit•, 1796.
~ THE MERCHANT'S APPRENTICES.
~A CEll'l'AIN merchant. having formed a t~ding eil.a.-
'blishment in one of tlu~ English colonies in America,
oigiLeJbvGoogle
/cf-,,.V__ a A. • .</.f/; ,/ -~~
r·.. -,~ rr ,,..17~."f
'ftlR M'ERCDANT,;; APPRENTICES. 61
'Sellt 'Over several of bis IN"rvants or apprentices thith('r.
One of his apprentices being fitted out, and ready to
-cmhat:k, his cargo actually being on board the 11hip, and
the 11bip fallen down to Gravesend, bis master wa.<i pre-
paring letters and despafobes, which prevented his dining
with him at the usual boor, and he told him he mn~t stay
to the counting-house till he came to relieve liim. Ac-
cordingly, dinner being aver, he left the dining-room to
send liim up to dinn('r. When he came to the coun·
ting-house door, bis mnn was seated there, with the
hook-keeper also, writing as he left him. _
At this moment, the·merchant had occasion to return
up stairs to the dining·Yoom, from whence be came ;
when he lcift the youth "in the countin~-house, and went
immediately up stairs.
When be reached the top of the stnir3, the young
mun was seated at dinner with the other serrnnts ; the
room they dined in bei..rJg.a small parlour, which opened
against the stail'!!, so that he saw him from the upper
part of the staircase, and could not be deceived.
The ma.'>ter did not speak to him ; but the surprize
made liim pa..~s by the room, and go into the dining.
room, which was to the right hand of it; but he sent his
servant immediately to look, when be. there found t\1e
youth at dinner; so that what he (the master) saw
below in the counting-house, rnJlSt have been the a.p.·
parition of the young man.
The yonng gentleman embarked as above, and
arrived safe in America. He lcfi hii elder brother in
London, who was at that time ~tudying P.hysic.
Shortly after this he had an accidental rencontre with
a gentleman in Short-street, leading from Fleet-street
into Salisbury-square; and being a complete master of
l1fa ~·eapon, he wounded bis antagonist, and drove him
€2 Ila CBARtBS L&B's O.tUGll'l'JtL
into a ta•m in the streett whence came out two other
men with their swords ; but both of them fonnd the go•
tleman so much an overMmatch for them, that they left
him u fast as the fi~. A fuurth now came out with a
fire-poker, taken hastily out of the tavern kitchen, and
runuingat this geMleman with it, knock~bimdown and
·fractured his skull, of which wollJld he afterwards died.
While this was done in London, bis brother, at
·Boston, in New England, wrote to his muter the mer-
chant, and who gave this account of it, after otber buei•
ness, in the following postscript:-
" Sir, I beg you will be pleaeed, in )'001' return to thia,
· to let me have some account, as much as convenieatly may
·be, how my brother does,· and what condition· he is in;
which importunity I hope you will excuse, when you read
the following account :-
" On the ooth of June last, about six o'clock in the mom-
, ing, lying in bed, and broad awake, my brother or an appa•
rition of my brother, came to the bed's feet and opened thf
curtain, looking full in my face, but did D<i>t speak. l wat
very much frightened; but, however, I so far recovered as
· to say to him, Brother, what is the matter witb you ? .
" He had a napkin-cap on .his head, which was .very
bloody; he looked very pale and ghastly, and said, 'I am
•basely murdered by one (naming the pers<>n) ; but I shall
· have justice done me:' and then disappeared."
This letter was so dated,_that it was impossible any
account oould have been sent of the disaster that could
reach Ametica within that time; for it 'was not dated
above fourteen·days after t11e fact actually occurred in
.·London.-Moreton on Apparill'011s.
SIR CHARLES LEE0
8 DAUGflTBR.
SlR Charles l.ee, by his jJrst lady, bad only one
daughter, of which she died in child.~birtb. ,After bee
deat.h, her sister, Lady.Everard·de&ired..to have the edu·
fl_~Z,J 4 ~~. tA-fa~~
I /,,, ~ ·3t7
SIR CHARI.SS LRs's DAUGlft'£lt, 83·
cation of the child, which she edueated till she was
·mamagee.ble ; when a match wa., concluded for her
with Sir William Perkins ; but was pre•enteil in an
extraordinary manner.
One Thursday night, Mjs., ~ imagined that she saw
a light in her chamber after she was in bed, when she
rang for her maid, who presently came to her; and she
askea wliy she left a candle burning in her chamber.
'fbe maid said sl1e left none, and tbore was none, bui
what she brought with,her at that time. She then said
it was the fire; but the maid told her that was quite
out, and said she believed it. wa~ only a drt>altl. She
then said it might be so, and composed herself again w
sleep. Abont ·two o'clock she was awaked again, and
&aw the apparition of a little woman between her cur•
tain and her pillow, who told her she was .her mother,
and that she was happy, and that by twelve o'clock
that day she should be with her. She again rang for
the- maid, called for her clothes, and when dressed,
went into her closet, and did not quit it till nine; when
she brought out with her a ·letter sealed to Im· father,
gave it to her aunt, the Lady Eve~ard, told her what had
happened, and desired that, as soon as she was dead, it
might. he sent to him. Her aunt, judging her to be de..
lirious, sent to Chelmsford for a physician, who came
immediately. He could discern no indication of what
the lady imagined, or any indisposition_; notwithstand..
iug the lady would be bled, which was done accord-
ingly. The young woman then desired that the chap-
·lain might be called to read prayers, and when prayers
wcr~ ended. she took her guitar and "psalm-book, and
played and sang melodiously. About iwelve o'clock,
she rose and seated herself in an arm-chair, and imme.1
·'1iate.l,y expired. This event took place in 1662, at
P.4 COUKSELLOR JOHN BOUR);E.
\Valtham, in Essex, three miles from Chelmsford, and
the letter waa sent to Sir Charles at his house in War-
wickshire. It was communicated by him to the Lord
Bishop of Gloucei'!ter, and wa.'I first published by Beau-
mont, in l1is " Treatise on Spirits."_
'COUNSELLOR JOHN BOURNE,
Of Durley in Ireland.
'Ma. JoeN BOURNE, for his skill, and integrity, wa~
1uade by his neighbour, John l\lallet, Esq. of Enmon-,
the chief of his trustees for his -estate. In 1654, Mr.
Bourne fell sick at his holl'!e 11t Durley, when his life
wa.-t pronounced by a physician to be in imminent
danger. Within twenty-four hours, when tht> doctor
and Mrs. ·Carlisle, a relation of Mr. Bourne (whose
husband he had made one ofhis heirs), were silting by his
bedside, the doctor opened the curtains nt the heil foot
to give him air; when suddenly. a great iron chest by
the window at his bed fuet, with three locks, (in wbicl1
Wflre all the writings and ·evidences of MT•. l\1nllctt's
.estate), began to Qpen, lock by lock. 'J'hc lid of the
iron che:;t then lifted np itself, and stood wide tJpen.
Mr. Bourne, who bad not spoken for twenty-four hours,
lifted him~elf up also, and looking upon the chest, cried,
"you say true, you say true, you are in the right, I'll be
wi~h you by and bye.'' The patient then lay down and
spoke no more. The chest fell again of itself, and
Jocked itself lock by lock, and Mr. Bourne died within
an honr afterwards.
OMENS OF THE MURDER OF- MR. BLANDY,
-SEVERAL awful presages are said to have alarmed the
family of the unfortunate Mr. Blandy, of Henley, in
Oxfordshire, previous to his untimely death. A few
days before the death of his wife, a grand choru11 of
OMENS OF TllE MURDF.R OF MR. BLANDY. fJI;'.
nl'Usic was heard by the daughter and several of the
servants at midnight, as if proceedi~ from the garden
behind the apartment w:herc Mlli. Blandy Jay. This
was succeeded by three distinct knocks on the window
of Miss Blandy\ chamber, adjoining to that of her
mother. Meanwhile the o]d Jady, though insensible of
those sounds, was horribly f!ightened by a dream, in
which she saw her husband drinking a cup administered
by her daughter; presently he swelled to a monster,
and instantly expired. When she· awoke in the morn-
ing, she told the dream to lier waiting maid, and died
the same day. This happened about two years before
the memorable murder of Mr. Blandy, of the approach
of which he had several ominous presages.
The story of this dreadful parricide is briefly ns fol-
lows :-Mr. Blandy was an eminent attorney, and by
his practice had accumulated several thousand pounds :
he had an only child, his daughter, Miss Mary, whom, \
as a kind of pious fraud, he gave out to be worth thirty
thousand pounds. Captain William Cranston, brother
of Lord Cranston, of Scotland, a short time before the
death of Mrs. Blandy/was upon a recruiting.party in
Oxfordshire, and hearing of the lady's fortune, found
means to introduce himself to the family. He soon
gained an ascendency over the mother; and the daugh-
ter discovered a very sensible feeling for the soldier.
But there was an almost insuperableohrtacle in the way
of their mutual happines~. The captain bad been pri-
vately married in Scotland. This, however, he hoped
to get over by a decree in the supreme court of session.
That expectation proving but ill-founded, Mr. Blandy
would not assent to the union of his daughter with such
a man, however honourable by birth.
The mother died suddcnly.-The father remained in·
-
66 PREIAGG TO l\OBERT BRUCJI.
exorable, au'1 could not be induced to grant his contet.it.
This set tl1e Captain's sanguine soul to work. Tho
affection of Mi.~ Blandy for this proftigatAt, alm011t
double her age, was violent. He imp<>@ed upon her
·credulity: senL her from Scotland a pretended love-
.powder, which he enjoined her to administer to her
.father, i11 order to gain his affectior1, e.Dd procure his
consent. Tbis injunction she declined, on account of a
frightful dream, in which she fancied her fii.t~r falling
from a precipice into the ocean. The captain wrote a
aecond time ; told her bis design in words rather eoig-
.matical, but easily understood by her. This had an
amazing effect on Miss B., and so elated was her mind
with the project of removing her.father, that she was
beard to exclaim, before several of the servants, '' Who
·would not send an old fellow to hell for thirty thousand
pounds?"
The die was c8st : the powder was mixed in the tea :
.the &ther dr~k, and soon after swelled enormously.-
" What have you given me, Mary?" cried the unhappy
dying man, "you have mardered me; of this I was warn-
ed, but a.Ina, I thought itwas a fa.he alarm ! 0 fly-ta~e
care of the captain !"-Thul! he died, a 111ost melan·
cholyspectacle. Miss Blandywas taken while attempting
to ran away, conducted to Oxford Castle, lay there- till
the assizes, waa found guilty, and .executed. Captain
Cranston went abroad, an'1 died in a miserable .tat.o of
niiDdSOOD afterwards.
OM1N009 PR28ACE TO ROBERT BRUCE OF SCOTLAND.
~ucs, the restorer of the Scottish monarchy, i11 the
reignofEdward II. of England, having been out one day
to reconnoitrethe enemy, lay that nigbtin a barn helon£ing
to a lo.ya) farmer. Jn the morning, still reclining hia
CAPTAIN POUGOUS. · 67
head on the •traw pillow, he beheld a spider olilabbig
a beam of the roof. The insect foll ~the grouud, ancl
immediately made a second e11511y to ascend. This at·
tracied the notice of the bero, who with regret saw the
spider fall a second time from the same eminence. It
made a third attempt without success ; and, in short,
the monarch, not without a mixture of concern and
curiosity, beheld tho insect no IE'SS than twelve times
baffled in it.s aim : but the thirteenth trial canied its
success. The spider gained the summit of the vazes ;
wl1en the king, starting from his couch, thus exclaimed
in soliloquy: " Behold t~s despicable illleet has taught
me perseverance! I will follow it.s example. Have no~
I been twelve times defeated by the superiorforce of the
enemy ? On one fight' more hangs the independeney o~
my kingdom.'' In a few days was fought tbe memorable
battle of Bannoukboum, in which Bruoe provell vic-
torious, slew ihirty thoW1and of the invading enemy, and
reilo1ed the monarchy of Scotla.ud.
CAPTAIN PGRTEOUS,
TBE followfog narrative Wl13 found, in )796, in the
study of an eminent divine of the church of Scotland :-
A married lady lately saw, one day at noon, in a
vision, a child, then in embryo in her womb, rise to an
elevated situation in the world, having the comman4 of
soldiers, dragged to a dungeon, tried for murder, con-
demned, pardoned, but soon after t.om to piece!! by the
populace. . After this she imagined much confusion
arose in the country, till the name of her son was ron.
ed odious and detestable to the who1c nation.
The cltild agreeable to the prediction, proving a son,
much care was taken in his education, at one of the
public 11Cbools of Edinburgh. When be grew up he
discovered a strong inclination for travelling. ·He wtnt
68 C.\Pl'AIN PORTEOUS.
abroad without the consent of his parents, remail!M
rnaay years in the king's service abroad, and after olJ.
tainiug his discharge, resided for some years in London.
All this time he was totally unmindful of his filial duty,
and indeed he never took the least notice of his parents,
who now lived in a recluse situation about ten miles
west from Edinburgh; to which city the hero ofthe s:Ory
r~turncd about the yeaz 1735, and wa.~, by the interest
of a gentleman, appointed to the command of the city
guard. This captain was no le.~s a personage than the
noted Porteous.
One day, as the captain was mustering hi~ men in '11
field adjacent to the city, he cast his eyes upon a man
of Musselburgh, who was reputed to possess the second
_,!ig_ht. The captain called the augur aside, and required
him to foretel his destiny. The poor soothsayer, with
much reluctance, informed the curious enquirer that his
time would be but short; that he would be n midnt'glat
market-man. This threw the officer. into a violent
rage ; and had not the sage softened tl1e sentence, by
an explanation which gave a different tum to it, be cer-
tainly would have suffered a severe ilagella~ion.
Soon after this, two notorious smugglers were con·
dcmned to die at Edinburgh, for breaking into the
king'l1 storehouse at Leith, nnd carrying away goods
which bad been seized by the officer~ of the rc\'Cnue.
These men, on the Sunday preceding the day of execu-
tion, were conducted to one of the churches, as was
customary, under a guard. During the sermon, not'.9
withstanding the vigilance ·of Captain Porteous. one of
the prisoners found .means to make his escape, and get
clear off. The other was .executed on the W cdnesday
following in the Grass-market, cont~ to the desire of
the populace. As soon as the man was turned off, tho
CAPT.ADI PORTEOU&.
· bQys began to pelt the executioner; and tho impetuous
cnptain, who then attended with a strong party, com-
manded the men to level their pieces, and follow his
example. He himself fired upon a young gentleman of
a good family from tho Highlands, and killed him upon
the spot; and tho men instantly discharging theil' mus-
kets, kilJed several of the.citizens, who were beholding
from their windows the dreadful spectacle.
The captain was seized by order of the Lord Provost,
conducted to the Tolbooth, tried by the Lords of J·us-
ticiary, and being found guilty on the clearest evidence,
received sentence of death.
It was at this time that his mother, who alone wa-;
living; heard of the awful situation of a man whom she
knew to be her tion, by a letter which she received from
him during his trouble11. The lady readily recollected
her dream, flew to Edinburgh in the utmost distress, and
would have been quite distracted, had she not been in-
formed that great interest was making at London in
favour of the captain.
In a few days a respite arrh·ed from the Queen (for
George II. was then at Hano\·er), with an order to se-
cure the captain in the castle. This quite altered the
face of alfaira v:ith the captain and his mother, wlio·
began to ridicuie the prediction of tho dream, and the
soothsayer. That evening they made merry with
several friends in t.l10 prison, till the captain became in-
toxicated, and consequently unpreparell to meot tho
awfnl fate which awaited him. He wa.~ instantly
alarmed by a report that the city wa-; up in arms, anlt
iutent on his do.;truction. · The noise of sledge-hammers
on the iron doors soon convinced him that the alarm
was not chimerical. In short, the enraged multitude
gained entrance, dragged forth the captain, led him in
10 VISION OF TUBODOllUS.
triumph along the High-street, procured a l'Opt'I, reached
the usual place of execution, and after suffering rum ~
say a short prayer, hung him upon a projecting pol&;
which proved an alruost literal accomplishment of the
visionary prediction of the mother, who did not long sur-
vive the calamity of the AOn.
The confusion in the established national chprch, oc-
casioned by the Queen's proclamation being read by
some, and burnt by others, is well known.
VISION OF THF.ODOSlU5 THE ROMAN EMPEBOR.
A vAR 1En· of instanccs of supernatural interpositions
are to be found amougst the antionts: but the following is
well attested by Theodorct and Livv :- ·
In the wei;t~m empire lived one ltugenius, an Mpiring
man, who from keeping a grammar sehoof, had risen to
the office of Lord liigh Trnasurer. Eugenius being
elated with the extraordinary reputation of his elo-
quence and merit., entered into a plot with one Arbo·
gastes, a Frenchman hy birth, to possess 4imself , /
of the fltnperocsbip, and, by his assnrances and great
promis('s, prevailed upon the eunuchs of tbc emperor'1
bed-chamber to strangle their mll::!ter Valeotioiaa,
while he was slenpiug. Having perpetrated this hor-
rible murder, he nod consulted the diviners and astro-
logers, who gave him every assurance that he should ob·
tain a ·complete victory, g-.i.in the empire, and extirpate
the Christian religion.
Upon this, he soon a."8<'mbled forces, and made him-
self ma:~t<'r of the Julian Alps, where he lay Mf!curely
encampe<l among3t the mouo~ius. This news llllr-
prisod and perplext?d Theodosius; who after conforring
the imperial title on his son Honorius, mustered a oon ·
·11iJerab1e number of troopll, and ~ving in Gaul, fou.G
Y'ISION OlP TBR0008tt1t.
Eugenius ready to oppa,,e him with a very superior
army. The emperor··s officers, at the same time, ad-
vised him to avoid the battle till he might bringan army
into the field more numerous than that of the usurper.
A.bout sun-ri11e he fell asleep upon the ground and
d!eamed he i<aw two men cloathed in wl1ite garments,
a.od riding on white hor,;es, who' bad him lay aside all
1101icitude, and draw up his army in order of battle very
early that morning and attack the enemy. They told
hiin they were John the Evangelist, and Philip .the
Apostle; and that they were sent to fight for him at the
head of his troops. The emperor waked and renewed
his devotions, nad addressed himself to heaven with
greater fervency than before this vi1ion. His men
iunrched d<>wn with great alacrity and courage from the
mountains; an<l the two armies came to a battle at a
river called Frigidus, about thirty-six miles fro1u
Aquileia. Romans now engaged Romans, and the
action was very hot and obstinate, and many fell on
both sides; but the Eugenians pressed hard upon the
barbariam, who had flocked from Thrace, and offered
themselves in great numbers in this expedition.
At length tho en1pL>ror seeing all hope cut off, threw
himself prostrate on tho ground, and recommended hit
cause to God. The officers ohhe parties that lined the
moWlta.ins now sent him as.~urances, that they would
f!Ome oYer to him if he would promise that they should
hold the sawe posts under him whicl1 they held under
EugeniU$: and tbk: he had 110 !IOoner done under hi.I
0wn ha!Nl, b1it they deserted to him. Baeuriu.s al.to,
one of the emperor's generals, inspired with sud.den
resolutiQn, and puUing billlielf in the· frout. of the re-.
U'enUDfi trQopa, brok• tbe enemy, and routed. them;
..,
1 .. VISION OF THEODOSIUS;
and there arose, on a sudden, a violent storm of wind,
so violent, that it not only carried the weapons of the
emperor's army with redoubled force upon the enemy,
and returned those of the rebels upon themselves, but
even forced their shields out of their hands, and whirled
them back again, covered with dust and stubble; and
raised such violent clouds of dust, as almost put out
their eyes ; in a word, it entirely disarmed them, and
.put them into confusion, so that the' greater part of
them were either killed upon the spot, or overtaken in
the rout, and made prisoner~; as many as threw down
their arms and implored pardon, obtained it. ·
Thus the usurper lost ·the day, and those from
whose hands ho expected the person of his sovereign,
were sent by his master to fetch him down from his
hill. As soon as he saw them climbing it, and approach-
ing towards him, he asked them whether they had
brought Theodosius along with them. Their answer
was. they came, by the appointment of God, to carry
him to Theodosius : and immediately they pulled him
from his seat, and brought hin1 to tho emperor, who
severely reproached and expostulated wilh him for the
murder of Valentinian, and for all his treason and
rebellion. In conclusion, the soldiers struck off his head
as he was begging quar~r, at the emperor's feet, where
he hoped to save his ·life. The day of this overthrow
and execution was the sixth of September, in Arcadius's
thirJ, anrl Honorius's second consulate. The traitorous
General Arbogastes, the principal agent in this mischief,
after he had pres~rved himself .by flight three days,
finding it impossible to escape the stroke ofjustice, put
an end to hi11 life by his own 11wonl. It is confidently
said, that within the time of this .action, a demoniac
that happened to be in the church which the emperor
-- ----- --
.....___
_. ______
·llAJOR SYDENBAM AND CAPl'AlN DYJtB, · 13
built in honour of St. John the Baptist, where, in h~
march, he had implored a blcs~ing upon his arms, was
carried up from the ground, railed at and reviled St.
John, ridiculed him for losing his head, and roared oui
aloud, " 'Ti11 you that are dafoating and destroying my
army.'' Those that were there present, made a memo-
randum of the day on which they wero thus surprised,
and found it afterwards to be that OR which the batlle
was (ought.
•AIOA SYPBNRAM AND CAPTAIN WILLIAM DYK&
MAJOR GEORGE SYDENHAM resided at Dulverton.
in the county of Somerset, and Captain William Dyke
at Skilgate, in the same county. Shortly after the
death ofthe former, a doctor wru; desired to attend a sick
child at the major's house. In hi3 way thither he
called on the captain, who willingly accompanied him to
the place. Soon after their arrival at the house they
were conducted to their lodging, which they desired
might be in one bed;' where, after they had .laid
awhile, the captain knocked and bade the servant bring
him two ·1&rge candles lighted. The doctor enquired
what he meant by this ~ The captain answered; " You
know what disput<>s the major and 1· used tO ba,ve
touching the ~eing of a God and tho immortality ·of
the sou), On .these points we could never agree. ·It
was at length fully ag~eed between us, that he that
died first should the third night afterliis funeral, between
the hours of twelve and one, come to the summer...
hou.qe in the garden, and there give.a full ac!:o.Wlt to
the survivor touching these matters, who slli>11ld be sure
, io be presllnt there at the time, and thus receive satis-
faction: This," said the captain, " i1 the night, and
I am come to fulfil my promise." . The doctor di»-
&
0;9;1,,edbyGoogle
H ~ BYDENBA• AND 'CAPTAJK DYltC.
lil~ied him, reminding him of the danger of follo1'iog
thelle strangecounsels. The captain replied that he had
aolemnly engaged, and that nothing should discourage
him.~ md he was r~olved ~ watch, that he might be
Mlni to ho present at the h~ur appointed. As soon as he
perneived that it was half pa.st eleven, be rose, and ta.king
a candle in each hand, went out hy a back door, and
w.albd to t\e gardea-house, where he continued two
11ours and a half, and, at Ms return, declai:ed that. hf
had neither seen nor beard any thing more than usual.
About six weeks after mirds, the captain rode to Eton,
~panied by fhe doctor. They lodged there at an
itm, and tarried two or three night.II, not sleeping
together a.'l at Dulverton, but in separate chamhem.
11.ie morning previous to their r-etum, the captain staid
in his chamber longer than usual before .he called
~o doctor. At length he entered tho doctor's cham,,
oor, but with biR hair erect, his -eyes staring, and
bis wbole body shaking and trembling. The doctoi:;
filled with surprise, presently demanded, " What is the
Sl~r, coosin·captain ?'' The captain replied, "I have
~ my major." Tho doctor smiled, when the oap-
tain immediately said, " If ever I saw him in my life,
I Maw cbim just now." He then relatf>d to the doctor
'frii~ bad passed, in these W<Xds; " This morning soou
after. it was light, some one ea.me to my bed-side, and
$Uddecly drawing hack the curtains, called " Cap. cap.''
(1hn being the torm of familiarity by which the major
tl88d tocall tho captain,) to whoml replied, "What, my
major?" He answered, " I could not come at the
time appointed, but I am nbw come to tell you, that there
is a God, ud a Hry just and terrible one; and if you
do,not tum over a new leaf, you will .find it .so." On
· tWeitabla ~here. lay a iword w-!iich the DJaj-Oc had for,
rng;1;zed by Google
J.utRI, a&L CJP' VA&L'BO~~ f$
merlygivan m.. After the appariticm bad paced abc>at
ihtt chamber, he took up the swor4, chew it out,'IUM
finding i1 not ilO clean and bright as usual, " Cap. ~,.
11&id he, "' this swerd was not u!led to be loef' after Ulia
manner when it WM mine." After ta.~ word9 l'8
Nddenly disappeared.
The c~io was aot only thorouply penuadecl 9f
the tnatii of this narrative, bat wae fn>lll diat tlae ob·
terved io be much affected with it, dllt"it1g flle remahiog_
_
two years of his lifu.-Ali0tty"'• Mi11oeltmti11.
tnna witten ,,, IAM• EA-RL ti' MllR1dlOMllJ04J, a 1l<#I
1;.. iefore AR D«itli, in tie lknu at Sn .oa t.U
CoAsT qf HeLLAltD, 1665, tlirectetl I• tAe RJgAt llM.
Sir- H•gA Pollard, Comptralkr t• Ai1 Mfli~'4
Hoiueholtl.
StB,-1 believe th1' ~oothiess ef your nahrte, a!id th
friendship you have always borne me, wili recei\'e With
kindness the last office 0f y'1fJr friend. I am in :heattll
enough of body, and (through the IDMlY .of Ga.I) Jft!R
disposed in mind. This I premise, that you may be sa-
tisfied that what I write proceeds not from fantas~
terror of mind, but from a sober resolution of what oon'-
cems myself, and earnest desire to do you more good
after my death, than my examp1e (God af 'Ids mercy
pardon the badness of it,) in my Hie.time may do -,.,.a
harm. I will not speak out of~ vatiity of tills wl!IM;
yout own age and e¥perience will save that ltlboor :
but there i11 a certain thing that goeth trp 'and down the
world, ealled -religion, dressed and preieniad f.aataa-
ticdly, and to purposes bad enough, which ye&, by 111w;\1
eiril dealing, looseth not iii being : the 1,reat gcxul ~
. bath not left it Without a Witness, ·more or lea. 'SOODer
or later, in every man•s bosom, to direct us i~ the pu;- 1
B2
16 IAMBS, EARL 01' MilLBOROUGH•.
1uit of it ; and for the avoiding of those inf!xtrlcil.ble
disquisitions and entanglements our own frail reason
would perplex us withal, God, in bis infinite mercy
hatl1 given us his holy word ; in which as there are.
many things hard to be understood, so there is enough
plain and easy, to quiet our minds, and direct us con-
cerning our future being. I co11fes11 to God and you,
I have been a great neglecter, and, I fear, great despiser
ofit : God of bis infµiite mercy pardon. me the dreadful
fault. Butwhen I retired myself from the noise and de-:
ceitful vanity of tho world, I found no true comfo.rt in
any other resolution, than what I had from thence : l
commend from tho bottom of my heart the same tQ
your (I hope) happy use. Dear Sir Hugh, let us be
more generous than to believe we die a.~ the beasts that
perish; but with a Christian, manly, brave resolution,
look to what is eternal. I will not trouble you farther.
The only great God, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,
direct you to an happy end of your life, and send u11
a joyful resurrection.
So prays your true friend,
Old Jame.,, near the Coast of
. Holland, April 24, 1665. i
MARLBOROUGH.
I beseech you commend my love to all my acquaint-
ance ; particularly, I pray you that my cousin Glas-
cock may have a sight of this letter, and as many
friends besides as you will, 01· any else that desire it.-
I pray grant this my request.
This letter, though weighty in mlltter, and serious in
its phraseology, is most remarkable for ·the time in
which itwaa wruten, n'amely. but a few days bcfore,.tbe
Ead died.
Dig''""' by Google
71
llll JOHN SJIBRBROXB AND GENERAL WYl'fYARD•
TeEslil gentlemen were, as young men, officers in the
~aine regiment, which was employed on foreign service.
They were connected by similarity of tastes and studies,
and spent together, in literary occupation, much of that
vacant time, which was squandered by their brother
officers, in those excesses of the table, which, some
forty years ago, were considered among the necessary
accomplishmenU! of the military character. They were
one afternoon sitting in Wynyard's apartment. It was
perfectly light, tho hour was about four o'clock; they
bad dined, but neither of them had drunk wine, and
they had retired from the mess to continue together the
occupatfons of tho morning. It ought to have been said,
that the apartment in which they were, had two dooni in
it, the one opening into a passage, and the other leading
into Wynyard's bed-room. There was no other means
of entering the sitting-room but from the passage and
no other egress from the bed-room but through the
sitting-room ; 110 that any person p8.1!Sing into the bed-
room must have remained thero, un!Gae ho roturnod by
the way he entered. This point is of consequence to
tho story.
As these two young officers were pursuing their ,
!ltudies, Sherbroke, whose eye happened accidentally
to glance from tbe volume before him towards the door
that opened to the passage, observed a tall youth,
of about twenty years of age, whose appearance was
that ofextreme emaciation, standing beside it. Struck
with the presence of a perfect stranger, he immediately
turned to his friend, who was sitting near him, and di
rected his attention to the gi.i~t who had thus strangely
broken in upon their studies. As soon as Wynyard'a
•
78 SIR JORN SHERBROQ AND GEN. WYNYARD.
eyea wea nrnai towarcltt the mylllerioa ris_., his
countenanee became suddenly agi1ated. " I .have
heard," sa.ys Sir John Sherbroke, "of a man's being&$.
·pale as death, hul I never saw a living face assume t8e
·appeanµu:~ of a corpse, except Wynyard's a1 that mo-
ment."-As they looked silently at the form before
_
tbem,-for Wynyard, who seemed to apprehend the im-
port of the appearance, was deprived of the faculty of
speech, JWd Sherbroke perceiving the agitation of his
friend, felt no inclination to address it,-as they looked
_
silently upon the figure, it proceeded slowly wto the ad-
joining apartment, and, in the act of passing them, cast
.its eyes with an expression of somewhat melancholy
affection on young Wynyard. The oppression of this
extraordinary presence was no sooner removed, than
·wy111ard, seizin~ his friend by the arm and drawing a
.deep breath, as if recovering f~om the sutfocaiion of in-
tense astonishment wid e~otion, muttered in a low &11d
almo,s~ inaudible tone of voice, " Great God! my br~
thcr!'"-" Your .brother!" repeated Sherbroke, "what
can you mean, W ynyard ? there must be some decep-
. ---mn-follow~ine;-and ·immediately taking liis frie11d
by the arm, he preceded him into the bed room, which,
as before stated, Wll!J connectcd·with the sitting-room,
and into wl1ich ihe strange visitor bad evidently entered.
It bas already been 11aid, that from this chamber there
was no possibility ofwithdrawing but by the way of'the .
apartment, through which the figure bad certainl1
11assed, and as certainly never had returned. lmagille
then the astonishment of the young officers, when, on
finding themselves in tLe centre of the chamber, they '
_perceived that the room was perfectly untenanted.
,Wynyard's mind had received an impression at t~e
·first moment of his obscriing him, that the figUre whom
DiglizedbyGoogle
.am lQU1t SQIJlff~E .$;N~ G•lll• 'WlNYA,~. 7~
he had seen "fl8ll t\e apirit of his l»'.o~h$'. S~brQk'!
11till.persevered i11 strenuously believing that 11ome .4el~-
lion had been practised. ,
They tQOk note of the day and bout in which th.~
event ha•l happened; but they resolved not to meotjon
tho occurrence in the regiment, and gradually ·they
persuaded each other that they bad been imposed up.on
by some artifice of their fellow-officers, though they
11Q1Jld neither account for the reQson, .nor suspect tb.e
author, nor conceive the means of its execution. They
were Qontent wimagine. any thing posaihle, rather th•~
admit the pQssibility of a supemat!l.Tlll appearance.
But, though tb.ey bad attempted. t\)Qse. sti'a.tagem';;. of
self-delusion, Wynyard could' not help exprel!Sing bi11
eoUcitude with respect to ~be safety of the brother
wh011e apparition he bad eit\wr seen, or imagined him·
self to ba.ve &000 ; awl the anxiety which he exaibi~
for letters from Englaiid, and his ftequent menti.<>n of hi•
fears for his mother's health, at length awakened Ui.,
1mriosity of his comrades, and evt1ntually ~'raye<l &u.
h~to • declaration ofthe circumstan.c11t1 which be had, iri
vah11 deiermined tQ. conceal. The story of the silent
tu1d 1J.11bidden vis-tor was no sooner l:!ruitcd abi:OtiMJ.
t.ban the destiny of Wynyard's brothel' ~ame a.r.i
object Qf universal and palnful interest to the cfticers of
the regiment; there w~re few who did not il'\quire for
Wynyard's ~tte<s bef~ they made any del)'.land after
their own, aad the packets that arrived fro1a England
were welcomed with more. than usue.l eagerness, for
.c.bey brought n.Ot only rel!lembran~ fr<.1m tb,eir fric~
at home, but promilW!d to atfc>rd the clue ~ the 111ystery
which had lr.appeQed •mong themselves.
By .the fin;t ahips no intelligetJce relating to the s~
~ld hav" beQP received. fQr ibey had. all de~
$0 BIB JOHN SHKRBROKE AND GEN, WYNYAllD.
from England previously to the appearance of th.!
spirit. At length the long-wished-for vessel arrived ;
all the officen; had letters except Wynyard. Siill the
secret was unexplained. They examined the sev"ral
newspapers, hut theycontained no mention ofany death ;
or of any other circumstance connected with bis family
that could account for the preternatural event. There
was a solitary letter for Sherbrokestill unopened. The
officers bad received their letters in the mess-room at the
hour of supper. After Sherbroke had broken the seal
of his lai;t packet, and cast a glance on its contents, he
beckoned his friend away from the company, and de-
parted from the room. .ti! were silent. The suspense
. of ihe interest was now at it.~ climax; the impaiience
for the return of Sherbroke was inexpressible. They
doubted not but that letter bad contained the Jong·e.x:-
pected intelligence. Alter the interial ofan hour Sher-
broke joined them. Ko or.e dared be guilty of so great
a rudeness as to irlquire the nature of hi~ correspondence ;
hut they waited in mute attention, expecting that he
wonld himself touch upon the subject. His minfl was
manifes11ly fttll of thoughts that pained, bewildered, and.
oppressed him. He drew near to 1hc fire-place, and
leaning his head on the mantle-piece, after a pause of-
seme moments, said in a low voice, te too persoa who
was·nearesi 1o him, " Wynyard's brolber is no more~·
The first line of Sherbroke's letter was, u Dear John~
break to your friend WYJIYard the death of his favoerite
brother."-He had died c>n the day, and at the very
hour on which the lriends had seen his iqiirit pass so
·mysteriously through the apartment.
It might have been imagined, that these events would
have been sufficient to have impressed the mind ofSher.
broke wiU,, the conviction of their truth ; ht so strong
Dig''""' by Google
tlla JOHN SllKBBaOK.B AND GIN. WYNTAIO. 81
was his prepOSl!ession against the existence, or even the
possibility ofany preternatural intercourse with the souls
of the dead, that he still entertained a doubt of the
report of his senses, supported_as their testimony was,
by the coincidence of vision and event. Some year&
after, on his return to England, he was walking with
two gentlemen in Piccadilly, when, on the opposite sid&
of the way, he saw a person bearing the most striking.
resemblance to tho figure which had been disclosed to
Wynyard and himself. His companions were acquainted
with the story ; and he instantly directed their attention
to the gentleman opposite', as the individual who had
-contrived to enter and depart from Wynyard's apart-
ment without their being conscious of the means. Full
of this impression, he immediately went over, and at
once addressed the gentleman : be now fully expected
to elucidate the mystery. He apologized for the inter-
ruption, but excused it by relating the occurrence,
which had induced him to the commission ofthis solecism
in manners. The gentleman received him as a friend.
He had never been out of the country; but he was the
twin brother of tho youth whoae spirit had been seen.
. This story is related with several variations. It is
sometimes told as having happened at Gibraltar, at
otheN in England, at others in America. There are
also differences with respect to the conclusion. Some
sar that the gentleman whom Sir John Sherbroke
afterwards met in London, and addressed as the person
whom he had previously seen in so mysterioas a
manner, was not another brother of General Wynyard,
but a gentleman who bore a strong retiemblance to the
family. But, however, the leading facts in every ac-
count are the same. Sir John Sherbroke and General
Wynyard, two ·gentlemen of veracity, were tQgethet'
a3
pH18At at the tpiritual appearance of the bro\ber oi
General Wynyard ; the appearance t.ook place at the
moment of dissolution ; and the coanteiiance, and bm.
ofthe ghost's figure, were so-distincUy impro$Sed upon ,
ibe memory of Sir Jolm Sherbroke,-to whom the living
man had been unlrnown,--that on accidentally meeWig
with bis likeDeflB, ho perceived and ackoowlodged ~
ra&embJanoo.
THOMAS GODDARD OF MARLBOROUGH, WILTS.
TBB weracity and authenticity of Glanvil's " SaJuei8-
·eu1 Triumrt;atu11 ; cw full and pt4in EVidence eon:
~i•g Watc R •nd Apparilion1," is as well knoWD as
established. The work is now become t.Jeasurable, and
i!J only to be bought a1 an advanced price. The third
and last editiun, dated from Bath, June 8, J688, is
dedicated to Charles, Duke of Richmond, and contains
some highly curious matter, not to be found in the
previous editions. The author enters into 1he history ·
aDd theory ofwitchcraft, with the true spirit 0£ enquiry
and resea.roh, and altogether his work is considered as.
the best extant, ootb for tb.e perspicuity of its theory,
Q.Dd the accredited characwr of jfs nafl'atives. ·
..As a specimen of the latter, we transcribe the followin~
interesting deposition of THOMAS GoDDAR~ of Marl-
borough, Wilts, weaver, made the 23d November, 1674.
He saith, 1hat 011 Monday, the 9th instant, as he was
going to Ogborn, at a stile on the highway near Mr.
Goddard's ground, al.out nine in the morning, be met
the apparition of his father-in-law, one Edward Avon,
·Qr this town, glover, who died in May last, having on,
~ hi&.appearance, the same clothes, hat, stockings, and.
.hoes he usually wore when he was living. standing
b1 and~ le_aning QVer tliat stile. When he came
•'
TBO..,li fi»l>.4.f\D, Of ¥.4\~aOQlfilh· $1
~. Ul• Apparition 'P'!ke to hitu with ·•n ~ible. vqjQ4!
~ words, "Are you a/raid?" To whiob he •~we~
" I aru thinking on one who is dead wd buried,
wbpm you are like." . To which the apparition replied
with the like voioe, " I aQl he that you were thinking
"1; I am Edward Avon, your father·in-law, oome nnaf' .
to me, I will do.you no harm." •ro which Goddard
.uwered, " I trwt in him who bath bought my soul
wUh bis precious .blood, you shall do me no harm/'
Then the apparition said, ·~How stand cues ai home?''
Goddatd asked what cases ? Then it asked "How arei
Willie.m and .Mary, meaning, as he cooeeived, his so•
William Avon, a shoemaker ·~~. and Mary W.
Uugbter, the said. Goddard's wife." Thon it laid,.
"What! Taylor ill deai," meaning, aa he thmight, oae
Taylor of London, who married his daughter SaraB,
Mlieb Taylor died the Michaelmas before. Then ~·
apparition held out its hand, and in it, as Goddard
eeeoeiftd, 1wenty or thiriy shillings in ailter, and thea
Spake with a lead voice, '' tako this mmey ancl send i'
to Samb; for I ahnt up my bowels ofcompassion towaru
her in the time of my life, aud now Item ia s0metlli1Sg
for her.'' And then said, " Mary (mep.liing h~, the u
God.iard'a wife as he ooaeeived) ii ti:ou~led. fo1.1 me; ~·
tell her God hath showed mercy to me oontrary to my.
ieserts.'' But the Baicl Goddard ·MiiWered;.•• In ._
the name ofJaasChriat I~ allsucsh.moaey.'' Tm
the apparition said, " I pereeive you are ah.id, I will
meet you some other time." And immediately to nitl
appearance, it '"8t 11p the lane, and he went 09111' tille
l&Dle stile, but saw it no more that day;
. .l.J. eaith, the next fiight, about BeYeD o'eleek, it
- - and epened his thoP·windew, anti ~d in tti.
-eelotbee, lookcii him ill t.he raee. oot tcWl notbiJtC
84 THOMA$ GODOARD, OF 11.ARLBOROVOll',
to him. And the next ni,;ht after it appeared to hini
again in the same shape, but he being in feoar, ran into
bis house, and 8aw it no more then.
But he saith, that on Thursday, the 12th instant, as
be came from Chilton, riding dO'Wn the hill bet\veen the
manor·house and Axford-farm-field, he saw something
like a bare cl'098 hi-3 way, at which his horse startled,
and threw him in the dirt. As soon as he could recover
on bis feet, the same apparition there met him again in
the same hal>it, and standing about eight feel
clirecily before him in the way, spoke again to him
with a loud voice, "Source ta word he commonly
used when living) y~have stayed long;" and then said
to him, '-'Thomas, bid William AYon take the sword
018.t he bad of me, which is now in his house, and
carry it to the wood as ·we go to Alton, to the upper
end of the wood by the way side ; for with that sw<mt
I did wrong above thirty years ago, and he never pros-
pered since he had that sword ; and bid William Avon
givehis sister Salah twenty shillings ofthe money which
he had of me. And do you talk with Edward J..aw~nce,
for I borrowed twenty shillings of him several years ago
and did say I had paid him, bat I did not payit him; and
I would desire you to pay him twenty. shillings out of
the money which you had from James .Elliot at two
payments." Which money the said GoddaN now saith
was five pounds, which James Elliot, a baker, here owed
the said Avon on bond, and which he, the said Goddard,
had received from the said Elliot since Michaelmas, at
two payments, viz : 35s. at _
one time, and 31. &. at
auother payment. And it farther said to him, " Tell
)fargaret (meaning bis own wife as he conceived),:that
l would. desire her to deliver up the \ittle which I gave
~ littl~ Sarah Taylor, .to. the ohild, ~r to any one ••
TBOIUS GODDARD, OP •ARLBOROUGB. 85
will trust for it. But if she will not, speak to Edward
Lawrence to persuade her. But if ehe will not then;
tell her that I will sec her very suddenly. And see that
this be done within a twelvemonth and a day after my
decease, and peace be with you." It then went away
over the rails into the wood, and be saw it no more at
that time. And he saith, that he paid the twenty
shillings to Edward Lawrence of this town, who being
present now doth remember he lent the said Avon
twenty shillings about twenty years ago, which none
knew but himself and wife and Avon and his wife ; and
.was never paid it again before now by this Goddard.
And this, said Goddard farther saith, that this very
day by the Mayor's order, he with his brother-in-law,
William Avon, went with the sword, and about nine
o'clock in the morning they laid down the sword in the
copse near the place the apparition had .appointed
Goddard to carry it, and then coming away thence
Goddard' looking back saw the same apparition again
in the same habit as before. Whereupon be called to
his brother-in-law and said, " Here is the Apparition of
our father;" who said, "I see nothing." Then Goddard
fell on his knees, and said, " Lord open his eyes that
he may !!09 it." But he replied, " Lord grant I may not
see it, ifit be thy blessed will," and then the apparition
to Goddard's appearance, beckoned with bis hand to him
to come to it. And then Goddard said, ''In the name of
the FatbP.r, Son, and Holy Ghost, what would you
have me do ?" Then the apparition said to him,
'' Thomas, take up the sword, and follow me." . To
which ho said, " Should both of us come,- or but one of
us ?" To which it answered, " Thomas, do you take
up the. sword." And 110 he took up the sword and
fell<1wed the apparition about. ten lugs (that ii poles)
18 T80MAI GODDARD, OP •ARL90l()UG11.
lartner into the copse, and then tlll'Ding back, Ile &Uiott
itill about a lug and a half from it, his brother-in-la••
staying behind ·at ihe plaee where they fi111t laid down
\he sword. Thee Goddard laying down the 1wonl
apon the ground, saw something stand by the appari-
tion Jike a mastiff dog, of a brown colour. Then th&
apparition coming towards Goddard, he stepped back
about two steps, and the apparition said to him, " I
have a pcrmwfon to you, and commission not to toueh
you ; and then it took up the sword, and went back to
ihe place at which beforo it stood, with a muUff dog
byit as before, and pointed the top of the 1word in tff
ground, and aaid, " In this place lies buried the body
gf him which I murdered in the year J635, which ie
now rotten and turned to dust.'' Whereupon Goddard
said, "I do adjure you in the name ofthe Father,~.
and Holy Ghost, whereforedidyo11corpmit thiilmurder,?"
And it said, " I took money from the man, and he con.o
teiitled with me, and· so I murdered him." Theo
Uoddard Mked him, who was confederate with him iR
tho said mnrder.? nd it said "None but myaelf."-
'fhen Goddard said, "What would you have me do in
this thing ?" And the Apparition said, " This idbt
1be world may know that I murdered a man, arad buriecl
· him in this place, in the year 1635."
Then the Apparition laid down the sword on the
bare ground, whereon nothing grew, but saemed to
Goddard io be as a grave 11unk ill. The Apparition
then r"'hing further into the. copse vanished, and he
tAW it no more. Whereupon Goddard, and bis brother~
lo-law Arou, leaving tile sword thore, and coming away
~thcr, Avon told Goddard ho heard his Toice, ucl
~nde~tood what he said, anll. heard oth. wonlt dis·
. - Cr~ hl1, Wt cq1i)d ~ uade8~ a \Yam 9f if,
o,oitized by Google
.1 lfonn:a's APPUBAHC& TO a&a SOM. 87
boi saw any Apparition at all. Which be DOW allo
pl'8Sent aftirmeth, and all which the said Goddard ta.a
attested under his hand, and affirmed, he will depoae
the same when he shall be thereto required.
la the presence of Christ. Lypyatt, Ma9or, Rolf Bayly,
T'1Wn-Clerk, Joshua Sacheveral, Rector ofSI. Pe«r1, m
Marlborough. ·
Examined by me,
WILL. BAYLY.
Such are the detailed facts of this extraordinary c89t.
Its authenticity affords usproofofa conscience q11icke11ed
with .all the horrors of human guilt, and the miseries
of.-crime, which, aUhough being concealed for a time,
are almost 1.1niversally revealed hy cii·cuDlif.arlcH .. ·
.unexpected a& unprt>pa.rcd for.
A MOTHER'S APP~RANCE TO HER SON WHILE AT SEA.
A WOMAN, who lived on Rhode Island, in Ame".'
rica, whilst on her death bed, and just before she
expired, expressed a great desire to.sec her only son,
who was then a mariner, navigating in the West
India seas, acd to deliver him a message. She in.:.
formed the persoos near her whs:t she wanted to say:
14> lier ROD, and died immediately. About that. instant
t8e- appeared to him, as he was standiog at the helm,
it being a bright moonlight night; She first appeared
oo the sbronds, and delivered her mesr;age; and after-
wards walked ov11r some casks that lay on the deck,
then descended the side regularly to the water, where
1be seemed to float for a whilet nod at last sunk and
wholly dilll&ppeared. The young mao immediatel1
~ the. time aH 4.ay, 8.Jld ihe ,11batanco gf her
~Vi~1~ ~-t;;
. 88 .JAMES IBER1llNG, OP LITTLB BURTOM'.
message, and found on his arrival at Rhode Island, that
she died at the very juncture when she wasseen by him;
and that the words she spoke to him, corresponded ex-
actly with those she delivered to the persons around her.
· A young woman, who lived on the north side
~f Long Island, in the state of New York, with a
magistrate, went on a visit about eighteen miles to
the south side of the island; and while she WM
absent, she appeared to her master and mistress as
they were in bed. The magistrate spoko to her,
asked her if she got safe home, and she vanished im-
mediately. She returned home soon afterwards, wu
taken ill.of a fever, of which she died in a few. days.
Relation of JAMES SRERRING, t~Tcen concerning t/,e mattff
at old GAsT's-HousE, of Little Burton, June 23, 1677,
as follows:-
ON June 23, 1677, the following circumstances oc-
curred at the house of a man named Gast, at Little
Burton, in Somersetshire. They are well attested, and
are altogether too important to be passed over by the
curiou~ and inquisitive reader.
The first night that I was there with Hugh Mellmore
and Edward Smith, they heard as it were tho 'washing
in water over their heads. Then taking a candle and
going up the stairs, there was a wet cloth thrown at
them, but it fell on the stairs. They going up farther
there was another thrown as before. And when they
were come up into 1ie chamber there stood a 'bowl of
water, &oma of it sprinkled over, and the water looked
white, as if there had been soap used in it. The bowl
just before was in the kitchen, and could not ·he carried
up but through the room where they were. The next
thingthat they heard the same night was a terrible noia.
JAMBS SBBRRING, OF LITTLE BURTON', 89
as if it had been a clap of thunder, and 11hortlyafterthey
beard great scratching about the bedstead, and a.ftf.r
that great knocking wilh a :hammer against the bed's-
head, so that the two maids that were in bed cried out
for help. Then they ran up the ,stairs, and there lay
the hammer on the bed, and on the bed's-head there
were near a t~ousand prints of the ~ammer, which the
violent strokes had mader 1'he maids said, that they
were scratched and pinched with a band that was put
into the bed, which had exceeding long nails. They
said tbe hammer was locked up fa~t in the cupboard
when they went to bed. This was that which was
done the fi1t1t night, with many other things of the
like nature.
The second night that James Sherring and Thomas
Hillary were there, James Sherring sat down in the
chimney to fill a pipe Of tobacco; he made USC of the
firetongs to take .up a coal t.o light his pipe, and by and
by the tongs were drawn up the r.tairs, and after they
were up in. the chamber they were played withal (l!S
many .times men .do), and then thrown down upon the
bed. · Although lhe tongs were so near him, he never
perceived them to go away. '.fbe same night one
. of the maids left her shoes by the fire, and they
were carried up into the chamber; and the old man's
brought down and set.in their pl&ee11. The same night
thore was a knife carried up into the chamber, and it
did scratch and scrape the bed's-head all the night, but
when they went up into the chamber,. the knife was
thrown into the loft. As they ~ere going up the stairs,
there were many things thro,wn at them, which were
jQSt before in the low room, and when they went down
~be stairs, the old lU&ll'li bl'eeches were thro'!'Jl down
98 .M•U IDBRRll•&, OP UTTH BO&'JOll.
after th81D. Th018 were the most 11emarka.ble tbiags
4oae that night, only thero was coatioaa.l knocking alMl
pinching the maid1, which wat usually done every niglU.
The third night, when James Sberring and Thomas
Hillary were them, as soon as the people were gone to
.bed, their clothell were taken and thrown at the cmdle
ud put out, and ~ediately after ibey cried out ..Uh
a very hideous ery and said, ' tliey ahauld be all choaked
if they were not preseat.ly helped.' Then they run ap
the stairs and there were abundance of feathea plucl&ecl
oat of the bol.st.or UMlt lay un4er their .heads, e.™1 somit
thrust. into their mouths, that they were almost cboaked.
The featber:I were then thrown about the bed anc1
room. They were plucked out of a bole M bigpr
tban tho t.op.of oneslittle 6nger. Some time after th9¥
were Te:Ero with a yery hideous knocking at their .heU.t
u they lay on the bed. Then Jame:J Sherring and
Thomas Hillary wok the candle and went up the slaill
and stood at the bed's feet, aad the knocking continaed.
Then they saw a baud with an arm.wrist llold the
Jwnmer which kept on knocking against the bed"tead.
The Jamee Sberring going towards the W's-head, the
hand and hammer fell down behind the bolater, aacl
could not be found ; for they tumed up the bed-clothes
to search for the hammer. Hat as soon as they weat
doWD stairs the hammerWM thrown out into the middle
.of the chamber. Tbf!se were tile moat remarkable
things that were done that nigh•.
The fourth and fifth nights there was hut little done
more than knocking an4 scratching, as wu u1ually.
The Bixth and se.enth nights tliero wu notbintf at
all, but all was quiet as at other hoUHI. Thele WeN
all the nights thatthey wewe tho..._
'•. UJIBS SBB•&UIG, OP una Btrne.. 91
The eircmn9*anoes: thatfollow are what. James S~
riag heard the people ofthe bOUlle report.
. Ther• was & saddle in ijie house of their Unele
Warren's, of Leigh (which it shcmld seem they de-
tained wrongfally from the right owner), that as it
bung upon a pin ia the et1try would come off ud
oome into the honse, as they termed it, hop aboat the
houe from one plaL-e to anc.tber, aacl upon tha ta~
and so to another, whieh stood cm th other sicle of tile
llouse. Jane Gut and her kinswoman took this
addle and canied il to Leigh, and: as they were gomt
along in the- broad common there would oo sticks and
stones thrown at th~ which made tum very much
afraid~ and going near ·~her, their whittles whWll
••e on ilieir tihoald.ers were knit ti>geiller. TIJAJ
curied the sadclle tot.he hoase which was. old Warren'!\
ancl there le& it awl retumccl home Yery ~- Jut
beiag gone to. bed at night, the saddle wu ~­
huk from Leigh (which is a mile and e. half at leut
fu>m old Ga.'lf.'s house), and thrown upon the bed.where
the maida lay. After that, the saddle was verylroubla-
tomo to them, uniii thPy broke it in amall pi.ec~ eiul
threw it out into the highway.
. There was a coat of 1.he same party's~ w~o w~
owner of_thesaddle, which hung on ihe door in the ball,
and it. eame offfrom the place and ft~w into the fire 11wl
'lay 11001e considerable time before they could get. it out.
For it was as much as threeof them could do to pl~
ii out of the tire. because of the poodcrowi weig•tf,bat
lay oo it as t~y thOught. Nevertheless 1.her& ~ ao
impl"flll'lioll on it of ilie we. .
, One uight. tllere were.two of tDis old Gas1's gr81141-
dauglitcl'I! in bed toge.ther, they were •r;ed,.one .,f tbeqa
about twelve or thirteen years of8gc, and the otherabout
1ixteen or seventeen. 'fhey said they felt a hand in
D•oitized by Google
92 .JAMES SBSRRING, OP LITTLB BURTON.
bed with them, which they bound up in the sheet, and.
took bed11taves and beat it until it was as soft as wool,
then they took a stone which lay in the chamber, about
a quarter of an hundred weight, aud 'Put on · it, and
were quiet all the night. In the morning, they found it
as they left it. Then the eldest ofthe maids swore that
1~e would bum the Devil, and fetched a furze i&ggot to
bum it, hut when she came again, the stone was th.l'Qwn
away, and the cloth was found wet.
The following is the relation of Jane Winsor, of
Long Burton, she being there three nights, taken the
3d day of July, 1677.
She l1eard or saw nothing as long as the candle did
bum, but as soon as it was out, there was something
which did seem to fall down by the bedside, and by and
by it began to lay on the bed's-head with a staff, and
did strike Jane Winsor on the head. She put forth her
band and caught it, but was not able to hold it fast.
She got out of the bed to light a candle, and there was
a great stonb thrown after her but it missed her.
When the candle was lighted, they arose and went
down to the fire. One of them went up to fetch the
bed-clothes to make a bf!d by the fire, and there laya
heap of stones on the bed whereon th~y lay just before.
As soon as the bed was made, and they had laid down
to take their rest, there was a scratching on the form
that stood by them in an extreme manner, Then it
came and heaved up the bolster whereon they laid
their heads, and endeavoured to throw them out. ·At
last it got hold of or.e end of tlie pillow, and set it on
end, and there it stood for some considerable time; at
last falling down in its place, they fell fast asleep, and
IO continued all that night.
DAVID BUNTER, OP POll.T.llOS.B. 93
The staff that was spoken of before, was ·JH.De
Winsor's, and she says, she lef~ it below in the kitchen
she says that which troubled, did endeavour to kill the
people, if it had power. She put them to it, to know the
reason why they were so troubled, and they said they
knew nothing, unless it was about the business of old .
Warren. She was there three nights, and the trouble was
much after the same manner, uothing more remarkable.
Gianvi/.
DAVID RU1"TER, Neatherd, AT PORTMORR, IN IRELAND, 1663.
THE foltowing circumstantial narrative was given by
the above witness to the Bishop of Downe and Dromore,
in whose service Hunter lived. The facts were nar-
rated hy him, day by day, as they occurred, to the
Bishop, and to Lady Conway, then on a vliiit at
Portmore.
One evening Bll David Hunter was carrying a log of
woo~ intothe dairy, there11ppeared to him an old woman,
who much terrified him, for he knew her not; but_
the fright made him throw away his log of wood, and,
run into the house. The next night she appeared again
to him, and he could not chuse but follow her all night,
and thus almost every night for near three-quarters of a
year. Whenever she came he went with her through
the woods at a gQod rate : and 'the poor fellow looked
as if he was bewitched and travelled off his legs. And
when in bed with his wife, if she appeared, he was
compelled.to rise and go. And because his wife could
not hold him in his bed, she went too, and walked after
him till day; though ~he saw nothing. But his little
dog was 10 well acquainted with.the apparition, that
he would follow her as ·well as his master.
But one day as David was going over a bed~e intq
oigiLeJbvGoogle
t4, DATID BCllTBB, or fO&WMOB&;
1he highway, slle c8.llie just againat him, and be med
out, " Lord bless me, would I wu dead ; shall I novw
lie delivered from this misery?" At which, " And Ule
Lord bles8 me loo," said she, "It was very 81tppy Y°"
spok~ tint, for till then I had no power to Rpeak. though
I be.ve followed you SQ long." " My name," said 6he,
'' is Margaret , I lived Jaere before the war, -
aiJll
had -OR& son by -
my hu11band ; when he died I marr*l
a soldier, by whom I had several children, which that
former son maintain~d, else we must all hav~ starved.
He lives beyond the Ban-water; pray go to him, ana hid
hiru dig under such a hearth, and there he sliall And
twenty-eight shillings. Lethim pay what I owein Slttlh a
place and the rest to die charge unpaid at my funeral ; aot
go -to my son that lives here, which I had hy my latter
btisband, an_
d tell him, that he lives a wicked mid a
dissolute life, and is very unnatural and ungrateful ~
his brother that maintained him, and -if he doeS not
mend bis life, God will destroy him.''
David Hunter told her he never knew bet: " N&,"
11aid she, " I died seven years before yon came
into the country, but for all that, if he would do ~r
- message, she would never hurt' him." But he dt&ttell
doing as the apparition bid him, and she appeared -the
night after as he lay in bed, aud struck him on \he
shoulder very hard ; at which he cried out, and Mkri
her if she did not promise she would not httrt hitn ii
She said, that W&!I if he did her message; if not, -.be
wi>uld kill him. He told her be could nat go now,
as tbe Waters were out. ' Sbe said, she 'W_M ooratltlrt
that he should stay till they were abated; bti:t charg.ed
bim lifl.etwards not to fail her. So he did her erricnd,
and afterwards she appeared, a:nd ga•c him 'banln.
it· Fot 110w/' said llbe, '"I shall be atmt,.therefo~ pra1
liA me up from the ground, an• I will tr1111tlle-yeu u
more." David Hunttt now lifted her up frorn ta~
ground, and, he said, she felt just like a hag ef feathers
in his arms; so sbo di8&ppearod, and he was mwec mot~
Wollbled.
STRANGE PRESAGES AT WOODSTOCK. ~
In 1649, during the visit of the Commissioners el
W.00.s and Forests to survey the manor-hou.'le, park,
deer, woods, and other demesnes, belonging tO the
Manor of W ~dstock, in Oxfordshire, the following cir-
«1umstanoes occ1m~d. They are relA.ted with m.llCh
accuracy and precision a8 to time and place iii ibe
Natural Histoi;y of Oxfordshire, a work of great repu-
tation ; aad when the high character which topography
maintains in English literature, fa considered, this narra-
tion will be received as interesting and well authenticated,
The Commissioners, October 13, 1646, with their
1Jervants, being oome tG the manor-house, they took up
their lodging in the king's own rooms, the oed-chamber~
1Wd withdl'awing-room : the former whereof they als4'
made their kitchen, the council-hall their brewhease,
the chamber of .presouce their place ofsitting ~o dispatch
busines.~, and a wood-house of the dining,room. where
they laid the wood of that ancieot standard io the
high-park, known of all by the name of the King's Oak,
which (that nothing m~ht remain that bad the name
of kivg affixed to it) they digged up by the .roots.
October the 141.h and 16th, they had little disturbilJlce.;
• .but on the 16th, there came, as they thought, something
into the bed-chamber, where two of the Commissiooe111
and their servants lay, in the shape of a dog, which,
.going under their beds. did as it were, gnaw their bed-
!cords, b11t oa tlte morrow~ ·finding "1lea wholt, and a
Digitize(_ by GoogIe
.96 8TRAN9B PRESAGES ·AT WOODSTOClt, ._
' '
'l.uarter of beef, which lay on the ground untou"«:hed,
they began to entertain otherthoughts. ·
October J7.-Something to their. thinking, removed
all the wood of the king's oak out of the dining-room
into the presence chamber, and hurled the chairs and
stools up and down that room. From whence it came
into the two chambers where the Commi!<Sioners and
their servants lay, and hoi3ted up their bed's.feet so
much higher than their heads, that they thought they
llhould Lave been turned over and over ; and then let
them fall down with such a force that their bodies
rebounded from the heel a good distance, and then shook
the bed~tead so violently, that themselves confessed
their bodies were sore with it. October 18.-Somdhing
came into the bed-chamber and walked up a1d down,
fetched the warming-pan out of the withdrawing-room,
and made so much noise, that they thought five bells
could not hue made more. And October 19, trencher1
were thrown up and down the dining·room, a.nd at them
that lodged lbere, whereof one of them being 11haken by
ihe shoulder, and awakened, put forth his head to see
what was the matter, but had trenchers thrown at it.
October 20.-The curtains of the bed in the with-
drawing-room, were drawn to and fro, and much shaken,
and eight great pewter dishes, and three dozen of
trenchers thrown about the bed-chamber again. This
night they also thought whole armfuls of the wood of
the king's oak thrown down in their chambers, but of
thatin the morning they found nothjng had been moved.
October 21.-The keeimr of their ordinary and hi-4
·bitch lay in one of the rooms with them, which night
.they were not di~turbed at all. But October 22,
though the bitch kenneled there again, to whom they
:aai:ribed their former night's rest, both they and the
o,oitized by Google
STRANGE PRESAGES AT WOOI>STO.CK. · ·. 97
bitch were in a pitiful condition, the bitch barking but
once, and then with a whining fearful yelp. October
23.-They had all their clothes plucked off them in
the drawing-room, and the bricks fell out of the .chim-
ney into the room; and the 24th, they thought in
the dining-room, that all the wood of the King's oak
had been brought thither and thrown down close by
their bed-side; which noise being heard by those o.f
the drawing-room, one of them rose to. sec what was
done, fearing indeed that his fellow .Commis'sioner;;
had b{len killed, but found no such matter ; whereupon
returning to his bed again, he found two dozen of
trenchers thrown into it, and handsomely covered with
the bed-clothes.
October 25.-Tbe curtains of the bed in the draw-
ing-room were pulled to and fro, and the bedstead
shaken as before, aud in the bed-chamber, glass flew
about so thick (and yet not a pane of the chamber
windows broken), that they thought it had rained
money. Whereupon they lighted candles, but to tbci.r
griefthey found nothing but glass. October 29.-Some-
thiug walked in the drawing-room about an hour,
and going to the window opened and shut it ; then
going into the bed-chamber, it threw. great stones for
about half an hour, some of which lighted on the
high bed, others on the truckle bed, to the number in
all, of above fourscore. This night.there was also a
very great noise, as if forty pieces·of ordnance had been
shot off together. At two several firings it astonished
all the neighbouring people, which ii\ thought might have
been beard a great way off. During these noises, which
were beard in the two rooms together, both Co1nmis-
sioners and servan~ were struck with so great liorror that
F
98 • STBANGB PRESAGES AT WOODSTOCK.
they cried out tO one another for help; whereof t1ae·o£
them recovering himselfout ofthe strange agony he bad
been in, snatched up a sword, and had like to have killed
one of his brethren coming out ofhisbed in hisshirt,whom
he took for the spirit that did the mischief. However',
at length, they got all together, yet the noise continued
so great and so terrible, and shook the walls so much,
that they thought the whole manor would have fallen
on their heads. At its departure it took all the glass
and fled away.
November !.-Something, as they thought, walked
up and down the drawing-room, and then made a
noise in the dining-room. The stones that were left
bllfore, and laid up in the withdrawing-room, were all
fetched away this night, and a great deal of glass (not
like the former) thrown about again. ·November 2.
Came something into the drawing-room, treading, as
they conceived, much like a bear, which at first only
walked about a quarter of an hour ; at length it made
a noise about the table, and threw the warming pan so
violently, that it quite spoiled it. It also threw glass and
great stones at them again, and the bones of horses; and
. all so violently, that the bedstead and wans· were
bruised by them. This night they set candles all aboot
the rooms, aud made fires up to the mantle-pieces of the
chimneys, but all were put out, nobody knew how ;•the
fire and billets that made it, being thrown up and down
the rooms, the curtains tom with the rods .from their
beds, arid the bed-posts pulled away, that the tester fell
dowr. upon them, aud the feet ofthe bedstead werecloven
in two. And upon the servants in the truckle bed that lay
·all this time sweatingfor fear, there was first a little water
which made them begin to stir, but before they could get
. .
STRANG& PBBSAGES AT WOODSTOCK. 9~
-Qut, there came a wholebowl·as it were of stinking ditch
water down upon them, so green tilat it made their shirts
and sheet." of that colour.
The same night the windows were all broken by throw•
ing of stQnes, and thCl'e were most terrible noises in the
three several places· together, to the extraordinary
surprize of all that lodged near them ; nay the very
coney-stealera that were abroad that night, were so
aft'righted with the dismal thunderinir, that in h8$te
they left their ferret in the coney-burrough'I behind
them, beyond Rosomand's Well. Notwithstanding all
this, one of them had the boldness to ask, in the name
of God what it wa.'I ? What it would have l and,
what they had done, that they Pbould be disturbed in
this manner ? 'l'o this no answer Wa.s given, but the
noise ceased for a while. At length it came again,
and as all of them said, brought seven devils worse
than itself. · Whereupon one of them lighted a candle
and 11et it hctwc.>en the two chambers in the door-way,
on which another of them fixing bis·eyes, saw the simi- ·
litude of a hoof, striking the candle and candlestick
into tha middle of the bed-chamber, and afterwards
making three scrapes on the snuff to put it out. Upon
this, the same person was so bold as to draw his sword,
hut he had scarce got it out, when there wa.'I another in-
visible hand had hold of it too, and tugged with him
for it, aDd prevailing struck him so violently with. the
pummel, that he was stunned with the blow.
Then began grievous noises again, insomuch, that
they calling to one another, got together, and went into
the prCHnce chamber, where they said prayers, and
sung psalms; notwithstanding all which, the thundering
noise Etill coniiuued in other rooms. After this, 'No-
v~mber 3d., they removed their lodgings over the gate,
. p 2
100 DUCHESS OF llrfAZARlNE
and next day, being Sunday, went to Eweli'n, where
' how they escaped, the author of this narrative knows
not : but returning on Monday, the devil (for that was
the naine'they gave their nightly-guest) left them not
ut'lvisited, ·nor on the Tuesday following, which was the
last day they sojourned at W oodstoek.
~ DUCHESS OF MAZARINE, AND MADAMB DE
::::::==--:::. BEAUCLAIR.
· The Duchess of Mazarine was one of the most cele-
brated of the mistresses of tho gay and licentious court
of King Charles the Second. Waller distinguishes
her as one of the favourites of that monarch, in the
following lines-
" When through the world fair Mazarine had run,
Bright as her fellow-traveller the •l!D•
!;lither et last the Roman eagle flies,
As the last triumph of her conquering eyes."
. Madame de Beauclair; was equally admired, and
loved by his brother and successor James the Second;
between these iwo ladies there existed an intimate
friendship, such as is rarely found in persons bred up in
courts; particularly those of the same sex, and in the
same circumstances.
They were both women of excellent understandings,
who had enjoyed all the luxuries of this world, and
were arrived at an age, when they might be supposed t.o
despise all its follies.
After the burning of Whitehall, these two ladies were
allotted .very handsome apartmen~ in the Stable-yard,
St. James's, but the face of public affairs heibg
then wholly changed, and a new set of courtiers, as
well as rules of etiquette iu vogue, they conversed.
almo~t only with each other.
A.
ND )Ul>AMJI DK lUU.UCI..UR. 101
About this time.tho doctrin'e.of the .immateriality of
- the soul was warmly disputed in all circles, especially
among those whose mere rank in life served as a specious.
pretext for their interference in such matters. The
docUine ·wu too much discussed, not to be frequently
a subject of conversation for these ladies; and the plau-
sible argnments used by persons of high reputation for
th!iir learning, had such an effect on both, as to raise
great doubt. in. them concerning- the immortality of the
soul, and the certainty of its existence, after deatl1. In
one of theile serious oonsultati.ons on thiff topic, it wa.'!
agreed between them; that. whichever should ho fir5t '
called from this world, should return (if there were a
possibility of doing so) and give tho .other an account
in what manner she waa disposed of. This promise, it
seeDIB, was ot\en ?epe(l.ted, and the Duchess happening
to fall aick, and her life being despaired of by all about
her, Madame de Beauclair reminded her of her compact,
to which her Grace replied, " you may depend upon my
performance." These words passed· between thcin
about an hour before the death of the Duchess, and
were spoken before several frier,ds and attendants, who
were in·the room.
Some yeazs after the Duehoss's decease, says the
narrator of these facts, happening-in a visit to Madame
de Beauelair, to fall on the topic of· futurity ; she ex-
pressed her disoolief of it with great warmth ; which
surprising me, I offered some arguments, to prove the
reasonableness of depending on a life to come: to which
she answered, that not all that the whole world could
say should eyer persuade her to that opinion ; and then
she related the compact made between herself and the .
Duchess of Mazarine. ·
o,oitized by Google
DUCBISS OP MAZAalHB •
A few months afterwards~ continued be, I happened to
be at the house of a penon of rank, with whom since the-'
death of the Duchee8 of Mazarine, Madame de Beau-
clair had the greatest intimacy. We bad just set down
to cards about nine o'clock in the evening, when a ser-
vant came hastily into the room, and ac.tuainied the
Jady I was with, that Madame de &auclair 'had sent.·
to intreat she would come that moment io her, addiilg..
that if she desired ever to see her more in this world,.
she must not delay her visit.
So odd a message might naturally surprise the person·
t4> whom it was delivered. She asked who brought it,- ·
·and being told it was Madame de Beauclair's groom of
the chambers, she ordered that be should come io, and·
demanded of him if his lady waa in good health, or ii
he knew of any thing extraordinary that bad happened
to her, which should occasion this hasty summoos.
The groom answered, that he was entirely incapable of
explanation, as he had not heard his lady complain or
any indisposition.
"Well then," said the lady, ratl!er pettishly, "I desire-
you will make my excuse, as I have really a cold, and
am fearful the night-air may increase it ; but to-morrow
l will not full to wait on her very early in the morning."
On the departure of the groom, we- began to form
several conjectures on this message frem Madam& de
Beauclair, but before we had time to agree on a reason-
able conclusion, he retum&d again, with him Mrs.
Ward, her waiting-woman, both being very much con-
f~cd and almost breathless.
" Ob, Madam," cried she, " my lady expresses great.
concern at your refusing this request, which she says will
be her last ;-she says that she is conYinced of nQt.
AND MADAMS ns BBAUCL.UR. 103
being in a condition to receive your visit to-morrow ;
but as a token of her friendship she bequeaths you this
little casket containing her watch, necklace, and other
jewels, which she desires you will wear in remembrance
of her."
We immedi#tely left the house, but as no mention
was made of me in the message,·on arriving at Madame ·
de Beauclair's house, I waited in a lower apartment,
till she might give orders for my admittance.
She was, however, no sooner informed I was there
than she desired I would come up :-I did so, and
found bP.r sitting in ao easy chair near her bed-11ide, and
in my opinion, as well as that of all present, sheeeemed
in perfect health.
On our enquiring if she felt any inward disorder,
which gave room for the melancholy apprehensions in
her message, she replied in the negative ; " yet," said
. she, with a little sigh, " you will soon, very aoon, behold
me pass from this world into that eternity which I once
·deubted, hut am now assured of."
A11 she spoke these last words she looked steadfastly
' in my face.
I told her, I wa." heartily glad to find so great a
change in her ladyship's sentimerd11, but that I hoped
11be had no reason to imagin'e the conviction would be
fatal, which she only answered with a gloomy smile ;
and a clergyman of her own persuasion, who bad been
sent for, coming in that moment, we quitted the room.
In half an hour henee we were called in again, and
•he appeared to be more cheerful taan before ; her eyes
sparkled with uncommon vivacity, and she told us she
should die with the more satisfaction, as she enjoyed in
her last moments the presence of two persons the most
agreeable to her in this world, and in the next would
104 DUf!llBSS OF' MAZARINR, &c.
he sure of enjoying the society of one, whom in life
she bad dP.arly cherished.
We now began to dissuade her from giving way to
1mch conversation, when she interrupted ns by saying,
" ialk no more of that,-my time is short, and I ~uld
not have the small space allowed me, to be was1ed in
vain delusion : know," continued she, "I have seen my
dear Duchess of ·Mazarine ; I perceived not how she
entered, but turnirig my eyes towards yonder comer of
the room, I saw her stand in the same dress· she was
aucnstomed to wear when living; I woUbi' fain have .
spoken; but bad not the power of utteraiico : she took
a cireui~ round the chamber, seeming r11.ther to swim
than walk : then halting beside that Indian cheR, and
looking on me with her usiJe.l sweetn811111 Beauelair,
said she, between the hours of twelve and, one this
night you shall be with me. My suiprifle being a little
abated, I began to ask some questions concerning that
future world I W8.!1 so soon to visit, but on the opening
of my lips for that putpose, sbe vaaished from my
sight."
The clock now struck twelve, and, as she discovered
not the least symptom of any illness; we · again endea-
voured to remofe all apprehensions of death ; but we
had searce began to speak; when on a sudden her
countenance changed, and she cried out, " Oh ! I am
sick at heart !"-Mrs. Ward, who during this time stood
leaning on her chair, applied some salts, but to no
effect ; !!he grew still worse, and iU about half an hour
expired ; it being exactly the time t.he apparition had
foretold.
I have been thus particular io relating all the cil:eum-
stal!()es of this·affair, as well to provo that I could not he
deceived in it, bS to shew that Madame de Bea.udair
oigiLeJbvGoogle
VILLIERS, DUKE or BUCKINGHAM. 105
was neither melancholy nor superstitious. Tnis lady
was so far from any such apprehensions, or prepos-
sessions, that, on the contrary, ehe looked upon -
them as ridiculous and absurd, and could have been
convinced by nothing but the testimony of her own
eyes and ears.
VJLLl~S1 DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM.
MOST of our readers are familiar with the history of
the above nobleman, and the tragical termination of his
life, by John Felton. The following narrative, a.;
connected with this eyent, will thorefore be rend with
much interest.
There were many stories scattered abroad at this
time of several prophecies and predictions of the Dake's
untimely and violent death ; amonggt the rest tbero
was one that was upon a good foundation of credit.
There was an officer in the king's wardrobe in Wind-
sor castle, named Parker, about the age of fifty. This
man bad, in his youth, been bred in a school in the
p.llJ'ish where Sir George Villiers, the father of tho
Duke lived, and bad been IU.!Jch cherabed by Sir
George, ·but whom he had never seen since bis youth.
Ahout six months before the assassination of the Duke of
Buokingham, at midnight, this man was in his bell
at Windsor, and in good health, when there ap·
peared to him on the side of bis bed, a man of ti
venerable aspect, who drew the curtains of his bed,
and fixj.ng bis eyes upon him, ·asked him if be knew
him.
Tho poor man, halfdead with fear and apprehension,
being asked the second time .whether he remembered
him, and having in that time called to his wemory the
presence of Sir George Villiers, and the clothes he used
F 3
J06 VILLIBRS, DUKB OP BUClllNGB.Uf,
to wear, in which, at that time, he seemed to he
habited, he answered him, that he thought ~im to be
that person. He replied, he was the same, and that
he expected a service from him; which was, that he
should go to his son, the Duke of Buckingham, and
tell him, if he did not somewhat ingratiate him11elf
with the people, or at least abate the extreme malice
which they &ad against him, he would be 11utfered to
live but a short time.
After this d~course he disappeared, and the poor man
slept well till morning, when he believed all this to
be a dream.
The next night, the same person appeared te him
.-gain in the same place, and about the same time of
the night, and asked him whether he had done as he
required of him ; and perceiving he had not, severely
reprehended him, and said, that if be did not perform
bis co1nmands, ~e should enjoy no peace of mind;
but should always be pursued by him; upon which
he promised him to obey. But the next morning,
waking out of a good sleep, thou~h ·he Wlill exceedingly
perplexed with the lively repre.<ientation ofall the varticu-
hm in hi11 memory, he was still Willing to pet'BUade him-
self he had only dreamed; and considered that being the
Duke's inferior be did ·not know how to gain admission
to his presence. At length he resolved to do nothing
in the matter.
The same person appeared to him a third time, and
bitterly reproached him for not performing his promise.
The poor man had by this time gained courage to tell
him, as in truth he had deferred the execution of his
commands upon considering how difficult it would be
for bim to get any accelS. to the Duke ; and if he
.
VILLIERS, DOKE OJ' B~KINGBAM, 101
should obtain admission to him, he never should be
able to persuade him that he was sent to warn him
of approaching danger.
The spectre replied, as he had done before, that he
f>hould never find rest till he had performed what he
required, and therefore he had better dispatch it ;
that the ac00$8 to his son was known to be very e&ltY,
and that few men waited Jong for him.
In the morning, the poor man more confirmed by the
fast appearance, started for London, where the court
was then held. He now called on Sir Ralph Freeman,
one of the Masters of Requests, who hacl married a
lady nearly allied to the Duke; and was well received
by him. Through the interest of Sir Ralph, Parker
obtained a promise of an interview with the Duke, who
according to his wmal condescension told him that he
was the next day to hunt with the Kiog; that his horsea
would attend him at Lambeth-bridge, where he should
land by five o'clock in the morning, and if the man
attended him there at that hour, he would speak
with hbn.
Sir Ralph p~nted Parker to the Duke at his
landing, who received him courteously, and convel9Cd.
with him nearly an h-?ur•.
Parker told 8ir Ralph in his return over the water,
that when he mentioned certain particulars, the Duke's
colour changed, and he swore that he could come at
that knowledge only by the devil; for that those par-
ticulars were only known to himself and to another.
The Duke joined in the cbace, but was observed to
ride a)l the morning with great pensiveness and in deep
thought, without any delight in the exeroise ; and before
the morning was spent, he left the field, and alighted
at his mC?ther's lodgings in Whitehall, with whom be
waa shut up for two or three hours. When the Duke
JOS ·l>R. DONN!.
left her, his countcna11ce apJiearedfull of ti:,ouble, mixed
with anger, and the Countess was found over-
whelmed in tears, and in deep agony.
Whe11 the news of tho Duke's murder, which hap-
pened within a few months afterward..;;, was brought to
his mother, she seemed not surprised, but recch·ed it as
if she had foreseen it; nor did she afterwards express
such a degree of sorrow ns was expected from a
mother, for the loss of so valuable a son.
This slory is relaied iu Clarendon's History of the
Rebellion, and is also told by Lilley in his Observa-
tions on the Life and Death of King Charles the
First.
A considerablo time before this happened, Sir Clement
Throckmorton dreamed that an assassin would kill hi.~
Grace. He therefore took · the first opportunity to
aJvise him to wear a privy coat; the Duke thanked
hitn for his counsel very kindly, but gave him this
answer, that he thought a coat of mail would signify
little in a popular commotion, and from any single
person he apprehended no dauger.-Religue Wotton.
----- DR. AND MRS, DONNE,
.,,,,.- Doctor Donne and his wife resided for some time
with Sir Robert Drurv, at Iii.~ house in Drury-lane. Sir
Robert and the Docto~ having agreed to accompany Lord
Hay in an embassy to the Court of France, the Doctor
left his wife, who was then pregnant, in Sir Robert's
house. Two days after they had arrived at ·Paris,
Dr. Donne happened to be left alone in the room, where
they hml dined ; but in about half an hour Sir Robert re-
turned, when noticing the sad air ofthe Doctor, Sir Hobert
earnestly requested him to state wl1af had befallen
him in .his shnrt absenco? The Doctor replied " Since
.you left 'me I have seen a frightfi1l vision, for I have
seen my dear wife pass by me in the room; with her
•
Ma. THORNTON/ OF PULHAM. 109
hair hanging about her shoulders, and a dead child
in her arms.'' Sir Robert repUed, " Surely, Sir, you .
have slept since I left you, and this is the result of
some melancholy dream, which I would have you for-
get, for you are now awalte." Dr. Donne replied, " I
cannot be more sure that I now live than that I have
not slept, that I have seen my wife, and that she
stopped short, looked me in the face, and then fled
away." Thi;i he affirmed the next day with mora
confidence, which induced Sir Robert to think that
there might be some truth in it. Sir Robert imme-
diately dispatched a servant to Drury-house, to ascer-
tain whether Mrs. Donne was alive or dead ; and if alive
in what state of health. On the twelfth day the
messenger returned,.stating that be had seen Mrs. Donne,
that she was ve;y ill ; and that after a long and
painful labour, she had been delivered of a dead child;
and upon examination, it proved that ~e delivery bad
been on ~he day Dr. Donne saw her apparition i.q his
chamber.-Jsaac Walton.
MR, THORNTON, OF· FUJ.HA!'ff,
-
MR. THORNTON was one night extrepiely agitated
by a dream. It appeared to 4im that he saw the gar-
dener of his family in the act of murdering his cocik-
maid. He svoke, but endeavoured to dismiss this
vision from his remembrance, and attempted to compose
himself to sleep, His eyes were scarcely closed, when
again the same dreadful picture presented itself to his
imagination. Alarmed by the extzao1·dinary, the distinct,
and the repeated, intimation, he rnpidJy arose, and
taking his night-lamp in his hand, departed from his
room, and descended the .stairs, with an intention of
proceeding to the SP.Ot in which the circumstances of the
oigiLeJbvGoogle
-
}JO Mil. TBORN'l'ON, OP PULBAll. -
dream had appeared to him a.,. occurring. 1'he hour
was about four o'clock. 'rhe morning was clear,
moonlight, and frosty. _
The reader will conceive what his surprise must have
been, when, on entering the kitchen, on his way to the
garden, by tbe nearest avenue, he perceived the cook
dressed in white, putting on her bonnet and cloak, as if
preparing for a journey. To his inquiries respecting her
presence 'at ·such an unaccustomed hour, and in such
extraordinary attire, she replied, that·she was on the
point of being married to the gardener,-that they were
going to a neighbouring village for that purpose,-and
that Mark was waiting for her, at the end ofthe garden,
with a horse and tax-cart to convey her io church~ Mr.
Thornton told her, that be of course could have no.ob-
jection to theirmarriage, though he remonstrated against
the secrecy of the proceeding; he desired her to wait a
few moments till his return, as he was desirous of
speaking to M~k previously to their setting off. Her
master did not delay a moment in hastening to the
garden: his mind much misdoubted the good intentions
of the paramour, and be was not a iittle struck with the
coincidence of his dream and the preparations which he
witnessed. He first w~nt to the bottom cf the garden
-to the spot mentioned by the maid.servant, as the
place in which Mark was waiting for hei;. coming.-All
was still. There was no Mark; no horse ; no chaise.
He then proceeded to the place marked out to him by
the vision. Here he was destined to behold an object
of a very doubtful character ; working with an inde-
fatigable and hurried hand, and with his back turned
towards him, Mr. Thornton perceived a man digging a
pit. As he stood at bis labour in the pit, it appeared to
be about th~ feet and a half deep-it was about as
DR, SCOTT AND TB£ TITLE-DEil>. 111
many in width, and about six feet in length; it had all
the character -of a grave. Mr. Thornton approached
silently, and laid his hand with a sudden and violent
grasp on the man's shoulder. .Mark turned bis eyes
upon his ma.c;ter, shuddered and fainted.-Were the jn-
dications of that dream the suggestions of a lying spirit ?
DR. SCOTT AND THE TITLE•DBl!D.
ONE evening Or. Scott was seated by the fire read-
ing at his house, in Broad-street, when· accidentally
raising his head, he saw in an elbow chair, at 'the oppo·
site side of the fire-place or chimney, a grave gentleman
in a black velvet gown, a long wig, looking with a
pleasing1countenance towards the doctor, a.~ if about tc;i
speak to him.
The doctor was much perturbed. According to his
narrative of the fact, the spectre, it seems, spoke first,
and desired the doctor not to be alarmed, that he came
to him upon a matter of great importance to an injured
family, which was in great dangerof being ruined; and
though he (the doctor) was a stranger to the family,
yet knowing him to be a man of integrity; he had
chosen him to do this act of charity and justic<'.
The doctor was not at first composed enough to enter
into the business with due attention, but seemed rather
inclined to get out ofthe room if be could, and'once or
twice made an attempt to knock for sqme of the fa-
mily to come up. The doctor having at length reco-
vered himself, said, " In the name of God, what art
thou ?" After much importunity on the part of the
doctor, the apparition began his story _thus :-
" I lived in the county of Somerset, where I left a
very good estate, which my grandson enjoys at thi&
112 DR. SCOTT AND TBB .TITLB-OEED.
time. But he is 11t1ed for the possession by my two
nephews, the sons of my younger brother.
[Here he gave his 0101& name, the name ofMiyounger
brother, and the namt& efhis ttDO nephetvs.]
'fhe doctor then asked him bow long the grandsop
had been in possession of tho estate; which he told him
was seven years, intimating that he had been so Jong
dead. .
He then went on to tell him, that his nephews
would be too strong for his grandson in the suH, and
would deprive him of the mansion-house and estate ; liO
that be would be in danger of being entirely ruined, and
his family reduced.
The doctor then said, " And what am I able to do in
it, if the law be against him ?"
"Why," said the spectre, '' it is not that the nephews
have any right; but the grand deed of settlement, being
the conveyance ofthe inheritance, is lost: and for want
of th~t deed they will not he able to make out their
· title to the estate."
" Well," said the doctor, " and still what can I do in
the case?''
"Why," said the spectre, " if you will go down to my
grandson's house, and take some persoru with you whom
you can trust, I will give you such instructions, that
you shall find out the deed of settlement, which lies
concealed in a place where I put it, and 'where you
shall direct my grandson to take it out in your presence."
" But why then can you not direct your grandson
himself to do this ?" said the doctor.
"Ask me not about that," said the spectre, "there are
divers reasons which you may know hereafter. I can
depend upon your honesty in it, in the meantime, and
DR. SCO'l'l' AND TSE Tl'l'Lli:•DEKD. 113 ·
you may so dispose of matters that you shall have·your
c:r.pencel! paid you, and be handsomely rewarded for
your trouble."
Having obtained a promise from Dr. Scott, the spectre
told him he might apprize his grandson that he had
formerly conversed' with ·bis grandfather, and ask to see
the house ; and that in a certain upper room, or loft, he
w~mld see a quantity of old lumber, coffers, chests, &c.
which had been thrown aside, to make room for more
fashionable furniture.
That, in a certain corner, ho should find an old chest,
with a broken lock upon it, and a key in it, which could
neither be turned in the lock, nor pulled out. In this
chest lay the grand deed or charter of the estate, which
conveyed tho inheritance, and without whieh the family
might be ejected. The doctor having promised to d~
patch this important eommission, the spectre disappeared.
After a lapse of some days, and within the time
limited by the proposal of tho spectre, the dpctor
went into Somerset.shire, and, havin:t found the house
alluded to, ho was very courteously"
invited in. They
now entered upon friendly discourse, and the doctor pre-
tended to have heard much of the family, and of his
grandfather, from whom, he said, he perceived the estate
descended to itspresent occupier.
" Aye," said the gentleman, shaking bis head, " my
father·diild young, and my grandfather has loft thing11 so
confu'ied, that, for want of one principal writing, which
is not yet come to hand, I have met with great trouble
from two cousins, my grandfather's brother's children,
who have put me to very great expense about it."
" But I hope you_have got over it, sir?" said the
doctor. ·
"No," said the gentleman; " to be candid with you,
oigiLeJbvGoogle
114 DR. SCO'l"l' ANO THE TITLE•OBRD.
we shall never get quite over it, unless we can find this
old deed: which, however, I hope we shall find, for I
intend to make a general search after it."
" I wiSh with all my heart you may find it,: sir,"
said the doctor.
'' I do not doubt but we shall; Iliad a strang~ dream
about it last night," said the gentleman.
" A dream about the writing !" said the doctor; ·~ I
hope it was that you should find it, then."
" I dreamed," said the othcl", " that a strange gentl~
man came to me, and assisted me in searching for it. I
do not know but that you are the man."
. " I should be very glad to be the man," said the
doctor.
" Nay," replied the gentleman, "you may be the
man to help me to look after it."
;,. "Aye, sir," tiaid the doctor, " I may help you to
look after it, iudeed, and I will do that with all my
heart; but I would much rather be the man that should
help you to find it : pray when do you intend to search?"
" To-morrow," 11aid the. gentleman, " I have "P-
pointed to search for it."
" But," said the doctor, " in what manner do you
intend to search !" -
" Why," replied the gentleman, " it is our opinion
that my grandfather was 110 very much concerned in
preserving this writing, and had so much jealousy as to
its safety, that he hid it in a secret place ; and I am re-
solved to pull half the house down but I will find it, if it
is above ground."
"Truly," said the doctor, " he may have hid it, so
that you may pull the whole house_ down before you
find it. I.have known such things utterly lost by the
very care taken to preserve them."
. Dll. SCOTT AND THE TITLE-DEED. J15
" If it was made or something the fire would not
destroy.'' said the gentleman, " I would burn the house
down, but I would find it." .
'' I suppose you have searched ali the old gentleman's
chests, trunks, and coffers over and over," said the
doctor.
''Aye,''. said the gentleman, " and turned them all
inside outward, and there they lay in a heap up in a
loft, or garret, with nothing in them ; nay, we knocked
three or four of them in pieces to search for private
drawers, and then.I burnt them for anger, though they
were fine 'old cypress chests that cost money enough
when they were in fashion.''
" I am sorry you burnt them," said the doctor.
" Nay, said the gentleman," I did not burn a scrap
of them till they were all split to pieces, and it was not
possible there could be any- thing in them.''
This made the doctor a little easy, for he began to be
surprised when he told him he had split soine of them.
and burnt them. ·
" Well," said the doctor, "if I cannot do you any
service in your search, J will come to see you again to-
morrow, and wait upon you during it with lDY best good
Wishes.'' •
" Nay," says the gentleman, " l do not design to
part with you, since you are so kind as to offer me
your assistance; you shall stay all night, then,•and be
at the commencement of the search.'' '
The doctor had now gained his point so far a.<1 to
make an, intimacy with the family; and, .after much
intreaty, he consented to sleep there. ·
A little before dark, the gentleman asked him to take
a walk in the park ; but he declined; " I wo1Jld ra- .
tber, sir," said be, smiling, ",thatyou·shew me thisfine old
1J6 Dll. SCOTT .41\D TBE TITLH·DEED.
mansion_house, that is to be demolished to-morrow ;
methinks I would fain see the house once before you
pull it down."
" With all my heart," said the gentleman. He
took him immediately up staire, shewed him the best
apartments, and his fine furniture anc\ pictures ; ancl
coming to the head of the staircase, offered to desoend.
" But, sir," said the doctOr, " shall we not go
higher r"
" There is nothing there," said he, " but g~ and
old lofts full of rubbish, and a place leading to the
tµrret, and the clock-house.''
" O, let me sec it all, now we are . here," said the ·
do~tor, '' I love to see the old lofty towers and turrets,
and the magnilicence of our ance;itors,- though they a.re
out of fashion now: pray let me see them."·
After they bad ramllled over the mansion, they pas&e«l
l>y a great lumber room, the door of which stood opeo.
" And what place is this ?" said the doctor.
" 0 ! that is the room," said the gentleman, where
all the rubbish, the chest'!, coffers, and trunks lie; see
how they are piled one upon another almost to the
ceiling."
Upon this the doctor began to 1001' around him. He
bad not beeu in the room two minutes before he found
e\·ery thing precisely as the speeh'e in London bad de-
scribed; he went directly to the pile he had been told
of, and fixed bis eye upon the very chest with the old
rusty look upon it, which would neither tum round nor
come out.
'' Ou my word, sir," said the doctor, " you b&ve
taken pains enough, if you have searched all tbeso
drawers, chests, and coffers, and every thing that may
have beeu in them."
DR. SCOTT AND THE TITLE-DEED. 117
" Indeed, sir," said the gentleman, " I have examined
them myself, and looked over all the musty writings one
by one: and they have all passed through my hand and·
under my eye."
" Well, sir," sai!1·the doctor, " will you gratify my
curiosity by opening and emptying this small chest or
coffer?"
The gentleman looking at the chest, said, smiling, " I
remember opening it; and turning to his servant, he
laid, '' Willilllt!, do you not remember that chest?"
" Yes, sir," replied the servant, " I remember yo11 were
so tired, that you sat down upon the chest when every
Uiing W!IS out of it; that you shut the lid,. and sat down,
and sent me to my lady to bring you a dram of citron ;
and that you said you *ere ready to faint." .
''Well, sir," said the doctor, "it is only a whim of
mine, and probably it may contain nothing."
" You shall see it turned upside down before your
face, as well as the rest."
Immediately the gentleman caused the coffer to be
draggf!d out and opened. When the papers were all
out, the doctor turning round, as if looking among
them, but taking little or no notice of the chest,.stooped
down, and as if supporting himself with his cane, struck
the same into the chest, but snatched it out again hastily,
as if it had been a mistake, and turning to the chest,
he shut the lid, and seated himself upon it. Having
dismissed the servant, " Now, sir," said he, " I have
fowid your writing; .I have found your grand deed of
11ettlement; and I will lay you a hundred guineas I have
it iu this coffer."
The gentleman took up the lid ~crain, bandied the
ehest, looked over every part of it ; but could see.
nothing ; he was confounded und amazed! " What
ll8 DOROTHY DINQLEY.
do you mean ?" said be to the doctor, " here is nothing
but an empty coffer."
"Upon my word," said the doctor, "I am no ma-
gician, but 1· tell you again the writing is in this
coffer."
The gentleman knocked and called for his servant
wah the hammer, but the doctor still sat composed
upon the lid of the coffer.
At length the man came with a hammer and chisel,
and the doctor set to work upon the chest, knocking
upon the flat of the bottom : " hark !" says he, " don't
you bear it, sir ? don't you hear it plainly ?"
" Hear what ?" said the gentleman; " I do not un-
derstand you.'' -
" Why the chest bas a double bottom, Sir, a false
bottom," said the doctor, "don't you hear it sound
l\ollow ?"
In a word, they immediatdy ~plit the inner bottom
open, and there found the parchment spread abroad
flat on the whole breadth of the bottom of the trunk.
It is impossible to describe the joy and surprise of the
gentleman, and of the whole family; and the foJ'!Der
sent for 11is lady, and two of his daughters, into the
garret among the rubbish, to see the place apd manner
in which the writing was found.
DOROTHY DINGLEY, AT LAUNCESTON, IN CORNWALL,
.4lte1ted by tlie R,e,,, Mr. Ruddle, minister oftliat town.
.. IN the beginning of the year 1665, a di&ease hap•
pened in this town, and some of my scholars died of
it. Among others who fell victims to its malignity,
was John Elliott, the eldest l!Oll of Edward Elliott,
of Trehcrsc, Esq. a stripling about sixteen y~ars of age,
bnt of unc'>mmon abilitiei. At his particular reque;.t
DOROTHY DINGLEY; ll9
I preached at the funeral, which happened on the 20th
day of June, 166.5. In my discourse I spoke some
words in commendation of tho young gentleman. An
old gentleman, who was then in the church, was much
- affected with the discourse, and was often heard, to re-
peat the same evening, a line which I quoted from
Virgil: ,
El puer ipae contrari dignus.
The cause of this old gentleman's concern, was the
application of my observations to his own son, who
being about the same age, and but a few mouths
younger than Mr. Elliott, was now by a str~
accident quite lost as to his parents' hopes.
The foneral ceremony being over, on leaving tho
church, I was courteously acc6sted by this uld gentle-
- man ; a~d with unusual importunity, almost forced
against my will to his house that night; nor could l
have even declined from his kindness, had not Mr.
Elliott interposed. I excused myself for the present,
but was constrained to·promise to wait upon him at his
own house the Monday following. This then seemed
satisfactory, but before Monday• I received a message
requesting that if possible I would be there on the
Sunday. This second attempt I resisted, by answering
that it was inconvenient. The gentleman sent me
another letter on the Saturday enjoining me by no
means to fail coming the Monday. J was indeed startled
at so much eagerness, and began to suspect that there I
must be some design in this excess of courtesy.
On the Monday I paid my promised devoir, and met
with a reception as free, as the invitation was importu-
nate. There also I met a neighbouring minister, who
pretended to call in accidentally, but by the sequel I
supposed it otherwise. After"tinner this brotlier of the
o,oitized by Google
120 DOROTHY DINGLEV.
cloth undertook to show me the gardens, where, as we
were walking, he intimated to me the main object of
this treat.
First he apprised me of the 1nfelicity of the family ·
in general, and then instanced in the youngest son.
He related what a hopeful youth he lately was, and
how melancholy and sottii;h he was now grown. Next he
deeply lamented that his ill-humour should so incredibly
subdue his reason. "The poor boy," said he, " believes
himself to be haunted with ghosts, and is confident
that he meets With an evil spirit in a certain field about
half a mile from this place, as often as he goes that way
to school." In the midst of our discourse, the old gen-
tleman and his lady came up to us. Upon their ap-
proach, and pointing to the arbour, the clergyman
resumed the narrative, and the parents of the youth
confirmed what he said. In fine, they all desired my
opinion and advice on the affair.
I replied, that what the youth had reported to them,
was strange, yet not incredible, and that I knew not
then what to think or say on the subject ; but if the
lad would explain himself to me, I hoped to give them
a better account of my opinion the next day.
The youth was called immediately, and I soon en-
tered into a close conference with him. At first I was
very cautious not to displease him, but endeavoured to
ingratiate myself with him. But we had scarce passed
the first salutation and begun to speak of the business,
before I found him very commu~icative. He asserted
that he was constantly·disturbed by the appearance of
a woman in an adjacent field, called Higher Brown
Quurtils. He next told me in a flood of tears, that
his friends were so unkind and unjust to him, a<; neither
to believe nor pity him ; .and that ifany man would go
DOROTHY DINGLEV. 121
with him to the place he might be convinced that his
assertion was true.
This woman who appears to me, said be, lived
neighbour to my father, and died about eight years
since; her name was Dorothy Dingley; be then stated her
stature, age, and complexion : that she never spoke -to
him, but passed by hastily,- und always left him the
foot-path, and that l!be commonly met him twice or
three times in the breadth of the field.
Two mouths had elapsed before I took any further no,- -
tice of it, and though the face was in my memory, yet
I could not recal tihc name ; but I concluded that it was
some woman who lived in the neighbourhood, and fre·
quently passed that way. Nor did I imagine otherwise,
- before she met me constantly morning and evening,
and always in the same field, and sometimes twice or
thrice in the bceadth of it.
The first time I noticed her, was about a year since;
and when I began to suspect and believe it to be a
ghost, I had coura.,"'C enough not to he afraid. I often
spoke to it, but never had a word in answer. I then
changed my way and went to school the under horse
road, aud then she always met me, in the narrow lane;
between the quarry park and the nursery-grou'nd. J
At length I began to be terrified at it, and prayed
.r,ontfoually,·that God would either free me from it, or
let me know the lll1!aning of it. Night and day,
sleeping and waking,·the. shape was ever running in my
mind ; and I often repeated these places in scripture.
Job. vii. 14. "Thou scnrest me with dreams, and tem-
fiest me through visions ; "and Dt=>ut. xxviii. 67. " In the
morning thou -shalt say, would God it were ovening,
and at evening thou shalt say, would God it" were
morning, for the fearofthine heart, wherewith thouilhalt
G
•
DOJtOTHV DINGLJ:Y.
fear, and for the sight of thine eyes which thou shalt
see."
I was much pleased with the lad's i~nuity, in the
application of tbe.se pertinent text. of script1ue to hiH
condition, and desired him to proceed, which he did as
fGllows :-
By degrees I gr.ew very pensive, insomuch that I
wu noticed lly all our family; being q11esti~ed closely
OU the subject, I iold. my brother Williaµi of it ; anc
he privmely'uq_uaintlld. my father and mother.
They .however laughed at me, and enjoined me to at-
tend to my iehool, and keep such fan~s o.
11t of myJieacl.
I accordingly went to school ofteJil, but 11.lways met·
ihe woman in the way.
·Our conference ended in my offering. to aCQot1,1pany
him to the field, which proposal he received with extasy,
and we accordingly went. .
The gentleman, his wile, and Mr. WillilldDS, were
impationt to know the event, insomueQ that they . ~me
out of the parlolll' into the hall to meet us ; and &ieing
the lad look cheerfully, tile first compliment from the
old man was, " Come Mr•. Ruddle, you ha.¥e talked
with Sam, I hope oow he will have more wit ; an idle
boy, 8Jl idle hoy !" At these words. the lad ran up
stairs to his chamber without replying, and I soon
mpped the curiosity of the three expectants, by telling
them I hlLd promised silence,, and was resolved to be as
good as my word, but that they should soon know all.
The next mornipg, IMOOre five o'clock, ihe lad was
in my chamber; when I arose and went with lull).
The field he led me to was to be twenty acres, in an
open ~ountry, and about three furlongs from any house. ·
We had not proceeded above a third part over the field,
b~foiti tbo spectre, in the shape of a woman, w.ith all
DOROTllY DINGUY, 123
the circumstances he had described her to me in the
orchard tbe day before, met us uacl passed by. I was
somewhat surprisM at it; and thoagh I had taken fum
resolution to speak to it, yet I.bad ·not the power, nor
indeed durst I look back. We walked to the end of
the field, and retumed, but the spectre did not thea meet
us above once. On our retwn h~, the lady
wait.ad tG ~k with me ; I told her that my opinion
was, that her son's complaint was not to be slighted,
_ nor altogether discredited. I eautioned her moreover,
that the thing might not take wind, lest the whole
country should ring, with what was as yet uncertain.
On the morning of the 27th day of July, 1666, l
went to the haunted field alone, and walked the breadtlt
of it without any encounter. I returned and took the
other walk, and then tlle 1pectre appeared to me at
shout the same place I saw it befoM whon the young
gentleman was with me; in my idea it moved .
swifter
than the time befo1e, and WfW about t.en feet distant
from me on.my right bend.
On the evening of this day, the parents, the son,
and myself, being iu the chamber where I lay ; I pro-
posed to them our glling altaget.Bcr to the place next
morning, and all resolved upon it. In the morniag,
lest we shou.ld alarm the servanU., th~ went under the
pretence of seeing a field of wheat, and J. took nfY
horse, ~ fotched a com\>ass aDGtliror way, and met at
the s1ile w.e had appointed.
'l'hence we all four walked leisu~ly into the Quartils,
and had passed abov.e half the field before the spectre
made its appearance. It then came over the ·stile ju.'lt
before us, and moved with !'uch swiftness, that by the
time we had gone &ix or seven steps it had p888ed by. I
immediately turned my bead and ran aft~r it, wit• ·the
G2
124 DOROTHY DINGLBY.
young man by ~ side; we saw it pass over the stile at
which we entered, but no farther; I stepped upon the
hedge at one place and he at another, 'but could discern
nothing, whereai; I dare aver, that the swiftest horse in
England could not-hue-conveyed himself out of sight
in that short space of time.. Two things I obsenecI-in
this day's appearance :- ,
-1. That a, spaniel dog who followed the company
unregarded, barked and ran away, as the spectre
passed by ; whenct; it is easy to- conclude that it was
not our fear or fadcy which made the apparition.
- 2. That the motion of the spectre was not gradatim,
or by steps, and moving of the feet ; but a kind of
sliding as children upon the ice, or a boat down a swift
river; which punctually answers the description.'! the
ancients gave of the motion of their lemurs.
. This ocular evidence convinced, but· strangely
f.lghtened the old gentleman and his wife; who knew
Dorothy Dingley in her life time, were at her funeral.
and plainly saw her features in this preset1t apparition. I
was resolvedto proceed, and:usesuch means asieatnedmen
have successfully practised, in these uncommon cases.
The next morning being Thursday, I went out very
early by myself, and walked for about an hour's space
in meditation and prayer in the fields adjoining the
Quartils. Soon after five I stepped over the stile, into
the disturbed field, and had not gone above thirty or
forty paces before the spectre appeared at the farther
8Ule. I spoke to it with a loud voice, whereupon it
approached but slowly, and when I came near, it inoved
not. I spoke again, and it answered in a voice neither
very audible nor intelligible. I was not in, the least
terrified, and. therefore persi$ted, until it spoke again,
and satisfied me.
DOROTDY DINGLEY. 125
In the same evening·an hour after sun-set, it met me
~ near the same place, and after a few words on
each side it quietly vaniihed, and neither appeared
·since, Dor ever will more, to any man's disturbance.
The conversation in the rnorning lasted ahout a quarter
of an hour.
These things are true, and I know thell'.l to be so
with as much certainty as eyes and ears can .give me ;
and until I can be penuaded that my senses deceive me
about tl.teir proper object ; and by that persuasion de-
prive myself -of the strongest inducement to believe
~hriiltian religion, I must ud w··1 assert, that these
thlngs in this paper arc true. I know full well with
what difficulty relations of so uncommon a nature and
41raetice obtain belief. Tms incredulity may be attri-
~utcd,
Firat. To the infinite abll8es -0f the ·people, and im-
positions upoa their faith by cunning monks and friars,
&c., in the days of darkness and popery. For they
made &.ppariUC>ns as often as they pleasro, and got
both money and credit by quieting tho .TertiCNlamenti
Vulgi, which their -0wn artifice had raised.
Sec011dly. To the prevailieg of Somatism arid Hob-
lbean principles in these times ; which is a revival of the
doctrine of the Sad.daces, a'Bd as it denies the nature,
so cannot CODSi~t with the apparitions of spirits, of
which !08, Leviathan p. I~ c. 12.
Thirdly. To the ignorance <>f men in our age, in this
peculiar and mysterious part of philosophy and religion,
namely, the oommunieatiOB between spirits and men. Not
one scholar often thousand {though otherwise ofexcellent
learning) knows any thing of it, or the way how to ma-
nage it. This ignorance bree~s fear, and abhorreuco of
J26
that, which oilierwit1e might be-of iDoompe.rable benefit
to mankind. .
Such ia the narratwe o( tll~ Re...!.t Mr. Rl.iddle, a cler-
gyman of some no1e at ~. in . ComwaU. It
wanl8 neither name, date, nor place, but .
Mery particu-
lar seems to be detailed with the utmost precision and
fidelity. ·
MISS P:JllNGLE·
On mqrning ip the susnnier of .1746; .Mn. Jane
Lowe, boost-keeper*° Mr. Priogl~ of Cli&on Pam~
in the uuth of Scotland. b~ld :t~ aJ>Parit.ion. of a
lady walking ~. the a-qenue, on ~ matgin of a .rivulet,
which runs Hit.o Kale waklr. The rGrm ·.reseniblei a
daughter of aer masiei, who had loug been ahleni from
the family, at the distance of above a hundred mile&
sout• qf Paris. As Mn. ·Low& walbcl down th&
.ave]fue IWd 8'Pf«!8ehed tlle mW.et, she grew more a.Mi
. niore ~~iQ. oi the aimili"'6& oi tDli .phaoiom tu ihll·
idea in her miud ef tlie Miss PriogI., ~ seeing her
m~ iu an enclosure adjoining. ~ CJOOU»wiHlated..»
him what s~ had just.seen• Mr, Priaele laughed, and
said, " you aimple woman, ~t 1~ ia .
Miat Chatt.ow
of MorebaUle." However, Mm. .Lowe ~veW
upon 11.im "°acoompµiy her .to, the place t. vv~ieh .tbe7
had nearly reiwhed, wb.e11 .\be appaiit.ioe ·spNDg into
the water and instantl7 ~ppe~red.
Mr. Pringle aiid M.-s. Lowe, on returniiig to the
ball, apprized the fa.ooily of the visi,on, aud for their
pains were heartily laughed ~ The Rev. Mr. Turn-
bull, minister of Lint.on, happened 1o breakfast tha~
morning with Mr. Pring!~, lUs lady, ao.d two youn&
daugh~rv, who joinedin tlie laugh. .AbQu& three monf»
THE KONIGSBEaG PROPllSSGL lU
afterwards~ the sam6 l'e'V'el'end gentleman honoured the
family with his oompany ; when standing at a window
in th:e lo"7erroom, he observe.I a poor, ragged, lamB, lean
man, slowiy appr0aching the hou«e. "·Her9 comet ano-
her apparition," oried Mr. TombulJ, with a kind of con·
iempmous smile. This drew the immediate attention
of aH present, and Mr. Pringle quickly recognized the
person to be bis seoond son, whom he bed not seon be-
fore for aho\fe ten years.
On his arrival, he soon eonvineed them he was nGt an
apparition, declaring tM.t be l_taa 11aao1rly eec!if>t!d witk
his life from Tams, in die Yicinity of which be had
hftn a slmre io -~ AlgerineueVen ran, but had hap--
pily beetl rMieomecl at the eri.tioa:l nument whea lie
"8s erdered to be--pu! to death fur mtitilly. He added,
~ton bin&tut'll ~e through Franee, he called ai
the plaee wber& -.: had heari that his· .Wei resided,
and t8·hill im1peakalR P,f found tbst she dieQ on the
26tlt of Ma.y, th& same wmmer, ·tboai &v.! o'eJock in
the morning, which lie ~olleeW ·to ha~ 1'eea the pre.
dee time tMt he.was aaved &-om t1l!e ,;.wa of·dea.tb, and
when.Ji8 thoagM be beheld his silt.er. Mre. Lowe;
who 1llU preseat in tlie nom, on hearing his deolara-
~r.>,.· br•k& :futtb btiP an e.eclaaaUsll, aftirmmg, ~
~ G.y alludei t9 ~8!1 'ihat one whicQ l!he h~ sl)e.wu
Mr. Pringle tU a~tion ·; and this waa oonfirmecl by
the revere!ld·di1ine,, in w~ ittucly •Wtt n-.-'ative waa
M>1tnd aft.er his-death.
'J,'RB KONIGSBERG-PROFESSOR• . ;,,..,,_.t7~~ty
~· I AU not so. decidedly sceptical oa the possibilitf -
of supernaiural appeara.llee," ·1aid Cowrt Falk~eim
to Sir Nathaniel Wraxall, " as to treat them with ridi~
, . ~aile~_ beea\lse they may ~r to be un_philosophical
K~ • .g_,_.,,,..t;j, ~~~~- ~;;--6.
G.t--4-: ~~~-r,X,. ~/ /6.
°'"''"edbyGoogle
128 THE KONIGSBERG PROFESSOR,
I received my education in the university of Konigsberg,
'\vhere I had the advantage of attending lectures in
eihics and moral philosophy, delivered by a professor
· who was esteemed a very superior man in those branches
of science. He had, nevertheless, though an ecclesi-
astic, the reputation of being tinctured with incredulity
on various points connecled with Tevealcd religion.
When, therefore, it became necessary for him in the
course of his lectures to treat on the nature of spirit 8s
detached from matter, to discuss the immortality of the
soul, and to enter OD the doctrine of a future state, I
listened with more than ordinary attention to' his opi-
nions. In speaking of all these mysterious subjects,
there appeared to me to be so visible an embarrassment.
both in his language and in his expressions, that I felt
the ~trongest curiosity to question him further respecting
them. Finding myself alooe with him soon aftorwards,
i: ventured to state to him my remarks on his deport-
ment, and entreated him to tell me if they were weU
founded or only imaginary suggestions.
"The hesitation which you noticed,'' answered-he..
" resulted from the conllict that takes place within me,
when I am attempting to convey my ideas on a subject
where my understanding is at variance with the testi-
mony of my senses. I am ~ually, from reason and
reflection, disposed to consider with incredulity and
contempt the existence of apparitions. But an ;ppear-
ance, which I have witnessed with my own eyes, as far
as they, or any of the perceptions can be confided in ;
and which has even received a sort of subsequent con-
firmation, from other circumstances connected with the
original facts, leave me in that state of scepticism and
suspense which pervaded my discourse. J will commu-
nicate to you its cause. Having been brought up to
rng;1;zed by Google
TJIR KONIGSBERG PROP~QB. i29
t'lie profession of the church, I was presented by
Frederick William the First, late Kiug of Prussia, i, a
.small benefice, situated in the interior of the country,
at a considerable wstance SO\lth of Konigsberg. J re-
paired thither in order to take possession of my living,
and found a neat p!U'sonage house, where I p8$ed the
night in the bed-chamber y.rbich had been occupied ·by
my predecessor.
" It was in the longest days of summer ; and on the
following morning, which was Sunday, while lying
.awake, the curtains of tht\_bed IJeing undrawn, and. it
being broad. daylight., I beheld the figure of a man,
habited in a sort of loose gown, staflding at areading
desk, on which lay 11. large book; the leaves of which
be appeared to tlll'll over at intervals ; on each side cf
lrlm stood a little bey, in whose faces he loGked eam-
'()Stly from time to time, and as he looked he seemed
always to heave a deep sigh. His countenance, pale
and disconsolate, indicated some distrfm of mind. I
had the most perfect view of these objects, but being
impressed with too much terror and apprehension to rise
or to address myself to the appearances before me, I re-
mained for some minutes a broathless and silent spec·
.~tor, . without uttering a word or altering my position.
·At length tbe man closed the book, and then ta1ring the
two children, one in each hand, he feel them slowly
.across the room;· my eye11 eagerly followed him till
the three figures gradually disappeared, or were lost
behind an iron.stove which stood at the farthest corner
.of the apartment. ·
" However deeply and awfull1 I was affected bv the
•ight which I had wit~, aud however incapabl~ I
was of explaining it to my.own satisfaction, yet I rec~
G3
J:Jo TS& ltOPUGSBERQ faOPE880Jl.
vered saftlciently the poesft!Sion of my DliDd to get up,
•d having h~ily dressed myself I lefi the hoase.
The sltll was long risen, and direatint; my steps to the
ehurch, I foand that it was open; bet the sexton had
quitted it, and on entering the cbanool, my miad aqd
imagination were 90 stroogly imprfl!llled by the ~ne
which had recently passed, that I endeaveuted to dissi-
pate the recollection by considering the •ts~od
me. In almost all Lutheran churoh~ of .the Prussian
domilllons, it is the cwtom to hang up ~in1.1t the walhi,
or BODie part of the building, the portraits of the SllC-
cessive pastors 0r clergymen, who. have held tho livin,:.
A ·number of these paintiags, nid.el,- pei:fom"1.:.·\\'ete
suspended in one of the aisles. But I ha.d. no.1Poner
fixed my eyes en the la&t in the range, which waa the
portrait of my immediate predecell80r, than ~bey became
rivetted io t.he object ; 85 I iaatantly reco~ed ihe
same face which I had beheld in. my bcd-cbamber,
thour;h nai cloliaed. by the same deep impltllleion of me.-
lancholy a11d diW-0!111. T.be se,xton eutered. as I ~as
still contemplating this interesting heoil, ad I ~
d,iately began e. conversation with him on.ihe subject of
tbe perspn& who bad p,receded .me io the. liriu.g. l{e.
remembered aeveral ineumbents. con~ whoin
respcc1ively, I made ~j; inquiries. till I eollclodeil
by the last, relative to whl)Se his4ory I wa1" partioolarly
inquisi.ive. ' W.e considere'1 hieJ,' sirNd the ee-xton,
' as one Qf the most le~rned a amai#hle men . who
have eYfl re.sided am-0iag us. Hie charaoter and bene-
volence endeared him to all his pari~en. wl10 will
long lament hi» lOB~ Ba{ t.e .wu.carried .offin· the
middle of hi.s dlj,ys 'by ~ l~eriug illness, tAe eause of
which h~ giv.en Pie~O JU.&llY 1¥1ple$9M~ .o~ ~mong
rng;1;zed by Google
THE _K.O'.NIG$WG PROPE$1()~, }~1
us, &nd which still form matter of conjecture. U is,
lwwever, co•11nonly believed that he died of a br9~
hes.rt..'
'! My cw:iosity being still IJ!Ore warmlr excited ·b1
the_ mootiou of. ~hia circumstance, I eagerly pres&ed.
hi!ll to disc)CMHJ to me all he knew or had heaad.
on ibo 11ubjeoi ' Nothi.Jtg respectio~ lt,' answel!ed. h~
is absobdely known, but soandal has propagated a
story of hit h~ving formed a criminal oonnexion with
a young womam of the neighbourhood, by wham it wes
even 8.'!8erted he had two soos. · As coufinnatwn
of the ref">rl, I koow that there certainly were two
children who have. been seen at the panionage, boys of
about four ~ fiv• rear;: old; but they suddenly di&.
&ppeare~ SOQle tiJne before the decease af their ~11p­
po.sed father; tlw11ga t~ what p~ they are eent, eiir
what is becmue of tllem1 we are wbolly ignorant. Ii is
equa,lly cert&in, t~ tlte swmise.'I and uufavo~Jb)e opi·
~ions formed 1"8'ptocWng this mytJterio1111 busine11S,
which must necessarily have r-0ached llim, precipitated.
if they did not produce the disorder of which Gur
. late ~or died ~ but he is gone to his acuount, and we
are bound to think charitably of the departed.'
" It is unnecessary to say with what emotion I
listened to this relation, Which recalled to my imagina- .
ti-On, and seemed to gi?e proof M the. e:datence ·of all
that I had seen. Y e.t unw~ling to ntlErt my mind to
become enslaved by phantoms which might have been
the effect of error or deception, I neitller oammunicated
to the "sexto.a the circumstance which I had witnessed,
nor even permitted myself to quit the chamber where it
bad taken place. .I continued to lodge there, without
ever witnessing any similar appearance i and the recol:
lection itself began to wear away, as the autumn·
o,oitized by Google
)32 TB& ROCBESTBR APPARITION.
advanced. When the approach of winter rendered it
necessary to light fires through the house, I ordered the
iron stove which stood in the room, and behind which
the figure which I had bel1eld, t<>gether with the two
boys, seemed to disappear, to be heated for the purpose
of warming the apartment. Some difficulty was expe-
rienced in making the attempt, the stove not only
smoking intolerably, but emitting an offeµsive smell.
Having, therefore, sen~. for a blacksmith.to inspect and
repair it, he discovered'in the inside, at the farthest 'ex·
tremity, the bones -of two small human bodies, corre-
sponding perfectly in size as well as in other respects
with the description given me by the sexton, of the
two boys who l1ad been seen at the parsonage.
" This llll!t circumiita~ce completed my astonish-
ment, and eppeared to confor a sort of reality on an
appeara1icc which might otherwise have been considered
u a deluion · of the senses. I resigned the living,
quitted the place, and retired t Konigsberg ; but it has
produced on my mind the deepest impression, and -has
in its effect given rise to that uncertainty and contradic-
tion of sentiment which you remarked in my late dis-
courac." ·
~ THE BOCHESTEB APPABlTION.
Ts& following narrative was communicated in .a letter
from Mr. Thomas Tilson, minis.ter of Aylesworth,
in Kent, to Mr. Baxter, as a contribution to his cele·
hratedwe rk, "The Certainty ofthe World ofSpirits."
Rev. Sir,
BEING informed that you are writing about spectres and
apparitions, I take the freedom, though a stranger, to send
yon the foHowing .relation :
o,oitized by Google
THE ROCHESTER .APPARITION. 188
Mary, the wife of John Goft'e, of Rochester, being aillicted
with a long illness, removed to her father's house at West-
Mulling, which is about nine miles distant from her own :
there she·died, June the 4th, 1691.
The day before her departure, she grew impatiently desi-
rous to see her two children, whom she had left at home, to
the care of a nW'Be. She prayed her husband to hire a
hone, for she must go home, and die with her children.
When they pel'luaded her to the contrary, telling her she was
not fit t<? be taken out of her bed, nor .able to sit on hol'le-
back, she intreated them however to try : " If I cannot sit,"
said she, " I will lie all along upon the horse, for I must go
to see my poor babes." '
A. minister who lives in the town, was with her at ten
o'clock that night, to whom she expressed good hopes in the
mercies of God, and a willingness to die; "but," said' she,
" it is my misery that I cannot see my children."
Between one and two o'clock in the morning, she fell into
a trance. One Widow Turner, who watched with her that
night, says, that her eyes were. open, and fixed, and her jaw
fallen: she put her hand upon her mouth and nostrils, but
could perceive no breath ; she thought her to be in a fit, and
doubted whether she were alive or dead.
The next day, this dying woman told her mother, that she
had been at home with her children. " That is ·impossible,..
said the mother,_
" for you have been here in bed all the
while." " Yes," replied the other, " but I was with them
last night, when I was asleep."
The nurse at Rochester, Widow .Alexander by name,
affirms, and says, she will take her oath of it before a magis-
trate, and recei.ve the sacrament upon it, that a little before
two o'clock that morning, she saw the likeness of the said
Mary Goffe come out of the next chamber, (where the
elder child lay in a bed by itself, the door being left open,)
and stood by her bed-side for about a quarter of an hour;
the younger child was there lying by her; her eyes moved,
and her mouth went, but she said nothing. The nurse more-
~~~~-- ar.~ ~ '72r.:1. 7./s-.r;
13• TBS JlOOtllS'l'llA APP.AJUTlON'.
11Yel' •ya, that Ike ,,.. perfecdJ awake I it WU tbeil day1¥it,
being one of the lo«igfat day• ia the year. She m up ht
her bed. and looked atedfastly upon the apparition ; in that
time she heard the bridge clock strike two, and a while after
aaid, In the aame of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, wliat
art thou? Thereupon the appearance remoTed ud weat
sway ; abe llipped on her clothes and followed, hilt what b&-
mme of.it abe Caimot telL Then, and not befo~, ahe begaa
tll i.e grinolJlly aft'righted, and went out Of doon, and
we.lked upon the Wliifr"ttl:ie house is just by the rh'.er iide)
for IOllle holll", only going in·now and then to look at the
children. At five o'clock ahe went to a neighbour's. hou-,
and knocked at the door, but they would not rise : at sis the
yent again, then they arose and let her in. She related.to
them all that had paued : they would persuade her·
tlhe was mistaken, or dreamt ; but she confidently affirmed,
if ever I saw her in all my life, I saw ber this niglit.
One of those to whom lhe made the relation, Mary, the
wife of Mr. J. S~, had a messenger who came from
Mulling that forenoon, to let her know her 11eighbour
Gotfe waa dying, and desired to speak with her; she went
over the same day; and found her just departing. The ·
mother, amongst other discourse, related to her how much
her daughter _
had longed to see her children, and said she
had seen them. This brought to Mrs. Sweet's mind, what
the nurse had told her that morning, for till then, she had .
not .thought fii to mention it, but dilguiped it, rather as the
woman's disturbed imagination.
The substance of thia, I had related to me by John Car-'
penter, the father of the deceased, next day aftet" the
burial : July 2d, I fully discouned the matter with the nurse,
and two neighbours, to whose houte ehe \tent that morning.
Two days after, I had it from the mother, the minister
that wae with her in the evening, and the woman who
sat up with her·that last night: they all agr~ in the same
atory, and eyery on1: helps to strengthen theother's testimony.
They all appear to be aober intelligent persons, far enough
oig''"ed by Google
· l8S
off from deligning to impoM a cheat upoR the world, or to
, manage a lie, and.what temptation they should·lie under for
10 doing, I cannot conceive. .
Your most faithful friend and humble tervant,'
THOMAS TILSON.
Mini8ter ef Ayleifr>rd, near
Maidatone, ,,, Kmt•
.CAIJllO BVUOIJGllS.
Sir John Burroughs being sent Envoy to the Emperor
by King Charles 1. W<>k bill eld~h4'P ,C8llhio Burroughs
with him; and pursuing his journey through Italy, left
his son at F1orence to learn the language ; where,
having an intrigue with a beautiful courtesan, mistress
to the Grand Duke, .their familiarity became so public,
that it came to the Duke's ear, who resolved to have
him murdered. Cashio having timely notice .of the'
Duke'R desigu, hy some of the English there, imine-,
dia.tely left the city, without acquainting his mistrellS of
it, and came to ·England. 'J'be Duke, being dii;ap-
pointed of his revenge, now fell upon his mistress in
the most reproachful language : she, on the other
hand, resenting the sudden ·departure of her gallant,
of whom she was most passionately enamoured, killed
herself. At the same moment that she expired, $he ap- I
peared to Cashio at bis lodgings in .London. Coloner
Romes was then in bed with him, and likewise saw.
ber, giving him an account of her r~entment of his
ingratitude to her, in leaving her so suddenly, and
exposing her to the fury <!f the Duke, and not omitting
her own tragioal exit ; adding, that he should be
slain in a du~l ; which accordingly ·happened. Thus
she appeared to him frequently, even when bis
younger brother (who waa afterwards Sir Jc,>hn) was in
186 CAPTAIN B.08BRS, LN.
bed with him. As often u she appeared, be cried out
with great shrieking, and trembling of his body, and
anguish of mind, saying, " Oh God! here she comes !
she comes!" and in this manner she haunted him till
he was killed. She appeared to him the morning before
he was killed. " Some of my acquaintance," says
Aubrey, " have told me, that be was one of the hand-
somest men in England, and very valiant."-Aubrey's
Miscellanies.
CAPTAIN BOGBU1 L N.
IN the year 1694, one Captain Thomas Rogers,
commander of a ship called the Society, was bound on
a voyage from London to Virginia.
The vessel being sent light to Virginia, for a loading
of tobacco, had not many goods in her outward-bound•
They had a pretty good passage, and the day before
had made an observation, when the mates and officers
brought their books and cast up their reckonings with
the captain, to see how near they were to the coB.!t
of America. They all agreed that they were at least
about a hundred leagues from the capes of Virginia.
Upon these customary reckonings, and heaving the
lead, and finding no ground at an hundred fathoms,
they set ~he watch, and the captain turned in to bed,
The weather was good, a moderate gale of wind blew
fair for the coast; so that the ship might have run about
twelve or fifteen lengucs in the night, after the captain
was in his cabin.
He fell asleep, and slept very ssmndly for abou~ thee
hours, when he waked again, and lay till he heard his
second mate turn out, arid relieve tho watch ; he then
called bis chief mate, as_ he was going off from the
watch, and a8ked him how all things fared : who an-·
CAPTAIN ROGERS, R.N, 137
swered, that all was well, and the gale freshened, and
they ran at a great rate ; but it was a fair wind, and a
fine clear night : the captain then went to sleep again.
About an hour after he had been asleep again, be
dreamed that a man pulled him, and wakoil him, and
bade him tum out and look abroad. He, however, lay
still and went to sleep, and was suddenly awaked again,
and thus several thlies; and though he knew not '.Vhat
was the reason, yet be found itimpossible to go to sleop;
and still he heard the vision say, turn out and look
abroad.
He lay in this uneasiness nearly two hours: but at
last it increased so, that he could lie no longer, but got
up, put on his watch gown, and came out upon the
quarter-deck ; there he found his second mate walking
about, and the boatswain upon the forecastle, the night
being fine and clear, a fair wind, and all well as before.
The mate wondering to see him, at first did not know
him ; but calling, Who is there? the captain answered,
and the mate returned, Who, the captain ! what is the
matter, Sir ?
The captain said, I don't know; but I have been
very uneasy these two hours, and somebody bad me
turn out, and look abroad, though I know not what can
be the meaning of it.
How does the ~hip cape? said the captain.
South-we11t by south, answered the mate; fair for the
coast, and the wind east by north.
That is good, said the captain ; and after some other
questions, he turned about to go hack to his cabin,
when, somebody stood by him and said, " heave the
lead, heave the lead."
Upon this, he turned again to his second mate, saying
when did you heave the lead ! what water had you ?
}38 LOKD BACON TO LORD Ml..DDLETO!ll.
About an hour ago, replied the mate, sixty &thom.
Heave again, said tl1e captain.
There is 110 occasion, Sir, &aid the mate; but if you
please it shall be done.
Accordingly a hand was called, .and the lead. being
cast or heaved, they had ground at eleven fathom.
This surprL~ them all, but much more when at the
next cast, it came up seven fathoms.
. Upon this the ~tain ill a fright bade them put the
helm a-lee, and Bhout ship, all hands being orde~a to
back the sails, as is usual in such cases.
The propet or4ers being obeyed, tme ship stayci pre-
sently, and came about; and before the sails filled, a1te
had but four fathoms and .a half water nuder her stem;
as soon as she filled and stood off, they had &e\Ten
. faUioms again, and at the next cast eleven fathoms, acul
so on to twenty fathoms ; he then stood off to seawiird
all the rest of t.be watch, t.o get into deep water, till
.day-break, when being a clear morning, the capes of
V.irginia, and all .the coast of America were in fair
view under their stem, and but a few leagues distant.
·Bad they stood on mt orie cable's length farther, as
they were going, they would have been bump a-shore
and certainly }(lllt their ship, if not their lives. ·
LORD BACON TO LORD MIDDLETON.
SIR W. Dl!Gt>ALR, infonned .several gentlemen that
when Maj.-gen.Middletoo, afterwards created Lord,went
into the Highlands of Scotland, to endeav01n to make a
party for Charles J., an old gentleman, who wa& seeond.
sighted, met him and told him, that his attempt, though
laudable, would not be successful ; and that besides they
would put the king to death ; and that aeveral other at-
tempts would be made, bqt all in vain, but that his son,
#
HENRY JACOB, TO BIS C-OUSIN DilOTOJt JACOB. 139
would oome in, although it would be long fil'St, and
should at last be restored.
Thi" nobleman bll.'1 a great friendship for the Laird
Bocooni, and they made an agreement, that the first of
them that died should appear to the otber in extremity.
It happened that Lord Middleton was taken prisoner at
the battle of Worcester, and sent up to London: while
be was confined in the Tower, one morning, lying pensive
-in his b~ Boeconi appeared to him. Lord Middleton
asked him ifho were dead or alive? He replied, that he
was dead, and had been so many years, but that he was
eorne to revive bis hopes, for that in a very short time,
within three days, he should escape~ th~ fell out as it
was foretold, and he did so in his wife's clothes. When
he had delivered bis message, he lightly tripped abottt
,the roow, and disappeared.
This accoant Sir William D•gdale received from' the
Bishop of Edinburgh, who in10ried it in bis miacel-
lanies.~Aubrq•.
HENRY JACOB, TO DJS COUSIN DOCTOR J!COB,
OP CAN'l'BllBURY.
HENRY JACOB was a man of sound loaming, of
Merton College, Oxford, where he died in 1673.
About a week after his death, Dr. Jacob being in his
bed, and awake, and the moon shining bright, saw his
cousin Henry standing by his bed, in 'bis shirt, with a
white-cap on his head, and his beard, which be wore
'Very particular_, turning up, just as when he was alive.
At first the Doctor questioned himselfas to the reality
o£ his being awake, and getting up in a sitting posture~
for a while looked at the phantom betore him with
dread and astonishment. At last, he lay 'himself dowri,
and thought to compose himselt to sleep again : but·
curiOllity urged him on to look again, and he first turned
140 R• NELSON, 'BSQ. 'l'O LADY ELIZABBTB HASTINGS.
himselt only on his side, when he saw his cousin stand-
ing there as before. He again lay down, but soon after
taking courage, rose up as at first, and there saw Henry
Jacob, in the same form as before, but yet he had not
sufficient courage to 11peak to him. The spectre stood
full halfan hour before him, and then disappeared.
Or. Jacob immediately went down stairs, and while
relating the story, the cook-maid, who bad gone out to
fetch wood to keep up the fire, returned in great trepida-
tion, having seen a spectre standing like in a shirt upon
the wood pile.
Mr. Aubrey reports this passage from Dr. Jacob him-
self, who related the whole to him, when at Lord Teyn-
bam's in Kent, where he was then in a medical
capacity.-Wood's .A.thenr.e Oxon.
ROBERT NELSON, ESQ. TO THE BON. LADY ELIZABETH
HASTINGS, AT LEDSTON&, YORK.
Tms lady was very remarkable for her piety and
charity.• Archbishop Sharpe, Dr. Lucas, Mr. Nelson,
and Mr. Locke, were her most intimate friends. Mr.
Nelson was the first called away, and between him and
this lady there subsisted a sort of religious compact for
a communication of spirits in the hour of extremity, for
in her last illness she was constautly anxious and in ex-
pectation of a messenger of glad tidings as she called
him, for whom she waited.
For some time her friends, household, and servant.c;,
thought that the severity of the pain she suffered, which
proceeded from a cancer in her breast, had rendered her
delirious: but in this thev deceived themselves, for sho
convinced them at last, that be~ hope was rational, in
• See her story in the Taller No. 4!. and where her character b
drawn under the name of the Aspasia.
THE FORTUNATE DREAM. ' 141
declaring that in a short time she should be able to tell
the exact hour of her departure.
She called for a manuscript volume of notes of her
own writing, and shewed her brother, the Earl of Hunt·
ingdoo, a memorandum, which plainly mentioned, that
an agreement l1ad been made between her and Mr.
Nelson, that the first that died should return if consci-
ously possible, and warn the other of the approaching
period and termination of life.
During the who1e of her-illness two nurses sat up with
lier, relieving each other at intervals for rest iu the night.
On the morning of the sixth day previous to her dissolu-
tion, about four o'clock, there came visibly into the
room the form and appearance of a grave and venerable
looking man : the nurse saw it plainly, and related how
he was dressed ; which was exactly the general appear-
ance of the late Mr. Nelson. Lady Hastings was all
the while seemingly asleep. The pl1antom, after stand-
ing at the side of the bed sat down in an elbow chair,
which chanced to be near. The nurse, after beholding
it a short time, 'rang a bell for a servant to come down
to. her, but not being answered, she took the light in her
hand, and went to call her up ; but before she could
return it was gone, and Lady Hastings being then
awake, rebuked her servants for their silly fears, and
said, she bad now the sweet assurance ofrelieffrom her
pain, in six days, which happened accordingly.
This story· is so well attested, that it has passed into
several theological works, and more than once has been
menf.iofiC(f'i'n the · . Mr. Thomas Barnard, who
o her hi~torical character, and published it, with an
account of her public charities, mentions it with some
additional circumstances.
THE FOR'TIYNATE DREAM.
A MERCHANT of London, being on the Continent
o,oi•ized by Google
142 THE FORTUNATE DRF.AM.
upon business, chaneed to meet an old school-fellow,
who had turned Roman Catholic, aod received priest;s
orders. This meeting naturally recalled their forme~
affection an& friepdship, and induoe.d them, regardlesi
of the difference of their sentiments, to spend the even-
ing together. This was in French Flanders ; and the
wine being good, led them insensibly on to a midnight
conversation, in which religion became the principal
topic. That, as is hut too often thq case between per-
sens of different persuasions, was carried beyond all
bounds of decency on both sides : and the merchant, ·
who had read many polemical books, got the better of
the argument in favour of the reformed religion of his
country, whirh the other had abandoned. The pri~t
seemed to be much chagrined, and his countenance
v_
isibly discovered the emotions of his mind. At length,
however, appearing to resume his pleasantry and good
nature, he invited the merchant to breakfast with him
the next morning, at a conv11Dt, over which be presided.
They then parted in the utmost friendship, and the
merchant soon after went to bed, where soon failing
8!'lt'ep, he had a dre.am of the most frightfttl nature.
He thought he entered a den where were ten thousand
hissing serpents, one of which twisting it.s train round
his neck, darted its sting into his bosom. The lkead
1of this instantly awaked him, and caused him to start
from his couch in the greatest agitation. His mind the
remainder of the night was in great agony. He agriin
endeavoured to compose himself to sleep, but all in vain,
the horror of the vision hung on bis imagination, till.the
sun arose, when he got up, and w$lked out into a neigh~
bouring neld. Meeting a friend and couatryman, who
was a military captain, and headed a party of soldiers
encamped iu the vicinity, and who quickly discovered the
copfusion his mind was i1'l) he opened the whole busioe~,
.THE FORTUNATS DllEAlll. 143
told his dreit.m, and promised to meet hi1n agiln after
h.e had breakfasted at the convent. Although I pay
hl4$ l•ttle regard to dreams iD general, said the captain,
yet there is something in yours so extremely uncommon,
that I verily believe it to be ominous of some disast.er
that awai~ you this day. But, <'.Onti~ued he, I would
by no means advise you to go to the priest; for perhaps
7ou may renew the argument, and he will by no means
take it well to lie otercome in his own convent. As I
have given.my promise, said the merchant, I must go
and visit my old school-fellow, whose friendship was
always sincere, and whose company always delighted
me. My dear friend, quoth the captain, if you will go,
I wish you well out again. These singular words so
stmck the mind of the merchant, that he desired the
captain to call .upon liim, os by accident, about half an
hour after the time appointed, at the convent, which the
captain promised to do. .
At nine o'clock the merchant knocked at the gate of
the convent, and was met by the priest, who welcomed
him ~o the place with every expression of friendship.
1'hen conducting him up a stair-case, they came to a
door, which the priest opened. After some ceremonies,
they advanced along a gallery, at the end of which were
two folding doors, which, on the priest's ringing a bell,
Hew open, and presented a fire, and two ruffian-looking
fellows, with instruments of torture in their hands.
The merchant that.iustant gave himself ilp for lost, and
in vain remonstrated with his false friend, who calling
him heretic, and other opprobrious names, commanded
the waiting villains to perform their task without farther
ceretllony.
At that instant a dreadful alarm was given below,
which greatly surprising the priest, he went to know
)44 MURDER IN CRIPPLEGATB.
the cause of it, and the ruffians followed him, leaving
the merchant alone; who imagining that some unhap-
py sufferers below bad gained the mastery over their tor-
mentors, had courage enough to run down stairs, at the
bottom of which he was agreeably surprised, to meet tho
captain wi_
th a file of musqueteers, who instantly took
him under their protection, and conducted him safely
from the convent to the inn ; the captain declaring,
that he was obliged to have recourse to force, in order to
make his way into the convent.
DISCOVERY OF THE ROBBERS AND !\IURDEBERS OP
; MR. STOCKDEN, VICTUALLER, IN GRUB-STREET,
CRJPPLEGATE
ON the 3rd of December, J695, about mid·
-night, Mr. Stockden was murdered and roabed by four
men then unknown; one Mayuard was suspected hut
he got off; Soon afterwards, Mr. Stockden appeared to a
Mrs. Greenwood in a dream, and'shewed her a house in
Thames-street, n~ar the George, saying, that one ofthe
murderers lived there. She was somewhat intimidated;
yet she went the next morning, and.took with her one
Mary Dugges; to go with her to the house which the
vision had directed her to, and asking for Maynard,
was told he was _from home. Mr. Stockden appeared to
her again, and then presented Maynard's face before her
with a flat mole on the side of his nose (whom she had
never seen;) and more particularly informed her, that a
V\'iredrawer should take him, and ti)at' he should be car-
ried to Newgate in acoach. Upon enquiry they found
out one of that trade, who was his intimate friend, and
who for a reward of ten pounds, promlRed to seize him ;
which he both undertook and effected, as follows.
He sent for Maynard to a public house, near Hockley-
in·the-Hole, where he played at cards with him till a
o,oitized by Google
OMESS OF MURDERS;. 145
constable was S'ent for, who apprehended him, and
took him before a magistrate, who committeda him to
Newgate, whither he was carried in a coach.
Maynard while in prison, confessed the fact, and im-
peached ~is accomplices, who were Marsh, Bevel, and
Mercer : he said, that Marsh was the abettor, knowing
that Mr. Stockden had money and plate, but was not
present at the murder, &c. yet be had his share of the
booty. Marsh suspecting that Maynard had made some
disCovery, left his home, but soon after this, Mr. Stock-
den appeared again to Mrs. Greenwood, and shewed
her a house in Old-st*t, (where she had not been
before) and said, that Marsh lodged there. Next morn-
ing she took Mary Bugges with her, a.S before, and en·
quired for Marsh, but he was not at home. But he was
soon after taken at another place and secured.
Soon after this, Mrs.Greenwood dreamed again that Mr.
Stockden carried her into the Borough prison-yard, and
shewed her Bevel, the third criminal, whom she had never
seen before. Thither she went, taking with her Mrs.
Footman, Mr. Stockden's kinswoman and house·keeper:
they went together to the Marshalsea, and enquired for
Bevel, being informed that he bad been lately brought
thither for coining. They desired to see him ; and when be
came down, both declared that he was the man. They
then applied to a peace officer, who procured his removal
to Newgate, where he presently c~nfessed the horrid
murder : and thus the three principal criminals were
tried, condemned, and hanged. This account is testified ,
by the Bishop of York, &c. and by the curate of Crip-
plt-gate, who published the narrative.
WARNING OF MVRDBR BY A DREAM•.
A YOUKG gentleman in the city of Dublin, in Ireland,
~eamed one night that his ·sister lwho was lately mar·
H .
146 OMENS OF MURDER.'l.
ried, and lived at some small distance) had been mur·
dered : and waking, it gave him some uneasiness ; but
finding it was only a dream he went to sleep again,
when be dreamed the same thing. He then got up,
went to the apartment of an old lady, and told her his
dream with great agitation of mind. She smiled at him,
and said that she wondered that a gentleman of hi!i
understanding should be so troubled about a dream,
and bid him go to bed again. He did so, fell asleep,
and dreamed the third time that bis sister was murdered.
He then got up and dressed himself with all l'peed,
hastened to bis sister's house, where he found her cut
and mangled in a barbarou~ manner, by her cruel bus~
band, a rank papist. She just lived to speak a few words
to her brother, and then expired of her wounds; and the
base villain was apprehended, tried, and hanged for
the crime.
~ IN the second year of the reign of king James ht.
~ one Anne Waters carrying on certain intrigues with a
young man in the neighbourhood, and finding their ap-
pointments were interrupted by her husband, they agreed
to strangle him with a wet napkin, so that the mark
might not be perceived, which being done, they buried
him under a dunghill near an adjoining cow housf..·
The man was missed by bis neighbours, but the woman
dissembling grief, carried it off so weH, that none suspect·
ed her in the least of being accel!sary to bis death, or of llG
much as knowing what was become of him, but assided ·
her enquiries after him. After some time, conjecta~
being almost over, one of the inhabitants of the village0
dreamed, that his neighbour Waters was strangled, and.
buried under a dunghill near the cow house ; and re-
lating his dream to others, it was resolved .that the place
should_be searched with a constable ;. which being done,
• a
- D
- .
JAMES ·HADDOCK TO FRANCIS TAVBRNER. 147
Waters's:corpse was t'ound; and some concurring suspi-
cions appearing, the wife was apprel!ended, and con-
fessing the truth; she was burnt, according to the law in
th8t case provided.-Baker's Chronicle, p. 614•
.JAMES HADDOCK TO FRANCIS TAVERNER,
At Michaelmas, 1662.
FRANCIS TAVERNER; about twenty-five years old, a
lusty, stout fellow, then servant at large, (afterwards
porter) to the Lord Chichester, Earl of Donegal, at
Belfast; in the north of Ireland, county of Antripi and
dioceseofConnor, riding latein the night from Hilbrough
homeward, near Dnim Bridge, bis horse, though of
goo.f mettle, suddenly made a stand ; and he supposing
him to be taken witk :the staggers, alighted to bleed
bim in the mouth, arid· presently mounted again. As
he w~ .setting forward, there seemed to pas.~ by him two
hot'$e~en,.though be conld not hear the treading oftbeir
feet,'which a.maz~ him. Presently .there appeared a
third iii a white coat just at his elbow, in the likeness
of Jaiues Haddock, formerly an inhabitant of Malone,
w.h~re he died near five. years heforc ; whereupon
Taverner asked him, in the name of God, who he was ?
He r6.plied; I am James Haddock ; and you may cali
me to inind by this token, that, about five years ago, I
and two other friends were at your father's house, and
you, by ·your fatber·s appointment, brought us some
nuts > and therefore be not afraid, said the apparition ;
whereupon Taverner remembering the circumstance,
thought it must be Haddock ; and those two who.
pMBed him 'he thought. to be his two friends with him
wh~n he gave them nuts, and courageously asked him
why he appeared rather t;o him than any other l He
B 2
•
)48 JAMBS HADDOCK TO FRANCIS TAV&RN&a.
answered, because he was a man of more resol11tion
than others ; and, if he would ride bis· way with him,
he would acquaint him with a business he had to deli~er
to him ; which Taverner refused to do, and would.II?
his own way (for they were now at a quadrivaJ,) and·
then rode homewards.
The night after there appeared.again to him the like·
ness of James Haddock, and bid him go to Eleanor
Welsh, now the wife of Davis, living at Malan~ but
formerly the wife of the said James Haddock, by
whom she had an only . son, to whom the said
James Haddock bad by his will given a I~
which he held of tho J..ord Chichester, of which the son
wais deprived by Davis (who had married his mother,)
·and to ask her if hor maiden name was- not Eleanor
Welsb ; and, if it were, to tell her that it was the will
of her former husband, James HQddook; that their son
should ·be righted in the lease. But Taverner,· partly
foath ti) gain the ill will of his neighbours, and partly
thinking he should not be credited; but looked on as de-
luded, long neglected to deliver his message, till,:having
been every night for abo~t a month's space haunted with
this apparition, in several forms (every night more Uld
)
. J,Uore terrible),_ which :ras u.c;ually J!reeeded by an
unusual trembling over h1S whole body, and great change
.of countenance, manifest to his wife, in whose presence
frequently the apparition was: (though not visible to her,)
at length he went to Malone, to Davis's wife, and
asked her whether her maiden name was not Eleanor
Welsh ? Ifit was, be had !lomethingto' say to her. She-
replied there was another Eleanor Welsh besides her.
Hereupon Taverner returned, without delivering his
message. ·
The same night, being fast esleep in his bed (for ~be
forme~ apparitions were u he eat by the fire with ·~
JAM'ES · HAl>DOOK· TO PilANOIS T.4VEUSR. t4.tf
wife,) lie was awakened·by·something pre.lingupon him,
and saw again the apparition of James Haddock, in
a white coat, as at other times, who .asked·him If he had
delivered his message? He answered, Jle ·had been there
with Eleanor Welsli; upon which the apparition, look-
ing more pleasantly upon him, bid him not be afraid,
and then disappeared.
But some nights after (he not baving,deliveJed his
message) be came again, and, appearing in many formi-
dable shapei!, threatened to tear him in pieces if he-did
not do it. This made him leave his house where he
resided, in the mountains,. and betake himself to the
town of Belfast, where-he sat up.all night at one Prince's
house, and a servant or two of Lord Chichester's, who
were desirous to see -0r·hear the spirit. About midnight,
as they were all by the me iide,,they beheld Taverner's
countenance to change and a trembling to fall, on him;
who presently espied the apparition in a room opposite
to him ·where he sat, and took up the candle and went
to it, ·aad resolutOly asked 'him, in the name of God,
wlierefoi9 it haunted him t _It replied, because ·he had
not delivered ·his message, and withal threatened to tear
him.in pieces if be did not·do·i(speedily; andthen chang-
ing itself into many prodigious shapes,• it vanished in
white, like a spirit ; whereupon 'Francis Taverner
became much dejected and troubled, and next day went
to Lord Chiohester's house, · and, with tears in liiR
eyes, related to some of the family the sadness of his
condition. T~y told it to his lord.ship's chaplain, Mr.
James South, who came to Taverner, and, ·beiiig ao-
quainkd of :bis story, .advi,sed llim to go •t this pres~nt
time to Malone, to deliver punctually his·messllf§C,.and
promised to go along with him. But first they ~ent·f.Q
Dr. Lewis Downes, then minister·at Belfast, ,who,"l.lpao
JM) IAMBS HADDOCK TO FRANCIS TAVlilaNBR.
hearing the relation of the whole matter, doubted·attint.
the trutl:i_ of it, attributing it rather to melancholy than
any kind of reality ; but, wa8 afterw_ards fully satisfie~
of its authenticity.
They accordingly went to Davis's boµse, where the
woman being desired to come to them, Taverner deliver-:
ed his message, by telling her be could not be quiet foi;
the ghost of her former husband, James Haddock, who
threatened to tear him .in pieces if he did not toll her sh~
must right John Haddock, her son by him, in a lease
wherein she and Davis, herpresent husband,had wronged
him. This done, he presently found great quietness in
his mind, and, thanking the gentlemen for their com-
pany, advice, and assistance, he departed thence to his
brother's house, at Drum Bridge ; where, about twG
nights after, ihe aforesaid apparition came to him again,
and asked if he had delivered the message? He answer-
ed, he had done it fully. It replied that be QJust deliver
the message to the executors also, that the business
might 1:.e perfected. At this meeting Taverner ~~ed.
the spirit if Davis would do him any injury ? To which
it answered.at first somewhat doubtfully, but at length
threatened Davi!j if he attempted any thing to the inj11ry
of Taverner ; and then disappeared.
The day followiRg, Dr. Jeremiah ·Taylor, Bishop 0£
Down, Connor, .and Dromore, was to hold a court at
Dromore, and commanded.me who·was then secretary
to him, to ~ite for Taverner to meet him there, whic~.
he did ; and ibc're, in the presence of many, he eximiined
Taverner strictly in this strange scene of Providence, •!>
my lord bishop styled it. By the account given him
both by Taverner and others, who knew Taverner and
much of the former particulars, bis lordship was satisfied
that "he apparition was true and re~l, but said no ln,Qre
JAMBS HADDOCK TO PRANCIS TAVEBNRR. Ul
there .to him, because at ·Hilborough, three miles from
thence, on his way home his lordship has informed that:
Lady Conway and other persons of quality were come
purposely to hear his lordship examine the matter.
Taverner went with us to Hilborough, and: there, to:
satisfy the curi6sity of the company, after asking many
things, his lordship advised him to ask these questions the ·
next tfme the spirit appeared :-Whence are you? •.\re
you a good or bad spirit ? Where is your abode ? What.
station do you hold? How are you settled in the ot~e~
world ? And what is the reason that you appear for the
relief of your son in so small a matter, when so many
widows and orphans •are oppressed in the world,,being·
defrauded of greater matters, and none from thence of
their relations appear, as you do, to right them ?
That night Taverner was sent for to Lisburn, to Lord
Conway's, three miles from Hilborougb, on his way
hence to Belfast, where he was a.gain strictly examined
in the presence of many good men and women of thtt
afqresaid matter, and was ordered to lie at my Lord
Conway's all night. About nine or ten o'clock at night,
standing by the fireside with his brother und many
others, his countenance changed, and he fell into a
trembling, the usual prognostics of the apparition ; and
being loath to make any disturbance in his lordship's
house, he and hisb rotherwcnt out into the court where·
he saw the spirit coming over the wall, which, approach-
ing nearer, asked him if he had delivered his message fo
the executors also? He replied he had, and wondered it
•
should still haunt him. It replied he need not fear; for
it would do him no hurt, nor trouble him any more, but
the executor, if he,did not see the boy righted. Herc his
11rother put him in mind to ask the apirit what the bishop·
bid him, which be did presently; hut it gave him nQ:
-
J.02 CAPl'AJN B. DBW., o\NO.LUl'BlilR'S .
f'.,t.81£ TALK.
answer, but crawled on its hands and feet over the Wall
again, and then disappeared.
NoTE. 1. That Pierce, at whose house and in whoee;pre-
aence the apparition was,·being asked whether he saw the
spirit, said he did not, but thought at that time he had a mist
all over his eyes. 2. What was then spoken to Taverner was
in so low and hollow a voice that they could not understand
what it sai~ 3. At Pierce's house it stoodjust in the entry of
a door; and, as a maid passed by to goin at the door, Taver-
ner saw it go as~de and. give way to the maid, though she
saw it not. 4. ·That the lease was hereupon disposed of to
the boy's use. J. The spirit at the Jut, appearing at my Lord
Conway's house, revealed somewhat to Tavemi:r. wbieh he
would not discover to any of us that asked him.
This Taverner, with all the persons and places men-
tioned in the story, I knew very well ; and .all wise
and good men believed it, especially the Bishop and.the
:Pean of Connor, Dr. Rust. ;
Witness,
Your humble servant,
TBOM4S Al.COClt.
CAPTAJN HENRY BELL, AND LUTHER'S TABLE TALK.
Captam Henry Bell, in his narrative prefixed to Lu-
t~r's Table Talk, printed in England in 1652: after
having mentioned the mystery and providence uf the
discovery of it under ground, in Germany, where it had
laid hid fifty-two .years, relates the following admenition
" relating to the translation of it into Englidi.
Capsar Van Spar, a GeJman gentleman, .having ·re-
covered the copy from the worms, desired Captain Bell,
with whom he was well acquainted, while he was
agent for king James J. on the continent, ;to translate
.1
CAPTAIN H. BELL, AND LUTllBR'S TABLE TALK. JS3
. ...
it into Engliah, and pubfuh it in .London. 1
But Captain
Bellwas ~or some time prevented from prosecuting that
design, so as to bring it to a proper conclusion. .
1 About six weeks after he had received the German
copy, being well in 'health, and in bed with his wife,
between twelve and one o'clook,.tbere appeared to :liim
at the side of .
the be\i, an old man clothed in a light-,
coloured habit, of reverend aspect, having a broad and
white beard, which hung as low as his.girdle,.who smi·
ling.at .him said, in a genile manner of rebuke, "wilt
you not take time to translate·thaHxt>k whiM is sent
to you out of Germany ? if you do not, I will eliortly
hereafter provide.you both time and place to do it;"-
and ·.t~n instantly disappeared.
Captain Bell did not pay much attention to .the
matter afterwards. Time wore it .Off hie memory;
and he paid 110 more .regard to what he had lieen
and heard, than if it ·had been a mere _
dream.
However, ·he had .soon reason to recollect the ..old
man's wor.ds, for soon after, being at .his lodgings in
Ki~reet, .Westminster, at dinner with bis wife, .two
UleBSengere came from the ..Council Boa.rd, with a
wammt, to carry him to the Gate~bouse, there to .~ be
confined till farther orders·from the Lords of the ·Privy
Council. Upon this warr~t be was detained ten
yeeza a cloee prisoner, :wheret)f he spent five in the
translation of the afore.,mentioned work.
'.tbie DNl't'tive is :e:s:tracted frQm t.b,e preface of Lu~
&her'1 :Table '.Calk, printed in 1652, .a,nd from-what
Mr. Aubrey ebeerve8 upop. this story, which he brj~fly.
relates, it appe&ES~ .that, ~ba.tever was the.pretend~
e«IU&e of bis.eqnfinement, tho true reason of the Cap-! '
t$.in's commitment was, .be~e he was IU'gJ!nt with ihe
wad fl'lQl\ller for 'his Orr8'U'S, which ' .amoun~d. to a .
JI 8.
oigiLeJbvGoogle
154 LADY DAVIES.
greai 'Sum ; he being unwilling to pay, to be freed Crom
bis clamours, hit upon the scheme of holding him• in
priton.
LADY DAVIES.
Sia Joss DAVIES was a very able and learned law-
yer; and the author of an Abridgment of Sir Edward
Coke's Reports, in Law French, which was translated
into Engli1>h after his decease, and published in 16Sl.
His own Reports, which were first published in Law
French, in folio, .were also afterwards translated into
Engiish, and reduced to an octavo size.
Sir John's Lady was a very singular character,, and
dealt much in prophecies. An account of her predic-
tions was published in 1649, in 410. under the title of
" Strange and Wonderful .Prophecies." She was re-
ported to have·foretold the dP.ath of her husband. An-
thony Wood, speaking of the time of Sir John
Davies's death, says, "it was then commonly ru·
moored, that hi9 prophetical lady bad foretold· his
death in aome manner, on the Sunday going before.
For, l'\~hile she sat at dinner by him, she suddenly burst
out into tears ; whereupon be asking her what the
matter was, she answered, ' husband, these are your
funeral tears;' to which be made reply,, 'pray, there-
fore, spare your tears now; and I will be content that
you shall laugh when r am dead.'" .
Lady Davie3 also foretold the death of Archbishop
Laud ;. but appears to have been mistaken as to ·the
time. She had before ·spoken something. unluckily
of the Duke of Buckingham, importing that he should
not live till the end of August, which raised her to the
:reputation of a cunnjng woman amon~ the ignorant
people; and now .ebc prophesied of the new Archbisho~
LORD MOHUN TO HIS MISTRSSS. 155
that he should live but few days after the fifth of No-
vember; for wbicJi, and- other prophecies of a 'more
miscbie\"ous natuni,·.she was br:ought into the Court· of
High Commission. Much pains were taken by the
court to dispossess her of this spirit ; but all would not do,
till Lamb, then Dean of the Arches, shot her through-
and through withan arrow borrowed from her own quiver;
This was certainly the most sensible way of ani•
_madverting on the poor lady's infirmities; but to this
course unfortunately her judges did not confine them;
selves. She was prosecuted in the High Commission
Court, particularly for what was called ' an enthlisi-
astical petition to King Charles;' and was treated -with
great rigou and cruelty. She was fined three thowiand:·
pOlin!ls, and.closely imprisoned three years in the Gate-
house, Westminster. She is also said to have ~een
confined several years in Bethlem Hospital, and in the
Tower of London ; and she complained that, during
part of her imprisonment, she was not allowed the use
of·a: Bible, nor permitted to have the attendance of a
female servant.-Biogr. Brit. vol. iv.
LORD MOHUN TO HIS MISTRESS.
-----
Loan MouuN was a dissolute young rake,-and lived
in the.-days of·Charles I; According to the custom of
that time, bis sense of honour led him to resent, in a
serious.manner, an affront, which had produced a quarrel
between bim·and a person of the first quality, though a
foreigner, in this kingdom. · By appointment they met
in Chelsea-fields, near a ·place called _
Ehery~farm,
and where Lord Mohuri was killed, but not without
suspicions of foul play.
At:the same time Lord_Mohun kept company with a
lady whom' he sup-poi1oo in handsome apartments irt
166 OlllBN TO MU. STBPBEKS.
James-street, Covent-garden. Lord Mohun was
killed about ten o'clock in the moming; and at that
hour, his mistress being in bed, saw him come to her
bed-side, draw the curtains, fook upon her andgo away.
She·called after hjm, but.received no answer; she then
rung for her maid, asked her for Lord Mobun, but the
woman replied, she did not see him, and had ihe key of
the chamber door in her pocket.
About the same time, Mr. Brown, brother·in-law to
li>rd Coningsby, diScovered his being murdered ·te •
118Veral of his friends.
Glanvil· relates, that hil.apparition ·was seen by bia
sister and her maid, then dwelling in Fl_,ktreet, at
the :hour apd minute be was ·killed in Herefordshire,
which happened in 1692......Aubrey'• Mi•cellanie•. \
OMEN TO MBB. STEPRBNS, OF SPIT.U.-PIBLDI.
ABOUT the year l6ll, there lived in Spital-fields,
one Mrs. Anne Stephen11, a person at that time well
known and respected, for her dealings with the mercem
on Ludg~te-bill. · While seated one evening in her
house alone, and muting upon business, she happened.
by accident to look behind her, when,·tQ her great sur-
prise, she saw, as it were, a dead corpse, lying ex-
tonded upon the floor, as a dead body should be, except .
that the foot of one leg was fixed on the ·ground. -She
looked at it for some time, but by degrees withdrew Iler
eyes from so unpleasing an object. However, a .tra.ge
curi~ity soon overcame her fe~, when she·ventured a
second time to look that way, &B'saw it foracomicloo
able time longer, fixed as before. She again 'tllftled
from ihe melancholy spectaoie, and .resuming eolll'age,
after aliiUe refleotion,.gohp wiih 'a. deaign to:w.Ud)r
o,oitized by Google
TSE P:All-LUMENT.UlY ARREST. · 1$7
h"self ,of the reality of the •v1sion, by going nearer to
i~ : but lo ! it was·oot there t
This circumstance proved an admonition to her; for,
taking it as a warning of her approaching dissolution,
she ·from that hour began ·to settle her worldly affairs,
and ·bad just time to see them arranged, when she was
taken ill of a pleuri..czy, which carried her bff tn seven
days.
THB PARLIAMENTARY A.R888T.
DR. BEAUMONT relates that in his time, a member
of parliament, in the hopes, that upon the recess of the
·house, which was not far off, he should be at liberty,
withdrew ·himself, and neglected his public dut.ies.
The Rouse resenting it, a vote was passed, ordering the
secretary of state to prosecute him at Jaw. Thia
obliged him to resolve to leave the kingdom, and in the .
meantime to conceal himself; government having
issued a proclamation for apprehending him, with a
reward to the person who should take him. '
In order to concealhimself more effectually, he lei&
bis lodging where he had been hid for soQJe time, and
removed to Barnet, on the borders of Hertfordshire;
intending, as soon as he had settled some·family atfairs,
to go away north, into Stotland. Before he quitted,
he was obliged to coine to London, to sign some
writings to secure an ·estate, which it was feared might
be .elzed ·by outlaw, bad the prosecution proceeded so
tar.
The night before be bad appointed to come to Lon.
don, being in bed ·with one Mr. R-- D-, he
clreamed that he was in hhi lodgings in London, where
he bad been concealed as above; and in bis dream be
saw two ·men come 19 the door, who said they were
Jfi8 THB PARLIAMENTARY ARR.Jo:ST,
messengers, and proiluced a warraut from the secretary
of state to apprehend him ; and that accordingly they
seized upon him.
The vision surprised and awakcd him, and he waked
Mr. D--, and told him the dream, and his surprise
about it. Mr. D-, seeing it was but a dream,
advised .him to go to sleep ; which he did.
As soon as he was asleep again, he was waked with
the same dream exactly as before; aud he waked his
brother again,.as before : this disturbed them both very
much ; but being heavy to sleep, they both weqt to
11leep again, and dreamed no more. He saw the men
that apprehended him, their countenances, clothes.
weapons, &c. and descri bed them in the rooming to his
brother D--, with all the particulars.
However, the journey to London being as he thought ·
urgent, he got ready in the morning to set off, resolving
to stay but one day, and then set forward for Scotland.
Accordingly, he went for London in the moming,
and, that he might not be known, he walked, hy
private roads, over Enfield Chace, to Southgate, Horn-
Eey, &c.
During his journey, hi11 mind was heavy and oppreg,
sed, and he freque~tly said to his brother, who walked
with liim, tliat he was certain be WllS going to London
to be surprised, and ·so strong was the foreboding im·
pression upon his mind, that he onc:e stopt at .Hornsey,
and endeavoured to get a lodging, intending to send hi:t
brother to London, to see if any thing had bappe~ed
there, and to give him notice.
As be had just secured a convenient lodging, he acci-
dentally saw o. gentleman, standing at the next door,
whom be knew very well, but durst not venture to speak
cm that occasion ; nnd finding on enquiry that he dwelt
- · - - ---- --~-----
RICHARD BOVl!.T.
tber_e, he concluded that was not a safe plMe for him,
and resolved to go forward.
The impression upon his mind contin•1ing, he stopt
again at Isling-ton, and endeaToured to get a lodging
. ' . . .
there, but could not; at length his brother brought him
word he could not get a lodging, except where it was ·
ttoo public. Well said he, then I wust go to London;
and accordingly he went, and the next morning waa
taken by the messengers, in thl' manner as he had been
told in his dream ; by the same two men, whose fMes
h12 had seen, !!.nd with the same clothes on and weapon1t
exactly as he had described. ·
APPARITION SREN B"I!' RICHARD BOVET.
(.As related lJy llimlelf.)
ABOUT _the year 1667' I was staying with some per-
!!Ons of rank, in the house of a nobleman in the west
co11n6J which had formerly been a nunnery. I must
confei38 I had often heard the servants and others that
inhabited or lo~ed there -speak much of the noises,
stirs, and apparitions that frequently disturbed the bouse,
Lut had at _that time no apprehensions of it; for, the
house being full of strangers, the nobleman's steward,
Air. C., lay with me in a fine wainscot room, called my
lady's chamber. \Ve went to our lodging pretty early;
and having a good fire in the room, we spent some time
in reading. in which he was much delighted : then,
having got into bed and put out the candles, we observed
the roonr to be very light by the brightness of the moon,
so that a wager was laid between us that it was pos-
sibl_e to read written hand by that liglit ·upon the bed
where we lay. -
We had scarce finished our conversation upon that
160 RICHARD BOVET.
affair, when I saw (my face being towards the door,
which was locked), entering into .the room, .five appear-
ances of very fine and lovely women : they were of ex-
cellent stature, and their dresses seemed very fine, but
covered all except their faces with theirlight veils, wh09e
skirts trailed largely upon the floor. They entered in
a file, one after the other, and in that pOtlture walked.
round the room, till the foremost came and stood·by that
side ofthe bed where I lay, (with my left band over the
side ofthe bed; for my bead rested on that arm, and I
determined not to alter the posture in which I was) ;
she struck me upon that hand with a blow that felheiy
soft, but I did never remember whether it were cold or
hot. I demanded, in the name of the blessed Trinity,
what business they had there, but.received no ·answer.
Then I spoke to Mr. C.-" Sir, do you see what fair
guests we have come to visit us?'' before which ·they
all disappeared. I found him in some kind of agony,
and was forced to grasp him on the breast with my·right
hand (which was next bim underneath the bedclothes),
before I could obtain speech of him: ·then -he told me
he had seen the fair guests I spoke of, and had beard·
me speak to them; but withal said that he was notable
to speak sooner unto me, ·being extremely 8.ffrighted at
the sight of a dreadful monster, which, assuming a shape
betwixt that·of a lion and a bear, attempted to come
upon tliebed's foot. I told him I thanked God nothing
so frightful ha,d presented it.'!elf to me ; but I hoped
(through bis assistance) not to dread toe amhages of
hell. It was a long time before I could compose him
to sleep ; and, though he had many disturbances in his
own room, and understood of others in the house, yet he
acknowledged he bad neverb~n so terrified during many
years' ·abode thel'e.
·JHcBARD BOVIii'. 161
Thenext day,,in dinner' beabGwed.tomany peraons ol
principalqualitytheQlal'k that.had been.occasioned on his
breast by the gripe I was forced to give him to get himio
speak, and related all the passages very exactly ; after
which he protested that he would never more lie in that
room ; upon which I set up a resolution to lodge in it
.iigain, not knowing but 10metbin' of·the reason of those
koubles might by that means be imparted to me.
The next night, therefore, I ordered a Bible and
another book to be laid in ·the room, and resolved to
spend my time by the fire, in reading and contempla-
tion, till I found myeelf inclined to sleep ; and accord-
ingly, having taken leave of the family at the umal
hour, I addressed myself to what I proposed, not going
iato bed till past one in the mom~.. A little after I
was got into bed, I heard something walk about the
room, like a woman in a tabby gown trailing about the
floor : :it made a mighty rustling noise, but I could see
nothing, though it was nearly as light as the night befQJe.
It paued by the foot of ihe bed, and a little opened the
eurtainll, and;theoce went to ·a closet-door on that side,
through wbioh •it ·found admittance, although it was
close l~ : there it seet4ed to groan, .and draw a
great chair with its foot, in wtiich it seemed to sit, and
turn ·0¥81' the leaves of a large folio, which, generally,
make a loud ·clattering noise ; .so it eoatinued 1in 1W
posture, aometimes groaning, ·sometimes dragging the
chair and c~teriog the book, :till it was near dily.
Afterwards I lodged several times in this 1'00m, bµt
never met with molestation.
1'his I can .af.iest to be a true aocourit of what paaed
in:that room the;two described nights ; 1111d, though-Mr.
C. be lately dead, who was a very ingenious man, and
affirmed the fiM part al)to many with ,wbom he.waa
162 THE RADIANT BOY.
conversant, it remains that I appeal to the knowledge
of those who have been iohabitants -or lodgers in the
said house for what remain.'! to justify the credibility of
the rest.
APPARITION TO THE LATE MARQUIS OF I..ONDONDERRY,
ABOUT twenty-five years since, the late Lord Lon-
donderry wu, for the first time, on a vi.<iit to a gentle..
man in the north of Ireland. The mansion was such
an Qne as &pectrcs are fabled to inhabit : it was asso-
ciated with many recollections of historic times ; and
the sombre c.haracter of its architecture and the wild-
ness .of its s11-rrounding scenery were calculated to im-
pre~s the soul with t:Qelancholy.
The apa~ment, also, which was appropriated to
Lord_Londonderry,was calculated to foster such a tone
of feeling, from its antique appointments ; from the
dark and richly carved panels of its wainscot; Jrom
its yawning width and height of chimney, looking like
the open entrance to a tomb, of which the surrounding
ornaments appeared to form the sculptures and entabla-
ture : from the portraits of grim men _
and severe-eyP.d
women, array~ in-orderly procession along -the walls,
and scowling a coutemptuons enmity against tbe.dege-
nerate invader of their gJ001,11y bowers and venerable
balls; and from the vast, _
dusky, ponderous, and com-
plicaicd draperies that concealed the windo~,. ~Ii
hung with the glQQIJly grBtldeur of funerlll trappings about
the h_ear~like piece of furniture that was destined for
· his bed.
Lord Londonderry, on entering-bis apartment, might
have.received some painful depressions and misgivings
of the mind ; surrounded by such .a world of mela:n•
choly jm~e$, he mig~t perhaps. feel him"elf more than
TBlil RADIANT BOY. 163
usually inclined to submit to the influences of super·
stition.
Lord Londonderry examined bis chamber; be made
himself acquainted -with the forms and faces of the
anrieot possessors of the mansion, as they sat upright
in their ebony frames to receive hill salutation ; and
then, after dismissing his valet, he retired to bed. His
cand_les had not been long extinguished when he per-
cei•ed a light gleaming on the draperies of the lofty
canopy over his head. Conscious that there was no
fire in the grate-that the curtains were closed-that
the chamber had been in perfect darkness .but a few·_
moments before, he supposed that some intruder must:
have accidentally entered his apartm~nt; and, turning
hastily round to the side from which the light proceeded,
saw, to bis infinite astonishment, not the form of any
human visitor, but the figure ofa fair hoy, who seemed
to be garmented in rays of mild and tempered glory,
which beamed palely from his slender form, like the
fairit light of the dll<.'lining moon, and rendered the ob-
jects which were nearest to him dimly and indistinctly
visible. The spirit stood at some abort .distance from
the side of the bed. Certain that bis own faculties
were not deceiving him, but smpecting he might be
imposed on by the iugenuit," of some of the nu.merous
guests who were then visiting in the same house, Lord.
Londonderry proceeded towards the figure :-it retreated
before him :-a.'! he slowly advanced, the form ~th
equal paces slowly retired :-it entered the gloomy ar~h
of the capacious chimney, and then sunk into the
earth. Lord Londonderry returned to his bed, but not
to rest ; his niind was ha.
raiised by the consideration of
the exlf!l,Ordinary event which had occurred to him.~
Was it iyal ?-Was it the w.ork of the_ imagwaijo~ ?-
oigiLeJbvGoogle
HJ4 THE RADIANT BOY,
Was it-the Mult of imposture ?~It was all incomprc.:
hensible.
He resolved in the morning not t.o mention the ap-
pearance till·he should have we11 observed tile manners
and countenances of the family : he waa conscious that, •
if any deception had been practisedt its-..anthors would
be too·delighted with their success to conceal the vanity
of \heir triumph. :When tho guests assembled at the
breakfast table, the eye of Lord Londonderry sean:bed
in vain for those latent smiles-those consd<>us ·looks--
that silent communication .between the patties, by
which the authors and abeUors of such domestic con-
spiracies are generally betrayed. Every thing appa-
rently proceeded in it.B ordinary course : tho conversa·
tion ftowed rapidly along from the subjecb afforded at
the moment, without any of ·the constraint wbiob
marks a party intent upon som~ secret and more lnter-
eiding argument, and endeavouring to afford ·an oppor-
tunity for its introduction.
At last the hero of the tale found himself compelled
to mention the occurrence of the night :-It was moat
extraordinary : - he feared that be should not be
oredited :-and then, after all due preparation, the .
· story was related. Those among his auditors who, like
himself, were strangers and visitors in tbl house, were
certain that some delusion must ha.ve been practiHd;
the family alone seemed perfectly composed .and calm.'
At last, the gentleman whom Lord Londonderry was
vitihing interrupted their various surmises on the subject,
by saying-" 'fhe circumstance which you have just
recounted must naturally appear most extraordinar,1 to
those who have not long been inmatM of my dwelling,
and not conversant with the legends oonnected with my
family ; to those who are, the .event which has hap-
CONF.ESBlON. OF JORN BEAUMONT. 16$
pened will only serve as the corroLoration of an old tra•
dition that lor.g bas been related of the apartment in
which you slept. You.. have seen the, Radiant Boy"""7
be content-it is an omen. of prosperous fortunes. I
would rather that this subject should no more be men-
tioned.'' .
CONFESSION OF JOHN BEAUMONT, ,J,k,,,,1~AAh• • 1
AKIN to Glanvil's ".Seddnch"•••~
quoted already, in authenticity and perspicuity, is the
celebrated " Treatise on Spirits, Apparitions, &c."
by John Beaumont, styled the Platonic Philosopher.
This work, like that of Glanvil, is now become very
scar:ce. The edition printed in 1705 has a frontispiece
of evil and good genii; and an original representation of
Jews going out in the moon!hine, to know their fortune.
Beaumont was a man of acute re~oning pow~rs, ~nd
indefatigable research, as his narrative and inferences
clearly shew. Indeed, every page of bis " Treatise"
displays profound historical knowledge. His style is
clear, argumentative, and unincumhered with quaint
vulgarism; and as specimens of these recommendations,
we have occasionally introduced a few of his.most inter-
.ting narratives.
His confe88ion is at once curious and important; as
he seems not to reason frpm mere theoretical analogy,
but from the fullest evidence of experience.
" I would not," he says, " for the whole world 11n.
jergo what I have undergone, upon spirits coming twice
'c> me. Their first coming wa.11 most dreadful to me,
the thing being then altogether new, and consequently
more .surprising f though at the first coming they did
not appear to me, hut only called to me at. my chamber
winclow11; rung bells, sung to me, and played on mmie,
DiglizedbyGoogle
166 CONPBSSION OF JOH~ BEAUMONT.
&c. ; but the last coming was terrible ; for when
1hey came, being only five in nuniber, two women
and ·three men, (though afterwards there came
hundreds,) they told me they would kill me if I
told any person in !be house of their being there,
which put me in St>me const£·rnation; and I made a
servant sit up with me four nights in my chamber, be-
fore a fire, · it being in the Christma.q holidays, telling
no person that they were there. One of these spirits, in
woman's dress, lay down upon the bed by me every
night, and told me if I slept, the spirits would kill me ;
which bpt me waking for three nights. In the mean-
time, a near relation of mine went (though unknown to
me) to a physician of my acquaintance, desiring him to
prescribe me somewhat for sleeping, which he did ; and
a sleeping potion was brought me, but I set it by, being
Yery desirous and inclined to sleep Without it.
" The fourth night I could hardly forbear sleeping, but
the spirit, lying on the bed by me, told me again, I
should be killed if I slP.pt ; whereupon I rose and Nate
by the fire-tiide, and in a while returned to my bed;
and so I did a .third time, but was still threatened aa
before; whereupon I grew impatient, and asked tl1e
spirits what they would have,-told them I bad done
the part of a Christian, in humbling myself to God, and
feared them not; and rose from my bed, took a canP,
rnd knocked at the ceiling of my chamber, a near rela-
tion of mine lying then over me, who presently rose and
eame down to me about two o'clock in the morning, te>
whom I said, • You have seen me disturbed these four
days pa."t, and that I have not slept: the occasion of it
v.·aii, that five spirits, which are now in the·room witlt
ml', l1ave threatened to kill me if I told ·any person of
their being there, or if I slept; but I am not ahlo te
ROBERT LINDSAY, &SQ. 161
forbear sleeping longer, and acquaint you wfth it, and
now Rtand in defiance of them.' And thus I exerted
myself about them; and notwithstanding their continued
threats, I slept very well the next night, and continued
· so to do, though they continued with me above three
· months, day aud night."
ROBERT LINDSAY, ESQ, OF EDINBURGll,
ONE of the most curio•Js narratives on record is th-~
following, communicated by David Laing, Esq. of
Edinburgh, to Dr. Hibbert, and inserted by that gentle-
man in his erudite work, entitled " The Philosophy of
Apparitions.''
" Robert Lindsay, grandchild or great grandchild to
Sir David Lindsay of the Mouth, Lyon-King-at-Arms,
&c. being intimate, even disciple with A. P. they bar-
gained, anno 1671, that whoever died first should ghe
account of his condition, if possible. It bappt"ned that
he died about the end of 1675, while A. P. was at
Paris; and the very night of his death, A. P. dreamed
that he was at Edinburgh, where Lindsay attacked him
thus :-' Archie; said he, 'perhaps ye heard I'm dead?'
-'No, Robin.' 'Ay, but they bury my body iu the
Greyfriars. I am alive, though, in a place whereof the
pleasures cannJf. be expressed in Scotch, Greek, or
Latin. I have come with a well-sailing small ship t.
Leith Road, to carry you ibither.'-' Robin, I'll go with
you, but wait till I go to Fife and East Lothian, and
take leave of my parents.' ' Archie, I have but the
allowance of one tide. Farewell, I'll come for you at
another tim;.' Since which time A. P. never slept a
night without dreaming that Lindsay told him he wu
alive. And having a dargerous sickness, anno 1694,
he waa told by Robin that he was delayed for a Jimf',
168 APPAJUTIO)!lr lN YORK CATHEDRAL.
end that it was properly his task to carry him-off, bu
WM discharged to tell when."
I
APPARITION SEEN BY MB. B. L. • IN YORK CATHEDRAL.
A PBW years since, Mr. B. L. • accompanied
some friends on a visit to York Cathedral. The party
was numerous, and amongst them were a gentleman and
his two daughters. Mr. B. L. was with the eldest of
these ladies, exploring the curiosities of the building,
rather at a distance from the rest of their companions.
On turning from the monument to which their attention
had been directed, an officer in a naval uniform was
observed a.dvancing towards them. Jt. was rather an
unusual circumstance to encounter a person thus ac-
coutred in a place so far distant from the sea, and of so
.unmilitary a character. Mr. B. L. was about to
mention the subject to his companion, when, on turning
bis eyes ¥>wards her and pointing out the approaching
stranger to her notice, he saw an immediate paleness
spread over her face, and. her countenance became .agi-
ta,ted by the powerful and contending emotions which
were suddenly excited by his presence. As the stranger
drew ,nearer, and his figure and features gradually
became more distinctly visible through the evening
gloom and the dim religious light of the cathedral, the
lady's distress was evidently increased.
Shocked ~t the oppression which he witnessed, but
wholly ignorant of the cause-alarmed-hurried-sup-
• Jn.the oricinal MS. or this story, the name was given at length;
l111t "bite tbe abeets were passing through the press, a friend olthe
put1 atated to the original publisher, that making public the na!Dft
woultl distress the feelings of more than one individual; for tblit
rNsora only they ue withheld.
APPARITION Jllf YORK. CATBBD'UL. 169
'posing her to be sutrering from the paroxysm of some
violent and sudden indisposition, Mr. B. L. called to
entreat the assistance of her sister. The figure in tho
naval uniform was now immecjiately before them : the
eyes of the lady were fixed upon hi~ with a gaze of
silent and motionleRS surprise, a.nd a painful intensity
of feeling; her lips were colourless and apart, and her
breath passed heavily from her full and overburthened
heart. The form was close upon them :-it approached
her side-it paused but for an instant-as quick a&
tbougnt, a low and scarcely i;uidible voice whispered in
her ear-'~ There is a future state;" and the figure
moved onward through the retiring aisle of the minster.
The father of the lady now arrived to the MSistance
of bis daughter, and Mr. B. L. consigning her to his
protectiOn, hastened in pursuit of the mysterious visi-
tor. He searched on every side; no such form was to
be seen in th~ long perspective of the path by ·which
the ill-omened stranger bad departed. He listened
.
with the most earnest attentiveness; but no sound of re-
treating footsteps was to be heard on the echoing pave-
ment of the cathedral.
Baftled in bis attempt to d~cover the object whoee
}lresence had thus disturbed the tranquillity- of the
time, Mr. B. L. re-sought his friends. The 18.dy
entreated the party to continue their examinati~n· of the
building, and to leave her again to the proteetiop of her
former companion. The request w'as granted; and no
sooner had she thus possessed herself of an opportunity
-0f confidential communication, than she implored him,
with ~ quick and agitated voice, to conceal for a littln
while the occurrence of which he had been a witness.
" We shall never be believed; besides, it were right
,that my poor dear father should be gradually prepareil
110 APPARITION IN ·TORK CATHEDRAL.
for the misery that he is destined to undergo. I have·
see11-the spirit, and I have heard the voice of a ·brother,
who exists no longer ; he has -perished at ~ea. We
had agreed that the one who· died the first should re-
appear to the survivor, if it were possible, to clear up
or to confirm the religions doubts which existed in both
our minds."
In.due time the.aooount of tho event arrived to verify
tho spiritual "intimation; the brother was indeed no·
more. His death had happened on the very day arid
hour in which his form was seen by Mr. 8. L. and his
1i.°'ter, in tho north aisle of York cathedral.
The preceding narrative exhibits no: symptoms of a
hurried· or heated imagination: but on the contrary,
is at once cool, collected, and circumstantially perspi-
cuous; so as to sot .the question of probability almost
entirely at rest.
Aubrey in his Miscellanies, narrates the following
Rwful admonition of a departed friend, to a surviving
friend:-
TJro ladies offortune, both not being long since deceased,
were intimate acquaintance, and loved each other sincerely.
It so fell out, that one of them fell sick_
of the small-pox, and
desired mightily to see the other, who would not come,
fearing the catching the distemper; the.afBicted lady at last
died of diem. She had not been buried long, before she
appeared at.the other's house in the .dress of a widow, and
uked for her friend, who waa then at cards ; ahe aenda
down her woman.to know her business, the answer was that,
she inust impart it to none.but her lady, who, after she had
received this message bid her woman introduce her into a
room,.and desire lrer to stay till the game was done, and she
would ·then wait on her. The game being finished, she
went~down 11tain to. the apparition, to ·know her buaineas,
o,oitized by Google
EDWARD CAVE, AND PENDERGAST. 171
•Madam," (said the ghost, turning up her Teil, and her face
cppearing full of the small~pox) " you know very well, that
you and I loved entirely. Though I took it very ill of you
that you was not so kind as to come and see me, yet I could
not rest till I had seen you. Believe me, my dear, I am not
come to frighten you; but only out of regard to your eternal
happiness, to forewarn you of your approaching end, which
I am sorry to say will be very miserable,- if you do not
prepare for it, you have led a very unthinking giddy life many
years. I ca11J1ot stay, I am going; my time is just spent;
prepare to die; and remember this, that when you make the
thirtieth at a ball, you have but a few days to live." She
then vanished. To conclude, she was at a ball where she
made the thirtieth in number; and was afterwards asked by
the brother of the deceased, whether his sister did appear
to her as was reported ; she made him no answer, but fell
a weeping, and- died in a little time after.
APPARITIONS RF:CORDED IN .BOSWEL"L'S LIFE OF JOJJNBOl.I.
TALKING of ghosts, Dr. Johnson snid he knew one
friend, who was an honest man, who had told him he
had seen a ghost; old Mr. Edward Cave, t11e printer,
at St. John's Gate. He sai.J Mr. Cave did not like to
talk of it, and seemed to be in great horror whenever it
was mentioned. Boswell said, " Pray, sir, what did
he say was the appenrance.'1 Jolmson.-" Why, sir,
something of a shadowy being." Goldsmith told us he
was assured by his brother that he also had seen one.
qeneral Oglethorpe told u~ that Pendergast, an officer in
the Duke of Marlborough's army; bad mentioned to
many of his friends that he should die on a particular
day ; that upon that day abattle took place with the
French ; that, after it was over, and Pendergast was
still alive, his brother officers, while they were yet in
the field, jestingly asked him where was his prophecy
12
17!? PARSON PORD.
now ? Pendergast graveJy apswered, " I shall die',
notwithstanding what you see." Soon afterwards there
came a shot from a French battery, to which the orden
for a cessation of arms had not reached, and be w&-
kified upon the spot. Colonel Cecil, who took pos-
session of his effects, found in bis pockt-t-book tho fol-
lowing solemn entry :-(here the date) " Dreamt or
was told liy an apparition SirJohn Friend meets me"-
(here the very day on which he was killed was men:.
tioned). Pendergast had been connected with Sir
)oho Friend, who was executed for b~h treason. Ge-
neral Oglethorpe said he wa<J with Colonel Cecil when
Pope came aDd inquired into the truth of this story.
wLich made a great noise at the time, and was then
confirmed by the coloneL B<nwell.-" Was there not a
story of the ghost of Parson Ford having appeared f"
Johnson.-" Sir, it was believed. A waiter at ilio
Hummums, in which Ford died, had been absent for
some time, and returned, not knowing Ford was
dE>ad; going down to the cellar, according to the story,.
he met him; going down again, he met him a second
time. When he came up, he asked some pf ,the people
of the house what Ford could be doing there t 1lhey
told him Ford was dead. .The w~ter tciok a fever in
whid1 he lay some ·time; when he recovered, he .,;aid
he had a message to deliver to some women from Ford,
hut he was not to tell what, or to whom. lie walked
out; be was followed, but somewhere about St. Paul's
. tliey lost him; he came back, and said be had.delivered
tlie message, and the women exclaimed, ' Then we
arc all undone!" Dr. Pellet, who was not a ctedulous
man, inquired into the truth of this story, and saill the.
evidence was irresistible. ·
.My wife went to the Hum-
mu:ns ~it is a place whore people get tht>mselves cupped)
. ...... _-.,,11 ·
ANN TAYLOR OP TIVERTON. 173
I believe she w.ent· with the intention to hear about
this story of Ford. At first they were unwilling tO
tell her; hut, after they had talked to her, she came
aw!ly satisfied that it was true. To be sure the man
had a fever, and this vision may have been the begin-
ning ef it; but, if the message to the women and their
behaviour upon it were true, as related, there was eomfl-
thing supel'l)atoral: tllat rests upon his word and there
it remains."
ANN TA.TLOfl OP TIV&RTON.
TRE c,ase of this unfortunate girl excited consider-
able interest throughout the whole of the west of.
England, in the year 1814. She was the dauglder of
a respectable yeoman, living in the parish of.Tiverton;
and being ill, sbo lay she days in a state of insensibility~
to all appearance dead, doubtless one of those cases
of suspended animation, or which there have been
many instances~-dming her lying in this state she had
· a dream, w.ltieb the family oatled a trance, the printed
account ofwhich they widely circulated. Her request, on
awaking Crom her trance, and the extraordinary
circumstances which happened after her decease, are
thus related by her father:-
" When abe recovered from her stupor, she req11ested some
<me would write down all she bad to unfold, and I charged
the penon who did it, as ahe might be. put on her oath,
not to add or diminilb a word, nor to ask her a questiol),
which I know was duly attended to. Then she e&m1lstly re-
quested all might be printed, and d!llired I would get it done;
I endeavoured to evade it by putting some papersin the room,
anerely tp aawfy her mind, but she soon di&covered it was not
the thing ; she then said if it were not printed,my .sins would
flever be forgiven: as she continued urging me to it, I went
for dtat purp9•e the next day, and ·eveo went 10 far aa· the
114 'LADY PBNNYMAN .AND Mas. AfttNS.
printer's door, but wu lllhamed to go in, aa I Wal «m-
nnced the world would ridicule it J I returned to my home,
uid she renewiag her inquiries, I told her it was not yet
done, but that it should;. she replied, but too kite. The
next day notwithstanding it was Sunday, I was obliged to go
and request that some might be. printed early the following
morning. I returned and told her, but she again said it ""11
lie too kite. She died the same efflling at seven o'clock.
The next morning her voice was distinctly and repe'*"!J
beard (in aahrill tone) by the penon who wrote'the relation,
making' her former inquiry. Between ten and twelve, the
men came to pu~ her io tile coffin~ ad when performed, the
whole family assembled to dinner, but wonderful to relate,
her voice was again heard, saying, ' Father it ii Mt printed.!
Had I been alone, I should have considered it was my agitated
mind that deceived me, but all present heard it, and the mea
became aa:if they were dmndentruck."
This WlllJ beard and solemnly attested by no less tbaJl
SiX Witnesses, all Of whom C0nCUJ%eli in 0De testimou1F
and were considered as peISODS of veracity.
After ber deatb,.a sermon was preached by a dissent- ·
ing minister named Vowles, at Steps Meeting, Tiverton,
iD which m11ch. presWDption and high-toned dogma.-
tism were adduced, to pr<>ve the fraud of the whole
story. Mr. Vowles's sermon ~bt.ined conaiderable cir-
culation, and two large editions were sold ; but it is a
question whether th<' high authorities adduced by him
as having credited supernatural voices, &c., did not
tend to ·support th~ theory in .a stronger proportion.
than bia .arguments Wf)l'e calculated to .eollllteract it..
APP.A.ltlTION 'SEBN BT LU>YPENNTMAN AND MRS. ATKINS.
. AT the commencemon1 of the French rovolntion,
Lady ~ennyman a0f1 her two.daughters .retired. to Lisi~.
-UOY P ENNYAUS' A~D MRS• ....-.u~S• 1ffl
.where they hired a large and hand&ome hoW!e at a
trifling rent. During their residence here, the lady
received from her hasband, Sir John Pennymam, a.drl\ft
for n considerable sum, which she carried to the banker
.of the town, and requested to have cashed. Tlie man,
as is often the case on the contineut, gave her a large
p0rtion of silver- in exchange. As Le.dy Pennyman
was proceeding to pay some visits, she requested that
the banker would send the money to her house, .of
which she .described the situation. The parcel was
.instantly committed to the care of a. porter; and, on
the ·lady's enquiring of him- whether he understood,
from her directions, the place to which liis charge :was
to he conveyed, the man replied that he was perfectly
aware of the place de1;ignated, and that it was callecl
·*he " Haunted House." The Jatter ,part of this answ,r
was addressed to the banker in a low tone of voice, but
was overheard by Lady Pennyman : she paid, however,
no attention to the words, and naturally suppO!!ed th~
the ref91't connected with her habitation was on~ of
those which are raised by the imagination of the igno-
ran~ respecting every dwelling which is long ¥Dtenanted,
or remarkable for its antiquity. .
A few weeks afterwards, the words were recalled to
her recollection in a manner that surprised her : )be
housekeeper, .with many apologies for being obliged .to
mention any thing that might ap}l'lar so idle and absurd,
came to the apartment in which her mistress was sitting;
and said that two of the servants; who had accom·
panied her ladyship from England, had that morn~
given warning, and expressed a determination of quitting
her ladyship's service, on account of the mysterio~
noises by which they had ~een, night after night, d~
.1urbed iµid.wqifie~. "'.1 ,~t, .c~~rt l'eplied Laa1
. . ,,
Digitize(_ by GoogIe
176 LADY PMNYMAN AND MRS• .ATKINS.
Pennyman, " that you have too much good sense to be
alarmed on your own account by any of these npenti-
tious and visionary fears ; and pray exert yourself tn
endeavouring to tranquillize the apprehension of othen,
and pe111uading them to continue in their places.'' The
persuasion of Carter was ineffectual : the servants in-
,1is'8d tllt the noises which had alaTmed them were
not the operation of any earthly beings, and persevered
in their reselution of returning to their native country.
Tfie room Crom which the souoas were 1mpposed to
have proceeded was at a distance from Lady Penny-
man's apartments, and immediately over those which
were occupied by the two female servanl<>, who had
themselves been terrified by them, and whose report had .
spread a general panic through the rest of the family.
To quiet the alarm, Lady Pennym~ resolved on leav-
ing Iler own chamber f'Or a time, and e!ltablishing Tiersert
in the one which bad been lately occupied by the
domeetics.
The room a!rove was a long spacious apartment,
· which appeared to have heen for a· length of time ife~
serted. In the centre of the chamber was a large iron
cage : it was an extraordinary piece of furniture t? find
in any mansion, but the le~end which the servants l1ad
collected respecting it appeared to be still more extraor-
dinary : it was said that a late proprietor of the h~uM!,
a young man of enormous property, had in his minority
been confined in that apartment by his uncle and guar-
dian, and there·tia.~tened to a prematare death by the
privations and cruelties to which he was exposed : those
crueltios had been practised under the pretence of neces-
sary correction. The sav{lge purpose of murdering the
llo,y, under the pretence of astrict attention to his in.;
$rest or bis improvement, was successml : the lad wu
LADY PENNYMAN AND MRS, ATKll'OS~ J77
decl~ed to be incorrigible : there was a feigned neces·
sity of the sevarest correction : he was sentenced to two
days' captivity and privation. On bis uncle's arriving,
. with the show of M hypocritical leniency, an hour
previous to the appointed time, to delivel' him from the
resiuue of his punishment, it was found that death had
anticipated the false mercy, and bad for ever emanci-
pated the innocent sufferer from the hands of the op·
pressor.
The wealth was won: bat it was an unprofitable
acquisition. His conscience haunted him : the form of
the dead and inoffensive boy was constantly before him.
His dreams represented to hiS view the playful and
beautiful looks that won all eyes towards him : while
his parents were yet alive to cheer and to delight him :
and then the vision of his sleep would change : and he
would see his calm suffering and his silent teani, and
his patient endurance and his indefatigable exertions in
attempting the accomplishment of difficult exactions,
and biS pale cheek, and his wasted limbs, and his
!!piritl0$S countenance ; and then, at last, tliere was tho·
rigid, bony, and distorted form, the glazed open eye,
the mouth violently compressed, and the elenched
hands, on wb.ich his. new had rested for a· moment.,
when all his wicked. hopes bad attained their most
sanguinii con8ummation,. as h41 surveyed. the corpse of
murdered xelatives. These recollections banished him·
from bis home, the mansion was left tenantless; and, ·
till Lad,y Pennyman had inadvertently engaged it, all had.
dreaded to become the inmates of a dwelling which hact
been fatal to one possessor,. and· shunned as ·destructive
to the tranquillity of his heir.
On the first night or two- of Lady Pennyma_n'a.being
establi.'4hed in her new apartment, she met with no in-
1 3
DiQitized by Google
tcrruption ; nor was her sleep in the least disturbed by:
any of those mysterious noises in the Cage Chamber
•(for so it was commonly called in the family) which she
had bee.n induced to expect by the representations of th~
departed servants. This quiet, however, was of very
short duration; one night she was awakened from her
sleep by tho sound of a slow and measured .step, that
appeared to be pacing tho chamber overhead ; it con-
tinued to move backwards and forwards with nearly the
same constant and regular motion for rather more than
an houl"-perhaps LaA\Y Pennyman's agitation might
have deceived her, and induced her to think the time
longer 'than .it really was. It at length ceased : ·morn
dawned upon her, and she went down to breakfast, after
framing a resc>1ution not to mention the event.
Lady Pennyman and her daughters had nearly com-
pleted their breakfast before her son, a young man whO.
had lately returned from sea, descended from bis apart-
ment. " My dear Charles,'' said his mother, " 'I won·
der .you are not a.'!hanied of ,your indolence and your
want of gallantry, 'to suffer your sisters and myself to
finish breakfast before you are ready to join us." "In-·
deed, madam,'' he i:eplied, " it is uot my fault if I am
late: I have not bad·any sleep all night. There have
been people knocking at my door and peeping into my
room every half hour since I went up stail'!! to bed : I
presume they wanted to see if my candle was extin-
guished. lhhis be the ~e, it is really very distress-
ing; as I certainly never gave you any oc<)asion to sus-
pect I should be careless in taking so necessary a pre-
caution ; and it is not pleasant to be r~prcsented in such
a light to the domestics."-" Indeed, my dear, the in-
terruption has taken place ·entirely without my know-
le~. I 8$Ul'G you it is not by any order of mine that
your room has been looked into: I cannoUhi.nk fhat
could induce any servant of mine tC? be guilty of f\lch
.a liberty. Are you certain that you have not ~en
· ;the nature and origin of the sound by w:hicb your l\leep
ha8 been disturbed?''-" Oh, no; there .could .\lave
,been np mistake: I w~ perfecUy awa~e when the i•r·
.ruption first took place, and afterwtirds- it W8S sp \fre..
quently repeated as to prevent the ~i4ilit,y off:nY
.sleeping.". '
More complain~ from the housekeeper'; no s!)rv~t
would remain; every individnal of tbe family bad.his
.tale of terror to increase the apprebeusions of the retlt ;
;Lady Peniiyman began to be herself alarmed. Mis.
Atkins, a woman devoid of every kind of sup8l'Stitio~s
fear,' and of trie~ courage, upderstanding, and resolq.-
,tion, determined at once to silence all the stories th8'
.had been fabricated respecting tbe Cage Room, and ~
,allay their terrors by adopting that apartment for her
.own bedchamber duringthe,remiµoder of her residence
.at Lisle. A bed was _accordingly placed in the ape.ii·
ment. The Cage Room- was rendered as co1J1furtable as;
possible OD so short a notice ; and Mrs. Atkins retited
to rest, attended by.her favourite sp~iel.
Mrs. Atkins now examined her chamber in ev.ery
direction: she sounded every pannel of the wainscot;,
.to prove that there was no hollo~ness, which mig)Jt
.argue a conc~aled passage ; and, having bolted the door
of the Cage Roqm, .retired to rCllt. Her assurance was
.doomed to .be shortlived : she 1had only. been .a- few
minutes asleep whep her dog, wh'ich lay by the bedside,
leaped, howling and terrified, upon the bed; the door
.of the c}ui.mber slowly opened, and a pale, thin, sickly
:youth came in cas bis ~yes mild_ly towards her, wl\lk~
o,oitized by Google
}80 HDY PSN'SYMAN AND JIBS. ATIUNS.
up tO the iron cage in the middle of the room, and then
leaned in the melancholy attitude oi one Tevolving in
his mind the sorrows of a cheerless aud unblest exist,.
ence ; after a while he again withdrew, and retired by
the way be en1ered.
Mrs. Atkhss, on witnessing his departure, felt the
return of her reeolution ; she persuaded herself to be-
lieve the figure the work of some skilful impostor,
and she determined on following its footsteps: she took
up her chamber lamp, and hasten~to put her design
in execution. On reaching the door, to her infinite
turpri.'le, she discovered it to be fastened, as sbe had
herself left it, on retiring to her bed. On withdraw-
ing tbe 'bolt and opening the door, she saw the back of
t'lae youth descending the staircase ; she followed, till,
on reaching the foot of the stairs, the form appeared to
link into the earth. It was in vain to attempt conceal-
ing the occurrences of the night : her voice, her man-
ner, fhe impoeaibility of sleeping a second time in the
ill omen chamber would necessarily betray that some-
thing of a painful and mysteriou.'!· nature had occurred.
The event was related to Lady Pennyman : she
determined to remain no longer in her present habita-
tion. The map of whom the boo~ had been engaged
was sp0ken to on the subject: be became ex-
tremely violent--4laid it was no time for the English
to indulge their imaginations-insinuated something
af the guillotinfo-and bade her, at her peril, drop a
single expression to the injury ofhis property. While
abe remained in France, not a word was uttered upon the
tubject; she framed an excuse fQr her abrupt departure :
another residence was oftered in the vicinity of Lisle,
which she engaged, ·on the pretext of its being be1ter-
.........,
TBS MIDJlfl&BT rroa11. 181
t>alculated to the size of bor family ; and at onoe re-
linquillhed ~er habitation, and with it every pretematai-
ral occasion of anxiety.
· Although the preceding story '' smell11 ofthe cloiaer,"
is somewhat tinctured· with romance, and bas been
enlarged upon by successive narrators, the fae,ia are au-
thenticated and accredited by the parties to whom they
occurred. An old deserted bou11e at Lisle would pro-
bably be an object of terror to weakminds, but not to U..e
understanding..-ofthe well educated beads ofa family, aa
well as to the several members of a large establjjhment.
TB& MIDNIG8T STORM.
(From t/tl! French.)
- " Ol shapes that walk
At dead of nlgbt,aod clank their cbalm, ud waie
The torch of bell around the murderer's bed."
Pleuure~ of lmaginatiwc,
ON the evening of the 12th June,--, B joyous
party was assembled at Monsieur de Montbrun's chdteau
to celebrate the marriage of his nephew, who bad, in
the mom of that day, led to the altar the long-sought·
object of his fond attachment. The mansion, which
was on this occasion the scene of merriment, WllS situ-
ated in tho province of Gascony, at no very great distance
from the town of-.
n was a venerable building, erected during the war
of the League, and consequently discovered in its ex-
terior some traces of that species of architecture which
endeavoured to unite strength and ma.Ssiveness with do·
snestic comfort. Situated in a romantic, but tbinly-
peopled districi, the family of Monsieur de Montbrun
was compelled principally to rely on itself for amusement
and society. This lamily consisted of the chevalier,
an old soldier of blunt but hospitable manne~ ; hia
182 '1'1111 MIDNIGHT 8!l'ORJd,
»epb&w, ,the bridegroom, whom (ba•i.Ilg no male
children) ,he hp.d adopted as his son, and Mademoiselle
Emily, his only daughter : the latter was amiable, fran~,
and generous; warm,in her attachments, but rather ~o­
mantic wforming them. Employed in rural sports (Uld
,occupations, and particularly attached to botany, for
which the country 11.l'ound afforded an inexhaustible
JieW, the chevalier -nd his inmates had not much culti-
vated the intimacy of.the few families whieh disgust of
iho world, or other motives, had planted. in this retired
.spot. Occasional visits, exchanged with the nearest of
,their neighhours, sometimes enlivened their small circle;
,and with the greater part of those who lived at a
.distance, they were scarcely acquainted even by name.
The approaching nuptial~, however, of Theodore,
.(which was the name of Monsieur de Montbrun's adopt-
,ed son) excited considerable conversation,in the adjacent
.district : and the wedding of her cousin, it was deter..
mined by,Emily, should not pass off unaccompanied by
,every festivity which the nature of their situation, arid
'the joyfulness of the event,-would allow. On this oc-
,casion, therefore, inquiries were made as to all the
neighbouring gentry within a considerable distance
,around; ,and there were none of the least note neglected
tin the invitations, which were scattered in all directions.
Many persons were consequently present, with whose
•persons and character the host and his family were un-
,acquainted : some also accepted the summons, who were
strangers to them even.by name.
Emily was attentive and courteous to all; but to one
lady in particular she attached herself during the enter-
'tainment with most sedulous regard. Madame de Nunez,
the immediate object of Emily's care, had lately settled
,in the neighbourhood, and bad hitherto studied tO shun
•
'TBS MIDNIGHT STORM. 183
··society. It was supposed that she was ·the Widow of a
Spa!Jish officer of the Walloon guards, to whom she had
·been fondly attached ; indeed so much so, that, not-
·withstanding he had been dead several yea.N, the lady
.never appeared but in deep mourning. · She .bad
only lately settled in Gascony.; but her motives for re-
·tiring from Spain, and fixing on the French side of.the.
Pyrenees, were not known, and but slightly conjectured.
Isabella de Nuncz was about twenty-eight years of age,
:tall and well-formed : her countenance was striking, nay
even handsome ; but a nice physiognomist would have
:traced in her features evidence of the stronger passions
'of human nature. He would have seen pride softened
:by distress; and would have fancied, a~ times, that th.e
.effects of some concealed crime were still evident in her
.knit brow and retiring eye, when she became the object
.of marked &crutiny.
She bad never before entered the cMteau de Mont-
.brun, and her person had hitherto been unnoticed by
.Emily; but who, having now seen her, devoted herself
with ardour to her new friend. The lady received the
.attentions of her amiable hostess with grateful but digni-
fied reserve.
The morning had been extremely sultry, and an op-
:pressive sensation in the air, which disordered respi·
ration threw, as the day closed, an air of gloom ovel'.
:the company, ill suited to the.occasion of their meeting.
Madame de Nunez appeared, more than· any one else,
.to feel the effects of tbe lurid atmosphere'; .'the'occa8ional
sparks of gaiety which ·she _
bad discovered, gradually
.disappeared ; and before the day ha.cl'entirely closed'she
seemed at times perfectly abstracted~ and at othertimes
to start with causeless ·apprehension. In orderto· divert
or dispel \his increasing uneasiness,- which threatened to
184 1'Bli: MIDNJGBT STORM.
destroy all the pleasure of the festival, dancing wa'i pro-
posed; and the enlivening sounds of the music in a
short time dissipated the temporary gloom. The danc·
i~ bad not however long continued, ere the expected
storm burst in all its fury on the cMteau: the thunder,
with its continued roar, reverberated by the adjoining
mountains, caused the utmost alarm in the bosom of the
fair visitors; the torrents of rain wl1ich fell, might almost
he said to swell the waters of the neighbouring Garonne,
whilst sheets of lightning, reflected on its broad waves,
gave a deeper horror to the pitchy darkness which suc-
l.-eeded. The continuance of the storm g111dnally wound
up tho apprehensions of the greater part of the females
to horror; and they took refuge in the arched vaulte
and long subterranean passages which branched beneath
the c!dleau, from the vivid glare of the Jightning ; al·
though unable to shut their ears to the reiterated claps
of thunder which threatened to sba~e the building to it.I
foundations. ·
In this general scene of horror, Isahella alone ap·
peared unappalled. The alternate abstraction _and
alarm, which before seemed to harass her mind, 11ad
now vanished, and had given place to a character of
resignation which might.almost he considered.as border-
ing on apathy. While the younger females yielded
without resistance to the increasing horrors of the tem-
pest, and by frequent shrieks and exclamatdons.of dread
bore testimony to the terror excited in their bosoms by
the aggravated circumstances of the scene; she suffered
no· symptom of apprehension to.be visible in her now
unvarying feakires. Agitation had yielded to quiet:
Jibe sat ostensibly placid ; but her apparent inatten.tion
wus evidently not the effect of tranquillity, but the result
Qf penievering exertion~ ·
•
TBJil MID!(IGBT noa11. 186
The hour was approaching toward& midnight; and
· the storm, instead of blowing over, having increased in
.violence, the hospitable own~r of the mansion proposed
to his guests, that they should abandon the idea of re-
turning home through the torrents of rain, which had
already deluged the country, and re~ the roads
in the vicinity impa..'ISllble ; but shou . .commodate
themselves, with as little difficulty as polsible, to the
only plan now to be dcvised,--of making themselves
eeay during the remainder ofthis dismal night. Although
his mansion WWI not extensive, yet he proposed (with
the aid of temporaiy couches, and putting the ladies to
the inconvenience of sleeping two in each room) to
render the party a'! comfortable as bis means would
allow ; and which would, at all events, be more agree-
able than braring abroad the horrors of the tempest.
Reasonable as such a plan was in ittelf, it was still
more st!ongly recommended by the circumstance, that
the carriages which were expected to convey the partii!S
to their respective abodes had not arrived ; and from thP.
state of the roads, and the continuance of the still pitiless
storm, it seemed visionaiy to expect them.
The party, therefore, yielded without regret to \h&
offered arrangement, save with one a1S11enting voice.
The fair Spaniard alone positively declined the offered
accommodation. Argument in vain was used for a con•
siderablc space of time to detain her; she positively in·
sisted on returning hom~ : and would alone in the dark
have faced the storm, bad notan obstacle which appeared
invincible, militated against her resolve ; this was too
imperious to be resisted-her carriage and servants were
not arrived ; and from the rE'!presentation of Monsieur de
Montbrun's domestics (some of whom bad 008n detached
1o examine the condition of the neighbouring roads,) it
186 THK MIDNIGHT STOll.M,
was perfectly clear, that with that parl of the district i12
which she resided, no communication could for i;everal
hours take place. Madame de Nunez, ther~fore, at
length yiflldod to necessity; although the pertinacity of
her resistance had already excited much surprise, ancl
called forth innumeralile conjectures.
The arranliJments between the respective parties were
soon made, and the greater part of the ladies gladly
.retired to 8eek repOAe from the harassing events of the
day. Emily, who had not relaxed in her marked .atteu~
tion to her interesting frieud, warmly pressed her to
share her own room, in which a sofa had been /re.
pared as a couch, and to which she herself insiste on
l'Ctiring, while Madame do Nunez should take possession
of the bed. The latter, however, again strenuously ob-
jected to this plao, asserting, that she should prefer re-
maining all night in one of the sitting-rooms, with no
other companion than a book. She appcared,obstinately
to ad.here to this resolution, until Emily politely, yet
positively, declared, that were such the intention of her
new friend, she would also join her in the saloon,° and
pass the time in conversation until the day should break,
or until Madame's servants should arrive. This propo.-
sition, or r.ather detemi.ioation, was received by the
frowning Isabella w.itb an air of visible chagrin and
diiiappointmeot, not altogether polite. She express-
ed· her unwillin~ess that .Madetn0iselle should be
inconvenienced, with .some peevishness ; but which.
however, soon gave place to her former air of good-
breeding.
She now appeared anxious to hurry to her room; and
the rest of t.he party having some time retired, she was
escQried thither by the ever attentive Emily~ No sooner
hJM] they reached the chamber, Uum Isabella aupk itlto
oigiLeJbvGoogle
Tll& MIJ>NtGRT STeRM. 187
;a chair; and a.fWr .struggling for, some time in evident
emotion for utterance, at length e~claimed :-
" Why, dearest Emily,' would you insist on sharing
·with mo the horrors of this night ? To me .the punish•
ment is a merited one: but to you·
--"
" What, my dearest madam, do you say?" replied
Emily affectionately-" The terrol!I of the night are
over, the thunder appears retiring, and the lightning is
less vivid ; and see in the west (added she, as she went
to the window) there are still some remains of tbe sum~
mer twilight. Do not any longer, then, ·suffer the ap-
j>tebensions of the stor,u which has passed over us, te
disturb the repose which you will, I hope, so shortlY.
.CJljoy."
"Talk you of repose!" said Madame de Nunez,.in
a voice almost choaked with agitation-" Know yoa
·not, then, that_
on .the a1m~versary of this horrid night? ·
---but what am I saying!-to you, at present, .all this
is mystery ; too soOll your OWQ feelings will add con·
viction to the terrible experience whkh six revolving
years have afforded me, and which, even now but tcr
think on, harrows up m,ycsoul.-Bnt no more-"
Then darting suddenly towards the door, which had.
hitherto remained a-jar, she closed it with violence; an4
.locking 'it, withdrew the key, which ~he placed in her
own pocket.-Emily had scarcely time to expr~l!S her,
surprise at this action and the appJl.l'ent distraction which
accompanied it~ ere Madame de Nunez seized both her
bando with more than female strength, .and with a
maddened voice and-eye st.raining on vaoanoy, exclaim-
~~ . . ' .
'' Bear witness, ye powers of terror ! that I imposed
not tbis dreadful scene on the fem11lc whose oath .ul.wi~,
.nQw secure her silence."
188 TRB MIDNIGHT 8TOAM.
Then staring wildly on Mademoiselle de Montbrun,
she continued :-
" Why, foolish girl, wouldst thou insist on my par-
taking thy bed ? the viper might have coiled in thy
bosom ; .the midnight assasin might have aimed his
dagger at thy breast-but the poison of the one would
have been less fatal, and the apprehension of instant
annihilation Crom the other would have been less op-
pressive, than the harrowing scene which ihou art
doomed this night to witneBll-doomed, I say ; for all
the powers of hell, whose orgies you must behold, can-
not release you from tho spectacle which you have
voluntarily sought."
"To what am I doomed !'' cried Emily, whose fears
for herself were lessened in tho dread she felt for ber .
&iend's intellects, which she supposed were suddenly
become atfeeted by illness, or from the incidents of tho
past day. .
Isabella, after a silonce of several minutes, during
which she endeavoured to recover some degree of com-
posure, in a softened but determined voice, ~aid :-
" Think not, my friend, (if I may use that endearing
expression to one whose early prospects and happier
days I am unwillingly: condemned to blast,) that disorder
has produced the agitation which, spite of myself, you
have witnessed.-Alas ! great as have been my sorrows,
and heavy as, my crime weighs on me, my reason has
.till preserved its throne : to seek oblivion in idiotcy; to
bury the remembrance of my fatal error in temporary
derangement; would, I might almost my, be happiness
to me. But fate has forbidden su~h an alleviation, and
my impending destiny which is not to be guarded against
by precaution, cannot be avoided by repentance/'
"Nay," said Emily, "exaggerated as your self-con•
THE MIDNIGHT 8TOBJI, 189
demnatio11 makes the fault to which you allude appear,
in religion you may find a solace which could eft'ace
crimes of much deeper dye than any with which you
can possibly charge yourself."
" Ah! no/' replied the fair Spaniard.-" Religion,
it is true,·holds out hP.r benignant hand to receiM tl1e
wandering siuner ;-she offers to the stranger a home ;
she welcomes to her bosom the repentant though blood-
stained criminal -.:-hut for crimes like mifle, what peni·
tEll!ce can atone ?-But we waste time," added she ;
the " midnight hour approaches ; and ere the clock in
tho turret firstanounces that dreaded period, much mn~t-
be done.'' '
Thus saying, she went into the a<ljoining oratory, and
finding on the little altar at which Emily offered her
daily orisons, an ivory crucifix, she returned with it in
her hapd; and again seizing and forcibly grasping the
hand of her now really alarmed hostess, she exclaimE:;d
in a hollow, yet determined voice:-
" Swear, that what~oe.ver you may this night, this
eventful nig\.lt, be a witness to, not all the apprehensions
of hell, not all your hopes of heaven, shall tempt you to
reveal, until I am committed to the silent tomb--
Swear!"
Emily for a moment hesitated·to ·adopt an oath im-
posed under circumstances of such, an extraordinary
nature: but whilst she was debating, Mad'ame do Nunez,
mor.e violently grasping her band, e:xcl!l.imed, in a voice
harsh from agitation :-
,, Swear; or dread the event!"
'" Swear!" Emily fancied she heard echoed from the
oratory. Almost iiinking with horror, she faintly re-
peated the solemn oath, which the frantic female, whoae
o,oitized by Google
'
)90 TllB JllJDWIQRT S'l'Otl'M.
cliaracter appeared so perfectly changed, dictateil
to her.
She had no sooner thus solemnly bound herself to
silence, than Madame de Nunez's agitation appeared to
subside; she replaced the crucifix on the altar, and
sinking .on her knees before the chair in which Emily,
almost void of animation, was seated, she feebly ex•
claimed:-
" Pardon, dearest Emily, the ma~ess of my con·
duct; necessity has dictated it towards you ; and yonr
wa)rward fate, and not your suffering friend, is answer-
able for it. For six long years have I con_
fined to my
own bosom the horrors,which we this night must jointly
witness. On the 11nniversary of 1his day-But I dare
not yet communicate the dreadful event ; some hours
hence I ·may recover composure to relate it : hut remcm·
ber your oath. While I live, the secret is buried in
your bosom. You must have remarked my unwilling·
ncs.11 to remain in your dwelling; you could not have
been inattentive to my repugnance to share your room
-too soon you will have a dreadful explanation of the
cause. Be not angry with me-I must endeavour to
conceal the circumstances which appal my soul : I must
still prei.erve the re~pect of society, although I have for
ever forfeited my own-hence the oath I have imposed
on you. But-"
Here further conversation wos interrupted by the
sound of the turret clock, which began to strike the hour
of midnight. It had scarcely finished, ere the slow roll·
ing of a carriage was heard in the paved court-yard;
at the noise of which, Madame de Nunez started from
the posture in which she had continued at the feet of
Emily, and rul!bed towards the door, which she had
'TSE liIIDNIGBT STORM. 191
previously locked~ Emily now heard heavy footstep$
ascending the oaken stai:r-case; and before she could
recal her recollection, which so singular a circumstance
had bewildered, the door of the room in which they
were sittin~, spite of its fastening, slowly moved oo·its
hinges ; and in the next minute Emily sunk on the
earth in a state of $lupefaction. ·
It is well for the human frame, that when assailed by
circumstances too powerful to support, it seeks shelter in
oblivion. The mind recoils from the horrors which it
cannot meet, and is driven into insensibility.
At an early hour of the ensuing morning Madame de
Nunez quitted Monsieur de Montbrun's chdteau, accom-
panied by her servants, whom the retiring torrents had
permitted.to await their mistress's commands. She took
a hasty farewell of the master of the mansion, and
without making any inquiries as to the rPSt of the parly,
departed.
At the usual hour of breakfast; Emily did not appear;
and her father at length went to her room door, and re-
ceiving no answerto his inquiries; went in. Judge his hor-
ror, when he discovered his daughter lying on the bed in
·the clothes she had worn the preceding day, but in a state
of apparent insensibility. Immediate medical as.~istance.
was procured, and she at length discovered symptoms of
returning life; but no ~ooner had she recovered herrecol-
lection, than, looking with horror and affright around her,
she again relapsed into a state of inanimation. Repeated
cordials being administered, she was again restored to
life ; but. only -to become the victim of a ·braiu-fever,
which in a few days put a period to her existence. In
a short inten·al of recollection, in the eatly part of .
illn~, she confided what we have here related to
her father; but conscientiously kept fro!u bis knowledge
192 TB& BAHPSBIRE CUUT&.
what she was bound by her oath to conceal. The very
remembrance of what she bad witneuod on that fatal
night, hurried her into delirium, and she fell a victim to
the force of recollection.
Madame do Nunez did not long.survive her; but ex-
pired under circumstances of unexampled lforror.
APPARITION SEEN BY MR. WALKER, 'CURATE OP WAR•
BLINGTON, IN HAMPSHIRE.
THE following lette.r from Mr. Caswell the mathe-
matician, was found amonit Dr. Bentley's papers:-
" Sir,-When I was io London, April last, I fully intended
to have waited upo~ you again, as I ~aid, but cold and lame-
ness seized me next day ; the cold took away my voice, and
the other my power of walking; so I presentlytook coa_ch for
Oxford. I am much your debtor; and in particularfor your
good intentiont in telation to Mr. D. though that, as it bas
proved, would not have turned to my advantage: however, I
am obliged to you upon that and other accounts, an.d if I bad
opportunity to show it, you should find bow much I am your
faithful servant. I have sent you enclosed a relation of an
apparition. The story I b~d from two persons,'Who each bad
it from the author, and yet their accounts somewhat varied,
and passing through more mouths, bas varied still more.
Therefore I got a friehd to bring me to the author's, at a
cha!Jlber, where .I wrote it down from the author's mouth,
after which I read it to him, and gave him another copy. He
said he could swear to the truth ofit,as far as he is concerned.
He is curate of Warblington, bachelor of arts of Trinity Col-
lege in Oxford, about six years standing in the university. I
hear no ill report of his' behaviour here; be is now gone to
his curacy. He has promised to send up the accounts of the
tenant and bis man, who is a smith by trade, arid the
farmer's men, as far as they are concerned. Mr. Brinton,
the rector, would have him say nothing of the story ; for
that he can get no tenant, although be has oft'ered the
house for ten rounds. a year less. Mr. P. the fo1 mer in-
. THI; BA'.llPSBIRE CURATE. 193
cumbent, whom die :apparition represented, was a·man of
a very ill report, supposed to have seduced hia eervant-
maid, and to have murdered the offspring; but I advised
the curate to say n~hing himself of this last part of P. but
leave that to the parishioners who knew him. Those who
knew this P. say he had exactly such a gown, and that he
used to whistle. Yours,
" J. CASWELL." '
Upon this letter is founded the following circumstan-
tial and perspicuous narrative:-
At Warblington, near Havant, in Hampshire, within
six miles of Port.smouth, in the parsonage-house, dwelt
Thomas Perse, the tenant, with his wife and a child, a
man senant, Thomas, and a maid servant: About the
b<.>ginniog of August, 1695, on a Monday, about nine
or ten at night, all being in bed except the maid with
the child, the maid being in the kitchen and having
raked up the fire, took a candle in one hand and the
child in the other arm, and turning about, saw one ln a
black gown walk through 'the room, and thence out of
the door into the orchard.. Upon this, the maid cried
out; when the master und mistress ran down stairs, found
the candle in herhand, while she grasped the child round
the neck with the other arm : she told them the reason of
her crying ont. She would not sleep that night in the
house, but removed to another belonging to one Henry
Salter, farmer, where she cried out all the night, from
the terror she wa1:1 in ; and she could not be persuaded
to go any more to the house, on any terms.
On the morrow, (Tuesday) the tenant's wife came to
rue, lodging then at Havant, to desire my advice, and
consult with some friends about it ; I told her I
thought it was a flam, and that they bad a mind to
abuse Mr. Brereton, the rector, whose hcm~e it was.
K
.. .......
194 THE HAMPSHIRE CURATE.
She desired I would come up. I told her I would
come up; and sit up or lie- there, as she pleased ; for
then, as to all stories of ghosts or apparitions, I was an
infidel. I went thither, and sat up the Tuesday night
with the tenant and his man-servant. About twelve
or one o'clock I searched all the rooms in the house, to
, see if any body was hirlden there to i~pose upon me. At
last we came into a lumber. room; where I, smiling, told
the tenant that wa.<> with me, that I would call for the
apparition, and obi~ him to come. The tenant then
seemed to be afraid, but I told him I would defend him
from harm ; and then I repeated, " Barbara, celarent
Darii,'' &c. ; on this the tenant's countenance changed,
so that he was ready to drop down with fear; and I
told him I perceived he was afraid, and I would pre-
vent its coming, and repeated, " Baralipton," &c. ;
then he recovered his spirits pretty well, and we left the
room and went down into the kitchen, where we were
before, and sat uythere the remaining part of the night,.
and had no further disturbance. Thursday night the
tenant and I lay .together ill one room, and the man
in another room ; and he saw something glide along in
a black gown, and place itself against a window, and
there stood for some time, and then walked off. Friday
morning, the man relating this, I asked him why he did .
not. call me, and I told him I thought that it was a trick
or a·flam; be told me the reason why he did not call
me was, that he was not able to speak or move. Friday
night we lay as before, and·had no disturbance either of
the nights.
Sunday night I lay by myselfin one room, (apart from
that in which the man saw the apparition) and the tenant
and the man in one bed in another room ; and betwixt
TSE HAMPSHIRE cua.tT& 191
twelve and two the man beard something walk ia their
room at the bed's foot, aod whistling very well; and at
last it came to the bedside, drew the curtain, aad looked
on them ; after some time it moved off. Then the
man called to me, desired me to come, for that th_..
was something in the room went about whistling. l
~ked .him whether he had any light, or couW strike
~ne ; he told me, 110. Then I leaped out of bed, and
not stayiug to put on my clothes, went out of my room
and along a gallery to the door, which I found lockecl
or bolted. 1 desired him to unlock the door, as that I
oould not get in ; ho then got out of bed and opened
the door, which was near, and went immediately again
'to bed. I went in three or four steps;· and it being a
moonlight night, I saw the apparition move from ·the
bedside, and rest up against the wall thnt divided their
room and mine. I went and stood directly against it,
within my arm's length of it, and asked it in the name
of God what it was that made it oome distmbing of us.
I stood some time expecting an &DSw~r, and l'eOOiving
none, and thinking it might.ho some fellow hidden in the
room to frighten me, I put out my ann to feel it, and my
hand seemingly went through the body of it, and felt
no manner of substance till it came to the wall ; then I
drew back my hand, and still it was in the Mme place.
Till now I had not the lea.st fear, and even now had
very little. Then I adjured it to tell me what it was.
When I had said those words, it, keeping its back
against the wall, moved gently along towards tho door ;
I followed it, and it, going out at the door, turned its
back towards me; it went a mtle along the gallery, and
it disappeared where there was no .comer for it to tum,
and before it came to the end of the gallery where were
the stail'I!. Then I found myself very cold from my
It 2
}96 THE BAMPi!BIRE CURATE.
feet as high as my hips, tho11gh I was not in great
feat. l went into the bed betwixt the tenant and bis
man, and they complained of my being exceeding cold.
The tenant's man leaned over hi~ master·in the bed,
aS¥1 saw me stretch out my hand towards the apparition,
and .heard me speak the words ; the tenant also· heard
the words. ·
The apparition seemed to have a morning gown of 11
darkish colour, no hat nor cap, short black hair, a thin
meagre ''isage, of a pale swarthy colour; seemed to be
of about five and forty or fifty· ycaril old ; the eyC>S
half shut, the arms hangi~g down, the hands visible
beneath the sleeve ; of a middle stature. I related·
this description to Mr. John Lardner, rector of Havant,
and to Major Bat~n, of Langstone, in llavant parish ;
they both said the description accorded with Mr.. P., a
former rector of the place, who had been dead above
twenty years. Upon this the tenant and his wife left
the house, which has remained void ever since.
The Monday after last Michaelmas day, a man of
Chodson, in Warwickshire, having been at Havant
fair, passed by the aforesaid parsonage house about nine
or ten at night, and saw a light in mo!!t of tLe rooms
of the house. His pathway being close by the house,
he, wondering at the light, looked into the kitchen win-
dow, and saw only a light-~ but, turning hi1nself to go
away, he saw the appearance of a man in a long gown :
he made haste away ; the apparition followed him over
a piece of glebe land of several acres, to a lane which
he crossed, and over a little meadow; then over another
lane to some pales, which belong to farmer Henry
Salter, my landlord, near a barn, in which were some
.of the farmer'!! men and some others. This man went
into the ~am, and told them how he was frightened
o,oitized by Google
·LOR& ORRERY AND TRlil BUTLER. 197
._ml fullowed from the parsonage-house by an appari-
tion, which they might see standing against tbe pales it'
they went out : they went out,..aud saw it scratch against
the pales, nnd heard a hideous noise:; it stood there some
time, and then disappeared : their description agreed.
with what J saw.
This last account I had from the rnan himself, and
also from the farmer's men.
·December 11; J695, Oxon.
THOMAS WILKINS,
Curate of Warburton.
LORD ORREilY AND THE BUTLER,
A gentleman in Ireland, residing near the Earl of
-Orrery, sent his butler one afternoon to buy some
cards. As he passed ·along, ~e saw a company of
people sitting round a table, with good cheer before
them in the midst of o. field~ On approaching them,
th~y all ii.rose and saluted him, and desired him .to sit
clown with them; but one of them whispered these
words in his ear, " Do nothing this company invites
you to do." Hereupon he refused to sit down at t~ ·
table, and immediately table and all that belonged clis-
appeared ; and the company were now dancing and
playing upon musical instruments. And the butler
being asked to join them, he refused ; and they
not being able 'to prevail lipon him to accompany them in
working any more than in feasting, or dancing, they all
disappeared, and the.butler was left alone. Instead of
going forwards, he returned-home as fast as he could,
in great consternation ; and had no sooner enteted his
master's door, than be fell down, and lay some time
sensel08$; but recovering himself, he related to his master
what had passed.
oigiLeJbvGoogle
·~ ~ -r- • - - - : · -·· - ~ - ~•.~- - ~--~ -
198 LORD ORB.EV.Y .AND THE B_
UTL&B.
The night lollowing there came one of this company
to his bed-side, and told him, that if he offered to stir
liut of doors the next day, he would be carried away~
Hereupon he kept at home ; but towards ~he evening,
he ventured to pat one foot over the threshold (several
persons standing by), which he had .no sooner d-One,
than they cast a rope about his middle ; and the .
poor man was hurried away with great swiftness ; they
followed him as fast as they could, but could net ,over-
take him. At length they espied a houemau, coming
towards him, and made signs to hllll to ittop the maa,
whom he saw approaching him, and both ends. of the
rope but no body drawing. When they met, he laid
hold on one end of the rope, and immediately had a
smart blow given him over the arm with the other end;
but by this means the man was stopped, and the ho~e­
man brought Ji!m baek with him.
The Earl of Orrery hearing of these strar-.ge reports,
requested that the man might be sent to his house the
morningfollowing, orquickly after; when hetold the Eall
that bis spectre had been with him again, and assured
him, that that day he should most certainly be carried
away, and that no endeavours would avail to save him ;
upon this he was kept i_
n a large room, with a consider-
able number ofpersons to guard him, among whom was
the :famou.S Mr. Greatrakeo;;, who was a neighbour. There
were beside other pemons of quality, two bishops in the
houae at the same time, who were consul~ed concerning
the use of a medicine, which the spectre prescribed; but
they determined on the negative.
Till part .of the afternoon had passed all was quiet,
-but at leDgth he was perceived to rise from the ground~
whereupon Mr. Greatrakcs, and another lusty man
placed~their arms over his shoulders, one of them hefoia
LORD ORRBRY AND TBB BOTLBR. 199
him, and the other behind him, and weighed .him down
with all their strength : but he was forcibly taken up
.from them, and they were too weak to keep their bold,
and for a considerable time he was carried in the air.
to and fro over their heads, several of the company
.still running under him, to prevent his receiving injury
.if he should fall. At length he fell, and was caught
before he came to the ground, and by that means was
.not hurt. · ·
All being quiet till bed-time, Lord Orrery ordered
two of his servants to lie with him ; and the n_ext morn-
ing he told his Lordship, that his spectre was again
with him, and brought a wooden dish, with grey liquor
in it, and bid him drink it otf; at the first sight .of the
spectre, he said he endeavomed. to awake his bed-fel-
lows, bot it told him, that such endeavour should be in
vain : and that he hnd no cause to fear him, he being
his friend, and he that at first gave him the good advicP. in
the field, which had be notfollowed, he would have been
befo~ now perfectly in the power of the company he
saw there. He added, that he concluded it was hn-
possible, bnt that he should have been carried away the
day before, there being so strong ~ combination against
him ; but now he could assure him, that there would.
be more attempts of that nature ; but he being troubled
~th two sorts of fits, he had brought that liquor·~
cure him, and bade him drink it. He peremptorily re-
fused, when the spectre upbraided him, but told him,
however, if be would take plantain juice, he should re-
cover one sort of fits, but be should carry the other to
his grave.
The spectre now asked him, whether be did not
know him? be answered no ; it replied, I am-,
the man answered, he :had been long dead : I have
200 .,LORD TYRO~-&.
been dead, said the spectre, seven years, nnd yCJU knO\t' ·
that I lived a loose life, and ever since I have been
hurried up and down in a restles» condition, with the
company you saw, and aball be io tbe day of judg-
ment.
APPARITION OF LORIJ T'fll'ONE TO LADY B'ERESFORJ>.
LORD TvaoNK and Miss-, were born in Ire-
land, and were left orpb.tµis in their infancy to the care
of the same person, by whom they were bot.h educated
in the principles of deism.
Their guardian $lying when tsey were each of them
about fourteen years of age> they fell into very different.
hands. Though separated from each otaer, tbeii ·
friendship was unalteqi.ble, and they continued to re-
. gard each other with a 'sincere and fraternal affection.
After some years were elapsed, and both were grown
up, they made a s.olemn promise to each other that
whichever should die fu&t, would, if permitted, appear
to the other, to declare what religion was most approved
by the Supreme ,Being. Miss.- - was sbouly after
addressed by Sir Martin Beresford., to whom she was
after a few years married, but a change of condition
had no power to alter their friendship. The families
visited each other, and oftera spent some weeks together.
A short time after one ,of th~e visits, Sir Martin re-
marked, that when his lady came down to breakfast,
that her countenance was disturbed, and inquired of
her health. She assured him she was quite well. He
then asked her if she had hurt her wrist ; " Ha.ve you
sprained it ?" said he, observing a 'black ribbon round
it. She anllwered in tl)e negative, and added, " Let ,
mo conjureyou, Sir Martin) never to inquiro the cause
of my .wearini this ribbon ; you will never see mE>
LORD TYRONE. 201
without it. If it concerned you as a, husband to)mow,
I would not for a moment concieal it ; I ne¥er in my ·
life denied you a request, \>ui of this I entreat you to
forgive me the refusal, and,never to.urge me;farther on
the subject." ·" Very well," ~aid be smiling,-" since·
you beg me so earnestly, I will inquire no more-.'' The·
conversation here ended; but·breakfast was scarce over,
when Lady Beresford eagerly inquired if the post was
come in ; she was told it was not. In a few minutes
she rang again and repeated the inquiry. She was again
answered as at first. " Do you expect letters ?'' said
Sir Martin, '' that you are so anxious for the arrival of ·
the post?" " I do," she answered, " I expect to bear
that.Lord Tyrone is dead; he died la.St T-uesday at
four o'clock." "I never in my.life," said ·Sir Martin,
" believed you superstitious ; some idle dream bas surely
tlius alarmed you." At that instant the servant entered·
and deliYered to them a letter sealed with black. " It
is as I expected," exclaimed Lady Beresford, "Lord
Tyrone is dead." Sir Martin opened the letter ; if
came from Lord Tyrone's steward, and contained the
melancholy intelligence of his m&Ster's death, and on
the very day and hour Lady Beresford had before spe-
cified. Sir Martin begged Lady Bere~ord to compo!lr
herself, and she assured him she felt much easier than'
aho had done for a long time ; and added, " l can
communicate intelligence to you which I.>know will
prove welcome;.I can &sBure you, bayoDd the possibility
of a doubt, that.I .shall in .some months present you
with a son." Sir Martin received ·this news 'with tho
greatest joy. After some months, Lady Beresford was. .
,delivered of a son (she had before been the mother of
only two daughters). Sir Martin survived the birth of
.hisson little more than four years. After his decease·
K 3
"
bia wid01V ield1ia left home ; she 'risited no family bu.t
that of a elergyman who Je!ided in the aame 'fillage ;
withthemshe frE!1uently pmsed a few boars every day ;
the - gf her time WBi' epeut in sou~. and •he ap-
pearoo determined for ever to bani1h all ·other society.
The clergyman's family coneisted of himself, his. wife,
and one &QB, whe, at the time of Sir Martin's death,
WM qaite a youth; to tbiiJ son, however, she was after
a few yeal'lt married, notwithstanding the iisparity of
yeazs an& the .manifesi impmdence of a · connexion so
unequtlt ia every poiot of view. Lady Beresford was
f;rc)ated hy her yuang hueband with contempt and
cruelty, while at the same timo his conduct evinced him
the most abandoned libertine, utterly destitute of every
principle C>f virtae and homanity. By this, her eecond
husband, she bad two daughter&; after wbwh such was
the baseness of hiS conduct that she insisted on a sepa.-
ration. They parted for a few years, when so great
was the contrition he expressed for his former conduct.
that, won over by his sQpi>lications, promises, and en-
treaties;sli.e was induced to pardon, and once more t9·
reside with him, and w:as in time the mother of o. son.
The day on which she had lain-in a month being the
anniversary of }\er birthday, she sent for Lady Betty
Cobb (of whose friendship she bade long been poi;sessff)
and a few other friends to request them tD spend the
day with her. A.b011t seven, the clergyman by whom
slw bacl boe111·c:Aristened, and witli whom she had all
lwr lifo lleen intimate, ¢$Ille into the room to mqtli.re ·
after her health. She told him she wa& pertectly well,
and req!1ested hiui. tO spend the day with them ; fol-,
eraid she, "Tlis is my birthday. 1i am forty-eight to ·
&ty."" " No, madiam, •• answerei ·the clergymnn.
" yo11 are mmaken ; your mother and ~lf have
DiglizedbyGoogle
LORD TrRONlil.
had many disputes concerning 1o0r age, and I ha"6 a't
last discovered that I was right. I happened io go lalfi
week into the parisa where yoa were born; I wall n-
eolved to put an end to the dispme ; I searched the Ngis-
t.er, and find that you are but forty•seven this @.y.~
" Yov ban signed my death warrant," she exclaimed,
'f I- have then but a few hours io live. I .must, there-
fore, entreat yo11 to leave me immediately, as I have
something of importance to ee~e before I die." When
the clergyman left her, Lady Beresford seat t.o fGrbiel
the compmy comillg, and at the same time ·to request
Lady Betty Cobb aad her eon (of whom Sir Martin
was the father, and was then about twenty-two years of
age), to come to her apartment immediately.
Upon their arrival, haViag ordered the attendanie to
quit the room, " I have something," ebo said, " of the
greatest importance to communicate to 1ou both before I
die, a period which is not far distant.. You, Lady Betty.
aro no stranger to the friendship which subsisted between
Lord Tyrone and myself; we were educaied under the
same roo( and in the same principles of deism. Whoa
the friends, into whose hands we afterwards fell, en•
deavoared tO pemuule us to embrac0 revealed religion,
their arguments, tbougll iosUffi.cient to convince, were
powerful enough te eteggeJ" our former feelings, and t.o
leaTc us wavering between the two opinions ; in this
perplexing state of douht and uncertainty, we m~o a
solemn promise to each other, that INhichever died first ·
should. (if pennitted) appear to the other, and deolare
what religion W8!t most acoeptable to God ; accordingly,
ooe night, while Sir Martin and myself wa in bed, I
iuddenly awoke and discovered Lord Tyrone sitting by
my bed-side. I screamed out and eodeavoutl!d to awe.kit
Sir Martin ; " For Heaven's sake, " I ex.claimed/
204 LORI) TYRON&
' Lord Tyrone, h.7 wh..1.meu11-·odor wbat.PCllS<nl·cant"
you hither at this time of µigbt." " Hate you ~beg.
forgotten our promise.?" 11&id he. " I died last Tuesday.
at four o'clock, and haYe heen permitted by the Supreme·
Reing. to appear to you, to a&ltUl'B 10u .mt the l'eTealed
religion is true, and the only religion by whicb we can·
be saved. I am further suffered to inform you that you·
will soon produce a son ; which it is decreed will marry
my daughler: not many yean after bis birth Sir Martin
will die, a'DG you· will marry again, and to a man by
whose ill-ireatme11t ,-011 will be rendered mi.,.erable :
you will ·havo t1Wo.d1H1ghtel'I, .ud afterwards a son, in
child.birth of whom you will die .m the.forty-sev,enth
year of your age." '".Just Heavens-!" I exclaime~
'" and cannot I prevent this ?" " Undoubtedly you
may,'' returned the spectre; "you are a froe agent, and
may prevent it all by resisting every temptation to a
second marriage; Lut .your }iassions are strong, you
know not their pewer.; -hitherto you have had no trials.:
More I am not pe1'111itted .to reveal, but ·if after this .
warning you persist in your infidelit.y, your lot in another
world will be mi'!erable indeed !'' . ''.May I not.ask,".
said I, " if you are happy.?" " Had I .been other-
wise," he.:replied, ·~ l sbouhLn&t have beea petmit.ted
to appear to you." ." I may then infer that you are
happy ?'' He smiled. " But how.,'' said I, " wheo
morning comes, shall I know that your appearance to
me .has been real, and not the mere representation ofmy
owaimagination ?" . "Will not the news of my death
be sufficient :to con~ince yo11 ?'' " No,". I retume~
"~ .might have had such a dream, _
and that dreaJil aqci-.
denta.lly cometo pas."· I will h,avo some stronger proof. ·
of its real~ty." " You shall," said he, " and waving
his hlUld; th~ bed curtains, which were .crimson v.elvet,.
l . . .
o•g·'""' byGoogle
LORD .TYRONE. 205
were instantly drawn through a large iron hoop by which
the tester of the beJ was suspended." "In that," said
he, " you cannot be mistaken ; .no mortal arm could
have performed this/' " True," said I, " bl\t sleeping ·
we are often possessed of far more sirer.igth·than when
awake; though waking I could not have doRP. it, asleep
l·migbt; and I shalhtill .doubt." "Here is a pocket-
book, in this," said he, " I will write my name : you
know my hand writing." I -replied, " Yes. He
wrote with a pencil on one side ofthe leaves. " Still,"
laid J, " in the morning I may doubt ; though waking
·I could not imitate your liand, asleep I might." " :You
are hard of belief," said he : " it would .injure you
irreparably.; it is not for spirits to touch mortal flesh.''
" I do not," said I, "regard a slight blemish." "You
are a woman of courage," replied be, " hold out your
band.'' I did : he struck my wrist : his ha~d was cold
as marble : .in a moment the sinews shrunk up, every
nerve withered. " .Now," said be, "while you live
let.no mortal eye behold that wrist : to see it is sacri-
lege." He .stopped; I turned to him again; ho was
gone. During the time I had conversed with hiru ruy
thoughts were perfectly calm and collected, but the
.Dl-ODlent he was gone I felt chilled with horror, the very
bed moved under me, I endeavoured, .but in vain, to
awake ·Sir Mart.in, all my attempts were ineffectual,
and.in this state of agitation and terror I lay for some
time, when a shower of tears came to my relief, and I
· dropped asleep. In the morning, Sir Martin arose and
dressed himself as usual without perceiving the state the
<'urtains remained in.
When I awoke I found Sir Martin .gone down ; I
aroa;e, and having.put on my clothes, went to the gaJ-
lery adjoining the. apartment and took from thence •
oigiLeJbvGoogle
LO&D TYROKB.
Jong broom (such as eomi~es are swept with), by the
help of this I took down with some difticulty the cur-
tains, as I imagined their extraordinary position might
excite SWl]>icion in the family. 1 then went to the
burenu, took up my pocket-book, and bound a piece of
black ribbon round my wrist. When I came down, ttie
agitation of my mind bad le.ft an impres.c;ion on my
oountenanee too visible to pass unobserved by my h..
band. He instantly remarked it, and asked the cause;
I informed him Lord Tyrone WSE no more, that be died
at the hour of four on the preceding Tuesday, and de•
aired him never to question me more respecting the
black ribbon ; which he kindly desisted from after.-
you, my son, as had been foretold, I afterwards brouglat
into the world, and in little more than four years after
your birth your lamented Mher expired in my arma.
After this melancholy event, I determined, M the Qll)y
probable chance to avoid the sequel of the prediction,
.for ever to abandon -all society ; to give up every pleasure
resulting from it, and to pass the rest of my days·in
.eolitude :and retirement. .But few can long endure to
exist in a state ·of perfect sequestration : I began an
intimacy with a family, and one alone; nor could I
then foresee the fatal consequences which afterwards
,resulted from it. Little did I think their son, their only
llQll, then a mere youth, would form the person destine4
~y fate to prove my destruction. In a very few years I
ceased to regard him with indifference ; I endeavoured
by every possible way to conquer a pas.~ion, the fatal
eftOOts. of which I too well knew. I had fondly ima-
gined I had overcome its influence, when the evening of
.<>DC fatal day terminated my fortitude, and plunged me
in a moment down that abyss I bad so long been medi·
tatmg bow to shun. He bad often solicited his paren~
LORD T'fROSE,
· for )eave ·to go into ihe army, and at last obtained per-
mission, and came to bid me adieu before bis departure.
The instant he entered the room he fell upon his knees
at my feet, told me he was miserable, and that I alone
was the cause. At that moment my fortitude forsook
me, I gave myself up for lost, and regarding my ·fate iis
inevitable, without farther hesitation consented to a.
union; the immediate result of which I knew to be
Qlisery, and its end death: The conduct of my husbai;id,
after a few years, amply justified a separation, and l
hoped. by this means to avoid the fatal seq1H!I of the:
prophecy; but won over by bis reiterated entreaties, I·
was prevailed upon to pardon, and once -more reside
with him, though not till after I bad, as I thollght, passed
my forty-seventh year.
But alas! I have this day heard from indisputable
authority, that I have l!itherto lain under a mistake with
regard to my age, and that I am but forty-seven to-day.
Of the near approach of my death then I entertain not
the slightest doubt.
When I am dead, as the necessity of concealment
closP.s with my life, I could wish that you, Lady Betty,
would unbind my wrist, take from thenee 1he black
.ribb1m, and let my son with yourself behold it. Lady
Beresford here paused for some time, but resuming thf!
conversation, !'he entreated her son would behave himself
so as to merit the high honour he would in future receive
from a union with the daughter of Lord Tyrone.
· .Lady B. then expressed a wish to lay down on the
bed and .endeavour to compose herself to sleep, Lady
Betty Cobb and her son immediately called her domes-
tics, and quitted the room, having first desired them to
watch their mistress attentively, and if they observed the
smallest change in her, to call instantly.
208 MR. WILLHM LILLY.
An hour passed, and all was quiet in the room. They
listened 11.t the door, and every thing remained still, but
in half an hour more a bell rang violently; they flew to
her apartment, but before they reached the door, they
heard the servant exclaim " Oh, she is dead !" Lady
Bettv then bade the servants for a few minutes to quit
the r~om, and herselfwith Lady Beresford'sson approach··
ed the bed of his mother ; they knelt down by the side
of it; Lady Betty then lifted up her band and untied
the tibbon ; the wrist was found exactly as Lady Beres-
ford had described it, every sinew shrunk, every nerve
withered.
Lady Beresford's son, as had been predicted, is since
married to .Lord Tyrone's daughter, the black ribbon
and Pocket-book were formerly in the possession of·Lady.
Betty Cobb, Marlborough BuHdinga, Bath, who, during
her long life, was ever ready to attest the truth of this
narration, as are, to the present· hour,..the whole of the·
Tyrone and Beresford families.
TWO APPARITIONS TO MB. WILLUM LILLY.
The /ollo'tDin1 .A.ffair e.rcited considerable interest i11 the
North about the Middle ofth.e last Centur!I·
On the first Sunday, in the year 1749, Mr. 'rhomas
Lilly, the son of a farmer in the parish of Kelso, in
Roxburghshire, a yout\g man intended for the church of
Scotland, remained at home to keep the house, in com•·
pany with a shepherd's boy, all tl~e rest of the family,
except.a majd-servant, being at church. · The young
student and the boy being by the fire, whilst the girl
was gone to the well for water, a Yenerable old gen-
tleman, ei.ad in·an antique garb, .presented himself, and
Dig''""' by Google
MR. WILLIAM LILLY.. 209
after some ~ttle ceremony, desired the student to take
up the family-bible, which lay on a table, and turn
over to~ certain chapter and verse in the Second Book
of Kings. The student did so, and read-" there is
death in the pot."
On ·this the old man, with much apparent agitation,
pointed to the great family pot boiling •OD the fire,
declaring, that the maid had cast a great quantity of arse-
nic into it, with an intent to poison the whole family,
to the end she might rob the house of the hundred pi-
neas which she knew her master had lately taken for
sheep and grain, which he had sold. Just as he was so
saying, the maid .came to the door. The old gi>nf:leman
said to the student, rQmember my warning and save the
lives-of the family !-and that instant disappeared.
The maid entered with a smiling countenance, emptied
her pail, and returned to the well for a fresh supply.
Meanwhile, young Lilly put some oatmeal into a
wooden dish, skimmed the pot of the fat·and mixP.d it,
for what is called brose or croudy, and when the maid
J'!!turned, he with the boy appearl'd busily employed in
eating the mixture. Come, Peggy, said the 1>tudent, hete
is enough left for you; .are not you fond of croudy.?
She smiled, took up the di:ib, and reaching a born ;poon,
• withdrew to the back room. The shepherd'a dog fol-
lowed her, unseen by the boy," and ihe poor anirnal, on
the croudy being put down by the maid, fell a victim to
_his voracious appetil.e ; for before the return of the
family from church, it w111 enormously swelled, and
expired in great agony.
The student enjoined the boy to remain quite passive
for the present, m.eaQwhile he attempted to shew his in-
~enuity in resolving the cause of the canine catastrophe
ipto insanity, in order to keep the girl in countenance
210 MR. WILLIAM LILLY.
till a fit opport11Dity of discovering the plot, should pre-
sent itself.
Soon after bis father, and family, with the other ser-
vants returned from church.
Tho t;lble was instautly replenished with wooden
bowls and trenchers, while a heap of barley bannocks
graced the top. The kail or broth, infused with leeks or
winter-cabbages, was poured forth in plenty; and Peggy,
with a prodigal hand, filled all the dishes with the
homely dainties of 'fiviotdale. The master began grace,
and all hats and bonnets were instantly off? "0 Lord,"
prayed the farmer, " we have been hearing thy word,
from the mouth of thy aged servant, Mr. Ramsay ; we
have been'alarmed by the awful famine in Samaria, and
of death being in the pot!" Here the young scholar
interrupted his father, by exclaiming-" Yes Sir, there is
death in thepot now here, as well as there was once in
hrael ~-Touch not! taste not! see the dog dead by the
poisoned pot !" .
What ! cried the farmer, have you been raising the
devil by your conjuratfon ? Is this the effect of your
study, Sir ?-:--No, father, said the student, I pretend to
no such arts of magic or necromancy, but this day, as ·
the boy can testify, I had a solemn warning from one
whom I take to be DO demon, but a good angel. To
him we all owe our Jives. As to Peggy, according to
his intimation, she has put poi!!on into the pot for the
purpose of destroying the whole family. Here the girl
fell into a fit, from which being with some trouble
recovered, she confesse.d the whole of her deadly design,
and was suffered to quit the family and her native coun-
try. She was soon after executed at Newca.~tJe upon
Tyne, for the murder of her illegitimate child, again
making ample confession of the above diabolical design.
.MR. WILLIAM LILLY,
In 1750. tho same yo11ng Lilly was oae day reading
the 20th chapter of the Revelatioti of John the Divine.;
just as he was entering upon that part which describes
the ·angel binding the devil a thousand years, " after
which he was to be loosed a little ;" a very venerable
old personage appeared at hill elbow; the young man fell
on the floor, but quickiy arose, and in the name of the
Lord, demanded who he was, aud the nature o.f his
business. Upon this the following colloquy ensuP.d :~
Lil{y.-Shall I call thee Satan, the crooked serpent, the
devil, Beelzebub, or Lucifer son of the morning•
.Appar.-Iam a me111enger from the dead, to see or to cause _
justice to be don• to thee and thy father : ·I am the spirit of
one of thy ancestors !
Lilly.-Art thou the soul of my grandfather, who amidst
immense riches perished for want of food?
Appar.-Thou art right. Money was my deity, and Mam-
mon my ma.liter : I heaped up gold, but did not enjoy it.
Lilly.-I have frequently heard my father mention you, aa
a sordid, avaricious, miserable man. How did you dispote
of the immense riches which you a~e said .to have accumu·
lated? ,
. .Appar.-It is, for the most part, hidden in a: field, in .the
farm of your father, and I intend that you his sou, should be
the sole possessor of it, without suffering your father to know
from whence your riches originated. Do not you recognize
my face since the beginning of the last year?
· Lilly.-Are you the o~ gentleD)ftn whose timely intelli-
gence saved the lives of all our family?
~Appur.-.1 am. Therefore think not your father ill re-
warded already.
Lill!J.-How can I account to him for the immediate ac-
cumulation of so much-money as you seem to intimate?
· Appar.-Twenty thousand pounds sterling money!
Lilly.-You seem even now in your disembodied state to
:feel much emotion at the mention of much money. ·
. .Appar,-'But now I cannot touch the money of mortals.-
Digitize(_ by GoogIe
212 MR. TBOMKINS TO THE REV. MR. WARR£~.
But I cannot stay i follow me to the field, and I will point out
the precise place where you are to dig.
Here the apparition stalked forth round tho barn yard,
and Lilly followed him, 1ill he came to a field about
three furlon~ from his father's door, when the apparition
stood still on a certain spot, wheeled thrice round, nnd
vanished into air. '
This proved ·to be the precise place where young Lilly
and his companions had often devoted to pastime, being
a hollow, whence stone ha<,\ formerly been dug. He lost
but little time in consideration, for having procured a
·pick-axe and a spade, he actually discovered the trea-
sure. .His immense wealth enabled him to perform many
acts of charity in that country, as many can testify to .
this day.
The pots -in whic'h the money, consisting of large
pieces of gold and silver, were deposited, have often been
shewn as curiositieii hardly to be equalled in the south
of Scotland.-Wor/d of Spirits, 1796.
APPARITION OF .MR, TBO.MKINS TO THE REV, MR.
WARREN.
Ma. JOHN '\VARREN, minister of Hatfield-Broad-
oak, in Essex, a worthy and pious man, was one da,i
in his garden reading Bunyan's Publican and Pharisee.,
when he was accosted by a.neighbour, who enteret;l
into discourse .:with him .upon tho words, ".Shall a
man be more righteous than his Maker r" Mr. W!ll'l'en'11 '
discei.trae·in general .ran upon the promises, while Mr.
Thomkins, his neighbour, chiefly urged the threatenings
of God. At length Mr. Warren's servant came and in-
formed him the d1nner was ready, and his mistress
waited for him : he asked bis neighbour 'l'ho.mkins to
dinner, which the latter, with tears in his eyes, refused,
1aying, "my time is come, and I mnst away."
- ."--' ... --
REV, JOBS WESLEY. 213
Mr. Warren was proceeding to expostulate with his
friend Thomkins, when the servant repeated the message,
urging that o. neighbour had sent for him to go imme-
diately upou occasion of life and death. Mr. Warren
withdrawing towards the house, still continued the dis·
course upon the former subject, comforting his friend till
he arrived at the door, when entering first, he left the
door open that Mr. Thomkios might come in; but
nobody comingin he went directly and soughthim all over
his garden, but found him not, which much disturbed
his mind then, and much more soon afterwards, when he
found that his neighbour and friend Thomkins was just
expired, and had not been out of his house, according
to every testimony, the.t day, Mr. Warren's servant
testified seeing her master in conversation with a person,
in the garden, and telling her mistress Ro, she wondered
she had seen nohody go through the house, as there wa.'!
no other way into the garden. Mr. Warren, a pious
and sensible divinP, often related this to .Mr. Goodman,
who recites it in his work, entitled Wii1ter-evening
Coeference'lbetween Nei'ghbours.-World efSpz'rils.
:a•
NARRATl\'E DRAWN UP BY THE REV• .JOHN ~EliL§Y,_
And published in the Jfrminian Magazi11e.
WREN I was very young, I heard 1<everat letters
read, wrote to my elder brother by my father, giving an
account of strange disturbances, which were in his
house at Epworth, in Lincolnshire.
When I went down thither, in the year Ii20, I
carefully inquired into the particulal"!!. I spoke to each
of the persons who were then in the ho••'e, and took
down what each could testify of his or her own know-
ledge. The sum of which was this.
On Der.ember 2, 1716, while Robert Brovm, my
father's servant, was sitting with one of the mo.ids a
214 aav. JOHN WESLEY.
little before ten at night, in the dining room which
opened into the garden, they both heard one knocking
at the door. Robert rose and opened it, but could see
nobody. Quickly it knocked again and groaned. " It
is Mr. Turpine," said Robert; " be has the stone and
u!lell to groan so." He opened the door agai~ twice or
thrice, the knocking being twice or thrice repeated.
But still seeing nothing: and being a little startled, they
rose and went up to bed. When Robert caine to the
top of the garret stairs, .be saw a hand mill, which was
at a little distance, whirled about very swift]~·· W~en
he related this, be said, " Nou~ht vexed me, but that it
was empty. I thought if it had but hcen full of malt he
might have ground his heart out for me." When he
was in bed, be heard as it were the gobbling of a turkey·
cock, close to the bed-side ; and soon after, the sound
Iof one stumbling over biti shoes and boots, but there
were none there: he had left them below. The next
day, he and the maid related these things to the other
maid, who laughed heartily, and so.id, " What a couple
of fools are you ! I defy any thing to fright me.'' After
churning in the evening, she put the butter in the tray,
nnd had no sooner carried it into the dairy, than she
heard a knocking on the shelf where several puncheons
of milk stood, first above the shelf, then below ; she
took the candle and searched both above and below;
but being able to find nothing, threw down butter, tray,
and all, and ran away for life.
The next evening between five and six o'clock, my
sister Molly, then about twenty years of age, sitting in
the dining ro~m, readi11g, heard as if it were the door
that led into the hall open, and a pen,on walking in,
that seemed to have on a silk night-gown, rustling and
trailing along. It seemed to walk round her, then to
• ~ R.EV. JOHN WESLBY. 215
the door, then round again: but she could see nothing.
.She thought, " it signifies nothing to run away ; for
whatever it is, it can run faster than me." So she rose,
put her book under her arm, and walked slowly away.
After supper, she was sitting with my sister Suky,
(about a year older than her,) in one of the cham-
bers, e.nd telling her what bad happened, she quite
made light of it; teUing her, " I wonder you are so
easily frighted ; I would fain see what would fright
me." Presently a knocking began under the table.
She took the candle and looked, but could find nothing.
Then the iron casement began to clatter, and the lid of
a warming pan. Next the latch of the door moved up
and down without ceasing. She started up, leaped
into bed without undressing, pulled the bed clothes
over her head, and never ventured to look up till next
morning.
A night or two after, my sister Hetty, a year younger
than my sister Molly, was waiting as usual, between
nine and ten, to take away my father's candle, when
she heard one coming down the garret stairs, walking
slowly by her, then going down the best stairs, then
up the hack stairs, and up the garret stairs. And at
every: step, it seemed the house shook from top. to bot·
tom. Just then my father knocked. She went in,
took bis candle, and got to bed as fast as possible. In
the morning she told this to my eldest sister, who told
her, " You know, I believe none of these things. Pray
let me take away the candle to night and I will lfind
out the trick.'' She accordingly took my sister Hetty's
place, and had no sooner taken away the candle, than
she heard a noise below. She h~tened ·down stairs,
to the hall, where the noise was. But it was then in
the kitchen. She ran into the kitchen, where it was
drumming on the inside of the screen. When she
rngitized by Google
- ----
216 REV. JOHN WESLEY.
went round it was drumming on the outFide, and so
always on the side opposite to her. Then, she beard a
knocking at the back kitchen door. She ran to it, un-
locked it softly, and when the knocking was repeated,
suddenly opened. it ; but nothing was to . be seen. As
soon as she had shut it, the knocking began again ; she
opened it again, but could 11ee nothing ; when she went
to shut the door,.it was violently thrust against her; she
let it fly open, but nothing appeared. She went. again.
to shut it, and it was again thrust again11t her ; but she
set her knee and her shoulder to the door, forced it to,
and turned the key. Then the knocking be~n again;
but she wt it go on, and went up to bed•. However,
from that time she was thoi:oughly convinced that there
was no imposture in the affair.
The next morning. my sister telling my mother what
had happened, she said, " If I hear any thing myself,
I shall know how to judge." Soon after, she begged
her to come into the nursery. She did, and heard in
the corner of the room, a.~ it were the violent rocking
f of a cradle ; but no cradle had been there for some
years. She was convinced it was preternatural,. and
earnestly prayed it might not disturb her in her own
chamber at the hours of retirement; and it never did.
She .now thought it was proper to tell my faiher. But
he was extremely angry, and said,. "Suky, I am
ashamed of you ; these boys and girls fright one ano-
• ther ; but you are a woman of sense, and should know
better. Let me hear of it il-0 niore.'' At six in tl:ie
e\·ening, he had family prayers as usual. When he
began the prayer for the King, a knocking began all
round the room ; ancl a thau..Jcring knock attended the
Amen.. The snmC\ was heard from this time every
morning and evening, while the prayer for tne King was
repeated. As both my father and mother are now at
--,
. REV. JOHN WESLEY. 217
rest, and incapable of being pained thereby, I think it
my duty .to furnish the serious reader with a key to thiil
.circwnstance.
The year before King William died, my father 08-
served my- mother did not say Amen to the prayer
for the King. She said she could not ; for she did not
believe the Prince of Orange was King. He vowed he
never would cohabit with her till she did. He then
took his horse and rode away, nor did she hear any
thing of him for a twelvemon.
th. He then came back,
and lived with her as before. But I fear his vow was
not forgotten ·before God.
Being informed that Mr. Hoole, the vicar of Haxey,
(an eminently pious.and sensible man), could give me
some farther information, I walked over to him. He
said, " Robert Brown came over to me, and told me,
your father desired my company. When I came, he
gave me an account of all that had happened ; particu-
larly the knocking during family prayer. But that
evening (to my great satisfaction) we had no knocking
at all. But betweE>n nine and ten, a servant came in
and said, ' Old Jefferies is coming,' (that was the name ·
of one that died in the house,) ' for I hear the signal.' .
This they informed me was heard every night about a
quarter before ten. It was toward the top of the house
on the outside, at the·north-east corner, resembling the
loud creaking of a saw, 01· rather that of a windmill,
when the body of it is turned about, in order to !"hit\
the sail~ to the wind. We then heard a knocking over
our heads, and Mr. Wesley catching up a candle, said,
' Come, Sir, now you shall hear for yourself.'. We
went up stairs ; he.~ith much hope, and I (to say tho
truth) with much fobr. · ,\\;}Jen we came into the nur-
sery, it was knocking ~n. t?e.pext room; when we were·
L _,
218 REV. JOHN WESLEY.
there, it was knocking in the nursery. · And there it
continued to knock, though we came in, particularly at
the head of the·bed (which was of wood) in which
Miss Hetty and two of her younger sisters lay. Mr.
Wesley, observing that they were much affected though
asleep, sweating, and trembling exceedingly, was very
angry, and pulling out a pistol, was going to fire at the
place from whence the sound came. But I catched
him by the arm, and said, ' Sir, you are convinced this
is something preternatural. If so, you cannot hurt it ;
but you give it power to hurt you.' He then went close
to the place and said sternly, ' Thou deaf and dumb
devil, why dost thou fright these child~n, that cannot
answer for themselves r Come to me in my study that
am a man !' . Instantly it knocked his knock (the par-
ticular knock which he always used at the gate) as if
it would shiver the board in pieces, and we heard no-
thing more that night." Till this time, my father bad
never heard the least dis~urbances in his study. But
the next evening, as be attempted to go into ·bis study,
(of which none had any key but himself) when he
opened the door, it was thrust back with such violence,
as had like to have thrown him down. However, he
thrust the door open and went in. Presently there was
knocking first on one side,.then on the other.; and after
a time, in the next room, wherein my sister Nancy was.
He went into that room, and (the noise continuing) ad-
jured it to speak ; but in vain. He then said, " These
spirits love darkness : put eut the candle, and perhaps
it will speak ;" she did so ; and he repeated bis adju-
ration ; but still there was only knocking, and no arti-
culate sound. Upon this he said, ".Nancy, two Chris-
tians are an overmatch for .the devil. Go all of you
down stairs; it may be, wh~n ·1 am alone, he will have
REV. JOHN WESLEY. 219
the courage to speak." When she was gone, a thought
cam_
e in, and he said, " If thou art the spirit of my son
Samuel, I pray knock th_
ree kn_
ocks and no more."
Immediately all was silence ; and there was no more
knocking at all that night. I asked my sister Nancy
(then about fifteen years old) whether she was not
afraid, when my father used that adjuration ? She
answered, she was sadly afraid it would speak, when
she put out the candle ; but she was not at all afraid in
the day time, when it walked after her, ·as she swept
the chambers, as it consatntly did, and seemed to sweep
after her; only she thought he might have done it for
her, and saved her the trouble. By thiS time all my
11isters were so accustomed -.to these noises, that they
gave them little disturbance. A gentle tapping at their
bed's-head usually began between nine and ten atnight.
They then commonly said to each other, ''Jeffery is
coming; it is time to go to sleep." And if they heard
a nois~ in the day, and said to my youngest sister,
" Hark, Kezzy, Jeffery, -is knocking above," she would
run up stairs, and pursue it from room to room, saying,
she desired no better diversion.
A few nights after, my father and mother were just
gone to bed, and the candle was not taken away, when
they heard three:blows, and a second, and a third three,
as it were with a large oaken sta.1f, struck upon a
chest which stood by the bed-side. My father im-
mediately arose, put on his night-gown, and hearing
great noises below, took the candle and went down:
my mother walked hy his side. As they went. down
the broad stairs, they heard as if a vel!Bel full of silver
was poured upon my mother's breast, and ran jingling
down to her feet. Quickly after there wa.c1 a sound, as
if a large iron ball WltS thrown among many bottlea
L2
220 .R.EV. JORN, WESLBY.
·under·the stairs ; but nothing was hurt. Soon after,
ur large mastiff dog came and ran to shelter himself
between them. While the disturbances continued, he
used to bark and leap, 'and snap on one side and the
other; and that frequently before any person in the
room heard any noise at all. But after two or three
days, he used to tremMe, and creep away before tho
noise began. And by this, the family knew it was at·
hand ; nor did the observation ever fail. A little before
my father and mother came into the hall, it seemed as
if a very large coal was violently thrown upon the floor
and dashed all in pieces ; but nothing was seen. My
' father then crlel out, '' Suky, do you not 'hear? AU
the pcwter'is thrown about the kitchen." But when
they looked, all the pewter stood in its place. There
then was a loud knocking at the back-door. My father
opened it, but saw nothing. It was then at the fore-
door. He opened that : .but it was still Jost labour.
After opening first the one, then the other several times,
he turned and went up to bed. But the noises were so
violent all over the house, that. he could not sleep till
four in the morning.
Several gentlemen and Clergyme~ now earnestly ·ad·
vised my father to quit the house ; but he constantly
answered, " No ; let the devil 'flee from me ; I will
never flee from the devil." But he.wrote to my eldest'
brother at London to come down. He wa.<1 preparing
so to do, .when another letter came, informing him the ·
disturbances were over; after they had continued {the
latter part of the time day and night). from the second
of December to the end of January.
An author who in thi" age relates such a story, and
treats it as not utterly incredible and absurd~ must ex·
pect to be ridiculed, and very justly; but the testimony
REV, JOHN WESLEY;
upon which it.rests is far too strong to be set aside be-
cause of the strangeness of ·the relation. 'fhe letters
which passed at the time between Samuel W csley and
the family at'Ep\ll·orth, the journal which Mr. Wesley,
kept of these remarkable transactions, and the e:vidence
concerning them which John afterwards collected, fell
into the bands of Dr. Priestlef and were ,published
by him as being " pefdaps the est authenticated and
best told story of the kind that is any where extant."
Ht> observes in favour of the story, "that all the parties
seem to have been sufficiently void of fear, and al>o free
from credulity, except the general belief that such
things were supernatural."
. We give the most important and circumstantial of .
tne letters of this family :-
To Mr. Samuel Weliey, from !iii Motlier.•
January 12, 1716-7.
DEAR ·SAM,
TH1s evening we were· agreeably surprised with your
pacquet, which brought the welcome news of your being
alive, after we had .been in the greatest panic imaginable,
.almost a month, thinking either you was dead, or.one of.
your brothers by some misfortune been killed.
The reason of our fears is as follows. On the first of De-
cember, our ·maid heard, at the door of the dining~room,
several disma~ groans, like a person in extremes, at the point
of death. We gave little heed .to her relation, and endea-.
voured to laugh her out of her fears. Some nights (two or.
three) after, several of the family heard a strange knocking
in divers places, usually three or four knocks at a. time, ,and.
then stayed a little. . This continued every night for. a fort-
..
•The MS. is in the hand-writing of Mr. S. Wesley. The titles
o the lettt'.rs, denoting the writer£, and the perwns to whom they
wter. written, are only added.
222 REV. JOHN WESLEY.
night; sometimes it was in the garret, but most commonty bl
$e nursery, or green chamber. We all heard but your father,
and I was not willing he should be informed of it, lest he
should fancy it was against his own death, which, indeed, we _
all apprehended. But when it began to be so troublesome,
both day and night, that few or none of the family durst be
alone, I resolved to tell him of it, being minded he should
speak to it. At first he would not believe but somebody did
it to alarm us; but the night after, aa soon as be was in bed.
it knocked loudly nine times, just by his bed-side. He rose,
and went to see if he could find out what it was, but could
see nothing. Afterwards he heard it aa the rest.
One night it made such a noise in the room over our
heads, as if several people were walking. then run up and
down stain, and was so outrageous that we thought the chil-
dren would be frighted, so your father and I rose, and went
down in the dark to tight a candle. Just as we came
to the bottom of the broad stairs, having bold of each other,
on my side there seemed as if somebody had emptied a bag
of money at my feet; and on his, as if all the bottles under
the stain (which were many) had been dashed in a thousand
pieces. We passed through the hall into the kitchen, and
got acandle, and went to see the children, whom we found
adeep. -
The next night yonr father would get Mr. Hoole to lie at _
ou:r house, and we all sat together till one or two o'clock
in the morning, and heard the knocking as usual. Sometimes
it wonld make a noise like the winding up of a jar)<, at
other times, as that night- Mr. Boole was·with us, like a
carpenter planing deals ; but most commonly it knocked
thrice and stopped, and then thrice again, and so Jl!&DY hours
together. We persuaded your father to speak, and try if any.
voice would be heard. One night about six o'clock he went
into the nursery in the dark, and at first heard several deep
groans, then knocking. He adjured it to speak if ii bad
power, and tell him why it troubled his house, but no voice
was heard, but it knocked thrice aloud. Then he questioned
it if it were Sammy. and bid it, if it were, and could nat
REV. JOHN WESLEY. 22S
speak, knock again, but it knocked no more ~at night,
which made us hope it was not against your death.
Thus it continued till the 28th of December, when it
loudly knocked (as your father used to do at the gate) in the
nursery, and departed. We have various conjectures what
this may mean. For my own part, I fear nothing now you
are safe at London hitherto, and I hopeGod will stillpreserve
you. Though sometimes I am inclined .to think my brother
is dead. Let me know your thoughts on it. -
s. w.
From MIU 8111flllffllA We'1e!J lo lier Brotller Samvel.
Epworth, Jan. 24.
D&:AR BROTHER,
AllouT the first of December, a most terrible and astonish-
iug qoise was beard by a maid-servant, as at the dining-room
door, which catised the up-starting of her hair, and made her
ears prick forth at an unusual rate. She said,it was like the
groans of one expiring. These so frighted her, that for a
great while she durst not go out of one room into another,·
airer it began to be dark, without company. But, to lay
aside jeliting, which should not be done in serious matters, l
assure you that from the first to the last of a lunar month,
the groans, squeaks, tinglings, and knockings, were frightful
enough.
Though it is needless for me to send you any account of
what we all heard, my father himself having a larger account
of the matter than I am able to give, which he designs to
send you ; yet, in compliance with your desire, I will tell you
as briefly as I can, what I heard of it. The first night I ever
heard it, my sister Nancy and I were sitting in the dining-
room. We heard something rush on the outside of the
doors that opened into the garden, then three loud knocks,
immediately after other three, and in half a minute the same
number over our heads. We enquired. whether any body
had been in the garden, or in the room above us, but there
was nobody. Soon after my sister Molly and I were up
after all the family were a-bed, ilXcept my sister Nancy, about
o,9;1ized by Google
224 REV. JOHN WESLEY.
tome business. We heard three bouncing thumps under our
feet, which soon made us throw away our .work, and tumble
into bed. Afterwards the tingling of the latch and· wanning
pan, and so it took its leaTe that night. ·
Soon after the above mentioned, we heard a noise as if a
great· piece of sounding metal was thrown down on the out-
side of our chamber. We, lying in the quietest part of the
house, heard less than the rest for a pretty while, but the
latter end of the night that Mr. Hoole sat up on, l lay in
the nursery, where it was very violent. I then heard frequent
knocks over .anJ under the room where I lay, and at the
children's bed head, which was made of boards. It seemed
to rap lloaainst it very hard and loud, so that the bed shook
under them. I heard something walk by my bedside, like a
man in a long night-gown. The knocks were so loud, ~at
Mr. Hoole came out of their chamber to us. It still con-
tinued. My father spoke, but nothing answered. It ended
that night with my father's particular knock, very fierce.
It is now pretty q'!iet, only at our repeating the p~yers for
the king and prince, when it usually begins, especially' when
my father says, " Our most gracious Sovereign Lord,". &c.
This my father is angry at, and designs to say three instead of
two for the royal fall)ily. We all heard the same noise, and
at the same time, ·and ·as coming from the same place. To
·conclude this, it now makes its personal appearance : but of
this more hereafter• . Do not say one word of this. to our
folks, nor give the least hint.
lam,
Your sincere mend and affectionate Sister,
SUSANNAH WESLEY.
From M'111 Ewiil9 Wnle!J to ker Brotker Samuel•.
, DEAR BROTHER,
I THAN!( you for your last, and shall give you what satis-
faction is in my power, concerning what has happened. in our
family. I am ~ far from being superstitioua, that I was too
much inclined to infidelity, so that I heartily rejoice at having
kE~~ JOHN WESIJlY,
iuch an opportunity of convincing myself" past doubt or
scruple, of the existence ofsome beings besides th<ise we see.
A whole montli was sufficient to· convince any body of the
reality of the thing, and to try all ways of discovering• any
trick, had it been possible for any such to have been used.
I shall only tell you what I myself heard, and leave the rest •
. to others.
My sisters in the paper chamber had heard noises, and told
me of them, but I did not much believe, till one night, about
a week after the first groans were heard, which was the be-
ginning, just after the clock bad struck ten, I went down
stain to lock the doors, which I always do. Scarce had I got
'UP the best stairs, when I heard a noise, like a person throw-
ing down a vast coal in the middle of the fore kitchen, and
all'the splinters seemed to fty about from it. I was not much
frighted, but went to my sister Suky, and we together went
1all over the low rooms, but there was nothing out of order.
Our dog was fast asleep, and our only cat in the other end
of the house, No sooner was I got up stairs, and undressing
for bed, but I heard a noise among 1Dany bottles that stand
under the best stairs, just like the throwing of a great stone
among them, which had broke them all to pieces. This made
ine hasten.to bed; but my sister Hetty, who sits always to
wait on my father going to bed, wu_still sitting on the lowest ·
step on the garret stairs, the door being shut at her back,
when soon after there came down the stoirs behind her,
·something like a man, in a loose night-gown trailing after
him, which made her fty rather than run to me in the
nursery.
All this time we never told our father of it, but soon after
we did. He smiled, and gave no answer, but wa~ more care-
ful than usual, from that time, to see us in bed, imagining it
to be some o( us young V>"omen, that sat up late, and made a
noise. His incredulity, and especially bis imputing it to ·U11,
or our lovers, made me, I own, desirous of its continuance
till he was convinced. As for my mother, she.firmly believed
it to be rats, and sent for a horn to blow ·. them away. I
laughed to think how wisely they were employed, who were
L 3 .
llBV. JOHN WESLST.
at.riving half a day to fright away Jeft'ery, for that nmn I
gave it, with a horn.
But whatever it was, I perceived it could be made angry ;
for from that time it was llO outrageous, there was no
quiet for us after ten at night. I heard frequeetly between
ten and eJeyen, something like the quick winding ·up of a
jack, at the comer of the room by my bed's head., just like
the running of the wheels and the creaking of the iron work.
This was the common signal of its coming, Then it would
knock on the fioor three times, then at my sister's bed's head,
in the same room, almost always three together, and then
atay. The sound was hollow, and loud, so .as none of us
could ever imitate. .
It would answer to my mother, if she stamped on the
Soor, and bid it. It would knock when I waa putting the
children to bed, jU&t.under me where I sat. One time little
Kesy, pretending to scare Patty, as I was m1dressing them,
atamped with her foot on the fioor, and immediately it
aoswered with three knocks, just in the same place. It was
\more loud and fierce if any one said it was rats, or any thing
~ natural.
I could tell you abundance more of it, but the rest wi!J
write, and therefore it would be needless. ·1 was not much
' frighted at first, and very litde at last ; but it WBll never near
me, except two or three times,.and·never followed me, as it
did my Sister Hetty. I have been with her whenit hasknocked
under her, and when she has removed has followed, and
still kept just under her feet, which was enough to terrify a
stouter person.
If you would know my opinion of the reaso'n of this, I
shall briefiy tell you. I believe it to be witchcraft, for these
reasons. About a year since, there was a disturbance at a
town near us, that was undoubtedly witches; and if so near,
why msy they not reach us ? Then my father had for several
Sundays before its coming preached warmly against" consult-
ing those that are called cunning men, which our people are
given to; and it had a particular spite at my father.
Besides, something was thrice seen. The first time by iny
oigiLeJbvGoogle
REV. JOHN WESLEY. 227
mother, under my sister's bed, like a b&dger, only without
any head that was discernible. The •ame·creature was sat
by the dining-room fire one evening : when our man went
into the· room, it run by him, through the hall under the
•tairs. He followed with·a candle, and searched, bnt it was
departed. The last time he saw it in the kitchen, like a
white rabbit, which seems likely to be some witch ; and I do
so really believe it to be one, that I would venture to fire a
pistol at it, if I saw it long enough. It has been beard by
me and others since December. I have filled up all my room,
and have only time to tell you, I am,
Your loving sister, .·
EMILIA WESLEY.
Addenda to and fr0111 my Father's Diary.
FRIDAY, December 21. Knocking I heard first, I think,
this night : to which disturbances, I hope, God wiQ in his
good time put an end.
Sunday, December 2:;. Not much disturbed with the
noises that are now grown customary to Ille.
Wednesday, December 26. Sat up to hear noises. Strange !
spoke to it, knocked off. ··
Friday, 28. The noises very _
boisterous and disturbing
this night.
Saturday, -29. Not frighted, with the continued disturb~
ance of my family.
Tuesday, January I, 1717. My family have had no dis-
turbance since I went.
OJ thegeneral Circt1mstance1 which follow, most, if not alJ t/14
. Fainily, were frequent Witne"es.
I. PRESENTLY after any noise was heard, the wind com•
mo·nly rose, and whistled very loud round the house, and
increased with it.
2: The signal was given, which my father likens to t~e
turning round of a windmill when the wind changes : Mr;
228 ~EV. JOHN WESLltY.
Hoole.(Rector of Haxey) to the plalling of deal boBl'ds; my
~ster. to the swift winding up of a jack.. It commonly begao
a.t the -comer of the top of the nursery.
·a. Before it cameinto any room, the latches were frequently
lifted up, the windows clattered, and whatever iron or. brass
was about the chamber, rung and jarred exceedingly.
4. When it was in any room, let them make what noise
they would, as they sometimes did on purpose, its dead hol-
low.note would be clearly heard above them. all.
. 5. It c6nstantly knocked while the prayers for the King
and Prince were repeating, and was plainly heard by all in
the room, but my father, nnd sometimes by him, as were also
the thundering knocks at the Amen.
6. The sound very often seemed in the air in the middle
of a room, nor could they ever make any such themselves,by
any contrivance.
/7· Though it seemed to rattle down the pewter, to clap the
/ doors, draw the curtains, kick the inan's shoes up and down,
&c. yet it never inoved any thing·except the latches,otherwise
than making it tremble ; ·unless once, when it threw open the
nursery door.
. ./ 8. The mast1ff, though he barked viOlently at it the first
./ day he came, yet whenever it came after that, nay, sometimes
before the family perceived it, be ran whining, or quite
silent, to shelter himself behind some 'of the company.
' 9. It never came by day, till my mother ordered the horn
,_., io be·blown.
10. After that time, scarce an{ one could go from one
room into another, but the Jatch of the room they went to
was lifted up before they touched it.
11. It never came once into my father's study, till he talked
to it sharply, called it deaf and dumb devil, and 0
bid it cease
to disturb the innocent children, and come to him in hia
study, if it had any thing t'o say to him.
lS!. From the time of my mother's desiring it not to di11turb
her from five to six, it was never heard in her chamber from
five till she came down stairs, nor at any other time, when
1he was employed in devotion.
D•oitized by Google
DOCTOR PJTCAlRNB. 229
13. Whether our clock went right or wrong, it alway'
~me, as aear 811 could _be guessed, when by the night it
.wanted a quarter of ten; ·
71e Rev. Mr. Hoole'1 Acco1'nt;
Sept. 10.
/ As soon as I came to Epworth, Mr. Wesley telling me, he
sent for me to conjufe, I knew not what he meant, till some·
of your sisters told me what had happened, and that I was
sent for to sit up. I expected every hour, it being then
about noon, to hear something extraordinary, but to no pur-
pose. At. supper, too, ·and at prayers, all was silent, con-
trary to custom ; but soon after one of the maids, who went·
up to sheet a bed, brought the alarm ·that JeWery was come
above stairs. We all went up, and as we were standing
round the fire in the east chamber, something began knock-
ing just on the other side of tile wall, on the chimney-piece,
N with a key. Presently the knocking was under our feet,
Mr. Wesley and I went down, he with a great deal of hope,
and I with fear. As soon as we were in the kitchen, the
aound was above us, in the room we had left. We {etumed
up the narrow stairs, and heard at the broad stairs head, some
one slaring with their feet {all the family being now· in bed
beiide us) and then trailing, as it were, and rustling with a
silk night-gown. Quickly it was iri the nunery, at ·the bed's
head, knocking as it had done at first, three by three. Mr•
. Wesley spoke to it, and said he believed it was the devil, and
aoon after it knocked at the window, and changed its sound
into one like the planing of boards. From theooe it went on
the outward south side of the house, sounding fainter and
fainter, till it was heard no more.
· I was no other time than- this during the noises at Ep-
worth, and do not now remember any more circumatances
than theee.-See Southe!J'• Life qf We1le!J, Yo/; I.
DOCTOR PJTCAJRNE.
DOCTOR PITCAIRN'lil is said never to have related
this story without some emotion of spirit. His friend
PICINUS AND MERCATO.
M'r. Lindesey upon reading with the doctor, when very
young, the known story of the two platonic philoso-
phers, who promised to one an()ther, that whoever · died
first, should return a visit to hi.a surviving companion,
entered into the '3ame engagement with him. Some
years after, Pitoaime at his father's house in Fife,
dreamed one morning, 'that Lindesey, who was then at
Paris, came to him and told him, that he was not dead,
as was commonly reported, but still alive, and lived in •
a very pleasant place, to which he could not as yet
carry him. By the next post, news came of Lindesey's
death, which happene4 very suddenly on the morning
of the dream.
APPARITION OF FlCINUI! TO MlCHABt. :MBRCATO,
related by Baroniu.s.
F1c1Nus and Mercato, after a long discourse on the
nature of the soul, had agreed, that, whoever of the two·
should llie first, should, if possible, appear to his sur-
viving friend, and inform him of his condition in the
other world.
A short time afterwards, say11 Baronius•, it happened,
that while Michael Mercato the elder was studying
philosophy, early in the morning, he imddenly heard the
r10ise of a horse galloping in the street, which stopped
at his door, and the voice of his friend Ficinus was
heard, exclaiming-" 0 Michael ! 0 Michael ! those
things are true." Astonished at his address, Mercato ·
rose, and looked out of the window ; where he saw the.
back of his friend, dressed in white, galloping on a white
horse. He called after him, and followed him with his
I •Baroni! Anilales.-Tbis story was told to .Baronius by the
grandson of ·Mercnt.o, who was protbonotary of the church, and a
man of the greatest 1irobity, as well as of general knowledge.
THE IRISB MASSACRE. 231
eyes till the appearance vanished. Upon· inquiry, !ie
learned that Ficinus had died at Florence, at the very
time when tl1e vitiion was presented to Mercato, at a
considerable distance.
APPARITIONS SEEN AT PORTNEDOWN BRIDGB AFTER TJll:
IRISH MASSACRli: ;
Being Copies of the Et:idence produced by Sir John Temple.
• I. JAMES SeAw, ~f Market Hill, in the county of
Annagh, innkeeper, deposeth, that many of the Irish
rebels, in the time of this deponent's restraint, and stay-
ing among them, told :iim very often, and it was a
common report, that all those who lived about the bridge
of Portnedown were so affrighted with the cries and
noise made there of some spirits or visions for revenge,
uthat they durst not stay, but fled away thence, so as
they protested, affrighted to Market Hill, saying, they
llurst not return thither for fear of those cries and spirits,
but took grounds and made (creagbs), in or near the
parish of Mulabrac.
.Jurat. August 14, 1642.
2. Joan, the relict of Gabriel C?nstablc, late of Dur-
mant, in the county of Armagh, gent., deposeth and
saith, that she often heard the rebels, Owen O'Farren,
Patrick O'Connellan, and divers others of the rebels at
D~rmant, earnestly say, protest, and tell one another,
that the blood of some of those that were knocked OD
the bead and afterwards drowned at Portnedown bridge,
still remained on the bridge, and would not be washed.
away ; and that often there appeared visions or appa-
ritions, sometimes of men, sometimes of women, breast-
high above the water, at or near Portnedown, which did
most extremely and fearfully screech and cry out for
232 TSE JRISR MASSACRB.
vengeance against the Irish that had murdered their
bodies there : and that their cries and screeches did so
terrify the Irish therej.Lbouts, that none durst stay or
live longer there, b•1t Aed and removed farther into the
country, and this was common report amongst the rebels
there ; and that it P!188ed for a truth amongst them, for
any thing .she could ever observe to the contrary.
Jurat, January I, 1643.
3. Katherine, the relict of William Coke, late of the •
~unty of Armagh, carpenter, sworn and examined,
saith that, about the twentieth of December, 1641, a
great number of rebels, in that county, did most bar-
barously drown at that time one hundred and eighty
Protestants, men, women, and chUdren, in that river, at
the bridge of Portnedown ; and that, about nine days
afterwards, she saw a vii>ion or spirit, in the shape of a
man, as she apprehended, that appeared in that river, in
the place of the drowning, bolt upright, heart high, with
hands lifted up, and stood in that place there, until the
latter end of Lent next following ; about which time
some of the English army,. marching in those parts,
whereof her husband was one (as he· and they confi-
dently affirmed to the deponent), saw that spirit or vision
standing upright in the posture aforementioned ; but,
after that time, the said i:pirit or vision vanished, and
appeared no ·more that she knoweth. And she heard,
bu~ saw not, tliat there were other visions and appari-
tions, and much screeching and strange noises heard in
that river at times afterwards.
.J urat, February Z4, 1643.
4. Elizabeth, the wife of Captain Rice Price, of
Armagh, deposeth and saith that she and other women,
..
THE IRISH MASSACRE. 233
whose husl>ands were murderers, hearing of diver8 ap~
paritions and visions that were seen m~ar Portnedown
bridge, since the drowning ofher children and ·the rest of
the .f!:otestan.!§._ tlfere, went unto the afor,esaid bridge
aJ)o"uttwilight in the e':ening; then there ·appeared unto
,them, upon a sudden, a vision or spirit, .assumJng the
shape of a woman1 ·waist high, upright in the water,
naked, with elevated and closed hands, her hair hanging
down very white, her oyes seemed to twinkle, and her
skin as white as snow; which ·spirit seemed to stand
straight up in the water, and often repeated tho words
," Revenge, revenge, revenge !" whereat this deponent
and tho reat, being put into a strong amazement, and
_affrighted, walked fror;n the place.
: Jurat, J&11uary 29, 1642. ·
s: 'Arthur Azlum, of Clowargher, in the county of
.Cavan, esqujre, deposeth that he was credibly informed
.by some that were present there that there were thirty
women and young children, and seven men fluug into
the river of Belturbet ; and, when some of them offered
to swim 'for their lives,·they were by the rebels followed
in carts, and knocked upon the head with poles. /The
same day they hanged two women at Turbet; and this
deponent doth verily believe that Rutmore O'Reby, the
then sheriff, had aband in commanding the murder of
ihose said persons; for that he saw him write two notes,
which he sent to Turbet by Bryan O'Reby, upon whose
coming their murders were committed : aml those persons
who were present also affirmed'that' the bodies of those
thirty persons drowned did not appear upon the water till
about six weeks past ; as the said Reby came to the
town, all the.bodies came floating up to the very bridge ;
and those persons were all formerly stayed in the town
234 M.UO:& BLOMBBRG.
by bis protectiot), when the rt"St of their neighbour& in
town went awatt.
APPAaITJ01' OF MAJOR BLOMBERG TO TBB GOVn1fOR
9P DOMINICA.
EARLY iu the American war, Major Blomberg, the
father ofDr. Blomberg, was expected to joinhis regiment.
which was at the time on service in the island of Do-
minica. His period of absence had expired, and his
.brother officers, eagerly anticipating his return, as vessel
after vessel arrived from England withont conveying the
looked for passenger, declared one to another, " well•
at all events, he must come in tho next." His presenee
in the island now became indispensable; and thegovernor,
impatient of so long an absence, was on the p0int of
writing a remonstrance on the subject to the authoriti6*
in England, when, as he was sitting at night in _
his
study with his secretary, and remarking on the conduct
of the absentee, with no very favourable ·or lenient ex•
pressions, a step was heard to ascend the stairs, and walk
along the piwage without. " Who can it be r exclaim-
ed tho governor, ,, intruding at so late an hour." " n
is Blomberg's step,'' replied the secretary. IC The very
man himself," said the governor; and, a8 lie.spoke,
the door opened, and Major Blomberg sf.ood before
them. The major advanced towards the table at which
the gentlemen were sitting, and flung himselfinto a chair
opposite the governor. There was something hurried in
his manner ; a forgetfulness of all the ordinary forms of
greeting; and abruptly saying : " I must converse with
you alone:" he gave a sign for the secretary to retreat.
The sign was obeyed. There was an air of conscious
superiority about the manner of the visitor.that admitted
• History or tbe Irilb Rebelllon,.by Sir iobn Temple, p. 123.
MAJOa BLOMBERG.
no dispute. "On your return to England," he COD•
tioued, as soon as the apartme~t was cleared ohhe
objectionable witness, " on your return to England,
you will go to a farm house, near the village of -,·
in Do~tshire ; you will there find two children ; ~
are mine; the offspring .and the orphans of .my secret
marriage. Be a guardian to those parentless infants.
To prove their legitimacy, and their con11equent right to
my property, you 1;11ust demand of the woman, with
whom they are placed at nurse, the red morocco case
which was committed to her charge. Open it ; it con-
tains the necessary papers. Adieu ! You will see me
no more." Major Blomberg instantly withdrew. The
governor of Dominica, surprised at the commission, at the
abrupt entrance, and the abrupt departure, rang-the bell
to desire some of bis household to follow the major and
request bis return. None had seen him onter: none had
witnessed his exit. It was strange ! it was passing
strange ! There soon after arrived intelligence that Major
Blomberg had embarked on board a vessel for Domi-
nica, which had been dismastcd in a storm at sea, and
was supposed to have subsequently sunk, as she was
never more heard of, ·about the time iu which the figure
had appeared t& the governor andhls secretary.
All that Major Blomberg had ·communicated wae
carefully 1>-tamped in the memory of his friend. On his
return to England, which occurred in a few months after
the apparition above described had been seen by the
governor, he immediately hastened to the village in
Dorsetshire, and to the house in which the children were
resident.
He found them; he asked. for the casket; it was
immediately surrendered. The legitimacy and the .
claims of the orphans of Blomberg were established, and
23& WESTMINSTER ABBEY VAULT.
they were admitted to the enjoyment of their r~hts'
without any controversy or dispute. ,
This tale was related to the late Queen Charlotte,
l!-Dd so deeply interested her, that she immediatelyadopted
the son as the object of her peculiar care and favour·
He was brought to Windsor, and educated wiih his
present Majellty, of whom h!l ha~ through life been the
favourite, the compa.riion, and the friend.
THE ABBEY VAULT.
IN convivial circles, the weakness of mankind too
frequently becomes the idle and sportive jest of the pasg.;
irig hour. Again, among hypochondriacs, the same sub-
ject often feeds the distempered imagination with airy
nothings, until the soul becomes frozen and horrified, at
the bare narration of the most simple and accountable
facts. Of both classes, is the celebrated relation, of a
frolicsome visit to W estminstet Abbey, which is Sflid to
have arisen at a jovial party, where mirth had reigned
so long, that it was thought prudent to shift the scene to
the grave and seriouR.
The jest of this story, is evidently to subvert the
whole theory·of apparitions, and a future state; but we
cannot for a moment be so weak as to imaginll it feasible,
that this question, which has beeii disputed by the wisest
men in all ages, should be settled by a circle of topers,
whose wits were quickened by the potent influence of
wine and convivial mirth. , '
The narrative- is given by Sinclair, in his Invisible
World, and we quote it in his own words:-
" Five or six gentlemen, who bad dined together at a
tavern, being drawn to visit the Royal Vault in King
Henry's Chapel, in Wcstminster Abbey, of the titled
dead: as they looked down the steep descent, by which
oigiLeJbvGoogle
-
WESTMINST]j:R ABBEY VAULT. 237
_so many monarchs had been carried to their last resting
place on earth, one cried, 'Tb hellish dark ;-another
stopped bis nostrils, and exclaimed against the noisome
~apour that ascended from it. All had their different
sayings, but as it i.3 natural for such spectacles to excite
some moral reflections, even in the most gay and giddy,
they all returned with countenances more serious than
those with which they had entered.
" Having agreed, however, to pass the evening together,
they all returned to the place where they had dined,
and the conversation turning on a future state, and appa-
ritions; one among them, who was an infidel in these
matters, especially as to spirits becoming visible, took
upon himself to rally the others, who seemed rather
inclined to the contrary opinion.
" At length, to end tho contest, they proposed him a
wager of twenty guineas, that great a hero as he pre-
tended, or really imagined himself, he had not courage
enough to go alone, at midnight, into the vault of Henry
the Sevonth's chapet This he readily accepted, and
was quite elated with the prospect of success.
" The money on bOth sides was deposited in the hands
ofthe landlord of the house ;-and one of the vergers of the
Abbey was sent for, whom they engaged, to attend the
adventurous gentleman to the gate, of the cathedral,
then to abut him in and wait bis return.
" Every thing lieing thus settled, the clock no sooner
struck twelve than they all set out together; those·who
laid the wager being resolved not to be imposed upon by
bis tampering with the verger. Anoth~r scruple aro!!e ;
which was, that though they so.whim ent(\r the chapel,
bow they should be convinced that he ·went as far as
the vault; but be instantly remdved It by pulling out a
penknife he had in bis pocket :-' This,' said he, 'will I
. .
iw
238 W,ESTMINSTI!.& ABBEY VAULT.
stick into the earth, and leave it there, and if you do not
Iind it in ilia inside of the vault, I will own the wager
lost.'
" Those words left them nothing to suspect, and they
agreed to wait for him at ·the door, beginning now to
believe he bad no less resolution than be had pretended.
"Every step he took was echoed bythe hollow ground,
and though it was not &together dark, the veiger having
left a lamp burning jllllt before the door that led to the
chapel, yet the faint glimmering it gave, rather added to,
than diminished, the solemnity of the scene. ·
"At length, sometimes groping hisway, and sometimes
directed by the distant lamp, he reached the entrance of
the vault :-his inward tremor increased, yet determined
not to be overpowered by it, he descended, and hnving
reached the last stair, stooped forward, and stock his
penknife into the earth ; but as he was rising, Wturn
back and leave the vault, be felt something, as be
thought, suddenly catch hold of him, and pluck him
forward; ho lost in. an instant every thing that could
support him, and fell into a swoon, with his head in the
vault, and part of his body on the stairs.
"His friends waited patientlytill one o'clock, when not
making his appearance, they debated among themselves
what they should do in the affair; the verger they
found, though accustomed to the place, did not care to
go alone; therefore they resolved to accompany him,
and accordingly, preceded by a .toreh,·whioh a footman
belonging to one of the company had with him, they
went into the abbey, calling-loudly for him as-they pro-
ceeded.
"No an~~el',_powever, being ~turned, they moved on
till they came to ·t!Je ll_taim of the vault, where looking
down they l!OOn saw- the condition he was in;-thcy
WEST~llNSTRR ABBEY VAULT. 239
immediately ran to him, rubbed bis temples, and did
every thing they could think of to restore him, but
all in vain, till they got out of the abbey, when the
fresh air recovered him.
'' After two orthree deep groans, he cried, 'Heaven help
me ; Lord have ·mercy upon me,' which surprised his
friends; but imagining he was not yet perfectly come to
his senses, they forbore saying any thing to him till they
had got him into a tavern, where, having placed him in
a chair by the fire side, they began to enquire into his
situation, on which he acquainted them with the ap-
prehensions he was seized with immediately after he
had left them, ·and that having stuck bis penkife into
the floor of the vault, according to his agreement, he
was about to return with all possible baste when
something plucked him forward into the vault; but he
added that he had neither seen nor heard any thing but
that his reason might easily account for, and should
have returned with the same sentiments he went, had
not this unseen hand convinced him of the injustice of
bis unbelief. -
" One of the company now saw the penknife sticking
through the fore lappet of his coat, on which presently
conjecturingthe truth, and finding how deeply affected his
friend was bybis mistake, as indeed were '11 the rest, not
doubtingbuthisreturn bad been impeded bya supernatural
hand, he plucked out the penknife before them all, and
said ' here is the mystery discovered; ·in the attitude of
stooping to stick this into the ground, it happened,
as you see, to pass through the coat, and on you
attempting to rise, the terror you were in m~nified this
little obstruction into an imaginary impossibility of with•
drawing yourself.' •
" Bis friends now ridiculed hiscredulity, but thesingu-
larity of this accident did not shake bill faith;"
------···-- -- - ---------------- - ~...,
240 THE DISOBEDIENT SON.
The sacred importance which we attach to the clergy,
is indeed one of the be;.i features of our national chai-
racter : ·but the moment this respect is overstrained, we
expose ourselves to the evils of priestcraft, a curse which
protestants are taught to believe, ea the most inveterate
enemy to the happiness of mankind. Thus it is with
churches and consecrated buildings. Lord Bacon justly
observes that " men fear death as children fear to go in
the dark." Hence churches are always associated with
death, and churchyards with melancholy and despair.-
But why look at one s~de ofthe picture only:
" Pompa morti1 magi1 terret quam mors ipsa."
Philosophy will therefore reconcile us to the deepest
vaults of a church, as reasonably as a thirst for amuse-
ment will lead us to seek the recreations of the theatre :
and it is only during the absence or inactivity of this
reasoning power, that we shall continue to regard
churches and churchyards as objects of monkish
terror.
THE DISOBEDIENT SON.
,_-- About the year 1196, a young gentleman of, good
birth and fortune, having a great inclination to see the
world, resolv1_id to go into the army. ·His father.WaJ>
dead, and had left him a good estate, besides his mo-
ther's jointure, which .at her death would coqsequently
(a11 to him.
His mother. earnestly intreated him not to go into
the army, but persuaded him rAther to travel, by which
means the calamities and hazards of war might be
avoided. He how&ver slighted her ·intreaties, and at
length mortgaged part of his estate to purchase a
comP.any in the first regiment of guards, which he
effected.
THlil DISOBEDIENT SON. 241
The night l:iefore he signed the agreement for the
company, being in bed and fast a.~leep, he saw in a
dream his father approach him in his gown, and with a
great fur cap on, such as he was acci;stomed to wear;
calling him by hi.S name, he said, what is the reason
that yQu will not listen to the entreaties of your mother
to relinquish all ideas of the army. I assure you, that
if you resolve to take this commiasion, you wm ·not
enjoy it three years.
He seemed to slight the admonition, and said, it was
too late to rctr8ct.-Too late! too late! said the old
man, repeating those words; then go on, and repent too
latc-.-He was not much affected with this apparition,
when he waked, and. found it was but a dream ; but
bought the commission•
.A few days afterwards the father appeared to his
mother, in a dream as to her son ; and noticing his
obstinacy, added,-" Young heads are wilful; Robert
will go into the army; but tell him from me, he shall
never come back."
These notices were of no avail with the son; and two
battalions of his regiment going into the field that
!lummer, his company was one, and was ordered into
Flandeni;
He acquitted himself bravely, in several warm actions.
One day, in the third year of his service, the at?&y
being drawn out in order of battle, the General had re:
ceived advice thatthe enemy were about to attack them.
As he stood at the head of his company, he was
t1uddenly s.eized with a ccild shivering fit, which wa~ 150
violent, as to be noticed by some offi~ers who were
near him. It continued about a quarter of ~ hour,
and the enemy did come on as was expecte4 ; )mt the
fight began upon the left, at a good distance from 'them,
M
0;9;1,,edbyGoogle
TR& YATTOK OBMONUO.
IO that the whole left wing waa engaged before tlioy
bepn.
While this lasted, the lieutenant called to the gentle-
man; Colonel, how are you ? I hope your shivering
fit is over.-No, said the Colonel, it is not over, but it
is somewhat better.-It will be all over presenUy, said
the lieutenant.
Ay, so it will, said ihe colonel : I am very easy, I
know what it was now ; he then called the lieutenant,
t!> whom be said, I know now what ailed me, I am
veey easy, I have seen my father; I shall be killed the
first volley : Jet my mother know I told yoa this.
In a few minutes after this, a body of the enemy
advanced, and the first Yolley the regiment receivod,
was the tire of five platoons of grenadiers, by which the
captain and several other oflicen, besides private men,
were killed, and the whole brigRde was soon after thrown
into confusion ; though being supported by some regi-
ments of the second line, they rallied again aoon after..
The captain's body was presently recovered; but ho
Wllf dead, having received a shot in his face.
THE YATTON DEMONIAC.
IN the year 1788, considerable interest was exc:ited
throughout the county of Somerset, by the extraordi·
nary case of one George Lukins, who Wa.ti i>aid to have
been possessed of evil spirits for nearly eighteen years.
The subject was at first treated as a11 impostor, but
much controversy and scep~al dispute arising, several _
illiberal ex parte statements appeared in the'. Bristol Ga-
zette and Bath Chronicle. At length, the 4'Vidence 8,1).d
circri1118tance8 were collected by the Rev. Joseph E!i,ster-
brook, th~ Vicar of 1'emple Church, Bmtol. qf. which
the following narrative.is the substance:-
-i#••:C•"!"'
.===
-"'"· ·-- ~--- -~--.......,..-----~--
TBll 1'.ATTON DIDIONIAC". t43
"On' SatW'day May 31st, li88, Ml'B. San.h Baber
"-ailed on me, acquainting me that she had just retut'Md
from a visit to Yatton, in the county of Some?Set, where
she had found a poor man afflicted with an extraordi-
nary malady. She said his name was George Lukin11;
that he had fits daily during her stay at Yatton, in
which he sa:ng and screamed in various sounds, some of
which did not resf!mble the modifications of a human
¥<>ice ; that he cursed and swore in a most 'tremendoU&
manner, while in his fits, and declared that doctors
could do hHu no service. She likewise said, that she
could take upon her to affirm, that he bad been subject
to fits of .,. very uncommon nature, for the last eighteen
years, for the cure of which he had been placed. for a
con!liderable time under tlie care of Mr. Smith, an emi-
nent surgeon of Wnngton, who administered all the
assistanee in his power, without effect : many other
medical gentlemen, she said, had in like manner tried to
help him, but in vain. Mostof the people about Yatton
then conceived. him to be bewitched ; but latterly he
bad himself deelared that he was possessed of seven
.devils, aall that nothin~ would avail but the united
prayers of seven clergymen, who could ask deliveraaee
for him in faith; but seven could not be procured in that
neighhour11ood to meet bis ideas, and try the uperi-
ment : she therefore earne11tly requested. me to' gu to
Yattoa to see him.
. •· . . . .
" I eoD1eDtetl that George Lukins should be brought
to me; little expecting that an attention to his pitiable
cue, would have produced such a torrent of oppotitioa,
aadilliberal abuse upon theparties eoneerned in hisNlie£
" In compliance with my promise to Ml'9. Baber, I
applied to such of the clergy ol the eiitablished chtmlil,
M2
THE YA'l'TON DEMONIAC.
as I conceived to he most cordial in co-operating m
'
benevolent acts, namely, to the Rev. Mr. Symes,
Rector of St. W erhurgh's; the Rev. Dr. Robins; Pre-
centor of the Cathedral; and the Rev. Mr. Brown,
Rector of Portishead; requesting that these gentleJ11en
would with me attend a meeiing for prayer in·behalf
of this object of commiseration ; hut though they ac-
knowledged it as their opinion, that bis was a supem&-
tural afBiction, I could not prevail upon them to join
with me, in this attempt to relieve him. And a.'4 these
gentlemen rejected my application, it appeared to me,
that there was no rational ground of hope for more
success, with those of my brethren, who were less·dis-
posed to admit the doctrine of the influence of good and
evil 11pirits.
The more frequently I saw and heard of the miRery
which George Lukins experienced, the more I pitied
him, and being unwilling to dismiss him from Bristol
till some effort had been made for his recovery, l next
desired certain persons in connect.ion with the Rev. Mr.
Wesley to attend a prayer meetin§ on his account ;
to which request they readily acceded. Accordiogly a
meeting was appointed Friday morning the J3th of
June, at eleven o'clock. And as the most horrible
noises usually proceeded from him in l1is fits, it was .
suggested· t'hat the vestry-room of Temple church, which
is bounded by the church-yard, was the most retired<
place that oould he found in Temple parish; and for
that rea.'!on that situation was preferred to any other, it
being our design to conduct this busines11 with .as much ·
11ecrecy as possible, Bat we soon found that our design
In 1hisrespilct was rendered abortive; for on Wednesday
ctening the 11th of June, there was published in the
Bristol Gazette~ an ingenious letter from the Bath.
Chronicle, from which the followiut, is aJI extract :-
"l'BE VA'l"l'ON DK-HONUC.
·cc :A.bout eighteen yean ago George Lukins, going about the
:.mighbourbood with other young fellows, acting Chriatmal
.plays .or mummeries, suddenly fell down· senseless, and was
with great difiiculiy reeovered. When he came .to himself,
the account he gave was, that he seemed at the moment of his
i"all to have received a violent blow from the hand· of some
·person, who, as lie thought, was allowed thus to punish·him
for acting.a part in the play. From that moment, be has been
abject, at.uncertain and dUferent periods, to fits of a ·most
-eingular and dreadful nature. The first symptom i1 a power~
ful agitation of the right hand, to which succeed terrible
.diatortiona of the countenance. The influence of the fit has
then commenced. He declares in a roaring voice that be is
-the devil, who with many horrid e~ecrations summons about
him certain persona devoted to his will, and commands them to
torture this ~Y· patient .with all the-diaboli.cal means in
their power. The.supposed demon du111 directs his servants
·to iing. .Accordingly the patient sings in a different voice a
jovial hUlltiog son,g, which, having received the approbation
.of the fOlll fiend, is succeeded by a song in a female voice,
·very.deficately expressed; and this is followed, at the parti-
.~ular injunction of the demon, by a pastoral.song in.the form
. of a dialogue, sung by, and in the real character of, the-patient
himself. After a-pause and more violent diatortione, be again
.personates the demon, and sinSB in a house, frightful voice
another hunting song• . But in all these songs,.whenever-aoy
expreseion of goodness, benevolence, or innocence, -0eeun in
·the original, it is regularly changed to another ofits opposite
meaning ; neither can the patient bear to hear any good words
.whatever, nor any expreuion relating to the chiirch, during
the inftuence of his fit, but i'I .exasperated by them.into blas-
·pheOly and outrage. Neither can he 1peak or' write any
expi:euions of this tendency, whilst the 1nb&equent weaknees
of bis fits is upon, him ; but is driven to madness -by their ·
mention. Having performed the songs, he contioues·to per-
sooate .the demon, and derides the auempts-which the-patient
has been making to get out of his power, that he will pe~
cute and torment him more and more to the end of his life,
•nd.that all· the .eft'orts of ·parsons and physicians ahall pro..e
oigiLeJbvGoogle
246 TB& YA.TTON D&MONfAC,
fruiileu. .All~ Te Dm ia tbeatu88 in &e.ttemaw
voices.of" mu.and w~, who wi&la1Duclt p~ thank
.she demoii "1 having giYU .tbea power o.er ·tile paaeat,
whidi theJ will contiuue '• euscUe• I~ u he liw:a. The
demon &heo coacludea the ceremony, b7 cleclll'illg his uoai-
&eiable.raolution to punMh him fer ner; and aBer barking
Jiercely, and imenpeniDg Diall)' IMICl'tions of llil own diabo-
.lical dipis,, Ille1it &ublrides.into the seme ltroag egiation d
.the hand.thai introduoed it.Md the paiemneowen &om itl
.iuJlueo~ uuerly weaMNd .and --..ttecL At .eertain pe-
.rioda of dle fit, be ia ao liolea&, that .an l8listaDt is alwayt
oblised to be at baud, to l.leStr:ain him from comlllittillg 191De
..iajury C)ll hinuelf; thOUjb to ·
die tptdaton Jie iii'}Mlrfectq
.harmbs. He under&tandt all that iasuhnll done durinc
.his ~ and will eff!l reply &0meam. so QllMltions aaked
.him. lie iumder the iallunteor. ..,...,.... generally
.Dear an ®w, dw:ilfC iwWda time his e)W .are :felt claled.
.Someti..- be faociea himsdf ~ iDto die .ti:>rm ot ea
animal, when he 118fWDet all the mo&ioas 8Dll..uoda &bat me
,PCCuliar to it. Fl'OMl t.he eaecratiOIN JJe uuer.·~ may be
~. idt• he ia or w11 of 811 illaodeticd and proiligate
~. hut the HYene is &Ile truth; he was ever of a
nmarbbly hlnoeeot and ioe.&mive dilpoaition. Every me-
diod that die 'fari.ety of peaoDS wlto hawe .ooae to see him
#ve ....-•d,every d'ort of 101De •err~em · gentle-
mt111 of the ·fwty who applied their ien.... ataention to
,.IUJ case. .baa boeo long • .Pd ·
reccMlr -.erted without
.ucceM; llDd .onie years 'CO be wu te1tt .to It. Georp'•
.HOJpital. wl&ere .he remaiued abotat.twemy ,...,, and was
~DOunced ilaeurable. The em•niwd aad oellhluskld igure
.t.bat ~pr..mt, tht number ofyeaN that be haa9eeo ~
Ml tb¥ ..i.dy,w t~ p~ ei'.w.ant ud diatreaa til8t lies
)efore bi.IQ, &hr$ugb beiJll tbtia ....,._ hm following· bi&
buaioflia; Ml paieclude &he 1u1pieion «i>f ilP,_... Bia life •
bfoome •~ie&-9f ill-..e amiely."
Wrins'M, J.,.e 6, l78S. w. R. w.
This letter attracted the notice of ihe citizens; and it
having ~ ~atle known, that a prayer meeting ou
·'llBlt V..'l"l'ON :ORll~NlA<:. 14'1
!Friday lDMBHYg WM - -be •1' !fl \tie 'Vel!\lry·l'e&m of
·!f'emple church, for flte ·man wt'ti was the subject of
that letter, a ~onsiderable nuiUber of people planted
themselves upon the wans of the vestry-room, and
beard part of the prayers, the singing, tho coove.rse.tioq,
and the wiwd~rful sound$ 'ft·hlch proceeded from George
Lukins, and ~ied some aocowlt of these oircumatanea
to a printer, who i.naW.ntly dilplcten.d papen 9P911 the
Abject, tbrougll the streets ~ Bristol, ~ iu neh••·
.Similar papers were shortly carried through the street.s
·~ Bath, and London, and through many other parts of
tbe country ; so that contrary to our design tb.e atfair
wiu; in thii mauner brought bo£ire Ute puWic.
On Friiay morniog, Jane 13, iOlllUen :gentlmiu,
.&Oln>mpanied 8'" ~ Laklfts, met· at the wstry..
:room at Temph-ehttl"eh; at eteven o'clock, to pray for
the reli:ef of this aftlieted~an, when the foltowing cere-
mony took pince:- . . ·
• 1. They began tinging • llymli, Oil whicla die •n ••
,munediately Ui.wn into ltrlnge ~111, ('81'1 dil'ereqt
&am bia usml eeisurea) his iaee wa me'Dlly cliltor&8d; UMI
-his who61 Ndy•rongly COlmllted. ilia right hand and..,.
then :bepn to shake wida 'riolenee, end after loble vloleat
throes, he tpake in a deep, home, hollow 'foice, JM~:tg
II'!W.tlili6k~-- c.Iling the man to 111 accoant, aad upbmid-
ing him u a fool for bringing dlat tllly ~y topthert
eaid it ,,.. to :no purpose, and swore • tiy Ms illfernl ~,,
·that be W'Olllcl 1*81' qcait his hotd ofhim, bat would teftbetlt
Irina a ti.o...d tim111 "°"9e.For making t.hil'fain attempt.:
•· Hetben tlegan to lingia his usual manner, (llill ~
ating ,_, ~ ~j bluphemmg, boatted of hiB power,
and 't'O"!Ped ellernal vengeance on the miserable object, IRl4 Oil
thoee pieeeat for daring to oppoee him ; and eommanded Ma
- " faithful and obedient ~aota" to appear and take t1leir
·siaiion,.
248 THE YA'rl'ON DEMONJA:C.
s. He then lpok~ in a female voice, expreaive of ICOl'll
and deriaio~ and demanded to bow why the fool bad
brought such a company there? And swore " by the devil"
that be would not quit his hold of him, and bid de6ance to
and cuned all, who should attempt to rescue the miserable
objectfrom them. He then sung, in the samefemale voice, a
love song, at the conclusion of which he was violently tor-
tured, and repeated moet horrible imprecations.
4. Another invisible agent came forth, aunming a dift'erent
voice, but bit manner much the same as the preceding one.
A kind of dialogue was then sung in a hoarse and soft voice
alternately : at the conclusion oi which, as before, ·the man
was thrown into violent agonies, and blasphemed ia a msnner
too dreadful to be expressed. 1
5. He then penonated, and said, " I am the great Devil;"..
and after much boasting of his power, and bidding defianee to
all his opposen, sung a kin4 of bunting eong; at the COD•
clusion of which he was moat violently tortured, so that it
was with diBiculty that two strong men could hold him
{though be is but a small man, a~very weak in comtitution;)
sometimes be would set up a hideous laugh, aod at other
times bark in a manner indescribably horrid.
6. After this be aummoned·all the infernala to appear, and
drive the company away. And while the .ministen were
engaged in fervent prayer, he sung a Te Deum to the devil,
in dift'erent voicee,-saying, " We praise thee, 0 devil; we
acknowledge thee to be the supreme governor,'' &c. &c.
. '1.· When the noise was so great as to obstruct ihe company
proceeding in prayer, they sang together an hymn euitable io
the occasion. Whilst they were iii prayer, the voice whicb
penonated.the great Devil bid them defiance, ·cuning and
vowing dreadful vengeance on all present. One ia the com-
pany commanded him in the name of the great .Jehovah to
declare his name? To which he replied, " I :alJl the Devil.''
The same ·person then charged him in the name of Jehovah
tp dectare why he tormented the man i' To which be made
iauwer; " That I may shew my power amongst men;"
. s. The poor man Still remained in great agonies and ·tor...
TBil YA'l'TON ·DEMONIAC, 24~
:ture, and prayer was continued for his deliverance. A cler.
gyman present desired him to endeavour to speak the name
of".Jeam," and several times repeated it to him, at all of
which he replied " Devil." During this attempt a IDlall faint -
voice was beard sayi~g, "\vhy don't you adjure?" On
· •hicb the clergyman commanded, in the name of Jesus, and
·in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost, the
i!vil spirit to depart from the man ; which be repeated several
times;-when a voice was heard to say, " Muat I give up my
power ?" and this was followed by dreadful bowling&. Soon
after another voice, as with astonishment, .said," Our,master
hss deceived us.''-The. clergyman •tiU continuing to repeat
the adjuration, a voice was heard to say, " Where shall we
go?" and the reply was, " To bell, thine own infernal den,
and return ·no more to torment this man." On this the man'•
agitations and distortions were sttonger than ·ever, attended
with the most dreadful howling that can be conceived: But
as soon as this conflict was over, be said, in bis own natural
voice, " Blessed Jesus !" became quite 1erene, immediately
praised God for bis deliverance, and kneeling down said the
Lord's.prayer, and retumed his most devout thanks to all
who were.pr.esent.
The' meeting broke up a little before one o'clock, having
lasted near two hours, and the man went away ent;ifely deli-
vered, and has had no return of the disorder.ainee.
{Mr. Easterbrook then proceeda to give avari~ty of fDell
authenticated documents aubstantiating the whou of the
above circumatantial narrative.)
·Lukins was visited by several persons of distinction,;
all of who.m· bore testimony to the foregoing circum-
stances. The extravagance of·bis langnagp, and bii
blasphemous ravings were appalling.
Several pamphlets were published on ,the subject,
but the narrative of·Mr. Easterbrook is in every respeCt
SUfported by authorities of unquestionable .veracity,
llnd reoomme.nded -by its perspicuou11 and .i.Ji~lligible
details.
11 3
o,oitized by Google
0¥11'0\18 .SWORJJS.
A YOUNG nobleman, of high hopes and fortude,
chanced to lose liis way iD -the town which he inha·
bited, tbe ciwital of a Ger1D1W province ; ho bad acci·
denl.al.lyiu•ell.himsellamong tbe narr\)W and wiDdii:ig
at.raet.s Di & aburb, ioliauil.ad by the lowed Ofllw of the
feope, lllDd.-•J'Pl'OllChing iblwder shower deter.mined
- to ...·.bort age in the mOMt decot tiabiutiou
1.W was near him. He knocked at t'he door, which
was oponea by a taU man, of a grisly and ferociou•
L"Pet:t, and sord14 dress. The stranger wu readily
U$here4 w a 4lbamber, where 11wordl!~ sco~. and
mac.bi.Pe1, whl.c.b sea»e.d to be iw.plem«nU of torture,
were tt..,ufltd OD ta. wall Oiae oI ~ ewo.rdit
~ &eca its ecaWi.iud, ea the aobl-.., after a
~e :beeitat\on erOl!lleCi tbe ~. His hM
immediately ctarcd at him, with such marked expres-
sion, that the young man could "not 'help demanding bi9
name and lmslness, and ihG me1111i.Pg pf lUf Joo.ki!Ji 1:1t
bir,p .
w medly. 'f• I aw." iansw.ered t.he w.ao,. '' tbe
public ex~ .of thie A..ity; alld dMt ,J.nt:•t fO\l
we ot.rYed ii .a ture .augury, ia.t J .shall, in
discharge of my d.u:t.,-~ ~e day DIJ.t off your ~- witll
the weapon which has jw~ now s~y un-
sheathed itself." Tbe nobleman loitJlo tiiM in leaYing
,}W place of refuge ; but ~ngaging in aome p~ of the
· petiod, was ~}iort!y a.fier ,decapitated by tha,t very man
and instrumQnt.
Lord Lorat is said, by the author of the Lettel'i fr-om
Scotland, to have .a.ffirwed, that a nuGiber of swords
that huog up iD the ball of the mansion-house, leaped
of themselves out of 'the scabbard at the ins&aDt lw wa.
born. 'Thia story.passed current among his cla11, ancl
·LM>Y P.&MSBAW.
like that of the story just quoted, proved an ufortnnate
Q1Den.
APPARITION TO LADY FANSBAW.
Suna»ATUUL intimations of approachingfate, se.ya
Sir Walter Scott, are not, I believe, confined to highland.
families. Howel mentions having 11ecn at a lapidary'a,
in J632, a mOmlmontal stone, prepared. for four persons
of the name of Oxenbam, before the death of each of
whom, the iDICl'iption .tated a white bird to haff
appeared and ftuttemd around the bed, while the patient
wu in tllie last agony. Famil'4r LetUr1, Edit. 1726,
p. 247. Glanville mentions one family, the members ol
which rooeived this solemn sign by music, the .ound of
which floated from the family residence, and 1eemed te
die in a neighbouring wood ; another, that of Captaia
Wood of Bamptou, to whom the signal was gh·en bf .
knocking. · - ·
IM jlte 1191lt remarkable instance of ptesentiment of
death occuts lo the MS. memoirs of Lady Fanshaw, so
exeraplary for her conjugal afeciiou. Her h11Sband,
Sir Richard, SDd she, ~ during their abode in
;Ireland, to visit a friend, the bead ofa sept, who resided
i.o his encieni baronial eastle, surrounded with a moai.
At~dnigbt, she wu awakened by a ghastly and super-
natural scream, and looking out of bed, heheld by the
·moonlight, a f~e face and part of the form, hovering
at the window. The distance from the ground, as weU
as the circn.matance of the moat, excludf'd the pPSSibility
thatwhat she beheld was of this world. The face w•
that of a youg and rather handsome woman, but palt.
and the hair, which was reddish, loose •nd disbeveUed;
·;The dr-. which Lady Faush.w'1 $flrror dill~ preYe.ld
PHILIP MELANCTBON.
her remarking accurately, was that of_ the ancient lris'b.
Thil'l apparition continued to exhibit itself for some time,
and then Yanished with two shrieks similar to that
which had first excited Lady Fanshaw's attention. In
the morning, with infinite terror, she cemDJUoieated to
her host what she had witnessed, and fomul him pre-
pared not only to oredithut to account for theapparition.
"A near relative of my family," said he, " expired last
night in the castle. We disguised our certain erpec-
tation of the eventfrom you, lest it should throw a cloud
over the cheerful reception which was yo1u due. Now,
before such an event happens in tbi~ frunily and castle,
the-female spectre whom you have seen always is 'l"isible.
She is believed to be the spirit of a woman of inferior
rank, whom one of my ancestors degraded him.11elf by
niarrying, and whom afterv;ards, to. expiate the dis-
honour done to bis family, he caused to be.drowned in
the ca.~tle moat." _ ·
APPARITION TO PHILIP .MELANCTB01'.
Te&: name·of Melanothon, as the intimate friend and
distingtiished coadjutor of Martin Luther•in the gloriou1
wotik of the Reformation, must be dear to every en-
lightened Protesiant ; and bis laboul'!l aa a reformer and
scliQlar rank him among the brightest ornaments of
religion and literature.
·The merits of this'good and great man have been aet
forth in a work of considerable worth, by F. A. Cox,
A.M. In the counie of bis interesting biographical
narrative, he gives the following relation of·an incident
1'hich·oecurred at the second Diet of Spires, convene.I
indae year Hi29.
A curioU8 circumstanee, 11ays Mr. Cox, ooourred at
0;9;1,,edbyGoogle
PIItLIP 'MELANCTH<W. 2J3
'this convocation, which Melanclhon relates in liis l'om-
roentary on the angelic appearance mentioned in the
tenth chapter of Daniel, nud which he affirms was but
one out of many of a.8imilar nature, which he could
fully authenticate. The ca.'!e wa.<> briefly this : Simon
·Grynreus, a very intimate 'friend of bis, and at this
·period a Greek professor in the Univf'rsity of Heidelberg,
who combined profound erudition with zealous piety,
eame over unexpectedly to see him at Spires. He ven-
tured to encounter Faber the•Catholic Bishop of Vienna,
and to urge him closely on ~ome ·topics in discussion
between the Catholics andthe Reformers. The bishop,
who was plausible, but shaUow, fearful of engaging in
argument, bat cruelly ready_
to use the sword, pretended
·that private business with the ·king required his atten-
tion at that moment, but that ·he felt extremely desirous
of the friendship of Gryrueus, and of another opportu-
·nity of discussing·the controverted points. No dissem-
bler himself, Grynams returned to his friends with-
out suspiCion of the wily courtier's iqtentions·: nor
could any· of them have known it, but for what Melane-
thon deemed a supernatural interference. They were
just sitting down to supper, and Grynams had related
part of the conversation between himself and the bishop,
when Melancthon was suddenly called·out of the room
·to an old man whom he had never seen or heard ef, or
·coula afterwards discover ; characterized hy a most
observable peculiarity of manner and dress, and who
, ·said,· that persons by the king's authority, would soon
arrive to seize Grymeus, and put him in prison, .Faber
'having influenced him to this persecuting measure. He
enjoined, thatinstant means should be adopted to secure
~~e depaliure of Gryllll!us to I\ place of safety, and
' .
o,oitized by Google
2~.f MRS. .HRGllAV£ AND MRI. VEAL.
urged that there i;bould not be a·moment's delay. Upoa
communicating this information he immediately with-
drew. MeJancthon and his friends instantly bestirred
the~vea, and saw him safe acr088 the Rhine. H
afterwards appeared, that the king's messengers w~re
in tho house almost as sooo as they bad left it, bat
Gryneus was out of the reach of danger ; a danger u
Mclancthonremarks, easily imagined by those who were
.acquainted with Faber's cruelty. He says, they were
all of opinion that this was a divine interposition, t:o
·:singular was the appearance of the old man~ and so
.rapid the moYements of the instrument of vengeance,
.from who3e power Gryneus scarcely escaped.
Such is the narrative which the reader i9 put in po.-
.aession of without note or comment. Some will think
it supernatural, others will exclaim, Credat Jud'21U
· Apel/a, and many pcl'haps will consider it., though re-
• markable, capable of explanation, without allowing it
:to have heen miraculous. The use Melancthon makea
of the statement, must be admitted to be worthy of his
exalted piety ; " Let us," says he, " be grateful to
,God, who sends his angels to be our protecf.Qrs, and let
us with increased trauquillity of mind, fulfil the dutie1
·assigned us."-Coz'.t Life of Me'4Jicthon, p. 277.
It should be added, that no subsequent dis1Jovery W8il
made of tho identity of the old man, who thw preseTVed
·the Reformet and his fellow labourers ; nor did circum-
.stances, in the slightest degree, tend to invalidate the
above conclusion.
APP~amoN OF Ila&. BARGRAYB TO ¥JIS. 'VBAI., 4T
CANTJilRBURY~
THE credit of the following narrative has been muea
-depreciated by ~ who have ~rroneously considered
• MRI, BA.aGR.AV& ·A!lfD JIU. V&AL. 2~6
,it as a mem fable pre6xed to Drelincoun·~ Treatise on
Death,11 owing to the circumstance of that book being
.prefl'rretl by Mrs. Vcal, one of the parties. The pub-
lisher to promote the sale of Drelincoort's work, printed
&R incorrect and garbled edition of this narrative, with
irreeoocileahle inconaistencies; which hasl!Wie the affair
peas as a mere stratagem of trade. These imperfectio1W
"-'ill he evident on a oompariROn of the following ori·
ginal statement, with that prefixed to Drelinoout's
work. Thu-, it i~ illiberal and unjust to ~de on
ib credibility, merely because it has been pirated with
interestctl motives.t
Mrs. P.Iarga.ret Vea.J, and Mrs. Mary Ba~l}\'e• (b•
)-
fore her marriage called Lodowick) had cootrae.tecl an
atfeotionate inthoacy in their younger ye~. at which
·time the father of ooe wu c111&omer, and ihat of tbe
other minister of Dover.
• The m0Uve11 of·the author in this work, are unquestionably
.tbo9e or a linoere Christian, who bas the iollelwt •f bi.I ~llow­
crut1tt11 •t be111t. We now eee it In tbe cot.._. of~ labourinc
poor ; but its infhwDCe is oeither restrained to the noble, th,! opulent,
or the needy; since by placing DEA'l'H, or a tetnporary ceuatioa
.or mqertsion of e3lidence, in a proper point of Yiew, it encountge•
and 8upports mon io Ills se•erest trials, The cltancter end t!lleell-
trioitles of tbe late Duke of Norfolk are well kno!u. Bia lif'e was
one round ol gall!ty Gild pleasurable licanoe, by whlcb m- be
shortened bis cru:'ll!r, and thus deprived mankind of the bellellt GI
bis useful talents. He died io St. James's Square, December, J81.5 ;
but remone o~rtook him ere he left his darling world ; and it i1 a
-11 notbenticsted fact, tha& only a r- bo&l'I plll!tUlu to bis deeda,
he requeated that his i;enaot mipt be dispatched to bis bookaller~
io Poll Mall, to procure a copy of Drelinc:Ourt•s Treatlte QA
Death.
t This story was fiabrlcat~ by-De Pot', the lngealoos author of / J
·&"'-er-~- 4..-.fr.v...-/4 ,,z:;-z:a.-7 J'
~/
~~...,../~- ~· / /
~;/ '
:%56 MRS. BARGRAVE AND MRS. VB.tL.
This friendship, as it served tbe true ends, was ofuse
to Mrs. Veal in one particular, for when her father hy
·his extravagance bad reduced bis family, she found a
seasonable relief from it in her necessity.
Besides this, Mrs. Bargrave was instrum&ntal to her ·
·better fortune, for by her interest with a gentleman.
one Mr. Boyce, her relation; Mrs. Veal's brother was
·recommendAd to Archbishop Tillotson, by whom be
·:.was introduced to Queen Mary; and her Majesty, for
his relation hy the mother to the Hyde family, gave
him the post of comptroller of .the customa at Dover;
which place he enjoyed to his death.
Time and change of ciroumatances on both sides bad
:interrupted their friendship for some years; and Mrs.
,Hargrave, by be.ing half a year in London, and after-
wards settling at Canterbury, had neither seen nor
heard from Mrs. Veal for a year and a half.
Mrs. Veal, some time before her death, received the
addresses of a gentleman of the army, Major Gen~al
Sibourg (a natural son· of .the Duk~ of Scomberg)
killed.in the battle of Mons, and was engaged so far,
that her brother's not consenting to it, is believed to have
brought on those fits, which .were the cause of her
death. She died at Dover, on Friday, in the month of
September, .170~. '
On Saturday, a little before twelve in the morning~
Mrs. Bargrave being· by herself in her own house at
Can~rbury, as she was taking her work ,in her hand,._
heard somebody knock at the door; and going out, to
her astonishment, found it. to be her old friend Mn.
Veal.
After expressing her surprise to 11ee so great a stran-
.ger, she offered to salute her, which tbe other decline.J,
HRS. BUGRAVE -~ND MRS. VB.NL. 251
·SS it were, by banging down her head, and saying, she
was not well, on which Mrs. Bargrave desired her to
~alk in and sit down, which she did.
She was dressed in a silk dove-coloured riding gown,
with French night-clothes; she appeared expressly the
same, as .in her lifetime, and Mrs. Bargrave remem-
bered to ha¥e heard her steps distinctly as she walked in.
Mrs. Bargrave began by asking where she was going
in that dress ? She answered she was going her
journey, which ·the other concluded to be to Tunbridge,
where she went every year for ihe benefit of her
health ; ~nd said, you are going to the old place.
Mrs. Veal being never trusted abroad without attend-
. ance, on account of her fits, she asked how she came
alone from her ·uncle's.: (meaning ooe Captain Watson
in Canterbury, with whom she always lodged.) She
replied, she had given them the slip to see her. She
then .asked how she came to find her out in such- a
house, being reduced by her husband's extravagance to
take up with a much smaller one than she had been
accustomed to ? To which the other made answer, she
should find her out any where.
l\frs. Bargrave's husband was a barrister, who dis-
.sipated his money in excesses ; and as he was the
worst of husbands, ·his wife had gone .through a long·
course of ill usage, which was in a great measure un.
known to the world. The use of .this is to shew one
end of Mrs. Veal'11 visit, which seems te be to give her
the relief they had often communicated to each othet
.in the course of their friendship.
Mrs. Veal then began with Mr:>. Hargrave, by ask-
ing her what was the matter with her, that she looked
so ill ? She replied, she had been thinking on her mis..
.fortunes. I must now act the .Part .YOU did to .me
2$8 MRI. BABGRAV& AND MRS. VEAL
under my misfortunes, (said Mrs. Veal) I must comforl
you as you used to do me. I would have you by oo
means think that God Almighty is displeased with you;
bat that his intention i3 only to try and perfect you.,
for God doe1 not afflict willingly, nor grieve the chil-
dren of men. Besides, one ll'.IOment's happiness of the
other world, will be more than a reward for all your
sufferings, when as upon a hill you shall be above all
the stonns and dangers of a troublesome world. She
proceeded in this manner with unusual vehemence, and
striking her hand often on her knees, she cried, you mu11t
:believe it. ·
Mrs. Bargrave being so earnestly pressed, uked if
1be did not think she believed it? To' which she re• ·
plied, no doubt but yoo. do ; but you must believe it
·thoroughly.
l\trs. Bargrave, moved with the discourse, chanced,-
b1 a tum of the chair, to throw down from a shelf,
Drelincourt'1 Treati.'!e of the Christian's defence against
the fe81'11 of death, which gave'the first llint to tell her,
there was Drelincourt, which they had so often read
together. I see, said Mrs. Veal, you keep on your
old way of reading, which if you continue to do, -
will '
not fail to bring you to the happy condition he llpeaka
of. The other mentioning Dr. Sherlock and same
otlters on that subject, she said, Drelincourt had the
cleareRt notion of death, and that neither Dr. Sherlock,
nor any other on that subject, were to be compared with
him, (as she expressed it) to her understanding.• Dear
M~. Bargrave, said she, if the eyes of our faith were
but as open as the eyeM of our bodily senses, we should
• Thia partial allusion to Drelincourt's book, bas suggestecl the
fRbricated St&lemellll which have tended to invalidate the l'P.pOrt Of
the nnrratire. ·
JIB& BARQllA"£ AND M;q. V.lil.tt.. 250
tee innumerable angels about us fur our guard ; but our
notions of heaven are.no.thiog like what U is, as Dre·
Un.court saya. Believe me, my dear friend, one moment
of future happinet11 will be more than amends for .all
· youu1utfering ; nor yet can I believe that Goel will
i>utfer you to spend all your days in this afllicted con-
dition, but be .a1Smed your sufferings will leave you,
or you theiu in a short time, therefore .&,a 'oomforted
under them, and be o.&<uted, that God Almighty has a
particular regard for you ; that they Me marks of his
favour, and w:hen they haNe done 'the bW1iae• they were
tent for, they will be removed. M:rs. Baqp:ave, speak·
ing how darlc such a condition as hers wu, that had
no ease at present; she said, at tho worst tbeee siot'm•
would be recomperwed by 'ille reception she would meet
.with in her father's h0use, and from the a7th of 1-.iab,
'' that God would not contend for ever, nor be alwaya
wrath, for the spirit should fall befo.ro him, and the soul¥
which he had'mado." Mrs. Baigrave's huab&Pd dyiug
about two ye.a.rs after that event, made her ieftoct on
this pa.rt of her diaeourse, 83 pointing to her deliverance.
In the course of conversation. Mrs. Veiil -entered
upon the subject of friendship, and saying there Wai ·
now little friend11hip in the world ; the other replied,
she hoped she herself had no reason to cornplain of every
one beiog a friend to the rich ; I mean, said Mrs. Veal,
such a friendship as you and I had ~ imp?Me one-
anotber in what is l¥!eifill. What did you think of my
friendship, said Mni. Veal, which I am sure has not at o.U
repaid what I owe you ? If you can forgive me,
you are the best hearted creature io the world. Mrs.
Hargrave replied, do not mention such a thing, I have
not had 11.D uneuy thought about it ; I can forgive
you. But what did you think of me? said Mrs. Veal.
960 MRS. BAllGBAVB AND MRS. VB.AL.
I thought, replied Mrs. Hargrave, that, like the rest of
the world, prosperity had likewise altered you. I have.
been, said Mrs. Veal, the most ungrateful wretch in the
world, and then recounted many of the kindnesses !!he
had received from her in her adversity, saying, she
wished her brother knew how she \'\'&S troubled about
it. Being asked why she did not acquaint her brotherof
it, if it was such a trouble to her, she said she did not
think of it till she came away.
To divert the ·discourse, Mrs. Bargrave asked her if
she had seen a copy of verses of Mr. Norris'•, on Friend-
ship, in a dialogue between Damon and Pithia.~. She
said .she had seen other parts of his works, but not
that : Mrs. 'Bargrave said, I have them of my own
writing, and the other desiring to see them, she went
up stairs and brought them to her to read ; but Ml!!.
Veal said, •it is your own scrawl, pray read it your• ·
self, holding down my head w.ill make it ache ; Mrs.
Bargrave then read them. There was a passage " that
friendship survives even death," -which .the other de-
sired to have repeated, and said, Mrs. Bargrave, these
poets call heaven by a strange name, that .is Elysium ;
-and added, _with particular empb~is, 'that their friend-
ship should have no end in a future world.
Mrs. Veal asked .her what was become of her bus-
.
band ? and being told he was abroad, said, she wished
·he might not c,ome home while.she was there, for though
he had always treated her with ,respect, yet she had
aometimes been frightened with his frolics.
At last, she said, she bad great apprehensions of her
.fits, and in case that she should die of th.em, desired
Mrs. Hargrave to write to her brother, and tell him
she wished him to make certain arrangements for her,
-viz. give her best clothes to her uncle Watson's da11ghter1
.Jlll also two small pieces of _
gold laid. u.P in a cabi1u~t
lil·RS. BA·RGRAVE AND MRS. VEAL, 2(H
fu a purse ; certain pieces to another person, two rings
to Mr. Bretton, commissioner of the customs, a ring to
Major-General Sibourg, (of which M.l'l!. Bargrave sent
him a letter,) and further desired her to chargs her bro-
ther not to talce any intereit of such a certain person
whose plate she had in security.
As she often pressed this message, the other as often
declined it; saying it would be disagreeable to trouble
'such a young gentleman as her brother wa..'I, with their.
conversation, that he would wonder at her imper.tinencc,
and that she had better do it herself. To this she re-
plied, that though it might seem impertinent now,. she
would see the reason of it hereafter ; that her brother
though a sober man, and free from other vices, was-
yet vain, which she de11ired her to tell him : as also of
their discourse, and to give her credit, she told her some
secret of consequence between him and herself. Seeing
her so importunate, Mrs. BargraYe fetched pen and
ink, upon which the other said, let it alone till I am
gone, but be sure that yon do it.
This discourse gave Mrs. Bargra\·e apprehensions· of
her fits, so that she drew her chair close to her, to pre-
vent her from falling, .during which she several times
took hold of the sleeve of her gown, which Mrs. B. ad-
mired. Mrs. Veal said she had better. take it for ,her-
self ; the other answered, you are going a journey; ·
how will you do without it ? She said, as well as
you, who have often taken off your gown from your
back for me.
Towards the end of this discourse, shei told Mrs.
Bargrave, that she had received a pension of ~n pound!!'
a. year, from Mr. Bratton, commissioner of the custolfls,
who she said had been her great friend and benefactor.
She asked Mrs. Bargrave, if she knew her sister,
262 llBS; BARGBAVE AND MRS. VEAL.
Mrs. Haslewood, who, she said, was coming to see
her a.-. Abe was taking her journey ? The other asked
again how she came to order matters so strangely ?
·she said the house was ready for them. n proved that
Mrs. Haslewood and her husband came to her hous<t
jugt &.'> she was dying.
By this time she began to look disordered, and for-
getful of what she had said, as if the fit.s were coming
upon her. A'll this visit !!OOmed in a great measure de-
signed in gratitude to a friend, without giving any
apprehensions, so the several parts of her discourse,
~related to Mr. Bretton's pension, her sister Ha.<1le-
wood, the scouring of her gown, the quantity of gold in
tho pun!e, the rin~ and the plate in pawn, v..:ire designed
a& credentials to her.brother and the world. ·
At Jut she asked Mrs. Bargravo, where is Molly ?
meaning her daughter ; she replied she is at school; bnt
if you wish to see her, I will send for her; to which·
t.he other agreeing, she went to a neighbour's house to
send for her, and at her return found Mrs. Veal without
the door of·the house, about to leave.
Mrs. Vea) asked if she would not· go with her ?
whicll the other took to be to Captain Wateon's in Can-
terbury, alld said, you know it is as much as my li(e i11
worth; but I will 104: you to-morrow in the afternoon,
after 11ermon. But why are yoo in sueh haste ? Mrs.
Veal then said, in case you shoald not conte, or should
not see me, yoo will remember what I have said to you.
She saw her walk off till she came to the taming of a
comer, and then lost sight of her. It WM market.day,
and immediatelv afterthe clock had struck two.
Mm. Bargra;e at th'1 instawt told a neighbour of
Mn. Veal's 'ft9it, and of their con"8rs&Cion ; and a
noighbov'11 senant, from a yard near her window,
MRS. B.tfBGRAVJ.t .&ND MRS. VEAL. 2"63 ,
Leard some of their discourse, and being asked by hor
mistress if Mr. Bargrave was talking with his wife?
auswered that they never talked of any thing so good.
At night her husband ctr.me home in a· frolicsome
humour, and taldng her by the hand, said, Molly, you
are hot, you want to bo cooled, and so opening the door
to the garden, put her out there, where she continued
all night.
During Sunday she kept her bed, in a high fever,
,and on Monday morning sent to Mrs. Watson's to
enquire after Mrs. Veal, and as she could have no satis~
faction, went herself, but with as little. They were
surprised at her enquiring for Mrs. Veal, and said, they
were sure, by their not seeing h<'r, that she could not
.have been at Canterbury ; but ·when Mrs. Bargrave
persisted \hat she wa'I, and described her dress, saying.,
. she had on a scoured silk of s~oh a colo'11J', Hrs. Wa1->
son's daughte~ said, that she had indeed seen. her. for
nano knew of the gown's being scoured but. themael~
and that her mother assisted in making it up. In ibe
meantime Captain Watson came in, and told them
that preparati.on was making in.tow:n for the funeral 0£
some person of note in Dover. This quickly raised
apprehensions in Mrs. Bargrave, who went away
directly to the undertaker'e, and was no·aoouer informed.
it was fol' )ibs. Veal, than ahe fain~ away in Uae
street.
For a long time Mrs. Bargrave waa visited1by crow<U
of peopl~ who camu to gcatify their curiosity.; \he..
lll0Bt.11cepiical on ooe hand, and, the moat sapersµtiOU11.
on the other; and during her buaband'11 life.time she
WN exposed to bis unapari11g.raillery.
His evasioos were. so frivolous: to Dr. Stanhope,
D~ of Caate~llfy, tha!_wh&D he endeuoured to
264 MR. BOOTY AND TH& SHIP'S CREW.
make the doctor disbelieve the story, and the divine
pres.i;ed bitn how she should come to know so much of .
her secret affairs? to divert the argument of her appear-
i.og after her death, he own~ his sister could conceal
nothing from her, intimating that she might have told her
in her life-time. He was so piqued at the doctor, that
when he c'lDle to Canterbury to be married by him, he
was married by another; nor was he ever ahle to en-
counter Mrs. Bargrave, but industriously avoided her.
MR. BOOTY AND THE SHIP'S CREW,
No circumstance connected with supernatural ap·
peai:ances hes occasioned more alteroation and contro-
ve'tSy, than the undermentioned. The narrative certainly
has an air of everstrained credulity ; n11vertheless, the
affair is carious, and the ooincidence very remarkable,
especially as it was a saltJo for Capt. _Barnaby. The
formP.r part of this narrative is tnl.nscribed from Capt
Spinks's journal, or log-book, and the latter fr-0m the
King's Bench Records for the time being;
Tuesday, May the 12Ui, this day the wind S. SW.
and a little before four in the .afternoon, WO anchored
in Manser road, where lay captains Bristo, Brian, and
Barnaby, all of them bound to Lucera to load. Wed-
nesday, May the 13th, we weighed anchor, and in the .
afternoon I went on hoard of Captain Barnaby, and
about two o'clock we sailed all of us for the island of
Lucera, wind W. SW. and bitter weather• Thurs-
day, the 14th, about two o'clock, we saw the island,
and all came to an anchor in twelve fathom water, the
wind W. SW. and on the 15th day of May, we had
an observation of Mr. Booty in the following manner:
Captains Bristo, Brian, and Barnaby, went on shore
shooting colues on Stromboli: when. we had doae
~Vf-a-'z ~ "/~ ~f'
~
~
, .
MR. BOOTY. AND· THE SHIP'S CREW. / ,. S
. r
we called our me~ together, and about'fourteen minutes
after three in tho afternoon, to our great surprise, we
saw two men run by us with amazing r.wiftness ; Cap-
tain Barnaby said, Lord blC8!1 me, the foremost man
looks like my next-door neighbour, old Booty~ but said,
be did not know the other that was behind.; ,Rooty was
dressed in grey clothes, and the one behind in black ;
we saw them run into the bul'I)ing mountain in the
midst of the flames, on which we heard a terrible noise
too horrible to be described ; Captain Barnaby then
desired us to look at our watches, pen thP- time down
in our pocket-books, and enter it in our journals, which
we accordingly did. ·
\Vhen we were laden, we all sailed for England, ar.d
arrived, at. Gravesend, on the -6th ·of October, J687.
Mrs. Bamaliy and Mrs. Brian came to congratulate
our safe arrival, and after some discourse, Captain Bar-
naby's wife said, My dear, I have got some news to
tell you, old Booty is dead. He swore an oath; and
said, we all saw him run into " hell." Some time
afterwards, Mrs. '.Barnaby met with a lady of her
acquaintance in London, and told her what her hlll!band
had seen concerning Mr. Booty ; it came· to Mrs.
Booty's ears, she arrested Captain Barnaby .fo .}0001.
action ; he gav.e bail, and it came to trial at the Court
Gf King's Bench, where Mr. · Booty's clothes were
brought into court. The sexton of the parish, and the
·people that were with him·when he died, swore·to the
time when he died, and we swore to our journals; ·and
they agreed withiil two minutes ; 'twelve of our men
.Wore that the buttons of his coat were··covered with
the same grey oloth as his coat, and it appeared to ·be
so; the jury asked Mr. Spinkif he knew Mr. Booty•
iii.
bis life-time;- he said he never saw him·till ho saw him
li
o,9;1ized by Google
71~~/.;,,_ 1~/t/,~?-'
266 Rff. J, WILKINS.
run by him into the homing mountai11. The judge thew
18.id, Lord, grant that I may never see the sight that
you have seen : one, two, or 'three, may be 'mistaken,
hut twenty or thirty cannot ; so the widow lost the
cause.
N. B. It is now in the Records at Westminster.
J.uo:s nm SECOND, 1687
ffEllllEllT, Chief Justice,
ffoLLOW'AY1 Jfllli«1.
WVTRENS. }
And WRIGHT,
REMARKABI.B DR:&.Uf, BY THE REY, JOSEfH WILKINS.
~.BBlate Rev. Jo.seph Wilkins, di•n~ng;°linister at
Weymouth, dreamt m the early part of h18 life, a very
remarkable dlleam, which he carefully preserved in
writing as .follows :-'' One night, soon after I was in .
bed, l foll asleep, and dreamt l ,waa. going to London.
I thought it wOGld not be much O\lt of my way to g•
through Glouce1tersliire, and cult upon my friends
• there. Accordingly I set out ; but remembered not.biog
that happened by tbe way tiU I came to my fatller's
h1>vsc; when I w~nt to the .frm1t-door, ~nd. tried to
open it, hut f9und it. fast ; t»eu I went to Ute baek-
tioor, which J opened, and went in ; but fiuding all tbe
family were. in bed, I went acrost1 the rooms only, went
up' lf'taHs, and ent.ered the chamber. where ltly father
,~ .mother were i,u bed. A!> I .«eot by the side of tlle
bed on which my fatJaer lay, I found him asl~p. or
~~ ht:l was so : thoo I we.sit to the other side, ao4
l\f.viilg just ~rned the foot ofthe bed, I found my mother
1M'V'ake;. w "'~I!': I said these words: ' Mother, I am
coilli ~.Jong jouniey~ and am come to bid yo.q good
~ ;' upon 'Wbio~ 8~ anawe~ me ~ a friPt, ' 0,
RBV. J, WIL"-INS. 267
dear son, thou art dead !" With .this I awoke, and
took no notice of it, more than a common dream ; ex-
cept that it appeared to me very perfect.
Iu a few days after, as.soon as a letter could reach·
me, I recciYed one by pOllt from my father, upon the
receipt of wllich I was a little surprised, and concluded
something extraordinary must have happened, a.s it was
but a short time before l had a letter from my friends, and
all were well. Upon opening it, I was more surprised
still, for my father addressed me as though I was dead,
desiring me, if alive, or whoever's hands tbe letter
might full into to write immediately ; but if the letter
11hould find me living, they concluded I should not live
long, and gave this as the reason of their fears,-That
un a certain night, naming it, after they were in btd, my
father asleep, and my mothe~~. she heard some-
thing try to open the .front-door, but finding it fast, he
went to the back-door, which he opened, came in,. and
came directly through the rooms up stairs, and she. per-,
factly knew it to be my step ; that I came to her bed-side,
and &poke to her these words : ' Mother, I am going a
long journey, and am come to bid you good bye:' upon
which she an:1wered me in a fright, " 0 ! dear son, thou
art dead !" which were the very circumstances and
words of my dream, but she heard nothing more, and
saw nothing; neither did I in my dream. ·
Upon this she awoke and told my father what
bad passed; but he endeavoured to appease her, ~r-
1uading her it was only a dream : she insisted it was Do
dream, for that she w~ as perfectly awake as ever 1be
was, und had not the least inclination to sleep since she
had been in bed. From these circumstances I am apt
to think, it was at the very same instant when rny·dream
bappened, th~ngh the distance .between ·1is W'as abodt
· x2
·268 DESFONT.UNES.
one hnndred miles; but of this I cannotspeak positively.
This occurred while I was at the academy at Ottery, De-
von, in the year 17~4, and, at this moment, every circurll-
stance i,s fresh upon my mind. I have since bad frequent
opportunities of talking over the affair with my mother,
and the whole was as fresl1 upon her mind as it was
uron mine. I hs.ve often thought, that her senaations,
as to this matter, were strongj!r than mine. What may
appear strange, is that I cannot remember any thing re-
markable happening hereupon. This is only a plain
simple narrative of a matter of fact.
Mr. Wrlkins died November 15th, 1800, in the seven-
tieth year of bis age.
APPARITION OF DESFONTAINRS TO MR. BEZUBL. .
~Ma. BEZUEL, when· a school-boy of fifteen, in
Hl95, contracted an intimacy "ith a younger boy,
named Desfontaines. After talking together of the
compacts which nave been often made between friends,
that in case of death the spirit of the deceased should
revisit the survivor, they agreed to form such a compact
together, and they signed it respectively, in 1696.
Soon after this tr.ansaction, they were separated by
Desfontaines' removal to Caen.
In July, 1697, Bczuel, while amusing himself in
haymaking near a friend's house, was seized with a
fainting fit, after which he had a restless night. No~
withstanding thil'I e.ttack, be returned to the meadow
next day ; but on the succeeding day, be had a still
more severe attack. Bezuel thus relates the subsequent
circumstances himself in the Journal de 7revou1e, in
1.726•
. " I fell into a swoon ; I lost my senses; one of the
footmen perceived it, and called out for help.· They
recovered me a little, but my_mind wai m(lre disordered
D.EiFONTAINES. 269
than it bad been before ; I was told that they asked
me then what ailed me, and that I answered I have
seen what I thought I should never see. But I neither
remember the question nor the answer. However, it
agrees with what I remember; I saw then a naked
man in half length, but I knew him not. They helped
me to·go down the ladder: I heli the steps fast ; but
because I saw Dosfontaines, my schoolfellow, at the
bottom of the ladder, I had again a fainting fit; my
head got between two steps. and I again lost my senses,
They let me down, aud set me upon a large beam,
which served for a seat in the great Place de Capucins.
I sat upon it, and then I no longer saw Mr. de Sorto·
ville, nor his !lervants, though they were present. And
perceMng Desfontaines near the foot of the ladder,
who made me a sign to come to him, l went back upon
my scat as it were to makf room for him ; and those
who saw me, and whom I did not see though my eye;;
were open, observed that motion. Because he did not
come I got up to go to him : he came up to me, took
hold of my left arm with his right hand, and earriNl
~thirty pace~ farther into a by-lane, holding me fast.
The servants believing that ·J was rec&vered, went to
tbeir business, except a little footboy, who told Mr: de
Sortoville that I was talking to myself. Mr. de Sorto-
ville thought I was drunk. He came nea1· me and
heard me ask 11ome questions and return some answers,
as be afterwards told.
I talked with Desfontaines nearly three quarters of
an hour. I promised you, said he, that if I died before
~·ou I would come and tell you so. I am now come to
tell you I was drowned in th~ river of Caen yesterday
about this hour ; l was walking with some friends : it was
v"ry bot weather, and we agreed to go intO the water ; I
270 SIR JOHN AND LADY ·owEN.
grew faint and :mnk to the bottom of the river; thie
Abbe Menilgian, my schoolfellow, dived to take me
up ; I took hold of his foot, but whether he was afraid,
or had a mind to rise to the top of the water, he struck
out his leg so violently that he guve me a blow on the
breast, and threw me again to the bottom of the river,
which is very deep.
He always appeared to me taller than I had seen
him, and even taller than he was when he died. I al-
waytJ saw him in half length, .and naked, barehea4ed,
with his fine light hair, and a white paper upon his
forehead, twisted in his hair, upon which there was a
writing, but I could only read " In ctBlo quiu."
.,,,... ttk ..
SIR SOHN AWD LADY OWEN,
Sia John Owen was a P¥SOD of note, and of well-
known credit; his lady and one of her sons lived in
London; and being of a gay and expensive disposition,
it was thought she lived heyond what the Knight could
afford, and that he was sensible of it and uneasy about
it. She had a good house in London, and a country
house, or lodgings for the summer, at Hampstead, and
kept 'a splendid equipage.
It happened one da~·, lady Owen being at her country
lodging.i, that a person well-dressed, in appearance
a gentleman, called at her city house, and knocked
ai the door, asked the maid if there were an.) lodgings
to be let there, and if her lady was at home? On the.
servant's evincing some anger atso rude a ·question--
"Well," said be, "don't be d~pleased, your lady has had·
110me thoughts of staying at her summer lodgings all
the winter, and so would dispose of some apartments
in town for the parliament season ; and I am directed·
by herself to look at the rooms, and give my answer;-
°}'ii;.A,,,,-,./4~ 1n:....•g/~
~a JOHN AN& LADY OWSN. 271
let me but just see them, 1 shall do you n-0 harm :" he.
then entered, and as it were pushed by her, and going
into the first parlour, sat down in an eMy cba.ir; his
servant waiting at the door ( and as the maid did not
'apprehend any mischief. she followed him.
When she camo in, he roso up, an.
d looking al>ont
the room, found fault w.
itb the furoiture, and the dispo-
sition.of it; all was too good, too rich, and flµ' above
the quality of the owner; and r.aid, that the lad.v did
iiot know what she did, that it was an expen~ she
_
could not support; and thai such a mode of living
would bring her and all the family to ruin an4
begpry.
· The setvant now conduc~ him into another parlour.
w~e ·he fouMI. the same.fault : be told her he wa.<;
surprised \bat ber lady lived at so extravagant a rate as
Sir John's estate could not maintain it, tbatit would run
him into debt and ruin him ; aud thl.as he· would be.
undone by her extravagance.
Upon this the maid retorted, and told him that this
was foreign to what he came about; if the· lodgings
were too good for him. that wu his business indeed,
else he had nothing to do with her lady's cond11ct, and
·the furniture of her house ; that her master was a gen-
tleman of great estate, and had large plantations in
Jamaica; that he contantly supplied her lady with
money sufficient for her support, and for all her ex-
pences; and ihe wondered that he should interfere.
The stranger now calmly entered- iDto conversation
-.bout Lady Qwen, and her way of living, and told
many of the secrets cf the family, 80 that the servant
began to be more courteous.
She tried several ti.mes to loam who he was, his ;rank,
272 SIR JOHN AND LADY OWBN.
~ountry, name and address; but be always declined,
only telling her he would go to Hampstead, where
Lady Owen lodged, and wait upon her himself; and
thanking the servant for her civility, he left the house,_
his servant followed him.
The girl now became much alarmed at these curious
coincidences and circumstances. At length she went to
givo her lady an account of what bad happened. On
reaching Hampstead, she found her mistress very ill.
At first 11he was refused admittance, but she urged her
extraordinary business. "What extraordinary business
canyou have?" saidthe lady's maid tauntingly, "if your
business was from the devil, you can't speak with my
lady just now, for she is very ill and in bed."
From the devil, said Mary, I don't know hut it may,
and I believe it is indeed ; so I must speak with my
lady immediately.
Nay, replied the woman, here has been one mes-
senger too many from the devil already, I think; sure
you'don't come of his errand too, do ye ?
I don't know whose errand I come of, but I am
frightened out of my wits; let me speak with my lady
presently, or I shall die before I deliver my message.
Die! said the woman ; I wish my lady may not die
before she hears it; pry'thee Mary, if it he any thing to
frighten her, don't tell it her just now, for she is almost
frightened to death already. .
Why, snid Mery, has my lady seen any thil'.ig? Ay,
ay: seen! said the woman, she has seen and heard too;
there has been a man who has brou~t her dreadful
tidings.
They talked so loud, that the lady heard the noise;
and immediately rang the bell for her maid. When the
-· -- ---: -- --------
SIR JO?'fN AND LADY OWEN. 27:i
woman went in, Who is that below, said the lady,
talking so eBl'Destly? is any body come from London·?
Yes, madam, said the woman, herc1 is Mary come to
speak to your ladyship. Mary come, said shet in a
surprise, what can be the matter! why, sure, h(l.S she
seen something too 1 mercy on me, what's the matter!
what.does she say?
· At length Mary entered the room, and the woman
was ordered to w:ithdraw.
As soon as the door was shut, the lady burst into
tears. 0 Mary, said she, I have had a dreadful visit
this afternoon; your master has been here. My ma&ter !
why, madam, that•, impossible. Nay, it was your
master, I am sure.
In a word, the apparition·of her husband had told
her his estate would not support her expensive way of
living, and that she would bring herself to misery aud
poverty, and much more to the same purpose as he had
said to Mary.
Mary immediately asked her ladyship, in what manner
he appeared; and by the description that her mistress
gave, it was exactly the same figure that had appeai·ed
to her, and desired to see the lodgings; then Mary gave
her ladyship a particular relation of what had bappened
to her also, and of the me~age she was charged to.
deliver. ·
The lady was ultimately redaced,·and obliged to sell
her o;plendid furniture and equipage. But the most re-
markable incident iii, that just at this juncture, Sir John
Owen, the lady's husband, died in tho ·west-1-ndies.
This relation i." taken from a manuscript, in ·the pos...
session of Sir Owen Ap Owen, of Brecknocksbire: and·
the circumstance happened·in the beginning of the reign.
of Queen Anne.
OllK!f TO OBARLBB n.
ACCORDING to a tract published in l680, Elizabeth
·Freeman, of Bishop's Hatfield~ Herl<i, was vi<rited by
an apparition several times, which commanded her to
deliver a message to Charles the Second. She swore
before Sir Joseph Jorde!), and Dr. Lee, that on Mon-
day, January 24, she saw the apparition of a woman
who said to her, " The fifteenth of May is appointed
for the Royal blood to be poisoned." Again the appa-
rition desired her to teU king Charles not to remove bi.<i
Parliament, and stand to his Council•
.JUDGE BROG.RAVE.
As Mr. Brograve, of ~amel, near Puekeridge, Herts,
when a young man, was riding in a lane, he suddenly
received a violl'nt blow on the cheek.. H.e loOked back,
and· saw that nobody was near him ; and soon after-
wards he receiv.ed anoiher blow. He turned back, and
fell to the study of the law; and hence bec.ame a judge.
This acccount I had from Sir John Penruddock, of
Compton, chamberlain, (our neighbour) whose lady was:
Judge Brog1·ave's niece.-.4ubrey'1 MiaceUmaiea.
COMMISSIONER FOSTREE~
Ma. FoSTREE one of the Commissioners of the Vic·
.......-;ualling Office, died in Ii6i. What is remarkable, a
CQmmissioner of the !18,llle Boaxd having dreamed that·
oae of their number had fallen down dead; and telling,
bis dream the next morning, the words were scarcely
uttered, when Mr..FOlltree suddenly expired.-.4nnual
~. 176(.
I.ORD LYTTLETON.
_,..... Tsg 11ubject of this narrative was the s.on of George
Lord·Lyttleton, and was alike distinguished fur the raci-.
J;.01.I> LY'l"l'L&'ION. 275
Qt88. of his wit and the profligacy of his manners. · 1'he
latter trait of. his character has ind11ced. many persons
to.suppose the apparition which he userted he had seen,·
to have been the effeot.of a conscience quickened with.
r•morse for innumerable vices and misgivings. The
probability of the narrative bas, consequently, been much
qJleStioned ; but. in our own acquaiqtance we chance to
know two gentlemen, one of whom was at Pitt Pl&Ge.
tbe seat of Lord Lyttleton, and the other in the imme-
diate ueighbourhood at. the time of hi-; Lordship's death;
awl who bear ample testimony to the veracity of the
whole affair.
The several narratives correspond· in material points;
and. we shall nol.V proceed to relate the most circum-
stantial partietdats written by a gentleman who was on
• visit to his lord&hip :-
- " I was at Pitt Place, Epsom, when Lord Lyttleton
died.:; Lord Fortescue, Lady Flood, and the two Miss
Amphletts, wero also present. :bord Lyttleton had not
loµg been returned from .Ireland, and frequently had'
beeD seized with 11uffocating fits: he was attacked several
times by them in tAie oouree of the preceding 1nonth,
while he was at his house ie Hill Street, Berkeley
Square. It happened·that he dreamt, three days before
his death, that he saw a fluttering bird ; and afterW'ards
that a woman appeared to him in white apparel, and
aid to him, ' Prepare to die, you:will not-exist three
days.'• His lordship was·much alarmed; and called to
•According to the narretive ofa.relative of Lady Lyttleton, the
follo.winr ia the.version- of tbt> circumstances as related by Lord
Lyttleton:-
Two nights oofo~ OI\ hia retiring to. bis bed; .after his servant w.ur
41smi-1 _. ·hia light e1tlngui1bed, he .had beard a Jloise resemb-
ll»g the 11~of a do~e at bia oh~ber wind.ow.. Thia.attiaCied.
• • - ~ .... . ' 4
276. LORD LY'l"l'LGTON;
a 11ervant from a closet adjoining, who found him much ·
agitated, and in a profuse pen!piration : the circumstance
· had o. considerable effect all the nett day on his.lord-
sbip's spirits. On the third day, while his lordship was
at breakfast with the above pel'80nage&, he said, • If I
live over to-night, I shall have jockicd the ghost, for this
is ibe third day.' The whole party pt6$ently set off for
Pitt Place, where they bad not long arrived, before b~·
lordship was visited by one of his accµstomed fits : after
a short interval, he recovered. He dined at five o'clock
that day, and went to hed at eleven, when his servant
was about to give him rhubarb and mint-water; but his
lordship, perceiving him stir it with a tooth-pick, called
him a slovenly dog, and bid. him go and fetch a tea-
spoon; but, on the man's return, he found his master in
o. fit, and the pillow being placed high, bis chin bore
bard upori bis neck, when tho servant; instoad of reliev-
ing his lordship, on the instant, from his perilous situa-
bis nttenlion to the spot; when, looking in the direction of the sound,
be saw the figure of an unhappy feniale, whom be bad seduced and
deserted, and who, when deserted, had put a Yiolent end to her own
Histence, standing In the aperture of the ~indow from which the
fluttering soul)d had procee4ed. Tbe form approached the footof the
bed :-the room was preternaturally light ; the objects of the cbambef.
were distinctly visible: llliling her band, and pointing to a dial which
Flood OD the maof.e\.piP.Ce Of 1Jte chimney, the figure, With a seYere
solf!moity ot voice and manner, announced to the appalled aild con-
science-stricken man, that, at that Yeey bour, on the third day after
the vliitation, bis life and bl~ sins would be concluded, and notbiug .
but their punishment remain, It beavailed himself not ol the warning
to repentance which be bad receivl'.d. The eye of Lord Lyttleton
glahci!d npon the dial; the band was on the stroteoftwelve :-agiiln
tbe apartment was lmolved in total darknels :-the warning spirit
disappeared, and bore away at her departure all the lightness ol
llearfand bnoyaiicy ofspirit, ready flow of wit, and vlvadt1 ofman·
ner, which bad formerly been the pride and ornament ol tile unhappy·
~Ing to whom me bad clell'feftlCI "
her tremendous llUDlllOlll·
LORD LYTl'LETOS. 277
tion, ran, in his fright, and called out for help, but ou bis
retun:i he found bis lordship dead."
In explanation of this strange tale, it is said, that Lord
Lyttleton acknowledged, previously to his death, that
the woman he had seen in his dream was the' mother'
of the two Miss Amphletts, mentioned above; whom,
together with a third sister, then in Ireland, his lordship
had seduced, and prevailed on to leave their parent, who
resided near his country residence in Shropshire. It is
further stated, that Mrs. Amphlett died of grief, through
the desertion of her children, at the precise time when
the female vision appeared to his lordship; and t!iat, about
the period of his own dissolution, a personage dnswering
his description visited the bed-side of the late Miles Peter
Andrews, Esq., twho had been the friend and coinpanion
of Lord Lyttleton in his revels,) and suddenly throwing
open the curtains, desired Mr. Andrews to come to him
The latter, not knowing that his lordship had retnrne
from Ireland, suddenly got up, when the phantom d. ·
appeared! Mr. Andrews frequently declared, that the
alarm caused him to have a short fit of illness ; and, in
his subsequent visits to Pitt Place, no solicitations could
ever prevail on him to take a hed there ; but he would
invariably return, however late, to the Spread Eagle Ion,
at Epsom, for the night.
Sir Nathaniel Wraxall, in his Memoirs has tho fol-
lowing passage:-
" Dining at Pilt Place, about four years after the
death of Lord Lyttleton, in the year l i83, I bad tho
curiosity to visit the bedchamber, where the casement
window, at which Lord Lyttleton asserted the dove ap-
peared to flutter, }Vas pointed out to me; and, at his
stepmother's, the dowager Lady Lyttleton's, in Portugal
Street, Grosvenor Squar'l I have frequently seen a
yYtw~,v/~· ~
t$8 MR. uiu.ow's BUN'l'8¥.AN.
painting which sbe herself executed, io 1780, expressly
to commemorate the ·event: it hung in a conspicuous
part of her drawing room. There the dove appears .at
the wiodqw, while a ft1D1ale figure, habited in white,
stands at the foot of the bed, anoounoiog to Lord Lyt-
t.
latoll his, 4iasolutioo. Every part 0£ the picture waa
faitbfi;tlly designed, after the de&eriptiou gi_veo to her by
the valet de chambre who attended him, to whom bis
master related all the circumstances."
Ao engraving, copied from this picture,. has been
publish~ and is still frequently to be met with in the
Collecti®' of printsellers.
APPARITION OF MR. BARLOW'S HUNTSMAN,
, _ . / '
LAsT Christmas day in the morning, Mr. Barlow was
_ visited by a person who had the appearance and dress
of his huouman, who opened his curtains and a.qked
him whether he proposed going out with the hound&.
~hat morning. Mr. Barlow told him that he was not
then very w.ell, and did not care to go himself, but that
he, the huntsman, might take the dogs and go to such a
mountain, where he might find a fox ; upon which the
person left him. Mrs. Barlow hearing this conversation,
as she thought, between the huntsman and her bus- .
band, for she lay in a room couti~wus to his, came
sometime after to .him, and expostulated with him upon
the indecency of sending out the hounds that day ;.
what H.Dswer he made her is not certain, but when be'
~ame down stairs, he saw some of his favourite hou~ds
about the house, which led him to an enquiry why the.
~untsman had left those hounds behind him. The ser-
l!l&ts protested the huntsman had not been there that
moming, and that the dogs were all in the kennel, upon
which a servant was sent to Narbeth, where the hunta•
TSE SPECTRE Wft'NJIM. 279
man·lived, to see whether he had been at Slebetcb or
uot. The huntsman 11trenuously denied it, and said he
was just got out of bed, and his.wife affirmed the same.
OB' being informed of what had happened to his master,
hOth man aud wife feU ill with the conceit ~ the man is
since pretty well recov~red, but the woman still con-
tinues in a state of distraction. Barlow himself has
been greatly shooked about it ; he insists on the r~lity
of the appearance ; and Mrs. Barlow affirms, she
heard the hunl.!!man that morning talking with her hus-
band.
Gentleman's Magazine,,July, 181 ~.
BVIOENCE OF A.N APPARITION.
E:ctratted fl'om the Record# of tlie c.,urt of Justiciary ht·
Edin/Jurglt.
UPON the 10th of June, 1754,. Duncan Tcrig, alias
Clarke, and Alexander Bain Macdonald,. were tried at
Edinburgh, before the Court. of Justiciary, for the
murder of Arthur Davis, serjeant in General Guise's
regiment of foot, on the 28th of September, J749.
. In the course of the proof for the crown, Alexander
M'Pherson deposed, that an apparition came one night,
when he was in bed, to his bed side, and he supposing
his visitor to be one 1''arquhanon, hill acquaintance, got
up and followed.it to the door, when it told him. it was
Serjeant. Davies, and desired him to go to a place it,
p.ointed out to him in the Hill of Christie, where he
would find its bones; and further reqnested, that be
should go to Farquharson, who would. accompany· him.
1o the· hill. ancl ussist· Jum in. burying them~; that he.
went to.theijla11e pointed. out; and.therie fo~nd a human.
body, of wbicb.: the flesh was m.ostli consumed, bu~ at.
-
280 . IUSSA<IRE OP ST. BARTHOLOMEW.
that time he did not bury it. A few nights afterwards
the ghost paid him a second visit, and reminded him of
his promise to bury the bones, and upon his enquiring
who was the murderer, the ghost told him they were D.
Clarke &.11d Alexander M'Donald. After this second
apparition, the witness and FarquharBOn went and
buried the bones.
Another witness, Isahella M'Hardie, deposed, that
she was in the same house with .l\l'Pherson, and that
she saw a naked man come into the house, and go to-
wards M'Pherson's bed.
Donald· Farquharson confirmed the testimony of
M'Pherson, as to the finding of the body, and his as-
sisting in burying it. He likewise deposed, that
M'Pherson told him of the ghost's visit, and also of its
request to get him (Farquharson) to assist him in bury-
ing the body.
The prisoners were acquitted principally on ·account
of the evidence of these witnesses, whose information
from the ghost threw an air of discredit on the whole
proof. The agent for the prisoners told the relator of
this extraordinary story (that as they were then both
dead) he had no difficulty to declare, that in his own
opinion they were both guilty.
THE MASSACRE OF ST, BARTBOLOMRW.
TRIS atrocious affair, perhaps one of the most
bloody tragedies with which the page of history iis
stained, is on good authority, said to have been prog-
nosticated in several ways, and even a considerable
time before its perpetration.
Sinclair, in h~ lnrJillible World, says, " the histories
of the time is full of secret warnings and notices, given
Ly the apparitions -of invisible agent<! ia dream. Ad._
MASSACRE OF ltr. BARTROLOMRW. 281
miral Coligni had no less than three partioular notices
given him by dreams, that his life was in danger, and
that he would be murdered if he stayed in Paris ; an
expre~s was sent him from the Count S--, atSaumur,
to make his escape and flee for his life before it was too
late: nay, it was e'fen said that the King of Navarre,
afterwards Henry IV. sent a private Di~age to him to
be"gone, and if he staid one night longer he would find
it impossible ; but it was all i,n vain, he was deaf and
indolent to his own safety."
" Others who were more-obedient to the lleavenly
vision, more touched than with the sense of their dan·
ger, as the Count de Montgomery, the Vidame of Char-
tres, De Caversac; and who had severally, and some
of them jointly, timely warning of their danger, mounted
their horses and fled the night before, and foiling the.
vigilance of their pursuel"!I made their escape."
Henry lV. said many timeci in public, that after the
massacre of St. Bartholomew, a swarm of ravens flew
upon the top of the Louvre, and that during seven nights,
the king himself, and all the· courtiers, heard groans
and dreadful cries, at the same hour. He related a yet
.. more extraordinary circumstance ; he said, that a few
days previous to the massacre, while playing at dice
with the Duke of Alencon, and the Duke of Guiile, be
@a\\· drops of blood upon the table ; that twice he or-
dered them to be wiped off, and twice they appeared
again, and then, he left the game struck with horr(!r.
Mezeray in bis History of France, relates the follow.
ing fact; a0
few years before the massacre of St. Bar-
tholomew, the guardian of the Convent of the ·Corde·
liers of Saiuts, whose name was Michael Crellet, hav-
ing been condemned to be hanged by Admiral Coligny,
iS2 ltE.ATB OP KBPiaY THE Tfll&D.
be1old him that be wO.Ud die 8888SSin.ated, that his
~ woulci lie tbrewn oat of.the windows, and that
.&el'W'ards he would be· hanged himself, which hap-
peaed to the Admiral at. tlw massacre of St. Bartho-
. lomew.-Yoltoire-Notu to Henriade.
PROGNOSTICATED DEATH OF BBNRY Ill. OF F.RANCE.
WuEw Henry the third, king of France, was as-
11assinated at the siege of Paris, by a monk of the c.rder
of St.. Francis, whose name was Jacques Clement, it
was publicly said, and believed by many, that this fa-
natical monster had received an order from heaven, to
destroy a king, who was then fighting against the re-
bellious clergy. We read the followin11; narrative in a
book publi$hed by a jacohin friar, and printed at Troyes,
in the province of Champaign, some time after the death
of Henry the third ; we tran~late it from the old French
language :- .
" So that God, hearing favourably the prayer of this
faithful servant, whose name was brother Jacques Cle-
ment, one night while he was in hed, sent to him his
angel in a vision, who. appearing with a great light to
the monk, and showing him a nal:ed sword, ·addresl!ed
him with these words:-
'Brother Jacques, I am the messenger of God Al-
mighty, who cometh to inform thee, that by thee,
the tyrant of France must be put to death. Think
tbou, therefore, for thyself, and prepare thyself, a.~ the
crown of martyrdom is prepared for thee.' Having
11poken thus, the vision disappeared, and let him think
on those words of truth."
283
ALEXANDER PEDBN.
TBis extraordinary man was once imprisoned .in th.
.Bass, a stupendous crag in the Highlands oi SeotlMld,
used as a place of confinement for state and other pri-
soners.
" One sabbath morning," says the narrator, " heintr
in the public womb ip of God, a young girl about the
age of fourteen years, came to Peden's chaml>er-door,
mooking with.loud laughter; he said, 'poor thing, tbo&-
laughest and mockest at the worship of God, but ere
long, God shall write such a surprising judgment on
thee, that shall stay this laug_hing,' &c. '' Very
11hortly after that, as she was walking on the rock, a
b.last of wind swept her off to the sea, where she was
!mt."
.RBMARKABLE DREAM OF THE CELEBRATED MIS1! DUTTON.
Tuts lady was the daughter of the late Dr. Charles
Hutton, one of the first mathematicians of his time. A
few days before her death, whioh took place in October,
179-t, she had.a remarkable dceam, which her friends
thought so curious, that they desir~d her to write it
down, which she immediately did, literally' In the fol-
lowing words.
" I dreamed that I was dead, and that my soul had
ascended into one of the stars ; there I found severaf
pei·son8 whom I had formerl~ known, and among tl1em
llQme of the nuns whom I was particularly attached to
when in France~• They told rue, when they received'
me, they were glad to see me, but hoped I should not
stay with them long, the place being a kind of purga-
tory; and .that all the stars were for the reception of
diiferent people's souls, a different star being allotted for
·• She had been for twe years ed11C11ted u a nan til!t"· .
rng;1;zed by Google
284 .CONV.&llSION. OF HENRY DE JOYEUSE.
every kind of bad temper and vice ; all 1he sharp tem-
pers went to one star, the sulky to another, the peevish
to another; and so on. Every body in each star, being
of the samo temper, no one would give up to another,
and there was nothing but dissension and quarrels
among them. Some of those who received me, taking
offence at the information my friends were giving to me
a child, it made a quarrel, which at length became so
rude and noisy, that it awoke me.''
· Gentleman's Magazine.
CONVERSION OF HE~R DE. JOYEU&B.
Vicieux, penitent, Court' , Solitaire,
~~1 It prit, quitta, l't'prit lac et la baire.- VoLTAIRB.
THESE lines admirably describe the character and
fortune of Henry de Joyeuse, Count of Bouchage,
and second brother of the Duke of Joyeuse, who was ,
killed at the ba~tle of Contras. Voltaire relates the fol-
lowing fact concerning this individual :
"One ,day, at four o'clock in the morning, pas.c;ing
by the convent of the Capuchin Friars at .Pari.~, after a
night spent in debauchery, he fancied that he heard
angels singing matins in the convent. Struck with this
thought, he became a capuchin friar, and took the name
of brother angel. Afterwards he left the frock, and
fought against Henry IV. The Duke of Mayenne ap·
• pointed him Governor of Languedoc, and created him a
duke and peer, and a marshal of France. At length he
made his peace with the king, but one day, being with
his Majesty on a balcony, under which a great crowd
wero assembled; 'Cousin,' so.id Henry IV. '..those
people appear to me very pleased to see together an
apostate, and renegade.' ThP.se words of the king in-
duced Joyeuse to- return to his convent, where he died."
285
APPARITIO!'C TO NINON DB L'ENCLOS,•
IN the year.1633, ac;the famous Mademoiselle Ninon
de L'Enc/os, ono day sat alone in her chamber, her
servant announced the arrival of a stranger, who desired
to speak with her, but refused to tell his name. The
young lady made answer that she was engaged with
company. "No, no," said the stranger to the lacquey;
"I know well that Miss is by herself, and for that very
reason call upon her at present. Go, tell her, I have
secrets of the last moment to impart, and cannot take a
refusal." This extraordinary message, by exciting female
c•uiosity, procured the stranger admittance. He was of
lo"· stature, of an ~ngraciOus a~pcct, and his grey hairs
bespoke ap;e. He was dressed in black, without a
sword, wore a calotte (a small leather cap which covered
the tonsure) and had a large patch on his forehead; in
his left hand he held a very slender cane ; his features
were expressive, and his eyes sparkled vivacity. "Ma-
dam," said he, on entering the apartment, "please to
make your waiting maid retire; my words are noi
for third persons to hear."-Miss L'Enclos was much
alarmed at this preamble ; hat reflecting she had to do
• Ninon de L'Encloswas born at Paris, of a noble family, in 1615.
Her mother was anxious to place her in a convent, but wu prevented
by her father, who was a msn or gaiety. She lost her parents at
the age offiftf.'len, aqd possessing the moatfssclnatingpenonai beauty,
she was followed by Rome or the ftnt men of her time, .but would
never unite herself in marriage. She died at the age of ninety,
and what is most singiilar, preserved her charms to the last. A re.
111arkable clrcomstance is related of one of heeaSO.!!!z. who· haring
. Ileen bred·11ithout knowing his mother, couceh a deaire·Ji>r her,
bqt havingdi~vered the secret of hill birth, be stabbed laillll8lfin her
presence, thus prest'nting a 1uos& extr!Wl'llinuy iutaoce .of llllll&-
·wral and penerted paai1111 I
286 APPARITION TO NINON L1
GNCLOS.
with a decrepit old man, mustered up some resolution
and dismissed her maid.-" Let not my visit alarm you,
Madam; said the stranger. It is truo I do not honour
all indi.criminately with my presence, hut be assured
you have nothing to fear. All I beg is, that you would
hear me with confidence and attention. You see before
you a man whom the earth obeys, and whom nature
ha11 invested with the power of dispensing her gifts. I
presided at your birth; the lot of mortals depends upon
my rod ; and l have condescended to ask what lot you
would wi,h for younielf; the preient is hut the
-dawn of your brilliant days. Soon you shall arrive at
that period, when the gates of the world shall fly open
to receive you ; for it depends wholly upon yourself to
bo the most illustriou~, and the most prosperous lady of
your age. I submit to your choice supreme honours,
immense riches, and eternal beauty. Take which you
chuse, and depend upon it, there P.Xists not a mortal
who can make you the same ample offer."-" That I
verily believe,'' replied the fair ~ne in a fit of laugl1ter;
."besidet yo11r gif1s are so very splendid." "I hope, Ma-
dam, you have too much good sense to .make sport of a
etrager. ·Once more, I seriously make you thfl same
·offer, liut decide instantly." "Then trnly, Sir, since
you are so good as to give me my choice, I hesitate ·not
to fut upon eternal heauty; but bow, pray, am I to
·obtain such an inestimable prize ?" '' Madam, all I ask
is, that you conld put down your name in my tablets,
ancl swe!lr invioJablo secrecy!'. Mademoiselle de l'En-
oloe, in."tantly replied, and wrote her name upon a black;
memorandum•book with red edges. Tho old man
at the .me time struck her gently upon theleft shoulder
With his wand.· · "This now," resumed he, "is the
whole cerom®y; henceforth, rely upon ewmal beauty,
o,oitized by Google
. APPARlll'lON TO NINON L'ENCLOI. 287
and the sabjugation of every heart. I bestow on.yoµ
unlimited powers uf cbarmiog,-the most precious priv~
lege a tenant of this nether orb can enjoy. D.uri.ng tbt
six thousand years that I have perambulated this glob.e,
I have only found four who were worthy of such rare
felicity. They were Semiramis, Helen, Cleopatra, and
Diana of Poiteux; you are the fifth, and I am determined
sball he the last. You shall be ever fresh and ever
hloomiug: charms and adorations shall track your steps:
whoever beholds you, shall that instant be cq.ptivated,
and they whom you love shall reciprocl:l.lly love you;
you shall enjoy uninterrupted health and longevity with-
out appearing old. Some females seem born to be~itch
the eye, and some the heart; but you alone, are fated
to unite these different qualities : you shall taste ofplea-
sure at an age when others of your sex are beset with
decrepitude; your name shall live, while the world ~n­
dures-1 am aware, Madam, that all thi.'! will appear to
you like enchantment, but .ask me no quei.tions, for I
dare not answer a word. In the course of your. life
you shall see me .
once again, and that ere founoortl
years be run. Tremble then! for three short days shall
close your existence! Remember, my ~ame ia Night
Walker." With these words he vanished, aud left .the
Miss of eternal beauty shivering with fear.
Tkis lady of amor.ous memory, adds the naaatoc
had a second visit from the gentleman in black, in the
y.ear 1706, as she lingered on her death-bed. ln $pitc
-0£ the efforts of servants, he had found his way into
her apartment; he stood by her bed, opened the car.
iains and gaze«;!. The patient turned pale, and shrieked
aloud. The unwe}OOIJ)e guest, after reminding her that
the third day w~uW be that of her dissolution, c:xlaibi~
ller o~n signat11re, ~nd. di»appea.rod, as 1-o e~ciaimed
t88 MISS Bli:PB11llNE.
wil.h a hideowi voice, "Tremble, for it is past, and you'
are to fall." · The third day came, and L'Enclos was
no more.
APPARITION TO MISS BRPBURNl!l OF GARLBTON',
.,,,,..- In the ScottilA HighlmuU.
RATHER more than fifty years ago, an old maiden
lady, Miss Janet Hepburn, sister to Colonel Hepburn,
of Luft'ness and Congalton, of good family, was the
tenant of one of the now decayed wings of the 'mansion
house of Garleton. She is dE>.scribed as a taJI thin
figure, who wore a black silk cloak and bonnet, and
walked with a large cane, ornamented with a gold
chain and tassel, Khe l1ad also a great deal of eccentri-
city in her conduct; for she often walked at dead of
night and early dawn, till she was so wetted by the
dews and the long dank grass, that on her return home,
she had to shift her clothes or go to bed. Add to this,
that she had the misfortune to be a papist, and was
very ostensible in her devotions ; so that we need not
wonder that she was regarded by the superstitious of
the neighbourhood, with no small degree of terror and
aversion.
Having sauntered out one morning till near !!Unrise,
she !lat down on the craggy hill, when " an odd looking
man," as she termed him, approached her. She waved
ber cane to keep off the intruder, who, after muttering
101nething, went away. The lady immediately returned
home ; but during the day, could not banish the unwel-
come visitor from her thoughts. At night, after locking
the outer door, and placing the key below her pillow,
she went to bed as usual, at a late hour. In vain she
end.eavoured to compose herself to sloep, and to dissipate
the troublesome thought." that arose· in her mind ; at
length she beard 1he outer door open, and a heavy ~ '
MISS HEPBURNE. 289
come tramping up the creaking stairs; something.opened
the door, and entered the room adjoining to her .bed-
closct; the door .of the latter next opened, and she again
beheld the.unwelcome visitor-thespectre of the morning.
She was only able to articulate, " Who comes there?''
when the stranger replied, " this is my native place, and
I have a long history to tell you!'' The lady thinking
th~ intruder was a robber, pointed to a small box con-
taining her keys, and bade him take what he wanted,
and be gone. The mysterious personage still wi<;hed to
speak ;·but as she waved her hand; and inclined· not to
listen, he disappeared. As he retired, she again heard
the heavy foot tramping down the creaking stairs, till
the slashing of the outer door announced his exit.
Although the lady passed a sleepless night, she was
unwilling to disturb the _inmates of her hopse, which
consisted only of a maiden lady and a domestic. Next
morning, when the servant came for the key of the
outer door, she told her what had happened, and that
she imagined robbers had been in the house. ThA maid
bad also the imperfect recollection of some voice ; but
it was like the voice of a dream. At her lady's desire,
she immediately went to the press where the family
plate was deposited, but found it unmolested; the silver
wine cup stood on the mantle piece, below the crucifix,
untouched, and the outer door Iemained fa.st ; in short,
every thing stood. in its place,as on the preceding evening.
It was the impression of the le3s superstitious pa.rt of
the neighbourhood, that the old lady was superannu-
ated, and that the ghastly visitant was the creature of a
dream. Be this as it may, on that day twelvemonth,
the lady of Oarleton was seized with a convulsive fit
in the evening, and expired about the same ho11r at mid-
night that she bad had an interview with th<' unwelcome
0
visitor. I have only to add, that the person from whom
I had the prececling story is of unquestionable veraoi~,
and that she had often heard it from .the lady's owu
lips.
'l'be ruins of the mB.Dsiou house still .remain ~t the
foot of Garleton bills, and are a fine miniature specimea
of Highland scenery.
APPARITION TO MR. WESTON; OF OLD SWINFORD,
WORC&STEJl.SHIRE.
IN the summer of 1759, Mr. Weston was walkia,;
one evening in the beautiful park of Lord Lyttleton, at
Hagley, (characterized in Thomson'11 Seasou, tb. Bri-
tish Tempe,) when being overtaken by a ·shower of rain,
ran into a grotto, and stood beneath a spreading oak ;
under the shade of which several cattle were grazing.
He had not been above ten minutes in that situation,
hefore he saw the form of a man pass over the brook
close to the shade. Supposing it to be a peor peasant
who had long worked for him, he called him by name.
hut received no answer ; and the apparition quiokly dis-
appearing, his mind wa<i much agitated. Regardless of
the storm, Mr. Weston withdrew from his asylum, and
walk~d round a rising hill, to endeavour to di:reo,·er the
form which bad presented itself to him. That, however,
had not the effect desired ; but one abundantly more
salutary it certainly had, for just as he had gained the
·1lummit of a hill, on his retlll'B to the.grotto, a tremen- ·
dous flash of lightning darted it!I forked mry on &he
venerable oak, shivered it to pieces, and killed two of
&he cattle urider its boughs.
On Mr. Weston's return to Swinford, he found ttae.t
the death of the labourer was just announced in the
neigebourhood_. He instantly related t8e eil'OUIM&nc.
-I
2U
to bis friend. He bad the body deeently intetrecl at
bis own expense ; and afterwards contributed to the
support of the widow, not only by remitting a year's
rent for her cottage and piece of ground, hut al:.o by
settling a small annuity upon her till she should marry.
SECOND-SIGHT.
SuPRllSl'ITION has been universally attributed to tl1e;-:::::=:::
Scottbh character, and it forms a prominent feature in
its history. The author of Waverley bas availed himself
of their most popular Northern legends, and on them he
may be said to havP laid the basis of his literary fame;
indeed, they may be considered a.-t adding a peculiar
charm to Scottish literature.
Among- these traditions none are better authenticated
than those of SECOND SroeT, which subjod has been
specia]lj treated by l"ariou5 authors, at considerable
length.• •
Martin gives the following account of it:•
'~econd-sigbt is a singular faculty of seeing an other..
wise invisible object, without any previous means used by the
penon that uses it for that end; the vision makes such a lively
impression upon the seers, that they neither see, nor think of
any thing eTse, except the vision, as long as it continues; and
then they appear pensive or jovial, according to the object
which was represented to the~.
" The seer knows neither the object, time, nor place, of a
vision, before it appears; and the same object is often seen \
by ditferent persons, living at a considerable distance from one
another. The true way ofjudging as to the time and cirrum.
stance of an object, is by observation ; far several persous of
judgment, without this faculty, are more rapable to judge of
the design of a vision, than a novice that is a seer. If an
object appear in the day or night, it will come to pass sooner
or later accordingly. · ·
• D~scriptiuo of the Weotern l lao«> of' ~cotliu11', 8vo, 1103. I
0 2 .
292 SECOS D SIGHT.
" If an object is seen early in a morning (whjth is not fre-
quent,) it will be accomplished in a few hours afterwards. If
at noon, it will be commonly accomplished that very day. If
in the evening, perhaps that night; if after candles be lighted,
it will be accomplished that night: the later ;µways in accom-
plishment, by weeks, months, and sometimes years, according
to the time of night the vision is seen. .
" When a shroud is perceived about one, it is a sure prog-
nostic of death; the time is judged according to the height of
it about the per:;on; for if it is seen above the middle, death
i; not to be expected for the space of a year, and perhaps
some months longer; and as it is frequently seen to ascend
higher.towards the head, death is concluded to be at hand
within a few days, if not hours, as daily experience con-
. firms. Examples of this kind were shewn me, when the per·
sons Of whom the observations were then made, . enjoyed
perfect health.
" One instance was lately foretold by a seer that was a
novice, concerning the death of one of my acquaintance i
this was communicated to a few only, and with great confi..
dence: I being one of the number, did i1ot iii the least regard
it, until the death of the person, about the time foretold, did
confirm me of the certainty of the prediction. The novice
mentioned above, is now a skilful seer, as appears from many
late instances; he Jives in the parish of St. Mary, the most
northern in Skie.
" If two or three women are seen at once, near a man'•
left hand, she that is next hrm will undoubtedly be his wife
first, and so on, whether all three, or the man, be single or
married at the time of the vision or not; of which there are
several late instances among those of my acquaintance. It is
lln ordinary thing for them to see a man that is to come to
the house shortly after; and if h!l is not of the seer's ac·
quaintance, yet he gives such a lively description of his stature,
complexion, habit, &c. that upon his arrival he answers the
character given him in all respects.
" It is ordinary with them to see houses, gardens, and trees
in places void of all three ; and this in progress of time uses
to be accomplished : as at Mogshot, in the isle of Skie, where
oigiLeJbvGoogle
S.BCOND SIGHT. 293
there W«!f'e but a few sorry cow-house&, thatched with straw,
yet in a very few years after, the vision, which appeared often,
was accomplished, by the bulling of several good houses on the
very spot represented by the seers, and by the planting of
orchards there.
" To see a spark of fire fall upon one's arm or breast, is a
forerunner o( a dead child to be seen in the arms of those
persons; of which tim'e are several fresh instances.
" To see a seat empty at the time of one's sitting in it, is
.a presage of that.person's death soon after.
" When a·novice, or one that has latelyobtained the second
sight, sees a vision in the night-time without doors, and comes
near a fire, he presently falls into a swoon.
" Some find themselves as it were in a crowd of people,
having a corpse which they carry along with them; and after
such visions the seers come in sweating, and describe the
people that appeared : if there be any of their acquaintance
among them, they give an account of their names, as also or
the bearers~ but they know nothing concerning the corpse."
Dr. Johnson, in hi-; Journey to the Hebrides, says:
" The Second-sight is a!1 impression made either by
the mind upon the eye, or·by the eye upon the mind,
by which tbings distant or future are perceived and seen
as if they ·were present. A man on a journey far from
home, falls from hi3 horse ; another, who is perhaps at
work about the house, sees him bleeding .on the ground,
commonly with a land.'lcap~ of the pj~e where the acci-
dent befalls him. Another seer, driving home his cattle,
or wandering in idleness, or musing in the sunshine, is •
suddenly surprised by the appearance of a bridal cere-
mony, or funeral procession, and counts the mournm'!I
or attendant.~, of whom, if be knows them, he relates
their names ; if he knows them not, be can describe the
drosses. Things .distallt .are seen at the instant when
they happen. Of things future I know not that there
HCOJilD 8168'1.
is any rule for determining tile time between the ttigbt •
and the event.
" By the term second-sight seems to be meant a
mode of seeing superadded to that which nature be-:
stows. ID the E81Se it is called Taisclz ,· ·which siglli-
fies, likewise, a spectre, or a vision. I kn<;!w not, nor
is it likely, that the Highlaoderi ever examioetl,
whether by Taiaeh, u&ed for the aecond-iligltt, they mean
the power of 8eeing, or the thing see11. I do not fimtl
it to bf! true; as it is reported, that to the sccond·s~ht
nothing is presented but phantoms of evil. Good seems
to have the same proportion in those visionary scenes a.o;
it obtains in real life: almost all remarkable events have
evil for their basis, and are either miseries iucurred, or
miseries escaped. Our &eft&e is so ,mueh stroogEtr cf
what we .11uWer, than of what we enjoy, that the idea
ol pain p*omina'8 in almost eyery mind. What is
recollection but a revival of vexations, or history but a
record of wars, treasons, and calamities? Death, which
it considered as the greatest ovil, happens to all. 'fhc
greatest good be it what it may, is the lot but .of a part.
That they should often sei:i death is to be expected, be-
cause death is an event frequent and important: But
they see likewise more pleasing incidents. ·A gentleman
told me, that when he hnd once gone far from his owu
1s1and, one of-t.ie l<>.hou.ring irervantll predicted his return,
and described the livery of his attendants, which he had
neYer worn at home ; and which had been, without
any previous design, occasionally given him."
We now proceed to quote a few illlltances of this
remarkable faculty :-
Prognoatlcatcd Death.
- A GENTLBMAN tavelling in the Highlands, in the-
year 1634, with a retinue of servllllts, ordered one uf
SBCONt> SIGHT. ~95
them to precede him, and bespeak accommodation iOr
him at an inn, in tho neighbouring town. On enteringthe
hot189 the man suddenly stepped back, and fell by a stone,
against which he struck his fo~t. On his master ques.
tioning him as to bis fean, he said, be must not lodge
In that house. The master asked him the reason, when
he replied, because a dead corpse would very shortly be
canied out of it ; and that several persons met him nt
the door; cmying the body, when he cried out. He
conjared his master .not to lodge in the house, which in-
duced the latter to inquire if there was any sick pereon
there, when he was answered in the negatiTe. The
la11dlord, a strong healthy Highlander, died the next
day, of an apoplectic fit.
In January,. 1652, Lieut. Col. Munro was quartered __.,...
io a publio-honse in 1'"'e1Tinlia, in R~e. The Colonel
and a friend were one evening seated .by ihe fire, with
a vacant chair on the left of the former. In tho comer
of a capacious chimney were two Highlanden, who ha4
arrived tilat evening. While one of them was in con-
ver:J&tion with Monro's friend, the other looked·strangely
towards the Colonel; on being asked bis meaning ho
desired•him to rise from that chair, because it was an
unlucky one. On being asked why, he said there was a
dead man int~ chair next to it. The Colonel replied,
" Well, if he be in the chair nest mf!, I may keep my
own ; b11t describe the man." The Highlander replied
that he was a.tall man, wearing a long grey coat, wida:
boots, one of his legs hanging over the arm of the chair,
bis bead lianging on the other side, and his "1'112 hanging
clown, as if broken. At that time there were some
English izoops CJDarlered in the adjoining village. AJK>ut
·two days afterwards four or five of thete troops rode ·by
21J6 SBCOND SIGHT.
the door of the ii:. .who, with t"i: ~istance of some
servants were carrying one of their comrades, who had
his arm broken. They brought him into the hall, and
set him in the chair which the Highlander had !lingu-
larized to Colunel Monro a few days previous.
A gentleman connected with the family.of Dr. Fer-
~er, an officer in the army, wa.<i quartered .early.in life,
in.the middle of the eighteenth century, near the castle
of a gentleman in the north of Scotland, who·was sup-
posed .to p011se<s the second-sight. _ Strange rumours
were afloat respecting the old chieftain : he had spoken
to an apparition, which ran ·along the battlements of
the house, and had never been cheerful afterwards :. his
prophetic vision excited surprise which was fayoured by
hi!! retired habits. One day, while he was reading a
play.to the ladies of thisfamily, the chief, who had been
walking across the room, stopped ruddeoly, and asswned.
the look of a seer: he rang the bell, and ordered the
groom to saddle a horse, to proceed immediately to a seat
in the neighbourhood, and to inquire after the health. of
Lady ; if the account were favourable, he
then directed him to call at another castle, to ask after
another lady whom he named. The reader immediately
closed his book, and declared that he would not proceed
tpl these abrupt orders were.explained, as he was con-
fident they were produced by the second-sight. The
c.hief was very unwilling to expl8.in hiniself, but at
length he owned that the door had appeared to. open,
and that a little woman, without a head, had entered
the room; that the apparition indicated the sudden death
ofsome person of his acquaintance, and the ouly two
persons who resembled the figure were those ladies after
whoae health he had.&ent to inquire. ·
o,oitized by Google
. DUEL PREVENTBlt. 291
A few hours afterwards the servant returned, with an
account that one of the ladies bad died, ofan apoplectic
fit, about the tiln~ when the.vision appeared.
Aubrey, Beaumont, Baxter, Glanvill, Scutt, &c.
abouod with similar narratives, but contain none of less
impeached veracity, than the preceding.
DUEL PREVENTRD.
THOMAS HoaTON, esq. a gentleman of fortune~ had
an intrigue with a lady, in which bis younger brother
was his rival. The lady .was handsome, ·and of
respectable fortune, but much inferior 1o the eld~ .son
of the family, whose expectant fortQne was near two
thou&and pounds per annum, after the death .of bis
father Sir George Horton.
The younger gentlem~n was really in love with the
lady, and inclined to .marry her, if be could .bring bis
father to c;onsent to it, and had two or three times
~pok1m to the knight on the subject; nor was hi!S
fatlu~r averse 1o.it, except that he thought her fortune
toosmall•.
. The rivalry between the two brothers continued for
~me tim~; save~ quarrels took place, when one
evening, the younger brother received a challenge
from .the elder, appointing time aild place to meet tlte
next morping at five o'clock. The father, who was
then living, could .know nothing. of .what.had .passed
between his. sons, for be was at his- seat in Wiltshire,
sixty miles from London, when this affair.took place.
On :the morning appointed, they accordingly met,
when the youoger bro_tbcr seeing his antagonist at a
·distance said, I am sure I am within time; don't be
impatient, Tom, I'll b.e .with you presently: H~ had
not proceeded many steps, before he saw.his brother. (aa.
o3
DUllL PRSVBN'HO.
he «ill thought him to be) advaooing as if to meet him,
with his drawn sword in his hand.·
You are very nimble with ·your sword, said he.
what did you think I woutd not give you timeto draw?
hut how W8B he surprised, when he ·came up to him,
and found it was not his brother, but his ftdlaer; and
that, instead of a sword in his hand, he had a small
cane, such as the old knight generally walked with.
He was the more at a stand,_ because he supposed his
father W8S, as is siiid above, at his seat in Wiltshire,
above sixty mileiJ off; ho,wever, he was out of doubt,
when he not only snw him nearer hand, hut that hia
father spoke to him. .
Why how now, Jack. said the old gentleman, what,
challenge,• and draw_
upon your father ?
• Y 011 m1&y be sUt'e, Sir, said he, I did not suppose it
was you. ·I tnake no doubt but you know whom I
expected here_
; it is a poor cowardly shift tbr him fimt
to chaHenge- llis brother, and then send you iti bia
.~. H is QO time to talk now, .Jaek, said the
father, I have your challenge here, and I am oome te
-fight you, therefore.draw. Draw! says Jack, what, upon
my father! Heaven forbid~- no, I'll he m•rdered tit'9t.
But his fatber advancing ag,,.in, with a lbrio'lill eoun-
tenaooe, Jack pulled 011t bis sword and soabbard, and
throwing it on the ground, cried out, there, Sir, take it,
kill me with it :· what do you mean ? Bu\ his father
tunning upon him, J aok turned from him, and seemed
resolved to run from him : at whiob his father stooped,
took up his sword, and stood still. The young g.intle-
maa, surprised and amaaed at tbe ~neounter, knew not
• When be ttoapt be ..w his bnltber with his sword iii tili balld,
It& lad laitl Ida lllDt • Illa sword. ·
what to do ; but retiring, observed that bu. father: was
gone. He, however, resolved, thou11:h he had no sword,
he would go to the place appointed, and see if his brother
waa come. Accordingly he returned to the placl!, aud
waited near two hours there, but ·he~ud nothing of his .
brother; but on coming away, he found his sword lyiJJg
in the place where it wa.'I thrown down. This surprised
him still more, and at length he took up the sword, and
went home wondering at the meaning of all this.
He had not been long at home, before hi11 brother's
servant came to his lodgings vlith a civil message, to ask
him from bis brother, if lie had not met with something
extraordinary that morning, and to tell him, that he
(bis brother) was very ill or q, would have calfod 011
him. The oddness of this message added to his rurprise;
he called tlle messenger up stairs, and tbf! foll"''l'ing
dialogue ensued :-
J. What's the matter, Will? how is my brother?
Will. ·llJy master gl'fes bis wnice' to you, Sir, and Ritt • , to
bow bow you are.
J. Indeed; I'm a little out of order ; but bow ill yuur Altil~r,
what's the matter?
Will. Why 'truly 11nd't pleore yoo, Sir, I don't kno\V wbnt'li
tbe llllltter, I think my master bas been frightened thi1 morning.
J. J'riglttellM Will! wlCb wJlet, pr•ydlee? ya.r m11ller is nt1t
....,frigllae.ed. :
WU/. Why no. arul't It pleue you, I kno:a' be is not; but there 1"1•
been something extmordinary; I don't know bow it~. for I was 110t
with my master; but they talk in the house, that be has seen·Li•
fatller, - - an apparition hi bis fatbds ape.
J. W11J ~ hl'f• I too, Wm; aow 7oa lrfgl&t• me !atleed, h J
made llgbt of it before; why, It was my father to bo sure.
WiU. No, Sir, alas, your father! why, my aid mast« wat at
Sarum, in WilfBhlre, and yery ill In bis bed, but last Friday ; I c11D1e
fJQm him, my muter aent me to him on an «rand.
J. A.. 61 you - him ,.unelf, Wiii?
·. ·f'UI. I'll ..-•1 cath I law bla, ID4 epote to ~im, l• llil hell
DV&L PRKVBNTl.D~
ud ver, ill he wu; I bope 1.our worship will belleYe I know mJ l;i&d
masttr.
J. Yes, yea, you kno\V him, no doubt, Will. 1think you lived
four years with him, did you not ?
Will. I drelll!4 and uoo-1 him lhe yeais and a half, and't
pl- you; I tmalt I may say I know him in his clotbes or out of
them.
J. WeU, William, and I hope you will allow tbnt I know lily
father too,or him I have called father these thirty years.
Will. Yes to be swe, and't 11lense you.
J. Well, then, tell my brother, it was l'ither my father or the
devil; 1 botb saw bim and spoke with him, and I am frightened out
oC my wits. ·
. The. servant returned with this m~ to his
master, who .immediately went with Will to soe his
'brother.
As aoon as he came i~to the ,room to his brother, '\ear
Jack said he, we have both played the fool, but forg\ve
me my part, and tell me what has happened. The
servant bad previously acquainted the elder brother with
the appear&l)cie of bis father to him that morning.
The other then related his story to the same purpose;
that as he was coming to the place appointed, bis father
met him, and asked him whither he was going ; that he
put him off, and told him he was going to Kensingto~
to meet some gentlemen there, who. were to go with him
to Hampton-Court. That upon this, bis fa1lier seemed
very a•gi-y ; and said that he knew his errand as well
as he did myself; that be was going to murder his
younger brother, and that be was come to satisfy his
fury himself, and that be should murder him, not bis
brother.
The brothers now became reconciled: but Jack wu
uneasy about this being the real appearance of his.father;
and the words of his brother's man William. ran in his
mind all that night; for as to this 6nt ~. it wa.~
DUBL PRBVKN.TED. 301
so taken up with the ecstacy of their reconciliation,' that
they had no time for any thing else; but the next-mom:
ing the young gentleman went to see his brother, to
- -retrun his visit.
· The young men were now very uneasy about one
part of the story ; accordingly they set off fer their
father's residencP. They found him at home, and very
ill, nor had he even been from home, but was greatly
concerned for the safety of bis sous, upon the following
-occasion:
· One night he was surprised in his sleep with a dream,.
or rather a vision, that his two sons had fallen out about
· a mistress; that they had quarrelled so as to challenge
each other, and were gone into the fields to fight; but
ihat somebody had given him notice of it, and he bad
got up in the morning at four o'clock to m~t and pre-
vent them. Upon thi11 dream, he awaked in .great
disorder and terror; however, finding it but a dream lie
had composed his mind and gone to sleep again, but
that he dreamed it again. That in consequence of this
dream, he had sent a servant to ascertain if there had ,
been anysuch breac,h ; and earnestly to press_
them, ifany
breach had happened, that they would consent to let
him modiate between them. This wai1 the contents of
a letter, which arrived in town a few hours after they
were set out. It should be here mentioned, that
the old gentleman could not have been in London; for
be had l!Carce been a whole day from off his bed.--'S~
clair'1 lnvilible World.
THE SA.MPFORD GHOST, in 1810.
Tss narrative of the Sampford apparition is, we.be-
lieve, the last of its kind on record, of authenticated cha-
nu;ter. Itexcited intense interest in the cowity of Devon,
TB& SAlllPJl'OaD GBOST.
which was not a little increased by the circumstance of
a clergyman of the established church, the Rev. C. C.
Colton, publishing an account of the whole transaction.
Jt took place at the house of on.e Mr. John Chan, in
the Tillage of Sampford RevereU, Devon, abo1tt five
miles from Tiverton, in the year 1810.
As is usual on all such occasions a vuicty of wilful
misrepresentations were propagated on the subject; hut
the history publbbed by Mr. Colton is certainly e11-
titled to our preference, on account of the J'el'Kpicuit,r
which· charatrt.erises iii! details, and with ·whieh we
shall proceed forthwith.
Mr. Colton, says the hon98 became extremely tron-
blesonre, SJl"flking in September, I810, although Jong
hei:>re that time some very unaccoun'-ble things bad
occasionally taken place in it. An apprentiee boy ~
UJ>!U.<ied hi1J11elf often dreoofully alarmed by the appa-
rition of a woman, and had beard some extraordinary
sound in tho night, but little or no atteutiou was paid to
it. But about April the inhabitant& of the house were
~ alarmed in the following manner : noise11 and blowii by
day were .beard, extremely loud, in every apartment ot
the hou•e. On going up stairs and &tamping on any of
the bOards of the ftoor in any room, say five or six times,
Of more, COlTesponding blows, but generally Jooder, and
more in number, would be instantly returned; the vibza-
tion of these boards caused by the violence of the blows,
would be sensibly felt through a shoe or boot, oo the
sole of the foot, and the dust Was t.hrowu -up frOID 1he
boards that w&e beaten, with such velocity, as to affect
the eyes of the i!pectators.
At mid-day the cause of these-effects would MlllOunee
its ap11roacb, by amazingly loud knocking in IMllM
·apartment or other of the home, abo'fe stain or below,
TBB SilfPl'ORD GBOft.
u might hapPen, for at times more than a dozen wit-
neues have been pre1ent at once.
These noises would very often, and in repeated in~
11t.nces, absolutely follow the pe®Ds through any of
the upper apartments, and faithfully answer the stamp-
ing of their feet, wherever they went. And if pell!ODS
were in diff'el'81lt rooms, and one stamped with bis foot
in one room, the sound was repeated, and wan instant
was repeated on a st.amp iJl another room, and these
phenomena by day contint.ted ahnoat in00SW1tly for
about five ¥.'eeks, when they gradually gave place io
otben atill more cwious and alarming, viz. There are
two apartments in this hOQSe : whatever females sleep
in either of these apartments, (with the exception of
one Ii.ogle imtauee,) experienced some of them all, and
all of them some of the following se118&l.ion1; they are
moat dread.fully beaten, as bye-standers may hear and
witness. I am quite certain I have heard myself more
than two hundred blows given in the course of a night.
The blows given call be compared to noUling but a very
strong man striking with the greatest force he is master
of, with a clOled fist on the bed; which leave great
1ore1U111, ancl visible marks; I saw a 11wetling at least ~
big as a torlcey's egg Qll tbe cheek of Ann Milla; she
vol1mtaril7 made oath that &he W88 alone in the lied
when she received tho blow<J from some invisible hand.
Mrs. Denoia, and Mary Woodbury, hliYe both sworn'
-voluntarily before me, and Mr. S11lly tho exeiseman, and..
-Mr. Govett, that they were so much beaten, as to ex•
perience a peculiar kind of numboess, ana were IQl'e
maay daya after; and that tbc 1hiieks be heard hi1818lf.
and Mr. Govett, surgeon, w-.so terrible that tbev oouW
not be ooun\erfeiW. , •
TBB ITAJIPFORD GHOST.
Mr. Chave, the occupier of the hou11e, deposed, that
one night the two servants were_· so much agitated that
they refuSed to sleep any longer in · their apartment ;
Mr. Chave permitted them in the dead of the night to
·bring their bed and bed-clothes into the room. where he
and Mrs. Chave slept; after they had been quiet about
half an hour, and the light put out, a large iron candle-
stick began to move most rapidly over the whole room.
He could hear no footBteJltl, but in the act of ringing the
bell, the candlestick was violently thrown at his head,
which it narrowly missed. Mr. Searle, late keeper of
the county gaol, and a friend, watched one night ; they
saw a sword placed by them on the foot of a bed, with
a large folio Testament pla,ced on it, thrown liolently
against the wall, seven feet off. Mr. Taylor deposed
·that in going into the room in consequence of.the sbrieka
of the women, the sword that was before lying on the
floor, be saw clearly suspended in the centre of the
room, with it.s point towards him : in about a minuto it
fell to the ground with a loud noise.
On September 14th, Ann Mills deposed on oath before
MT. Sully and myself, that she was beaten so violently
on that night; and while sbiking a light she received a
very severe blow on the back, and the tinder-box wu·
forcibly wrenched oat of her hands and thrown into the
t.-entre of the room.
Mr. Sully the exciseman, and his wife, are ready to
swear to the troth of what they have heard.of thele
noises and thumpings, &c.; James Dodds, cooper, volun-
tarily made oath, September 14th, that in his work-
ibop adjoining Chave's house, be .had constant opport•;.
nitiea of hearing these noises. .. .
The Rev. Gentleman said the ·naiDes Of all Ute.le-
THE SAMPPORD GHOST. 305
males that have suffered are as follows, ·Mary Dennis,
i;en. Mary Dennis, jun. Martha Woodbury, Anne Mills,
Mrs. Pitts, and Sa:lly Case.
I ha,veseen a sword when placed in the handsofsoine
of.these women, repeatedly and violently wrested out of
them, after a space oi a few minutes, and tlu'l;>wn with
a very loud noise sometimes into the middle of the room ;
sometimes still more violently against the wall. This
sword I have heard taken up, and with it beat the bed,
· by its shaking the handlo in a particular mllnner; I have
placed a large folio Greek Testament, weighing eight or
nine pounds, on the bed; itbas heen repeatedly thrown
into the centre of the room. Mr. Pullen, Mr. Betty,
and himself have placed the Testament on the end of
the bedstead, in such a manner that no part touched tbe
bed-clothes, but it was thrown with a loud noise from
the foot of the bed to the bead : all this time the women
were in bed, and he is sure they never moved, and he
administered an oath to them the next morning in ibe
presence of the same gentlemen, I have often heard
the curtains of the bed most violently agitated, accom-
panied with a loud and almost indeieribahle motion of
the rings. These curtains, to prevent their motion, w~ro
often tied up, each one of them in one large ·knot, (he·
ing four.) Every curtain in that bed was agitated, and
the knots thrown and whirled about with such rapidity,
that-it would have been unpleasant.to ha~e been in their
vortex, or within the sphere of their actbn. Mr. Taylot,
and Mr. Chave, t>f Mere, (no relation to the occupier,)
werewitnessto allthis,and that took upabouttwominutes,
and concluded with a noise resembling the tearing of a
person's shirt from top to bottom, but on examination,
a rent was found across the grain of a strong new cotton
curtain. 1-have,heard in the pr~oncc ·ofother witnesses
306 TRR UMPFO&D GHOST. 1
footsteps walking by me, and round me, and one or two
candles burning, yet could see nothing. Mr. Quick
heard it come down stairs like a man's foot in a slipper,
and passed throligh the wall. I have been in the act
of opening a door, which was already half open,
when a violent rappiag was produced on the opposite of
U>e aame door; I paused a moment, and the rapping
continuod; I suddenly opened the door, yet I can swear
I could see nothing, with a candle in my hand. I hafc
been in one of the rooms that has a large modern win-
dow, when from the noises, knockings, blows on tbe
bed, and rattling of the curtains, I _!lid really begin tO
1hink the whole cham'!>er was falling in. Mr. Tayl~
was sitting in the chair the whole time ; the femalff
were so terrified that large drops stood on their fore-
heada. When in the act of beating the females in Olle
ood most violently,- and from the llOund of the blows,
apparently near the foot of the bed, I have rushed to
the spot, but it has instantly bren beard at the ll&Dlt!
moment near the head of the other bed.
Mr. Colton's statement was corroborated by the foJ..
lowing affidavit :-
• I DOW proceed to a short detail or circumstances, to the
truth of which, I have voluntarily sworn, with a safe and
clear c0nscience; I am well aware that all who know me,
would not require the sanction of an 'Oath, but as I 11111 now
addrelling the public, I must consider myselr before a tri-
bunal, of which my acquaintance coll8titutes a very unall
part. And first, I depose solemnly, that after an attendance
or six nights, (not successive,) at Mr. Chave's house, in the
village of Sampford, and with amind perfectly unprejudiced,
after the most minute investigation, and closest inspection of
all the premises, I am utterly unable to account for any orthe
phenomena I have there seen and heiird, and labour u thM
moment under no small perple:Wy, ariaing from a determina-
o,oitized by Google
TSlt SAMPtoRD GHOST, 307
Cion not slightly to admit of supernatural interferenee and an
impossibility of hitherto tracing these effecta to any human
cause. I farther depose, that in my visita to Mr. Chave'a
house, at Sampford, I never had .any other motive, direct or
indirect, avowed or concealed, but an earnest, and I presume,
not a culpable wish, to trace these phenomena to their true
and legitimate cause. Also, 'that I have in every instance,
found the people ol the house most wilting and ready to eon·
tribute'every thing in their power, and to co-operate with me
in the deteetion of the cause of those unaccountable aighta,
and. violent blows and sounds.
"Also, that I am so deeply convinced of the difficulty of
pro7ing these effects to be human, that I stand engaged to
forfeit a very considerable sum to the poor of my parish,
whenever this business, now going on at Sampford, shall be
made, appear to have been produced by any human art or
ingenuity, collectively, or individually exerted. Also, that
I have, in the presence of many gentlemen, repeatedly sworn
the domestics to this effect, namely,-that they were not only
utterly ignorant of the cause of those circumstances, which
then a5toniahed us, but also of the causes of many other
things, equally unaccountable, which we ou!'llelves did not
bear, nor see, but to the truth of which they also swore, no
less than to their perfect ignorance of the means by which
they were produced. Also, that I have affixed a seal with a
crest, to every door, cavity, &c. in the house, through which
any communication could be carried on ;-that this seal was
applied fo each end of sundry pieces of paper, in such a
manner, that the slightest attempt to open such doors, or to
pass aucb cavities, must have brokt-n these papers, in which
case my crest must have prevented their being replaced wiih-
out discovery; that none of these papers were deranged or
broken; and also, that the phenomena that night were as
unaCcountable as ever. Also, that I have examined several
women, quite unconnected with the family of Mr. Chave;
but who, some.from curiosity, and some from compassion,
have alept in this house-4bat many of them related the facta
on oath-that all of them wished to be ao examined, if re-
quired, and lutly, that they all agreed, without one ucep-
308 TUB SAMPFOBD GHOST.
tion, in this particular,-tbat their night'• rest was invariably
destroyed by violent blows from aome invisible hand-by an
unaccountable and rapid drawing and withdrawing of the
curtains-by a suffocating and almost inexpressible weight,
and by a repetition ofsounds, so loud, as at times to shake the
whole room.
" To the truth of the above cited particulars, I voluntarily
make oath, iu the presence of B. Wood, Master in Chan-
cery, Tiverton.
"B. Woon, M. C."
"I sl).all here subscribe the names of a few, selected from a
cloud of witnesses, on whose minds a sensible experience of
similar facts. hath produced similar convictions; facts, which
though they are willing to substantiate on oath, they are
utterly unable to trace to any human agency. The names
are as follows :- ·
Mr. JoHN Govarr, Surgeon, Tiverton.
Mr. BBTTY, Surft!OD, Tiverton.
Mr. PuLLtN, Merchant, Tiverton. •
Mr. Qu1ca, Landlord o( the White House, Tiverton.
Mr. Ms11soN, Surpon, Sampford.
Jou~ COWLINO, Eaq. Sampford.
Mr. CHAvs, Mere, near Huntsham.
All the&e gentlemen are ready, if called on, to depone to
their having witnessed circumstances in this house at Samp-
ford, to them perfectly inexplicable, and for which they are
utterly incapable to account.
C. CoLTON." ,
Mr. Colton published au appendix to bis narrative,
which was closed by the .following affidavit :-
" Thunday, September 27th, 1810, John Chave, William
Taylor, Jam~ Dodge, and Sally Case, voluntarily make oath
this day as follows:-• That they are entirely ignorant of the
cause of all those extraordinary circumstances that have and
are occurring in the house of Mr. Chave, in the parish of
Sampford. Also, that they have never made in or on any
~ of the premises, any sounds or noises, by day or night,
"
'l'HE SAMPFORD GHOST. 309
by _blows, or knockings, either with or without aninstrument,
in order to induce any one human being whatever to be-
li~ve, or even to think, that there· was any thing unaccount-
able or supernatural in the house. ,. Also, that they have
never requested any other person so to do, and that they
firmly believe no such attempts have been made by others.
·Also, that they have repeatedly beard in mid-day most violent
and loud noises in the house, when numerous persons nave
been assembled, some in the upper, and some in the lower
apartments, at the same time ; and all of them anxious and
eagerto discoverthe cause. Also, that the marks on the ceiling
have been made by the persons trying, but in vain, to imitate
the samesounds. Also, that to the best of their knowledge
and.belief, there are no subterraneous passages in or about
the house.'-Sworn before me, the 27th of September, 1810.
"J. GovETT, Mayor of Tiverton."
Talley, the landlord of the house, whose interest it
certainly was to rid his property of such visitations at
the moment that he brought it into the market for sale,
now pretended to have discovered the whole affair; but _
this was on.his own surmise, and not on the confession
of either party. The house was certainly in a shattered
condition, and somewhat out of repair: to this he as-
cribed the shaking, &c~ A cooper. a mopstick, and a
bludgeon, were likewise found concealed in the hou8e,
one night when Talley had arranged to sleep, there ;
but forsooth ! might not the cooper and his implements
have been placed there by Talley? With this broom-
- stick and bludgeon, the cooper was ~aid to have pro-
duced the rtoises ~ One Taylor, a young wag, was
magnified into a necromancer on this occasiou, and wa8
said to have communicated his cabalistic attainments to
Sally the servant; thus attempting to prove they were
both in the plot. This pretended exposure drew
down the vengeance of the populace on Chave at Tiver-
oiglizedbyGoogle
310 TBS UMPPOH GBOIT.
ton. imomucb, tlaat he narrowly osoapecl witll life.
Chave was even compelled to fire a pistol on hia -.
lltlilants, and one man fell dead on the spot.
Soon aftertbis Mr. Colton writes tlms:• "An affairis
atill going on in this neighbourhood, and known to the
public by the title of the Sampford Ghost, which might
puzzle the materialism of Hume, or the immaterialism of
Berkely. Here we have a visibie and incomprehensible
agent, producing vwblo and semible cffecta. Tile
newspapers were noi CJUile so aeeurate -as they mig1U
-have been in their statemenis on this oooasioa. Ji'inK
tbe real truth is, that the slightest shadow of an expla-
nation has not yet been given, and that there exist no
good grounds even f9r suspecting any one. · The public
were next given to understand that the disturbances had
ceased ; whereas it is well known to all in this neigh-
bQurhood, that they continue with unabating violence
to this hour. Soon after this, we were told, by way of
explanation, that the whole affair wa~ a trick of the
tenant, who wished to purchase the house cheap--the
stale solution of all haunted houses. . But such an idea
never entered hi11 thoughts, eJcn if the present proprie-
tors were able to sell the house ; but it happens to be
eota&d. And at the very time wbeu this was said, all
the neighb')urhood knew that Mr. Chave was unr.-
mitting in bis exertions to procure another 11abitati0a
in Sampford on any terms. And to confirm this, theso
disturbanec!s have at'lcngth obliged the ·whule family to f
make up their minds to quit the premi!l-08, at a •err
I
I
• Notesta"Hypocrisy,"a aatire, Svo, 1SJ2. Mr. Colton is'
11
/
the author of " Laeon, or many things iu few word~,'' 2 Yot.,
Svo. univel'!!lally allowed to be oae of tbemoat piquaM "9rb ~
in model'D literatu..,.
'fBB SAMPPORD 680ST. 311
great lou and inconvenience, as Mr. Cbave bas ex·
. pended a considerable sum in improvements, and coul4
have continued on a reduced rent. .
"'When one of the labourers on the canal was shot,
the newspapers informed us, that this took place at the
house of the Mr. Chave above mentioned. The fact it,
that this eircumstance happened in another part of the
village. at the house of another Mr. Chave, neither
~lated nor connected with the Mr. Cbave in question.
" If theiie nocturnal and diurnal visitations are the
e&'ects of e plot, the agents are marvellously secret
and indefatigable. It bas been going on more than
three years, and if it be the result of human machi-
nation, there must be more than sixty persons con•
corned in it. Now I cannot but think it rather strange
that a secret by which ·no one can possibly get any
thing, should be so y;ell kept ; parlicularly when I in-
form the public, whut the newspapel'3 would not, or
could not acquaint them with ; namely, that a reward
of two hundred and fifty pounds has been advertised -
for any one who can give such information, as may
lead to a discovery; nearly two years have elapsed, and
no claimant has appeared. I myself, who have been
abused as the dupe at one time, and the promoter of
this affair at anoth,er, was the first to come forward with
one hundred pounds, and the late mayor of Ti\Oerton
has now an instrument in bis hands, empowering him to
call on me for the payment of that sum, to any one whQ
can explain the cause of the phenomena.
"Many circumstances, if possible still more extraordi-
nary than those I have related, have also occurred, but
as they do not offer the least clue that may enable 11$
to discover the cause that produced them, I shall do the
public no service by relating them. A ~tleman who
312 THJi; SAMPFORD GHOST.
commanded a company in the Hereford militia, WM
!!tationed at Sampford : his curiosity waa much excited,
and he sat up in Mr. Chave's house, at different times,
thirty nights; I dined with him at Ottery barracks ;'
his brother officers were anxious to know his opinion of
that affair. He immediately replied, ' Mr. Colton, who
sits opposite, has engaged to give one hundred pounds
to any person who can discover it. If he will hand
me half a guinea across the table, I engage before you
all to pay the money instead of him, whenever he is
called upon.' I did not take his offer. A clear proof
that neither of UR think a diilcovery the most probable
thing in the world."
TS.I. END.
LONDON:
-·~&.KLL AHO AaaewaKITB1 J08fll0N'l•COVRT1 Pf,•8T·&'WABll:T,
Ths Editor ii indsbted to an interuting Yolume,
entitled, "ACCREDITED GHOST STORIES," by T.
JanJia, Eaq. for the na.rratifluofl.tdy Pennyman and'
Mrs. Atkins, and of Lord Tyrone ; al1a to a popular
Periodical W'orl, "The ALBuM,"fortlw.t of Sir John
Sherbroke and General Wynyard.
,
