{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1826__prior___lectures_on_astronomy.pdf","mytitle":"Lectures On Astronomy","mylang":"de"}
LECTURES / g” M
w
ASTRONOMY;
ILLUSTRATED BY THE
ASTRONOMICON,
OR
A SERIES OF MOVEABLE DIAGRAMS,
FORMING AN ELEGANT SUBSTITUTE FOR THE (HIRED-Y:
WITH
A N A PP E ND I X,
CONTAINING
ONE THOUSAND QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
ADAPTED TO THE LECTURES;
AND A NUMBER OF VALUABLE PROBLEMS ON THE
ASTRONOMICON.
//
BY W. H. PRIOR. #
Whatever hopes for the veneration of mankind must have
invention in the design or the execution; either the effect
must itself be new, or the means by which it is produced.
Either truths hitherto unknown must be discovered, or those
which are already known, enforced by stronger evidence,
facilitated by clearer method, or elucidated by brighter illus
trations. RAMBLER.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR
LONGMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN, AND GREEN,
P'ATERNOSTER-ROW- I
1826. 1'
carat-332::
ISEVEE
EiiaITAN
TO
GEORGE BIRKBECK,\M.D. F.G.s. M.A.S.
PRESIDENT OF THE LONDON MECHANICSi INSTITUTION,
OF THE METEOROLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL SOCIETIES,
AND OF THE MEDICAL AND CHIRURGICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON,
HONORARY MEMBER OF THE LITERARY AND
PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETIES 0F BRISTOL AND LEEDS,
&c. &c.
THIS WORK,
m nsmmoxv
OF GRATITUDE FOR HIS CONDESCENDING KINDNESS,
OF RESPECT FOR HIS HIGH ATTAINMENTS,
AND
OF REGARD FOR HIS GREAT WORTH,
1s,
wrm PERMISSION,
MOST RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED,
BY HIS MOST OBEDIENT
AND MUCH OBLIGED
HUMBLE SERVANT,
W. H. PRIOR.
PREFACE.
To expatiate on the 'mportance of Astro
nomy, both as an useful and ornamental
science, must at this time be wholly unne
cessary, its merits 'in both points of view
being now too justly appreciated and too
generally acknowledged, to require any
new proof.or illustration.
. Whilst, however, the interest andutility
of this science are universally admitted, it
is observable that the knowledge of it is
far from being 'so extensively diffused as
might reasonably be expectedand desired;
'and though it is at the presentdayconsidered
as forming an indispensable part of a libe
ral‘education; -- though, too, there are few
respectable Seminaries for-young 'persons of
either sex, in which geography and what is
A 41
viii PREFACE.
called the use of the globes are not profess
edly taught, yet the attainments of the pu
pils in Astronomical Science are commonly
very imperfect and limited.
Now the real use of the Globes is to
illustrate in a clear and familiar manner the
leading principles of Geography and Astro
nomy, and to exhibit the intimate connec
tion of these two sister sciences; it is there
fore obvious, that though the problems on
both Globes may be easily performed by
arbitrary rules, they'cannot be thoroughly
understood without a considerable acquaint
ance with both those sciences, and espe
cially with Astronomy, upon which most of
the problems are founded.
In most schools some work on Geogra
phy is usually read by those Pupils who
are learning the use of the Globes, while,
for want of a treatise on Astronomy,
properly adapted to the capacities of
youth and the purposes of education, this
valuable and sublime Science, is (more
particularly in ladies’ schools) almost
totally neglected, and the problems being
in these cases worked Without their appli
cation being sufﬁciently explained by the
teacher to be rendered intelligible to the
PREFACE. ix
learner, are commonly forgotten as soon
as the exercise is concluded. To provide
a remedy for this evil, by supplying what
has long been a desideratum in the stock
of our school literature, is the chief design
of these Lectures.
In the execution of' this design I have
endeavoured, by a methodical arrangement
of its different parts, to render a science
frequently considered too abtruse for the
common reader accessible to the most or
dinary capacity, to stimulate and interest
curiosity by the novelty and beauty of the
accompanying illustrations, and by adorn.
ing the path of science to allure the youth
ful mind to its pursuit; in short, to pro
duce a work, which, uniting pleasure with
instruction, may invite application by its
facility, and reward diligence by its useful
ness. . . .
It being one chief object of these Lec
tures 'to bring the pupil acquainted with
the ﬁxed stars, the knowledge 01“ which
forms the basis of all astronomical observa
tions, I have treated the astro-graphical
part of my subject much more diffusely
than is usual in works of this kind, and
have illustrated it by correct views of the
A 5
X PREFACE
northern and southern celestial hemispheres.
I have also added a planisphere on a. large
scale, and peculiar in its, construction, of
all the constellations and principal stars
visible in our latitudes.
The' difﬁculty commonly experienced in
acquiring'a knowledge of the starry hosts
by means of the celestial Globe, has led me
to introduce a number of useful Problems,
including all the most important that are
usually performed by that instrument.
These Problems are' worked with extreme
facility, especially those which are adapted
to the moveable planisphere, and are, to
gether with the Questions andExercises,
thrown into an Appendix which, from its
contents, forms a very valuable and interest
ing portion of this work.
The moveable diagrams afford a more
pleasing, familiar, and natural elucidation
of the phenomena they are intended to
illustrate than any other contrivance hitherto
knOwn: They are so constructed as to act
upon one common centre, which screws
into the middle of a board, upon which all
the other ﬁgures referred to in the Lec
tures are also delineated; and by this ar
rangement, a complete astronomical ma
13
PREFACE. xi
chine is formed, which I have designated
the ASTRONOMICON.
I now commit my labours to the candid
judgment of a discriminating public, trust
ing that they will answer their professed
design, by facilitating to the rising ge
neration the ascent to the Temple of
Science.
1
Crawford Street,
Bryanstone Square.
ERRATA.
Page 2. Note 2. line 3. for lead read head.
13. line 27. and page 20. lines 5. and S5. for inclined read
declined
36. line 20. and page 87. line 10. for Branchini read Bi
anchini- -
68. line 14. for western read eastern.
109. last word, for lessen read lessens.
111. last line but two, for circlet read circle.
125. line 9. for sir read seven.
186. line 25. for D read 0.
144. line 24. for ensuing read present.
158. line 129. for a read A.
181. line 15. forlcircle read semi-circle.
190.1iue 81. for CDread CA.
1 94. line 8. after sun‘s horizontal read parallax
204. line 11. for vary read varies ; line 21, for are read is;
and line 25. for oblate read oblate.
242. last line but two, the comma to come aﬁer so, instead
of after umfwmg.
300. line 21. for 0 read E.
381. line 25. for orbit read orbits.
DESCRIPTION
OF THE
MOVEABLE _DIAGRAMS, &c.
DIAGRAM I.
THE PLANETARY SYSTEM.
Tats Diagram consists of seven pieces, marked A, B,
C, D, E, F, G, which, when placed one upon another
in the centre, according to the order of the letters,
and unfolded to their full extent, exhibit a representa
tion of the Planetary System, on a scale sufﬁciently
large to convey a very just idea of the relative dis
tances of the Planets from each other, and from the
centre of the system. The magnitudes of the Planets,
as delineated in this scheme, are also in proportion to
one another, and to a supposed globe of two feet dia
meter for the Sun. The Satellites are merely repre
sented near their respective primaries in order to
complete the Diagram, without any regard to their
relative distances from those bodies, or to their magni
tudes relatively to them.
DIAGRAM II.
THE DIURNAL MOTION 01‘ THE EARTH.
The rotation of the Earth on its axis, causing an ap
parent diurnal revolution of the Sun about the Earth,
xiv DESCRIPTION or
with the nature, extent, and duration of twilight, is
represented by this Diagram in a very pleasing and
natural manner, while its use in illustrating the cause
of the loss or gain of a natural day, experienced by
any person in circumnavigating the Globe, as explained
in the eighth Lecture, renders it particularlyinteresting
DIAGRAM III.
THE EARTH’S DIURNAL REVOLUTION
The variation in the length of the days and nights
throughout the year, is exhibited in this Diagram in a
manner peculiarly calculated to make a lasting im
pression on the mind ofthe young student, and, toge
ther with the corresponding change in the apparent
place of the Sun, so obviously pointed out by the in
dex, enables him to obtain more correctideas respect
ing the phenomena of the seasons, than the desultory
perusal of a whole volume upon the subject would
furnish him with. _,
DIAGRAM IV.
' THE MOTION or THE EARTH IN AN ELLIPTIC ORBIT.
Thisattempt to exhibit elliptic motion is altogether
new; novelty, however, it is presumed, is not its only
recommendation. In this as well as the last Diagram,
not only the motion of the Earth, but the apparent
motion of the Sun produced by it, is particularly illus
trated.
DIAGRAM V.
SOLAR AND SIDEREAL TIME
The diiference between Solar and Sidereal Time, or
between the length of a Solar and a Sidereal day,
and consequently betWeen the number of Solar days
in a year, and the number of actual rotations of the
THE macaams, 8w. xv
Earth upon its axis during that time, are illustrated
by this Diagram with a degree of precision hitherto
unattempted.
DIAGRAM VI.
THE APPARENT MOTIONS or THE INFERIOR PLANETS.
The erroneous illustration of these phenomena
given in Ferguson’s Astronomy, and in most other
Treatises on the same subject, is here fully obviated.
To showthe angular distance of a Planet from the
Sun, on an are considerably beyond the ecliptic, at
the same time that we assume the ecliptic as bounding
our view in that direction, is, to say the least, unnatu
ral, and presents a difﬁculty to the student that he
cannot easily surmount: nor has the author of this
work met with a popular illustration of this subject,
which he could consider by any means satisfactory.
He has, therefore, in this Diagram given an entirely
new illustration of it, which he is happy to say, has re
ceived the unqualiﬁed approbation of several eminent
Professors.
DIAGRAM VII.
THE APPARENT MOTIONS or A SUPERIOR PLANET.
This Diagram has also been highly approved of, as
affording a more clear and natural elucidation of this
very abstruse subject than has yet appeared.
DIAGRAM VIII.
THE PHASES or THE MOON
This Diagram needs no explanation, its design be
ing obvious on inspection.
xvi DIAGRAMS, &c.
DIAGRAM IX.
SOLAR AND LUNAR ECLIPSES.
The plane of the ecliptic is in this Diagram raised,
in order to give room for inclining the plane of the
Moon’s orbit, by which arrangement, and by preserv
ing the parallelism of that plane to itself while it is
carried round the ecliptic, the dependance of solar
and lunar eclipses upon the position of the Moon in
her orbit, relatively to the Sun and Earth at the time
of the Moon being new and full, is clearly demon
strated.
THE MOVEABLE PLANISPI-IERE
Upon this Planisphere, from the peculiarity of its
construction, the most important Problems usually
performed by the celestial Globe, may be worked with
much greater facility than by that'instrument.
CONTENTs
LECTURE I.
Of Astronomy in general.-Division of the subject
into three heads. — General view of the Planetary
System; with an explanation of several circum
stances common to all the Planetary bodies. Page 1
LECTURE :1.
Particular view of the Bodies composing the Plane
tary System commenced-v- Of the Sun. - The
Zodiacal Light. - - - - 16
LECTURE m.
Particular view of the Bodies composing the Planetary
System continued. — Of the Primary Planets. —
The Minor Primary Planets. - - 34
LECTURE IV.
Particular view of the Bodies composing the Planetary
System concluded. - Of the Satellites. - 52
I LECTURE v.
On the Figure of the Earth. - - 74
xviii conran'rs.
LECTURE VI.
The Atmosphere described. — Of Refraction. - Of
Twilight. -- Of Meteors. - ~ 89
LECTURE VII.
A general view of the ap arent Motion of the Hea
vens, as seen from di erent parts of the Earth’s
surface. - - - - 1 l 1
LECTURE VIII.
The Phenomena of the Sun as seen from the Earth.—
Of the apparent diurnal Revolution of the Sun;
caused by the rotation of the Earth on its axis. _
The variation in the lengths of days and nights, and
the vicissitudes of the seasons explained. 121
LECTURE IX.
The Phenomena of the Sun as seen from the Earth;
continued.—Of the inequality of the Sun’s appa
rent annual motion, and the change in his apparent
diameter. -- The motion of at Planet in an elliptic
orbit explained. - - - 143
LECTURE X
The Phenomena of the Sun as seen from the Earth,
concluded.— Of Solar and Sidereal Time. —Of
the Equation of Time. - The general principles of
Dialling. - - - - 157
LECTURE XI.
The Phenomena of the Primary Planets as seen from
the Earth. -— The apparent motions of the Inferior
Planets, Mercury and Venus. —- Of Transits. — On
Parallax.‘-- The method of ﬁnding the Sun’s hori
zontal Parallax from the Transits of Venus. — The
Parallax of the Sun being known, his distance from
the Earth easily ascertained, and thence, by analogy,
the distance of all the Planets from the Sun. 178
CONTENTS. xix
LECTURE 'Xll; '
Phenomena connected with the Planet we inhabit as
viewed by a spectator on its surface. -— Of the aber
ration of Light. -— Of the precession of the Equi
noxes and the nutation of the Earth's axis. 196
LECTURE XIII
Phenomena connected with the. globe we inhabit, as
viewed from its surface, concluded. — Of Latitude
and Longitude. -How to ﬁnd the Latitude and
Longitude of a place. —Mensuration and Magni
tude of the Earth. —- Of Climates. ——Of Zones. —
Names assigned to the: inhabitants ofthe Earth from
their shadows and their dili'erent situations on the
globe. '- - - - - 208
L ECTURE XI V.
Phenomena of the superior Planets as seen from the
the Earth. -- Phenomena of the Secondary Planets
as seen from the Earth. —-Of the Moon.— Her
Phases described.—Of the lunar inequalities.—
Of her rotation on her axis.—-Of her libration.
Of the Harvest Moon.-_- Of the horizontal Moon.
282
LECTURE XV.
Phenomena of the Secondary Planets as seen from
the Earth, continued. — Of Solar and Lunar
Eclipses. - - - - 258
LECTURE XVI.
Phenomena of the Secondary Planets as seen from the
Earth concluded. — Of the Tides. _Phenomena
of Jupiter’s Satellites. — Of the Satellites and Ring
of Saturn, and of the Satellites of Uranus. 280
LECTURE xvn.
On Comets. - - - 303
XX CONTENTS.
LECTURE XVIII
Of the Fixed Stars in general.—Of the Constella
tions. — The Constellations north of the Zodiac
particularly described. - - 318
LECTURE XIX.
The Zodiacal Constellations and the Constellations
south of the Zodiac particularly described. -—An
easy method of ﬁnding what Constellations and
principal Stars are on the meridian at any proposed
time. - - - . - 34-5
LECTURE XX.
On the Parallax and distance ofthe Fixed Stars. -- On
the proper motion of the Fixed Stars arising from
the progressive motion of the Solar system—On
new and variable stars.—On double stars.-On
Nebulae and the Milky Way. --Of the different
systems of the Heavens.-Of the Ptolemaic sys
tem. — Of the Egyptian system. _ Of the Coper
nican system. - The truth of the Cepernican sys
tem demonstrated. —Of the Diurnal motion of the
Earth. — Of the Earth’s Annual motion. 372
APPENDIX.
The Greek Alphabet. - - - 407
Questions and Exercises adapted to the preceding
Lectures. - - - - 4.08
Problems and Exercises on the Astronomicon. 470
LECTURES
ON
ASTRONOMY.
LECTURE I.
OF ASTRONOIVIY IN GENERAL. — DIVISION OF THE
SUBJECT INTO THREE HEADS- —GENERAL VIEW
OF THE PLANETARY SYSTEM; WITH AN EXPLAN
ATION OF SEVERAL CIRCUMSTANCES COMMON TO
ALL THE PLANETARY BODIES.
ASTRONOMY] is that science which treats of the
nature and motions of the heavenly bodies; ex
plains the various phenomena2 which these bodies
exhibit, and demonstrates the laws by which their
motions are governed and regulated.
Of the heavenly bodies some appear to be in
continual motion among themselves, and to be
perpetually changing their places in the sphere3 of
the heavens; while others constantly retain the
same invariable position with respect to each other,
and seem to be in a state of absolute quiescence.
These last, from their appearing to occupy that
I From mpov a star, and mm: a law. 3 ~
! Plural of phenomenon; from Quivaam to appear.
3 From apa'ipa a sphere or globe.
_ B '
2 microns 0N As'rnonomv.
situation in the universe in which they were ori—
ginally placed, are denominated the Fixed Stars.
Those bodies which seem to have a proper
motion of their own, and to perform a complete
revolution in the heavens in different periods, and
in the various paths assigned them, are the Sun,
the Planets ', and the Comets’; which, together,
constitute what is called the Solar3 System.
The Comets, however, being distinguished from
the Planets by their dull and cloudy appearance,
a long train of light by which they are accom
panied, their moving in every possible direction,
and by their being found in every part of the
ﬁrmament, may be Considered as a distinct species
Of bodies.
In treating, therefore, this most sublime and
interesting science, the above considerations will
naturally suggest a division of the subject into
three distinct heads, which may be called The
System of the Sun and Planets, The System of
the Comets, and The System of the Fixed Stars.
The Planetary System,
consists of the Sun Q, and Planets; the latter
being subdivided into three kinds; viz. The Pri
mary Planets; The Minor Primary Planets, or
Asteroids“; and the Secondary Planets, com
monly called Satellites 5, or Moons.
I From Mam-rm wandering.
2 From coma hair. The train of light which accom
panies a comet has, in certain situations, an appearance of
nair surrounding the nucleus or lead of the phenomenon,
which is thence called a comet, or hairy star.
5 From sol the sun.
4 From M'rnp a star, and el8© a form.
‘ From satelle: an attendant or guard.
LECTURE I. 3
The Primary Planets are those which revolve
round the Sun as a centre: they are seven in
number: their order in the system, and the names
and characters by which the are expressed being
as follows: Mercury §, {7euus 9, Earth 6,
Mars 3, Jupiter 1;, Saturn 7;, and Uranus til,
called also the Georgium Sidus 1, or Herschell.
‘ The Minor Primary Planets, or Asteroids, are
four in number: they revolve round the Sun as a
centre, between the orbits2 of Mars and Jupiter,
but are distinguished from the Primary Planets
by their diminutive size, and by the form and
position of their orbits. Their names and charac
ters are Vesta g1, Juno 5—, Ceres 3 , and Pallas 2 .
Superior and inferior, or exterior and interior,
are relative terms applied to the Primary and
Minor Primary Planets: those being called supe
rior or exterior, which are farther from the Sun;
and those inferior or interior, which are nearer to
him: thus, in respect of our Earth, Mercury and
Venus are inferior planets, and the rest are supe
rior. Mercury being the nearest planet to the
Sun, and Uranus the most remote from him, may
he considered, the former as the inferior planet
of the system, and the latter the superior.
The Satellites, or Secondary Planets, are those
bodies which revolve round their respective pri
maries as their centre of motion, in the same
manner as the primary planets circulate round the
Sun. The number of satellites, at present known,
is eighteen; viz. the Moon ), which attends on
our Earth, four belonging to Jupiter, seven to
Saturn, and six to Uranus.
‘ From ridur a star.
9 From orbita a track. The imaginar track or path, in
which a primary planet revolves round t e Sun, or a second
ary planet round its primary, is called its orbit.
B 2
i LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
The planetary system, therefore, is composed
of thirty bodies, viz. the Sun, seven Primary
Planets, four Minor Primary Planets, and eighteen
Secondary Planets.
In the description hereafter to be given of these
bodies, various terms will be employed, which,
although they may perhaps be generally, may,
nevertheless, not be universally, understood. It
will be proper, therefore, in order to avoid am
biguity, that these terms should ﬁrst of all be
explained; to do which with the greater effect, I
shall, in this place, mention several circumstances
that are common to all the planets in the system,
whether Primary, Minor Primary, or Secondary.
The orbit in which a planet revolves round the
Sun, or a satellite round its primary, is not of a
circular but of an elliptical form, and the Sun,
instead of being placed in the centre, is situated
in one of the foci‘ of the ellipse.
Without referring to its generation from the
section of a cone, an ellipse may be thus de
scribed. Let a thread, having the two ends tied
together, be put over a couple of pins ﬁxed upright
upon a plane, at any distance apart less than the
length of the thread, thus doubled will reach;
then a pen or pencil, carried round within the
thread, and keeping it stretched out to its utmost
extent, will describe upon the plane an ellipse,
which will be more or less elliptical, in proportion
to the greater'or less distance of the pins from
each other. The points in which the pins were
ﬁxed are called the foci of the ellipse, and have
this particular property, that if two right lines
be drawn from them to any part of the circumfer
ence, the suni of these two lines is equal to the
1 Plural offocus a ﬁre-hearth.
LECTURE 1. 5
longer axis of the ellipse, or that in which these
points are situated.
Let the ellipse, APDE, ﬁg. 1, represent the
orbit of a planet. The Sun is not placed at C,~
the centre of the orbit, but at S, one of the foci
of the ellipse. When the planet therefore is at
P, it is in that part of its orbit which is nearest
the Sun, and is said to be in perihelion.1 In
performing its revolution round the Sun, its dis
tance from that luminary gradually increases till
it reaches the opposite point of its orbit, when it
is at its greatest distance from the Sun, and is said
to be in its aphelion.2 When it arrives at the
points D and E of its orbit, it is said to be at
its mean distance. The points A and P of the
orbit, the one of which is farthest from, and the
other nearest to, the Sun, are called the apsides 3,
the former of which is called the higher, and the
latter the lower apsis, and the line AP, which
joins these points is called the line of the apsides,
and also the greater or transverse axis; DE is
the lesser or conjugate axis ; S the lower focus, or
that in which the Sun is placed, and s the higher
focus. SC, or s C, the eccentricity 4 of the orbit,
and SD, or SE, the mean distance.
The mean distance added to the eccentricity is
equal to the aphelion distance, SA; and the mean
distance less the eccentricity is equal to the peri
helion distance, SP; consequently, the difference
between the aphelion and perihelion, or greatest
and _least distance of a planet from the sun, is
‘ From arspt about, near, and ﬁlms the sun.
i From cum from, and nuns.
5 Plural of apsis, from atlas a bend like a wheel, because
the planet, at these points, appears to bend or turn back.
i From én out of, and KGWPOV centre.
B3
6 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
equal to double the eccentricity of the orbit of that
planet.
A planet does not proceed with an equable motion
through every part of its orbit; the velocity of its
motion gradually increasing while the planet is
moving from its aphelion to its perihelion, and as
gradually decreasing while it is going from its
perihelion to its aphelion. The anomaly1 of a
planet is its distance from the aphelion, and. is
considered as either true or mean. The true
anomaly of a planet is its angular distance at any
time from its aphelion. The mean anomaly is the
angular distance of- a planet from its aphelion,
upon the supposition that it moves uniformly in
a circular orbit. The equation of the planet’s
centre is the diﬁ'erence between the true and mean
anomaly.
When the Sun or Moon is nearest to the Earth,
it is said to be in perigee? The Sun or Moon is
said to be in apogee “ when it is most distant from
the Earth. Thus, if ﬁg. 1. represents the orbit
of the earth, then when the Earth is at P, or in
perihelion, the Sun is said to be in perigee; and
when the Earth is. at A, or in aphelion, the Sun
is said to he in apogee.
The line of the apsides of the several planets
lie in different directions, and consequently point
to different parts of the heavens. The orbits
of some of the planets are more elliptical than
others, and must of them are very nearly cir—
cular. Having mentioned the elliptical form
of an orbit as a general property belonging to
the orbits of all the planets and satellites in
the system, and explained several terms arising
I From a not, and lid/40s law.
Q From 1repl about, and 7'?) the earth.
3 From may): from, and 711.
LECTURE i. 7
from it, I shall defer making any further observ
ations upon this subject till the apparent motions
of the Sun come to be investigated, when this
phenomenon will be fully described and account
ed for. -
If we suppose a plane to pass through the
Earth’s orbit and to be extended in all directions
to the sphere of the heavens, it will trace out a
line among the stars which is called the Ecliptic ',
because eclipses can only happen (as will be shown
when these phenomena come to be treated of) when
the Moon is either in, or very near to, that line.
In like manner we may imagine planes to pass
through the orbits of the other planets, and to be
extended to the spherelof the Fixed Stars, de
scribing circles thereon coincident with the orbits
of the several planets. The circles thus generated,
being evidently the circles which the several planets
would appear tb describe to a spectator placed in
the centre of the Sun, are called the Heliocentric’
Circles of the planets; the ecliptic is, therefore,
the earth’s heliocentric circle. Now it is evident
that if the planets moved in the plane of the
ecliptic they would constantly appear in that circle,
which would then become the heliocentric circle
of all the planets. This is not, however, the case.
Repeated observations demonstrate that they are
sometimes above and sometimes below the ecliptic,
upon which they are only seen twice during the
whole course of their several revolutions round
the Sun ; and since the heliocentric circle of a
planet must necessarily coincide with the plane of
that planet’s orbit, by ﬁnding the heliocentric circle
of any planet in the sphere of the heavens, the situ
_ ‘ The word eclipse, from which this circle takes its name,
is from GKAGHTW to leave, to faint.
‘1 From "Alas the sun, and new-rpov the centre.
B 4
8 LECTURES ON AsrltONoMY.
ation of the plane of its orbit is known. The
heliocentric circles of all the planets being found
to be different, it was ascertained that the orbits
of the planets are inclined at different angles to
the ecliptic, and that the orbit of each planet
crosses that circle in two opposite points, which
points are called the Nodes ' of the planet; that
node from which any planet ascends above the
ecliptic being denominated its ascending, and that
from which it descends below. the ecliptic its
descending, node: the line which joins these
points is called the line of the nodes. Since
the times in which the several planets appear to
describe their heliocentric circles, are the same as
the periods in which their real revolutions are per
formed, the difference between the former of these
must be the same as the difference between the
latter.
To an inhabitant of any planet, the Sun appears
- to perform a complete revolution of the heavens
in the heliocentric circle, and in the periodical
time of that planet; the apparent motion of vthe
Sun being in the same direction in which the
planet moves. ' By the motion of the Earth, there
fore, in its orbit, the‘Sun appears to perform an
annual revolution in the ecliptic, and always to be
in the opposite part of the heavens to that in
which the Earth is situated; hence the ecliptic
is frequently called the Via Solis, or Sun’s Path.
The ecliptic is divided into twelve equal parts,
i called signs, which are named after certain con
stellations‘2 in the heavens through which the
ecliptic itself passes; and a space extending about
eight degrees on each side of the ecliptic is called
1 From nodes a knot.
‘1 From con for cum withe and siell‘a a star, A
LECTURE I. 9
the Zodiac 1, because the constellations through
which the ecliptic passes consisted, according to
the Chaldean division, entirely of animal ﬁgures,
the constellation now called Libra having origi
nally formed the claws of the Scorpion. Hence
Libra is still sometimes called Chclre (the claws).
The names, order, and characters of the twelve
signs into which the Zodiac is divided, are, Aries or,
the Ram; Taurus t5, the Bull; Gemini [1, the
Twins; Cancer es, the Crab; Leo .31, the Lion;
Virgo 1111, the Virgin; Libra 4_~, the Balances;
Scorpio m, the Scorpion; Sagittarius 1, the
Archer; Capricornus vi, the Goat: Aqua
rius "'2', the \Vater-Pourer; and Pisces X, the
Fishes.
The characters made use of to represent the
signs of the Zodiac are generally supposed to be
of very ancient invention, and were doubtless de
signed as rough representations of the figures they
are intended to signify; thus m represents the
horns of the Ram; 3 the head and horns of the
Bull; n the Twins joining hands and feet; as is
supposed to represent the change of the Sun’s
declination from north to south, which takes place
in this sign; 5!, represents the tail of the Lion;
m was originally the three ears of corn, which are
generally drawn in the hand of the Virgin; 1.! is
the beam of the Balance; "L is a barbarous tran
script of the original character, which was a rude
picture of the Scorpion; 1 is the arrow of the
Archer; v9 is a deviation from the original cha
racter 6);, which is intended for a rough but expe
ditious representation of the ﬁgure of the constel
lation; ,7: is a natural imitation of the undulating
1 From {email an animal.
B 5
10 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
surface of water; and x is the picture of two ﬁshes
tied back to back. I
Although the signs of the Zodiac are equal in
extent, containing each thirty degrees, yet the con
stellations from which their names are derived
are unequal, some extending much farther than
others, as may be seen by inspecting a Common
celestial globe; hence the Zodiac 'is by some
authors considered as astral or local; the former
being the Zodiac divided into twelve unequal parts
by the twelve constellations, and the latter the
Zodiac divided into twelve equal parts or signs,
each of which is sub-divided into thirty equal parts
called degrees, each degree into sixty equal parts
called minutes, and each minute into sixty equal
parts called seconds.
Hipparchus ﬁrst introduced this ﬁxed Zodiac
(as it is called) among the Greeks, about 2000
years ago, and placed Aries as the ﬁrst of the
signs, whereby, in his time, the signs corresponded
with the constellations after which they were named.
By the precession of the equinoxes (hereafter to
be explained) these signs have retrograded, or
moved backwards, or contrary to the order of the
signs, about 30 degrees since the time of Hippar
chus, by whom this retrograde motion was dis
covered; they, however, still retain their ancient
names, notwithstanding their having shifted their
places with regard to the constellations one whole
sign; thus the ﬁrst sign, or ﬁrst of the twelve
equal portions into which the ecliptic is divided, is
still called Aries, although it now corresponds
with the constellation of the Fishes, the second
sign is called Taurus, though in the constellation
Aries, and so on.
The Egyptians and Chaldeans had reckoned ac~
cording to the ﬁxed Zodiac ages before the time of
17
LECTURE I. ll
Hipparchus, and it was probably known to astro
nomers from a very early period. Unless other
wise expressed, the ﬁxed or intellectual Zodiac of
Hipparchus is always to be understood when the
Zodiac is spoken of. As the signs of the ecliptic,
or ﬁxed Zodiac, have no corresponding stars, they
are sometimes called anastrous 1 signs, to distill
guish them from the astral Zodiac, or signs formed
by the stars.
The various inclinations of the orbits of the
planets to the ecliptic are in round numbers as fol
lows: The inclination of Mercury’s orbit is about
7°; that of Venus about 3?; of Mars about 1:33 ;
of Jupiter about 125°; of Saturn about 2%; and
of Uranus about a of a degree. The heliocen
tric circles of the primary planets are all, there
fore, comprehended within the limits of the Zodiac:
but those of the minor primary planets, Vesta’s
excepted, exceed those limits, being considerably
more inclined to the orbit of the earth; thus the
inclination of the orbit of Vesta is about 7%; of
Juno 13°; of Ceres 10?; and of Pallas 341°.
While the primary planets are revolving round
the Sun, and the satellites round their respective
primaries, these various bodies have at the same
a motion from west to east round their axes, by
which, to a spectator placed upon any of them, the
whole heavens, with all the visible bodies contained
therein, will appear to revolve round the planet On
which he stands during the time that the planet
itself takes to turn upon its axis, but in a direction
exactly the reverse of that in which its rotation is
performed. That of the Earth being performed
in twenty-four hours, the heavens will appear to
1 From a not, and asrpov a star.
13 6
12 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
make a complete revolution from east to west in
that time. '
All that is meant by the axis of a planet, or
other heavenly body, is that imaginary line round
which its revolutions are performed, and not that
it has any material axis to turn upon. The axes
of the different planets are variously inclined to
the ecliptic and to their own orbits: a line perpen
dicular to the axis, and dividing a planet into two
equal parts, is called its equator. If N S, ﬁg. 2.,
represent the axis upon which the Earth, NQSfE,
revolves, the point N is called the north, and S
the south pole; the line ZEQ, perpendicular to
the axis, and dividing the Earth into two equal
parts, is called the Equator; the half, ZENQ, being
denominated the northern, and the, other half,
ZESQ, the southern hemisphere.) EE is the eclip~
tic ; and the angle ECZE, or ECQ, the Obliquity
of the Ecliptic to the equator; NCE the inclin
ation of the Earth’s axis to the ecliptic; the op
posite points at C, (one of which only is visible
in 'the ﬁgure,) where the equator intersects the
ecliptic, are called the equinoctial1 points, and the
line joining these points the line of the equinoxes.
The ecliptic has already been mentioned as the
track marked out among the stars by extending
the plane which passes through the orbit of the
Earth; this circle, therefore, evidently divides the
heavens into two vast concave hemispheres ‘2, that
being denominated the northern hemisphere to
which the north pole of the Earth is directed, and
that the southern to which its south pole inclines.
' From wquus equal, and nor night, so called, because
when the Sun is in either of these points the days and nights
are of an equal length at all parts of the earth.
9 From 1mm: half, and o'¢oupa a sphere.
LECTURE I. 13
The distance of any heavenly body from the eclip
tic, measured on a reat circle perpendicular to it,
and passing through that body, is called the lati
tude of the body, and is north or south as it is in
the northern or southern hemisphere. The eclip
tic being a common boundary of both these hemi
spheres, it is evident that any star, planet, or other
body, situated in this line, can be, properly speaking,
neither in the one hemisphere nor the other, and,
consequently, can have no latitude.
Now if the Earth’s axis were peipendicular to the
plane of the ecliptic, it is clear that the poles of the
ecliptic would coincide with the poles of the world
as they are called, or those points in the sphere of
the heavens throu h which the Earth’s axis, inﬁ
nitely extended bot ways, would pass ,' and that the
plane of the ecliptic would in like manner coincide
with the plane of the Earth’s equator, and, conse
quently, the celestial equator and the ecliptic would
be one and the same circle; and, therefore, celes
tial and terrestrial objects, having the same lati
tude, would exactly correspond to each other ;
hence all the stars, having any given latitude in the
heavens, would become celestial correspondents to
all places having the same latitude on the surface
of the Earth. Since, however, the axis of the
Earth is inclined from the perpendicular about
23° 28', equal to the obliquity of the ecliptic to the '
equator, it follows that the same celestial and ter
restrial latitudes do not coincide, being measured
from circles that are oblique to each other.
The ecliptic having been chosen by astronomers
as the circle upon which the distance of the hea
venly bodies was to be measured, it became neces
sary, in order to ascertain their exact situation, to
ﬁx upon some determinate point at which the
reckoning was to commence. As the equinoctial
14.- LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
points, or those two opposite points of the heavens
in which the Earth’s equator extended intersects
the ecliptic, must always be situated in the eclip
tic, the vernal ‘ equinox, or that in which the
Sun is placed in spring, was chosen for this pur
pose. The longitude of a star, planet, &c. is its
distance reckoned on the ecliptic in signs, degrees,
and minutes, from the vernal equinox, or the ﬁrst
point of Aries. If the star, Sac. be not situated in
the ecliptic, but somewhere north or south of it,
then the point in which the ecliptic is cut by a
great circle perpendicular to it, and passing through
the star, 8w. is called the longitude of that body.
If we suppose the line of the apsides of any planet
produced both ways till it meet the ecliptic, the dis
tance of the aphelion extremity of this line From
the vernal equinox is called the longitude of the
aphelion, and the distance of the other extremity
the longitude of the perihelion. The longitude of
the nodes of any planet is reckoned in a similar
manner.
Some few authors, instead of reckoning the
longitude of a heavenly body From the ﬁrst point
of Aries, in the ﬁxed Zodiac of Hipparchns, ima
gine a circle of latitude~to be drawn through a star
in the head of the Ram, hence called the ﬁrst star
of the Ram, and reckon the longitude in signs,
degrees, and minutes, from the point of the ecliptic
which is cut by that circle. This star is by Bayer
marked 7. The longitude of a phenomenon, thus
reckoned, is said to be so many signs, degrees,
minutes, 8L0. from the ﬁrst star of the Ram. The
latitude or longitude of a. heavenly body is either
geocentric 9, or heliocentric; the former being the
1 From vernus belonging to the spring.
‘1 From 71”; the earth, and KGVTPOV centre.
LECTURE 1 15
latitude or longitude of that body as seen from the
Earth, and the latter the latitude or longitude it
would have if viewed from the centre of the Sun.
If, instead of the ecliptic, the distance of any
heavenly body from the vernal equinox be mea
sured on the celestial equator, this distance is called
its right ascension. Should the body not lie in
the equator, but any where out of it, then, if
a great circle be drawn perpendicular to the equa
tor, and passing through the body, the arc of this
circle intercepted between the equator and the
body itself, is called its declination, and is denomi
nated north, or south, as the body is north or south
of the/equator, its ascension, being the distance of
the point in which this circle cuts the equator
from the vernal equinox.
The elements of the planetary orbits are found
to be subject to certain variations, which, from
being so extremely small, as only to be perceived
by comparing observations made at very distant
periods, are called secular inequalities. Thus their
eccentricity is variable, though their greater axes
appear to be always the same, that is, their orbits
sometimes approach nearer to true circles, and at
others become more elliptical. The inclination of
their orbits to the ecliptic, and the position of their
nodes, are also subject to small variations. The
motions of the planets are likewise subject to other
inequalities, which, as they appear to depend on the
position of the different planets with respect to
each other, are called periodical inequalities: these
inequalities are most sensible in the motions of Ju
piter and Saturn.
'7
L.
'1:
16 LECTURES ON asraofxomv.
LECTURE II.
PARTICULAR VIEW OF THE BODIES COMPOSING THE
PLANETARY SYSTEM COMMENCED-—OF THE SUN.
—— THE ZODIACAL LIGHT.
FROM the general view of the planetary system
contained in the foregoing Lecture, let us proceed
to take a more minute survey of the 'various
bodies of which it is composed; and, ﬁrst, of
T116 Sun Q.
The Sun, and those planets which were known
in the early ages of astronomy, had, originally,
names given to them, expressive of the peculiar
qualities, attributes, or- motions of those bodies.
Thus Mm; (helios), the common Greek name of
the Sun, is derived from the Hebrew El, one of
the names of God- By the Pheniceans the Sun
was called Baal-shamin, the Lord of HeaVen:
both these names were evidently applied to this
luminary, as a primary object of idolatrous wor
ship. The Hebrew name S/zemesh, a minister 01'
servant, is either from his administering light and
heat to this lower world, or because he is the
immediate servant or agent, employed by the Al
mighty in dispensing these vivifying principles.
The name Mt/zra, signifying love or mercy, by
which he was known among the Persians, was
given him on account of his cherishing the Earth
by his inﬂuence; which may be looked upon as
LECTURE n. 17
the effect of his love to mankind. Many other
names have been given to the Sun by way of
epithet, from his light, heat, 81.0. The Roman
name Sol, is by Macrobius ascribed to his appear
ing solus, i. e. alone.
The diameter of this immense globe is 883,246
English miles. That this radiant orb, the great
source of light, heat, and Vegetation, should have
been generally considered by the ancients a- lobe
of pure ﬁre, seems by no means surprising. ‘Véhen,
however, the invention of the telescope had enabled
astronomers, by discovering dark spots of various
forms and magnitudes upon its disc 1, to ascertain
that this opinion was ill founded, it might perhaps
have been hoped, and expected, that future observ
ations would lead to some satisfactory conclusion,
respecting the probable construction of this lumi
nary. How far such hopes and expectations (if
they ever existed) have hitherto been realised,
will be best ascertained, by comparing the theories
proposed, with the observations upon which they
are founded: for which purpose, I shall here in
troduce a brief description of the motions and ap
pearances of the solar spots, with the opinions of
the most celebrated astronomers concerning them ;
and shall then proceed to give a general account
of the very ingenious theories, of' the nature, and
construction of the Sun, to which they have given
rise.
The solar spots are never stationary, but appear
to move slowly over the Sun’s disc, from east to
west. When a spot ﬁrst becomes visible on the
eastern limb of the Sun, it appears like a thin
black line; but as it advances towards the centre
of his disc, the breadth of the spot and the velo?
' From discus a quoit. The face of the Sun, or any planet
as it appears to the eye, is‘called its disc,
18 LECTURES .ON ASTRONOMY
city of its motion gradually increase; and they
again diminish as it approaches the western limb.
These changes in the apparent form and motion
of the spot, are merely optical deceptions, arising
from its oblique position with regard to the eye of
the spectator.
In order to understand this, let us imagine the
globe of the sun to have a number of circles drawn
upon its surface, all passing through his poles,
and intersecting his equator at equal distances.
~ These circles, (which may be called meridians,) if
they were visible, would appear to us, on account
of the sphericity of the Sun, at unequal distances
from each other, and seem to inclose unequal
spaces of the Sun’s surface, as in ﬁg. 3. Now
suppose a spot, of the shape and magnitude re
presented at g ,- it is evident it would appear of its
true form only in the central part of that hemis
phere of the Sun which is turned directly towards
our earth, that being the only situation in which
_ we could obtain a view of the full extent of it, in
length and breadth ; in every other position, a, b,
c, d, e,j; 12, z', k, Z, m, n, we have an oblique view
of the spot, its breadth being gradually contracted
in proportion to its distance from the centre,
without any diminution of its length; and at its
coming in at a, and going oﬁ' at n, it appears merely
as a thin black line. ~
The correspondent inequalities in the motion of
the spot, by which it appears to move slower while
describing the shorter arcs included between those
meridians which are nearer to the eastern and
western limbs of the Sun, are also such as prove
it to be carried equably round in a circle, the
plane of which nearly coincides with the eye of
the observer.
LECTURE n. 19
Now whatever may be the number of maculae ',
or faculae 2, (that is, dark or bright spots,) upon the
sun at a time, they all keep in the same situation
"1 1aspect of one another, and, so long as they
last, are UMried round together in the same man
ner; WhiCh 5110‘" that the spots adhere to the
surface Of the Sun, 01' exist in his atmosphere,
and revolve along with that body upon his axis;
at the same time demonstrating the Sun to be a
globular body, and proving it to have such a
rotation.
If a spot be observed at different times of the
year, it will be found that its path, or the line
of its apparent motion over the Sun’s surface,
is continually varying. At the end of November,
and the beginning of December, it seems to move
downwards across the Sun‘s surface in a straight
line; about the end of February, and the begin
ning of March, it describes a curve, havingthe con
vexity turned towards the upper part of is disc;
after the beginning of March, the curvature de
creases till about the latter end of May, or the
beginning ofJune, when it again describes a straight
line, but appears to ascend in its passage over the
disc of the Sun; and about the end of August,
and the beginning of September, it takes the form
of a curve, having its concave side turned up
wards. .
As by the rotation of the Sun on "his axis
every spot upon his surface is carried round him
either in, or parallel to, his equator, the above
phenomena, which are repeated every year in the
same order, and which belong to all the spots that
have been observed on his disc, have enabled as
‘ From macula a spot or stain.
Q Fromfacula a little torch.
20 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
tronomers to ascertain that the axis of the Sun is
not perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic,
but inclined from the perpendicular at an angle
of about seven degrees and a half. In order to
render this clearly understood, let USLIF, ﬁg- 4-,
be the Sun, E6 the ecliptic, NS the 3X15 round
which the Sun revolves, UL a diameter Of the
Sun perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic,
U his upper, and L his lower limb, A the point
at which the spot enters, and a the point where
it leaves the Sun’s disc; when the Earth is at e,
the circle A a, which the spot describes, will
appear a curve convex towards U, as in ﬁg. 5.,
the south polar regions of the Sun at S being
visible, because the Earth is below the plane of
the circle described by the spot. When the Earth
is in the opposite part of its orbit at E, the north
polar regions of the Sun at N, will be visible; and
as the Earth is above the plane of the circle A a,
it will be projected into a curve concave towards
U, as in ﬁg. 6. When the Earth is half way
between E and e, as at c, where the plane of the
circle Aa intersects the plane of the ecliptic, it
will be projected into a straight line, as in ﬁg. 7.,
and the spot will appear to ascend across the Sun’s
disc. \Vhen the Earth is at d, in the opposite
part of its orbit to this, it will again come into
the plane of the circle, which will therefore be
again projected into a straight line, as in ﬁg. 8.,
the spot appearing to move downwards across the
disc of the Sun.
To illustrate the above phenomena, by means
of a common celestial or terrestrial globe, put a
black spot upon any convenient part of it, and
incline the axis about seven degrees and a half
from the perpendicular. Then if a spectator
move gently round the globe, keeping his eye in
LECTURE n. 21
the plane of the horizon, while the globe is made
to revolve steadily upon its axis, the variation in
the size of the spot, the change of its velocity,
and the varieties in the ﬁgure of its path, will be
pleasingly, and naturally represented. I
By carefully observing the time which intervene
between a spot’s disappearing on the western limb
of the'Sun, and its next subsequent disappearance,
the period of its apparent revolution will be ob
tained, which is found to be twenty-seven days, seven
hours, and thirty-seven minutes. As the Earth,
however, revolves round the Sun in the same three
tion (as will hereafter be shown), it is evident that
the spot must, during this time, have performed
something more than a complete revolution, and
consequently that the true period of the Sun’s
rotation on his axis, is something less than the
time indicated by the apparent motion of the spot.
To understand this, let A B CD, ﬁg. 9, be a
section of the Sun parallel to the ecliptic E F GH,
when the Earth is at E, the visible hemisphere of
the Sun is A B C, A being its eastern, and C its
western limb. Let us suppose that when the
Earth has just arrived at E, a spot vanishes behind
the western limb of the Sun at C; in twenty-seven
days, seven hours, thirty-seven minutes, from that
time, the spot having been carried round, accord
ing to the order of the letters, by the Sun’s rota
tion, will again disappear behind his western limb;
but the Earth, during that interval, having advanced
in her orbit from E to 0, the visible disc of the
Sun is now B C I), and D its western limb; so
that the spot which set out from C, has, during
twenty-seven days, seven hours, and thirty-seven
minutes, performed one whole revolution, and the
part C D, of another. Now the angle D S C, is
equal to the angle ESe, consequently, the time
22 LECTURES 01v ASTRONOMY,
in which the Earth has completed one revolution,
and the part Ee of a revolution, will be to the time in
which it completes one revolution, as the time in
which the spot has performed one revolution, and
the part C D of a revolution, is to the time in which
it performs a revolution only, or to the time in
which the Sun revolves on his axis. But the time
which the Earth has occupied in going through
the part E e of a revolution, is 27 days, 7 hours,
and 37 minutes, and the time in which it performs
a whole revolution, is 365 days, 5hours, 4-8 minutes;
therefore, 27 days, 7 hours, 87 minutes, + 365 days,
5 hours, 48 minutes = 392 days, 13 hours, 25 minutes,
is to 365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes, as 27 days,
7 hours, 37 rninutes, is to a fourth proportional,
which will be found to be 25 days, 9 hours, 56
minutes, the time of the Sun’s rotation on his axis.
The above proportion will be found sufﬁciently
exact for all general purposes, but is not strictly
accurate, the arch C D being measured on the
ecliptic, instead of the Sun’s equator; there is also
some inaccuracy arising from the Earth’s real
motion not being performed equably' in a true
circle; the error is, however, too triﬂing to require
any farther notice. Without, therefore, dwelling
any longer upon the motions of the solar spots,
let us proceed to consider the spots themselves,
and the solar theories to which they have given
rise.
It is the general opinion, that Galileo was the
ﬁrst who discovered the spots on the Sun, in the
beginning of the year 1611. Scheiner, however,
who was Professor of Mathematics at Ingoldstadt,
seems to have made a similar discovery about the
same time; which of these observers had the ﬁrst
view of the solar spots, became a matter of contro
versybetween them. Scheiner continued his observ
LECTURE 11. 28
ations from 1611 to 1629, during which period
he never found the Sun clear of spots, except a
few days in December, 1624; at other times, he
frequently saw twenty or thirty at a time, and in
1625 upwards of ﬁfty spots were visible at once.
Besides the maculae, or dark spots, Galileo like
wise perceived upon the disc of the Sun faculae,
or luculi 1, which are spots brighter than the rest
of his surface, and which move in the same man
ner as the dark spots. From 1650, to 1670,
scarcely any spots were to be seen, and from 1676,
to 1684, the Sun appeared totally without spots.
Since the beginning of the eighteenth century,
scarcely a year has passed in which spots have not
been visible, and frequently in great numbers.
The solar spots are, for the most part, of an
irregular form, varying both in position and mag
nitude. They in general consist of a dark space,
or nucleus ‘2, surrounded by an umbra 3, or fainter
shade; the boundary between the umbra, and
nucleus, being always distinct and well deﬁned:
that part of the umbra nearest the dark nucleus,
is generally brighter than the more distant por
tions. It is remarkable, that, however irregular
the dark nucleus may be, the outline of the umbra
is always curvilinear, without any angles or sharp
projections. The spots on the Sun are not per-'
manent; some continue several days, weeks, and
even months, together, while others appear and
disappear, in the course of a few hours. Hevelius
observed one that was lost in sixteen or seventeen
hours after its ﬁrst formation. Those spots that
are gradually generated, are mostly as gradually
dissolved; whilst those which are suddenly pro
1 From luv luci: light.
‘1 From nucleus a kernel.
I From umbra a shade or shadow.
24 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
duced, generally vanish as abruptly. When any
spot begins to dilate or contract, the eﬂ‘ect takes
' place on the nucleus, and umbra, at the same time.
The nucleus of a spot, while on the decrease,
suffers a gradual change of ﬁgure, by the umbra
v encroaching upon it, whereby the boundary be
tween them is perpetually varying; and it fre
quently happens, that, by the encroachment of
the umbra, the nucleus is divided into two or more
nuclei. When the spot disappears, the umbra
continues visible for a short time after the nucleus
has vanished. The umbra is generally succeeded,
by afacula, or luminous spot; when that is ,not
the case, the place it occupied resembles the other
portions of the solar surface. Large umbrae, are
seldom seen without a nucleus in their centre, but
small umbrae, frequently appear by themselves.
The various conjectures relative to the nature
and formation of the solar spots, and of the Sun
itself, to which the foregoing very curious facts
have given rise, are too numerous to admit of being
fully described, and many of them too frivolous to
i be even mentioned, in a work, the merit of which,
is intended to consist less in the investigation of
abstruse theories, and unproﬁtable speculations,
than in the solid instruction its pages may contain.
Passing by, therefore, a host of opinions, which
tend rather to display the folly, or the temerity, of
those by whom they were promulgated, than to
shed the least ray of light upon the subject they
attempt to illustrate, I shall proceed to give a very
concise account of those which, from the popu
larity they have obtained, or the acknowledged
celebrity of the persons by whom they were pro
posed, and the evidence by which they are sup
ported, appear to be best entitled to our consider
ation.
LECTURE 1L ‘ _ 25
Scheiner, one of the ﬁrst observers of the solar
spots, did not suppose them to adhere to the Sun,
but imagined them to be planets revolving round
him, like Mercury and Venus, in Orbits not very
remote from that luminary. _
Others have imagined that they are occasioned
by the smoke, and bituminous matter, cast up b
the immense volcanoes or burning mountains, wit
which they suppose the nucleus or body of the
Sun to abound ; and that as this matter is gradually
changed, or consumed, by theluminous ﬂuid sur
roun ing the nucleus, the spdts disappear till fresh
eruptions take place and produce similar pheno
mena.
An opinion, which seems to have been more
generally received, is, that the Sun is composed of
an inﬂammable ﬂuid matter, in a continual state of ,_
ebullition, whereby the scoria, or dross, consisting
of the more gross parts, being carried up to the
surface of the ﬂuid, swim there for a time, exhibit—'
ing all those various appearances which we see in ~
the solar spots; and, at last, being entirely dissi
pated by the continual rapid motion of the ﬂuid,
are consumed thereby, or sink to the bottom and
disappear. ~
Some have thought that the Sun is an opaque
g body, immersed in a luminous ﬂuid, that it is
mountainous, and uneven, like our Earth, and that,
by the ebbing and ﬂowing to which they suppose
this luminous ﬂuid to be subject (after the manner
of our tides), the tops of the solar mountains being
sometimes left uncovered, present a black appear
ance, and form the nucleus of the spot, while the
umbra b ,which the nucleus is generally surround
ed has en,‘ by some of the favourers of this
hypothesis, ascribed to a kind of foam created by
. c
w
26 ch'ruaas 0N as'rnonomr.
the obstruction these eminences oﬂ'er to the'action
of the ﬂuid, and by others imagined to be those
parts of the opaque mass whic lie only a little
below the surface of the igneous matter.
Dr. Wilson, from observations upon the great
spot which appeared in November, 1769, asserts
the solar spots to be depressions in, rather than
elevations above, the surface of the Sun; and that
the black nucleus of every spot, is the opaque body
of the Sun seen through an opening in his lumi
'nous atmosphere 1, the umbra being the shelvings
or sides of these excavations. This theory is de
duced from the followin facts : When any spot is
about to vanish behind t e western limb of the Sun,
the eastern portion of the umbra ﬁrst contracts in
its width, and then disappears; after which the
nucleus gradually contracts and vanishes, while the
western portion of the umbra still continues visible.
When a spot comes into view on the eastern limb,
the eastern portion of the umbra ﬁrst becomes
visible, the dark nucleus is next seen, and, lastly,
the western part of the umbra makes its appear~
ance. When two spots are very near to each other
the umbra of the one spot is deﬁcient on the side
next the other, and if one of the spots be much
larger than the other, thegumbra of the largest will
be completely wanting on the side next the smaller.
If the large spot have small ones on each side of
it, its umbra, instead of entirely vanishing, appears
'flattened and compressed toward the nucleus, but ‘
expands again as soon as the small spots disap
pear; from which, Dr. Wilson infers that the West
ern portion of the umbra may disappear before
the'nucleus, when a small spot happens to be on
the western side of it.
\ From antes vapour, and weapon a sphere.
LECTURE u. 27
The solar observations of Dr. Herschel], al
though they have been partially described in most
of the modern treatises on astronomy, are too
important to be passed over in silence, since the
unremitting attention bestowed by him upon this
subject during the long period of ﬁfteen years, and
the very powerful telescopes made use of by that
astronomer, have enabled him to bring to light a
number of curious particulars relative to the spots,
and to deduce a theory of the solar phenomena,
which, if not altogether free from difﬁculties and
objections, seems at least to demand as few conces
sions as any which has hitherto been proposed for
our acceptance.
He considers the lucid matter of the Sun, neither
as a liquid substance, nor an elastic ﬂuid, but that
it consists of luminous clouds, ﬂoating in his at
mosphere, and that what has been denominated the
nucleus of the spot, is the opaque body of the Sun,
viewed through openings in this atmosphere. To
those phenomena before known by the names of
nuclei, umbrae, faculae, luculi, &c. be has given the
more appropriate and expressive denominations, of
openings, shallows, ridges, nodules', corrugations 2,
indentations, and pores.a
Openin are those appearances in which, by the
removalofspart of the luminous clouds, the opaque
body of the Sun becomes visible; they sometimes
have a difference of colour, which appears to be
caused by a thin veil of luminous clouds hovering.
over them. Large openings are usually surrounded
by shallows, but small ones commonly have none;
ridges and nodules also generally accompany open-_
I From nodulus a little knot.
‘1 From‘ corrugo to wrinkle. .
3 Fromiqropﬁr a passage for perspiration, a spiracle of the
skin.
7 ‘ c 2
28 LECTURES 01v ASTRONOMY.
ings. When openings are about to decay they very
often divide, and are sometimes converted into large
indentations, with or without pores, and not nnfre
quently into pores. When an opening disappears,
the surface becomes unusually disturbed. Open
ings are supposed, by Dr. Herschell, to be pro
duced by an elastic gas, issuing from the body or
nucleus of the Sun, through the minute pores, or
smaller openings. By this gaseous stream, the
equilibrium of the luminous matter being dis
turbed, and the clouds, of which he supposes it to
consist, bein driven out of the way, an aperture
is formed, t rough which the body of the Sun is
exposed to view. ,
Shallows are places whence the luminous clouds
of the upper regions are removed, and are there
fore depressed below the general level of the solar
surface. The depth of the shallows is visible; '
they generally begin from openings which they
surround, and from these surrounding shallows
branches frequently proceed and extend in various
directions, sometimes running into each other, at
others going forward, or spreadin and uniting _
again with the original shallow. - ese changes
in the form and direction of the shallows are to be
attributed to the same cause as originally produced
them, viz. the empyreal gas, which, issuing from
the opening, drives away the luminous clouds from
those parts where it meets the least resistance, or
dissolves them by some peculiar ncy. _
Ridges are accumulations, or e evations, of the
luminous clouds rising above the general surface of
the Sun; they usually surround openings, although
they have been frequently perceived where open
ings did not exist. They are sometimes ' of great
extent, having been observed 75,000 miles in
length, but are seldom of long continuance, gene
LECTURE u. ' 29
rally dispersing very soon after their ﬁrst form
ation. ,
Nodules, formerly called faculae, or luculi, are
small brilliant and highly elevated parts of the
luminous clouds: these being never seen near the
middle of the Sun’s disc, Dr. Herschell supposes
that they may be ridges fore-shortened by their
oblique position on _ the spherical surface With
regard to the spectator.
Corrugations consist of small elevations and de
pressions of the luminous matter, by which the
present a mottled appearance of dark and light
places : the dark parts appear lower than the bright
ones, and are of no regular form, but seem to
shoot out in various directions. The corrugations
pervade the whole of the Sun’s surface, and, under
favorable circumstances of atmosphere, are as dis
tinctly perceptible as the rough surface of the
Moon: as they are produced by the dispersion
of ridges and nodules, it is not wonderful that they
undergo a perpetual change of shape, magnitude,
and position, and being nothing else than other
phenomena in a state of decay, they (as may be
expected) increase, diminish, divide, and vanish,
very rapidly. >
Indentations are the dark parts of corrugations,
and, consequently, like them, extend over the
whole surface of the Sun; the are evidently of
the same nature as shallows,'an are probably not
much depressed below the general surface of the
luminous clouds: they sometimes contain minute
openings, and not unfrequently become openings
themse ves. With a telescope of small power they
appear like points.
Pores are the minute holes or openings already
spoken of as occasionally existing in the indenta
c 3
\ so LECTURES on ss'rnonomv.
tions; they sometimes increase and bECOme open.
ings, and frequently vanish in a short time.
From the diversiﬁed appearance the surface of
‘the Sun presents, the numerous elevations and de
Ipressions of the lucid matter, the long continuance
of many of the phenomena it exhibits, and the
'uniformity of colour observable in the shallows,
the Doctor concludes that the Sun consists of a
dark solid nucleus, surrounded by two strata of
clouds; the outermost of which he conceives to be
the grand depository of that light and heat which
are so copiously diffused through our system, while
the interior stratum is intended to protect the
inhabitants of the Sun from the destructive effects
of the ﬁery clouds with which they are surround
ed. That the dark nucleus, or solid body of the
Sun, is a habitable globe, he infers from its simi
larity to the other bodies of the planetary system
with regard to its solidity, its atmosphere, the rota
tion upon its axis, and the fall of heavy bodies on
its surface; analo ies so striking, that he considers
the Sun (to use his own words) “to be nothing
else than a very eminent, large, and lucid planet,
evidently the ﬁrst, or rather the only primary one,
of our system, all the rest being truly secondary
to it.” ‘
The opinion of Dr. Herschell, that the Sun is a
habitable globe, is opposed by Dr. Brewster, who,
notwithstanding, considers that many ofthe import -
ant conclusions drawn by Dr. Herschell from his
very accurate observations are, nevertheless, cor;
rect. He therefore agrees with that astronomer
that the shining matter of the Sun is not a ﬂuid,
but a mass of luminous or phosphoric clouds sur
rounding the solid nucleus or opaque globe of the
Sun; but, instead of supposing this nucleus to be
prepared for the reception of inhabitants, he rather
LECTURE n. ' 31
imagines it to be the magazine from which the heat
is discharged, while the luminous matter which
that heat freely pervades is the region where its
light is generated ; thus making the interior globe
of the Sun to take a capital part in the production
of the solar heat. Dr. Brewster supports his
theory by very plausible arguments, and opposes
very weighty objections to that of Dr. Herschel];
some of which, however, seem to have been antici
pated, and satisfactorily disposed of by the latter
gentleman : it must, however, be acknowledged,
that Dr. Brewster’s theory seems to be, on the
whole, the more ably supported.
The light of the Sun has been found, by Bou
guer, to be more intense at the centre of his disc
than towards the limb, the very reverse of what
might have been expected. For the Sun being a
globular body, any portion of his disc evidently
subtends a larger angle at the centre than when it
is carried round to the limb : as, therefore, under
the same angle, a much larger portion of the Sun’s
surface is comprehended when taken at the limb
than at the centre of his disc, the intensity of the
light ought to be increased in the same proportion.
In order to account for this difﬁculty, astronomers
have supposed the Sun to be surrounded by a very
dense atmosphere, through which the rays that
proceed from the limb, having to pass in a more
oblique direction than those from the centre, are
proportionably weakened and dissipated. The lu
minous aurora, which appears to encircle the Sun’s
disc in total eclipses, seems to render it extremely
probable that he has such an atmosphere. _
Another very curious phenomenon, usually as
cribed to the atmosphere surrounding the Sun, 13
the semita luminosa, or the luminous path, now
better known by the name ofv the zodiacal light.
0 4e '
32 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
This light, which is seen, at certain‘seasons of the
year, a little before the rising, or after the setting
of the Sun, resembles the faint light of the milky
way, and is so extremely rare, that the stars are
visible throu ‘h it. It is of a pyramidal form, hav
ing its base a ways turned towards the' Sun, and its
axis inclined to the horizon. The angle at the
vertex varies from about 10 to 26 degrees, and its
length, counting from the Sun as its base, from 50
to 145'degrees. By the very rapid rotation of the
Sun about his axis, it is obvious that the centri-l
fugal1 force of his equatorial parts must be very
great; whereby the parts of his atmosphere, im
mediately above his equator, will be thrown out to
a considerable distance from his surface, while
those parts about his polar regions will undergo a
correspondent depression, and a lenticular ﬁgure,
resemblin that already described, will be pro-7
duced. he obliquity of the zodiacal light will,
therefore, vary with the obliquity of the Sun’s
equator to the horizon 2, and, from the circum-‘
stance of its being most distinctly seen in spring,
when the Sun’s equator forms the greatest angle
with the horizon, this theory would appear to
receive a conﬁrmation almost amounting to cer
tainty. The variation, however, in the length of
the cone, and, above all, its extreme elongation,
which La Place has shown far exceeds the pos-_
sible limits of the Sun’s atmosphere, are objections
so serious, as to leave. it very doubtful whether the
true cause Of this phenomenon has yet been dis
covered. Cassini, the ﬁrst person who seems to
have made any particular observations upon this
1 From centrum the centre, and {ugio I ﬂee. The centri
fugal force is that force by which al bodies revolving round a
centre endeavour to ﬂy off in tangent lines.
"1 From Quin to limit. The line that terminates the view.
LECTURE n. 88
singular appearance, at ﬁrst supposed it to be
caused by an immense number of small planets
circulating round the Sun within the orbit. of
Venus; but he seems very soon to have aban
doned this solution for the more probable one of
its being caused by an emanation from the body of
the Sun, intimately connected with the solar spots,
as he always observed it to be most brilliant,
when the spots were most numerous.
In concluding this account of the Sun, it may
not be amiss to observe, that the character made
use of by astronomers to represent this luminary
is supposed tube the picture of a buckler, the
centre of which represents the umbo, or boss; and
the Persians are said to call the Sun by a name
which signiﬁes a buckler. The use of characters
to represent the heavenly bodies appears to be of
great antiquity, and has been supposed to have
originated with the professors ofjudicial astrology,
who are said to have adopted them to give an air
of mystery to their writings. I am inclined, how
ever, to think, that the use of hieroglyphics among
the eastern nations in general, and the Egyptians in
particular, sufﬁciently accounts for the introduction
of these symbolical characters. '
34- LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
LECTURE III.
PARTICULAR VIEW OF THE BODIES COMPOSING THE
PLANETARY SYSTEM CONTINUED. -— OF THE PRI
MARY PLANETS- -—-THE MINOR PRIMARY PLANETS.
Mercury § ,
THE nearest planet to the Sun was, by the Greeks,
called an).ng (stilbon), in allusion to his extreme
brilliancy, which exceeds that of any other planet.
This word is generally supposed to be a translation
of his Chaldee name, which is not now known.
On account of his very swift motion, by which he
is carried round the Sun at the mean rate of
109,442 miles per hour, he was considered the
messenger of the gods, and was by the Romans
called Mercurius, the character by which he is
denoted being a representation of the caduceus, or
golden rod, said to have been presented by Apollo
to that deity.
Being so very near to the Sun, Mercury emits
a remarkably brilliant, white light, and twinkles
like the ﬁxed stars, but affords very few oppor
tunities for observation, and, consequently, no very
interesting discoveries have been made respecting
this planet.
Mercury is about 3224 English miles in diame
1er, and revolves round the Sun in 87days, 23 hours,
15 minutes, 43'6 seconds, at the distance of about
37 millions of miles from that luminary. When
examined with a very powerful telescope, it exhibits
LECTURE m. 85
nearly the same phases 1 as the Moon, being some
times horned, sometimes gibbous, and sometimes
nearly full. By observations on the daily change
of appearance in Mercury’s horns, its diurnal rota~
tion is found to be performed in 2t hours, 5 minutes,
and 28 seconds. Schroeter also detected spots,
and even mountains, in Mercury, and succeeded
in measuring the altitude of two of them, one of
which he found to be ten miles and three quarters
in height, being almost three times as hi h as
Chimboraco, the loftiest mountain upon our ﬁarth.
The highest mountains are in the southern hemi
sphere of Mercury.
Venus Q
Is the next planet to Mercury in the system. In
that situation in which she is seen to the west of
the Sun, rising before him in the morning, she
was, by the Greeks called saw-co o, (eosphorus),
the morning star, and awe-(pogo; (phosphoros), the
precursor of day; when she set after him she was
called éa'vrsgog (hesperos), or the evening star. In
the former case, she was by the Romans deno
minated Lucifer, and in the latter, Vesperus.
Among the eastern nations she was worshipped
under various names, and is supposed to have
been the ﬁrst planet to which divine adoration
was paid. The astronomical character of this
planet is said to be a looking-glass with a handle,
such being the form of those used by the ancients.
' The diameter of Venus is 7687 English miles,
and it revolves round the Sun, at the distance of
From 4>nims ap earance exhibited by any body in its changes,
as that of the t oon.
‘ c 6
v 36 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
about sixty-eight millions of miles, in 224 days,
16 hours, 49 minutes, 106 seconds. .
Venus, when viewed with a good telescope, ex
hibits the Same variety of phases as Mercury, and,
like that planet, is never seen very far from the
Sun, although, at her greatest distance, she is
abbut twice as far from him as ll/Iercury, when in
a similar situation. Spots have likewise been per
ceived upon this planet: they seem to have been
ﬁrst discovered in the year 1665. In 1667 Dom.
Cassini, from observations made by himself upon
a bright spot which appeared upon Venus, sup
posed her rotation to be performed in rather
more than 23 hours ; this result he obtained from
observing that the spot, in the course of 24
hours, was. advanced about 15° upon her disc,
and he concluded that it had, during that time,
performed one complete revolution and 15° of
another.
In 1726 Signior Branchini commenced a series
of observations upon this planet, from which he
determines the inclination of her axis to the plane
of her orbit to be 15°, and that the north pole
of Venus inclines toward the 20th degree of
Aquarius. Although this astronomer made some
very curious observations upon the spots of Venus,
yet they do not appear to have been continued
long enough at any one time to detect a sensible
change of place in any spot during the time of
observatiOn; but in the interval of two and four
days he found the same spot so far advanced from
its original position, as to warrant the conclusion
that it moved on the disc of the planet at the rate
'of about 150 in a day. This, indeed, would show
that Venus revolved on her axis in about 24
days, but it would not prove that this observed
revolution was not an excess of one revolution,
LECTURE m. 87
Over and above' 24 other revolutions, which' she
might have performed during that time; for if at
any given time the situation of a. spot on the disc
of a planet be accurately determined, and in 24
hours after this spot be found to have advanced
15° from its ﬁrst position, it would not be possible,
from such observations, to determine whether the
spot, during that interval, had moved forward only
15°, or whether it had performed one complete
revolution and 15° of another. Branchini, there
fore, perfectly agrees with Cassini that the spots
which are seen on Venus advance about 15° in 24
hours, but concludes that this is the whole advance
made by those spots in that time, and asserts the
true time of the rotation of Venus to be 24- days
8 hours. »
Dr. I-Ierschell has also observed spots upon
Venus; he likewise remarked an excess of bril
liancy about the limb of Venus which resembled
a narrow luminous border, and that from this
border to the terminator, or line which divides the
illuminated from the dark part-0f her disc, the
light appeared to suﬁ'er a gradual diminution.
'From these observations the Doctor infers that
Venus is surrounded by an atmosphere which,
like our own, he supposes dense enough to reﬂect
and refract light copiously in all directions, and
that, consequently, on the border, where we have
an oblique view of it, there will be an increase of
this luminous appearance. He could, however,
never perceive any raggedness in the terminator of
Venus, nor any phenomena which denoted the
existence of mountains, or by which he could
ascertain the period of her rotation, and the posi—
tion of her axis. 4 . .
M. Schroeter, from a long course of highly in
teresting observations upon this planet, hassuc
88 an'rumss 0N as'raouomv.
ceeded in determining the atmosphere and twili ht
of Venus, measuring the height of several of Eer
mountains, and ascertaining the time of her diur
nal rotation. From the appearances exhibited by
the cusps1 of this planet, he has calculated the
dense part of Venus’s atmosphere to be about
16,020 feet high, and that it is more opaque than
that of the Moon; he also supposes the density
of her atmosphere to be the reason why we do
not perceive those varieties on her surface which
are so visible on most of the other planets. Her
twilight is 2'25 seconds broad; and by the regular
recurrence ofcertain phenomena, he has determined
the revolution of Venus on her axis to be per
formed in 23 hours, 20 minutes, and 54' seconds,
completely conﬁrming the rotation ascribed to her
by Cassini. The mountains of Venus, like those
of_ Mercury and the Moon, are highest in the
southern hemisphere. On 2‘5th January, 1672,
and 28th August, 1686, Cassini imagined he saw
a satellite near Venus having the same phase as
the planet: several other astronomers, among
whom are Short, Baudouin, and Montaigne, have
imagined they saw Venus attended by a satel
lite: they are, however, generally supposed to -
have been deceived by an optical illusion, as no
such phenomenon was witnessed during either of
the two last transits of Venus over the Sun’s disc.
The Earth is the next planet in the system;
but as the telescopic appearances of these bodies
form the main subject of the-present lecture, with
out any particular reference being intended to
our own situation on the surface of this globe, and
f From cmpis the point of a spear or other weapon. The
point or horns of the Moon,_a planet, &c. are called the
cusps.
LECTURE m. 39
as the magnitude and ﬁgure of the Earth, the
nature of its atmosphere, Ste. are immediately de~ '
duced from the phenomena exhibited by the hea
venly bodies, as witnessed by an inhabitant of it, I
shall reserve these subjects to be discussed in their
proper place, and proceed to speak of
Mars 3 ,
The next planet, exterior to our Earth, in the
system. The ancient Greek name by which he
was distinguished is augosig (pyrois) ﬁery, and most
of the other ancient names of this planet appear
to have nearly the same meaning. His astrono
mical character is a dart and buckler.
The diameter of Mars is 4189 English miles,
and his distance from the Sun, round which he
revolves in 686 days, 23 hours, 30 minutes, 35'6
seconds, is about 14-5 millions of miles. This
planet is distinguished from all the others by the
singular redness of his light, which has been
attributed, by astronomers, to the extraordinary
density and extent of his atmosphere, and may be
explained upon the same principles as the red
appearance exhibited by the Sun, Moon, and Stars,
when near the horizon.
The particles of light, not being all of the same
magnitude, will not be all refracted in the same
degree; for it is evident that the momentum of
the largest particles being greatest, they will force
their way through a resisting medium with more
facility than the smaller particles, whose momentum
being less, will of course render them more liable
to be turned from their rectilinear direction. Now
it has been proved by repeated experiments, that
the violet-coloured rays are the smallest, or most
40 LECTURES ON. ASTRONOMY.
refrangible; the indigo, being next in size, are
less refrangible than the violet; the blue than the
indigo; the green than the blue; the yellow than
the green; the orange than the yellow; and the
red, which are the largest of all, are less re
frangible than the yellow, or the least refrangible
of the whole. In the light, therefore, emitted by
any luminous body when it arrives at the eye, the
red colour, or that of the least refrangible rays,
must of course predominate; and this colour will
increase with the number of violet rays which have
been obstructed in their passage. Now Mars is
ascertained, by the diminished lustre of the ﬁxed
stars, when even at some distance from his disc,
to have an atmosphere of very great density and
extent; and as the light by which he is illuminated
has to pass twice through his atmosphere before
it reaches our Earth, it must be deprived of a
great portion of its violet rays, and consequently
exhibit to us a very red and gross appearance. As
this will also be the case with every luminous
object seen through a mist or cloud, we may form
some conjectures of the comparative extent or
density of the atmosphere which surrounds the
different planets, by the redness of the light they
emit.
The very diversiﬁed appearance of Mars, when
viewed through a good telescope, has rendered it
an object of great interest to astronomers. Ac
cordingly, we ﬁnd that observations of consider
able importance were made upon this planet soon
after the invention of that instrument. So early
as the year 1665 Dr. Hook perceived upon the
disc of this planet a considerable number of dark
spots, and from the changes of position he wit
nessed in them, he supposed them to perform a
rotation once or twice in 24: hours. From observ—
LECTURE m. 41
ations made upon Marsv about- the same time at
Rome, the period of his diurnal revolution was
ﬁxed at 13 hours :1 this decision is, however, cen
sured by Cassini as premature, who, although he
discovered that the spots in 24' hours, 40 minutes,
returned to the same situation, yet he could not,
at ﬁrst, be positive whether in that time they had
performed one or two revolutions. From more
accurate subsequent observations, however, Cassini
determined that the rotation ofMars was performed
in 24 hours, 40 minutes, and supposes that the
error of the Italian astronomers arose from the
great similarity of the spots on the opposite sides
of this planet.
The same result was obtained by Miraldi in
1719, although in the year 1704 he had deter
mined the period of this. planet’s rotation to be
24 hours, 39 minutes; he also observed that the
spots were not always well deﬁned, and that they
frequently changed their form. Besides the dark
spots, this observer likewise particularly remarked
the luminous zone round the south pole of Mars,
and which he asserts had been noticed by astro
nomers full 60 years before. One part of this
luminous segment is brighter than the rest; the
least bright part undergoes great changes, and has
sometimes wholly disappeared. This spot, when
most brilliant, appears to project beyond the other
parts of his disc, as if it were a portion of a larger
gllobe exactly resembling the bright part of the
oon shortly after her conjunction, when the dark
part of her disc is very faintly enlightened by the
Earth, and may evidently be accounted for in the
same manner. A like luminous zone has been
observed in the north polar regions of this planet.
Observations upon these bright spots were made
by Dr. Herschell, from 1777 to 1783, an account
42 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY. ‘
of which, illustrated by a great many ﬁgures,
exhibiting the appearance of Mars at different
times, has been iven by him in the Philosophical
Transactions. %‘rom these observations, be con
cludes that the bright polar spots of this planet
are produced by the reﬂections of the Sun’s light
from its frozen regions, and that the melting of
these masses affects those varieties in the magni
tude and appearance of the spots which are con
tinually taking place. From the motion of its
spots Dr. Herschell has found that the diurnal
rotation of this planet is performed in 24- hours,
39 minutes, 21'3 seconds.
From Mars having no satellite, and its appear
ing to require such an attendant, M. Fontenelle
has suggested the probability of this planet being
phosphorescent, iving out during the night the
light which it hag imbibed in the day. -
Jupiter 1t ,
The next planet in the system to Mars,"was by the
Greeks called §sug (zeus), usually said to be de
rived from gem (zeo), although this planet is by
no means remarkable for heat. His ancient Greek
name epas0wv (phaethon) is taken from his bright
ness. The character by which astronomers represent
this planet is a zeta, the ﬁrst letter of his Greek
name, \with a small line drawn through it as a sign
of abbreviation.
Jupiter is the largest planet in our system, its
diameter being 89,170 English miles. He performs
his periodical revolution in 4-332 days, 14 hours,
27 minutes, 108 seconds, at the distance of 49%
millions of miles from the Sun; and revolves on
Lac'ruaa m. 45
his axis in 9 hours, 55 minutes, 49 seconds. The
most striking peculiarities exhibited by this planet,
when examined with a powerful telescope, are
belts, or regular stripes, extending across his disc:
thwgh subject to considerable variation in num
ber, breadth. and position, yet they are found,
for the most part, parallel to the equator of Jupiter,
and to each other. Bright and dark spots are also
frequently visible in these belts. As some of these
last revolve with greater rapidity than others, it
may be inferred that they do not all adhere to
the body of the planet, although some of them,
which, after disappearing for a certain time, re
appear again in the same form and position, may
be considered as permanent upon his surface. The
spot ﬁrst discovered by Cassini, in the year 1665,
and from observations upon which he concluded
the rotation of Jupiter to be performed in 9 hours,
56 minutes, seems, by its long continuance and
frequent reappearance in precisely the same form
and position, to be of this kind. The form of
the belts, their difference of colour, and the
changes which are so frequently taking place
in them, Dr. Brewster very plausibly accounts
for, by supposing that the atmosphere of Jupi-I
ter reﬂects more light than the body of the
planet, and that the clouds of which it is com“
posed, partaking of the very great velocity of its
diurnal motion, are formed into. strata, accom
panied by regular interstices, through which the
Opaque body of Jupiter, or any of the permanent
spots, which happen to lie immediately beneath
the opening, become visible. ‘ v '
Jupiter (as has been noticed in enumerating
the bodies which compose the planetary system)
is always accompanied by four satellites.
“ LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
Saturn I; ,
The most remote of the ancientlydiscovered planets
from the Sun, was called by the Greeks (Patva
(phaenon) appearing, or shining, and xgovo; (cronvel
time : the former appellation he is thought to have
received from his being less frequently bid by the
rays of the Sun than any other planet known at
the time he was so named, and the latter from the
slowness of his motion. The character by which
he is represented is a scythe.
This planet is 79,042 English miles in diameter,
revolving round the Sun in 10,759 days, 1 hour,
51 minutes, 11'2 seconds, at the distance of about
906- millions of miles. Saturn, like Jupiter, is
attended by a number of satellites, but its most
singular appendage, and that by which it is chieﬂy
distinguished from all the other planets, is a lumi
nous ring which encircles his body, and may be
elassed among the most curious astronomical phe
nomena with which we are acquainted. Galileo
was the ﬁrst who discovered any uncommon ap
pearance in this planet. Very soon after the
invention of the telescope, he observed luminous
bodies of an irregular form on each side of Saturn,
which he called the arms, or. handles, of the planet.
By the aid of more improved instruments, and by
combining the variations observable in these lumi
nous appearances with the position of Saturn
relatively to the Sun and Earth, Huygens had
the merit of discovering that he is surrounded by
a broad thin ring. This ring, casts a deep. shadow
upon the planet, the space between which and the
ring is rather more than equal to the breadth of
the ring itself. This ring, although it appears,
when 'viewed through a telescope of moderate
power, to be one solid mass, yet with very ex
LECTURE In. 45
cellent instruments is found to be composed of
two concentric rings, having a space of 2927 miles
between them. Mr. Short, with a telescope of
very high magnifying power, observed the surface
of the ring divided by several dark concentric lines,
and supposes them to indicate a number of rings
proportional to the number of dark lines which
he perceived. From the ring appearing to be
more luminous than Saturn himself, Dr. Herschell
concludes that it is an opaque body equal to the
planet in density: he is also of opinion that the
edge of the ring is not ﬂat, but of a spheroidal
form; and "from observations upon certain luminous
points which appeared near the extremity of the
arms, or ansae, of the ring, to which they were
found to adhere, he has ascertained the rotation
of the ring to be performed from west to east in
about 10 hours, '29 minutes, 17 seconds, round an
axis perpendicular to its own plane, and passing
through the centre of the planet.
One of the ansae has sometimes disappeared
while the other remained visible; the two ansae
have also appeared of unequal lengths, and they
have even been seen completely detached from
the planet, and unequal in size; from which ob
servations it has been inferred, that there are
irregularities on the surface of the ring which pro
duce these phenomena. La Place considers such
inequalities absolutely necessary to preserve its
equilibrium, which otherwise would be subject to
disturbance from the slightest external force, such
as the attraction of a planet, or comet, which, for
want of this self-adjusting principle in the ring,
might be sufﬁcient to precipitate it upon the b0 y
of the :planet. _ .
According to Dr. Herschell, the inner diameter
of the smaller ring is 146,345, and its outer" dia_
46 LECTUREs 0N . ASTRONOMY.
meter 184,393 miles; the inner diameter of the
larger ring 190,248 miles, and its outer diameter
204,883 miles. Hence the breadth of the inner ring;
is 19,024 miles, that of the outer 73176 miles, and
the vacant space between them is 2927'5 miles.
The outer diameter of the larger ring is therefore
almost twenty-six times the diameter of the Earth.
The surface of Saturn, like that of Jupiter, is
diversiﬁed with dark and bright belts, and spots :
the belts of Saturn are nearly parallel to his
equator, and generally occupy a broader space
upon his surface than those of Jupiter do'upon
the disc of that planet. By changes in the posi
tion of dark spots, seen by Dr. Herschell upon
Saturn’s disc, he has ascertained his rotation to be
performed in 10 hours, 16 minutes, 2 seconds,
round an axis which is perpendicular to the plane
of the ring. The ring of Saturn, therefore, re
volves in nearly the same time, and round the
same axis as the planet.
Uranus I5! .
This planet is the most remote in our system, to
which it may be considered a late acquisition,
having escaped observation. till the year 1781, when
it was discovered, near the foot of Gemini, by
Dr. Herschell, who named it the Georgium Sidus,
or Georgian Star, in compliment to his muniﬁcent
patron, King George III-.; it is, however, gener
ally known on the Continent by the name of its
discoverer, or by that of Ouranus, or Uranus,
which, in the heathen mythology, denotes the
father of Saturn, whose orbit it includes in the
same way that the orbit of Saturn includes \the
orbit of Jupiter, his reputed son. The existence
l7
' LECTURE m. 47
of a planet exterior to Jupiter and Saturn, had
been conjectured from certain disturbances in their
motions, which could not be otherwise accounted
for ; but the merit of the discovery belongs entirely
to DrQHerschelL The astronomical character of
Uranus is an H with a globe or planet pendant
from it.
_ This planet, which is 35,112 English miles in
diameter, is 1822 millions of miles distant from
the Sun, and revolves round that luminary in
30,737 days, 18 hours. It had been observed by
Flamstead and Mayer, but was considered by
them as a ﬁxed star, and as such introduced into
their catalogues. This planet can only be seen
by the naked eye in a very serene sky, when it
appears like a ﬁxed star of the sixth magnitude,
shining with a bluish white light. The deﬁciency
of the Sun’s light upon this planet is in some
degree compensated by six satellites, which have
been discovered by Dr. Herschell, and it is not
improbable that ,many more remain to be dis
covered. By reason of the immense distance of
this planet, no observations have yet been made
upon it, by which the time of its diurnal rotation
might be determined.
Having concluded this descriptive survey of the
ﬁrst class of planetary bodies, I shall proceed to
speak of the four newly-discovered planets; pre
vious to which it may be proper to observe, that
the great distance between the orbits of Mars and
Jupiter, so destructive, in one solitary instance, of
that general harmony which was known to pervade
every other part of the system, induced astrono
mers, very naturally, to suppose that a planet,
hitherto undiscovered, existed somewhere in the
interval between them, a conjecture which has
been, conﬁrmed in, a- very remarkable manner by
the discovery of no less‘ than four small bodies,
48 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
which revolve round the Sun between the orbits
of Mars and Jupiter. These bodies may, in fact,
be considered primary planets, but being distin
guished from those already enumerated as such
by peculiarities observable in the form and position
of their orbits, and especially by their very dimi
nutive size, they may be denominated
MINOR PRIMARY PLANETS,
or, (as Dr. Herschell has called them,)
ASTEROIDS.
Ceres was ﬁrst discovered at Palermo, in Sicily,
by M. Piazzi, on the ﬁrst of January, 1801, in
the constellation of Taurus; Pallas was next dis
covered by Dr. Olbers, at Bremen, in Lower
Saxony, on the 20th of March, 1802; Juno on
they lst of September, 1804, by Mr. Hardin , at
Lilienthal, near Bremen ; and Vesta by Dr. 0 bets
on the 29th of March, 1807.
Vesta, the nearest of these bodies to theSun,
revolves round him in about 1385 days, 5 hours,
at the ,mean distance of 225 millions of miles;
Juno in about 1591 days, at the mean distance of
253 millions of miles; Ceres in about 1681 days,
13 hours, at the mean distance of 263 millions of
miles; and Pallas in about 1681 days, 17 hours,
at the mean distance of 263 millions of miles.
The diameter of Vesta is not yet known.
Schroeter makes the diameter of Juno to be 1425
English miles. The same astronomer makes the
diameter of Ceres to be 1624 miles, while Dr. Her
schell estimates it .at no more than 163. Pallas,
" according to Dr. Herschell, is but 80 English
miles in diameter, while the German astronomer
makes it no less than 2099.
LECTURE III. 4-9
These minor planets are also represented by
symbols; Vesta by a character resembling an
ancient altar with the sacred ﬁre; Juno by the
symbol of Mercury, with the superior curves turned
the contrary way, and a star between them; the
character of Ceres is a sickle, 0r reaping-hook;
and Pallas is represented by the head of an ancient
spear.
Upon the discovery of Ceres, astronomers con
gratulated themselves upon the harmony of the
system being restored; the successive discoveries
of Pallas and June, however, again introduced
confusion, and presented a difﬁculty which they
were unable to solve, till Dr. Olbers suggested the
possibility of these small celestial bodies being
merely fragments of a larger planet, which had
been burst asunder by some internal convulsion.
The magnitude of these bodies, when compared
with that of the other planets, their orbits all being
nearly equally distant from the Sun, and their
crossing one another in two opposite points of the
heavens, viz. in Virgo and the Whale, are circum
stances, especially the last, highly favourable to
this theory; for if a planet in motion be rent in
pieces by any internal convulsion, however various
the inclinations 0f the orbits assumed by the frag
ments may be, there ought to be two points in
opposite quarters of the heavens through which
they must all pass in the course of their revo
lutions; and it was actually in one of these points
that Mr. Harding had discovered Juno. For the
purpose, therefore, of detecting other fragments
of the original planet, Dr. Olbers, two or three
times every year, examined all the small stars in
the opposite constellations above mentioned, and
his labours were ultimately rewarded with the dis
covery of a fourth new planet, in the northern
D
5O LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
wing of the constellation Virgo, which he called
Vesta.
Dr. Brewster, in support of this theory, very
truly observes, that if a planet be burst in pieces
by any internal force, capable of overcoming the
mutual attraction of its parts, the larger fragments,
will deviate less from. the path of the original
planet, while the smaller fragments, being thrown
off with greater velocity, will revolve in orbits
more eccentric (that is, of a more elliptical form,)
and more inclined to the original path. Now the
orbits of Ceres and Vesta have nearly the same -
inclination to the orbit of the Earth as {the orbits
of some of the old planets, while the orbits of Juno
and Pallas are inclined to it, the one in 21° and the
other in 34°. Assuming, therefore, those estimates
of the magnitudes of these bodies as correct, which
best accord with this hypothesis, the Doctor here
upon founds an argument, which he considers
almost decisive, in support of the proposed theory
of the minor planets; but as. the force of this
reasoning depends entirely upon the magnitudes of
these bodies being such as he has assumed, how
ever willing we may be to admit the theory itself,
we are bound, nevertheless, not to allow our deci—
sion to be in the least affected by the learned Doc
tor’s argument, till the magnitude of these bodies is
accurately determined. Now, according to Schro
eter, Pallas, instead of being one of the smallest of
these planets, is the largest of the four, and the
magnitude of Vesta has yet to be ascertained.
Vesta is the only one of the minor primary
planets that can be seen by the naked eye: she
appears about the ﬁfth or sixth magnitude, and
exhibits a more pure and white light than any of
the other three. Juno is of a red colour, and is_
supposed by Schroeter to have a more dense atmo-_
LECTURE m. 51
sphere than any of the old planets. Pallas and
Ceres are nearly of the same colour, not being so
red as Juno; and from the nebulous appearance
they present are supposed to be surrounded with
an atmosphere of very considerable density and
extent. The rotation of these planets has not yet
been ascertained. ~
Owing to the great eccentricity of the orbit of
Pallas, it is several millions of miles nearer the
Sun, when in perihelion, than Ceres is in a similar
part of her orbit. But the aphelion distance of
Pallas is several millions of miles greater than that
of Ceres, so that the orbits of Ceres and Pallas
cross each other. The aphelion distance of Juno
is greater than that of Ceres; and the aphelion
distance of Vesta exceeds the perihelion distance
of Juno, Ceres, or Pallas. The perihelion dis
tance of Vesta is greater than the perihelion distance
of either Juno or Pallas. Hence it appears that
Vesta may sometimes be more remote from the
Sun than Juno, Ceres, or Pallas, notwithstanding
its mean distance being less than that of any of
the others by several millions of miles; and it also
appears that the orbit of Vesta crosses the orbits
of the other three.
bev
52 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
LECTURE IV.
~PARTICULAR VIEW OF THE BODIES COMPOSING
THE PLANETARY SYSTEM CONCLUDED.
Of the Satellites.
HAVING, in the preceding lectures, given a full
description of the Sun, together with the Primary,
and Minor Primary Planets, the Satellites, or
Secondary Planets, are the next objects which offer
themselves to our consideration. They are, as has
been already remarked, eighteen in number, one
being the constant attendant on our Earth, four
revolving round Jupiter, seven accompanying Sa
turn, and six shedding their benign inﬂuence on
the remote Uranus.
The Moon 1) ,
That inseparable companion of the globe we inha
bit, is the most remarkable, the most beautiful, and,
next to that great luminary whose brilliant etful- .
gence she with chastened radiance so copiously
reﬂects, the most useful of all those brilliant orbs
which occupy the vast regions of space. The
motion of the Moon being the swiftest of all the
heavenly bodies, the ﬁrst computations of time are
supposed to have been made by her revolutions;
a supposition which seems to be considerably
strengthened by the circumstance of her Greek
name p-mm (mene) being, as is supposed, the same
as that by which she was distinguished among the
ZECTURE 1v. 7 53
Chaldeans, with whom this word signiﬁes to com~
pute, or number, in ageneral sense. 25km (selene)
another of her Greek names, and luna her Latin
name, are both derived from a. word signifying
light. Her astronomical character is a crescent‘,
or ﬁgure of the Moon, about four days old.
The extraordinary apparent magnitude of the
Moon arises from her proximity to our own globe,
her real diameter being no more than 2180 English
miles. When viewed, even by the naked eye, we
observe several dark parts, which are evidently
caused by unevennesses on her surface. If the eye
be kept steadily ﬁxed on the lunar disc for a few
minutes together, very brilliant radiations, and spots
brighter than the general surface, may be clearly
discerned; and when the Moon is examined by
the assistance of a telescope of even moderate
power, all these appearances become prodigiously'
increased in number and extent.
Before, however, we proceed to a description of
the telescopic appearances of the Moon it will be
proper to take notice of a very curious phenomenon,
which, requiring no instrument to render it visible,
has been very generally noticed, and aptly, though
inelegantly, called “the old Moon in the new Moon’s
arms.”
This phenomenon commences with the ﬁrst ap
pearance of the new Moon after conjunction, or
when, being about three or four days old, she is
ﬁrst seen in the evening to the east of that lumin
ary; at which time the body of the old Moon, as it
is called, appears faintly illuminated, and the new
Moon, or enlightened part of her disc, seems to
project beyond the old Moon, and to form a por
tion of a sphere considerably larger than the unen
1 From crest-ens increasing.
n3
54' LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY
lightened p'art.‘ This appearance has been by
some attributed to the difference of effect pro
duced upon the retina by bright objects, and ob
jects but faintly illuminated. Dr. Turin ascribes
it to a want of power in the eye to accommodate
itself to view objects so remote, and that, for want
of this power, the pencils of rays uniting before
they reach the retina produce an indistinct and
enlarged image of the Moon. Both these theories
being founded on arbitrary assumptions, unsup
ported by experimental demonstration, have been
generally rejected as totally unsatisfactory.
- A difference of opinion likewise exists concern
ing the cause of the faint light diffused over the
surface of the old Moon. By some, the Moon is
supposed to be phosphorescent, and that this
secondary light is the spontaneous light which the
phosphorescent matter may continue to send forth
for some time after it has been excited by the action
of the' solar rays. Others account for this appear
ance, by ascribing it to the light of the Sun re
ﬂected from the surface of our Earth, which then
appears nearly full to the inhabitants of the Moon,
(if any such there be,) and, being so much larger
than the Moon, reﬂects the light very copiously
upon that planet. In support of this opinion it is
also observed, that the phenomenon is most con~
'spicuous at the time of a solar eclipse, when the
Earth, as seen from the Moon, being completely
illuminated, the greatest quantity of light is re
ﬂected; and it is also farther observed, that as the
age of the Moon increases, this light becomes
more and more faint, till about the seventh or
eighth day of her age, when this reﬂected light
entirely disappears, owin to the waning of the
Earth, and the increase 0 her own light, by which
an'roztn IV. I 55
this secondary light is at last completely over
powered.
The thread of light, or lucid bow, which seems
to connect the horns of the new Moon, has been
Quoted, by those who consider the secondary light
of the Moon to be phosphorescent, as a convincing
argument in favour of their hypothesis. If, they
contend, the faint light dill'used over the surface of
the old Moon were caused by a reﬂection from the
Earth, it would appear most dense near the centre,
and gradually weaker towards the edge, quite the
reverse of what is observed in the instance of the
lucid ' bow which forms the eastern limb of the
Moon; but if, on the contrary, the Moon be sup
posed to be phosphorescent, the diﬂiculty at once
vanishes, and the theory and observation are found
in every respect to agree, since it is evident that
that part of the lunar orb which has most recently
felt the impression of the solar re s (i. e. the eastern
limb) will continue to glow, andy present the lucid
appearance already described.
To this explanation of the phenomenon of the
lucid bow, it is objected, that were it produced in
the way just described, it ought to be broadest in
the centre, and gradually tapering towards the
horns, whereas it is always found to be the broadest
towards the lower part, as at a, ﬁg. 10., and nar
rowest at the upper part b, and that when the
Moon’s western libration is considerable, so as to
withdraw from our view a portion of the eastern
limb, the continuity of the bow is destroyed, and
the part. towards b is no longer visible. By refer
ring to the map of the Moon, ﬁg. 11., it will be
seen that a bright tract, nearly resembling the form
of a bow, broadest towards her southern horn, will
be found extending itself on the eastern limb, and
that this bright portion is separated from the cen
D 4
56 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY
tral parts by darker regions. From these observ~
ations, Dr. Brewster accounts for the lucid bow on
the eastern limb of the old Moon, by ascribing it
to the accidental circumstance ofthe Moon’s eastern
limb being more luminous than the parts adjacent;
not, indeed, that the central parts are not equally
bright with her eastern limb, but their brilliancy is
impaired by their proximity to the illuminated por
tion. Hence the reason is obvious why the bow
is broadest at a, and narrowest at b, and also how
the libration of the Moon withdrawing the narrow
part 5 of the bow destroys its continuity. This
very satisfactory explanation of the phenomenon
ﬁrst given by Dr. Brewster is so convincing that
it is scarcely possible to withhold from it our im
mediate assent. It is also obvious that it equally
obtains, whether the secondary light of the Moon
be ascribed to phosphorescence, or to reﬂection
from the Earth. The whole of this subject will be
easily comprehended by comparing ﬁgs. 10, 11.
When we examine the Moon with a powerful
telescope the disc of it is found to be very sur
prisingly and beautifully diversiﬁed with dark and
luminous parts, and if our observations be made
when she is upon the increase, some very remark
able spots will be constantly found. in dark shadow
on the side which is, farthest from the Sun, and
light on that side which is. turned towards him ;
whilst others are always found to be luminous on
the side most distant from, and dark on that which
is nearest to him. These shadows all decrease in
length as the Moon approaches her opposition to
the Sun; and when, “ full orb3d” she attains her
perfect opposition to that luminary, they in a great.
measure disappear, while her surface presents a.
number of brilliant points and permanent radia
tions. During the remainder of her progress they ‘
LECTURE iv. 57
again appear increasing in length till she is so near
to the Sun that she becomes invisible to us: the
shadows, however, during the latter period, fall in
the opposite direction, or towards the contrary side
of the Moon, but still retaining the same distinc
tion, one set of spots continuing to present their
dark side to the Sun, and to be enlightened on the
side most remote from him, whilst the others have
their nearest side illumined by his beams, the. op
posite side being cast into deep shadow. Besides
these particular appearances, great diversities of
light and shade are observed to pervade the gene?
ral face of the Moon. Comparing, therefore,
these phenomena with the observed effect of sun
shine on our own Earth, and more especially in
the elevated and hollow parts of it, astronomers
have inferred that the lunar surface is diversiﬁed
by mountains, plains, and deep caverns. The
parts which appear highly illuminated are supposed
to be mountains, from their casting shadows in a
contrary direction to the Sun, and decreasing in
length as the Sun shines more perpendicularly
upon them. The luminous portions of the Moon’s
(1156 do not, however, all indicate mountains : they
are frequently found to be extensive cavities, mostly
circular, surrounded by a lofty ridge, and contain
ing an elevated mountain in or near their centre.
The mountainous parts of the Moon are found
to exceed in awful sublimity, and terriﬁc grandeur,
the similar'portions of our own globe. Various
means have been devised for measuring the height
of the lunar mountains, the most simple of which
appears to be that derived from observing the dis
tance from the boundary of light and darkness, at
which the Sun’s rays strike their most elevated _
points while they remain in the unenlightened part
of the Moon. By this, and various other methods,
' D 5
58 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
it has been ascertained, that many of the lunar
mountains are four, and even ﬁve, miles in height.
The perpendicular elevation of some of those
mountains composing that extensive range known
by the name of the Appenines exceeds four Eng
lish miles. The dark parts of the Moon’s disc
are observed to be smooth, and apparently level,
while the luminous portions, as has been already
remarked, consist of elevated tracts, which either
rise into high mountains, or sink into deep and
extensive cavities. The smoothness of the dark
portions of the lunar disc has induced some astro~
nomers, very naturally, to infer, that they are im
mense collections of water: hence the names Cri
sian Sea, Sea of Nectar, Lake of Dreams, Lake of
Death, Ste. 8w, by which those obscure portions
are distinguished ; and, notwithstanding the argu
ments which have been opposed to this opinion, it
still continues to be generally maintained by modern
astronomers. Those who deny the existence of
water in the Moon assert that the dark parts are
not exactly level; that, on a minute examination of
those parts, inequalities of light and shade, caused
by inequalities of surface, are discernible; that in
sorne parts parallel ridges are distinctly visible;
and that, when the boundary of light and darkness
passes through the large dark spot in the western
imb of the Moon, known by the name of the
Crisian Sea, this bounding line, instead of being
truly elliptical, as it ought to be if the surface
were covered with water, is observed to be irre
gular, and evidently indicates that this portion of
the lunar disc is elevated in the middle. Dr. Long,
in answer to some of those objections which have
been made to the existence of seas, or extensive
collections of water, in the Moon, suggests the fol_
lowing queries: “ May not the lunar seas and
17
LECTURE IV. 59
lakes have islands in them wherein there may be
pits and caverns ? And, if some of these dark parts
are brighter than others, may not that be owing to
the seas and lakes being of different depths, and'
to their having rocks in some places, and ﬂats in -
others ?”
From various irregularities and singular appear
ances in different parts of the lunar disc, not other
wise to be accounted for, many astronomers have
been led to imagine that the Moon is subject to
violent volcanic eruptions. This opinion was ﬁrst
maintained by Dr. Hook, and has received the
support of many able astronomers. A very singu
lar phenomenon, which seems in a great measure
to conﬁrm this conjecture, was witnessed by Don
Ulloa during the annular eclipse of 1778. Near,
the north-west limb of the Moon he observed a
white spot, which, from its extreme brightness, had
the appearance of an opening through which the
Sun was seen ; this singular appearance continued
for about a minute and a quarter, and was noticed
by three different observers. Similar phenomena
have been observed at diﬁ‘erent times by many
astronomers, and, among others, by Dr. Herschell,
who has witnessed several appearances of this
kind, and given us a particular account of his ob
servations upon them. On the 4th of May, 1.783,
he perceived a luminous point in the obscure part
of the Moon, and two mountains which were
formed from the 4th to the 13th of that month;
and on the 19th of April, 1787, be perceived no
less than three volcanoes in different parts of the
Moon, two of which be judged to be either at that
time nearly exhausted, or about to break out; the
third exhibited an actual eruption of ﬁre or lumi
nous niatter. On the 20th it appeared to burn with
still greater violence than on the preceding night,
D 6
60 LECTURES ON- asrnonomr.
and he estimated the burning matter to be above
three miles in diameter. »
The existence of lunar Volcanoes, if admitted,
(the evidence of which seems to be too convincing
to be hatily rejected,) may be considered as one
proof of a lunar atmosphere, since combustion can
only take place in atmospheric air; as, however,
the existence of the Moon’s atmosphere was for a.
long time disputed, and is, even at the present day,
by some made a subject of controversy, it may be
proper, concisely to state the principal arguments
adduced for and against this opinion. Those who
deny that the Moon is surrounded by an atmo
sphere, rest their opinion chieﬂy upon the constant
serenity of her surface, and the unimpaired bril
liancy of the light emitted by the ﬁxed stars and
planets, when nearly in contact with the limb of
the Moon, and when, if she has an atmosphere,
their light, they contend, in passing through it,
ought to be visibly impaired. On the other and,
it is urged that her atmosphere, if proportional to
the size of the Moon, must subtend too small an
angle easily to detect the obscuration of a star or
planet in passing through it. The luminous ring,
which has been perceived to surround the Moon in
total eclipses of the Sun, and' which was always
observed to be most brilliant on the side nearest
the Moon, together with certain red streaks, and
other appearances seen near the Moon’s limb in
solar eclipses, are adduced in support of their
theory, by those who contend that the Moon is
surrounded by an atmosphere.
The observations of Schroeter, however, seem to
have decided this controversy by the complete dis
covery of the lunar atmosphere. This astronomer
having frequently perceived that the high ridges of
the lunar mountains, Leibnitz and Doerfel, when
LECTURE iv. 61
in the dark hemisphere were less illuminated in
proportion to their distance from the boundary of
light, and having observed corresponding appear
ances about the cusps of the Moon, together with
apparent obscurations and returning serenity, which
he attributed to the effect of her atmosphere, con
cluded that a twilight might perhaps be perceived
towards her cusps as he had done in Venus; and
this conjecture was at length perfectly conﬁrmed
by the discovery of a faint glimmering light stretch
ing from the points of the horns into the dark
hemisphere. From the breadth of this crepuscu
lar 1 light, Schroeter has computed that the utmost
height of the lunar atmosphere, where it could
affect the brightness of a ﬁxed star, or inﬂect the
solar rays, does not exceed 5742 English feet,
which space subtending at our Earth, an angle of
only0.9? seconds will be passed over bya star in two
seconds of time. The occultation of Jupiter, which
took place on the 7th April, 1792, was judged a_ .
ﬁt opportunity for conﬁrming the truth of the‘pre
ceding discovery, and was observed by Schroeter
for this purpose. Upon this occasion he found
that some of the satellites became indistinct at the
limb of the Moon, while others did not suffer any
change of colour: the belts and spots of Jupiter
appeared perfectly distinct when close to the
Moon’s limb, and a small luminous spot, though
a by no means very perceptible, could be plainly
distinguished when close to it.
The various appearances in the lunar disc have
been accurately represented in maps. The ﬁrst
attempt of this kind was by Riccioli, who por
tioned out the lunar regions among the most cele
brated astronomers and philosophers, by whose
l From crepusculum the twilight.
62 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
names he denoted the various spots on her surfaCe.
More correct delineations of the lunar disc, dur
ing the whole of her progress round the Earth,
were afterwards given by Hevelius in his Seleno
graphy. This astronomer distinguished the diﬂ'er
ent parts of the Moon by such geographical
names as belong to the several islands, countries,
and seas of our Earth, but without re ard to simi
larity of situation or resemblance of ﬁgure. The
names given by Riccioli are, however, generally
adopted, and are those by which the various parts
of the lunar surface are usually distinguished by
astronomers. As Riccioli and Hevelius both agreed
in supposing the dark portions of the Moon to be
collections of water, the names appropriated to
them by each of these astronomers was in con
formity to this opinion. Those by Riccioli seem
to be highly fanciful. A map of the Moon, as she
appears when full, was drawn by Cassini; but the
highly magniﬁed views of the lunar surface by
Schroeter are considered the most accurate that
have yet been published.
The representation of the Moon, ﬁg. 11., will, it
is presumed, be found as correct as the scale upon
which it is drawn will possibly admit. I shall,
therefore, proceed to point out upon it some of the
principal lunar spots, commencing with those larger
and more remarkable ones which were supposed,
by Riccioli and Hevelius, to be seas, and named
by them accordingly. These spots besides hav
ing their relative situation described, are distin
guished by the letters of the Greek alphabet. The
names throughout are according to Riccioli.
a. Mare Frigorz's, Sea of Cold. —— This is a long,
irrevular dark spot, extending from about
35° . to 40° W. between 50° and 60° N.
LECTURE iv. 63
B. Sinus Rorz's, Bay of Dews.—A dark spotat the
eastern extremity of M. Frigmz's, extending in
a southerly direction, and in which is Har
palus, &c.
7. Lacus Mortis, Lake of _Deatli.—— Faint black
spot south of the western extremity of M Fri
gorz's, having annular spots. '
Lacus Somm'orum, Lake of Dreams—Long, irre
gular, blackish spot, south-westofLacus Mm'lz's.
. Mare Imbrz'um, Sea of Showers. ——A very exten
sive black spot south of the eastern part of
M. Frigoris.
. Sinus Iridum, Bay of' Rainbows. -— Small semi
circular bay on the western side of Mare
Imbrium.
Palus Nebulmum, Lake of Fogs. — On the north
western side of Mare Imbrz'um.
Palus Putrz'dz'nis, Lake of Putrifaction. — South
of Palus Nebulomm.
. Mare Serenitatz's, Sea of Serenity. —- Very large
black spot west of M Imbrium, covered with
gentle elevations, and with low ridges, which
appear at the time of full moon like streaks
. of light. 4
. illare Crisium, Crisian Sea. — A large black
spot near the western limb of the Moon, high
in the middle, with a ridge running from its
eastern to its northern margin.
Palus Somm', Lake of Sleep. —- A pale spot east
of M Crisium, containing several small annular
ones.
it. Mare Tranquillitalz's, Sea of Tranquillity: —
Large dark spot south-west of BLSerenz'latz's,
the north-east part of it covered with annular
spots.
1/. Mare Fecunditatis, Sea of Fertility. -— Long spot
sbuth of M Crisz'um, stretching from north to
south, with rocks and cavities interspersed.
so
In
JY
¥
5"
x
.>'
6t LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
E. Mare Nectaris, Sea of Nectar. — South-east of
M Fecundz'tatis, intersected with a low ridge.
0. Mare Vaporum, Sea of Vapours.— South-east
of MSerenitatz's.
1r. Sinus .Esluum, Bay of Tides. —- Small black
spots near the centre of the lunar disc, running
in a south-westerly direction.
9. Mare Nubium, Sea of Clouds. —- South-east of
Sinus’ﬂistuum ,- interspersed with small rocks
and cavities.
0-. Oceanus Procellarum, Ocean of Storms. — This
is a general name for all the large spots be
tween 10° S. and 20° N., and lying E. of
20° E.
1'. Mare Humorum, Sea of Moisture. — South of
Oceanus Procellamm ,- covered with rocks and
ridges on its north-eastern extremity.
u. Sinus Epidemiarum, Bay of Epidemics.—South-.
west of M I-Iumorum.
Many of the above dark spots, by reason of
their great magnitude, may be distinguished on
the Moon by the naked eye; but those which fol
low, _being of a description entirely different, can
not be seen without the aid of a telescope. These
last, to prevent confusion, are not marked with
any letter or ﬁgure, but may be readily found by
their latitudes and longitudcs (as determined by
that very accurate observer, Tobias Mayer,) being
given.
Pythagoras, 62° 52' N. 59° 25' E. —— Large annular
spot, with annular cavity.
Plato, 51° 14' N. 9° 12' E. -— Newton, contiguous
to its south margin, appears to be the remains
Of a large annular spot, like Plato. The high
mountain, Pico, is one of the remains of its
an'ruan iv. 65
margin. It is high and rugged on its west
mar in, with a cavity a little north of it, and
anot er a little to the west.
Aridoteles, 50° 50' N. 17° 10' W. -—Large and an
nular, with high rock on its south margin, an
annular spot on its west, and rocks on its
south-east.
Hercules, 48° 58' N. 41° 43' W. — Annular, with
central mountain.
Atlas, 47° 1 1' N. 47° 0' W.—Annular, with central
mountain.
Heraclz'des Falsus, 46° 46' N. 25° 30' E. — High
projecting promontory, with a high rock rising
from the plain of the Sinus Iridum.
Eudowus, 44° 39’ N. 16° 24’ W.-- Large and an
nular, with high rocks to the east of it.
JVIercurz'us Falsus, 35° 2' N. 76° 20' W. -— Large
and irregularlyannular, with a pointedsouthern
margin, two large central rocks, and two
smaller ones; the two largest sometimes appear
as one ridge, joining the western margin.
Aristz'llus, 33° 43' N. 2° 33’ W. —— Deep and an
nular, with central rock.
Possidonius, 32°44' N. 29° 35' W.—Annular, con
taining an annular spot near its south margin,
and one on its west and north margin, with_
several rocks.
Autolycus, 29° 46' N. 2° 31' W. - Large and deep
annular spot, with central spot.
Arrhimedes, 29° 17' N. 1° 45' E. ——Large and deep
annular spot, with high margin, and high rocks
to the south of it. _
Cleomedes, 27° 18' N. 57° 50'v W. — A large annu
lar spot, containing three central rocks, with
two contiguous annular spots on its north
eastern, one on its north-western, and two on
its western margin. Rocks south~east of it.
66 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
Timocharis, 26° 83' N. 12° 3' E.-— Annular, with
central spot, and two luminous radiations from
its south margin.
Aris'tarchus, 28° 40' N. 47° 2' E. — A deep cavity,
with high rocks, and two cavities east of it,
and i a radiation issuing from its south-east
margin. It is the most luminous part of the
full moon.
Seleums, 20° 50' N. 62° 40' E. — Shallow and an
gular, with central spot. Two luminous
ridges pass from it to Cardanus, one of them
touching the western margin of Sele'ums.
Menelaus, 16° 25' N. 16° 5’ W. -— Annular, with
central mountain, a high rock on its south
east, and two annular spots on its south-west.
It is very luminous from its south-west to its
north-east.
Plim'us, 15° 44" N. 24° 16' W. — Annular, with
two central mountains. Between Menelaus
and Pliny, stretching southward, there is a
singular ridge of rough and luminous ground.
Eratostkencs, 14° 89' N. 12° 1' E.—-Annular, with
irregular central mountains, and curious rocks
on its west and east margin, and luminous
ridges to the north of it.
Manilz'us, 14° 3'? N. 9° 2' W. —Large annular
spot, with high margin and central rock.
Marius, 11° 55' N. 50° 0' E. — Deep and annular,
with a half formed annular spot on its south
eeftst, ridges south of it, and high ground north
0 1t.
Copernicus, 9° 41' N. 19° 56' E. -- Annular, with
a central mountain and broad margin, very
luminous all round, with numerous rocks and
mountains scattered on the north-east of it.
Kepler, 8° 4" N. 37° 45' E. —Very luminous all
round, with a central mountain.
LECTURE iv. 67
Cavalerius, 5° 43' N. 67° 39' E. —Annular, and in
contact with Hevelius.
Hewlz'us, 2° 10' N. 68° 13’ E. -—- Remarkable spot
containing a central body like an egg broken
at its north end, and a small cavity. Broken
rocks east of it, and a singular appearance to
the West of it,
Landsbergz'us, 1° 1' S. 16° 49' E. —-Annular spot,
with a central mountain. Two radiations
extend from it to Rhez'nhold.
Rz'cciolus, 2° 43' S. 75° 10' E.— Irregularly an
nular, with an indented broken margin to the
' south, dark spots west of it, and a dark spot
within it.
Grimaldus, 5° 5'S. 67° 30' E. — Irregularly an
' nular, with broken margin.
Hz'pparchus, 5° 53' S. 3° 25' W. — Annular, with
small central rocks. ,
Langrerws, 7° 31' S. 62° 30' W.—Annular, with
central mountain. Remarkable appearance
beyond its south-south-west margin.
Ptolemwus, 8° 57' S. 3° 11' E. — Large spot, with
irregular margin of different hei hts. ’
Theophz'lus, 11° 25' S. 26° 28' Annular,
. with large central mountain.
Alplimzsus Rea", 12° 37' S. 3° 30' E. — A deep
cavity, with central rock south-east of it. Al
phonsus is irregular, with a central rock.
Vendelz'nus, 16° 46' S. 62° 11' W.— Irregular,
open at north margin, cavity at south margin,
mountain at north margin.
Arzaclzel, 17° 7' S. 3° 20’ E. — Beautiful spot, with
very irregular margin, two central cavities,
and a central mountain. Chasms and pits on
its margin, chasms north of it.
Bullialdus, 20° 30’ S. 21° 53' E. --Annular, with
high central mountain, and three cavities south
68 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
of it. A long rid e runs from its south mar
gin across one of t e small cavities south of
it, to the half-formed spot west of Cic/ms.
Fracastorius, 21° 22' S. 32° 31' W.— Large, hol~
low, with cavities south of it, and communi
cating with M. Nectaris.
Purbaclzz'us, 22° 53' S.‘ 1° 43' E. --An annular
spot, containing three rocks, with an annular
spot on its north margin, and another on its
south-east margin. .
Petam'us, 25° 17' S. 57° 40' W.— Annular, with
large central mountain. Long and deep chasm
on its west margin; rocks north of it; an
nplar spot, with central mountain, north-east
o it.
Regiomontanus, 26° 44' S. 0° 33' E. —Annular
spot, containing two small rocks, and an an
nular spot on its west margin.
Wernems, 27° 53’ S. 3° 45' W. —- A large and re~.
gular circular spot, with central mountain.
Pz'tatus, 30° 8' S. 13° 32' E. — Half-formed annu
lar spot, with central rock, several marginal
cavities, and a cavity communicating with it
on the north'-east.
Waltherus, 31° 40' S. 0° 10' W. — Irregular, with
a central rock.
Snellius, 33° 31' S. 53:7 45' W.— Annular, with
central rock, and numerous annular spots east
of it.
Fumerz'us, 35° 34/ S. 58° 10' W. — Annular, with
cavity north of the centre, and spot south of
the centre. Singular appearance on its north
margin.
T
yclzo, 43° 0' S. 10° 43' E. — A deep brilliant
cavity, from which all the radiations in the
south limb of the full Moon appear to issue.
an'runa 1v. - 69
Sclziekﬁardus, 45° 15' S. 52° 54" E. — Numerous
cavities on its north, south, and west margins.
Longomantanus, 50° 0’ S. 20° 0' E. — An annular
spot, with a large rock on its north margin,
and several on its south-west margin.
Phocilides, 54° 12' S. 58° 36' E. —- Annular spot
on its western margin, and a rock stretching
from it across Pbocz'lia’es.
Clavz'us, 57° 56' S. 14° 52' E. -- The south mar
ginal spot of Clavz'us has a central mountain
in.it, and there is a high mountain on its
north margin.
The Satellites of Jupiter,
The discovery of which may be considered one of
the earliest improvements the science of astronomy
has to boast from the invention of the telescope,
were ﬁrst observed, by Galileo, in 1610. They
are four in number, and, with the exception of the
third and fourth, are never visible to the naked eye ;
instances of these two being so seen are extremely
rare, although they have been known to occur.
When viewed through a telescope, the satellites
of Jupiter present a most beautiful appearance,
bein enerally ranged in a straight line, nearly
par 15 to his belts. That satellite which revolves
nearest to Jupiter is called the ﬁrst satellite; the
orbit of the second includes that of the ﬁrst; the
third is exterior to the second; and the fourth
satellite describes an orbit round its primary, which
includes the orbits of the other three.
The ﬁrst satellite completes his periodical revo
lution in 1 day, 18 hours, 27 minutes, 88 seconds,
at the mean distance of 264,490 miles from the
centre of its primary.
7O LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
The second, in 3 days, 13 hours, 13 minutes,
42 seconds, at the distance of 420,815 miles.
Y The third, in 7 days, 3 hours, 42 minutes,
33 seconds, at the distance of 671,234 miles.
And the fourth, or exterior satellite, revolves
round Jupiter in 16 days, 16 hours, 32 minutes,
8 seconds, at the mean distance of 1,180,582 Eng
lish miles.
From the different periods in which these satel
lites revolve round their primary, their relative
situation with regard to him, and to each other, is
continually changing ; thus, at one time, they are all
seen on the right, at another, on the left of Jupiter,
but more commonly they appear divided, one or
two being seen on one side, and the rest on the
other; nor do they always appear in the order of
their respective distances, the second being fre
quently seen nearer to Jupiter than the ﬁrst, 8w.
all which various phenomena, together with the
velocity of light, and the method of ﬁnding the
longitude from the eclipses of these bodies, will be
fully explained when we come to consider their
motions as seen from the surface of our Earth.
The satellites of Jupiter appear to be of different
magnitudes; but as the angle they subtend- is too
small to admit of their real size being ascertained
by actual measurement, attempts have been made
to solve this problem, by noting the time which
each satellite takes to immerse itself in Jupiter’s
shadow. From the inaccuracies to which such a
method of computation is liable, various results
have 'been obtained by different observers. Ac
cording to Dr. Herschell, the third .is the largest,
the second the least, and the ﬁrst and fourth are
nearly of the same size. They are all of them
supposed to be considerably larger than the Earth,
but their dimensions are not exactly ‘known.
LECTURE iv. 71
From periodical changes observed in the inten
sity of their light, Dr. Herschell infers that Jupi
ter’s satellites revolve round their axes, and that
the period of their rotation (like that of our Moon)
is equal to the time of their revolution round their
primary.
The Salellites qf Salurn
Are seven in number; of these, ﬁve only were dis;
covered before the year-1789, previous to which
time the satellites of Saturn, like those of Jupiter,
were numbered in the order of their distance from
their primary, that being called the ﬁrst which re
volved nearest to Saturn, and so of the rest.
When, in the year above mentioned, Dr. Herschell
discovered two more satellites revolving round
Saturn, interior to any of those already known,
these newly discovered bodies, instead of being
called the ﬁrst and second, as by their situation
they ought to have been, were denominated, the
sixth and seventh satellites, so that, in fact, the
numbers by which the satellites of Saturn are dis
tinguished neither denote the order of their dis
covery, nor the proximity of their orbits to the
planet round which they revolve. The fourth
satellite was discovered, by Huygens, on the 25th,.
March, 1655; the ﬁfth, by Cassini, in October,
1671 ; the third, on the 23d December, 1672, by
the same observer, who had also the merit of dis
covering the ﬁrst and second in the month of
March, 1684. The order oftheir distance from
Saturn is, the sixth, seventh, ﬁrst, second, third,
fourth, ﬁfth. The six inner satellites move nearly
in the plane of his rin ,, but the orbit of the ﬁfth
makes an angle with the plane of Saturn’s orbit of
72 LECTURES on asraonomr.
24° 45'. This last satellite, when at its greatest
distance west of Saturn, exceeds all the others, ex
cept the fourth, in splendour; but when at its
greatest distance eastward it altogether disappears.
rom the regular recurrence of these phenomena it
is inferred, that this satellite, like the Moon, re
volves on its axis in a period exactly equal to that
of its revolution round its primary.
The sixth satellite revolves round Saturn in
22 hours, 37 minutes, 28 seconds, at the distance
' of 119,627 miles from his centre.
The seventh in 1 day, 8 hours, 58 minutes,
9 seconds, at the distance of 158,496 miles.
The ﬁrst in 1 day, 21 hours, 18 minutes, 26 se
conds, at the distance of 190,044 miles.
The second in 2 days, 17 hours, 44 minutes,
51 seconds, at the distance of 248,449 miles.
The third in 4 days, 12 hours, 25 minutes,
11 seconds, at the distance of 340,005 miles.
The fourth in 15 days, 22 hours, 41 minutes,
18 seconds, at the distance of 788,258 miles.
The ﬁlth in 79 days, 7 hours, 53 minutes,
4-2 seconds, at the distance of 2,297,541 miles. '
The sixth and seventh are the smallest of the
satellites which attend on Saturn; the ﬁrst and
second are the next smallest; the third is greater
than the ﬁrst or second; and the fourth is the largest
of them all.
The Satellites of Uranus,
Which can only be seen with the most powerful
telescopes, are six in number, and were all of them
discovered by Dr. Herschell; the second and fourth
on the 11th January, 1787, and the other four in
1790. It is remarkable that these satellites revolve
LEc'rnaa iv. 73
in a retrograde direction, or contrary to the order
of the signs, in orbits lying nearly in the same
plane, and almost perpendicular to the plane of
the planet’s orbit. The distances and periodic
times of the second and fourth of these satellites
have been accurately determined; the rest have
been calculated upon a general principle hereafter
to be explained
The ﬁrst satellite of Uranus revolves round its
primary in 5 days, 21 hours, 25 minutes, 21 se
couds, at the distance of 224,155 miles from his
centre.
The second in 8 days, 16 hours, 57 minutes,
47 seconds, at the distance of 290,821 miles.
The third in 10 days, 23 hours, 3 minutes,
59 seconds, at the distance of 339,052 miles.
The fourth in 13 days, 10 hours, 56 minutes, ,
30 seconds, at the distance of 388,718 miles.
The ﬁlth in 38 days, 1 hour, 48 minutes, at the
distance of 777,487 miles. .
And the sixth in 107 days, 16 hours, 39 minutes,
56 seconds, at the distance of 1,555,872 miles.
In order to illustrate, as far as possible, the de
scription I have now given of the various bodies
of which the planetary system is composed, and to
assist the imagination in forming a correct idea of
the relative magnitudes of the planets, and their
comparative distances from the centre of the sys~r
tem, I shall refer to diagram 1., which is composed
of seven slides, or pieces, marked A B C D E F G.
These being placed on the machine, one upon ano
ther, according to the order of the letters, present a
general view of the planetary system, on a scale
sufﬁciently large to convey a very just idea of the
relative distances of the planets from each other,
and from the centre of the system. The magni
tudes of the planets, as delineated in the scheme,
E
741. LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
are also in due proportion to one another, and to
a supposed globe of two feet diameter for the Sun.
To give an idea of the distances at which the planets
in this diagram must be placed from a Sun of two
feet diameter, according to their own proportional
bulks, it is only necessary to observe, that the Earth
must be upwards of 70 yards from his centre, and
the distance of the Moon from the centre of the
Earth would be 7§ inches. It is evident, there
fore, that the satellites are only represented by
their respective primaries, in order to complete the ‘
diagram, without any regard to their relative dis
tances from the planets to which they belong. Each
planet, having its symbolical character placed
ainst it, renders any farther explanation of the
ﬁgures in this diagram unnecessary.
LECTURE v. V 75
LECTURE V.
ON THE; FIGURE or THE EARTH.
IN the descriptive survey we have hitherto taken
of the bodies composing the planetary system, the
introduction of any of those phenomena resulting
from our own situation in the universe, has been
as far as possible, carefully avoided; nor has the'
planet itself of which we are inhabitants, been made
a subject ofparticular consideration. Now the Earth
being the place from which all our observations
must necessarily be made, and the apparent mo
tions of the heavenly bodies, being very consider
ably affected by the ﬁgure of the Earth, and the
situation of the observer upon its surface, it will
beproper, in order to facilitate our future inves
tigations respecting the planetary motions, to make
ourselves acquainted with the true ﬁgure of the
Earth.
Respecting the form of the Earth, various no-'
tions were entertained by the ancient philosophers.
Heraclitus,whoﬂourished about 500 years B.C., sup
posed it was shaped like a skiff, or canoe, very much '
hollowed ; some imagined its form to be that of an
oblong cylinder; and others considered it to be in
the form of a drum: but the most general opinion
seems to have been that the Earth was an immense
circular plain, diversiﬁed with hills and dales, and I
every way surrounded by the ocean. When it
ﬁrst began to be considered a globular body is ’
very uncertain, audit is probable, that many long
voyages‘had‘been performed, ere it was known to ‘
E 2
76 LECTURES on as'rnonomr.
be such, although the Egyptians are said by
Diogenes Laertius to have been acquainted with
this fact, and also, that the Moon was eclipsed by
falling into the Earth’s shadow; and Macrobius
. asserts, that they had not only measured the mag
nitude of the Earth, but that of the Sun also.
That the Egyptians were celebrated for their
learning, at least 1500 years before the Christian
zera, is evident, since we read that “ Moses was
learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians ;” now
it is generally- admitted, that the wisdom here
spoken of, refers to their great skill in the science
of astronomy; and from their early observations
of solar and lunar eclipses, it appears that the
ﬁgure of the Earth must have been known to them
at a very remote period. At what time they ﬁrst
became acquainted with this phenomenon, or whe
ther they were the ﬁrst discoverers of it, is not
worth our while to enquire, it is sufﬁcient for us to
know that the rotundity of the Earth is a fact
established upon the most irresistible evidence, and
to be able to bring forward such proofs in support
of it, as cannot fail to convince the most prejudiced,
and sceptical mind; a few of the most convincing
of which, I shall now produce.
If, standing on the sea-shore, on a ﬁne clear
day, we view a ship leaving the coast in any direc
tion, the hull or body of the vessel ﬁrst disappears;
afterwards the rigging becomes invisible, and lastly,
the top of the mast vanishes from our sight. Now
this phenomenon, is evidently caused by the con
vexity of the water between the eye and the ship;
for were the surface of the sea an extensive plain,
the largest and most conspicuous part of the vessel
would be visible the longest.
Another proof of the convexity of the surface,
is, that the higher the eye is raised, the farther is
LECTURE v. 77
the view extended, for an observer in an evening
may distinctly see the setting Sun from the top of a
lofty tower, or any considerable eminence, after it
has ceased to be visible to those below ; having ap
peared to sink below their horizon. It is also very
common for sailors from the top of the mast, to
discover ships, or land, at a greater distance than
they could do when standing upon deck.
On sailing towards the north, the altitude of the
pole, and circumpolar stars, is found uniformly to
increase, and the inclination of the circles de
scribed by all the stars to the horizon, gradually
diminishes ; in proceeding in a southerly direction,
the reverse of all this takes place; the altitude of
the pole, with the circumpolar stars decreases,
while all the stars describe circles, increasing in in
clination to the horizon.
The above observations are chieﬂy intended to
show that the surface of the water is convex: that
the continents into which the Earth is divided, are
also convex, will evidently appear, when we con
sider that these vast portions of land, are no where
much higher than the seas which intersect them in
various directions, or the oceans by which they are
surrounded, as is proved by the course of great
rivers, such as the river Amazon in South America,
and many others. These rivers all run over very
extensive tracts of our continents, and discharge
themselves into seas, or oceans, yet they are every
where navigable, and the rapidity of their stream,
which indicates the greater or less inclination of
the lands through which they ﬂow, is always such
as to show that this inclination is in general incon
siderable, their fall at a moderate estimate, not
exceeding one mile in a course of one thousand:
their shores are also universally found to be pretty
E 3
78 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
nearly the same, and no where much elevated
above the surface of the ocean.
The foregoing facts afford sufﬁcient evidence of
the convexity of the surface, both of the sea and
land, in various directions and in different places;
yet, perhaps, from none of them, are we entitled to
infer that this terraqueous globe is altogether of
a spherical form. This opinion, however, seems
to admit of a complete demonstration inthe case
of lunar eclipses, which are caused (as will be
hereafter shown) by the shadow of the Earth pass
ing over her disc. This shadow, whatever situ
ation the Earth may be in at the time of the
eclipse taking place, is always bounded by a circular
line; now it is easy to conceive that a body which
in all situations casts a circular shadow, can be no
other than a globe; the inequalities of its surface,
being too inconsiderable to produce any irregulari
ties in its shadow in eclipses of the Moon ; since it
can be demonstrated that Chimboraco, the highest
mountain on the globe, bears no greater proportion
to the bulk of the Earth than a grain of dust (1068
to an artiﬁcial globe of moderate dimensions. A
still more satisfactory proof of the spherical form
of the Earth, is derived from the fact of its having
been sailed round by several navigators, who steer
ing their course directly south and west, till they
came to the Magellanic sea, and then to the north
and west, have returned from the east, to the port
from which they sailed; after having experienced
all those phenomena which should naturally arise
from the rotundity of the Earth.
These and similar observations, having proved
the convexity of the Earth’s surface, its ﬁgure was
concluded by mathematicians and astronomers, to
be that of a true sphere, excepting only the small
inequalities of hills and valleys, on its surfaCe ; till
LECTURE v. '79
an accident opened a new ﬁeld for speculation,
and drew the attention of Sir Isaac Newton, and
Mr. Huygens, to this subject. As, however, the
circumstance which led to the discovery of the
ﬁgure of the Earth not being truly spherical, as
well as the cause of its deviation from that form,
depend upon the same general principle, from the
operations ofwhich, under the impulse and direction
of the Omnipotent Being, the whole system of the
universe results, it will be necessary in this place,
to investigate the form under which this principle
.operates ; or, in other words, to take a general view
of the doctrine of gravitation.
Gravity1 may be distinguished into particular,
and general, or terrestrial, and universal.
Particular or terrestrial gravity, is that force by
~ which bodies are continually solicited towards a
point, which is either accurately, or very nearly
the centre of the terraqueous globe; and may be
considered -a familiar display of the energies of
that powerful but invisible agent in nature, by the
elfect of which the planets are retained in their
orbits.
General, or universal gravity, is that by which
all the great bodies of the solar system, and, in
deed, all the bodies and particles of matter in the
universe, tend towards one another; or, in more
appropriate terms, universal gravitation, is that
effect of some unknown, but ever active and uni
versal cause, by which every particle of matter
gravitates, or has a tendency, towards every other
particle. Although the existence of this important
and universal principle has been demonstrated, its
effects investigated, and‘the laws to which it is sub
ject explained, and illustrated, by the most cele
* From gravi: heavy.
I: 4
80 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
brated mathematicians, and philosophers, yet every
attempt to penetrate its essence has hitherto
proved unavailing.
Terrestrial gravity, more immediately concerning
the subject of our present investigations, let us
proceed to a contemplation of its effects in those
familiar instances which are daily presented to our
observation, and which are principally manifested,
in the descent of falling bodies, to the Earth’s
surface.
Now all bodies are composed of what is called
matter], and the words matter, and body, are fre
quently, though not with strict propriety, used
synonymously. Matter denoting in itsprimitive
sense that unexplained something, which is the
the foundation of all bodies, or from which all those
things that are objects of our senses are formed,
while body (which is of Saxon origin) signiﬁes the
material substance of a man, or other animal; and,
therefore, ought to be conﬁned to an extended,
solid, substance, possessing form or ﬁgure.
Matter is ofitselfperfectly passive, and indifferent
as to motion or rest; a body at rest, can never put
itself in motion, 'nor can a body when in motion,
of itself alter its rectilinear direction, or fall into
a state of rest: in order, therefore, to induce a
change of state in any body, from rest to motion,
or vice versa, it must be acted upon by some ex
ternal force.
Now, daily experience convinces us that all
bodies fall, or have a tendency to fall towards the
Earth. Thus a stone, or any other body at rest,
if supported by another body, or suspended by a
string, discovers this tendency by pressing upon
its support, or stretching the string by which it is
1 In Latin wateria from mater a mother.
LECTURE v. i 81
suspended ; and if the support be removed, or the
string cut, it immediately descends to the Earth in
a line perpendicular to its surface. Again, if the
stone be projected in any direction oblique to the
horizon, we see that it is deﬂected from the right
line in which the projection was made, and descends
in' a curvilinear direction to the Earth. When,
therefore, we view these phenomena, and consider
the inertness of matter, we are naturally induced
to enquire into their cause; and as no visible
I force was applied to put the stone into motion, or
when moving in one direction to alter its course
and cause it to assume another, we are led to con
clude that these effects must have been the result
of some peculiar invisible agency. ‘
Now, since heavy bodies exhibit the same pro
pensity in all parts of the Earth where similar
experiments have been made, we are intitled to'
infer that the cause of these phenomena is to be
sought for in the Earth itself; and as we ﬁnd by
experience, that the magnet draws to itself all iron
bodies placed within the sphere of its attraction,
we may, therefore, by a vfair analogy, conclude that
it is the attraction of the Earth which causes all
'circumterrestrial bodies, if unsupported, to fall .to
wards it.
The Earth being a globular body poised in space,
can, properly speaking, have no such thing as an
upper or under side, since it is on all sides sur
rounded by the heavens; and as the attractive
power of the Earth causes all heavy bodies on its
surface to tend towards its centre, the reason why
the inhabitants on all parts of the Earth stand
equally upright upon its surface with their feet
td'wards its centre will be evident ; namely, because
towards that centre the weight or tendency of every
man’s body is directed, and consequently by the
E 5
82 LECTURES ON asraonomr.
terms up and down, as applied to the Earth, can
only be meant towards the zenith, or towards the
centre of the Earth; and, therefore, there is no more
occasion to suppose that a person who lives on the
opposite side of the Earth to ourselves, is in
danger of falling down as it is called into the sky
which is under us, than there is to imagine that
we are in danger of falling towards that part of the
heavens which is immediately over our heads.
Gravity equally accelerates all falling bodies,
without regard to their bulk, ﬁgure, or quantity
of matter, so that abstracting from the resistance
of the medium, the lightest and heaviest, the
greatest and smallest bodies, would all descend
through an equal space in the same time; thus, a
sovereign and a feather let fall from the sameheight,
will descend to the Earth in different times in the
open air, owing to the resistance of the medium
through which they pass, protracting the descent of
the feather; but if both be let fall from the top of
an exhausted receiver, they both reach the bottom
at the same instant, which shows that the force of
attraction is always proportionate to the density,
and not to the bulk of bodies.
The law by which gravitation acts, is that it de
creases as the squares of the distances from the
body towards which the ravitation is made increase;
abody, therefore, near t 1e surface of the Earth tends
towards the centre with four times the force that it
would do if it were removed twice as far from that
centre; nine times the force that it would do at
thrice the distance, and so on ; but the distances to
which we can have access, either above or below
the Earth’s surface, are so small, that it is scarcely
possible by any direct experiment upon the weight
ofa body, to detect any sensible chan e in the
force of gravity itself. We may, theregre, in all
LECTURE v. 83
our reasonings concerning the eﬂ'ects it produces
at the Earth’s surface consider it a constant force,
and ascribe the increase of velocity in a falling body
not to the attraction of the Earth acting more
strongly upon it as it approaches the Earth’s sur
face, but to the continuance of this force.
For the discovery of the law which regulates
the descent of falling bodies, we are indebted to
Galileo, who found that the space through hich
every body actually falls in vacuo, is 16,1i feet
during the ﬁrst second ’of its descent in the latitude
of London, at the end of which time it has ac
quired such an increase of velocity as would carry
it through double that space or 321!- feet in the next
second of time, if the force of gravity were to cease
acting upon it; but the velocity continuing to
increase by the power of gravity continuing to act
upon the body, it actually in this second passes over
three times as much space as it passed over in the
ﬁrst second, this added to one makes four; in the
third second ﬁve times the space which added to
the four makes nine, and so on ; always increasing
by the odd numbers, hence we obtain for the
descent of circumterrestrial bodies this simple
rule; the spaces passed over are directly as the
square of the times. Now, as in the ﬁrst second
of time, a body falls through 1611; feet, in order to
ﬁnd the space a body passes through in its descent,
we have only to square the seconds and multiply
the product by 16%; feet.
To the power of gravity, therefore, considered
as a constant force, we are to ascribe the descent
of a projectile in a curved line.
Gravity is the property by which bodies are
what is termed heavy, and the pressure of any
lIOtly upon the hand, or whatever supports it, in
dicates its being gravis _or heavy. The weight of
E 6
8_4_- LECTURES ON as'raononv.
any body is the measure of the united gravitation
of every particle of matter of which it is composed,
and is estimated by means of some known unit of
weight with which it is compared. The Weight
should, therefore, be distinguished from the gravity
or heaviness of a body.
In concluding our remarks for the present, upon
this grand law of nature, it may be proper to ob
serve that gravitation is an universal principle, and
consequently as all bodies gravitate towards the
Earth, so does the Earth equally gravitate towards
all bodies, and allbodies towards each other; but
the attraction of bodies being in proportion to the
quantity of matter they contain, the Earth being
such 'an immense aggregate of matter, is supposed
to destroy the eﬁ'ect of this attraction between
smaller bodies, by forcibly compelling them to
itself. The attraction of mountains, however, on
plum-lines and the balls of pendulums, has been
found by repeated observations to be very con
siderable.
The effect of this universal principle upon the
» heavenly bodies is no less important and surpris
. ing, than in those objects we have been contem
plating, and with which we are most familiar.
As, however, to enter upon the subject of universal
gravitation in this place, would be in some respects
premature, I shall reserve my observations upon
that head for a more appropriate opportunity, and
shall in the meanwhile resume the subject which
led to this digression.
_The circumstance alluded to in an early part of
this Lecture, as leading to the discovery of the
true ﬁgure of the Earth was brieﬂy as follows : —
Richer, who in 1671 was sent by Louis XIV. to
the island of Cayenne, which is only ﬁve degrees
from the equator, to make certain important astro
LECTURE v. 85
nomical observations, found that the pendulum of
his clOck which at Paris vibrated true seconds,
here lost two minutes and twenty-eight seconds
every day, and that in order to make it vibrate exact
seconds, it was necessary to shorten it about the
eleventh part of an inch. I '
If the attraction of the Earth were the same at
all places, falling bodies would descend in a second
of time through equal spaces in all latitudes; and
a pendulum clock that shows the true time at
Paris, would do the same at Cayenne, and every
where else; the motion of the pendulum, like that
of all falling bodies, being accelerated by gravity.
Now since heat will lengthen pendulums, and
consequently retard their motion, the velocity of
which depends on the length of the rod, it might
have been supposed at ﬁrst that this daily retard~
ation was occasioned by the expansion of the rod
in a climate so much hotter than that of Paris; it
was, however, fully ascertained by repeated experi
ments made for the purpose, that the heats of'
Cayenne were by no means sufﬁcient to solve this
phenomenon, which could only be occasioned by a
diminution in the force of gravity at the latter place.
'The attraction of the Earth decreases in pro
portion to the distance of a body from its centre,
and the vibration of pendulums is caused by this
attraction; hence it follows that the attractive
force of the Earth is least where the motion of the
same pendulum (due allowance being made for its
expansion by the heat,) is slowest, and that this
being the case at the equator, the distance of this
circle from the Earth’s centre must exceed that of
any other part of its surface, and consequently that
the Earth is not a true sphere, but an oblat'e
spheroid, ﬂattened at the polar, and swelled out at
the equatorial regions.
86 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
The oblateness of the Earth at the poles being
ascertained, the next point to be determined, was,
the ratio between the polar and equatorial diame
ters. This Newton, upon physical principles, de
monstrated to be as 229 to 230 ; since his time the
question respecting the true ﬁgure of the Earth, or
ofany planet revolving about an axis in a given time,
has particularly engaged the attention of mathema
ticians. It would, however, by no means accord
with the plan of these Lectures, to enter into an
elaborate exposition of the various solutions which
have been given of this important and difﬁcult pro
blem, especially as the strict mathematical rea
soning employed in the investigation, would be
in a great degree unintelligible to many persons
for whose use they are intended; let it suﬁice, there
fore, to observe, that although by the actual mea
surement of a degree of the meridian in different
latitudes, as well as by experiments on pendulums
made with the greatest care, the compression at the
polar regions is placed beyond all doubt, yet there
still exists a difference of opinion as to the exact
quantity ofthis compression. Newton, whose inves
tigations were certainly conﬁned to the homo
geneous spheroid, assumed, as has been already
stated, 31% for the compression at the poles, while
La Place makes it 3&1; it is probable from the
most recent experiments and observations, that the
true difference between the two diameters is about
:3?
Having proved the deviation of the Earth from
a truly spherical form, and shown that it is some
what ﬂattened at the polar, and swelled out at the
equatorial regions, I shall now give a very general
explanation of the cause of this deviation; in doing
which, I shall, without stopping to enquire whether
the Earth revolve on its axis or not, assume that
LECTURE v. 87
it has such a motion, and proceed to show the
effects of this rotation upon its ﬁgure.
It is very evident that if any body revolve on an
axis, every particle of matter of which that body is
composed, must describe a circle, to the plane of
which the axis is perpendicular ; and that the more
distant any part of the earth is from the axis ofrota
tion, the greater will be the circle in which it
revolves. The equator, therefore, being the most
remote from the axis of rotation, the gravity of the
equatorial parts, must be most diminished by the
centrifugal force arising from their rapid motion,
and this diminution gradually decreases as we ap
proach the poles where it is nothing; consequently
if the Earth were originally in a soft or ﬂuid state,
it would, by its rotation on its axis, naturally assume
its present spheroidal form; or if it were in the
ﬁrst instance a consolidated mass as it is at present,
it must have constantly been approximating to that
form. A degree of rotation might indeed have
been‘impressed upon it, sufﬁcient to overpower the
force of gravity, and cause all bodies to ﬂy off from
its surface, in the same manner as the drops of
water are thrown from the wheel of a water-mill
moving round with great velocity; or by a nice
adjustment of the centrifugal force to the power of
gravity at the equator, all bodies there might be
rendered entirely destitute of weight, so as, al
though they retained their situation, to exert no
pressure on the surface of the Earth : this would
be the case if the Earth revolved in 84 minutes
43 seconds, as may be thus proved; let us imagine
a satellite close to the surface of the Earth, to re
volve round it in the plane 'of the equator, the
square of the time of the revolution of the satellite,
would be to the square of the time of the revolu?
tion of the Moon, as the cube of the distance of
88 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
the satellite, to the cube of the Moon’s distance.
This proportion is deduced from the last of Kep
ler’s laws hereafter to be spoken of.
The Earth’s rotation on its axis, not being per
formed in so short a time as to produce the above
effects, all sublunary bodies continue to be urged
towards the Earth by the force ofgravity, and retain
their situation on its surface, without the least dan
ger of derangement from the action of the-centri
fugal force; the only eﬁ'ect of which is to produce
a diminution of gravity in different latitudes, di
rectly proportional to the squares of the cosines of
those latitudes. ’
I have now endeavoured to show in a clear and
intelligible manner, that from the Earth’s diurnal
rotation, or by the action of a centrifugal force,
combined with the inﬂuence of gravity, a compres
sion at the poles, and an accumulation of matter
at the equator naturally result; and the ﬁgure of
the Earth, having been demonstrated to be that of
an oblate spheroid, we may naturally infer that
it has such a motion; ofthis, however, further proofs
will be produced in'their proper place: I shall
therefore conclude my remarks upon the ﬁgure of
the Earth, by observing, that what has now been
said will be found to apply in a general sense to
all the planets in the system.
an'runs VI. 89
LECTURE VI.
THE ATMOSPHERE DESCRIBED. —- OF REFRACTION.
— OF TWILIGHT. -— OF METEOKS.
THE Earth has been mentioned as the place from
which all our observations upon the heavenly
bodies must necessarily be made ; and for the more
ready comprehension of the phenomena they ex
hibit, as seen from different parts of its surface,
the ﬁgure of this globe has been particularly in
vestigated; it is, however, no less necessary to
enquire into the nature of the medium through
which they are to be viewed, and to ascertain in
what manner, and to what extent, our observ
ations are affected by this medium.
That compound ﬂuid mass which on every side
invests our globe, extending to a very consider
able height above its surface, is called the atmos
phere 1: it is composed of air, and a hetero
genous collection of aqueous and other vapours
and exhalations, electric ﬂuids, 8m. and may be
considered as a vast laboratory in which, by the
action of the solar heat, the most important
eperations of chemistry are continually carry
ing on.
That part of the atmosphere properly called
air, was formerly supposed to be a simple homo
geneous and elementary ﬂuid; but by the experi~v
ments of Dr. Priestley and others, it is ascertained
that atmospheric air is a compound of oxygen or
I From wrpﬂ' vapour, and mpmpa a sphere.
\
90 LECTURES 0N asrnonomr.
pure air, and nitrogen or azotic gas. According
to the most accurate experiments, the air that we
breathe is composed of only twenty-two parts of
oxygen air, and seventy-eight of nitrogen or azotic
gas in every hundred.
The uses of this circumambient ﬂuid are as
multifarious as they are important; not, however,
to dwell upon the numerous advantages mankind
derive from it as a mechanical force, a vehicle of
.sound, or even as the support of all animal and
vegetable life, and the great spring of most of
those mutations which are continually taking place
among sublunary bodies, I shall proceed to
consider its properties and effects, as connected, ,
in a greater or less degree, with the science of
astronomy.
The atmosphere, in common with all other
material substances, is endued with weight and
pressure, though in an inferior degree to most
other bodies with which we are acquainted; by
repeated experiments it is found that the pressure
of the atmosphere sustains a column of quicksilver
> in the tube of the barometer 1 of about 29% inches
in height, and consequently that the whole pressure
ofthe atmosphere is equal to the weight of a column
of quicksilver 29% inches in height, and of an equal
base; and because 29% cubic inches of quicksilver
are found to weigh about 15 pounds, therefore the
weight of the atmosphere on every square inch of
the Earth’s surface is equal to about that weight.
Again, it has been proved in the case of pumps,
860., that the pressure of the atmosphere balances a
column of water of about 34-2L Feet high, and 'the
cubic foot of water, weighing just 621.; pounds,
845x62§=2156 pounds, or the weight of the
1 From Bap©- weight, and ,ue'rpuv a measure.
LECTURE VI. 91
atmosphere on a base of a. square foot, which,
divided by 144, gives nearly 15 pounds for the
weight of the atmosphere on a square inch as
before. — Now the Earth’s surface contains, in
round numbers, 200,000,000 square miles, or
5,575,680,000,000,000 square feet; this, therefore,
multiplied by‘2160, the number of pounds in a
square foot, gives 12,04~3,468,800,000,000,000
pounds for the weight of the whole atmosphere.
Mr. Cotes has computed that the pressure of the
atmosphere, on the whole surface of the Earth, is
equal to the weight of a globe of lead 60 miles
in diameter. From the above calculations it ap
pears that a middle sized man, estimating his
surface at 14 square feet, sustains a pressure of
30,240 pounds. We are not, indeed, sensible of
this enormous external pressure, because all parts
of our bodies are ﬁlled with this elastic ﬂuid, the
spring of which is an exact counterpoise to the
wei ht of the atmosphere, and no more; for any
sud en and considerable change in the weight of
the air which our bodies sustain, is always very
sensibly felt. On the increase of its natural weight,
the weather is commonly ﬁne, and we feel our
selves more alert and active than usual; but, on
the contrary, when the weight of the air dimi
nishes, the weather becomes bad, because the air
has not suﬂicient strength to bear up the vapours,
&c. of which the clouds are composed, and we
feel within ourselves a listlessness and inactivity
which is commonly, but erroneously, ascribed to
the air’s being too heavy about us, the very reverse
of which is actually the case. '
The atmosphere is of an elastic or springy
nature, expands and contracts, and is found by
repeated experiments, when compressed by differ
ent weights, to occupy spaces reciprocally propor
92 an'runns 0N ASTRONOMY.
tional to those weights; or that the more the air
is preSsed the less space it occupies. It follows,
therefore, that the lowest parts of the atmosphere
must be the heaviest, as well as the most dense,
because they are pressed upon by the weight of
all the atmosphere above them, and, consequently,
that the air in the upper regions of the atmos
phere, must grow continually more and more rare
as it ascends higher above the Earth’s surface;
and this is the reason why clouds and vapours can
only rise to a certain height, for where the air in
the higher regions of the atmosphere becomes
speciﬁcally lighter than the clouds themselves, it
Will, Of course, be unable to support them. By
a number of very curious experiments, made with
the barometer, for ascertaining the density of the
air at different heights, it has been proved that a
CUbic inch of the air we breathe would be so
much rareﬁed, at the height of 500 miles, that
lt'would ﬁll a sphere equal in diameter to the orbit
0f Saturn.
The following extract, from the writings of the
learned Dr. Horslev, so beautifully illustrative of
this subject, cannot. fail of being acceptable: “ If,”
says this profound and elegant scholar, “ the
at_m°$pl1e1‘e of the Earth reaches to inﬁnite heights
Wit ﬁnite density, those of Jupiter and every
Other planet will also reach to inﬁnite heights
above the surface of the planet with ﬁnite density.
e atmosphere of every planet will, therefore,
rea'c t0 the surface of every other planet, and
to thfﬂ surface of the Sun, and the atmosphere of
the 5"“ t0 the surface of them all. All these
atmqspheres will mingle, and form a common
mmc'Sphere of the whole system. This common
?tm°sPhere of the system will be inﬁnitely dif;
used, since the particular atmospheres that com
LECTURE VI. 95
pose it are so; it will reach, therefore, to every
ﬁxed star; and for the same reason, that of every
fixed star will reach the central body of our sys-r
tem, and of every other system. The atmos
pheres of all the systems will mix; the universe
will have one common atmosphere, a subtile,
elastic ﬂuid, which pervades inﬁnite space; and
being condensed near the surface of every larger
mass of matter by the gravitation towards that
mass, form its peculiar atmosphere.”
Before I proceed- to speak of the refractive
power of the atmosphere, it will be necessary to
investigate a little the nature and properties of
light, and the general laws of refraction. In this
investigation I shall avoid entering largely into
the science of optics, extending my remarks no
farther than may be requisite to give a just con
ception of the nature and extent of celestial ob
servations.
Light consists of exceedingly small particles of
matter, emanating in all directions from the Sun,
a torch, or any other luminous body; and these
particles, by striking on our eyes, produce in us
the sensation of seeing. _
By a ray of light, is meant the least particle of
light that can be separately impelled. A pencil
0 rays, is a parcel of rays issuing from, or pro
ceeding towards a point. A beam of light gene
rally means an aggregate or mass of light greater
than a single ray. I _
The extreme minuteness of the particles of light
is demonstrable from the fact, that if a candle be
lighted, and no obstacle obstruct its rays, it will
ﬁll the whole space within two miles around it, as
it were instantaneously, or before the least sensible
part of its substance is expended; and it has been
Computed, that upwards of six billions of times as
94- LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
many grains of light are emitted by a burning
candle in one second of time, as there are grains
of sand in the whole Earth, supposing every cubic
inch of the Earth to contain one million of such
rains. Another proof of the minuteness of these
particles is adduced from the facility With which
the rays of light penetrate glass, crystal, and other
solid bodies, without the smallest diminution of
their velocity. The exility of the particles Of
light, is still farther proved by the circumstance
of their not being able to disturb the smallest
particle of dust which they may chance to encoun
ter in their progress, notwithstanding the incon
ceivable velocity with which they move.
The rarity of light, and the minuteness of its
particles are indeed truly astonishing; yet the
velocity with which it moves is no less surprising.
A cannon-ball, moving at its ordinary rate of
about 480 miles per hour, would take no less
than twenty-two years, two hundred and eleven
days, to traverse a space which is passed by a par
ticle of light in eight minutes, seven seconds of
time; light travelling with the immense velocity
of 195,072 English miles per second, whereby
the rays of light pass from the Sun to the Earth
(a distance of nearly 95,000,000 of miles) in eight
minutes, seven seconds, as will hereafter be shown.
Now the force with which moving bodies strike,
is in proportion to their masses, multiplied by
their velocities, and it has been already shown
that light moves at the rate of 195,072 miles per
second, which is 1,463,034 times swifter than the
motion of a cannon-ball. If, therefore, 1,463,084
particles of light were equal in bulk to an ordinary
grain of sand, their effect upon our visual organs
would be equal to that of sand shot point blank
from the mouth of a cannon.
LECTURE v1. 95
Light is sent back, or reﬂected, by what are
called opaque bodies, or-those which have no'
power of emitting light in themselves; thus the
Moon and planets are opaque bodies, and shine
by reﬂecting the Sun’s light. But whether emitted
or reﬂected, light always moves in straight or
direct lines; this may be proved by looking into
a bent tube, which evidently obstructs the progress
of the rays of light in right lines.
By a medium is meant any transparent body
which suﬁ'ers light to pass through‘it, as void
space, air, water, glass, 8Lc.; these mediums of
course differ in density.
Light, consisting of material particles, must of
course “be subject to the laws of attraction, by the
superior inﬂuence of which its propensity to move
in a direct line is, in certain cases, overcome. To
effect this it is necessary, ﬁrst, that the rays of '
light should pass out of one medium into another
of a different density, or of a greater or less
degree of resistance; and, secondly, that they
pass in an oblique direction. When under these
circumstances a ray of li ht is bent out of its
natural course, it is sai to be refracted, or
broken.
The angle of incidence is the angle made by a
ray of light, and a, line drawn perpendicular to
the, refracting surface at the point where the light
enters that surface; and the angle of refraction, is
the angle made by the ray in the refracting me
dium with the same perpendicular produced.
A ray of light passing from a rarer medium
into a more dense one, is refracted towards the '
perpendicular; on the contrary, a ray of light, in
passing from a dense medium into one more rare,
is refracted from the perpendicular. These general
laws of refraction may be familiarly illustrated by
96 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
the following simple experiments: —Let a lighted
candle shine obliquely into an empty basin, and
mark the place where the shadow of the side
nearest the candle falls, then if the basin be ﬁlled
with water, without moving either the candle or
basin, the shadow will be found to fall in the
bottom of it considerably more towards that side
nearest the light than it did before. Now vary
the experiment by placing a piece of silver or
shining substance at the bottom of the empty
basin; and, retiring from it till you just lose sight
of the silver piece, let another person ﬁll the
basin with water, the piece of silver will re-appear,
although no change of position has taken place,
either with regard to the silver piece or your eye.
In the ﬁrst of these experiments, upon the water
being poured into the basin, the ray passes from
the air into the water, which being a denser
medium, the ray is refracted downwards, or towards
the perpendicular; in the latter instance the ray
proceeds from the water into the air, and the water
being the denser medium, the ray, on leaving it,
is bent from the perpendicular, or towards the eye
of the spectator. This accounts for the apparent
distortion of bodies when dipped in a ﬂuid, as a
walking-stick, for instance, which upon being
thrust partly into the water in an 'oblique direc
tion, appears broken; it also shows why, standing
by the side of a river, the bottom of it appears to
us nearer than it really is.
The more obliquely the ray enters the refract
ing medium, the greater is the refraction, and
vice vm'sa. Therefore, when the ray strikes the
surface perpendicularly, no change of direction
takes place. The denser that any medium is, the
greater is the refraction the rays of light suffer in
passing through it.
LECTURE vr. ‘ 97
Having explained the most remarkable proper
ties of light, and given a general idea of the re
fraction it undergoes in passing from one medium
to another of a different density, let us proceed
to apply these principles to the heavenly pheno
mena, by showing what change the light emitted
from the Sun or planets undergoes in passing
through that immense refracting medium, our own
atmosphere, and how this change affects our ob~
servations upon these bodies.
The height of the atmosphere, at which it is
dense enough to refract the rays of light, is about
ﬁfty miles, and it increases in density (as has
been already demonstrated) towards the surface of
the Earth. Now let E, ﬁg. 12., represent the
Earth, H O R the sensible horizon, and the space
between CO DandAmB the atmosphere. Suppose
Mm to be a ray of light from the Sun, and m the
point where it enters the atmosphere. At this
point (the atmosphere being more dense than the
etherial regions above it) the ray of light suffers
refraction, or is bent downwards or towards the
perpendicular, and were the atmosphere of equal
density, the ray would, from this point, proceed
in a right line to the surface of the Earth; but
the density of the atmosphere increasing as it
descends, the ray of light will be every instant
more and more refracted, and will describe the
curve m 0, increasing in curvature as it ap
proaches 0. But since an object is always seen
in the direction in which the rays of light from it
enter the eye of the spectator, the Sun will appear
at N, in the direction of the tangent to the curve
at the point 0, with which the last elementary
portion of the curve at 0 will of course coincide.
Hence it is evident the eﬁ'ect of refraction‘is to
increase the apparent altitude of all the celestial
F
98 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
bodies. Now it has been already declared that
the more obliquely a ray of light enters a refract
ing medium, the greater will be the refraction. As,
therefore, the rays of light from an object in the
horizon enter the atmosphere more obliquely than
in any other situation, the horizontal refraction
must obviously be the greatest; as the altitude of
the object increases, the refraction gradually dimi
nishes, and when the object is in the point imme
diately over the head of the observed, as at z, the
rays entering the atmosphere in a perpendicular
direction, therefraction is nothing. The angle of
refraction is the difference between the true and
apparent altitudes of the body.
Refraction having the effect of making all the
heavenly bodies appear higher than they really
are, causes those bodies frequently to appear above
the horizon, when they are really below it: the
Moon has even been seen eclipsed above the
horizon, while the Sun was distinctly visible;
which must evidently be caused by refraction; for
since eclipses can only take place when the Sun
and Moon are in diametrically opposite pomts of
the heavens (as will hereafter be demonastrted)
they could not both be visible at the same time.
The horizontal refraction, indeed, is sufﬁcient to
produce this effect, being at a mean state of the
atmosphere 30' 51", which is nearly equal to the
apparent diameter of the Sun: this is also the
reason why the length of the longest day exceeds
that of the longest night. The oval form of the
Sun and Moon, at rising and setting, is to be
attributed to the same cause, for the lower limb of
either of those bodies being more refracted than
the upper, causes a decrease in its perpendicular
diameter, while the transverse or horizontal dia
meter, remains the same. For this reason, also,
LECTURE V1. 99
the vertical distance between any two stars near
the horizon, accurately measured by any instru
ment, is found to be considerably less than when
they are at any considerable elevation, the lowest
star being most affected by refraction. If the circle
in which the two stars are placed be parallel to
the horizon, their apparent distance is also less
than the true; for as the effect of refraction is to
make them appear in a more elevated parallel
than that which they really occupy, and as these
parallels become less and less in proportion to
their elevation above the horizon, it is obvious
that the distance between any two stars diminishes
in the same proportion. Tables of refraction for
different heights are constructed by taking the
altitude of circum-polar stars, when they come to
the meridian above and below the pole: the refrac
tion being much greater when they come to the meri
dian below the pole than above it, it is clear that
the true elevation of the pole is not an arithmetical
mean between these two altitudes of the star; the
refraction for different altitudes is therefore ascer
tained by observations upon stars at different
distances from the pole. As, however, refraction
depends entirely upon the density of the atmo
sphere, which varies with the temperature, different
kinds of vapours, quantity of moisture, 8w. i-t
- may contain, it is evident that these tables can
exhibit only an approximation to the truth; the
numbers in them must therefore be corrected
according to the state of the barometer and ther
mometer at the time of observation, or for which
the refraction is wanted. Tables of refraction for
different altitudes, with the necessary corrections"
for the state of the barometer and thermometer,
are to be met with in most treatises on astronomy.
1‘ 2
100 an'runzs ON ASTRONOMY.
The greater the condensation of the air the more
is its refractive power increased; accordingly, its
effects are found to be most considerable in cold
weather and in high latitudes.
The effect of refraction upon terrestrial objects,
seen at a great distance, is also similar to those
effects already mentioned, and often gives rise to
very singular appearances. 1
Besides the refractive power of the atmosphere,
which has now been described, it is endued with
a reﬂective power, by which part of the Sun’s
light is thrown back to the Earth, while his direct
rays are intercepted by the horizon.\ This takes
place both before the Sun rises in the morning,
and after he sets in the evening; and the faint light
thus produced is called the twilight, or crepuscular
light.
The twilight usually begins in the morning
when the Sun is within 18 of the horizon, and
ends in the evening when he has sunk 18° below
it. It is of the longest duration when the apparent
path of the Sun in the heavens is most oblique to
the horizon; this, as will hereafter be seen, takes
place in winter and summer, when his declination
being great, his perpendicular distance from the
horizon increases slowly. In spring and autumn,
when the Sun is near the equator, the twilight is
of short duration, because the Sun’s distance from
the horizon rapidly increases. The higher the
latitude, therefore, the longer the twilight con
tinues; the effect of this is, however, in some
degree counteracted by the following circumstances.
It is to be observed that the atmosphere, envelop
ing all parts of our globe, if they both continued
at rest, and had no rotation about a common
axis, would, by the laws of gravity, be perfectly
an'ruar: VI. 101
globular; but as the Earth and the circumambient
parts of the atrhosphere revolve uniformly together
about their axis, the different parts of both have
a centrifugal force, the tendency of which being
more considerable as the parts are more remote
from the axis of rotation; the ﬁgure of the at
mosphere is effected in the same manner as I have,
in a former Lecture, shown the ﬁgure of the Earth
to be, and consequently becomes an oblate sphe
roid; the parts that correspond to the equator
bein farther removed from the axis than the parts
whici correspond to the poles. The temperature
of the atmosphere also assists to produce this
effect; for heat, by its expansive power, having a
natural tendency to increase the height of the
atmosphere, it is evident that from this latter
cause the evening twilight ought to be of Ion er
duration than the morning, and from both, t at
the twilight at the equatorial regions should ex
ceed that of higher latitudes ; the evening twilight
at the equator ought, therefore, were these the
only circumstances to be considered, to be the
longest possible. The duration of twilight in our
latitude is found to be the shortest about the
beginning of March, and towards the middle of
October.
We have now investigated, at some length,
those properties of the atmosphere immediately
connected with the science of astronomy; and
were we stepping aside, as it were, from our pre
scribed path, to enter into the detail of all the
wonders it contains, we should in this, as in every
part of the creation, ﬁnd an inexhaustible ﬁeld
for admiration and deep research. Here the vital
principle exists, and here the source of that uni
versal decay which takes place among all sub
lunary bodies is to be met with: in this ever
r 3
102 LECTURES 0N as'rnonom.
varying scene, corruption and dissolution are con—
tinually taking place; and it may indeed be con
sidered the region of wonders, and the vast theatre
in which all those surprising phenomena, known
by the general name of meteors, are exhibited.
And since these appearances, though they are not,
perhaps, strictly speaking, of an astronomical
nature, seem to be, at least in some degree, related
to the heavenly phenomena in general, I shall
conclude this lecture with a very concise descrip
tion of some of those meteors which seem to be
the most curious and interesting. .
The term Meteor is, indeed, by some writers,
restricted to luminous bodies appearing at uncer
tain times, and with more or less motion, in the
atmosphere. In a more extended sense, however,
it comprehends all the visible phenomena of me
teorology. One of the most beautiful of these is
that well—known phenomenon, called, in poetical
language, the Iris, but more generally denominated
the Rainbow. For the explanation of this appear
ance we are indebted to Sir Isaac Newton, who
demonstrated it to be occasioned by the reﬂection
and refraction of the rays of light in the cloud in
which it is perceived. It assumes a semicircular
appearance, because it is under certain angles that
the refracted rays become visible; these are, how
ever, so dependent upon the situation of the eye,
that if the spectator alter his station he will still
see a bow, but not the same how he saw before,
and if there be several spectators, each will see a
different rainbow. The angle between the inci
dent and emergent rays being different for the
different colours, the seven primary colours 0b
servable in this how arise from each being re
ﬂected under the angle in which alone it can
become visible. In order that a rainbow may be
LECTURE VI. 103
seen, the spectator must be placed between the
shower and the Sun, which last must be elevated
at least 42° above the horizon.
A secondary, or false bow, occasioned by a double
refraction and reﬂectionofthe rays of light, is some
times seen, appearing externally to embrace the
Primary bow; in this, however, the colours are
not only fainter, but what is most remarkable, are
arranged in an inverted order, in consequence of
the light entering at the inferior parts of the drops
of rain, and transmitted through the supe
rior. The colours of this exterior bow are fainter
than those of the other, because the drops being
transparent, a part of the light is transmitted, and
consequently lost, at each reﬂection.
The phenomenon called the Marine Bow is
sometimes observed in a very agitated sea, when
the wind sweeping part of the tops of the waves,
and carrying them aloﬁz, the Sun’s rays falling
upon them are refracted and reflected, as in a
common shower, and the appearance of the bow
Produced in a manner altogether similar.
Bows have even been 'seen on the grass, formed
by the refraction of the Sun’s rays in the morn
lng dew. '
The halo, or corona 1, is a luminous circle sur
rounding the Sun, the Moon, a planet, or a ﬁxed
Star- It is generally perfectly white, but some
times coloured like the rainbow: those which
have appeared round the Moon or stars are usually
of a very small diameter, but those about the
Sun are of various magnitudes, and sometimes
immensely large. In those which are ,coloured,
the colours are fainter than those of the rain
1 Fmm corona a crown.
F 1L
104 LECTURES 0N A‘s'raonomri
bow, and seem to undergo every diversity of
arrangement.
Parhelia 1, or mock suns, occasioned, like the
halos, by the reﬂection and refraction of light,
are very brilliant appearances, and sometimes
almost equal the luminary himself in splendour;
they are generally about the size of the true Sun;
but when several of them appear at once they are
not equally luminous. They are externally tinged
with colours like the rainbow, are not always
circular, and are sometimes accompanied by a
long train of light or tail, in an opposite direction
to that of the Sun, and growing paler as it ap
proaches the extremity. Dr. Halley observed
one with tails extending both ways, and Mr. Weid
ler observed a similar phenomenon, one tail being
directed up and the other downwards. Parhelia
are generally accompanied by coronas, and some
times by a large white circle parallel to the
horizon, passing through all the parhelia, and
which, if entire, would pass through the centre of
the Sun.
Paraselenae 2, or mock moons, have been some
times observed, but these, like the parhelia, very
seldom occur.
Falling stars are generally supposed to be com
posed of the hydrogen gas produced in marshes
and stagnant waters. This gas, rising intofthe
upper regions of the atmosphere, and being of a
very inﬂammable nature, is there ignited by elec
tricity, producing those meteors commonly called
falling or shooting stars. -
Fire-balls are a class of meteors which were
regarded by the ancients as the infallible bar
I From wapd with, or in addition to, and Was the Sun.
9 From wapd and o'eAnvn the Moon.
LECTURE v1. 105
bingers, or indications, of great and awful events
in the moral and political world. These pheno
mena, although they are sometimes seen in the
temperate climates of Europe, are far more com
mon and stupendous in the tropical regions. Most
of these meteors are nearly round, are frequently
seen at a very great elevation above the surface of
the Earth, and travel with an immense velocity.
One of these, seen in this country in the year
1783, an account of which appeared in the Philo
sophical Transactions of the following year, had
the appearance of a luminous ball, which rose in
the N. N.W. nearly round; it soon after became
elliptical, and gradually assumed a tail as it
ascended, and in a certain part of its course
seemed to undergo a remarkable change, compared
to bursting, after which it was apparently divided
into a cluster of balls of different magnitudes, and
all carrying or leaving a train behind ; till, havin
passed the east and varying toward the south, it
gradually ascended and disappeared. This meteor
was seen in all parts of Great Britain, and even as far
as Rome, and is supposed to have described a tract
Of 1000 miles at least over the surface of the Earth.
The splendour of these meteors is frequently so
great as totally to obliterate the stars, and cause
the Moon to look dull and red, occasioned, per
haps, by the contrast of colour, as these meteors
always shine with a bright blueish ﬂame. They
sometimes disappear without any explosion, though
this is not generally the case, almost all the larger
ﬁre-balls having been observed to disappear with
very great ones, at which time heavy stony sub
stances have fallen from them.
These are denominated meteoric stones ; and
thou h accounts of the descent of these bodies
had om time to time been published, they werq
F 5
106 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
long discredited: the most irresistible proofs of
these bodies having fallen from the atmosphere
have, however, been obtained; and many of those
which have fallen in different places have been
analysed with great precision by Howard, Vau
quelin, and others.
These stones contain silex, sulphur, nickel, &c.,
and exactly resemble one another, both in internal
composition, and external appearance, although
entirely different from every other mineral produc
tion of the countries in which they are found.
Most of these stones have been preceded by the
appearance of such luminous bodies or meteors as
have been described, which bursting with an ex
plosion the shower of stones ensues. These stones
sometimes continue luminous till they sink into
the Earth, but most commonly this luminous
appearance vanishes when the explosion takes
place.
The origin of meteoric stones has never been
satisfactorily accounted for. Dr. Chladni sup
poses the meteors from which they fall were bodies
ﬂoating in space, unconnected with any planetary
system, attracted by the Earth in their progress,
and kindled by their rapid motion throug the
atmosphere. La Place is of opinion that these
stones are projected by lunar volcanoes, within the
sphere of terrestrial attraction. The arguments
employed by this able astronomer in support of this
hypothesis are too long to be introduced in this
place, and would, perhaps, at last barely prove
that this origin of aerolithesl comes within the
limits of possibility. The most prevalent opinion
among modern philosophers is, that they are con
cretions actually formed in the atmosphere itself,
1 From map air, and A630: a stone.
LECTURE vr. 107
and ‘this supposition certainly appears to be the
mostprobable, although perhaps the manner in
which these stones are formed will for ages remain
mere matter of conjecture.
The Ignis Fatuus, or Wandering Fire, called also
Jack with the Lantern, and sometimes Will 0’ the
Wisp, is a- meteor far better understood than the
one last mentioned; philosophers being generally
agreed in ascribing this appearance to some vola
tile phosphoric vapour, it bein usually visible about
damp places, burying-groun s, &c., where phos
phoric matter may be presumed to abound. The
motions of these meteors are very irregular, some
times sinking towards the Earth, sometimes totally
disappearing: they frequentl change their colour,
expand, or contract, generally grow fainter as any
person approaches, and vanish entirely if any one
comes very near to them, appearing again at some
distance. Dr. Shaw describes one seen by him in
the Holy Land, which seems to have been of
a rather peculiar kind. This meteor was some
times globular, or in the form of the ﬂame of a
candle, and immediately afterwards spread itself
so as to involve the whole company in a pale light,
entirely destitute of heat; it'then contracted itself
and suddenly vanished: in less than a minute it
1151:: became visible, running along from place to
p , or expanding itself over more than three
acres of the adjacent mountains. The atmosphere
he describes as thick and hazy at the time. Sir
Isaac Newton deﬁnes the ignis fatuus, “ a vapour
shining without heat.”
The Aurora Borealis, Northern Lights, or
Streamers, is a kind of meteor seen in the northern
parts of the-heavens, and is most conspicuous in
the winter and in frosty weather. This meteor
Presents a most interesting appearance; and by its
F 6 .
108 memories on ASTRONOMY.
constant eﬁ'ulgence the traveller in Lapland and
Sweden is furnished with a brilliant light during
the whole night. In the north-eastern parts of
Siberia, these Northern Lights are said to assume
a peculiarly grand appearance, which generally
commences with single bright pillars rising on the
north and north-east; these gradually increasing
comprehend a large space of the heavens, rushing
about from place to place with incredible velocity,
til] at length they nearly cover the whole sky,
causing the heavens to appear like one vast dome,
glittering with gold, rubies, and sapphire. The
hissing noise which accompanies this truly im
posing spectacle adds to the awful sublimity of the
scene. Mr. Cotes attributes this phenomenon to
streams emitted from the heterogeneous and fer
menting vapours of the atmosphere; it is, however,
more generally ascribed to electricity.
I have now described the principal of those
phenomena usually termed Meteors; and as in so
doing I have already extended this Lecture beyond
my usual limits, my observations upon those yet
remaining to be spoken of will be comprised in a
few words.
The vapour raised by the heat of the Sun
during the day from the surface of the Earth and
waters, being condensed by the cold of the night,
descends in the form of what is called Dew, which,
if the cold be severe enough to freeze the particles
that compose it, becomes boar-frost.
Snow is formed by a regular process of crys
tallisation among minute frozen particles of water
ﬂoating in the air; and from the structure of a
crystal of snow it is evident that adrop of rain
is formed by the junction of a great number of
smaller drops. When these come suddenly toge
ther in the act of freezing they form a nucleus of
LECTURE vr. 109
ice, of a spongy texture; this, in passing through
a large portion of vapours in its descent, becomes
encrusted with clear ice, and constitutes hail in
the form we usually see it: when the nucleus falls
unencrusted it may be considered an indication of
severe frosts.
Thunder and lightning are phenomena, the
effects of which are too well known to need any
description. The cause of thunder is the same
with that which produces the ordinary phenomena
of electricity : the cloud which produces the thun
der may be considered as a great electriﬁed body;
if, therefore, this meet with another cloud, which
is either not electriﬁed, or electriﬁed in a less degree
than itself, the electric matter ﬂies from all parts
towards this cloud, and thus the ﬂashes of lightning
and the report of thunder are produced.
The last meteoric phenomenon I shall notice is
the water-spout. This is an aqueous meteor com
mon in the tropical seas, and sometimes seen in
our own: they have also, though not so frequently,
been observed on land. This formidable pheno
menon is, by the majority of philosophers, attri
buted to the same cause as that by which a
whirlwind is produced on land. If, by any ex
treme and sudden rarefaction of the air a vacuum
be produced over any part of the surface of the
sea, the atmosphere which presses powerfully
and equally upon every other part of the surface
forces the water to rise up in the vacuum, which
ascends to the clouds in a column or canal, as
thick as a man’s ﬁnger, his arm, and sometimes
his whole body ; having reached the cloud which
hangs over it, it spreads out like the mouth of a
trumpet and mixes with it, and in some cases
perhaps produces the cloud itself. These pheno
mena last for several minutes, the canal thenlessen,
110 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
by degrees till it altogether disappears, when the
sea about it resumes its level. If one of these
water-spouts fall upon a vessel, the force and
quantity of its waters are sufﬁcient to destroy the
rigging, inundate the ship, and sink it in the
deep. To avoid these fatal consequences sailors,
when they observe the approach of a water-spout,
generally endeavour to break it by ﬁring at it
before it comes too near the ship. These terriﬁc
meteors have also been known to commit great
devastation by land. -
LECTURE V1]. 111
LECTURE VII.
A GENERAL VIEW OF THE APPARENT MOTION or
THE HEAVENS AS SEEN FROM DIFFERENT mars
or THE EARTH’S~ SURFACE.
FROM the very comprehensive view of the bodies
composing the planetary system contained in the
preceding Lectures, we shall be naturally led to en
quire into the motions of those bodies, and the
various phenomena to which they give rise. In
illustrating these subjects I shall ﬁrst give a brief
sketch of the apparent motions of the heavenly
bodies in general as viewed from different parts of
the Earth, and shall then proceed to give a full
explanation of the phenomena peculiar to each
body or class of bodies of which the planetary sys
tem consists. 'That these subjects may be ﬁilly
understood, it will be proper to commence with an
explanation of certain astronomical terms, which
are likely to occur in the course of our investi
gations.
If a spectator be placed on some extensive plain,
with no intervening object to interrupt his view,
he will ﬁnd his prospect terminated by a vast
circle in which the earth and heavens seem to
meet. From this circle, which is‘ called the Sen
sible Horizon, the heavens will appear to rise like
avast hemispherical vault over his head. The
Rational Horizon is a circlet the plane ofwhich is
imagined to pass through the centre of the Earth,
parallel to the plane of the sensible horizon, and
112 an'rvnns ON asraonomv.
like that to be extended in every direction to the
sphere of the heavens, which it divides into two
equal parts or hemispheres. The Earth, although
a body of great magnitude, is but a mere point in
comparison of the immense distance of the starry
heavens, and consequently these two parallel cir
cles, though really a semidiameter of the Earth
distant from each other, may be reckoned coinci
dent in the sphere of the heavens, the distance
between them being too small to be measured by
the most accurate astronomical observation ;‘hence
it~is that every observer will constantly have one
half of the heavens above and the other below his
horizon; the former is therefore called the visible,
and the latter the invisible hemisphere.
The poles of the horizon are called the Zenith ‘
and Nadir: the Zenith is the vertical point, or that
point of the heavens immediately over the head
of any person : the Nadir is that point of the hea
vens directly under his feet; hence it is evident
that with regard to two persons inhabiting diame
trically opposite parts of the earth these are
convertible terms, that point of the heavens whiCh
is the zenith of the one being the nadir to the
other, and vice versa.
Almacanters9 are circles supposed to be drawn
in the celestial sphere parallel to the horizon; and
because the altitude of any heavenly body is greater
or less as the almacanter in which it is situated is
further from, or nearer to the horizon, these
circles are frequently termed Parallels of Altitude.
1 The terms Zenith and Nadir are corruptions of two
Arabic words, one signifying the vertical point, and the other
the oint op osite to the vertex.
9 mm A molrenter, a word partly Greek and partly Arabic,
signifying a circle having its centre in the same axis with
' another.
LECTURE Vii. 113
If we imagine a number of circles to be drawn
through the zenith and nadir of any place, these
circles, which will of course be perpendicular to
the horizon of that place, are called Vertical 1
Circles: those which intersect the horizun in the
east and west points bein denominated Prime
Verticals. That vertical circ e which passes through
the north and south points of the horiZon is termed
the Meridian; and since the altitude ofany heavenly
body or its height above the horizon is the arc of
a vertical circle intercepted between that body and
the horizon, the altitude of any body situated on
this vertical is called its meridian altitude.
Vertical circles are also called Azimuths 2, and
sometimes Secondaries to the horizon ; and in
general any great circles which are imagined to
pass through the poles of another great circle are ,
termed Secondaries of that circle. -
The time that elapses between the rising of any
heavenly body and its arrival at the meridian is
called the Semidiurnal Arch : the distance of that
point ofthe horizon on which any object rises or sets
from the east or west points of the horizon is called
its Eastern or Western Amplitude; and the arch of
the horizon intercepted between the meridian and
the vertical circle passing through any object is
called its Azimuth, and is equal to the angle at the
zenith formed by the meridian and vertical circle;
the azimuth of a star when in the horizon being
the same with the compliment of its amplitude.
Hence vertical circles are also called Azimuth
Circles, or Azimuths. '
The ecliptic has been shown to be inclined to
the equator at an angle of about 23° 28', and there
1 From vertex the point over head. _
i From an Arabic word signifying a point or mark.
114- chrunss on as'raouomr.
fore the poles of these circles must be 23° 28' dis
tant ﬁ'om each other. A great circle passing
through the poles of the ecliptic and the equator
is called the Solsticial Colurel, and another great
circle at right angles to the former, and passing
through the poles of the equator and the points
Aries and Libra, or the equinoctial points, is called
the Equinoctial Colure. '
The rising and setting of the heavenly bodies,
or their ascent above, and descent below the ho
rizon of any place, together with their apparent
motion through the visible hemisphere, are the ﬁrst
phenomena which arrest the attention of an inha
bitant of the Earth. It is, however, to be observed,
that those appearances do not take place under
precisely the same circumstances at all places on
the Earth’s surface. For the Earth being a globular
body places may be either under the equator or
the poles, or they may be between both; and ac
cording as places are thus differently situated so
will the heavenly bodies appear to an inhabitant of
any one of them to revolve round the earth once
in twenty-four hours, in a manner very different
from that in which they will appear to move to an
inhabitant of either of the other two. An observer
any where on the equator will have both the celes
tial poles in his horizon, and consequently the
heavenly bodies will appear to rise and set per
pendicularly; and onaccount ofthe circles described
by those bodies being cut at right angles by his
horizon he is said to have a right position of
the sphere. To an observer so situated all the stars
will appear to rise and set once in twenty-four
hours; and as the circles or parallels of motion
‘ From xokppos mutilated, because that part of these circles
which is near the south pole are neVer above our horizon.
LECTURE v11. 115
of the Sun and stars are divided into two equal
parts by his horizon, the days and nights will be
equal to him throughout the whole year. In this
position of the sphere the equinoctial or celestial
equator becomes the prime vertical.
To an obserVer at either of the poles, the hori
zon and equinoctial coincide, and, consequently,
the poles of the world are in his zenith and nadir;
and since the Sun, Moon, stars, 8w. will appear to
him to move in circles parallel to the horizon, he
is said_to have a parallel position of the sphere.
Those stars which are contained in his visible he
misphere will never set, and those in his invisible
hemisphere will never rise; and as the Sun will be
for one half of the year above and the other below
the horizon, he will have but one day and night
throughout the whole year.
The moon, also, for the same reason, during one
halfofher monthly revolution, will never rise above
and during the other will never set below his ho
rizon. It is obvious that in these and similar ob
servations the refractive poFVer of the atmosphere
as explained in the sixth Lecture are not taken into
account.
An observer between either of the poles and
the equator is said to have an oblique position of
the sphere, because the heavenly bodies seem to
rise and set obliquely, and all the parallels in the
sphere of the heavens have their planes oblique to
the plane of his horizon. Since these celestial pa
rallels become smaller as they recede from the
equinoctial, towards either pole, it is plain that in
an oblique sphere some of the parallels intersect
the horizon at oblique angles, while some are en
tirely above, and some below the horizon. The
largest parallel in the sphere of the heavens which
appears entire above the horizon of any place, in
116 an'rumas ON ASTRONOMY.
cludin all those stars which never Set to that place,
is callé the circle of perpetual apparition, and the
largest parallel which never ascends above the ho
rizon of any place, including all those stars which
never rise, is called the circle of perpetual occulta
tion. The stars comprehended within these circles
(the m nitude of which varies with the distance
of the piece from the equator) are called Circum~
polar Stars. ‘
The circles of perpetual apparition and occult
ation of any place are as far from their respective
poles as the place is from the equator; that is, their
distance from the poles is equal to the latitude of
the place; hence, to the inhabitants of London all
those stars which lie within about 51° of the north
pole never set, being within the circle of perpetual
apparition of that place, and all those which lie
within the same distance of the south pole never
rise, being within the circle ofperpetual occultation.
The nearer, therefore, that any place is to one of
the poles, or the greater the latitude of any place,
the larger are the circles of perpetual apparition
and occultation of that place, and consequently at
the poles, or to those who have a parallel position
of the sphere, the equinoctial is both the circle of
perpetual apparition and occultation; for the equi
noctial coinciding with the horizon, all the parallels
on one side ofit are entire above, and all those on the
other side are entire below the horizon : thus to an
inhabitant of the north pole all the northern paral
lels are entire above his horizon and never set, and
all the southern parallels are entire below his hori
zon and never rise; while to an inhabitant of the
south pole the reverse takes place, the southern pa
rallels are above his horizon and never set, and the
northern parallels being entire below his horizon
never rise. In a right position of the spherq
LECTURE v11. 117
or to those who live on the equator, there can be
no such thing as a circle bf perpetual apparition
or occultation, as no parallel appears entire above,
or is hid entire below their horizon.
By reason of the Sun’s apparent motion among
the ﬁxed stars, the rising and setting of these
bodies have been observed in reference to that In
minary, as well as in regard to the position of the
sphere. They are considered as of three kinds,
and distinguished by the names of Cosmical 1,
Achronical 2, and Heliacal.a These are usually
denominated the poetical risings and settings of the
stars, being mostly taken notice of by the poets
and historians. The knowledge which the ancients
had of the motions ofthe heavenly bodies not being
sufficient to adjust the true'length of the year, the
same day_ of the month did not always correspond
with the same season ofthe year, and as the returns
of the seasons depend upon the approach of the
Sun to the tropical and equinoctial points, so they
made use of these risings and settings to determine
the commencement of the diﬁ'erent seasons, and
consequently the knowledge ofthese poetical risings
and settings of the stars were among them held in
great estimation.
Since the reformation of the calendar by Julius
Caesar, they have however fallen into disuse; the
information which the moderns have acquired of
the heavenly bodies rendering these, like many
other observations highly esteemed by the ancients,
in agreat measure useless; and they are now chieﬂy
employed in comparing, illustrating, and explaining
passages otherwise obscure in the ancient writers.
I From nod/ms the world. .
2 From axpov a point and vo£ night.
i From 11M»: the Sun.
118 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
The cosmical rising of a star is when the star
rises along with the Sun, the sunrise indicating,
as it were, the morning of the world. If the star
set at the time the Sun rises it is said to set cos
mically.
I A star or planet rising at sunset is said to rise
acronycally, in which case the star or planet is
sometimes said to be acronycal. The star or pla
net is said to set acronycally if it set with the
Sun.
A star or planet is said to rise heliacally when,
after having been in conjunction with the Sun, it
rises in the morning so long before him as not to be
rendered invisible by the brilliancy of his light, and
to set heliacally when it sets so long after the Sun
as not to be hidden by his beams. ~
The brightness of the Sun’s light not only 0b-
scures and renders invisible those stars that are
very near him, but extends its inﬂuence to those
that are at a considerable distance from him; the
distance of the stars, therefore, from the Sun at
the time of their heliacal rising and setting, must
vary according to their different degrees of magni
tude and brilliancy; forit is evident that the brighter
a star is the less will the Sun be depressed below
the horizon, when that star ﬁrst becomes visible.
Stars of the ﬁrst magnitude may be seen rising and
setting when the Sun is 12° below the horizon;
stars of the second magnitude, when the depression
of the Sun is 13°, and so on, one additional degree
of depression of the Sun being required for every
decrease of magnitude in the stars.
The name of Dog-Days still given to about 39
days of the year seems to be a solitary vestige of
this ancient method of reckoning, although every
one at all conversant with the science of astronomy
must be aware that what are now termed the Dies
LECTURE vn. 119
Canz'calares, or Canicular Days, have no connection
with the heliacal rising of the dog-star. The
“Dog-Days” begin in our almanacks on the 3d
of July, or 12 days after the summer-solstice, and
end the 11th of August, or 51 days after that period;
their continuance, therefore, is 89 days. But Sirius
rises heliacally at London on the 25th of August,
or 13 days after the dog-days, and hence it appears
that the heliacal rising of Sirius is quite uncon
nected in our latitude, at least, with what are called
the Deg-Days. The ancients reckoned the begin
ning of the dog-days from the heliacal rising of
Sirius. The Sothic year of the Egyptians was so
called from its beginning on the ﬁrst day of the
month Thoth, or that on which Sirius or the Dog
Star rose heliacally. They are supposed to have
commenced their year at this time, because the
over-ﬂowing of the Nile was annually announced
by the heliacal rising of Sirius ; and they even ima
gined this star to be the eﬁicient cause of the over
ﬂowing of the river, and from its colour at its ﬁrst
appearance prognosticated what kind of seasons
were to ensue. If it rose of a ﬁne golden colour,
it was considered as a good omen, and a fruitful
year was expected; if pale and dim, it was looked
upon as portending scarcity. The name Sirius
given to this star is supposed to have been de
rived from its rising heliacally shortly after the time
that the Sun was in Leo, at which time he was
adored by the Egyptians under the name of Sir or
Osir, and the river Nile which, beyond Syene, is
called Siris, received this name from its having at
tained its greatest elevation at this time. The an
nual re-appearance of this beautiful star, as it were
to warn the people of Egypt of the approaching in
undation, probably suggested the representation of
120 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
this constellation under the ﬁgure ofa dog, an ani
mal eminently distinguished for its ﬁdelity and
watchfulness.
Having contemplated the general appearances
of the heavens as viewed from different parts ofthe
Earth’s surface, we shall be fully prepared to pur
sue with effect our investigations respecting the
phenomena peculiar to the various bodies that
compose our planetary system.
LECTURE vm. 121
LECTURE VIII.
THE PHENOMENA OF THE SUN AS SEEN FROM THE
EARTH. -— OF THE APPAREN'I‘ DIURNAL REVOLU—
TXON OF THE SUN ; -— CAUSED BY THE ROTATION
OF THE EARTH ON ITS AXIS. -—THE VARTATION
IN THE LENGTHS OF DAYS AND NIGHTS AND THE
VICISSITUDES OF THE SEASONS EXPLAINED.
Tar. Sun has already been described as the grand
head of our system, and the centre round which
the planets with their attendant satellites revolve.
ln contemplating, therefore, the phenomena pre
sented to the observation of an inhabitant of our
Earth, by the various bodies of which the planet
ary system consists, it will be proper to commence
with those which seem to result from the apparent
motions of this luminary.
The regular return of day, and night, or the
alternate change from light to darkness, and from
darkness to light, which takes place on our Globe,
(and to most of the habitable parts of its surface,
once in twenty-four hours,) together with the or
derly succession of the seasons, are phenomena.
which cannot fail to have attracted the attention of
mankind from the earliest period, and even long
before‘ Astronomy began to be cultivated as a
science. During the progressive improvement
Which this science has undergone, the regular in~
crease and decrease in the length of the days and
nights, the vicissitudes of the seasons, and in fact
every thing relating to, or in any way connected
with, or necessary for obtaining an accurate divi
G
122 LECTURES ON asraonom.
sibn oftime, have been so minutely and thoroughly
investigated, as to have enabled astronomers to
furnish us with a Calendar, which, in its present
improved state, may be considered a' very near
approximation to perfection.
It is not my intention, however, to enter upon
a detail of the attempts that have been made to
reform the- Calendar, the chiefobject of which being
to accommodate it to the periods ofa solar and lunar
revolution, could not with propriety be‘introduced
in this place, my design in the present instance
being to conﬁne my observations to those pheno
mena which are exhibited by the Sun only, with
respect to the Earth.
If we direct our view towards the east, 21 little
before the rising of the Sun, we shall perceive a
faint light gradual]ydiﬂbsingitself upon the horizon,
each moment becoming more and more‘brilliant,
and expanding through the heavens. The horizon
now becomes tinged with the most vivid hues
through one half of its extent,v above the eastern
verge of which, the Sun is seen majestically rising
into view. After ascending above the horizon, his
height and the splendour of his beams gradually
increase, and he continues to ascend till he has
attained the highest point of his path. His alti
.tude now begins to diminish; he descends in a
direction opposite to that in which he was observed
to rise, and at length sinks belowthe western verge
of the horizon, w .ich exhibits similar appearances
to those that were observed about the eastern side
in the morning: this illumination, however, gra
.dually becomes fainter, as the Sun’s depression
below the horizon increases, till having reached a
certain point, it altogether disappears. After re
maining invisible for some time, the Sun agalp
ire-appears near the same point where he formerly
LECTURE VIII. 1 23
rose into sight; he again performs his journey
through the heavens, and again sinks below the
horizon, and is lost to our view.
_ Now, since the Sun (as will be proved in its
proper place) remains stationary in the centre of
the planetary system, his apparent diurnal motion
from east to west through the heavens must be
caused by the rotation of the Earth on its axis from
west to east, or in a contrary direction to that in
which the Sun appears to move. When any place
by the motion of the Earth on its axis is brought
immediately under the Sun, the Sun is said to be in
the meridian of that place, to which it is then noon
or mid-day; and all those places which have their
noon at the same time are said to be on the
Same meridian. The time which elapses between
the arrival of the Sun at the meridian of any place,
and his next subsequent arrival at the same meri
dian, is called a natural day; and this, were the
Earth in other respects at rest or stationary with
regard to the Sun, would be obviously equal to
the time in which the Earth performs an exact re
volution on its axis. The natural day is divided
into twenty-four equal parts called hours, each of
which is subdivided into sixty equal parts called
minutes, and each minute into sixty equal parts
called seconds; and, therefore, since the equator is
divided into 860°, and the Earth turns round its
axis once in 24 hours, there must be a revolution
cf 15° of the equator in one hour of time, or in
other words, 15" of the equator will correspond
to one hour of time, and consequently when it is
noon at any one place, it will be one o’clock at all
places 15° eastward of it, and 11 o'clock at all
places 15° west of it, and so on.
I If, therefore, we imagine twelve great circles,
one of which is the meridian of a given place, to
‘ G 2 '
D'Qit- LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
intersect each other at the poles of the earth, and
divide the equator into twenty-four equal parts,
those are the hour-circles of that place, and are by
the poles, themselves, divided‘ into twenty-font semi
circles. -
I shall proceed to illustrate what has now been
said by means of diagram 22, in which let S be the
Sun, and H A O B be the' Earth, of' which the
northern hemisphere only is visible in the ﬁgure;
A the place of an observer on the equator; Pth'e
north pole, or northern extremity of the axis on
which the Earth revolves, and the point wherein
the hour circles or meridians intersect each other;
the line- A P' being the meridian of the place A, to
which an index is attached; and H O the horizon
of the observer at A‘; the projections on either
side of the Earth are called' the morning and even
ing twilight. On the-planeto which the Earth is
ﬁxed is a horary circle, the‘dlvisions of which coin
cide with the hour-circles drawn upon the ﬁgure
representing the Earth.
This diagram being ﬁxed'on the machine, if the
index be set to the midnight H, or to that 12
which is most distant from the Sun, then, to an
observer at A, the Sun is evidently invisible. The
Earth being now made to revolve on its axis in
the order of the ﬁgures on the horary circle, till the
index points to about twelve minutes before ﬁve
o’clock, the Sun being about 18° below the horizon,
the'morning, twilight commences and ends when
the index points to six o’clock A. M., at which time
the Sun will become visible to the spectator at A,
and will appear to rise or ascend above his horizon.
As the Earth’s motion continues, the height of the
Sun above the horizon gradually increases, till the'
index points to twelve o’clock at noon, when the
Sun willappear to have attained his greatest eleva
LECTURE vr'n. 125
tion, or to have arrived at the highest point of his
apparent path through the heavens. The motion
of the Earth being continued, the height of the
Sun gradually decreases, and when the index points
to six 1'. M., or when it is six‘o’clock invthe evening
to the observer at A, the -Sun appears to set or to
descend below his horizon. The evening twilight
now commences, and endsat-about twelve minutes
past six, when the Sun will have sunk about 18°
below the horizon : from this time the-spectator-is
involved in total darkness till about twelve minutes
before ﬁve .in the morning, when the twilightagain
begins and ushers in the succeeding day.
It has-already becnmbserved that the hour-cir
cles are divided by the poles of the Earth into 24
semicircles, which are the meridians of the places
through which they pass, and that these semicircles
intersect the equator in 24‘ points, equally distant
one from'another, and conseqUently divide it into
twenty-four equal parts, each of which contains 15",
and corresponds to an hour of time. .A bare view
of the ﬁgure is sufﬁcient to corroborate these ‘ob
servations, and also to show that all those persons
whose meridian is 15° east of any particular place
have the noon, and consequently every other hour
of their natural day, an hour sooner than those at
the given place; while those persons whose meri
_ dian is 15° west from that place have their noon,
and every other hour of their natural day, one
hour later. Hence it is that" a person setting out
from any place and sailing eastward quite round
the globe will reckon one more day to have passed
during the time of his voyage than they do who
have remained all that time at the place .whence he
set out, and consequently at his return thither will
count the day of the week and month one day for:
warder than the inhabitants of that place; thus
G 3
126 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
their Monday will by'him be accounted Tuesday,
their Tuesday will be his Wednesday,"&c.: in like
manner, a day which they would reckon the ﬁrst
of the month,'he will consider the second of the
same month; what to them will‘be the second of
the month, will be his third, and so on. If, instead
of sailing eastward, his voyage be performed in a
contrary direction, that is, ifhe sail round the Globe
westward, he will appear to have lost a day, and
will, upon his return, reckon his time one day be
hind those who dwell at the place from which he
set out: thus their Tuesday will by him be ac
counted Monday; their Wednesday will be his
Tuesday, and so on. By referring again to the
diagram, the whole of this will be rendered per
fectly intelligible. Let A be the place from which
a person sets out to circumnavigate the Globe in
an easterly direction, or according to the order of
the ﬁgures on the horary circle, when he has got
15° to the east of that place, it will be noon with
him one hour sooner than with those who live at
A, for by revolving the Earth on its axis, it evi
dently appears that the meridian at which he has
, arrived comes to the 12 marked noon in the horary
circle, or which is the same thing, comes under the
Sun one hour sooner than the meridian he has left;
when he arrives at the next meridian, he will have
his noon one hour sooner still, or two hours before
th0se who live at A; and by thus continuing to
gain an hour every 15° he advances eastwards, it
is obvious that when he arrives at the place A from
which he set out, having passed over twenty-four
such spaces of 15° each, he will have gained twenty
four hours upon those who live at that place;
and, consequently, though he will have his noon at
the same time with them, he will have advanced a
a day in his reckoning in the manner already
LECTURE VIII. 1'27
described. Now let us suppose a person to set
out from the same place westward; in this case it
is evident that for every 15° he travels he loses one
hour in coming to the meridian, 0r comes to the
meridian one hour later than he would have done
had he remained at A; and, therefore, by travelling
through the whole of the 360°, into which the
equator is divided, he must evidenly lose twenty
four hours, or one natural day, and will consequently
at his return consider that day Monday, which
those who reside at .A reckon Tuesday, that day
Tuesday which they call Wednesday, and so on.
From what has now been said, it is manifest
that if two persons start from the same place at
the same time, but in contrary directions, the one
travelling eastward and :the other westward, and
each goes completely round the terraqueous ,globe,
although they should both arrive again at the very
same hour at the place from which they set out,
having each completed his journey in the same
time, yet they will disagree two whole days in
their reckoning; if, therefore, according to the
oneof those travellers, their return be on a Mon~
day, the other will assert it to be on a Wednesday,
while those who live at the place itself will agree
with neither, but .if referred to to settle the dis
pute, will tell them that they have arrived on a
Tuesday.
Nor is it necessary, in order to produce the
gain or loss of a day, that the voyage should be
made upon the equator, or even on any of the
parallels; it is suﬁicient for the purpose that the
several meridians be passed through eastward or
Westward. The time also taken up in the voyage
is equally unimportant; the gain or loss of the
day being the same, whether it be performed in
tWenty-four years, or in as many hours ; to prove
G i
128 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
which, let us suppose a traveller to change his
meridian 15° every year, it is evident that if he
travel eastward he will gain, and if westward he
will lose, one hour that year, and consequently,
by continuing to travel in the same direction, and
at the same rate, he will take twenty-four years to,
pass through the twenty-four spaces of 15° each,
into which the equator and every parallel is divided,
and to arrive again at the meridian from which he
set out: yet in that time he has gained or 10st no
more than twenty-four hours, or one natural day.
Now, let us suppose a person to travel eastward
round the Earth, at the rate of 15° every hour,
and that he leaves any place, as A, at noon, or
twelve o’clock, on a hionday. In one hour’s time,
he having got 15° east of the place A, and the
place itself having been carried 15° from the Sun,
by the Earth’s rotation on its axis, it is evident
that he will be 30° from the Sun; in another hour,
or when he has got 30° from the place A, he will
be 60° from the Sun, and so on; getting every
hour 30° farther from the Sun, so that at the end
of six hours he will be 180° from the Sun, and
will consequently have midnight when it is only
six o’clock in the evening at the place from which
he set out; at the end of twelve hours he will have
got half way round the Earth, and the Earth
having in the same time performed half a rotation
on its axis, the Sun will again be upon his meri
dian, and he will, therefore, reckon it mid-day, or
noon, on Tuesday, when it is only midnight on
on the Monday to those who live at A; during the
next twelve hours the same phenomena will be
repeated; he will again experience the varieties of
day and night; and though he will obviously arrive
again at A at twelve o’clock on Tuesday, he will
consider it Wednesday, reckoning his time by the
LECTURE vm. .129
return of the Sun to his meridian, 1f,:on‘the
other hand, we suppose him to travel with the
same Velocity westward, as his motion will then
be in the same direction as the apparent motion of
the Sun, (and at the same rate, he will obviously
have the Sun on his meridian during his whole
journey, and, consequently, experiencing-no succes
sion of day and night, nor even any change of
time as shown by the Sun, he must, on his return
to the :place whence he set out, have lost a day,
or be one day behind the inhabitants of that place
in his reckoning.
It is evident that could such instances [occur as
those last mentioned, the cause of the lessor gain
of a day in going round the globe-could not long
remain a secret; but as, in the course of long
voyages, this phenomenon takes place imper
ceptibly, it for along while remained a matter of
surprise to seamen and others in what manner it
was effected. '
The change which takes place in the length of
the days and nights, and the regular succession of
the seasons to each other throughout the year,
would naturally lead to a more minute investigation
of the apparent motions of that luminary, upon
the position of which, with regard to our Earth,
the varieties of the one, and the vicissitudes 'of the
other, so obviously depend; nor=couldthis inves
tigation be long continued, without leading to a
discovery of the apparent annual motion of the
Sun through the heavens, in a contrary direction
to his diurnal motion; and although, on account
of the great splendour of the Sun’s rays, his revo
lution among the stars is not quite so easily de
tected as that, of the Moon, yet it may be
ascertaian in the following manner: take notice,
at any season of the year, of some bright star,
G 5
130 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
which sets about an hour after the Sun, and as
nearly as possible on the same point of the horizon;
each succeeding evening the distance between the
Sun and star will appear to diminish, and they
will be seen to approach nearer and nearer to each
other, till at length the star will be lost in the
brilliancy of the solar rays. About a fortnight
after losing the star at night, it will be seen on
the other side of the Sun, rising before him in
the morning; the distance between the Sun and
star will daily increase about 1°, and in the same
month of the following year, they will come into
nearly the same situation with regard to one another
in which they were ﬁrst observed.
If, instead of conﬁning our observations to one
particular star, we notice just after sunset two or
three stars nearly east of each other, we shall ﬁnd
that these stars are successively lost in the rays of
the Sun; others will succeed to them, and, like
them, be regularly enveloped in his light and lost
to our view, till at length, by continuing our ob
servations, we shall ﬁnd that the Sun has made a
complete tour of the heavens.
If, moreover, we carefully observe the points of
the horizon upon which the Sun rises and sets at
different times of the year, we shall ﬁnd that they
are not always the same: thus, on the 215t of
March the Sun rises due east and sets due west;
ﬁom this time the points of rising and setting
advance towards the north till about midsummer,
when they become stationary for a few days, after
which they begin to recede towards the south, and
about the 2-lst of September they are again in
the same situation as they were about the 2lst of
March: from this time the Sun continues to rise
and set more and more southerly till midwinter,
when it again appears to rise and set for several
LECTURE vur. 131
days together upon the same points of the horizon;
it then gradually rises and sets more northerly till
the 21st of March, when the Sun having returned
to the point from which it set out, the same phe
nomena again take place.
This change in the rising and setting points,
clearly demonstrates that the apparent annual
motion of the Sun is not performed in the equi
noctial or the celestial equator, for in that case lbe
would always rise due east, and set d-ue west; but
that it describes a circle, one halfof which .is north
and the other south, of the equinoctial, and conse
quently the Sun, during one half the year, has north,
and during the other, south declination. This may
be further proved, and the Sun’s declination north
and south of the equinoctial ascertained, by ob
serving his meridian altitude at any place: the
difference between this and the altitude of the
equinoctial at that place is the declination of the
Sun for the day on which the observation is made,
and is north or south as the Sun is north or south
of the equinoctial. The altitude of the equinoc
tial, or its height above the horizon of any place,
is always known, being equal to the complement
of the latitude of that place, or what the latitude
wants of 90°; and when the altitude of the Sun
is the same as that of the equinoctial it is evident
that he can have no declination, being situated on
that circle.
By this method, which is that by which the
Chaldean astronomers ﬁrst ascertained that the
circle described by the Sun in his apparent annual
revolution round the Earth was inclined to the
equinoctial, it will be found that the greatest de
clination of the Sun, or its utmost limits north
and south of the equinoctial, is something less than
23° 28'. The obliquity of the ecliptic is not per
G 6
132 lec'ruars ON ASTRONOMY.
manent, but is perpetually diminishing and ap
proaching nearer to a parallelism with the equator,
at the rate of about half a second in a year.
Having thus ascertained that the Sun has an
apparent annual motion from west to east round
the heavens, and having also determined the ex
tent of this motion north and south of the equi
noctial, it will be proper, in the next place, to
consider by what means the apparent path of the
Sun through the heavens may be most easily
traced: this may be effected in the following
manner:—
It has been already observed, that from the
meridian altitude of the Sun on any day (the alti
tude of the equiuoctial being known) his declin
ation for that day may be found, the converse of
which is also true, viz. that from the declination of
the Sun his meridian altitude may be obtained; for
if, when the declination is north, we add to it the
altitude of_the equinoctial, the sum will be the
altitude sought; and if, when the declination is
south, we subtract it from the altitude of the equi
noctial, the remainder is the Sun’s meridian alti
tude. It is obvious that for places in south latitude
the operation must be reversed. These things being
premised, begin at any season to mark the stars
that culminate‘, or come upon the meridian at
midnight; as the Sun will be upon the same
meridian with these stars six months after the time
of the observation, take out from White’s Ephe
meris, or any convenient table for the purpose,
the declination of the Sun for that day, and by
the method already described ﬁnd the Sun’s meri
dian altitude, which being set off among those
stars, the Sun’s place will be readily found; and
I From, culmen the top or highest point.
LECTURE vuI. 133
by thus making similar observations throughout
the year, the path which the Sun describes by his
apparent annual motion through the heavens will
be easily traced out. This great circle is called
the Ecliptic, and is, in fact, the heliocentric circle
of the Earth, or the circle marked out among the
stars, by extending the plane which passes through
the orbit of our own Earth; for this apparent mo
tion of the Sun from west to east arises (as will
be hereafter demonstrated in proving the truth of
the Copernican system) from the annual motion of
the Earth round the Sun in the same direction, and.
in the same plane.
If, therefore, the Earth is in any point of its or
bit the Snn will always appear to be in the oppo
site point of the heavens ; and as the Earth moves
towards the east, the Sun will appear to move in
the opposite direction, and, consequently, when the
Earth has completed one revolution in its orbit,
the Sun will appear to have completed one revolu
tion in the ecliptic ; and since this circle is found to
be inclined to the equinoctial at an angle of 23° 28',
it is evident that the Earth’s equator is inclined
23° 28' to its annual orbit, or which is the same
thing, that the axis of the Earth is inclined 66‘ 32' to
the plane ofits orbit, or declined 23° 28'from theper
pendicular. The two opposite points in which the
equinoctial cuts the ecliptic are called the Equinoxes,
because the Sun, when in these points describing
by his diurnal motion a circle coincident with the
terrestrial equator, makes the day equal to the night
in every part of the Earth. They are called the
Vernall and Autumnal Equinoxes, to denote the
seasons of the year in which they take place.
1 From vernu: belonging to the spring.
134 an'ruaas 0N as'rnonomr.
Those parallels which the Sun describes when
at its greatest distance from the equinoctial, i. e.
when he has 23° 28’ north, and 23° 28’ south de
clination, are called the Tropics. 1 That tropic
which is north of the equinoctial is called the
Tropic of Cancer, because it is described by the
Sun when he enters the sign Cancer; and that
which is south of the equinoctial is called the
Tropic of Capricorn, because the Sun describes this
parallel when he enters the sign Capricorn. When
the Sun is in either of these points he does not
change his declination for several days together,
hence these are called the Solsticial Points or Sol
stices 9, that being denominated the Summer sol
stice in which the Sun is situated on our longest
day, and that the Winter solstice which the Sun
occupies on the shortest day. It is evident that
the terms Spring, Autumn, Summer, and Winter,
applied to the equinoxes and solstices, together
with many other expressions made use of by astro
nomers, relate to persons and places situated on
the north side of the equator: to account for
which, it is to be observed, that all the works we
have upon this science were written by persons
inhabiting the northern parts of the Earth, who
very naturally made use of such terms as were
adapted to their own situation, and to the situation
of those for whose use their works were principally
intended. A circle parallel to the equinoctial,
23° 28' distant from the nerth pole, is called the
Arctic3 Circle, and a similar one at the same dis
1 From 'rps'lrw to turn back.
i From solis. .rtationes the stations of the Sun, or from sol
the Sun, and stare to stand.
5 From apart): a bear, the constellation so called being near
the north pole in' the heavens.
LECTURE vm. 135
tance from the south-pole, the Antarctic ‘ Circle ;
a line or circle drawn through any place paral
lel to the equator is called the Parallel of that
place.
The variation in the meridian altitude of the
Sun is attended with a corresponding change in
the length of the artiﬁcial day, or in the continu
ance of the Sun above the horizon. On the 20th
of March he rises at six in the morning, ascends
in an oblique direction to the meridian, and as
gradually descends to the western verge of the
horizon, which he reaches at six in the evening,
after having continued for twelve hours to enliven
us with his presence. The length of the day con
tinues to increase with the increasing altitude of
the Sun till the 21st of June, when he remains
something more than 16 hours above our horizon
without setting. The altitude of the Sun having
now reached its maximum, the length of the day
begins to decrease, and about the 23d of Septem
ber is exactly the same as it was on the 20th of
March. The days continue to diminish in length,
with the decreasing altitude of the noonday Sun,
till the 215t of December, when his short continu
ance above our horizon, which does not exceed
eight hours, and the obliquity of his rays, bring on
the dreariness of Winter. To understand this,
let A B C D, ﬁg. 13., be the Earth, in four diﬂ'er
ent parts of her orbit; us its axis inclined 66° 32'
to the plane of its orbit, and keeping always paral
lel to itSelf; 11 its north, and s its south pole. Let
as be the tropic of Cancer, w the tropic of Capri
corn, a the arctic circle, 6 the antarctic circle, and
e the equator. \Vhen the Earth is in the position
A, which it has on the 21st of June, its north
1 From (ll/Tl opposite to,‘and apx-ros a hear. I
136 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
pole n inclines towards the Sun S, by which inclin
ation of the Earth’s axis the Sun, at this season of
the year, is 23° 28' above the terrestrial equator;
and as he enlightens only one hemisphere, or one
half of the Earth at a time, the north pole n will
be illuminated, and this illumination will extend
23° 28' beyond the pole, to the most distant part
of the arctic circle. While, therefore, the Earth
revolves upon its axis 11 s, that part of the Earth
included within the arctic circle will be enlightened
during the whole diurnal rotation of the Earth
and the inhabitants will enjoy perpetual day. For
the same reason that part of the Earth compre
hended within the antarctic circle will be involved
in total darkness during the Earth’s rotation.
Those regions of the Earth which lie between
the arctic circle and the equator will, during a part
of the Earth’s diurnal revolution, be carried into
the dark hemisphere, but as they will continue
during a longer period in the enlightened hemi
sphere, the day will be longer than the night. At
the equator the day and night will be exactly of an
equal length; and between the equator and the
antarctic circle the night will be longer than the day.
When the Earth is at D, on the 21st of December,
the north pole declining from the Sun, the reverse
of all this takes place, the whole of the arctic circle
is involved in total darkness, while the antarctic
circle is entirely illuminated: those places which lie
between the arctic circle and the equator have the
night longer than the day, while those which lie
between theequator and the antarctic circle have
the day longer than the night. On the equator
the days and nights are of an equal length all the
year round. When the Earth is at B or D, its
axis inclines neither to nor from the Sun, which,
being vertical to the equator, makes equal'day and
morons vm. 137
night at all places on the Earth’s surface. I shall
now proceed to exhibit these phenomena, together
with all the intermediate situations of the Earth in
its annual motion round the Sun, in a diagram, by
means of which, the whole theory of the seasons
will be easily understood. Let S, diagram 3., re
present the Sun, and E the Earth, having its pole
p declined 23° 28' from the perpendicular, e g is
the equator, t as the tropic of Cancer,t W the
tropic of Capricon, and L London, the parallel of
which is represented by the dotted circle passing
through the point L; the silk string or thread re
presents the terminator or boundary of light and
darkness, in all situations of the Earth during its
revolution round the Sun, while the index I points
to the Sun’s place in the ecliptic. Put the diagram
on the machine in the usual manner by slipping the
Sun over the central point, and screwing on the nut;
then having brought the Earth to the ﬁrst point
of Libra, rectify it by bringing the pole into such a
position that the meridian of London may be paral
lel to the dotted lines on the machine, and the pole
directed to the north or upper part of it. The
Earth is now in the position it has on the 20th of
March, at which time the tropic of Cancer, the pa
rallel of London, and the artic circle, are all equally
cut by the boundary of light and darkness; and
hence the equality in regard to the length of day
and night which at this time prevails in all parts of
the world except at the poles, it being the begin
ning of day at the north pole, which is just coming
into light, and the end of day at the south pole,
which is just going into darkness. The Earth is
in the beginning of Libra, and the Sun, as is shown
by the index I, enters the sign Aries on this day,
which is the vernal equinox, the ﬁrst day of spring,
and the commencement of the astronomical year.
7 138 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
The Earth moving in the ecliptic, according to the
order of the signs, enters Scorpio on the 20th of
April, as shown by the index; and by carefully
preserving the parallelism of the Earth’s axis
(which may be regulated by means of the dotted
lines before mentioned) it will be seen that the
north pole comes more into the light, the days
increasing as the nights decrease in length, in
the northern hemisphere, as is shown by the silk ‘
line which denotes the boundary of light and dark
ness, and which has now receded considerably from
the pole. The Sun on this day enters the sign
Taurus, which is the second of the spring signs. —
Continuing the Earth’s motion in the ecliptic, it
will be found by the index to enter the sign Sagit
tarius on the let of May; the north pole is con
siderably more advanced into the light; the days
have preportionablyincreased in length in thenorth
ern regions ; and at London the day is at this time
almost twice as long as the night. The Sun as seen
from the Earth passes on this day from Taurus to
Gemini, which is the last of the spring signs : — on
the 21st of June, being the ﬁrst day of Summer and
the longest day in the northern hemisphere, the
Earth enters the sign Capricon : the north pole
now has its greatest inclination to the Sun, the
light of which, as shown by the boundary of light
and darkness, extends to the utmost verge of the
arctic circle, the whole of which is included in the
enlightened hemisphere of the Earth, and enjoys at
this season constant day during the complete revo
lution of the Earth on its axis. On the parallel of
London the day commences a quarter before four
in the morning, and terminates at a quarter past
eight in the evening, making this day of 16; hours’
duration to the inhabitants of London, and to all
those who reside on the same parallel. The Sun
LECTURE vm. 139
also having now attained his greatest north declin
ation enters the sign Cancer in the ecliptic, bein
vertical to the tropic of that name—The Eart
pursuing its annual motion in its orbit enters Aqua
rius on the 23d of July; and as its axis al
ways continues parallel to itself, the boundary of
light and darkness begins to approach nearer to
the pole, and the length of the day, which had ar
rived at its maximum, begins gradually to decrease,
the Sun at this time entering Leo, which is the se
cond of the summer signs. —The Earth by its pro
gressive motion has now arrived at the sign Pisces,
which it enters on the 23d of August, the Sun ap
pearing at the same time to have made his transit
from Leo into Virgo, which is the last of the sum
mersigns.-—Fr0m Pisces, the Earth arriVes at Aries,
which it enters on the 23d of September, at which
time the boundary oflight and darkness again passes
through the pole: the parallels are again equally
divided by it, and the days and nights are once
more of an equal length on all parts of the Earth
except at the poles ; the north pole being about to
sink into nocturnal darkness, while the south pole
has the day just commencing. The Sun on this
day enters the sign Libra, which is the ﬁrst of the
autumnal signs, and is again vertical to the terres
trial equator.— On the 23d of October the Earth
again changes its sign, and quitting Aries, enters
Taurus, the days visibly decreasing in length in the
northern hemisphere of the Earth; while the Sun
appears to enter the second autumnal sign, or
Scorpio.-—Having passedthrough Taurus, the Earth
enters the sign Gemini on the 22d of November;
the boundary of light and darkness is now at a con
siderable distance from the north pole, which de
clines from the Sun; the parallels of latitude also
in the northern hemisphere extend but a little way
140 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
into the enlightened part of that hemisphere, while
the decrease in the length of the days, and the ob
lique direction in which the Sun’s rays descend
upon these regions of the Earth, infalliny point
out the near approach of Winter. The Sun as seen
from the Earth on this day enters Sagittarius the
last of the autumnal signs.—On the 215t of Decem
ber, which is the period of the Winter solstice,
the Earth enters the sign Cancer. At this time the
southern hemisphere enjoys all those advantages
with which the northern hemisphere was favoured
on the Qist ofJune, while the northern hemisphere
has to undergo, in its turn, the inconveniences of
short dull days and long and dreary nights, the
Sun being vertical to the tropic of Capricorn, which
sign he enters on this day. This is the ﬁrst of the
Winter signs. -— From the sign Cancer, the Earth
passes to Leo on the 20th of January, the days in
creasing gradually in length in the northern hemi
sphere, in the same manner as they decreased about
the 22d of July. The Sun on this day passes
into Aquarius, which is the second of the Winter
signs.—The Earth enters Virgo about the 19th of
February, when the boundary of light and dark
ness again approaches the pole, and the days conti
nue to increase in length in the northern hemisphere,
as the Earth by passing from Leo to Virgo causes
an apparent transit of the Sun from Aquarius to
Pisces, the last ofthe Winter signs.—After passing
through the sign Virgo, the Earth again enters
Libra, causing an apparent motion of the Sun into
Aries: the severity of Winter once more yields to
the genial inﬂuence of a vernal Sun, and the phe
nomena we have been describing are again re
peated in the same order. .
It need scarcely be remarked, that in the preced
ing illustration of the seasons the phenomena in
LECTURE vn'r'. 141
the northern hemisphere have been principally
regarded. The hints which have been occasionally
dropped in the course of this eXplanation are suf
ﬁcient to show that in the southern hemisphere
the phenomena throughout are directly the re
verse.
The diff'erence in the meridian altitude of the
Sun, and the length of time he continues above
the horizon, produce a peculiar temperature by
which each particular season is distinguished. In
Winter very little warmth is derived from the Sun
on account of the oblique direction in which his
rays strike the earth, and his short continuance
above the horizon; the little heat which is thus
produced-being entirely dissipated by the succeed
ing long nights: whereas in Summer the Sun’s
rays falling almost perpendicularly, and the very
great proportion of the natural day, during which
the Sun lingers above the horizon, generate a
degree of heat which his short absence can scarcely
diminish.
It may be very naturally asked, why, if the in
crease of heat in the Summer season be produced
in the manner just described, we have not the hot
test weather at the time of the Summer solstice,
when both the causes operating most forcibly, it
might reasonably be expected that the greatest
effect should be produced? Yet experienée con
vinces us this is not the case, and that the heat is
generally the greatest about the latter end of July
and the beginning of August, when the Sun is re
moved from the tropic a whole sign. In answer to
this it is to be observed, that this excess of heat is
an eﬁ'ect produced by the long continued action of
the solar rays, by which more heat being imparted
by day, even for some time before the Sun enters
the tropic, than is lost during the night, there must
142 LECTURES ON as'raonomr.
be an accumulation or increase of heat, which will
continue to receive further augmentation, not only
till the Sun has entered, but even for some time
after he has left the tropic. When, however, the
continuance of the Sun above the horizon, or the
length of the day has so far decreased, that more
heat is lost during the night than what is commu
nicated by day, the Earth gradually cools. It is
evident, therefore, that the greatest heat of sum
mer must necessarily take place considerably after
the Sun has left the solstice. In like manner the
rigour of winter is usually found to be most pre
dominant about the end of January and the begin
ning of February, the cause of which will be easily
understood from the foregoing remarks.
I shall conclude this lecture by brieﬂy observing,
that besides the division of the signs into Spring,
Summer, Autumn, and Winter, they are also
divided into northern and southern;~the former
consisting of all those which are north of the equi
noctial, and the latter, of those which are south of
it: they are likewise distinguished by the terms
ascending and descending; the ascending signs
commencing with Capricornus, and ending with
Gemini; and the descending signs beginning with
Cancer, and ending with Sagittarius.
LECTURE 1x. 1 4-3
LECTURE IX.
THE PHENOMENA OF THE SUN AS SEEN FROIH THE
EARTH CONTINUED.—~OF THE INEQUALITY OF
THE SUN’S APPARENT ANNUAL MOTION, AND THE
CHANGE IN HIS APPARENT DIAMETER.—THE
MOTION OF A PLANET IN AN ELLIPTIC ORBIT
EXPLAINED.
IN pursuing our investigations relative to the phe
nomena exhibited by the Sun to a spectator placed
on the surface of our own Earth, and in accounting
for those phenomena, the apparent diurnal and
annual motions of that luminary have been fully
described, the succession of day and night ex
plained, and the regular returns of the seasons
completely illustrated ; the day also of his entrance
into each of the signs of the ﬁxed zodiac of Hip
parchus have been particularly pointed out. In
contemplating these phenomena, no notice has
hitherto been taken of any inequalities in the annual
motion of the Sun, nor of any variation in the
apparent magnitude of that luminary; If, how
ever, we careihlly note the time at which the Sun
is in the equinoxes, we shall ﬁnd that he is about
eight days longer on the north side of the equator
than on the south of it, or that the days of the
equinoxes divide the year into two unequal parts ;
in other words, that the Sun appears to take about
eight days more to move from the vernal to the
autumnal equinox than he does to pass from the
‘autumnal to the vernal. Now as the signs of the
'zodiac consist each 'oi' 30°, and the number of signs
'passed throu h b the Sun in both cases is alike,
this observe diﬁzrence would naturally lead us to
144 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
conclude that the Sun’s apparent motion is not
equable, but that he must move faster at one time
ofthe year than at another. This conclusion is con
ﬁrmed by observation; and it is found that his motion
is most rapid about midwinter, and slowest about
midsummer; the velocity of his motion gradually
decreasing from the beginning of January to the
beginning of July, and as gradually increasing from
the beginning of July to the end of December. If
by means ofa micrometer we measure the diameter
of the Sun at diﬁ‘erent times of the year, it will be
found that an exact coincidence at all times exists
between his apparent diameter and the velocity of
his motidn: when the velocity of the Sun is a
maximum, his apparent diameter is a maximum
also; as his velocity decreases, so does his diameter
likewise: when his velocity is a minimun, so is also
his apparent diameter; and as his velocity increases,
his apparent diameter increases at the same time.
To prove this, let the apparent diameter of the Sun
on the ﬁrst day of every month throughout any
year be compared with his hourly motion in the
ecliptic on the same days. If the experiment be
made during the ensuing year, 1826, the result
will be as follows: on the 1st of January the Sun’s
apparent diameter will be 32 minutes, 356 seconds,
and his apparent motion in the ecliptic at the rate
of 2 minutes, 329 seconds of a degree per hour;
on the 1st of February his apparent diameter will
be 32 minutes, 306 seconds, and his hourly motion
2 minutes, 32'2 seconds; on the 1st of March the
Sun’s apparent diameter will be 32 minutes,
19'2 seconds, and his hourly motion 2 minutes,
30'4 seconds; on the 1st of April the apparent
diameter of the Sun will be 32 minutes, 2'6
seconds, and his hourly motion 2 minutes, 27'8 se- \
conds; on the 1st of May his apparent diame
ter will be 31 minutes, 4-6'8 seconds, and his
LECTURE 1x. 145
hourly motion, 2 minutes, 254 seconds; on the lst
of June, his apparent diameter will be 31 minutes,
352 seconds, and his hourly motion, 2 minutes,
23'6 seconds; and on the 1st of July, the Sun’s
apparent diameter will be 31 minutes, 31 seconds;
and his hourly~ motion, 2 minutes, 23 seconds.
It is obvious, therefore, that during the foregoing
months, the apparent diameter of the Sun, and
the velocity of his apparent hourly motion, have
both gradually decreased; from this time they will
be found to increase through the six following
months; thus, on the 1st of August, the Sun’s
apparent diameter will be 31 minutes, 85 seconds,
and his hourly motion, 2 minutes, 236 seconds;
on the lst of September, his apparent diameter
will be 31 minutes, 46'4 seconds, and his hourly
nIOtion, 2 minutes, 25'3 seconds; on the lst of
October, his apparent diameter will be 82 minutes,
2 seconds, and his hourly motion, 2 minutes, 27'7
seconds; on the lst of November, his apparent
diameter will be 82 minutes, 18-8 seconds, and
his hourly motion, 2 minutes, 30'3 seconds; on
the lst of December, the Sun’s apparent diameter
will be 32 minutes, 31 seconds, and his hourly
motion 2 minutes, 322 seconds; the apparent
diameter of the Sun and the velocity with which
he appears to move eastward in the ecliptic will
continue to increase till the 1st of January fol
lowing, when, being once more the greatest pos
sible, they again begin to decrease.
Now, the angle subtended by any body being
always inversely proportional to the distance of
the body from the observer, these varieties in the
apparent diameter of the Sun evidently arise from
a constant variation in the distance between the
Sun and Earth, and show that the Earth is nearer
to the Sun at one time of the year than at another
H ,
146 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
and since it has already been declared, and will
hereafter be proved, that the apparent annual mo
tion of the Sun is caused by the revolution of the
Earth in its orbit, these changes in his apparent
magnitude, which are regularly repeated every
year, prove that the Earth revolves in an elliptical
orbit round the Sun, placed in one of its foci.
The elliptical form of its orbit, and the inequality
of its motion, are not phenomena peculiar to our
Earth only, but common to all the planets of the
system, whether primary or secondary, and in
performing their several revolutions round their
respective centres, they all observe one general
law ; namely, that a line drawn from the planet to
the centre round which it revolves, passes over
equal areas upon the plane of its orbit in equal
times, and this line is called the radius vector.
In order to render this important subject per
fectly understood, I shall proceed to illustrate it
by diagram 4: in which let S represent the Sun,
and E the Earth revolving in an elliptic orbit;
the line 1" v (supposed to be continued through the
groove x), which connects the centres ofthe Sun and
Earth, is called the radius vector; this line shows
the distance between the two bodies, and gradually
increases and decreases in length according to the
situation of the Earth in its motion round the Sun.
The elliptical groove A B C D E F G H I K L M
N O P Q, is the orbit in which the Earth revolves,
the plane of which is divided into mixed triangles
of equal superﬁcial contents, by the lines drawn
from the centre of the Sun, or rather from the
focus in which he is placed, to the points A B C D,
8w. of the orbit; these lines may also be called
radii vectores, and will evidently coincide with the
moveable radius vector when the Earth arrives at
the points A, B, C, D, 8m. of its orbit.
LECTURE 1x. 147
In placing this diagram on the machine, it is to
be observed, that alter ﬁxing it in the usual man
ner on the central point, that point must be
made to pass through the groove .2', the Sun S
is then to be slipped on, and the nut screwed down,
the line of the apsides upon the diagram, being
made to coincide with the line of the same name
on the machine.
Now, it has been already observed, that the mo
tion of a planet revolving in an elliptic orbit is
such, that the radius vector passes over equal areas
in equal times, for which reason the elliptical ﬁgure
in the diagram, which represents the plane of the
Earth’s orbit, is divided into a series of mixed tri
angles, the areas of which are equal to each other.
The sides of each of these triangles consist of two
straight lines, and an arc of the ellipse, and it is ob
vious that, in order to make the areas equal, the
shorter the straight lines of any triangle are, the
longer must be the arc, and vice versd. Now the
straight lines, or radii vectores must be shorter the
nearer to the perihelion, and longer the nearer to the
aphelion, and consequently the arcs described b
the Earth in its orbit, in a given time, are longer the
nearer the Earth is to its perihelion, and shorter the
nearer it is to'its aphelion; but as to describe a
lon er arc in the same time as a shorter one, must
\ evigently require a greater velocity in the moving
body, it will be seen, by making the Earth to pass
through the spaces AB, B C, CD, &c.in equal times
completely through its orbit, that while the Earth
is going from A or the aphelion to I or the peri
helion, its motion is constantly accelerated, and in
going through the other half of its orbit, or from
the perihelion to the aphelion, it is as regularly
retarded.
H 2
148' LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
While the Earth is made to revolve in its orbit
in the manner here described, the index points out
the apparent motion of the Sun in the ecliptic,
which has already been shewn to result from the
Earth’s motion round that luminary. By noticing,
therefore, the spaces passed over by the index, it
will be found, that were the Earth’s orbit as ellip
tical as the ﬁgure by which it is here represented,
the Sun would appear to pass through no less than
one whole sign, and 15° of another, in one part of
its revolution, in the same space of time in which
it would, at another part of its revolution, describe
an arc of only about 10° of the ecliptic : or, which
is the same thing, that the velocity of the Earth’s
motion while describing the arcs H I, I K, of its
orbit, would be about four and a half times as great
as it would be while describing the arcs Q A, A B.
The ellipse here described is, however, far more
eccentric than the orbit of the Earth, or of any
other primary planet, all of whose orbits are so
nearly circular, that it would be impossible in a
ﬁgure of this magnitude, if drawn in true propor
tion to the orbit of either of them, to make any
sensible difference between the arcs of the triangles
into which it is requisite to divide the ﬁgure in
order to give the required illustration.
The orbit of the Earth being so nearly circular,
the difference of heat derived from the Sun when
the Earth is at its greatest and least distance from
him will be very triﬂing: and as the Earth hap
pens tO be in its perihelion in the beginning of
January, and in its aphelion in the beginning of
July, the only effect we ﬁnd to result from our
proximity to the Sun in winter, and our increased
distance from him in summer, is a triﬂing diminu
tion of the extreme frigidity of the former season,
and the intense heat of the latter; both which
LECTURE 1x. 149
have already been shown to arise from the dif
ference in the meridian altitudes of the sun,
(whereby his rays fall upon the Earth with a
greater or less degree of obliquity,) and the time
of his continuance above the horizon.
For the discovery of the elliptical form of the
planetary orbits, and the law according to which
'the revolutions of the several planets in their re
spective orbits are performed, we are indebted to
the singular sagacity, and indefatigable industry of
'Kepler, who likewise ascertained another import
ant fact relative to these bodies; for, having ob
served that the periodic times of the planets
increased with their mean distances from the Sun,
he was led to suppose that some analogy ought to
exist between them; and he at length succeeded in
discovering that the squares of the periodic times
were as the cubes of their transverse axis, or as
the cubes of their mean distances from the Sun;
for, by the nature of an ellipse, the mean distance
of a planet revolving in an elliptic orbit is equal to
one-half of the transverse axis of the orbit, and
since the halves, are as their wholes, the ratio is
the same with regard to both. This discovery,
which was the result of 17 years laborious inves
tigation, was made on the 15th of May, 1618.
These important facts, usually denominated
Kepler’s Laws, may be considered the foundation
of Physical Astronomy, and were chieﬂy deduced
by him from the numerous observations of the
celebrated Danish astronomer Tycho Brahe,
These laws not only apply to the orbits of the
planets and satellites, but to those of all the comets
.which have been accurately observed. They are
usually expressed as follows: _ .
1. All the planets revolve round the Sun in such
a manner, that the radius vector, or line drawn
H 3
150 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
from the Sun to the planet, describes equal areas in
equal times. ' -
2. Each planet describes an ellipse, having the
the Sun in one of the foci.
8. The squares of the periodic times of the
planets have the same proportion to one another as
the cubes of their mean distances from the Sun.
These laws of the planetary motions, discovered
by Kepler, were afterwards fully demonstrated and
explained by Sir Isaac Newton upon the principles
of Universal Gravitation, and the uniform projectile
motion ofbodies in straight lines.
Although it is by no means my intention to fol
low that sublime genius through all his geometrical
demonstrations of the accordance of these laws with
the phenomena to which they refer, yet I shall
nevertheless endeavour to give a plain and familiar
explanation of the manner in which a planet circu
lates roundthe Sun, continuallyapproaching towards
him during one part of its revolution, and receding
from him at another, without ever actually falling
to that luminary, or departing so far from him as to
get beyond the sphere of his inﬂuence.
It has been observed, in a former lecture, as an
established law of nature, that all motion is of
itself rectilinear, and that a body once put in
motion would for ever continue to move forward
in the same right line, unless it were acted upon by
some other force in a different direction, or if it
were at rest, it would for ever so continue, unless
some active cause produced a change.
Suppose a body at A, ﬁg. 14., struck in the direc
tion A B, with such a force as would cause it to
describe the line A B in a given particle of time, at
A let it also receive an impulse in the direction
A C, which would cause it in the same time to
describe the line AC = AB. The body being
acted upon at the sa instant by two forces in
LECTURE 1x. 151
different directions will, by the combination ofthese
forces, take an intermediate course, and describe the
diagonal A D, and the two forces being equal, the
point D, at which the body will have arrived at the
expiration of the particle of time, will be exactly as
far from the places B and C, to which the acting
forces respectively tended to carry it, as the point
A, where the body was at the time of receiving these
impulses. But if, as in ﬁg. 15., the impulses A B
and AC be unequal, then the body in the same
particle of time will describe the line A D, and
when at D, will be at the same distance from the
more remote place of tendency B as it was from
the nearer C; and at the same distance from the
nearer place of tendency C, as it was from the
more distant one B, at the time of its setting out
from A. If the force A C, instead of acting by a
single impulse, had been a constantly accelerating
force, the line AD would have been a curve
greater or less curvature, according to the nature
of the accelerating force,
Now, the uniVersal power ofgravity or attraction,
is a constantly accelerating force, the law of which
has been already explained; if, therefore, a body
gravitating towards a centre, receive a projectile
force in a direction not passing through that cen
tre, it will, by its compound motion, describe a curve
in every point of which it will have a tendency to
ﬂy off from the axis of its motion in a tangent to the
periphery of the curve; and is only prevented from
so doing by the deﬂecting force. The force by
which the body endeavours to ﬂy off in a right line,
is called the centrifugal force, and that by which it
is impelled towards the centre is called the centri
petal ‘ force. These two forces, by the joint action
1 From centrum, a centre, and peto, I seek.
H 4
I52 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
of which the planets are retained in their orbits, are
called the central forces. I shall now proceed tov
explain in what manner these central forces affect
the motion of a planet in an elliptic orbit. I
Let S, ﬁg. 16., be the Sun, and P the place of a
planet movin under the impulse of a projectile
force, by which it describes the line P A in a given
particle of time; in the second particle of time, if
nothing opposed its progress, it would describe the
line A b, but at A let the centripetal force act
upon it by a single impulse, sufﬁcient to carry it
frOm A to a in the time that the planet would have
described the line A b ; complete the parallelogram
q A b B, at the end of the second particle of time
the planet will arrive at B, having described the,
diagonal A B, by the joint effect of these two
forces. Now, because A b = P A, the triangle P S A
:the triangle A Sb. But, because 6 Bis parallel to
A a S, the trianglelA S B is equal to the triangle
A S b, as standing upon the same base A S 1.
Therefore the triangle A S B will be equal to the
triangle A S P. If at B the planet receive a new
impulse, in the direction B S, a new change of di
rection B C will be ell'ected, and thus, by a succes
sion of new impulses, exerted at equal intervals of
time, and all directed towards the same centre, a
polygon will be produced round S, and the tri
angles formed by lines drawn to S from the several
points at which the new impulses are exerted, may
be easily proved in the manner shown above to be,
equal to one another. Hence it follows, that a
force directed towards S, together with theprojec
tile force ﬁrst given to the planet, causes it to de
scribe about S, equal areas in equal times. Now,
if we suppose the intervals of time at which these
1 Eucl. lib. 1. prop. 57.
LECTURE 1x. 153
impulses act to be inﬁnitely diminished, the triangles
will become inﬁnitely diminished likewise, and the
sides of the polygon being thereby inﬁnitely in
creased in number will ultimately generate a curve.
The species of curve thus produced must be
determined by circumstances. I shall, therefore,
proceed to consider those circumstances under
which the projectile and centripetal forces are com
pounded together in the motions of the primary
planets round the Sun; to understand which it
must be observed: ﬁrst, that if the projectile force
of a planet be duly adjusted to the centripetal, that
is, if these two forces be so adjusted, that neither
can overcome the other, and if, at the beginning of
the revolution of the planets, these forces act at
right angles to each other, the planet will be carried
round in a circle, in which (meeting with no resist
ance) it will for ever continue to revolve.
Secondly, if the direction of the projectile force
be at right angles to the line of direction of the
centripetal force, yet, if these forces be not duly
adjusted to each other, the planet will not describe
a circle but an ellipse ; and according as the centri
petal force is too strong for the projectile, or the
projectile too powerful for the centripetal, at the
time of the planet’s motion commencing, so will
7 the point from which the planet sets out become
the aphelion or the perihelion point of its orbit.
Thirdly, if the projectile and centripetal forces
be duly adjusted to each other in the manner above
mentioned, yet if the two forces thus adjusted act
atoblique angles to each other, that is, if the line
of the projectile force make an oblique angle with
.the line of direction of the centripetal, the planet
lwill revolve in an ellipse, having the Sun in one of
'the foci. -
H 5
I54- LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
To exemplify the foregoing observations, let us
suppose A, ﬁg. 17, to be the place of a planet at
the commencement of its revolution round the Sun,
situated at S. If the projectile force acting in the
direction of the line A a be be so adjusted to the
force of gravity, or the centripetal force acting in
the direction A S, that the former of these forces
alone would carry the planet from A to c, in the
same time that the latter would carry it from A to e,
the planet, by the combined action of these two
forces, will describe the arc A d in the same time
that the projectile force singly would have carried
it from A to c, or the gravitating power alone would
have caused it to descend from A to e; and its
distance from the Sun, when it arrives at 0', being
the same as it was at A, the curVe described by the
planet in its revolution round that luminary will
be a circle.
In order that a planet may revolve round the
Sun in a circle, its projectile velocity must be ex
actly such as it would have acquired by gravity
alone in falling through half the radius of the
circle.
But if, while the projectile force alone would
carry the planet from A to a, the Sun’s attraction,
or the centripetal force, would carry it from A to g,
the centripetal force in this case being too great for
the projectile, would cause the planet to describe
the are A B, and the distance B S from the Sun
being less than the distance A S, this are will be
the portion of an ellipse. While the planet is
going through the arc A B, the gravitating power
(which always increases as the square of the distance
diminishes) becomes stronger, and as it acts in
some degree in conjunction with the projectile force,
the velocity of the planet’s motion will be con
stantly accelerated, so that when the planet arrives
LECTURE 1x. 155
at M, its ~mean distance from the Sun, it will have
acquired a degree of velocity which would be ex
actly sufﬁcient to produce a circular motion about
S, if its direction were perpendicular to the radius
vector, but the line of projection M m being oblique
to the radius vector M S, the planet is brought still
nearer to S. A great portion of the centripetal
force being still employed in accelerating the motion
as soon as the planet passes M its velocity becomes
greater than would produce a circular motion
about S. The angle, however, formed by the radius
vector and tangent, now increases, whereby this
effect of the centripetal force in accelerating the
motion of the planet, diminishes, and the path be—
comes more incurvated. The velocity ofthe planet
is, notwithstanding, still accelerated, the radius
vector passing over equal areas in equal times, and
this acceleration continues till the planet reaches
its perihelion P, when the angle made by the radius
vector and tangent becomes a right angle. At P
the planet has gained so much centrifugal force, or
tendency to ﬂy off, in the tangent Pp, as overcomes
the centripetal force; the path of the planet, there
fore, leaving P, falls entirely without the circle
whose radius is P S, and consequently the planet
is receding from the Sun. There being now a
portion of thecentripetal force employed in retard~
ing the motion of the planet, it ascends in the curve
V G M’, its velocity gradually decreasing, and
the angle made by the radius vector and tangent
increasing, till the planet arrives at M’, where it
has the same velocity that it had at M’; the angle
S M' m’ being now as much greater than a right
angle as it was less at M. The centripetal force
still continuing to act against the projectile motion
of the planet, its velocity in consequence thereof
decreases, till it again arrives at the point A from
s
H 6
“I56 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
which it set out. The angle formed by the radius
vector and tangent decreases from M’ to A, where
-it again becomes a right angle. At A the projec
tile force being as much diminished from its mean
'state at M or M’ as it was increased at P, the Sun’s
attraction again becomes more than sufﬁcient to
keep the planet from going off at A, and the
revolution is repeated in the manner already de
scribed.
From the explanation which has now been given
of the motion of a planet in an elliptic orbit, it'is
obvious, that in a non-resisting medium a body
may revolve in an ellipse of any degree of eccen
tricity, and that the less the projectile force im
pressed upon the body in the higher part of its
orbit, the more elliptical will be the path in which
it revolves.
LECTURE x. 157
LECTURE X.
THE PHENOMENA OF THE SUN, AS SEEN FROM THE
EARTH, CONCLUDED. ——-OF SOLAR AND SIDEREAL
TIME.-—0F THE EQUATION OF TIME.-— THE
GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF DIALLING.
IT has already been shown, that by the annual mo~
tion of the Earth about the Sun, and the declin
ation of its axis from a perpendicular to the plane
of its orbit, all the varieties of the seasons are pro
duced, and by the revolution of the Earth about
its --_axis, the vicissitudes of day and night are
effected.
Now, the distance of the ﬁxed stars is so im
mensely great, that in comparison of it, the orbit
in which the Earth revolves round the Sim sinks
into a mere physical point, in consequence of
which, and the uniformity of the Earth’s motion
on its axis, any given meridian revolves from any
ﬁxed star to the, same star again in the exact time
that the Earth completes a rotation on its axis,
and this would likewise be the case with regard to
the Sun, provided that the Earth had on] a diur
nal without an annual motion. But as t e Earth
while turning once round its axis advances almost
a degree eastward in its orbit, if the Sun be on the
meridian of any place on a certain day, the Earth
must perform something more than a complete
rotation, in order to bring the same meridian under
the Sun on the day following. The time occupied
by the Sun in performing his apparent diurnal
158 LECTURES on ASTRONOM
revolution in the
arth’s motion on its ax
rotat:
, betwi
is 3 minutes, 56'6 seco
' lereal days in a year,
th performs 366
about its axis.
0 illustrate the foregoing observati
c efg/zz‘klmno qrst'vwa'
., be the orbit in which the Ear
round the Sun every year, in the order 1
ters, and A
an ﬁxed star at such an
1stance, that
t e diameter of the Ear
ars no sensible proportion to that dista
let S, No. 2. of h '
are evidently both on the me
the place I at the same time. If the E
mained always stationary at a, it is obvio
ation on its axis, the point I Wouh
Come round to the Sun and star at the san
t the interposition of the E
star would for ever remain invisibl . Thi.
ever, not being the case when the Earth,
ng its annual revolution round the SI
LECTURE x. 159
advanced, suppose through one twenty-fourth part
of its orbit, from a to 1), its rotation upon its axis
will brin the point I one twenty'fourth part of a
natural ay, or one hour sooner to the star than
to the Sun, for the whole diameter of the Earth’s
orbit being but a point compared with the distance
A S, the star A will always come to the meridian
of the place I when E I is parallel to A S a, and
therefore the star A which came to the meridian
with the Sun at noon, when the Earth was at a,
will, now it has arrived at 6, come to the meridian
one hour sooner, or at eleven o’clock in the fore
noon, as is shown by theindexupon the horary circle.
When the Earth comes to c, the meridian E I will
be parallel to A S a two hours sooner, and conse
quently the place I will have the star on its meri
dian at ten o’clock in the forenoon, as shown by
the index, or two hours before it comes round to
the Sun. When the Earth arrives at the point d,
the meridian E I will be parallel to A S a at nine
in the morning, as shown by the index, the point
I will therefore have the star on its meridian three
hours before the .Sun will arrive at the same me
ridian. When the Earth comes to e, the star
will be on the meridian E I at eight in the
morning, or four hours before noon; when at f;
ﬁve hours before noon ; at g the star A comes to
the meridian E I at six o’clock in the morning,
at which time, as shown by the index, the meridian
E I is parallel to A S, and the Earth will have
one quarter of a solar revolution, or six hours more
to revolve before it is mid-day by the Sun to the
place I. When the Earth comes to It, the star is
on the meridian at ﬁve in the morning, or seven
hours before noon. v\then the Earth is at i, the
star transits the meridian at four in the morning;
when at It, at three in the morning; at l, at two in
1160 LECTURES 0N asmonomr.
the morning; at m, at one; and at n, the Earth
having gone half round its orbit, the Sun and star
.with regard to the Earth will be in exactly oppo
site points of the heavens, and the star will come
upon the meridian of the place I at midnight, or
twelve hours before the Sun; and thus, by bring
ing the Earth successively to the situations 0 p q r
s t 'v w .r y 2 back to the point a, at which its an
nual revolution commenced, and noticing the hours
pointed out by the index on the horary circle, it
will he-found, that for every one of these divisions
passed over by the Earth in its revolution round
the Sun, the star has gained one hour upon the
Sun, so that when the Earth arrives at a, the Sun
and star will again come upon the meridian toge
ther, but the rotations made by the Earth on its
axis during the time of its performing a complete
revolution in its orbit, will be one more in number
than the noons experienced by the inhabitants at
.I, or the number of times they have had the Sun
on their meridian, for a rotation of the Earth is
completed when E I or any particular meridian
comes to be parallel to the situation it had at the
time that rotation commenced. Now it is plain,
that by reason of the Earth’s motion in its orbit,
it never brings the same meridian round from the
Sun to the Sun again by turning once round its
axis, for the Earth obviously requires as much
more in proportior, of another rotation on its axis,
to complete a natural day, as it has advanced in
its orbit during that time, namely, about one
365th part at a mean rate, and consequently in
36.5 days the Earth must perform 866 rotations,
and since each .rotation completes a sidereal day,
there must be 366 sidereal days in a year; or, to
speak in a more general manner, .since a rotation
oﬁany planet about its axis is the,length of aside
LECTURE x. 161
real day to that planet, the number of sidereal
days will always exceed the number of solar days
by one, let that number be what it may, one
rotation being always lost in the course of an an
gual revolution by the planet’s going round the
un.
The Earth’s motion about its axis being per;
fectly equable and uniform in every part of its
annual revolution, the sidereal days are always of
the same length, but the solar or natural days
vary very considerably at different times of the
year. This variation is owing to two distinct
causes: viz. the inclination of the Earth’s axis to
its orbit, and the inequality of its motion round
the Sun. From these two causes, therefore, it is,
that the time shown by a well-regulated clock and
a true Sun-dial is scarcely ever the same. The
difference between them is called the equation of
time, or the equation of natural days.
If the ecliptic, or the circle in which the Sun
appears to move round the Earth, were coincident
with the celestial equator, that is, if the Earth’s
axis were perpendicular to the plane of its orbit,
‘equal portions both of the equinOctial and the
ecliptic would pass over the meridian in equal
times; but on account of the ecliptic being inclined
to the equinoctial, unequal portions of the former
pass over the meridian in equal times, the diﬁ'erence
being always proportional to the obliquity, and as.
the obliquity is much greater in some parts of the
ecliptic than in others, these differences will be
unequal among themselves.
In explaining this part of the equation of time,
there is, perhaps, no better method than that
usually adopted of supposing two Suns to move
round the heavens, the real Sun describing equal
portions of the ecliptic, and a ﬁctitious one equal
162 ch‘ruans on asrnonomr.
portions of the equinoctial in equal times, and
imagining these Suns both to set out at the same
time from the same point; namely, the beginning '
of Aries, where the real Sun is on the 21$t of
March. Now, the plane of the equinoctial being
perpendicular to the axis of rotation of the sphere,
the equatorial Sun would always return to the
meridian in 24 hours time, as shown by a well
regulated clock, but the real Sun would return to
the meridian sometimes sooner and sometimes later
than the ﬁctitious or equatorial Sun, and these two
Suns would arrive at the meridian precisely to
gether only four times during the whole period of
their annual revolution. While the two Suns are
describing the ﬁrst quarter of their circuit round
the heavens, viz. from Aries to Cancer, the equi
noctial Sun will precede the Sun in the ecliptic,
and as the apparent diurnal motion of the celestial
sphere is in a contrary direction to that of the
Sun’s apparent annual motion, the Sun in the
ecliptic will, by the diurnal motion above men
tioned, come sooner to the meridian than the Sun
in the equinoctial, and consequently the Sun-dial
will be faster than the clock. At the beginning of
Cancer, or on the 21st of June, both Suns will
come to the meridian at the same instant, and the
dial and clock will exactly coincide; but in their
progress through the second quadrant, or in going
from Cancer to Libra, the Sun in the ecliptic will
get before the equinoctial Sun, and will therefore
come later to the meridian, and consequently the
clock will be faster than the Sun-dial; at the be
ginning of Libra, however, both Suns again come
to the meridian at the same time, and therefore the
dial and clock again coincide: this takes place on
the 23d of September. As the two Suns advance
through the third quadrant, from Libra to the
mc'rum: x. 163
beginning of Capricornus, or from the 23d of Sep
tember to the 21st of December, the Sun in the
equinoctial again takes the lead, and the dial will
be faster than the clock. While the two Suns are
describing the last quarter, or moving from Capri
cornus to Aries, the Sun in the equinoctial falls
\ behind the real Sun, or the Sun in the ecliptic,
and consequently the dial will be slower than the
clock; on the 21st of March, the two Suns once
more come to the meridian together, and the dial
and clock again coincide.
The foregoing explanation of that part of the
equation of time which results from the obliquity
of the ecliptic, may ,be very familiarly and beauti
fully illustrated, by placing patches at every tenth
or ﬁfteenth degree of the equator and ecliptic of a
common terrestrial globe, beginning both from the
ﬁrst point of Aries. Then, by revolving the
globe on its axis, all the patches from Aries to '
Cancer on the ecliptic will arrive at the meridian
before those on the equator, showing that the Sun
during that time is before the clock; when Cancer
comes to the meridian, the patches on the ecliptic
and equator arrive at the meridian together, the
sun-dial and clock, therefore, on thatday coincide.
From Cancer to Libra the patches on the equator
arrive at the meridian before the corresponding
ones on the ecliptic, from which it is evident, that
during the time of the Sun’s describing this portion
of his apparent annual revolution, the clock is
before the Sun, or that the Sun during that inter
val does not come upon our meridian till after the
time of noon, as shown by a well-regulated clock.
By the intersection of the ecliptic and equator,
which takes place at the beginning of Libra, the
Sun and clock are again found to coincide when
that point comes to the meridian. From the. be
1'64 macruaas 0N ASTRONOMY.
Ak
ginning. of Libra to- the beginning of Capricorn
the‘patches on the ecliptic come to the merid
before those on the equator, and consequently 1
Sun is before the clock. At the beginning of (
pricornus they again coincide, and from the beg
ning of Capricornus to the beginning of Ari
where the revolution commenced, the clock
again before the Sun, as is shown by the patch
on the equator coming to the meridian before the
on the ecliptic.
I From what has now been said, it appears, t1]
the time shown by the clock corresponds with th
shoWn by the dial only four times in the yea
namely, at the time of the equinoxes and solstice;
throughout all the rest of the year the one is alte
snater faster and slower than the other; thus, fro;
' arch to June the dial is faster than the clocl
from June to September slower, from Septembt
to December the dial is again faster, and froi
December to March slower.
aving explained in what manner the obliquit
o the ecliptic operates as one cause of the differ
'enee of time shown by a correctly-going clock an
a true Sun-dial, I shall now proceed to conside
the other cause of this difference, namely, the ine
"quality of the Earth’s motion in its orbit, or of th
'un’s apparent annual motion in the ecliptic.
e have already observed, that by the annua
motion of the Earth round the Sun, thatluminary
as seen by a spectator on the surface of our globe
appears to go round in the ecliptic in the order 0:
the signs. It has also been shown that the orbi1
in which the Earth revolves is elliptical, and that
Its motion therein is not equable, consequently the
apparent motion of the Sun in the ecliptic will
coordineg we ﬁnd
that he sometimes describes more than 59 minutes,
- LECTURE x. 165
8'3 seconds, in a day, which is his motion at a mean
rate, and sometimes less, thus producing that other
part of the equation oftime already alluded to, and
which I shall now endeavour to explain by once
more transferring the motion of the Earth to the
Sun, again calling in the aid of a ﬁctitious Sun,
and supposing it, as well as the real Sun, to move
in the ecliptic, but the former with an equable mo
tion, describing equal arcs in equal times, while
the latter Sun, revolving with a motion alternately
accelerated and retarded, in equal times passes
through unequal arcs.
Let us now suppose these two Suns to start at
the same instant from the apogee, or that point of
the ecliptic in which the Sun is most distant from
the Earth. The motion of the real Sun being
now the slowest, the ﬁctitious Sun, whose motion
is always uniform, will immediately get before him,
and will gain upon him so much, that the real
Sun, notwithstanding his motion is constantly in
creasing while moving from the apogee to the
perigee, will not overtake the ﬁctitious Sun till he
arrives at the latter point, which they will both
reach at the same instant of time, and as the velo-_
city of the real Sun is then a maximum, he
will pass the ﬁctitious Sun, and will so far gain
upon him in this part of his career, that although
the motion of the real Sun is now as con
stantly retarded as it was accelerated while ap
proaching the Earth, yet the ﬁctitious Sun will
not overtake him till they again both reach the
apogee whence they set out. Hence, it is evident,
that in moving frOm apogee t0 perigee, or while
the Sun is approaching the Earth, the real Sun
will as it were he left behind by the ﬁctitious Sun,
while, I on the other hand, in moving from the
perigee to the apogee, the real Sun gets , ahead of
166 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
the ﬁctitious one. Since, therefore, the diurnal mo“
tion of the sphere (as was before observed) is in an
opposite direction to the Sun’s annual motion in
the ecliptic, that Sun which is behind must ob
viously come to the meridian sooner than the
other, and therefore, from July to January the
dial will be faster than the clock, and from Janu
ary to July the clock will be before the dial.
It appears, therefore, that the obliquity of the
ecliptic to the equator, which was the cause ﬁrst
taken into consideration, would make the dial and
the clock agree on four days of the year, namely,
those on which the Sun enters Aries, Cancer,
Libra, and Capricomus, but the unequal motion
of the Earth in its orbit would only produce a co
incidence between them twice in the course of
that time, that is, when the Sun is in apogee and
perigee. When, therefore, the Sun is in these
points at his entrance into Aries and Libra, or
into Cancer and Capricornus, the two causes will
unite in making the dial and clock agree in those
points. The Sun’s apogee at present is in about the
tenth degree of Cancer, and his perigee in the
tenth degree of Capricornus; consequently the
dial and clock cannot coincide at the entrance of
the Sun into these signs, nor, in fact, at any time of
the year except where the equation arising from
one cause becomes a counterpoise to that which
results from the other.
By the explanation which has now been given
of the two causes of the equation of time, or dif
ference between the time shewn by a well-regu
lated clock and a true Sun-dial, it will be seen that
the dial is sometimes slower from the one cause
and faster from the other, sometimes faster or
slower from both causes, and sometimes the effect
of the one is counterbalanced by that of the other.
i
LECTURE x. 167
It is to be observed, therefore, that when one of
the equations is faster, and the other slower, the
true equation is found by subtracting the less from
the greater, and when they are both faster or both
slower, by adding them together.
The equation of time, as now described, is sub
ject to some variations, which, although proper to
be mentioned, are so triﬂing, that for all common
purposes they may be very safely neglected in
calculation.
The ﬁrst arises from the derangement of the
Earth’s motion by the Moon, Venus, Mars, and
Jupiter, whereby the equation of time must of
course be effected. This variation, however,
amounts at a maximum to only 2'2 seconds. The
increase or decrease of the obliquity of the ecliptic
is also attended with a proportional increase or
decrease in the equation of time; this amounts at a
maximum to no more than 1'5” in the course of
two centuries.
The second part of the equation of time, which
is nothing more than the difference between the
mean and true place of the Sun, converted into
time, commonly called the equation of the Sun’s
orbit, is subject to a diminution of 1'25 seconds, in
a century, arising from a diminution of the equation
of the solar orbit at the rate of 18'8 seconds in that
time. There is also another variation in the equa
tion of time, arising from the motion of the Sun’s
apogee; this amounts at a maximum to 14'?» se
conds in a century, when the Sun is in the apo
geal or perigeal point of his orbit.
Tables of the equation of time will be found in
the Nautical Almanack, White’s Ephemeris, and in
most treatises on Astronomy,_ The time shown
by the sun-dial is called apparent time, and that
168 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
which is shewn by a well-regulated clock is called
mean time.
The Sun-dial being employed in determining
some of the most important solar phenomena, no
apology, it is presumed, need be offered, for intro
ducing in this place a description of that useful
instrument, with an account of the principles upon
which it is construéted.
A Sun-dial is a plane whereon certain lines are
described, in such a manner that the shadow of a
wire, or of the upper edge of a plate-stile, perpen
dicular to the plane of the dial, may point out the
exact time of a solar day. The edge of the plate,
by the shadow of which the time of the day is
found, is called the stile of the dial, and the line
on which the said plate is erected is called the
substile. The angle included between the stile
and substile is the elevation or height of the stile.
Sun-dials are of various kinds according to the
position of the planes upon which they are deli
neated. Those whose planes are parallel to the
plane of the horizon are called horizontal dials,
and those dials whose planes are perpendicular to
the plane of the horizon, are called erect or vertical
dials; vertical dials, whose planes exactly front the
north or south, are denominated direct north or
south dials : vertical dials, whose planes do not
face the north or south, are called decliners, because
their planes decline from those points. Those
dials whose planes are neither parallel nor perpen
dicular to the plane of their horizon, are named in
clining or reclining dials, according as their planes
make acute or obtuse angles with the plane of
that circle, and if, moreover, the planes of these
inclining or reclining dials are turned aside from
facing the north or south, they are called declining
inclining or declining-reclining dials. There are
_ LECTURE x. 169
various other sorts of dials, not necessary to be
here spoken of, and for an account of which re
ference must be made to authors who professedly
treat upon the subject of dialling.
The face of every Sun-dial represents the plane
of some great circle upon the Earth, and the gno
mon or stile the Earth’s axis, whether it be a small
wire or the edge of a thin plate, as in most com
mon horizontal dials. In order to explain this,
let NBS D, ﬁg. 18. be the Earth, supposed in
this instance to be hollow and transparent like a
sphere of glass, let us also imagine its equator to
be divided into twenty-four equal parts, by so many
meridian semicircles, a 6 0d efg, &c., one of which
(a) is the geographical meridian of London (sup
posed to be at L); if the hours of XII. be marked
upon that meridian and the opposite one, and all
the rest of the hours in order on the rest of the
meridians, those meridians will be the hour-circles
of London; then if the sphere have an opaque
axis N E S, upon which it revolves, whenever by
the motion of the Earth the Sun comes to the
plane of any particular meridian, the shadow of
the axis will fall upon the opposite meridian, and
will consequently show the time at London, and at
all places upon the same meridian. If now we
imagine a solid plane A B C D to pass through this
sphere in the rational horizon of London, the half
N E of the axis will be above the plane, and the
other half below it, and, therefore, the shadow of
half the axis will always fall upon one side or the
other of this intersecting plane, that is, the shadow
of the upper half N E of the axis, will fall some
where upon the upper side of the plane A B C D,
while the Sun remains above the horizon, and the
shadow of the lower half E S will fall upon the
lower side of the same plane, when, the Sun is
1
170 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
below the horizon of London. If, therefore, straight
lines be drawn from the centre E of the plane to
those points where its circumference is cut by the
hour-circles of the sphere, those lines will be the
hour-lines of a horizontal dial for London, for the
shadow of the axis will fall upon each particular
hour-line of the dial when it would have fallen
upon the corresponding hour-semicircle of the
sphere. -
The hour-lines being thus found by the inter;
secting points of the hour-semicircles, it is evident,
that if these semicircles be supposed removed, and
the horizontal plane with the half of the axis above
it be alone left, this plane will be a correct horizon;
tal Sun-dial, the gnomon or stile of which is formed
by the half axis remaining in the position already
described. Hence the reason why the gnomon of
those dials in our latitude is always directed to the
north pole, and always forms with the XIIth hour
line C B, such an angle NE B as is equal to the
latitude of the place. It is also to be observed, that
on these dials only sixteen hour-lines are drawn,
being as many as are required for those hours
during which the Sun is above the horizon on the
longest day. These lines are all drawn from VI.
to XII. and VI. again on the northern, and the
rest on the southern part of these dials; the hour-‘
line of VI. lying directly east and west, as that of
XII. does north and south. Those hour-lines
which serve for the forenoon lie on the west side
of the plane, and are numbered from west to north,
and those which serve for the afternoon hours
lie on the east side, and are numbered from north
to~east. -
In the foregoing illustration the plane of the
horizon has been taken for the intersecting plane,
and consequently a horizontal dial was produced;
LECTURE x. 1 7 1
if, however, any other plane be chosen for an in
tersecting plane, and lines be drawn from the cen
tre of this plane to the points in the circumference
through which the hour-circles pass, we shall
obtain the hour-lines for that plane: thus, if the
plane which cuts the sphere he perpendicular to
the horizon, as A L B D, ﬁg. 19, touching the
given place London at L, and directly fronting the
meridian of London, it will then become the plane
of a vertical direct south dial; if, therefore, right
lines be drawn from its centre E to those points of
its circumference which are cut by the hour-circles
of the sphere, these right lines will become the
hour-lines of a vertical or direct south dial for
London, on which the hours are to be placed in a
contrary direction to those on a horizontal dial, as
is shown in the ﬁgure, the lower half, E S of the
axis N E S, casting a shadow on the hour of the
day in this dial at the same time that it would fall
upon the corresponding hour-semicircles of the
sphere, were the plane of the dial removed out of
the way. If the intersecting plane (still facing the
south) be made to incline or recline by any iven
number of degrees, the hour-semicircles o the
sphere will still cut the edge of the plane in those
points to which the hour-lines must be drawn
straight from the centre, and the axis of the sphere,
which is still the stile or gnomon of the dial, will
cast a shadow on these lines at the respective
hours. The same takes place if the plane be made
to decline from the meridian any given number of
degrees less than 90, or provided the reclination be
less than the co-latitude1 ofthe place, the axis ofthe
sphere being still a gnomon or stile for the dial.
\ The co-latitude or complement of the latitude is what the
latitude of a place wants of 90 degrees. ‘
I 2 '
172 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
But when the declination is 90°, or the reclination
is equal to the co-latitude, the axis ceases to be a
gnomon, because in both these cases the axis has
no elevation above the plane of the dial.
The bulk of the Earth when compared with its
distance from the Sun, being but a point, if a small'
sphere of lass having such lines (upon and such
a plane wit (in it, as above described, with facilities
for settin the inclosed plane to any given position,
be laceg upon any part of the Earth’s surface,
so t lat its axis be parallel to the axis of the Earth,
(the plane being duly adjusted,) the particularsl
have been describing will be thereby exhibited,
and the hours of the day shown as truly as in the
globe of the Earth, supposed transparent, or as
they would be in this small sphere placed at the
Earth’s centre. _ I
To give a correct idea of the principles of dial
ling, a brass sphere is sometimes employed, con
sisting of twenty-four semicircles sliding over each
other upon a moveable horizon. _ ,
From what has now been said, it is obvious that
the universal principle on which this art depends,
consists in ﬁnding where the shadow of a wire, or of
the edge of a thin plate, parallel to the Earth’s axis,
(which the gnomon, of whatever kind it may be,
always represents), will fall on a given plane every
hour, half-hour, 8:0. Now, it has already been
shown, that the position of the hour-lines is deter
mined by means of the hour-semicircles, the} art of
dialling, therefore, is for the most part reduced to
ﬁnding the intersecting points of the hour-'semi
circles for all kinds of planes. These may be
determined in various (ways, and although the
method of constructing Sun-dials cannot certainly
be said, properly speaking, to belong to the science
bf Astronomy, yet, as many persons studying that
LECTURE x. 173
science may be desirous ofbecoming acquaintedwith ~
some easy method of making a common horizontal
dial, I trust I shall incur no severe censure by
concluding this subject with directions for that
purpose; and as the methods I am now about to
describe, being purely mechanical, and conse-‘ -
quently requiring no mathematical knowledge, nor
any acquaintance with logarithmic calculation, may
be put in practice by any person who feels dis
posed so to do, I ﬂatter myself they will prove
the more acceptable on that account.
Elevate the pole of a common terrestrial globe,
having the twenty-four meridian~semicircles drawn
upon it, equal to the latitude of the given place,
and turn it upon its axis till any one of the me
ridians cuts the horizon in the north point, where,
suppose the hour of XII to be marked, the rest of
the meridians will cut the horizon at the respective
distances of all the other hours ﬁ‘om XII. Let
these points, therefore, be accurately marked upon
the horizon, after which, taking the globe out of
the stand, ﬁt in a piece of board or a plate of any
kind even with the surface of the horizon. Then
if straight lines be drawn ﬁ‘om the centre of the
board-to those points of distance on the horizon
which were intersected by the meridian-semicircles,
these lines will become the hour-lines of a horizon
tal dial for that latitude, the edge of whose nomon I
must of course occupy the exact place of t e axis
Of the globe previous to its being taken .out of the
frame, that is, the gnomon must make an angle
with the twelve-o’clock-line equal to the latitude of
the place for which the dial is made.
As it is possible that every person who would
wish to make a dial may not be provided with a
globe, I shall now show how to perform it by
mans ofthe plain dialling-lines, or scale oflatitudes
I 3
174 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
and hours, ﬁg. 20. These scales, the expence of
which is very triﬂing, are to be had of all mathe
matical instrument makers.
Having drawn a double meridian-line, a 6 c d,
ﬁg. 21, on the plane intended for a horizontal dial,
and crossed it at right angles by the six-o’clock
line ej, take the latitude of the given place in your
compasses from the line of latitudes on the dial
ling scale, and set off that extent from c to e, and
from a tofon the six-o’clock-line; next, from the
line of hours on the same scale take the whole six
hours in the compasses, and setting one foot in
the point 2, let the other foot fall where it will upon
the meridian line c d, as at d ; do the same from f
to b, and draw the right lines e d and fI), each of
which will of course be equal to the whole scale of
hours. This done, set one foot of the compasses
at XII, in the beginning of the line of hours on
the dialling scale, and extending the other to each
hour on that line, lay off these distances from d to
e for the afternoon hours, and from b toffor those
'of the forenoon, the lines (I e and bf will thus be
divided in the points 1 2 3 1i 5 6, in the same man
ner as the hour-line on the scale is divided at I. II
III. IV. V. VI. In the same manner the half
hours and quarters may be laid down if required.
Every thing being thus prepared for drawing the
hour-lines, lay a ruler on the point 0, and draw
the ﬁrst ﬁve afternoon hour-lines from that .
po'int through the points 1 2 3 4 5 on the line (1 8,
continuing the IVth and Vth hour-lines throu h
the point 0 to the other side of the dial, for t 8
like hours of the mornin . This done, lay the
ruler on the point a, and raw the last ﬁve hour
lines in the forenoon through the points 5 4 3 2 1
on the linef b, continuing the hour-lines of_VII
and VIII. through the point~ a to the other side of
LECTURE x. 175
the dial for the like afternoon hours, and set the
hours to their respective lines as in the ﬁgure.
Lastly, at the point a (either by a protractor or
a line of chords) make the angle g a h equal to the
latitude of the place {br which the dial is con
structed, and draw the line a g, from g let fall
the perpendicular g It upon the meridian line a b,
and there will be a triangle formed whose sides
are a g, g k, and h a. If a plate he made similar
to this triangle, and as thick as the distance
between the two lines a b and c d, and set upright
between them, touching at a and 0, its hypothenuse
a g will be the gnomon of the dial, and when the
dial is truly set, being parallel to the axis of the
world, will cast a shadow on the hour of the day.
The hour-lines being less distant from each other
about noon than in any other part of the dial, it
is best, in order to enlarge the hour-distances
thereabout, to have the points from which the hour
!ines are drawn a little distance from the centre of
the dial-plane on the side opposite to XII. Thus
C is the centre of the plane, but the points a and
e, at some distance from it, are the points from which
the hour-lines are drawn.
As it is by no means my intention to go deeply
into the art of dialling, I shall now, having shown
two very easy methods ofconstructing that kind of
dial most generally used, proceed to point out in
what manner a dial when made may be set due
north and south, as without some method of doin
this, the dial, though ever so truly constructezf,
will become entirely useless. Now, in order to
do this, it is necessary to have a true meridian
line, or a line which, if produced, would pass
through the poles of the Earth and the spot where
.the dial is to be placed.
On a smooth horizontal plane describe three or
1 t
176 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
four concentric circles, as 1 2 3, ﬁg. 22, and in the
common centre C, ﬁx perpendicularly a wire B C,
having a round blunt point, and of such a length
that the extremity of its shadow may fall within
the outermost circle, at least three hours before
noon. Observe in the forenoon when and in what
points the extremity of the shadow just touches
the several circles, and make marks at those
points.
In the afternoon of the same day make similar
observations, marking the points of contact on the
circles as before. Then taking any, circle in
which two dots are found, as suppose AD in
circle 2, and with any convenient opening of the
compasses and the centre A, describe the arch
a b, then with the same radius and‘the centre D,“
describe the are c d, intersecting a b in the point e:_
lastly, through the points C and; e, draw the line.
C e, which will be the meridian-line required.
The advantage to be derived from drawing several
circles is, that in case- of missing the time when
the point of the shadow is just in contact with one
circle, you may catch it when it touches another.
If the weather prove so favourable that both points
can be marked on more of the circles than one,
let the same operation bev performed, with as many
of the circles as both points can be obtained upon,
and take a mean of all the bisecting lines. for a.
meridian. _
This method of drawing a meridian-line ew
dently supposes that the Sun’s declination does
not change during the interval between the ob
servations; as, however, the Sun’s declination
undergoes a perceptible change in the space of
four or six hours at certain times of the year,
about the equinoxes for instance, it will be BIO
per, in order to avoid as much as p0551ble
LECTURE x. V 177;
any inaccuracy from this cause, to make the observ
ations about the time of the Summer solstice, at
which season of the year the Sun changes his
declination so slowly as to create no error worth,
regarding.
178 LECTURES- 01v asrnouoma
LECTURE XI.
THE PHENOMENA OF THE PRIMARY PLANETS AS SEEN
FROM THE EARTH. —THE APPARENT MOTIONS
OF THE INFERIOR PLANETS MERCURY AND VENUS.
——-\OF TRANSITS. — ON PARALLAX. —- THE ME
THOD OF FINDING THE SUN’S HORIZONTAL PA;
RALLAX FROM THE TRANSITS OF VENUS. -—-THE
PARALLAX OF THE SUN BEING KNOWN, HIS DIS
TANCE ~FROM THE EARTH EASILY ASCERTAINED,
AND THENCE BY ANALOGY, THE DISTANCES OF ALL
THE PLANETS FROM THE SUN.
HAVING concluded our observations upon the solar
phenomena, (for eclipses of the Sun, hereafter to
be treated of, being caused by the interposition of
the Moon, cannot be properly comprehended under
that head,) the apparent motions, Sec. of the pri
mary planets will next claim our attention.
The true motion of these bodies in their re
spective orbits, which is according to the order of
the signs, is called direct or inyConsequentia ,- but
their apparent motion is sometimes contrary to the
order of the signs, and is then said to be retrograde
or in Antecedentia. Since the planets all revolve
round the Sun with different velocities, their situ
ations relatively to each other must, of course, be
perpetually changing, by which change of position
certain conﬁgurations take place among these
bodies, arising from their diﬂ'erent longitudes
measured on the ecliptic; these are denominated
16
LECTURE xx. 179
their aspects 1 of which the ancients reckoned ﬁve,
namely, Sextile, Quartile, Trine, Opposition, and
Conjunction. The Sextile aspect which is thus
marked * is, when the planets are the sixth part of
a circle, or 60° from each other. The Quartile
or quadrate aspect, marked Cl, when they are 90°,
or a quarter of a circle apart. Trine, marked A,
when one third of a circle, or 120° distant. Oppo
sition, marked 8, when half a circle or 180° from
each other. And Conjunction, marked 6 , when two
or morepl'anets are in the same degreeofthe ecliptic.
_ These terms are also applied in the same manner
to any two of the heavenly bodies; thus, the Sun
and Moon, the Sun, or Moon, and any planet, &c.
may, in like manner, be in Conjunction, Opposi
tion, Trine, Sextile, SEC. The introduction of these
aspects is doubtless to be attributed to astrologers,
by whom they were distinguished into benign,
malign, and indifferent; the Quartile and Opposi
tion were considered malignant; the Trine and
Sextile, beni n or friendly; and the Conjunction,
indifferent. gKepler, who added eight new ones
to those previously known, deﬁnes an aspect to be
the angle formed by the rays of two planets meet
ing upon the Earth, whereby their good or bad
influence is determined.
It has already been remarked, that the planets
Blercury and Venus, revolvin round the Sun in
orbits which are comprehendet by the orbit of the
Earth, are called inferior planets, and that Mars,
Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus, whose orbits include
that of the Earth, are called superior planets, the‘
connecting link between which and the inferior is
the Earth that we ourselves inhabit. Now, in
pursuing our investigations relative to these bodies,
1 From aspecto to look stedfastly.
1 6
180 LECTURES on as'raouomr.
we shall ﬁnd that each presentsphenomena peculiar
to the class to which it belongs ; it will be proper,
therefore, to treat of them according to this ar
rangement, beginning, with the inferior planets
1VIercury and Venus.
These planets are never seen at any great dis
tance from the Sun, and Mercury beingtlie nearest
to that luminary, and the least in magnitude, is very.
seldom visible; it is only, therefore, just after the
setting of the Sun in the evening, or ’a little before
his rising in the morning, that we can be indulged
with a sight of this planet. When Mercury ﬁrst
makes its appearance after Sun-set in the west,'he
resembles a brilliant twinkling star; but by con
tinuing our observations during a few succeeding
evenings, he will be easily distinguished from the
ﬁxed stars by a small progressive motion, whereby
his distance from the Sun increases till it becomes
(at a mean rate) about 22 or 23°, when, having
attained his greatest elongation or distance from
the Sun, he appears for some time stationary, after
which he moves backwards in a retrograde direc
tion towards the Sun; the time that elapses
between the setting of that luminary and the
planet (which never exceeds an hour and ﬁfty mi
nutes) daily decreases, until at length, the latter
plunges into the Sun’s rays,and is altogether lost
to our sight; after which, if we observe the heavens
just before Sun-rise in the morning, we shall soon
discover the same planet, whose distance from the
Sun again increases, till it is about 22 or 23°,
when, after being a second time stationary, he
again returns towards the Sun. The greatest
elongation of Mercury, or its greatest apparent
distance from the Sun, is not always the same, but
varies from about 17° 80' to 28° 20'.
The apparent motions of Venus are exactly
similar to those of Mercury, but being exterior to
an'runa xr. . }8~1-~
that-planet, she recedes farther from the Sun, as
seen from the Earth, her greatest elongation vary
ing from 44° 57' to 47° 48', and from the slowness
of her motion, her stations and retrogradations are
less frequent than those of Mercury.
The cause of these phenomena will be under;
stood from diagram 6, which consists of three
pieces, numbered 1, 2, and 3. Let T,.No. l, of
this diagram represent the Earth, a b c d efg k
the orbit of Mercury, and A B C D E F. G H the
orbit of Venus, also let m, No. 2, be Mercury, and.
V, No. 3, Venus, and in both let S be the Sun.
For the purpose of showing the angular distances
of Mercury and Venus from. the Sun in different.
parts of their orbits, a graduated circle is attached.
to the Earth, from the centre 1, of which also pro
ceeds a silk, thread or string, representing the
visual ray, or the line in which the planet is seen
by an observer at T. Part 1_ of this diagram being
put on the machine in the usual manner, let the
Earth be brought to coincide with. the ﬁrst point
of Capricornus, then placing part 2 on the machine
in the same manner, and bringing Mercury to a,
the diagram is prepared for illustrating. the appa
rent motions of that planet.v
Now, as the eye alone will not enable us to form
a true estimate of the distances of objects whose
! It may appear at ﬁrst sight that the visual ra should
proceed from t at part of the Earth which is turne directly
towards the Sun, rather than from the Earth’s centre; as,‘
however, the orbits of Mercury, Venus, and the Earth, are
laid down in the diagram upon a scale according to their
respective mean distances from the Sun in round numbers, it
is essential to the illustration, that the visual line should pro
ceed from that point of the orbit in which the Earth is sup_-'
posed to be placed; it is moreover obvious, that were the
ﬁgure representing the Earth made in true proportion to its
distance from the Sun in the diagram, its.diai_neter would be
inﬁnitely less than the thickness of the string itself. ' ' ‘
1.82 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY;
remoteness is so considerable as that of the hea
venly bodies, the Sun and Mercury (if it could be
seen) would both appear to an observer at T to be
in the opposite point of the ecliptic, or in the ﬁrst
point of Cancer; Mercury, however, being between
the Earth and Sun, will be invisible because his
enlightened side is turned from the Earth, unless
he be at the time in one of his nodes, in which case
he will appear like a dark spot on the Sun’s disc.
The silk string which represents the visual line
being passed over the centre of Mercury and the
Sun, and extended- to the ecliptic, will cut the
ﬁrst point of Cancer, and render the foregoing
observations clearly understood. In like manner,
this string being kept constantly stretched over
the centre of the planet, and extended to the eclip
tic, while the planet is made to revolve round the
Sun, will show the vibratory motion of Mercury
with regard to the Sun in that circle; but its an
gular distance from that luminary in each particular
point of its orbit, must be sought for on- the gra—
duated semicircle attached to the Earth, for the
Earth’s orbit being but a point compared with its ‘
distance from the ﬁxed stars, it is obvious, that the
ecliptic must be referred to an indeﬁnite distance
from the Sun and Earth, and consequently, in any
ﬁgure we can construct for the purpose ofillustrat~
ing this subject: the angular distance between the
Sun and planet must always be shown by some.
such method as that above mentioned, the refer-
ences, therefore, made to the ecliptic on the ma
chine in the present instance, are merely intended
to show that the interior planets are in a state of
continual oscillation about the Sun, their angular
distances from which, as before observed, must be
determined by the semicircular arc attached to the
Earth for that purpose.
LECTURE xx. 183
When Mercury arrives at b in its orbit, it ap
pears in about 5° of Gemini in the ecliptic, as seen
from the Earth, its angular distance from the Sun
being about 12°.1 When Mercury is at c in his
orbit, he appears at his greatest western elongation
or distance from the Sun, which, as shown by the
graduated arc, is about 22 or 23°; in this situa
tion he appears to remain for some time stationary,
neither receding farther from the Sim, nor advanc
ing nearer to him, but as Mercury moves from c
to d, he appears to return towards the Sun, and
seems to be in the same point of the ecliptic, and
at the same angular distance from the Sun when at
d as when he was at b, but of a much smaller size.
At e he is lost to the observer at T, behind the Sun.
While Mercury is moving from e toj, he appears
to recede from the Sun eastwards, and at f, his
apparent magnitude and his angular distance from
that luminary are the same as they were at 0’, his
apparent place in the ecliptic being about 25° of
the sign Cancer. When Mercury gets to g in his
orbit, he is at his greatest eastern elongation, where
he again becomes stationary. In going from g to
I: in his orbit, he seems to go back again in the
heavens towards the Sun, his distance from which
at 72 is the same as it was at f; but on account of
his proximity to the Earth, his apparent magnitude
1 This example at once sets the foregoing observations in
a clear point of view. Thus, were the distance of Mercury
from the Sun to be measured on the ecliptic, it would be
found to be almost 50°, whereas, by the graduated are, it is
shown to be no more than about 12°,but were the ecliptic so
considerably enlarged, that the distance between the Sun
and Earth, in comparison of it, became a mere point, the
Earth might then be considered as the centre of that circle,
and consequently, the angular distance between the Sun and
Mercury, measured on the ecliptic so extended, would coin
cide with that shown by the are above mentioned.
4. LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
r8 7
, - reased, being the 5am . 7
Inc 8 as it wa
is much cury Comes to a in .
When. 6 Sun, and disappear: 2513302:
7 passes Mercury is goin from c to
.Whl from hrs-Western to his eastern e]
orbit, or motion. will appear dire
, - hésr of the signs that is i
the or lemon-on, but from g to c, that is,
his rea to his western elongation, his a
eastern will be retrograde, or contrary tothm
“ioiii? Sims ; and a? scary despribes a .1
Greater pzartion Of 1915 Orbit in moving from 6
gram from g to a” he appears. ongel‘ d'
retrograde- W116“ Mtfli‘cmSy ls
so as to be bet-W'an e. un_and Earth, 11,
said to be in infer-10.1. conJlLHthon Wlfll the S
and when Mercury ls it ‘5- de_18 behind the ,5
With regard to the Eafth’ 3:1 ills said to be in :
perior conjunction W115 at ummary. In ,
fror
former of these situations be Is also said to be
is perigee 01'- 118811?“ the Efarth’ and 1" the latte
in. is apogee or 15114311651; mm the Earth. T1
Zpgle. at the Sun, formed by. two lines drawn 1
1m ﬁn arth and. Mercury, or any Ogle
planet, 221151 the anomqu of commutation a
that planet. The apparent ongitude of Mercu
any other planet as .Sefin from the Earth’ is
Falled its geocentric longltu 6’ and th? longitude
It ﬁvou have if vieWed ﬁglrlniethe Suns centre is
ca ed its ' ic long ' -
ow, rialiiih‘irireintrpart .2’ .and puumg part 3' of
the same dia am. (conslsung' of the Sun and Ve
nus) in its ﬁe let Venus be brought_to A; in
this situatiofi) lik,e Mercury at a’ She 15 m her in“
fgrior con_unétion and disappears because her dark
Slde is tlliined t rds the Earth’ Pn-less’ a? was
observe of M:1:er when in a similar pomt .of
an'ruar. xn 18.5
its orbit, she be at the time in one of her nodes, in
which case she will appear like a dark spot upon,
the Sun; In moving. through the are A B of hen
orbit, she appears to recede from the Sun west-..
ward, and; when at B, having arrived at her great
est western elongation, she will appear for some
time stationary, her angular distance from the Sun
as shown by the graduated arc already described,
being, at a mean rate, about 46°. While moving
from B to E through the arc B C D E of her,
orbit, shev will seem to advancetowards the Sun,
and at E, will disappear, being in her superior.
conjunction with that, luminary, like Mercury at
e. In going from E to H, she appears to recede,
from the Sun eastward, and at H is at her greatest.
eastern elongation, where she once more appears
stationary, after which, while moving from H to,
A, she seems to» return towards the Sun, and at
A, having her dark side once more turned towards
the Earth, she is again lost to our view.
The apparent motion of Venus while going from
B to H_ in her orbit, or from her western to her,
eastern elongation, likethat of Mercury in going
from c to g, is direct, or according to the or er of
the signs, and while going from g to c, or from her
eastern to her western elongation, it is retrograde
or contrary tothat order, like the apparent motion
of Mercury from g to a; but like that planet, she
appears much longer direct than retrograde, be-.
causeshe describes a much larger portion of her
orbit in the former instance than in the latter.
While Venus is going from her superior conjunc-v
tion at E, to her inferior conjunction at A, she is
seen on the east side of the Sun, as viewed from
the Earth, and, therefore, remains above the horiq
zon in the evening after the Sun has set, for the.
Sun. being then westward of Venus,_must obviously,
186 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
arrive at, and sink below the western verge of the
horizon before Venus, who is therefore then deno
minated the Evening Star. From her inferior con
junction to her superior, she appears on the west
side of the Sun, and consequently rises before him
in the morning; for which reason she is then called
the Morning Star. In describing the telescopic
appearances of the planets, it has already been'0b~
served, that Mercury and Venus exhibit to us
nearly all the different phases of the Moon; thus,
after the inferior conjunction of these planets, that
is, when they are ﬁrst seen rising before the Sun
in the morning, they appear like the Moon about
four da s old, shining with a ﬁne luminous cres
cent. his luminous crescent increases in breadth
with the increase in the apparent distance of these,
planets from the Sun, and when they have attained
their greatest western elongation, they appear like
the Meon at the ﬁrst quarter. As they are seen
to return towards the Sun, their disc becomes gra-t
dually more illuminated, and at the time of their
superior conjunction, their enlightened side being
turned towards the Sun and Earth, they would.
appear like the full Meon were they not rendered
invisible by the superior brilliancy of that luminary
or bid by the intervention of his body, as is the
case when they are in either of their nodes at
the time of their su erior conjunction. When
they ﬁrst become visib e in the evening, they ap
pear gibbous, having more than half their disc
illuminated. As they approach to their eastern;
elongation, the enlightened part of their disc di
minishes, and when they have reached their greatest
eastern elongation, it is again dichotomised or half
enlightened. As they appear to return towards the.
Sun, their luminous disc gradually becomes less and
less, till having once more arrived at their inferior
LECTURE x1. 18?
Conjunction, their enlightened side is again com
pletely turned away from the Earth. The various
appearances of Venus as she revolves round the Sun
are exhibited in ﬁg. 28. Venus does not shine with
the greatest lustre when she presents the greatest
portion of her illuminated disc to our view, for her
splendour is at that time diminished by her greater
distance from the Earth in a more considerable
degree than the illuminated part of her disc pre@
sented to us is increased. Venus is brightest when
her elongation or apparent distance from the Sun
is 39° 44', in which situation she has been fre-.
quently seen in the day time and in bright sun-r
shine.
For the more easy comprehension of the geo~
centric motions of the inferior planets, the Earth.
has been hitherto considered as stationary in one
particular point of her orbit, while they were re
volving round the Sun in theirs, and were this the
case, the places of conjunction, both inferior and"
superior, as also those of greatest elongation, to-.
gether with the stations of the inferior planets, and
their arcs of direct and retrograde motion would
be always the same, but by the motion of the Earth
in its orbit, all these phenomena are continually
advancing forward, in the ecliptic; and it is on this
account also that an inferior planet is not stationary
at the time of its greatest elongation, but some
time after, when the planet is approaching the
inferior, and before the time it is approaching
the superior conjunction.
The greatest-elongations 'of' the inferior planets
are not always the same, but are subject to con
tinual variations within certain limits : this variation
is owing to the elliptical ﬁgure of their orbits, and.
that of the Earth, which produces a Variation also
in the stationary points and conjunctions of the
inferior planets,
188 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
If the orbits in which the planets 'Mercury and
Venus revolved. round' the Sun were in the plane.
of'the ecliptic, these planets would always be seen
to traverse the Sun’s disc and to pass across its
centre in the interval between their disappearing in
the evening and their re-appear-ing in the morning,
that is, at every inferior conjunction of these planets
with the Sun. It has, however, been shown that
the orbits both. of Mercury and Venus are in
clined to the ecliptic several degrees, for which
reason they can never be seen upon the Sun, ex- -
cepting when they are either in, or very near
to one of their nodes at the time of their being
in inferior conjunction with the Sun. If they
are exactly in their node at the. time of .the
conjunction taking place, they will appear to pass‘
over theicentre of the..solar disc; if theirgeocentrio
latitude at the time be any thing less than the,
semidiameter of theSun’s disc, they willibe seen‘
to traverse some portion of his upper or lower:
limb, according as their geocentric latitude is
north or south; if their latitude be equal to the
semidiameter of the Sun, they will just touch the
limb of the Sun, but without entering it or obscur
ing any part of it; and if their geocentric latitude.
exceed the semidiameter of the solar disc,,they will
pass either above or below the. Sun and be invi-.
sible, having. their enlightened; side turned entirely
away from the Earth in the manner already de-.
scribed. '
The apparent motion of. an inferior planet across
the disc of the Sun is called a transit, and from
the above observations, it is evident that 'these
phenomena can very seldom take place; when they
do happen, they cannot fail, from the rarity of their
occurrence, to prove highly interesting to Astro
n0mers, and as the transits of Venus afford an easy
‘L‘rc'rv'RE is. 7 11-89
method of enabling them to determine the distance
of the Sun from the Earth, these phenomena may
be considered among the most important the
science of Astronomy has to boast. As, however,
this mode of ascertaining the distance of the Sun
consists in ﬁnding the parallax of that luminary
by the'transit of Venus over his disc, it willbe pro-_
per in this'place‘toenter a'lit'tle'into the subject of
parallax, or the difference in the place of a planet
‘as seen from the centre, and from a point on the
surface of the Earth. 7 ‘ A v
Let A B, ﬁg. 24, be the Earth, "C its centre, 'H
a point in the rational horizon, A the place of a
spectator, Z the zenith of the place A, and D E F
G four different positions of a planet or any other
heavenly body; also, let -Z I'H represent an arc
of the starry‘heavens, comprehended between the
horizon and the Zenith; When the planet is at D,
it ~Will appear in the horizon at H to a spectator at
the Earth’s centre, but to the spectator at A, on
the surface of the Earth, the planet will appear at
71 below the horizon, H being the true and I: the
visible or apparent place of the planet; the paral
lax of the plapet D, will therefore be measured by
the arch H h of the heavens, ‘or by the angle
H D h, which is equal to the angle A DC. When
the planet is above the horizon at E, its true place
'ivisible from the Earth’s centre is P, and its appa
rent place .p ,- its parallax, therefore, will be P p.
In like manner, when the planet is at F, its pa
rallax will be R r, and when the planet is at G,
or in the zenith, it will have no ‘parallax, being
seen in the same point of the 'heavens, as viewed
either from the centre or the surface of the Earth.
The parallax of any object, therefore, is the
greatest when in. the horizon, decreases as the alti
tude increases, and altogether disappears when the
190 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
'object is in the zenith, because its true and appa
rent places then coincide. ‘
The effect of parallax is to diminish the altitude
'of any celestial phenomenon, or to make it appear
nearer the horizon than it really is, hence it is
called the parallax of altitude. As, however, this
change of the altitude by parallax, may, according
to the different situation of the ecliptic and equator
to the horizon, also produce a change in the longi
tude, latitude, right ascension, and declination of
the phenomenon, there will also be a parallax in
longitude, a parallax in latitude, a parallax in right
ascension, and a parallax in declination; thus, the
parallax diminishes the longitude in the western
part, and increases it in the eastern; diminishes the
northern latitude and declination in the eastern
part, and increases them in the western, but
increases the southern both in the eastern and
Western part; increases the riwht ascension, and
diminishes the deSQension. ence it appears
that the parallax has just the contrary effects
of refraction, and consequently without a know
ledge of the parallax of any body, it would be
impossible to make the necessary correction for
determining its true place in the heavens. The
doctrine of parallax, however, derives its greatest
importance from its affording us the means of cal
culating the distances of the heavenly bodies, for
if the horizontal parallax of an Y heavenly body or
the angle D of the triangle A C be known, the
side C D, which is the radius of the Earth, being
already known, the distance of the body from the
Earth’s centre may be ascertained by a common
roblem in trigonometry.
The parallax of an object is evidently the same
as the angle which the distance between the Earth’s
centre and a given point on its surface subtends at
LECTURE x1. 191
the object; hence it appears that the farther the
object is distant from the Earth, the less will be its
parallax; thus, the parallax of the planet X is
only H x, which is less than H h, the parallax of the
planet D. As, therefore, the parallax ofan objectde
pends on the distance of that object from the Earth,
it is easy to conceive that) this distance may be so
’great as to render the parallactic angle insensible, in
which case the object will have no parallax, and con
sequently will be seen from all parts of the Earth in
the same position : thus, the ﬁXed stars are so
remote as to have no sensible parallax, and even
’the Sun and all the primary planets except Mars
and Venus when in perigee, are so far from the
Earth, that their parallax is too small to be easily
detected. The very great importance, however,
of the horizontal parallax in determining the dis
tances of the heavenly bodies with accuracy, has
induced Astronomers to invent several methods for
obtaining the horizontal parallax of the Sun and
planets. It would, however, be entirely foreign to
the object of these lectures, to enter into a minute
‘detail of the various methods which have been pro
posed for this purpose. The easiest method of
determining the parallax of a planet is by observ
ing its zenith distance, and its relative position to a
ﬁxed star at two places on the Earth’s surface
nearly under the same meridian, but very remote
from each other.1 In the case of the Sun, how-'
ever, the parallax is so small on account of the
immense distance of that luminary from the Earth,
‘ As the sum of the sines of the two zeniths’ distances (if
the observers be on different sides of the equator) or their
difference (if on the same side) is to radius, so is the difference
‘of the two angular distances of the planets from the ﬁxed
star, to the planet’s horizontal parallax.
*192 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
that it can only be accurately determined from the
transits of Venus.
The method of ﬁnding the parallax of the Sun
from the transits of Venus over his disc was ﬁrst
suggested by Dr. Halley, who, in the year 1691,
presented to the Royal Society a dissertation upon
that subject with an account of the particular times
when such transits would take place. This mode
of ﬁnding the parallax of the Sun was recom~
mended by the Doctor with all that earnestness
which the importance of the subject required, and
according to his suggestions several Astronomers
were dispatched to diﬁ'erent parts of the globe for
the purpose of observing the transit of Venus in
‘1 761, and also that of 1769. From these observ
ations, which were conducted with the greatest
care, the distances and magnitudes of the Sun and
planets have been more accurately determined than
by any method previously adopted for that purpose.
The general principles of this important and
abstruse operation may be thus explained: The
apparent magnitude of the Sun and the periodic
time of Venus being known, the time that she
employs in moving over the Sun’s disc may be
easily calculated, and is the same as would be ob
served by a spectator-at rest at the 'Earth’s centre.
The duration of these transits, as seen from dif
ferent parts of the Earth, differ from each other,
and also from the calculated time’; and this differ
ence between the true and observed duration of
a transit, obviously arises from, and will be in di
rect proportion to the parallax of Venus, {hr the
nearer Venus is to the Earth the greater is her
parallax, and consequently, so much the more will
the true duration of her transit be contracted. B
observing, therefore, at places adapted to the pur
pose, how much the duration of the transit is less
LECTURE xx. 193
than its true duration calculated for the Earth’s
centre, the parallax of Venus will be ascertained,
whence, by analogy, the parallax and distance of
the Sun and of all the planets from him may be
readily found. _ This will be understood from ﬁg.
25. in which, let S be the Sun, A D B the Earth,
C its centre, and V Ve'nus, revolving in her orbit
in the direction a V b. The Earth’s motion on
its axis being in the direction B D A, contrary to
the motion of Venus in her orbit, the motion of
Venus across the disc of the Sun in the path 12 u'n'!
will be accelerated in consequence of the observer
being carried by the Earth’s rotation in the con
trary direction B D A, and therefore the transit
will be of a shorter duration than it would be if
viewed from the centre C of the Earth, or from
any point of the Earth at rest; for were Venus
even to remain stationary, and the Earth 'to have
no other motion but that of its diurnal rotation, it
is clear that the planet Venus would appear to
move across the solar disc. When the observer
is at B, Venus will appear like a black spot upon
the Sun at a; when the observer has arrived at D,
Venus will appear at '0', and when he has got to
A, Venus will appear at 1)”. But the motion of
Venus in her orbit will also cause herto appear to
move across the Sun’s disc in the path 12 '0’ v”, and,
consequently, that motion must be considerably
accelerated by the diurnal motion of the Earth,
causing a contraction of the transit which must
evidently increase with the proximity of Venus to
the Earth, and it is therefore proportional to her
horizontal parallax. By observing, therefore, at
proper places on the Earth, how much the duration
of the transit is diminished, or by ﬁndin the dif~
ference between the observed time of t e transit
and its calculated time as seen from the centre of
K
194 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
the Earth, the parallax of Venus and that of the
Sun may be ascertained. ‘
, Another method of ﬁnding the Sun’s horizontal
is as follows: let A B D, ﬁg. 26. be the Earth, V,
Venus, and R ST, the eastern limb of the Sun.
To a spectator at B, the point a" of that limb will
be on the meridian, and will be referred to the
point E in the heavens: Venus appearing just
within the limb of the Sun at S. But at the
same instant, to a spectator at A, Venus is east of
the Sun in the line A V F, and if she were then
visible, would appear in the heavens at F: while
the point a: of the Sun’s limb is referred to e. The
horizontal parallax of Venus is' C V A, and is
equal to the opposite angle F V E, which is mea—
sured by the arch F E. C S A is the Sun‘s hori
zontal parallax, equal, to the opposite angle e S E,
whose measure is the arch e E. Now, the angle
C V A, the horizontal parallax of Venus, may be
readily found by observing the difference between
the ingress of Venus upon the Sun’s limb, as seen
from‘A and B, or the time she takes to move from
V to 1), due allowance being made for the diﬁ'er
ence of the meridians A B. The horizontal pa
rallax of Venus being found, the Sun’s horizontal
parallax may be easily ascertained, for C V A
the horizontal parallax of Venus, is to C S A, the
Sun’s horizontal parallax, as S C is to VC, the
ratio of which is known, and the horizontal pa
. v A
rallax of Venus being found, we have u -
SC ~ '
the Sun’s horizontal parallax C S A.
From a great“ 'number of observations, made
with every possible degree of accuracy, upon the
transit of Venus in the year 1769, in diﬂ‘erent
parts of the world, the Sun’s parallax has been
found to be 8”. 73, whence, by a simple operation
LECTU as xx. 1 95
in trigonometry, his distance from the Earth is
found to be in round numbers, 95 millions of
miles.
The distance of the Sun from the Earth having
been ascertained, the distances of the other planets
from the Sun may be deduced from the third law
of Kepler by the following proportion : —-As
the square of the Earth’s period round the Sun
is to the cube of its mean distance, so is the
square of the period ofany other planet toa fourth
proportional, the cube root of which will be the
distance of that planet from the Sun.
The distances of the Sun and planets being
known; from their apparent diameters at those
known distances, their true diameters and magni
tudes may be ascertained.
196 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
LECTURE XII.
PHENOMENA CONNECTED WITH THE PLANET WE
INHABIT, AS VIEWED BY A SPECTATOR ON ITS
SURFACE. —OF THE ABERRATION OF LIGHT-'—
OF THE PRECESSION OF THE EQUINOXES AND
THE NUTATION OF THE EARTH’S AXIS. _
AT the distance of about 95 millions ‘of miles
from the centre of the system, in a happy medium
between the proximity of the inferior “planets to,
and the remoteness of the superior planets from,
‘ the Sun, is placed the Earth, the planet on which
we ourselves reside, and which, on this account,
cannot fail to become an object of peculiar interest
to us who inhabit it. ‘
The apparent diurnal and annual revolutions of
the Sun we have already shown to result from the
motions of our own globe, the former being caused
by the rotation of the Earth about its axis, once in
23 hours 56 minutes 3'4 seconds, and the latter,
by its annual motion round the Sun, performed in
about 365 days 6 hours. We have also seen that
the Earth is of a spheroidal form, that its orbit is
of an elliptical ﬁgure, and that these circumstances
(which are common to all the planets of the
system) are the natural effects of a centrifugal
force combined with the power of attraction; and
we have contemplated this globe (while explaining
the phenomena of the Sun as seen by a spectator
on the Earth’s surface) as undergoing the vicissi
tudes of day and night, and experiencing the
regularreturnsand orderlysuccession ofthe seasons.
LECTURE xu. 197
I shall, therefore, in the next place, proceed to
describe those phenomena connected with our
Planet, which have not hitherto come under our
eOnsideration.
The aberration‘of light is a phenomenon arising
from the progressive motion of that ﬂuid, and the
annual motion of the Earth in its orbit. For the
discovery of this phenomenon we are indebted to
Dr. Bradley, who was led to it by the result of
observations made for the purpose of determining
the annual parallax of some of the ﬁxed’ stars, or
the apparent change of place in the heavens to
which it was supposed by Astronomers the ﬁxed
stars would be- subject when viewed'from the Earth
in two opposite points of its orbit; in other words,
to ﬁnd the angle subtended by the diameter of the
Earth’s orbit at the ﬁxed- stars..
The only objection oi" any very Considerable“
weight that could be urged against the Copernican
view of the Earth’s annual motion round the Sun,
and which was eagerly laid hold‘on by the oppo
nents of the Copernican system, was, that if the
Earth describes an orbit round the Sun, whose
diameter is nearly two hundred millions of miles,
it follows that, if the axis (which always preserves
its parallelism through every part of its revo
lution) in any part of its orbit be directed to a par
ticular point in the heavens, it, ought, in six months
from that time, to be directed to another point,
two hundred millions of miles distant from the
former, which is quite contrary to what is found
by observation to be the case. Now, although the
legitimate answer to this objection, as proved by
repeated experiments, is, that the distance of the
nearest ﬁxed star is so immensely great, that the
orbit of the Earth viewed from it becomes only a
point, and consequently does not subtend any sen
K 3
198 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY
sible angle, yet, as the discovery of such a paral
lax would satisfactorily demonstrate the truth of
the Copernican system, and would besides, if the
quantity of the annual parallax of any of the ﬁxed
stars could be ascertained, enable us with ease to
determine the distance of those stars from the
Earth, this enquiry must, on both these accounts,
be particularly deserving our attention; and it has
accordingl been pursued by Astronomers with the
utmost d' igence, and it was while engaged in
making observations for this purpose that Dr.
Bradley discovered a variation in the position of
the stars, called their Aberration, which could
neither arise from parallax nor from the nutation
of the Earth’s axis (hereafter to be explained).
As the aberration of light is a subject of con-t
siderable importance, a few particulars relative to
its discovery, may, perhaps, be found interesting,
On the 3d December, 1725, the Hon. Samuel
Molyneux, Esq. assisted by Dr. Bradley, with an
instrument constructed by Mr. Graham, upon the
accuracy of which they could depend, ﬁxed per
pendicu arly, began to observe the bright star y in
the head of Draco, as it passed near the zenith,
and carefully took its situation, noting the time of
the observation. This process was repeated on
the 5th, 11th, and 12th days of that month, with
out any change in its distance from the zenith at
the time of its passing over the meridian being
perceived, but on the 17th of the same month, it
passed a little more southerly; on the 20th, they
repeated their observations, and found that it was
removed still more southerly, and so continued to
transit the meridian more and more southerly, till
about the beginning of March, 1726, when it had
arrived at its most southern limit, and was found
to pass over the meridian, 20" more southerly
ch'runa xn. 199
than at the time of their ﬁrst obserVation on the
3d December, 1725. Its distance from the zenith
appeared to remain the same till about the middle
of April, when they ﬁrst perceived it to be return
ing back towards the north. About the beginning
of June, it passed the meridian at the same dis-'
tance from the zenith as it had done in December,
and from that time it continued to transit the me-r
ridian more and more northerly each succeeding
day till September following, when it again became
stationary, being 20 seconds more northerly than
in June, and 39 seconds more northerly than in
March. From September it returned towards the
South, and in December it again arrived at the
same situation in which it was observed tWelve
months before, allowance being made for its diﬁ'erh
ence of declination arising from the precession of
the equinoxes. As the change of position observed
in this star was not in the direction that it ought
to bare been if caused by parallax, it became a
matter of difﬁculty to the observers to account for
so singular a phenomenon, and the death of Mn
Molyneux occurred before its true cause was
covered. After that event, however, Dan, Bradley,
in the year 1727, began a similar courseof observ-i
ations at Wanstead, in Essex, where, not having
convenience for the use of so lon a telescope as
that of Mr. Molyneux, the length of which was
upWards of 24 feet, he made use of another instruw
ment of 12% feet, made also by Mr. Graham, and.
after twelve months observations, during which he
found the same appearances to take place, not only
in that, but also in several other stars, and being
fully satisﬁed of the correctness of his instrument,
he conjectured the aberration or change of place
in the stars to arise from the progressive motion
of light combined with the annual motion of the
K ‘k
200 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
Earth in its orbit, a conjecture which all succeed
ing observations have tended to conﬁrm, and thus,
in the year 1728, was completed a discovery which
fully demonstrates the motion of the Earth round
the Sun, and conﬁrms, at the same time, the truth
of Roemer’s deduction of the successive propa
lgation of light from the eclipses of Jupiter’s satel
'tes.
4 Having thus detailed the progress of this im
portant discovery, I shall proceed to explain the
phenomenon itselfa — If the eye of a spectator
viewing a star or any other object be at rest, or if
it be in motion, provided the direction of its motion
be in a straight. line either directly tawards or
directly from that object, its apparent place will
obviously continue the same, but if the motion of
the eye be in any other direction, and if the motion
of the light emitted by the object be- not instant
aneous but progressive, the apparent place of the
object will undergo a change exactly proportioned
to the combination of the motionof the eye with
the motion of light. To understand this, let B C,
ﬁg.27, be a ray of light emitted by a star at B,
and falling perpendicu arly upon the line A C;
the apparent place of the star will continue the
same whether they eye be at rest at C, or whether
it advance towards or recede from the star in the
direction of the right line B C, which in all these
cases will be the visual line, and this, whether
ﬁght be propagated in time or instantaneously.
I , however, the motion of the eye be in any other
direction, as A C, and light be propagated in time
with a certain velocity, which, for example, let us
suppose to be in such a ratio to the velocity of the
eye, or, which is the same thing, to the velocity of
the Earth in its orbit, that a particle of light passes
from B to C, in the same time that the Earth
LECTURE xn. 201
moves from A to C, then that particle of light by
which thestar is seen when the Earth is at C,
must have been at B when the Earth was at A,
and by the composition of the two motions, the
particle of light will seem to describe the line B A
or DC instead of its real course BC, and will'
appear in the direction A B or’C D‘instead'lofits
true direction C B'. Now, let A B represent a
tube carried with a parallel motion along the line
AC in a given portion of‘ time; as, for example,
four minutes, and let, us suppose that a particle ofv
light would move through the space B C in the
same time; and, that when the tube is in the pc~
sition AB, a particle of light enters at B, then,
at the end‘ of- the ﬁrst minute, the tube having
passed over, one-fourth part of the line A C, will
be brought intothe position a 6, while the particle
of light, having alto travelled through one-fourth
of the line B C, will be in the axis of the tube at
g.- at the end of the second minute the tube will
be in the situatibn c d, and the particle of li ht will
arrive at It, still‘in the axis of the tube; at t e end
0f the third minute, the tube will have the situation
ej, and. the particle of light will arrive at i,- ﬁnally,
at the end' of the fourth minute, the particle of
light will arrive at the eye or point C, the tube
being in the situation C D, and consequently the
star which is really at B will appear at D, B C D
or A B C being the quantity of the aberration.
This phenomenon admits of a very familiar
illustration by supposing a shower of bail to fall
during a perfect calm, and consequently quite per
pendicularly. Now, in order that a hailstone may
pass freely through a long tube at rest without
touching either side, it is obvious that the tube
must be held in a perpendicular direction; but if
the tube be moved forward while it. retains its
K 5
202 intervals on as'raonomr.
perpendicular direction, the hailstones which enter
the tube, instead of passin directly through it, will
all strike the hindmost si e of the interior of the
tube; in order, therefore, that the hail ma be
made to pass freely through the tube, it wil be
necessary to incline it forwards at such an angle
as may compensate for its motion, and it is easy to
prove, that the d ree of inclination requisite to be
given to it must epend upon the relative propor
tion of the velocity with which the bail descends,
and that of the motion of the tube; thus, if the
volocity of the hail and of the tube be supposed
equal, the angle of inclination must be exactly
forty~ﬁve degrees, but if the velocity of the bail
exceed that of the tube, the inclination of the latter
must be less, and vice verszi.
Now, in applying the foregoing illustration to
the pro ress of light as compared with the motion
of the Earth in its orbit, it is to be observed, that
as the velocity of light is above 10,300 times
greater than that of the Earth, the angle of inclin
ation of the tube, in order to allow the li ht to
pass through it, can only be about 20 secondgs, and
consequently the aberration of the stars near the
pole of the ecliptic, and whose light strikes the
Earth almost perpendicularly, ought always to be
about 20 seconds, that is, those stars ought never
to be seen in their true place, but always about
20 seconds of a degree on one side _or other of it;
in other words, they ought to describe a small
circle about their true place, the radius of which is
20 seconds, and this is precisely what Dr. Bradley
found, by observation to be the case, as has been
already detailed. ~
Since it is only those stars which are near the
pole of the ecliptic, the direction of whose li ht is
always at right angles to the motion of the Earth
16
LECTURE x11. . 203
in every part of its orbit, it is obvious from what
has now been said, that it is only in those stairs
that the full eti'ect of aberration can be seen.
Those stars which are situated near the ecliptic
will have the motion of the Earth twice in a year,
nearly in the direction of their light for a few days,
and will therefore be subject to no aberration
during those periods : .it will also be twice.in a year»
at right angles to their- light, but the motion being
in opposite directions, the stars will appear at those
times to be 20 seconds from their true place, but
on opposite-asides of it; at all other times the Earth
moving intermediater between those extremes, the
apparent places of the stars will be at intermediate
distances from their true places, but will never
exceed 20 seconds; hence a star in the ecliptic
appears to be in a state of oscillation about its trne
place, its distance from which, however, never exs.
ceeds 20 seconds, and those stars which are situ—‘
ated between the ecliptic and its pole, will describe
small ellipses, the eccentricity of which will vary,
according to their. latitude. .
r1'5he places of the planets are also eﬁ'ected by.
the progressive motion of light combined with the
annual- motion of, the Earth. The aberration of
a planet being equal to its geocentric motion,
during the time that light employs in passing from
the planet to the Earth. The aberration of the
Sun is always 20 seconds, which is the space moved
through by the Sun, or rather by the Earth, in
eight minutes and seven seconds, the time that
light takes in passing From! the Sun. to the Earth;
hence the aberration of the other planets may be
easil ascertained by the following proportion: as
the distance from the Earth to the Sun is to the
distance of the planet, so is 8' 7" to the threat
light’s passing from the planet to the Earth; then
K 6
204 LECTURES on as'raonomy.
the geocentric motion of the planet in this time
will be its aberration, whether it be in lon 'tude,
latitude, right-ascension, or declination. T is will
be greatest in longitude, and being equal to the
planet’s geocentric motion, will, of course, vary
with that motion. It will be least when the planet
is stationary, and greatest in the superior planets
when they are in opposition, but in the inferior,
the aberration is greatest at the time of their supe
rior conjunction. The aberration of the planets,
therefore, vary in longitude according to their
situations, but that of the Sun is, as before ob
served, a constant quantity, being always 20 se
conds; he may, however, alter his declination, by
a quantity varying from 0 to 8 seconds, being the
greatest about the, equinoxes, and vanishing in the
solstices. The aberration of the planets in latitude
is so triﬂing, on account of their orbits being very
little inclined to the ecliptic, that it may be safely
neglected. Their aberration in right-ascension
and declination are more considerable, depending
on their situation in the zodiac. '
It has been already observed that the Earth is
ﬂattened at the poles, and swelled out at the
equator, whence it assumes the form of an oblute
spheroid. By the' joint action of the Sun and
Moon upon the protuberant parts of this spheroid,
or the equatorial regions of the Earth, a pheno
menon is produced, called the Precession of the
Equinoxes, being a slow and almost imperceptible
motion, by which the equinoxes change their
places, going backward or westward 9n the eclip
tic contrary to the order of the signs.
In order to understand this phenomenon, it
must be recollected that the equinoctial is a great
circle in the heavens, coinciding with the terrestrial
equator, and inclined 23° 28' to the ecliptic. If,
LECTURE xii. 996
therefore, the Earth’s equator constantly retained1
the same invariable position, the equinoctial would‘
likewise constantly pass over the same ﬁxed stars,
and would cut the ecliptic (which is an invariable
circle) in the same points. But it has been ob-_
served, that the Sun and Moon acting obliquely.
upon the redundant matter at the equator, draw it:
continually towards the ecliptic, causing the equi—
noctial points to recede upon that circle at the
rate of about 50} seconds in a year ;- in conse-
quence of which recession, the longitudes of all
the stars (their places on the ecliptic being reck
oned from the vernal equinox) will increase 50}
seconds every year. This in- one-year is but a!
very triﬂin change, but the accumulation of it
after a num er of years, becomes too important to
beallowed to pass unnoticed, and it is by this pre-~
cessipn of the equinoxes, as has been observedlupon
a former occasion, that the constellations, which, in
the time of Hipparchus, corresponded with those
signs of the ecliptic which bear their name, are
now so far removed from the situation they then
occupied, that the equinoctial points which in his
time were ﬁxed to‘the ﬁrst star of Aries and Libra,
are now carried backwards into Pisces and Virgo.
The equinoctial points make a complete revolution
in something less than 26,000 years, the poles of
which must consequently describe a circle round
the poles of the ecliptic, whose diameter is about 4-7
degrees, being equal to twice the inclination of the
ecliptic to the equator. The annual precession
being, as above described, about 501; seconds, it is
evident, that if the celestial equator cut the ecliptic
in a particular point, on any day of this or any
other year, it will, on the same day of the year
following, cut it in a point 50-}- seconds -to the
west of its former intersection; if, therefore, the
206 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
Sun set out from one of the equinoctial points, he
will arrive at the same equinoctial point again
something before he has performed a complete re
volution in the heavens, for the equinoctial point
from which he set out, has, as it were, retreated
50:} seconds to meet the Sun: hence the Sun’s
arrival at that point precedes his arrival at the same
ﬁxed spot in the heavens from which he set out
the year before, by 20' 28-” of time, or by an arc
of 50% seconds. This revolution of the Sun from
one equinox to the same again, is called the Tro-l
pical or Solar year, and is that upon which the
seasons depend. The time in which the Sun re
volves from anyﬁxedstar to the sameﬁxed star again,
is called a Sidereal year, and is the true time in
which he performs a complete revolution in the
heavens: the difference, therefore, between a. tree
pica] and sidereal year is 20 minutes 23 seconds,
the former being performed in 365 days, 5 hours,
48 minutes, 49 seconds, and the latter in 365 days,
6 hours, 9~minutes, 12 seconds. All the other,
planets will, in like manner, have a solar and side
real revolution in their respective orbitsa
It has been remarked, that the precession of the
equinoxes is caused by the joint action of the Sun
and Moon upon the equatorial regions of our
Earth. In producing this phenomenon, the effect
of the Moon greatly exceeds that of the Sun, for
although the magnitude of the Sun so far surpasses
that of the Moon, yet, the proximity of the latter
to our own globe more than compensates for the
excess of magnitude in the former, and it is found,
that of the whole precession, very little more than
15 seconds is produced by the attraction of the
Sun, while that of the Moon exceeds 35 seconds;
there is, however, an inequality in the part of the
precession produced by the action of the Moon,
LECTURE xn. 207
caused by the perpetual change in the position of
her nodes, and'in the inclination of her orbit to
the Earth’s equator. To these causes,,also, is to
be principally attributed an apparent motion in the
ﬁxed stars, resulting from the real motion of the
Earth’s axis called its mutation. By this motion
it describes from east to west a small ellipse in the
heavens, whose diameters are 191 seconds, and
14'2 seconds, and its period which corresponds to
that of the revolution of the Moon’s nodes is 18
years. One of the most importanteﬁ‘ects of this.
nutation is the change produced by it, together
with the precession of the equinoxes in the obli-v.
quity of the ecliptic. This change is computed
for different times ofthe year, and set down in the
ephemeris. For the discovery of the nutationof;
the Earth’s axis, like that of the aberration of
l' ht, we are indebted to the industry and ingenuity
0 Dr. Bradley.
The orbits of all the other planets being inclined
to the Earth’s equator, the action of those bodies
upon the protuberant matter about the e uator,
must also have a tendency to diminish the ob iquity
of the ecliptic, and also to produce a precession in,
the equinoctial points. Their effects, however, are
almost insensible, the diminution of the obliquity
arising from the united action of all the planets not
exceeding 50 seconds in a century, and the cor-l
responding precession amounts only to about 18}
seconds.
208 LECTURESv ON ASTRONOMZ.
LECTURE XIII“
BHENOMENA CONNECTED WITH THE GLOBE WE
INI-IABIT,v AS VIEWED FROM ITS SURFACE, CON»
CLU'DED-—0F LATITUDE AND LONGITUDE.—
- HOW TO FIND THE LATITUDE AND LONGITUDE
_ OF A PLACE.—MENSURATION AND MAGNITUDE
vOF THE EARTH._— OE- CLIMATEss—OF ZONES..
. —NAMES ASSIGNED TO THE INHABITANTS OF
THE EARTH FROM THEIR SHADOWS AND THEIR
DIFFERENT SITUATIONS ON THE GLOBE-.
HAVING, in the course of our. investigations, be
come acquainted with the true ﬁgure and motions
ofthe Earth, we may, in the next'place, proceed to
enquire in what manner the relative situation of'
diﬂ'erent places upon its surface is ascertained;
and the assistance astronomy affords us in deter
mining this problem, may be considered one of
the most important advantages mankind derive
from the cultivation of this useful and interesting
science.
In determining the situation of any particular
place, it became necessary, in the ﬁrst instance, to
have some ﬁxed points of reference from which its
distance was to be reckoned, and the equator, every
part of which is just 90° from each of the poles,
seems to have been selected by common consent
for this purpose, the meridional distance of any
place from this circle being called its latitude; but
the choice of a ﬁrst meridian, or that from which
LECTURE xm. 209
the distance of the place in a contrary direction
(commonly called its longitude) was to be reckoned,
appears to have been a matter not so easily de
cided, no place having been found whose natural
claims to this distinction, were sufﬁciently powerful
to obtain the universal suffrage of all nations in its
favour. Most of the ancient Greek geo raphers
made the ﬁrst meridian to pass through%-lera or
Junonia, one of the Fortunate Islands, as they
were then called, which is supposed to be the pre
sent island of Teneriffe, one of the Canaries, from
which the longitude was reckoned eastwards; west
ern longitude being totally disregarded, if not
wholly unknown before the discovery of America.
Some have reckoned their lon itude from the me
ridian passing through St. lgicholas, one of the
Cape Verd islands. Others have made choice of
the meridian passing through the island of Corvo,
the most northerly of the Azores, because the
magnetic needle at that time was there found to
point due north; and as the variation of the needle,
being- itself subject to a variation, was not then
known, this was thought to be a sufﬁcient reason
for the preference. The- meridian of‘ Ferro, one
of the most westerly of the Canaries, seems, how
ever, to have been more generally adopted, but
the method usually practised by modern geogra
phers, is to assume the 'meridian of the capital
city, or principal observatory of their own nation,
as a ﬁrst meridian, and thence to reckon the lon
gitudes of all other places on the globe, or their
istances east or west, from that- meridian. Thus,
the English reckon their longitude from the me
ridian of Greenwich ;~ the French from that of
Paris, and so of the rest.
When we speak of the latitude1 and longi-s
1 From latitude, breadth.
210 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
tude1 ofanyplace, we commonlymean no more than
to express the distance ofthat place, considered sim
ply as a point on the Earth’s surface, from the
equator, and from the ﬁrst meridian; this is, there
fore, an evident solecism, since a point can have
neither breadth nor length, which is the true
meaning of these words. A single instance will
sufﬁce to show that this method of expressing the
situation of places, involves a misapplication of
terms, which long usage, though it may induce us
to tolerate, can never justify. We commonly say
thelatitude of London is 51%;, and its longitude
0, which is neither more nor less than asserting
(if these words he allowed their true meaning) that
London is 3090 geographical miles in breadth,
without any such thing as length, where the ab
surdity of reducing London to a mathematical line
is considerably heightened by denying to that line
the dimension of’ length, which, in fact, constitutes
its very essence; thereby leaving us room to prove,
without any great exertion of our logical powers,
that London is either a square, the side of which
is 3090 geographical miles, or a mere physical
point, without extension of any kind. The
misapplication of these words by modern writers
requires more particularly to be pointed out, since
they frequently occur among old geographers in
their proper sense; thus; when they speak of the
longitude and latitude of any country, 8zc. they
commonly mean the actual length and breadth of
that country or place, and it seems highly probable
that these terms were originally applied to the
* From longitudo, length. We have had frequent occasion
to use these words, but their derivation was purposely delayed
to this place, where it so immediately concerns the subject
about to be discussed.
LECTURE xm. 211
Earth itself, rather than to any particular place or
places on its surface; for the meridional distance of
any place being measured on a semicircle, extending
only from pole to pole, this might very properly be
termed the latitude or breadth of the globe, while
the line, measuring the extent of the globe in the
contrary directionL being a- whole uninterrupted
circle, would be very naturally denominated its
longitude or length. Some, indeed, account for
the introduction of these words by supposing that
a greater portion of the Earth being known to the
ancients eastward and westward, than towards the
poles, they called the former its length, and the
latter its breadth. However this may be, the pre
sent misapplica'tion of these words cannot fail to
be a matter of regret; yet, as some respect is due
to a long established custom (however erroneous),
I shall content myself with having pointed out the
diﬁerent senses of these two words, and distin-s
guished the true from the false, concluding my
observations upon this subject in the wor s of
Varenius “ In my judgment, it were better not to,
“ use the words latitude and longitude, but only
“ distance from the equator, and from the ﬁrst
“ meridian: but being so long used, they cannot
"‘ now be abolished, and we shall use them here!
‘-‘ after in this sense.”1 '
Having shown from what points the distances of
places upon the Earth’s surface, commonly called
their latitudes and longitudes, are reckoned, I shall
proceed to explain the manner in which these par
ticulars may be ascertained. ‘
The latitude of any place may be found either
by night or by day, without much difficulty in the
former case, by taking the altitude of the pole-star,v
l Varen- Geog.Vol. p. 671.
212 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
and in the latter, by observing the meridian alti
tude of the Sun. It has been already remarked,
that an observer any where on the equator will
have both the celestial poles inhis horizon, and
that to an observer at either of the poles of the
Earth, the poles of the world are in his zenith and
nadir.1 At the equator, therefore, the pole-star
has no altitude, but as we travel from the equator
northwards, this star appears to ascend- above the
horizon, and gradually rises higher and higher
the nearer we approach the pole, where its altitude
would be 90°, and consequently, the height of the
pole star increasing with the distance of the spec
tator from the equator, becomes a measure of that
distance, or of the latitude of the‘place. This will
be understood from ﬁg. 28, in which, let lzz-on
represent the Earth, n s its axis, e g the equator,
z the place of the observer, and o n the elevation
of the pole; also let H Z 0 be an arc of the hea
vens, Z the zenith of the place z, E the celestial
equator, H h o O the horizon, N. the pole-star,
and N 0 its altitude or height above the horizon,
coinciding with n 0 the elevation of the pole. Now
Z 0, the distance from the zenith to the horizon,
or thecorresponding arc z 0 of the terrestrial me—
ridian, is 90°; E N, the distance of the equinoc
tial from the Pole-star, or its corresponding arc e n,
is also 90°; and Z N or z n is common to these
two equal quantities, and may, therefore, be taken
from both, and' the remainders E Z and NO or
e z and n 0 will be equal: but e z is the distance
of the observer from the equator, and n 0 is the
elevation of the pole with which N O, the altitude
of the pole-star, corresponds : therefore, the eleva
tion of the pole, or. the altitude of the pole-star, is
- l-See Lect. vii. p. 1.14, 115‘
LECTURE xn'r. 21-8
equal to the latitude of the place. We have, in
this example, considered the pole-star as situated
exactly in the pole of the heavens; as, however,
this is not the case, we may obtain the height of
the true pole by measuring the altitude of any
other circumpolar star, more distant from the pole
at its greatest and least elevation, or when it
passes the meridian above and below the pole, half
the sum of these two altitudes, corrected by refrac
tion, will be the true height of the pole, or the
latitude of the .place. Thus, if a 0 be the altitude
of the circumpolar star when above the pole, and
b 0 its altitude when on the meridian below the
pole, then N O, the true altitude of the pole, is
obviously an arithmetical mean between these two
altitudes. -
The method of ﬁnding the latitude by the me
ir-idian altitude of the Sun is very simple, and being
upon the Whole less liable to error than the fore
going, is more frequently resorted to. It is to be
observed, that the altitude of the pole, the distance
of the pole from the equator, and the height of the
equator together, make two right angles, or 180°.
The distance of the pole from the equator is always
one right angle, or 90°, and consequently the dis
tance of the pole from the horizon, and the height
of the equator, must together make up the other
rightang-le, or 90°, being mutually the complements
of each other. But the altitude of the pole we
have seen is always equal to the latitude of the
place, and therefore if we can ﬁnd the height of
the equator by taking this from 90°, we shall ob
tain the latitude of the place. Now the height of
the equator may be ascertained by observing the
meridian altitude of the Sun on any day, and sub.
tracting from it the Sun’s declination for that day,
if the Sun be north of the equator, or adding to it
214- LECTURES or: ASTRONOMY.
the Sun’s declination, if he be south of it. The
difference or sum of these numbers will be the
height of the equator or colatitude of the place.
The latitude of a place may, in like manner, be ob
tained by taking the meridian altitude of any of
the planets or ﬁxed stars whose declinations are
known, allowance being made for refraction and
parallax when the meridian altitude of a planet is
made use of, and for refraction when that of the
ﬁxed stars is employed.
In describing the methods employed for ascer
taining the longitude, it will be necessary to recur
to a few circumstances which have been already
‘taken notice of.’ It has been observed, that the
time which elapses between the arrival of the Sun
at any particular meridian, and his next subsequent
arrival at the same meridian, is called a natural
day, and is, in fact, the time in which, by the rows
tion of the- Earth from west to east on its axis, any
particular meridian is carried round from the
Sun to the Sun again; now, since this revo
lution is performed in twenty-four hours, and the
equator is divided into 360°, it is obvious that
there must be a revolution of 15° of the equator
in one hour of time, and that these two correspond
to each other; consequently, when it is 12 o’clock
at any particular place, it will be 1 o’clock at all
places 15° eastward of it, and 11 o’clock at all
places 15° west of it, the time at any place being
determined by the Sun’s arrival at the meridian of
that place; and as the Sun’s apparent diurnal revo
lution is performed from east to west, all places
lying to the east, will have their day farther ad
vanced, or the hour will be later, while all places
which lie to the west, will have their day less ad
' See Lecture viii. p. 125.
LECTURE mm. 215
vanced, and the hour shown by their clocks will of
course be earlier. If, therefore, the difference of
time between any two places he found, their dif
ference of longitude may be ascertained by merely
converting this difference of time into degrees,
minutes, 8w. allowing 15° of longitude to one hour
of time, one degree to four minutes of time, and
so on. Now, since the English geographers
r'eckon their longitude from the meridian of Green~
wich, if a chronometer be well regulated and set
to the time at Greenwich, it will show the Green
wich time in all places to which it is carried; and
the time at any distant place of which the longitude
is sought, may be found by observing the time of
the Sun’s passing ’the meridian, to which the equa
tion of time being applied, will give 12 o’clock or
noon at that place; the diﬁ'erence between this
and the time shown by the ‘chronometer, converted
into degrees, 8L0. will give the longitude of the
place from Greenwich. Thus, if at some place,
the longitude of which I wish to discover, I observe
the time of the Sun’s passing the meridian, and
ﬁnd by the chronometer that at the same instant
it is no more than three quarters past eight in the
morning at Greenwich, this difference of time be
tween these two places, viz. three hours and ﬁfteen}
minutes being converted into degrees, 8w. ives
48 degrees 45 minutes for the longitude o the
place, which is east, because the time is forwarder
or later than that of Greenwich. Now this method
is obviously the most simple, and would be the
most correct, which could be employed for deter
mining the longitude, provided that a chronometer
could be made which might be depended upon
under every change of climate; this, however, has
been found impracticable, and although much has
been done towards accomplishing this desirable
216 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
object, yet no chronometer has hitherto been
made, which, even in the same place, will always
go quite correctly. To remedy, as far as possible,
the errors to which a chronometer is liable, its
mean rate of going is usually determined by 0b
serving, for some time before it is sentvout, its daily
loss or gain, and taking a mean of these observ
ations; but as the rate of going of a watch, how
ever correctly made, is apt to vary from the differ
ence of temperature of different climates, &c. other
methods have been resorted to for ascertaining the
difference of time at any two places.
These methods 'are purely astronomical, and
depend upon having the exact times of certain
celestial phenomena, calculated for any particular
meridian, and set down in an almanac or ephe
meris adapted to that meridian, so that if when
any of these phenomena are observed in any dis
tant place, the time at that place be known, the
difference between this time and that at which the
same phenomenon was calculated to take place,
and set down in the almanac, will also be known,
and consequently the longitude may be readily
found. Thus the Nautical Almanac which is pub
lished several years in advance, for the advantage
of ships going long voyages, contains for every day
the computed times of all the most remarkable
celestial phenomena, adapted to the meridian of
the royal observatory at Greenwich.
The phenomena proper for determining the lon
gitude are the eclipses of Jupiter’s satellites; the
eclipses of the Moon, the Moon’s place in the
zodiac, and the Moon’s distances from the Sun or
certain ﬁxed stars, which, from their use in deter
mining the longitude at sea, are sometimes called
nautical stars; Each of these methods is, how:
ever, liable to peculiar objections.
LECTURE xm. 217
The phenomena of Jupiter’s satellites are in
some respects preferable to those of the Moon for
ﬁnding the longitude, being less liable to paral
laxes, and affording a very commodious observation
whenever the planet is above the horizon, but being
invisible to the naked eye, they must always be
observed by the assistance of a telescope, the use
of which is very difﬁcult at sea, when accurate ob
servations are required.
Eclipses of the Mom occur too seldom to be of
much general use in ascertaining the longitude, and
as the beginning or end of an eclipse ,of the Moon
cannot usually be determined nearer than one, and
sometimes two or three minutes of time, the lon
gitude cannot be obtained by this method to any
very great degree of accuracy. .
The Moon’s place in the zodiac, although a
phenomenon more frequently to be observed than
her eclipses, yet, b reason of two parallaxes, the
calculus is rendere too perplexed and intricate to
be enerally practicable.
he Moon’s distance from the Sun and from
certain ﬁxed stars are phenomena which by the
frequency of their occurrence, seem to be better
calculated for this purpose than any other, since
the longitude of a ship may be thereby determined
at almost any time. The chief error to which this
method of ascertaining the longitude is, liable, arises
from inaccuracy in taking the angles; the best way,
therefore, is to make several observations upon
different stars, by which means the errors in a
certain degree correct one another.
Having seen in what manner the latitudes and
longitudes of places may be found, and conse
quently their particular situations and relative po
sitions upon the surface of the Earth ascertained;
our next enquiries will naturally be directed to the
L .
218 an'runss ON ASTRONOMY.
manner in which the magnitude of the Earth may
be determined. This is a problem which has
engaged the attention of astronomers and mathe
maticians ever since the sphericity of the Earth
was discovered. Anaximander, a disciple of
Thales, who lived about 550 years before Christ, is
mentioned by Diogenes Laertius as the ﬁrst among
the Greeks who gave an account of the circum
ference of the Earth, and his measure appears to
havebeen adopted by succeeding mathematicians till
the time of Eratosthenes; and it is generally sup
posed that it is to this measure that AristOtle
alludes at the end of lib. 2, De Coelo, when he says,
that mathematicians who have attempted to mea
sure the circuit of the Earth, make it four hundred
thousand stadia. Of the method employed by
Anaximander no account has reached us, but with
regard to that of Eratosthenes, who lived about
two hundred years before Christ, we are better
informed. He had observed that the bottom of a
deep well, at Syene, a town of Egypt, situated on
the right bank of the Nile, under the tropic of
Cancer, was completely enlightened by the rays of
the Sun when on the meridian of that place, on
the day of the summer solstice, and on the same
day, he found the zenith distance of the Sun at
Alexandria (which he supposed to be on the same
meridian) to be 7° 12', or a 50th part of the cir
cumference of a great circle in the heavens. Con
cluding, therefore, the distance between Alexan
dria and Syene to be a 50th part of a great circle
upon the Earth, and having computed this distance
to be 5000 stadia, be, from these data, determined
the whole circumference of the Earth to be 250,000
stadia.
Posidonius, who was contemporary with Pom
pey the Great, endeavoured to measure the cir
LECTURE xm. 219
cumference of the Earth by observations upon
Canopus, a bright star in the constellation Argo
Navis. He was aware that this star, when on the
meridian, was but just visible in the horizon of
Rhodes, while its meridian altitude at Alexandria
was 7° 80', which is exactly one-48th part of
860°, or a great circle in the heavens. The dis
tance between these two places be computed to be
5000 stadia, which, multiplied by 48, gives 240,000
stadia, which, as Cleomedes tells us, Posidonius
foundto be the circumference of the Earth. From
this account of Cleomedes, Strabo, however, differs,
and asserts the circumference of the Earth, as
tbund by Posidonius, to be 180,000 stadia. The
cause of this difference may be very easily ex
plained: the distance between Rhodes and Alex
andria had been measured by Eratosthenes, who
found it to be but 3750 stadia; Strabo, therefore,
making use of this measure and the number of
degrees assigned by Posidonius, gives 180,000
stadia for the whole circumference of the Earth,
according to the latter author.
Ptolemy, about the 144th year of the Christian
aera, following Marinus, a celebrated geographer
of Tyre, to whose writings he seems to have been
under considerable obligations, makes use of this
measure of 180,000 stadia in his geography, and
asserts it to be more correct than that of Eratos
thenes, which, notwithstanding, appears to have
been more enerally received before his time.
Hence it is t at this measure is, by Theon and
others, ascribed to Ptolemy himself.
Our uncertainty relative to the precise value of
the ancient stadium, prevents us from forming any
correct opinion respecting the measures of these
early mathematicians. I shall, therefore, proc
to speak of the more improved method by which
L 2
220 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
later astronomers have undertaken the solution of
this important problem. This method consists in
measuring the length of a degree of the terrestrial
meridian. To perform this, two places are ﬁxed
upon nearly north and south from each other,
and from that place at which the reckoning
is to commence, the distance to some other con
venient place is accurately measured in toises,
fathoms, &c.; and this line is taken for the base of
a triangle which becomes the ﬁrst of a series of
triangles, by means of which the distance between
the two given places is to be measured. From
each end of this base, the angle formed by some
other place is taken, and these three points being
now connected by lines, the ﬁrst triangle is com
pleted. The length of the base and the angle at
each extremity of it being known, the length of the
other two sides and the remaining an le are easily
ascertained by trigonometry. One 0% the known
sides of this triangle is made the base of a second
triangle, the sides and angles of which are deter
mined iu a similar manner, and thus a series of
triangles, all of which are connected at their base, is
formed, and carried on to the other place chosen, and
in this manner the direct distance between the two
places is accurately ascertained, and by taking the
azimuth of the sides at the points where this series
of triangles begins and ends, the situation of one
place with regard to the meridian of the other may
be found. Snellius, professor of mathematics at
Leyden, was the ﬁrst who attempted this method
of determining the circumference of the Earth,
about the year 1617, by measuring the distance
betWeen Alcmaer and Bergen-op-zoom, and taking
the elevation of the pole at these two stations. By
this measurement he found the length of a decree
. . IP
to be 28,500 perches (each containing 12 Rhmd
LECTURE vxnr. 22k
land feet) or 19 Dutch miles; hence the whole
periphery of the Earth is 6840 miles; a mile, ac
cording to him, containing 1500 perches, or 18,000
Rhindland feet.
Mr. Richard Norwood was the ﬁrst among the
English astronomers who endeavoured to ascertain '
the dimensions of the Earth, by measuring a
degree of the meridian, and his efforts were more
successful than those of any of his predecessors.
His mode of estimatin the length of a degree (the
full particulars of whicli are given in his “ Seaman’s
Practice,”) was as follows: In the year 1635, he
took the Sun’s meridian altitude at London, on the
day of the summer solstice, and repeated this
observation at York on the same day of the fol-y
lowing year, by which means he found the distance
of latitude of these two places to be 2° 28'. He
also measured with a chain the exact distance be
tween London and York, making due allowances
for the windings of the road, inequalities of sur
face, &c., and reduced this distance to an arc of
the meridian, which he found to contain 12,849
chains, and by comparing this length with the
difference of latitude between London and York,
he found a de ree contained 5209 chains, or
about 57,424 t01ses, equal to 69% English miles
and 14' poles, whence he concluded the circ'ums
ference of the Earth to be 25,036 miles, and its
diameter 7966. This measure, in consequence of
his inaccurate method of determining the distance
between the two places, has been since proved to
exceed the truth. ~
The im ortance of obtaining an accurate mea
sure of a e ree of the meridian induced the Royal
Academy 0 Sciences at Paris, in the year 1669,
to employ Picard for this purpose; and he appears
to have been the ﬁrst who brought the trigonomee
L 3
222 LECTURES OH ASTRONOMY.
trical method of operation to any very great degree
of perfection. By means of a series of tflltlglflﬁ,
the sides and angles of which were calcula by
trigonometry, he found a degree of the meridian
between Paris and Amiens to amount to 57,060
toises, or 69% English miles, and consequently the
circumference of the Earth to be 25,020 miles,
and its diameter 7960.
This measure of Picard was afterwards con
tinued to Dunkirk by La Hire, and from Paris to
Perpignon by Cassini the younger, who having thus
obtained the measure of an arc ofthe terrestrial me
ridian of several degrees, was enabled to calculate
the length ofeach degree comprehended by that arc,
and by a comparison of those degrees among
themselves, he found, as he supposed, that the
length of a degree increases as we approach the
equator, and diminishes as we recede from it by
almost an 800th part, and consequently that the
Earth was a prolate spheroid, ﬂattened at the
equator, and swelled out at the poles. This in
ference, so diametrically opposite to that which
had previously been deduced from the known laws
of gravitation, naturally excited the attention of
philosophers, and ultimately induced the French
Academy of Sciences, sanctioned by Louis XV.,
to dispatch some of its members to the polar, and
others to the equatorial regions, in order effectually
to decide this question by measuring two degrees,
so remote from each other that the probable errors
in taking the angles should be of little or no im
portance compared with the inequality which it
was expected would be found in the length of the
degrees themselves.- Accordingly, in 1735, two
companies of mathematicians were sent out, the
one on a northern, and the other on a southern
expedition. -
LECTURE run. 223
Messieurs Maupertuis, Clairaut, Camus, Mons
mer, and Outheir, who were sent to the north,
reached Torneo in Sweden, at the northern extre
mity of the Gulph of Bothnia, and began their
operations, assisted by M. Celsus, an eminent
astronomer of Sweden, in July 1786, and after
suﬁ'ering severely from cold, and overcoming many
obstacles, they succeeded by the end of Mayfollow
ing, in measuring between Torneo and Kittis, that
degree whose middle point is 66° 20' north, and
found it to contain 57,4-22 toises, being about 362
more than a degree in France.
Messieurs Godin, Bouguer,and Condamin, of
France, who, together with Don Jorge Juan, and
Don Antonio de Ulloa, of Spain, undertook the
southern expedition, arrived safely in Peru, and be
gan their operations in the province of Quito about
October 1 736; but owing to the almost insurmount
able difﬁculties, they had to contend with, and the
extreme severity of the cold, from which, though. so
near the equator, they suffered much more than
their associates in the polar regions, they did not
ﬁnish them until the year 1744, when they suc~
ceeded, after many interruptions, in completing
the measure of a degree near Quito, on the Andes,
within about 13' of the equator, and found it con
tained 56,750 toises, falling short of the length of
a degree in France about 310 toises. By com
paring the results of these operations, which were
performed with every possible degree of accuracy,
it obviously appears that a degree is longer near
the poles than near the equator; and the following
measurements of a. degree in various parts-of the
Earth between these extremes, have tended to
conﬁrm the fact.
In 1740, Messieurs Cassini and La Caille, re
vising the former measures in France, found a
L 4
224- an'runns 0N ASTRONOMY.
degree whose middle point is 'in latitude 49° 22’
north, contained 57,074 toises, and in the latitude
of 45° north, it contained 57,057 toises. M. La
Caille, in 1752, found the length of a degree near
the Cape of Good Hope, in latitude 33° 18' 30"
south, to be 57,037 toises. In 1755, Father
Boscovich found the length of a degree between
Rome and Rimini in Italy, in latitude 43° north,
to be about 56,972 toises; and in 1766, a portion
of the meridian in Maryland and Pennsylvania,
North America, was measured by Messieurs Mason
and Dixon, who give for the length of a degree,
the middle point of which is 39° 12' north,
56,904% toises. A degree was also measured in
India by Major Lambton, and another in England
by Colonel Mudge, the former amounting to
56,755 toises, and the latter to 57,074.
From this statement, and from many other in
stances which might be quoted, it appears that the
length of a degree gradually increases from the
equator to the poles; the obvious inference to be
drawn from which is, that the Earth is an oblate
spheroid, having its greatest axis in the plane of
the equator, an inference which we have already
seen had been previously deduced by Newton, from
the inﬂuence of gravity and the action of a centri
fugal force. ‘
Amidst such a variety of results relative to the
actual magnitude of the Earth, it is not surprising
that a great difference of opinion still prevails
respecting it; taking, however, a mean of a great
many measurements, the following dimensions may
be considered as near the truth:
The circumference - - ~ 25,000 miles.
The diameter - - - - - 7,957{- miles.
The superﬁcies - - 198,944,206 miles.
The solidity - - 263,930,000,000 miles.
LECTURE xm. 225
The circles parallel to the equator, commonly
called the parallels of latitude, evidently decrease
in magnitude as they approach the poles. Since,
therefore, all circles are supposed to be divided
into 360 equal parts called degrees, and since
similar parts of diﬂ'erent circles are in the same
ratio to each other as the Whole circles are, it fol
.lows, that the length of a degree in any parallel is
as much less than the length of a de ree on the
equator as that parallel is less than tie equator:
thus, if the circumference of any parallel be equal
to one-fourth of the circumference of the equator,
a degree in that parallel will be only one-fourth
part of the length of a degree on the equator, and
so on.l Tables containing the length of a degree
of longitude in every degree of latitude, are to be
met with in most treatises on geography and
astronomy.
From the difference observed in the len th of
the longest day in diﬁ'erent parts of the Eart 1, the
rising and setting of the Sun, and various other
phenomena already explained, the ancient geo
graphers divided the surface of this globe into
certain tracts or portions, to which they gave the
names of Climates 2, and instead of describing the
' The length of a degree in any parallel may be found by
the following proportion, viz.: As radius is to the cosine of
the latitude, so is the number of feet, yards, miles, 8m. in a
degree of the equator, to the number of feet, yards, miles,
&c. in a degree of that parallel. This supposes the Earth to
be a true sphere.
‘1 From Mill-a, that which bends or inclines; because
from the equator to the poles a gradual change takes place
in the inclination or obliquity of the s here. Some authors
suppose that the climates were so calle because they decline
in order from the equator, and incline towards the poles; and
others, that this name was given them on account of the ditl
ference in the length of the days being occasioned by the
inclination ofthe Earth’s axis to the plane of its orbit.
L5
226 Lacruaas on ASTRONOMY
situation of any particular place by its latitude and
longitude, their method was merely to state in
what climate the place under consideration was
situated.
A climate is a space upon the Earth’s surface
contained between two parallels, whose distance
from each other is such, that the len of the
longest day in one parallel exceeds t at of the
longest day in the other by half an hour. This
method of dividing the surfaceof the Earth, though
now comparatively but little used, is still adopted
by some modern geographers, who, however, differ
considerably from the ancients in the number of
climates, and in the place from which they
to reckon them. The ancients, whose scanty
knowledge of, geography led them to conclude
that but a small portion of the Earth was inhabited,
divided only those parts into climates with which
they were acquainted, and in the room of begin
ning their reckoning at the e uator, they com
menced with that parallel in which the length of
the longest day is twelve hours and three quarters,
and thence counted their climates (which were
originally only seven in number) northwards.
Each climate was named from some remarkable
place which was supposed to be situated in the
middle of it, or rather upon a parallel which passed
through the climate, in such a manner, that the
longest day in that parallel differs a quarter of an
hour from the longest day in either of the extreme
parallels that bound the climate. It is obvious,
therefore, that this parallel must divide the climate
into two unequal parts, because the farther we go
from the equator, the less increase of latitude will
be required in order to increase the length of the
longest day a quarter of an hour. The number of
southern climates was soon after made to cor
19
Lic'runr. xnn 227
_ respond to that of the northern ones, and as no
places were then known after which these climates
wuld properly be named, each southern climate
was called after its corresponding northern one.
Thus the ﬁrst of the northern climates being
named Meroe, from a city in Africa, surrounded
by the Nile; the ﬁrst southern climate was deno
minated the climate against or opposite to Meroe,
and so of the rest. As more of the inhabited parts
of the Globe became known, the number of cli
mates was increased, until at length the whole
surface of the Earth from the equator to the poles
became divided into climates, in the manner we
now have them; for the modern geographers begin
their climates at the equator, reckoning them by
the increase of half an hour in the len th of the
day from the equator to the polar circ , where
the longest day is twenty-four hours,r From the
polar circles towards the poles, some geographers
count the climates by the increase of a- natural day,
in the length of time that the Sun continues above
the horizon, till they come to a parallel within each
of those circles where the longest day is equal in
length to ﬁfteen natural days, or half a month.
From this parallel. to the pole, they reckon by the
increase of half months or whole months, the
climates ending at the poles, where the days are
six months long. The method, however, usually
adopted in the present day is, to reckon six cli
mates, increasing by months, from each polar
circle to its respective pole, which, together with
the twenty-four climates contained between each
polar circle and the equator, make thirty climates
in the northern, and as many in the southern he
misphere, and consequently sixty climates in all;
of which those between the equator and polar cir
L 6
228 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
cles are called hour-climates, and those between the
polar circles and the pole, month-climates.
Another very ancient division of the Earth’s
surface proper to be mentioned in this place is into
zones 1 0r belts. These are ﬁve in number, viz.
one torrid“, two temperate, and two frigid 3 zones.
The torrid zone is that portion of the Earth’s sur
face which lies between the tropics, comprehending
a space of about 47° of latitude, and is divided
into two equal parts by the equator. The two
temperate zones lie between the polar circles and
the tropics, and contain each a space of about 48°
of latitude. The frigid zones are those circum
polar regions comprehended by the polar circles.
The torrid zone was thought by most of the
ancients to be uninhabitable, by reason of the
intense heat which they thought must prevail in
those re ions, to some part of which the Sun was
constant y vertical ; it is, however, now well known
that many parts of it are inhabited, and that there
is, perhaps, no part of it totally uninhabitable on
this account, the heat of a vertical Sun being
usually tempered by cooling breezes and refresh
ving showers. With respect to the frigid zones,
none of the southern and only part of the northern
is supposed to be inhabited.
To the inhabitants of the several zones, certain
terms have been applied by the ancient geographers,
arising from the difference in the length and posi
tions of the shadows of terrestrial objects in those
diﬂ'erent parts of the Earth.
Those who live 'within the tropics, having the
Sun sometimes to the north and sometimes to the
south of them, are called Amphiscii 4, because by
I From (6:11;, a girdle. *1 From torridus, hot.
3 Fromfrigidus, cold. '
4 From did-(Pl, both ; and dlria, a shadow.
LECTURE XIII. 229
this change in the relative position of the Sun a
corresponding chan e is produced in the direction
of their noon-day s adows, which must at some
seasons of the year (namely, when the Sun is to
the north of them) be projected towards the south;
and at others (namely, when the Sun is to the
south) be projected towards the north. Those who
inhabit the temperate and frigid zones, that is, all
those who live without the tropics, have their me
ridian shadows always directed the same way, and
are called Heteroscii 1, because the inhabitants of
the northern zones have their shadows at noon
always pointing due north, while those who reside
in the southern zones have theirs constantly directed
to the south. Those Heteroscii, however, who
live so far distant from the equator, that the days
when at the longest are equal to or exceed in
length a whole natural day, or twent -four hours,
are during that time called Periscii , because by
the revolution of the Sun above their horizon (or
rather by the rotation of the Earth on its axis)
their shadows, in the course of twenty-four hours,
are carried completely round them. When the
Sun at noon is vertical to any place, the inhabit
ants of that place were by the ancients termed
Asciia, that is, shadowless, because the shadow ofa
man or any upright object, when the Sun is in the
zenith, falls directlyon theplace upon which the man
or other object stands. Hence those who live
under the tropics are sometimes called Ascii-Hete
roscii, because when the Sun is in either of the
tropics, upright bodies, situated on that parallel
to which he is then vertical, project no shadow;
but when the declination of the Sun decreases, at
1 From g'repos, another; and uncle.
‘1 From rap), about; and axla.
1 From a, not ; and Mia.
230 an'rvass on ASTRONOMY.
noon-day shadow is projected, but always in one
direction. For a similar reason, the inhabitantsof
the torrid zone, or those who reside between the
tropics, are sometimes denominated Ascii-Am
phiscii, for the Sun will be twice in the year in the
zenith of any place within that zone, and so there
will be no shadow of upright objects, but at
all other times a shadow will be projected, which
will sometimes point to the north, and at others
to the south.
Names have also been imposed upon the inha
bitants of the diﬁ'erent parts of the Earth, from
their meridians, the parallels of latitude under
which they live, and their situation with regard to
one another. If two places were so situated, that
on account of their proximity to each other there
was no observable difference between their re
spective horizons, the inhabitants of those places
were by the ancient geographers denominated
Syntxaci.l These having the same horizon, must
evidently have the seasons of the year and the
length of the days and nights alike, and at the
same time. The term Perioeci’ was applied to
those persons who lived under the same parallel,
but in distant parts of that parallel; these being
on the same side of the equator, and at equal dis
tances from it, have the seasons of the year and
the length of days and nights the same, but the
hours of the day differ in proportion to the distance
of their meridians from each other. By most
modern writers, those only are called l‘erioeci who
live in opposite points of the same parallel, and
where, consequently, when it is noon to the one,
it is midnight to the other. When two places lie
under parallels equally distant from, but on con
1 From trim, with; and aine’w, to dwell.
9 From repl, about; and ﬁnd».
LECTURE mm. 231
trary sides of the equator, the inhabitants were
called Antwcil. These have a similar increase of
days and nights, and similar seasons, but in oppo
site months of the year. This ap ellation is, how
ever, glenerally restrained by moribrn geographers
to sue as live under the same geographical me
ridian, and therefore have the day or night at the
same time. If two places are in opposite hemi
spheres, but in parallels equally distant from the
equator, and are also under opposite meridians,
the inhabitants are called Antipodes.4 Those
who are Antipodes have a. like elevation of the
pole, but of different poles; they have also like
days and nights, and similar seasons of the year,
but they have opposite hours of the day and
night, and their seasons happen in opposite months
of the year. They have a common horizon, but
the Sun, Moon, and Stars, rise to the one when
set to the other, and those stars which
are in the circle of perpetual apparition of the one,
are in the circle of perpetual occultation of the
other.
In the survey we have now taken of the pheno
mena immediately connected with the Earth, m
mention has been made of the tides, which being
principally produced by the action of the Moon
upon the waters of this terraqueous Globe, cannot
be thoroughly understood without some previous
knowledge of the lunar motions, and are, there
fore, reserved for future discussion.
I From am, against; and ninéu.
Q From am, and wéBes, the feet.
232 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
LECTURE XIV.
PHENOMENA OF THE SUPERIOR PLANETS AS SEEN
FROM THE EARTH.—PHENOMENA OF THE SE
CONDARY PLANETS AS SEEN FROM THE EARTH
-—OF THE DIOON.—-HER PHASES DESCRIBED'
-—-OF THE LUNAR INEQUALITIES.——OF HER
ROTATION ON HER AXIS. -— OF HER LIBRATION
—OF THE HARVEST MOON. —— OF THE HORIZON
TAL MOON
As the orbits of the superior planets comprehend
the orbit of the Earth, these bodies may be seen
in opposition to the Sun, and at all possible angu
lar distances from him ; they may also be in supe
rior conjunction with that luminary, but they can
never be in inferior conjunction, and consequently
can never have their dark side wholly turned to
wards the Earth like the inferior planets, or like
the Moon when new. They do not, however,
always appear to move from west to east, according
to the order of the signs, as they would be seen to
do if viewed from the Sun, but like Mercury and
Venus, they are sometimes direct, sometimes re
trograde, and sometimes stationary.
The motion of a superior planet is direct,
when, after being in conjunction with the Sun, it
is seen to the west of that luminary, rising before
him in the morning; its motion is also swiﬁest at
this time, but as the apparent motion of the Sun is
still more rapid than that of the planet, the latter
will appear to recede from him, and continues so
to do, the velocity of its motion gradually dimi
LECTURE XIV. 233
nishing till, after a certain interval, it appears for a
few days stationary ; after which its motion becomes
retrograde, and its velocity now gradually increas-~
ing while the Sun is moving in a contrary direc
tion, the angular distance between these two bodies
is rapidly augmented, and continues to increase,
together with the retrograde motion of the planet,
till the latter is in opposition to the Sun. Af'ter ‘
departing from the opposition, the planet is seen
to the east of the Sun, setting after him in the
evening, its retrograde motion still continues, and
now tends to diminish the distance between the
Sun and planet, the retrograde motion of which,
however, now gradually becomes less and less, till
at length it altogether vanishes, and the planet
again becomes stationary. After remaining sta
tionary for a few days, it resumes its direct motion,
which has a tendency to increase the angular dis
tance between it and the Sun ; the latter, however,
by the greater rapidity of his apparent motion,
gains upon the planet, which, consequently, appears
to approach the Sun, till it is a second time in
conjunction with that luminary, after which it
emerrres from his beams and reappears in the
morning as at the ﬁrst.
These phenomena being common to all the su
perior planets, may be illustrated 'in the case of
any one of them. I shall, therefore, make choice of
Mars, the nearest of these bodies to the Earth, for
this purpose, and, by means of a diagram, endea~
vonr to give a clear elucidation of the whole of the
foregoing particulars. As, however, those planets
which are nearer to the Sun move faster in their
respective orbits, and have, besides, much less
space to pass through in going round that lumin
ary than those which are more remote from him,
it is obvious, that on both these accounts they must
234 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
complete their circuits sooner: we may, therefore,
in order to simplify as much as possible this very
intricate subject, suppose Mars to stand still in
some particular point of his orbit, while the Earth
performs one whole revolution about the Sun.
Thus in diagram seven (which consists of two
parts or pieces, numbered 1. and 2.) ‘, let a b c d ef
g k i 1:, No. 1., represent the orbit of the Earth;
A B CD, the orbit of Mars, m lVIars, and C the
point of his orbit in which he is supposed to con
tinue while the Earth goes once round the Sun in
the order of the letters a b c d, 8m; also, let S,
No. 2., of the same diagram, be the Sun, and E
the Earth. The line 11 l proceeding from the
Earth and passing through the centre of the Sun,
is the visual line, in which the Sun appears to a
spectator on the Earth’s surface, and the silk string
is the visual line of Mars. This line is to be kept
constantly stretched over the centre of that planet,
and extended to the ecliptic, while the Earth is
made to revolve round the Sun.
Now, when “the Earth is at a, Mars, supposed
stationary at C, will be in the same right line with
the Earth and Sun, as is shown by the coincidence
of the two visual lines, and will consequently be in
I In future, when any diagram is mentioned, it will be
taken for granted, that before reading the description of it,
the several arts of which it is composed are ranged on the
machine in t eir regular order, always beginning with No. 1,
of every dia ram, and placing them so that the letters of re
ference of c ief importance on each part may stand in their
natural position at the commencement of the illustration,
unless any particular direction be given to the contrary: thus,
when the letters C A on part 1. of the above diagram are due
north and south, all the letters of reference upon that part
are in their natural position; art 2. being then put on, and
the letters E S (the principal etters on that part), being also
placed in their natural position, the whole diagram is pre
pared for use.
LECTURE x1v. 235
conjunction with that luminary in the beginning of
Cancer, that being the point of the ecliptic to
which both the Sun and Mars will be referred
by the eye of a spectator on the Earth. While
the Earth is moving from a to b in its orbit, Mars,
whose apparent motion is now direct, will appear
to move through about ﬁve (legreps of Cancer, but
will seem to recede from the Sun, whose more
rapid apparent motion will carry him in the same
time to the 28th degree of the same sign. While
the Earth is goin from b to 0, Mars will appear
to advance about Our more degrees in the ecliptic,
its motion still continuin direct, but decreasing in
velocity; and when the gﬁarth is at C, the Sun,
whose angular distance from Mars has rapidly in
creased, will be just entering the sign Virgo.
\Vhile the Earth is moving from c to d and from
dto e, the direct apparent motion of Mars con
tinues, and when the Earth arrives at e, the Sun
appears in about the 10th degree of Scorpio, and
Mars in about the 16th of Cancer. Mars will now
appear stationary for a short time, the visual line
being a tangent to the Earth’s orbit, after which, its
apparent motion will become retrograde, and while
the Earth moves from e to_ﬁ Mars will appear to
return back again to C, its retrograde motion be
coming more rapid as it approaches C, where
Mars is in opposition to the Sun and its motion a
maximum. While the Earth is moving fromf to
g, the retrograde motion of Mars continues, but
its velocity gradually diminishes, and as the appa
rent motion of the Sun is always direct, the retro
grade motion of Mars now tends to diminish the
angular distance betweenthem. When the Earth is
atg,the visual line ofMars is again a tangent to the
Earth’s orbit, and Mars once more appears sta
tionary in the heavens, its apparent place in the
236 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
ecliptic being about 14° of Gemini, and its angular
distance from the Sun the same as it was when the
Earth was at e. After remaining stationary for a
short time, the apparent motion of Mars again
becomes direct, and he is therefore retreating from
the Sun; the velocity of the latter, however, is so
much greater than that of Mars, that their angular
distance nevertheless diminishes while the Earth
is moving through the arc g It i k a, and when the
Earth arrives at a, Mars is again in conjunction
with the Sun as at the ﬁrst. The angular distances
between the Sun and Mars are not quite correctly
shown in this illustration, the cause of which is
obvious from what was said with respect to the
angular distances between the Sun and the inferior
planets, Mercury and Venus, when the apparent
motions of those bodies were treated of.
Mars has hitherto been considered stationary in
one particular point of its orbit, while the Earth
was moving round the Sun; this is not, however,
the case, Mars and all the other superior planets
really revolving round the Sun in the same direc
tion as the Earth, but moving much slower in their
respective orbits; the same phenomena, however,
take place, but happen at different tiines, and when
the Earth is in different parts of its orbit.
The phenomena we have now been describing
are common to all the superior planets, but happen
under somewhat different circumstances on account
of the slower motion of those which are more dis
tant from the Sun. The nearer a superior planet
is to the Sun the greater will be the time employed
by it in passing from conjunction to conjunction
again; the greater the angular distance at which
it becomes stationary, and the reater the arc of
\retrogradation, but the less Will be the time in
which the retrogradation is performed.
LEOI‘URE X1“. 237
While a superior planet is advancing towards
its conjunction with the Sun, the velocity of its
apparent motion gradually increases, and as gra
dually diminishes from conjunction to the point at
which it becomes stationary; in retrograding from
this point its velocity again increases till the planet
is in opposition, at which instant the rapidity of
its motion begins once more to decrease, and con
tinues so to do till the planet becomes a second
time stationary, after which it is again seen to ap
proach its conjunction with an increasing motion,
and the foregoing phenomena are again repeated
in the same order.
The apparent diameter of a superior planet is
variable, being greatest when that planet is in 0p
position to the Sun, and least when it is in con
junction with him. In the intermediate points of its
orbit, its apparent diameter varies between these
two extremes, being greater or less according to
the proximity of the planet to the one Or the other
of these situations.
The orbits of the superior, like those of the in
ferior planets, being inclined to the plane of the
ecliptic, their latitude or distance from the ecliptic
must be perpetually varying, and instead of appear
ing to move continually backward and forward in
astraight line, as they would do if the planes of
their orbits coincided with the plane of the ecliptic,
they will seem to describe a succession of irregular
looped curves among the ﬁxed stars. This will
be understood From ﬁg. 29, ‘ representing the ap
parent path of Jupiter, from the beginning of 1708
to the beginning of 1710. In this ﬁgure, E U
1 This ﬁgure was originally given by Dr. Robison in the
Elements of Mechanical Philosophy. A similar ﬁgure is to
be met with in the Edinburgh Encyclopedia, plate xl. ﬁg. 5.
238 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
represents the ecliptic, and the two ﬁrst letters of
every month are put to the places in Jupiter’s path
where he was on the ﬁrst day of that month. Each
‘of the loops at L, L, is formed every thirteenth
month, the planet being in opposition to the Sun
when he is in the centre L of each loop.
The apparent path of any other planet or of
Jupiter for any other time may be easily drawn by
taking the geocentric latitudes and longitudes at
the commencement of every month from the Nau
tical Almanac, and laying them down in a similar
manner. The orbits of the superior planets being
much lar er than that of our Earth, the greater
portion ogtheir enlightened side is constantly turned
towards us, enerally appearing almost like the
Moon when Elli.
Having taken a comprehensive survey of the
motions and general appearances of the primary
planets, we may proceed in the next place to con
template the
PHENOMENA
OF THE
Secondary Planets, Satellites, or Moons.
It has been already remarked, that besides the
Earth, which is accompanied in its revolution
round the Sun by the Moon; Jupiter, Saturn, and
Uranus, are likewise attended by satellites, of which
Jupiter has four, Saturn seven, and Uranus six.
In describing the motions, 8L6. of these bodies, we
shall, of course, commence with
The Moon,
whose various appearances (commonly called her
phases) during her progress round the heavens,
LECTURE xrv. 239
cannot Fail to have attracted universal attention,
and they, in fact, constitute some of the most
striking of the celestial phenomena. When the
Moon, after having been in conjunction with the
Sun, emerges from its rays, in the evening she
appears after Sun-set like a ﬁne luminous crescent,
having its convex side turned towards the Sun.
As she recedes from that luminary, this crescent
gradually increases in breadth, and when she has
gone through an eighth part of her revolution, she
is said to be in her ﬁrst octant, at which time one
fourth part of her enli htened side is turned to
wards the Earth. As ﬁer distance from the Sun
increases, she presents more of her enlightened
side to our view, and when she has completed a
fourth part of her revolution, she appears a half
moon or dichotomised 1, and is said to be a
quarter old. In rather less than four days more
she is in her second octant, when she becomes
gibbous '2, exhibitin an intermediate ﬁgure between
a half and a full oon. Her distance from the
Sun continues to increase, until at length she is in
opposition to that luminary, when her enlightened
hemisphere is wholly turned towards the Earth, and
she shines with a full illumined orb, at which time
shecomes to the meridianatmidnight, The enlight
ened portion of her disc now begins to diminish,
and when she arrives at her third octant, she again
becomes gibbous. Her enlightened side continues
to be withdrawn more and more from the Earth,
and when she arrives at her third quarter, only
one half of it is visible. She still continues to
approach the Sun, and having reached her fourth
octant, she once more appears horned, having
I From Stxéropos, cut into two arts.
9 From gibbus, crooked or bunc ed out.
24-0 ' LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
only a quarter of her enlightened hemisphere
turned towards the Earth ; at this time she is seen
in the east, rising a little before the Sun, till at
length, having completed her revolution, she is
again in conjunction with that luminary, and dis
appears, her dark side being turned towards the
Earth. The Moon, in this situation, is said to be
new}.
These changes in the appearance of the Moon
are repeated in the same order every lunation, the
Moon constantly exhibiting the same phase at the
same angular distance from the Sun, from which
we naturally infer that the Moon is an opaque
globular body, deriving her light from the Sun,
her changes or phases being produced by her
situation relatively to the Earth and that luminary.
This will be better understood from diagram 8., in
which, let S be the Sun, E the Earth, and M the
Moon. When the Moon is at a in conjunction
with the Sun, her dark hemisphere being turned
directly towards the Earth, she becomes invisible
as at A. When the Moon has advanced from a
to I), having gone through an eighth part of her
orbit, she is said to be in her ﬁrst octant; a small
portion of her enlightened hemisphere is now
turned towards the Earth, and she appears as at
B. In this situation the Moon is said to be horned.
\Vhen she reaches 0, she is in her ﬁrst quarter
and appears as at C, one half of her enlightened
side being turned towards the Earth. As she con
tinues to move forward in her orbit, more and more
of her enlightened hemisphere becomes visible,
and at (I, being in her second octant, she appears
gibbous as at D. At e she is in opposition to the
Sun, her whole illuminated hemisphere is now
turned towards the Earth, and she appears full as
at E. From this point of her orbit she begins
LECTURE xrv. 24-1
gradually to present less and less of her illumin
ated disc to the Earth, and when she reaches her
third octant at_j§ she again appears gibbous as at F.
At g She is in her third quarter, and again presents
half her enlightened hemisphere to our view as at
G. In her fourth octant, she once more assumes
the form of a. crescent as at H; and at a she again
becomes invisible, being once more in conjunction
with the Sun. ,
Those points of the lunar orbit in which she is
new and full, or in conjunction and opposition, are
called the syzigies,1 and those points in which she
is 90° from the Sun, the quadratures.
It will be seen bylinspecting the diagram, that
the Earth exhibits the same phases to the inhabit
ants of the Moon (if such there be) as the Moon
presents to a spectator on our globe, but in an in
verted order, the Earth being new, and conse
quently invisible to them when the Moon is full to
us: they must have a waxing when we have a
waning Moon, and thus all their lunar seasons
must be exactly the reverse of ours. It is only
from one side of the Moon (as will hereafter be
shown) that the Earth can ever be seen, but to
those who live, on that side, it must, on account of
its vast magnitude compared with that ofthe Moon,
present a much more magniﬁcent spectacle than
she does to us.
The revolution of the Moon from one conjunc
tion with the Sun to the next, during which her
various phases are exhibited in the manner already
detailed, is calleda synodical reVOlution, the mean
period of which is 29 days 12 hours 4-4 minutes
28 seconds. This period is also called a luna»
tion.
! From avl'vyw, union.
M
2&2 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
I
The sidereal revolution of the Moon is per
formed in 27 days, 7 hours, 43 minutes, 11'5 se
conds, being the time she employs in moving from
any ﬁxed star to the same ﬁxed star again. The
sidereal or true revolution of the Moon is less than
the synodical, the greater length of the latter being
caused by the motion of the Earth in its orbit,
whereby the Sun appears to advance rather more
than 29° in the ecliptic, while the Moon goes once
round the Earth ; the dilference, therefore, between
these two revolutions is equal to the time occupied
by the Moon in passing over this space, so as again
to come into conjunction with the Sun.
The periodical or tropical revolution is the time
which the Moon takes to revolve from one equi
nox to the same equinox again; this is less than
the sidereal revolution, for the equinoxes, during
the latter period, recede about four seconds of a
degree, a space which the Moon passes over in
rather less than seven seconds of time, hence her
periodical revolution is performed in 27 days, 7
hours, 43 minutes, 4'7 seconds.
While the Moon revolves round the Earth, the
Earth is itself in constant motion round the Sun,
the path of the Moon, therefore, in absolute space,
is very different from that which she appears to
describe about the Earth, being, in fact, a series of
epicycloidal curves, always concave towards the
Sun.
The ﬁgure of the orbit in which the Moon cir
culates about our Globe is nearly that of an ellipse,
and would be truly so if the distance of the Sun
from the Earth in respect of that of the Moon were
inﬁnite, in which case, as they would both be
e ually attracted in parallel straight lines, and at
all times uniformly, so their relative motion would
not be in the least disturbed. The distance, how
ever, of the Moon from the Earth, though much
LECTURE XIV. 2&3
less than that of the Sun, bears, notwithstanding,
a very sensible proportion to it, and consequently
the angular distance between, the Earth and Moon
is perpetually varying; the Sun, therefore, acts
unequally and in different directions upon these
bodies, thereby producing those changes in the
form of the lunar orbit, and causing those devia
tions from the true elliptical motion, which are
denominated the lunar inequalities. Of these
phenomena, which may be classed among the most
interesting and useful, but at the same time, the
most intricate subjects ofastronomical investigation,
I shall endeavour to give as comprehensive a view
as the compendious plan of these lectures will pos
sibly admit, and in so doing, I shall ﬁrst of all
consider the orbit of the Moon a perfect circle, as
AB CD, ﬁg. 30. In the same ﬁgure, let E be
the Earth, 112 the'Moon, and S the Sun.. .
\ When the Moon is in the last quarter at A, her
distance from the Sun S will be nearly the same
as that of the Earth. As, therefore, the Earth in
going round the Sun is constantly descending to
Wards it, so the Moon, if she continued in the
same point of her orbit while she accompanied the
Earth in its progress round the Sun, must, in any
equal portion of time, descend as much, the rela
tive situation of the Earth and Moon being in no
respect altered, and, consequently, the Sun’s action
upon both continuing the same. But as the Moon
advances from the quarter towards the conjunction,
suppose to 6, her distance from the Sun diminishes,
and, consequently, the action of the latter upon
the Moon increases, while, in respect of the
Earth, it still remains the same, and, conse
quently, an acceleration is produced in the mo
tion of the Moon, which acceleration is not
caused simply by the Sun’s attraction of the Earth
M 2
_ 244 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
or Moon, but by the Moon at 6 receiving a greater
impulse from the Sun than the Earth at E, in conse
quence ofher beingnearer to him; for ifthe Sun’s ac- '
tion upon the Moon were equal to its action on the
Earth, and exerted in the direction 6 a parallel to
E S, no disturbance would take place in the appa
rent motion of the Moon round the Earth. But
the Moon at I) being more powerfully attracted
than the Earth at E, its motion through the arc
I) B would be accelerated, were the Sun to act in
the direction 6 0 parallel to E S ; this acceleration,
therefore, is still farther increased by the oblique
direction of the Sun’s attraction. The Moon’s mo
tion, therefore, from the last quarter to the con
junction being continually accelerated, its velocity
increases till it arrives at B. From the conjunc
tion B to the next quarter C, the distance of the
Moon from the Sun increases, and, consequently,
its motion is gradually retarded till it arrives at C,
where, being again in quadrature, its distance from
the Sun is again nearly the same as that of the
Earth. In going from C to D, or from the ﬁrst
quarter to the opposition, the Moon is receding
from the Sun, the Earth is now, therefore, nearest
- ~ to him, and, consequently, more attracted by him
than the Moon; whos'e motion, for this reason,
appears to be accelerated, the same effect being
now produced by the deﬁciency of the Sun’s action
on the Moon, from what it has on the Earth, as
was produced by the excess of it while the Moon
was going from A to B. In moving from the full
or opposition to the third quarter, the excess of
p the Sun’s attraction upon the Earth again dimin
ishes, and the Moon’s velocity is constantly re
tarded, and when she arrives at A, the Sun’s
action upon the two bodies is again nearly equal.
From what has now been said, it appears that the
velocity of the Moon’s motion is greatest in the
LECTURE mm 245
syzigies, and least in the quadratures. About
the octants its velocity is nearly in a mean state.
In the ﬁrst and third octants, the Moon is about
37 minutes to the eastward of her mean place, and
in the second and fourth, it is as much to the west
ward. This alternate acceleration and retardation
of the Moon in her orbit was ﬁrst observed by
Tycho Brahe, who called it her variation.
When the Moon is in conjunction, she is nearer
the Sun than the Earth is; the Sun, therefore,
attracting her more forcibly than it does the Earth,
her tendency towards the latter is diminished, and
her orbit becomes less incurvated; for the inﬂec
tion from a rectilinear course, being the effect of
her tendency towards the Earth, the more that
tendency is diminished, the less will be the inﬂec
tion produced. Precisely the same eﬁ'ect takes
place at the opposition, for the Moon being then
more remote from the Sun than the Earth is, the
eﬁ'ect of the Sun’s attraction upon the latter is
greater than upon the former, and, consequently,
the Moon’s tendency to the Earth is again dimi
nished, and its orbit, in respect to the Earth, ap
proaches nearer to a straight line. But when the
Moon is in quadrature, her distance from the Sun
being nearly equal to that of the Earth, they both
descend with equal velocity towards the Sun,
and, therefore, her gravitation to the Earth is
increased. This increase in the tendency of the
Moon towards the Earth by the solar action in the
quadratures, is equal to about one-half the quantity,
by which the same tendency is diminished in' the
syzigies. It follows, therefore, that were the orbit,
which the Moon would describe about the Earth,
if undisturbed by the Sun’s attraction, a circle, the
eii'ect of this disturbing force would be to change
it into an oval, approaching very near to an ellipse,
M 3
‘146 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
having the Earth in its centre, and its longer axis
nearly coincident with the line of the quadratures.
Sir Isaac Newton computed the distance of the
Moon from the Earth in quadrature, to be to its
distance in syzigy, as 70 to 69.
The lunar orbit, however, although not very
eccentric, is, in fact, an ellipse, one of the foci of
which is occupied by the Earth. When, there
fore, the line of the apsides coincides with the line
of the syzigies, the eccentricity of the orbit is in
creased; and it is decreased when the line of the
apsides coincides with that of the quadratures.
These changes in the eccentricity of the Moon’s
orbit sensibly affect the equation of the centre.
Another eﬁ'ect produced by the disturbing force
is the motion of the apsides. When the Moon is
in syzigies, the line of the apsides has a direct
motion, and a retrograde motion when she is in
her quadratures; but, during the course of one
complete revolution of the Moon about the Earth,
the progress exceeds the regress. The apsides
will advance most and recede least when the line
ofthe apsides coincides with the line of the syzigies. ‘
The contrary happens when the line of the apsides
,lies near the line of the quadratures, in which case
the regress exceeds the progress. In the octants
the apsides advance with a mean motion, but by
reason of the accumulation of the variations, the dif
ference between their mean and true places'is then
at a maximum. The apsides, in the course ofan en
tire revolution ofthe Earth aboutthe Sun, have every
possible position with respect to the line of the
syzigies, and, upon the whole, the natural gravita
tion of the Moon being more diminished than in
creased, they advance, their mean motion being
about three degrees in a revolution.
The Moon’s orbit has hitherto been considered
coincident with the plane of the ecliptic; this is
LECTURE xrv. 24-7
not, however, the case, her orbit being in reality
inclined to it, and making with it an angle of about
ﬁve degrees. One of the effects resulting from
the action of the solar force, is to produce a change
in the position of the line of the nodes. When the
line of the nodes coincides with the line of the
syzigies, the nodes are at rest. When the Moon
is between the node and the nearest quadrature,
the nodes advance a little forward, but retreat
while she proceeds from a quadrature to the next
node. In each synodical revolution of the Moon,
however, the nodes retreat more than they advance,
the result, therefore, of these movements, is a
complete revolution of the nodes from any point
of the ecliptic to the same point again, in a period
of 18 years, 228 days, 7 hours, 13 minutes, 17'?
seconds, at the rate of 19 degrees, 19 minutes, 48
seconds, annually.
By the same force, which produces the foregoing
changes inthe position of the nodes, the inclin
ation of the Moon’s orbit to the plane of the eclip
tic is also aﬂ'ected. When the line of the nodes
passes through the syzigies, the plane of the
Moon’s orbit produced, passes through the centre
of the Sun, and consequently, not being affected
by the Sun’s attraction, its inclination is the great~
est possible, being then about 5 degrees, 18?} mi
nutes. From this time till the line of the nodes is
in quadrature with the Sun, the Sun’s action upon
the Moon tends to bring her nearer to the ecliptic,
and thereby to lessen the angle formed by the
plane of the Moon’s orbit with the plane of the
ecliptic, and when the line of the nodes is in qua
drature, this angle is the least possible, and it
again gradually increases till the line of the nodes
reaches the line of the syzigies.
' M 4'
248 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
The distance of the Earth itself from the Sun is
not constantly the same, but varies in the course
of a year, on account of the elliptical form of its
orbit ; it therefore follows, that the lunar inequal~
ities must be very considerably affected by this
circumstance; the Sun’s attraction, by which-these
inequalities are produced, being greatest when the
Earth is in its perihelion, and least when it is in
aphelion. It has already been shown that in the
quadratures the gravitationofthe Moon to the Earth
is increased, and that in the syzigies it is dimi
nished; it has also been observed, that the dimi
nution which takes place at the syzigies is about
double the quantity, by which the gravitation is
increased in the quadratures, the consequence re
sulting from which is, that the Moon revolves
about the\Earth at a greater distance and in a:
longer time than if her motion was undisturbed by
the Sun’s attraction.) The greater, therefore, the
disturbing force is, the greater will be the diminm
tion of the Moon’s gravity, and the longer the time
in which=her revolution is performed. As, thereL
fbre, the Sun is nearest to the Earth in winter, the
periodical month is a little longer at that season
than in summer, when the Earth being farther
from the Sun, his disturbing force is less powerful.
This inequality ofthe Moon’s motion, arising from
the change in the magnitude of her orbit, and her
periodic time, according to the place of the Earth
in the ecliptic,.is called her annual equation.
In addition to-the inequalities-already mentioned,
to which the lunar motions are subject, another
small irregularityhasbeen taken notice ofby astrono
mers, called the secular equation. This arises from a
continual acceleration ofthe Moon’s motion, caused?
by the action of the Sun upon the'Moon, com
bined with the variation of the eccentricityof the.
‘ LECTURE xrv. 249
Earth’s orbit. This inequality was ﬁrst observed
by Dr. Halley, but for the discovery of its cause
we are indebted to La Place. _In consequence. of
the action of the planets 'upon the Earth, the
eccentricity of its orbit is at present decreas
ing, although the greater axis of the orbit is not
in the smallest degree affected by theiraction;
since, therefore, the mean force of the Sun to ex
pand or contract the Moon’s orbit, depends upon
the square of the eccentricity of the Earth’s orbit,
by the diminution of this eccentricity at present
taking place, the hIoon’s mean motion is accele
rated. When, therefore, the eccentricity becomes
a minimum, this acceleration will cease, and when
the eccentricity increases, the mean motion of the
Moon will be retarded. The diminution, accor
ding to La. Place, is 11185 seconds in a century,
and this change of angular velocity produces a
change in the longitude of the Moon, which, like
any other uniformly accelerated motion, is in the
duplicate ratio of the time. Hence the correction
for the Moon’s longitude, calculated by the present
tables, is found by multiplying the square of the
number of centuries backward or forward by
111% seconds.
Having thus brieﬂy described the principal of
those inequalities which affect the Moon’s motion,
and which, by embarrassing the lunar theory with
almost insuperable difﬁculties, render the calcula
tion of its true place in the heavens one of the
most laborious and intricate problems in the science
of astronomy; I shall proceed to speak of its rota
tion on its axis, the only equable motion of this
satellite.
The Moon turns exactly once round on its axis
while it performs a synodical revolution in its orbit,
as is evident from her always presenting the same
M 5
250 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY
side to the Earth, for if she had no rotation
upon an axis, every part of her surface would be
presented to a spectator upon the Earth in the
course of her monthly revolution. That. side of
the Moon, therefore, which is next the Earth, is
never involved in total darkness, the Earth aﬁ'ord
ing it a powerful light during the absence of the
Sun, it therefore enjoys successively two weeks of
illumination from the Sun, and two weeks of
p moonlight from the Earth. The other side has a
fortnight’s light and a fortnight’s darkness by turns.
The lunar day and night is therefore a month
long, and her axis being nearly perpendicular to
the plane of the ecliptic (the angle it makes with
that plane being 88° 29' 49”), there is scarcely
any diversity ofseasons in the Moon. But although
the Sun never declines materially from her equa
tor, and consequently, the lunarians enjoying a
perpetual equinox, cannot determine the length of
their year in the same manner that we can the
length of ours, yet, they may, by observations
’upon the polar regions of our Earth, ascertain it
with great ease; and it has been supposed that this
is the method which would most probably be re
sorted to by them for resolving this problem; for'
as the north pole of our Earth begins to be en
lightened at the time of the spring, and the south
pole at the time ofthe autumnal equinox, it is evi
dent, that by observing when either of our poles
begins to be enlightened, and the other to disap
pear, they may ascertain the length of their year; .
which is, in fact, the same as that of ours, although
the number of natural days contained in it is very
different, ours consisting of 365}, theirs of little
more than 12.
Although the motion of the Moon about her
axis is perfectly equable, yet, the disc of the Moon
ucrvu: XIV. 251
presented to our observation is subject to certain
small variations, by which the spots on the eastern
limb are sometimes withdrawn, and vanish behind
that limb, while others appear on her western
limb which were not before visible. Again, the
last mentioned spots become invisible, disappearing
behind the Moon’s western margin, while those
which had withdrawn themselves behind her east~
ern margin, reappear in their original situations.
The northern and southern limbs of the Moon
are also found to undergo similar changes. These
phenomena are comprehended under the general
name of the Moon’s libration, which is of four
kinds, viz.: the libration in longitude, the libra
tion in latitude, the diurnal libration, and the
spheroidal libration.— Of these different species of
libration, the three ﬁrst are merely apparent, and
consequently do not affect the real motion of the
Moon about her axis; the fourth arises from the
action of the Earth on the lunar spheroid, pro
ducing a triﬂing inequality in her rotation. The
two ﬁrst of these apparent irregularities were ori
ginally noticed by Galileo, the third was discovered
by Hevelius, and the spheroidal libration was ﬁrst
remarked by La Grange.
The libration in longitude arises from the uni
formity of the Moon’s motion about her axis, com
bined with her unequal motion in her orbit. \Vere
theorbit in which the Moon revolves round the
Earth a perfect circle, having the Earth in its
centre, and were the Moon’s motion therein uni
form, her rotation on her axis being performed in
the same time as her revolution in her orbit, there
would be no libration in longitude, because the
Earth would be constantly vertical to the same
lunar meridian, and the same face of the Moon
would be constantly and exactly turned towards
M 6
252 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
the Earth. I But since the Moon moves unequally
in an elliptic orbit round the Earth, placed in one
of the foci while she revolves equably on her axis,
the plane of no one lunar meridian will constantly
pass through, the centre of the Earth, and conse
quently she will not, in every point of her orbit,
have precisely the same face presentedto us. The
libration, in longitude, at its maximum, which
happens when the Crisian Sea is about ,5; of its
width, from the western limb of the Moon, is about
7° 30', and it altogether vanishes in perigee and
apo ee.
he libration in latitude arises from the declin
ation of the Moon’s axis, from a perpendicular to
the plane of the ecliptic, whereby the lunar axis,
which always preserves its parallelism, sometimes
inclines towards the Earth, and at other times
declines from it, thus bringing the north pole and
the parts adjacent into view, during one half of
her revolution round the Earth, and the south pole
and south polar regions, during the other half,
one pole of the Moon constantly withdrawing itself
from our observation, as the other becomes vi
sible.
The diurnal libration arises from the somewhat
different views a spectator on the Earth’s surface
_obtains of the Moon at the time of her rising, cul
minating and setting, and is therefore dependant
on the motion of the observer about the centre of
the Earth; for it is easy to conceive, and observ
ation proves, that at the time of the Moon’s rising,
certain spots are visible about the upper limb,
which disappear as she advances to the meridian,
while others about the opposite limb of the Moon,
not before observable, come into view as she ap
proaches towards and descends below the western
verge of the horizon.
LECTURE xrv. .258
The fourth kind of libration is caused by the
action of the Earth on the elevated parts of the
lunar spheroid, whereby a small vibratory motion
of the Moon is produced about an axis, perpen
dicular to the radius vector, or line joining the
Earth and Moon. ‘
The mean motion of the Moon from west to
east in her orbit, is at the rate of about 12° 11' in
a day, she is, therefore, generally supposed to rise
about 50' later every day than on the day preced
ing; this is, however, only true in regard to places
situated on the equator. In places ofconsiderable
latitude, there is a remarkable deviation from this
period of daily retardation in the rising of the
Moon, and this difference is most conspicuous in
the autumnal season, when the full Moon appears
to rise for several successive evenings about the
time of sunset, or so long before the termination of
twilight, as to enable the husbandman to continue
his labours to a late hour without interruption,
and is thence called the harvest Moon.
The equator making always equal angles with
the horizon, if the Moon’s orbit coincided with the
plane of that'circle, her time of rising would vary
daily about 50 minutes. The Moon’s orbit, how
ever, is nearly coincident with the plane of the
ecliptic, and consequently, different parts of it
make different angles with the horizon as they rise
or set, those parts which rise with the smallest
angles, setting with the greatest, and vice versa.
Now, the less this angle is, the greater portion of
the orbit rises in the same time. When, there
fore, the Moon is in those parts ofher orbit which
rise or set with the smallest angles, she rises or
sets with the least difference of time, and when she
is in those parts of her orbit which rise or set with
the greatest angles, she rises or sets with the
254- LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
greatest difference of time. \ But in northern lati
tudes, the smallest angle of the ecliptic and hori
zon is made when Aries rises and Libra sets, and
the greatest, when Libra rises and Aries sets; when,
therefore, the Moon rises in Aries, she rises with
the least difference of time. Now, the Moon is
Obviously in opposition, in or near Aries, when
the Sun is in or near Libra, which happens in the
autumnal months, and it will be seen by making
the experiment with a common globe, that when
the Moon is in the twenty-third degree of Leo,
where the ecliptic makes the greatest angle with
the horizon, an hour and a quarter must elapse
before 12° 11' of the ecliptic will ascend above the
horizon, and consequently, the Moon will at that
time rise one hour and a quarter later on the fol
lowing evening, whereas, if the Moon be in the
beginning of Aries, where the ecliptic makes the
least angle with the horizon, the same portion of
the ecliptic will appear above that circle in about
a quarter of an hour, so that the moon seems to
rise for several successive nights nearly at the
same time.
The same phenomenon takes place every luna
tion, but as the Moon is not full when it happens,
except in the harvest months, the circumstance
passes unnoticed. Since the Moon is always in
opposition when full, and since the harvest Moon
can never happen, but when she is in Pisces and
Aries, and consequently, when the Sun is in the
opposite signs Virgo and Libra, it is obvious there
can be no more than two full Moons in a year,
which rise nearly at the setting of the Sun for
almost a week together. The ﬁrst of these Moons
is known by the name of the harvest, and the se-_
cond by that of the hunter’s Moon.
LECTURE xiv. 255
The Moon has hitherto been considered, while
describing the phenomenon of the harvest Moon,
as moving in the plane of the ecliptic, her orbit,
however, is not coincident with that plane, but
inclined to it at an angle of about ﬁve degrees and
a half, it therefore intersects the ecliptic in two
opposite points, called (as we have before observed)
her nodes; one-half, therefore, of her orbit is
above, and the Other half below the ecliptic. In
order to understand the full effect of the harvest
Moon, it will be necessary to observe, that the
part ofthe lunar orbit at the ascending node, where
the Moon rises above the ecliptic, must make a
more acute angle with the horizon than the eclip
tic itself, and, on the contrary, that the part of the.
lunar orbit at the descending node, where she
descends below the ecliptic, must make a greater
angle with the horizon than the ecliptic itself.
When, therefore, the ascending node is in Aries,
the northern half of the Moon’s orbit will extend
beyond the ecliptic, and as her orbit then makes
an angle of 57} degrees less with the horizon than
the ecliptic, the beneficial eﬂ'ects of the harvest
Moon will be increased. On the contrary, when
the Moon’s descendin node is in Aries, the
northern half of the oon’s orbit will be below
the ecliptic; and as her orbit in the latter instance
makes an angle with the horizon, 51, degrees
greater than when she is in the ecliptic, the bene
ﬁcial effects of the harvest Moon will be dimi
' nished. Now, the 'Moon’s nodes perform a com
plete revelation round the ecliptic in about 18
years, 225 days, consequently, if the Moon’s as
cending node is in the beginning of Aries‘ at any
giVen time, the descending node will occupy the
same place after an interval of about 9 years, 112
.256 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
- days. There will, therefore, be an interval of
about 9% years, between the most beneﬁcial and
the least beneﬁcial harvest Moons.
These phenomena are as regular in the southern
as in the northern hemisphere, but take place at
contrary times; the harvest Moon in south lati
tude being the full Moon that happens at or near
the'v'ernal equinox.
The Moon when near the horizon appears much
larger than when in the zenith, although, in the
latter situation, it is about 4000 miles, or the
seniidiameter of the Earth nearer to us than in the
former, and consequently ought to appear larger,
and it is accordingly found by actual measurement,
to subtend a larger angle, when in the zenith or
von the meridian, than it does when near the hori
zon. Thiswill be understoodfrom ﬁg. 31., in which
E represents the Earth, A the place of an ob
server, M the moon in the zenith, and m the Moon
in the horizon. A mere glance at the ﬁgure is
suﬁicient to show that the distance of the Moon at
m, from the spectator at A, is much greater than
when it is at M, and that the angle under which it
appears, at M is greater than at m.
In order, therefore, to account for the increase
in the apparent magnitude of the horizontal Moon,
some authors assert that the pupil being more ex
panded in consequence of the diminished brilliancy
of the Moon when near the horizon, a larger
image is formed upon the retina. It seems, how,
ever, more probable, that the increase of apparent
magnitude in the horizontal Moon, is nothing
more than an optical illusion, and may be ex
plained upon the same principle, by which we
always endeavour, in forming a judgment of the
magnitude of very remote objects, to compare them
Lacruan xrv. 257
with some intervening 'object whose size is known.
Thus, in viewing the Moon in the horizon, we
involuntarily compare her with terrestrial objects,
with whose eneral magnitude we are acquainted,
while the ngoon in the zenith is seen, as it were
isolated in the widely extended hemispherical vault,
and consequently appears considerably smaller.
258 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
LECTURE XV.
PHENOMENA OF THE SECONDARY PLANETS AS SEEN
_ FROM THE EARTH CONTINUED. -— OF SOLAR AND
LUNAR ECLIPSES. '
THE phases and motions of the Moon having
been explained at considerable length in my last
lecture, I shall, in the next place, proceed to give
a general view of the nature and causes of solar
and lunar eclipses, the transition from an explan
ation of the lunar motions to that of the doctrine
of eclipses being both easy and natural. It is easy,
because a thorough understanding of the former
will greatly facilitate the comprehension of the
latter; and it is natural, because eclipses, though
generally considered as of two kinds, namely, solar
and lunar, may be/ more properly comprehended
under the head of lunar than solar phenomena,
since a lunar eclipse (as will hereafter be shown)
is properly so called, being a deprivation of light
which the Moon undergoes in consequence of the
interposition of the Earth between her and the
Sun, the only luminous body in the system, while
an eclipse of the Sun, as it is commonly denomin
ated, is in reality no eclipse of that luminary, whose
brilliancy always remains unimpaired, but is, in
fact, only a partial eclipse of the Earth, caused by
the Moon coming between the Earth and Sun,
whereby. certain portions of the Earth’s surface are
deprived of the light of the Sun during the con
tinuance of the phenomenon,
LECTURE xv. 959
N0 celestial phenomena 'with which we are ac
quainted have perhaps more particularly engaged
the attention of mankind than the eclipses of the
Sun and Moon. In the remote ages of antiquity
the obscurations of these bodies were looked upon
with terror and amazement, and generally regarded
by the vulgar in all ages as portentous omens
presaging some dreadful calamities about to take
place. An eclipse of the Sun, especially if it hap
pened to be total, was supposed by the ancients to
be caused by his turning away his face in detest
ation of some horrible crime, either already com
mitted or about to be perpetrated upon Earth;
and the Moon, when eclipsed, was considered as
enduring violent pains, on which account eclipses
were frequently denominated lame labores.
In a chronological point of view, eclipses are of
considerable importance, since they afford the most
certain method of determining with accuracy the
dates of many past occurrences recorded in ancient
and profane history. Geography has also been
much beneﬁted by these phenomena, which are
frequently employed in determining the longitude
of places on the Earth’s surface, and afford besides
a convincing proof of the Earth’s rotundit .
The shadows of the Earth and Moon eing so
materially concerned in the production of eclipses,
it may be proper, before entering upon a descrip
tion of the phenomena themselves, to make a few
brief observations relative to the ﬁgure of shadows
cast by opaque spherical bodies in eneral.
Every opaque bod enlightened y a luminous
one, must cast a shadow in a direction opposite to
that of the illuminating body, and parallel to the
rays of light by which it is illuminated, and the
strength of the shadow will be in proportion to the
intensity of the light received; not indeed that the
'260 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
shadow is of itself darker, for all perfectly opaque
bodies entirely intercept the rays of light, whatever
may be the degree of intensity with which that
light falls upon them, and consequently cast, at all
times, the same degree of shade; but the shadow
' will obviously seem stronger as the contrast is
greater, and consequently, the more intense the
light, the stronger will the shadow appear.
_ If the luminous body be smaller than the opaque
one, the shadow will continually increase in breadth
the farther it recedes from the latter, assuming the
ﬁgure of a truncated cone, with the apex towards
the opaque body. This ﬁgure of the shadow is
sometimes called calathoeides.1 “
If the luminous body be equal in magnitude to
the illuminated one, the shadow cast by the latter
will be perfectly cylindrical, and its breadth will
be equal to that of the diameter of the body. In
each of these cases, therefore, the shadow would
be inﬁnitely extended. _
But if the luminous body be larger than the
body illuminated, the shadow will converge as it
recedes from the latter until it terminates in a point,
the distance of which from the illuminated body
will depend on the difference between the diameter
of the luminous body and that of the opaque one
The shadow will therefore assume the form of a
cone, the base of which is the boundary between
the enlightened and dark hemispheres of the
opaque body, and the vertex is the extremity of
the shadow itself.
When the luminous body is greater than the
opaque one, the conical shadow of the latter is en
compassed with a fainter divergent shade called
the penumbraz, into which the rays of light can
I From calathus, a basket.
From pane, almost; and umbra, a shade or shadow,
LECTURE xv. 201
come only from certain parts of the luminous
body, the rest of the rays being intercepted by the
opaque one. This fainter shade increases in
breadth as it recedes from the illuminated object
in the manner of the shadow cast by an opaque
body, whose magnitude exceeds that of the body
by which it is illuminated, assumes the same form,
and, like that shadow, is of an indeﬁnite length.
It is to be observed, that the axis of the penumbra
always coincides with that of the principal shadow,
and that the nearer any part of the fainter shade
is to that shadow, the less light does it receive from
the luminous body.
The last case mentioned, or that in which the
magnitude ofthe luminous body exceeds that of the
illuminated one, alone concerning the subject of -
eclipses, and being, moreover, not quite so self
evident as the preceding ones, may probably re
quire illustration; accordingly, let A, ﬁg. 32. be the
luminous body, greater than the opaque one B.
The convergent rays of li ht ab, cd, proceedingfrom
the extreme edges ofthe former, and in contact with
the latter in the same side, meet or intersect each
other in the point C. No part, therefore, _of the
light emitted by the luminous bod enters into the
cone 6 C d, which is, therefore, t e dark shadow
of the opaque body B. The penumbra is that
fainter shadow surrounding the umbra or dark
conical shadow which is comprehended between
it and the portions d e, bj,‘ of the rays of light
a d e, c b 12 passing from the extreme edges
of the luminous body, and touching the oppo
site extremes of the opaque one. This space,
which is partially illuminated by the luminous
body, becomes darker as it approaches the
conical shadow from which the rays of light are
wholly excluded. To an observer, therefore,
within the cone 6 C d, no part of the luminous
262 LEC’l‘URES ON ASTRONOMY.
body will be visible, while an observer within the
lines bf, d e, but without the dark cone, will see a
part of the luminous body, the rest being hidden
by the interposition of the opaque one, and the
quantity of the luminous body thus obscured will
be greater the nearer the spectator is to the dark
cone. If the observer be situated beyond the
vertex of the dark shadow as at g, be will behold
- the exterior parts of the luminous body surround
ing the dark oneon all sides like a lucid ring.
The planets and satellites are all of themvopaque
bodies illuminated by the Sun; it follows, there
fore, that every planet, whether primary or second
ary, must cast a shadow towards that point of the
heavens which is opposite to that luminary. If,
therefore, the Earth or any other planet were equal
in magnitude to the Sun, its shadow would be
cylindrical, or if it were lar er than the Sun, the
shadow would assume the gure of a truncated
cone, and in either case would be inﬁnitely ex
tended. The Sun, however, being so much larger
than any of these bodies, the shadow of every one
of them must be of a conical form, growing less
and less the farther it recedes from the planet, till
it terminates in a point which is the vertex of the
cone. The height of the conical shadow of any
planet, or the length of the axis of that shadow is
greater or less as the planet is at a greater or less
distance from the Sun; thus, the conical shadow
is longest when the planet is in aphelion, and
shortest when it is in perihelion ; the primary
planets, however, can never eclipse one another,
the magnitude of the Sun and the distances of the
planets being such, that a primary planet can only
eclipse its satellite or be eclipsed by it.
It has been already observed, that an eclipse of
the Sun, as it is erroneously but popularly called,
LECTURE xv. 268
is caused by the intervention of the Moon between
the Earth and Sun, whereby his rays are so
intercepted that certain portions of the Earth’s
surface are partially or wholly deprived of his
light, causin , in fact, an eclipse of those parts of
the Earth where the Moon’s shadow or penumbra
falls; and that an eclipse of the Moon is caused
by her falling into the Earth’s shadow, whereby
(being an opaque body, and having no light of her
own) she undergoes a real eclipse by the intercep
tion of the Sun’s rays. To exemplify this, let S,
ﬁ . 33. be the Sun, E the Earth and M, m, the
ﬁoon in two opposite points of her orbit A B.
When the Moon is at M, between the Earth and
Sun, her conical shadow falling upon the Earth at
a, will render the Sun totally invisible from that
point of the Earth’s surface, and its penumbra will
cause a partial eclipse to the inhabitants between
b and c. When the Moon is in the opposite point
of her orbit at m, she will herself be eclipsed by
falling into the Earth’s shadow. The penumbra
of the Earth is disregarded, because its effects in
obscuring the Moon cannot be accurately observed
by a spectator on the Earth.
An eclipse of the Sun, therefore, can only hap
pen at the time of conjunction, or when the Moon
is new, and an eclipse of the Moon at the time of
opposition, or when she is full. Now, the Moon
being in these situations once in the course of
every lunation, if the Moon’s orbit coincided with
the plane of the ecliptic, a solar and lunar eclipse
would happen every month- But since the plane
of the Moon’s orbit is inclined at an angle of about
5} degrees to that of the ecliptic, these phenomena
can only take place when the Moon is in or near
one of her nodes at the time of new and full
Moon.
264 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
When the Moon is in either of her nodes at the
time of new or full Moon, the Sun, Moon, and
Earth, are in the same right line, that is, the line
of the Moon’s nodes coincides with the line of the
s zigies. If, therefore, the Moon be new when
tliis coincidence takes place, her shadow will fall
upon the Earth, and there will be a central eclipse
of the Sun; if full, the Earth’s shadow will fall
upon her, and there will be a total~and central
eclipse of the Moon. If the distance of the Moon
from either of her nodes at the time of conjunction
be less than 18°, the Sun may be eclipsed, or if
she be within 12° of her node at the time of oppo
sition, there may be an eclipse of the Moon, but
if the Moon’s distance from her node exceed those
limits, there can be neither a solar nor a lunar
eclipse, for when the Moon is more than 18° from
her node at the time of new Moon, her shadow
will generally fall either above or below the Earth,
and when she is more than 12° from her node at
the time of full~Moon, she is generally too high or
too low in her orbit to pass through any part of
the Earth’s shadow.
These phenomena I shall endeavour to illustrate
by diagram 9, in which the horizontal plane A B
C D represents the plane of the ecliptic, and
53 N 29 S, the plane of the orbit of the Moon.
This last is inclined to the plane of the ecliptic,
one half being above and the other half below
that plane. 62 is the Moon’s ascending, and 29
her descending. The graduated circle on the
plane of the lunar orbit serves to show the distance
of the Moon from her node at the time of new or
full Moon: it is numbered at every ﬁfteenth
degree both ways, from the points 0 0 in the line
of the node's, to 90°. At 18° distance from each
of the nodes both ways, a small Sun is drawn, ‘ and
LECTURE xv. 265
at 12° distance, a small Moon, for the purpose of
showing the limits of solar and lunar eclipses. N
and S are the most northerly and southerly points.
of the l\'Ioon’s orbit. The point or index I is used
for the more readily setting the diagram to any.
position on the machine, and also for regulating its
motion round the centre. .
These things being premised, let the index be
brought to the ﬁrst point of Aries, and the line of
the nodes made to coincide with the line of the
syzigies, in such a manner that 82 (commonly.
called the Dragon’s Head) may stand over the
index I, and 23 (or the Dragon’s Tail) may meet
the point D on the plane of the ecliptic. Now, if
while the plane of the ecliptic and that of the
Moon’s orbit are in this situation with respect to
each other, the Moon come to her conjunction
with the Sun, her shadow must fall upon the
Earth, because being in her descending node, or
in that point of her orbit in which she Crosses the
plane of the ecliptic from north to south, she is in
the same right line with the Earth and Sun, and
consequently there will be a solar eclipse to all
those places over which the shadow passes. But,
if instead of conjunction, we suppose the Moon to
come to her opposition (the relative position of the
two planes still remaining the same), there will be
a lunar eclipse, because the Moon being at that
time in her ascending node, or in that point of her
orbit where she crosses the plane of the ecliptic
from south to north, she is still in the same right
line with the Earth and Sun, and must, therefore,
undergo a privation of light by passing through
the Earth’s shadow. If, therefore, the Earth were
to remain constantly stationary in this point of its
orbit while the Moon kept revolving round the
Earth, it is obvious that the Sun would be eclipsed
N
266‘ LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
at every change, and the Moon at every full; but
the Earth being in constant motion round the
Sun, must perform some considerable part of its
revolution while the Moon goes once round the
Earth.
Let us, therefdre, suppose, that while the Moon
is performing one synodical revolution in her
orbit, the Earth advances about one sign or 30°
in the ecliptic, and that the line of the nodes, like
the Earth’s axis, is constantly carried parallel to
itself round the Sun; in this case, if the MoOn
happen to arrive at her conjunction with the Sun
just at the time that the Earth enters the sign
Taurus, it will be seen by the graduated circle
above described, that the Moon, at the time of the
conjunction taking place, is about 30° from her
descending node, or about 12° beyond the solar
limit, and is, therefore, so much depressed below
the plane of the ecliptic, or has so much south
latitude, that her shadow will fall considerably
below the Earth. If, on the contrary, when the
Earth is in this situation, the Moon be in opposi
tion, she will evidently be about 80° from her
ascending node, or about 18° beyond the lunar
limit, and will, therefore, be too far above the plane
of the ecliptic to fall into any part of the Earth’s
shadow. There can, therefore, be no eclipse of
the Sun in the former case, nor of the Moon in,
the latter. When the Earth has advanced 30°
more in her orbit, or has arrived at the beginning
of Gemini, the distance Of the Moon from the
mode when new or full is about 303 more, and her
latitude being still greater than before, her shadow
falls still more below the Earth when new, and
she herself passes still higher above the Earth’s
shadow when full. When the Earth comes to the
beginning of Cancer, if a conjunction of the Moon
LECTURE xv. 267
take place, she must, at the time of the said con~
junction, be in the point S of her orbit, that is, in
her greatest south latitude, or at her greatest dis
tance below the plane of the ecliptic. But if she
came to her opposition at this time, she must be
in the point N of her orbit, where her latitude or
height above the plane of the ecliptic is greatest.
If the motion of the Earth be continued in the
same manner through the three following signs,
we shall see that the Moon, at each succeeding
conjunction or opposition, as regularly approaches
the right line of the Sun and Earth as she receded ‘
from it during the progress of the Earth through
the three preceding signs; and if a new Moon
happen when the Earth is in the beginning of
Libra, the Moon will at that time be in her ascend
ing node, and there will be an eclipse of the
Sun : but if the Moon become full while the Earth
is in this situation, she must at the time be in
her descending node, and must consequently be
eclipsed by passing through the Earth’s shadow.
When, therefore, the line of the nodes coincides
with the line of the syzigies, the Moon is in her
nodes at new and full, and in her greatest north
and south latitude, or distance from the ecliptic,
about her quarters; but when the line of the nodes
is at right angles to the line of the syzigies, she is
in hergreatest north and south latitude, or distance
from the ecliptic, at new and full, and in the nodes
about her quarters.
It appears, therefore, that if the line of the nodes
continued always parallel to itself; there would be
just half a year between the conjunctions of the
Sun and nodes. But the nodes have a slow retro
ade motion, amounting to about one degree and
a half each lunation, or about 19 degrees 20 mi
nutes in a year, on account of which the same node
a 2
265 nEc'rUnns- 01v Asra‘onomr.
meets the Sun about 19 days sooner every year
than on the year preceding. If, therefore, the Sun'
pass by either of the nodes on: any particular day,
he will pass by the other node in 173 days afterq
wards, or the same node again in. 346 days; thus
the nodes perform a complete revolution in the
ecliptic in about 18 years, 225 days: this period,
however, comprisingno complete number of luna
tions, it cannot become aregular period of eclipses.
But in 223 lunations, or' in. 18 years, ll days, 7
hours, 42 minutes, 31 seconds, the Sun, Moon,
and Earth return so nearly into the same position
with respect to each other, that the same node,
which at the commencement. of this period was in
conjunction with the Sun and Moon, will be within
28 minutes of conjunction with them again when
this period is completed..
This period, commonly. known by the name of
the Chaldaic period ‘, because for the discovery of
it we are indebted to the Chaldeans, was employed
by theancients in predicting the return of eclipses,
which, they- were enabled to do with tolerable accu
racy by its assistance; for ifto the mean time of the
middle of any eclipse, either solar or lunar, we add
18 years, 11 days, 7 hours, 4-21 minutes, 31 se
conds, when leap-year is four times included, or a
day. less, when it occurs ﬁve times- in that period,
we shall have the meantime of the return of the
same eclipse, (that is, of the middle time of it)
tolerably near the truth. A period, however,
much more exact than the preceding, consists of
6890 mean lunations, or 557 Julian years, 21 days,
I The Chaldaic period employed by the ancients consiste}!
of 18 years, 11 days, 7 hours, 45 minutes, 20 seconds; that
' riod, however, com uted by the new solar tables of De
Elmqu and‘these of ayer, improved‘ by Mason, comes out
as above statedt
» ..
LECTURE xv. 969
18 hours, 4 minutes, 4-7 seconds; at the end Of
which time, the Moon’s distance from the position
she had relatively to the Sun and Earth at the
beginning of this period, will not exceed one mi
nute, four seconds. This period may, therefore,
be used in a similar manner to that of the Chaldaic
period, and with much greater accuracy, in deter
inining the time of future eclipses. rl‘he methods
employed by modern astronomers in calculating
the recurrence of these phenomena are, hovvever,
much more accurate than the preceding, but are,
at the same time, more laborious, and such as
could not with propriety be treated of in a course
of lectures professedly descriptive: those, therefore,
'who may feel desirous of further information upon
this interesting subject, are referred to Ferguson’s
Astronomy, and other works where the method of
calculating eclipses is fully explained.
‘ The number of eclipses in any year cannot be
less than two, nor more than seven: in the former
case, they will be both solar; and in the iatter,
there will be ﬁve solar and two lunar, which last
will both be total. There are sometimes six, ‘but
the more usual number is four; two of the Sun,
and two of the Moon.
The cause of this variety in the number of
Eclipses which may happen in the course of a year,
is easily accounted for. Although the Sun usu
ally passes by both the nodes only once a year,
making four eclipses, yet, if he pass by one of the
nodes about the beginning of the year, he may
paSs the same node again a little before the end of
the year; because, in consequence of the retrograde
motion of the Moon’s nodes already taken notice
'of, the Sun will come to either of them 173 days
after the other, and he may, therefore, return to
“the same node in about 346 days, thereby making
N 3
270 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
six eclipses. Again, since tvvelve synodical revo
lutions, or 354 days from the eclipse in the begin
ning of the year, may produce a new Moon before
the conclusion of it, and since this new Moon may
fall within the solar limit, it is possible for seven
eclipses to happen within the year. When the
Moon changes in either of her nodes, she cannot
come within the lunar limit at the next full, and
therefore she cannot be eclipsed; and in six lunar
months afterwards she will change near the other
node. In this case there cannot be more than two
eclipses in the year, and both of the Sun. The
ecliptic limits of the Sun being greater than those
of the Moon, solar eclipses are more frequent than
lunar ones; yet we have more visible eclipses of
the Moon than of the Sun, because the former are
visible from all parts of that hemisphere of the
Earth which is turned towards her; but the latter
(as will be shown hereafter) are only seen from
.-that small portion of the hemisphere next hlm
whereon the Moon’s shadow falls, and, therefore,
there are always more lunar than solar eclipses
visible at any given place. "
It is worthy of remark, that eclipses of the
Sun always begin on the western limb of that
luminary, and end on the eastern; but all lunar
eclipses come in at the eastern limb, and g0 Off at
the western.
In estimating the quantity of an eclipse either 9f
the Sun or Moon, the disc of the body eclipsed 15
supposed by astronomers to be divided into twelve
equal parts, called digits; and as many of these
parts as are obscured, so many digits is the sun
or Moon said to be eclipsed.
Having thus taken a general view of the doc'
trine of eclipses, both solar and lunar, I shall Pro'
ceed to point out a few of the peculiarities °
LECTURE xv. ' 271
each, by describing these phenomena separately,
be inning with the eclipses of the Sun.
hese, we have seen, are caused by the inter
vention of the Moon between the Sun and Earth.
Now, the Moon’s (orbit bein elliptical, and the
Earth being placed in one of e foci of the ellipse,
it is obvious, that the distance of the Moon from
the Earth must vary in every different point of her
orbit. When the Moon is at her mean distance
from the Earth, her apparent diameter is exactly
equal to that of the Sun; when the Moon’s dis
tance from the Earth is greater than her mean dis
tance, the apparent diameter of the Sun exceeds
that of the Moon; but when the‘distance of the
latter from the Earth is less than vher mean dis
tance, ‘her apparent diameter exceeds that of the
Sun. When, therefore, the Moon changes about
her anode, and at her mean distance from the Earth,
there will be a total eclipse of the Sun to that
small spot whereon her shadow falls. But if the
Moon’s distance from the Earth, when she changes
in her node, be greater than her mean distance,
her apparent diameter subtending a less angle
than that of the Sun, and her shadow terminating
ina point .at some distance from the Earth, she
cannot hide his whole disc from any part of the
Earth’s surface; but to those places over which
the point of her conical shadow passes, there will
be what is called an annular 1 eclipse; that is, the
edge of the Sun will appear like a luminous ring
surrounding the body of the Moon. If the dis.
tance of the Moon from the Earth be less than its
mean distance when the change takes place, her
apparent diameter being greater than that of the
Sun, there will be a total eclipse ofthat luminary;
8‘ From annulus, a ring.
N 4
272 LECTURES 0N ss'raouomv.
and as the Moon’s disc will not only cover that of
the Sun, but will moreover extend some distance
beyond it, the total darkness will last for some few
minutes. As, however, the Moon’s apparent dia
meter when largest exceeds that Of the Sun when
least. by only 2 minutes, 5 seconds Of a degree, the
total darkness can never continue longer than 4
minutes, 6 seconds, which is the time the Moon
takes to move through that space.
The Moon’s dark shadow when the Sun is
farthest from the Earth, and she is nearest to it,
never extends over a circular space upon the
Earth’s surface exceeding 180 miles in diameter;
but her partial shadow or penumbra may then
cover a circular space 4900 miles in diameter
within every part of which the Sun is seen more
or less eclipsed, as the places are more or less con~
tiguons to the centre Of this shadow. No solar
eclipse, therefore, is universal, or visible through
out the whole of that hemisphere of the Earth
which is turned towards the Sun at the time.
When the new Moon or conjunction happens
exactly in the node, the shadow (if it touch the
Earth) and the penumbra are exactly circular at
the instant of the conjunction taking place, because
the axis of the shadow at that time passes through
the centre of the Earth; but if the conjunction
does not happen precisely in the node, the axis
does not pass through the centre, and, therefore,
the conical shadow is cut obliquely by the Earth’s
surface, and the section becomes an oval, diﬂ'ering
very little from a true ellipse: For the same rea
son, even when the Moon changes exactly in the
node, the penumbra is only circular at the middle
of the eclipse: at every other instant it falls 0b;
liquely, and, as before Observed, becomes elliptical,
and the more so as the distance from the middle
LECTURE xv. 273
of the general eclipse, either before [or after, is
greater. It is also to be observed, that the greater
the obliquity of the penumbra, the larger will be
the portion of the Earth’s surface involved by it.
An eclipse of the Sun does not present the same
appearance to all parts of the Earth where it is
fvisible at the same time: this is owing to the
parallax of the Moon, which causes her to appear
at the same instant of time in diﬂerent points of
the heavens, as seen from different parts of the
Earth, while the parallax of the Sun is too small
to produce a similar effect with regard to that
luminary: thus, to a spectator who has the Moon
in his horizon at any given time, she appears in
the heavens at the distance of about a degree, or
twice the Sun’s apparent diameter, from the place
in which she is seen by a spectator who has her in
his zenith: whereas the Sun’s parallax is so incon
siderable, that at any given moment of time he is
seen in the same point of the heavens ‘by all the
inhabitants of that hemisphere of the Earth which
is enlightened by his rays: hence it happens that
an eclipse of the Sun is total in one part of the
.Earth, and partial at another, at the same time;
while to those who live in a still more distant part
of the enlightened hemisphere the Sun is not
eclipsed at all. This is also the reason Why the
beginning, middle, and end of a solar eclipse are
different at different places.
A solar eclipse does not occur at the same time
in all places on the Earth’s surface to which it
becomes visible, but appears more early to the
western parts, and later to the eastern; the direc-'
tion of the Moon’s shadow in passing over those
parts of the Earth upon which it falls, being genei
'rally from west to east; bearing a little towards
the north when the Moon is in or near her ascend;
N 5
274* an'ruars 0N as'raonom.
_ing node, and a little towards the south when she
is in or near her descending node.
The velocity with which the Moon’s shadow
traverses the Earth’s surface is equal to that of the
Moon’s motion from the Sun. Now, this motion
is about 30 minutes, 30 seconds of a degree per
hour, at a mean rate, which is the portion of the
lunar orbit through which the shadow passes in
that time. But the semidiameter of the lunar
orbit is about 60 semidiameters of the Earth;
hence one minute of the Moon’s' orbit is equal to
60 minutes, or one degree of a great circle of
the Earth. Now, a degree containing 60 geogra
phical, or 69% English miles, 30% degrees are
equal to about 1830 geographical, or 2120 English
miles, which is the space the shadow describes in
one hour.
In order to render the foregoing observations
relating to solar eclipses better understood, let S,
fig. 34-, be the Sun, E the Earth, and M the
Moon revolving in her orbit in the direction A M
P. The dark space s, comprehended between the
lines 0 12, d 12, is the conical shadow of theMoon
into which none of the direct rays of the Sun can
penetrate; and the fainter shade P P, contained
between the lines c a, db, will be the Penumbra of
the Moon, which becomes gradually darker in
those parts which are nearer to the conical sha
dow; those parts about a 12, d 12, receiving very
little of the Sun’s light, while the external portions
about ca, d 6, experience scarcely any diminution
of his inﬂuence. In this ﬁgure, the Moon is sup
posed to be at her mean distance from the Earth,
and consequently her shadow terminates in a point
when it just touches the Earth’s surface. Had
the Moon been in her perigee, or in that point of
her orbit which is nearest the Earth, her shadow
LECTURE xv. 275
would (as has been already remarked) havecovered
a circular space 180 miles in diameter, and to all
places within that space there would have been a
total eclipse, as A, ﬁg. 35. If the Moon had been
in her apogee, or in that part ofher orbit where she
.is farthest from the Earth, her shadow would have
ended in a point about e, ﬁg. 34, and the Sun
would have been annularly eclipsed, as at B, ﬁg. 35.
The penumbra, therefore, is obviously a portion of
a cone, whose vertex is X, ﬁg. 34-, and whose base
covers on the Earth’s surface a circular space a
O 6, only one half of which is visible in the ﬁgure,
the other half being supposed to be bid by the
convexity of the Earth E.
Now, let the Sun’s diameter B C be divided
into 12 equal parts for the =12 digits, also, let the
space 12 0 be divided intoa like number of equal
parts, and from the centre 12, describe 1] con
centric circles, marked 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, &c. in
the ﬁgure. Then to a spectator on the Earth at
b, the eastern limb d of the Moon will seem to
touch the western limb B of the Sun, and the
eclipse will commence at the place b, appearing as
at A, ﬁg. 36'; but at the same instant an observer
at a, ﬁg. 34-, will see the western limb c of the
Moon just leaving the eastern limb C :of the Sun,
as at A', ﬁg. 36. To the inhabitants of the Earth
who live on the circle marked 1, ﬁg. 34, the Moon
will at the same time obscure'one twelfth part ofthe
Sun’s disc, and he will appear one digit eclipsed,
as at B, or B', ﬁg. 36, according to the situation
of the observer on that circle. To those who live
on the circle marked 2, ﬁg. 34-, the Moon cuts off
two twelfth parts of the Sun, as at C, or C’, ﬁg. 36.
Those who live on the circie marked 8, ﬁgiﬁr,
will have the Sun eclipsed three digits, as at. , or
13', ﬁg. .86, and so on to the centre 12, ﬁg..34|,
N 6
1276 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY
;where the Sun is centrally and totally eclipsed, as
_at N, ﬁg. 86.
It is obvious, from ﬁg. 34-, that the Sun is to
,tally or centrally eclipsed to but a very small por
tion of the Earth at any time, the conical shadow
.of the Moon covering so small a part of the Earth’s
.Surface; while the partial eclipse, or that in which
a part only of the Sun is obscured, is visible to all
'places over which the penumbra extends. It
is also evident, that the eclipse is invisible to the
large space D D, because from that part of the
Earth’s surface no part of the Sun is hid by the
interposition of the Moon.
The Earth’s rotation on its axis being performed
nearly in the same direction as the Moon moves
in her orbit, to a spectator on the Earth the
Moon’s motion will appear so much slower than
it would do if he were to view it from a point at
rest, as his own motion amounts to; but the
Moon’s motion in her orbit is so much swifter than
that of the Earth on its axis, that, although eclipses
of the Sun are of somewhat longer duration, on
account of the Earth’s rotation, yet the time of .
total darkness can never amount to ﬁve minutes
of an hour. ‘
When the Moon changes in her node, the cen
tre of the Moon’s shadow will pass over the centre
of the Earth, and, therefore, the whole penumbra
will fall upon the Earth’s surface. When the
Moon changes about six degrees from the node,
almost the whole of the penumbra falls upon the
northern hemisphere of the Earth, if the Moon
have north latitude, but upon the southern hemi
sphere, if her latitude be south. When the Moon
changes 12° from the node, if she be then north
of the ecliptic, rather more than a third part ofthe
pen. mbra will fall upon the northern part of the
Lsc'ruan xv. ; 277
Earth; and a like portion of the penumbra will fall
upon the southern hemisphere, if she be south of
the ecliptic at the time of the change taking place.
Lastly, when the Moon, having north latitude,
changes 17 or 18 degrees from the node, the
penumbra will just touch the northern part of
the Earth’s surface near the north pole; but if
her latitude be south, the penumbra will just touch
the southern part of the Earth near the south
pole. ,
Having concluded my observations upon solar
eclipses, I shall proceed to speak of eclipses of the
Moon, which being a much less intricate subject
than the former, may, after what has been said
respecting these phenomena in a former part of
this lecture, be discussed in a few words.
It has already been shown, that an eclipse of
the Moon can never happen but when she is in
opposition to the Sun, or at the time of full Moon.
We have also seen, that, on account of the inclina
tion of the Moon’s orbit to the plane of the eclip
tic, and the retrograde motion of her nodes, we
have not an eclipse of the Moon at every oppo
sition, and that, in pointof fact, these phenomena
are comparatively ofvery rare occurrence, because
they can only take place when the Moon happens
to be full, either in or very near to one of her
nodes. Farther to illustrate this subject, let m,
ﬁg. 34, (where S is the Sun, and E the Earth) be
the Moon in opposition to the Sun. When the
Moon’s eastern limb a: enters the Earth’s shadow
at 12, she begins to be eclipsed, and she is totally
eclipsed when her western limb y touches the same
point of the shadow.' At m she is centrally
eclipsed, being in the middle of the Earth’s sha
dow, and the total eclipse continues till her eastern
limb .r emerges from the Earth’s shadow at 'w; and
278 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
when her western limb touches the same point,
the eclipse altogether ends.
When the Moon goes through the centre of
the Earth’s shadow, she is exactly in her node,
or has no latitude when she comes to her oppo
sition. When the Moon is about six degrees from
her node at the time of opposition, she will still
pass through the Earth’s shadow, and be totally
eclipsed in it. When she is full at 12° from her
node, she just touches the Earth’s shadow, but
without entering into it. When, therefore, an
eclipse of the Moon is both total and central, its
duration is the longest possible, namely, about 3
hours, 57 minutes, 6 seconds, from the beginning
to the end, when the Moon is in apogee, or at her
greatest distance from the Earth; and about 8
ours, 37 minutes, 26 seconds, when she is in
perigee, or nearest the Earth. The diameter of
the Moon, like that of the Sun, is supposed to be
divided into 12 equal parts, called di its; and when
she is said to be any number of i its eclipsed
greater than 12, it is to be understoog, that she is
wholly immersed in the Earth’s shadow, which
extends so many digits beyond her limb as the
number of digits she is said to be eclipsed exceeds
12. The term degrees is now sometimes substi
tuted for digits, each degree being subdivided into
60 equal parts, called minutes; and thus the quan
tity of an eclipse is, by modern astronomers, fre
quently expressed in degrees and minutes.
The Moon, even when totally immersed in the
Earth’s shadow, is sometimes seen of a dusky-red
copper colour. That the Moon is at all visible in
this situation, may, doubtless, be attributed to the
refractive power of the Earth’s atmosphere, which
being greater near the Earth’s surface, on account
of its increased density, than at any considerable
an'rum: xv. 279
height above it, bends or refracts those rays of the
Sun which pass nearest the Earth, in such a man
ner, that some of them falling on the Moon, ren
der her visible; while those rays which pass through
the higher parts of the atmosphere, are either
refracted in a less degree, or suffer no refraction
at all. The red colour, therefore, which the Moon
assumes, may be easily accounted for, from her
being enlightened by those rays onl which pass
through the densest part of the arth’s atmo
sphere, and in which the red or least refrangible
rays must, of course, predominate; the violet, or
most refrangible rays, being obstructed in their
passage through the resisting medium, which the
greater momentum of the red rays easily enables
them to penetrate
If the Moon pass in such a manner before any
planet or ﬁxed star as to hide it from any part of
the Earth, that planet or star is said to suffer an
occultation. It is evident, therefore, that all the
planets, and many of the ﬁxed stars, namely, those
which lie in the Moon’s path, are liable to be thus
obscured. When the longitude of the Moon is
equal to that of any ﬁxed star, an occultation will
take place to some parts of the Earth, if the differ
ence of latitude between the Moon and star be
less than 57' : if it exceed 1° 87', no occultation
can happen. All those stars whose latitudes do
not exceed 6° 36', may undergo an occultation, as
viewed from some parts of the Earth; and those
stars, whose, latitudes north or south do not ex
ceed t° 82', may suffer an occultation from any
part of the Earth’s surface. _
280 moron-rs on ss'rnoxomr.
LECTURE XVI.
PHEN'OMENA OF THE SECONDARY PLANETS, AS
SEEN FROM THE EARTH, CONCLUDED. —— OF THE
TIDES. -— PHENOMENA OF JUPITER’S SATEL
LITES, OF THE SATELLITES AND RING OF SA
TURN, AND OF THE SATELLITES OF URANUS.
The word tide is used to denote that motion of
the water in the seas and rivers, by which they
alternately rise and fall twice in the course of about
twenty-four hours and three quarters. The tides,
therefore, may be more properly considered as
terrestrial than lunar phenomena: as, however,
for reasons already given, 1 they could not with
propriety be described among the phenomena con
nected with our Earth, I trust that the Moon
being (as will hereafter be shown) the principal
agent employed in producing them will prove a
sufﬁcient apology for introducing the subject in
this place.
That these phenomena were not altogether un
known to the ancients, is suﬁiciently obvious from
the allusion made by Homer to the ﬂux and reﬂux
of the waters in his description of the Charybdis;
and both Herodotus and Diodorus Siculus Lmen
tion the daily rise and fall of the water in the
Arabian Gulf or Red Sea, the latter describing
it as a great and rapid tide. Pytheas of Mar
seilles, who lived about the time of Alexander the
I See lecture 15, page 231.
LECTURE xvz. '281
Great, is the ﬁrst person who is recorded as hav
ing ascribed this motion of the waters to the in
ﬂuence of the Moon. It appears, however, from
Quintus Curtius, who describes the amazement of
Alexander’s soldiers upon seeing their vessels left
dry upon the sand on the coast of India, that these
phenomena could not have been very generally
known among the Greeks. Among the Roman
poets, frequent mention is made of the tides, a
convincing proof that they were well known to
that people; and Pliny, one of the most learned
Roman writers, expressly ascribes them to the
attraction of the Sun and Moon. The celebrated
Kepler is, however, generally allowed the merit of
having ﬁrst assigned the true physical cause of the
ﬂux and reﬂux 0f the waters of this terraqueous
globe. That these phenomena are the effect of
the attraction of the Sun and Bloon exerted upon
the widely-extended waters of the ocean, has since
been fully demonstrated by Sir Isaac Newton, who
has shown, upon the principle of universal gravi
tation, that the effects which are observed to take
place are precisely such as ought to result from
the action of those bodies. The theory of the
tides has, however, subsequently received consider
able improvement from the labours of Maclaurin,
D. Bernouilli, and others, and ﬁnally of La Place.
That the tides are principally under the inﬂu
ence of the Moon, is obvious from their always
being found to correspond to her motions, and to
have a particular reference to her phases, and the
position she is in with regard to the Earth. We
may, therefore, in the ﬁrst place, consider the
chem; of the Moon alone in producing their most
general phenomena; namely, that alternate BIB“
vation and depression of the surface of the ocean
Which are found totake placetwice in the course ofa
282 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
lunar day,>or about 24- hours and 50 minutes. As,
however, the popular method of illustrating these
phenomena does not appear to me to be such as to
render this interesti subjectsuliiciently intelligible
for man through w ose hands this work may be
expecte to pass, I shall venture upon such a de
viation from it as seems to me more likely to be
generally understood.
Let AB C, ﬁg. 87, be three bodies of equal
magnitudes, placed at equal distances from one
another, but at unequal distances from M, which
we shall consider as the attracting body, it being
quite unnecessary, in this case, to take notice of
the reciprocal attraction exerted by the bodies
.A B C upon M. If the bodies A, B, and C, be
all equally attracted by the body M, then, it is
evident, they will all move equally fast towards it,
and their mutual distances from one another will
continue the same : but ifthese bodies be unequally
attracted by M, then that body which is most
powerfully attracted will move the fastest, and its
distance from the other bodies will be altered.
Now, it has been already observed 1, that the
power of gravity decreases as the square of the
distance increases. By virtue of this law of gravi
tation, therefore, the body M will attract A more
strongly than it does B, and consequently the
distance between A and B will 'be increased. In
like manner, B being more strongly attracted than
C, the distance between B and C will also be in
creased: thus, suppose, by'_ the attraction of M,
A moves to a, B to b, and C to c; the distance
a bis greater than A B; and the distance 6 c is
likewise greater than the distance B C, but less
than a 1). Again, let us suppose two other bodies
I See lecture 5, page 82.
an'rvaa XVI. 288
D and E, ﬁg. 88, to be at the same distance from
B as A and C, but at right angles to the two
latter. The bodies D and E being nearly at the
same distance from M as B is, will not recede
from each other, but will rather approach nearer
to B, by the oblique attraction of M ; while, there
fore, the bodies A, B, and C, move respectively to
a, b, and c, the bodies D, and E, will move respec
tively to d, and e, the distance from B, decreasing
as they approach M. Now, instead of four bodies,
placed at equal distances about the central body
B, let us suppose it to be surrounded by a number
of bodies, tbrming a ﬂexible ring, A C D E
ﬁg. 39, and that the whole is attracted by the body
M. ,From what has already been said, it is ob
vious, that the parts at A of the ring, being nearest
to the attracting body, will be more powerfully
acted upon than the central body B; the former
will therefore advance from A to a, while the
latter will only move from B to b ,- and the parts of
the ﬂexible ring at C being still more remote from
M than the central body B, will advance only
from C to c .- as, therefore, the whole gravitates
tOWard M, the parts of the ring about A and C
have their distance from the central body B in
creased; but the parts, D and E, being equally
acted upon by the oblique attraction of M, and
being nearly at the same distance from M that B
is, will approach nearer to B, and the ﬂexible ring
will assume the form of an ellipse, a d c e, whose
ﬁeater axis a b 0 produced, would pass throu h
, and its shorter axis 11 b e will terminate in t e
POints d and e.
If, instead of being surrounded by a ﬂexible
ring, we suppose the central body to be covered
with a ﬂuid of equal density, 50 as to form a ﬂuid
sphere about B, this sphere, by the grav1tation of
284 macrvmzs 0N ASTRONOMY.
the ﬂuid to M, would, in its approach to that body,
he changed to an elliptic spheroid, having its was
directed towards M.
Finally, let us imagine the Earth to consist of a
spherical nucleus, entirely covered by the waters
of the ocean, and the Moon to be the attracting
body; then, if the Moon act upon the Earth ac
cording to the principles already laid down, the
waters will be accumulated immediately below her,
and on the opposite side of the Earth, and de
pressed at all places, 90° from these points.
Hence, the Earth will be thereby changed to an
oblong elliptic spheroid, whose axis will be con
stantly directed towards the Moon; and these ac
cumulated masses of waters will always follow the
Moon in her apparent daily revolution about the
Earth, producing alternately ﬂood and ebb tide at
all places on the Earth’s surface except at the ex
tremities of their axis of rotation; and, since the
apparent revolution of the Moon is performed
once in about 24 hours, 48 minutes, there will be
two tides of ﬂood and two of ebb in that time.
~ Now, although the Earth is not a sphere, but a
spheroid, yet it differs so little from a sphere, that -
the change produced on its real spheroidal ﬁgure
is very nearly the same as would take place in a
true sphere.
The explanation now given of the tides sup
poses the Earth to be constantly gravitating to
wards the Moon; but as the Earth revolves round
the Sun, it must gravitate towards him also; it
may, therefore, be very reasonably asked, boy
this can possibly be the case when the Moon 15
full, or in opposition to the Sun? Inorder to ex
plain this diﬂiculty, it may be necessary toobserve,
that as the power of gravity combined with the
centrifugal force carries the Earth round in 1&5
iscroim xvi. 285
orbit, and prevents it from falling to the Sun, so
do these united powers also carry that luminary
round in an orbit, and prevent it from falling to
the Earth; and that point between the centre of
thesetwobodies round which they mutually revolve,
is called their common centre of gravity, and is as
much nearer to the Sun than it is to the Earth, as
the quantity of matter contained in the former
exceeds that contained in the latter. The Earth,
therefore, being so very small in comparison with
the Sun, is carried round him in an orbit propor
tionably larger than that in which he revolves; their
common centre of gravity falling entirely within
the body of the Sun. 1
The same law holds between the Sun and the
other planets, and also between the primary
planets and their respective satellites or moons:
our Earth and Moon, therefore, being subject to this
law, must, in like manner, revolve round their com
mon centre of gravity; and as the Earth is supposed
to contain about 40 times the quantity of matter
which is contained in the Moon, the distance of
this point from the Earth’s centre towards the
_ Moon will be less than the Earth’s diameter.
These things being understood, the true cause
of the rise of the waters immediately below the
Moon, and on the opposite side of the Earth, may
be easily explained. Let A D C E, ﬁg. 4-0, be
the Earth, and O the common centre of gravity of
the Earth and Moon, round which the Earth will
revolve in the same manner as if it were acted
upon by an attracting body placed in that centre.
Now, all motion being naturally rectilinear, let
A A', B B’, C C', be the directions in which the
points A B C would respectively move if not
1 The Moon is, in this case, supposed to be removed out
Of the system. ~ 0
286' LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
acted upon by any central body; also, let B b be
the orbit into which the centre of the Earth is
deﬂected from its tangential direction B B'. Since
the attractive force exerted upon the waters at A
is as much greater than that which inﬂuences the
centre of the Earth at B, as the square of O A is
less than the square of O B, they must be de
ﬂected farther from their tangential direction A A'
than the centre B of the Earth, and instead of
describing the orbit A a, they will describe the
orbit A 1'. In the same manner, the waters at C
bein acted upon by a force as much less than that
which inﬂuences the centre of the Earth, as the
square of O C is greater than the square of O B,
they cannot be deﬂected as much from their tan
gjential direction C C’ as the centre B of the
arth, and will, therefore, describe the orbit C 2,
instead of the orbit C 0. Hence an accumulation
of waters takes place at the point x, in conse
quence of their rising towards the Moon; and a.
similar accumulation takes place on the oppo
site side of the Earth at z, in consequence of
oftheir being as it were left behind, or being less
deﬂected than those about the other parts of the
Earth, from that rectilinear direction in which all
bodies, if acted upon by a projectile force alone,
will move; while the waters about 11 b e, or 90°
distant from the highest elevations, will sink, both
in consequence of their own weight being increased,
and because some part of the waters of those
places must be drawn off to supply the accumu
lations about w and z,- the sea, therefore, (sup
posed to cover the whole Earth) will become an
oval, or oblong spheroid, d .2: e z, whose axis pro—
duced passes through the Moon; and, therefore,
if the Moon had no real motion of her own in her
orbit, but only an apparent motion arising from
the rotation of the Earth about its axis,- this. sphe~
morons m. 287
roid, always directed towards the Moon, and fol
lowing her in her apparent revolution about the
Earth, would cause two ﬂoods and two ebbs in
twenty-four hours; but, because she has a pro
per motion of her own, from west to east in her
orbit, she comes about three-quarters of an hour
later to the meridian of any place than she did
the day before, and therefore makes two tides
of ﬂood, and two of ebb, in about 24 hours, 4-8
minutes.
We have hitherto considered the Moon as the
only agent concerned in producing the tides. The
Sun, however, on account of his reat magnitude,
exerts considerable inﬂuence on t e waters of the
ocean, and has, therefore, a very sensible effect in
producing these phenomena; although, by reason
of the very small proportion that the Earth’s semi
diameter bears to the immense distance of the Sun
from the Earth’s centre, his disturbing force, com
pared with that of the Moon, is only in the ratio
of 2 to 5. To exemplify this, let us still sup
pose the Earth’s surface to be covered by the
ocean, and let A b C d, ﬁg. 41, be a section of the
whole by a plane passing through the Earth’s cen
tre; also, let S be the Sun, and M and m the
Moon at her full and change. If the waters were
acted upon by the Moon only, either at M or m,
the watery spheroid would assume the ﬁ ure
abcd, but, in consequence of the supera ded
eﬁ'ect of the Sun’s attraction, the longest diameter
0f the spheroid is still more elongated, and the
Shorter diameter compressed, whereby the actual
ﬁgure of the ocean becomes A B C D, which, by
the Earth’s revolution on her axis, produces what
are called the spring-tides.
When the Moon is in quadrature, the Sun and
Moon acting at right angles to each other, their
effects are completely opposed, and the ﬂux Bud
238 ‘L'Ecruitas’ ON asrnoNoMi‘t
reﬂux, instead of being augmented, will be dimi‘
nished, and‘these are called the neap-tides. Thus,
let a b_'c d, ﬁg. 49, be the ﬁgure the waters would
have from the action of the Moon alone at M;
then, if we suppose them to be also disturbed by
the attraction of the Sun at S, those parts of the
spheroid about I; and d will be raised to B and D,
while the waters which were elevated to a and 0
will be depressed to A and C, and the ﬁgure of
the ocean will be changed to A B C D. Now, if
the force of the Sun’s attraction upon the waters
were equal to that of the Moon, it is obvious, that
they would be equally high at all the four points
A B C D: this, however, not being the case, but
the waters under the Moon being always found to
rise above, while those under the Sun are always
found to sink below the general level, affords a
.clear proof that the Moon’s inﬂuence in raising
the tides exceeds that of the Sun.
The effect produced by the gravitation of the
waters towards the Sun being so small in com
parison of that produced by their gravitation to
wards the Moon, the solar tides may be regarded
as merely increasing or diminishing the lunar
tides; the change, therefore, effected by the joint
action of these two disturbing forces on any part
of the ocean, may be considered as the sum or the
difference of the changes which would have been
produced by the action of each separately. The
two spheroids, which the separate action of the
Sun and Moon would have generated, are, conse
quently, resolved into one ﬁgure, differing in form
from both ; the most elevated parts of which ﬁgure
follow the Moon in her apparent daily revolution,
in consequence of her being the more powerful of
the disturbing forces.
According to what has hitherto been said, the
tides ought to be highest immediately under the;
LECTURE XVI. 289
Moon, and on the opposite side of the Earth, yet,
observation proves that the time of high water at
any place never happens at the instant of the
Moon’s passing the meridian of that place, but,
mostly, some hours later. Neither do the spring
and Deep tides take place when the Moon is in
syzigy, or in quadrature, but generally a few days
afterwards. This difﬁculty admits of a very easy
solution; for the Moon’s attraction having com
municated a motion of ascent to the waters before
her arrival at the meridian, they would continue
to rise, even were her inﬂuence to cease altogether
when she was past that meridian; much more,
therefore, must they do so when the attraction is
only triﬂineg diminished, as a small impulse given
to a bod already in motion, will cause it to move
ﬁrrthert an it otherwise would have done. For
the same reason, we ﬁnd, that although the Earth’s
orbit is elliptical, and the Earth is in perihelion,
or nearest the Sun in January, yet, we have not
the highest tides at that time, but some weeks
later. Generally, however, the tides are highest
a little before the vernal equinox, and a little after
the autumnal. As, therefore, the Moon’s orbit is
also elliptical, when the Moon is in perigee or
nearest the Earth, at the time of her conjunction
or opposition, in February and March, or in Sep
tember and October, the tides will be very con
siderably augmented.
Having explained at considerable length, the
theory of the tides in general, it will be proper to
consider these phenomena under certain modiﬁ
cations, principally arising from the obliquity of
the ecliptic, and the inclination of the Moon’s
orbit to the plane of the equator.
When the Moon is vertical to the equator, the
tide that happens when she is above the horizon is
o
290 LECTURES on asraonomr.
of the same height with the next which takes place
when she,'is below it. But as the Moon declines
from, the equator, one of the elevations of the
watergon'stantly following the Moon, while the
otherrec'edes; from the equator on the contrary
side, 'the former will'describe nearly, that parallel
to which she' is vertical, 'and the latter will describe
a'parallel as far distant from the'equatOr in the
opposite hemisphere. Thus, the ' two'_ elevations
describe parallels of equal latitudes, but of differ
ent denominations. Now, if we su'ppose any place
to be situated in north latitude, it is obvious that
the elevation which moves in the northern hemi
sphere, will come nearer to that place than the
elevation which describes a parallel in the southern
hemisphere, and since it is high water at any
place when either of these elevations passes the
meridian of that place, it follows, that the tide
produced by one of these elevations, must differ in
magnitude from that produced by the‘other, and
that the highest tide will be caused by that'elera'
tion which moves in the same hemisphere in which
the place is situated. When, therefore, the
Moon and the place of observation are both on
the same side of the equator, the day tide, or that
which takes place while the Moon is above the
horizon of that place, exceeds that which is pro
duced when she is below it; because the elevation
which immediately follows the Moon, moves on
the same 'side of 'the equator with the place.
“When the Moon and the place of observation are
on opposite sides of the equator, the elevation
which is opposite to the Moon moves 'on the same
side with the place, consequently, the greater tide is
produced when the Moon is below the horizon, and
the smaller happens when she is above it. The dif
ference between the two tides ought, therefore, to
LECTURE xvr. 291
increase with the distance of the disturbing forces
from the equator, and to be greatest when the
Sun and Moon are in the tropics, because the two
elevations then describe the two circles which are
most distant from each other of any they can
describe; and observation shows, that in summer
the evening tides are higher than the morning, but
in winter, the morning tides are higher than the
evening.
\Ve have hitherto supposed the surface of the
globe to be entirely covered with water, this, how
ever, not being the case, the doctrine of the tides
as now explained, can at best only apply to the
tides in the ocean, nor will they be found even
then altogether to accord with the general theory,
since to produce the daily vicissitude of high and
low water, would require a longitudinal extent of at
least a quadrant of the ellipse. All the phenomena,
therefore, which have been described, will be greatly
modiﬁed by the direction of the shores, the extent
of the seas, the width and direction of the channels
through which the waters pass, the setting of cur
rents, by winds, and other local circumstances.
In conﬁned seas, such as the Caspian, the Eu):
ine, the Black Sea, the Baltic, and also in lakes of
great magnitude, such as those in North America,
the rise of the waters is so triﬂing as to be almost
insensible, and even in the Mediterranean, although
a sea of considerable extent, the elevation is very
small, owing to the narrowness of the passage by
which it communicates with the ocean. "
Having shown what ought to be the general
effects produced by the gravitation of the waters
of the ocean to the Sun and Moon, I shall forbear
any further remarks upon the tides in_ particular
places, which, although they are sometimes found
to be such as even to seem to contradict the gene.
_ o 2
292 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
ral theory here laid down, will, upon a minute
investigation, be found to be perfectly conformable
to that theory, the apparent irregularities being
produced by some of those modifying circum
stances already alluded to.
The Satellites qf Jupiter, -
it has already been observed, are four in number.
Their mean distances from the centre of their pri
mary in English. miles, and the times of their
periodical revolutions, have been given in a former
lecture. I
These bodies always appear nearly in a line
parallel to Jupiter’s belts, and passing through his
centre, but are not constantly seen in the order of
their respective distances from that planet. Their
general phenomena greatly resemble those of the
inferior planets, Mercury and Venus, being some-
times direct, sometimes retrograde, and sometimes
stationary. These phenomena will be understood
from ﬁg. 43, in which, let I be Jupiter, and the
circle 0 W C E, the orbit in which one of the
satellites of Jupiter revolves round that planet.
'Suppose the satellite to be in the point 0 of its
orbit, in inferior conjunction with Jupiter, as seen
by a spectator on the Earth at 0. While the
satellite moves from c to W, through the western
inferior quadrant of its orbit, it will appear to
move in a retrograde direction along the line I W,
receding from its primary till it comes to W,
where it will be stationary at its greatest western
elongation from Jupiter. While the satellite moves
from W to C, through the western superior qua
drant of its orbit, it appears to return towards
l See Lecture, pages 69 and 70.
LECTURE XVI. 293
Jupiter, with a direct motion from W to I, and
will overtake him at C, when it will be in superior
conjunction with. him. The satellite will now
appear to recede from Jupiter eastwards, and
while it is really going through the eastern supe
rior quadrant U E of its orbit, will seem to move
along the line I E, its motion still continuing direct,
and at E, having attained its greatest eastern elon -
ation, it will again appear stationary. Leaving E,
its apparent motion becomes a second time retro
grade, and while the satellite proceeds through
the eastern inferior quadrant E0 of its orbit, it
appears, as viewed from the Earth, to approach
the planet moving along the line E I, and will be
again in inferior conjunction when it reaches 0.
The three inﬁzrior satellites exhibit similar phe
nomena. It must, however, be observed, that a
satellite will not appear to describe a straight line,
unless the plane of its orbit extended pass through
the eye of the observer: at all other times it will
appear to describe an ellipse, as in ﬁg. 44. Now
the orbits of these satellites being inclined to the
ecliptic, the plane of any one of them extended
would intersect that circle in two opposite points,
which are sometimes called the satellite’s geocentrz'c
nodes. \Vhen, therefore, the Earth is in either of
the geocentric nodes of any satellite, that satellite
will appear to describe a right line, but in every
other situation of the Earth, the apparent path of
the satellite will be an ellipse, the width of which
will increase with the distance of the Earth from
the geocentric nodes of the satellite, but can never
be very considerable, because the angles formed
by the orbits of the satellites with the ecliptic are
but very small.
In order to determine whether a satellite be at
any time in its superior or inferior semicircle, it is
. o 3
294- LECTURES 0N 'As'raonon'rv.
only requisite to notice the direction of its motion, ‘
either with regard to the signs of the ecliptic, or
with regard to Jupiter. A satellite is in its supe
riorsemicircle when its motion is direct, and in
its inferior semicircle when its apparent motion is
retrograde. Otherwise, when a satellite is seen to
the west, or on the right of Jupiter, approaching
him; or to the east, or on the left of Jupiter, re
ceding from him, it is in its superior semicircle;
and it is in its inferior semicircle when it is seen
to' the east of Jupiter, advancing towards him, or
to the west, receding from him. In both semi~
circles, a satellite appears to move faster as it ap
proaches the centre of its primary, and slower a
it recedes from it. '
.. By reason of the immense distance of Jupiter
and his satellites from us, the latter, even at their
greatest elongations, always appear very near to
their primary. Jupiter being supposed at his
mean distance from the Earth, the greatest angular
distance of his ﬁrst satellite is 1 minute, 51 seconds,
6 thirds; of his second, 2 minutes, 56 seconds; 70f
his third, 4 minutes, 42 seconds; and of his fourth,
8 'minutes, 16 seconds.
\ In going from east to west through their infe
rior semicircle, the satellites of Jupiter sometimes
appear to pass over his disc like luminous spots;
they are, however, generally most visible at their
first entrance upon the disc of the planet, and just
before their leaving it, for those parts of Jupiter’s
disc which lie near the circumference receiving the
Sun’s rays obliquely, are generally less brilliantly
illuminated than the satellites, which, therefore,
become the more conspicuous on that account.
They are, however, sometimes observed to be less
luminous than Jupiter, which is probably owing to
some parts of their surfaces not reﬂecting the light
LECTURE xvr. 295
of the Sun so copiously as other parts. Their
shadows may also he sometimes seen either pre
ceding or following the satellites in their passage
across the disc of Jupiter. _ In going through their
superior semicircles from west to east, they are
eclipsed by passing through the shadow ofJupiter.
A satellite may also be hidden behind the body of
the planet, without being eclipsed, in which case it
is said to suffer an occultation. When Jupiter is in
or near his conjunction with the Sun, he is invisi
ble, being hidden behind that luminary, or lost in
the splendour of his rays. From the time of
Jupiter's ﬁrst becoming visible after conjunction,
till he is nearly in opposition, the immersions only
of his satellites can be seen from the Earth. When
Jupiter is in opposition, only their occultations can
be observed, and from the opposition till 'near his
conjunction, the emersions only are visible. L'et
S,‘ﬁg.‘4'5, be the Sun, A B CD the orbit of the
Earth I Jupiter, and the circles marked 1, 2, 3, 4-,
tm~i$"lof“his' four satellites. When the Earth
imkﬁiJupiteii is’ in cOnjunCtiOn with - the Sim,
Elia—th’i‘siblei when the‘Earth is at B,‘tthe ﬁrst
Will beobserved to enter the shadow of
Jupiter at '0, but its emersion at d cannot be per
Ceived, beCause the body of Jupiter comes between
the eye of the observer and that point. When the
Earth is at C, Jupiter being exactly in opposition
to the Sun, the satellite will pass behind-the planet,
but neither its immersion at 0, nor its emersion
at (I, will be visible to a spectator on the Earth,
and, therefore, although it will suffer a real eclipse,
yet, to an observer on the Earth it will appear to
undergo an occultation by passing behind the body
of upiter. When the Earth is at D, the reverse
takes place of what happened when the Earth was
at B, the'emersion at cl being now visible, while
0 4
296 moreass on ASTRONOMY.
the interposition of Jupiter prevents the immer
sion at c from being observed. It appears, there
fore, that an immersion of the ﬁrst satellite and its
next subsequent emersion can never be seen by
us; but both the immersion and the emersion
immediately following of the other three may be
visible: thus, when the Earth is at B or D, the
immersion of the second satellite at f; and the
_ emersion at g, may both be observed. The dotted
lines passing through the centre of Jupiter, show
that the satellites may suffer an occultation, or be
hidden behind the body of the planet without
being eclipsed. When the Earth is at B, the
eclipse precedes the occultation, but when the
Earth is at D, the occultation takes place before
the eclipse.
The three ﬁrst satellites are always eclipsed
when in opposition, but the fourth sometimes
passes without undergoing an eclipse, from which,
and the very unequal duration of these phenomena,
it appears that the planes of their orbits do not
coincide With that of the orbit of their primary,
for in that case they must always pass through the
centre ofJupiter’s shadow,and would, consequently,
suffer an eclipse of nearly the same duration at
every opposition to the Sun. When the line of
the nodes of either of the satellites passes through
the Sun, that satellite will pass through the centre
ofthe shadow; but as Jupiter goes round the Sun
the line of the nodes will be carried out of conjunc
tion with that luminary, and the time of the eclipses
will be shortened, the satellite describing only a
chord of a section of the shadow instead of the
diameter. It is necessary to observe, that the
nodes of the satellites here spoken of, are the true
nodes, or the points in which the planes of their
orbits extended would cut the heliocentric, orbit of
LECTURE xvr. ' 297
their primary, and must be» distin uished from
their geocentric nodes previously spoien of:
No eccentricity has yet been detected in the
orbit of the ﬁrst satellite, neither is that of the
second accurately determined. The third satel
lite’s orbit has an observable eccentricit , which
is itself subject to sensible variations, an the line
_of its apsides has a direct but variable motion.
The orbit of the fourth satellite is more eccentric
than that of any of the other three, and the line of
\its apsides has a direct annual motion. The in
clination of- the orbits to that of their primary, and
the position of their nodes, are also subject to
variations.
The eclipses of Jupiter’s satellites, especially of
the ﬁrst, afford a ready method of determining the
longitude of places at land, but as a telescope of
considerable power must be used in observing these
phenomena, this method cannot be employed at
sea, where the violence and irre larities of the
motion of a ship render the use of'lsluch an instru
ment for this purpose totally impracticable. The
general method of ﬁnding the ion itude from some
celestial phenomenon, the time of which is calcu
lated for any particular meridian, has already been
described.“ I shall, therefore, in this place, offer
only- a few words respecting the application of that
method to the eclipses of Jupiter’s satellites. The
eclipses of all the satellites that are visible in any
part- of the world are set down in the Nautical
Almanack, the times of the immersions and emer
sions being accurately calculated for the meridian
of Greenwich. If, therefore, an immersion or
emersion of a satellite be observed in any place,
according to mean time, the difference between
\ See Lecture xm. page 216.
0 5
{49$ LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
this time and the time of the same phenomenon
taking place as set down in the Nautical Almanack,
is the diﬂ'erence of longitude in time, and this
turned into degrees, &c., will be the longitude of
the place of observation, which is east or west, as
the time at that place is more or less than that of
the ephemeris.
. From havin observed that the immersions of
Jupiter’s satel ites were continually accelerated,
while the Earth was advancing towards the planet,
and the emersions as gradually retarded, while the
Earth was receding from him, Roemer was led to
the discovery of the successive propagation of
light. It is Obvious, that if the motion of light
were instantaneous, an immersion would be seen
at the same moment of time, whether the Earth
were at z or x, ﬁg. 45'; but if, on the contrary,
light be propagated in time, the further we are
from Jupiter, the later will the immersion be per
ceived, because the light will occupy more time in
travelling to us, and, consequently, it will be seen
as much sooner when the Earth is at :- than when
it is at z as the light of the satellite takes to move
from x to z. Now, when the distance x z (as in
the ﬁgure) is equal to the radius of the Earth’s
orbit, it is found, that an immersion which hap
pens when the Earth is in the former position, will
be visible 8’ 7” sooner than when it is in the latter,
whence it appears that light must take 8' 7" of
time to describe a space equal to the semidiameter
of the Earth’s orbit. -
The Satellites of Saturn
Are more numerous than those of any other planet
in the System, being, as has been observed in a
14
LECTURE xvr. 299
former lecture, no less than seven in number.
Owing to the great inclination of their orbits to
the plane of the orbit of Saturn, they very seldom
pass through, his shadow, and consequently
eelipses of these bodies can very rarely occur.
In most other respects the phenomena they ex
hibit are so similar to those we have already con
templated in the satellites of Jupiter, as to render
a particular description of them in this place quite
unnecessary.
The Ring of Saturn,
The plane of which coincides with his equator, is
inclined at an angle of about 80 degrees to the
plane of the orbit of its primary, and like the axis
of our earth, always remains parallel to itself. It
follows, therefore, that the Sun will shine for
15 years, or during one half of the Saturnian year,
upon the north side or upper surface of his ring,
and upon its south side or lower surface for a like
period. When the Sun passes as it were from
the north to the south side of the ring, or from'
the south to thernorth side-of it, the plane of the’
ring produced passes through the Sun, and the
ring itself becomes invisible. Now this is always
found to be the case when the longitude of Saturn
is 5 signs 20 degrees, or 11 signs 20 degrees, that
is, in the 20th degree of Virgo and the 20th de
gree of Pisces, which are, thereforefthe places of
the ring's nodes. The phenomena of Saturn’s
ring will, however, be best understood from
Fig. 46. in which (the Earth’s orbit being very
small in comparison of that of Saturn, and lyin
nearly in the same plane) let S be the Sun, A B
D E F G H the orbit of Saturn, and a b c d the
. 0 6
300 LECTURES on asrnoNomr.
orbit of the Earth. When Saturn. is at A be is
in the ascending node of his ring, which being
turned edgewise to the Sun is invisible, and Sw
turn appears divested of that appendage. As
Saturn advances in his orbit from A through B
to C, the ring gradually opens. and is most open at
> C. While Saturn is going from C through D to
E, the ring'gradually contracts in width, and it
altogether disappears when Saturn is in its de
scending node at E. As Saturn moves from E
through F to G, his ring again expands, and
when he arrives at G, appears as open as it did at
C; it then becomes gradually narrower, and when
Saturn returns through H to A, his ring once
more vanishes as at the ﬁrst.
A bare view of the ﬁgure is sufﬁcient to show
that while Saturn is going from A to E, or ﬁ‘om
the ascending to the descendin node of his ring,
the northern or upper side of it is illuminated by
the Sun, but its southern or lower side is,enligh_t-.
ened during the progress of Saturn from C to A,
or from the descending to the ascending node of
his ring. And when Saturn is in either of these
points, the Sun being in the plane of the ring
produced, it altogether disappears, because its.
thin edge only being illuminated,there is not light
enough reﬂected to render it visible.
Since Saturn can only pass, through the points
A and E once in the course of his revolution_round_
the Sun, or in about thirty of our- years, were this
the only cause of the disappearance of his. ring,
it could: never be invisible more than twice during
that period: it, however, sometimes disappears;
twice in the same year, which arises. either from.
the Earth’s being in the plane of the ring, or ﬁtom
its being. on that side of the plane which. is turned, -
away from the Sun; for in order that Saturn’s.
LECTURE xvr. 301
ring may be visible to us, it is not only necessary
that one of the sides of the ring should be turned
towards the Sun to be enlightened by him, but
that our eye should be also sufﬁciently elevated
above the same side of the plane of the ring to
receive the light reﬂected from the ring’s illumin
ated surface. Now the elevation of the eye, re
quisite for receiving a sufﬁcient quantity of the
reﬂected light to render the ring visible, must de
pend in a great measure upon the power of the
telescope, for Dr. Herschell informs us, that when
Saturn was observed through his forty feet
reﬂector, the ring never ceased to be visible. All,
therefore, that is meant by the disappearance of
the ring in certain situations, is, that in those
situations it cannot be seen through a telescope of
ordinary power. Dr. Herschell also says, that
through the instrument above mentioned, he has
sometimes seen the satellites of Saturn extended
along the margin of his ring, like bright beads
threaded on a string.
Dr. Long mentions an instance related b
Whiston, in his Memoirs of the life of Dr. Clark,
of a star having been seen by the father of
Dr. Clark, through the space between the ring
and the body of the planet.
The Satellites of Uranus,
It has been already remarked, revolve with a
retrograde motion about their primary, in orbits
almost perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic.
When the planes of their respective orbits pass
through the Sun they will be eclipsed, but on
account of their immense distance from us they
302 an'runns on ns'monomr.
cannot be seen unless Uranus be near his oppo
sition. Eclipses of these satellites were visible in
1799, and again, according to Dr. Herschell, in
1818, when they appeared to ascend through the
shadow of their primary, in a direction almost
perpendicular to the ecliptic.
LECTURE xvn. 303
LECTURE XVII.
ON corners.
Hume in the preceding lectures given a full
description of the bodies which compose the
planetary system, ' investigated the laws by which
their motions are governed, and explained the
various phenomena which these bodies exhibit to
a spectator placed on the surface of our own
globe, I shall proceed to treat of the second grand
division of my subject; namely,
The Cometawy System.
This system consists of the Sun, and an inde
ﬁnite number of Comets, which, like the planets,
circulate about him by the combined action of a
centrifugal force and the power of gravity, but
differ in many important particulars from those
bodies. The Sun, therefore, is the common head
of the planetary and cometary systems, under
which, being united, they form what is called the
Solar System.
Comets, unlike the planets, are only seen roa
sionally, appear but for a short time, are found in
every part of the heavens, and move in all possible
directions, so that, although they are really very
numerous, scarcely any two of them have been
found to pursue nearly the same track. Comets
are of various magnitudes; some have been sup
posed to be much larger than the moon, and
even to equal some of the primary planets in size,
304 ' LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
nay, if ancient records are to be believed, Comets
have appeared almost as large as the Sun, and
exceeding that luminary in brightness. The ve
racity of such accounts may, however, be very
justly questioned, since they are entirely unsup
ported by more recent observations. Comets
seldom exhibit any visible disc, but usually shine
with a pale dull light like that of Saturn, and are
mostly accompanied with a nebulous train or tail
turned from the Sun. This train or tail is always
transparent, the smallest stars being visible through
it, and to common observers forms the distin
uishing characteristic of this class of bodies.
ence they are vulgarly denominated blazing
stars.
In the infancy ‘Of science, when a desire to
7 penetrate into the bosom of futurity was the pre
dominating impulse under which the hosts of the
ﬁrmament were contemplated; when the stars
Were considered the dispensers of good and evil
to the inhabitants of this nether world ;- and when
the heavens were regarded as that ‘-‘ stupendous
book ofwisdom to» the wise,” in which, not only
the rise and fall of nations and empires, and all
the changes which the political and physical world
are doomed to undergo to the end of time, are
visibly pourtrayed; but even the fate of every
individual is legibly written, —- Comets were re
garded as the forerunners of the most disastrous
events, and war, pestilence, and famine, the oven
throw of states, public tumults, private assassin
ations, and the most violent convulsions of nature,
were among the numerous evils with which these
supposed prodigies of “ dire portent” were-ima
gined to threaten mankind. Nor is it at all sur
prising that amidst the vicissitudes to which all
sublunary affairs are subject, circumstances should
LECTURE xvn. 805
sometimes occur that seemed to conﬁrm these
absurd notions, and which it is natural to suppose,
the designing professors of judicial astrology
would not fail to impose on the credulity of their
deluded followers as complete demonstrations of
the infallibility of their doctrines.
Without, however, dwelling longer upon such
palpable absurdities, let us proceed to examine
the various opinions which have been offered by
' philosophers and astronomers respecting the na
ture of these bodies, and of the luminous train by
which they are generally accompanied.
The ancient Chaldeans are said, upon the au
thority of Diodorus Siculus and Apollonius
Myndius, as related by Seneca, to have consi
dered the Comets as a species of planets, subject
to the same laws as other erratic celestial bodies,
but moving in much more extended orbits, and
consequent , receding so far from the earth as to
be invisible during the greatest part of their revo
lutions. Whether this opinion were the result of
actual observation (as it must have been if, as
Apollonius farther observes, they were acquainted
with the courses described by these bodies) or
amounted only to conjecture, it is useless at this
distance of time, to endeavour to ascertain, and
although they are said to have been able to foretell
the appearance of Comets, yet, as Dr. Long judi
ciously observes, “these predictions were pro
bably founded not upon any knowledge of the
periodical times of Comets, or an maxims of true
philosophy, but upon some fa lacious rules of ‘
judicial astrology to which that nation was greatly
addicted.” ‘
That the Comets are bodies resembling the
planets, and like them circulating rOund the central
luminary, was also maintained by the Pythago
806 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
reans and the whole of the Italian sect, as we learn
from Aristotle, Plutarch, and Seneca ; yet Aristotle
himself was of a far different opinion, and taught
that the Comets were merely exhalations which
were raised into the higher regions of the atmo
sphere, and this opinion was generally adopted by
the'whole sect of Peripatetics.
Seneca argues strongly against the idea of
Comets being nothing but meteors, and declares
it his opinion, that they ought to be ranked among
the eternal productions of nature; shews that their
not moving in the zodiac is no serious objection
to their being considered planetary bodies; urges
the necessity. of collecting all the ancient observ
ations that have been made upon these bodies, in
order to determine whether they really have stated
periods of revolution or- not, and ﬁnally prophe
sies that “the time will come wherein these things,
which are now hid from us, will be discovered;
which observation and the diligence of aﬁer ages
will ﬁnd out; for it is not one age that is suﬁicient _
for so great matters. The time rivill be, when:
posterity will wonder that we were ignorant of
things so plain. One will arise who will demon<
strata in what regions of space the Comets wander,
why they recede so far from the other planets,
how great, and what sort of bodies they are.”
It was not, however, till the time of Tycho,
that Cometic astronomy was brought to any
degree of perfection. That celebrated astronomer,
by observations upon the Comet of 1577, con
ducted with the greatest care, ascertained that it
had no diurnal parallax, and that it must there
fore, not only be situated far above the limits of
our atmosphere, (and consequently could not be a
meteor or exhalation, as the Peripatetics imagined,)‘
but that it was_at a much greater distance from
LECTURE XVII. 307
\
the Earth than the orbit of the Moon : thus prov
ing by direct observation, what the most sagacious
ol the ancient philosophers had at most only
, conjectured. To the illustrious Tycho, therefore,
belongs the honour of having paved the way for
the restoration of Comets to the rank of planetary
bodies, and this wasﬁnally accomplished by Sir
Isaac Newton, who, from observations made upon
the comet of 1680, combined with his own theory
of the planetary motions, has shown that the
Comets like planets revolve about the Sun, but,
that the orbits of the former are very eccentric
ellipses extending far beyond the planetary system.
The head of a Comet, when examined with a very
powerful telescope, appears in general to consist
of an opaque illfdeﬁned nucleus encircled bya
mass of vapours. The nucleus has different de- ,
grees of opacity, and exhibits very different appear
ances in different Comets,'and- in some no nucleus
catijbe perceived. The nucleus of the Gdnlet -_of
l,§l§;*a"tew'days after "it ﬁrst-became visibléiri'z.’
WrathI-of December, is said to" have awaken?
inlbﬁhiee'd'r four parts of irregular ﬁgures; ‘vvhic‘h'
appeared like so many burning coals, and were
observed to change their situation as when a
person stirs a ﬁre, a few days after which, they
were broken into a great number of small frag
ments, or, as it were, apparently changed into a
cluster of small stars. Sir Isaac Newton sup
pOsed the nuclei of Comets to be compdsed of a
very solid and compact substance, capable of sup
porting without alteration the extremes of heat
and cold to which they may be exposed during
the course of their eccentrical revolutions about
the Sun. Some, however, assertrthat they are trans
parent, and that the tails of Comets are nothing else
thanthe beams ofthe Sun’slight transmittedthrough
these transparent heads; and this opinion, which
808 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
was held among others by Appian, Cardan, and
Tycho, satisfactorily enough accounts for most of
the phenomena exhibited by the tails of Comets,
concerning the origin of which, however, various
opinions have been entertained by astronomers.
That the tail of a Comet depends in some way
on the Sun is suiﬁciently obvious from its being
constantly turned from that luminary; its gradual
increase in length as the Comet approaches its
perihelion, when the tail is longest and most
luminous, (at which time it is also generally some
what bent and convex towards those parts to
which the Comet is moving;) and from its rapidly
decreasing in length as the Comet recedes from
the Sun. Kepler imagined that the tail of a
Comet was composed of the denser parts of its
atmosphere driven away by the impulsion of the
solar rays. Des Cartes ascribes it to the refrac
tion of light by the head of the Comet. Sir Isaac
Newton supposed that the tail of a Comet consists
of a very ﬁne vapour exhaled from the nucleus by
the intense heat of the Sun. Various other con
jectures have been hazarded upon this subject,
some supposing the tails of Comets to be portions
of the Sun’s atmosphere, others that they are of
the same nature with the electric ﬂuid and the
aurora borealis. But among all these various
conjectures respecting the tails of Comets, the
true cause of these surprising phenomena still re
mains involved in great obscurity ; many of those
hypotheses which seem even most plausibly to
account for the direction of the tail of a Comet,
its gradual increase in length as it approaches its
perihelion, its again diminishing as it recedes from
the Sun, &c., lying open at the same time to
such serious objections, as prove them at best to
be nothing more than sagacious conjectures,
affording no satisfactory solution of the difﬁculty.
LECTURE xvn. 309
The tail .of a Comet sometimes disappears
without itself undergoing any actual diminution
of magnitude, and merely in consequence of the
position which the Comet has in regard to the
Sun and Earth, for as the tail is always projected
from the Sun, it is obvious, that when a Comet is
in opposition, the eye of the spectator being nearly
in the same right line which connects the Sun and
Comet passing through the middle of the tail
lengthwise, the tail will be either wholly concealed
by the body of the Comet, or its extremities will
appear round the edge of the disc like a fringe of
hair, but so mixed with the atmosphere which
surrounds the nucleus as scarcely to be distin
guished from it, and it is from this appearance
that the Comet derives its name. If the eye of
the spectator be a little out of that line the tail
will appear short, and when it hangs down to
wards the horizon the Comet is said to be bearded.
If the tail of a Comet be viewed sideways the
whole length thereof is seen, and if the eye be in
the plane of the Comet’s orbit continued, the tail
appears straight, but when the earth is not in that
plane it appears bent.
The tails of Comets are of various lengths.
That of the Comet which appeared at the birth of
Mithridates, about 130 years before the Christian
aara, was 4-5 degrees long. In A.D. 135, Seneca
saw a comet whose tail extended over the whole
of the milky way. Longomontanus mentions a
Comet that appeared in 1618, the tail of which
he asserts to have been above 100 degrees in
length; but, according to Kepler, it was no more
than 70 degrees, and Newton calculated the tail
of the remarkable Comet of 1680 to be at least
80 millions of miles long. '
From the nucleus of the Comet of 1665, Heve
$10 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
lius observed a darkness to extend along the
middle of the tail, which he asserts to have been
the shadow cast by the Comet itself. Cassini
witnessed a similar appearance in the tail of the
Comet of 1680. A darkness was also observed
in the tail of the Comet of 1744, which was sup
posed to arise from the same cause.
The motions of some of the Comets are direct,
or according to the order of the signs, and of
others, retrograde, or contrary to that order; they
all move in ellipses round the Sun, placed in one
of the foci, but on account of the very great ec
centricity of their orbits, the small portion which
a Comet describes when near its perihelion (when
it is alone visible,) may without any sensible error
be considered as a portion of a parabola.‘
While a Comet is moving from its aphelion to
its perihelion, its motion like that of a planetis
continually accelerated, and it is continually re-’
tarded while the Comet is going from its peri
helion to its aphelion. A Comet’s orbit, therefore,
being so extremely eccentric, its motion abbut its
perihelion must be prodigiously swift, and accord
ingly,,the Comet of 1680 was calculated by Sir
Isaac Newton to move in its perihelion with the
immense velocity of eight hundred and eighty
thousand miles per hour. This Comet was also
remarkable for its very near approach to the Sun,
its distance from the surface of which at its peri
helion was not above a thirdpart of the semi
diameter of that luminary : the heat, therefore, to
which it was exposed when in that point of its
orbit, must have been to the heat of the summer’s
Sun to us, in the ratio of about 28,000 to l ; now,
Supposing this Comet to consist of matter similar
to that of which our Earth‘is composed, its sur
face, according to Sir Isaac Newton, would have
'1i‘ﬂ—ﬂ
__-I~
Q:._.-r_u<:a
as?
‘~.£
LECTURE xvn. - 31 I
acquired a degree of heat two thousand times
greater than that of red hot iron, and which could
not have been exhausted in less than twenty
thousand years. As, however, the effect of the
Sun’s rays in generating heat in the bodies upon
which they act, is found by experience to depend
greatly upon the constitution of these bodies,_we
may reasonably doubt'whether such an accumu
lation of heat actually took place in the Comet in
question, especially as the period of its revolution
is not supposed to exceed 575 years.
The Comet of 1759 deserves particular notice,
as the ﬁrst of which the return had been foretold.
Dr. Halley having diligently collected the observ
ations that had been made on different Comets
and calculated the elements of twenty-four ,of
them, was induced by the analogy he observed in
the elements of those of 1531, 1607, and 1682, to
suppose, that it was one and. the same Comet
which had appeared at these several times, and
although there was no less than 15 months dif
ference between the two periods, that from' 153]
to 1607, Comprising 76 years and 62 days,'while
the period from 1607 t01682 consisted only of
74- years 323 days, yet he accounts for this irre
gularity by ascribing it to the attractions of Jupiter
and Saturn, which be supposed altered the form
of this Comet’s orbit. He was also of opinion
that its period, which he had concluded was 75
or 76 years, would probably be lengthened by the
action of those planets so as even to exceed the
latter term, and that, consequently, the return of
this Comet, which, according to the ﬁrst period,
ought to take place in November 1758, or, by
employing the second, in August 1757, might not
happen till the beginning of 1759.
This interesting subject having engaged the
312 anrunns on as'rnonomv.
attention of the celebrated Clairaut (one of the'
mathematicians that accompanied Maupertuis in
his expedition to measure a degree of the meri
dian in Lapland) he calculated the separate
effects of Jupiter and Saturn on the motion of this
Comet, and found that its period ought to be
lengthened by the action of Jupiter 510 days, and
by that of Saturn 100, and would consequently
become 76 years 211 days, instead of 74 years
323 days. He therefore concluded, that as the
Comet reached its perihelion on the 14th of Sep
tember 1682, it ought to arrive at the same point
of its orbit on the 13th of April 1759. Towards
the end of December 1758, the Comet again
made its appearance, and reached its perihelion
on the 13th of March following, just 30 days
before the time mentioned by Clairaut, who by
revising his calculation, afterwards reduced his\
error to 22 days, and ﬁnally to 19 days. This
Comet may be expected again in 1835.
Although, therefore, very great credit is un
questionably due to the French astronomer for
his laborious investigation of this very curious and
intricate subject, yet the honour of having ﬁrst
foretold the return of a Comet, is undoubtedly
due to our countryman Dr. Halley, who‘also sup
posed that the famous Comet of 1680 already
mentioned, was the same that was seen in 1106,
531, and in the 4+th year before Christ, soon
after the murder eflulius Caesar'in the senate
house: and that its period was 575 years. This
celebrated Comet is, ther fore, probably the same
that Homer“ alludes to, it would have appeared
in the year 619 BC.
Notwithstanding the Very great number of
‘ Iliad, iv. v. 75.
LECTURE xvn. 813
Comets which are supposed to belong to our
system, the periods of only the two above men
tioned are known with any degree of certainty.
The Comet that appeared in 1770, according to
a very ingenious calculation of its orbit by Lexell,
which was afterwards repeated by Burckhardt at
the request of the National Institute, completes its
revolution in rather more than 5% years, and
ought, therefore, to have returned at least nine
times since the year in which it was ﬁrst observed,
but to the great disappointment of astronomers it
has never since been seen. It is worthy of remark,
that this Comet passed between Jupiter and his
satellites, and as it also approached very near
the Earth, it is probable, that some remarkable
change produced in the form of its orbit by the
action ofthe planets, may have prevented its having
been since recognised. As this Comet passed so
very near the satellites of Jupiter without pro
ducing any change in their orbicular motions or
in that of their primary, it may be presumed that
Cometary bodies contain very little matter; the
same inference may also be. drawn From the Comet
of 1454, which is said to have eclipsed the Moon,
and consequently, must have been very near the
Earth, yet produced no sensible effects on the
motions of either of these bodies.
The beautiful Comet of 1811, (represented in
ﬁg. 47.) was visible longer than almost any other-l
upon record, and would have been seen much
longer had its heliocentric motion been direct,
The apparent diameter of its nucleus, according to
Schroeter, was 1’ 4-9”, or 10,900 geographical
miles. In the centre of this nucleus he also
observed another small nucleus much more lu
minous than the former. The apparent diameter
of the latter was 16"'97, or 1,697 miles, and it
P
314- anrunns ON ASTRONOMY.
seemed to be surrounded by a peculiar kind of
atmosphere, and also with a luminous nebulosity.
The total apparent diameter of the head of this
Comet was 84" 12”, or 2,052,000 miles, and the
greatest apparent length of the -tail 18°, or
131,852,000 miles. Burckhardt supposes that
the nucleus of this Comet, and perhaps of all
others, consists of nothing more than a conglo
meration of vapours, probably of so little density
as to be transparent.
Of ninety-eight Comets whose elements have
been accurately computed, twenty-four passed
between the Sun and the orbit of Mercury ; —
thirty-three between the orbits of Mercury and
Venus ; — twenty-one between the orbits of Venus
and the Earth ; — sixteen between the orbits of
the Earth and Mars: -—- three between the orbits
of Mars and Ceres; — and one between the orbits
of Ceres and Jupiter.
Since the theory of the Cometary motions has
been developed, the superstitious fears which the
appearance of these bodies formerly excited, have
been so entirely dissipated, that Comets are now
viewed, even by the vulgar, with scarcely any other
sentiment than that of admiration, yet it is a re
markable circumstance, that the same knowledge
which has disarmed Comets of their supernatural
terrors, has rendered them scarcely less formid
able visitors in another point of view, many still
supposing that as a great number of the Comets
when in perihelion are nearer the Sun than the
Earth is, and as these bodies :nove invall possible
directions through the different regions of the
planetary system, some of them in approaching
the perihelion point of their orbits may probably
encounter the Earth itself, or pass so near it as to
cause some very great convulsion. That these
LECTURE xvxr. ' 3 I 5
terrors are little more than imaginary, a few words
will sufﬁciently evince.
The Comet of 1770, we have already seen,
passed between Jupiter and his satellites without
creating any visible disturbance in the motions of
any of those bodies, and the Comet of 14-4-5, it
has also been observed, was found, when so near
the Earth as to eclipse the moon, to produce no
sensible effect on either; it is obvious, therefore,
that Comets possess in themselves so little dis
turbing power that scarcely any thing short of an
absolute shock from one of them could produce
any very serious calamity, and since most of the
Comets hitherto observed, move in orbits consi
derably inclined to the plane of the ecliptic, and
not one in that plane, the chances against such an
event taking place (which could not happen with
out the Earth and Comet arriving at the same
instant, at the same point of intersection) are so
numerous as, if not altogether to preclude the pos
sibility of its occurrence, at least to render it
extremely improbable. It has been calculated
that if a Comet as large as the Earth itself were
to pass it at the distance of about 40,000 miles,
the only effect produced would be an increase in
the periodical revolution of the latter of about two
days.
It seems, however, no improbable conjecture
that a Comet of considerable magnitude passing
very near to a planet might cause unusually high
tides. Mr. Whiston carried his thoughts upon
this subject so far as even to attribute the universal
deluge in the time of Noah to the Earth passing
through the tail of a Comet: and as the interval
between the time of the deluge, as generally stated
by chronologists, and the year 1680, nearly coin
cides with seven revolutions of the famous Comet
w 2
$16 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
already described, which made its appearance in
that year, he imagines that to have been the one
throu h the tail of which the earth passed; and
Dr. galley observes of this very Comet, that
“ none hath threatened our earth with a nearer
appulse than that of 1680. For by calculations I
ﬁnd that November 11d 6" 1’ RM. that Comet
was not above the semidiameter of the Sun to the
northward of the way of the Earth. At which
time, had the Earth been there, the Comet would
have had a parallax equal to that of the Moon,
as I take it. This is spoken to astronomers, but
what might be the consequences of so near an
appulse, or of a contact; or, lastly, of a shock of
the celestial bodies (which is by no means impossible
to come to pass), I leave to be discussed by the
studious of physical matters.”
With respect to the purposes for which such
extraordinary bodies are designed, few conjectures
have hitherto been formed that seem entitled to
much attention. Dr. Gregory supposed them
intended to recruit the exhausted fuel of the Sun,
or, by involving the planets in their tails, to restore
the moisture which is spent in vegetation and
turned into dry earth; and Sir Isaac Newton
imagines that the vital principle of our atmo
sphere, or that subtilest and best part of our air
which is necessary to the life of every thing, is
derived from Comets. Many other opinions have
been entertained respecting the use of these bo
dies, which from their proximity to the Sun when
in perihelion, and their very 'great distance from
that luminary when in aphelion, are generally sup
posed to experience such extremes of heat and
cold as render them wholly unﬁt for the support
of animal or vegetable life. I cannot, however,
quit this subject without taking notice of the very
LECTURE xvn. 81 7
‘ singular hypothesis advanced by Mr. VVhiston.
Unwilling, probably, that so numerous a class of
bodies (five hundred Comets at least having been
observed since the commencement of the Christian
aara) should be considered entirely disqualiﬁed for
the reception of inhabitants of every description,
he supposes them appointed by the Almighty as
places ofpunishment for condemned sinners, where
they will be tormented by turns with extremes of
heat and cold, of which in this statewe can of course
form no idea. Numerous as Comets are known,
and much more numerous as they are generally
supposed to be, I would only say in answer to
this learned gentleman’s opinion, that it be cor
rect, I most sincerely hope (as I believe every
real Christian will) that a very great portion, at
least, of the most beautiful bodies in the universe
may have been created in vain.
318 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
LECTURE XVIII.
OF THE FIXED STARS IN GENERAL. -— OF THE
CONSTELLATIONS.-—THE CONSTELLATIONS NORTH
OF THE ZODIAC PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED.
OUR attention has hitherto been principally di
rected to the Sun, with the planets and Comets
.which revolve round him as their centre of mo—
tion, and being entirely destitute of any innate
lustre of their own, shine only by reﬂecting the
light of that great luminary. With these bodies,
however, those lucid orbs which we are now about
to contemplate, are perfectly unconnected. The
Fixed Stars constitute by far the most numerous
class of celestial bodies, and afford the grandest
and most sublime display of the creating power of
the Deity; They are called Fixed Stars from their
constantly retaining the same position among
themselves; for although, by reason of the diurnal
and annual motions of our own planet, their situ
ation with regard to the Earth is continually
changing, yet the position of any two groups of
stars, or of any two stars of the same group, rela
tively to each other, is at all times found to be the
same. This, however, must be considered as a
general assertion, to which modern observations
(as will hereafter be shown) have put us in pos
session of many exceptions.
The Fixed Stars may be easily distinguished
from the planets by their scintillation or twinkling,
while the latter (with the exception of Venus and
LECTURE xvm. 319
Mars when near the horizon) shine with a steady
light, and exhibit in general a less luminous ap
pearance. This twinkling is usually ascribed to
the intervention of those numerous minute par
ticles of various kinds that are continually ﬂoating
in our atmosphere. When any one of these par
ticles comes between a ﬁxed star and our e e, the
star, by reason of its immense distance, is hidden
from our sight, but as the interposed body is
instantaneously removed it again becomes visible,
and thus, by a perpetual succession of these inter
cepting particles, the twinkling appearance is pro
need.
When we take a casual view of the heavens on
a clear winter’s evening, we are apt to conceive
that the number of stars presented to our view
exceeds all calculation, yet it has been ascertained
that not above a thousand, visible to the naked
eye, are at any one time above the horizon. Of
these the apparent magnitudes are very different,
and this diﬁerence, which is obvious to the most
superﬁcial observer, may arise either from a diver
sity in the real magnitudes of the stars, or, which
is more likely, from their being placed at unequal
distances from us, although in some instances both
these causes may combine to produce that diﬁ'er
ence which is perceived among these bodies, some
of which may be both larger and nearer to us
than others. Be this as it may, astronomers have
distributed the ﬁxed stars, with respect to their
apparent magnitudes, into several classes or orders.
The brightest and largest are called stars of the
ﬁrst magnitude; the next to these in lustre, stars
of the second magnitude, and so on to the sixth,
which are the smallest that can be perceived by
the naked eye. Those which cannot be discerned
without the aid of a telescope are denominated
P 4
820 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
Telescopic Stars. Very few of the stars of any one
of these classes are exactly of the same size and
brightness; hence it happens, that many of those
stars which are by some astronomers considered
of the ﬁrst magnitude, are by others assigned to
the second; and the. same uncertainty exists with
reward to the other classes: so that, instead of
only six classes or magnitudes, we may say that
there are almost as many diﬁ‘erent orders of stars
as there are individual stars, there being such an
endless diversity in the apparent magnitude, co
lour, and splendour of these bodies.
The sphere of the ﬁxed stars was by the an
cients divided into a number of constellations or
assemblages of neighbouring stars, and to every
one of these groups they gave the name of some
sensible object, to which they fancied they dis
covered some resemblance in the disposition of the
stars that composed the constellation. That this
division of the starry hosts is of very high anti
quity is evident, since mention is made of several
of these fanciful assemblages of stars by ancient
authors, both sacred and profane. Thus, in the
book of Job, the supposed aera of which is ﬁxed
1513 years B. C., Orion, Arcturus, and the Plei
ades are spoken of particularly, and from Homer
and Hesiod, who ﬂourished about 634 years later,
we gather that the aﬂ'airs of husbandry and
navigation were regulated by observations upon
the constellations, several of which are mentioned
by name by those authors. It would, however,
be in vain to endea_vonr at this time to ascertain
with certainty from whom the Greeks borrowed
their sphere —- though it is generally supposed
that, like most of their astronomical symbols, it
was copied from the Egyptians, from whom their
knowledge ofastronomy was principally derived, ——
LECTURE xvnr. 821
or to attempt to trace to its origin an arrangement
of the stars which probably took place in the
earliest ages of astronomy, since the very ﬁrst cul~
tivators of the science must doubtless have found
the necessity of reducing to groups the apparently
innumerable multitude of stars that adorn the ﬁr
mament, in order to distinguish these bodies with
regard to their relative situations in the heavens.
It is probable that many of the ﬁgures of the
constellations in the infancy of the science were
much more simple than those we have now in
use, and that the Greeks changed a great number
of them; it is, however, quite certain that some of
them were preserved, and have been handed down
to us nearly, if not altogether, in the form they
received them.
The ancient constellations (as they are now
called) were forty-eight in number, or ﬁfty, in
cluding Antiniius and Coma Berenices, and were
for the most part so delineated as to bring the
principal stars into the most conspicuous parts of
the ﬁgures they were supposed to represent; but
as in this distribution of the stars many, from their
peculiar situation in the heavens, could not be
comprehended in any of those ﬁgures, the stars
so left out were denominated unfmvned stars.
Most of these have been since reduced into new
ﬁgures by Hevelius, Halley, La Caille, La Lande,
and other modern astronomers, so that the number
of constellations into which the heavens are at
present divided exceeds one hundred; and it is
probable that others will yet he invented. They
are usually divided into three classes; the ﬁrst,
containing those which are north of the zodiac;
the second, comprehending the constellations 0f
the zodiac; and the third consisting of those that
are south of it.
P 5
322 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
The constellations north of the zodiac at pre
sent amount to about 38; viz.1
URSA MAJOR *, the Great Bear ,- — URSA
MINOR *, the Little Bear ,- -— CAssrorEm', Cas
siopeia ,- - CEPHEUS *, Cepheus ,- —- Dnaco, "“ the
Dragon ,-—Cvs"ros Masst, the Guardian of
the Harvests ,- — TARANDUS, the Rein Deer ,- -—
CAMELOPARDALUS, the Cameleopard;-—AUR1GA*,
the Charioteer ,- — LYNX, the Lynx ,- — Ammo
MEDA", Andromeda ,- -— Pnasaus ET CAPUT Mr:
DUSZE *, Perseus and the Head of -Medusa ,- —
TRIANGULA *, the Triangles;—-—MUSCA. BOBEALIS,
the Northern Fly ,- — GLORIA FREDERICI, Fre
derick’s Glory ,- -— PEGASUS ’, the l/Vingell Horse ,
-- EQUULEUS *, the Little Horse ,- — DELPHI
NUS *, the Dolphin ,- — LACERTA, the Lizard ,- —
CYGNUS“, the Swan ,- —AQUILA ET Anrmous *,
the Eagle and Antinb'us; — SCUTUM SOBIESK},
Sobieshi’s Shield ,- —— SAGITTA *, the Arrow ,- —
‘YULPECULA ET ANSER, the Fox and Goose;—
LYRA ', the Lyre or Harp ,- — CORONA BOREA
LIS *, the Northern Crown ,- — HERCULES *, Her
cules ,- — OPHIUCHUS VEL, SERPENTARIUS ‘, the
Serpent Bearer ,- — SERPENS *, t/ze Serpent ,- —
TAURUS PONIATOWSKI, the Bull of Poniatowshi ,
—- QUADRANS MURALIS, the Mural Quadrant ,- -—
B'doras", Bootes ,- —MONS. MCENALUS, the Moun
tain Moenalus ,- -— ASTERION ET CHARA, van.
CARES VENATICI, the Grey Hounds ,- -- Con
Canon, King Charles’s Heart ,- —-- Coma BERE
NICES *, Berenice’s Hair ,- -— LEO MINOR, the
Little Lion ,- -- TELESCOPIUM HERSCHELII, Her—
schel’s Telescope.
The constellations of the zodiac are 12 in num
ber and are those from which the signs were ori
l The ancient constellations are distinguished from the'
modern ones by an asterisk, thus ‘.
LECTURE xvm. 323
ginally named. They now, however, (as we be
fbre observed) correspond with them in name
only. They are
ARIES ', the Ram ,- — TAURUs“, the Bull ,- —
GEMINI *, the Twins ,- -- CANCER ‘, the Crab ,- -—
LEO *, the Lion ,- —- VIRGO *, the Virgin ,- —
LIBRA *, the Scales ,- -— SCORPIO *, the Scorpion ,
,—- SAGITTARIUS *, the Archer ,- — CAPRICORNUS *,
the Goat,- —- AQUARIUS", the Water Power—
and PISCES ", the Fishes.
The constellations south of the zodiac are 55 in
number; viz.
Cirrus“, the Whale ,- — OFFICINA SCULPTORIA,
the Sculptor’s Shop ,- — MACHINA ELECTRICA, the
Electrical Machine; -— FORNAX CHEMICA, the
Chemist’s Furnace ,--- ORION *, Orion,- —-LEPUS ',
the Hare,- — Fnuvws ERIDANUS VEL FLUVIUS
ORIONIs *, the'River P0 or the River ofOrion ,- —
PSALTERIUM GEORGII, George’s HLUP ,- ——BRAN
DENBURGIUM SCEPTRUM, the Sceptre of Bran
denburg;-—CAN1s Mmon“, the Little Dog ,-—
MONOCEROS, the Unicorn ,- -- ARGO NAVIS *, the
Ship Argo ,- — Pnus NAU'I‘ICA, the Sea or Mariner’s
Compass ,- — CANIS MAJOR“, the Great Dog,--
MACHINA TYPOGRAPHIA, the Printing Press ,- —
COLUMBA NOACHI, Noah’s Dove ,- — CELA ScULP'-‘
TORIS, VEL PRAXITELES, the Engineer’s Tools;—
SEXTANS, the Sex/ant ,- -— HYDRA *, the Water
Serpent ,- — CRATER *, the Cup ,- — Convus", the
Crow ,- - AVIs SOLITARIA, the Bird ofthe Desert ,
— CENTAURUS *, the Centaur,- —- LUPUS *, the
Wat)",- -- MACHINA PNEUMATICA, the Air Pump,
— FELIS, the Cat ,- — PISCIS AUSTRALIS“, the
Southern Fish ,- — MICROSCOPIUM, the Microscope;
-— LE BALLON Aénos'rA'rIQUE, the Air Bal
loon ,- —- PHmNIx, the Phoenix ,- - Hymws, the
Water Snake ,- —- HOROLOGIUM, the Clock ,- —
P 6
324- anrumas on ASTRONOMY.
RETICULUS RHOMBOIDALIS, the Rhomboidal Net ,
-—DORADO VEL XIPHIAS, the Sword Fish ,- -—
EQUULEUS PICTORIUS, the Painter’s Easel ,- ——
PISCIS VOLANS, the flying Fish ,- -— Ronua CA
~ROLI, Charles’s Oak ,- -— CHAMJELEON, the Chame
leon ,- -- MUSCA Ausrnaus VEL APIS, the Southern
Fly or Bee;- CRUX, the Cross ,~ —-APUS VEL
Avrs INDICA, the Bird of Paradise ,- —- TRIAN
GULUM AUSTRALIS, the Southern Triangle ,- -
Cmcmus, the Compasses; --QUADRA EUCLIDIS,
Euclid’s Square ,- -— ARA *, the Altar— Mons
Manszn, the Table Mountain ,- — Oc'rans HAD
LEIANUS, Hadley’s Octant ,- -- PAVO, the Peacock ,
—- INDUS, the Indian ,- —- TELESCOPIUM, the
Telescope ,- — CORONA AUSTRALIS *, the Southern
Crown,- — Gnus, the Crane ,- — Toucan, the
American Goose ,- — NUBECULA MINOR, the Lesser
Cloud ,- — NUBECULA Mason, the Greater Cloud.
It was not, however, to the constellations only
that the ancients gave particular names; smaller
collections of stars, and some of the most remark
able single stars, were distinguished in the same
manner ; thus the cluster of small stars in the
neck of the Bull was called the Pleiades ; a group
of stars in the face of the same ﬁgure was deno
minated the Hyades, the largest star of which has
its proper name, Aldebaran; in like manner a
bright star in the mouth of the Great Do is
called Sirius, &c. 8:0. But the best mother? of
distinguishing the stars in the several constellations
is that introduced by Bayer, about the year 1608,
and consists in applying to them the letters of the
Greek and Roman alphabets in such a manner,
that the principal star of every constellation is
denoted by the ﬁrst letter of the Greek Alphabet,
the next brightest star by the second letter, and so
on. Thus the brightest star of the constellation
LECTURE xvnr. 325
Draco, is called a Draconz's ,- the second brightest,
B Draconis ,- the third brightest, 7 Draconz's, 8:2.
It must, however, be particularly observed, that
the Greek letters do not indicate the real magni
tudes of the stars which they represent, but only
the relative magnitudes of those in the same con
stellation. Thus a Lyme is a star of the ﬁrst
magnitude; a Oplzz'uc/lz', a star of the second mag
nitude ; and a Cephei, a star of the third magni
tude. When any constellation contains more
stars than the Greek alphabet extends to, the
letters of the Roman alphabet are employed, in
like manner, to supply the deﬁciency, and thus
every star is much easier distinguished than it
would be by a proper name, which (the stars
being so numerous) would of course be very difﬁ
cult to recollect. Another advantage in this
method is, that not only the particular star alluded
to is immediately known, but the magnitude of
that star relatively to the other stars in the same
constellation, is at least in a certain degree pointed
out. This useful method of noting the stars has,
since the time of its inventor, been generally
adopted by astronomers, who, when any constel
lation contains more stars than can be marked by
the two alphabets, extend the plan by adding the
ordinal numbers, 1, 2, 3, &c.
There is, perhaps, no branch of astronomy
more essential than the study of the constellations,
which, though too often disregarded by the gene
rality of students in the science, is, in fact, the
very ﬁrst thing to which their attention ought to
be directed, as a knowledge of the names and
positions of the ﬁxed stars must constitute the
basis of all astronomical observations. In order,
therefore, to facilitate the acquirement of this
526 LECTURE-S 0N ASTRONOMY.
useful knowledge, I shall proceed to give a par
ticular description of all the constellations visible
in the latitude of London', together with the
names, magnitudes, and positions of the principal
stars contained in each, accompanied with copious
directions for ﬁnding them in the sphere of the
heavens. These particulars I shall illustrate by
ﬁgures 48. and 419.,which are Celestial Planispheres
stereographically projected on the plane of the
equinoctial. These Planispheres, although upon
a very small scale, contain all the constellations
already enumerated, in the form and position in
which they really occur in the heavens, whereby
the embarrassment which generally attends the
use of the celestial globe, in acquiring a knowledge
of the stars, is completely obviated. In order,
however, to prevent confusion, it was found
necessary to omit all the stars below the fourth
magnitude, and also the Greek and Roman letters
by which the particular stars in each constellation
are generally distinguished. It is, however, to be
observed, that the maps lose nothing of their
utility as references in determining the positions
of the ﬁxed stars, by the omission of these
letters, the instructions which they are intended
to illustrate being entirely independent of those'
characters.
In this descriptive survey of the constellations
I shall commence with those which are north of
the equinoctial; and of these
URSA MAJOR, the Great Bear, being the most
1 From this description of the constellations the reveries
of the poets concerning their origin have been excluded to
make room for more scientiﬁc information. This, it is pre
sumed, is the less to be regretted, as they are to be met with
in almost every treatise on the Use of the Globes.
LECTURE xvm. 327
conspicuous, I have made choice of it as a point
of reference from which to describe the neigh
bouring asterisms.
The ancients are said to have represented the
constellations of the Bears each under the form of
a waggon drawn by a team of horses, and Ursa
Major, among country people, is still known by
the title of Charles’s Waiu. It is in some places
denominated the Plough, to which agricultural
instrument it certainly bears some resemblance.
This constellation contains 87 stars, of which
one is of the lst magnitude, four are of the 2d,
three of the 3d, ten of the 4th, &c-: but it is
principally distinguished by seven brilliant stars,
four of them constituting the body, and the other
three the tail ; they are disposed + *p
as in the annexed ﬁgure. '1 he a}
two stars in the body farthest 0“ l
from the tail and marked a, 3,
are called the Pointm's, because
if a straight line be supposed Um
to pass through them, and to MOJ'W- \_ a“
be' continued towards that part! * * +8 \ :3
of the heavens which is on the *7"
convex side of the tail, it will at the distance of
the most remote star in the tail from the upper
pointer pass nearly through a bright star, P, in the
tail of the Little Bear, called Alruccabalz, or the
Pole Star. The upper pointer is of the 1st mag
nitude, though some make it of the 2d, and is
called Dubhe. The stars in the tail have also
particular names assigned them: that which is
nearest the body of the animal being called Alioth,
that in the middle Mz'zar, and the star at the ex
tremity of the tail Benetnasc/z. These three stars
are all of the 8d magnitude; the middle one Mizar,
328 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
however, appears double, having a star of the
5th magnitude just above it, called Alcor.
URSA MINOR, the Little Bear, contains 24 stars,
of which one is of the 2d magnitude, two are of
the 3d, four of the 4th, Sec. This constellation is
chieﬂy remarkable for its principal star, named
Alruceabah, or the Pole Star, which is situated at
the extremity of the Bear’s tail. It is called the
Pole Star'because it is so near the Pole of the
world, or that point through which the axis of
the Earth produced northward to the sphere of
the heavens would pass, that all the stars appear
to revolve round it, and as it affords an easy
method of determining a ship’s course, has been
taken notice of by mariners from the earliest ages
of navigation; travellers were also formerly in the
habit of directing their course through the vast
deserts 'of Arabia by observations upon the stars;
it is, however, natural to suppose, that the ma
riner’s compass is now employed as the more
convenient guide.
This asterism is easily known by the seven
stars, whose magnitudes have been already men
tioned: they are disposed nearly in the same form
as those of the Great Bear, but in an inverted po—
sition, and are inferior to them in brightness.
The two stars farthest from the tail, resembling in
point of situation the Pointers in the Great Bear,
are called the Guards or Wardens of the Pole,
the brightest of which, corresponding in position
with Dubhe in Ursa Major, denominated Koo/lab.
CASSIOPEIA, called by Ulug Beig, El Seder, the
Seder Tree, is generally represented as a lady
sitting in a chair. The number of stars in this
constellation is 55, ﬁve of which are "of the
3d magnitude, ﬁve of the 4~th, and the rest smaller.
The ﬁve principal stars in this asterism, or those
LECTURE xvnr. - _ 329
by which it is chieﬂy distinguished, are arranged
something in the form of an irregular W, the
upper part of which is turned towards the pole.
A line drawn from Alioth, the ﬁrst star in the tail
of Ursa Major, by the Polar Star, and prolonged,
will conduct us to Schedir in the neck of Cassio
peia. This is the ﬁrst star in the constellation,
and forms one of the angular points at the bottom
of the W.
CEPHEUS is usually delineated in a sittin pos
ture, having a crown on his head, and 1101 ing a
scep‘tre in his left hand. This constellation con
tains 35 stars, viz. three of the 3d magnitude,
seven of the 4th, 8m. The left foot of Cepheus
nearly rests upon the Pole Star, and is easily dis
tinguished by a rather bright star near to Alme
eahah'; the other foot is known by a similar star
just under the star in the tail nearest the body
of the Little Bear. A line drawn through the
Pointers in the Great Bear and the Polar Star,
and prolonged, will pass through a bright star in
the left knee of Cepheus. This star forms an
isosceles triangle with the Pole Star and a bright
star in the waist of Cepheus, and a right line
drawn from the Pole Star through 'the bright star
in the waist of Cepheus, and prolonged, will meet
the star Alderamin in his right shoulder. A
line drawn from the Polar Star through the midst
of a cluster of stars in the waist of Cepheus, directs
us to a star of the ll-th magnitude in the throat,
and prolonged, passes through three stars in the
head, forming a small triangle. A line drawn
from Alderamin through the star in the throat,
and continued to an equal distance on the other
side, passes through another star of the 4th mag
nitude in the left arm of Cepheus.
DRACO, the Dragon, is a very extensive consteL
lation, the head and trunk of which is wound
330 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
round the Pole of the ecliptic, while its tail divides
the Bears and nearly surrounds Ursa Minor.
This constellation contains 80 stars, four of
which are of the 2d magnitude, seven of the 3d,
and ten of the 4th, 8w. Of these stars, one of the
2d magnitude, named Etam'n, psituated in the head
of the Dragon, has 51° 30’ north declination, and
consequently passes vertically over the inhabitants
of London (to which place it is therefore said to
be a celestial correspondent) once every twenty
four hours.
A line drawn from the middle star of the three
which form the top of the W in Cassiopeia, by
the bright star in the waist of Cepheus, and con
tinued to about the same distance on the other
side of that star, will lead us to the head of Draco,
which will be easily distinguished by Four stars
forming an irregular square. Two of these, viz.
Etanin already mentioned, and another called
Rastaban, are of the 2d magnitude, the former
being rather more brilliant than the latter. But
the most brilliant star in this constellation is in
the tail of Draco, and may be easily distinguished
from its situation, viz. between Mz'zar in the tail
of Ursa Major and the star immediately below
Koc/zab in the Little Bear, and at nearly an equal
distance from both.
Cusros MESSIUM, the Guardian qftlze Harvests,
‘ and TARANDUS, the Rein Deer, have been formed
out of some small stars usually asssigned to
Cepheus and Cassiopeia. The former of these
constellations was introduced by La Lande, and is
represented under the ﬁgure of a man having a
sickle in his right hand and a staff -in his left.
The latter was formed by Le Monnier. The
stars, about 10 in number in each of them, are
mostly invisible to the naked eye.
LECTURE xvur. 331
CAMELOPARDALIS, ﬁle Cameleopard, is a modern
constellation, formed by Hevelius, and contains
4-8 stars, ﬁve of which only are of the 4th magni
tude, the rest being all smaller. The most con
spicuous star is situated nearly on the arctic
circle, in the belly of the ﬁgure, the neck of which
reaches beyond the Pole, so that the head of the
animal is between the tail of the Little Bear and
that ofthe Dragon.
AURIGA, the Charioteer, is represented as a
man in a sitting or kneeling posture, supporting a
goat and two kids on his left hand, and holding a
bridle in his right. His head by the apparent
diurnal motion of the sphere, passes vertically
over England and Ireland once every twenty-four
hours. The number of stars contained in this
constellation is 66, among which are one of the
1st magnitude, two of the 2d, and nine of the 4th.
Capella, the most brilliant star in this quarter of
the heavens, is situated in the left shoulder of
Auriga, or more properly in the belly of the goat,
and forms with the Pole Star, and Schedir in the
neck of Cassiopeia, an isosceles triangle. A bright
star of the 2d magnitude to the left of Capella is
in the right shoulder of Auriga. In a line drawn
from this star to Alruccabalz, and at a somewhat
geater distance from it than Capella, will be
found a star of the 4th magnitude, which is the
most southern in Auriga’s head. If the same
line be prolonged in the contrary direction, it will,
at about an equal distance on the other side of
the star in Auriga’s right shoulder, lead to a star
of the same magnitude in his right hand, or rather
in the wrist. Under Capella, and hearing a little
to the right, is another star of the 4th magnitude,
said to be in the right elbow of the Charioteer;
and a little below this again, but inclining rather
332 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
to the led, are found two other stars, also of the
4th magnitude, which indicate the Kids. The~
two other stars, by which this constellation is dis
tinguished, are in the feet. That in the right
foot is of the 2d magnitude, and is about as
far below the star in the right hand, as that in the
right shoulder is above it, but incllnes farther to
the right, forming an isosceles triangle with the
two stars in the shoulders. This star is also in
cluded in the constellation Taurus, in which it
shews the place of the tip of the Bull’s north born.
The star in the left foot of Auriga is of the fourth
magnitude: it is rather more distant from the
stars in the Kids than Capella, and in an opposite
direction. A line drawn from Capella, through
the star in Auriga’s right hand, and prolonged,
will pass just above a star of the 4th magnitude
in the bridle reins.
The LYNX, like the Cameleopard, is one of
Hevelius’s' constellations. It is situated between
Ursa Major and Auriga. Of 44 stars contained
in this constellation, there are none that exceed
the 4th magnitude. One of the most conspi
cuous stars is situated in the mouth, and is very
near the head of Auriga, and two others in the
tail are just under the fore-feet 0f the Great Bear.
These all are of the 4th magnitude.
ANDROMEDA is represented on the map by the
ﬁgure of a woman almost naked, and chained by
both wrists to a rock. This constellation consists
of 63 stars, three of which are of the 2d mag
nitude, two of the 3d, and twelve of the ‘ith, the
remaining stars being all below that size.
The chief stars in Andromeda are Alp/zeratz in
the head; Miraclz, in the girdle; and Almaaclz, in the
left foot. A line drawn from the Pole Star, through
that star in Cassiopeia which is nearest the head
.
LECTURE xvm. 333
of Cepheus, and prolonged to something more than
'an equal distance on the other side, will pass
through the ﬁrst of these stars, which, it is to be
observed, is COITlIl‘lOll to this constellation and Pe
gasus. In like manner, a straight. line drawn from
the Pole Star to that star in Cassiopea which is
nearest it, or farthest from the head of Cepheus,
and extended, will lead us to Almaac/z, and about
half-way between Almaaclz and Alp/zeratz will be
found Miraclz, from which, if a line be drawn per
pendicular to that which connects these three prin
cipal stars, it will lead to a star of the 3d mag
nitude, also in the girdle; near to which is a star
of the 4th magnitude, being the most northerly
star in this part of the constellation : another star
of the 4th magnitude is also found between Miracb
and Alplzeratz. .
PERSEUS ET CAPUT MEDUSIE, Perseus and the
Head ofMedusa, are usually considered as one con
stellation. Perseus is represented with a sword
drawn in his right hand, and the head of Medusa
in his left; having a helmet on his head and wings
at his ancles. There are in this constellation 59
stars, viz. two of the 2d magnitude, four of the
3d, twelve of the 4th, &c.
A line drawn from Mirach to Almaac/z in Andro
meda, when produced, will pass through the bright
star Algenib, of the 2d magnitude in the body
of Perseus, on each side of which, and nearly in a
straight line perpendicular to the former, is found
a star of the 3d magnitude, one in Perseus’s left
thigh, and the other in his right shoulder. A star
of the 4th magnitude in the left shoulder, forms
with Algenib the base of a triangle, wh'ose vertex
is the star in the right shoulder. Almaac/z in An~
dromeda, and Algem'b, likewise form the base of
a triangle, whose vertex is a bright star of the
834 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
2d magnitude, called Algol, situated in Niedusa’s
head. ‘
TRIANGULA, the Triangles, are situated nearly
between Perseus and Andromeda. This constel
lation originally consisted Of but one triangle ;
another was however added by Hevelius ; the num
ber of stars contained in them is 16, three of which
are of the 4th magnitude. The ﬁgures are easily
distinguished by the disposition of the stars com
posing the constellation.
Musca BOREALIS, the Northern Fly, is a small
but very distinguishable constellation lying to the
left of the triangles. It contains six stars, viz.
one of the 8d magnitude, two of the fourth, 8:0.
A line, drawn from Algenib through Algor, pro
duced, passes by the chief star, and through the
centre of this constellation.
GLORIA FREDERICI, E'ederich’s Glory, is a mo
dern constellation introduced by M. Bode, by
whom it was composed out of some unformed stars
near the right hand of Andromeda. This constel
lation is represented on the map by the ﬁgure of
a sword, with a laurel branch attached to the hilt.
It contains 42 stars, four of which are of the 4th
magnitude, and will be easily distinguished by its
situation, which is about half way between the
head of Andromeda and that of Cepheus.
PEGASUS, the Winged Horse, contains 89 stars,
viz. three of the 2d magnitude, three of the 3d,
nine of the 4th, 810.
The stars of the second magnitude in this con
stellation are Mar/rah, Scheat, and Algenib; they
form, with Alpheratz in the head of Andromeda, a
very large square, by which this asterism is easily
recognized. Mar/cab is situated in the fore part of
the wing; a line from this star to Alpheratz is a.
diagonal of the square, and also the hypothenuse
LECTURE xvm. 335
of a right angled triangle, formed by lines connect
ing Seheat in the leg with Marhab and Alpheratz.
Algenib, the last in the wing, completes the square.
In the mouth of Pegasus is a star of the 3d mag
nitude, called
EQUULEUs, the Little Horse, is in point of ﬁgure
a very imperfect constellation, the head only being
delineated; hence it has been denominated Equi
Seetio. It contains 10 stars, of which four are of
the 4th magnitude. From the position of these
stars, which form an irregular quadilateral in front
of the Winged Horse’s head, this asterism is very
easily distinguished.
DELPHINUS, the Dolphin, is a very compact con
stellation, containing 18 stars, ﬁve of which are of
the 3d magnitude, the rest are all inferior to
the 4th. This constellation is very easily distin
guished, from the ﬁve principal stars forming a
conspicuous cluster just in front of Equuleus ; four
of them, in the face of the Dolphin, are in the
ﬁgure of a rhomboid, from which the ﬁfth is not
far distant.
LACERTA, the Lizard, was one of the asterisms
added by Hevelius to the old constellations. It
contains 16 stars, three being of the 4th mag
nitude, and the rest smaller. A straight line
drawn from Seheat in Pegasus to Alderamin ,in
Cepheus will pass lengthwise through this‘constel-
laion.
CYGNUS, the Swan, is situated about midway
betwen the Dolphin and the Pole; it contains 81
stars, one of which, called Deneb, is of the lst
or 2d magnitude, six are of the 3d, twelve
of the 4th, 8m. A straight line drawn from
Alruecabah to the head of the Dolphin will pass
through Deneb, which is about half way between
the two. This star will also be easily recog
336 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY
nised as the top of a large cross, formed by
the principal stars of this constellation, and by
which it may be distinguished without difﬁculty.
A star of the 3d magnitude in the breast of
Cygnus is in the centre of the cross, the foot of
which is also indicated by a star of the 3d mag
nitude, situated in the bill of the Swan, and called
Albireo. The upper arm of the cross points to
the head of Draco, and the lower to the head of
Pegasus; each of them is distinguished by a star
of the 2d magnitude, one being situated in the
north and the other in the south wing of the
Swan.
AQUILA ET ANTINiius, tire Eagle and Antinb'us,
are generally considered one constellation, which
is intersected by the equinoctial: the whole of the
Eagle, with the head, shoulders, and left arm of
Antiniius, being situated to the north, and the rest
of the asterism to the south of that circle.
It may, therefore, be proper to remark in this
place, once for all, that in referring to the plani
sphere for this or any other constellation which is
intersected by the equinoctial, the northern part of
the constellation must be looked for in the map of
the northern, and the southern part of the constel
lation in that of the southern hemisphere. This
being observed, the continuity of the ﬁgures will
be easily traced, and the part of any constellation
delineated on one of these planispheres correspond
ing to that represented on the other, may be found
by means of the circle of hours surrounding each
hemisphere, and pointing out the right ascension in
time of the several constellations. The description
of any constellation so situated, and thedirections
for ﬁnding it, or any of the stars contained in it,
will in future be given in the same manner as if
ch'runn xvm. 837
the asterism under consideration were entirely
situated in the northern or southern hemisphere.
This constellation contains one star of the ﬁrst
magnitude, called Atkair or Altair, ten of the
third, three of the fourth, with a number of smaller,
making up in all 74: stars. The Eagle is easily
distinguished by three stars situated in the neck,
the middle one of which, Athaz'r, forms, with
Albz'reo in the Swan, and the star nearest to it
in the head of the Dolphin, an isosceles triangle,
of which Albireo may be considered the vertex.
The line drawn from the head of the Dolphin to
Atkair, forming the base of this triangle, if pro
duced on the other side of Al/zair passes over a
star of the 3d magnitude in the right or south
wing of the Eagle. This star, Athaz'r, a star
of the 8d magnitude in the right shoulder of
Antiniius, and another of the same magnitude
in his girdle, form nearly a diamond; and a line
drawn from the star in the south wing of the
Eagle through the star in Antiniius’s right shoulder,
and produced, conducts to another star also of the
3d magnitude. This last is in Antin'ous’s right
arm. A line drawn from the star in the girdle of
Antin'ous through that in the Eagle’s south wing,
prolonged, passes a little above two stars in the
tail of Aquila, both of the 3d magnitude. A
line drawn from the star in the right shoulder of
Antiniius through the star in the girdle continued;
leads to a star of the 3d magnitude in his left
foot, and in like manner a line drawn from the
star in the south wing of Aquila, and crossin the
former line in the star in Antiniius’s girdle, leads
to another star of the 3d magnitude in his knee;
These ﬁve last mentioned stars therefore forma
large X.
SCUTUM Soumsxr, Sobieski’s Shield. This con
mllation is situated near the feet of Antin'ous. It
9
888 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY
was'introduced by Hevelius, and contains only
seven principal stars, of which three are of the
4th magnitude, and the rest smaller. Two of
the largest stars in this constellation are on the
north-east border of the Shield, and the third is
near its centre. ,
( SAGITTA, the Arrow, is a small constellation north
of Aquila, and very near to its left wing. It con
tains eighteen stars, of which four are of the 4th
magnitude; the others are not so large. The shaﬁ:
of the arrow passes between two of the principal
stars; the other two are upon it.
VULPECULA ET ANSER, the For and Goose.
This constellation is situated to the north of Del
phinus and Aquila, and is one of those composed
by Hevelius out of the unformed stars of the
ancients. It contains 35 stars, four of which only
are of the 4th magnitude. One of these is in
the nose of the Fox, very near to Albireo' in' the
SWan, but the exact position of the stars contained
in this unimportant asterism is best acquired by a
comparison of it with the neighbouring constel
lations.
- LYRA, the Ham or Lyre, contains 22 stars, viz.
one of the 1st ma itude, two of the 3d, one
of the 4th, 8w. T is asterism is rendered par
ticularly conspicuous by the very brilliant star'
Vega, or VVega, which is of the 1st magnitude,
and will be found by drawinga line through Athaz'r,
and the other two stars in' the neck of the Eagle ;
this line produced northwards passes through Vega.
The other stars, Whose magnitudes have been
mentioned,'are also very bright stars, and with
Vega form a very brilliant group.
CORONA Boamus, the Northern Crown, is
another very pleasing group of stars, a line from
which to the constellation» Lyra forms the base of
a triangle, whose vertexiis the Pole Star.’ CorOna "
LECTURE xvm. 339 -
Borealis centains 21 stars, of which one, called
Alphacca, or Gemma, is of the 2d magnitude;
the other principal stars are six in number, and~
are of the éth magnitude. This constellation is
easily recognised by Alphacca and three stars of
the 4th magnitude forming a crescent. The
other principal stars in this asterism are also con
spicuous.
HERCULES occupies that lar e space in the
heavens between the Lyre and theTIortheru Crown.
He is delineated in a kneeling posture, with the
skin of the Nemaean lion thrown over his shoulders,
grasping a club in his right hand, and holding
Cerberus, represented as a serpent with three
heads, and the apple-branch, in his left. This
constellation contains 1 13 stars, most of which are
very small, there bein only ‘seven of the 3d
magnitude, 17 of the 4t , 8w.
A straight line drawn from the Pole Star, so as
to pass just half way between Etam'n and Rastaban,
in the head of Draco, will direct us to a star of
the 4th magnitude, in the left foot of Hercules.
The former of the two stars in the head of the
Dragon is the vertex of an isosceles triangle
whose base is Vega and a star of the 4th mag
nitude, indicating Hercules’s right knee. Aline
drawn from Rastaban through the star in the
leﬁ: foot of Hercules directs to a star of the 4th
magnitude in his left knee, and a line parallel to
the one last mentioned drawn from the star in his
right knee will pass between a star of the 4th
magnitude and a smaller one near it, and arrive
at a star of the 3d magnitude, all three in thel
right thigh of Hercules. Between the star of the ’
3d magnitude in the right thigh and that of the:
4th in the left knee is another star of the 4th
magnitude, which is in the left thigh, near to which -
Q 2
$40 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
is a star of the 3d magnitude. A line drawn
from Vega in Lyra to Alphacea in Corona Borealis
passes through a group of four stars, two of which
are of the 3d magnitude, in the body of Her
cules. A line drawn from the star of the third
magnitude in the left thigh through the most
northerly star in this group, and prolonged on the
other side of it, will pass near two stars, of the
3d magnitude, in succession, the ﬁrst of which
is in the hollow under the right arm, the second is
in that arm, and if a straight line passing between
these stars be drawn from Alphacca, it will lead to
a star of the 3d magnitude, called Ras Algethi,
situated in the head of Hercules. The left arm is
indicated by four stars of the 4th magnitude in
a straight line with one another, the ﬁrst of which,
or that nearest the body, forms, with Ras Algethi,
the base of an isosceles triangle, having the star
under the right arm for its vertex. Very near
the ﬁrst star in the left arm is another star, also
of the 4th magnitude, which is situated in the
breast of Hercules. The second star in this arm
is called Maasym. Thelast of the four stars in
the arm forms a small triangle with two other stars
of the same magnitude; these are in the left hand,
and above them is seen a cluster of stars, of which
Cerberus and the Apple Branch are composed;
ﬁve of the stars in this cluster are of the 4th
magnitude.
Ornmcnvs, VEL SERPENTARIUS ET SERPENS,
Ophiuchus, or the Serpent Bearer and the Serpent, I
shall describe as one constellation, though it is
perhaps more frequently divided into two parts,
which are considered as distinct asterisms. Ophi
nchus was anciently denominated lEsculapius.
This very extensive constellation occupies a
large portion of the heavens south of Hercules,
LECTURE xvm. at!
1nd contains 134.- stars, two of which are of the
2d magnitude, fourteen of the 3d, thirteen of
the 4th, 8w. Of the two stars of the 2d mag
nitude, one named Ras Alhague is in the head
of Ophiuchus, and the other is in the neck of the
Serpent. Bus Alhague is not far from Ras Algethi
in the head of Hercules, and forms with that star
the base of an isosceles triangle whose vertex is
Vega in Lyra; and if the line from Vega to Ra:
Algethi, forming one of the sides of this triangle,
be produced beyond the base, it will pass near two
stars of the 4th magnitude, in the left shoulder
of Ophiuchus. The right shoulder is known by
two stars of the 3d magnitude, one of which,
namely, that farthest from the head, is the vertex
of a right-angled triangle whose base is formed by
two stars also of the 3d magnitude, situated in
the tail of the Serpent. The base of this triangle,
produced to a considerable length on the other
side of the perpendicular, conducts to two more
stars of the same magnitude very near together:
these are in the left hand of Ophiuchus. A group
of stars of the 3d and 4th magnitudes, just
below the Northern Crown, constitute the head of
the Serpent. A straight line drawn from Ra:
Alhague through the most northerly star in the leﬁ:
shoulder, when produced, passes through the
brightest star in the Serpent, on each side of which,
in a straight line, is a star of the 3d magnitude,
and very near to it one of the fourth. If from the
most northerly of the three just mentioned a line
be drawn through the other two, and the most
southerly star in the left hand of Ophiuchus, and
produced, it will pass through a star of the 3d
magnitude in the left knee, and at a considerable
distance farther will meet a star of the 4th mag
nitude in his right foot, very near to which is a
Q 3
8&2 LECTURES 0N as'rnonomv.
star of the 3d magnitude. ,In the right leg, a
little above the instep,iis ,a star of the 4th mag
nitude; and higher, up, a little below the knee,
is one of the 8d. This last forms a triangle
with two stars of the 4th magnitude in the Ser
pent: it is also the vertex of an isosceles triangle,
the base of which is formed by the star of the
8d magnitude, in the left knee already men
tioned, and another star of the 4:th magnitude in
the left leg.
,TAURUS Ponm'rowsxr, the Bull quoniato'wski,
-is a small constellation situated between Ophiu
chus and Aquila, introduced by Abbé POczobut
in 1778. It is composed of about seven principal
stars, four of which are of the 4th magnitude,
and several of inferior magnitudes. The prin
cipal stars are for the most part in the Bull’s face,
near the right shoulder of Ophiuchus.
QUADRANS Monaus, the Mural Quadrant, is a
modern constellation, between Draco and the r' ht
leg of Hercules. It was composed by La Lan e,
and consists of about nine stars, all below the 5th
magnitude.
B'do'rEs is represented as a man in a walking
posture, grasping in his right hand a hunting spear,
and holding in his left the leash of the two dogs
'Asterion and Chara, and a reaping book. This
constellation contains 54 stars, viz. one of the lst
magnitude, six of the 3d, eleven of the 4th, &c. It
is rendered particularly conspicuous by its princi
pal star Arcturus, situated near Bootes’s left knee.
This brilliant star is the vertex of an isosceles tri
angle, the base of which is formed by two stars of
the 3d magnitude in the shoulders of B'dotes,
above and between which is another star of the
same magnitude in his head. A line drawn from
the star in the right shoulderto Arcturus passes
LECTURE xvnr. 34-3
through a star of the 3d magnitude, called Mirac,
and above it, bearin alittle to the right, is a star of
the fourth magnituge: the girdle of Bootes passes
bétviéen these two stars. A little'abovethe starin the
right shoulder, of BiiOtes is'a star of the 4th magni
tude, named Alklurops, in the point of his~ spear:
a line' drawn downwards through these two stars,
and produced, leads in succession to two stars of
the 4th magnitude in his right leg, beldw which
are two stars of the 3d magnitude, the one in the
leg and the other in the instep; '
Mons MENALUS, the Mountain Mrenalus, con
sists of about 11 stars, all below the 4th mag
nitude, between the feet of Bootes' and the Ser
pent. ' '
Asramou ET CHARA, var. Canes Vsunrcr, the
Grey Hounds, is' one of the modern constellations
introduced by Hevelius; it is situated between
Biiotes and the hind legs of the Great Bear, and
consisting only of very small stars, is principally
distinguished by the small constellation,
Con CAROLI, King Charles’s Heart. This
constellation is composed of a single star of the
8d magnitude in the collar of Chara. It forms
a triangle with Benetnasclz and the lower star in
the side of the square of Ursa Major, nearest the
tail. It was made a distinct constellation by Sir
Charles Scarborough, physician to Charles IL, in
honour of King Charles I.
COMA Banamcas, Berenice’s Hair, is composed
of a cluster of 4-3 stars immediately below the Grey
Hounds : ten of these stars are of the fourth mag
nitude, and the rest are smaller. They are scat
tered in a very disorderly manner through the
constellation, which is however sufﬁciently remark
able in the Heavens from the number of stars of
94
344 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY
the 4th and 5th magnitudes of which it is com
posed. .
Lao Mmon, the Little Lion, is situated imme
diately below the hinder paws of the Great Bear.
This constellation contains 53 stars, one of which
is of the 3d magnitude, ﬁve or six of the 4th,.
See. The stars in this asterism are principally
divided into three groups, one forming the head:
and fore-paws of the Lion, the second in which is
the star of the 3d magnitude, the body and the
third the tail. A line drawn through the two stars
in the side of the square in the Great Bear nearest
the tail, and produced downwards, conducts to the
star of the 8d magnitude, in the belly of Leo
Minor, near to which are some stars of the 4-th
magnitude, and by these the positions of the other
stars in the constellation may be easily deter
mined.
TELESCOPIUM HERSCHELII, Herschel’s Telescope,
is a new constellation, introduced in honour of the
celebrated astronomer whose name it bears. It is
situated in the triangular space contained between
the hind legs of the Lynx and the right arm of
Auriga, and is composed of about 17 stars, all be
low the 4th magnitude.
mc'runa xix. 34-5
LECTURE XIX.
THE zonmcm. CONSTELLATIONS, AND THE coN
STELLATIONS worn or THE zonmc, PARTI
CULARLY DESCRIBED.-——AN msr METHOD or
FINDING WHAT CONSTELLATIONS AND PRINCI
PAL suns ARE ON THE MERIDIAN AT ANY PRO
POSED TIME.
HAVING in the last lecture given a full description
of all the constellations north of the Zodiac, those
which occupy that vast belt or girdle of the starry
sphere will next engage our attention.
ARIES, the Ram, is the ﬁrst of the zodiacal
constellations. It is situated immediately below
Triangula and Musca Borealis, and contains
sixty-six stars, viz. one of the 2d magnitude, one
of the 3d, two of the 4th, 810. The chief star of
Aries is in the forehead, and will be found in a
line drawn from the Pole Star to Almaach, in
Andromeda, and produced. To the right of this
star, a little more southerly, is one of the 3d mag
nitude, situated in the Ram’s left horn, below, and
very near to which is a star of the 4-th magnitude,
called Mesartlzim. The other star of the 4th mag
nitude is in the hind haunch, considerably to the
left of the two last mentioned.
TAURUS, the Bull, the second of the zodiacal
constellations, contains one hundred and forty-one
stars, among which are one of the lst magnitude,
one of the 2d, several of the 3d and 4th magni
tudes, 8L0. This constellation is principally re
markable for two clusters of stars, the one in the
Q5
34-6 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
face, and the other in the neck of the Bull. The
former is called the Hyades, in which is Aldebaran,
the chief star in the asterism: the latter, denomi
nated the Pleiades, contains a star of the 3d mag
nitude, named Alcione. This group of stars was
among, the ancients represented by a hen and
.seven chickens.
.Aldebaran will be easily recognized as the
vertex of an isoscles triangle, the base of which
is formed by Capella in Auriga, and Algol in Caput
Medusae: it forms the Bull’s southern eye, not
far from which is a star of the 3d magnitude, in
dicating his northern eye, and making with the
former the base of a small trian le, whose vertex
is a star of the 3d magnitude in ﬁre nose. These,
with the small stars near them, constitute the
group above mentioned, called the Hyades. The
bright star in the right foot of Auriga, it has
already been remarked, is common to that con
stellation and Taurus, in which latter it forms
the tip of the northern horn: the southern horn is
indicated by a star of the 3d magnitude; the situ
ation of which is pointed out by a line drawn from
the star in the Bull’s nose, to Aldebaran, and
produced. A straight line drawn from the Bull’s
northern eye to the chief star in Musca Borealis
passes just below the Pleiades, which are situated
about half-way between those stars.
GEMINI, the Twins, the next constellation in the
order of the signs, contains eighty-ﬁve stars, viz.
one of the 1st magnitude, onerof the 2d, four of
the 8d, sixth of the 4th, 8w. The chief stars in
this asterism are Castor and Pollux, or Apollo and
Hercules; they are situated in the heads of the
Twins, and each of them bears the name of the
Twin in which it is placed. Castor is a- brilliant
star of the lst magnitude, and is the_v_ertex of an
LECTURE XIX. 84-7
isosceles triangle, whose base is Capella in Auriga,
and the star at the extremity of the Bull’s south
ern horn. To the south-east of Castor, we ﬁnd
the bright star Pollux, of the 2d magnitude. To the
' south-west are two stars of the 8d magnitude,
making a parallelogram with the two foriner; the
more northerly of these is situated in the rio'ht
knee of Castor, and the other in the elt
knee 'of Pollux. Nearly parallel to these, ‘ still
farther towards the south-west, We ﬁnd four stars
in a line, two of which are of the 8d magnitude.
These four stars indicate the four feet of the Twins;
9. line drawn from the most southerly of which to
Pollux passes through a star of the 3d magnitude
in Castor’s right elbow. A line'drawn' from this
star to Castor passes through a star of the 4th
magnitude in the top of his harp or lyre. In a
line drawn from this star to the star in Aurig'a’s
right shoulder is found a star of the dth magnitude
in Castor’s left hand; and in the same right line,
but extended on the opposite side of Castor’s lyre,
is another star of the 4th magnitude, situated in
the right shoulder of Pollux.
CANCER, the Crab, contains eighty-three stars,
seven of which are of the fourth magnitude, the
rest are Smaller. Of the stars of the 4th magni
tude, two situated in the body of Cancer are called
the Asses ,- between which is a cluster of small
stars denominated Preesepe, the Manger. . The
principal stars in this constellation may be recog
nized without much difficulty. A line drawn from
the right shoulder of Auriga through Castor eon
ducts to Asellus Australis, the southern Ass: Asel
lus Boreas, the northern Ass, is above it to the
left hand, but separated from the southern by
Prwsepe. A line drawn from Asellus Boreas to
Pollux, passes through a 'star of the 4th magnitude
9 6 '
348 an'ruaas on AS'BHONOMY.
in the second northern leg of the Crab. A straight
line drawn from Castor through Asellus Australz's
leads to two stars of the 4th magnitude, in the
southern claw; not far from which is another of
the same magnitude also in the claw. The other
principal star is in the ﬁrst southern leg.
LEO, the Lion, is a remarkably ﬁne constellation,
consisting of ninety-ﬁve stars. Of these, two are
of the lst magnitude, two of the 2d, six of the 8d,
thirteen of the 4th, 810. The stars of the lst mag
nitude are Regulus, called also Cor Leom's, “ the
Lion’s Heart;” and Denebola, in the tail. The
latter star forms with Arcturus in Biiotes the base
of an isosceles triangle, whose vertex is C01" Carolz' ,
and ifthe base of this triangle be continued throu h
Denebola, it will lead to Regulus, in the heart of ie
Lion. To the right of Denebola is a star of the
3d magnitude, situated in the hind haunch, north
of which is a star of, the 2d magnitude in the
back; these two stars are the perpendicular of a
triangle nearly right angled, of which Denebola,
and the star in the Lion’s haunch, form the base.
A straight line drawn from Regulus to the lower
star in that side of the square of the Great Bear
which is nearest the tail, passes through a star of
the 2d magnitude, in the neck of the Lion. To
the right of this line, and nearly parallel to it, are
found two stars of the 3d magnitude, also in the
neck. If from the more elevated of these two
stars a line be drawn to the northern claw of the
crab, it will pass through an irregular quadrilateral
in the head of Leo, composed of two stars of the
3d magnitude and two of the 4th. Between
Regulus and the southern claw of the Crab we
meet with two stars nearly in a. line; the ﬁrst of
these is of the 3d magnitude, and is in the right
fore-leg of the Lion; the other, situated in his
left fore-leg, is of the lithmagnitude. The hind
LECTURE xrx. 84-9
legs of Leo are distinguished by a cluster of stars,
principally of the 4th and 5th magnitudes.
VIRGO, the Virgin. This constellation is gene
rally represented in the ﬁgure of a damsel with
wings, holding a few ears of corn in her left hand.
The number of stars contained in this asterism is
one hundred and ten, of which one is of the 1st
magnitude, six are of the 3d, several of the 4th,
8w. The chief star is called Spica, it forms with
Arcturus in Biiotes, and Denebola in Leo, a triangle
almost equilateral. In the right arm of Virgo is a
star of the 3d magnitude, called Vindemiatriz ,- this
is situated at about an equal distance from the bril
liant star in Bootes and Denebola. A straight line
drawn from Arcturus to Vindemz'atriz, and pro
duced to about an equal distance beyond the latter,
leads to a star of the 3d magnitude, in the north
ern extremity of the south wing. A line from
Arcturus to Spica passes near a star of the 3d
,magnitude, 9. little above the right knee of the
Virgin; this star is the vertex of a triangle, whose
base is.Vindemz'atri.z', and another star of the 3d
magnitude, in the south wing, between the leﬁ;
arm and the body of Virgo; and these three stars
with a star of the 4th magnitude, in the mouth of
Virgo, form a large diamond, near the middle of
which is a star of the 8d magnitude, below her
girdle. In a line leading from the star in the
south wing between the arm and body of Virgo,
to the most northerly star in that wing, is a star
of the 3d magnitude, in her left arm, near the
shoulder. Along the bottom of the garment are
three stars of the 4th magnitude; another of the
same magnitude is found in each foot of Virgo,
and one in her left ankle.
LIBRA, the Scales, the seventh zodiacal constel
lation, contains ﬁfty-one stars, viz. two of the 2d
350 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
magnitude, two of the 3d, eight of the 4th, 8w.
The situation of this constellation in the heavens
is easily distinguished by the two principal stars,
one of which, named Zuben el Genubi, is in the
southern scale, and the other, called Zuben es Chi
mali,‘is in the northern. This last is the vertex
of an isosceles triangle, whose base is Alp/zacca in
the northern crown, and Bus Algetki in the head
of Hercules. A straight line drawn from Vega
in Lyra, to Zuben es Chimalz', and produced, passes
through the chief star in the southern scale. A
star of the 3d magnitude, called Zuben Halm‘aln', in
the northern scale, and another of the 4th mag
nitude in the southern, form a rhomboid with the
two stars of the 2d magnitude already described.
The other star of the 3d magnitude is below the
southern scale.
SCORPIO, the Scorpion, situated immediately
below Ophiuchus, is the eighth zodiacal constel—
lation, and contains forty-four stars, of which one,
named Antares, is of the 1st magnitude, one is of
the 2d, several are of the 3d and 4th, 8w. Antares
is remarkable for the redness of its light, and may
_be easily distinguished, from its forming, with
Spica Virginis, the base of a triangle nearly right
angled, of which the perpendicular is the last
mentioned star, and Arcturus in B'dotes. Between
Antares and the rhomboid in the Scales are four
stars nearly in a line; the most northerly of which
is the star of the 2d magnitude, the two next are
of the 3d, and the most southerly is of the 4th:
the three ﬁrst are in the head, and the last is in
the ﬁrst south leg of the Scorpion. From the most
northerly in the head and Antares the other prin
cipal stars in this constellation may be easily
traced, making with them a ﬁgure something re
sembling a large reaping hook, the blade of which
. LECTURE xix. 351
is formed of the stars constituting the tail of the
Scorpion, and the handle by these in the body. ‘
SAGITTARIUS, the Archer, is the next of the
zodiacal constellations. It contains sixty-nine
stars, among which are ﬁve of the 3d magnitude,
and nine of the 4th; the remainder are of inferior
magnitudes. Four stars below one another, but
not in a straight line, indicate the bow of Sagit
tarius. The most northerly of these stars is of
the 4th magnitude, and is the vertex of an isosceles
triangle, whose base is Antares in Scorpio, and the
most southerly of the two stars in the right shoulder
of Ophiuchus; a little lower down, and bearing
to the led, is another star of the 4th magnitude:
this is one of the middle stars in the bow, below
which, inclining to the right, is a star of the 3d
magnitude, in the left wrist of Sagittarius; and
still lower, bearing a little to the left, is another
star of the 3d magnitude, which is the most
southerly in the bow. Near to the star in the
left wrist of the Archer is another star of the
3d magnitude, in the head of the arrow. The
head of Sagittarius is situated about as far to the
left of the most northerly star of the bow as the
right foot of Ophiuchus is to the right of it, and
is indicated by three stars of the 4th magnitude;
below which, and inclining a little to the right, is
a star of the 3d magnitude, in the Archer’s left
shoulder; and under this, in a line with the star in
the left wrist, is another star of the 3d magnitude,
which last is situated in the body of Sagittarius.
The remaining stars in this constellation may be
easily traced from the preceding. '
: CAPchoaNUS, the Goat, contains ﬁfty-one stars,
three. of which are of the 3d magnitude, three of
the 4-th, &c.: it is, however, principally distin
guished. by those of the 3d magnitude; two_ of
352 anruass ON ASTRONOMY.
these are situated in one of the horns, and the
third in the tail. Of the two in the horn, the most
southerly is the vertex of an isosceles triangle,
whereof the base is Ras Algetki in the head of
Hercules, and Antares in Scorpio: the most
northerly is a little above it, and appears double,
having a star \of the 4th magnitude close to it.
The star of the 3d magnitude, in the tail, is the
vertex of a triangle almost isosceles, whose base is
Markab in Pegasus, and Atlzair in the Eagle: a
little to the right of this star is one of the 4th mag
nitude, called Deneb Algedz' ,- this is also in the
tail.
AQUARIUS, the Water Power, is situated im
mediately south of Pegasus and Equuleus, and
contains one hundred and eight stars, viz. four
of the 3d magnitude, six of the 4th, 8w. The
principal stars in this constellation may be found
with great ease; one of them, situated in the leﬁ:
shoulder of Aquarius, forms, with Deneb Algedi,
in the tail of the Goat, the base of an isosceles
triangle, whose vertex is the southern star in the
Goat’s horn. A straight line drawn from the
upper star in this horn, to the star in the left
shoulder ofAquarius, and produced, passes through
another star of the 3d m nitude in his right
shoulder; a little below whiili, to the left, will be
found a 3d of the same class: this last star is in
the Urn, and forms, with two stars of the 4th
magnitude, in the same part of the constellation,
a small scalenous triangle. The other star of
the 3d magnitude, named Scheat, is in the right
leg of Aquarius, and forms nearly an equilateral
triangle with the star of the 3d magnitude, in the
tail of the Goat, and the chief star in the Urn of
Aquarius, in whose right foot is a star of the 4th
magnitude. A straight line drawn from the star in
LECTURE xxx. 858
the right, through that in the left shoulder ofAqua.
rius, conducts to two stars of the 4th magnitude,
the one in and the other near to his left hand:
ﬁnally, on the left of the two stars, in the tail of
the Goat, is found a star of the 4-th magnitude,
in the left thigh of Aquarius ; and if from this star
a line bedrawn to the principal star in the Urn, it
will, at about half-way between the two, pass
through Ana/la, a star of the 4th magnitude in his
right side. The stars which indicate the course
of the river may be traced with the greatest
facilit from those stars whose positions have been
already described.
PISCES, the Fishes, the twelfth and last of the
zodiacal constellations, contains one hundred and
thirteen stars; of which one is of the 3d magni
tude, several are of the 4th, 8w. The star of the
Sd'magnitude, the chief of this constellation, is
seated on the knot of the riband by which the
ﬁshes are tied. The position of this star in the
heavens is ascertained by a line drawn from Al
maach in Andromeda, to the bright star in the
Ram, and produced southwards. A straight line
drawn from Scheat Pegasz' through Markab leads
to a star ofthe 4th magnitude, forming the eye ofthe
more southerly Fish ; to the left of which is another
star, also of the 4th magnitude; and still farther
to the left, incliniu a little to the north, a third
in the tail of the Fis . Between this and the star
in the knot are two or three others of the 4th
magnitude. After passing the knot, the riband
takes a northerly direction, and in this part also
are found one or two stars of the 4th magnitude.
The smaller stars in this constellation are not
quite so easy to trace, but may, notwithstanding,
be found without any great difﬁculty. .
In receding from the Equator towards either of
35+ LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
the Poles certain portions of the starry sphere,
about that pole from which the observer retreats,
become entirely lost to his view, being perpetually
hidden below his horizon. This phenomenon has
been fully explained in a former lecture 1, when it
was also remarked that those stars which never
rise to the inhabitants of any place, are said to
comprehended within the circle ofperpetual occult
ation of that place, and that this circle is as far
from the Pole which it surrounds as the place is
from the Equator. It follows, therefore, that the
circle of perpetual occultation to the inhabitants of
London comprehends all those stars that are
situated within abOut 5111.~° of the South Pole, and
which are consequently never visible in our lati
tudes. I shall, therefore, in describing the
positions of the several constellations and principal
stars south of the Zodiac conﬁne my observations
chieﬂy to those which are comprehended between
the zodiacal constellations, and the circle Of per
petual occultation of London above mentioned.
This circle is marked on the map of the southern
hemisphere, as that of perpetual apparition (com
prehending all those stars which never set to the
inhabitants of London) is on the map of the
northern.
Carus, the Whale, which occupies a greater
space than any other constellation in the sphere
of the heavens, is situated immediately south of
Aries and Pisces, and contains ninety-seven stars,
one of which is of the 2d magnitude, ten are of
the 3d, several of the 4th, 8“).
Menkar, the principal star in this constellation,
is situated in the upper jaw, and forms, with the
Pleiades and the chief star in Aries, an equilateral
1 See Lecture vu. pp. 115, 116.
LECTURE xrx. 355
triangle. A straight line drawn from the star in
the Bull’s northern horn, through Men/tar, and
continued to almost an equal distance on the other
side of the latter star, will arrive at a star of the
3d magnitude, called Dene!) Kiiz'tos, in the tail of
Cetus, and rather more than half-way between
Menkar and Deneb will pass just above a star of
the 3d magnitude, in the belly, named Baten
Ka'z'tos. The same line also passes through two
stars of the 3d magnitude, near to Menkar ,- the
nearer is situated in the lower jaw, and the other,
which is a very singular changeable star, called
'Mz'ra, is in the neck of the Whale. Still nearer
to lllenlrar than either of these two, but a little
above the line on which they are situated, is an
other star of the 3d magnitude, just below the
Whale’s eye. Considerany below Mira, a little
to the left, are two stars of the 3d magnitude,
formin , with two stars of the 4th magnitude, to
the rig t of them, a small irregular square in the
breast of Cetus. Below these, in the thigh, is
another star of the lt‘th magnitude. Between Ba
ten Kiiitos and Deueb are three stars of the 3d
magnitude, forming with Baler: a quadrilateral in
the Whale’s belly ; and considerably above Deneb,
to the right, is the most northerly star in the tail;
this is also of the 3d magnitude.
Orrrcnm SCULPTORIA, the Sculpth Shop, is a
modern constellation, situated directly south of the
tail of Cetus, and contains a number of small stars
all below the 4th ma nitude. This constellation
was composed by M. Caille.
' MACHINA ELECTRICA, the Electrical Machine, is
one of M. Bode’s constellations, consisting of
twenty-one stars, the two principal of which are of
the 5th magnitude. It is situated immediately
below the Whale’s belly.
856 LECTURES 0N asraouomr.
FORNAX CHEMICA, the Chemist’s Furnace, is a
constellation composed by M. La Caille, contain
ing two stars of the 3d magnitude, and several
smaller ones. The .two principal stars in this
asterism are nearly north and south of each other,
and will be found below the Whale, directly south
of Menkar.
ORION, the most brilliant constellation in the
heavens, is generally represented by the ﬁgure of
a man, having a club in his right hand, the skin
of a lion in his left, and a sword in his belt. This
beautiful asterism contains seventy-eight stars, two
of which are of the 1st magnitude, four of the 2d,
three of the 3d, sixteen of the ath, Sac. Four of
the nine principal stars in this splendid constel.
lation form a trapezoid, at the upper left-hand
corner of which is Betelgeua', one of the stars of
the lst magnitude: at the right hand upper
corner is a star of the 2d magnitude, called Bel
laz‘rz'z. The former of these two stars is in Orion’s .
right, and the latter in his left shoulder. In the
lower right-hand corner, or in the left foot ,of
Orion, is Rigel, the other star of the lst magnitude.
The fourth corner is formed by a star of the 8d
magnitude, which is situated in Orion’s right knee.
About the middle of the trapezoid, in a straight
line, inclining to the horizon from right to left,
and very near together, are the other three stars
of the 2d magnitude: they constitute the belt from
which Orion’s sword is suspended, in the hilt of
which is another star of the 3d magnitude, the
remaining one being situated near the extremity
of the scabbard. A little north of Betelgeux and
Bellatrz'a', at nearl an equal distance from both,
is a star of the 4~t magnitude; in Orion’s head,
and between this Bellatria‘ and Taurus, are seVeral
others, also of the 4th magnitude, in the hide of
LECTURE xxx. 357
the Lion; the exact position of these, however,
as also of those which form Orion’s club, situated
between his head and the feet of Gemini, together
with several others in various parts of this con
stellation, will be easily traced by means of those
principal stars, whose situations have been parti
cularly described, — and to ﬁnd which in the starry
sphere it is only necessary to give this general
direction; namely, that a straight line drawn from
the Pole star to the star in the right heel of Auriga,
or the tip of the Bull’s northern horn, and pro
duced southwards, passes through the midst of
this asterism from north to south.
Lupus, the Hare, is situated immediately south
of Orion: it consists of nineteen stars, viz. three
of the 3d magnitude, seven of the 4th, SLO. One of
the stars of the 3d magnitude in this constellation
is situated in the right shoulder of the Hare, and
is the vertex of a trian le nearly isosceles, having
for its base Rigel and t e star of the 3d magnitude
in Orion’s right knee. Below this, and a little to
the right, is another star of the 3d magnitude, in
the right fore thigh; and still lower, to the left,
is the other star of the 8d magnitude, situated in
the right hind foot of Lepus: these three stars
form a small triangle. Between the most northerly
of these stars and Rigel are two stars of the
4th magnitude: the one in the Hare’s right ear,
and the other in his snout. Below the star in
Orion’s right knee are two stars of the 4th mag
nitude, in the back of the Hare, and farther to
the left another, indicating its tail. A little above
the star of the 3d magnitude, in the right hind.v
foot, is one of the 4th magnitude, this is in the
left hind foot; and to the west of this star, in a line
passing a little below the star of the 3d magnitude,
1
858 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
in the Hare’s right thigh, is fbund a star “of the '
ch magnitude, in his left fore foot.
FLvas CERIDANUS, the River P0, is a. very'
extensive constellation, commencing at the leﬂ:
foot of Orion, whence it pursues a'winding course
to Cetus, and thence assuming a serpentine form,
it passes under Fornax Chemica, and Machina
Electrica, and is ﬁnally lost under the Phoenix,
a constellation whose vicinity to the South Pole
renders it invisible in our northern latitudes.
This is likewise the case with that part of Eridanus
Which is below Cetus. There are eighty-four
stars in this asterism, of which one is of the 1st
magnitude, one of the 2d, eight of the 3d, twenty
one of the 4th, &0. The star of the Ist magnitude
is called Acﬁernar ,- but being situated at the
southern extremity of the constellation it cannot
be seen by us. The star of the 2d magnitude is
the most southerly of the northern stream. A~
straight line drawn from Capella in Auriga, to 'Al
debaran in Taurus, and produced in a southerly'
direction, passes through this star, which is about
' as far distant from Aldebaran as the latter is from
Capella. One of the stars -of the 3d magnitude
in Eridanus is situated to the north of Rigel in'
Orion : several others of the same magnitude, and
afew of the 4th, are found between Orion and
Cetus; and by these the course of the northern
stream of Eridanus may be easily traced. The
southern stream being invisible to us, no particular '
description of. the stars composing it will be given,~'
the principal of which are, however, laid down in
the'ma‘p' of the southern hemisphere.
‘ PSALTERIUM GEORGII, George’s Harp, is a"
new constellation, and was introduced by a Ger-'
man astronomer, in honour of His late Majesty
lcorge III. It consists of about eleven small
LECTURE XIX. 859
stars, and is situated on the northern stream of
Eridanus, between Orion, Cetus, and Taurus.
BRANDENBURGIUM SCEPTRUM, the Sceptre of
Brandenburg, was composed by Geoﬂ‘i'oi Kirch, in
the year 1688, and consists of about six stars, three
of which are of the 4th magnitude. It is situated
to the right of the Hare, and the left foot of Orion,
and may be easily recognised by its three principal
stars, situated in a straight line, and which, if pro
duced northwards, would, after crossing Eridanus,
pass through the star of the 8d magnitude, in the
nose of the Bull, or the ' most southerly of the
Hyades. . I
CANIS MINOR, the Little Dog, is situated con
siderably to the left of Betelgelez' in Orion, and
south of the Twins, and contains fourteen stars,
viz. one of the lst magnitude, one of the 3d, 8m.
Proeyon, the chief star in this constellation, may
be easily found, from its forming an equilateral
triangle with Rigel in Orion, and the bright star
in the tip of the Bull’s northern horn. To the
right of Proeyon, and above it, is the star of the
3d magnitude: it is situated in the collar of Canis
Minor.
Monocnnos, the Unicorn, is one of Hevelius’s
modern constellations. It is situated to the left of
Orion, below Canis Minor, and contains thirty-one
stars, several of which are of the 4th magnitude, and
the remainder of inferior orders. The principal
stars are distributed through the different parts
of the constellation, as follows, viz. one in the eye,
one in the nose, one in the left fore foot, one in
the right ear, one in the collar, one in the belly,
one in the extremity of the tail, and two near the
haunch below the tail. ‘ The head of the Unicorn
may be easily distinguished, but the other parts of
the ﬁgure cannot be recognised without consrder
$60 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
able difficulty, and continual reference to the
neighbouring asterisms.
ARGO Navrs, the Shzlp Argo, contains sixty-four
stars, of which one is of the 1st magnitude, six
are of the 2d, nine of the 3d, nine of the 4th, 8w.
Only a very small part of this constellation ascends
above our horizon, and consequently but few of
its principal stars ever become visible to us:
among these, however, is one of the 3d magnitude,
called Markab: it is situated in the stern of the
Vessel, nearly due south of Procyon, in Canis
Minor, but at a considerable distance from that
star. To the left of Markab, and a little more
northerly, is another star of the 3d magnitude,
also in the stern: these two stars, with a few of
the 4th magnitude, are the only considerable ones
in this asterism that are ever visible in our lati
tudes. Its chief star, named Canopus, is at the
southern extremity of the second oar, and conse
quently invisible to us.
PYXIS NAUTICA, the Mariner’s Compass, is
situated in the rigging of the ship Argo, and con
sists of a few stars, all below the 4th magnitude.
CANIS MAJOR, the Great Dog, is situated be
tween Orion and Argo Navis, and contains sixty
four stars, among which are one of the lst mag
nitude, four of the 2d, two of the 3d, ﬁve of the
4th, 8w. Sirius, the chief star in this constellation,
appears more brilliant than any other star in the
ﬁrmament: it is situated in the snout of the Dog,
and forms a triangle almost equilateral with Betel
geux in Orion, and Proqyon in Canis Minor: also
if a straight line be drawn from the stars in Orion’s
belt, to Mar/cab in Argo Navis, it will pass through
this celebrated star. A little to the right of Sirius,
and rather lower, is a star of the 2d magnitude,
in the left fore paw. A line drawn from Betelgem'
LECTURE xrx. 361
to Sirius, and produced, passes nearly throu h
another star of the 2d magnitude, situated in t e
back; this last forms a small triangle with the two
remaining stars of the 2d magnitude, one of which
is in the right hind haunch, and the other in the
tail of the dog. Between the two stars forming the
right side of this triangle, is one of the stars of the
3d magnitude; this is in the dog’s belly : and con
siderably to the right is the other, situated in the
left hind paw. The stars of 'the 4-th magnitude
will be readily found from their position in the
ﬁgure, one being situated in the head, another in
the collar, a third in the right hind foot, 8m.
MACHINA TYPOGRAPHIA, the Printing Press,
is a modern constellation, composed by M. Bode;
it consists of about sixteen small stars, none of
which exceed the 5thvma nitude.
COLUMBA Noacur, Agoah’s Dove, is a modern
constellation, situated immediately below Lepus,
between the hind feet of Canis Major, and the
beginning of the southern stream of Eridanus.
This asterism contains twenty-six stars, one of
which is of the 2d magnitude, one ofthe 3d, two are
of the 4th, 81.0. A straight line drawn from Pro
cyon in Canis Minor, to Sirius, when produced,
paSses through the chief star in Columba. The
star of the 3d magnitude is situated a little lower,
to the left of the former, and from these two stars
the positions of the other principal stars in this
constellation may be easily traced.
CELA SCULPTORIS, vel PRAXITELES, the En.
graver’s Tools, is a modern constellation, consist
ing of sixteen stars, none of which exceed the ,5th
magnitude. It is situated between Columba
Noachi and the southern stream of Eridanus.
SEXTANS, the Sealant, is also a modern constel
lation, consisting of forty-one stars, only one of
R
362 LECTURES ON ASTRONéMY.
which exceeds the 5th magnitude. This asterism
was formed by Hevelius out of the Stellee ir‘zformes
of the ancient astronomers, and is situated directly
below the Lion. The principal star of this con
stellation is of the 4th magnitude; it is due south
of Regulus, and about as far distant from it as
Regulus is from the most northerly in the neck of
Leo.
HYDRA, the Water Serpent, surpasses in length
’every other constellation in the heavens, com
mencing directly south of the Crab, and termi
nating immediatelybelow the southern scale. This
asterism contains Sixty stars, among which will be
found one of the 2d magnitude, called Alphard,
one of the 3d, seVeral 0f the 4th, 8w. A straight
line drawn from Bellatrz'a‘ in Orion, to Proqyon in
Canis Minor, and continued, passes through a
roup of four stars of the 4th magnitude in the
ﬁead of Hydra. A little farther to the left, and
rather more southerly, is another star of the 4th
magnitude, in the neck of the serpent, to the south
east of which, and nearly on a line with the chief
star in the Sextant, is found another star also of the
4th magnitude, which last is situated in a ﬂexure of
the neck. South of this star, a little inclining to
the west, is Alpham', in the heart of Hydra, the
most brilliant star in the constellation. Nearly
south of the chief star in the Sextant, is another
star of the 4th magnitude, in the belly of Hydra,
and if a line be drawn from Alphard to this star,
and continued to about an equal distance on the
other side, it will lead to another star of the 4th
magnitude. Passing nearly in a south-easterly
direction from this star, below two stars, one of
the 3d, the other ofthe 4th magnitude, in the con
stellation Crater (hereafter to be spoken of), we
come, at a considerable distance from them, to two
LECTURE xix. 363
stars of the 4th magnitude in succession; and pur
suing the serpentine direction of H dra, (which
after ascending a little proceeds nearfy due east,)
we come to a star of the 3d magnitude, (the only
one of that class in the constellation,) situated
to the south of Spica W1gz'nis. Farther to the
left, and a little more southerly, is one more star
of the 4th magnitude, which is the last star of con
sequence in this asterism.
CRATER, the Cup, is situated immediately below
the hind feet of Leo and the head of Virgo, and
contains thirty-one stars, one of which is of the
3d magnitude, several are of the 4th, and the re
mainder of inferior magnitudes. The star of the
3d magnitude, and one of the 4th, called Alhes,
are situated in the foot of the Cup, and will be
easily recognised, being those two stars beneath
which the Hydra was traced: the other stars in
this constellation will be most easil found by
tracing their position relatively to t e principal
stars in
Convus, the Crow, which lies east of the Cup,
between Virgo and Hydra, and consists of nine
stars, three of which are of the 8d magnitude,
two of the 4th, Ste. One of the stars of the 3d
magnitude is situated in the feet of the Crow,
and is the vertex of a small triangle, whose base
is formed by the other two stars of the 3d magni
tude, one of which indicates the left, and the
other the right wing; the latter is called Algorab,
and is the more distant from the Cup. One of
the stars of the 4th magnitude is in the Crow’s
head, and the other in the bill.
Avrs SOLITARIA, the Bird of the Desert, is a
modern constellation, situated on the tail of Hydra,
south of Libra, and the feet of Virgo. It con,
B. 2
864.. LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
tains eighteen stars, all of them below the 4th ,
ma nitude.
nnraunus, the Centaur, is one of the old con
stellations, and occupies a very considerable space
below the tail of Hydra. It consists of thirty-ﬁve
stars, viz. one of the 1st magnitude, three of the
2d, six of the 3d, nine of the 11th, &c. The star
of the lst magnitude is situated in one of the fore
feet, and is therefore too near the South Pole to
be visible to the inhabitants of Great Britain ; and
this is likewise the case with most of the other
principal stars in this constellation. The only
stars of importance in the Centaur that ever rise
above our horizon, are one of the 2d magnitude
in the left shoulder of the Centaur, one of the
3d in his right shoulder, and four stars of the
4th magnitude, all of which are in his head.
LUPUS, the Wolf, is situated to the east of Cen
taurus, and contains twenty-four stars, among
which are one of the 3d magnitude, several of the
4th, 8L0.
MACHINA PNEUMATICA, the Air Pump ,- and
FELIS, the Cat, are modern constellations, situ
ated between Hydra, Centaurus, and Argo Navis.
They consist entirely of small stars, none of them
exceeding the 5th magnitude.
PISCis AUSTRALIS, the Southern Fish, is one of
the ancient constellations, and contains twenty
four stars, one of which, called Fomalhaut, is of
the lst magnitude: it is situated in the eye of the
Fish, and may be easily found, being due south
of Seheat Aguarii, and at no great distance from
that star; it may also be recognised by its forming
a small triangle with two stars of the 3d magni
tude, one of which is in the Fish’s back, and the
other in its belly. There are also some stars of
the 4th magnitude in this constellation, whose
u-zcruaa XIX. 865
positions may be easily traced from those already
described. ,
MICROSCOPIUM, the Meroscope; and
LE BALLON AEROSTATIQUE, the Air Balloon,
are modern constellations, situated directly south
of Capricornus, between Piscis Australis and the
hind legs of Sagittarius. The stars contained
in these constellations are all below the 4th mag
nitude.
We come now to those circumpolar stars
which never ascend above our horizon, concern
‘ing which I shall content myself _with making a
few brief observations, chieﬂy with regard to their
relative situation in the celestial sphere.
The PHlex, unlike most of the modern con
stellations, was not formed out of the stellee in/‘ormes
of the ancients, neither was it included in any of
the ancient constellations, but was known as a
distinct asterism to the Arabian astronomers from
a very early period, under the name of the Grifﬁn
or Eagle. It is situated between Oﬂicina Sculp
toria and the extremity of the southern stream of
Eridanus.
HYDRUS, the Water Snake, is a modern constel
lation, and is found between the Phoenix and the
South Pole. '
HOROLOGIUM, the Clock, and
RETICULUS RHOMBOIDALIS, the Rhomboidal Net,
are situated to the east of Hydrus, between it and
DORADO vel XIPHIAS, the Sword Fish, which is a
small asterism situated at the southern Pole of the
ecliptic, and extending lengthways towards the
southern stream of Eridanus.
Egunuzus Preroaws, the Painter’s Easel, is
immediately south of Columba Noachi, lying be
tween it and the southern Pole of the ecliptic.
' R 3
866 LECTURES on as'rnonom.
P1scrs Vomms, the Flying Fish, is situated on
the antarctic circle, in a line drawn from Pixis
Nautica to the South Pole of the \Vorld.
ROBUR CAROL], Charles’s Oak, is south of Ma
china Pneumatica, a line drawn from which to the
South Pole passes through Robur Caroli and
CHAMELION, the Chamelion; the latter is, there
fore, south of the Oak.
Meson AUSTRALIS vel ArIs, the Southern Hg
or Bee, is a very small constellation, situated at the
foot of _
CRUX, the Cross, an asterism containing ﬁve
stars, one of which is of the 1st magnitude, two
are of the 2d, one is of the 3d, and one of the 4th.
By this brilliant constellation those who navigate
the southern hemisphere can as readily ﬁnd the
Antarctic Pole as we can the Arctic by the
Great Bear, for the two stars which respectively
indicate the summit and the foot of the Cross,
having nearly the same right ascension, are always
in a line with the South Pole, and consequently
become the load-stars or pointers of the south.
For the same reason it follows that the constellation
must be almost vertical at the moment it passes the
meridian; and as it is well known to the inhabitants
of the southern regions at what hour of the night
in different seasons the “ bright Cross of the
south” is erect or inclined, it is to them a time
piece that advances very regularly almost four
minutes a day. \ Professor Humboldt, in his inter
esting “ Travels in South America,” has given a
very animated account of this remarkable asterism.
APUS vel Avrs INDICA, the Bird of Paradise,
TRIANGULUM AUSTRALIS, the Southern Triangle;
and
CIRCINUS, the Cmnpasses, are three small mo
LECTURE xxx. 367
dem constellations situated between the head of
Lupus and the South Pole.
QUADRA Eucunls, Euclid’s Square, is directly
south of Scorpio, between it and Triangulum
Australis.
ARA, the Altar, is situated immediately below
the tail of Scorpio.
Mons MENSE, the Table Mountain, is a modern
constellation, situated between the South Pole of
the World and that of the ecliptic.
Oc'mns HADLEIANUS, Hartley’s Octant, will be
easily recognised on the map from its situation in
the South Pole of the World.
Pavo et INDUS, the Peacock and the Indian, are
sometimes considered as one constellation. They
are situated between Sagittarius and Octans Had
leianus. The most brilliant star in the asterism
forms the eye of the Peacock. The Indian is
usually represented in an erect posture with an
arrow in his left hand, and a quiver at his back.
TELESCOPIUM, the Telescope, and
CORONA AUSTRALIS, the Southern Crown, are
situated between the Peacock and the bow of the
Archer. I
Gaus, the Crane, and
TOUCHAN, the American Goose, are found in
succession, in a line drawn from the tail of Piscis
Australis to the South Pole of the Ecliptic.
NUBECULA MINOR, the Lesser Cloud, is situated
between the tail of Hydrus and Mons Mensae.
NUBECULA MAJOR, the Greater Cloud, is found
between Mons Mensae and the head of Dorado.
In concluding this account ofthe constellations it
is proper to remark, that the description I have now
given ofeach, applies to it only when on or near the
meridian. Thus, in describing the position of the
stars in Orion’s belt, I took occasion to observe
R 4*
368 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
that they were situated “ in astrazght line im‘lz'm'ng
t0 the horizon ﬁom right to left :” now this is only
true when Orion is very near the meridian, for
when rising in the east, these three stars are almost
in a perpendicular direction, and when setting in
the west, they become perfectly horizontal. The
same may be observed of the two principal stars
in Canis Minor, and similar instances are to be
met with in most of the other constellations.
In order, therefore, to facilitate the application
of the astrographical instruction which I have
now presumed to offer, I shall, in concluding this
lecture, give a very simple method of ﬁnding, by
means of the celestial planispheres, what constel
lations and principal stars culminate, or come to the
meridian at any given time. These planispheres
or maps of the heavens, as was before observed,
are projected on the plane of the equinoctial, which
circle, therefore, becomes a boundary to each of
them, and upon it the right ascension is marked
both in time and degrees. The meridians or hour
circles (which in this projection would have been
straight lines), with the exception of the colures,
have been omitted to avoid confusion, and in the
room of them a silk string is ﬁxed in the centre
of each planisphere. This string possesses all the
advantages of a movable meridian, and can be
brought to coincide with any point on the cir
cumference of the map at pleasure. The declin
ation is found from that quadrant of the equinoctial
colure which is graduated for that purpose. The
secondaries and parallels to the ecliptic, or circles
of longitude and latitude, are represented, the
former by dotted arcs from the Pole of the ecliptic
to the periphery of each map, and the latter by
dotted circles drawn concentrically to those Poles.
On these Planisphcres, each of which presents one
LECTURE xrx. 369
half of the ecliptic, the Polar Circles and Tropics
are also inserted, the former at 23%, and the latter
at 66% degrees from the Poles.
Now, in order ‘ to ﬁnd what constellations
and principal stars are on the meridian at any
given time, ﬁrst let the proposed day be sought
on the calendar of months laid down on the ma
chine, against which will be found the sun’s longi
tude or place in the ecliptic for that day, and
observing whether this be among the signs marked
“ NORTHERN,” or “ SOUTHERN SIGNS,” ﬁnd the
corresponding point on the map of the northern
or southern hemisphere accordingly; the silk string
extended over that point will cut the Sun’s right
ascension, either in time or degrees, amongst the
divisions on the circumference of the map.
Secondly, consider whether the proposed time be
before or after noon;—if the former, move the
string backwards so many hours as the proposed
time wants of noon; but if the latter, advance the
string forwards so many hours as the given time
is past noon. Finally, letting the string remain
in this position, notice what degree on the pe
ripher of the planisphere is now out by it, and
exten the silk string in the centre of the other
planisphere over the corresponding degree on its
circumference. The strings thus. disposed form
a complete meridian on the two maps, extending
from the North to the South Pole, and passing
Over all the constellations and principal stars which
culminate at the given hour. Those stars, how
ever, on the map of the southern hemisphere,
between the circle of perpetual occultation and the
South Pole, over which the meridian’ passes, will
be invisible, being below our' horizon; and those
stars which are in the line of the meridian, pro
duced through the Pole in the northern hemisphere
R 5
87.0 mc'runns ON ASTRONOMY.
to the opposite side of the circle of perpetual ap
parition, will come to the meridian below the Pole,
and be above the horizon at the proposed time.
For example, suppose it were required to ﬁnd
what stars come to the meridian on the lst of
February at 8 o’clock in the evening? The Sun’s
longitude on that day is found to be 10 signs
13 degrees, or 13 degrees of Aquarius, which
being a southern sign, must be looked for in the
ecliptic on the map of the southern hemisphere,
then extending the silk string over this point to
the circumference of the map, his right ascension
is found to be 315°, or twenty-one hours; from
which moving the string forwards eight hours, be
cause the proposed time is 8 o’clock in the evening,
or eight hours past noon, we come to 75°, or ﬁve
hours, which is the right ascension of all those
stars south of the equinoctial, over which the
string in this situation passes; then bringing the
string in the centre of the map of the northern
hemisphere to the corresponding division on the
circumference of that map, it will in like manner
pass over all those stars north of the equinoctial
having the same right ascension. All the stars,
therefore, both in the northern and southern he
misphere, whose right ascension is 5 hours or 75
degrees, culminate at eight o’clock in the evening
on the lst of February. Amongst these, proceed
ing from the North Pole southwards, the principal
‘ are, CAPELLA in Auriga, and RIGEL in the left
foot of Orion. The two brilliant constellations,
Auriga and Orion, therefore, are both on the me
ridian; the former occupying the zenith, the bril
liant Capella being only 5% degrees south of that
point. The other constellations culminating with
them are Camelopardalis, between Auriga and
the Pole, and Lepus with Columba Noachi, south
\
LECTURE XIX. 871
of Orion, the latter being the most southerly
asterism at that time above the horizon. On the
meridian below the Pole, are found Ursa Minor
and Draco, the head of the latter being at no great
elevation above the horizon'.
Having, by the simple method now pointed out,
ascertained what constellations are on the meridian,
at the time of his examining the heavens, and made
himself perfectly familiar with the names and posi
tions of the principal stars contained in them, the
student may proceed to contemplate the neighbour
ing asterisms, the relative position of which may
be found in the Planispheres by inspection; and
thus, in the course of a few evenings, at different
seasons of the year, devoted to this delightful study,
he may without difﬁculty become familiar with
every constellation and principal star, which is
ever visible in our latitudes.
The Ecliptic and Equinoctial, however, being
the mOst important circles of the sphere, the stu
dent should by no means neglect to make himself
acquainted with their true position in the heavens
as early as possible, a task which he will easily ac
complish by the assistance of the Planispheres.
! Many of the most important problems, usually worked
by the Celestial Globe, may be solved with much more case
and expedition, and with sufﬁcient exactness for general pur
poses, by means of these Planispheres. These, for obvxous
reasons, could not with propriety be introduced in the Lee
tures, but will be found in the Appendix, together with man
other useful Problems, systematically arranged under the hea
of “ PaonLEius sun EXERCISES on THE Asraonomcou.“
372 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
LECTURE XX.
ON THE PARALLAX AND DISTANCE OF THE FIXED
STARS.——ON THE PROPER MOTION OF THE FIXED
STARS, ARISING FROM THE PROGRESSIVE MOTION
OF THE SOLAR SYSTEM.——ON NEW AND VARIABLE
STARS. :—' ON DOUBLE STARS. '— ON NEBULIE AND
THE MILKY WAY. — OF THE DIFFERENT SYSTEMS
OF THE HEAVENS. —— OF THE PTOLEMAIC SYSTEM.
— OF THE EGYPTIAN SYSTEM. —— OF THE COPER
NICAN SYSTEM. —THE TRUTH OF THE COPERNI
CAN SYSTEM DEMONSTRATED.—OF THE DIURNAL
MOTION OF THE EARTH. — OF THE EARTH’S
ANNUAL MOTION.
THE ﬁxed stars, even when examined with the
most powerful telescope, do not exhibit any sensi
ble disc, but appear merely like luminous points
in the heavens; a striking proof of the immense
distance of these bodies. This is, however, still
more effectually demonstrated, in the failure of
every attempt that has hitherto been made, to dis-l
cover their annual parallax, or the an le subtend
ed at any of them, by the diameter 0 the earth’s
orbit.
. Dr. Bradley, whose observations were conducted
with so much accuracy, as to lead him to the dis
covery (as we have already seen) of the aberration \
of light, was entirely unsuccessful in his endea
vours to ascertain the annual parallax. The me
thod he employed for this purpose was the same
that had been previously practised by Hook, Flam
stead, and other astronomers, and consisted in
observing the meridian altitudes of the stars, when
the earth was in opposite points of its orbit; these
observed altitudes were then corrected by refrac
tion, aberration, and nutation: the diﬂ‘erence in
LECTURE xx. 873
the place of thestars, after these corrections, would
be the parallax sought; and Dr. Bradley asserts,
that if this parallax had amounted to a single se
cond, or two at the most, he should certainly have
detected it, in the numerous observations he made
upon stars near the zenith, especially upon the
star Etanin, or 7 Draconis. From the uncertainty,
however, of the refraction, aberration, and nuts.
tion, this method is obviously subject to great dis_
advantages. To obviate which, Dr. Herschel has
proposed a method by means ofdouble stars, which
is not only free from all liability to these errors,
but is besides of such a peculiar nature, that the
parallax, even if it should not exceed the tenth
part of a second, may still become visible, and be
ascertained to a much greater degree of accuracy
than by any other method which has yet been de
vised. Of this method, the ﬁrst hint of which was
given by Galileo, my limits will not permit me to
give a particular description; it however appears
to me to proceed upon assumptions too arbitrary
to be generally admitted; neither does it_ seem to
have led to any more satisfactory results, respect
ing this grand object of enquiry, than had been
previously obtained: Dr. Hersc el’s observations,
like all others which have yet been made for the
purpose of discovering the annual parallax, only
tending to prove that the diameter of the earth’s
orbit, in length one hundred and ninety millions of
miles, does not subtend a sensible parallactic angle
at the nearest ﬁxed star.
. Mr. Mitchell has proposed an enquiry into the
probable parallax and magnitude of the ﬁxed stars,
from the quantity of light derived from them, and
the peculiar circumstances of their situation. In
this investigation, Mr. Mitchell sets out with sup
posing the stars, at a medium, to be equal to our
874 ch'ruaas 0N ASTRONOMY.
sun in magnitude and natural brightness; and that
Saturn, in opposition, exclusive of his ring, is equal
in light to the most luminous ﬁxed star; and then
proceeds to enquire, what would be the parallax of
the Sun, if he were removed so far from us as to
make the quantity of light which we should then
‘ receive from him no more than that of Saturn, or
of the nearest ﬁxed stars. Now, the distance of
Saturn from the Sun is equal to about 2,082 of
the Sun’s semidiameters ; the intensity of light,
therefore, being reciprocally as the square of the
distance, the density of the Sun’s light at Saturn
will be less than at his own surface, in the ratio of
the square of 2,082, or 4,334,724 to 1. Saturn,
therefore, must be less luminous than the sun in
the same proportion. Again, the apparent diame
-ter of the Sun is about 105 times greater than that
of Saturn in opposition: hence, the light we re
ceive from the former must be diminished also in
the ratio of the square of 105 or 11,025 to 1. It
follows, therefore, that by multiplying these two
numbers together, we shall have the total light of
the Sun to that of Saturn, nearly in the ratio of the
square of 220,000, or 48,400,000,000 to 1. —
Hence, removing the Sun to 220,000 times his
present distance, he would still appear at least as
bright as Saturn, and his whole parallax upon the
diameter of the Earth’s orbit would be less than
2", and this, by the hypothesis, must be assumed
as the parallax of the most brilliant of the ﬁxed
stars. Pursuing the same train of reasoning, this
ingenious gentleman makes the ,annual parallax
of the least ﬁxed stars of the 6th magnitude to be
from about 2'” to 3'”, and their distance from about
eight to twelve million times that ofthe Sun. Upon
this supposition, the parallax of the smallest stars
of the second magnitude should be about 12'",
ch'runr. xx. 375
and their distance about two million times that of
the Sun.
In this computation, Saturn has been supposed
to reﬂect all the light he receives, but this is far
from being the case; and it is probable, that if we
could estimate truly in what proportion that planet
reﬂects and absorbs the light which falls upon it,
we should ﬁnd occasion to increase the computed
distance, in a ratio which would make the annual
parallax of the brightest ﬁxed star (supposing its
light not to exceed that of Saturn, and its magni
tude to equal that of the Sun), considerably less
than 1". '
If, however, we admit the annual parallax of
the nearest ﬁxed star, suppose Sirius, to be 1”,
which is probably much too great, its distance
will be no less than 20 billions of miles, a distance,
through which light travelling with the immense
velocity of 195,072 English miles per second,
could not pass in less than three years ! At what
a truly inconceivable distance, then, must those
minute stars be placed which can scarcely be dis
cerned, even by the aid of the most powerful tele
scope, when the most brilliant star in the ﬁrms.
ment cannot be less than 20 billions of miles from
us! We shall probably be far from unreasonable,
in concluding with Huygens, that there may be
stars so remote, that the ﬁrst beam of light which
they emitted at their creation has not yet reached
our Earth.
For the purpose of detecting any changes which
might possibly be going on among the ﬁxed stars,
astronomers of the ﬁrst eminence have at different
times undertaken the very laborious task of form
ing catalo ues of this numerous class of celestial
bodies. he ﬁrst catalogue upon record is that
of Hipparchus, which contained 1022 stars, with
376 an'rvaas ON ASTRONOMY.
their latitudes and longitudes determined from his
own observations, and those of his predecessors.
To this number, four more were added by Pto
lemy, since whose time other catalogues have been
published by Tycho, Riccioli, Bayer, Hevelius,
Flamstead, La Caille, Mayer, Bode, &c.; but the
most surprising work of this kind that has hitherto
appeared is the elaborate catalogue, by M. F.
Lalande, in which the places of no fewer than
50,000 ﬁxed stars, many of them of the 9th and
10th magnitudes, are accurately determined.
5 To these useful labours we are in a great mea
sure indebted for the discovery of what is called
the Proper Motions of the Fixed Stars, and of
many other important facts, which we are now
about to detail.
In speaking of the Fixed Stars, we have hitherto
regarded these bodies as constantly retaining their
re ative positions unchanged. Dr. Halley, how
ever, from comparing the situations of some of
the Stars, as determined by ancient and modern
observations, discovered that they had a motion
peculiar to themselves, (generally called the pro
per motion of the ﬁxed stars); and Tobias
Mayer, by comparing the places of 80 stars, as
determined by Roemer, with his own observations,
found that most of them had a proper motion.
This motion, however, is in some stars so slow, or
the distance of those stars is so great, as scarcely
to be perceptible, in less than half a century, while
in others a small change of place may be observed
every year. '
Dr. Maskelyne determined by accurate observ
ations the annual proper motion, in right ascen
sion and declination, of a great many of the prin
cipal ﬁxed stars. Mayer was, however, the ﬁrst
who ascribed the apparent change of place in the
LECTURE xx. 377
stars to a progressive motion of the Sun and
planets towards a particular quarter of the hea
vens, and subsequent observations have tended to
verify this opinion, which is founded upon the fol
lowing considerations, viz. that if the Solar system
really has a motion in absolute space, directed to
wards any quarter of the heavens, the stars in that
quarter ought to appear to recede from one an
other, while those which are in the opposite region
would naturally seem to approach each other.
Now, in most of those stars which seem to have a
proper motion this motion is found to agree very
well with the hypothesis, and Dr. Herschel, by
comparing the proper motions of the principal
stars, as determined by Dr. Maskelyne, has found
that most: of them are nearly such as ought to
result from a motion of the Sun and his attendant
planets towards A Henulz's, or rather towards a
point in the heavens, whose right ascension is
250° 52' 30”, and whose north polar distance is
40° 22’. Klugel found the right ascension of this
point to be 260“, and Prevot makes it to be 2809,
with 65° north polar distance. From his own ob
servations upon Arcturus, Dr. Herschel infers,
that the motion of the Solar System cannot be
less than that of the Earth in its orbit, that it is
performed round some distant centre, and that that
centre is either the centre of gravity of a cluster
of stars, or the common centre of gravity of se
veral adjacent clusters. Lalande supposes that
there is an equilibrium preserved among all the
systems of the universe, and that they have a pe
riodical circulation round their common centre of
gravity.
In the ancient catalogues, the positions of many
stars are described, of which no traces are now to
be discovered, even by the aid of the most power
378 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
ful telescopes; while, on the other hand, of several
stars which now embellish the ﬁrmament no men
tion is made by the ancients. Some stars have
suddenly made their appearance, and after con
tinuing visible for a time, have altogether disap
peared. A few stars are constantly increasing in
brilliancy, while the brightness of others have been
as gradually diminishing, and not a small number
undergo a periodical variation of lustre.
The discovery of a new star by Hipparchus,
about 120 years before Christ, gave occasion to
that eminent astronomer, as we are informed by
Pliny, to set about making a catalogue of the Fixed
Stars, and this is the earliest observation of a new
star upon record, neither are we told in what part
of the heavens this phenomenon made its appear
ance. In the beginning of November, 1572, a
new star appeared in Cassiopeia, which was ob,
served by many astronomers, but especially by
Tycho, who determined its longitude and latitude,
and has given us aparticular account of the pheno
mena it exhibited. This star when ﬁrst perceived
appeared inits full splendour, surpassingVenus and
Mercury in brightness, and was even visible at
noon day. This great splendour it retained
during the whole of the month in which it was
discovered; but in December its magnitude began
gradually to diminish, and continued so to do till
it entirely disappeared in March, 1574‘, after
having been visible about sixteen months. The
new star seen by Kepler, in the year 1604, in the
east foot of Serpentarius, exhibited similar appear
ances, and became invisible about the end of the
year following. It has not since been seen. De
neb Kaitos, in the tail of Citus, affords an example
of those stars which are gradually increasing in
lustre; as the star (8) in the body of the Great
LEcrURE xx. 379
Bear, nearest the tail, also does of those that are
constantly decreasing in brightness. Among the
most remarkable of those stars, which have regu
lar periods of variation, are Mira, in the neck of
Cetus; Algol, in Caput Medusae, 8w; the former
of these stars varies from the 2d magnitude to a.
telescopic star, its period being about 334' days,
and the latter, from the 2d magnitude to the 4th,
with a period of 2 days, 20 hours, 48 min., 58'7
sec.
The number of stars ascertained to be variable
is ﬁfteen; but thirty-seven are supposed by Her
schel to be subject to these changes, and it is pro
bable that many more will hereafter be found to
exhibit the same extraordinary appearances.
To account for these phenomena, various hypo
theses have been proposed. Some have attributed
them to large black spots on the surface of the
stars, which being presented to us in the course of
their rotation about an axis, at regular intervals,
diminish the brilliancy of the star: others sup
pose the luminous surface of these bodies to be
subject to continual changes, which sometimes in
crease their light, and at others diminish or ex
tinguish it. These changes have also been
ascribed to the exhaustion of the igneous matter,
of which the stars are said to be composed. Some
astronomers are of opinion, that the stars are
extremely ﬂat, and that they appear more or
less brilliant, as their ﬂat or sharp side is pre
sented to us; whilst others explain the variation in
the light of the stars, by ascribing it to the inter
position of the planets which revolve about them.
It has been already remarked, that not more than
a thousand stars are at any one time visible to the
naked eye. By the aid of the telescope, however,
we discover myriads of stars, which were Inacces~
380 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
sible to unassisted vision; and as we increase the
power of the instrument, more and more of these
bodies are brought into view, so that their number,
'may without impropriety be considered inﬁnite.
More than two thousand stars have been observed
in the constellation Orion, and above one hundred
and eighty-eight in the Pleiades. Galileo found
veighty in the belt of Orion’s sword; twenty-one in
the nebulous star in his head, and about ﬁve
hundred within the space ofone or two degrees, in
another part of the constellation. The same ob
server, also, counted more than forty in Praesepe.
Dr. Herschel, however, with the aid of his
most powerful telescopes, has far surpassed all
others in his sidereal discoveries. In the most
crowded part of that bright irregular zone, the
Milky Way, that indefatigable observer has seen
the surprising number‘of one hundred and sixteen
thousand stars pass through the ﬁeld of view of
his telescope in one quarter of an hour’s time.
Many of those stars, which to the naked eye
appear single, upon the application of the tele
scope are resolved into two, three, four, or even many
more small stars; thus, a single star in the middle
of Orion’s sword was found by Huygens, when
examined with a powerful telescope, to consist of
no less than twelve stars, very near together. 36-
veral compound stars have also been observed by
Cassini, Hook, Longellas, Kelyne, and other
astronomers; their number, however, has received
the greatest augmentation from the labours ofDr
Herschel, who has of late years made observations
upon several hundred stars of this description,
most of which had not been previously noticed by
any other person.
Though, perhaps, no two stars in the universe
can be properly said to be altogether out of the
LECTURE xx. 33 1
sphere of each other’s attractions, yet many stars
are obviously so remote from any other, that it
would probably require some millions of years to
bring them together, by their mutual action: ofthis
description it seems are our Sun, Arcturus, Capella,
Lyra, Sirius,’ Canopus, Markab, Bellatrz'z', Men/car,
8:0. 810. To stars, so situated, Dr. Herschel has
given the name of insulated stars. Instead of sup
posing, as has generally been done, that every
star in the heavens is a centre to an appropriate
number of circumvolving planets, satellites, and
comets, he imagines, that what he terms insulated
stars are alone surrounded by these attendant
bodies.
Under the head of double stars, or binary side
real systems, properly so called, Dr. 'Herschel
comprehends only such stars as when examined
by the telescope are found to consist each of two
stars, situated so near one another, as to be kept
together by their mutual gravitation. The two
bodies which compose a double star may revolve '
round their common centre of gravity, according
to laws which have been already explained, in cir
cles, or in similar ellipses, the dimensions of their
orbit being proportional to their relative quantities
of matter.
It should seem, that when two stars are so situ
ated that the one is at an immense distance be
hind the other, but a little out of the line in which
we see the ﬁrst, they may have the appearance of
a double star, though, being out of the reach' of
each other’s attraction, they do not form a binary
system. Dr. Herschel, however, is of opinion,
that no two insulated stars can appear double to
us; and he has shewn, that there are a great many
chances against the supposition, that the multiplL
city of double stars which he has discovered
882 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
should be of this description. Hence, he con
cludes, that their existence must be owing to their
mutual gravitation; and this conclusion has re
ceived considerable conﬁrmation, from a series of
his own observations upon these phenomena,
whereby he has found that double stars have ac
tually changed their positions, with regard to one
another -- that the one revolves roun the other,
and that the motion of some of the revolving stars
is direct, and of others retrograde.
The angle that a line joining the two stars
forms with the direction of their daily motion,
Dr. Herschel calls the angle ofposition, and from
a series of observations made during a period of
twenty-ﬁve years, he has found, that in upwards
of ﬁfty of the double stars, there is a change either
in this angle or in the distance of the two stars.
The observations that have been published, rela
tive to the six following double stars, are too in
teresting to be altogether passed over in silence.
The stars to which they relate, are a of the Twins,
7 of the Lion, s of Biiotes, g of Hercules, 8 0f the
Serpent, and y of the Virgin.
Castor, the ﬁrst of these, was observed by Dr.
Herschel from the year 1778 to 1808. He could
never detect any variation in the distance of the
two stars; but from the regular decrease that he
observed in their angle of position, he supposes
it highly probable that the orbits in which the
two stars move round their common centre of gra
vity are very nearly circular, and at right angles
to the line in which we see them, and that the
time of a whole apparent revolution of the small
star round Castor will be almost three hundred
andforty-two years and two months,'_in a retrograde
direction. The distance of the two stars which
form y Leonis has undergone a sensible change,
anrunn xx. 383
and from the variation in the angle of position,
the interval between the two stars, and the ratio of
their diameters, Dr. Herschel has ascertained that
the smaller one revolves round the larger in an
apparent elliptical orbit, and performs an entire
retrograde revolution in about twelve hundred
years. The stars which compose the beautiful
double star 2 Biiotes, differ in colour, the one bein
of a light red, the other of a very ﬁne blue, and
very much resemble a planet and its satellite.
The orbit of the smaller star is elliptical, and it
completes a revolution, according to the order of
the signs, in sixteen hundred and eighty-one years.
The double star Z Herculis consists of two stars
of different magnitudes ; of these, the larger is of a
beautiful bluish white, and the smaller of a ﬁne
ash colour. On the 11th of April, 1803, the lat
ter suffered almost a complete occultation by the
former, round which it revolves nearly in the plane
of the spectator. The double star 8 Serpentis
has undergone a considerable change in the angle
of position, without any variation in the distance
between the two stars. The period of a complete
revolution of the smaller star round the larger,
Dr. Herschel estimates at about three hundred
and seventy-ﬁve years. The two stars, of which
the well-known double star 'y Virginis is com
posed, differ but little in size. Their distance has
remained the same for twenty-one years, while the
angle of position has varied considerably. Dr.
Herschel supposes the period of the smaller star
about the larger to be about seven hundred and
eight years.
The foregoing stars may be considered as af
fording a fair specimen of double stars, of which
Dr. Herschel has given a very extensive catalogue,
and has divided them into six classes. The ﬁrst
384 LECTURES ON ASTRONOMY.
class consists of those which can only be perceived
under the most favourable circumstances, and by
the aid of a very superior telescope. The second
class contains those double stars, in which the two
stars are so near each other, that their distance
may be estimated by the eye, in diameters of either
of them. The third class is composed of those in
which the two stars are more than 5”, but less
than 15” asunder. The stars in this class may
be generally seen with telescopes magnifying from
4:0 to 100 times. The fourth class of double stars
comprehends those whose distance asunder is
from 15” to 30”. The ﬁfth class contains those
whose distance is from 80” t0 1'; and the sixth
Class includes all those whose distance is from 1' to
2’, or more. ~
Other stars have been pointed out by Dr. Her
schel, which he supposes to be united in triple,
quadruple, quintuple, and still more complicated
systems.
If we examine the heavens with great attention,
another class of very interesting phenomena will
be discovered under the form of small luminous
spots. These spots have received the name of
nebulae, from their nebulous or cloud-like appear
ance. The most interesting, and apparently the
most extensive of these nebulae, is the Galaxy or
Milky Way, a well known white and luminous
zone, which nearly encircles the heavens. The
brightness of this zone Dr. Herschel has found,
from numerous observations, made with very pow
erful telescopes, to arise entirely from an immense
number of small stars, and he has also found that
the compression of the stars increases in propor
tion to the brightness of the Milky Way, a por
tion of which, 15 degrees long and 2 broad, he 7
found to contain no fewer than 50,000 stars, large
LECTURE xx. 385
enough to be distinctly numbered, he also suspected
that twice as many more stars were comprehended
in the same space; but of these, for want of sufﬁ
cient light in the telescope, he could only now and
then obtain indistinct glimpses. From the very
great extent of this luminous zone, the circuit it
makes round the heavens, and many other circum
stances which cannot be here detailed, Dr. Her
schel supposes it to be a large nebula, in the in
side of which the Solar System is placed, and
consequently, that the Milky Way is in fact the
projection of this nebula upon the concave sphere
of the heavens, as seen from a point within it.
Professor Kant ﬁrst suggested the idea, that all
the stars in the universe are collected into nebulae,
and that all the insulated and scattered stars which
appear in the heavensbelong to the particular nebula
in which our system is placed. This opinion was
afterwards maintained by Lambert; but it is to Dr.
Herschelalone thatweare indebtedfor anythinglike
a conﬁrmation of the truth of this ingenious theory.
He has determined the position, magnitude, and
structure of 2500 distinct nebulae. These phe
nomena are presented to our view under every
possible variety of shape and arrangement; some
appearing double or treble; others large, with
small nebulae attached; some appear like lumi
nous dashes of considerable extent, while others
take the form of a fan, exhibiting a milky appear
ance; and a yet different sort are found, which
shine with a mottled kind of light. Dr. Herschel
generally detected these phenomena in certain di
rections, rather than others; and he also found
that the spaces both preceding and following the
nebulous strata were often so completely divested
of stars, that not a single one could be perceived
in the ﬁeld of the telescope ; from which circum
> s
386 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
stance he concludes, that the condensation of the
stars into nebulae has been effected by their mu
tual attraction. He supposes, also, that several
nebulae are formed from the decomposition of
other larger nebulae, that many of this kind have
been already detached from the nebulae of the
Milky Way, and that many others are at present
separating themselves from it.
Besides the nebulae, Dr. Herschel has also dis
covered what he calls nebulous stars. These
consist of single stars or bright spots, surrounded
with a faint luminous atmosphere, or rather with
a milky nebulosity, arising from some shining
ﬂuid. This light or ﬂuid he has made several at
tempts to resolve into small stars, but without
success; he therefore conceives it to be, somehow
or other, formed by means of the light that is con
tinually issuing from the innumerable suns, which
occupy the immensity of space; and he supposes
the bright central point to be the ﬂuid in a con
densed state; and as some of these nebulae have no
central points, he imagines that new stars may
appear to be formed, by the compression of the
luminous ﬂuid.
In the foregoing remarks I have endeavoured,
without entering into a minute detail of all Dr
‘Herschel’s interesting speculations on the con
struction of the heavens, to give such a view of
the different arrangements into which he supposes
the stars to be formed, as is consistent with the
popular plan of these Lectures, and shall refier
those who are desirous of farther information
upon this subject to Dr. Herschel’s paper (211 file
Construction ofthe Heavens, and the Organluﬁtlon
of the Celestial Bodies, published in the Phllosn'
phical Transactions of 1811, which contains very
interesting observations on nebulae, and nebulous
stars, and on the gradual progress of the nebulous
LECTURE xx. 387
matter of the heavens, from its diffused state to
its ﬁnal condensation into perfect stars.
Among the most remarkable nebulae which
have'hitherto been observed, are the following,
viz.--one in Orion’s sword; one in Andromeda’s
girdle; one near the end of the bow of Sagittarius;
one between this bow and the tail of the Scorpion;
one below the southern claw of the Crab; and one
between the knee and left leg of Hercules.
I have now brought to a close the third and
last principal division of my subject: I cannot,
however, conclude these Lectures, without offering
a few observations, tending to demonstrate the
truth of that system of the heavens (commonly
called the Copernican System) which I have been
endeavouring to explain, and t0 shew the superio
rity of its pretensions over those other systems
with which it is at variance, and which at diﬁ'erent
times have been more or less generally received.
It will be_' requisite, therefore, in the ﬁrst place, to
give a brief sketch of those systems, and I shall
accordingly begin with the
Ptolemaz'c System.
In this system, which is ascribed to Ptolemy
of Egypt, from whom it derives its name, the
Earth is conceived to be immoveable in the centre
of the Universe, while the Sun, Moon, and
Planets are supposed to revolve round it in the
following order: viz. the Moon, Mercury, Venus,
the Sun, Jupiter, Saturn. Beyond all these, the
ﬁrmament of the Fixed Stars was placed in what
was denominated the eighth sphere. This arrange
ment has obviously a reference to the time that
each planet takes to complete its revolution in the
heavens; and accordingly we ﬁnd that the
Moon is placed nearest the earth, and the Sun is
made to occupy the Earth’s situation, between the
s 2
388 LECTURES ON as'raouomv.
orbits of Venus and Mars, and thus the respective
motions of the Planets, from west to east, round
the heavens, and the apparent annual motion of
the Sun in the same direction, were easily account
ed for. To explain the apparent diurnal motion
of these bodies, the Ptolemaics had recourse to a
ninth sphere, exterior to those already described,
to which they gave the name of the Primum Mobile,
or the ﬁrst moveable; and to this they attributed
a whirling motion from east to west, which com
municating its inﬂuence to the inferior spheres,
carried the whole, as they supposed, round the
Earth in about twenty-four hours.
We have seen, however, that the planets in per
forming their several revolutions eastward in the
heavens, appear sometimes direct, sometimes sta
tionary, and sometimes retrograde. In order,
therefore, to account for these phenomena, they
supposed that each planet moved in a small circle,
called an epicycle, round the centre of which it
revolved much in the same way that a Satellite
has been shewn to circulate about its Primary, and
that the centre of this epicycle was carried round
the Earth in a larger circle, to which they gave
the name of Circulus Deferens, or the carrying
circle, and by proportioning the epicycle to the
deferent, a combination of motion was produced,
which corresponded with the direct stationary and
retrograde appearances of each particular planet.
The inclination of the respective orbits of the
planets to the ecliptic was easily explained, by
supposing that the planes of the deferent and epi
cycle were inclined to that of the ecliptic. Some
of these philosophers, indeed, supposed the epicy
cles to be solid transparent globes, to the surface
‘of which the planets adhered, and that by these
globes turning round their centre, their respective
LECTURE xx. 389
planets being carried along with them, exhibit the
direct and retrograde motions already described.
They also supposed the deferents to be so many
great crystalline spherical shells, inclosing each
other like the coats of an onion, and that each of
these shells was of a sufficient thickness to contain
its respective epicyclic globe within its solid sub
stance, and to suffer it to move freely on its own
centre.
The inequality of the Sun’s annual motion, and
the variation in his apparent diameter, during his
progress round the heavens, together with the
chan es in the apparent magnitudes of the planets,
and t e velocity of their motion, were difﬁculties
which yet remained to be overcome. These irre
gularities were, however, explained, by supposing
the Earth not to be concentric with the deferents,
but placed at a particular distance on one side of
the centre, and thus by a series of the most extra
vagant conjectures, aided by the most complicated
and cumbrous machinery, was that celebrated sys—
tem at length formed, which for upwards of 1500
years was universally received by astronomers.
In the Ptolemaic system, the Earth being sup
posed the common centre, round which the Sun
and all the Planets revolve, it might naturally be
expected, that Mercury or Venus would sometimes
be found on one side of the Earth, while the Sun
was on the other; that is, that Mercury and Venus
would at certain times be seen in opposition; this,
however, is never found to be the case; and it is
even proved by the most accurate observations,
that the distance of Mercury from the Sun never
exceeds twenty-nine, and that of Venus forty-eight
degrees. This difﬁculty, which proved fatal to
the Ptolemaic hypothesis, gave rise to what is
called
5 8
390 chrunss 0N ASTRONOMY.
The Egyptian System,
which is in fact merely a modiﬁcation ofthe Ptole
maic, and differs from it only in supposing Mer
cury and Venus, instead of revolving round the
Earth like the othei planets, to circulate about the
Sun as their common centre, in epicycles placed
upon his orbit. This new arrangement of Mer-
cury and Venus not only removes the objection
to the Ptolemaic system, but also accounts, in a
very satisfactory manner, for the retrograde and
stationary appearances of these planets, and may,
therefore, be considered a very important improve
ment upon the ancient hypothesis.
The ijehom'e System,
or the system introduced by Tycho Brahe, who
ﬂourished about the end of the 16th century, was
distinguished from the Egyptian, by its extending
the new principle of arrangement to the superior
planets Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. In the Ty
chonic system, therefore, the inferior and superior
planets were all supposed to revolve round the
Sun as a centre, while the Sun, with these attendant
planets, was, nevertheless, made to revolve round
the Earth, which was, therefore, still regarded as
the centre of the Universe. This system must
certainly be considered a very great improvement
upon that of the Egyptians, as it not only ex
plains, in a simple and satisfactory manner, the
stationary and retrograde appearances, both of the
inferior and superior planets, but also accounts for
thatremarkableincreaseofmagnitude in the superior
planets when in opposition, from the circumstance
of their then being nearer the Earth. Adhering,
however, to one of the grand errors ofthe Ptolemaic
hypothesis, Tycho still supposed the apparent
diurnal revolution of the Sun, Moon, Planets, and
Fixed Stars, to be owing to the impression of the
1
LECTURE xx. 391
primum mobile, and accounted for the immense ve
locity of the motion of the Fixed Stars by assuming
a distance of those bodies from the Earth very
far short of that beyond which it has since been
demonstrated they must be placed. Lon mon
tanus, however, one of his disciples, consi erably
improved his system, by ascribing to the Earth a
diurnal rotation on its axis. Hence the followers
of Longomontanus were denominated semi-Tycho
nics. It is, however, pretty evident that both the
leading feature of Tycho’s system, and the improve
ment that system received from Longomontanus,
were borrowed from
> 171:: Copernican Syslem,
which had made its appearance about 50 years
anterior to that of Tycho. For this system we
are indebted to the illustrious Nicholas Coperni
cus, a native of Thom in Prussia, who, disgusted
with the Ptolemaic doctrine of epicycles, which he
regarded as inconsistentwith thesimplicityofnature,
undertook aminute andlaborious investigation ofthe
varioussystems thathad been invented by theancient
philosophers and astronomers, hoping among them
to ﬁnd some explanation of the celestial motions,
more conformable to that order, harmony, and
simplicity, which be conceived ought to prevail
amongst these bodies.
This, however, was not his only inducement.
From some remarkable coincidences which he had
observed indifferent parts of the Ptolemaic system,
he was led to suspect that the Sun was the centre
round which not only the other planets but the
Earth itself revolved, and he was therefore desir
ous of ascertaining whether a similar notion had
at any time been entertained by any of those emi—
nent philosophers who had preceded him.
Actuated by these powerful incentives, Coperni
s 4
392 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
ous entered with avidity upon the task he had as
signed himself, and his labours were crowned with
complete success; for he not only found that his
supposition relative to the central situation of the
Sun was countenanced in a greater or less degree
by many ofthe most celebrated philosophers among
the ancients, but when he became acquainted with
the system of Pythagoras, he felt convinced that
he had met with the only hypothesis that gave an
easy and natural solution of all the various pheno
mena which had hitherto perplexed the ingenuity
of astronomers, so that, to use his own words,
“ not only the several appearances of the heavenly
bodies will follow from this hypothesis, but it will
also so connect the order of the planets, their or
bits, magnitudes, and distances, and even the ap
parent motions of the Fixed Stars themselves, that
it will be impossible to remove one of these bodies
out of its place, without disordering the rest, and
even the whole universe also.” .
This beautiful and harmonious system, restored
by that eminent astronomer whose name it now
bears, and illustrated and improved by the arduous
labours and brilliant discoveries of Kepler, Galileo,
Hevelius, Huygens, Cassini, Roemer, Hook,
Flamstead, Newton, Halley, Bradley, Euler, La
Grange, La Place, Maskelyne, Herschel, and a
great number other mathematicians and astrono
mers, has been fully explained in the course of
these Lectures, from which it appears that the
peculiar tenets of the Copernican hypothesis, or
those by which it is principally distinguished from
the other systems that have been mentioned, are,
ﬁrst, the diurnal rotation of the Earth on its axis;
and, secondly, its annual revolution round the
Sun, supposed to occupy the centre of the plane
'tary system. I shall, therefore, endeavour
LECTURE xx. 893
TO DEMONSTRATE THE TRUTH OF THE
COPERNICAN SYSTEM,
by proving the existence ofthese motions: and, ﬁrst,
Ofthe Diurnal Motion qftlze Eartlz.
Now, the objections usually urged by the op
posers of the Copernican hypothesis, against the
Earth’s rotation on its axis, are chieﬂy such as
follow : viz. 1st, That if the earth turn on its axis,
we who reside upon its surface ought to be sensible
of this motion; in other words, that this motion
ought to be perceived by us: ﬂdly, That this
supposed rotation of the Earth on its axis, by
which every point of its equator must describe a
space of upwards of 1000 miles per hour, or about
500 yards per second, if it were real, would cause
any body projected perpendicularly upwards from
its surface, or suffered to descend freely from any
considerable elevation, to fall to the west of its
original position, which, however, never happens:
and, 3dly, That the diurnal motion of the Earth
is quite hostile to the language of Scripture. Each
of these objections I shall therefore endeavour to
answer in order.
And, ﬁrst, that the Earth may turn on its axis
without being perceived to do so, may be proved
by analogy, since it is very common for a person
on the surface of the Earth to be in actual and
even rapid motion, when, as to sense, he appears
to be perfectly quiescent. Momentary impres
sions of this sort must have been experienced by
every one in looking out of the window of a carri
age moving evenly along a road, when the trees and
other objects at rest, appear to pass by the vehicle
with the same rapidity with which the carriage is
really moving, but in an opposite direction. This
deception is perhaps more frequent and more per
s 5
394 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
feet in the case of a person in a boat gliding
smoothly along the surface of the waves, when
upon casting his eyes on a vessel at rest, towards
which he is approaching, he will often ﬁnd it almost
difﬁcult to persuade himself that the vessel is not
in motion, and himself at rest, or at least that the
vessel and the boat are not mutually advancing
towards each other. But the most surprising in
stance of this kind is met with in the case of a
person in a dark night viewing the lights on
shore from the cabin window of a vessel which is
swinging round its anchor. Now, in this case, all
intermediate objects whose state of motion or rest
being known, might serve by comparison to ren
der the deception obvious, being involved in dark
ness, the lights will seem to move round in regular
order, while every thing on board the ship appears
quite ﬁxed and stationary. These examples are
amply sufﬁcient to prove, that'a spectator in mo
tion viewing an object at rest will perceive the
same relative change of position in the object as
if he were himself at rest and the object moving
with an equal velocity in the opposite direction.
It follows, therefore, that whether we suppose the
celestial sphere to revolve round the Earth in
twenty-four hours, or the Earth in that time to per
form a rotation on its axis, the rising, culminatin ,
and setting of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, with all
the other celestial phenomena, will be presented
in the same order, and that consequently the mere
appearance of diurnal motion exhibited by the
heavenly bodies affords no proof in favour of either
theory, the testimony of our senses alone in this
case being perfectly nugatory.
Let us, therefore, proceed to inquire which hy
pothesis presents the fewer difﬁculties, or appears
to be the more plausible. We have already seen
12 '
LECTURE xx. 395
that the distance of the Sun from the Earth is
almost one hundred millions of miles. If, there
fore, that luminary revolve round the Earth once
in twenty-four hours, it must in that period pass
over six times that space, and consequently must
travel nearly at the rate of twenty-ﬁve millions of
miles per hour, being more than twenty thousand
times quicker than the motion of a cannon~balli
But it has been shewn, that the distance of the
nearest ﬁxed star is at least twenty billions of
miles, and consequently, for that star to revolve
round the Earth once in twenty—four hours, it
would be requisite for it to move with the incon
ceivable velocity of upwards of one thousand mil
lion miles per second! a velocity far surpassing
all human comprehension. Yet if, as it is reason
able to suppose, the decreasing magnitude of the
stars be owing to their increasing distance from the
Earth, the velocity of the daily motion of those
minute telescopic stars mentioned in a former part
of this Lecture, must as far exceed that of Sirius,
or the nearest ﬁxed star, as the velocity of light
exceeds that of a cannon-ball.
The complication of motion which takes place
among the heavenly bodies, upon the supposition
that they all revolve round, the Earth once in
twenty-four hours, is no less surprising, than the
prodigious velocity with which they move: for as
the motions of these bodies mustbe adapted to
their respective distances, in order that each of
them may complete its revolution in precisely the
same period of time, and as it is probable that no
two stars in the ﬁrmament (to say nothing of the
Sun, Moon, and Planets, whose distances we know
to differ very considerably), are placed at exactly
an equal distance from us, there must be as_ many
distinct degrees of velocity, as there are individual
s 6
396 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
stars, and their number, it has already been shewn,
may be considered inﬁnite.
If now, on the other hand, we consider the ap
parent diurnal motion of these bodies to arise
from the rotation of the Earth on its axis once in
twenty-four hours, we observe the same phenomena
to be produced by the most simple means, one
single motion, and that comparatively moderate
and easy, being alone found suﬁicient to accom
plish that, which on the contrary hypothesis can
only be affected by an inﬁnite variety of motions,
with velocities past all computation.
Again, our Earth is found to be greatly inferior
in magnitude to three of the planets, viz. Jupiter,
Saturn, and Uranus: while, in comparison of the
Sun, it sinks into little better than a mere point;
and though from being unacquainted with the real
distances of the fixed stars, we are incapable of de~
termining their true magnitude, yet it is highly
probable that the size of each of these bodies is at
least equal to that of our Sun. It, therefore, such
be the magnitude of these vast bodies, it is surely
both unnatural and unphilosophical to suppose,
that a comparatively insigniﬁcant globe like our.
Earth stands still, while myriads of these immense
bodies are perpetually circulating about it as their
centre of motion. ‘
Again, by supposing the planets to revolve From
east to west round our Earth once in twenty-four
hours, while we at the same time allow to each of
them its proper motion in an opposite direction,
we introduce such a; combination or rather confu
sion of movements, as is totally at variance with
every known principle of mechanics; whilst by
imputing to the Earth a rotation from west to east
on its axis, this apparent difﬁculty receives an
easy and satisfactory solution. In addition to
an'rum: xx. 397
which, it may be observed, that as a motion of ro
tation, as far as our observations have hitherto ex
tended, seems common to all the planets, and since
the earth is found to resemble them in many re
markable particulars, especially in that of being a
globular body, we may consider the rotation of the
Earth as a conﬁrmation of the general analogy of
the system.
But the most complete demonstration of the
Earth’s diurnal revolution on its axis is deduced
from the particular form of the Earth itself, a full
account of which has been already given in my
Fifth Lecture, and need not therefore be repeated
in this place.
The second objection cannot be better refuted
than by the experiment of Galileo, described as
follows in Derham’s Astro-Theology ;—“ Shut
yourself up,” says he, “ with your friend in the
great cabin of a ship, to ether with a parcel of
gnats, ﬂies, and other litt e winged insects. Pro
cure also a great tub of water, and put ﬁshes
therein. Also, hang up a bottle of water so as to
empty itself drop by drop into a similar bottle with
a narrow neck, placed underneath. Whilst the
ship lies still, diligently observe how these little
winged creatures ﬂy with the like swiftness to every
part of the cabin; how the ﬁshes swim indifferently
towards all sides; and how the descending drops all
fall into the bottle beneath; and if you throw any
thing to your friend, you need use no more force
one way than another, provided the distances be
equal; and if you leap, you will reach as far one
way as the other. Having observed these parti
culars whilst the ship lies still, cause the ship to
sail with what velocity you please, and so long as
the motion is uniform, not ﬂuctuating this way and
that way, you shall not perceive any alteration in
898 LECTURES on ASTRONOMY.
the foresaid effects, neither can you from them
conclude whether the ship move or stand still.
But in leaping you shall reach as far on the ﬂoor
as you did before; nor by reason of the ship’s mo
tion shall you make a lon er leap towards the
stern than the head, notwit standing that whilst
you were up in the air, the ﬂoor under your feet
had run the contrary way to your leap. And if
you cast any thing to your companion, you need
use no more strength, if he should be towards the
head, and you towards the stern, than if you stood
in a contrary poaition. The drops shall all fall
into the bottle that is lower, and not one towards
the stern, although the ship shall have run many
feet whilst each drop was in the air. The ﬁshes
in the water shall have no more trouble in swim
ming towards the fore part of the tub than towards
the hinder part, but shall make to the bait with
equal swiftness, on any side of the tub. And,
lastly, the gnats and ﬂies shall continue their ﬂight
indifferently towards all parts, and never be driven
together towards the side of the cabin next the
stern, as if wearied With following the swift motion
of the ship. And if by burning a few grains of in
cense you make a little smoke, you shall perceive
it to ascend on high and hang like a cloud, moving
indiﬁ'erently this way or that without any inclina
tion to one side more than another.”
In this experiment we have seen that the same
effects are found to take place when the ship is in
motion as when it was at rest, the reason of which
may be thus explained. The ship and every thing
on board having acquired one common motion, it
is obvious that a particular motion impressed upon
any one thing will have the same effect in alter
ing its position relatively to every thing else on
board, as if the ship were at rest: and that thing
LECTURE xx. 899
will appear to act under the inﬂuence of the im
pressed force alone, quite independent of all other
motion, whereas it is in fact acted upon by two
distinct forces. ~
Each drop of water, therefore, in the suspended
bottle above mentioned, when it begins to fall, is
under the inﬂuence of two forces, namely, the
motion that it has acquired in common with the
ship itself, which tends to carry it forward in an
horizontal direction, and the power ofgravity which
would precipitate it downwards in the direction
ofthe plummet; the dropofwatertherefore, obeying
neither or rather both of these impulses, takes an
intermediate course, by which it necessarily falls
into the bottle immediately beneath, whatever may
be the velocity of the ship’s motion at the time.
Now, the same reasoning not only applies to all
the other examples mentioned in the above expe
riment, but to the case of a stone or any heavy
body let fall from the top of a tower, while the
Earth revolves on its axis, in which case the stone
previous to its being dropped, having acquired the
same velocity with which the Earth is moving, is
carried forward during the whole time of its de
scent, and consequently, if it meet with no obstacle
to obstruct its progress, falls as exactly at the foot
of the tower as if the Earth had during that time
remained perfectly at rest.
As to the objection arising from the lan uage of
Scripture, this is so obviously. groun_ less as
scarcely to require refutation, since it is evident
that the object of the inspired writers was to teach
mankind piety and virtue, and not to instruct
them in the physical sciences, or even to ive an
opinion respecting the celestial motions. hen,
therefore, they had occasion to allude to subjects
ofthis description, either in speaking ofthe ordinary
4-00 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
appearances of nature, or in relating miraculous
interruptions of such appearances, in order to ren
der themselves universally understood, they adapt
ed their language to the ordinary capacities, the
prevailing opinions, and even in many cases to the
, prejudices of mankind in general, without regard
to philosophic accuracy of any kind, much less to
any peculiar hypothesis of the heavenly motions.
Thus, when in Joshua the Sun is ordered to stand
still upon Mount Gibeon, and the Moon in the
valley of Ajalon -— where also in Isaiah, the Sun
is said to have gone backwards — and again in the
Psalms, when it is spoken of as going forth from
the end of the heavens, and hastening to it again—
it is obvious to the most uninformed, that in all
these instances things are spoken of rather as they
appeared than as they really were; and we have
no more reason to ﬁnd fault with this mode
of expression, than with our calling the Moon
new every time it comes into conjunction with
the Sun, when we are, notwithstanding, fully
aware that it is the same Moon which has attended
our earth ever since its ﬁrst creation. .
Having thus replied at considerable length to
the most important objections against the Earth’s
diurnal rotation, let us in the next place inquire
what evidence can be obtained.
Ofthe Eqrtlz’s Annual Motion. \
An easy method of tracing the apparent path of
the Sun through the heavens has been given in a
former Lecture,1 in a subsequent part of which
this path, commonly called the ecliptic, and appa
rently described by the Sun, has been considered
upon the Copernican hypothesis, to be really de
scribed by the Earth in its annual revolution round
1 See Lecture vm. pp. 129, 130.
LECTURE xx. 4.01
that luminary. In either case, however, it is ob
vious, that, whatever point of the heavens the Earth
appears to be in as seen from the Sun, the Sun
must appear to be in the opposite point of the
heavens as seen from the Earth. It has also been
shewn upon the same hypothesis, that the vicissi
tudes of the seasons, or the regular increase and
decrease which take place in the length of the
days and nights, are produced by the Earth’s axis
being inclined 66% degrees to its orbit, and kept
constantly parallel to itself in every point of its
revolution. On the other hand, however, it must
be acknowledged, that the same effects would also
result from the Sun’s orbit being inclined 2% de
ees to the equinoctial. Here, therefore, as in
the case of the Earth’s diurnal motion, appearances
alone are perfectly indecisive in favour of either the
ory. More substantial proofs ofthe Earth’s annual
motion are, however, fortunately by no means diffi
cult to be met with, and I shall therefore produce a
few, which, being principally derived from subjects
already fully explained in the course of these Lec
tures, will be comprised in a few words.
The apparently complicated motions of the
planets, we have found can only be satisfactorily
accounted for, by supposing them to revolve about
the Sun as their common centre. It has also been
proved by the motion ofspots on their surface, that
all of them have a rotation on their axis. Since,
therefore, the Earth has been demonstrated to re
semble them in the latter particular, and is besides
an opaque body poised in space, we are led by
analogy to conclude, that this Globe has in like
manner an annual motion round the Sun ; and
since it has been found that Mercury and Venus
are never seen in opposition, but are occasional]
in inferior or superior conjunction, while the other
4-02 LECTURES 0N ASTRONOMY.
planets are sometimes in superior conjunction with
the Sun, and sometimes in opposition to that lumi
nary, but are never in inferior conjunction with
him; it is obvious, that if the Earth revolve round
the Sun, its orbit must be exterior to the orbits of
Mercury and Venus, and interior to those of the
rest of the planets: in other words, it must be situ
ated between the orbits of Venus and Mars. By
this arrangement, therefore, the harmony of the
system is established, while, upon the contrary
hypothesis, the whole 'planetary system becomes
completely deranged.
But again, every body revolving round another
body is retained in its orbit by the power of gra~
vity or attraction, which power is always propor
tional to the quantity of matter in bodies. It is
obvious, therefore, that a comparatively diminutive
body like our Earth must be utterly incapable of
exerting a restraining inﬂuence upon the Sun,
whose gravity so vastly exceeds its own. Yet the
absurdity of the Ptolemaic and Tychonic systems
does not stop here; for, according to either of these
hypotheses, the Earth is not the centre of the Sun’s
motion only, but of the motion of the planets like
wise, and consequently must by its gravity retain
all these bodies in their respective orbits.
Many other inconsistencies necessarily arise
from supposing the Earth to occupy the centre of
the planetary system; they are, however, for the
most part, too obvious to require any particular
notice. I shall, therefore, in the last place, ob
serve, that while on the one hand the'most formi
dable objection‘which could be urged against this
motion has been satisfactorily refuted, by proving
(as we have done in the preceding part of thileec
ture) that the Earth’s orbit, compared with the dis
tance of the nearest ﬁxed star, is but a mere dimen~
LECTURE XX. 4-03
sionlesspoint ; on theother hand, a directdemonstra
tion of the existence of this motion is found in the
aberration of light, a phenomenon which, as we
have already shewn, arises from a combination of
the motion of light with the annual motion of the
Earth in its orbit. The Copernican system is in
fact the only one which, together with the Newton;
ian doctrine of universal gravitation, already ex
plained, accounts in a satisfactory manner for the
various irregularities observable in the motions of
the celestial bodies.
I shall now, therefore, having established the
twoygrand principles upon which this system rests
— namely, the Earth’s diurnal rotation on its axis,
and its annual revolution in its orbit— conclude
my twentieth and last Lecture.
APPENDIX.
4-07
MANY of the Greek characters having been em
ployed in the fourth Lecture as references to the dark
portions of the lunar disc, it will be proper, in order to
render them understood by those who may chance
to be unacquainted with those characters, to intro
duce in this place
THE GREEK ALPHABET.
NAME. scum).
A 0: Alpha a
B 5 6 Beta b
I‘ y f Gamma g
A 8 Delta (1
E s Epsilon e short.
Z K e Zeta z '
H 11 Eta e long.
9 3 6 Theta th
I l Iota l
K 7; Kappa k
A A Lamda l
M p, Mu m
N :1 Nu n
E E Xi x
O o Omicron 0 short.
H u w . Pi p
P g p Rho r
2 c a- ; Sigma s
T 1-7 - Tau t
T u Upsilon u
(I) 45 Phi ph
X x Chi ch
‘1’ \ll Psi ps
9 w Omega 0 long.
4-08
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
ADAP!ED TO THE
PRECEDING LECTURES.
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE I.
1. Or what does the science of astronomy treat?
2. Under the general term heavenly bodies, what
bodies are comprehended P
3. Which of these bodies appear to have a proper mo
tion of'their own ?
. How are comets distinguished from planets ?
Of what bodies does the planetary system consist ?
What is a primary planet ?
Name the primary planets, and draw their charac
ters.
How are the minor primary planets distinguished
from the primary planets ?
Name the minor primary planets, and make their
characters.
10. Explain the meaning of the terms superior and in
ferior, as applied to the planets.
11. Which of the planets are superior, and which in
ferior, with regard to our earth P
12. What is a secondary planet, satellite, or moon P
13. Which of the planets have satellites ?
14. How many bodies compose the planetary system ?
15. What do on understand by the orbit o a planet ?
16. Of what gure is it ?
2°
9°
$99“?
gunsrrons AND EXERCISES. 409
17.
18.
19
20.
21.
22
23.
24a
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
i 38.
Describe from ﬁg. 1. the various parts of an ellip
tic orbit.
Explain the meaning of the terms aphelion, peri
helion, apogee, and perigee.
Does the line of the apsides of every planet lie in
the same direction ?
What is the ecliptic, and why is it so denominated ?
Whatlis meant by the heliocentric circle of a pla
net?
What are the nodes of a planet?
How is the apparent annual revolution of the Sun
produced P
Into how many equal parts is the ecliptic divided P
How far does the zodiac extend on each side of
the ecliptic, and why is it called the zodiac P
Name the signs of the zodiac.
Sketch out the characters by which the signs are
represented, and explain their signiﬁcation.
Do the signs of the zodiac correspond with the
constellations after which they are named ?
Distinguish the astral from the fixed or local
- zodiac.
By whom, and when, was the ﬁxed zodiac ﬁrst in
troduced among the Greeks ?
Did the signs of the zodiac in the time of Hippar
chus correspond with the constellations after
which they are named?
To what cause is the chan e which has since taken
place in the situation ot't esigns to beattributed?
At what angles are the orbits of the planets seve
rally inclined to the ecliptic P
In what direction do the planets revolve on their
axes ?
What is meant by the axis of a planet or other
heavenly body ?
What are the extreme points of the axis called ?
What is that circle called which divides the Earth
into two equal parts, and to the plane of which
the Earth's axis is perpendicular ?
What are those two parts called'into which the
Earth is divided by this circle ?
'1‘
4:10 APPENDIX.
39.
4-0.
41.
42.
43.
44-.
45.
46.
4-7.
48.
49.
50.
51.
5‘2.
58.
54~.
55.
56.
57.
In ﬁg. 2. point out the angle of inclination of the
Earth’s axis to the ecliptic; also, the obliquity of
the ecliptic to the equator.
What are those points called in which the equator
intersects the ecliptic, and why are they so
called P
From what is their name derived?
What is the latitude ofa heavenly body ?
Had the Earth’s axis been perpendicular to the
plane of its orbit, what coincidences would have
taken place ? '
What are those pointsin the celestial spherecalled,
through which the Earth’s axis inﬁnitely ex
tended both ways would pass P
On what circle is the longitude ofa heavenly body
measured ?
At What point in that circle does the reckoning
commence P
How. is it counted? _
Describe the difference between the heliocentric
and geocentric latitude and longitude of a hea
venly phenomenon. _
What do you understand by the right ascension of
a celestial body ?
What is its nearest distance from the equinoctial
called ?
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE II.
What was the common Greek name of the Sun P
What is its Latin name, and how is it accounted
for by Macrobius ?
What is the diameter of the sun ?
What did the ancients suppose the Sun to be P
What appearances were detected on the disc of
the Sun by the aid of the telescope P
In what direction do the spots on the Sun appear
to move P
Describe the general appearance of a spot in its
progress across the disc of the Sun.
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 411
58.
59.
61.
62.
63.
E
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74-.
75.
76.
77.
In what part of its passage does it appear to move
fastest?
What were the dark and bright spots observed on
the Sun's disc formerly called P
When several spots appear at the same time upon
the surface of the Sun, do they all preserve the
same position relatively to one another during
the whole time of their being visible?
Is the apparent path of a spot over the Sun’s disc
the same at all times of the year ?
Describe the varieties it undergoes.
To what may the apparent motion of the solar
s ots be attributed, and what do astronomers
o tain a knowledge of by tracingtheir progress
over the Sun’s disc P
. What is the inclination of the Sun’s axis to the
plane of the ecliptic ?
. How may the true time of the Sun’s rotation on
his axis be ascertained ? I
Who is generally supposed to have been the ﬁrst
observer of the solar spots ?
Describe the general appearance of a solar spot.
What is remarkable in the outline of the umbra
that generally surrounds the nucleus of a spot?
Are the spots on the Sun found to be permanent ?
When a spot disappears does the umbra or the
nucleus ﬁrst become invisible ?
By what is the umbra generall succeeded?
How did Scheiner account or the phenomena
called solar spots ?
What other opinions have been entertained con
cerning them P
What inference did Dr. Wilson draw from his ob.
servations of these phenomena ?
Upon what peculiar appearances exhibited by
these spots, did Dr. Wilson found his solar
theory ? . .
Of what does Dr. Herschel suppose the lucid mat
ter of the Sun to consist P
What does he suppose the nucleus of the spot to
be? - '
'r 2
412 APPENDIX
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
\ 98.
99.
What names did Dr. Herschel give to those phe
nomena formerly denominated nuclei, umbrze,
feculae, luculi, 8m. ?
What are openings ?
How does Dr. Herschel account for their pro
duction?
What are shallows ?
Describe the various appearances they sometimes
exhibit.
What are ridges, and how far have they been ob
served to extend ?
What are nodules, and what does Dr. Herschel
conjecture from their never appearing near the
centre of the Sun’s disc?
What are corrugations ?
What are indentations P
What are pores ?
Of what does Dr. Herschel suppose the Sun to
consist ?
What is Dr. Brewster’s opinion concerning the
probable construction of this great luminary P
At what part of the Sun's disc is his light found
to be most intense?
To what cause is the zodiacal light generally at
tributed ?
What other name has this phenomenon ?
What form does it assume ?
How is its lenticular ﬁgure supposed to be pro
duced ?
By whom was this phenomenon ﬁrst particularly
noticed ?
What was his ﬁrst opinion respecting it P
Did be long retain this opinion ?
How did he afterwards suppose it to be caused ?
Draw the character by which astronomers denote
the Sun. '
100. What is it supposed to represent?
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE III.
101- Which is the nearest planet to the Sun ?
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 4-13
102.
103.
104‘.
105.
106.
107.
108
109;
no.
111.
112.
113.
114-.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
l 20.
121.
122.
On what account did the Romans name him Mer
curius ?
What is his mean hourly motion in his orbit?
What does the character astronomers employ to
denote this planet represent? r
What is the diameter of Mercury ?_
In what time does it revolve round the Sun ?
What is its mean distance from that luminary in
round numbers of miles?
Whatappearances does it exhibit when examined
with a powerful telescope ? -
What is the length of its day ?
What was the height of a mountain in the south
ern hemisphere of Mercury, the altitude of
which was measured by Sciiroeter ?
Which is the next planet in the system to Mer
cur ?
What was Venus called by the Greeks when she
rose before the Sun in the morning, and what
when she set after him in the evening ?
How was she denominated by the Romans under
similar circumstances 1? ,
What does her astronomical character repre
sent?
What is the diameter of Venus?
How long does she take to move once round the
Sun ?
What is her distance from the Sun?
Has she diﬁ'erent‘phases ?
What two great observers of Venus disagreed
materially with regard to the time of her rota
tion on her axis P
Whose opinion was afterwards conﬁrmed by
‘ Schroeter, and whatvis the true time of her rota
tion or the length of her day ?
What planet revolves round the Sun between the
orbits of Venus and Mars?
*What is the astronomical character of Mars P
123. What is the diameter of Mars; what the period
of its revolution round the Sun; and what its
distance from that luminary ?
T 3
4-14 APPENDIX
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134'.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
14-2.
14-3.
14-4.
145.
Mars shines with a 'very red light; explain the
cause of this phenomenon.
What peculiar appearances have been observed
about the polar regions of Mars P
How long does Mars take to complete a revolu
tion onhis axis, according to Dr. Herschel ?
Which is the next planet in the system to Mars P
What is the character by which astronomers .re
present Jupiter ?
What is his diameter and his distance from the
Sun?
In what time does Jupiter revolve on his axis?
How long is Jupiter revolving once round the
Sun ?
Describe the telescopic appearance of this
planet.
Are all the spots observed on Jupiter supposed
to be permanent P e ‘
To what may be attributed the difference of
colour in Jupiter’s belts, and the changes that
are continually taking place in them? '
Which was the most remote planet known to the
ancient astronomers P
By what names was this planet known among the
Greeks P
What is Saturn’s astronomical character P
What is his diameter P
In what time does Saturn revolve round the Sun ?
What is his distance from the Sun ?
By what singular appendage is Saturn distin
guished from all the other planets?
Who ﬁrst observed an uncommon appearance in
this planet ?
Who ﬁrst ascertained that Saturn was encircled
by a ring P
Describe the telescopic appearances of this ring,
with Dr. Herschel’s opinion of its matter and
form.
How many times does the outer diameter of the
exterior ring of Saturn exceed the diameter
of the Earth P
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 415
146. In what respect does the surface of Saturn re
semble that of Jupiter ?
147. Saturn and his ring revolve round the same
axis; is their period of rotation the same, or
if not, which exceeds the other, and how
much?
148. What different names is the next planet to Sa
turn, in the system, known by, and what is its
astronomical character ?
149. What is the diameter of Uranus, its distance from
the Sun, and its period of revolution round that
luminary?
150. Is the time of its rotation on its axis ascertained P
151. What induced astronomers, before the discovery
of the minor primary planets, to suppose that a
planet revolved round the Sun in the interval
between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter?
J52. How was this opinion afterwards realized ?
153. Why may the four newly discovered planets be
considered minor primary planets P
154. -What did Dr. Herschel call them P
155. By what names are they individually distin
guished ?
156. Where, when, and by whom was Ceres ﬁrst dis
covered ? '
157. Which of these bodies was next discovered, and
by whom ?
158. When and where was this discovery made ?
159. When was Juno ﬁrst observed ?
160. Who had the honour of discovering it ?
161. By whom was Vesta ﬁrst observed, and when ?
162. In what time does Vesta revolve round the Sun,
and what is her mean distance from him ?
163. What is the mean distance of Juno from the Sun,
and how long does she take to revolve round
him P
164. What is the period of Ceres’s revolution in her
Orbit, and what is her mean distance from the
central luminary P
165. How long is Pallas circulating once round the
Sun, and what is her mean distance from him ?
T ‘1
4-16 APPENDIX.
166.
167.
168.
What does the astronomical character of each of
these minor primary planets represent?
What did Dr. Olbers suppose these planets to be ?
Which of them is sometimes visible to the naked
eye ? -
169. Has the time of their rotation on their axes been
ascertained ?
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE IV.
170.
171.
172
173.
174-
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184-.
What body constantly attends our Earth in its
revolution round the Sun ?
What is the astronomical character ofthe Moon ?
What is her real diameter ? /
Being so much smaller than any of the planets,
what causes her to appear so much larger ?
A very curious appearance is exhibited by the
Moon when about three'or four days old ; what
is the phenomenon vulgarlycalled ?
Describe the phenomenon itself.
How has it been supposed tobe Produced ?.
How do philosophers endeavour to account for
the faint light that is spread over the'surface of
the old Moon, at the time of the phenomenon
above-mentioned taking place ?
How does Dr. Brewster shppose the lucid bow
on the eastern limb of the old Moon to be
formed ? .
What is the general appea'rance'of the lunar disc,
when examined with a powerful telescope P
Give a more particular description of- the lunar
spots, and of the varieties they undergo during
t e increase and decrease of the Moon.
What may be naturally inferred from these ap
pearances ? -
What is supposed to be the height of some of
the lunar mountains P ‘ ' Y ‘ a '
What are the dark portions of the lunar disc ge
nerally supposed to be P
Who ﬁrst suggested the idea of there being vol
canoes in the Moon ? ~
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. H7
185.
186.
is7.
l88.
189.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
[96.
197.
198.
199.
200.
201.
202.
203.
204~.
205.
206.
207.
What eminent astronomer witnessed several ap
pearances of this kind, and has given us a par
ticular account of his observations upon them ?
To whom are we indebted for the complete dis
covery of a lunar atmosphere? '
What is the utmost height at which it is dense
enough to inﬁect the rays of the sun, or to'af
feet the brightness of a ﬁxed star?
How have the various appearances of the lunar
disc been represented P
Who ﬁrst made a map of the Moon P
How did he denote the various spots on her sur
face ?
How did Hevelius distinguish them P
Find the Crisian Sea on the map of the full Moon,
ﬁ . 11.
Whgat is the name of the spot marked 8 ?
Which spot isrdenominated the L~ke of Death ?
How does the Sea of Vapours lie tom the Sea of
serenity ?
What is the spot marked : called?
Is the Lake of Sleep or the Crisian Sea the more
easterly P
Which is the most extensive spot on the lunar
disc 3’
Describe the situation of the Ba of Rainbows.
Where is the spot Tycho, and or what is it re
markable P
Which is the brightest part of the fullMoon, and
how is this brilliant spot situated ?
By whom and when were the satellites of Jupiter
discovered ?
What is their number, and in what order are
they reckoned ?
In what time does each of these bodies revolve
round Jupiter ? '
Do they always appear in the order of, their re
spective distances from him P
What time do these satellites take to revolve on
their axes P
How many satellites has Saturn ?
'r 5
418 APPENDIX.
208. By whom were the sixth and seventh satellites
discovered P
209. In what order do these bodies revolve round Sa
turn ? ‘
210. Are the orbits of all the satellites equally in
clined to the plane of Saturn’s orbit?
211. What happens to the ﬁfth satellite when it ar
rives at its greatest eastern elongation or dis
tance from Saturn P
212. What is the distance of the sixth or nearest sa
tellite from Saturn, and in what period does it
revolve round its primary P -
218. How far is the seventh satellite from Saturn, and
how long does it take to go once round him?
214. In what time does the ﬁrst satellite revolve round
Saturn, and at what distance from him P
215. How long does Saturn’s second satellite take to
move once round its primary, and how far is it
from Saturn P
216. How much does the distance of the fourth sa
tellite of Saturn exceed that of the third, and
how much longer is it revolving round him P
217. How much does the period of the ﬁfth satellite
exceed that of the seventh, and how many
miles is the latter nearer to Jupiter than the
former P
218. Which of Saturn's satellites is the largest P
219. How many satellites has Uranus, and by whom
' were they discovered P
220. What is remarkable in the direction of their mo
tion round their primary P
221. In what time do they severally revolve round
lIIJranus, and what is the distance of each from
im P
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE V
222. What was the opinion of Heraclitus respecting
the form of the Earth P '
223. What other forms were ascribed to it before it
was found to be globular P ‘
QUESTIONS AND axsacrsas. 419
225.
227.
228.
229.
230.
231.
232.
233.
284.
235.
236.
237.
238.
239.
. What people are said by Diogenes Laertius, not
only to have known the earth to be spherical
or nearly so, but also to have been acquainted
with the cause of lunar eclipses P
How may the convexity of the surface both of
the sea and land be ascertained ?
.- What aﬁ‘ords the most satisfactory proof of the
sphericity of the Earth?
After the convexity of the Earth’s surface had
been completely ascertained, what did astro
nomers suppose to be the Earth’s true ﬁgure?
'Into how many varieties may gravity be distin
guished?
What is meant by particular or terrestrial gra
vity?
What is general or universal gravity ?
Why does a stone dropped from the top of a
tower --or any other body left unsupported
— descend to the Earth in a- right line perpen
dicular to its surface ?
Has the Earth an upper or under side ?
How does gravity affect all falling bodies, and
what is it that causes some bodies to descend
with greater rapidity than others ?
Describe the. law by which gravitation acts.
Why is it that in all experiments made upon the
weight of bodies, gravity assumes simply the
-.fcrm- of a. constantly accelerating'force, with
out exhibiting any change in its eﬁ'ects agree
able to the law already described ?
If we consider gravity as a constant force, what
erule shall we have for the descent of circum~
terrestrial .bodies?
How may we account for the descent of a pro
jectile In a curved line ?
What is the difference between the gravity and
'the‘ weight ofa body ?
Richer found that the pendul'um of his clock,
which at Paris vibrated true seconds, lost two
minutes and twenty-eightseconds perday in the
T 6
420 APPENDIX.
240.
241.
242.
243.
244.
246.
247.
248.
249.
250.
251 .
island of Cayenne, near the equator : and that in
order to make it vibrate true seconds, it was
necessary to shorten it about the eleventh part
of an inch - to what great discovery did this
observation pave the way ? v _
Explain upon what principles it might naturally
be inferred from the above circumstance, that
Cayenne was farther from the centre of the
Earth than Paris, ' and consequently that the
distance of the equator from that centre must
exceed that of any other part of the Earth’s
surface; and that the Earth, therefore, is not a
true sphere, but an oblate spheroid, compressed
at the polar and swelled out at the equatorial"
regions. I
What is the probable difference between the .po
lar and equatorial diameters of the Earth ? ~
What is the cause of the Earth's assuming a sphe
roidal form ?
How does the Earth’s rotation on its axis produce
this eﬁ'ect P ‘
With what degree of velocity would it be neces
sar for the Earth to revolve on its axis, in
or er that all bodies without losing their situa
tion on the Earth’s surface, might become en
tirely destitute of weight.
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES 0N LECTURE VI.
245. The Earth is surrounded on every side by a ﬂuid
mass, which extends to a considerable height
above its surface, what is this fluid mass called ?
Of what is the atmosphere composed P
Is it endued with weight P
What is the weight of the atmosphere on every
square inch of the Earth’s surface ?
By what means is the weight of the atmosphere
ascertained P
What is the weight of the whole atmosphere ?
What would be the diameter of a globe of lead
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 421
252.
253.
254'.
255.
256.
257.
258.
259.
260.
26l .
262.
263.
264.
265.
equal in weight to the whole atmosphere, ac
cording to Mr. Cotes ?
Estimating the surface of a middle-sized man at
14 square feet, what pressure of atmosphere
does he sustain P
How is it that we are insensible of the external
pressure of the atmosphere P
What mistake is frequently made with respect to
the cause of a languid sensation with which we
are apt to be affected in bad weather P
Which parts of the atmosphere are most dense ?
What causes the clouds to ﬂoat in the atmo
sphere, and why do they not ascend to indeﬁnite
heights P
At what height above the Earth’s surface, would
a cubic inch of the air we breathe be so much
raritied, as to ﬁll a sphere equal in diameter to
the orbit of Saturn P
Of what does light consist ?
What is a ray oflight? _
What is meant by a pencil of rays P
What is a beam of light?
What pr0portion does the number of grains of
light emitted by a burning candle in one second
of time, bear to the number of grains of sand
contained in the whole Earth, supposing every
cubic inch of the Earth to contain one million
of such grains P
What is the ordinary rate at which a cannon
ball moves per hour? , _
How long would it be in going from the Earth to
the Sun, if it were to continue to move with the
same velocity with which it was ﬁrst projected P
How long is a ray of light passing from the Sun
to the Earth, and what is the ve ocity of its mo
tion P
. In what proportion’does the velocity of light
267.
exceed that of a cannon-ball ? ' .
In what proportion is the force with which mov
ing bodies strike, and what eﬁ‘ect would take
4-22 -APPEND1X.
268.
269.
270.
271.
272
273.
274-.
275.
276.
277.
278.
279.
280.
281 .
282.
288.
284:.
285.
286.
287.
288.
place if 1,463,081; grains ofrlightfwere equal to
a single grain of sand?
What is an'opaqne body '?
How does an opaque body shine ?
In what direction does light 'when- emitted or
reﬂected always move ?
What is a medium P
Why is light subject to the'power of attraction
which in certain "cases overcomes its tendency
to move in a right line ?
Under what peculiar circumstances is this effect
produced ?
How is a ray of light said to be affected when it
is drawn out of its natural course P
What is the angle of incidence ?
What is the angle of refraction P
How is a ray of light ati'ectedrin passing from a
more rare to a denser medium ?
How is it affected in passing from a dense me
dium to one of greater rarity?
How may these laws of refraction be eXperiment
ally illustrated ?
Does any change take place in the direction of a
ray oflight striking the surface of the refracting
medium perpendicularly P _
What is the. refraction in proportion to ?
What is the greatest height atwhich the atmo
sphere is dense enough to refract‘the rays of
ii ht?
Shdgw by ﬁg. 12. that refraction tends to increase
the apparent altitude of a heavenly body.
In what situation is a heavenly body most affected
by refraction, and why ?
Does the refraction increase or decrease with
the altitude of the celestial body?
In what point must the body be situated for the
refraction-to be nothing, and why P
What is the angle of‘ refraction ?
What v-ery‘curious phenomenon has-been knowu
to result from the horizontal refraction ?
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 428
289.
290.
291.
292.
293.
294.
295.
296.
297.
298.
299.
300.
301.
302.
303.
305.
307.
808.
309.
310.
What causes the Sun and Moon to assume an
oval form at rising and setting P
What eﬁ'ect is produced by the reﬂective power
of the atmosphere ?
About how many degrees is the Sun below the
eastern verge of- the horizon When the' morning
twilight begins P
When does the evening twilight end?
Is the twilight of an equal duration in all lati
tudes, and at all times of the year ?
When is it found to be the shortest in our lati
tudes?
What does the term meteor comprehend?
What causes that beautiful phenomenon called
the iris or rainbow?
Why does it always assume a semicircular ap
pearance ?
How must the spectator be situated relatively to
the Sun and the shower that the rainbow may be
visible, and what is the least altitude of the Sun
necessary for producing this phenomenon ?
Describe the _ phenomenon called the halo or
corona.
What are parhelia, and by
By what are they general
What are paraselenae ?
How are falling or shooting stars produced, and
of what do they consist ?
what are they caused ?
y attended ?
. What opinion did the ancients entertain with re
spect to themeteors called ﬁre-balls P
Where are they most common, and what is their
"general appearance ?
. Describe the remarkable one seen in this country
in the year 1783.
What circumstances generally attend the disap
pearance of these phenomena ?
Of what are meteoric stones composed ?
What is the opinion) of Dr. Chladni respecting
' these meteors?
Whence does La Place suppose meteoric stones to
be projected ?
4-24 APPENDIX.
311. What is the mOst general opinion respecting the
312.
313.
314.
315.
316.
317.
318.
319.
320.
321.
322.
323.
origin of these bodies P
What is the meteor called ignis fatuus, or wander
ing ﬁre, supposed to be P
What description does Dr. Shaw give of one seen
by him in the Holy Land P
How does Sir Isaac Newton deﬁne the ignis fa
tuus P
In what part of the heavens does the aurora bo-~
realis make its appearance P
Where are the northern lights seen with the
greatest effect P '
Describe the appearances they exhibit.
To what is the aurora borealis probably owing P
What is dew P
How is snow formed P
How is thunder produced, and what is light
ning P
Where are water spouts most common P
Describe the method in which they are produced.
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE VII.
324. What is the horizon P
325.
326.
327.
328.
329.
330.
331.
Distinguish the sensible from the rational hori
zon.
What are the poles of the horizon called P
What is the zenith P
What is the nadir P
What are almacanters P
Why are they sometimes denominated parallels
of altitude P
What are vertical circles P
332. What is that vertical called which passes through
the north and south points of the horizon P
333. What is that called which passes through the.
334.
east and west points P
What are great circles passing through the poles
of other great circles commonly called P .
QUESTIONS AND sxnacrsns. 425
335.
336.
337.
338.
339.
340.
341.
34-2.
34-3.
344'.
34-5.
346.
347.
348.
349.
350.
351 .
352.
353.
354.
355.
What is the semi-diurnal arch of any heavenly
body ?
What is the amplitude ofany heavenly body?
What is its azimuth ?
Why are vertical circles sometimes called azi
muth circles or azimuths ?
How far distant are the poles of the ecliptic
from those of the equator respectively P
What is the solsticial colure ?
What is the equinoctial colure ?
Does the apparent diurnal revolution of the
heavenly bodies appear under the same circum
stances, as viewed from all parts of the Earth's
surface?
How do the heavenly bodies appear to rise and
set to an inhabitant of the equator ?
Why is a spectator so situated, said to have a
right osition of the sphere P
Why wi 1 his days and nights be ofan equal length
throughout the whole year ?
How much of the starry sphere will appear to
him to rise and set every twenty-four hours ?
What great circle of the sphere becomes his
prime vertical?
To an inhabitant at either ofthe poles, what great
circle of the sphere coincides with his horizon;
and what points has he in his zenith and nadir ?
To an observer so situated, how will the Sun,
Moon, stars, &c. appear to move P »
What position of the sphere is he said to have?
Will all the stars pass through his visible hemi_
sphere ? 7
What will be the length of his day and night?
What position of the sphere is an observer be
tween either of the poles and the equator said
to have, and why?
What is the largest circle in the sphere of the
heavens, parallel to the celestial equator, which
appears entire above the horizon of any place,
called? _ 7
What is the largest parallel in the celestial sphere,
4‘26 ' APPEND IX.
356.
"357.
358.
359.
360.
361.
862.
368.
364i.
865.
'367.
369.
370.
871.
372.
373.
which never - rises above the horizon of any
place, called ?
What are the stars Icalled which are compre
hended within these circles ?
How far are the circles of perpetual apparition
and occultation of any place'from their respec
tive poles P
What stars never set to the‘ inhabitants of Lon
don P
Does the magnitude of the circles of perpetual
apparition and occultation increase or diminish
with the distance of the'place from the equa
tor P
To those who inhabit the poles or have a parallel
position of the sphere, what great circle be
comes both the circle of perpetual apparition
and occultation ?
Have the inhabitants of the equator any circle of
apparition or occultation?
To what body 'have’the poetical things and set
tings of the stars aref'erence P
Of how many kinds are they P
What‘are they called ?
When is a star said to rise -or set cosmically ?
. When is a star said to rise or'set acronycally ?
What is'meant by the heliacal rising or setting of
a star or planet?
From what 1did the 'ancients reckon the com
mencement of the dog-days ?
Show that what-are termed the'dog-days have
now (at least in our latitudelno connection with
the heliacal rising of Sirius.
-On'what day did the Sothic-year of the Egyptians
-' begin P
Why did they commence their year at that time?
Why was the dog-star called Sirius?
What is supposed'to have suggested the idea of
representing the constellation to which this
‘geautiful star belongs, under the ﬁgure of a
0g ?
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 4-27
QUESTIoNs AND EXERCISES 0N LECTURE vm.
374. What is the time at any place, when by the diur
nal rotation of the Earth on its axis it is brought
immediately under the Sun P and how is the Sun
said to be situated withxegard to that place P
375. What is a natural day P
376. How is the natural day divided? ‘ .
377. The equator being divided into 360 equal parts
called degrees, and the Earth revolving on its
axis in 24 hours, how many degrees of the
equator revolve in or correspond to one hour of
time P
378. What are the hour circles of any particular
place P
379. Explain the general phenomena of the Earth’s
I diurnal rotation, by means of diagram 2.
380. What persons have their time earlier than the
inhabitants of any particular place P
381. If when it is nine o’clock in the morning at one
place, it is found to be twelve o'clock at noon
at another, how is thelatter place situated with
regard to the former P
382. Will a person setting out from any place, and
travelling eastwardroundthe Earth, have gained
or lost a day in his reckoning when he returns
to that place again, and why P
383- Suppose a person to set out exactly at midnight,
and to travel due east at the rate of 15° in an
hour, how long will it be before he has the Sun
on his meridian?
384. If instead of due east he travels due west at the
same rate, and set out at the same hour (viz.
at midnight), when will he have the Sun on his
meridian P
385. In what manner may the Sun’s annual progress
round the heavens be detected P
386. Does the Sun always rise due east and set due
west P
387. On what days does it do so P _
388. How long together does the Sun continue to rise
4-28 APPENDIX.
389.
390.
391 .
392.
393.
394-.
395.
396.
397.
398.
399.
4-01.
4-02.
403.
north of the eastern point of the horizon, and
set north of the western?
How long together does he continue to rise and
set south of those points ?
On what day of the year does he rise and set
most northerl '?
On what day does he rise and set most south
erl P
Whit}; does this change in the rising and setting
points of-the Sun throughout the year, prove P
By what other method may it be demonstrated
that the Sun’s apparent annual motion is not
performed in the equinoctial — in other words,
that the Sun has north declination during one
half of the year, and south during the other ?
On what day of the year will the Sun’s meridian
altitude be greatest, and on what day will it be
least ?
What is the diti‘erence between the greatest and
least meridian altitudes of the Sun ?
What, therefore, is the obliquity of the ecliptic ?
Does any change take place in the obliquity of
the ecliptic ?
What is its annual diminution?
Describe the method by which the Sun’s apparent
annual path through the heavens (commonly
called the ecliptic) may be traced among the
stars.
. What are those parallels called which the Sun
describes when at its greatest distance from the
equinoctial, and why are they so called ?
What is that tropic called which is north of the
equinoctial, and why is it so named ?
Why is that tropic which is south ofthe equinoc
tial called the tropic of Capricorn P
Why are these points called the solsticial points
or solstices ?
. To the inhabitants of what portion of the Earth’s
surface, do the terms Spring, Summer, Autumn.
and Winter, as applied to the equinoxes' and
solstices, relate ?
QUESTIONS AND sxsacrsss. 4-29
405.
4-06.
407.
4-08.
409.
410.
4-11.
4-12.
413.
4-14.
4-15.
416.
417.
418.
419.
420.
What is that circle parallel to the equinoctial,
called, whose distance from the north pole is
28° 28' ?
What is that parallel denominated, whose dis
tance from the south pole is the same ?
Explain the meaning of these terms.
With what does the variation in the meridian al
titude of the Sun correspond 9
In order to produce these varieties, what must be
the position of the Earth's axis relatively to the
plane of its orbit ?
On what days of the year does the Sun rise at
six o’clock in the morning, and set at six in the
evening ?
On what day does the Sun remain something
more than sixteen hours above the horizon of
London without setting P
On what day does the time of his continuance
above our horizon not exceed eight hours ?
Explain the situation of the Earth with regard to
the Sun on the days of the equinoxes and sol
stices, by means of ﬁg. 13.
Give a more complete illustration of the regular
increase and decrease which take place in the
length of day and night throughout the year,
and of the whole theory of the seasons, by
means of diagram 3.
Show by the circle of hours attached to the
Earth in this diagram, at what time the Sun
rises and sets on the ﬁrst day of every month
throughout the year.
Mention the days on which he enters the several
signs of the ecliptic.
Name the signs belonging to each season of the
ear.
Vlyhy is so little heat derived from the Sun in Win
ter ?
What causes conspire to produce the heat of
Summer P
It is found by experience that we have not the
hottest weather at Midsummer, when these
430 APPENDIX. .‘
causes operate most forcibly, but generally
about a month after the Sun has left the tropic
of Cancer—neither have we the coldest weather
when he is in the Winter solstice, but about the
latter end of January or the beginning of Fe
bruary, when he has made some considerable
progress in his return towards the equinoctial
—- account for these ap arent inconsistencies.
421. Which are denominate northern signs— and
which southern P
422. Which are called ascending and which descend
ing sign's P
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE IX.
4-23. How do the equinoxes divide the year?
4-24. How much longer is the Sun in going from the
vernal equinox to the autumnal, than he is in
passing from the autumnal to the vernal P
425. From this circumstance what may naturally be
inferred with regard to the apparent motion of
the Sun P
426. Is the apparent motion of the Sun actually found
by observation to be subject to inequalities P
427. At what time of the year is the Sun's apparent
motion the fastest P
428. When is it slowest P
4-29. Is the apparent diameter of the Sun constantly
the same P
430. With what does the change which takes place in
his apparent diameter correspond P
431. How may the coincidence between his apparent
diameter and the velocity of his motion, be
proved P
432. What causes the apparent diameter of the Sun to
be continually varying?
433- The ap arent annual motion of the sun being
caused)by the Earth’s motion in its orbit, and
these changes in his apparent diameter being
regularly repeated every year, what do they
prove P
guss'rrorrs AND EXERCISES. 431
434.
435.
All the planets in the system, whether primary or
secondary, revolveroundtheirrespective centres
in ellipses, they are all subject to a similar in
equality of motion; and in performing their se
veral revolutions they all observe. onegeneral
law; what is that law?
Illustrate by diagram 4. the motion of a planet in
an elliptic orbit?
436.'Do the orbits of the planets diﬁ‘er much from
4-37.
488.
4-39.
44-0.
441 .
442.
443.
44-4.
4-45.
446.
447.
448.
true circles P
Is the Earth nearer the Sun in Winter or in Sum
mer?
Why have we not the warmest weather, when the
Earth is nearest the Sun P
Who ﬁrst discovered that the planetary orbits
were of an elliptical ﬁgure, and the law accord
ing to which they revolve in their respective
orbits P
What other remarkable fact did he discover re
lating to these bodies P
What were these important discoveries of Kepler
afterwards denominated P
How are they usually expressed P
By whom have they been since demonstrated,
and upon what principles P
If a body gravitating towards a centre receive a
projectile force in a direction not passing
through that centre, what line will it describe
by its compound motion; and what tendency
will it have while describing this line P
What is the centrifugal force P
What is the centripetal P
What are these two forces‘by the joint action of
which the planets are retained in their orbits,
called?
Explain by ﬁg. 16. in what manner these two
forces affect the motion of a planet, causing
the radius vector to pass over equal areas in
equal times.
449. Under what circumstances would the joint action
4-82 ' APPENDIX.
of the central forces cause the planet to de
scribe a circle, round the Sun P
4-50. What will be the ﬁgure described by the revolv
ing body when these two forces act at right
angles to each other, but are not duly adjusted;
or when being duly adjusted to each other,
they act at oblique angles ?
451. Illustrate this subject by means of ﬁg. 17.
452. What must be the projectile velocity of a planet
in order that it may revolve round the Sun in a
circle ?
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE X
453. What is the time in which, by the Earth‘s rota
tion on its axis, any given meridian revolves
from any ﬁxed star to the same ﬁxed star
again, equal to ?
454“ Why does it require something more than a com
plete rotation of the Earth on its axis, to bring
the same meridian under the Sun on two suc
cessive days ?
4-55. What is a solar day?
456. What is asidereal day ?
457. How much does a solar, exceed a sidereal day in
length ?
458. In 365 solar days, how many complete rotations
does the Earth perform on its axis ?
459- Proceed to give that very beautiful elucidation of
this subject which the 5th diagram affords.
460. Is the phenomenon you have now been describ- '
ing common to all the primar planets?
461. Are the sidereal days always 0 the same length 5’
462. Is there any variation in the length ofthe solar days P
463. What causes the solar days to vary in length ?
464. What is the difference between the time shown
by a well-regulated clock, and that shown by a
true sun-dial, called P
465. Explain that part of the equation of time which
results from the inclination of the Earth’s axis
to its orbit.
12
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 433
466.
467.
468.
469.
470.
471.
472.
473.
474.
475.
476.
477.
478.
479.
480.
481.
482.
How may this be illustrated by a terrestrial
globe P
Were the obliquity of the ecli tie the only cause
of the equation of time, on ow many days in
the year would a correctly going clock and a
true sun-dial agree P
Which would those days be P
Explain that part of the equation of time which
depends on the inequality of the earth’s motion
in its orbit P
How many times in the course of a year would
the unequal motion of the earth in its orbit,
produce a coincidence between the time shewn
by the clock and that shewn by the dial?
When would these coincidences take place P
What, therefore, will happen when the sun is in
apogee and peri ee, at his entrance into the
signs Aries and .ibra, or Cancer and Capricor-
nus P
Do the two causes of the equation of time always
co-operate in causing the dial to be faster or
Sbwer than the clock ; or, are their effects
sometimes opposed to each other, so that the
dial or clock may be faster from one cause and
slower from the other, in which case it is rea
sonable to suppose, they will occasionally coun
terbalance one another P
When one of the equations is faster and the other
slower, how is the true equation found P
How is it ascertained when they are both faster
or both slower P
Is the equation of time as already described sub
ject to any variations P
Are the variations to which
erable P
From what do they arise P
What is the time shown by the sun-dial called P
What is the time Shown by a well-going clock
denominated P
What is a sun dial P
What is meant by a horizontal dial P
U
it is subject consid
434' APPENDIX.
483. What is a vertical or erect dial?
484-. What is a vertical dial, whose plane directly faces
the north or south, called ?
4.85. Why are those vertical dials, whose planes do not
front the north or south, denominated de
cliners ?
4-86. What are those dials named, the planes of which
are neither parallel nor perpendicular to the
plane of their horizon ?
487. 1f, moreover, the planes of these dials, besides
being oblique to the plane of their horizon, de
cline from facing the north or south, what are
they then termed ?
488. What does the face of every sun-dial represent ?
489, What does the gnomon or stile represent?
490. Exemplif'y by means of ﬁg. 18, the universal
principle of dialling, with its application to
what is called a horizontal dial for any particu
lar place, as London.
491. Explain the application of this universal princi~
ple in the case of a vertical direct south dial,
as in ﬁg. 19.
4-92. Explain the method of constructing a horizontal
dial by a globe.
493. Describe the method of constructing a horizon
tal dial, as ﬁg. 21, by the common dialling
scale, ﬁg. 20.
494-. How may a meridian line be drawn with sufﬁcient
accuracy for all common purposes ?
495. Why is this operation best performed about the
time of the summer solstice P
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES 0N LECTURE XI.
495. What is said of a planet appearing to move ac
cording to the order of the signs ?
496. What is said of it when its apparent motion is
contrary to the order of the signs ?
497. What do the aspects of the planetsqdenote ?
498. How many aspects are commonly reckoned P
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 435
499.
500.
501 .
502.
503.
5011.
505.
506.
507.
508.
509.
510.
511.
v512.
>513.
_514.
515.
516.
517.
518.
519.
Name them, and make the marks by which they
are distinguished.
What does the sextile aspect imply ?
Whatis understood by the quartile aspect?
At what distance from each other must two
planets be posited to form a trine aspect ?
When are two planets in oppoaition P
What does the conjunction of two or more
planets signify ?
Are these terms used in reference to any of the
other heavenly bodies ?
By whom are these aspects supposed to have
been originally introduced ?
How were these aspects considered by the ancient
astrologers, with regard to their inﬂuence on
mundane aﬁ'airs ?
What did Kepler deﬁne an aspect to be, and how
many aspects did he introduce in addition to
those previously known ?
Which of the planets are never seen at any great
distance from the sun P
What appearance does Mercury exhibit when he
ﬁrst becomes visible in the west after sun-set ?
How may he be distinguished from the ﬁxed
stars ?
What is the greatest elongation or angular dis
tance of Mercury from the sun, at a mean rate ?
When does Mercury appear for some time sta
tionary ?
Is the greatest elongation of Mercury constantly
the same ?
Between what limits does it vary P
Are the a parent motions of Venus similar to
those of Mercury ?
On what account does the greatest elongation of
Venus exceed that of Mercury ?
Between what limits does the greatest elongation
of Venus vary?
Why are her stations and retrogradations less
frequent than those of Mercury P
U 2
436 APPENDIX.
520. Explain the phenomena of the interior planets
Mercury and Venus, by diagram 6.
521._ The illustration now given supposes the earth at
rest in one particular point of its orbit, while
the planets Mercury and Venus are revolving
round the Sun in theirs; this, however, not being
the case, but the Earth being also in continual
motion round the Sun, explain in what manner
the phenomena already described will be af
fected by the Earth’s motion.
522. The greatest elongations of the inferior planets,
it has already been observed, are not constantly
the same, but vary within certain limits; to
what is this variation owing?
523. On what account is it that the inferior planets
Mercury and Venus are so seldom seen to pass
across the disc of the Sun, when in inferior
conjunction with that luminary P
524-. In or very near to what points of their orbits
must these bodies be situated at the time of their
inferior conjunction, in order that this pheno
menon may take place P
525. If they be exactly in their node at that time,
over what particular point of the Sun’s disc
will they appear to pass P ‘
526. When either of these planets just touches the
limb of the Sun, but without obscuring any
part of his disc, what will its geocentric lati
tude be equal to P _
527. When the geocentric latitude of an inferior pla
net (not exactly in its node) at the time of its
inferior conjunction with the Sun, is less than
the semi-diameter of that luminary, what ap
pearance will it exhibit to a spectator on the
Earth P
528. What will be the case when at the time of con
junction its geocentric latitude exceeds the
Sun’s semi-diameter?
529. What is the apparent motion of an inferior planet
across the disc of the Sun, called?
guss'rroxs AND nxnacrsss. 437
530.
531.
532.
533.
534.
535.
536.
537.
538.
539.
54-0.
541.
547
54-8.
549.
550.
55 l.
Why are the transits of Venus considered of so
much importance in the science of astronomy P
What is meant by the parallaxpfa planet ?
Explain this by ﬁg. 24-.
When is the parallax the greatest ?
With what does it decrease P
In what situation has a planet no parallax 9
Is the eEect of parallax similar to that of refrac
tionP
Why is it called the parallax of altitude P
Can the change of altitude produced by parallax,
. cause a variation in any other circumstances
connected with the place of a planet?
Describe the effects of parallax in longitude,
latitude, &c. .
From what does the doctrine of parallax derive
its greatest importance P .
Does the parallax of any object increase or di
minish with the distance of that object from the
Earth ?
. What celestial bodies are so remote as to have no
sensible parallax P
Is the parallax ofthe Sun easily detected P
What is the easiest method of determining the
parallax of a planet ?
. How may the parallax of the Sun be most accu
rately determined P
. By whom' was the method of ﬁnding the parallaxv
of the Sun from the transits of Venus ﬁrst
suggested?
What steps were adopted in consequence of the
learned Doctor's suggestions?
What advantages has the science of astronomy
derived from the observations made on the
transits of Venus in the years 1761 and 1769 P.
Explain the general principles upon which this
important operation is conducted.
Exemplify this by ﬁg. 25.
Figure 26 is an illustration of another method of'
ﬁnding the horizontal parallax of the Sun; eX-_
plain that method.
'17 3
488 APPENDIX.
552. What has been found by a variety of observa
tions to be the Sun’s parallax, and consequently
what the distance of the Earth from the Sun ?
553. The distance of the Earth from the Sun being
ascertained, how may the distances of the
other planets from that luminary be deter
mined?
554'. The distances ofthe Sun and planets being known,
what other particulars respecting those bodies
may be easily ascertained P
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE XII.
555. What is the aberration of light ?
556. By whom was this phenomenon discovered ?
557. What was Dr. Bradley endeavouring to deter
mine, when he was led to the discovery of this
phenomenon P
558. What has induced astronomers to take so much
pains in endeavouring to discover the annual
parallax of the ﬁxed stars ?
559. In what year was the discovery of the aberration
‘of light completed ?
560. What motion of the Earth is demonstrated by
this discovery P
561. What deduction of Roemer’s was conﬁrmed by
it ?
562. From observations upon what phenomena did
Roemer infer that light was propagated in time
and not instantaneously ?
563. Explain the phenomenon called the aberration of
light by ﬁg. 27.
564. What illustration does a shower of hail aﬁ'ord of
this phenomenon ?
565. What ought the aberration of the stars near the
pole of the ecliptic'always to be ?
566. In what manner will stars which are situated
near the ecliptic itself, be affected by aberra
tion ?
567. How will those stars be affected which are situ
ated between the ecliptic and its pole? .
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 489
568. Are the places of the planets affected by the
aberration of light P
569. What is the aberration ofa planet equal to P
570.
571.
572.
573.
574.
575.
576.
577.
578.
579.
580.
581.
582.
583.
584.
585.
.587.
Why is the aberration of the Sun always twenty
seconds P
How may the aberration 'of the planets be deter
mined from that of the Sun?
In what will the planets’ aberration be greatest,
and with what will it vary P
When is the aberration of a planet the least P
When is it greatest in a superior, and when in an
inferior planet?
What is the precession of the equinoxes P
By what is this phenomenon produced P
Give an explanation of this phenomenon.
In how long do the equinoctial points perform a
complete revolution P
How much does the Sun’s arrival on any year
at the same equinox from which he set out the
year before, precede the time of his arrival at
the same actual point of the heavens from which
he started P
What is a tropical or solar year P
What is a sidereal year P
What is the length of each, and what the differ
ence between them P
Have all the other planets in like manner a solar
and sidereal revolution in their respective
orbits P
Of the whole annual precession of the equinoxes,
how much is produced by the action of the
Moon, and how much by t at of the Sun P
Is there not an inequality in the part of the pre
cession produced by the Moon, and from what
causes does this inequality proceed P
. What other phenomenon may be principally at
tributed to these causes P
By the nutation of the Earth’s axis, it describes
a small ellipse in the heavens, what are the d|a~
meters of this ellipse P what is thenperiod in
U 4
4-40 ‘ APPENDIX.
which it is described ? and with what does this
period correspond P
588. To whom are we indebted for the discovery of
the nutation of the Earth’s axis ?
589. With what phenomenon is it combined in produc
ing the change which is observed to take place
in the obliquity ofthe ecliptic ?
590. The action of the other planets upon the protu
berant matter about the equatorial regions of
our Earth, has, in consequence of the inclina
tion of their orbits to the e uator, a tendency
to diminish the obliquity o the ecliptic, and
also to produce a precession of the equinoctial
points ; to what do their united effects in these
cases amount ?
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE XIII.
591. From what great circle and towards what point
of the Earth is the latitude of any place on the
Earth’s surface reckoned ?
592. Why was this circle selected, and was it univer
sally adopted for that purpose by ancient astro
nomers and geographers ?
593. Were they equally unanimous in the choice of a
ﬁrst meridian, and for what purpose is a ﬁrst
meridian used ?
5594. Through what place did most of the ancient
Greek geographers make their ﬁrst meridian
to pass P
595. How was the longitude formerly reckoned P
596- Since what great discovery has the longitude
commonly been reckoned both eastward and
westward P
597. What other meridians have been ﬁxed on at dif
ferent times as ﬁrst meridians P
598. How do modern geographers determine this
point ?
599. What is commonly understood by the latitude
and longitude of a place P
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 4-4-1
600. \Vhat do the words latitude and longitude really
mean ?
601. Exemplify the misapplication of these terms by
modern writers P
602. Is it not probable that these words were origi
nally rather applied to the whole earth itself,
than to any particular place on its surface P
603. By what methods may the latitude of any place
be found either by day or night P -
604. Prove by ﬁgure 28. that the height of the pole
star, or rather the elevation of the pole, is equal
to the latitude of the place.
605. Explain the method of ﬁnding the latitude of a
I place by the meridian altitude of the Sun.
606. May not the latitude of any place be ascertained
by taking the meridian altitude of any of the
lanets or stars whose declinations are known P
607.;Why should there be no allowance made for pa
rallax in determining the latitude by the meri
' dian altitude ofa star P I
608. Describe the manner in which the longitude
might be determined with ease by means of a
chronometer, provided one could be made
which could be depended upon at all times
and under every change of climate.
609. In consequence of the variations arising from the
difference of climate, &c., to which watches,
however correctly made, are found to be sub
ject, other methods are employed for determin
ing the longitude or ascertaining the difference
of time at any two-distant places ; upon what
principles do these methods proceed P
6l0. What celestial phenomena are proper to be em
ployed in determining the longitude P
611. Which of these phenomena are best calculated
for this purpose P
612. Who was the ﬁrst among the Greeks that at
tempted to determine the magnitude of the
Earth ?
613. Who next endeavoured to solve this important
problem P
U 5
442 APPENDIX
614.
615.
616.
617.
618.
619.
620.
621.
622.
623.
624.
625.
626.
627.
628.
What means did he employ for this purpose P
How did Posidonius endeavour to measure the
circumference of the Earth? and what result
did he obtain according to Cleomedes P
How much does Strabo’s account of the circum
ference of the Earth obtained by Posidonius,
differ from that of Cleomedes P
How ma the difference between these accounts
he exp ained P
To whom was the measure of 180,000 stadia, af
terwards ascribed by Theon and others, and
how came it to be so ascribed P
By what more improved method have later astro
nomers undertaken to determine the magnitude
ofthe Earth P '
By what means is a degree of the terrestrial
meridian measured P
Who ﬁrst attempted this method of determining
the circumference of the Earth P
What did he ﬁnd to be the length of a degree ;
and what did he make the whole circumference
of the Earth to be P
Who was the ﬁrst English astronomer that en
deavoured to determine the circumference of
the Earth by measuring a degree of the me
ridian P
Describe the method by which Mr. Norwood
estimated the length of a degree, and his con
clusions respecting the dimensions of the
Earth.
Who was deputed by the Royal Academy of
Sciences at Paris to measure a degree of the
meridian P
Where did he'perform this operation P what did
he ﬁnd to be the length ofa degree, and con
sequently, what the circumference ofthe whole
globe P
By whom, and to what places was this measure
ment afterwards continued P
From a comparison of the lengths of the several
degrees contained in that arc, what very erro
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 448
629.
630.
631.
632.
633.
634-.
635.
636.
.837s
638.
639.
.640.
neous conclusion did Cassini the younger arrive
at with respect to the ﬁgure of the Earth ?
\Vhat. steps did the Academy of Sciences take
in order to ascertain whether the Earth were
really an oblate or a prolate spheroid P
\Vhat degree did the mathematicians employed
on the northern expedition succeed in measur
ing, and between what places is it situated?
Did they ﬁnd the length of a degree in these
high latitudes to be greater or less than that of
a degree in France, and how much P
\Vhere, and in what year, did, the mathematicians
employed in the southern expedition, com
mence the measurement of a degree?
When did they conclude their operations ?
How much did the length of a degree so near the
equator, exceed or fall short of the length ofa
degree in France P
From these measurements and others which have
subsequently been made in various parts of the
world, is' the Earth ascertained to be an oblate
or a prolate spheroid ?
Concerning the exact magnitude of the earth a
great difference of opinion still prevails, what,
however, may be considered as nearly _a true
estimate ofits circumference and diameter, and
also of its superﬁcial and solid contents 1’
Explain the principles upon which the length of
a degree in any parallel decreases with the
proximity of that parallel to either of the poles,
or with its distance from the equator, and also
give a proportion for ﬁnding the length ofa de
gree in any parallel.
From what did the ancient geographers divide
the surface of the globe into certain tracts to
which they gave the name of climates P and
how did they commonly describe the situation
of any particular place P
What is a geographical climate P
Was the whole surface of the Earth divided into
climates by the ancients P
U 6
4-4-4 APPENDIX.
64-1.
64-2.
643.
644-.
645.
646.
647.
64-8.
lill-9.
Did they begin their reckoning at the equator ;
or with what parallel did they commence ?
In what direction did they count their climates,
and how many climates did they originally
reckon ?
How were they named ?
Is a climate divided into two equal parts by a
parallel, in which the length ofthe longest day
differs a quarter of an hour from that of the
longest day in either of the extreme parallels
which bound that climate P
Why are the parts into which the climate is
divided unequal P
What number of climates were shortly after
added, and on which side of the equator were
they situated P
How were these southern climates named ?
How came the whole surface of the earth, from
the equator to the poles, to be divided into
climates ?
Where do modern geographers begin to reckon
their climates, and how far do they reckon
them by the increase of half an hour in the
length of the longest day ?
. In what manner are the climates reckoned within
the polar circles P
. Into how many climates is the whole surface of
the globe usually divided by modern geo
graphers?
. What are those climates between the equator and
the polar circles called?
. What are those climates denominated which are
situated between the polar circles and the
poles?
. The ancients also divided the surface of the
Earth into ﬁve great portions called zones ; by
what particular names were these zones distin
guished P
. What circles form the boundaries of the torrid
zone; and what degrees of latitude does that
zone comprehend?
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. H5
656. By what great circle is it divided into two equal
parts P
657. How are the temperate zones situated, and what
is the latitudinal extent of each ?
658. Which are the frigid zones ?
659. To what did the terms AmphisciiLHeteroscii, &c.,
' applied by the ancients to the inhabitants of
the several zones, refer ?
660. Why were those that dwelt within the tropics
called Amphiscii?
661- Why were those who lived without the tropics
denominated Heteroscii ?
662- To whom was the term Periscii applied, and dur
ing what time of the year are they properly so
called ?
663. What were the inhabitants of any place termed
when the noon day sun was vertical to them ?
664. Why are those who live under the tropics some
times called Ascii-Heteroscii ?
665. Why are the inhabitants of the torrid zone fre
quently denominated Ascii-Amphiscii ?
666. From what other circumstances have peculiar
' names been given to the inhabitants of ditl‘erent
parts of the Earth ?
667. To whom did the ancients apply the term
Synteci; and what did persons so called have
in common P
668. How were the terms Perioeci and Antoeci applied
by the ancient geographers P
669. What did persons so denominated have in com
mon, and in what respect did they differ ?
670. To whom do the modems restrict these terms P
671. In what situation are persons said to be the An
tipodes of each other P
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE XIV.
672. Can a superior planet ever be seen in opposition
to the Sun ? u i
673. Can it_- ever be in superior conjunction With
him ?
446 APPENDIX.
674. Why can a superior planet never have its unen
lightened side wholly turned towards the Earth ?
675. Does the motion of a superior planet always
appear direct or according to the order of
the signs ?
6'76. Give a general description of the phenomena ex
hibited by a superior planet to a spectator
placed on the surface of the Earth ?
677. Give a more particular explanation of the appa
rent motion of a superior planet, illustrating it
by diagram 7.
678. Are the phenomena now described common to
all the superior planets ?
679. Which of these phenomena are greater, the
nearer the superior planet is to the Sun ?
680. Is the time of retrogradation greater or less the
nearer the planet is to the Sun ?
681. Describe the increase and decrease which the
velocity of the apparent motion of a superior
planet undergoes ?
682. When is the apparent diameter of a superior
lanet greatest and when is it least P
683. How do the superior planets appear to move
among the ﬁxed stars in consequence of the
inclination of their orbits to the plane of the
ecliptic ?
684. What does ﬁg. 29 represent ?
685. How may the apparent path of any other planet
be easily delineated?
686. Why is the greater portion of the enlightened
surface of a superior planet constantly turned
towards the Earth 9
687. Describe the phases of the Moon, or the appear
ances she exhibits in her monthly revolution
round the earth.
688. Illustrate this subject by the 8th diagram ?
689. What are the syzigies ?
690. What are those points of the Moon’s orbit in
which she is 90 degrees from the Sun, called ?
691. What appearances does our Earth present to the
inhabitants ofthe Moon ?
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 447
692.
693.
694.
695.
696.
697.
698.
699.
700.
701.
702.
703.
704-.
705.
706.
Can our Earth be ever seen from all parts of the
Moon 1’ '
What is a synodical revolution of the Moon,
and by what other name is it sometimes called ?
What is the mean period of a synodical revolu
tion ofthe Moon ?
What is a sidereal revolution of the Moon, and
what is its period P
What causes the Moon's synodical to exceed
her sidereal revolution, and to what is the dit'a
ference between these two revolutions equal?
What is the Moon’s periodical revolution, in
what time is it performed, and what causes the
difference between the sidereal and periodical
revolutions P -
What is the Moon’s path in absolute space ?
Explain the cause of those changes in the form
of the lunar orbit, called the lunar inequali
ties ?
Explain by means of ﬁg. 30. the alternate acce
leration and retardation of the Moon in her
orbit, called her variation ?
By whom was this ﬁrst observed ?
Describe the change which takes place in the
form of the lunar orbit, in consequence of the
Sun’s unequal attraction when the Moon is in
syzigy and quadrature.
The motion of the apsides is also an effect of this
disturbing force, describe the phenomenon.
In what manner is the line of the Moon’s nodes
effected by the action ofthe solar force, in what
time do the nodes complete a revolution from
any point of the ecliptic to the same point
again, and what is their annual motion?
Describe the effect of the Sun’s attraction ,on the
inclination of the Moon's orbit to the plane of
the ecliptic ? , '
In -what manner are the lunar inequalities af
fected by the elliptical form of the Earth’s
orbit ?
448 APPENDIX.
707. Describe what is termed the Moon’s annual
708.
709.
710.
711.
712.
713.
714.
715.
716.
717.
718.
719.
720.
721.
722.
723.
equation.
By whom was the secular equation ﬁrst ob
served P
By whom was the cause of this inequality dis
covered P
Explain the nature of it.
How is the correction for the Moon's longitude
calculated by the present tables, found?
In what time does the Moon revolve on her axis,
and how is it ascertained P
How is that side of the Moon, which is turned
towards the Earth, enlightened during the ab
sence of the Sun?
What proportion of light and darkness has the
other side of the Moon P
What is the length of a lunar natural day, and
what diversity of seasons do the inhabitants of
the Moon experience P
In what manner will the lunarians probably de
termine the length of their year P
How many natural days does it consist of?
What is meant by the Moon’s libration, of how
many kinds is it; and by what names are the
diﬂ‘erent species of libration distinguished P
Do these different species of libration arise from
real inequalities in,the Moon’s rotation on her
axis, or are they only apparent irregularities P
By whom were they discovered P
Whence does the libration in longitude arise?
Explain this phenomenon.
What causes the Moon’s libration in latitude?
Explain the nature of her diurnal libration.
How is the spheroidal libration caused P
Explain the phenomenon called the Harvest
Moon.
. Why is it that this phenomenon, which happens
every lunation, is only taken notice of in the
harvest months P
. Describe the manner in which the phenomenon
of the Harvest Moon is affected by the inclina
guns'rrous AND nxaacrsss. 449
tion of the Moon’s orbit and the place of her
nodes.
729. Which is the Harvest Moon to the inhabitants of
the southern hemisphere?
730. Why does the Moon when near the horizon ap
pear so much larger than when in the zenith ?
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE XV
731- What is an eclipse of the Moon P
782. What is an eclipse of the Sun, as it is commonly
called ?
733. What did the ancients believe an eclipse of the
Sun to be caused by ?
734- Why was an eclipse of the Moon frequently
called by the ancients lunw labores.
735. Of what use are these phenomena in chrono
logy ?
736. Does the science of geography receive any bene
ﬁt from them ?
737. What effect is produced by the interception of
the rays of light, issuing from a luminous body,
by an opaque one ? _
738- What ﬁgure will the shadow cast by an opaque
- spherical body assume, when the luminous
body is inferior to the opaque one in magni
tude ?
739. When the luminous body is equal in size to the
opaque one, what will be the ﬁgure of the sha
dow cast by the latter ? '
74-0. In either of the above cases, what will be the
length of the shadow P
744. If the magnitude of the luminous body exceed
that of the body illuminated, what form will the
shadow of the latter be of?
74-2. What is that fainter divergent shade called
which encompasses the conical shadow cast by
an opaque body, whose magnitude is less than
that of the luminous body by which it is illu
minated P
450 APPENDIX.
748.
744-.
74-5.
746.
74-7.
748.
74-9.
750.
751.
752.
753.
m.
755.
756.
757.
758.
759.
What is the ﬁgure of the penumbra, and with
what does its axis coincide P
Explain these particulars by ﬁg. 82.
Why is the shadow cast by every planet and
satellite in the system ot'a conical Form?
In what situation of a planet is the shadow cast
by it the longest?
When is it shortest?
Explain by ﬁg. 33 the cause of solar and lunar
eclipses P
Why is it that there is not an eclipse of the Sun
every time the Moon is new or in conjunction;
and an eclipse of the Moon every time she is
full or in opposition ?
In or near to what point of her orbit must the
Moon be at the time of new and full Moon,
in order that these phenomena may take
place ?
When the Moon is exactly in her node at the
time of new or full Moon, what two lines co
incide ?
If the new Moon take place exactly in the node,
what kind of eclipse of the Sun will happen ?
How will the Moon be eclipsed if at the time of
full Moon the line of her nodes precisely coin
cides with theline of the syzigies F
Within how many degrees of her node must the
Moon be at the time of her conjunction, in
order that a solar eclipse may take place ?
Within how many degrees of her node at the
time of opposition must the Moon be situated,
in order that a lunar eclipse may happen ?
Why can there be neither a solar nor a lunar
eclipse when the Moon's distance from her
node exceeds those limits ?
Exemplif'y these particulars by diagram 9.
When the line of the nodes coincides with the
line of the syzigies, where is the Moon at new
and full, and how is she situated about her
quarters ?
How is the Moon situated when new and full,
QUESTIONS AND nxanmsns. 451
760.
761.
762.
763.
764.
765.
766.
767.
768.
769.
770.
771.
and in what points of her orbit is she about her
quarters, when the line of the nodes is at right
angles to the line of the syzigies ?
Does the line of the Moon’s nodes always con
tinue parallel to itself?
What does the motion of the nodes amount to
in a lunation, and what in a year, and this mo
tion being retrograde, how many days sooner
does the Sun arrive at the same node each suc
cessive year, than he did on the year preced
m .
In what time do the nodes perform a complete
revolution in the ecliptic, and why cannot the
period oftheir revolution be employed as a re
gular period ofeclipses ?
What number of lunations does the Chaldaic
period comprehend, and of what number of
years, days, 810. does it consist P
In what manner did the ancients employ this
period in calculating the return of eclipses?
A much more exact period than the Chaldaic
may however be used in a similar manner for
predicting the return of eclipses; what is the
absolute length of' this period? of how many
lunations does it consist? also, what will be the
Moon’s distance at the conclusion of it from
the position which she had relatively to the
Sun and Earth at its commencement ?
What is the least and what the greatest number
of eclipses that can happen in the course of
an ear ? .
When only two eclipses take place, of what kind
will they be ?
When seven happen in one year, how many of
them will be solar and how many lunar ?
What is the most usual number, and how many
of them are lunar ? '
Explain the cause of this variety in the number
of eclipses which may happen in the course of
a car?
Where do eclipses of the Sun begin and end ?
APPENDIX.
776.
777.
778.
779.
780.
781.
782.
. On which limb do eclipses of the Moon com
mence, and where do they go off?
. Into how many parts is the disc of the body
eclipsed, supposed to be divided ? what are those
divisions called ? and how is the quantity of an
eclipse expressed ?
The Moon's orbit being elliptical, and the Earth
occupying one ofthe foci ofthe ellipse, in what
points of her orbit is the Moon’s apparent dia
meter exactly equal to that of the Sun ? when
is it less than the Sun's diameter, and when is
it greater ?
. The diameter, therefore, of the Moon constantly
varying with her distance from the Earth, ex
plain in what manner an eclipse of the Sun
(which, we have already seen, always happens
when the moon changes very near her node)
is affected by the Moon’s distance from the
Earth at the time of the eclipse taking place?
Why, in a solar eclipse, can total darkness never
continue more than 4- minutes 6 seconds ?
What is the diameter of the circular space on
the Earth’s surface, over which the Moon's
dark shadow extends, when the Sun is farthest
from the Earth and the Moon nearest to it;
lt)lllat is, when this space is the largest possi
e ?
How far may the enumbra extend upon the sur
face of the Email-2
Under what circumstances are the shadow and
penumbra falling upon the Earth exactly cir
cular?
What effect has the Moon’s parallax upon a solar
eclipse ?
Why does not an eclipse of the Sun occur at the
same time in all places to which it becomes vi
sible ?
The velocity with which the Moon’s shadow tra'
verses the Earth’s surface, is equal to that of
the Moon’s motion from the Sun; to how many
English miles per hour does this amount P
QUESTIONS AND sxsausss. 453
783. Illustrate the phenomena ofsolar eclipses by ﬁgs.
34, 35, and 36.
784~. Explain the manner in- which the penumbra falls
upon the Earth in respect of the latitude of the
Moon, and her proximity to her node ?
785. Illustrate the subject oflunar eclipses by ﬁg. 34.
786. When the Moon is full exactly in her node,
through what point of the Earth's shadow does
she pass, and what is her distance from her
node, when she just touches the Earth’s sha
dow without entering into it P
787. What is the greatest possible duration ofa lunar
eclipse P
788. What is meant by the Moon’s being more than
12 digits eclipsed ?
789. In what manner is the quantity of an eclipse
frequently expressed by modern astronomers P,
790. What causes the Moon sometimes to appear of a
dusky red colour, when totally immersed in the
Earth's shadow ?
791. What is meant by an occultation of a star or
planet ?
792. Explain the circumstances under which these
phenomena may happen.
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE XVI
793. What is the word tide usually employed to de
note ? ~
794. Who is generally supposed tohave ﬁrst assigned
the true cause of the tides P
795. By whom was it afterwards demonstrated that
these phenomena are precisely such as ought
to result from the action of the Sun and Moon
upon the waters of this terraqueous globe ?
796. How may it be known that the tides are princi
ally under the inﬂuence of the Moon ?
‘ 797. Explain by the 37th and three following ﬁgures
the manner in which the Moon (separately con
sidered) acts upon the. waters of the ocean in
454 APPENDIX.
802.
803
“ 804-.
805.
, 806.
_ 807.
808.
809.
producing the general phenomena of the
tides?
. Are the tides wholly under the inﬂuence of the
Moon?
. In the production of the tides, what proportion
does the disturbing force of the Sun bear to
that ofthe Moon P
. Exemplify by ﬁgs. 4] and 42, the effects of the
Sun and Moon in producing the phenomena
called Spring and Neap tides.
. Why is it that it is never high water at any place
at the time of the Moon’s passing the meridian
of that place, but some hours after, when, ac
cording to the ex lanation now given, the tides
ought to be big est immediately under the
Moon, and on the opposite side of the Earth?
also, why do the Spring and Neap tides never
happen till a few days after the Moon’s being in
syzigy and quadrature P
Explain the modiﬁcations (principally arising
from the obliquity of the ecliptic, and the in
clination of the Moon’s orbit to the plane of the
equator) to which the general phenomena of
the tides, as now explained, are subject.
To what local circumstances ma be attributed
that want of conformity which 1s observable in
the tides at particular places, to the general
theory already laid down P
Explain by ﬁgures 43 and 44 the apparent mo
tions of Jupiter’s satellites P
What are the geocentric nodes of these satel
lites P \
What line does the satellite appear to describe
when the Earth is in either of its geocentric
nodes P
What will be the apparent path of the planet
when the Earth is in any other situation P
How may it be known when a satellite is in its
superior or inferior semicircle P
Jupiter being supposed at his mean distance
QUESTIONS AND sxsncrsss. 4-55
810.
811.
812.
818.
814.
815.
‘816.
817.
818.
819.
820.
821.
622.
823.
from the Earth, what'is the greatest angular
distance of each of his satellites from him ?
In going through their inferior semicircle, what
appearance do they sometimes exhibit P
In going through their superior semicircle, the
satellites of Jupiter are eclipsed by passing
through his shadow; they also sometimes suffer
an occultation, or are hidden behind the body
of their primary without being eclipsed; ex
plain these phenomena by ﬁg. 45.
From what is it inferred that the planes of the
orbits of Jupiter's satellites do not coincide
with that of their primary ?
'What are the eclipses of these satellites frequent
ly employed for determining ?
What discovery did Roemer make from observa
tions upon the eclipses ot' Jupiter's satellites ?
Exemplit‘y this subject by ﬁg. 4-5.
Why do the satellites of Saturn so seldom pass
through the shadow of their primary?
What is the inclination of the plane of Saturn's
ring to the plane of his own orbit?
Why is it that the Sun constantl illumines the
north side or upper surface of t 1e ring during
one half of the Saturnian year, and the south
side or lower surface of it during the other ?
From what cause does the ring disappear twice
in the course of every revolution of Saturn
about the Sun, and what is the longitude of Sa
turn when this is observed to happen?
Illustrate the phenomena of Saturn's ring by
ﬁg. 46.
What occasions the ring sometimes to disappear
twice in the course of one of our years?
What is meant by the disappearance of the ring,
since Dr. Herschell informs us, that when Sa
turn was observed through his forty Feet re
ﬂector, the ring was always visible ?
What other curious henomenon has Dr. Her.
schell sometimes Witnessed through the same
very powerful instrument?
456 APPENDlX.
824. Who records an instance of a star having been
seen through the space between the ring of Sa
turn and the body of that planet ?
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE XVII.
825.
826.
827.
828.
829.
830.
831.
832.
833.
834.
835.
836.
-837.
838.
839.
In what light were Comets generally regarded
by the ancients P
What is said to have been the opinion of the
ancient Chaldeans respecting them P
What did Pythagoras maintain concerning
them ?
Was Aristotle of the same opinion ?
What did €eneca suppose these bodies to be,
and in what manner does he argue respecting
them ? ' '
Who ﬁrst proved by direct observation, that
Comets were situated at a much greater dis
tance from the Earth than the orbit of the '
Moon, and consequently could not be meteors
or exhalations ?
Who fully demonstrated that Comets were pla
netary bodies revolving about the Sun in very
eccentric ellipses, which extend far beyond the
planetary system ?
Describe the telescopic appearance of the head
of a Comet?
Do the heads of all Comets present similar ap
pearances ?
What very peculiar appearances did the nucleus
of the Comet oi'1618 exhibit ?
What did Sir Isaac Newton suppose the nuclei of
Comets to be composed of?
What was the opinion of Appian, Cardan, Tycho,
and others respecting them, and what did they
suppose the tails of Comets to be ?
Of what did Kepler imagine the tail of a Comet
to consist ? ~
What was the opinion of Des Cartes respecting
it P
What very eminent astronomer supposed the tail
1 .
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 457
of a Comet to consist of a very ﬁne vapour,
exhaled from the nucleus by the intense heat
. of the Sun P
888. Describe the various appearances the tail of a
Comet exhibits, in consequence of the position
of the Comet itself, relatively to the Sun and
Earth P
839. How long was the tail of the remarkable Cornet
of 1680, according to Sir Isaac Newton?
84-0. What remarkable appearance was observed by
Hevelius, in the Comet of 1665 ; and what other
Comets 'have exhibited similar appearances ?
841. Why may that part of its orbit which a Comet
describes, when visible, be considered a portion
of a parabola P
842. With what velocity did the Comet of 1680 move
in its perihelion, according to Sir Isaac New
ton ?
843. For what is the Comet of 1759 remarkable, and
by whom was its return foretold P
844-. What is supposed to be its period, and when
may it again be expected to make its appear
ance P 7
84-5. What did Dr. Halley suppose to be the period of
the famous Comet of 1680? in what years did.
he suppose it to have been previously seen, and
by what celebrated poet of antiquity is the
same Comet probably alluded to P
846. What was remarkable in the Comet of 1770 P
84-7. What was the diameter of the nucleus of the
‘ Comet of 1811 in geographical miles, ac
cording to Schroeter, and what was the dia
meter of a smaller and much more brilliant
nucleus, which the same astronomer observed
in the centre of the former?
84-8. 'What was the total diameter of' the head of this
Comet, and what the greatest length of the
_ tail, according to the same observer P
84-9. Of twenty-four Comets whose elements have been
accurately calculated, how many have passed
between the Sun and the orbit of Mercury
x
458 APPENDIX.
-how many between the orbits of Mercury
and Venus— how many between the orbits of
Venus and the Earth— how many between
the orbits of the Earth and Mars—how many
between 'the orbits of Mars and Ceres -and
how many between the orbits of Ceres and
Jupiter P
850. Show how improbable it is that any Comet in its
passage to or from its perihelion should en
counter the Earth, or make so near an appulse
to it, as to cause any serious convulsion, or be
attended with any calamitous consequences?
851. To what did Mr. Whiston attribute the universal
deluge in the time of Noah ?
852. What very extraordinary opinion was entertained
by that gentleman with respect to the purposes
for which these bodies were probably designed ?
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE XVIII.
858. How may the ﬁxed stars be readily distinguished
from the planets?
854. How do you account for the twinkling of the
' ﬁxed stars ?
855. What is the greatest number of stars at any one
time visible to the naked eye ?
856. Whence may the diversity in the apparent mag
nitudes of the ﬁxed stars be supposed to arise ?
857. Into how many Classes or orders are the ﬁxed
stars which are visible to the naked eye divided
by astronomers, with respect to their apparent
magnitudes? and what are those stars denomi
nated which compose the several classes P
858. Are the stars composing any one of these classes
all of the same apparent size and brightness ?
859. What are those stars called which cannot be
perceived without the aid ofa telescope P
860. In what manner was the sphere of the ﬁxed stars
divided by the ancients ?
861. What proof have you to offer of the antiquity of
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 459
this method of dividing the stars into constel
lations ?
862. What was the number of the ancient constella
tions, (as they are now called,) and in what man
ner were they for the most part delineated P
868. By what general name were those stars called
which could not be included in any of the
ﬁgures of the constellations?
864-. What is the number of the constellations into
which the heavens are at present divided, and
of what are the new constellations principally
composed P
865. Into how many classes are the constellations
usually divided, and what does each class com
prehend ?
866. To what number do the constellations north of
- the zodiac at present amount?
867. What is the number of constellations south of the
. zodiac P
868. What farther distinctions were employed by the
- ancients in regard to these bodies ?
869. What very effectual method of distinguishing the
several stars contained in each constellation
was introduced by Bayer about the year 1603?
870. Do the Greek letters indicate the real magnitudes
of the stars to which they refer, or only the re
lative magnitudes of those in the same constel
lation?
871. For what purpose were the letters of the Roman
alphabet employed?
872. When the number of stars in any constellation
exceeds the number of letters contained in
both alphabets, how are the references con
tinued P
873. Under what form are each of the Bears said to
have been represented by the ancients; and
by what other names is the constellation com
monly called the Great Bear still very fre
_ quently distinguished ?
874-. In what manner are the seven stars disposed,
x 2
4-60 APPENDIX.
by which this constellation is principally
known P
875. Why are the two stars farthest from the tail call
ed the pointers, and which of them is of the lst
magnitude ?
876. Which of the seven principal stars in this con
stellation have proper names assigned them;
and what are those names ?
877. Which of the stars in the tail of the Great Bear
appears double ? and what is the star of the 5th
magnitude called, from which it derives this
appearance?
878. Describe the position of the principal stars in
- Ursa Minor. ‘
879. Why is the star at the extremity of the tail of the
Little Bear called the Pole Star .9
880. Which of the stars in this constellation are deno
minated the Wardens ofthe Pale ,- and by what
particular name is the brightest of these two
stars distinguished ?
881. In what form are the principal stars in the con
stellation Cassiopeia arranged ; what is the ﬁrst
star called; and how may this star, and conse
quently the whole constellation be readily found
in the heavens ?
882. Describe the situation of the principal stars in
the constellation Cepheus, with the most ready
means of ﬁnding them in the heavens.
883. Describe the situation ofthe constellation Draco.
884. What star in this constellation passes vertically
over London once in the course of a natural
day; in what part of the Dragon is the most
brilliant star in the constellation situated, and
how may it be distinguished in the heavens?
885. What remarkable star is contained in the con
stellation Auriga, and in what part of the con
stellation is it found P .
886. Describe the situation of the other principal
stars in Auriga, and by what means they may
be known '1’
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 461
887.
888.
889.
890.
891.
892.
893.
894-.
895.
896.
897.
898.
How is Andromeda represented; what par
ticular stars does it contain; where are
they situated, and how may they be distin
guished P
In what constellation are Algenib and Algol
situated, and by what means may they be
found ?
How are the Triangles and the Northern Fly situ
ated ?
How many stars of the 2d magnitude does Pega
sus contain; what are their names, and what do
they form with Alphemtz in the head of An
dromeda; also, what is the particular situ
ation of each of these stars, and in what
part of'the censtell'ation is the Star Ent'f situ
ated ?
How may Delphinus be known ?
What star of the lst magnitude is to be found in
the constellation of the Swan; in what form are
the principal stars in this constellation disposed ;
and in what part of the ﬁgure formed by
them does the Star of the lst magnitude oc
cur? ' ' ‘
The Eagle and Antinous are generally consider
ed as one constellation, which is intersected by
the equinoctial : what portion of this constella
tion is north of that circle, and what portion is
south of it?
In what manner are constellations, which are di-\
vided into two parts each by the equinoctial,‘
to be looked for in the planispheres P
Athair is a star ofthe lst magnitude in the Eagle;
describe the situation of this star, and of the
other principal stars in the same constella
tion.
How does Sagitta lie from Aquila P
In what constellation is the beautiful star Vega
or Wega situated; and how may it be found ?
What is the name of the principal star in the
Northern Crown ?
x 3
462 APPENDIX.
899. How is Hercules represented, and in what part is '
Ras Algetbi situated P
900. The Serpent Bearer and the Serpent contain a.
star of the 2d magnitude each : how are these
stars situated, and what is the name of that in
the Serpent Bearer P
901. How is the constellation Bb'otes represented, and
for what brilliant star is it remarkable P
902. Describe the situation of this and the other prin
cipal stars contained in this asterism P
903. Between what constellations are the Greyhounds__
situated P
904-. Where is Cor Caroli, and by whom was it made a
constellation P i
905. How is Coma Berenices situated, and of what
stars does it principally consist?
906- Describe the situation of the principal stars in
Leo Minor.
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE XIX.
907. How are the principal‘stars in Aries situated P
908. What two remarkable groups of stars are con
tained in the Bull?
909. What is the chief star in this constellation named,
and what part of the ﬁgure does it form P
910. What are the two principal stars in Gemini
- called ?
911. Describe the situation of these stars, and of
the other principal stars in the same constella
tion.
912. How may the principal stars in Cancer be re
cognised; and what are twa remarkable stars
in the body of the Crab called P
913. How many stars of“ the 1st magnitude are there
in Leo; what are their names; in what parts
of the constellation are they situated, and how
may they be readily fOund in the heavens ?
914-. How is the Virgin represented; where is the star
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 463
915.
Spica ,- what is its magnitude, and how may it
be recognised ?
What are the two principal stars in Libra called,
and how are they situated?
916. In which scale is Zaben Halcrabt', and with what
917-.
918.
919.
920.
921 .
922.
923.
924.
925.
926.
927.
928.
other stars does it form a rhomboid P
How may Antares, the chiefstar in the Scorpion,
be distinguished, and for what is it remark
able?
How are the principal stars in Sagittarius
(most of which are visible in our latitudes) situ
ated ?
The Goat is principally distinguished by three
stars of the 3d magnitude : describe their situa
tion, and also that of Denali Algeria, 3 star of
the 4th magnitude in the same asterism.
Give directions for recognising the principal
stars in Aquarius.
In what part of the constellation Pisces is its
chief star situated ; what is its magnitude, and
how may its position in the heavens be deter
mined ?
For what is the constellation Cetus remark
able?
Some of the stars in this constellation have pro
per names: what are the names by which they
are distinguished, and 'in what parts of the
‘Vhale are they to be found; also, what is the
magnitude of the principal stars in the aste
rism P
Name the three modern constellations which are
situated immediately below the Whale ?
For what is the constellation Orion remarkable,
and how is it usually represented ?
How many stars of the ﬁrst magnitude, how
many of the 2d, and how many of the 3d, are
contained in this brilliant asterism ?
Describe the situation of the nine principal stars
in Orion.
How is the constellation Lepus situated ?
x 4
464 APPENDIX:
929. Describe the course of the river Po ?
9‘50. What is the chief' star in this constellation called,
and why is it never seen by the inhabitants of
Great Britain ?
931. What is the name of the principal star in Canis
Minor; what is its magnitude; and how may
its situation in the heavens be determined ?
932. What is the principal star in Argo Navis called,
and how is it situated ; also, in what part of the
Ship is the star Blur/cab, and what star of the
lst magnitude is it nearly south of?
933. In what constellation is the star. Sirius, for what
is it remarkable, and with what others does it
form a triangle nearly equilateral?
934- What is remarkable in the constellation Hydra;
what is the name, and what the magnitude of
its chief star, and where is that star situ
ated ?
935. How are the Cup, the Crow, and the Bird of the
L. Desert situated P
936. The only stars of consequence in the Centaur
that ever ascend above our horizon are one of
the 2d magnitude, one of the 3d, and four of
the 4th: how are the stars disposed in the con
- stellation P .
937. In what constellation is Fomalkaut ; what part
> of the constellation does it form, and what star
~ is it due south of? v
938. Among those constellations which are always in
visible to the inhabitants of Great Britain, the
Cross is the most brilliant and the most remark
able: of what principal stars does it consist,
and what advantages do the inhabitants of the
southern hemisphere derive from it?
939. In describing the positions of the several stars
contained in any constellation, how is the con
stellation itself supposed to be situated ?
94-0. How do you discover what stars culminate or
come to the meridian at any given time P
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 465
.
r‘ ll
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES ON LECTURE XX
941.
942.
943.
944.
94‘5.
94-6.
947.
948.
94-9.
950.
951.
952.
953.
954.
In what respect does the telescopic appearance
of the ﬁxed stars prove the immeasurable dis
tance of those bodies from us.
By what method did Dr. Bradley endeavour to
discover the annual parallax of the ﬁxed stars ?
What result did he obtain P
Was Dr. Herschel, who endeavoured to deter
mine the same problem by observations upon
double stars, more successful?
Explain the very ingenious method proposed b
Mr. Mitchell, for obtaining the probable para -
lax of the ﬁxed stars.
Why cannot the results obtained by this method
be relied on P
What means have been employed by astrono
mers for detecting any changes which may be
going on among the ﬁxed stars, but which, on
account of the very immense distance of those
bodies, require very long periods of time to be
come sensible ?
Who ﬁrst made a catalogue ofthe ﬁxed stars ?
By whom was the most extensive catalogue of
the stars formed, and what number did it com
prehend ?
By whom was the proper motion of the ﬁxed
stars ﬁrst discovered P
Who ﬁrst ascribed this phenomenon to aprogres
sive motion of the solar system, and from what
considerations did he deduce this opinion ?
Towards what point of the heavens does Dr. Her
schel suppose this motion of the solar system
directed P
What does Dr. Herschel imagine to be the velo
city of this motion, and of what does he sup
pose the centre round which it is performed
to consist ?
What discovery induced Hipparchus to undertake
the task of forming a catalogue of the stars P
x 5
4 66 APPENDIX.
955.
956.
957.
958.
959.
960.
96 I .
963.
964.
965.
966.
967.
968.
969.
970.
971.
979.
978.
When was a new star discovered in Cassiopeia ?
By whom was it particularly observed P
What appearance did it exhibit when it was ﬁrst
seen P
When did its magnitude begin to diminish ? i
When did it entirely disappear, and how long
had it been visible ?
What new star exhibited similar appearances ?
By whom was it observed, and in what year?
. In what part of the heavens was it seen 5’
What star affords an example of those which
are gradually increasing in brightness P
Give an example of some star whose lustre is
gradually decreasing.
Some stars are found to undergo a periodical va
riation of lustre : mention some examples of
this kind.
What number of stars are ascertained to be va
riable, and how many are supposed by Her
_ schel to be subject to these changes ?
Mention a few of the various hypotheses which
have been proposed to account for these phe
nomena.
How many stars have been observed in the
eonStell‘ation Orion, by the aid of very power
ful telescopes ?
What surprising number of stars has Dr. Her
schel seen pass through the ﬁeld of view of his
telescope in one quarter of an hour’s time,
when examining the most crowded part of the
Milky Way ?
What stars does Dr. Herschel call insulated, and
by what does he suppose them attended ?
What stars are comprehended by Dr. Herschel
under the term double stars, or binary sidereal
systems P
How may two stars be so disposed as to have the
appearance of a double star, without actually
forming a binary system ?
What Was Dr. Herschel’s' opinion upon this sub
jeét P
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 467
974. What does Dr. Herschel call the angle of posi
tion in a double star ?
975. In how many double stars upon which observ
ations have been made by the Doctor has he
found a change either in the angle of position
or in the distance between the two stars of
which the double star is composed P
976. Six double stars upon which the Doctor’s observ
ations have been published aﬂ‘ord a very inter
esting specimen of these phenomena: which
‘stars are they ?
977. Into how many classes has Dr. Herschel divided
double stars; and what is the distinguishing
characteristic of each class ?
978. What are nebula ?
979. Which is the most remarkable phenomenon of this
kind?
980. From what does the whiteness of the Milky Way
arise ?
981. What does Dr. Herschel suppose the Milky Way
to be?
982. Who ﬁrst suggested the idea that all the stars
throughout the universe were collected into
nebulae, and that all the insulated and scattered
stars which appear in the benzene belong to
that particular nebula in which the solar sys
tem is placed?
983. By whom was the truth of this theory estab
lished?
1984. Of how many nebula has Dr. Herschel deter
mined the position, magnitude, and structure?
985. Describe some of the varieties under which they
a pear?
986. W at further observations did Dr. Herschel
make respecting these phenomena, and by what
means does he suppose the condensation of the
stars into nebula: is effected ?
987. What are nebulous stars ?
988. Of what does Dr. Herschel suppose the nebulo
sity which accompanies these stars to be com
x 6
4-68 APPENDIX.
989.
990.
T991.
992.
993.
994-.
995.
i 996.
997.
posed, and what does he imagine the bright
central spot or star to be ?
Among the numerous nebula which have been
already discovered, how are some of the most
remarkable situated P
Describe the arrangement of the heavenly bodies
according to the Ptolemaic system of the
heavens.
In what manner did the Ptolemaic hypothesis
explain the apparent diurnal revolution of
these bodies P -
How were the direct, stationary, and retrograde
appearances of the planets, and the inclinations
of their respective. orbits to the ecliptic, ac
counted for upon this hypothesis P
How were the inequalities in the sun's annual
motion and the variation in his apparent dia
meter explained ? -
What peculiarities in the phenomena of the
inferior planets could not be accounted for
upon the Ptolemaic hypothesis ?
In what respects did the Egyptian system differ
from the Ptolemaic?
How was the Tychonic system distinguished
from the preceding, and what very consider
able improvement did it receive from Lon
gomontanus?
By whom was the true system of the heavens
(ﬁrst taught by Pythagoras) restored? and in
what important particulars does this system
differ from all the foregoing?
998. The Earth's diurnal rotation on its axis,
and its annual revolution in its orbit, being
the two grand principles upon which the
Capernican system rests, in demonstrating
the truth of this system, it will be neces
sary to prove the existence of these motions,
to the former of which several objections
have occasionally been urged by the oppo
nents of the Copernican hypothesis; these,
20
QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES. 4-69
however, may, for the most part, be reduced
to three: what are they P
999. How may these objections be severally an
swered ?
1000. Prove the annual motion of the Earth round
the Sun.
PROBLEMS AND EXERCISES
ASTRONOMICON.
PROBLEM I.
Toﬁml the Sun’s place (commonly called his longi
tude) in the ecliptic, and thence his real situation in the
heavens, on an. given day.
Seek the ay of the month in the calendar of
months, and against it in the adjoining circle will be
found the Sun’s longitude or place in the ecliptic for
that day : observe whether this be among the northern
or southern signs, and ﬁnd the same sign and degree
in the ecliptic, on the map of the northern or southern
hemisphere accordingly : this will be the place of: the
Sun on the map, and by consequence, in the heavens,
for that day at noon.
Thus the Sun’s longitude or place in the ecliptic on
the 7th July is about 15§° of Cancer, and conse
quently his place in the heavens is in the middle of the
constellation Gemini, near to the star in Castor's right
elbow.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE.
Required the Sun’s longitude and place in the hea
vens on the following days; 21st June, 21st December,
16th April, 4th October, and 28th January.
rnoanmus' Axis axsacrsns. 4'71
PROBLEM II
The Sun’s place in the ecliptic or in the heavens
bein given, toﬁnd the day ofthe month.
I the Sun’s longitude or place in the ecliptic be
given, seek, in the calendar of months, the correspond
ing day to that longitude for the answer.
But if his place in the heavens be given, ﬁnd that
place on one of the maps, and observe to what degree
of the ecliptic it answers: the da corresponding with
this degree in the calendar 0 months is the day
sought:
T us, so pose the day on which the Sun is due
north of t e star, in the tip of the Bull’s southern
born, he required,-the point of the ecliptic (in which
circle the Sun must always be found) north of this star
is between 21 and 22 degrees of Gemini, and conse
quently the day required is the 12th of June.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE
What are the days of the month in which the Sun
is respectively in the 12th degree of the twelve signs
of the zodiac ?
L 0!; what day will the Sun pass the star Regulus in
eo
When will Zuben el Genubi be in conjunction with
the Sun ?
PROBLEM 111.
To ﬁnd the right ascension of the \Sun or anyﬁzed
star.
, Extend the silk string over the Sun’s place, or over
the given star, and it will cut the right ascension in
time or degrees, among the divisions on the circum
ference of the map. 7 ' '
Thus, the Sun’s right ascension on the 21st of June
is 90 degrees, or VI hours.
472 APPENDIX.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE.
What is the right ascension of the Sun on the fol
lowing days; 4th June, 15th May, 10th October?
Required the right ascension of Aldebaran in Tau
rus, Etanin in Draco, Arcturus in Bootes ?
PROBLEM IV.
Toﬁnd tlie declination ofthe Sun or anyﬁxed star. _
Bring the silk string over the Sun’s place or over
the given star, and extend it to the equinoctial or cir
cumference of the map as in the last problem, then
with a pair of compasses take the distance of the
'Sun’s place, or of the star from the point of the equi
noctial intersected by the string: this distance, referred
to the graduated quadrant of the equinoctial colure,
will give the declination required. I
Thus the Sun’s declination on the 21st of December
is 23} S.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE.
What is the Sun's declination on the 10th July ?
Required the declination of Antares in Scorpio,
Schedir in Cassiopeia, Vega in Lyra, and Sirius in
Canis Major ?
PROBLEM V.
The right ascension and declination qfang star being
given, toﬁnd that star.
Find the right ascension on the equinoctial, and ex
tend the silk string over that point, then taking the
declination between the points of your compasses from
the graduated. quadrant of the equinoctial colure,
place one foot of the compasses in that point of the
equinoctial which is cut by the string, and extend the
other towards the pole : the star upon which that point
of the compasses falls will be the one required.
Thus the star whose right ascension is 14-9 degrees,
ind declination about 13 degrees north, is Regulus in
eo.
PROBLEMS AND EXERCISES. 4.78
QUESTIONS FOR. EXERCISE.
_Required the stars whose right ascensions and de
clinations are nearly as follow:
Right Ascension. Declination.
210° 20° N.
43° 40° N.
76° 8§° S.
243° . 26° S.
342° 31° S.
162° 57°‘N.
PROBLEM VI.
In any proposed latitude toﬁnd the meridian altitude
thhe Sun, or omfany givenﬁred star.
Find the dec ination of the Sun or star by problem
iv. : this added to or subtracted from the comple
‘ment of the latitude, according as the latitude and de
clination are of the same or different denominations,
will give the meridian altitude required. ‘
Thus, suppose it be required to ﬁnd the meridian
altitude of Regulus in Leo.
The latitude of London is about '51P, its comple
-ment 38y, hence 38§° + 13“ (the declination of Re
gulus nearly) equal 51?, the meridian altitude re
quired.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE.
Required the Sun’s meridian altitude on the follow
ing days ; 10th July, 14th Aug. and 29th Sept. ?
What is the meridian altitude of Sirius ?
Required the meridian altitude of Capella, the lati
tude of the place of observation being 569 N. _ ‘
. What is- the meridian altitude of Spica, in latitude
10%° S.? '
PROBLEM VII.
T0ﬁnd all those stars which have the same declina
tion as any given star, or to ﬁnd all those stars which
have a given declination.
Through the given star or given declination, de
474 APPENDIX.
scribe a circle from the pole as a centre, and it will pass
over the stars sought.
Thus, if we wish to ﬁnd all those stars which have
the same declination as Capella in Auriga, a circle
described from the North Pole through that star cuts
the stars required.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE.
What stars have nearly the same declination as Si
rius ?
It is required to ﬁnd all those stars whose declina
tion is the same as that of the Sun on the following
days; 21st June, 21st December, 20th March, 23d
September, lst February, and the lst August.
PROBLEM VIII. '
To describe the circle of erpelual a rition qfany
given place, or toﬁnd all time stars to lab never set at
that place. >
From the Pole of that hemisphere, which is of the
same denomination as theilatitude of the given place,
describe a circle through a declination equal to the
complement of that latitude; this circle will be the cir
cle of perpetual apparition required, and will compre
hend all those stars which never set at the proposed
lace.
p Thus, suppose it were required to ﬁnd all the stars
which never set at Paris. The latitude of Paris being
48" 50' N. the declination through which the circle of
perpetual apparition must pass is 41° 10' N.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE
It is required to show on the maps, the stars which
never set at the'following places : Rome, lat. 41° 54!.
N. ; St. Petersburg, lat. 56° 56’. N.; St. Salvador, lat.
12° 58'. S.; St. Helena, lat. 15° 55' 3.; and at the
North'and South Poles. '
PROBLEM Ix. _ _
To describe the circle of perpetual occultation of
PROBLEMs sun nxnacxsns. 475
any given place, or toﬁnd all those stars which never
rise at that place.
From the Pole ofthat hemisphere which is of acon
trary denomination to the latitude of the given place
describe a circle through a declination equal to the
complement of that latitude: this circle will be the cir—
cle of perpetual occultation required, and will com.
prehend all those stars which never rise at the pro
posed place.
Thus the circle ofperpetual occultation of Paris, or
that circle which comprehends all those stars which
never ascend above the horizon of that place, must
pass through the declination of 4-l° 10', S.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE
It is required to show on the maps the stars which
never rise at the following places: viz. Aleppo, lat.
35° 40'. N.; Quebec, 46’ 47'. N.; Staten Land,
54-" 50'. 3.; Natal, lat. 29° S.
How are those places situated to which the arctic
circle becomes the circle of perpetual occultation P
_ PROBLEM x.
To ﬁnd those stars which pass through the zenith qf
an given place.
mm the pole of that hemisphere, which is of the
same denomination with the latitude of the given
place, describe a circle passing through a declination
equal to that latitude: this circle will cut all those
stars which come to the zenith of the proposed
place. -
Thus, a circle described from the North Pole,
through the declination of 5159, will pass through all
those stars which come to the zenith of London.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE
What stars become vertical once in every natural
day to the following places : Douglas, lat. 54° 5' N. ;
Granada, lat. 37° 8' N.; Gozi, lat- 84:0 50' NJ
Sable Cape, lat. 43“ 30'; Easter Island, 27° 6' S»;
Papudo, lat. 32° 36' S. ?
4'76 APPENDIX.
PROBLEM Xi.‘
Toﬁnd what stars are on the meridian, or directly
north and south at any given time.
Having found by problems i. and iii. the Sun’s
place and right ascension for the given day, in the
map of the northern or southern hemisphere, accord
ing as his declination is north or south of the equinoc
tial, consider whether the given time be before or after
noon; if the former, move the silk string backwards
so many hours, &c. as the proposed time wants of noon,
but if the latter, advance it forward so many hours as
the time given is past noon, then, letting the string re
main in this position, observe what degree of right as
cension is now cut by it, and extend the silk'string
from the centre of the other planisphere over the cor
responding degree on its circumference. The strings
thus disposed formacomplete meridian oul‘theytwo
maps, extending from the north to the south pole, and
Passing overthe stars which are on the meridian at
the. given time. We have, however, already seen that
those stars which are within the circle of perpetual
occultation can never be visible in our latitudes,
while, on _the' contrary, those comprehended by the
circle of perpetual apparition never set; to complete
this problem, therefbre, the string on the map of the
northern hemisphere, must be imagined to extend
through the pole to the opposite point of the circle of
perpetual apparition, while the string on the map of
the southern hemisphere may be supposed to termi
nate when it touches the circle of perpetual occulta
tion. '
Thus, on the 1st of November, at 8 o’clock in the
evening, the meridian from north to south is occupied
by Ursa Major, the tail Draco, the head of Camelo
pardalis, Cepheus, the fore legs and head of Pegasus,
Aquarius, and Piscis Australia.
* This problem has been already introduced in Lecture XIX.
p. 369.
PROBLEMS AND sxaacrsss. 47 7
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE.
What star of the 1st magnitude culminates at 9
o’clock in the evening on the 10th of January ?
What constellations and principal stars are in the
meridian on the ﬁrst day of every month respectively
throughout the year, at 10 o’clock in the evening ?
The longitude and latitude of the stars may be
found ver near the truth, by referring to the poles of
the ecliptic, instead of those of the equinoctial. ‘
In the same manner, also, the place of the planets
(their longitude and latitude being taken from White’s
Ephemeris) may be marked upon the maps, and the
place of any planet being ascertained, its right ascené
sion and declination, time of culminating, 8:0. may
be found by the problems already given for the ﬁxed
stars.
The following problems are adapted to the move
able planisphere of the stars visible in the latitude of
London.*
' It may be proper to observe, that this planisphere formed no
part ofthe illustrations originally intended to accompany this work,
and has only been introduced since the Lectures, together with the
Questions and Exercises upon them, were printed 05'. The Author's
chief design in making this important addition to the Astronomi
con was to facilitate the progress of the Student in acquiring a
thorough knowledge of the Constellations, and of the principal,
stars contained in each, by presenting him with a view of all the
Constellations that ever ascend above our horizon, upon such a scale
as to be easily recognized when referred to the sphere of the hea-~
vens ; an advantage, which, notwithstanding the great care that has
been employed in executing the maps of the northern and southern
hemispheres, their very diminutive size, in a great measure, prevents
their possessing. .
This planisphere consists oftwo parts. Upon one ofwhich (pro
perly called the planisphere) the stars visible in the latitude of 5li°
N. are laid down ; the same considerations, however, which induced
the omission of the Greek characters on the planispheres of the
northern and southern hemispheres, have operated to prevent their '
insertion in this. The other part denominated the horizon-card,
contains the horizon with the points, &c. of the compass marked
upon it. The graduated right line dividing the horizon into two
+78 APPENDIX.
PROBLEM XII.
To show at one view the time at which any given star
visible in the latitude of London (not within the circle
of perpetual apparition) rises or sets, or at which any
star visible in that latitude culminates every day lhrough
out the year.
Bring the given star to the eastern edge of the ho
rizon, and against each day respectively throughout
the year will stand the time at which the star rises
on that day. The time of its culminating or setting
throughout the year may in like manner he found by
bringing the star to the meridian, or to the western
verge of the horizon.
Thus, Procyon being brought to the eastern edge
of the horizon, the time of its rising on any day of the
year is found on the horizon-card against that day in
the calendar of months on the planisphere : if the
same star be brought to the meridian, the time of its
culminating, and if to the western side of the horizon,
the time of its setting on any day of the year may in
like manner he had by inspection.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE.
At what time does Regulus in Leo rise, culminate,
and set, respectively, on the ﬁrst day of the twelve
calendar months ? I
equal parts from north to south is the meridian, and the curve line
crossing it is the east and west azimuths. Round the edge of the
planisphere several concentric circles are drawn, on the innermost
of which the right ascension in degrees is marked; the next con
tains the right ascension in time, exterior to which are the twelve
calendar months divided into days, and marked accordingly.
Round the edge of the horizon-card are the hours, &c. z the rest
of the lines on this card need no explanation. In applying them
to the machine, the planisphere, or that part upon which the constel
lations are delineated, is to be ﬁrst put on the centre, and then the
horizon-card, which last is to be secured by the silk strings to the
two brass pins ﬁxed into the frame of the Astronomicon, so as to
remain perfectly steady, while the planisphere is leﬂ to turn freely
upon the centre, which, in this case, becomes the pole of the Equator.
22
PROBLEMS AND EXERCISES. 479
Required to show when the following stars rise,
culminate, and set, on the days annexed.
Spica in Virgo on the lst of April, 10th of May,
4th of June, and 31st of December P
Sirius on the 20th of March, 21st of June, 28d of
September, and 21st of December ?
PROBLEM XIII.
T0 represent by the planisphere the ﬁtee of the hea
vensjbr any given hour of the night at any proposed
time of the year.
Bring the day of the month on the planisphere to
correspond with the given hour on the horizon-card,
and the planisphere will present a view of the constel
lations corresponding with the state of the heavens at
the time proposed.
Thus, on the 1st ot'November, at eight o’clock in the
evening, the state of the heavens is nearly as follows :
Lacerta is in the zenith, from which point to the
north the meridian lis occupied by Cepheus (between
the zenith and the pole of the world), Camelopardalis,
and Ursa Major; from the zenith to the south, Pega—
sus, Aquarius, and Piscis Australia, are on the meri
dian; Gloria Frederici, Andromeda, Triangula, Musca,
Borealis, Taurus, and Eridanus, are on the east; and
on the west we ﬁnd Cygnus, Lyra, Hercules, and
Ophinchus.
In the N.E. quarter of the hemisphere, we meet
with Gemini, Lynx, Camelopardalis, and Cassiopeia;
between the zenith, the N. and N.E., and between the
zenith, the N.E. and E., are found Auriga, Perseus,
the Hyades, and the Pleiades.
The S.E. quarter contains Eridanus, part of' Cetus,
Aries, the northern of' the zodiacal Fishes, and part
of Andromeda. between the zenith, the E. and S.E.;
and the hind part of Cetus, Ofﬁcina Sculptoria, the more
southerly of the zodiacal Fishes, Pegasus and the River
of Aquarius, are between the zenith, the S.E. and the S.
The S.W. quarter is occupied by Le Ballon, Micros
copium, Sagittarius, Capricornus, Equuleus, and Del
phinus, between the zenith, the S. and the S.W. And
480 APPENDIX.
Vulpecula et Anser, Sagitta, Aquila, Antino'us, Scu
tum Sobieski, Taurus Poniatowski, and Cygnus, be
tween'the zenith, the S.W. and W.
In the N.W. quarter, we ﬁnd Hercules, Corona
Borealis, and Draco, between the zenith, the W. and
and N.W. And Bootes, Canes Venatici, the hind
part of Ursa Major, the tail of Draco, and Ursa Minor,
between the zenith, the N.W. and N.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE.
Required the state ofthe heavens at London on the,
following days, and at the hours annexed.
January 10th, at eight in the evening, July 31st, at
nine in the evening, November 6th, at three in the
morning, and December 31st, at ﬁve in the morning.
> PROBLEM XIV.
Toﬁnd the time qfthe Sun’s rising and setting, and
consequently the length Qfany particular day and night
at London.
Bring the Sun’s place in. the ecliptic for the given
day to the'eastern side of the horizon, and the time
on the hour-circle on thehorizon-card coinciding with
the day of the month on the planisphere will be the
time of the Sun’s rising; the time of his setting is
found in like manner, by bringing the Sun’s place to
the western edge of the horizon.
The hour of sun-setting doubled gives the length
of the day, and the hour of sun-rising doubled gives
the length of the night.
Thus, on the 21st of June, the Sun rises about a
quarter before four, and sets about a quarter past eight,
—the day is 16%, and the night 7% hours long.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE.
Required the length of the ﬁrst day of each of the
calendar months.
-~Required the length of the day on which the Sun
enters Aries.
. At what time does the Sun rise and set, and what is
the length of the night on the let of December ?
PROBLEMS AND EXERCISES. 481
PROBLEM XV.
Toﬁnd the beginning, end, and duration oftwilight
at London, on any given day.
Find the time of sunset (at which time the evening
twilight begins) as in the last problem, and continuing
the motion of the planisphere, till the Sun’s place hav
ing passed through the part cut out of the western side
of the horizon-card comes under the ed e marked
“ EVENING TWILIGHT Ean,” take notice of the
time now answering to the given day: the interval
between the time of the Sun’s setting and that last
found is the duration of evening twilight.
Otherwise, brin the Sun’s place for the given day
under that edge 0 the part out out of the eastern side
of the horizon-card, marked “MORNING TWILIGHT
cOMMENcss,” and noticing the time answering to the
given day, continue the motion of the planisphere till
the Sun's place comes in contact with the eastern
verge of the horizon: the intervening time is the dura
tion of morning twilight.
The time when evening twilight ends, subtracted
from 12, will show the be inning of morning twilight,
and the commencement 0 ‘ orning twilight, subtracted
from 12, will give the hour at which the evening twi
light ends. The morning or evening twilight doubled
gives the entire twilight for the proposed day.
Thus, on the 25th of August, the Sun sets at seven
o’clock, and the evening twilight ends about nine; the
difference is two hours, which is the duration of even
ing twilight, and consequently the whole twilight on
that day is four hours.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE .
How long after sunset does total darkness commence
on the 18th of April? ‘
What is the total duration of twilight on the 4th of
November P
At what time does morning twilight begin on the
10th of January, and what is the entire twilight for
that day ? >
Y
432 annumx.
At what time does total darkness commence, and
how long does it last on the 7th of August?
Show that from the 1st of June to the 13th of July,
there can be no absolute night. '
PROBLEM XVI.
To nd the rising and setting amplitude of my star,
its ob ique ascension and descension, and its iurnal
and nocturnal arcs.
Bring the star to the eastern edge of the horizon,
then the number of degrees intercepted between the
star and the eastern point of the horizon will be its
rising amplitude, and the degree of the equinoctial cut
by the horizon will be the oblique ascension: also ob
serve what time in the circle of hours corresponds
with the place of' the star in the horizon, this time
being doubled, gives the length of the nocturnal are,
or the time which the star remains below the horizon.
Turn the planisphere till the given star comes to the
western edge of the horizon, the setting amplitude
will be the number of degrees between the star and
the western point of the horizon, the oblique de
scension will be shewn by that degree of the equinoc
tial which is intersected by the horizon, and doubling
the time corresponding with the point of the horizon
at which the star sets will give the length of the diur
nal arc.
Thus, the rising amplitude of Bellatria: is 10 de
grees from the east towards the north, and the setting
amplitude is 10 degrees from the west towards the
north. The oblique ascension is about 70 degrees,
and oblique descension 85 degrees. The nocturnal
arc is 11, and the diurnal are 13 hours.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE .
J
_ What is the rising and setting amplitude of Sirius,
its oblique ascension, oblique descension, and diurnal
are P “
How ~long _is Fomalhaut above our horizon, and
what 15 its rising and setting amplitude?
PROBLEMS AND EXERCISES. 4-83
PROBLEM XVI I.
T0ﬁnd the Sun’s right ascension, rising and setting
amplitude, oblique ascension, oblique descension, and
nscensional dg'ﬂ'erence, or the time he rises be are or
qfter six, on any given day at London. _
Bring the Sun s place to the meridian, and that de
gree of the equinoctial which is cut by the meridian
is his right ascension.
His rising and setting amplitude, oblique ascension,
and oblique descension, are found like those of a ﬁxed
star in‘ the last problem.
From his right ascension subtract his oblique ascen
sion, the remainder is the ascensional difference. Turn
this into time *, then if the Sun’s declination be north,
the Sun rises before, and sets after six, by a space of
time equal to the ascensional difference ; but if his de,
clinatiou be south, he rises after, and sets before six,
by an equal space of time.
Thus, on the lst of May, the Sun’s right ascension
is 38%, and his oblique ascension 18% degrees. The
ascensional difference, therefore, is 20 degrees, which,
converted into time, is 1 hour and 20 minutes ; and as
the Sun is in a northern sign, he rises 20 minutes be
fore 5, and sets 20 minutes after 7 on that day. His
rising amplitude is 25 degrees north of the east, and
his setting amplitude 25 degrees north of the west.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE.
Required the Sun’s right ascension, rising ampli
tude, oblique ascensionysetting amplitude, and oblique
descension, on the 20th of March, and the 23d of Sep
tember: what is the ascensional difference, and. at
what time does he rise and set?
What are the Sun’s right ascension, rising ampli
tude, oblique ascension, setting amplitude, oblique de
scen'sion, what the ascensional difference, and at what
' This is most readily done by multiplying by 4, in which case,
minutes of longitude produce seconds, and degrees of longitude
produce minutes of time.
484 APPENDIX.
time does he rise and set on the 21st of June, and the
21st of December P '
PROBLEM XVIII.
Tofind the time of the year at which any star will
rise or set cosmically * ,- that is, when it rises or sets at
sunrise, in the latitude quona'on.
Bring the given star to the eastern edge of the horizon,
and observe what sign and degree of the ecliptic are in
tersected by the horizon; the day of the month answer
ing to that sign and degree will be that in which the
proposed star rises with the Sun. Turn the planiSphere
till the star comes to the western edge of the horizon,
and observe what degree of the eclipticis then rising
above the eastern verge of the horizon; the day-of
the month which coincides with it is that on which
the given star sets when the Sun rises.
Thus, Procyon rises cosmically on the 29th of July,
and sets cosmically on the 21st of December. ‘
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE.
When does Aldebaran rise and set cosmically ?
When do the Pleiades rise with the Sun, and when
do they set at sunrising ?
At what time of the year does Sirius rise and set
cos'mically P
PROBLEM XIX.
Tojind the'time of the ear when any star rises or
sets acronycally, that is, to en it rises or sets at the time
qfsunsettmg at London.
Bring the star to the eastern edge of the horizon,
and observe what degree of the ecliptic is intersected
by the western edge; the day of the month answering
to that degree is the day on Which the given star
rises at sunset, and consequently when it begins to
be visible in the evening. To ﬁnd on what day the
_ star sets acronycally, bring the said star to the wes
tern edge of the horizon ; then the day of the month
' See Lecture VII. p. 117.
PROBLEMS AND EXERCISES. 4-85
answering to the degree of the ecliptic which -sets
with it is that on which the given star sets .with'the
Sun, and consequently ceases to appear in the even
mg- . .
Thus, the Pleiades rise acronycally on the 5th of
November, and set acronycally on the 23d of May.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE.
When does Ros Alhague in Ophiuchus, rise and set
acronycally P
During what months of the year are the following
stars visible in the evening : Deneb Algea'i in Ca
pricornus, Denebola in Leo, and Betelgeuxin Orion ?
PROBLEM XX. 7 ‘
To ﬁnd when any given star rises or sets heliaeally, ,
that is, when a star having been immersed in the Sun's
beams emerges out of them, and becomes visible at the
eastern edge qf the horizon ‘just bejbre sun-rising, or
when it is so near the Sun’s rays at the time ofits set
ting as to a ear_for the last time in the evening, be/bre
it is altoget er lost.
It has been observed it, that “ stars of the ﬁrst mag
nitude may be seen rising and setting when the Sun
is 12° below the horizon; stars of the second magni
tude, when the depression of the Sun is 13°, and so on,
one additional degree of depression of the Sun being
required for every decrease of magnitude in the
stars."
In order, therefore, that the heliacai rising and set
ting of the stars in the latitude of London may be
readily determined by this planisphere, portions ex
tending from 12 to 18 degrees beyond the horizon
have been cut out of the horizon-card, and conse
quently leaving edges which become the boundaries
of these spaces. To perform this problem, therefore,
bring the given star to the eastern verge of the hori
zon, and if the star be of the lst magnitude, the de
gree of the ecliptic intersected by that edge of the
4* See Lecture VII. p. 118.
Z
486 APPENDIX.
card which forms the boundary of the open space
nearest the horizon being referred to the calendar of
months will show the day of the month when the star
rises heliacally. Ifthe star be of the 2d magnitude, take
the point of the ecliptic one degree distant from this
edge, or 13 degrees from the edge of the horizon ; if
the star be of the 3d magnitude, take a point of the
ecliptic two degrees distant from this edge, or 14 de
grees from the edge of the horizon, and so on, accord
ing to the magnitude of the star, then the day answer
ing to that degree of the ecliptic will be the day ' '
sought, or that on which the given star rises helia~
cally. Bringing the star to the western verge of the
horizon, and performing a similar operation, will give
the day on which it sets heliacally.
Thus, Procyon rises heliacally on the 15th of Au
gust, and sets heliacally on the 25th of May.
QUESTIONS FOR EXERCISE
At what time of the year does Arcturus rise helia
cally at London, and on what day does it set heliacally
at the same place ?
On what days do the following stars rise and set
heliacally: Sirius, Dcneb Algedi in Capricomus, and
Menkar in Cetus.
THE END.
Lennon :
Printed by A. 8: B. Spottiswoode,
New-Strebt-Squarc.
[To beplaced after the Appendiz.]
A K E Y
to the
ASTRONOMICON,
SHEWING THE POSITION OF THE FIGURES REFERRED TO IN THE
FOREGOING LECTURES.
Fig. 48 Fig. 49
- Fig. 18 Fig. 19
Fig. 5
Fig. 1 Fig. 46
Fig. 2
Fig. 8 -
Fig. 13 Fig. 40 Fig. 42
Fig. 3 Fig. 7 3.
Fig. 9 Fig. 41
Fig. 30 Fig. 45
Fig. 32 -
ig. 21
Fig Fig. 47
Fig. 17 -
g Fig. 6 Fig. 27
Fig. 16 Fig. 4
Fig. 31
Fig. 37 Fig. 12
Fig. 14 Fig. 20
Fig.15
Fig. 26
Fig. 38
Fig. 23
Fig. 25 Fig. 10 Fig. 48 Fig. 44 Fig. 11
Fig. 38
Fig. 34
Fig. 24 Fig. 36
Fig. 85
Fig. 29 Fig. 22 Fig. 28
