{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 6426","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n68_mar_1890.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N68 March 1890","mylang":"de"}
No. LXVm.-VOL. IV. MABCB, 1890.
JOURNAL
OJ'TlIlI:
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CORTBRTS.
Bzperlmenta of H. M. Weeermann .• . •
Cuee Received by the Litarary Committee
Correepondence: Hereditary Memory
Supplementary Library Catalogue .• . . . . •. . .
Edmund Gurney Library Fund. AccotUlta to January lAt, 1890 •.
EXPERIMENTS OF H. M. WESERMANN.
PAOB
.• 117
•• 220
•• 2SO
.• 181
.. \!It
A recent addition to the Edmund Gurney Library is a little
German book called Mesmerism and tM Uni'lJ6f"sal Langooge,* published
in 1822, by H. M. Wesermann, Government Assessor and Chief
Inspector of Roads at Diisseldorf, &c.
By "the universal language" Wesermann means thought-trans-
ference and clairvoyance, and his book is a review of the German
literature on "Animal Magnetism," mainly of the second decade of
this century, from a psychical point of view. He gives some account
of about 40 volumes, and extracts from them narratives of various ex-
periments and observations on such subjects as mesmerism at a distance,
thought-transference, transferred sensations, clairvoyance, premonitions,
phantasms of the living and the dead, and the power possessed by
clairvoyant patients of prescribing for themselves and others, and of
accurately perceiving the lapse of time. Many of these are of great
interest, though in estimating them we have to remember that in
Wesermann's time the power of "suggestion" was not understood,
and may frequently, therefore, have been the real though unobserved
cause of some of the observed phenomena.
Space will not allow of our giving any extracts from the main body
of the work, and our principal object is to call attention to the intro-
duction, where in the course of 50 pages Wesermann discusses some
of the problems presented by the phenomena described, and gives BOme
experiments and observations of his OWD. The most important of these
is an experiment of which an account is quoted in Phantasms of tM
LifJi'llg, Vol. I., p. 101, from the ArchifJ ftitr den Thierischtm, Magneturm/us,
Vol. VI., and about which we here find some valuable additional
evidence. Mesmer's opinion that all might know what was happening
to a friend who was thinking of them, were it not for the stronger
impressions received through the senses, suggested to Wesermann to try
*Der Ma,gn,etilrmUB una die allgemeine Weltspmche.
Digitized by Google
218 JO'U'fflal oj Society jlYl' Psychical Research. [Ma.rch,1890.
to transfer mental images to sleeping friends at a distance j all the more,
probably, because he had once succeeded in doing so some years before,
though at the time inclined to attribute his success to chance. Accounts
of four experiments in which he was successful in thus imposing dreams
on his friends are given in Phantasms. His fifth experiment, at a.
distance of nine miles, is the one about which we now have additional
evidence-in fact, a first-hand account from one of the percipients, of
which the existence was not known to Mr. Gurney. We give the
acconnt in full, translated from the work before us (p. 28).
A lady, who had been dead five yeaTS, was to appear to Lieutenant --n
in a dream at 10.30 p.m. and incite him to good deeds. At half-past ten,
contrary to expectation, Herr --n had not gone to bed, but was discussing
the French campaign with his friend Lieutenant S-- in the ante-room.
Suddenly the door of the room opened, the lady entered dressed in white,
with a black kerchief and uncovered head, greeted S-- with her hand
three times in a friendly manner ; then turned to --n, nodded to him,
and returned again through the doorway.
As this story, related to me by Lieutenant --n, seemed to be too
remarkable from a psychological point of view for the truth of it not to
be duly established, I wrote to Lieutenant S--, who was living six
miles away, and asked him to give me his account of it. He sent me the
following reply:-
. . . . On the 13th of March, 1817, Herr --n came to pay me a
visit at my lodgings about a league from A--. He stayed the night with
me. After supper, and when we were both undressed, I was sitting on my
bed and Herr --n was standing hy the door of the next room on the point
also of going to bed. This was about half-past ten. We were speaking
partly about indifferent subjects and partly about the events of the
French campaign. Suddenly the door out of the kitchen opened withollt a
sound, and a lady entered, very pale, taller than Herr --n, about five feet
four inches in height, strong and broad of figure, dreBSed in white, but with
a large black kerchief which reached to below the waist. She entered with
bare ht'ad, greeted me with the haud three times in compliment.ary fashion,
turned round to the left towards Herr --11, and waved her hand to him
three times; after which th, figure quietly, and again without any creaking
of the door, went out. We followed at once in order to discover whether
there were auy deception, but found nothing. The strangest thing was this,
that our night-watch of two men whom I had shortly before found on the
watch were now asleep, though at my first call they were on the alert, and
that the door of the room which always opens wit•• a good deal of noise did
not make the slightest sound whe" opened by the figure.
S.
D--n, January 11th, 1818.
From this story (Wesermann continues) the following conclusions may be
drawn :-
1. That waking persons, as well as sleeping, are capable of perceiving the
mental pictures of distant friends through the inner sense as dream images.
Digitized by Google
Maroh, 1890.] Journal ofSociety for Psychical Research. 219
For not only the opening and shutting of the door, but the figure itself-
which, moreover, exactly resembled that of the dead lady-was incontestably
only a dream in the waking state, since the door would have creaked as
usual had the figure really opened and shut it.
2. That many apparitions and supposed effects of witchcraft were very
probably produced in the same way.
3. That clairvoyants are not mistaken when they state that a stream of
light proceeds from the magnetiser to the distant friend, which visibly pre-
sents the scene thought of, if the magnetiser thinks of it strongly and with-
out distraction.
Wesermann's third inference is less sound than his other two, but
we quote it because it has led him to state what we think he has stated
nowhere else in the book, that in his experiments he concentrated his
mind strongly on the subject to be transferred. It is much to be
regretted that so little information is given to us as to his mode of
action and as to other points. We have no reason to think that those
with whom he experimented were persons whom he had mesmerised, or
with whom he was in any way in special rapport. Lieutenant S--,
iDdeed, was a complete stranger to him,.but this proves little, as his
impression may have beeu received from LieutenaDt --D. AgaiD we
are left quite iD the dark as to how ofteD WesermaDD tried similar
experimeDts, but it seems probable that he sometimes failed, since he
tells us in a letter contributed to Nasds Zeitschrijt jur Psychisrll,e Arzte,
Vol. III., p. 758, that he had observed that these dream-pictures are
oDly transferred to the sleepers if they are of a kind to iDterest, move,
or surprise them. From the same source we learn that, iD his view,
apparitioDs such as that described above could seldom be produced;
only, in fact, when the AgeDt is brought iDto a very emotional and
excited state about the subject choseD to be traDsferrt'd, and wheD the
PercipieDt, whether owiDg to his physical or his meDtal constitution, is
specially susceptible. He tells us, however, that he could relate more
experimeDts if I\pace permitted, but that he had found few friends who
obtained such successful results as these. ID the paper iD the Archiv
quoted iD Phantasms, he says that two only of his fl'iends surcel'ded.
OD the other haDd he had convinced one of his strongest opp· ·nents-
a doctor of law-who had himself caused his daughter to dream of a
suddeD attack of illness which had seized him in the Dight.
We have thought it worth while to dwell thus at length OD this
suhject, not oDly because of the additionul evideDce here given OD an
interesting case, but because this class of experiment forms aD excl'ed-
iDgly important link iD the chaiu of evidence relating to thought-trans.
ference, and one which is frequently ignored or overlooked. It is a
kind of experiment in which others besides WesermaDn have succeeded.
which all call try, aDd which ought to be tried much oftener than it is.
Digitized by Google
220 JournaJ, of Society for PsychUxd ]lat.arcn.. [March, 1890.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
The lower value of dreams as compared with waking ex-
periences in affording evidence of supernormal knowledge is a topic
familiar to readers of Phantasms of the /Ming, and of many of the
papers in our Prow.dings. As pointed out by Mr. Gumey,* the
elements of weakness are mainly two. The first is that, dreams being
often somewhat dim and shapele88 things, when the actual facts are
learnt, a faint amount of resemblance may often suggest a past dream;
the real features and definite incidents which are now present to the
mind in close association with some general scene or fact which actually
figured in the dream, will be apt to be unconsciously read back into
the dream. The second evidential weakne88 of dreams arises from
their frequency. Among the multitude of dreams, one here and there
is sure to correspond in time with an actual occurrence resembling
the one dreamt of; and still more frequently must such accidental
resemblances be found when an indefinite time is allowed for fulfil-
ment, as it is in most "premonitory" dreams. And when a dream
thus .. comes true," unscientific minds will note and store up the fact as
something extraordinary, without taking the trouble to re8ect whether
such incidents occur oftener than pure chance would allow. Even
reflection, however, will not solve the question. There are two diffi-
culties; it is almost equally imp088ible to determine what proportion
of dreams do exhibit a striking correspondence with real events which
could not be divined by the dreamer, and what proportion we should
demand before we consider that the hypothesis of chance is strained in
accounting for them. In the case of certain limited classes of dreams
such an estimate may be po88ible, and Mr. Gurney has attempted it in
the case of dreams of death coinciding in time with the actual death
dreamt of. But, at any rate, in most classes of dreams we not only are
without the necessary data for forming a decision, but it would be
exceedingly difficult to obtain them.
With this preface we present to our readers a little collection of
dreams exhibiting a more or less striking correspondence with present
or future events, or in the case of L. 835, with another dream. In all
of them the possibility of" reading back" has been almost excluded, as
regards the main incidents, by the dream having been told beforehand.
L. 835. SIMULTANEOUS DREAMS.
From Mr. and Mrs. H., who do not wish their names to be pub-
lished. The dreams took place in July, 1887, and the account was
sent to us in August.
*Phafll.a8n'8 of the Living, pp. 298-300.
__
"edbyGoogle
March, 1890.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. 221
I dreamt that I was walking in Richmond Park with my husband and
Mr. J. I saw notices put on several trees to the effect that "In
consequence of the Jubilee, Lady R. will give a garden party on the
24th of .June." I remarked to my husband that I hoped she would invite
us. My husband said that he hoped she would not do so, as it would be
extremely difficult to get back to town. Mr. J. then said, "Oh, I will
manage that for you," and struck a blade of grass with his stick, upon
which a carriage drove up. I then awoke and my husband said, " I have
had such a vivid dream. I dreamt we were walking in Richmond Park, and
I was told that Lady R. was going to have a party. We were invited,
and I was very much troubled in my mind as to how we should get home,
as the party was at 10, and the last train went at II, when my friend J.,
who was walking with us, said, 'Oh, I will manage that for you.'''
(Signed) M. H. and J. B. H.
L. 836. (THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE IN A DREAM.)
From a gentleman who does not wish his name to be printed.
His wife has sent us a similar, though somewhat less full account of
what occurred.
December 9th, 1889.
On Sunday morning, November 24th [18891 I was at home reading care-
fully Sir William Hamilton's Lecturu on Metaphylic8. After finishing Lecture
xx., I felt somewhat drowsy, and very soon fell asleep. This was at about
12 o'clock. I slept for about lO minutes, and during that time I dreamt that
a friend of mine appeared before me and said, "I say, you owe me twopence
for postage in connection with that mortgage." "All right," I replied,
"business is business," and saying this I put my hand in my pocket, and
drawing it out gave him the twopence he required. With this I woke.
My friend has been managing some mortgage business for me during the
last two months.
My wife had gone out about 10.15 a.m., intending to visit a church she
had not been to before. Finding it rather farther than she expected, she
thought she would like to take the tram back. But she had left her purse
at home. However, being near a friend's house (the friend I saw in my
dream), she called in and asked for the loan of twopence. His wife lent my
wife sixpence, and he himself accompanied my wife to the church, which
was very near. It was just before II o'clock. After the service my wife
took the tram, and arrived home about 1 o'clock. My dream had made
so great an impression on my mind that I immediately told her about it,
and to my utter astonishment she related the story of borrowing twopence,
which she said she would not have thought it worth while mentioning
otherwise.
L. l072.-Ao PO.
From Mrs. Anderson, 8, Chester-terrace, S.W.
Mal·ch,1889.
One morning I received a letter from my sister (who was in Scotland),
Digitized by Google
222 JOWI"nal ofSociety for Psychical Research. [March, 1890.
to tell me that my baby niece, aged six weeks, was' ill with erysipelas which
covered her from the crown of her head to the tips of her tiny feet. In the
evening I went to see some friends, and as I entered the house my hostess
met me and said: "Your little niece is very ill." I looked astonished and
she continued: " Don't say a word but listen. Last night I dreamt that I saw
a tiny child coming towards me; she was swollen out of shape. I said: 'You
poor little object, who are you ~' and she said, 'I am M. C.'s little girl.'''
In answer to questions, Mrs. Anderson writes :-
1. The dream occurred, if I mistake not, in February, 1872. 2. I did
not keep my sister's letter. 3. The dreamer is dead. Her lIame was Mrs.
William Eversley. 4. Her daughter and husband can both verify it, and
you shall meet them BOrne day. 5. I think I certainly told my sister of it.
but cannot vouch for her remembering it. 6. The same lady had many
dreams which came perfectly true in every particular.
A. G. ANDERSON.
Miss Elizabeth Eversley gives us the following account of the
dream dreamt by her late mother, the particulars of which were
written out by Mrs. Anderson.
I remember perfectly my mother telling us one morning that she was
sure M. U.'s baby girl was ill, as she had in a dream that night seen a little
girl coming towards her swollen out of all shape. My mother exclaimed.
"You poor little object, whose child are YOIl ~" The child answered, "I a.m
M. C.'s little girl."
The following statement is made by Mr. Eversley as to the dream
of Mrs. Eversley, told by Mrs. Anderson and Miss E. G. Eversley.
I perfectly remember my wife telling me she had a dream in which she
saw a baby, all disfigured and swollen, and on asking the child who she was,
she said, "I am Mrs. C.'s baby." Mrs. Anderson, sister to Mrs. C., came to
our house a day or two after, and was about to tell us of her little niece's
illness, when my wife said, "Stop! let me tell you my dream," and wheu she
heard it, Mrs. Anderson said, "Tha.t is just the description I have had of the
child from my sister."
In conversation with Miss Eversley on March 30th, 1889, I learnt
that she also remembered Mrs. Anderson coming to the house on the
Sunday-the dream having occurred, as Miss Eversley believes, on
the preceding Friday night,-and beginning to tell of her niece's
ailment. Mrs. Anderson was then interrupted by Mrs. Eversley, who
narrated the dream.
Miss Eversley had no doubt talked over the matter often with Mrs.
Anderson, but she told me that she had not done so in the interval
between my meeting Mrs. Anderson and my calling on Miss Eversley,
so that the latter has apparently a clear independent recollection of
the circumstances.
The late Mrs. Eversley was in the habit of dreaming frequently
Digitized by Google
.lIarcb, 1890.] Journal, Of Society fOT P8ychical Be8earch. 223
dreams which" came true." Such dreams were always clear and vivid,
and she would relate them to her family in the morning. Miss
Eversley was fairly confident that dreams thus related by her mother
did as a rule "come true." She cannot, however, remember details of
many at this distance of time.--F. P., April 8th, 1889.
P. 01. 129.
From Captain Parker, through the Rev. A. T. Fryer.
Hythe Vicarage, Southampton, April 16th, 1889.
DEAR MR. FRYER,-On referring to the only notes I have, I find I
cannot fix the exact date of the occurrence of which you want particulars.
It was, however, during the latter half of June, 1886, as I find it was then
that the mall arrived whose coming I dreamt about.
I was then in charge of a Division of Coastguard, and it was a part of my
duties to visit the various coastguard stations within the limits of that
division of the coast. The dream, as nearly as I can remember it, was as
follows: That I was visiting an outlying station where there were several
coasting vessels moored, their heads out seaward, and sterns secured to the
shore with hawsel'S. Two navy bluejackets landed from one of the craft,
quite to my surprise, and on asking where they were from, one of them
said he had been sent from Wick for duty at Sandhaven (a village ill my
division).
The details of the dream were so vividly impressed on my mind on
waking, which is quite unusual with me, that I told my housekeeper about
it at or about breakfast time-as far as I know the only time I ever told
her any dream at all-and for the time thought no more of it, but BOon
after, I think the same day, when the post came I received an official letter
appointing a man from Wick for duty at Sandhaven.
I was so astonished at this coincidence that I at once said to my house-
keeper:
"You remember the dream I told you about a man coming from Wick
for Sandhaven. Here is his official appointment."
A further curious coincidence in connection with the above is that in the
ordinary course of events this Dlall would have proceeded from Wick to
Aberdeen by steamer, and from thence north by rail, and in fact that was
how he was ordered to go j but on this occasion, which sometimes happened,
the steamer stopped off Fraserburgh and landed the man there without my
knowledge at the time, until I found a strange bluejacket at my quarters,
and on asking who he was and where he had come from, he told me he had
landed from the steamer from Wick, and was sent for duty at Sandhaven.
At that moment all the details of the dream again came to my mind, and
the fact of the man landing on tile coast instead of coming by rail was
also in accordance with the details of the dream. It is hardly necessary
for me to remark that nothing occurred beforehand that would lead me to
expect a man being sent from Wick, or I should not have thought that the
dream was curious or worth a moment's thought.
Digitized by Google
224 JO'IJh"1Uil of Society for Psychical Re8earch. [March, 1890.
I have no doubt my housekeeper remembers BOmething of this occurrence
as she has a better memory than I have for most things. I have not written
to her on the subject, as I thought you might prefer to have her evidence
without any reminder from me to her about it.
Y. F. H. PARKER.
The following is from Captain Parker's housekeeper.
Fraserburgh, .AprilI8eh, 1889.
In answer to your inquiry about Captain Parker's dream, I remember
him telling me about it. He said that in his dream he left the house, and
BOOn after met the coastguard man, and asked him if he was the man that
was come to Sandhaven station from Wick, and he said, "I am." Mr.
Parker said, when telling me about it next morning, "How I wish to see
that man." He saw him BOon, to his astonishment, the exact image and
likeness as in his dream.
ELIZABETH MACDONALD.
P.638.
In the following case we are requested not to give names, lest it
should be painful to the parents of the lady who died.
Sepeemb«- 19t1!, 1887.
In November, 1884, my daughter, then 16, said to me one morning,
"Oh, mother, I had a terrible dream last night about B. I dreamt that
you, she, and I were walking along the street, coming, I thought, from
BOme musical entertainment, as I heard the music still in the distance.
Suddenly B. appeared faint, and lea.nt against BOme railings we were passing
at the time. I tried to support her against the railillgs, but she gradually
subsided and fell to the ground-dea.d. I thought I ran for a doctor, but
could not find one, and in the confusion I awoke."
The dream seemed to have been a peculiarly vivid one, but after
mentioning it to some other members of the family we thought no more of
it. Just about a week, or rather more, after the dream, we were shocked
to receive news of B.'s sudden death-in the street-coming from an
afternoon operatic performance. Strangely enough we were BO shocked by
the news that for several days we did not remember I.'s dream.
On hearing the details of B.'s death, some months later, from her mother,
who was with her, I was more than ever struck with the dream. She had.
become faint close to BOrne railings, and for a minute leant against them,
then gradually fell to the ground-dead. I cannot remember the exact date,
but am positive it was about a week before the death actually occurred.
I have omitted to mention that B. was my niece, and had been BO much
with us that she was more like a sister to my daughters than a cousin.
The following is the percipient's own account, written nearly two
years later. .
A week previous to my cousin's death, I dreamt that she, and I, and
some others were walking past a public building, in which BOme musical
Digitized by Google
March, 1890.] Jou'r'fUJl of Society for ~sychical Research. 225
entertainment was being held at the time, and, as we passed, the strains of
music seemed to reach us quite distinctly. Opposite the building were
railings, and close by them my cousin seemed suddenly to become faint,
and sank on the ground. I tried to raise her and support her against the
railings, but she slipped from my grasp, and I saw that she was dead.
I set about procuring medical aid, but certainly in a very dream-like way.
First I went to the house of a doctor who had .left the town years before ;
then, not finding him, to that of another who had been several years dead.
I cannot at all remember whether this latter returned from the land of
shadows to my help or not, for at this point everything became confused.
In the letter which accompanied this account, the percipient adds :-
It seemed very curious to us all at the time, as the last accounts of my
cousin had been very favourable, and in any case she and I had never had
any interests in common.
The sister of the percipient writes in November, 1888:-
I distinctly remember her telling her dream exactly as my mother has
written. My sister E. was sleeping with her at the time, and remembers
I. telling her of it in the morning.
I. is of a very impreBBionable nervous temperament, and in fact we
consider her a trifle "uncanny." A few weeks ago she was staying in K.,
and one night she dreamed that there was a great fire in High-street, and
that the fire engine would not work. In the morning she was quite as
much surprised as anybody else to hear that there had been a fire that
night, and the engine would not work.
The percipient herself says:-
My dreams frequently seem to come true. Only last week I had a night
of horrible dreams. I seemed to be left in charge of two babies, each of
which, one after the other, died quite suddenly under my care.
Next morning a letter from my brother informed me that the baby of a
friend of ours had quite suddenly and unexpectedly died that same afternoon.
I have had many other experiences of a similar kind, but do not now
remember the details.
P. 639.
From the Rev. J. M. (Name given in confidence, not for publication).
December 19th, 1884.
About fourteen or fifteen years ago when I was vicar of a coal mining
parish I dreamt that I baptised the child of a lady parishioner of mine in
Jordan water. There was nothing in the world that I know of to make me
think of J oroan water at the time. And certainly there was nothing to
make me think of any child of the young lady of whom I dreamt. At that
time she was very young-not out of her teens,-unmarried, and so far 8.8 I
know not even engaged; still the dream as I lay in bed seemed quite a natural
one, that is, there was nothing in it that presented any difficulty or un-
pleasantness. The baptism as I dreamt of it was a public one in the parish
Digitized by Google
226 Journal oj Society JOT Psychical Research. [March, 1890.
church, and the father did not appear on the scene at all, neither was I given
to understand who he was. But this did not seem at all to concern me.
In the morning on coming down stairs, not a little impreBBed by my
dream-at any rate being amused and interested with it-I was surprised
to find a letter from the Holy Land, enclosing some leaves and flowers from
the Mount of Olives. These had been sent by a friend-a clergyman-
who I thought was at the time at Birmingham. Unknown to me he had
been presented to a benefice, and before entering upon it had taken the
opportunity of going to Palestine. The coincidence of the Jordan water
with plants from the Mount of Olives I thought curious"but still I did not
attach any importance to it.
Some years paBBed by. My young lady friend and her younger sister
were both married, and had families. The husband of the latter called upon
me one day, to ask me to fix a time for baptising their child, suggesting a
certain day, and saying that he and his wife had been promised some Jordan
water by a friend, which they boped would reach them in time for the
baptism. I promised to use it if it should arrive in time. But while
promising I laughed outright and said it was the child of the wrong sister.
Then I told him of my dream about baptising a child of his wife's sister,
and it seemed as if the dream was going to have a sort of half fulfilment.
However, the Jordan watt'r expected did not arrive in time, so the child of
the younger sister was baptised in ordinary water, as indeed had been, up
to that time, every child baptised by myself. There seemed no likelihood
of my being called to baptise any child of the elder sister's at all. Her
husband was a Presbyterian and lived in Scotland, and in fact her first
child was baptised after the Presbyterian form.
But some year or two afterwards she happened to be in England with a
second child, and much to my surprise she asked me if I would baptise it-
an English gentleman and his wife having offered to stand sponsors for the
child. I gladly complied with the request, and the mother before I left her
said she had some Jordan water, and she would be glad if I would use it for
the baptism. This I promised to do, and this I did. The father of the
child being out of health at the time, was not present at the service. Thus
my dream of many years before seelllt'd somehow to have bad a remarkable
fulfilment.
P. 640.
The following narrative was obtained for us by Mr. W. Leadham
Crowe, of 4, Bishopsgate-street Within, from a friend of his.
21, Cranley-gardens, South Kensington, S.W., May 25th, 1889.
According to promise I give you an account of my dream in 1857.
On the night before the Derby I went to bed in a discontented frame of
mind, as I was not allowed to go to Epsom.
In the winter I had backed the then favourite, Blink Bonny, to win for
a small sum at 10 to 1. She ran in the One Thousand and was badly
beaten, and went back in the betting to 66 to 1. I did not lose my faith in
Digitized by Google
l\Iarch, 1890.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 227
my choice, but took £600 to £10. Well, you will understand that a boy
of 19 had a great stake in the race.
In the early morning of the Derby Day, I dreamt that I was on the
Epsom course (where I had not then been), at a point which I have since
recognised as Tattenham Corner. I saw the horses go by, and followed
with the crowd after the horses, and when I got up to the telegraph board
I heard people shouting, "Blink Bonny has won." I looked at the board
and saw the following numbers ;-
19
4
23
On this I awoke, got out of bed (it was a splenrlid morniug), took an
envelope from my coat pocket and put down the numbers.
I went early to the station at Greenwich, and awaited the arrival of two
friends who were going to the race, Charles West and W. R. Brander. I
went up with them to London Bridge, where I bought a card. Blink
Bonny was No. 19. I:only had £2 in my pocket. I asked Brander to put
it on for me. (He did not do it, saying he thought I was mad.) The
numbers of the other horses I did not take much heed of when I found that
No.4 was a horse called Black Tommy, which was an extreme outsirler I
had never heard of; nevertheless the result of the race was-
No. 19 Blink Bonny 1
" 4 Black Tommy 2
" 23 Adamas 3
This is of course an extraordinary circumstance, and after 32 years a
rather difficult thing to get corroborated, but I send you herewith a letter
from West. Brander I have seen; he says he remembers something about
it, but that the changes which have occurred in his life have deprived him
of the memory of his early days.
J may mention that I have dreamt numbers once or twice since, but they
have not proved the correct ones. J. S. CHRISTIE RENNECK.
Mr. West writes to Mr. Renneck as follows.
Lloyd's, London, E.C., May 20th, 1889.
I can endorse your statement as to the episode in cOllnection with Blink
Bonny's Derby, and I remember perfectly well your statement to us, before
the race had been run, that you had dreamt a certain number had WOll, and
that it turned out to be true; it made a strange impression on my mind at
the time. CHAS. WEST.
We took some trouble to ascertain what the numbers of the first
three horses in the Derby in 1857 actually were, and learn from Mr.
H. Darling that they were as follows ;-
21 Blink Bonny 1st
4 Black Tommy 2nd
3 Adamas 3rd
Mr. Renneck's recollection of the numbers is not therefore quite
Digitized by GOL
228 Journal of Society fOT P8'!Jchical ReseaTCh. [March, l89O.
accurate, which is of course not at all surprising after an interval of
32 years, during long periods of which he has, as he tells us, never even
thought of the dream. He is sure that he dreamt the right numbers.
There is a special difficulty in estimating the probability that a
true dream about a race is not a mere coincidence, because races are
undoubtedly very frequently dreamt about.
Mr. Renneck, it will be noticed, mentions that he has had one or
two such dreams that have not come true. The following account of a
false dream-vivid and acted on-was sent to us apropos to Mrs.
Sidgwick's paper on Prerrwnitions.
Once, 30 years ago, staying with )!Ome sporting men in Yorkshire, I
dreamt most vividly that I saw the number of the horse who won the
Leger run up and heard his name. He was an outsider, and we all sent £1
to the old betting offices and got very heavy odds of course, but Ite 1Da8 not
in the running!
We may point out that in the case of Mr. Renneck's dream,
supposing it to be more than a very extraordinary accidental coinci-
dence, it is not necessary to assume a supernormal knowledge of the
future. The numbers must of course have been already assigned to
the horses at the time of the dream, and it is not impossible that some
one with a very complete acquaintance with the horses might have
thought that particular result of the race a not improbable one.
P.641.
The following curiously fulfilled dream belongs to the same class
as dreams of races.
I think the following may be of interest to you, as Secretary of the
Society for Psychical Research. The facts are most minutely correct.
Some weeks since, a paper called The Grove HOUl6 Budget announced a
"Guessing Competition," first p~e for nearest guess, two ffUiwaa. It was
a number to be guessed, and this was to be obtained by the throwing of a
die five times by the offerer of the prize, each turn up of the die to be.
placed in consecutive order, 80 that the figures mU8t be either 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
No 0, or 7, or 9 could be in it. I bought lO postcards, putting a
number on each, such as 52,342, &c., and about two days after I had posted
them (I wrote them on the 25th, and posted them two or three days later),
on the following Friday or Saturday night, I dreamt that the winning
number ended with 555. I dreamt the other two figures, but could not
r ecaU the one or the position of the other, but was sure there was a 2 in it.
On the Sunday, when we were all at dinner (11 of us), I spoke of my dream
and how curious it was, and many suggested I should write more cards
with this ending, but I did not.
I told all about my dream of·the ending being 555, and the matter
almost left my mind, until I opened the Gr01J6 HoU86 Budget last Saturday,
Digitized by Google
March, 1890.] Journal 0/ Society /OT P8ychical Research. 229
December 14th, when, to my amazement, I found that the number thrown
by the offerer of the prize was 52,555.
FANNY PARSONS.
High-street, Chipping Norton.
December 17th, 1889.
We, the undersigned, vouch for the exact correctneBS of the foregoing
facts :-
SARA PARSONS.
F. WITHAM.
GE&:NA WHITE.
S. A. OWEN.
L. OWEN.
ALICE RBd&: SHAW.
FRANK NoycE.
In reply to our inquiry, Miss Parsons says:-
I beg to say that the die was thrown certainly 14 days or more after my
dream of the number. It was a curious coincidence.
P. 642.
From Mrs. Burkitt, Harvey-road, Cambridge [November, 1889].
About 11 years ago I bad a most vivid dream. I thought I was standing
in a doorway, holding back a curtain, and looking into the hall of a house,
and I knew that house to be Farnley, in Yorkshire. The position of the
hall, its furniture-everything about it-was clear and distinct, and so, too,
was the sound of a bell, which I seemed to hear ring clearly as I stood there.
Farnley Hall was to me a mere name. I had heard that my mother
spent a few months of her early life there, with her uncle, Mr. Hawksworth
Fawkes, but I never remember her speaking much about England at all,
and never about her old home, or Farnley.
I told my sister of my dream the next morning, and thought no more
about it, till I went to stay in Yorkshire, abont six or seven years afterwards.
Then, wishing to see Farnley, I asked Mr. Fawkes' leave to see the
collection of Turner's pictures which he has, and, with two friends, went
over there. On my way I told my friends of my dream, and we were aU
astonished to find the hall as I bad described it.
The Fawkes' were away, but we wandered on, one room leading into
another, till we came to one where tea had been prepared for us. I was
sitting at the table, when, seeing a curtain opposite me, I felt compelled
to find out what was behind it. I held it back, and found myself looking
into the hall from the exact point of view that I had seen it ill my dl·eam.
And then a bell rang.
What seems to me strange is, that the place and almost every detail
was vivid for those years, but now that I have seen the reality, it has
slowly faded away, and I have now an indistinct remembrance of that part
of the house.
In connection with this case we may refer the reader to the
suggestion of Mr. Lach-Szyrma in the letter which follows.
ERRATUM.-The cases numbered L. 1049 in Jqurnal for December.
1889, and L. 1050 in JfJI.IIT"TIAd for January, should have been L. 1070
and L. 1071 respectively.
Digitized by Google
280 JOU1"fU1l of Society for Psychical Research. [March,189O.
CORRESPONDENCE.
HEREDITARY MEMORY.
To th.e Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL REsEARCH.
SUl.-There is one obscure subject on which I should like to see an
inquiry by the Society for Psychical Research. I mean hereditary memQry.
I know it is usually accepted. even by sceptical physiologists, that we in-
herit instincts and habits from our ancestors. The case of an hereditary
passion for hunting in certain English families is adduced. Also certain acts,
-e.g., in women a peculiar mode of threading a needle (as in one brlUlch of my
own family) is hereditary. The Stuarts and Bourbons both had a manifetlt
and remarkable heredity of thought (which might result partly from
instinct, partly from edu('ation.) But may not this power of inheritlUlce
ilxtend still further, even to the recollection of certain places by descendants,
and may not this account for some cases at least of that well-known mental
phenomenon of persons feeling suddenly that they perfectly recollect places
·and scenes where a moment's reflection shows them they have never been in
. their lives 1 I may explain what I mean by my own experience.
In early childhood I was much given to day dreams, as many only children
()f active imaginations are. Two scenes have haunted me many hundred
times, I am sure, though as I attained manhood they faded and were only
recollected as childhood's dreams. I will describe each of them. They were
two of my dominant scenes to the inner visual organs in childhood.
1. A large village lying northward, with heaving plain and woodlands in
the back. In front there is a little stream crossed by a small bridge. It is
looked at from a hill. There is one church in that village, and a road going
north, and a park to the east. I have thought of that village a hundred times
and peopled it with imaginary people and quaint adventures, as children will.
Now when I was an undergraduate in Oxford my mother suggested my
going to visit Adderbury. which had been connected with our family since
1800, and where she had spellt some of her childhood, staying with her uncle
who dwt'lt there. She intended going herself there, but was prevented.
Still she told me to go there and see the old place, full of her childhood's
memories. I did so OIle winter's day. I came to a low bill and theI'e before
me wa" almost exactly the scene of my childhood's dreams-the large
village, the little stream, the park, tbe woodlands, and the church. Now my
mother had !lever described to me Adderbury. It is curious I sh..uld have
thought of it, for, spending my childhood in Devon, I had conceived a typical
Oxfordshil'e village, totally unlike any place I had seen in cbildhood.
2. Another sct'ne was more curious and more persistent. It was a large
village near the sea fadng eastwards. The hill is very steep-so steep that
you must descend part of the way by steps. The houses are in terraces one
over the other. Above there is a woodland. I always thought I dwelt
there and had a house on the north side. Hundreds of day dreams had I
of that village and its steps and terraces, and blue sea, but my home was
always on the north side and a little inland. Till last July, I never in all
my journeys had seen any place like· that scene of my day dreams. I was
then allked to visit Clovelly in North Devon, where my maternal ancestors
Digitized by Google
Karch, 1890.] Journal of Society for Psychical Besea'I'Ch. 231
(my great-grandmother was a Cary) had long lived. To my astonishment
there were the terraces, tbe steep hill, the steps down to the sea facing
eastward, and, to the north, Cary Court, where for ages our people bad
lived. I saw in the church seve.n of the Cary tombs. Clovelly is described
in Weatward Ho, whicb I only read some years ago for the first time, and
the resemblance never struck me.
Are there not many other instances of this ancestral memory 1
Newlyn St. Peter, Penzance. W. S. LAcB-SZYlI.MA.
REVIEW.
An interesting article on "Ghosts," by Mr. R. Hodgson, Secretary of
the American branch of the Society for Psychical Research, is published in
the February number of a new American magazine, The Arena, and is the
first of a series in which Mr. Hodgson proposes to explain the aims and
methods of the Society, witb the hope of arousing a more general and
intelligent interest in its work. In this paper he discusses briefly, and in a
simple and clear manner; the elementary principles whicb must be kept in
view in attempting to explain coincidental and other apparitions, as well as
some of the more obvious and fundamental theoretical difficulties tbat meet
us. Typical cases of the apparitions of living and dead persons, from the
collections of the English and American Societies, are given. Mr. Hodgson's
next article will treat of "death wraiths" and occurrences in houses reputed
to be "haunted."
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
Additions since the lcut lut (" Journal" for October.)
RAuE (C. G., M.D.) Psychology as a Natural Science applied to the
Solution of Occult Psychic Phenomena..........•.......Philadelphia, 1889
BEAUNIS (Professor H.) Les Sensations Internes ......•......•....•..Paru, 1889*
---------- L'Evolution du Systeme Nerveux ...•.....Paru, 1890*
GOYARD (Or.) Le Magnetisme Contemporain et la Meclecine Pratique,
PariB, 1888
MARIN (Dr. Paul) L'Hypnotisme TMorique et Pratique comprenant
les Procecles d'Hypnotisation .........................•.... ......•..Pari&, N.D.
EXPERIMENTAL·PSYCBOLOGIE (Schriften der Gesellschaft ftir, zu Berlin).
1. Dessoir (Max) Das Doppel-Ich.
Leipzig, 1890+
II. III. Bastian (Adolph) Ueber Psychische Beobachtungell bei
Naturvolkern. Hellwald (F. von) Die Magiker Indiens.
IV. Bentiveglli (A. von) Die Hypnose und ihre civilrecbtlicbe
Bedeutung.
LOMBROSO (Cesare) Studi sl1ll' Ipnotismo, con ricerche Opt&lmoscopiche
del Professore Reymond, e <lei Professori Biancbi e ~orumer
Bulla polarizzaziolle psichica, 3rd edition ........................ Turin, 1887
ARCHIV10 di Psichiatria, Scienze Penali ed Antropologia Criminale.
Vol. X., Parts i.-iv. ....................................................Turin, 1889
*Presented by the Author. t Pl'eseowd by the Society.
Digitized by Google
232 Jowrnal of Society for Psychwl Re8earch. [Maroh.18l1O.
DR.
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY FUND ACCOUNT UP TO
JANUARY 1ST, 1890.
----
CR.
£ s. d. £ 8. d. £ •• d.
To Donationa 282 12 0 By Investment in
.. Dividends on Invest- £100 Deben-
menta ... 8 14 6 ture Stock
Midland Uru-
guayRailway
.. Investment in
13 Shares of
11317 6
£10 each in
Buenos Ayres
Water and
Drainage 13210 0
.. Expenses of
Transfer ... 3 1 6
--249 9 0
" Purchase of
New Books... 6 6 0
.. Binding 12 8 6
18 14 6
Balance in bauds
of Treasurer
January lBt,
1890 ... 23 3 0
---
291 6 6 291 6 6
Examined and found correct.
H. ARTHUR SMITH.
Since tbe pnblication of the lilt of donationa to this Fund in Proceeding',
Part XIV., the following additional donationB have been received:-
Mr. and Mrs. LeyceBter ...
Hon. Auberon Herbert ...
And aince January lBt, 1890
A. Sidgwick
£ .. d.
600
100
200
Digitized by Google
