{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1826__watson___statistics_of_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Statistics Of Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
STATISTICS
OF
PHRENOLOGY:
11111NG A SltETCH OF
'l'HE PROGRESS AND PRESENT STATE
OF THAT SCIENCE
IN
THE BRITISH ISLANDS.
BY
~~'.
1S . , ::...
\ .' ~ ' ' ..
WATSON. ·-~~
HEWETT C.
LONDON:
LONGMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMAN,
PATERNOSTER· ROW.
1836.
16£.
LO!mOll:
Printed by A. 8Pan'rswooos,
New-Stree-:-Square.
I
I
I
!
\
TO
T. S. SCHOLES, ESQ.,
OF HIGH BANK, PRF.STWJCH,
THIS VOLUME
IS DEDICATED
BY HIS ATTACHED FRIEND,
THE AUTHOR.
A 3
PREFACE.
IN publishing this sketch of the progress hitherto
made by Phrenology, in public estimation, I am
actuated by the hope of lending some small assist-
ance towards accelerating its future advances. The
open adherents of the science have hitherto been like
so many isolated individuals scattered throughout
Britain, unaware of their own collective strength,
and exerting little encouraging influence upon each
other. They have been accustomed to meet with
opponents more frequently than with friends. The
cautious, the approbative, and the politic have thus
been deterred, in too many instances, from the ener-
getic support of doctrines which required strenuous
and uncompromising efforts for effecting their dif-
fusion, and general reception by the community ;
while the enemies of these doctrines, profiting by the
backwardness of phrenologists, still continue to
reiterate their assertions that the whole system is
fast hastening into oblivion. In consequence, many
persons have been prevented from giving an atten-
VI PREF.ACE.
tive consideration to the subject, and still are so.
But the present volume will show that the aggregate
strength of phrenologists is now by no means ~ncon­
siderable; and, what is much more important, it will
prove beyond all possibility of doubt or dispute, that
the numbers and influential consequence of the
adherents to Phrenology have gone on steadily in-
creasing up to the present moment; an increase that
bids fair to proceed at a much greater rate in future.
This fact should cast down all the fears and scruples
of phrenologists, and incite them to more vigorous
efforts for accelerating the final triumph of their
science, with all its concomitant advantages to them-
selves and their race. If phrenologists be aroused
#
aud encouraged by the prospect of a speedy and
complete triumph, an opposite effect must be pro-
duced on their opponents ; to the more shrewd and
prudential of whom this small volume will supply
cogent hints, that it is likely to prove a much safer
and more politic course, to avoid bringing themselves
again into collision with Phrenology and its ad~
herents, and will also admonish them to invoke a
forgiveness and speedy oblivion of past transgres-
sions.
In addition to lending some aid to the defenders
of Phrenology, it has been wished to make the
volume useful to persons interested in the science,
by presenting an epitome of what has been done
towards facilitating and extending the knowledge of
it, in the way of books, lectures, the formation of
PR.Ei'.&Cll. vii
societies, and other measures. In this I have neces-
sarily trusted much to the evidence of others, for
matters not falling directly under my own observ-
ation. The Phrenological Journal has supplied a
considerable part of the controversial history of the
science, and also the titles of a few works, which I
have not had the opportunity of seeing. The local
notices are usually accompanied by the name of the
person to whom I am indebted for them. An indi-
vidual resident in the country, often out of reach
of public libraries, when most required, is ne-
cessarily obliged to rely oq the correctness of in-
termediate authorities, which retail or repeat the
information required by him. Should this circum-
stance have caused any erroneous statements, the
correction of which may be deemed important, I
shall feel obliged by having such pointed out to
me by individuals who may detect them.
Something may be considered due as an apology
to phrenologists, for the sketchy and unpolished lan-
guage in which the book is written. Irregularity
was unavoidable in the different sections; and my
cerebral development renders me much more sensi-
tive to logical consistency than to elegance of expres-
sion ; more prone to attend to the precision of ideas
than to the sound or selection of words. As to the
matter, it is mainly a simple statement of facts; singly
ofsmall importance, but in the aggregateofmuch con-
sequence to phrenologists and to others. I am not
without hope, however, that even some phrenologists
Vlll PREFACE.
may find a few useful hints scattered through the
volume, although it is very possible that differences
of opinion may occur with respect to some of the
suggestions or allusions made,
Thames Ditton,
July, 1836.
CORRECTION.
By the misprint of a single letter in the second line of the note on
page 29. an opinion has been rather awkwardly transferred from the
author to another person. Readers are requested to erase the final
letter of " uses" in the note referred to.
CONTENTS.
SECTION 1.- HISTORICAL SKETCH OF THE PROGRESS OF PHRE·
NOLOGY, CONSIDERED IN RESPECT TO ITS RE•
CEPTION BY THE PUBLIC.
Early history - Spurzheim's first visit to England
and publication of the Physiognomical System
- Progress of the science thence to the public-
ation of Combe's System of Phrenology, 1815-
1825- Opposition to the science in the same
interval - The System of Phrenology and the
Edinburgh Review - Examples of opposition
to the science subsequent to 1825 - Increased
attention to the subject in the present day -
Future prospects. Page 1-49
SECTION II. - PRESENT STATE OF PHRENOLOGY, CONSIDERED
AS A BRANCH OF SCIENCE OR PHILOSOPHY.
I. Definition of the science and its objects - 2.
Metaphysical ideas of Mind - 3. Leading prin-
ciples of the science- 4. Uses - 5. Objections
- 6. Evidences - 7. Suggestions for the study
of phrenology - 8. Suggestions for di1fusing a
knowledge of the science - 9. Suggestions for
checking uncandid opposition - 10. Comments
on the opinions of correspondents.
Page50-108
SECTION 111.-LocAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY.
State of the science, and steps taken to di1fuse
the knowledge of it in Aberdeen, Alyth, Arb-
roath, Bakewell, Bath, Belfast, Beverley, Bir-
mingham, Bolton, Boston, Bradford, Brechin,
Bristol, Bungay, Cambridge, Chatham, Chelten-
ham, Cork, Coventry, Cupar, Derby, Dingwall,
Doncaster, Dublin, Dumfries, Dunbar, Dundee,
Dunfermline, Dunse, Edinburgh, Fareham, For-
x CONTENTS.
far, Gainsborough, Galashiels, Glammis, Glas-
gow, Greenock, Haddington, Halifax, Hawick,
Huddersfield, Hull, Inverary, Inverness, Jed-
burgh, Kelso, Kerriemuir, Kilmarnock, Lauder,
Leamington, Leeds, Lincoln, Lintratben, Liver-
pool, Locbee, London, Louth, Lymington,
Lynn, Manchester, Margate, Melrose, Monifeith,
Montrose, Newark, Newburgh, Newcastle, Nor-
wich, Nottingham, Oxford, Paisley, Peter-
borough, Portsmouth, Reading, Rugby, Saffi'on
Walden, Salisbury, Scarborough, Sheffield,
Southampton, Spalding. Stamford, Stirling,
Sunderland, Taunton, Tillicoultry, Wakefield,
Warwick, Worcester, Wrexham, York.
Page 109-168
SBCTIO!li IV.- LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY.
l. Chronological list of phrenological works -
2. List of anti-phrenological works - 3. List
of phrenological writers - 4. List of11nti-pht1e-
nological writers - 5. List of Persons giving
Testimonials in recommendation of the science,
to Mr. Combe and Lord Glenelg as Se.!retary of
State for the Colonies- 6. Opinions of anti-
phrenologists. Page 169-217
SECTION V. - STATISTICAL ESTIMATES AND SUMMARIES.
SUPPLEMENT.
l. Phrenological Societies - 2. Phrenologists, An-
tiphrenologists, &c. - 3. Phrenological Works
-4. Authors and Essayists- 5. Museums -6.
Lectures-7. Tabular Views. Page 218-234
Phrenology and the Royal Society of London
- Phrenologyand Metaphysics-State of Phre-
nology in Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Exeter, Stir-
ling, and Taunton - Additional works - Cald-
well's Thoughts on Physical Education -
Noble's Essay on estimating Character-
Writers on Phrenology-Additional Testimo-
nials to Mr. Combe. Page 235- 242
STATISTICS
OP
PHRENOLOGY.
SECTION I.
SKETCH OF THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY.
" In the intellectual, as in the physical, men grasp you firmly and
tenaciously by the hand, creeping close at your side, step for step,
while you lead them into darkness; but when you conduct them into
sudden light, they start and quit you." - W. S. L.urnoa,
Sc1ENCE, from the Latin word Scientia, literally signifies
KNOWLEDGE; but common acceptation limits the appli-
cation of the term to a knowledge ofthe facts and laws of
natm·e. In speaking of the progress of science, we mean
nothing more than the progress of human knowledge con-
cerning natural objects and events. This involves two
distinct considerations, according as we look at individuals
or at the race of nian. The human race collectively may
possess much knowledge on a given subject, while that
knowledge is limited to very few individuals; or, on the
other hand, the sum of knowledge possessed by the race
may be small, yet that small amount of knowledge may
be familiar to many persons. The object of this notice i~
not to show the progressive knowledge of the race, but the
reception of that knowledge by individuals. Though the
advance of phrenological science has been extremely
rapid, taking the British nation collectively, its reception
by individuals has proceeded at a much more gradual pace;
JI
2 I, HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
so grad11ally, indeed, has the science spread, that for one
person who now possesses a competent knowledge of
phrenology hundreds or thousands have never heard it
mentioned, and tens of thousands know it by name only.
The very rapidity with which the science has advanced in
the hands of a few individuals may be regarded as one of
the main drawbacks to its diffusion ; the discoveries of
phrenologists, and their attempted applications of those
discoveries, having been made at a much quicker pace
than the slowly moving mind of the public could at all
keep up with. Phrenology has been taught in Britain
scarcely more than twenty years ; and already its support-
ers talk about entire changes and reforms in the moral
world, to be founded on its principles, and to be built up
by its diffusion. At the same time their opponents are
asserting the whole system to be downright infatuation,
and reasonably enough - the truth of their assertion being
admitted - are predicting its speedy dissolution. To this
prophecy the phrenologi~ts retort, that theirscience, being
an exposition of the facts of nature, cann0t dissolve and
die ; and that so far from exhibiting any symptoms of
fatal disease or superannuation, it is now spreading rapidly
and widely through civilised nations. The correctness of
this vaunt will be in some measure tested 'by·the present
historical sketch and the statistical details intended to
follow.
About the year 1796, Gall began openly to teach his
discoveries, upon which the science ofphrenology has been
since founded ; but their first rudimentary existence dates
back thirty years previous. At this time the whole dis-
coveries were little more than the coincidences'ofparticular
local protuberancetl of the cranium with particular dispos-
itions or talents. It was several years later that the
united abilities of Gall and Spurzheim - more especially
thelatter- systematised their discoveries into a connected
outline of the science as now known. Dr. Bostock has
I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
published·(Physiology, iii. 268.) a very different and utterly
erroneous statement respecting the discovery of phreno-
logy, which Dr. Elliotaon haa easily refuted (Phrenological
JOW'llal, v. 96.).
In Britain, a few unimportant notices of Gall'1 labours
appeared very early in the present century ; amongst
which. the 11ottempted refutation in the Edinburgh Review,
in the rar 1803, may be particularly instanced. This
early condemnation of Gall's observations is attributed to
the late Dr. Thomaa Brown, ofmetaphysical celebrity; and
we need not see much ground for surprise that a meta-
physician should reject the mental philosophy of Gall, then
so exceedingly incomplete, and which Dr. Brown had
learned only second-hand through an imperfect channel.
Indeed, it is stated that he afterwards orally expressed a
much more favourable opinion.
In the year 1806, aa appears by the Christian Pioneer,
the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal contained
an unflattering notice of Gall; and in the year 1809 the
disingenuous report of the French Institute, delivered a
few months previously, was translated and printed in the
same joumal. It does not fall under the purpose of this
volume to enter into any consideration of a report made
by a foreign body; but having been copied into an English
journal of science, it may be observed that the report is
now generally admitted to have been extremely unjust
towards Gall and Spurzheim aa anatomists and physiolo-
gists, and to have been slictated by the fear of incurring
Napoleon's displeaaure; that despot having "rated the
wise men of his land for allowing themselves to be taught
chemistry by an Englishman•, and anatomy by a German."
By these and other unfa,·ourable notices, the public
press of Britain created an unfriendly feeling towards the
founders of phrenology, and prepared the public to con-
demn the doctrines as unsound, and to ridicule them as
• Sir Humphry Davy.
B 2
4 f. Hf8TORY OF PHRBNOLOGV.
absurd. The Tery few individuals who were more favour·
abty disposed towards Gall could effect little in opposition
to the current setting against him; nor were they, perhaps,
sufficiently acquainted with his store of facts to give them-
selves thatsteady reliance upon the doctrines, indispensable
to persons who should openly defend them.
Though a small work on Gall's "Theory of Physio-
gnomy, with Hufeland's Critical Remarks," was published
in London so early as 1807, it was not until Spurzheim's
first visit to England, in 1814, and the publication of the
"Physiognomical System," in the following year, that the
claims and merits of phrenology were fairly and fully laid
before the British public. The Edinburgh Review was
at this time the mouth-piece of a grand tribunal for trying
the merit of all works, literary and scientific, and pro-
nouncing judgment upon all systems and doctrines, fan-
<'iful and philosophical. This formidable name, and the
editorial WE, sheltered a number of able and anonymous
writers, who were at once the plaintiffs, witnesses, counsel,
jury and judges in the trial of every defendant-writer
appearing before the bar-not the bar of the public, for
thP public then enacted the part of spectator only
- but before the bar of this assemblage of goose-quill
potentates; to one or more of whom was assigned the eaay
and irresponsible duty of filling all the aforesaid offices of
plaintiff, witness, counsel, jury and judge upon each trial.
The Physiognomical System was summoned to the bar ;
was tried and condemned ; its author pronounced to
be a knave, mountebank, hypocrite, impostor, ignoramus,
and madman ; the whole of his doctrines, " anatomical,
physiological, and physiognomical," being declared "a
thorough piece of quackery from beginning to end,"-a
collection of mere absurdities, without truth, connection,
or consistency.''
Sueh was the courteous language and philosophical
refutation applied by aD Edinburgh reviewer, twenty yeart1
l. HISTORY OF PHRBNO.LOGY•
ago, to the most important scientific disqQvery ever made,
and to a man whose honesty of purpoaie, candour in argu--
ment, and philosophical acumen have been since freely
admitted by the most determined opponents of his doc-
trines ! So low was then the state of public morality and
science, so submissive was public opinion, that the me.rt:
declamation of an anonymous reviewer could deter
hundreds, perhaps thousands, from giving any attention
to doctrines professing to rest on positive facts, open to
the senses of careful observers ; and which the reviewer
did not disprove by counter-facts or by argument, but
dogmatically condemned in language so disgustingly
abusive, that it now appears little short of the marvellous
·how honest and discriminating minds could have beeu
misled by a writer who ventured to pen the tirade, even
anonymously.
A cudgel, in the hands of the coarsest brute that wears
ihe human form, may give a temporary check to the moral
and intellectual progress of the race, by the destruction of
some master-spirit that leads it on ; and it cannot be de-
nied that the·club of the reviewer, though not quite so fatal
·and effective, did most materially retard the diffusion of
phrenology. Meantime, however, Spurzheim had not sat
down idly to wait the reception of his work by the public
or by reviewers. Immediately after arriving in England
be dissected a brain, before an assembly of professional
men, at the Medico-Chirurgical Society's Hall, and at
once made indisputably evident to their astonished eyes
the correctness of his alleged discoveries respecting the
structure of the brain. Subtiequently, Spurzheim deli-
.vered ·two courses of anatomico-physiological lectures in
London, but to audiences of very limited numbers. He
also lectured in Bath, Bristol, Liverpool, Manchester,
Dublin, and Cork, still attracting very few auditors.
The courteous writer in the Edinburgh Review, not
·having yet seen Spurzheim's dissections, and not having
B 3
6 I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
made the discoveries himself, had pronounced the " ana•
tomical doctrines" to be " a thorough piece of quackery. "
By some strange mistake, Spurzheim seems on this occa-
sion to have forgotten his quackery, and to have under-
estimated the risk of encountering a mighty great man of
science who had seen through it so thoroughly. Instead
of shrinking from exposure, as such an egregious impos-
ter -witness the Edinburgh reviewer-ought to have
done, he boldly marched to Edinburgh, and there met,
helm to helm, tongue to tongue, brain to brain, the re-
puted author of the attack upon his science and bis ho-
nour ;-there, in the defamer's own lecture-room, "with
" the Edinburgh Review in one hand," to quote the words
of a talented defender of the science, " and a brain in
" the other, he opposed fact to assertion. The writer of
" the article still believed the Edinburgh Review, but the
" public believed the anatomist, and that day won over
" five hundred witnesses to the fibrous structure of the
" white substance of the brain, while it drew off a large
" number of admiring pupils from the antagonist lee-
" turer." The non-professional reader may be reminded
that the fibrous structure of the brain was one of the ana-
tomical discoveries at first so strenuously denied. Lec-
tures on the anatomy and functions of the brain speedily
followed up this triumph ; and Spurzheim remained above
half a year in this the grand capital of his foes, - for per·
sonal foes some of them truly were. He sowed the seed :
it was lost to sight ; but the harvest followed in due
course.
Despite the condemnation of the Edinburgh Review,
despite the frowns of University-professors, despite the
deliberate falsehoods, the misrepresentations, the abuse,
the dull jokes, and the clumsy ridicule, freely circulated
against all aiders and abettors of phrenology, honouraMe
and talented men now began to turn their attention seri-
ously and perseveringly towards the science. Observ-
1. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY, 7
ations soon multiplied facts ; the accumulated facts were
acknowledged and generalised ; both facts 11Dd conclusions
tallied with the doctrines taught by Spurzheim ; and the
evidences of his science, in Britain, soon ~ed to rest on
the word of the teacher alone, or on fo[cign records, a
greater authority being found in the page of nature at
home.
Spurzheim remained a few years in England, and his
presence very materially contributed to fix phrenology in
the minds of those who came into personal communication
with him. One defender after another appeared on the
s-.ge ; and the science was pushed forward by almost im-
perceptible degrees, until it became so far diffused that
society began to feel, if still backward to acknowledge, its
force and consequence. Slowly, very slowly, however,
did any palpable proofs of change in the public mind be-
come apparent; and the few individuals, whose intellec-
tual penetration and moral courage urged them to study,
and to avow their confidence in the new doctrines, were
for some years almost buried under the shadows of autho-
rity and the incubus of opposing numbers. Still the
science advanced and spread; and its steady progress
cheered and increased its supporters, even while the pub-
lic was refusing to receive it, and men in authority were
resistjng its diffusion to the utmost of their power.
In addition to the Physiognomical System, Spurzheim
had published a smaller work, or abridgement of the
greater, entitled " Outlines of the Physiognomical Sys-
tem/' In 1817 he published an " Examination of the
Objections made in Britain against the Doctrines of Gall
and Spurzheim," induced to this by the attacks of Doctor
Gordon and others. His " Observations on Insanity "
were also published in 1817. The same year Sir G. s·
Mackenzie published " Essays on some Subjects connected
with Taste," in which phrenology was brought to bear
against the views previously advan~ by imaginative or
B 4
8 I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
inventive writers on taste. In the preceding year Sir
George had openly avowed himself a convert to the new
doctrines, to the astonishment of his compeers and scien-
tific friends ; and, as they doubtless then believed, to the
certain injury of_ his scientific reputation. Dr. Parry of
Bath, a physician and author of much repute, also gave
his testimony of the value of Gall and Spurzheim's disco-
veries. And Mr. Lawrence, who takes such high rank in
the surgical profession, spoke very favourably of the sys-
tem in 1819; but honestly admitted himself to be not
sufficiently acquainted with its facts to give a decided
opinion.
Yet these gentlemen had been anticipated by men of
es'8blished name in science ; for a work in explanation
and defence of phrenology, under the title of a " Sketch
of the New Anatomy and Physiology of the Nervous Sys-
tem of Drs. Gall and Spurzheim," was published in 1815,
by Thomas Forster, F.L.S., author of several works on Na-
tural History ; and the work contained also a very decided
approval both of the anatomy and physiology of Gall and
Spurzheim, in a letter from Dr. Leach, one of the most sci-
entific naturalists of the present century. This Sketch
was an enlarged reprint of an essay previously published
in the Pamphleteer.
While a large portion of the periodical press was op.
posing its inftuence to the diffusion of phrenology, and not
a few writers were guilty of the most unjustifiable attempts
to injure the personal reputation of phrenologists, the
Medico-Chirurgical Journal and Review lent its support
to the cause of truth, so early as 1817, by publishing a
statement and defence of Spurzheim's proceedings in
Edinburgh, on the occasion of meeting Dr. Gordon, hh'
detractor in the Edinburgh Review. The defence in
question is stated to be from a correspondent, whose cha-
racter " is beyond suspicion of misrepresentation," anrl
who was present at the time. This was followed up,. in
J, Hf*TORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
the next volume, hy a review of the controversy betweeil
Spurzheim and Dr. Gordon, in which the conduct ·of the
latter was denounced as " most illiberal," and the anato-
mical discoveries of Gall and Spurzheim were fully ad-
mitted as established truths in science. At this time the
reviewer still withheld his assent from the physiological
portion of the discoveries, " not from any want of respect
" to Drs. Gall and Spurzheim's talents. or veracity as ob-
" servers of natnre, but until inductions are multiplied
" by others, so as to produce greater probability, if indeed
" this can ever be the case." This early countenance of a
philosopher, then so cruelly persecuted by leaders in the
medical profession, was a noble act on the part of re-
viewers depending on the patronage of the medical profes-
sion for their continuance as journalists. Medical phreno-
logists owe a debt of gratitude to them for this independent
proceeding. It is pleasurable to add that their efforts
did not rest here, but have been repeated at various times
since ; and that the same journal now decidedly supports
phrenology in all, or almost all, its leading principles and
details. This Review, taking rank with the first medical
journals in the world, its cordial support is of more worth
than that of all the merely literary reviews and magazines
put together, when the subject is a 11cience involving ana-
tomy, physiology, and moral philosophy, in close and in-
separable connexion.
In 1819 appeared the" Essays on Phrenology" by Mr.
George Combe, since so distinguished as a phrenologist;
and to whose hands the sceptre of Spurzheim has descended
undisputed, - "Plirenologorum faci/.e princeps," if we may
so apply, to the leader of an immensely superior science,
the botanical compliment from Humboldt to our country-
man, Dr. Robert Browne. In 1820 we find Sir George
M'acm~ again in the field, with his " Illustrations of
l>hre!Mo"lfy," and Dr. Elliotson giving the sanction of hi11
name and the aid of his pen to the support and diffusion
B 5
•
10 J. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
of phrenological doctrines. Mr. Abernethy, - no slight
authority in matters connected with medical science, -
immediately afterwards wrote in recommendation of the
philosophy of mind, naturally flowing out of the physio-
logical discoveries of Gall and Spurzheim ; but, strangely
enough, he declined to examine the evidences and physio-
logical details.
It must be kept in mind that the Edinburgh reviewer
had pronounced the "anatomical, physiological, and phy-
siognomical " doctrines to be " a thorough piece of
quackery from beginning to end." Nevertheless, we find
Forster, Leach, Mackenzie, Parry, Lawrence, Elliotson,
andAbernethy,-all authors and men of science, and the
major part of them belonging to the medical profession,-
giving testimony in support of the physiology or philoso-
phy of the new system, each according to the extent of
his knowledge. Let us then pause here to ask who Will
be hardy enough to affirm that these persons were likely to
be imposed upon by quackery in the subjects of their own
particular pursuits or professions ? Naturalists, surgeons,
and physicians, are surely amongst those least likely to be
imposed upon by quackery !
Meanwhile, the anatomical discoveries of Gall and
Spurzheim had become pretty generally admitted by the
medical profession and the scientific part of the public.
That their anatomical views should have been early re-
ceived by many of those withholding assent to the physio-
logy and philosophy, is readily explicable from the fact of
a single brain, well dissected, sufficing to prove the ana-
tomical department of phrenology ; while numerous and
long-continued observations, impartially carried on by men
of ability and knowledge, were required to establish the
physiological and philosophical conclusions. Yet the ana-
tomical discoveries, easily verified as they might be by
others when once announced, had to·struggle against con-
tradictions, and were received unwillin~ly by many per-
I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY, ll
sons. Indeed, they were positively denied by some indi-
viduals for years after they had been demonstrated to large
and intelligent audiences. No wonder that the physiology
and philosophy should have been so much longer resisted I
It was far easier to deny thau to examine.
The formation ofthe PHRENOLOGICAL SocIETY in Edin-
burgh, early in 1820, may be looked upon as the most
memorable event in the history of phrenology, that had oc-
curred since Spurzheim's visit to England and publication
of the Physiognomical System. This Society concen-
trated the strength of phrenologists into a citadel, as it
were, within the very city where phrenology had been so
hostilely opposed and 110 virulently abused. It is worthy of
note that the institution of this Society should have been
first suggested by a minister of the Church of Scotland,
the Rev. David Welsh; a sufficient refutation of the
charge of irreligion volunteered against phrenologists by
several of their opponents ; the orthodoxy ofthis minister
being pretty well witnessed by his subsequent election to
a clerical professorship in the University of Edinburgh.
From this period the science advanced with accelerated
progress, and in 1824 the Society published an octavo vo-
lume of Transactions, extending to 448 pages, and con-
taining a series of papers illustrative of phrenology, both
as a pure science and as one capable of the most important
practical applications. The Transactions appear to have
had a limited circulation, and no second volume was ever
published, partly, perhaps, from the circumstance of the
Phrenological Journal offering a vehicle for communicat-
ing to the public the most interesting or valuable papers
read before the Society. For some time this Society pro-
ceeded vigorously enough, and the accession of new mem-
bers was rather numerous and frequent ; but an illiberal
spirit was afterwards manifested in refusing to allow
strangers to participate in the discussions ; the younger
members began to complain of intolerance and rudeness
B 6
12 I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
from some of their seniors ; a1:d religious bickerings - one
of the greatest curses of social intercourse in Edin·
bu·rgh - joined with other circumstances, soon darkened
the flourishing prospects, and within ten yea.rs from its
first institution, the Society: ceased to muster more than
ten perscms at its ordinary meetings, and sometimes barely
half that number were visible in a hall capable of contain-
ing hundreds.
The enemies of phrenology chuckled over the declining
strength of the Phrenological Society ; believing, or pre-
tending to believe, that Phrenology itself would share the
same fate, and that both science and Society would speedily
become extinct. If any of them really believed this, time
has since shown them to have been egregiously mistaken.
The Phrenological Society materially tended to advance
and diffuse phrenological doctrines ; and its valuable mu-
i;eum yet continues to prove a most powerful auxiliary to
the persevering labours of the true phrenologists of Edin-
burgh.
Meanwhile the science was continuing to advance in
public favour every where outside the walls of the Phreno-
logical Society's Hall; and was fast recovering from the
check given to its early career by hostile reviewers. It ii;
stated by Mr. Combe in the Phrenological Journa~ that
the sale of Spurzheim's works " completely stopped after
" the appearance of the -!·9th number of the Edinburgh
" Review, and did not revive till 18I9, after which it
" went on rapidly, and it still proceeds" (1826). •
• One of the first natural philosophers of the age, M. Arai:o, read
a biographical notice of thto late Dr. Thomas Young, to the .1cademie
des Sciences, in 1832. In this notice he gives a remarkablto instance
of the injuries inflicted on science and scientific discoverers by unju•t
abu11e and domials in reviews. The two following sentences are ex-
tract..d from Arago's notice, as it apµear• in the Edinburgh N.,w l'hi-
losophical Journal, April, 11136; No. u., p. 1138.: - "The scientific
journals, when lhey are conducted by m~n of known merit, thu"
acquire, in certain mallt!rs, an intluenc:e which often becomes highly
injurious. It is th119, I think, we mu•t qualify that which the Edi11-
I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY. 13
Two years after this revival, the " Elementary Princi-
ples of Education" appeared from the pen of Spurzheim,
the first nowedly phrenological work on education,
though this application of the science had been previously
pointed out. Dr. Poole had anticipated Spurzheim by a
treatise on the same subject, in the Encyclopeedia Edinen-
sii, about the year 1819. The treatise of Dr. Poole was
virtually a phrenological essay, although it was then judged
expedient to avoid the use of phrenological names and
terms, lest these should excite prejudice against the essay.
It is ·said that several anti·phrenologists, editors of perio-
dicals, spoke highly of this work; thus giving a decided,
although unintentional, testimony in recommendation of'
the science they were wont to vilify and condemn on other
occasions. Perhaps in this one instance, and at this time,
a veiled introduction of phrenology was allowable, parti·
cularly as the treatise was not ushered before the public on
the individual responsibility of its author. But unless
uuder very peculiar circumstances, such creeping in at
the back door, and submissive prostration before public
prejudice, is surely unworthy an independent mind, con-
rcious of integrity and firmly relying upon the strength
and certain supremacy of truth.
In here making an individual protest against such secre-
tive use of phrenology, in somewhat strong terms, it is
not wished to make disrespectful allusion to any particular
phrenologist who may hold an opposite opinion, and act
upon such opinion ; but it doe11 appear to the writer of
these pages to be a proceeding totally irreconcileable with
truth and honesty. It is an avowed attempt to impose
upon the public ; and it is as completely a robbery of
burgh. Review has sometimes exercised." ••• " The Edinburgh Remw
attacked the scholar, the writer, the geometrician, the experimentalist,
with 11 vehemence and asperity of expression, almost without es-pie
in. scientific discussion. The public is generally thrown upon its
guard when it hears such impassioned language; hut on this occasion,
it adopted, on the moment, the opinion of the re'fi.,wer," &c.
1. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
phrenologists, as it is a robbery for one author to steal
the ideas of another, and put them forth without acknow-
ledgement. It is idle to argue that such a course is taken
for the benefit of the public. All such prostration of
truth for a temporary advantage, is just setting up the
lower feelings in supremacy over Conscientiousness ; and
if the ultimate effect of this he not injurious, then farewell
to all theories which as11ume the moral government of the
world to he based on immutable laws. Phrenologists have
freely censured other persons for neglecting their science,
while writing on physiology or on ethical subjects, but what
can be said ofphrenologists themselves, who are ashamed to
acknowledge the sources of their borrowed ideas, and pre-
fer the double fault of taking from one party to impose
upon another I The writer here speaks only to the prin-
ciple, and as an individual; fully admitting that Dr.
Poole's case has peculiarities which would prevent its
strict application ; and that he would not be justified in
casting censures upon others who hold a contrary opinion,
even while he maintains such opinion to he a moral
blunder.
In 1823 appeared the first number of the Phrenological
Journal, a quarterly periodical, which has been regularly
published from that time, and· still continues to he so. It
forms an useful record of the progress of phrenology, now
extending to nine volumes, and including several most
valuable essays, with a considerable number of elementary
papers, cases, and remarkable facts. It has never been
very popular, even among the phrenologists, and has been
much complained of as representing the feelings and ideas
of its conductors rather than those of the phrenological
public ; but it seems to be now meeting with a more cor-
dial reception. If not always satisfying individual minds,
its readers should remember that such a journal, started in
support of an unpopular science, must have entailed on its
conductors much personal trouble and pecuniary loss; in
1. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY. 15
return for which they could have only a very remote pro-
spect of remuneration in any way, except what arises from
the consciousness of labouring for the diffusion of truth
and the good of their fellow-beings. The conductors,
however, call upon phrenologists to support their journal ;
and they complain that it is not done sufficiently. Surely
this is unreasonable. The public will support a journal
adapted to its wants; and if the editors of the Phrenologi-
cal Journal do not adapt theirs to the public, the fault rests
with themselves, and so also should its consequences.
It would be easy to specify particular objections to the
plan and mode of conducting this journal ; but whatever
objections may be urged against it, we should not forget
to look to the opposite side of the scales. Though not
perfect, there is much to approve ; and the three follow-
ing propositions may be unhesitatingly advanced in de-
fence of the journal: -First, that it has been highly ser-
viceable to the cause of phrenology; secondly, thl\i every
phrenologist will find advantage from reading it ; and,
thirdly, that in philosophical spirit and moral excellence, a
single volume of it vastly outweighs the united value of
every page and paragraph written against phrenology. •
In 1824, Mr. Combe published his " Elements of
Phrenology," and a second edition was called for the
following year, the whole impression of 1500 copies having
been sold off in ten months ; a convincing proof that the
science was still attracting the attention of the public,
notwithstanding the strenuous efforts to put it down. Nor
• I have many times felt called upon to defend this periodical from
the censlln!S of others, sometimes made with small consideration and
scarcdy in the spirit of justice; but I have also occasionally been dis-
posed to join in the disapprobation. This indur.es me to take the
liberty of here suggesting to the editors a fair experimental test of
their labours. Let them call on the regular subscribers to their
journal to send such objections and suggestions as seem called for, free
of expense, legibly written, and limited to the compass of a common
letter..beet. Let these be compared, aud let due attention be paid to
the opinions most numerously supported. Several of the objectors are
not subscribers, nor even regular readers.
16 J. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
were other proofs at all wanting. Mr. Combe had edm-
mence<l to lecture on phrenology in 1822, and afterwards'
continued to give a yearly course in Edinburgh, never·
failing of auditors. Dr. Willis lectured this year in Lon-
don; and phrenologists became publicly active in provin-
cial towns, by lectures, by essays read before literary and
scientific societies, or by other steps, for extending and·
diffusing phrenological knowledge. The formation of the
London Phrenological Society was also an important step
onwards in the year 1824 ; although its results in after
years proved trifling.
The following year, a third edition of the Physiogno-
mical System was called for ; and its author, now returned
to England, judiciously divided it into separate works,
tmlarging and improving the divided portions. Two of
these were published under the titles of " Phrenology, or
the Doctrine of the Mind," and " The Philosophical
Principles of Phrenology." The title-page of his "Sketch·
of the Natural Laws of Man" also bears the date of
1825, being printed in this year, though not actually
published before 1828. But the most important literary
l'Ontribution to phrenology, in 1825, was the second edition
of Combe's Essays, now introduced to the public under
the more appropriate title of "A System of Phrenology."
By its intrinsic merits, and the important consequences
ri>sulting from its publication, this work had a very great
influence on the after advances of the science. But
previous to following up our notices of the subsequent
progress of phrenology, at length too firmly fixed in the
public mind to be uprooted by any effort, let us take a
hrief retrospectat the proceedingsof the anti-phrenologists,
who were little disposed to let the wheels of phrenolo~·
roll over an unimpeded road ; and some of thede gentleme11
were even so devotedly heroic as to prostrate themselves
before the advancing wheels, and. suffer ma1lJrdom . in
attempting thus to arrest their progress•
•
J. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY. l 'T
We have eeen that the public had been already pre-
pared to regard phrenology with an unfavourable eye,
before the grand attack upon it in the Edinburgh Review.
The decided condemnation in the 49th Number of that
periodical, then so powerful and influential, not only
prevent.ed inquiring and superior minds from paying any
attention to a subject set before them in such a distorted
and partial manner, but gave the signal for every petty
witling and self-sufficient railer to join in the hue-and-cry
raised against the doctrines of Gall and Spurzheim. Men
skilled in other sciences, as well as the ignorant, strove to
hunt down phrenology (then called Craniology), grinning,
barking, and howling at every one who ventured to raise
a voice in its defence, or to ask for a candid examination
of it.a claims to notice. The Quarterly Review, Black-
wood's Magazine, Lit.erary Gazette, and other periodicals,
e'1t.ered the lists against this persecuted science ; and the
second, in particular, was for se.veral years distinguished
by its coarse abuse, as well as by the puerility of its argu-
ment.a and recklessness of its assertions on the subject.
While these periodicals thus showed the state of public
feeling, at the same time they continually aided to feed
and fan the flame which then seemed destined to burn
until the very last speck of phrenology should be con-
sumed and extinguished along with it. The Christian
Pioneer for April, 1885, (in some measure copying from
C&l'Illichael's Memoir of Spurzheim,) alludes to these early
attacks in the following words:-" The Quarterly, the
Eclectic, the British, the Critical, and the Monthly
Reviews, with the London Medical Repository, and the
British Critic, all exerted their powers of ridicule, argu-
ment, and abuse ; but the most virulent attack of all was
that of the late Dr. John Gordon, in the 49th Number of
the Edinburgh Review."
It may appear extraordinary to some persons, in the
present day, that literary periodicals should have so
18 I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
virulently and so successfully opposed the progress of a
natural science ; but however we are to account for their
excessive hostility, the almost complete success of this
opposition for a time, needs not excite much surprise, if
we call to mind that the fiat of the Edinburgh and Quar-
terly Reviews was held decisive .by a large portion of the
public, fifteen or twenty years ago, even when weighed
against a science professing to be an exposition ofthe facts
of nature, concerning which any one of average abilities
might inform himself sufficiently to judge whether the
science ought to be totally rejected. Fortunately the day
is now past when people will take for granted whatever a
writer in a review or magazine may be pleased to assert ;
and the literary periodicals have quite lost their weight in
respect to questions of science.
But this hostility towards phrenology was by no means
exclusively confined to literary periodicals. Editors and
authors of works avowedly scientific followed the example
of their literary cousins ; some of them attacking phreno-
logy with the same intemperate virulence, and substituting
assertion for fact, abuse for argument, and ridicule for
reason; others dragging phrenology into their work.'!,
whether really concerned with it or not, apparently for no
more worthy purpose than that of venting their spleen
upon something they disliked, or of courting a temporary
popularity by chiming in with public prejudices on the
subject.
How much soever these attempts and attacks might
tend to foster public prejudice, and to add to the tempo-
rary barrier raised against the diffusion of phrenological
doctrines, they had little effect on the science itself, and
are now almost forgotten. It has been well remarked, that
the conduct of later adversaries has abundantly shown
the utter failure of all earlier attempts at overturning the
science; each successive anti-phrenological writer con-
ceiving the task of refutation reserved for himself to
I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY. 19
accomplish, and by his renewed endeavours virtually
admitting that his predecessors had failed in theirs.
Nevertheless, a few examples of the predictions and opi-
nions put forth between the publication of the Physio-
gnomical System, in 1815, and of the System of Phreno-
logy, in 1825, will be amusing in the present day, and not
quite devoid of historical interest and instruction.
In 1817, Blackwood's Magazine gave a most sagacious
proof of foresight, or second-sight, or, it may be, of some
other sight, by the following prophecy, preserved to his-
tory in the pages of the Phrenological Journal: - " Crani-
" ology has almost lived its little hour. In this city, we
" are certain, that with the absence of Dr. Spurzheim, and
"the introduction of some other novelty, as a French
"dance or a new beauty, it will very soon be forgotten."
This wonderful prediction is stated to be copied from the
"veryfirst number" of the oracle ; and it affords an indis-
putable example of "Maga's" foresight in scientific
matters being scarcely outdone by its foresight in political
aiFairs.
To the preceding we may join a notable instance of'
petty periodicals seeking to " ape their betters," by
reference to the Literary Gazette. In 1823, this periodi-
cal was pleased to apply to phrenologists (see Phren.
Journal, vol. i. p. xxiv.) the elegant and peculiarly
appropriate designations of" crazy sciolists" and "vision·
ary abortions." If these expressions were applicable to
the phrenologists of 1828, they are still applicable to the
phrenologists of 1836, and it is for the latter to consider
what gratitude they owe for the flattering titles. That
the Literary Gazette really injured phrenology by such
unmeaning abuse, however desirous to do so, is exceed-
ingly improbable; since it can scarcely·be supposed that
persons likely to study phrenology could be found among
the habitual readers of this Gazette ; and still less likely
is it, that any moral or philosophical mind could be infiu-
20 I. HlSTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
enced by the absurd lucubrations on the subject •to be
found there. To avoid any occasion for again alluding to
this' publication, it may be noticed here that a disgraceful
misrepresentation, connected with phrenology, is said to
have been perpetrated in its pages so lately as the autumn
of 1831 ; the particulars of which may be seen in ·the
seventh volume of the Phrenological Journal.
In "Remarks on Scepticism," by the Rev. Thomas
Rennell, Christian Advocate in the University of Cam-
bridge, we find the author saying of phrenology, " It must
certainly be allowed, that this system does not, of logical
necessity, terminate in materialism." The editors of the
Phrenological Journal coincide with the remark ; and
they pointedly add, that in such case " phrenology clearly
lay out of the path of Mr. Rennell." Nevertheless, it
would appear that Mr. Rennell could not resist the desire
to abuse the sciencf', and boldly to state, that howe,·er
ingenious and amusing in theory, it was annihilated by the
commonest references to tact. As if these commonest
references had not been madf' thousands of times by phre-
nologists before venturing to adopt, and while defending
their science from opponents like Mr. Rennell I But in
applying to phrenology such expressions as " master-piece
of empiricism," in the year 1821, he was retrograding
from the science and tolerance of the day, even down to
the lecture-room of Dr. Gordon before it was visited by
Spurzheim. If Mr. Rennell be still living, let him look
around and see how this master-piece of empiricism is
received in 1886.
Under the head of" Cranioscopy," in the Encyclopmdia
Britannica, phrenology is represeuted as being easily held
up to ridicule by partial or exaggerated statements ; - a
fact which anti-phrenological writers had abundantly
proved ;- and with a wonderful stretch of generosity and
justice, the cranioscopical \Hiter declined to employ suoh
weapons against it. He only undertook to expose the
I. HISTORY OF PHRBNOLOG"f. 21
"88.Ddy foundations" on which the system was buHt, and
the " flimsy materials" of which it was constructed. The
success of this attempt to expose could not have been held
by his employers as very complete, the treatise being
omitted in a subsequent edition of the Encyclopmdia,
although the increasing diffusion of phrenological doc-
trines calls more loudly for resistance, if thP.y be falla-
cious. This article was the production of Dr. Roget.
An attack on phrenology adorned Dr. Milligan's Transla-
tion of Majendie's Compendium of Physiology. A few
examples of this attack may be seen in pages 490-492. of
the first volume of the Phrenological Journal ; and they
are really remarkable, by betraying such an extent of
ignorance respecting the science attacked, as could
scarcely exist in any one after reading a single work on
the subject, - even the smallest and most elementary. Dr.
Milligan has reiterated his attacks in later years ; a cir-
cumstance that we can attribute only to continued mis·
eonception of the doctrines, and consequent disinclination
now to be set right. We recommend him to expend
sixpence or a shilling upon an elementary work, or to send
a few hundred yard1.1 to the library of the Medical Society,
in Edinburgh, for any work on phrenology.
Perhaps it is scarcely proper to class the talented author
of "The Philosophy of Apparitions" amongst the anti-
phrenologists; nor do we suppose he would much desire
to be thus associated. The work mentioned was noticed
in the Phrenological Journal, and the physiological ex-
planation of apparitions particularly mentioned. A second
edition of Dr. Hibbert's work was published in 1825. In
this edition, the author does not attempt to refute the
correction of hi11 views, and the exposition giyen in the
.Phrenological Journal; but he contents himself by saying,
" Those droll philosophers, the phrenologists, account for
all this by supposing that Nicolai possessed the OaoAN
·9.
F WoNDBR." The editors of the journal take this as an
I. HISTORY OF PHR&NOLOGY.
admission that the Doctor could not meet their objections·
and criticisms.
The experiments of Sir Charles Bell have effected much
for physiological science ; but the literary records of llis
labours have unfortunately been sullied by foolish invec-
tives against the immeasureably more important discoveries
of Gall ; a blot which will not add to the weight of their
authority, or to the respect entertained for their author,
now or in time to come. Spurzheim bas fully exposed
the weakness of these attacks on phrenology, in his
Appendix to the Anatomy of the Brain, published in
1830. He there states that the offensive and inaccurate
assertions were first published in 1828, and that they have
been reprinted so late as 1880. In this Appendix
Spurzheim utterly refuted the animadversions of their
author, by the very awkward evidence drawn from speeified
dates and published works ;-awkward to the author of'
them, because these dates directly contradict, and unan-
swerably disprove, his historical comments and personal
reflections upon Gall. In the opinion of this anatomical
experimentalist, the system of Gall is the "most extrava-
gant departure from all the legitimate modes of reasoning."
Not content with this vague denunciation, the author of
it has made specific accusations against Gall, which are
far too ridiculous to deceive any one ; having even run the
length of asserting that Gall was ignorant of the difference
between the cerebellum and brain proper ; a difference
perfectly familiar to every average medical student of six
months' standing, and on which Gall had actually pub-
lished remarks several years before this unfounded aceus-
ation was made. It is not unlikely that the author of the
charge was really unaware of his statements being
unfounded at the time they were written, and that his
mistake arose from ignorance of what he attacked. lit
such case, it was at least injudicious to let them be re-
printed in 1880. The learned accuser affords a remarkable
I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY. 2S
example of the contradictions into which men of much
ability may fall, when arguing on the wrong side of a
disputed question ; for we find him actually talking about
the popula,rity of the doctrines so decidedly condemned
by him, and about the difficulty of keeping his own pupils
from att.ending to Gall and other continental physiologists
in preference to their own countrymen. What a compli-
ment to hill pupils I They prefer and would make popular
this " extravagant departure from all the legitimate modes
of reasoning," notwithstanding their mast.er's exertions to
keep them in another path l
A year lat.er, in 1824, Mr. Rolph published a book to
inform the public that "anatomy, reason, common sense,
and Scripture, are not in accordance with phrenological
principles." Notwithstanding this somewhat ludicrous
malposition of words, in his title-page, we must exonerate
the author (in consideration of his surgical profession) of
all int.ention to express disbelief in anatomy, whatever
absence of reason and common sense some have been dis-
posed to attribute to his book. The fact of a professional
man having published a work of this nature within a
dozen years of the present time, is worthy of record in the
history of phrenology. The work itself we have not seen ;
we have asked for it in vain at good medical libraries,
and it is omitted in Bent's London Catalogue. The Phre-
nological Journal is our authority for its existence and
cont.ents.
The preceding examples of anti-phrenological efforts
will probably satiate readers ; and they have been purposely
selected from the best adverse authorities, for the better
evidencing of the determined opposition offered to phre-
nology. Still, we beg a little longer patience, and invite
readers to return with us into Scotland ; where, in 1825,
Mr. Grahame Hutchinson, a merchant in Glasgow, is said
to have read one hundred tacts, subversive of phrenology,
to a literary society in that town. He never made them
I,
I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
otherwise public, so far as we can learn, though exp~ly
oft'ered the medium of the Phrenological Journal for the
pu1PpOae, if wished.
ID the same year, Sir William Hamilton read an essay
against phrenology to the Royal Society of Edinburgh,
which was loudly applauded in some of the Edinburgla
papers ; and, like many other such attempts, pronounced
to be quite conclusive against the science. Continuations
of this essay were read in subsequent years, and will be
again alluded to. The author of the essay intimated that
it had been written because the phrenologist. said, " Oh,
that mine enemy would write a book I" The phrenolo-
gists were fairly taken aback by such a politely l.,.al
compliance with their request, and although they did -
thankless dogs ! - forthwith change their cry into " Oh,
that mine enemy wouldpublish his book I " it was this time
unsuccessful. The enemy did indeed advertise his book,
but, as we suppose, he forgot to publish it..
It has been mentioned that the System of Phrenology,
published in 1825, had an important influence on- the after
progress of the science. By giving a comprehensive
digest of the whole science, written in very clear and
explanatory language, it presented the subject in such a
captivating aspect, that readers were almost irresistibly
led to give serious attention to phrenology, after perusal
of the work in question. This remark is made from per-
sonal experience. When the System was published, the
writer of these pages knew nothing of phrenology except-
ing a few of the current witticisms against it, and the
misrepresentations put forth in hostile periodicals. At the
advice of a friend he procured the work ; and so absorb-
ing was the iQterest called forth by the perusal, that every
line of the 566 pages had been read ere twenty-four hours
had elapsed from itll first receipt. An immediate re-pe-
rusal followed. This one copy was read by several other
persons, all of whom expressed themselves to have derived
J. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY. 25
m9Ch pleasure from its contents; and some of them have
lince become active phrenologists. The System is now
reprinting for a fourth edition, and several editions of the
Elements and the Outlines, by the same author, have been
published. As 14,000 copies of Mr. Combe's Phrenolo..
gical Works are now in circulation, if we allow five readers
to each copy, this author has 70,000 readers ;-no small
number where the subject is scientific, and opposed by
many leaders in science. The Constitution of Man is
omitted from this estimate, as not being exclusivelya phre-
nological work. Its circulation has exceeded 20,000.
It seems, however, that some persons could read the
System with different ideas and feelings from those called
forth in others ; its publication having induced a third
attack on phrenology, in the Edinburgh Review, proceed-
ing from the pen of its editor (at that time) Mr. Jeffrey,
as public and uncontroverted report asserted. Thus the
whole weight of this influential journal, of Mr. (now Lord
Advocate) Jeffrey's name, and of Mr. Jeffrey's talents, was
brought to bear against phrenology ; and this compound
battering ram was moreover ballasted by a host of bor-
rowed arguments, like so many taxes or tithes in kind,
levied on the pages of its predecessors. At all evPnts they
are to be found there ; and it speaks no little in favour of
phrenology, that the ability and information of a Jeffrey
could adduce against the science nothing in the shape of
facts or argument more potent than those invented or
used by the most puny antiphrenologists.
It was not to be expected that an author so fully assured
of the strength of his own position, and so capable of
maintaining it against aggression, should tamely suffer a
mere name, however much celebrated, to prejudice the
public against his works and science, in the absence of
fact, in the absence of reason, and in the absence of
originality in the arguments brought against it. Our
"Jupiter tonans" of phrenology, as he was not unaptly
c
L HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
designated, met the attack of his reviewer with that per-
fect coolne&11 which springs from conscious superiority and
the certainty of success. His reply was complete ;-it
would have been held triumphant, had there been aught
beyond a name to triumph over ;-and from that time the
antiphrenological authority of the Edinburgh Review
waned away. A feeble attempt at rejoinder, on one or
two points, appeared in the succeeding number of the
Review ; which was promptly set aside by Mr. Combe. It
is unnecessary here to discuss the arguments brought
against phrenology in this celebrated review of the System.
Several of them will be found under the title of "Objec-
tions to Phrenology," in the after pages of the present
work; and the Edinburgh Review (Nos. 88 and 89), and
Mr. Combe's Letter in reply, are accessible to all who may
be interested in the controversial history of the science.
The latter constitutes the first article in the fourth volume
of the Phrenological Journal, and was also published as a
separate pamphlet.•
Decisive as the reply of Mr. Combe was in the eyes of
those who impartially examined both sides of the question,
the reviewer had one great advantage over the author of
the System. The Edinburgh Review was a periodical
both powerful and popular, while the Phrenological
Journal was very much inferior in the latter respect; and
this inferiority could not be at all compensated by the
circulation given to a controversial pamphlet. Hence it
happened, that the attack was read probably by six times
as many persons as were likely to see the reply ; and there
cannot be a doubt that a large proportion of these readers
became prejudiced against phrenology, and that its diffu-
sion was thus much interfered with. It is from the effect
produced on those who read the System, and from the
• Readers desirous of knowing the different phrenological contro-
versies, may find a list of references to them in the Christian Pioneer,
No. 10, of the New Series- October, 1855.
I. HISTORY OP PHRENOLOGY.
opposite effect produced on many of those who read only
the review, that the publication of the System has been
considered the most important event in the annals of phre-
nology, occurring between the time of Dr. Spurzheim's
first residence in England and the present day.
The reviewer prophesied that phrenology would decline
of itself in "no very long time," and appeared to be
imbued with the self-complacent notion of having " done
something to accelerate its cessation.'.' Yet phrenology
has not declined; nor is there any appearance of its cessa-
tion. On the contrary, it has continued to advance with
increasing strength and steadiness, and is at this moment
(April, 1886) rife more than ever. The reviewer had
indeed " done something" to retard its reception by minds
more prone hastily to follow assumed authority, than
deliberately to choose their own course; but what could
the most powerful talents do towards accelerating the
cessation of truth ? Truth may be retarded ; - it cannot
be destroyed. The injury was indicted on the commu-
nity more than on phrenology. or phrenologist.'!. The
community is now voluntarily removing the bandage
from its eyes ; and the members of it will soon neither
show nos feel any gratitude for having been so long hood-
winked. The public fame, both of review and reviewer,
was very great, but this unlucky tilt against phrenology
pared largely from the share of each of them. The former
may redeem its proper portion•, but the latter has
assuredly " done something to accelerate the cessation" of
his own peculiar share. Nobody will dispute the literary
talent and knowledge of the reviewer; such, however, was
not the kind of talent and knowledge required for a con-
troversy in science, and the public mind, unfortunately,
has not yet learned to make the necessary distinctions.
• In the 94th Number, the credit of the Review, in anatomical and
physiological matters, has been advanced ; but only by the sacrifice of
opinions put forth in Numbers 49 and 88. The Lord Jelfrey is not
the present editor of this Review.
c 2
28 J. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
Dr. Whately, Archbishop of Dublin, has expressed his
opinion on the merits of this controversy, in the following
passage, addressed to Mr. Combe:-" That clever article
in the Edinburgh Review, to which you replied, I consider
you as having completely and decisively refuted."
This was the last conflict of any moment in which
phrenologists had to engage. Henceforth the course of
phrenology was open ; and the after attacks upon it con-
sisted only of futile efforts or angry declamations of
antiphrenologists having much less public weight. No
controversy again occurred which had more than a local
or personal interest. To the present day little ebullitioas
of dislike or enmity have continued to issueforth in news-
papers, magazines, essays read before societies, as allusio~
or foot-notes in different works, or orally pronounced, u
ra.thedra, by a few professors or teachers ; but these have
been just as plentifully, and latterly even more plentifully,
met by friendly and recommendatory notices from other
sources of equal authority. Some few essays against
phrenology (see the list of antiphrenological works) haYe
been from time to time published ; but they proceeded
from authors of no scientific note, and have had little
public effect; being neither so numerous nor 110 nume-
rously circulated as the works of phrenologists. Like a
victorious army in a country where its enemy was still
strong although unfit for the open field, phrenology
has marched onwards, necessarily encumbered with· the
" impedimenta," surrounded by skirmishers, and exposed
to frequent small attacks ; but still it has regularly
advanced, receiving continual reinforcements, while the
E'nemy has weakened himself by each unsuccessful onset.
Some of these skirmishes and skirmishers may be briefiy
noticed as illustrative of the enemy's tactics and exploits.
In the year 1826, the Rev. R. W. Hamilton of Leeds
published an antiphrenological pamphlet or " Essay on
Craniology," in which the reverend author stated that qot
J, HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY. 29
a single proof of mental operations being connected with
the head or its interior parts had ever been furnished. We
could not expect much anatomical or physiological
knowledge in an English clergyman•, but the amount of
ignorance on these subjects, which is betrayed in the essay,
was utterly inexcusable in a person professing to write in
opposition to the physiology of the brain. This pamphlet
"'8.s shortly afterwards answered and refuted by W. Wild-
smith, Esq., a fellow-townsman of the reverend author.
In the succeeding year, a controversy, touching the
frontal sinus, &c. occurred between Mr. Combe and Sir
William Hamilton, of Edinburgh, which may be seen in
the fourth volume of the Phrenological Journal. It is of
no public interest- In this year, also, Sir W. Hamilton
read his second antiphrenological essay, or the second
part of his yet unpublished antiphrenological "book,"
before the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Early in 1828
a more lengthened epistolary and newspaper warfare was
carried on between Dr. Spurzheim, Mr. Combe, and Sir
William Hamilton, the latter being offended by some
remarks made in Spurzheim's lectures. This correspond-
ence is printed in the 5th volume of the Phrenological
Journal; but so insufferably tedious is it, that very few
will be able to read through the series of letters with
sufficient attention to comprehend Sir William Hamilton's
notions and statements.
About this time a new antagonist appeared in the field,
namely Mr. (now Dr.) Thomas Stone, author of "Evi-
dences againstPhrenology." The value oftheseEvidences
may be learnt by reference to the London Medical and
Surgical Journal, Nos. 2. and 5. The same author let off
another pamphlet in 1829, consisting of "Observations
on the Phrenological Development of Burke, Hare, and
• I am informed that Mr. Hamilton is "an Independent Preacher,"
but still uses the words "reverend" and " clergyman," considering
that a person preaching in a chapel is just as much entitled to them as
is one who preaches in a church.
c s
I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
other atrocious Murderers," &c. This pamphlet was pre-
eminently distinguished by such a tissue of absurdities
and blunders as would have disgraced the logic and arith-
metical knowledge of any schoolboy in his teens. Never-
theless, some of the Edinburgh newspapers discovered the
pamphlet to be utterly subversive of phrenology ; the
science having at length " got its last quietus;" and Mr.
Combe was deemed likely abruptly to terminate his lec-
tures, and " go into retirement for the rest of his life."
The pamphlet contained " argument of the most convinc-
ing and conclusive kind ;" it was " a rigid appeal to facts,
to common sense, and to reason." Profound editors I
Excellent critics ! ! Most competent judges ! ! I Whai
think you of Mr. Combe's lectures and the "last quietus"
of phrenology to-day?• Verily, Mr. Stone's merit was
great. · He deserved compliment, who could give a " last
quietus" to that which Drs. Gordon, Barclay, and Milligan,
Surgeons Bell and Rolph, Divines Hamilton and Rennell,
Blackwood's Magazine and the Literary Gazette, John Bull
and the Age, &c. &c. &c., had unsuccessfully charged;
to say nothing of Mr. Stone's former pamphlet, the Evi-
dences. We are only surprised that the author, who had
utterly overthrown phrenology in 1828, should find it
necessary again to utterly overthrow the science in 1829.
But, alas I How uncertain are all sublunary honours !
Notwithstanding the double death inflicted upon phre-
nology, by its stalwart adversary, tlie author of the
Evidences and Observations, envious mortals would not
leave him to enjoy his triumph unshared by others ; and
phrenology was doomed, again and again, to feel the pangs
• Atthe time ofwriting this page, Mr. Combe is lecturing in Glas-
gow to 500 auditors of the first respectability there ; and the number
of avowed phrenologists has probably doubled or trebled in the few
years since the pamphlets of Mr. Stone were published. - (A month
has elapsed since this note was penned, and produced a still more
decisive e:r.position oftheir editorial acumen, in Mr. CoillB&'s Tzsr1-
Mo111.u.s.)
I. HISTORY QF PHRENOLOGY. SI
of dissolution. Dr. Wayte found it necessary for himself
&o overthrow the science in England ; and Mr. Beattie
performed the same feat in Scotland, by means of a brief
paper, which is published-oh I the suicidal editors-in
the PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL.
The antiphrenology of the former author was reviewed
and refuted in an essay by an anonymous writer,-" An
Exposure of the unphilosophical and unchristian Expe-
dients," &c. We regret that this writer should have with-
held his name from a work published avowedly to discuss
the merits or demerits of another. Anonymous replies to
anonymous attacks are fitting enough ; but when an
enemy attacks openly, surely phrenologists should follow an
equally fearless and straightforward course. The paper of
Mr. Beattieappears to have had most claim to novelty ; this
author having discovered important facts, which had es-
caped the1>bservation of all other anatomists and physiolo-
gists; namely, "that the brain is the seat of the nerves, and
these act upon the mind in various ways, so as to produce
feelings, propensities, and inclinations, from which proceed
certain actions." On the whole, the anatomical and phy-
siological knowledge indicated in Mr. Beattie's Refutation
transcends that of the Rev. R. W. Hamilton's Essay on
Craniology, and is still farther:above that of the Edinburgh
Review, No•.88, in its claim to be considered-unique.
The above notices will suffice as references to specimens
of the literary efforts directed against phrenology, in the
half dozen years subsequently to the publication of the
System of Phrenology. Others might be added, were not
the task of attending to such lucubrations so particularly
irksome and unprofitable. Well intended some of them
may have been, and we are willing to believe that they
really were so. Our censure of the authors is not because
they have written against phrenology, but because they
have attacked a science with which they had not first made
themselves acquainted, and passed judgment upon doc-
c 4
82 L HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
trines which they did not understand. These notices of
antiphrenological authorship shall be closed by three re-
cent examples from writers ofsome repute, who oppose or
withhold assent to phrenological doctrines while writing
on the brain or mind. They will illustrate three classes
of opponent.a in the present day ;- persons attacking
phrenology, - persons refusing assent to it,- and persona
inexcusably neglecting it.
The first example is afforded by a new edition ofMonro'.&
Anatomy of the Brain, published about Christmas 1881.
Dr. Monro, we think, has never himself opposed phreno-
logy ; but in this edition there is a prefix or statement of
antiphrenological results attained by Sir William Hamilton,
who had been some time previously engaged in making ob-·
servations and performing experiments upon the brains of
animals. The experiments partlyconsistedofrunning wirett
and skeins of thread through the brains of chickens and
young rabbits, and sticking pins and needles into the heads.
of the miserable animals so unfortunate as to fall into tbe1
hands of the experimentalist. One of the results appears-
to have been the astounding discovery, that all these acts
could be done, and were done, without cruelty I A pin
and skein of thread bear about ·the same proportions to
the heads of chickens and young rabbits, as would a com-
mon dagger and bell-rope to the heads of men. Gentle
reader, and most gentle experimentalist, will either of
you allow daggers to be stuck into your brains, or bell-.
ropes to be drawn through your heads; the said daggers
and ropes to be left there, and to be occasionally turned,
in order to prevent them becoming firmly fixed when in-
flammation supervenes upon the wounds ? Sir William
Hamilton says that his experiments were not cruel, be-
cause the animals did not seem to suffer pain at the time
they were wounded, except a slight and momentary
smart. We give the experimentalist credit for entire ve-
racity on this point, to the extent of his own belief; but
I. HISTORY 01!' PHRENOLOGY• 33
tire belief of an individual will not·change the laws of na-
ture ; and belief differs from knowledge in being erroneous
fully as frequently as correct. We question whether a
single medical practitioner will be found to join in belief
with the experimentalist, that such injuries can be inflicted
on man or animals (vertebrated animals) without causing
much after-suffering, when the integuments and membranes
become inflamed, and are prevented from swelling freely
by the unyielding bones of the skull. Inflammation is the
invariable consequence of such injuries ; being sometimes
sl~w and very slight, but usually acute; and Sir W. Ha-
milton gives us proof, perhaps not knowingly, that inflam-
mation to a considerable extent did follow the injuries in•
filcted by him. This result is particularly alluded to, the
charge of cruelty having been indignantly repelled by Sir
William Hamilton ; and he taxed the phrenologists with
want of veracity because they did not join in his belief,
and assure the public that the experiments were not cruel.
The other results, and some comments upon them, may
be found in the seventh volume of the Phrenological
Journal ; where may also be seen the discussion touching
the cruelty of the experiments.
In 1831 Dr. Alison, Professor of Physiology in the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh, published an elementary work,
"Outlines of Physiology," intended chiefly for his own
students. . In this work the author enters somewhat into
detail touching the metaphysical opinions of Brown, Reid,
and Stewart, yet dismisses the physiologicalclaims of phre-
nology rather unceremoniously, and in a manner scarcely
reooncileable with full candour. If Dr. Alison thinks
that the metaphysical opinions of speculative writers are
more useful to students of medicine, than are those drawn
by phrenologists directly from physical observations on the
nervous system, we utterly differ from him ; and we freely
tell him that a considerable number of students disregard
or despise this part of his course of lectures, who much
c 5
34 I. ltls'l'OR'lt' OF 1'1tltENOl.OG1'.
value all the rest of the course. • Personal experience
and direct inquiry among the attending students combine
to authorise this assertion. In reference to the phreno-
logical mode of observing the connexion between mental
peculiarities and particular parts of the brain, Dr. Alison
writes, " That observations made in this way, by different
" competent observers, have given, in different instances,
" very discordant results." He also sums up this, " On
the whole, the only point ascertained is, the general ap-
propriation of the great mass of the hemispheres of the
brain proper, to the acts of thought; which is by no means
peculiar to, and does not derive its chief support from,
the writings of phrenologists," &c. Looking to the first of
these sentences, phrenologists are entitled to ask from Dr.
Alison, who are his "competent observers," and what
are their " observations ? " Can the author prove this
direct statement? If so, phrenology is mere delusion:
We surmise that Dr. Alison has mistaken either the com-
petence of the observers or the bearing of their observa-
tions against phrenological doctrines. Turning to the
second sentence, phrenologists will first ask whether the
author professes an acquaintance with the facts and prin-
ciples of phrenology, in a sufficient degree to authorise his
opinion as to what is the "only point ascertained ? "
Secondly, they will suggest that the concluding portion of
this very sentence gives them an indirect reply in the ne-
gative. How, we ask, could " the general appropriation
of the great mass of the hemispheres of the brain proper
to the acts of thought" be "peculiar to phrenologists,"
or "derive its chief support from the writings of phreno-
logists," seeing that their whole science is founded on the
fact, first ascertained by Gall, of the "general mau of
the hemispheres not being appropriated to the acts of
• The annual course of lectures, delivered by Dr. Alison, con&iated
of a more extended exposition based on the facts and opinions in the
Outlines.
I. HlSTORY OP PHRENOLOGY. 35
thought? " If Dr. Alison has ever looked at the positions
of the cerebral organs, as shown on a marked bust, - and
we think he would not write against phrenology without
first doing this, - could he fail to see that less than one
quarter of the brain is held by the phrenologists to be
" appropriated " to the acts of thought ; all the rest being
" appropriated" to the propensities and sentiments, - to
the feelings, not to tlwught 'I
It is not without some unpleasant emotion that any al-
lW!ion is here made to this author's objections to phreno-
logy. Dr. Alison is one of the very few persons for whom
almost every body feels esteem and respect; and this uni-
versal respect confers so much influence upon what is
written or taught by him, that phrenologists are forced
in self-defence to call for some definite proof to bear out
such an entire rejection of all their labours, and the more
so on acccount of Dr. Alison's opinions being annually
received by some hundreds of students. As a Professor
appointed to teach physiology to students of medicine,
and handsomely remunerated for so doing, by the fees of
the students,-which fees they are compelled to pay, -
can Dr. Alison remain neuter in justice to others ? Is he
not under a moral obligation to make himself well ac-
quainted with the only physiology of the brain yet brought
forward on positive data, before telling, - and in order
that he may be able to tell, - his students whether they
are to receive or to reject it ? Suppose we assume that
Dr. Alison has really given small attention to the subject.
In such case, ought he not to have admitted the circum-
stance, instead of virtually rejecting that about which he
knew so little ? On the other hand, let us look at the
question in the assumption that proper attention has been
paid to the facts and claims of phrenology. Evidence,
pro or con, must have been procured in this case. Which
was obtained ? Dr. Alison now stands between the anti-
phrenologists and the non-phrenologists, by which latter
c 6
J. HISTORY 01' PHONOLOGY.
expression are intended all those who neglect or disregard
the subject. With the former, we surmise, he will scarcely
wish to join his name ; and sorry should we feel to do it
for him. At the same time we respectfully suggest that he
ought not to fall into the ranks of the non-phrenologists.
His position as a teacher of professional students morally
deprives him of the option of neutrality, which his own
feelings would probably give preference to.
The last example is one of utter neglect of phrenology
in a work, every page of which ought to have borne the
decided and avowed impress of phrenological doctrines, if
those doctrines be admitted as trutha. We allude to Aber-
crombie's Inquiries concerning the Intellectual Powers,
published in 1880. The author is a medical practitioner
of much repute in Edinburgh, personally acquainted with
phrenologists, and of course well aware of the claims of
phrenology to be considered an exposition of t~e laws of
mind and the functions of the brain. Nevertheless he dis-
regards it, and has published an intimation that, " we do
" not know whether impressions made upon the nervous
" fabric connected with the organs of sense, are conveyed
"to the brain, or whether the mind perceiYes them di-
" reetly as they are m~e upon the organs of sense. "
(Phren. Journal. Vol. VII., p. 49.) This and another
work, by the same author, " On the Moral Powers," have
gone through several editions. The two facts, first, of a
good medical practitioner writing the above passage in the
present day, and, secondly, of a work written by one en-
tertaining such crude notions of mental philosophy, as evi-
dently appertain to this author, being extensively read by
the ladies of Edinburgh, - the city where Combe resides,
writes, and lectures I -will be held quite extraordi-
nary fifty years hence, _if the circumstances be not then
utterly forgotten.
Whilst some authors thus continued to Wl'ite against
phrenology, openly or indirectly, others resorted to mea-
J. HISTORY OP PHRENOLOGY. 87
sures less combative, but not a whit more tolerant.
The tactics of the latter party consisted of petty efforts to
frustrate the attempts of phrenologists, who were endea-
.vouring to bring their doctrines fairly before the public.
Open attacks drew attention to the subject, and the un-
sncce5sful i88ues of such attempts rather benefited than
opposed the diffusion of phrenological views. The raah
and the self-confident still persisted to attack ; but the
more wary sought a practical illustration of the old saying,
"out of sight, out of mind." This would have proved
the most politic course if steadily adhered to. Had the
self-styled "great in science and literature" limited them-
selves to pronouncing phrenology altogether unworthy of
attention,.and acted on their decision by not attending to
it at all, generations might have passed away before any
great public impression could have been effected by the
independent few who would have studied and supported it,
in defiance of such supercilious rejection. The grand error
of antiphrenologists, viewed collectively, has lain in pro-
nouncing the science unworthy of notice, and at the same
time evincing a great anxiety to suppress it. Pamphlet
after pamphlet, essay after essay, review upon review, has
issued from the press, for this laudable purpose. Anecdotes
have been repeated over and over again, until they have
become familiar even in the kitchen and the nursery.
Professors, doctors, divines, editors, historians, travellers,
novelists, and teachers have been unable to deliver their
lectures, to write their books, or to teach their pupils,
without the introduction of sneers at phrenology, and
terrible hits at phrenologists. Nay, even dinner-parties
and supper-parties required a seasoning of antiphreno-
logical spice and pepper ; nor could quadrilles and flirt.
ations always be carried on without a little Adkesivenus,
Secretiveness, and Love of Approbation stealing in, verb-
ally as well as actually. In consequence of all this, we
ind the recently-coined name of "Phrenology" to be
I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
now more familiar than the name of any other older
science ; and, thanks t.o the exertions of antiphrenolo
gists, the name now prompts hundreds to inquire int.o the
matter, who might otherwise have neglected it. "Nomina
si nescis, perit et cognitio rerum."
In 1827, Sir William Hamilton delivered an antiphre-
nological lecture in a class-room of the University. Mr.
Combe wished to follow Sir W. Hamilton, with a second
lecture in reply to any objections brought forward by the
first lecturer, at the same time and place. It would seem
that the exposure of Sir William Hamilt.on's arguments
and statements to the animadversions of Mr. Combe was
not sufficiently desired by the heads of the College, t.o
induce them to relax a real or nominal rule (we know not
which) adverse to Mr. Combe's request. They refused
to accede permission for Mr. Combe to lecture within their
walls, " he not being a member of the Senatus Academi-
cus." Sir William Hamilton refused t.o lecture elsewhere ;
thus betraying no great anxiety t.o meet Mr. Combe on
equal terms. And we are mistaken if it were not entirely
optional with the Senatus, or heads of the College, to
accede to Mr. Combe's request, there being no controlling
power to prevent. It is deserving of notice that Spurzheim
had been allowed to lecture in the class-room of the Pro-
fessor of Botany, at Cambridge, only the preceding year.
Iµ 1829, at the request of his friend, the late Richard
Chenevix, F.R.S., Spurzheim allowed that gentleman to
deliver, to the Secretary of the Royal Society of London,
a paper " On the Brain as an Aggregation of Parts." It
was read to the Society by the secretary, who" declared
that it could not be printed in the Transactions of the
Society, because it did not contain any new matter." This
was not an accurate statement, but passed as an excuse
for the formal rejection, which would doubtless have
followed, had not Mr. Chenevix withdrawn the paper.
We regret that it should have been withdrawn. The
t. HISTORY OP PHRENOLOGY. S9
positive rejection of an essay by Spurzheim, so late as
1829,-and which could not fairly be rejected on the
ground of wanting novelty,-would have been a memo-
rable event in the annals of that learned body; one greatly
surpassing, in future interest.and importance, the circum-
stance so properly and decidedly condemned by Mr.
Babbage, in the Economy of Machinery. It would be
well in phrenologists to meet, instead of shunning the
oppressions and injustice ofauthority. Such act.s rouse a
generous indignation as they become publicly known, and
ultimately bring advantages to the cause which is sought
to be injured by them.•
The light in which phrenology was viewed by the
Royal Society of Edinburgh, about the same time, affords
a tolerable match to the implied rejection of Spurzheim's
paper by the Royal Society of London. In 1830, Sir
George Mackenzie read an essay to that body, "on the
fundamental principles of phrenology." Dr. Hope,
Professor of Chemistry, occupied the chair, in the absence
of the president. After returning the customary thanks
of the Society to the author of the essay, his own opinion
was pronounced. The professor thought that phrenolo-
gists were not in the right path, and had not advanced a
• In the Memoir of the Life and Philosophy of Spurzheim,
Mr. Carmichael records an incident, showing that the Royal Irish
Academy pursued pretty near the same course with another phreno-
logical contribution; namely, his own 'Essay on Dreaming.' - "The
majority of the Council of that learned body thought it savoured of
materialism, to represent the brain as having any connexion with the
mind -it being their opinion, that this gift of God was a superlluity,
and that the mind could exist, and perceive, and operate in the empty
c&Yem of the skull, as well without as with this •most miraculous
organ'. The essay, however, was more fortunate than Spurzheim's,
and is in no danger of being lost; [when writing this sentence, Mr.
Carmichael was not aware that Dr. Spurzheim's paper had been pub-
lished,] for the candid and liberal Association of Fellows and Licen-
tiates of the College of Physicians eagerly published it in their
Transactions. Reviewers were lavish in their recommendations of its
contents to psychologists and metaphysicians; and Tilloch republished
it in the·Philosophical Magazine."
4-0 I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
single step in the physiological investigation of - .
Now, what do you imagine, reader ?-In the investigation
ofthe discoveries treated of in the paper of the essayist?-
No such thing. What was the paper to the professor?-
" They were not in the right path. They had not advanced
a single step in the physiological investigation"-recom-
mended by the professor 88 a substitute for what had been
done ! We are lamentably ignorant, to ourshame be it con-
fessed, in what mode or degree the anatomical and physi-
ological discoveries of Dr. Hope so far transcended those
of Gall and Spurzheim, as to have entitled him to set
aside their investigations, and to substitute instead his
own RECOMMENDATIONS TO INVESTIGATE.•
In November, 1880, Spurzheim was lecturing in Liver-
pool during the time of a contested election. " From
thence," to borrow the words of Carmichael's Memoir,
"he went to Oxford ; but spiritual pride and learned
ignorance were 88 detrimental to the cause of truth in that
seat of the muses, as passion and party feeling in com~
mercial Liverpool. His own words are remarkable :
" I intended to lecture in December at Oxford ; but the
" Vice-Chancellor did not seem to approve of my doing
" so. I asked for his worshipful permission by letter,-
" but he gave an evasive answer, not allowing or refusing,
" but advising me not to lecture, since I might not meet
" with the encouragement I might expect. I replied, that
" his permission was the only encouragement I wanted ;
" but he did not think proper to give either a refusal or
• I have only once had the honour to speak to Dr. Hope. It wu
to request hia signature to a petition for the abolition of capital
punishment in cases of forgery. The Professor declined to give it;
alleging that he- "never interfered with heads wiser than his own."
The reason was both modest and judicious; but the professor appears
to have forgotten this invariable rule when interfering with Sir George
Mackenzie and the phrenologists. Perhaps this was only the one
exception to which every rule is liable ; and if the worthy prof_.
have never departed from his rule, e:1cept in this one instance, be
must have passed a singularly inoffensive life.
J. HISTORY OP PHRENOLOGY. 41
" the permission ; he remained silent. How happy we are
"that priestcraft has no more power.-Oxford does in
"1880 what the Jesuits did in 1822, and the Austrian
''government in 1802. The signs of the times, however,
" are strong ; but the clergy will be satisfied only where
" they command." The last sentence passes too general
a cell8Ul'e upon a class of men. It is too much to say that
Oxford is intolerant because it is clerical. Oxford is
intolerant in consequence of its functionaries being trained ·
up in respect for opinions and customs which have become
obsolete in the eyes of the multitude. It is therefore
opposed to the many. For the same reason, it is still
more opposed to phrenology, which is in advance of the
multitude, and farther removed from past notions. Clergy-
men, who add some acquaintance with the natural sciences
to their classical lore, are not more intolerant than other
men. The misfortune is that too many of them have
nothing but classical lore. They have learning, yet lack
knowledge.
In October 1882 Sir G. S. Mackenzie offered to procure
a treatise on phrenology, for the Penny Cyclopmdia,
without expence, if the Committee of the Society for the
Diffusion of Useful Knowledge would admit it into that
work. The following answer was returned by Mr. Coates,
Secretary to the Society.
" After consulting the editors of the Cyclopiedia upon
the subject of your letter, I was authorised by them to
thank you very sincerely for your proposal, and to say
that the opinion which they entertain of phrenology, and
its connexion with the moral and intellectual sciences, is
not such as would justify them in adopting the offer so
kindly made by you.'' The editors of the Phrenological
Journal, in which the circumstance is recorded, say, "It
thus appears that the Society for the Diffusion of Useful
Knowledge declines to be in any degree instrumental in
spreading what every one, who has fairly studied it, finds
42 I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY,
to be a department of ' useful knowledge' surpassed in
importance by none. The fact is worthy of being recorded,
and at some future time the Society may find reason to
be ashamed of it. AU that we think it necessary to remark
is, that however long they may refuse to assist in diffusing
this knowledge among the people, the people cannot be
prevented from diffusing it among themselves. We are
not without hope, however, that the editors of the Cy-
clopmdia will yet alter their opinion."•
With one other very recent example we may close these
illustrations of the controversial and resisted progress of
phrenology. The British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science held its annual meeting for 1834 in
Edinburgh. About a week previous, Mr. Combe addressed
a letter to Mr. Robison, one of the secretaries, offering to
give a demonstration on the national skulls in the collection
belonging to the Phrenological Society. Mr. Robison
forwarded the letter of Mr. Combe to the Committee, and
the gentlemanly courtesies of the persons officially con-
cerned will be apparent from the following notice of the
matter, borrowed from the ninth volume of the Phreno-
logical Journal: " Mr. Combe was duly admitted a
member of the Association, and attended meetings of
several of the sections ; but he was not honoured with any
reply whatever to his offer of a communication. From
Mr. Robison he received the most polite attention; and
the reason of the silence of the Committee became appa-
rent at the first meeting. Mr. Sedgwick, the president
for last year, before resigning his office, addressed the
Association, in a speech in which 'he urged most strenu-
' ously upon the Association the necessity of keeping in
' mind the objects of its institution, and to confine their
• The Editors of the Phrenological Journal contrast this refusal
with the fact of" an abstract of the doctrine of phrenology, as ezhibited
in the most recent publications of its advocates," being published in
"Mitchell's Portable Encyclopredia," in 1826. They should have
recorded the names of the Editors of the Penny Cyclopedia.
J. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY. 48
' researches to dead matter, without entering into any
' speculations on the relations of intellectual beings ; and
' he would brand as a traitor that person who would dare
' to overstep the prescribed boundaries of the institution.
' Ifthe Societyshould ever be broken up, which Godforbid,
' he would predict that it would happen by some members
'imprudently and daringly passing its boundaries.'-It
was reported among the audience, that this anathema was
directed chiefly against the Statistical Section of the Asso·
ciation, into which it was feared that moral or political
discussion might be introduced ; but it obviously applied
in an especial manner to phrenology.''
It is of small importance to any one wishing to instruct
others, whether in statistics or in phrenology, that he
should be "branded as a traitor," by Mr. Sedgwick, in
return for his good wishes. But we apprehend that a
demonstration of the peculiarities of national skulls was
completely within the " boundaries" of the institution.
Blumenbach and other celebrated anatomists or physiolo·
gists have diligently studied and written on the national
peculiarities in the form of skulls. Such peculiarities are
thus recognised by indisputable authorities, as legitimate
objects of scientific inquiry ; and they are as completely
within the scope of physical science as are any demonstra-
tions of the nerves and their accompanying functions.
Moreover, the museum of the Phrenological Society has
probably the finest collection of national crania in exist·
ence, certainly the finest collection in Britain ; so that the
opportunity of observing the anatomical differences in the
crania of nations wasmore favourable than the Association
could elsewhere enjoy. And, lastly, part of the time of
the Association was occupied with other subjects of very
trilling importance when compared to this one. Though
Mr Sedgwick is no anthropologist, it is scarcely probable
he would "daringly" say, that the anatomical and physio·
logical peculiarities of men are not matters of more real
J. HISTORY OJ!' PHRENOLOGY.
consequence to the human race, than the history of comets
or descriptions of fossil fishes, -subjects of the evening
lectures ; or, that the anatomy of the human head is not
of greater importance to the proprietors of such commo-
dities, than is the circulation of tortoises or the colour of
chamelions,-subjects 6ccupying the Anatomical and
Medical Section of the Association. It would be absurd
to ridicule scientific men for studying comets, f011sil fishes,
tortoises, and·chameleons. These may be studied as well
as other things; and positive benefits frequently flow from
such pursuits. But greater benefits will come to the
human race, if we do not at the same time neglect or
prevent the study of ourselves. It is laughable enough to
see a practical contradiction of an absurdinvective, which
the reported proceedings of the Association supply. While
the ex-president of the Association commenced with an
address in which he declaimed against the study of man,
and advised attention only to "dead matter," Dr. Aber-
crombie, as chairman of the Anatomical and Medical
Section, actually delivered a closing address, recom-
mending its members to study the philosophy of mind, on
account of the ethical advantages to be derived from such
investigations.
Meantime, phrenologists were by no means exclusively
occupying themselves in resisting aggression, or in offer-
ing to instruct unwilling auditors. Books rapidly multi-
plied, and the sales of successive editions went on in-
creasing to an amount that must have surprised book-
sellers, who had first declined to publish them at their
own risk, in anticipation of little or no demand. It is
stated in an advertisement of "Phrenology Simplified,"
that 10,000 copies of the Catechism of Phrenology, by
the same author, had been " given to the public;"_,.
anglice, sold. It may be said that we cannot implicitly
believe advertisements, especially those of anonymous
writers ; and there is something rather suspicious in the
J. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY. 45
title of the former work. We know not who is the author
of the Catechism, but are inclined to credit the statement ;
attributing the fact to great interest in the subject, not
to the value of the book, which is rather a trifling, though
pretty accurate and apparently borrowed, production.
"Phrenology Simplified" is much censured by the Editors
of the Phrenological Journal, who do not censure without
good grounds. The sale of Mr. Combe's works has been
stated at 14,000 copies, without including the most valu-
able and most popular one, ' The Constitution of Man ;•
the circulation of which has much exceeded that of all ,
the others put together.
Nor were other proofs of activity at all wanting. Many
Phrenological Societies were formed in the British Isles,
as well as abroad, in the ten years following 1825; only
two being in existence previously to that year, namely,
those of Edinburgh and London. Lectures and lecturers
also multiplied, and auditors likewise. In 1826 and 1827,
Spurzheim lectured to overflowing benches at the London
Instifution, the number of auditors being upwards of
seven hundred in the latter year. In these and the fol-
lowing four years he also lectured in many towns of Eng-
land, Scotland, and Ireland, to audiences varying from
forty to two hundred and fifty. And the lectures of se-
veral other phrenologistll have been respectably, and some
of them very numerously, attended; Mr. Combe, in
Glasgow, and Mr. Browne, in Montrose, counting five
hundred auditors each in the present year of 1836. The
Statistical Summaries, in our fifth Section, will show the
increased attention to the subject, and the rapidly increas-
ing strength of phrenologists.
· Some active measures are now in contemplation ; but
whether they will soon be carried into effect is yet very
uncertain. Amongst others, an Association of Phrenolo·
gists, after ·the plan of the British Association, is pro-
posed. It seems doubtful whether any such association
I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
could succeed if devoted to a single science. A botanical,
chemical, anatomical, or geological association would ne-
cessarily make a very small figure contrasted with the
British Association ; which embraces almost the whole
circle of science. A Phrenological Association would be
better supported than one devoted to any other single
science, but it may be feared whether sufficiently so for
annual meetings. An association, to meet once in three
years, might succeed ; especially if the capitals should be
fixed on as places of meeting. Reference must be made
to the latter part of the fourth Section, " Literature of
Phrenology," for the notice of a very important pamphlet
just published by Mr. Combe, containing such a number
of weighty testimonials to the truth and value of phreno-
logy as cannot fail to have a very great public effect.
Thus we see that phrenology has increased, and is in-
creasing still, in defiance of an opposition more complete
and strenuous than has been offered to the progress of any
science in this country. The determined opposition and
the continued increase are undeniable facts, abundantly
proved by the statements in this volume, and familiar to
all readers. Forty years ago, the elements of phrenology
were first taught to the public. Ten years later, they
were scarcely known in England, even by report; and not
a dozen Englishmen believed the alleged facts. Ten years
later, again, Dr. Spurzheim had just commenced to teach
the facts and principles of his science to the British pub-
lic; but he then stood almost alone, opposed by the whole
force of the public press, and feebly aided by a small
band of yet undisciplined recruits. Ten years later still,
we find phrenologists become numerous, phrenological
societies formed, books teaching the principles of the
science in wide circulation, and Britain already exporting
the knowledge it had so recently acquired and increased.
Another period of ten years has elapsed, and what is the
state of phrenology to-day ? The course of its founders
I. HISTORY 01' PHRENOLOGY. 47
is run ; in what strength have they left their followers in
this country? Is phrenology now, as twenty years ago,
feebly struggling to keep a recently acquired and imper-
fect footing on British ground? No! How different is
its present state I How cheering to its supporters are its
future prospects! We now see so great a change, that
even phrenologists, hitherto accustomed to speak and think
of themselves as a small body almost borne down by
opposition, can scarcely credit the fact.
The public mind is slow to move, but once in motion its
course is irresistible, and will bear down all individual
opposition. Phrenologists have unquestionably put it in
motion ; and neither they nor their opponents can now
arrest the movement. Phrenologists may guide and acce-
lerate, and antiphrenologists may slightly retard, the pro-
gress of public opinion ; but none may stand still where
all else is in motion. The retarders of a mighty move-
ment are swept off its course or swallowed up in the cur-
rent, while the guides are borne safely forward with it. It
is full time that the opponents of phrenology should open
their eyes to their true position, ere the flood shall sweep
tJiem off. Whether they have been induced to resist the
progress of phrenology through sheer lack of knowledge
without dishonesty, through ignorance and self-sufficiency,
or through interested motives, - equally it behoves them
now to pause. The honest, who err only from want of
knowledge of the science, we advise to learn ; and we ask
them, whether it is at all probable that a system of delu-
sion, open to the most direct tests of its soundness, should
have spread over Britain, half the kingdoms of Europe,
and North America; and that it should have gained its
supporters, not amongst the ignorant, the vicious, or the
prejudiced, but from the best educated, most moral, and
most intellectual part of the community ?
The class ofpersons, who have rejected phrenology from
ignorance of what they rejected, combined with too much
4-8 J. HISTORY OP PHRENOLOGY.
self-sufficiency to permit inquiry, is the most impractica-
ble portion of the antiphrenological body ; and it is by no
means a small portion. These persons verify the old say·
ing of " None so deaf as those that will not hear." We
need not trouble ourselves about such individuals. They
may be left to their prejudices, and be allowed to seek. in
their own self-complacency such compensation as it may
afford them, in return for the pity and contempt which
their conduct must excite in the minds of others.
To the interested opponents of phrenology we offer the
advice and warning, that expediency should now dictate,-
which honesty ought to have done long ago,- not only
the cessation of their open hostility, but also the prompt
discovery that phrenology has become divested of all that
made it ridiculous in their eyes, and is no longer deserving
of their reprobation.
In so far as the progress made by phrenology in public
estimation is concerned, we cannot mistake the signs of
the times. It is undeniable, we repeat, that phrenology
has been strongly opposed by men in power, both the great
and the small, from the rulers of kingdoms down to village
schoolmasters, from men of science down to the humblest
scribes of the public press.• Yet it has made way steadily
against the efforts both of power and of numbers. Every
individual effort to refute the facts, or to overturn the
principles of the science, has signally failed. Many indi-
viduals of decided talent are now found amongst its firmest
advocates. Hundreds have enrolled themselves members
of phrenological societies. The public obviously begins
to lean to it. Its very terms are found so convenient,
so true to nature, that they have crept into general use
both in books and in common conversation. So strong is
the interest excited, - and it cannot now be that of no-
velty, - that few lecturers indeed can draw such numerous
• Napoleon, Beattie, Bell, Stone, may reprecent the four extremes.
I. HISTORY OF PHRENOLOGY.
audiences as do the phrenologists. And so decided is the
demand for instruction on the subject, that the elementary
works of phrenologists are bought to a greater exkot
than are those treating of any other science, which does
not form a compulsory part of professional education.
In the future prospects of the science we find nothing
to darken its brightened aspects. Indeed, the onward
glance shows every thing more bright and hopeful The
men of note, who held professorships and other influential
positions when phrenology was first brought into public
notice, and whose authority and power were instantly op-
posed to it, these men are running the common lot of
their race, and dying off; while the disciples of phreno-
logy are becoming their successors, and will assuredly train
the rising, and raise up the next, generation in the full and
unpreju~iced adoption of phrenological views. In ten
years from this time the public laugh or the public pity will
be freely bestowed upon anti-phrenologists. - In another
ten years, anti-phrenology will exist only in the last de-
crepitude of age. -And in ten years more, it will be
a subject for the historians of things that have ceased to
be. So true is the trite description of Truth : " Magna
~t ve~ et ]W<l!Vakbit." •
• Strong is truth, and it will prevail.
D
50
SECTION II.
SKETCH 011' PHRENOLOGY CONSIDERED AS A BBAlfCK
OF PHILOSOPHY.
" If Phrenology be founded in truth, i& must be wort.h7 the lerious
attention of every reftecting mind." - Da. BA.aLow.
THE present volume is not written for the purp~se of
teaching phrenology ; but it appears advisable to intro-
duce a brief sketch of what the science now professes to
he, if regarded as a branch of philosophy. The chief
inducement to this course originates in the intention of
placing the volume in the hands of some of the author's
friends, who are yet very little informed with respect to
the real scope and pretensions of phrenology. What may
be useful to them, may also be useful to others. It
is not sought to explain a science in a few pages ; such
being an impossibility. It is only wished to point jout the
leading objects and claims of phrenology. Illustrations,
proofs, and secondary principles, can enter very sparingly
into such a sketch ; and the want of these may interfere
with the intelligibility of precise definitions and explana·
tions, sought to be conveyed in common language. Should
a reader feel disposed to question the correctness, or not
immediately see the bearings, of some of the propositions
presently to be stated, he is requested to consider whether
his own want of physiological knowledge, or habitual in-
attention to moral investigations, may not interfere with
his judgment on the points in question. A few years ago,
the writer of this page doubted the accuracy of several of
II. PHILOSOPHY 01' PHRENOLOGY. 51
the propositions, to which he is now about to allude aa
established truths. Increased knowledge of these, or of
analogous truths, was nece~sary as a preliminary to belief.
Others may find themselvei similarly circumstanced.
The necessity of reiterating the most elementary prin·
ciples of ·phrenology will scarcely be questioned, when we
find such a passage as the following, in the Cabinet Cyclo.
pedia (title-page dated 1832), and from the pen of
Herschel: - "There is no accounting for the difference of
" minds or inclinations, which leads one man to observe
"with interest thedevelopements ofphenomena,another to
" speculate ou their causes." As an astronomer, Hers-
chel would pronounce any man very foolish for saying,
"There is no accounting for the difference between day
and night ;" yet his own pasaage, here quoted, is scarcely
less absurd in the eyes of an instructed phreuologist.
The subsections 7, 8, 9., included under this head, may
appear to be misplaced here. Suggestions for studying,
diffusing, or checking opposition to, phrenology, certainly
form no part of its Philosophy, strictly speaking; but so
much controversy being yet mixed up with popular ide~
of the science, any measures considered useful for extend..
ing and defending it become intimately blended with the
science itself. Discarding these, we might also discard
. any notice of the "Objections to Phrenology," for assur..
edly several of them ha.ve no claim to the title of "Phi·
losophy." Yet may the notice of these objections be found
useful here ; and the public expects them to be still at..
tended to by phrenologists.
1. DEFINITION OF PHRENOLOGY.
PHRENOLOGY signifies the Science of Mind; but the
name is particularly applied to the study of Mind in con..
nection with the Body. It is in this more limited accept-
ation that Phrenology differs from Metaphysi~s; a tenn
J> 2
52 II. PHILOSOPHY 01' PHRENOLOGY.
also used to indicate the science of mind. Metaphysi-
cians failed of success in their studies by overlooking the
dependence of Mind upon Body.
As the science of mind, Phrenology combines meta-
'physical reasoning with physical observation ; but a con-
siderable amount of knowledge on the subject may be
attained by the simple observation ofphysical facts, (shapes
.of heads, .tc.) viewed in connection with the actions of
animated beings.
In metaphysical reasoning, Mind is discussing the work-
ings and qualities of Mind. Hence all expositions of
phrenology, in which metaphysical reasoning is intro-
duced, are tinted with the peculiar hues of the mind from
whence they proceed. AHowance must always be made
for this by readers ; both writer and reader being apt to
mistake their own individual peculiarities for general rules
or trutiis.• ·
Phrenologists do not yet inquire into the nature of
Mind ; their science being too little advanced. They limit
themselves to observing the manner or laws of its com-
munication with the external world. Some phrenologists
·state that we cannot know the nature of Mind. This is
true only in part. We may know the nature of Mindjust
as much as we know the nature of other things, analogi-
cally, uot absolutely.
2. MET APHYSICAL h>EAS QF. MIND.
Under the general term of Mind, or Mental Mar;tifes1'.o
tions,.are included the Imtincu, Feelings, and Intellectual
Capacitiu 0£ animals,-brutes as well as human beings.
These instincts, feelings, and intellectual capacities are
oalled Faau./Jiu of the Mind.
• It is the more necessary to allude to this ci~umstanc:e here, in
cootequence of the plural toe being used tltmugb this •olume, nc:ept
i.n the notes ;. though.otb~t ph~nolopts ~not be answergble (~ '1111
uwn ideas or uaertion8'
II. PHILOSOPHY OP PHRENOLOGY. 53
Some persons regard Mind as a single and indepen-·
dent existence, considering the faculties to be either.
states of mind, or else the powers with which the mind is
endowed.
Others look upon Mind as nothing more than an aggre-
gate or united whole, composed of the different facul-
ties; much in the same way that the body is a whole com-
posed of many different parts, such as the nerves, muscles,
bones, and vessels, or the eyes, ears, arms, heart, lungs,
stomach, &c.
In the former view, Mind becomes almost synonymous
with Soul; but we cannot admit their identity, or we shall
be driven to allow the existence of a soul in brutes, since
they are unquestionably endowed with mental faculties, and .
perform mental actions.
If the latter view be correct, man and brutes resemble
each other in their minds, almost as closely as they do in
the structure of their bodies ; and Soul must be held ut-
terly distinct from, and dissimilar to, Mind.
Neither of these two opinions appears to admit of full
demonstration. Whichever is adopted as affording the
better explanation of observed phenomena, the connection
between Mind and Body is still left a distinct and unsettled
question.
This question about the connection between Mind and
Body has excited much fooltsh disputation, in cbnsequence
ofpersons endeavouring to explain it by reasonings founded
on mere conjectures, instead of generalising the facts cog-
nisable through the senses. Two widely different views
have prevailed, and each has had supporters.
The one regards Mind as a being or essence, connected
with the body, though capable of having a di!!tinct exist-
ence. In this view, Mind is said to use the material organs
~1:>mposing the body, as so many instruments for fulfilling
its wishes or commands.
' '·The other view regards Mind as having no distinct ex-
D 8
5i JI. PRIJ.OSOl'HY l>F PHRENOLOGY.
iiltence, but as be.ing the mere condition or manirestation
or functional activity in the brain, and therefore insepar-
able rrom it. In the same manner, sensation may be called
a condition or manifestation of functional activity in the
nerves, and motion may be said to bear the same relation
to the muscles.
Neither phrenologists nor others, taken collectively,
adopt any of the preceding views. They are always in-
dividual opinions. There are phrenologists who regard
Mind as a mere aggregate of faculties, which faculties are
the functions, or proceed from the functional activity, of
the brain. And there are other phrenologists (more nu-
merous) who believe Mind to be a distinct and individual
existence, communicating with the material world through
medium of the brain and nerves, as so many instruments
for manifestation. The same diversity of opinion exists
amongst those who have not studied phrenology.
Consequently, the preceding definitions are to be taken
as metaphysical and opinionative, and such as can in no
wise be allowed to interfere with the observed facts of
phrenology. Nevertheless, it is a very important point
to determine whether Mind is, or merely ltas, the Fa-
culties; and whether it is a being or a function.
S. LEADING PRINCIPLES OF PHRENOLOGY.
Phrenologists are quite agreed that all manifestations of
mind directly depend upon the brain, and this whether the
brain be regarded as the origin or the instrument of mind.
Hence, the brain is said to be the Organ ofMind, and
the manifestation of mind is said to be the Function ofIM
Brain.
This is the first proposition of phrenology, according to
the usual acceptation of their science by phrenologists.
It is a proposition not at all peculiar to phrenology;
almost all physiologists cdncurring with them on this point.
JI. PHILOSOPHY OF rR&BNOl.OGY. 55
The *"'1ld proposition of phrenology is, that the facui-
ties of the mind are manifested by different parts of the
brain, and that each particular faculty depends upon its
own particular part of the brain. Thus, the feelings of
Hope and Benevokllce, the capacity for perceiving Ti111'1,
and the capacity for perceiving Forms, being distinct fa-
culties, are each connected with a particular and different
part of the brain.
As the whole brain is called the Organ of Mind, so the
particular parts of the brain (on which depend the mani-
festations of the particular faculties) are called the Organs
of such Faculties. Thus, we have an Organ of Benevo-
lence, an Organ ofHope, an Organ of Time, an Organ of
Form, &c.
Several physiologists of celebrity still dispute this divi-
sion of the brain into distinct organs ; but there is evi-
dently an increasing tendency to adopt it as correct. Every
one who does assent to it becomes virtually a believer in
phrenology ; though no one is entitled to be called a
" phrenologist" until he has acquired a knowledge of, as
well as a belief in, the science.
The tkird phrenological proposition is, that when health
and other circumstances are alike, the faculties are power-
ful or feeble in manifestation according to the sizes of their
organs, - size being a measure offunctional power. Some
few physiologists yet refuse to admit this ; but a close cor-
respondence between size of organ and powerof functional
manifestation being found to pervade the whole organic
frame, analogy decidedly supports the phrenologists and
those other physiologists who agree with them in regard-
ing this to be a law of nature, - a rule without ex-
ception.
Moreover, say phrenologists, these three fundamental
principles of our science are proved by an overwhelming
host of facts, as well as supported by analogies ; while no
facts have been found adverse to .:hem when fully under-
» 4
56 JI. PHILOSOPHY OP PHRENOLOGY.
stood ; although at a partial view some few may have
appeared to be so• .
It is a familiar fact that the heads of brutes differ much
from the heads of men. Similar differences of shape or.
proportions exist also in their brains. Such differences
are observed not only between the different species of
animals, but also between individuals of the same species
or race. Thus the forehead and fore part of the brain are
always ·proportionally smaller in the brute creation than
they are in human beings~ and amongst men, some have
the greatest bulk in the front, and others have it in ~he.
back part of the head.
And it has been stated above, tltat the power of mani-
festing each particular faculty corresponds with the size of
the particular part of the brain constituting the organ of
that faculty. From this it must follow, that the differently
proportioned brains are attended with corresponding dif-
ferences in the power of manifesting the faculties. While
reason infers it, thousands of observed facts also prove this
to be so.
Hence it is, that different dispositions and talents are
exhibited by animals, and by individuals, having diJferently
proportioned brains. This explains the curious circum-
stance (inexplicable before the discoveries of Gall) that
the talents and dispositions of individuals differ so widely,
even from earliest childhood ; - why one child evinces a
decided talent for music, but is a dunce in learning lan-
guages ; while a second is a capital linguist, yet has no
talent for drawing or music ;-why one is rough, and an-
other is gentle, &c. &c.
These differences of disposition and talent, depending
on the size or proportion11 of the different parts of the
brain, - that is, on the phrenological organs, - we obtain
an easy key to the real dispositions and talents of indivi-
duals, provided we can ascertain tke shape of tke brai~
during life.
II. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY. 57
But the brain is enclosed within a covering of bone,
called the skull or cranium, and the skull is again enclosed
within a thin covering of flesh (chiefly skin) called the
aealp, or the integuments ot'the head. The brain is thus
quite shut up from view, and we are unable to decide
upon its shape without first ascertaining how far this may
be trusted to correspondwith the outwardshape ofthe head.
On examination, we find that in human beings there is
a very close resemblance between the shape of the brain
and that of the skull. The skull, in its turn, closely corre~
sponds in shape with the outside of the head; phrenolo-
gists, consequently, have little difficulty in estimating the
shape or proportions of.the brain in living heads.
But the correspondence between the brain and external
shape of the head not being quite perfect, there is some
difficulty in the way of correctly ascertaining the natural
dispositions and talents of individuals by looking at the
external shapes of their heads. The want of exact cor-
respondence is chiefly (not solely) occasioned by an in-
creased. thickness of the skull or integuments in particular
places.
It behoves phrenologists to make themselves acquainted
with the,places or parts of the head where such differences
usually occur, and also with the usaal extent of such dif-
ferences. Possessed of this knowledge, they can easily
make the requisite allowances when looking upon a living
head ; and serious mistakes will seldom occur to them, ex-
cepting with respect to that part of the brain situate ·im-
mediately behind the lower part of the forehead.
It ls not by looking at the little prominences on the sur-
face of the skull or integuments, that.phrenologists judge
of the size of the organs• Their dimensions are es-
tilnated by the .proportions or comparative size of dif-
ferent parts of the brain, such different parts of the brain
being the otgans of tke different faculties, as before men-
tioned.
58 JI. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.
Development, or cerebral development, eignifiea the
absolute or comparative size of the brain and its parts. De-
velopment differs, more or less, in every individual head.
In extreme cases the differences of development amount to
inches, and they are then seen at a glance by persons at
all accustomed to observe them. But in many instances
it is difficult to say which of any two given organs is the
larger.
The functional manifestations have been ascertained by
careful observation of the extreme cases, and the inter-
mediate cases of more equal development corroborate and
explain the conclusions drawn from extreme cases.
The metaphysical analysis of the different faculties is
yet very imperfect ; but the general influence of each
organ, in forming the character and genius of individuals,
is pretty well ascertained.
The introductory works on phrenology enumerate the
different organs, explain what is known of their functions,
give directions for estimating the size of each, and state
the evidences in proof of them. Reference must be made
to those works for particulars ; but a brief enumeration of
the organs will be appended to this sub-section.
Thus the mental faculties absolutely depend upon
material organs for their manifestation. These, like all
the other material organs of our frames, do not admit of
entire change at will. Hence, dispositions and talents are
innate, and will defy all attempts at change, e:r:cepti,11g
within the limits all<>wed by the mat.erial organs t1•lr.icli
manifest them.
In addition to differences depending upon the size of
the brain, and the proportions of its different part&, the
natural dispositions and talents of men seem to be greatly
influenced by the quality of the brain, and probably by
that ofthe whole frame.
We have yet no fixed rules for judging of the quality
of the brain, but take certain empirical signs wJaicfa are
JI, PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY. 59
supposed to indicate the quality of the body or organic
frame in general. This quality we then call the tempera-
ment or constitution of the individual. Members of the
medical profession, as well as phrenologists, recognise the
constitutional differences of individuals, but they cannot
explain them. The comparative or proportionate develop-
ment of the <lift'erent parts of the frame, elementary
constituents as well as compound organ11, seems the most
probable cause of temperament.
Moreover, the temporary state of the brain and body
materially modifies the manifestations of the faculties.
And the influence of external circumstances is very
great; particularly when the size of the organs is nearly
balanced.
Exercise of the faculties consists of (or, at least, causes)
functional activity of the organs. It improves their power
and energy ; but it does not otherwise change them. For
instance, no exercise can convert a memory for words into
a memory for tunes, for colours, or for the practical busi-
ness of life. Thus is it a great and serious error to fancy,
that we are exercising a child's memory for any thing else
than for mere words, by making him recite Greek and
Latin verses, or even English compositions, when he is
incapable of entering into the proper meaning of the
sentences.
When the faculties are too little exercised, their -organs
become weaker ; when they are toe much exercised, their
organs become irritable and unhealthy; as hppens with
the nerves and muscles of our frames. The ·OORsntution
of the whole body is then injured by the unhealthy state
of the brain. Precocious children usually die, or lose
their talents through being encouraged to overstrain their
brains. And dull children are often seriously injured by
being forced to do so;
The organs are stimulated into activity by external
circumstances; but often they become involuntarily
D6
60 II. PHILOSOPHY OP PHRENOLOGY.
active from an internal cause, as an increased flow of
blood to the part. This is a most important fact, and
ought to be known to all. Moralists, divines, parents,
teachers, and physicians ought never to lose sight of it.
It is probable that exercise or activity of the organs
increases their size ; but whether so much so as to alter
the external configuration ofthe skull, after puberty,seems
yet very doubtful.
It appears quite certain that particular forms and
qualities of brain are hereditary ; but the laws of heredi-
tary descent are yet unascertained. There is a presump-
tion that the organs predominantly active in the parents
will be most developed in the children.
List ofthe Cerebral Organs.
CLASS I. Intellectual Organs, which form ideas, observe,
and remember.
Individuality. Ideas of oqjects.
Form. Ideas of shape.
Size. Ideas of dimension.
Colour. Ideas of colour.
Locality.
Order.
Number.
Language.
Eventuality.
Tiine.
Tune.
Comparison.
Cauaality.
Ideas of place or position.
ideas of arrangement.
Ideas of numbers.
Ideas of words or speech.
Ideas of events or occurrences.
Ideas of time.
ideas of musical sounds (or, perhaps, of
any sounds).
Ideas of -- ? (Persons in whom it is
large are prone to use analogies and
similes. The exact nature of its simple
ideas is scarcely settled.)
Ideas of dependence or connexion.
IJ, PHILO&OPHY OF PHRENOLOGY, 61
Wit. Ideas of -- ? (It is largely developed
CLASS 2.
ldeality.
Imitation.
Benevolence.
Veneration.
Wonder.
in pel'Bons disposed to the kind of wit
which distinguished Sterne and Voltaire.
Phrenologists usually class it with the
feelings, and consider it to give a feeling
'Of the ludicrous, or a disposition to
mirthfulness.)
Aft'ective Organs, which form feelings or
dh•positions.
Disposition to improve ?
Disposition to imitate.
Disposition to confer pleasure.
Disposition to respect.
Disposition to --? (It is large
in persons disposed to belief in
supernatural things.)
Hope.
Conscientiousness.
Disposition to hope.
Disposition to the discharge of
duties, or the dictates of con-
science.
Cautiousness. Disposition to caretulness or cir-
cumspection.
Love 'Of Approbation. Disposition to seek admiration.
Self-Esteem. Disposition to self-estimation.
Firmness. Disposition to fixedness or perse-
verance.
Concentrativeness. Disposition to - ? (It has been
considered to give the disposition
to dwelling-places1 to concentra-
tion of thought or feeling, and to
constancy.)
Philoprogenitivenest1. Disposition to parental attachment;
or to protect and foster.
Adhesiveness. Disposition to friendship.
62 JI. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.
Combativeness.
Destructiveness.
Secretiveness.
Acquisitiveness.
Constructiveness.
Alimentiveness.
Amativeness.
Disposition to attack or oppose;
Disposition to destroy or injure.
Disposition to conceal.
Disposition to hoard or acquire.
Disposition to build or construct?
Disposition to food.
Disposition to physical love.
In looking at the above enumeration, readers must bear
in mind, that words usually express ideas, emotions,
actions, desires, &c. which result from the combined acti-
vity ofseveral organs, or from different degrees ofenergy
in the same organ. Hence it happens, that neither the
names, nor any brief definitions of the organs, can fully
explain their respective functions. Indeed we have yet
much to learn regarding the functions of the cerebral
organs, both in man and the lower animals. The preced-
ing enumeration coincides nearly with the views taught by
Spurzheim and Combe. But the attempted distinction
between Intellectual and Affective Organs is scarcely to
be found in nature ; and both classes of organs seem to
be in some degree perceptive as well as propensitive.
4. MoRAL AND PRACTICAL 'APPLICATIONS OF
PHRENOLOGY.
From what has been said touching the leading princi-
ples of phrenology, many of its uses, or practical applica-
tions, will occur to minds at all prone to moral reflection.
They may be found amply set forth and explained in the
works of Spur1heim and the two Combes, and are illus-
trated in the writings of several other phrenologists.
These practical applications are of extreme importance to
the human race ; and very few of the phrenologists them-
selves yet appear to appreciate fully the vast influence
which their science must eventually have in the social
II. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY. 6S
intercourse of human beings, through all its. branches,
private, public, or national. We shall select a few examples
only, to illustrate the bearings of phrenology on the in-
terests of the human race.
It will scarcely be deemed necessary to begin with the
advice of "Know thyself;" more frequently suggested
than followed. The reader doubtless esteems himself
already a very intimate acquaintance of that important
personage, without the aid of phrenology. Nevertheless,
we venture to affirm that phrenology will increase the
intimacy, and give a practical value to it which is not
otherwise attainable.
Education consists in the exercise and training of the
faculties and corporeal organs. Hence, the principles of
phrenology are applicable in our earliest years ; and all
who profess to educate others, whether as parents or
masters, ought to know the different faculties, to under-
stand fully their dependence upon the material organs, to
be able to estimate their comparative power, and to
determine the amount of exercise which they require for
maintaining due vigour, and which they can bear without
injury. Not one person in a thousand yet possesses more
than the faintest glimmering ofthis kind of knowledge, and
tens of thousands of children are injured in their health
and capacities,- corporeal, moral, and intellectual, - in
consequence of the want of such knowledge in those who
have charge of them. Children of mediocre genius are
perhaps not unfrequently converted into dunces by their
1ehoolmasters.•
It is acknowledged to be a great practical blunder to
• The pernicious inlluences exerted on the brains of children begin
in their very earliest years. Rocking in cradles and violent swinging
are resorted to by nunes in order to lull children, us they term it. The
frequent e4Fect is to stupify ; and by repetition, this can hardly fail to
etultify the luckless infants. Though schoolmasters do not swing and
eradle their pupils, the,y often resort to management still lesa rational
and more iqjurioua.
64o JI. PHILOSOPHY 01' PHRENOLOGY.
bring up a child to a profession or calling for which nature
has rendered him unfit. The unfortunate individual
follows his profession as a painful duty, is frequently out-
stripped in it by his competitors, who happen to be better
adapted to such profession, or is forced to relinquish it in
disgust, after loss of money, time, and labour in endea-
vouring to acquire a competent knowledge and dexterity.•
Individuals brought up to occupations, for which their.
organization is adapted, experience pleasure in those occu-
pations, and soon acquire skill, celebrity, and profit from
their exertions. Phrenology would afford very material
assistance in regulating the choice of a profession, through
the definite index to dispositions and talents which is
supplied hy it, and the analytical self-knowledge which it
affords. Phrenology also points out the necessity of
making school-education such as would try and prove
what department in society each indhidual is adapted for.
Lexicons and Latin grammars, the deities of Greece and
the battles of Rome, are but indifferent means of trying
the probability ofa boy's fitness for commerce, for healing
the sick, for making laws, or for teaching the religion of
Christ.
In our selection of acquaintances, partners in business,
• l111Ufficient talent may be the more frequent cause of failure,
although a very moderate amount of ability will suffice for following
the mere routine either of a trade or a profession. But too much of
genius and knowledge renders some men unfit for the routine of prac-
tical busineo. I have already adverted to Arago's JJWgrap/aical.
Jlemoit- ef Young, and again resort to it for tire following passages: -
" In spite of all bis knowledge, and perhaps even on account of ita
immensity, Dr. Young bad no confidence at the bedside of a patienL
At that moment the troublesome effects which might eventually result
from the action of the medicine, which waa most clearly indicated,
would crowd upon bis mind, - would equal the fayourable eff'«:ta
which might be anticipated from it, and would oYerwbelm him with
indecision, perhaps not unnatural, but which the public interpret&
greatly to the prejudice of him wbo exhibits it." Again; - "11ie
public regarded him aa over-wise! We must even state that his lec-
tures in medicine, those, for example, which be gave at St. George's
Hospital, were ne•er p0pular." .
JI, PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY, 65 .
matrimonial partners, servants, and agents, a good key to .
the natural dispositions and talents of individuals is of no
small value ; and such a key would often prove the means
of preserving us from much discomfort and pecuniary loss.
Nations should avail themselves of this phrenological key ·
in choosing their governors, law-makers, and others upon
whose intellectual and moral competence their welfare
depends.
A perfect conviction that talent is partial, and that an
individual endowed with a great talent for one department
of knowledge or business may yet be altogether unfit for
another department, should prevent us being injured or
disappointed by trusting to a man's acts and opinions in
one matter, merely because he has shown a talent for
another and different kind of business or pursuit. Although
this conviction is now partially acted upon, it is very·
much too partially acted upon in practical life. The pro-
gress of human improvement has been wofully retarded
by the multitude shutting their eyes to a fact so very
obvious, though hitherto unexplained. In explaining the
fact phrenology should also teach a steady reliance upon
it, and dictate actions in accordance.
Government and legislation involve the art of guiding
the minds of individuals, as members of a social body.
Until governors and legislators understand that which the1
profess to guide,-namely, the human mind,-their
efforts can be nothing but a series of experiments made in
the dark; sometimes erroneous, sometimes successful; one
while inflicting murh injury, at another time proving
highly beneficial. The continual changes in our laws and
institutions, our multitude of" Acts to amend," and "Acts
to repeal," other Acts, are incontrovertible proofs of such
enactments being only random experiments, founded upon
mere guesses, instead of emanating from actual knowledge
of human nature as shown by physiology and phrenology.
How many of our legislators have any definite knowledge
66 11. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.
of human nature, such as is capable of successful applica-
tions in practice ?
In sane persons, crime usually proceeds from excessive
development of the organs of the animal instincts, or
from excessive temptations being presented to persons of
.otdin~ developement. The criminal cannot help the
development he has received; neither does he create the
temptation himself. Yet the development and temptation
co-existing, the acts are uncontrollable, so far as we can
see. Retributive punishment, by society, for unavoidable
acts, is a sheer absurdity ; and it cannot restrain others
from crime, or crime would have long since ceased.
Society must withhold the temptation, or, by education
and other means, render the individual capable of resisting
it. But where these ends cannot be accomplished-and
there are cases in which it is impossible to accomplish
them-society may then justly protect itself by destroy-
ing, or by keeping in constant confinemen~ all such
individuals as cannot resist their propensity to crime.
Benevolence dictates restraint in preference to destruction
of offenders. In these extreme cases the confinement
must be the coercion of beings held as non-responsible.
Phrenology explains and proves the fact of some indivi-
duals being naturally more prone to crime than others.
It also greatly assists in distinguishing those who are so ;
and it dictates the best means for strengthening their
moral powers of resistance. But whilst phrenologists hold
it a moral duty to prevent future crime without destroy-
ing the present criminals, it must be allowed that only the
joint consent of society can accomplish such an end; and
hence it becomes a serious question in what way indivi-
duals are to act for self-protection from the thief or the
assassin. The community enacts laws on the plan of
vengeance, taking no adequate steps for prevention of
crime. Whilst this absurd system is tolerated, indivi-
duals can preserve themselves and their property only by
JI, PHILOSOPHY OP' PHRENOLOGY. 67
seeking to destroy or expatriate every offender a painful
alternative even to look at, and one that very many must
f'eel unwilling to act up to. Were a dozen enlightened
phrenologists now allowed to revise our criminal laws, ere
one generation should pass away, crime would be dimi-
nished at least fifty per cent. Phrenology has good
representatives in Parliament ; will they not raise their
voices there ?
As a last illustration of the uses or applications of phre-
nological science, the subject of insanity may be alluded
to. Since all manifestations of mind depend upon the
state of the brain, all deranged manifestations must depend
on some derangement of the brain ; and it is the duty of
physicians and others to know that every form of insanity
arises from corporeal disease, just as completely as the
delirium of fever ari@es from corporeal disease. In the
abstract this is admitted; in practice it is too often neg-
lected. Though it is equally useless and cruel to threaten,
flog, or otherwise maltreat the insane, as it would be useless
and cruel to threaten, flog, and maltreat patients ill offever
or indigestion ; yet this has been the regular practice of
ignorant physicians and keepers,-a practice from which
a throne has failed to save their miserable victims. A
mere glimmering of phrenology would have restrained the
hands of such insane practitioners ; but a good knowledge
of the science is indispensable to a correct treatment of
deranged patients.
5. OBJECTIONS TO PHRENOLOGY.
In the preceding subsections phrenology has been
spoken of as established truth, for the simple reason
that its leading principles are truths established beyond
distrust. Yet many persons still advance objections,
which they deem sufficiently strong to overturn the sys-
tem. These are received by others ignorant of the science,
68 JI. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.
and of the degree in which ~uch objections bear upon ·it•.
It isthereforenecessary to notice some few ofthe weightiest
and most frequently adduced objections. Mere conjec-
tures about the organs being too many or too few, the
science being too old or too new for truth, and such like,
may be omitted ; a general reference to the Edinburgh
Review and other literary periodicals being given for .
them.. For sake of brevity, the spirit of the several objec-:
tions is stated, without attending to the exact words of
individual oqjectors, though a reference is made to some
work advancing the same objection virtually. For this
purpose, the more weighty and popular authorities have
usually been preferred.
OfUection-Thatphrenol,ogy is a mere tissue ofdeception
and quackery on the part ofGall, Spurzheim, and others,
deliberauly imposing on the cred"lity ofmankind. (Edin-
burgh Review. No. 49.)
This assertion is scarcely ventured as an objection by
any, the most ignorant or malicious, writer of the present
day. Yet twenty or thirty years ago, it really was urged
by persons of some eminence, and in standard periodical
works. It is a very curious circumstance, however, that
phrenology should have been just the kind of quackery
swallowed most greedily, and believed most impiicitly, by
those persons who most carefully examined its pretensions
and evidences; and which was most decidedly rejected by
those who had least examined such evidences, and who
had least knowledge about what it professed to be. This
remarkable peculiarity has always distinguished phreno-
logical quackery from all other quackeries whatsoever,
and entitled it to be classed apart as a quackery sui
generis.
OfUection - That phrenology is an amusir•g 11QVelty,
tDhich will soon die away. (Edinburgh Review, No. 88.)
This has been repeated from year to year for thirty years
and upwards ; one while, with the assumed indifference of
JI. PHILOSOPHY OF _PHRENOLOGY. 69
.conscious superiority ; at another, with all the solemnity of
prophecy. Three several times, at intervals of about a
dozen years (1802, 1815, 1826), different writers in the
Edinburgh Review consigned phrenology to oblivion ; and
in 1817 we were assured by an infallible oracle, that
Craniology had then " almost lived its little hour." This
little hour proves to be a surprising portion of time ; for
the longer it runs on so much the larger and more inter-
minable does it appear to become. While phrenology is
spreading over the world, additional societies for its cul-
tivation are springing up every year, numerous men of
talent devoting themselves to its study, and the books of
the leading phrenologists are selling by thousands, we may
safely assume that the last gasp of phrenology has not
yet been breathed, - that " its little hour " is not yet
completed.
Objection - That the proselytes to tlte phrenok>gical
doctrines are merely dupes or visionary enthusiasts, pos-
.8Used ofsmall abinty and abnost unknown in science.
Gall and Spurzheim advanced the anatomy of the brain
more than all their cotemporaries put together. Add to
which, the names of phrenologists mentioned in this
volume alone will show that the writers of phrenological
works,in sobrietyofjudgment and intellectual eompetency,
are at least equal to those who have put forth antiphreno-
logical works. Indeed, considering the small number of
persons giving serious attention to phrenology, until quite
recently, it may be affirmed with truth, that there has been
a greater than average proportion of men of ability
amongst them. Leach, Lawrence, Parry, and Abernethy,
thougl! nQt strictly phrenologists, long since expre~sl;ld
very favourable opinions on the subject, founded e~ther on
direet observation or on the conclusive reasoning of
ph.-enological authors. But '\'VC need no~ gc;> so fat:' baclc
for a refutation of this absurd, though oftell repeated, ob-
jection. The mere list of persons giving testimonials in
70 II, PHILOSOPHY OP PHRENOLOGY.
s,.•pport of the science, to Sir George Mackenzie and Mr.
Combe, amply quash the objection. (See Literature'!f
Phrenology.) It is, however, quite true, in a general
sense, that phrenologists are not men of high rank in other
sciences ; but how can this militate against their science
in particular ? Are chemists men of high rank in other
sciences ? Are botanists men of high rank in other
sciences ? Are geologists ? Are zoologists ? Very few
persons, in fact, become leaders, or even much skilled, in
more than one department of science. Yet who would
reject their knowledge on such grounds ? Who would
despise geology, because Lyell and Sedgwick are not
eminent as botanists ? Who would dream of over-
turning all chemical science, because Faraday and Thomp-
son have not become leaders in geology ? Who would
dispute against botanical views, because Hooker and
Browne make no figure in moral philosophy?•
O/!iection - That medical men, wlw are most competent
tojudge ofmatters r1lating to the brain, are unjfl'fJoural>~
to phrenology.
Two points are assumed in this objection, the first is
a fallacy, and the second a falsehood. Ifthe medical body
be the most competent to judge of the merits of phreno-
logy, this by no means proves the members of it to be
auffeiently competent. The routine professional educa-
tion assists, indeed, but without giving full competency.
Medical men ignorant of phrenology know very little
about the brain, and cannot speak to its functions. Se-
con<Uy, it is false to say, that medical men are averse to
phrenology. PhrenologicalSocieties oontain a much greater
• " A geomt'trical truth is not true because it was the dictum of
Euclid or Archimede!, of Newton or of Euler. A geometrical truth
carries with it i111 own evidence. It furnishes it.a own proofs." - "It
would be no recommendation to mathematical truths, to make them.
rest on the strength or splendour of any individunl name. No nama
can in itself coustitute evidence ; and how can it furnish proof?"-
Fsi.LOwu, BefiBion oft"4 Univerie.
JI, PHILOSOPHY OP PHRBNOLOGY. 71
proportion ofmedical members, than does the COIDJJlunity
at large, or the educat.ed portion of the commuBity. A
still higher proportion of medical men will be found
amongst authors on phrenology; in fact, more than the
one half of thel!l being medical men. We refer to our
Section V. for proofs of this.
Of!iection - That phrenology leads to materialiml, lo
jaf.alimt, to scepticism, to deism, or to atheism. (Ryan's
Manual of Medical Jurisprudence, &c.)
The first question for consideration is not what phre-
nology leads to, but what it is, and whether true. If a
natural truth, it cannot be destroyed ; and we must leave
the makers of this objection to reconcile truth, as they
best can, with ID&terialism, fatalism, scepticism, deism,
atheism, or any other ism their wisdom may suggest.
The present Archbishop ofDublin, a theological authority
somewhat more weighty than Dr. Ryan, says, - " That
the religious and moral objections against the phrenolo-
gical theory are utterly futile, I have from the first been
fully convinced."
O'ftjection - That there is 1W sufficient ·'l'ealon jO'I' re-
garding t/1£ brain to be tke organ of tAe mind. (Edin-
burgh Review. No. 88.)
Very few have hazarded this objection. The Review
referred to and Hamilton's Essay on Craniology hl\ve
almost the exclusive merit of resorting to this powerful
antiphrenological argument. Mr. Hamilton has proposed
to locat.e the mind within the spleen; but he has fo.-g~t­
t.en to adduce any evidence in support of this felicitous
idea; which is not a novelty.
Of!iection - That many severe injuries ka'lJe occurred
to Ille brain, and largeportions ofit ka'IJe been actually lost,
without (as it is affirmed) any corresponding loss ofmental
po1D61'. (Alison's Outlines of Physiology.)
This appears to be a formidable objection, and would.-
go to the extent of dissevering mind and brain entirelJ.
7'l JI, :PHLOJSOPH'r OF 'PHRENOLOG1'.
But wlten the reports of the alleged cases come to be
~xamined with due attention, they are found to be so very
.~ague as to be worth nothing. Usually, the only adduced
proof of unimpaired mind consists in the patient having
been able to answer the common questions of his medical
attendant ; as though this exertion called forth the full ex-
~JJt of mental power, displayed by the same person when
·in complete health ? Perhaps in none of these instances,
brought against phrenology, has the manifestation of the
particular function, depending on the lost or injured part,
been properly tried. Neither have tke makers of this ob-
jection sufficiently kept in mind that the brain is double, -
two united brains within one head, - and that all the
.organs are also doubled, just as the eyes and ears
are doubled. This being the case, it is quite poe-
sible that the organ on one side might remain sound
enough for a small manifestation of its function, even
·though its fellow were quite destroyed ; as one eye still
suffices for vision after the other has been destroyed.
The objection, indeed, applies more forcibly against those
physiologist& who deny that the brain is made up of par-
.ticular organs, that is, against the antiphrenoklgists them-'
selves. But, in truth, it has little real weight in any way,
other- organs of our frame having frequently sui'ered
much visible injury with small loss of functional power,
and vice vena.•
O!Qection - That tlie brain, or esck hemisphere of it, u
9'&ly a single organ; not being a congeriu of orgam, ·I#
luld by phre1Wlogists. (Alison's Outlines of Physiology.)
· · • Every individual organ of our bodies is co111pound in struc:ture,
,.,i M'l'Ving for support or union, part for nutrition, part for manifest-
:.,tion of its particular functi~n, &i;. ~. To speak ligurativellt'
th.~~ror~ one out orthe several m~d~ents of the brain may be health7.
and another diseased, as a cup of tea may be rendered bad from dri'eC-
\P'e quality in the water, or cream, or sugar, or tea-lea•es. Wlaea!
die \ijse;\sed action is chiefly or solely in the parts de•oWd to nutrition.
~ diaorganintlon may be much more apparent, than when itta
limited to the parts manifesting the ginn funciion of the organ; .. _()
"
It. PHILOSOPHY OP PHRENO!.OGY. 73
The phrenologists bring. forward an immense number
of facts to prove the brain not a single organ, and authon
who publicly reject these facts, in toto, are bound to show
wherein they err, - at least in some instances. Moreover,
phrenologists call on those who regard the brain as a
single organ, to account for the common facts of dream-
ing, partial insanity, partial idiocy, partial genius, and
other mental peculiarities, on such a supposition.
Objection - That the supposed organs, or different parta
of the brain, run so cwsely together, and are so completely
continued into each other, that they cannot be separated or
dutinguished by anatomists. (Edinburgh Revie1v, No. 88.)
This only proves the fine gradations of nature, and the
imperfection of our own eyes and knowledge. As an ar-
gument it is absolutely of no weight, since many nerves
known to have entirely distinct functions (voluntary mo-
tion and sensation, for example) are so intimately con-
nected, and so closely alike, that neither eye nor hand can
distinguish them from each other.
O!Qection - That th.e size qf any organ is not the mea-
lflf'e of its functional power, in other parts of the animal
frame ; and even if it were so, the brain might still be an
ueeption. (Edinburgh Review, No. 88.)
The reply of phrenologists to this negative argument
is, ' Can you show a single fact to prove the astoumption.?
We have thousands in corroboration.' Moreover, the prin-
ciple isadmitted by the mo;;t celebrated physiologists of the
day, and the exception must be proved by the objectors.
Offjection - That phrenowgists cannot estimate the size
orproportions of the brain by l,ooking at the outside of tAe
slcuU or of the living head; i11equalitie1 in the thicknu& of
tlte skull0'7 integuments, the temporal muscle.~, and especially
tlu frontal sinrAs, l>eing utterly subversive ofphreno"/ogy·;
or sofar vitiating the conclusions drawn from obserDatiom
on li.eads, as to take away all confideme in them. (.A.li8on'•
OutlinuofPhy6iology.)
•
74 II. PHlLOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.
. It has already been stated that phrenologists have soine
difficulties of this kind to contend with ; but a phrenolo-
gist can seldom be deceived by d.ifficulties which are well
known to him, and which rarely apply to more than very
tr:w organs in the same head. He is compelled to speak
with less confidence concerning the development of organs
thus liable to be mistaken; yet in these he can arrive at
truth by taking averages instead of individual cases. In
other sciences, there are observations and experiments at-
tended with difficulty or uncertainty, and who is shallow
enough to reject a whole science on account of partial un-
certainties or difficulties? In regard to this objection,
however, it must be admitted, that while the opponents of
phrenology have been over-stating the difficulties, many
9f its disciples have greatly under-estimated the degree of
uncertainty and the liability to errors; particularly those
arising from the want of full agreement between the pro-
portions of the brain and the external configuration of the
head. As an instance, we may refer to the scale of terms
for expressing development, brought into use by the Scot•
tish phrenologists. It is decidedly objectionable on ana-
~omical grounds ; and it fails in practice, otherwise such a
fine blunder for the antiphrenologists, as that made by Mr•
.Scott, in piecing the character and genius of Raphael to
the skull of another man, could not have occurred. Of
course, this mistake would not have happened to any
phrenologist, if the general bent of mind of the two par-
ties had not been closely alike. The fault mainly rests
in the Edinburgh scale, assuming the possibility of decid-
ing on very small grades of cerebral development, and con-
sequently on very trifling shades of character. Spurzheim
11ever attempted to specify such fine gradations ; being too
intimate with the anatomy of the head and brain to place
any confidence in them. Perhaps some phrenological
friends will blame this free condemnation of their practicP..
Ifso, let them refer the scale to their anatomical acquaint-
II. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY. 75;
ances, and inquire whether such 11cale, applied to the out-!
side of the head, will correctly indicate the development
of brain, when its parts are considered in detail. •
Ofo"ection - Thatfacts disprove tire conclusions of phre-
nologists in regard to tire functions of the organs. (Un-
published MSS. of Sir William Hamilron and Mr. Gra-
liame Hutchison.)
" Let us see them," reply the phrenologists. Many dull
'.inecdotes have been circulated as anti-phrenological facts;
but they have invariably turned out to be mere falsehoods,
or distorted narratives of real circumstances. Some years
ago, Sir William Hamilton advertised that" The Facts of·
Nature, and Fictions of Phrenology" should be " speedily
pubfo1hed ;" but to this day they remain unpublished. A
gentleman of Glasgow, the Mr. Hutchison above men-.
tioned, read a notice of one hundred antiphrenological
facts to a literary society in that city, but neither did he
venture to publish them. (See Phren. Journal, Vol. iii. p.
125.) Mr. Stone went one step farther, and published
his facts, as they were called ; but these were speedily found
• In addition to the faults ofthe scale, I dissent from several points
in Mr. Scott's analysis of the character of Raphael; and take his
other phrenological essays with similar reserntions. Mr. Scott's bent
of mind is to literature, not to science; as a writer be is prone t~
auume what he thinks ought to be, instead of looking at nature to
ascertain what is. For example, in analysing the cerebral functions,
Mr. Scott seldom compares manifestation with development, but
quotes descriptions and opinions from poets and other writers, as
_Tidences to generalise from, although the development which pro-
1:ucedthem he altogether unknown. Such a proceeding woulJ be allow-
able ifthe functions had been already pr~cisely ascertained, butit cannot
possibly be admitted as a mode for ascertaining them. In fact, it i1
worse than useless thus to generalise from unproved details. With
regard to the cast from the supposed skull of Raphael, it has been
used by G.Ul, Spurzheim, and Combe, chiefly as an example of large
Amativeness and Constructiveness with moderate Colour; a concomit-
ancejustas likely to exist in the head ofan a111ateur,as in that ofa work-
ing artist; and the skull is now said to have belonged to Don Desiderio
de Adintorlo, an amateur and patron of the pictorial ort. I should
anticipate a lower proportional development of the reflecting organs
in the real skull of Rapbul.
B 2
76 JI. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.
foreign to phrenology, and to be altogether useless in ques-
tions of science. Reader, can you show an antiphrenolo-
gical fact?
OltJections - That phrenologists cannot prO'Ve, or have
Mt yet prO'Ved, their views by the evidence offact. (Hamil-
ton's Essay on Craniolo!l'!J.)
The present and preceding objections properly embrace
the whole dispute. Phrenologists lay down certain doc-
trines, and make certain assertions, stating them to be the
laws of nature learned by observation. They are bound
to adduce the evidence ; and if they can bring forward a
farge number of facts in confirmation of their doctrines,
which the opponents are unable to meet with contra-
dictory facts, the whole dispute is to be held ·as settled.
Some examples, showing the extent to which phrenolo-
gists accumulate facts, are given under the head of "Evi-
dences."
Of!iection - That, in the words of the Edinburgh Re·
view, " we have ourselties known some, and heard from
" good authority of many cases of .flagrant and ridicu-
" lous blunders committed byphrerw'logists, which tliey had
" neither the candour to acknow/.edge, nor the confidence to
"deny." (Edinburgh Review, No. 88.)
To this Mr. Combe replied : - "There are several an-
" swers to this allegation. First, by far the greater num-
" ber of the alleged blunders of the phrenologists are
" gratuitous fictions of the opponents, destitute of all
" fowidation in fact. The following will serve as ex-
" amples :-It was recorded in Blackwood's Magazine,
" and reprinted in most of the newspapers of Britain and
" America, that I had drawn a phrenological character
" from the cast of a turnip, supposing it to be taken from
" a real skull ; -when the very opposite was the fact,
"namely, that I instantly detected the imposition, and~
" turned the cast to the person who sent it, with a doggre
'' parody of the Man of Thessaly pasted on its surface.
JI. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY. 77.
" Farther, in a large company an individual stated, that th<I
" editor of a certain newspaper, in Glasgow, had invited
" me to examine the heads of his printers, and make o~
" servations on their talents and dispositions ; that I had
" done so, and blundered in the completest manner in
" every instance, from the foreman down to the youngest
" devil. The narrator gave authority for his statement;.
" and was, withal, so minute and circumstantial in his ac-
" count, that not a shadow of doubt remained on the'
" minds of his audience of its literal correctness. It pos-1
" sessed, however, precisely .the same degree of truth that
" characterizes your representation of my doctrine about,
"the Welshman's organ of language, cited in page 69 of
" this letter;- that is to say, it was purely fictitious. Up
" to this hour I have never seen the editor of the .news-
" paper alluded to, do not know in what street his printing
" office is situated, and .in point of fact have never ex-
" amined a head in a printing office of any kind in my life.
"Again, a 'Lady' in Edinburgh, who had procured a
" sketch of her natural dispositions, inferred from the de.
" velopment of her brain, by a phrenologist quite unac-
" quainted with her individually, was pleased to commit
" the original manuscript to the flames; - to substitute a
" sketch of her own ;- to get this lithographed, and to
" circulate it among her friends as a phrenological pro-
" duction, and as a specimen of the infallible accuracy of
" that science I" Mr. Combe proceeds with his reply by
saying that errors are committed by the votaries of other .
sciences, and that the reviewer had committed ten times
!18 many blunders in sixty-six pages as couW be found in all
the works of Gall or Spurzheim.
6. EVIDENCES OF PHRENOLOGY.
It is utterly impossible to give any full statement of the
Pimense mass of evidence now accumulated by phrenolo~
, E 3
78 II. PHILOSOPHY OP PHRENOLOGY.
gists, individually and collectively. The obaervations of
Gall and Spurzheim must have embraced thousands upon
-thousands offacts in order to establish the cerebral organs
·and functions, which their extensive tours, connected with
•phrenological pursuits, most materially contributed to.
Other phrenologists, before completely assenting to dis-
puted doctrines, required to satisfy themselves by many
·observations upon different individuals known to theru
·respectively, in addition to facts and illustrations publish~
·by phrenological writers. At the moderate rate of thirty
facts for each organ•, an individual phrenologist has seen
one thousand facts ; and if there be one thousand person!'
assenting to phrenology from actual study of the headto
•
and minds of others, we have thus a million of facts. In
truth the number of facts open to phrenologists is beyond
calculation ; accumulating just in proportion to the skill
and diligence of the observer. Every individual man and
animal will furnish some facts to a watchful eye and atten-
tive mind.
But in speaking of the evidences of phrenology, we
should refer to the public or published facts and state-
ments within the reach of all interested. Some examples
of these can be mentioned. Gall published several vo-
lumes teeming with facts to a great amount. The works
ofSpurzheim evince a much greater tendency to generalise,
than to detail the particular facts from which his induc-
tions are drawn. Still, they do refer to a considerable
number ofspecified instances. His "Phrenology in con-
nection with the study of Physiognomy," for example,
• For some of the smaller organs, 88 Size and Weight, 1 co\Jld not
adduce tbirty decided fitL'ts, in addition to published evidences, but for
others it would be easy to specify ten times this number ; and for some
of the larger organs, 88 Self. Esteem and Benevolence, my obse"a.
tions embrace almost thousands of casea. Now, seeing that I cannot
boast to have exercised my faculties in this depattment of the science
to anything like the extent that many others have done, one thousand
facts to an individual phrenologist would appear far from an exceuive
nerage.
II. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY. 79
includes portraits of fifty celebrated persons, whose cha•
racters are there compared with the configuration of their
heads ; so that any one may judge of the general accuracy
ofsuch a phrenological analysis. Mr. Crook states (Dew-
hurst's Guide), that he made one thousand observations in
confirmation of the organ of Alimentiveness ; yet is this
organ still held non-established. The Phrenological Jour-
nal, in the first nine volumes, has numerous references to
.the heads, skulls, casts, or models of remarkable persons
and savage tribes, chiefly by way of illustration or argu:..
ment. These comprehend 500 persons, including many
of the moat celebrated philosophers, poets, painters, and
men of science. In the Phrenological Transactions is
an essay on the phrenology of India, founded on an ex-
-amination of3000 heads.
So early as the year 1805, when phrenology was in itS
veriest infancy, Gall examined the heads of 200 prisoner&,
in Berlin, and successfully predicated the leading pro-
pensities and talents of the moat remarkable characters
amongst them, in pretience of the heads of the establish-
ment, counsellors, and other official persons in the -
em-
ployment of the Prussian Government. Gall was then a
stranger in Berlin, and knew nothing of the prisoners
beyond what was indicated by the proportions of their
heads. A few days afterwards, he visited the house of
correction, and fortre11s ofSpandau, in presence of equally
respectable witnesses. Here 470 heads were submitted to
hisexamination, with the like succe11Sfulresult. On thesetwo
occasions Gall had the opportunity of examining the heads
of nearly 500 thieves; thus confirming his previous con-
clusions as to the form of head characterizing such person11.
When lecturing in different towns in Britain, it was
quite usual for Spurzheim to be asked to visit prisons,
schools, and charitable institutions ; where the practical
proofs of the science and of his skill were largely made,
in the inferences drawn from the heads of criminals, chil-
E 4'
: 80 , 1;:. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.
dren and others. The writer of these pages bRB accom-
panied him on such occasions, and testifies to his success
and accuracy. The following extract affords one exam-
ple out of scores that could be adduced. " They among
' " us who have had the good fortune to see Dr. Spurzheim
" exercise his art in a numerous assembly of subjects, to
" witness the promptness as well as the certainty of his
"judgments, would be inclined to attribute it to super-
" uatural agency. The writer of this article lately saw
" him in a school of fifty-eight boys, not one of whom he
" had ever beheld till that moment, run his eye rapidly
" over every head, touch some which appear£:d to possess
" eminently any defect or quality, and in less than an hour,
" deliver his opinionsupon the most remarkable subjects-
" for good or for bad, without committing a single mis-
" take ; for all his opinions coincided moi1t accurately with
" the testimony of the masters, to whom the scholars were
" well known. The same trial was made, the same day,
" and with the same success, in a school of thirty-four
"girls." ( Chenevix, in the Foreign Quarterly, No JJL)
In the spring of I82~, Mr. Combe visited the Peniten-
tiary in Dublin, in presence of the governor, the chaplain,
. physicians, and others. Mr. Combe pointed out to the
gentlemen present, the general deficiency of the moral
organs in the heads of the inmates ; and he also noted
down in pencil the most large!!' developed and most de-
ficient organs in the heads of each, and the general dis-
position to be inferred from the proportions ofthe whole
head. The not£s were read after quitting the convicts,
·and the governor and chaplain delivered an instant opi-
nion respecting their accuracy in each case. The notes
,were afterwards transcribed and sent to the Gc.vernor, in
whose reply to Mr. Combe it is observed, " it will proba-
bly be satisfactory to those who are impreM1ed with your
opinions on the subject of phreno_logy, to find that my ex-
perience corroborates, in almost every instanee, what it
JI. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY. 81
.appears what phrenology would predicate of the indiVi-
duals in question."
In the year 1826, Mr. Wardrop suggested an examina-
tion of the heads of 148 convicts then on board the ship
England, whichwas about to sail for New SouthWales. Mr.
De Ville, an excellent practical manipulator •, undertook
the task, and furnished Dr. Thomson, the gentleman in
charge of the convicts, with a distinct memorandum ofthe
character of each convict, as indicated by the form of his
head. The worst and most dangerous characters were all
particularly pointed out. During the voyage a conspiracy
was formed amongst the convicts, for taking possession of
·the ship, and destroying all on board who should refuse
to join them. This gave opportunity to the convicts to
exhibit their dispositions, and the conduct of all of them,
with one exception, corresponded with Mr. De Ville's
notes. There were circumstances to explain the excep- •
tion. Dr. Thomson was not a phrenologist, but on
arriving at Sydney, he wrote to Mr. Wardrop expressing
great gratitude to him and Mr. De Ville, and attributing
the preservation of the vessel and of his own life to Mr.
De Ville's accurate report, which enabled him to distin-
guish the most dangerous characters, who were separated
from the others and confined when the danger became
apparent.
The preceding are instances mentioned to show that
phrenology is capable of practical proof in the hands
of competent manipulators ; and they also convey some
slight idea of the extent to which phrenologists multiply
• Mr. De Ville is a respectable traCesman in the Strand, J,ondon,
an expert manipulator, but not a scientillc phrenologist, u we may
gather from tbe defects of his Outlines of Phrenology. Mr. De Ville
manipulates the heads of the curious in self.knowledge, at a moderate
·fee. I have seen only one of his sketches ofcharacter. On the whole,
it was good and tru<!, except in being something overdrawn on the
complimentary side. It was the portrait by a very flattering artia&, -
a liuneaa beaulified.
K 5
8~ JJ. PHILOSOPHY OP PHRENOLOGY.
their evidences. The exertions of M. Vimont, of Paris,
may be cited as a further illustration of the latter. Thia
celebrated anatomist commenced his labours for the pur-
pose of refuting Gall and Spurzheim. After immense
exertions he was obliged to declare himself a phrenologist,
through force of the very facts he had collected in the
·expectation of subverting the science. It is stated that he
had 2000 facts, more than 1200 skulls sawn open, wax-
.cast.a of 50 brains, and 300 designs drawn with the utmost
accuracy. M. Vimont worked indefatigably during six
years, and expended upwards of 12,000francs in procuring
the specimens. When phrenologists exert themselves
thus, when they multiply their evidences to such an ex-
tent, what are we to think of the candour ofan opponent,
who says that phrenologists have no facts in support of
their doctrines ! The collections of British societies
• and phrenologists will be particularly noticed in our
.after pages. They afford no insignificant amount of
evidence.
7. SuooEsTIONs FOR THE STUDY OF PHRENOLOGY.
Every one may learn something of phrenology, though
few persons will thoroughly understand, and always cor-
rectly apply, its principles. Among the cultivators of
other sciences, only a small number can bring the time
and ability requisite for attaining to complete knowledge
of their respective subjects; nor is phrenology at all an
exception to thi~ ostensible fact. It has decidedly the
most extensive range and application of any science; and
calls for the most varied and powerful talents. There is
one great advantage in phrenological science, however,
:which is less apparent in most others, namely, that almost
.every item of acquired knowledge may be immediately
rendered of practical value to its possessor ; and the
farther we advance in the study, so much the more plea-
U. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY. 83
surable and beneficial do the successive acquisitions of
knowledge become.
Some acquaintance with anatomy and physiology, and
attendance on a course of phrenological lectures, would
form the best groundwork on which to commence the
study of phrenology. But many persons are inconve·
niently circumstanced for attaining these preliminaries,
being out of reach of lectures and practical demonstra-
tions. To such persons it may be advised to read an
elementary work on physiology; and Dr. Combe's may be
recommended as one very well adapted to the purpose.
This may be followed by perusal of Combe's Elements of
Phrenology ; from which the student will obtain a good
insight into the subject, preparatory to more extended
knowledge, and will be to some extent guarded against
drawing too hasty inferences from first impressions.
Combe's System of Phrenology can next be read by minds
more prone to reflection than to observation ; otherwise
the reading of the System may be postponed a short time.
It is the most complete introductory work on the science.
Along with elementary reading, let the student keep a
marked bust frequently before his eyes, so as to become
quite familiar with the relative position and superficial
extent of each organ ; as also with its general shape and
direction, whether rounded or elongated, transverse or
longitudinal. When conversant with the superficial forms
and places of the organs, as marked on the busts, the
student will proceed to contrast together the published
casts referred to in phrenological works, as examples of
excessive or deficient development of particular organs.
The intermediate degrees will be within daily observation,
either in casts or living heads.
When a student has acquired a tolerable knowledge of
the functions attributed to the organs, and has become
sufficiently exercised to perceive readily the different
degrees of development in different heads, he may next:
B 6 ·
84 lJ, PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.
take the casts and models of the heads of celebrated or
notorious individuals, whose developments and charac-
ters are explained in phrenological works; such as the
Phrenological Journal. The analysis of their characters
should be attentively weighed, and compared with their
developments. This will tend to give a student practical
dexterity in estimating cerebral development ; at the same
time training him to understand and appreciate the mutual
influence of the organs. Now, if not already done, he
may read the System of Phrenology; following up ·tbis
by perusal of the works of Spurzheim, and selected articles
from the Phrenological Journal and Trnnsactions. Com.:
parisons of living heads with the dispo~itions and talents
of their owners may then be entered upon, and the student
will henceforward follow the bent of bis own mind.
Hoth observation and personal experience have strongly
intimated to thr writer of these suggestions, that students
of phrenology should avoid too early attempts at manipu-
lating the heads, or pronouncing on the dispositions and
talents, of their friends or strangers. In attempting this,
before sufficient knowledge of phrenology and sufficient
practical dexterity have been acquired, many errors will
be committed, previous bias and false estimates of others
cannot be guarded against, and personal offence may be
given by hasty conclusions or injudicious remarks. Stu-
dents of phrenology are continually asked their opinions
respecting the talents and dispositions of others, and it
requires some firmness always to resist solicitations to this
effect, and some degree of candour to confess the want of
sufficient skill or knowledge. It is well to acquire an early
habit of observing the diffnent forms of head met with in
society ; but let every student of phrenology limit himself
tD silettt observation until he is assured of his acquired
knowledge and dexterity rendering him quite competent·
to speak out in cases where it may be useful to do so;-
but .only in such cases. Let him remember that very few·
II. PHILOSOPHY OF PHBENOLOGY. 85
persons, even phrenologists who have not attained to a
steady practical reliance o~ phrenological indications, can
bear to see their dispositions set forth in u1.1varnished
reality.•
A phrenologist, who has profited by the information
contained in the works before recommended to his pe-
rusal, who fully appreciates the influence of organization,
and who has the capacity for analysing the mental tend-
encies of others, may then freely enter upon a consider-
ation of the practical conclusions to be drawn from phre-
nological science, and it~ applications to social life in every
department, public or private. Dexterity, as a manipula-
tor, is not absolutely essential to such applications; but it
will be found highly advantageous in private relations to
others ; besides giving steady reliance on the force of or-
ganization. It is scarcely necessary to warn a student that
he will meet with persons who have acquired much skill as
manipulators, yet are very little acquainted with phreno-
logy, considered as a science or br.i.nch of philosophy.
Others there are understanding scientific phrenology to a
considerable extent, in whom it never becomes a system
of practical philosophy. And there are philo!lophical
phrenologists very little able to manipulate, or estimate
dev<•lopment.
The following course of reading may be suggested:-
Combe's (Andrew) Principles of Physiology.
Combe's Elements of Phrenology.
Combe's System of Phrenology.
• Let young phrenologists not only he cautious orspeaking of non-
phrenologistA, but also uf professed phrenolugists. One of the pre-
vailing organs, in the heads of the most decided phrenologhts, is Selr-
Estet!m; probably because only persons with a good share or self-
con6dence would stand forth in open support of a resisted science.
Hence are phrenologists a most "touchy" M!t uf beings, and very
prune to take otft.ncc at each other. As the science 1><.oeomes more
popular, Love of Approbation will draw men to it. As yet, the latter
feeling makes the sneaking phrl!nologists, who boa•t of l;eiug phreno-
logists whilst with phrenologists ; but who are ashamed to own itin other
IOdety. -
86 11. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.
The Phrenological Journal- CJiaracf,ers and Develop-
ments.
Spurzheim's Phrenology in connexion with Physiog-
nomy.
Combe's Essay on the Constitution of Man.
Spurzheim's Phrenology, and other works.
Phrenological Journal - Mircello,neous artic/,es.
Simpson on the Necessity of Popular Education; An-
drew Combe on Mental Derangement, and on Digestion ;
the works of Macnish, Caldwell, and other phrenologists,
might be added; but a good knowledge of the principles
and applications of the science may be acquired from those
enumerated above ; and which are to be regarded as pro-
ceeding from the fountain heads. Thearticle on Phrenology,
by Chenevix, in No. 3. of the Foreign Quarterly Review,
is amply worth perusal. No anti-phrenological work has
been recommended, for two reasons. First, because all
their arguments and objections may be seen discussed
in the phrenological works mentioned ; and, secondly.
because all those works are so miserably weak and ridicu-
lous, that it should be regarded as a waste of time to read
them, and a particular waste of money to buy them.
Perhaps one exception should be made. The article on
Phrenology, in the 88th Number of the Edinburgh Re-
view, being a well-written and an amusing essay against
the science, although the arguments of the reviewer be
weak and inconclusive. It seems to be the opinion of
several phrenologists that this is the best essay against the
science. Messieurs Holm and Brown refer to it in reply
to direct queries for the best essay. The Rev. Mr. Clarke
names Lord's Physiology. Dr. Conolly refers to Prichard'a
Treatise on Insanity as the most deserving of reply. Mr.
Macnish says of antiphrenological works, with some
pungency, "they are all so bad, that I cannot say which
is the best or worst. A good work against Phrenology
I hold to be an impossibility. A clever man, who knows
IJ. PHILOSOPHY OP PHRENOLOGY. 87
the subject, will not write against it ; and a dull man, who
possesses similar knowledge, cannot produce a good book
on this or anything else." Mr. Sandwith writes, " I have
not met with an essay against Phrenology, that was not
beneath criticism." If we take the article in the Edin-
burgh Review, on its scientific merits, it certainly :cannot
form an exception to these general condemnations. Viewed
merely as a literary effort, however, it has not been sur-
passed by the pen of any phrenologist, except that of
Chenevix; whose article on phrenology, in the third
Number of the Foreign Quarterly Review, is probably
the best production oa the subject; emanating as it did
from a mind stored with knowledge, and able to commu•
nicate that knowledge in an easy and accurate manner.
The works of Spurzheim may appear to be placed too
low in the above list. The propriety of thus postponing
them to others, arises from their language, allusions, and
illustrations being more adapted to medical men, moral
philosophers, and others presumed to have made consi-
derable progress in the sciences, and particularly in those
allied to phrenology. The works of the two Combes,
assuming less knowledge in their readers, are written in a
more explanatory style. Along with elementary papers,
the Phrenological Journal contain others which would
be uninteresting or unintelligible to beginners. It is well
adapted to advanced phrenologists, all of whom should
read it as published.
It should be urged on every student of phrenology to
seize the first opportunity ofattending one or two courses
of lectures by a practical phrenologist, and the great ad-
vantage to bederived from visiting phrenological museums,
schools, prisons, and all institutions where the heads of
various or remarkable characters can be observed ; parti-
cularly where many can be seen at once. A phrenologist,
it may be added, ought to have some acquaintance with
several either sciences. He should possess much more
88 11.· PHILOSOPHY OF PRRENOLOG't;
knowledge of the natural sciences, relating to livingbeing'!t~
than the average run of educated persons can boost
Anatomy and physiology are highly useful in every stage ot
phrenological study. Political economy, jurisprudence;
the theories of education, and all branches of ethical
philosophy, become necessary in the applications of phre-
nology. History, geograpl>y, natural history, and philcr
logy, are good adjuvants, though of less direct importance.
But so wide is the sphere of phrenological science, that
almost all kinds of knowledge may be made subservient
to its €lucidation and applications ; and, in turn, the prin-
ciples of phrenology apply to, and elucidate, almost every
department of knowledge.
8. SUGGESTIONS FOR DIFFUSING THE KNOWLEDGE OF
PuaENOLOGY.
The acquisition of phrenological knowledge bears with
it its own reward to individuals, as phrenologists will
abundantly testify; though it cannot be expected that
others should be able to appreciate what they have never
experienced and do not understand. While phrenolo-
gists really derive much advantage and pleasure from
their koowledge, they are still tantalised with the distant
prospects of far higher gratifications, which cannot be
fairly gained or fully enjoyed until other persons, upon
whom their interests .
and enjoyments partially depend,
shall become amenable to phrenological rules. This cir-
cumstance alone creates a strong personal inducement
for phrenologists to persevere in their efforts to disseminate
a knowledgP. of the science and a practical adoption of it.a
principles as quickly as possible. In addition, we see
countless evils and disquietudes amongst those around us ;
which phrenology explains, and would go far towards
removing or alleviating, could any proper understanding of
its value be forced upon the sufferers.. Thus, self-interest
II. PHILOSl)PHY OF PHRENOLOGY. 89
and benevolence both loudly call on phrenologists to use
their utmost exertions for removing public prejudices, and
rousing public apathy, on the subject of their science.
Such exertion should be regarded as a moral duty to the
community, and as a duty especially incumbent on those
who are enjoying the comforts and conveniences of life
without the necessity of personal exertion for procuring
them. There are many phrenologists among this class,
yet they have not proved the most useful advocates;
being excelled by others engaged in professions•
. It is an important problem for solution by phrenologists,
what are the best means for spreading wide a knowledge
of phrenological principles, and of their applications to
the practical affairs of life. Books and lectures are
within the efforts of single individuals; and the more they
become multiplied by competent persons, the greater v.1ill
be the chance of drawing public attention to the science
of which they treat. Of elementary works we have now
quite a sufficient number for the present demand and
utility; but the diffusion of them through public libraries
and book·clubs might be much increased by the exertions
of phrenologists. Demonstrative lectures are now much
more required than new books, and provided individual
lecturers will not pretend to more knowledge than they
really possess, taking care to keep strictly within the com-
pass of their own powers, the delivery of lectures on the
subject may safely be pronounced very conducive to the
end desired. It is further in the power of individual
phrenologists to effect much within their own sphere and
society, without writing books or reading lectures. During
the .ordinary inter-communication of friends and acquain-.
taoces, opportunities must constantly arise for pointing
out striking illustrations of the truths of phrenology, and
of the value of phrenological knowledge. Such ought
iiever to be neglected. One altogether ignorant on the
tlll>ject may laugh the first, the second, and .the thircl
90 JI. PHILOSOPHY OP PHRENOLOG't'.
times. But Jet such illustrations multiply upon him. He
soon ceases to laugh, and begins to t.alk about " curious
coincidences," "something in it, but carried too far," and
such like half-admissions, half-negations, which phreno-
logists are pretty well accustomed to hear. By and by,
he will begin to observe his neighbours, and to speak of
their" Self-Esteem," their"Acquisitiveness," their "Love
of Approbation," &c. &c.; and if his time be not fully
occupied with other matters, or his brain unadapted to such
a study, he will borrow "your copy "of Combe's Elements
of Phrenology,"just to look what Combe has to say about
it."
Various are the excuses made by phrenologists, for
neglecting their opportunities. We have scarcely heard
one which was not to a great extent depending on the
phrenologist's own indifference or sensitive vanity. On
the other hand, abrupt attempts to coax or to force others
into adopting phrenological views are injudicious, and
usually fail. It is the phrenologist's duty to kindle the
desire for a knowledge of his science, not to beseech atten-
tion to it. He should be active and watchful, indifferent
to the laugh of the moment, and neither seek to push nor
attempt to persuade. By unobtrusively pointing out the
path, and quietly and gradually removing all obstructions,
he has performed his part ; and he may then leave his
friends to walk along the road, of their own free impulse,
and at their own time and pace. If not otherwise too
busy, or too old, they will soon do so.
Phrenologists also need the sympathy of each other, the
beneficial results of mutual instruction, and to test their
own opinions by a friendly collision of ideas. Books may
avail much for these purposes, but association has great
auxiliary advantages. Moreover, the united exertions of
phrenologists can effect much more than the labours of
isolated individuals, in the local diffusion of phrenological
knowledge. In places where there are many persons dis•
II. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY. 91
posed to study the science, but who have yet only a
moderate knowledge of it, the formation of a Phrenolo-
gical Society may be useful on the score of meetings and
discussions ; but unless a regular accession of young and
active members can be reckoned upon, attendance at the
meetings of the Society may be expected to fall off.
When the main object of a society is to be directed to its
meetings, scarcely any science can maintain a provincial
society exclusively devoted to it; and very few of the
sciences can boast even of metropolitan societies carried
on with vigour. The great usefulness of such associations
for advancing science will be found in their libraries and
museums; and those societies best flourish, which devote
their funds to this purpose. A full set of phrenological
works is already becoming too expensive for many per-
sons, and a good phrenological museum occupies too much
space for small private houses, besides being rather costly.•
The establishment of phrenological societies, for the pur-
pose of forming joint libraries and museums, with onl}'
occasional meetings, will probably be found to answer be11t
in the larger towns; and in the smaller places, this might
enter into the plan and scope of a Natural History Society,
or of one instituted for general science. Where phre·
nologists are too few to support a library and museum
of their own, it appears better to form a private cluh
rather than a public society. But every phrenologis1
should endeavour to form some sort ofmuseum and library
in his own town, let its beginning be ever so small. J\
collection of visible facts tends to silence opposition; ' t
excites interest and inquiry; and it makes practical phre·
nologists where there might otherwise be none. With
access to a good museum, a person may learn phrenology
• About twenty-five pounds will purchase one edition of each of
the English works on Phrenology. The same sum 11·ould provide a
collection of casts, skulls, and models, adequate to teach the subject,
A.good museum is worth man7 hundred pounds.
92 II. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOI,OGY.
three times more rapidly than he could do so from books,
aided only by his own unguided observations, and too
often blundering guesses. In all places where any society
or club is formed, the members should have at least one
public day each year for a popular lecture and illus-
trations. The returns to a circular that will be mentioned
under the head of " Local Diffusion of Phrenology,"
show that access to books and collections, lectures, and
popular demonstrations, are now the main requisites for
spreading the science.
9. SUGGESTIONS FOR CHECKING l'NCANDID OPPOSITION
TO PHRENOLOGY.
In urging others to the study of phrenology, and in
striving to make the public l'eceive and adopt phreno-
logical views, we have to overcome the inert weight of
their own ignorance and the active opposition engendered
by antiphrenological writers, labouring might and main
to keep them in darkness. So soon as the efforts of these
antiphrenologists are arrested,-and speedily now they
will be arrested,-phrenology will be received by the
community much in the same way that we see chemistry
or medicine received: some few will study and guide,
while the multitude adopt and profit by their labours,
howsoever little they may understand them.• Not many
years ago it was said that phrenology ought to be " put
down" by the arm of authority ; but phrenologists are
themselves now waxing strong enough to put down anti-
phrenology without aid of any authority whatsoever save
their own weight and power. Retributive justice is meted
• " It is little more than ten years since I heard a celebrated poetical
baronet play off more bad jokes against an ingenious gentleman, who
as•ert.ed the pos!iibillty of lighting London with gas, than he has
11tteredeven ag•inst phrenology its.-lf; and yet London is now lighted
in the way th.-u ridiculed ; - aye, and the baronet'• houo;e, too, shines
in all the splendour of gas-illumiuation ;" - Pbreu. Journal, 1824. .
II. PIIILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY. 93
out upon those who seek to inflict injury on the commu-
nity; and he is held to be both foolish and criminal, who
supplies arms to be wielded against him~elf and his race.
The defamers of phrenology have inflicted serious injury
on the community by retarding the moral progress of the
public mind. Is it wise, or is it well, in phrenologil1ts to
contribute to their enemies mean~ of doing this? Assur-
edly not ! Yet every phrenologist continuing his support
to any editor or author, guilty of misleading the public
on the merits of phrenology, is actually supplying meant
for injuring himself and others. Phrenologists have not
merelyan individual interestin opposing these calumniators
oftheir science. They are the champions ofprinciples that.
must ere long have a thousand times more influence over
the welfare of the human race, than any political measures
now in progress can possibly have. Will they not exert
themselves for the promulgation of those principles, as
much as political parties labour for the triumph of their
views? Phrenologists must combine. They must put
forth their united strength to silence the voice ofantiphre-
nology, and then raise their own voices to ensure the
public reception of their doctrines. The result is certain;
but energy and activity are necessary to hasten the final
triumph and complete success. There must be an Asso-
CIATlON OF PHRENOLOGISTS. Whether a peripatetic or·
a central Association will best answer, may be doubtful.
A large portion of the best supporters of phrenology are
professional men, who could materially aid a fixed central
holly, yet cannot leave home to attend meetings. On
this account, one general Association, divided into three
national bodies in the three capitals, would seem most
advantageous. A general gathering of all members able
to attend might take place at each capital once in three
years. The objects of the Association would be,-to
destroy opposition,- to extend the knowledge of the sci-
ence,-to ·bring its moral benefits into immediate appli-
9+ II. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.
cation,-and generally to improve the condition of the
human race.
It would be an easy matter to check opposition. Ho-
nest and well-intentioned efforts against phrenology will
be no detriment to phrenologists or to the public. Tem-
perate and candid discussion would benefit both parties,
pro and con. It is the dishonesty of so many opponents
that causes injury. Of course no misrepresentation can
anywise injure the fabric of phrenology ; but it does very
greatly injure individuals, by averting their attention from
the science, and thus causing them ignorantly to refuse
that which they would find most beneficial. However
deaf to the appeals ofjustice, the most dishonest opponent
would listen to those of self-interest; and should a recom-
mendation once go forth, under the sanction of an Asso-
ciation, urging all well-wishers of phrenology to withdraw
support from every periodical guilty of attempts to impede
the progress of the science and to mislead the public, such
a recommendation would of itself silence false tongues.
Meanwhile, let individual phrenologists not be slow to
exert themselves. Let them consider the propriety, -the
morality-of giving strength to the enemies of truth, of
themselves, and of the community. Let them keep ever
on the watch to contradict any falsehoods, to refute any
hostile arguments, and to correct any erroneous statements
that may appear before the public. And, above all, let
them never stoop to conceal their belief and adoption of
phrenological doctrines, either in privaM or in public, in
word or in work, through timidity or through courtesy.
Indignant as phrenologists must inevitably feel, at the
want of generosity and justice in the attacks made upon
them, they are too familiar with the physical causes of
moral obliquity, not to look with pity on their enemies,
even while they feel called upon to weaken the power that
is used for evil. Revenge for the past is a moral absurdity
to which phrenologists will not resort. Their retribution
II. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.. 95
will extend only to the prevention of future injury ; but
to such prevention it ought to extend firmly and unflinch-
ingly. They may pardon the past, to those who "mend
their manners" in future ; but they ought to refuse the
support of purse, of pen, of voice, to all authors and
editors calumniating their science in time to come.
Some persons may feel disposed to question whether
immediate self-interest is the main inducement which
creates the essays of antiphrenological writers. The fear
of loss and the desire of gain,-whether ·of money, or
fame, or other source ofpower and pleasure, - necessarily
influence all men; and we do not usually find the majority
honest enough to lend their aid to anything which may
either inflict loss or diminish gain. Many persons suppose
that such would be the consequences to themselves indi-
vidually, were phrenology to become generally and popu-
larly received. This notion is doubtless erroneous with
respect to the greater number; but in their firm conviction
to the contrary, what are we to expect? Certainly no
great zeal for the diffusion of the science. Again, while
the public continued strongly prejudiced against phreno-
logy, authors attacking the science found more of profit
and repute, than did those who defended it ; for defence
was not only devoid of gain, but attended with positive
loss. Was it then wonderful that phrenology should meet
more opponents than friends? The public offered pay-
ment for being deceived; and it was deceived. Times are
changing now, it is true ; but many persons do not or will
not see this fact, so important to their interests. They
willfeel it ere long:
How far can this explanation of motives be supported
by evidence? Men of reputation who cannot be suspected
of pecuniary bias, and others secure in public estimation,
have shown dislike to phrenology ; and they have not
feared publicly to intimate such dislike. But these are
not the persons who have put their names to works and
96 II. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.
essays avowedly antiphrenological. Some few men of
'celebrity or ability have written essays against phreno-
logy ; but they have done so anonymously, under shelter
of reviews and journals. How far these covert attacks
indicate disinterested regard for science and truth, let
readers deride for themselves. On the other band, tum
we now to tho8e who have blazoned forth their names on
antipbreoological title-pages. Are they men of high and
established fame as scientific inquirers? or, are they
more like the men who are eagerly grasping at a little
temporary reputation, in the eyes of a prejudiced multi-
tude ? Their very title-pages read like puffs and pro-
fessions ad captandum. Reader, look to the list of
antiphrenological works I In what respect have the
scientific labours of Tupper, Rolph, Wayte, Hamilton, and
Stone conferred distinction upon them ? How are they
known, unless by unsuccessful and ridiculous attacks on
phrenology ? These ger.tlemen may be respectable enough
in their own sphere and private conduct,-in this view we
do not insinuate aught agaim1t them,-but what are they
in the world of science? Are the9 the "Great in science
and literature," about whom we have heard so much of
canting folly? Are their works and discoveries leading,
or even lending any aid to, the moral and intellectual
progress of their race? No I The men who can thus
advance the interests of their kind, waste not their time
and talents in writing antiphrenological pamphlets.
But what can induce persons to ·attack phrenology
co,·ertly? Anonymous essays in the pages of periodfoals
have been the grand fireships ofantiphrenology ; and who
will question the influence of pecuniary considerations
here? Remuneration for honourable and useful exertions
is due to every writer who is willing to receive it, and
such could be no disgrace to the highest magnates of the
}and. Can we say this of writers who prostitute their pens
for profit, and who forge falsehoods to delude, became
I~. PHILOIOPHY OF PHl\KNE>~OOY· •97
1he public will pay to be deluded? Let any one who feela
disposed to doubt that such is the case with at least some
of the antiphrenological writers or editors,-that the
demand for deception, by the public, actually produces
_it,-let such one read the following extracts; to which it
is unnecessary to add more :-
. " We have for a considerable time past been astonished
" at the pertinacious obstinacy with which the conductors
'' even of respectable periodicals have got up trashy arti-
" cles against Phrenology, composed of flimsy argument..
" nineteen times refuted, and positive falsehoods as often
" exposed ; but we have at last obtained an explanation of
" the cause. The truth of the following anecdote may be
" implicitly relied on, and it represents a system : -A
" literary gentleman was applied to, to write an article on
" phrenology for a periodical work about to be published,
" and the question, whether it should be for or agaimt
" the science was finally decided, not by an examination
" of the truth or falsehood of the doctrines, which it would
"have required some knowledge, at least, of the subject
" to have determined, but by an appeal to the publiiMr
" of the work ; who having decided that an article agaimt
" phrenology would sell better than one in favour of it,
"the point was carried accordingly." ••••• "We do not
" greatly blame publishers for this proceeding. The argu-
" ment that they must sell their books has much to palliate
" its immorality. They plausibly maintain that ifthe public
~' desire to be deceived, it is not their duty to sacrifice
" their interest by telling them the truth. The blame lies
" chiefly with the public, whose strong prejudices offer a
·" premium to deceit, of which they are at once the cause
'' and the victim. The remedy which we respectfully
"propose for this evil is, to proclaim, as extensively as
~' pouible, the principle on which these attacks on phreno-
~' logy are got up, so as to warn honest and reflecting men
~'- (no 1111all part of the public, we believe),:that the7 are
...
98 JI. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.
" perusing not a conscientious statement offacts and argu-
" ments regarding a momentous question, but a piece of
" premeditated special pleading, addressed to their worst
" passions ; that they are devouring a sop cooked up for
" their prejudices; and that the only inquiry which has
"preceded its preparation is,-in what form it will yield
"most money to the author and bookseller."-Phreno-
logical Journal, vol. vi. pp. 222-224-.
The above observations were called forth by an anti-
phrenological article in the Foreign Review, compiled
from such English authorities as Rennet, Milligan, and
Stone. In additional confirmation of their explanations,
the editors of the Phrenological Journal quote the follow-
ing passage from the same number of this Review; stating,
however, that tlte periodical, particularly alluded to in the
anecdote narrated, was not the Foreign Review :-
"Among the most remarkable changes which literary
" pursuits have undergone of late, one is, that writing for
" the public has ceased to be, in general, the best manner
" of disseminating truths useful to our fellow creatures,
" and tending to the common good, for which an honest
" and honourable remuneration was to be expected. Now-
" a-days, the remuneration is the sole end in view. Truth
" is not spoken out fearlessly and honestly, lest the book
"should not sell: the prejudices and passions of the public
•• are flattered ; and that is the best book which sells the
"best."•
• I am disposed to limit this want of honesty chiefly to periodicals
and "popular " works. A good selling work must require two qua-
lities in particular; first, that the subject of it shall be one or general
interest; and, secondly, that it shnll be only just beyond the knowledge
or ability of the average run or readers. If much above ordina"1
capabilities, a work is either not understood, and therefore uninterest-
ing, or it excites prejudice by being misunderstood. Many of the
.4lpAakt1, Cateckilml, lntroductiom, Lihrarie1, &c., are written bf
persons so little in advance of their readers, that they necessarily par-
take of the same prejudices, and make the same misrepresentation!,
without dishonest intentiona. On the other band, there c:enaiDJy .,..
11, PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY. 99
IO. COMMENTS ON SOME OPINIONS EXPRESSED BY CoR-
RESPoNDENTs SUPPLYING INFORMATION FOR THB
PRESENT VOLUME.
A printed circular having been dispatched to several
persons, to solicit communications respecting the attention
given to phrenology in their own vicinities, some of the
addressed gentlemen added particular remarks or sug-
gestions, upon which it appears desirable to make a few
comments, as the feelings or ideas are likely to be shared
by other persons also. The circular, as will be explained
in the third section, was sent to some few individuals not
professing to be phrenologists.
" As to antiphrenologists, it appears certain that were
"the study to become general the mass of mankind would
" belong to this class. At least, it is certain that, sup-
" posing phrenology to be true, it must denote the mass
" of mankind to be mediocre, or, in some instances, infe-
" rior; and few will countenance a science which consigns
"themselves to either of these classes." Thus writes a
scientific correspondent ; but not a phrenologist. Though
some present facts do tend to support this idea, the gene-
ralisation of its future influence is probably inaccurate;
and in nine out of ten cases the present influence would
not exist except through erroneous notions. A leading
not a few men of talent paid to write such elementary or popular
works, who do both conceal truth and propagate what they bdieve to
be false. But exceptions will occur to every one. Some of the ele-
mentary works are written by men of high talent and integrity, who
stoop from loftier scenes to illuminate oth..rs below them. As to
periodiculs, they are necessarily adapted to the notions of the day, good
or bad. Works ot' that kind cannot possibly succeed, if more than a
short •tep in advance of the age, that is, in advance of the generality
of readers. Wher" would be the wide circulation of Blackwood's Ma-
gazine, the Athenieum, the Literary Gazette, or the Times, if tbe7
wddenly advanced fifty years a·head of their readers, and refu11ed to
employ writer& on ilie level of their age? ·
I' 2
}()() IJ. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.
medical practitioner in Edinburgh admitted, in presence
of the writer of these pages, that he had become unfriendly
to phrenology in consequence of a verbal report upon his
own abilities, given to him by a phrenologist who inspect.ed
a cast of his head. This practitioner's development exactly
accords with his professional skill, which is great ; but by
attending to the mere names of the organs, without any
proper notion of their practical manifestations, he alto-
gether misconceived a report conveyed in somewhat
technical language not familiarly understood by him. It
is by such errors that many individuals become hostile to
phrenology from personal considerations. Nine hundred
and ninety-nine persons in the thousand instinctively
pride themselves on the powers which they do possess,
and entertain indifference, or even contempt, for talents
and acquirements not in their power. Here is the grand
panacea for reconciling men to partial ability. The vulgar
pugilist entertains no wish to exchange his combative
powers for the eloquence of a Chalmers ; nor does a
Chalmers wish to sink into a pugilist. Newton had no
ambition to write poems like Milton ; nor is it at all pro-
bable that Milton would have yielded up his own mental
bias and power, in order to become a Davy or a Linnams.
But it may be said, although a man be satisfied with his
own partial share of genius, yet he will not bear to be
proved "mediocre or inferior" in all respects. The man
of medium ability, however, naturally rejoices in his taste
and judgment, not in his genius ; and if aware at how
great sacrifice the gifts of genius are usually purchased,
very few indeed would desire to give up an average supply
of taste and judgment in exchange for the high genius of
a Newton, Locke, Voltaire, Rousseau, or Kant. More-
over, the great bulk of mankind are well aware, witho~t
the aid of phrenology, that extremely few individuals
amongst them are leaders ; and they will not quarrel with
phrenology for explaining a fact which they already know
JI. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY. 101
and admit. Nay, phrenology absolutely furnishes the only
legitimate excuse for mediocrity or inferiority ; while the
assumption that all men are born with like capabilities is
the heaviest possible censure on moral or intellectual
deficiency. Even admitting that individuals will not
always prefer mediocrity, the fact cannot be disputed by
them, and they must learn to submit to bearing an exter-
nal sign of the fact. Society creates artificial degrees of
rank, and these are marked to a great extent by external
emblems. So nature stamps natural differences of rank,
and gives also the signs of them. Individuals will yield
more willing obedience in the latter case than they do in
the former ; and for the simple reason, that they are
unable to extricate themselves from the necessity of doing
so. We cannot, therefore, entertain any fear that the
mediocre minds will resist phrenology when generally
received by those of superior power. If they do so, the
superior will soon bear down the opposition of these
mediocre minds. And, in point of fact, many earnest
phrenologists are men of only moderate mental calibre.
For example, the writer of this very page is not the l~s
disposed to phrenology because his cranium indicates no
extraordinary powers of mind to dwell within it.
"In the present infant state of the science," writes
another. gentleman, " may I ask, in my ignorance, whether
" phrenologists are not attempting to travel too fast, and
" hereby bringing the whole subject into disrepute, or at
" least retarding its progress ?;" This extract is taken
from the letter of a well-known naturalist, and one whom
we should be glad to see applying his talents to the eluci-
dation of phrenology. There is much of truth in the
remark; and we refer to the next succeeding extract for
comments upon the necessity.of still accumulating and
sifting the data or details. It must be conceded that
nhrenologists have excited hostility to their science b;y
FS
102 U. PHILOSOPHY 01' PHRENOLOGY.
hurrying to its applications; and in this way they have
llightly retarded its diffusion. But granting the fact,
with whom is the fau'lt of the hostility? Assuredly with
the public, not with phrenologists. When the patient
disregards the advice of his physician, do we blame the
latter? Phrenologists have studied their subject; not so
the public. If the applications be correctly made from
correct data-and viewed in the aggregate, they are so-
the public ought instantly to receive them, and be very
thankful to the phrenologists for their labours. Unfortu-
nately, the public will always refuse new lights, and will
always resist sudden change. Hence it might have given
greater immediate success to phrenologists, if they had
attended merely to the dissemination of unapplied facts,-
to the barren knowledge, such as characterises the first
steps of most sciences. Yet bard, very hard is it, for indi-
viduals to restrain their onward impulse, when they Eee
before them, bright and distinct, a vast and unbounded
prospect of increasing happiness to themelves and fellow
beings. When such a result appears to be a consequence
naturally ftowing from the discoveries of Gall, if applied
to pnUltical life, can phrenologists sit down in listless in-
difference, thus to wait till the wlwle community has
become able to appreciate their doctrines? If this read
like enthusiasm, it is that enthusiasm for the future which
can spring only from presently ascertained facts.
"My own opinion is, that the best way of aiding phre-
" nology is to go on making steady observations, dispers-
" ing able lecturers, if possible, throughout the country,
" who should endeavour particularly to show the reason-
" ableness of its doctrines by striking references to the
" brains of animals, idiots, &c., up to the highest in-
" tellects.'' •••• "It must be confirmed by numerous
"examples, and supported philosophically. Enthusiastic
" efforts, in the face of obstinate incredulity, have now
II. PHILOSOPHY OP PHRENOLOGY. 10S
" and then, I think, done phrenology harm." These
extract. are from the letter of a physician of much ability,
author of valuable profesaional writings. Few will .feel
disposed to disagree with him aboat the necessity of still
accumulating observations. Undoubtedly there are fact.
enough to establish the leading principles of phrenology ;
but there are not a tenth of the number of sci.entifioallg
ohurt7ed facts on record, which will be necessary to the
f&ill elucidatioo of these principles, and of their applica-
tions. It is a misfortune to phrenology, viewed as a
branch of nl\tural wience, that it bas been advanced
chiefly by persons not trained to scientific investigations;
at least this is the ease in Britain. Scientific men are
thus repelled from phrenology, by finding objections left on
its threshold, such as they have been accustomed to regard
as almost fatal in any other department of science. But
this circumstance, injurious enough when phrenology is
regarded only in the light of an abstract science, has
brought with it a counterpoise, in the impulse given to-
wards rendering the doetrjnes practically valuable to the
community. Touching enthusiasm, it may be remarked,
that while the personal enthusiasm of half-informed phre-
Jlologists is often injurious, there has not been a sufficienc7
of that steady zeal, based on knowledge and conviction,
which induces to sustained and unflinching efforts.
" After all, it is the practical applications that will draw
" the multitude rather than the truth of science or its
" principles. So deeply have I been impressed with thia,
" that I have never been forward to contend in argument,
" or anxious to make proselytes, being content to await
" the slow but certain progress that truth is sooner or
" later sure to make. The idea is so well expressed in a
" letter which I lately had from a phrenological friend
" that I am tempted to transcribe the passage. I had leat
" him some phrenological works, and in returning thea
F4
Ji)jo II. PHILOSOPHY OF PHRENOLOGY.
" he thus remarks,-' Combe's work on Insanity is a
" ' masterly production, emanating from a mind educated
" ' for times that are yet to come ; it breathes throughout
" ' a moral and intellectual spirit, which can only be
" ' partially responded to in an age like the present, and
" ' is founded on a system whose progress will rather be
'' ' traced in its silent effects than by popular or universal
" ' recognition. Phrenology by its very nature is ad-
" ' dressed to the thinking few, and on their exertions
" ' alone its ultimate prevalence depends. Its practical
" 'utility will, by and by, ensure its reception by minds
" ' whose assent would never have been given to its prin-
" ' ciples.' This truth, as profound as it is happily ex-
" pressed, appears to · me to merit attention on the
" part of all who take an interest in the spread of phre-
" nology, tending, as it does, to direct their efforts aright,
" and to console them under the neglects with which
" the science may appear to be treated.'' At first glance
this passage, emanating also from a medical author
and a true phrenologist, may seem to contradict the
two preceding extracts; yet it does not in reality. The
great body of the public is indeed content with the prac-
tical advantages flowing from scientific inquiries, and its
members take no care about proofs and principles ; but
these practical applications, in moral questions, never
can be fairly made until those who lead the public have
adopted and understood the principles. Hence the ne~
sity of making many minds admit and apply the principles
of phrenology. While the leaders of public opinion
oppose phrenology, their followers cannot see the advan-
tages of its practical applications, and will not feel any:
desire to avail themselves of such benefits. So soon a&·
a considerable number of leading minds make the prin;;·
ciples of phrenology into the guides of their actions and ~
.the foundations of their expressed opinions, then wiU the!
niultitude sweep round to them. Thia movement lflUl
JI. PHIL080PHY OF PHRENOLOGY. 105
begun, but it has hitherto been made at a very slow rate.
It is already·accelerating, and will increase more and more
rapidly as it rolls on.
" It is scarcely worth adding that your present corre~
" spondent is disposed to believe the more fundamental
" principles ofphrenology, though he would venture upon
" no opinion regarding the details ; with which, indeed, he
" is not well acquainted. It is, however, evidently im-
" possible ever to establish fully phrenological principles.
"In admitting it to be true-as it probably is-that the
" state of the brain causes and may indicate the senti-
" ments and propensities, this state must depend both upon
" quantity and quality ; but how are you to estimate the
" latter of these constituents ?" We refer the writer of
this passage to our preceding page 58, .in proof that the
phrenologists do take the quality of brain into particular
coosideration ; as he will find in the works of Spurzheim,
the Combes, and all phrenologists of the present day. We
also beg him to call to mind that principles are only groups
of details resembling in some given point, or rules deduced
from such. Hence, an admission of the principles is also
an admission of the details of phrenology ; not altogether,
certainly, but to a considerable extent. In physics, it is
a principle that bodies expand with heat. This principle
being admitted, the expansion of air, the expansion of
water, and the expansion of iron, are just so many details
admitted by implication ; although the rates of expansion
of air, water, or iron, or of these in the solid, fluid, or
vapourised states, might still be questionable. So, in
phrenology, when we admit the plurality of cerebral
organs and functions, with the influence of size as a
measure of power, we necessarily admit very many details
from which these general principles have been drawn ;
but without yielding assent to every circumstance. In
·fact, there is no science into which some questionable and
F5
l06 II, PHILOSOPHY OP' PHRENOLOGY.
· questioned details do not enter, and phrenology is pretty
largely supplied with such debateable ground. We dis-
agree with our correspondent in saying that it is " impos-
sible ever to establish fully phrenological principles." It
is possible to establish the leading principles of phreno-
. logy, - for example, the two just mentioned,-as fully as
the principles of other sciences are established; although
we never attain perfect precision in application. Such
precision, indeed, has no existence in any science, except
theoretically. The principle of bodies gravitating to-
wards each other is established, in all ordinary acceptation
of the term ; yet neither the masses nor the distance of
any two bodies can be measured with absolute precision ;
neither can the greatest mathematician correctly allow for
each disturbing cause siugly. So the physiological prin-
ciple, that size is a measure of power, may be considered
as fully established, although a disturbing cause exist in
the quality of the brain, and although phrenologists can-
not estimate the exact amount of disturbance caused
thereby. The quality, or mere temporary state of our
bodies, materially modifies the effects of any given quan-
tity of medicine, yet we do not on this account refuse
to specify average doses of physic. Neither do we refuse
credence to the principles of phrenology, or reliance on
cerebral indications, merely because it is impossible to
arrive at estimates individually perfect. Averages may
establish what single examples fail of doing.
"Great coolness exists towards the support of anything,
"which has not profit or amusement to recommend it." ...
"Perhaps it would be difficult to name any place in which
" so little of a tum exists for any pursuit not bearing em-
• tlently and certainly upon the interests of the individuals
"cultivating it." These ex.tracts refer, the first to an En·
glish, the second to a Scottish, town. That phrenology
does bear evidently and certainly upon the interest.·of
JI. PHILOSOPHY 01' PHRBJfOLOGY. 107
iJldiriduals, and that it is a Jrnowledge mmging with it
m11ch pleasure and profit, is not questioned by any one
who understands the science. The real cause of the neg-
lect rests in the public of these and other towns being
ignorant that such is the case. Our savage predeceeaoft
trod the soil of Britain for centuries, altogether ignorant
of the profit and pleasure which its mines of coal and
iron-stone held in store for their descendants orsuccessors.
Had they known the value of the coal and iron-stone, a
less quantity of these minerals would have descended to
as. So, our grandfathers grew up to manhood without tJte
use of gas-lights ; being unaware that the discovery of
combustible gas bore upon their interests as individual1.
Had they learned this fact, gas-lamps would have bee11
earlier made. The public must be taught that phrenology
bears on the interests of individuals, and can yield both
amusement and profit. But there is a great delusion con-
nected with the word PROFlT. We arc so thoroughly
accustomed to use the pecuniary scale for estimating value,
that the word pro.fit has become almost synonymous with
that of money, in our mental vocabulary. A thousand
things, however, are profitable which yield no money; and
money itself, to most persons, is only the instrument
whereby to procure pleasure. It is to the full as rational
and judicious for A. to procure pleasure at once, when he
can do so by slight and agreeable personal exertion, as for
B.to take the roundabout course of earning money in order
that he may spend it in buying pleasure. Moreover,
knowledge affords many high pleasures and advantage!!
which no money can ever buy; and the knowledge of
phrenology is not behind any other kind of knowledge, in
its power of conferring advantages and pleasures.
The preceding, it appears to us, are the remarks most
calling for particular comment. Others might have been
added, but they are such as have been alluded to in the
., 6
.J()8 · JI. PHILOSOPHY 01' PHRENOLOGY.
preceding pages of this volume or are discussed in the
works which teach phrenology. There is a suggestion in
the letter of Mr. Tait, of Lauder, which merits the consi-
deration of phrenologists. This gentleman thinks that
Societies should lend their casts, &c., for a moderate pay-
ment, to individuals desirous of bringing the subject of
phrenology before the public, by means of lectures. We
should suppose that members of Phrenological Societies
would be allowed the use of their collections for such a
purpose ; and the same advantage might be given to others,
recommended by members undertaking to become per-
sonally responsible for loBB or damage. Would not the
dealers in casts find it advantageous to lend them on mo-
derate terms ?
·i
·~ ·-
~. . 109
.
•·
SECTION III.
LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY.
" We are quite numerous enough to keep each other in countenance."
- ELLIOTIOJI. 4ddreu to the Lmdtm Phrmc/ogical &ciety, 1827•
IN the hope of obtaining accurate information on this
subject, copies of a printed circular were addressed to
several gentlemen, whose names are mentioned in the
Phrenological Journal, or otherwise known in connection
with phrenology ; and a few copies were also forwarded
to other persons. To some of these cii:culars no replies
have been received • ; and taking them altogether they
were dispatched to very few towns, comparatively with
the whole number existing in the British islands. Had it
been possible for a single individual to obtain returns from
every town in Britain, with few exceptions, in addition to
the following, they would have conveyed scarcely more
than the intelligence that little was known about phreno-
logy, and that not much had been done towards commu-
nicating any knowledge of it to the townsmen ; but that,
so far as known, the impression is now more favourable
• The addresses of the circulars (or letters) to which replies have
not been rtieeived, were the following. - Dr. Corden Thompson,
Sheffield-Dr. Kennedy, Ashby de la Zouch- W. G. Lawrence,
Esq., Languen Castle, Castle Douglas-Mr. J. R. Stebbing, South-
ampton - Mr. Deville, Strand, London - Messrs. Childs, Bungay-
- Bagg, Esq., Surgeon, Louth- Mr. Adam, Inverness. - The two
latter were not sent till May was far advanced; the former were sent
in March or April. Should any communications be early received
from these or other individuals, they will be added to the end of tbis
•olume.
110 III. LOCAL Dil'l'USION 01' PHRENOLOGY.
than adverse. There are probably many English towns
of ten or twenty thousand inhabitants, in which it would
be vain to ask for a geologist or zoologist; and doubtless
many in which it would be equally useless to inquire for
a phrenologist, properly so called. The places in which
the science has most advanced will be included in the
following notices. The replies to the queries of the cir-
cular were sometimes made by figures directly corre-
sponding to the questions; in other instances, a different
course was followed. To save readers the tro11ble of
frequent reference to the circular, the direct replies have
been dovetailed with the words of the circular ; but where
the replies were not thus made, extracts have been taken
from the letters received. Hence the differences of lan-
guage, manner, &c., and some awkwardness, it must be
confessed, in the uniting of fragments of sentences. The
queries explain themselves ; but some misconceptions
appear to have arisen respecting No. 29. The object of
desiring a responsible name for the local particulars, was
no way concerned with professions of belief in the science.
This was desired solely for the purpose ofgiving authenti-
city to facts, which obviously could not all fall under the
observation ofone individual. Historical or scientific facts,
which have already passed the ordeal of publication, and
thus become the property of the community, do not im-
peratively call for individual authority; but many of the
local circumstances, communicated for this volume, are
necessarily ushered forth on the personal authority of the
individual to whom we are indebted for them ; and publicly
speaking, they require this personal pledge of authenticity
or accuracy. The inquiries concerning other Societies was
obviously intended to exhibit the general interest in philo-
1ophical subjects, felt by the townsmen of the .different
places. The following is a copy ofthe circular mentioned,
which will explain the tenour of the replies: -
III. LOCAL DIPJ'USIOlli' OP PHRENOLOGY. 111
So,
Being engaged in collecting information for the purpo111 of
ellowing the present state of phrenology, in Britain, and the extent to
which any knowledge of it is diffused through society, I take the
liberty of forwarding to you the following queries on the subject ;
respectfully soliciting replies to such of them as you may deem proper
and find it convenient to attend to. In case of not being prepared to
name precise numbers, more general expressions can be used, as, many.
fotll, veryfew, about a dot'.en, about a acore, &c.
I have the honour to be,
Very obediently yours,
HEWETT C. WATSON.
Ditton Marsh, near Kingston on Thames.
I. Querie1 concerning the Phrenological Societv of
l. Is there any Phrenological Society in ?
2. When was the Society instituted ?
S. What number of Members does it now consist of?
4. What number of Members of the Society belong to the Medical
Profession ?
5. Has the Society any Museum or Collection illustrative of
Phrenology ?
6. What number of Human Skulls are in the Collection?
7. Ditto, Casts?
8. Ditto, Busts or Models?
9. What number of Animal Skulls?
IO. Ditto, Casts ?
11. Ditto, Models or Preparations?
12. What number of Books treating of Phrenology?
13. What number of detached Portraits, engraved or otherwise,
illustrative of Phrenology?
14. What entrance fee and annual subscription are demanded from
persons becoming members ?
15. How often does the Society meet?
II. Querie1 having reference to the public of geM-
rally, and in tM replies to which the Memberr <f the P/we..
nollJgical Society of ant NOT to be cotmted.
16. What number of educated and competent persons, in and about
, admit the general principles of Phrenology to be true ?
112 Ill. LOOAL DIJ!'J!'USION OJ!' PHRJ:NOLOGr.·
17. Whai number ot such penon1 make Phrenology a particblar
111bjfft of atudy, or are'° far c:oavenant with it &1 to entitle them to
be called " PhrenologUta;" applying this term in the same 1ense as the.
terms Botanist, Chem.Ut, or GeologUt, are usually applied? ·
I8. What number of educated persons, of ability not below average,
deny the truth of Phrenology so far &1 to come under the designation
of " .Antip/lrenologiltl" 1
19. What number of such Antiphrenologists are acquainted with
the facts and principles of Phrenology (as set down in the works of
Gall, Spunheim, or Combe) in a sufficient degree to entitle them to
pronounce a decision respecting the merits of the science ?
III. M"ucellaneow Querie1, applying to Member1 ef Phrenological
Societie1 and other• in4ijfett:ntly.
20. Is there any Phrenological Museum in , not
belonging to a Phrenological Society,-and what are its contents
according according to the queries, 6 to 11, on the preceding page?
21. Have any Public Lectures on Phrenology been giYen in
22. Wben?
2s. By whom?
24. How attended?
25. Ifno Phrenological Society yet exists in , is there
any prospect of an early formation of one?
26. Js there any other Scientific Society in ?
27. What are the name and objects of such Scientific Society?
28. What number of Members does such Scientific Society consist
of?
29. Does the person, answering any of the questions in this letter,
object to seeing his name joined with his replies, when printed ?
ABERDEEN.
I. " Aberdeen is now a large scattered place, so that it
is just possible there may be some small and little known
phrenological meeting here ; but there certainly is no
phrenological society known to me, or generally to the
public ; nor do I believe that anything of this kind exists
in Aberdeen, or ever has done so."
II. " I have never heard of any one here, who has a
knowledge of phrenology, or takes any interest in it."
III, LOCAL. DIPPUSIO:N OP PHltBNOLOQY, llS.
III. " It is worth mentioning, when so little can be said,
that two or three years ago I put my name to a list of
persons who were to pay Mr. Combe a guinea each for '
some lectures on phrenology, to be delivered soon after in
Aberdeen, but I never again heard of the matter." Oui:_
correspondent, Dr. Alexander Murray, further states that
there is no literary or scientific society in Aberdeen,
excepting a medical society, consisting of students and
practitioners, and the objects of which are professional;
also, that there is so very little tum for literary or scien-
tific pursuits, that he sees no reason to hope for the speedy
establishment of a phrenological society. Dr. Murray does
not profess to be a phrenologist; but we addressed a cir-
cular to him, having had the pleasure of corresponding
with him on botanical matters.
This is not a very flattering picture of an university
town. It would seem, however, that there must be some
persons here interested in phrenology, else why and by
whom was the requisition to Mr. Combe attempted, and
how could a list of persons be procured willing to pay for
lectures upon the science?
ALYTH.
I. The Phrenological Society of Alyth was instituted
in May, 1834 ; when it commenced with twelve members.
The present number of members is twenty-two; of whom
one only belongs to the medical profession. The museum
of the society contains six skulls, four casts, and two
models, all human. The library has about a dozen phre-
nological books. The entrance fee is five shillings, and the
subscription is one shilling quarterly, until it amounts to
ten shillings. The society meets every four weeks.
II. Many persons are converts to phrenology ; but very
few- of them are sufficiently conversant with it to entitle
them·io be called phrenologists. .There are many antj.l '
1u. nr. LOCAL DlFPUSIOll' 011' PHRUOLOGI'.
plmmologiats, but none of them are acquailated witll the
science.
III. There is no other acientific aociety in Alyth. We
are obliged to Mr. DaTicl Fenton, of Alyda, for the &bore
particulan.
ARBROATH.
"In Arbroath, lectures have been delivered by Mr.
Aitken and by Mr. W. A. F. Browne. There are several
phrenologist.a. Dr. Guthrie po18e88es a amall collection
of casts. The population is H,000.''- Mr. W. A. F.
Browne, Montrose.
" In consequence of an invitation from the 'Arbroath
Society for obtaining Useful Knowledge,' two lectures
were delivered there on the ISth and 20th of May, by our
active friend Mr W. A. F. Browne of Montrose. TJae
audience, we understand, amounted to about 600." -
Phren. Journal, ix. S79.
BAKEWELL.
It appears from the Phrenological Journal, that Spurz-
heim lectured here in 1829. We know not the induce-
ment, Bakewell being a very insignificant place, as to
size and population.
BATH.
II. " Of the state of phrenology in Bath I have little
more than conjectures to offer. It has certainly not
flourished here ; and several have, through gross igno-
rance of the science, been determinedly opposed to
it. Yet my belief is, that generally the people here
are favourably disposed towards it ; and that if a society
were formed here, and int.erellt in the subject kept eli?e
JU. LOCAL Dil'PUSION OF PHRENOLOGY. 115
by good lectures ocD&Sionally renewed. m'tlch progreu
would now be made."
III. " Spurzheim lectured here thrice within the last
twenty years, and on each occasion made a great impres-
lion. Hie last two courses were delivered at our Literary
Institution, and attracted larger classes, by far, than any
other lecturer here has ever assembled." These extracts
are from a letter written by Dr Barlow of Bath, long
known ae a phrenologist. The two latter courses of lec-
tures, by Spurzheim, were delivered in 1827 and ISSI;
the first, in or about 1816.
BELFAST.
I. " A Phrenological Society was established in Belfast
on the 15th of January, 1827, and continued its sittings
for about two years. As most of its members were also
members of other scientific or literary societies, so many
distinct subscriptions and nights of meeting were found
to be both expensive and inconvenient, and it was there·
fore proposed and arranged that the Phrenological Society
should merge into the Natural History Society, and be
recognised by it; and that papers upon phrenology, or
any subject connected with it, should be received as tanta-
mount to papers upon any other branch of natural history.
Accordingly, in the opening address of the Belfast Natural
History Society, in November, 1831, the Honorary Vice-
President, the Rev. Thomas Dix Hincks, LL.D. and
M.R.I.A., publicly announced phrenology to be a new
branch of study connected with natural history ; and
several papers upon phrenological subjects have been since
read both upon the private and public evenings of meet-
ing.•••. Its [Phren. Soc.] original number of members
was forty-four•••• There were seven medical men on the
original list of members. The Society has above a
hundred casts of skulls, busts, &c., but not either human
116 III. LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY· '
skulls or skulls of any of the inferior animals. I should
think there are about forty casts of skulls, and the remain-
der either masks or busts.'' •••• Of phrenological books,
the library has " about thirty, including most of Spurz-
heim's works, and Gall's Recherches, presented by himself.
Not any · portraits. The subscription to the Natunll
History Society is one guinea per annum, and that entitles
to the use of everything connected with the Institution.
There is not any particular night set apart for phreno-
logical subjects. All the ordinary members, whether phre-
nological or otherwise, have to read in rotation, and
may choose what subjects they please, connected with
some branch of natural history, natural philosophy, or
statistics."
II. "It would be very difficult to answer this class of
questions without a much more extensive intercourse with
society than I can pretend to. I will endeavour, however,
to throw some inferential light upon the subject when
I come to query 26.'' The inferences are thus stated
under query 26 :-"The Belfast Natural History So-
ciety, .already alluded to, was established in 1821, and
its present museum was erected in 1830. It at present
consists of forty-six annual subscribers, paying one guinea
each, one hundred and sixty-four holders of one or two
shares, paying an annual subscription of five shillings or
twelve shillings and sixpence each, and twenty-one holders
of three or four shares, who are exempted from any annual
subscription,-making a total constituency of two hun-
dred and thirty-one. The officers amount to seventeen•
• . •• The whole are chosen by ballot from the ordinary
members, and may, not unnaturally, be expected to repre-
sent the opinions of the electors to a considerable extent.
The President, Dr. James L. Drummond, Professor of
Anatomy and Botany to the Belfast Royal Academical
Institution, is an avowed believer in phrenology, and all
the remaining officers, unless one, are decidedly favourably
III. LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY. 117
inclined towards it ; six or seven having given it a good
deal of consideration."
III. " There may be a few detached specimens, per-
haps; but nothing more," in the way of private phreno-
logical museums. " Dr. Spurzheim gave a full course of
lectures in May, 1830, which was pretty numerously
attended. I should suppose there might have been above
a hundred, and the bulk of that number was formed of
the educated and scientific persons ;--a great many me-
dical men, several clergymen, and some of the leading
teachers in our institutions. Many, of course, were not
converts to the truth of phrenology ; but I believe very
many at the close of the course were fully convinced of
its truth and importance, by the calm and dignified display
of argument and illustration which the illustrious teacher
brought forward. Dr. Spurzheim also demonstrated, upon
the recent subject, to the entire satisfaction of a very large
medical audience, the fibrous structure of the brain•••••
The Belfast Literary Society, established the 23d of Octo-
ber, 1801, meet once in each month, and read papers
upon some subject relating to literature, science, or the
arts•••• For the information connected with query 26
(Natural History Society], I am chiefly indebted to Mr.
Robert Patterson and Mr. Webb, members of the Natural
History Society Council, and ardent phrenologists ; and
we can none of us have any objection to give to these
statements the authority of our names." These are grati-
fying particulars, for which we have to thank Mr. Grattan
of Belfast.
BEVERLEY.
II. " I believe that I am the only person in the town
or neighbourhood, who pretends to have any knowledge
of phrenology ; but many well-educated persons, among
the clergy and gentry, are evidently disposed to admit the
truth of its leading principles; and some of its details••••
118 UJ. LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY.
I have only met with three decided antiphrenologists in
Beverley ; but their hostility arises altogether from igno-
rance of the subject. Two of them regard the science as
a fine subject for jest and ridicule ; and I have had to
encounter, wi many occasions, th~ sallies of their wit and
merriment. Their attacks, however, have always been
made in perfect good humour."•
III. There is no phrenological museum here, but Mr.
Sandwith, - to whom we are indebted for the above
extract,- has a few busts or models and drawings. This
gentleman has lectured once to the Beverley and East
Riding Mechanics' Institute.
BIRMINGHAM.
Dr. Spurzheim lectured here in 1828. In so large a
town, it might have been expected that a Phrenological
Society would have been formed long ago. Are there no
phrenologists here ?
BoLTON.
Backward as Birmingham. Spurzheim lectured here
in 1829; did the seed all fall among thorns?
BosTON.
Mr. Levison delivered six lectures on Phrenology here
in 1830 to an audience of fifty persons; one lecture, on
the application of Phrenology in Education, to the mem-
bers of the Boston Library and their friends, in 1832,
attended by three hundred auditors ; and one lecture on
• Many points connected with phrenology must inevitably e:rcite
fepJings of absurdity in the mind• of persons who have not lelll"ned
their truth, and their consistency with the rest of our natural know-
ledge. Phre110logists will readily excuse a little ridicule from such
persons; and it may be added, that a well-instructed phrenologis&
possesses a vantage ground, from which he should be able to return
aucb attacks with compound interest.
Digili ej ,,Google
III. LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY. 119
the Philosophy of Habit, considered phrenologically, in
1834, attended by three hundred persons.
BRADFORD.
" Bradford has also many believers, and besides my
own lectures there, I saw a very favourable account thia
winter, in the Leeds Mercury, of a lecture on phrenology
to a very [some word omitted here in Mr. Levison's letter]
audience, given by a reverend gentleman to a Mechanics'
Institution in that town." Mr. Levison intimates his own
lectures to have been (all in 1833):-
Three on Phrenological Education, to sixty auditors;
-one, on the Probable Benefits of Phrenology, to a hun-
dred auditors ;-one, to the members of the Mechanics'
Institution, to three hundred auditors ;-and two on Phre-
nology and its consequences, also to the members of the
Mechanics' Institution, amounting to four hundred audi-
tors.
BRECHIN.
"Lectures have been delivered by Mr. Aitken, and by
the Rev. Mr. Clarke. There are a few phrenologists,
but neither a Society nor a museum." -Mr. W. A. F.
Browne, Montrose, April, 1836.
"Mr. Clarke has just finished a course of six lectures
in Brechin ;- average attendance upwards of one hundred
persons. A Society is all but absolutely formed.''- Mr.
A. Leighton, Dundee, May 3. 1836.
BRISTOL.
Dr. Spurzheim lectured at Bristol about the year 1816,
and again, to a numerous audience, in 1827.
BUNGAY.
Messrs. R. andJ. Childs, of Bungay, are said to posse1&
a small museum, containing about three hundred cu.ts,
19) Ill, ·toCAL DIFPUSION OP PHREN()LGGY.
mostly from li•ing persons. We addressed a letter &f
inquiry to them, but have not received any reply.
CAMBRIDGE.
1. "I shall be in Cambridge by the end of the week,'
and will make the inquiries you wish, respecting the
Phrenological Society; but I rather think it no longe•
exists." - Rev. Prof. Henslow. •
III. Spurzheim lectured here, in 1826, to above one hun-
dred auditors ; and a Phrenological Society appears to
have been attempted or established about the same time.
CHATHAM.
Phrenological Collections. - " We learn that one of
national skulls has been made at Chatham." - Phren:
Journal, vii. 315.
CHELTENHAM.
Spurzheim lectured here in 1828.
CORK.
Spurzheim lectured here in 1816; and Dr. Abell de-
livered lectures in 1825: being then "granted the use of
the lecture-room of the Cork Institution, by the unanimo~
consent of the managers, - an honour which, ten years
before, had been refused to Dr. Spurzheim." Mr. Wilson
concluded a course of lectures at the same Institution in
April, 1836. I
Spurzheim thus describes the inhabitants of Cork, as
cohnected with phrenology, in 1816. "From the begin-
• I applied to Professor Henslow, having had the pleasure or a
slight correspondence with him, on botanical matten; but I am una-
~ what. Professor Henslow's opinions may be OD th.e ~ect or
phrenology. · Not hearing any thing further, I presume the'pro.;J.;i
illlfUhUl:91& ~..m.eliWeiAUJ,1adtiitiOll&l infon11atjom , , .. · ,. ,,
Digiti'ed oy GoogIe
nr. LOCAL DIUUSIO:M' OJI PHRBWOLOOT. lil
ning the fair sex has been favourable to our science : it is
eo in Cork. Very few of the medical profeBBion think
proper to be interested in our investigations, and prefer
dinners an.d suppers to phrenology. The greater number
of the gentlemen are occupied with mercantile specula·
tions ; ladies alone turn their minds towards scienti6e
pursuits." (From Carmichaefs Memoir.)
COVENTRY.
"I fear I can now give you but very scanty information
on the subject of phrenology, in and about Coventry, it
being one of which I know next to nothing. There is no
Phrenological Society at Coventry, nor, upon inquiry, can
I learn that the subject is much studied there; indeed, we
are a very unscientific race in this part of the country.
A young man of the name of Bray, a resident in Coven·
try, bas this spring been giving a course of lectures on
phrenology to the Mechanics' [nstitute in that town,
which, I am told, were respectably attended, by, perhaps,
about two hundred persons on an average. These lec-
tures were intended to be preparatory to laying down
certain principles, on which to found a system of general
education; and, I likewise hear, that some other person
has announced an intention of refuting these doctrines.
There is no scientific Society in Coventry unless you
would designate by that name the Mechanics' Institute,
and another Society lately established under the title of
the' Religious and Useful Knowledge Society.' Lectures
on various scientific subjects have been delivered to both
these institutions.''-Rev. W. T. Bree, Allesley Rectory.
CuPAR-F1n:.
I. " The Phrenological·Society of Cupar was instituted
ill aUguat last, and consists of aboat tweaty members,
G
J~ Ul· LOCAL DU'FUSlON OJ' PUll&NOLOGT.
two only of whom belong to the medical profession~ T.he
Society has a few human skulls, with a considerable num-
ber of casts and busts illustrative of the 1cience; also a
few of the standard works and the Edinburgh Journal,
The entrance fee is five shillings; and the Society me$
once a week, when an essay is read by one of the mem-
bers."
II. "In this quarter the science is in its infancy. Un-
ti1 last summer there were not more than two or three
who had paid the smallest attention to it. Since then,
I am disposed to think, that it is gaining ground rapidly:
All those I am acquainted with, who ha-Ye given it any
consideration, admit the general principles. I am, indeed,
aot acquainted with any person ,who can be designated
an antiphrenologist. It is, however, ridiculed by many,
especially the established clergy, but they have not made
themselves acquainted with the science to such an exteat
as to entitle their opinions to any weight. Though only
two out of the six. medical men have become members'r
[of the Society], " yet three, out of the remaiJling foui;
.aeem to admit. the genE:ral principles." These particulare
are copied from the reply of Mr Thomas Pratt, of Cupar.
DERBY.
Mr. Killer, of this town, states, on the authority of Mr.
Baker, "a true disciple of Spurzheim, who was frequently
at his house," that a belief in the doctrines of phrenologJ
i& gaining ground in Derby, but that it wants the aid of
a few more advocates. Spurzheim lectured here in 1830
or 1831; and Mr. Levison mentions his ewn lecturet
here to have been the following :-Six lectures, on phre.
nology, in 1832, to three hundred auditors ;-one,on edu-
cation, to the Mechanics' Institution, the auditors being
Wee h,undred;-and three, on the i.mportanceofa Nati'*1al
System of EducJl.tiOB founded on a prt.etical )lfli~ of
v .
nr. LO'CAL Dll'FUSION OJ' PHRENOLOGY. 1!8
mind, to between.six hundred and seven hundred auditors.-
The attendance is thus represented as very numerous for
a town of small size; and in all probability they ought
not to be set down as phrenological lectures, since Mr.
Lemon adds, "These lectures were given at the re-
quest of the members of the Derby Mechanics' Institu-
tion, with the popular title, ' On the evils of Ignorance,
and the advantage of Knowledge.'" To lectures ad-
vertised under this title, we are not entitled to suppose
that a single auditor was attracted by pkreno/ogical con-
11iderations.
DINGWALL.
Sir G. S. Mackenzie lectured here, in 1832, to an
audi€nce of forty persons. This appears to be the most
northern town yet reached by phrenology, in Britain.
DONCASTER.
Mr. Levison's Museum contains two hundred casts,
forty or fifty human skulls, many animal skulls, besides
two hundred birds' skulls. This gentleman delivered six
lectures here in 1831, to a class of forty persons, and an
additional lecture on the causes of suicide, to fifty persons ;
one lecture on th~ application of phrenology to education,
in 1832; six lectures in 1836, to an audience of nearly
two hundred. In the latter year, a dissenting minister,
the Rev. J. Bromley, delivered an antiphrenological lec-
ture, to which Mr. Levison replied. This information
was obtained from Mr. Levison.
Du&LIN.
I. Tlaere are two Phrenological Societies in Drlblin,
~ an aaxilie.ry Society of young men having been lately
o2
12.f. Ill• LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY.
established." The Dublin Phrenological Society was in·
stituted in 1829; and includes about fifty members, the
majority of whom belong to the medical profession. The
Society's museum contains about two dozen human skulls,
nearly three hundred human busts or casts ; also skulls of
most of the native animals of Ireland. Its library has the
works of Spurzheim, Combe, and the Phrenological Jour·
nal. The annual subscription is one guinea. The meet·
ings are once a fortnight.
II. " Our Society, which chiefly consists of medie.al
men, barristers, and a• few divines, now but seldom meets.
We are all satisfied of the truth of Phrenology, and unless
something new were to be discussed few of the members
would assemble. However, the public are somP-times in·
vited to a kind of conversational lecture on the science,
and our rooms are then crowded to excess. The language
of phrenology is the language of Dublin,·as I presume it.
is elsewhere. Every body knows something of it; and it
has no violent opponents except metaphysicians oC:tbe
Berkleyan cast, who doubt the existence of matter itself;
and those who are ignorant of the facts, and are too in-
dolent or conceited to learn them."
III. The author of the memoir of Spurzheim was kind
enough to communicate these particulars. We learn from
the memoir, that Spurzheim lectured in Dublin in 1815
.~d 1816, and at this early period of phrenology, in the
British Isles, created a very favourable impression, Mr.
Carmichael being himself one of the converts then made.
In 1829 Mr. Combe lectured in Dublin, and bis visit led
to the formation of the Phrenological Society. In 1890
Spurzheim again lectured here. " He added many con-
verts to the science, and increased the number of his per-
sonal friends; but it must be confessed, that his class wu
but small when considered with reference to the immeDll8
numbers in this populous city, that ought to have had
1ome curiosity upon so new, so stran,ge,and so all-important
III, LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY. 12$
a subject."-(Memoir, p. 37.) He again delivered two
courses of lectures in Dublin in 1831.
DUMFRIES.
We conclude the faeling in Dumfries to be hostile to
phrenologv. Our reason for such a condusion is the fol-
lowing :-The editor of a paper, called the Dumfries
Times, inserted with approval one of the most absurd
lucubrations, considering its brevity, we have chanced to
meet with on the subject of phrenology. The writer's
opinions were introduced as " original" views, "too good
to be lost," See Phren. Journal, viii. 365.
DUNBAR.
See HADDINGTON.
DUNDEE.
I. The Phrenological Society of Dundee was established
in August 1825. The present number of members is
between sixty and seventy; two of whom belong to the
medical profession. " Owing to our easy terms, many
persons on going through all our books, and getting a
good general knowledge of the science, cease to pay,
iwd of course cease to be members. That number at·
present pay. Were I to calculate others who have dropt
tp.way, our numbers would be three or four times as many."
1The Society's museum contains six human skulls, twenty..
two casts of human skulls, and one of the brain, thirty-two
human busts and six masks ; also about thirty animal
~ulls. Its library contains ''eighty volumes either treat-
,iug exclusively on phrenology or based upon its principles;
;besides two on physiology and one on education, with a
fe.w pamphlets. The journals are in~luded in this enq,.•
G 3
lff ur. LOCAL DIFl'USION 01' PHRENOLOGY•
meration." There is one detached portrait, that of Spon-
heim. "No entrance fee is required. The simple re-
commendation ofa member and the payment in advance of
sixpence per quarter, constitutes one. Our annual sulr
scription i11 thus two shillings. The meetings are weekly.''
II. It is uncertain how many believers of phrenology
there are in Dundee, but probably "five hundred or ail
hundred is within the mark." As to the numbet' of per-
sons entitled to be called phrenol.ogista, " my experien<ie
is too limited to be able to say. About a score I am cer·
tain of, however, but there may be ten times that number.'.'
• . • • • " There may be some" persons who deny the
truth of phrenology, "but if there be, they are of no note,
or I should have heard of them. A medical man, Dr.
- , was once one [an antiphrenologist], but it is now
reported that he is a convert. I have never had the good
fortune to meet with any" antiphrenologist acquainted with
the facts and principles of the science in a sufficient de-
gree to entitle him to pronounce judgment on its merits.
III. There are no private ]!!irenological museums, pro-
perly so called, in Dundee. SeYeral persons have two or
three busts, and some have ten or a dozen. The Rev.
Henry Clarke, President of the Society, gave six lectures,
in March and April 1835, to an audience averaging up·
wants of two hundred persons each time. There is tile
• • • (?)Institution in Dundee, which hlll:I three hundred
· members. Its object is the dissemination of knowledge.
particularly among the poorer classes. Lectures once a
week are given upon science and morals. There is aJso
-an extensive library attached, and the yearly ticket, wbicli
lets the purchaser have all privileges, costs only six shil-
lings.
For the above particulars we are indebted to Mr. Leigh-
ton, into whose hands our circular fell in consequence of
the death of Mr. Smart, to whom it had been addressed;
and whose death must have been much lamented b7 the
Ill. LOCAL DIF'J'USIOM Olr PHR'DIOLOG'lt• JI.fl
phrenologist.a of Dundee. The early formation and sub-
sequent progress of the Phrenological Society in this
llo'Wn, and the practical interest which appears to be folt
for the science here, afford indisputable proofs of a high
degree of intelligence and moral feeling amongst the
inhabitants of the place. We augur an increasing future
prosperity of Dundee and of the county generally. A
l!Olllewbat different account is given in the PhrE>nological
kurnal, and as it contains useful particulars respecting
aift'erent plans of management, it is copied here••
" The Dundee Mechanics' Phrenological Society was instituted in
March 1826, and from that time till the end of 1831 met regularly
once a fortnight, for the purpose of reading essays, holding phrenolo-
gical conversations, and borrowing and returning books. The entry-
money was two shillings, and a weekly sum of twopence was afterward&
encted till the whole payments amounted to a pound, when the
member became free of all farther demands. Under this system the
'lOCiety flourished 11·ell, and acquired a considerable number of books
and casts. In December 1891, it was thought advisable to make ar-
1'mgements so tl:at any individual could get the use of the library for
a.quarter without entering the society, and this plan has been eminently
successful. The librarian attends every Saturday evening from eight
to nine o'clock. Members p:i;; 1••:cc-pence a quarter, and subscribers,
~commended by members, pay four.pence, both in advance. For
new numbers of the Phre11ological Journal, every reader pays a penny
per diem for the first two weeks after publication, a halfpenny per
diem for the second fortnight, and a farthing per diem for the ne&t
eight weeks. The Society possesses seven copies of Combe's System,
four of his Elements, eight of his Const1tutio11 of .Man, two of his
Letter to Jell"rey, two of Dr. Combe's Physiology,one of his Observ-
ations on Mental Derangement, three of Dr. Spurzheim's Philo-
sophical Principles of Phrenology,a complete set of the P!trtmo/ogical.
Jourtial, and duplicates of many of the uumbers, with a variety of
other phrenological, as well as antiphrenological, publications. There
is also a collection of ("asts. The Society's income in 1832 was 8/.
12$. ; in 1893, 7/. 6s. ; in 1894, 7l. 16•. 8!d· We mention these
faces because they may serve as useful hints in other quarters."-Phren.
Jour. ix., 570.
• These accounts may refer to difl"erent Societies, as it appears by
the third volume of the Phrenuiogical JuurMl that a Phrenological"
Society was instituted in Dundee in 1825, and a Mechanics' Phreno-
logical Society, distinct from the former, in 1826.
o+
H!8 Ill. LQCAL DIPJ'UBION 01' PHRENOLOGY.·
DuNPERMLIN.E.
I. The Phrenological Society of Dunfermline was ia-
sptuted in December 1828. It now contains twenty
ordinary members ; none of whom belong to the medical
profession. Its museum has seven human skulls, twenty-
eight human casts, forty-five human busts or modehi; also
about fifty animal skulls. The library has twenty-four v~
lumes besides pamphlets,and a few engraved portraits. The.
entrance-fee is five shillings; the annual subscription four
shillings. The meetings are weekly from October to
April.
II. There are from a hundred and thirty to a hundred
and fifty persons believing in phrenology; and about fifty of
these are entitled to be called phrenologists. Of about
half a dozen antiphrenologists, three may be considered
entitled to give an opinion from study, but they " are
more conversant with what has been written against the
science, than they are with the works of Gall, Spurzheim
or Combe."
III. There is no private phrenological museum. Public
lectures were given here in the winter of 1833-4, by W.
A. F. Browne, Esq., which were attended by two hundred
and sixty to three hundred auditors. The Dunformline
Scientific Association comprehends about two hundred
members, and is designed to provide an annual course of
philosophic lectures. For these particulars, in reply to.
the printed queries, we have to return our acknowledg-
ments to Mr. Beveridge. This gentlemen also adds:-
" There is another Phrenological Society in Dunferm-
line, for prosecuting the study of the science, consisting
of about a dozen members, who meet once a fortnight._
They are forming a museum and library."
. An interesting and instructive report of the proceedin~
of the Dunfermline Phrenological Society is inserted in'
the Phre~u~l9gical Journal, vol._yii., p. 246. l&i f.he,eightlu
ur. LOCAL DIPPUSION OP PHRENOLOGY. 12'1
volume of the same periodical, it is stated that two
hundred and sixty tickets to Mr. Browne's course of lec-
tures were issued, besides an attendance of twenty-five to
forty visitors at each lecture. It is presumed that " visi-
ters" are persons admitted to single lectures without pay-
ing the full price for the whole course. In the ninth
volume of the Journal it is also mentioned that Mr,
Browne gave a single lecture in February 1835, to an
audience of two hundred and fifty persons.
DUNSE.
See GALASHIELS.
EDINBURGH.
I. The first Society for prosecuting Phrenology was
established here on the 22nd of February 1820. In right
of seniority it assumes the title of" THE PHRENOLOGJCAL
SocIETY." Mr. Cox• states that it has now a hundred
and seven ordinary members; nineteen of whom belong
to the medical profession. The admission and annual
subscription are one guinea each. The days of meeting
are the alternate Thursdays during winter. The number
of objects in the museum is 900; namely, three hundred
and twenty skulls of human beings (two hundred and.
twenty of them being national specimens), two hundred
busts, one hundred masks, thirty open skulls and other
illustrations, and about two hundred and fifty animal
skulls. There is a junior Society called "The Edinburgh,
Ethical Society, for the Study and Practical Application
of Phrenology." It was established in 1883, and in some;
• I beg here to giYe my hearty thanks to Mr. Robert Co:r, for bis
readiness in answering any questions sent to him, concerning phreno-
logical matters, even amidst a multitude of other calls upon his atten-
iion. In -y parts of dii1 volume I ban been indebted to him.
. G 5
ISO JH. LOCAL DIFFUSION 01' PRRENOLOGL
measure supersedes, or rather continues, the Pbreno-
IOgical Society, which has latterly had few accesaions ·of
new members, while the Ethical Society nas risen to
sixty-three members within three years. The meetings
of this Society are held weekly, except during the months
of April, August, September, and October. It has abo11t
a hundred casts illustrative of Phrenology.
II. The numbers both of phrenologists and antiphre·
n0logists, in Edinburgh, is very considerable; and it ia
probable that some thousands of its inhabitants now ad-
mit the principles of phrenology to be established truths.
Perhaps the antiphrenologists of this city have been better
acquainted with the science, than have those of any other
place. Several of them have been alluded to in the pre-
ceding pages. The conjecture may be hazarded, that
popular feeling here now leans decidedly towards phre·
nology, but that there is still a preponderance of hos·
tility in the University department. Yet, were truth
fairly elicited, we should probably have good reaion to
set down this hostility much more to an unwillingness to
aeknowledge, than to positive disbelief. It is of small
importance whether really belief or disbelief, for exceed•
ing few among the professors in the University have
knowledge of the science adequate for forming a proper
judgment on its merits. In the years 18SO, 1831, 1832,
the writer of these pages paid particular attention to tile
opinions expressed by the junior members of the Medical
Society. During these three years, there was a vay
decided increase of respect towards the science and its
supporters. In the latter year, only two out of upwards
of thirty members particularly questioned, called them•
selves antiphrenologists. With about half a dozen excep-
tions, the remainder professed unsettled opinions, the
majority leaning to the science. In 1830 the impression
wu decidedly hostile, the lucubrations of Sir Willillm
Hamikon and Mr. Stone being supposed triamphailto
nf. LOCAL n1nus10N ot PhRBNOU>GY; ISi
The exposure of their feebleness awakened attetttron to
the opposite side of the question, and turned the scale.
Certainly Mr. Stone materially aided the advance of
phrenology here, in more ways than one. As some
evidence that a great popular interest in the science is
Dow felt here, in the very teeth of the most determined
or most talented opponents, it may be mentioned, that
" The Edinburgh Association for providing instruction in
Useful and Entertaining Sciences" engaged Mr. Combe
to give a course of lectures on Phrenology, as also two
short courses on Education, and that the pecuniary re-
ceipts for the former were greater than the receipts for
leetures on any other subject in 1832-4. The other
courses of lectures ll·ere on Chemistry, Geology, Botany,
Natural Philosophy, Astronomy, Physiology, and Zoo-
logy ;-subjects of no mean interest or popularity.
Again, in the winter and spring of 1834-5, the same
J\yociation had three courses of lectures, - Phrenology
-by Mr. Combe, - Anatomy and Physiology, by Dr.Allen
Thormon, - Natural Philosophy, by Mr. Lees. For the
~urses of lectures on Phrenology were sold 212 tickets,
Natural Philosophy 203, Anatomy and Physiology 192.
The visiters paying for single lectures on Phrenology,
were 835, Anatomy and Phisiology 255, Natural Philo-
soplay 144. The total receipts to February 4th, 1835,
(the lectures being then in progress) were for Phrenology
l 16l. 28., for Natural Philosophy 721. 5s. 6d., and for
Anatomy and Physiology 711. 3s. 6d. These facts show
that Phrenology is here esteemed not only on a par with
other sciences, but is actually more sought for, and more
paid for. The latter circumstance is usually held a toler-
aaly decided test of estimation, in the Land of Cakes and
Prudence. In the same year of 1885 was formed "The
&>ciety for the Diffusion of Moral. and Economical
,Knowledge." Its object being " to give the working
idasses noh .information aa will enable thtm to·-improve
06
18£ ru. LOCAL J>JPPUSION OP l'HUKOLOGT.
~ir own condition and increase their social happineu.:•
The Society instituted a course of lectures on Education
and Morals. The discernment of the managers was made
evident by their application to Mr. Simpson to deliverthe
Jectures. His attendance amounted to upwards of a
thousand at each lecture. It is scarcely necessary to say
that Mr. Simpson, Author of the " Necessity of Popular
Education," and the well-known phrenologist, is hete
spoken of; and that his lectures upon such subjects must
be altogether phrenological,-phreuology in its most use-
ful applications. In the winter of 1895-6, Mr. Combe
again lectured to the Edinburgh Association, his subject
being Moral Philosophy and his class six hundred. These
lectures .are introduced under the present head (II),
because they tend so directly to prove the present stateof
public feeling on the subject of phrenology.
III. Spurzheim lectured here in 1816, and again in
1828. In the latter year, his auditors were about two
hundred ladies and gentlemen at his public course; in ad·
dition to which there was a separate professional course,
attended by eighty medical men, four-fifths of them being
students. The popular or public course was repeated, by
solicitation, to seventy auditors. Mr. Combe commenced
to lecture on Phrenology in 1822; and has delivered a
yearly course since, with one or two intermissions more
than compensated by the occasional giving of two courses
in the same year. Dr. Epps lectured in Edinburgh in the
latter end of 18S5. But the history of Phrenology in
Edinburgh is almost the history of Phrenology in Britain.
More has been effected, on behalf of the science, in this
one city, than in all the rest of Britain taken together.
Half the present phrenologists must trace back the found-
ations of their knowledge to Edinburgh or Edinburghers;
and rudely as the earlier phrenologists of this city were
treated by ita small potentates - professors, retiewers,
•c."'.'"'ere very few years shall have rolled oa, ·u.
willi~
Ill. LOO.AL DIPJ'USION OP J'HR:&lllOloOOY.. 188
the high and legitimate bout of their descendante,-aye,
and of the descendants of the hostile powers themaelves~
that Phrenology first took root, first flourished, and first
bore its inestimable fruits in the city of Edinburgh. It is
to be hoped that some phrenologist, having the requisite
local knowledge, will be induced to write the history of
the reception and progress of Phrenology in the modern
Athens. What a fund of valuable and interesting matter,
for the history of science and the history of man, would
be afforded by phrenological and antiphrenological labours
here I The successive condemnations of the science in
the Edinburgh Review ; the abuse of it in Blackwood's
Magazine ; the refutations in the Encyclopredia Britan-
nica and the Royal Society ; the attacks of Gordon, Bar-
clay, Hamilton, Milligan, and Stone; the neglect and
negations by leading physicians of the present day; the
proceedings of the Phrenological and Ethical Societies i
the debates in the Medical and Speculative Societies (the
former of which has despatched many a medical phreno-
logist to the towns of England) ; the bequest of Hender.
son; the visits of Spurzheim ; the LABOURS OF COMBE I
FAREHAM.
Mr. Miller of Emsworth, delivered a lecture at the
Hall of the Institution, in December, 1835. "The audi-
ence which was as numerous as on any former occasion,
and comprised many of the most respectable inhabitants,
listened with the greatest pleasure, while the cordial
thanks that were awarded to Mr. Miller, shewed how
warmly they approved the sentiments delivered." See
Hampshire Independent, 26th December, 1835.
FoRFAR.
I. The Phrenological Society of Forfar was inltitated
in DecemJaer, 1885. It now include&forty-two members ;
}S{i IlL LOCAL Dil':tUIIO.. OJr PHRBWOLOG'f·
three of whom belong to the medical profession. The
museum of the Society at present consists of ten human
skulls, twenty-five human busts and casts, and six animal
skulls. Arrangements for a considerable addition have
been made. The library is at present limited to thirty
'Volumes, but the new American edition of the whole
works of Gall and Spurzheim has been ordered, nnd a
comiderable number of other works are in the course of
being procured. The entrance fee is half-a-crown ; the
subscription one shilling quarterly. The meetings of the
Society are held once a fortnight, but ever since its insti-
tution there have generally been extraordinary meetings
every intermediate week.
II. There may be about twenty believers in phreno-
logy, in addition to members of the Society; of these
none are strictly phrenologists. It is supposed that there
are no antiphrenologists.
III. "About two years ago, Mr. James Buik, a member
of the Dundee Phrenological Society, delivered two lec-
tures in Forfar, which were well attended. In October,
18S5, Mr. and Mrs. Aiken, from Dunfermline, delivered
three lectures which were also well attended, and arrange-
ments have been made with W. A. F. Browne, Esq. of
Montrose, to deliver a course of lectures this season"
(1836.).. • "There is a Mechanics' Institute in the
town which has been hitherto limited in its objects to the
possession of a library and news-room; but they have
now commenced a course of lectures on scientifi.c sub--
jects, and have procured apparatus for philosophical ex-
periments." The number of members may be from two
hundred to three hundred, but is not known to the com•
mittee. Dr. Murray transferred our circular to Mr.
Ogilvy, as Secretary to the Society. This gentleman
" called a meeting of the Committee of Managers, and by
their instructions" forwarded the preceding information.
~Wt . ·
111. LOCAL Dil'Fu11011 OI' PHaBNOLOG~. IM
GAINSBOROUGH.
Mr. Levison mentions his lectures here to have been,
six lectures on Phrenology, in 18$1, to fort.y audit.ors, and
ooe on Education, in 1832.
GALASHIELS.
" There are many converts to the truth of phrenology
in Dunse, Kelso, Jedburgh, Hawick, Melrose, and Gala-
shicls. But as yet, lectures have been delivered at none
of these. It was the intention of Mr. M•Dougal, surgeon
in the latter place, to commence a course of lectures last
year. In this scheme he was supported by several zealous
phrenologists, but ultimately overruled by the general
clamour of its dangerous tendency I For the credit of
the respectable inhabitants of Galashiels, I may inform
you that they are determined to take the subject into
serious consideration, and for the purpose of obtaining
information have voted several works on phrenology into
their subscription library."-Mr. William Tait, surgeon,
Lauder.
GLAMMIS.
" Upon the invitation of a number of the inhabitants of
Glammis, Mr. Macglashan delivered a course of three
lectures there, and two in the adjoining parish of lnvera-
rity. All were well attended save the first one; and they
seem to have created such a sensation that a Society is
spoken of being formed in the former place. It is a month
or two since these lectures were delivered. They were
noticed in the Dundee Advertiser."-Mr. Leighton's letter
on the state of phrenology in Dundee, &c., May, 1886.
GLASGOW.
I. Besides the ' Glasgow Phrenological Society,' iosti.;
lS(i JU. LOCAL PIFFUSION ()F r1JRENOLOG¥·
tuted in 1829 an 'Operatives' Phrenological Society' wa8
established lately, and includes twenty-five members. The
former has forty-five members; three of them are medical.
Its museum h8.$ a very few human skulls, and all the busts,
skulls, and casts catalogued in Mr. Combe's system; but
no animal skulls, &c. The library is just established, has
now twenty volumes treating of phrenology, and is in- .
creasing rapidly. The entrance fee is half a guinea; the
annual subscription four shillings. Meetings twice a
month.
II. The number of believers in phrenology " is very
considerable and constantly on the increase. Almost
every person in Glasgow, who has paid any attention to
phrenology, admits it to be true.-17, 18. These questions
I cannot answer.-! do not believe any antiphrenologist
has a sufficient knowledge of the doctrines to enable him
to speak upon them.• Such knowledge, in my opinion,
would make him a phrenologist."
III. " I do not know of any phrenological museum not
belonging to the Society. Public lectures have been de-
livered in Glasgow in the years 1824, 1829, 1830, 1831,
1832, 1833, 1834, 1835, 1836. Dr. Spurzheim lectured
in 1829; Mr. Combe in 1824 and 1836. The first course
was attended by a hundred and fifty ; his last by five
hundred. On the last occasion the demand for tickets
was greater than the accommodation of the room would
admit of, and it was necessary to limit the issue. The
other gentlemen who have lectured in Glasgow are Drs.
Hunter, Weir, and Mackenzie, and Mr. Wood, all to
crowded and attentive audiences. There are various
other scientific societies in Glasgow, such as the 'Literary
• I am di11J>osed to think that Dr. Stone, author or the E•idencea
against Phreriology, ia an example or sufficient knowledge; but be
new1 the discussion as a kind of litigation, where each must say "·hat
be can for his own aide ; reality being a se<:oodary consideratioo, if
considered at all.
JU, LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY. 187
and Commercial,'-• The Philosophical,'-' The Medical,'
--and others. I have no objection whatever to see wy
name joined to my replies."
We are under obligation to Mr. Macnish for the pre-
ceding particulars and extracts. They represent Phre-
nology in a much more favourable aspect than we yet see
it assuming in our great commercial towns in England.
Manchester and Liverpool are much behind Glasgow, in
~oral science ; and Bristol and Birmingham seem to be
yet very far below the other three. Dr. Spurzheim's
course of lectures was probably delivered in 1828, not
1829 (See Phren. Journal, V. 161.), and is said to have
been " attended by two hundred and fifty ladies and
gentlemPn ;" and a professional course, at the same time,
was attended "by sixty medical practitioners and other in-
dividuals." It is also stated in the 8th volume of the Phre-
nological Journal, that "On the evening of Saturday, 12th
January, 1833, Dr. Hunter, Professor of Anatomy in the
Andersonian University, commenced a course of lectures
on Phrenology in the Mechanics' Institution, North Han-
over Street, to a numerous and respectable audience.
Above three hundred persons were present-a fact which
bespeakti the growing interest in Phrenology felt by the
citizens of Glasgow." It also appears that Dr. Hunter
and Dr. J . R. Wood both delivered lectures in the winter
of 1833-4 ; and that Dr. Weir lectured in the autumn of
1834 to a class of one hundred and twenty, besides a hun-
dred visiters to individual lectures. Volumes 7, 8, and 9
of the Phrenological Journal contain reports of discus-
sions, or other proceedings, indicating a. spirit of phreno-
logical inquiry to be well awakened here ; and as several
of the phrenologists are men of much ability, it may be
hoped that the spirit of phrenology will still live active in
Glasgow.•
• .After the preced.ing statements and remarlcs were written, a letter
from Dr. Weircommunicated these additional paniculars:-11. There
lS8 Ill. LOCAi. DIFFUSION 011' PHR'*NOL~GY.
GREENOCK.
I. The Phrenological Society of Greenock was estab--
lished in October 1833, and now consists of twenty-one
members; two of them belonging to the medical pro-
fession. The museum of the Society contains three
human skull!!, forty-five human casts, forty human models,
three animal skulls and two models ; also fifteen books on
Phrenology, besides the Journal, and six portraits. The
annual subscription is half a guinea. The meetings are
twice a month, in winter only.
II. Probably a majority of the educated persons in
Greenock admit the general principles of Phrenology to
be true; but very few are entitled to be called phrenolo~
gists. The antiphrenologists are probably a minority of
the inhabitants; and none of these antiphrenologists are
known to have really studied the science.
III. Public lectures on Phrenology were given in the
winters of 1834-5 and 1835-6, by Professor Hunter of
Glasgow and Dr. Wood; which were very well attended;
the latter by a hundred and fifty mechanics. There is
one other scientific society in Greenock,-" The Medical
and Surgical," composed of the medical body. Mr.
baYe not been a great many phrenologists hitherto, but they are now
rapidly increasing. There are a considerable number of antiphreno-
logists, but scarcely any of them have sufficient knowledge of the
scienre to entitle them to decide on its merits. III. "I have a small'
collection amounting to aboutthirty-six ;-one dozen of busts and two
dozen casts of skulls. There are also some gentlemen known to me
who ha\•e a few casts, but not more than six to twelve each, although
I cannot speak positively. Of course this does not include the ana_.
tomical lecturers, who have abundance of skulls, but do not use them
for phrenological purposes." .•• " I have given fourcourses of lectures.
Jn 1831, one to medical studl'nts, attended by about thirty; one popular
aiurse to gentlemen, attended by about thirty. In 18:34, on" popular
course in the Mechanics' Institution, attended by about one hundred, be-
sides occasional visit..rs, and in 111:15, one ofthe same kind, attended by
about one hundred. To both these last a few ladies were admitted.
The Rev. Mr. Goyder and Mr. Gullan both gave courses last wioter,
and Mr. Combe lectured here in March aod April last, to between
fOllr aod five hundred."
III. LOCAL DIFFUSION O• PHRUOLOGL f89
Denniston, President of the Greenock Phrenological So-
ciety, communicated these particulars in reply to a cir-
cular.
HADDINGTON.
" In Haddington there is a considerable number of
believersin phr~nology; some of whom may be designated
'phrenologists• in the proper sense of the term. There is
a School of Arts, where lectures on various subjects have
been delivered; attached to which is an excellent scientific
library and chemical apparatus ; but as yet no lectures on
phrenology have been delivered in that town. The same
remarks apply to DllDbar."-Mr. William Tait, Surgeon,
Lauder.
HALIFAX.
" Dr. Holland has lately delivered lectures at Halifax."
Phren. Journal. V. 323. (18~7). Mr. Levison also lee·
tured here in 1823 or 1824 (Phren. Journal,) and gave
two lectures to the Mechanics' Institute, in 1833, his
auditors being three hundred. Mr. Levison writes of this
town, - "At Halifax I lectured, and Dr. Holland of Shef.
field (a gentleman of great talent as a lecturer and me:.
dical man) delivered a long course here." • • • • • " I
should say the greater number of the medical men are
believers in the science. Mr. Jubb, surgeon, has a very
nice museum of casts and crania; and Mr. Garlie, surgeon,
is also a talented advocate of its truth."
HAWICK.
See GALASHIELS.
HUDDERSFIELD.
" I lectured to large audiences in this town, having been
14'0 Ill. LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY.
engaged by the Council of the Scientific and Mechanic
Institution. Most of the medical men are phrenologists~
Mr. Wrigley, surgeon, is making a collection; and there
are many other believers here besides." •-Letterfrom Mr.
Levison. This gentleman intimates his auditors to ha.ve
been two hundred in 1832, about three hundred in 1834<,
and three hundred in 1835.
HULL.
I. "The' Society for Phrenological Inquiry,' at Hull,
was established in March, 1827, and consisted principally
of medical men, and continued to flourish until the death
of our late excellent president Dr. Alderson, and my re-
moval to London ; when in the first instance the meetings
were very irregular, and subsequently they were suspended
altogether, in consequence of private misunderstanding
between some of the most talented phrenologists of the
Society•••• There is a collection of casts and skulls
belonging to the Society."
II. "I may add, that the members continue warm ad.
vocates of the science, and phrenology is regarded by
many of the intelligent inhabitants of Hull as being
founded in nature and capable of great practical utility.
• • . • There are some few who still prosecute the science ;
and, upon the whole, it may be said to have many ad-
mirers in Hull." Some newspaper controversies and
other proceedings indicate active antiphrenologists here,
and Mr. Levison gave us a little information about them ;
but the particulars appear to be entirely of a local or per-
sonal inte1·est.
·III. 'Messieurs Casson, Hardey and
private collections of casts and skulls.
Buchanan hav~
Mr. Hardey has
• " There are some very fine heads to be seen in this pan of the
West Riding :-Such large onterior lobes, that whatever subject piay
engage their attention, they soon comprehend it."-Mr. Levl9DO.
III. LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY~ 141
some interesting Hindoo skulls ; and Mr. Buchanan has a
few skulls of the Esquimaux. " There are some phreno-
logical works at the Mechanics' Institution, and many
possess the works of Spurzheim, the Combes, and my
Mental Culture. There was a course of lectures in the
year 1824 or 1825 at Hull, by Dr. Allen, formerly me-
dical superintendent of the York Lunatic A11ylum; and in
1828 a course of twelve lectures by Dr. Spurzheim,
which were well attended; and in January, 1881, I de-
livered a course of seven lectures at the Mechanics' In-
stitution to crowded audiences, - some proof that the
science had not lost its interest. Last winter (1885)
Thomas Sandwith, Esq., surgeon, of Beverley, delivered
a single lecture to the latter Institution. In 1827 Mr.
Fielding, junior, a 'young surgeon, delivered an antiphre-
nological lecture, which excited a warm discussion."
These extracts and particulars were communicated in a
letter from Mr. Levison, now of Doncaster. Reports of
the proceedings of the Hull Society are given in volumes
IV. and V. of the Phrenological Journal. The names of
twenty-three members are mentioned in that journal ; of
whom seventeen were physicians or surgeons, two cler-
gymen, and the other four have no profeBSionai designa-
tion given.
INVERARITY.
See GLAMMis.
INVERNESS.
An Essay in favour of Phrenology was read to the Phi-
losophical Society of this place, in 1826, by Mr. Adam.
(Phren. Journal. IV. SIS.)
JEDBURGH,
· See GALASHIEl.S',
14oi III. LOCAL DIFYCJSIOM OP PHRENOLOGY.
KELSO.
See GALASHIELS.
KERRIEMUIR.
" There is a Phrenological Society in Kememuir alllo,
having from twenty-four to thirty members, about twenty
casts and busts, and twenty-six to thirty boob treating
exclusively on phrenology."-Mr. Leighton, Dundee.
"The Kerriemuir and Forfar Societies are well at-
tended."- Mr. Fenton, Alyth.
" Mr. W. A. F. Browne has received a requisition to lec-
ture inForfar and Kerriemuir."- Phren. Journal, IX, 661.
KILMARNOCK.
I. The Phrenological Society of this place has been dor-
mant some time. It was instituted in 1826; and had tweaty
to twenty-four members, two ofwhom belonged to the me-
dical profession. Its museum contains two or three skulls,
and fifty or sixty casts. In its library are the works. of
Spurzheim, Combe, Phrenological Journal, Transactions,
&c. The annual subscription is four shillings, with tea
shillings entry-money. The meetings are (were?) montWy.
II. Many have a " kind of incipient belief," but verr
few avow it, and perhaps not more than six oreight (besidat
members of the Society, are entitled to be called phreno-
logists. " Since the Society became dormant seven me-
dical gentlemen have professed their belief in the scienee."
" I know no individual acquainted with the facts ·
and principles of phrenology who denies the truth of the
. ..
science.
Ill. The Philosophical Institution " to promote pbil0w
90phieal inquiry," bas about a hundred and twenty mem-
bers. There is a probability of the Phrenological SoJ
ciety becoming merged in this Institution. We addreue4
Mr. Hood, who transferred the circular to Mr. M•Lelland,
Secretary to the Phrenological Society. No lectW'e& .are
Jll. LOCAL DIFFUSION OF l'HBKNOLOOT, 14'!
mentioned by this gentleman, excepting essays read to
the Society.
LAUDER.
II. " The number of educated persons in this town and
vicinity is small ; but those, who, not coming directly
under the tenn educated, yet read much, and whose opi-
nions on many subjects may be trusted,-such u farmers
aQd mechanics,- are very numerous. Most ofthese, not
knowing the principles of phrenology, may be considered
incompetent judges of its merits. Almost all who
hODOured me with their attendance on my lectures, are
believer1 in the truth of it; but as the subject was DeYft
brought publicly before them till last year, they are not
sufficiently acquainted with the principles to merit the
name of ' phrenologist;' although many of them are in
the habit of making observations on the heads of their
neighbours, for the most part correctly. The _same re-
marks will apply to the antiphrenologists. • • • • I have
never met with an individual conversant with the prin-
ciples of phrenology that was an unbeliever."
Ill. "There is no phrenological museum in Lauder,
with the exception of a few busts and drawings in my
own possession.. I have Dow deliTered two eourses of
lectures ; eight lectures each. The one in the spring of
I8S5, and the other is just finished. Above twenty
attended last year, and twice that number thi8. There is
no immediate prospect of the formation of a Phrenological
Society in this place. I intend to deliver a third course
of lectures next winter, when I shall endeavour to form a
Sooiety for the promotion of the science."
.The &Dove extracts are taken from a letter by Mr.
William Tait of Lauder, who also adds " that the
Meebanics' Library in Lauder has, for the first time, got
several works OD phrenology at their last general meeting
in February." (1896.)
144 III. LOCAL DI•PU8JON OP PRBl:MOLOGY.
LJ:AMINOTOM.
See WARWIClt.
LEEDS.
I. " There is no Phrenological Society in Leeds ; none
has ever existed; and I am not aware that one is likely to
be formed.''
II. " There are many individuals in Leeds and it.'
neighbourhood, who admit the principles of phrenology ;
and these of acknowledged judgment and discrimination;
but few are entitled to the character of 'phrenologist,'
according to your definition • • • • A large proportion of
the medical profession is favourable to phrenology, and
several individuals well known for their desire for the
extension of knowledge and science. There are also
many who deny the principles ofphrr.nology,-edncated
persons, and of accredited judgment, - but who have
done no more to entitle them to the appellation of " anti-
phrenologists," with the exception of the Rev. R. W.
Hamilton, than those above referred to as phrenologist..•
Of such antiphrenologists I am not aware that any one of
them has ever read the works of Gall, Spurzheim, or
Combe; or, if they have, not with any view of studying
• See Query 17, in the Circular•. My definitions did not quite
correspond in the positive and negafrre sides. Hence they appear to
haTe a little misled. I held any one denying phrenological principles
to be an "antiphrenologist," but limited the tenn "phrenologist•• IO .
those who understood the science. The four classes were, 1 Believen,
~ Competent Phrenologists, S Antiphrenologists, 4 Competent Phre- ·
.Dologists. Popular language denominates all belinen " phrenolo-
gists;" but this is not the course followed with regard to other scie~
and ought to be af>andoned. It is one chief cause for the sins of In-
dividuals, popularly called " phrenologists," being viaited on the
class. One who belines in chemistry, but knows little or nodliaj,
about it, is not a c/iemill; neither is a believer in phrenology, who it
'ft'J little conftl'l&nt with the ICieare, entitled to be ealled a ~
(lilt. The title of PaaitNOLOGtaT ia an eoNova, which ought to t>, .
eo~ by diligent exertion, aud not to be awarded to an empi, ap-,
~ or pnteQded lnowleclp.
DI" J.OC:l.i\.L Din'UftOW OJ' PHRllfOLOG\'. 14:S
the alibject, but rather to di8CO•et ._hat they inight con-
1ider weak points or inconsistent statements.
ID. " There is no museum for the purpose. The mu-
aeum of the Literary and Philosophical Society contain•
a few casts illustrative of the science, presented by J.
)(mwhall, Esq., late M.P. for the county of York ;-him-
eeifa zealous supporter. Public lectures have been given
by Dr. Allen, late of York, in 1825, before the Leeds
lJterary and Philosophical Society ; which were better
attended than any other course of lectures before or since,
with the exception of one by Mr. Montgomery, on Poetry,
duiog the last month (March, 1836). Dr. Spurzheim,
on his own account, gave twelve lectures, which were well
att.ended; and Mr. Levison, of Doncaster, has given two
or·three short courses which have succeeded tolerably
welL We have a great desire that Mr. Combe should
oome to lecture at Leeds. We have the ' Literary and
P.Jrllosophical Society,' for general purposes connected
with.literature and science ;-'The Literary Institution,~
foi-; the middle classes of society ;- and a 'Mechanics'
i..titation.' The abstract sciences are little cultivated.''
·" I have no objection to the facts being published on
'*! authority ; but the haste with which I have penned
tm.. le~, and the difficulty which must ever attend the
judging of the opinions of others, must, to a certain ex-
tent; be considered as diminishing very greatly any c~
that it would otherwise possess, to implicit reliance.'' The
letter of Mr. Wildsmith, - to whom we are indebted for
the particulars,- contains some notices of the opinions of
indi.'ridual professional men in Leeds. These are omitted,
as' they merely confirm the accuracy of the general facts.
Mr. Levison also obligingly sent a notice of the state of
p'ltrenology in this town, nearly corresponding with the
above. . lie states that there ie a small collection of caatS
fa,1d.e ~SBion of S. Hare, E$q., surgeon, and prO.
prtetor of ·a small Asylum in the neigabovlloed. ·ffe
II
}46 III. LOCAL DIF!'USION op · PHRENOLOGY.
also adds that the science sustained the loss of a talented
advocate by the death of Mr. Thackrah, the author of
several professional works. Mr. Levison states his Jee.
tures in this town to have been, in 1888, three on a
National System of Education, attended by seventy audi-
tors; one, on the History, &c. of Phrenology, attended
by the same number ; and two on the practical appli-
cations of the science;- in 1896, three lectures on Phre-
nology, attended by eighty auditors.
LINCOLN.
Mr. Levison gave six lectures here in November 1830.
LINTRATHEN.
" We are happy to learn that the members of the Alyth
Phrenological Society, under the guidance of their bene-
volent president Mr. Fenton, are steadily persevering iJl
their studies, and anxious to reduce phrenology to prao-
tice, by making it their guide in the performance of the
duties of life. The number of members is increasing,
and, from the circumstance that several of them come
from Lintrathen, eight miles distant, to the meetings, it is
evident that no small interest has been excited."-Phren.
Journal, IX. 190.
LIVERPOOL.
I. The Phrenological Society of Liverpool was estab-
lished inJ May 1828. The present number of members
is about twenty, of whom five belong to the medical
profession. The museum of the Society contains about a
dozen human skulls, two hundred and fifty human casta,
Jia.lf a dozen human models ; also a few animal ak~
III< LOCAL DI!'FUSION OJi' PHRENOLOGY. J4'f
casts, and models ; about twenty portraits, and a few books.
The entrance fee and annual subscription are one guinea.
The meetings are held twice each month, from November
to April inclusive.
II. " The number ofpersons admitting the general priu..
ciples of the science is certainly on the increase here as
elsewhere."
IIL The above account of the Liverpool Phrenological
Society was supplied by Mr. Bally, who adds, that it "is
not in a very flourishing condition ;" a circumstance at-
tributed by Mr. Bally to the want of leisure among the
members of acommunity devoted to commerce. Liver-
pool is, indeed, by no means a scientific place ; ranking
considerably below its neighbour, Manchester, in such
respect. Dr. Spurzheim lectured here about 1815, and
again in 1829 and 1830. His audience was about
eighty in the year 1829. Dr. Cameron lectured to small
audiences in 1825 and 1827. Dr. Epps lectured here in
1888, in the Mechanics' Institution. It appears from the
Phrenological Journal, that Mr. Levison delivered lectures
in Liverpool about 1833 or 1834; and this gentleman in-
forms us that he gave three lectures on Phrenology applied
in Education, to an audience of eighty persons, in January
of the present year of 1886. In April of this year, also,
" Mr. Simpson was invited by the Educational Committee
of the Town Council of Liverpool to give there a course
of lectures upon Moral and Educational Philosophy. The
morning course is attended by a hundred and fifty ladies
and gentlemen, and the evening course by upwards of four
hundred." (Phren. Journal, IX.)
Locun.
See MoNIPEITH.
H !
HS 111. LOCAL Dil'J't18ION Oli' PHRBN'OLOCY.
LONDON.
I. The Phrenological Society was instituted in the year
1824. The number of members is now under sixty; about
one fourth of them belonging to the medical profession.
The museum of the Society contains between thirty and
forty human skulls, between one and two hundred human
casts, and the like number of human busts or models ;
also about fifty animal skulls and a few animal casts ; with
less than one hundred books. The entrance fee and
annual subscription are each one guinea. The Society
meets twice a month from November to June inclusive.
The above information respecting the London Phreno-
logical Society was obtained by application to its founder,
Dr. Elliotson. Common report pronounces the Society
to be not at all in a flourishing state ; and it would appear
from its present number of members being "under sixty,"
that a considerable decrease of interest has occurred either
towards the subject or the Society.• But the greatly in-
creased attention and confidence given to phrenology, by
the public at large, both in London and elsewhere, forbids
the former conclusion ; so that we have only the latter
alternative to take to. In 1829 Dr. Spurzheim said "the
London Society will do nothing for phrenology;" and
thus has it proved, although some individual members
have done much.
II. It is, of course, quite impossible to form any just
ideas respecting the number of phrenologists and anti-
phrenologists in so vast a city. Copies of the circular, or
letters requesting information, were addressed to a few
persons whose names have been connected with phreno-
logy, but very little information has been obtained. Mr.
Levison recommended an application to Mr. Richard
Cull, "who could furnish much information on the state
• Nearly one hundred members are named in the :Phrenological
Journal, u entering the Society, ,in 18ll4-6.
III, LOCAL DI:PFUSJON OF PHJ\BNOLOGY. 149
of the science, .particularly at some of the Institutions."
Mr. (:ull, however, declined (and judiciously so) to give
statisticeJ facts from mere recollection. His reply was:-
" I have not made notes of those passing events that are
" items in the statistics of phrenology. Their recital
" would, therefore, depend on mere memory, and might be
" incorrect. Lectures have been delivered at several of
" the Literary and Scientific Institutions and at several
" Medical Schools of the Metropolis. The Secretaries
"and Conductors ofwhich keep records of their proceed·
"ings-records that are official and accurate, and there·
" fore cannot be doubted. They can and without question
" will transmit to you exact information by filling up your
" ptjnted forms. I may speak decidedly that amongst
"my acquaintance the feeling is more favourable to phre-
"nology than formerly, and also that I do not know one
" scientific man - who is acquainted with phrenology by
" a comparison of nature with its principles, as laid down
"in the standard works-who is an antiphrenologist. I
" may state the bare fact, that there are classes for the
" study of phrenology in the London Mechanics', and the
" City of London Literary and Scientific, Institutions ;
" but of the particulars I am ignorant.• The writer of
this volume knows extremely little of London ; but to the
extent to which he has acquaintances there, the feeling is
decidedly favourable towards phrenology, though very
few know any thing beyond the rudiments of the science,
and these rudiments are usually understood very imper-
fect11. He knows two or three professional men who
apea.k. with contempt or dislike of phrenology, having
brai,ns that never will or can comprehend it clearly. He
may also state having fair grounds for supposing that
• Notwithstanding the suggestion in thi1 letter, I did not feel
authorised to trouble the officers of the Institutions and Schools about
~ l!ubJect in.which they might feel no inter.A Ia addrelliug phreno-
logists no such 11C1Uples appeued to.be ~· .
H 8
150 III. LOCAL DIPPUSION OP PHRENOLOGY.
some very popular writers of the present day are parti8.lly
acquainted with the phrenological doctrines, and take ad~
vantage from such knowledge in their published works,
although not acknowledging it except in private society,
and then only in a qualified manner. In almost all circles
in London, it appears that the intense activity of Love
of Approbation completely overpowers " the still small
voice." And although the House of Commons, the Bar,
the medical circles, scientific societies, &c. &c. have each
their sprinkling of well-informed phrenologists amongst
the members, how rarely have any of these evinced sufti•
cient moral courage and independence, openly to ground
their arguments and opinions upon the facts and princi-
ples of the science, to which they are in great part in-
debted for them I Do they shrink before the smile of
incredulity, or the curled lip of contemptuous ignor-
ance?•
III. There are several phrenological collections in
London, private as well as commercial. The most exten-
sive museum is that belonging to Mr. Deville, in the
Strand. What are its present contents we know not ;
but in 1830, Mr. Deville's exhibition-room was said to
contain upwards of eighteen hundred casts or skulls; and
he had then more than he could find space to display.
Mr. Deville was also said to have collected between three
and four thousand skulls of animals. This museum had
been accumulating about nine years. Mr. Holm's collec-
tion is thus described by himself:-" I am in possession
" of the whole of Dr. Spurzheim's collection of skulls,
"busts, casts, and his valuable library,-all bequeathed by
" will to me. I have, among these, a considerable num•
• ''We really do not understand what fashion is in science ; neither
do we conceive how truth is to be chosen as a petite math-eue chOORS
her gown, or a dandy his muatacbo-. If persons of fashion will not
believe in Phrenology, so much the worse for them; Phrenology can
do withoutthem."-.Foreign Quarterly Review,
III, LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY. 151
" her of the skulls of criminals ; the real one of Pope
' 1 (the poet) which was exhumed at some expense and
" .trouble; the real one also of Cassimir Perrier (late Mi-
" nister in France). What fine developments l - alto-
" gether above one hundred; and more than two hundred
" of those of animals. I have likewise upwards of seven
·"hundred busts, casts,brains,&c., besides my own private
" collection of many celebrated living characters."
Many courses of lectures on phrenology have been
given, and still are so. Spurzheim delivered two coui'Ses
soon after his first arrival in England; the first in 1814 or
1815 and the second in 1817. According to Chenevix,
the attendance was then only about forty persons. By
the Phrenological Journal it appears that in the spring
of 1825 he gave two concurrent courses, one in the city,
and one at the west end of the town. These lectures were
.favourably noticed and reported in theMedico-Chirurgical
Review, Lancet, Morning Chronicle, Globe, &c. In the
spring of 1826 he lectured at the London Institution; a
:notice ma.de during the progress of the course says " his
u .auditors are so numerous, that there is not room enough
." on the benches to sit, at least a hundred persons are oc-
·" casionally standing ; and amongst them are many who
" would hesitate to attend his private courses. He de-
" livers also a private course in the evening; but the at,
" tendance is less numerous than last year, owing to the
" overflow at the Institution." In the following year he
again lectured at] this Institution, to an audience exceed-
ing seven hundred.
Mr. Holm, who may be considered the successor of
·Spurzheim in London, thus intimates his own lectures in
the Metropolis:-" Ever since 1828, at Dr. Spurzheim's
house, 8. Gower Street, and since 1832, at my own
house in the North Crescent [Bedford Square], I have
lectured every Thursday, unless Christmas-day fell on
H 4
152 Ill. LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PJIRE:WOLOGY.
that day.•- See the advertiiement in the Foreign Quar-
terly. In 1832 and 1833, I gave courses of lecturea at
Grainger's Theatre of Anatomy, at the Southwark Insµtu-
tion, and at the Baltic Tavern. In 1834, I gave lectures
at the North London Institution, and the Eastern Athe-
nmum - See Morning Advertiser, December Srd, 1884.
In 1885, at the Gothic Hall, New Road, and at the In•
stitution for Useful Knowledge. At Kentish Town in
this, as well as last year, I have given eighteen lec-
tures ; likewise at Highgate and at the Southwark Inati•
tution ; and am now engaged to do the same on the 14th
instant at the London Tavern ; next September at the
Milltown Institution ; and again at Southwark." Mr.
Levison states the lectures of different short courses de-
livered by himself, at the London Mechanics' Institution,
to have amounted to fourteen or sixteen in 1880, 1881,
and 1882, attended by from five to eight hundred audi-
tors ; also one, as an eulogium on the memory of Spurz-
heim, in 1832, attended by six hundred auditors; and
four lectures at the London Institution, in December
1882, attended by four or five hundred auditors. It ap•
pears from the first volume of the Phrenological Journat,
that Dr. Robert Willis lectured on Phrenology in 1824<.
Mr. Dewhurst has also lectured ; and p088ibly many
others.
LOUTH.
In 1829 Mr. Levison gave six lectures on Phrenology,
attended by seventy auditors; one, onPhrenologyapplied
in Education, to a hundred and eighty auditors, in 1832;
and one on Phrenology applied to Infant Education, for
the benefit of the Infant School, in 1884.
• I baTe twice called in the North Crescent, on ThundaJ'I, ud
each. time wu informed that there would be no lecture th&& a,.
Mr. Holm might be engaged lecturing ebewhere; but the c:ircum-
ICance is mentioned to prevent disappointment to otben, arising 6oni
&be above atatement, not alluding to such occuioaal exceptiOlll.
.~
III. LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY. 153
LYMINGTON.
Mr. Deville (it is presumed, of the Strand, London) is
Said to have lectured here. His lecture is reported to
have been well attended.
LYNN.
Mr. Cooper informs us, that so far as a limited ac-
quaintance with the inhabitants of Lynn authorises him
to speak of them, there is very little attention given to
phrenology here ; perhaps not more than three or four
persons taking decided interest in the science. There is at
]east one person strongly antiphrenological. No Scientific
Societies are established in Lynn, except a Meohanics'
Institute and Horticultural Society.
MANCHESTER.
I. The Phrenological Society of Manchester was in-
stituted in 1'829. It now consists of twenty-five mem-
bers; three of whom belong to the medical profession.
The museum of the Society contains four human skulls,
about one hundred human casts, two hundred human
busts or models ; also six animal skulls and twelve models
of the brain. It has about twenty books on Phrenology.
One guinea entrance and annual subscription is required
from each member. The Society meets monthly during
four summer months, alternate weeks the rest of the year.
II. A very great number of competent persons admit
the truth of phrenology ; <>f whom " a moderate propor-
tion (say 200 or 300)" study the subject. It is not known
that there are any antiphrenologists.
III. There are several private phrenological collectious
in Manchester. Mr. Baily's contains about twelve hun-
. dred objects. In 1815, 1829, and 1830, Dr. Spurzheim
gave courses of lectures, which were numerously and re-
.spectably attended. Dr. Epps lectured here in 1831 and
1838; and Mr. Levison in 1834. These two gentlemen
H 5
154 HI, LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY.'.
were at least moderately well attended. The Literary
and Philosophical Society of Manchester, the objects of
which are according to the broadest sense of the name,
contains between one and two hundred members.
The circular was addressed to Mr. Noble, by whom it
was transferred to Mr. Rawson, "who was the first Presi-
dent of the Phrenological Society, and whose acquaintance
and connexions in Manchester are very extensive." The
"numerous" attendance on Spurzheim's lectures probably
refers to the years 1829 and 1830. The attendance in
1815 is said to have been small. The author of this
volume was present at the first lecture in 1829, and he
thinks the number of auditors did not reach a hundred.
Mr. Rawson makes no allusion to Dr. Holland's lectures,
of which the following notice appears in the Phrenological
Journal, V. 162; May 1828: - "We learn by the news-
papers, that Dr. Holland has delivered a course of lectures
on Phrenology at the Mechanics' Institution in Man-
chester." Mr. Levison intimates the attendance at his
three lectures, on Phrenology applied to Education, to
have been a hundred persons.• In April 1886 Mr.
Simpson lectured on Education, at the Mechanics' Insti-
tution, to an audience of six hundred.
MARGATE.
Mr. Levison gave two lectures here in 1888.
MELROSE.
8ee GALASHIELS.
• Mr. Rawson, it will be obsened, mentions the lectures ofSpuri..
beim to have been " numerously attended ;" those of Mr. Levison
" at least moderately well." There is a discrepancy here, not -U,
reconcileable, unless I have much under-estimated the number Rf
Spurzheim's auditon; for Mr. Leviaon's lectures would otherwise
appear to have been more numerously attended tban those of SpUllit.
heim. Both Mr. Rawson and Mr. Levison appear to write tiOIJI
memory alone; and the latter gentleman having lectured in mali1
places, it cannot be an easy matter to remember the exact number of
auditors in each place.
III. "LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHR,ENOLOGY. 15/S
MoNIJ'EITH.
" Mr. Macglashan also gave a few lectures in Lochee
[query, as to this name], a village of some extent near
Dundee, last October; and about a fortnight or three
weeks ago he lectured in Monifeith, at the request of the
mechanics of an extensive foundry there. All these lec-
tures were well attended, and a spirit of enquiry respect-
ing phrenology is evinced to a remarkable degree by an
classes of the people in these places. A Society is about
to be formed at Monifeith. It is a village about six miles
east of Dundee." - Mr. Leighton, Dundee, May SI, 1836.
MONTROSE.
I. As yet there is no Phrenological Society in Mon·
troee ; but one will be formed very shortly.
II. Many persons believe in the truth of phrenology,
and about a score study it. There are very few anti-
phrenologists, and not one of these few is sufficiently con-
versant with the subject to entitle him to pass judgment
upon it.
III. There is a Phrenological Museum in Montrose,
containing three human skulls, thirty casts of human
skulls, three preparations of human brains, fifty casts of
human heads, and forty animal skulls ; also twenty vo-
lumes treating of phrenology, and eighty portraits, &c.,
illustrative of phrenology. One public lecture on Phre-
nology was delivered in Montrose many years ago, by Dr.
Allen of London. Ten lectures were delivered last month
(March, 1836) by Mr. W. A. F. Browne. Mr. Browne's
course was attended by about five hundred of all classes.
There is a ' Mechanics' Literary and Scientific Association'
in Montrose, including five hundred and sixty members;
its object& being the diffusion of useful knowledge among
the middle cluaes. The population of Montrose is
)4,000.
a6
156 III, LOCAL DIPPUSION OP l'Rl\EKOLOCY.
For these particulars we are obliged to Mr. W. A. F.
Browne, Medical Superintendent ·Of the Montrose Lu-
natic Asylum.
NEWAllK.
Mr. Levison delivered six lectures on Phrenology here,
to forty or fifty auditors, in 1831; and one lecture in
1834, on Intellectual Culture, to fifty auditors.
NEWBURGH.
" I am sorry I cannot give you any information respect-
ing the Kerriemuir and Newburgh Societies; but I have
reason to believe they are both flourishing."-Mr. Pratt,
Cupar.
NEWCASTLE ON TYNE.
I. " There are two Phrenological Societies in New-
castle, one of which was established in November 1885,
and now consist.a of twenty-four members, five of them
belonging to the medical profession. It possesses a small
collection of cast.a. The other society WM established ih
November of the same year also, and consist.a of fifty-five
members, eight of whom are of the medical profe88ion.
It possesses a collection of upwards of one hundred and
sixty cast.a and bust.a, with about fifty publications on
phrenology, and other subject.a connected with it. The
annual subscription is half a guinea. The meetings of the
1ociety take place once a month. Public lectures are
occasionally given, and are numerously attended."
II. " The queries contained in the second part of your
circular are not easily answered. The number of educated
and competent persona in and about Newcastle, admitting
the general principles of. phrenology to be true, is co~
derable ; but those who make a particular study ofit, anCI
III, l.OCAL DIPFUSION OP PHRENOLOGY, 15'1
are so far conversant with the science as to be called
• Phrenologists ' in the sense you mention, are very
limited. Not more than twelve or fourteen come within
the range of my acquaintance, but how many more there
may be it is impossible for me to give any fair idea. The
number of educated persons, of ability not below average,
who deny the truth of phrenology, in Newcastle, is very
considerable indeed ; but the number of such antiphre-:
nologists acquainted with the facts and principles of phre-
nology, as' set down in the works of Gall, Spurzheim, or
Combe, in a sufficient degree to entitle them to pronounce
a decision respecting the merits of the science, is not
easily determined. I myself do not happen to know a
nngle suck 'antipkrenologilt,' and I have never been ac-
quainted with any person that kas. Although it is next
to impossible to give an accurate idea of such a matter as
this, I yet cannot help being decUledly of opinion that
there is not one individual with the requisite knowledge of
phrenology who entirely denies its doctrines."
III. " There is no phrenological museum in Newcastle,
other than that belonging to the Society. A course of
lectures was given in Newcastle, by Mr. Combe of Edin-
burgh, in the months of September and October last, and
was very numerously attended, the size of the lecture-
room being insufficient to admit nearly the number of
persons wishing to attend. Between two and three hun-
dred are enough to fill it. There are several other scien-
tific secieties in Newcastle ;-The Literary and Philoso-
phical, co11sisting of about six hundred members ; - the
Antiquarian Society, of about one hundred ;-the Natural
History Society, of about three hundred ;-the Literary,
Scientific and Mechanical Institution, of about seven hun-
dred;- and the Medical and Surgical Society, of fifty or
sixty members. The objects of these Societies are indi-
cated pretty nearly by their names, and they are all irJ
complete activity."
158 III, LOCAL DI:rFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY.
A circular was addressed to Mr. Bowman, a corre-
spondent on botanical subjects, and a second to Mr. Fife,
a phrenologist. Both were transferred to Mr. William
Cargill, who favoured us with the above particulars.
Phrenology appears to be altogether a recent importation
into Newcastle; but it may be hoped that a congenial
soil will be found for its growth, in a town where so many
persons devote attention to scientific matters. The fol-
lowing is an extract from a notice of Mr. Combe's visit to
Newcastle, published in the Phrenological Journal, IX.
519:-
" Having received an invitation from the Literary and
Philosophical Society of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, to lecture
on Phrenology in that town, Mr. Combe commenced a
course of sixteen lectures, on the evening of Monday,
5th October, 1835, and continued to lecture four evenings
each week till the end of the month. The lecture-room
of the Society, which is said to contain three hundred per-
sons, was crowded to excess. At the close of the lectures,
Mr. Combe received from his audience orders for Mr.
O'Neil, figure caster, for upwards ofa hundred and thirty
marked busts, and of marked skulls and brains. He gave
an extra lecture on Education, in the Music Hall, for the
purpose of raising funds to found a Phrenological Society.
It was attended by four hundred and fifty-two individuals,
and the sum drawn at the door enabled him to present the
Society with the whole of Mr. O'Neil's collection of casts,
and a small surplus in money for the purchase of books."
Mr. Fife has since lectured to a crowded room.
NORWICH.
Mr. Cooper of Lynn, resident some time in Norwich,
but having only a limited acquaintance there, knew very
few persons favourably disposed towards phrenology ; only
one of them being properly conversant with the science.
III, LOCAL DIFFUSION OJ' PHRENOLOGY. 159
NOTTINGHAM.
We are informed through the channel of two or three
intermediate persons, " that a belief in the doctrine of
phrenology is gaining ground, and wants only a few more
advocates to give it life and to make it more generally
studied." It appears from the Phrenological Journal
that Dr. Overend lectured here in 1824; and that in 1828,
a medical member of the Literary Society of Nottingham
read an essay " On the Theory of Dr. Gall," which ex-
cited an animated debate, and brought forth an essay
against the science from the pen of a clerical gentleman,
who subsequently printed the pith of his objections in a
newspaper.
In reply to the circular, addressed to a gentleman in
this town, who prefers not to give his name, we received
intelligence that, as far as his knowledge extends, there
are not more than forty or fifty educated believers in
phrenology here ; of whom four or five are entitled to be
called phrenologists. Only one antiphrenologist is known,
and it is uncertain how far he has studied the subject.
Five individuals have small phrenological collections.
Spurzheim gave a course of twelve lectures in 1828, at-
tended by about two hundred persons. There is no pro-
bability of a Phrenological Society being soon established
here. The Literary and Scientific Society of Nottingham
has more than two hundred members, but "its meetings
have been adjourned for want of papers, or, I rather fear,
from a want of interest."
OXFORD.
Mr. Crook has lectured here. Spurzheim was not
allowed to do so I See page 40.
PAISLEY.
Mr. Torbet, surgeon, lectured to a class of about
160 III. LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY•
seventy persons, in the Hall of the Philosophical Institu-
tion, at the end of 1825, and appears to have repeated his
course the following year. What has been done since? ·
P.&T.&RBOROUGH.
Mr. Levison informs us that he gave six lectures on
Phrenology in 1890, to an audience of forty persons ; -
one lecture on the application of Phrenology to Educa-
tion, to the Mechanics' Institution, in 1832, attended by
seventy auditors ; - and one on Intellectual Culture, in
1894.
PORTSMOUTH.
·I. The Hampshire (or Portsmouth) Phrenological
Society was esta!>lished in May 1832. It now consists of
thirty-three members, fifteen of whom belong to the
medical profession. The museum of the Society contains
eleven human skulls, ninety-eight human busts or models,
and eight animal skulls; also fifteen or sixteen volumes,
either treating of phrenology or connected with its uses
and advantages, and all the numbers of the Phrenological
Journal. " No entrance fee is required; merely a sub-
scription of ten shillings per annum. As appointed by
law, the Society should meet every alternate Thursday
evening ; but during the greater part of the last session
the meetings occurred every Thursday evening; two
courses of lectures having been delivered, on Phrenology,
besides individual lectures."
II.• " 16. - It is almost impossible to answer this
question with any degree of accuracy. I think the beat
• In this series of replies to questions I have wished to give the
exact words of Dr. Engledue; but in doing so, it will be proper to
remind a reader, that they refer to the questions of the circular (page
111.), touching the number of:persons admitting the truth of phreno-
logical principles (16), -making a study ofthe science ( 17),-denying
its truth (18), - den;yinJi its truth on competent knowledge of wba&
reall;y la ( 19).
' 111. LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY. 161
way will be to inform you of the number~of persons who
attended a course of lectures delivered to the Philoso-
phical Society of this town. The lecture-room is capable
of containing between three and four hundred persons,
and I am convinced from the interest excited throughout
the course, that more than three-fourths were not only
converts to the science, but were persons quite capable of
forming a judgment upon the subject. Another course
was delivered soon after by the same individual, to the
Phrenological Society, and so great was the demand for
admission, that on two nights in particular, from the
crowded state of the Hall, numbers were refused admit..
tance. Knowing that the individuals attending these
lectures were educated and quite competent to give an
opinion upon the statements set before them, I have no
hesitation in asserting that to my actual knowledge there
must be between six and seven hundred persons in this
town who believe the principles of phrenology to be true.
, . • • 17.-1 have no means of ascertaining this accu-
rately, but having made particular inquiries amongst my
own sphere of acquaintances, as have also my friends,
I find I can enumerate a list of about a hundred and
twenty. These are persons who have actually read works
connected with the science, and who seek upon every
occasion to obtain information practically, whether from
the assistance of a friend more conversant with the
acience than themselves, or by their own observation.
J8. - There are several [antiphrenologists]. Some (I
might almost say, all) clergymen; one or two school-
masters who have arrived at that period of life when it is
exceedingly inconvenient to throw aside old opinions, and
embrace new ; and three solitary instances of medical men
out of a body of between thirty and forty. In convers-
ation with persons belonging to the town, I frequently
111eet with those who laugh at the science, and endeavour
to turn it into ridicule; but I invariably find upon in~
16! III. LOCAL DIFFUSION OP PHRENOLOGY.
quiry that they know nothing about it, or if they do, that
they have received their knowledge, not through the ex.-
ertions of their own intellect, but from the misrepresent..
ations of a prejudiced friend. 19. - I unhesitatingly
answer none [antiphrenologist.s acquainted with the
science], and I do so from the result of a discussion which
took place at the conclusion of a course of lectures before
referred to; when there was such a display of ignorance
as to astonish even those who were tyros in the science."
III. The Philosophical Society(two hundred members)
possesses a museum containing seventy or eighty busts,
and a few human and animal skulls. Lectures on Phreno..
logy were given during the past winter by Dr. Scott of
Haslar, Dr. Engledue, Mr. Titchborne, and Mr. R•••d. (?)
They were attended by crowded audiences.
Dr. Engledue was kind enough to communicate the
preceding particulars, which represent the state of phreno-
logy in Portsmouth in a more favourable aspect than we
see it yet generally assuming in the towns of the south of
England. Notices ofthe Hampshire Phrenological Society
and proceedings connected with Phrenology, in Ports-
mouth, are given in volumes 7, 8, 9 of the Phrenological
Journal.
READING.
Mr. Levison gave one lecture on Phrenology, and its
consequences, in 1881 ("free to the members of the Ph.
Society"), attended by two hundred auditors; and a
course of six lectures on Phrenology in 1882, attended
by seventy 01 eighty persons.
RUGBY.
II. Probably about twenty persons have paid some at-
tention to Phrenology, and admit the principles of the
III. LOCAL DIPJ!'USION OP PHRENOLOGY. 16S
acience. About five of these are entitled to be called
phn!nologists. Not more than three, having actually
studied the principles of the science, deny the truth of
Phrenology.
III. There is no phrenological museum. Combe on
the Constitution of Man is in the library of the Institu-
tion ; also a marked bust. No lectures on Phrenology
have yet been given ; but it is proposed to deliver one at
the Institution. There is no prospect of a Phrenological
Society being formed here at present ; the subject not
being sufficiently known. The Rugby Literary and
Scientific Institution consists of about forty members.
These particulars, in reply to the circular, were commu-
nicated by Mr. Lockyer, Secretary to the Institution.
SAFFRON WALDEN.
In 1882, Mr. Levison gave one lecture here, on Educa-
tion, to ·an audience of a hundred persons ; and also one
lecture on Phrenology, to the Mechanics' Institution.
SALISBURY.
Mr. Levison delivered one lecture on Phrenology to
seventy or eighty persons, in 1834.
SCARBOROUGH.
' Mr. Levison lectured here in 1828 to a morning class
of sixty, and an evening class of seventy persons; "the
first step taken towards a public introduction of Phreno-
logy into Scarborough."
SHEFFIELD.
" At Sheffield, Dr. Spur.zheim delivered a coune of
164< IIJ• LOCAL DIFFUSION OF PHRENOLOGY.
twelve lectures to an audience ofabout seventy in number.
Since that time Dr. Overend gave a course of lectures to
the Philosophical Soci~ty, which were numerously at-
tended ; and I gave some few lectures at the Mechanics•
Institution.''-Mr. Leviscm.
• Mr. Levison states his lectures to have been one on
Education, to three hundred auditors, in 1830, and two on
Phrenology, to three or four hundred auditors, in 1838.
SOUTHAMPTON.
Mr. J. R. Stebbing is said to have lectured here in 1838,
and a class formed at the Mechanics's Institution, attended
{1835) by about twenty members. (Phren. Journal.)
SPALDING.
Mr. Levison gave his course of six lectures, to thirty or
forty per5ons here, in 1830.
STAMFORD.
In 1830, Mr. Levison gave his course of six lectures on
Phrenology to an audience of fifty persons ; a second
course the same year; and one lecture on Education in
1834.
STIRLING.
" About nine or ten months ago, Mr. Aitken delivered,
in the Guildhall here, several lectures on Phrenology ; and
fourteen young men, conceiving that its doctrines were not
without truth and importance, engaged him to enter into
a private conversation with them regarding it. Mr Aitke~
advised the formation of a society, and eight of these in-
dividuals agreed to the proposal. Two months ago, the
number of members had increased to fourteen.''-Phren.
Journal, IX. 417, Sept. 1835.
Ilt. LOCAL DIFFUSION OJ!' PHRltNOLOGY. ' 16S
SUNDEl\LAND.
"Mr. W. J. Dodd, Surgeon, has lately delivered a
course of lectures on Phrenology in this town."-Phren.
Jour. June, 18S6.
TAUNTON.
"Mr. Cox commenced a course of lectures on Phre-
nology at Taunton last week, which excited much in-
terest."-Exeter and Plymouth Gazette of 8th March,
18S4. (From Phren. Journal.) ,
TILLICOULTRY.
" A Phrenological Society was lately formed in Tilli-
coultry, and has begun in a very spirited manner. They
are providing a museum and library."-Mr. Beveridge,
Dunfermline.
WAKEFIELD.
I. cc There was, some years ago, a small Society here,
when Sir William Ellis lived at the Asylum ; and also a
small collection of casts. The Society soon dwindled
away, and the casts are locked up, I believe, in the house
of some private individual, and are never seen."
II. " I know of only three or four Phrenologists in this
neighbourhood ; but they are all men of thinking and
'Philosophic minds. Yet only one of these is perhaps
deeply and practically skilled in the science. The subject
here is very unpopular, and generally (as all really wefol
discoveries are) treated with.derision." ·
III. " Spurzheim, Mr. Levison, and, I think, formerly
Dr. Allen, and once myself, have lectured here; the at-
tendance small."
We thank Dr. Disney Alexander for the above noticeia_;
166 I~I. LOCAL Dil'Pt1SION 01' PHRBNOLOGY. ·
albeit the state of Phrenology in Wakefi.eld is not repre...
tented in a very favourable aspect. It has flourished
more in several places, where fewer facilities have been
given.
WARWICK.
I
I. "Mr. W. D. Watson, the founder and the zealous
secretary of our Society, left Warwick one month ago to
join the British Legion in Spain ; and as I found it diffi-
cult to keep the Society together, the task of preparing
demonstrations or lectures falling almost wholly upon
myself, and my professional and other engagements
making considerable demands upon my time, I acceded
to the wishes of the majority of the members, that the
Society should expand itself into a Natural History
Society, admitting of wider co-operation. For these
reasons, our Society, or our testimony, cannot avail the
phrenologists in general.''
We are obliged to Dr. Conolly for this information ;
but wish to make a few comments on the last sentence.
The object of the present volume is not to exhibit tuti-
monies to the truth or value of Phrenology, We assume
these to be perfectly settled points with all who know
anything about the subject. The direct object is to show
what has been done towards teaching the public to know
and appreciate Phrenology, and the success attending the
laudable efforts made towards this end. The formatioJl
of the Warwick and Leamington Phrenological Society,
with a list of very respectable members, indicates an at•
tention to Phrenology such as did not exist in the pro-
vincial towns ten years ago. The expansion of thia
Society into·a Natural History Society,-a measure to
which we accord our humble approval,-tends to show
that its members are persons of a scientific turn, and
that they regard Phrenology as .one amongst the natural
III. LOCAL DIJ!'J!'USION 01!' PHRENOLOGY. 16'7'
eciences• ; notwithstanding that twenty years ago it was
generally pronounced sheer quackery ; ten years ago it
was a pseudo-science, or one carried vastly too far, though
founded in truth ; and to-day is held by many to be
utterly unestablished, though not improbable or unphilo-
sophical in conception. Of twenty-eight ordinary mem-
bers of this Society, named in the Phrenological Journal,
the professional designations of five are omitted. Out of
the other twenty-three, twelve are physicians or surgeons:
a tolerably fair contradiction to the anti-phrenological
objection, that medical men despise Phrenology.
WORCESTER.
"ATHENlEUM.-On Monday evening last, Mr. Turley
gave his ninth lecture on the Nervous System at this In-
stitution. Though this course of lectures is longer than
any previously delivered, the interest they afford, judging
from the very crowded attendance, increases rather than
diminishes as the course proceeds."-Worcester Herald,
April 16, 18S6.
Mr. Turley appears to be a Phrenologist, and to have
made his course a phrenological one.
WREXHAM.
A circular was addressed to J. E. Bowman, Esq., known
as a skilful botanist, but hitherto inattentive to Phreno-
logy. This gentleman intimates that anything like a
Phrenological Society, in Wrexham, would be quite out
of question, there being so " little intellect" in the place.
Mr. Bowman also states a few circumstances which tend to
• In the list of members I obter'fe the names or some authon on
ICience, and presume the members to be these autbon, not merely
namesakes. In regard to the President, Dr, Conolly, there canno&
be a mistake ot identity in this wa7.
168 III. LOCAL DIFl'USION OF PHRENOLOGY.
show a favourable leaning towards Phrenology gradually
arising here, as almost every where else, namely - that of
two medical practitioners " of scientific views," one is a
believer in Phrenology, the other not so, being prejudiced
against it, probably from religious scruples ;-that a di&o
senting minister of some talent, who used to ridicule tile
science, became a convert lately, through meeting with a
Phrenologist, on a recent visit to London ;-that each of
the two booksellers here has sold several copies of the
Catechism of Phrenology ;-and that he himself, hitherto
"hanging as it were in suspense," has become convinced
of the science being " built upon solid and fixed data,"
through striking proofs given to him by Mr. Gardner, of
Glasgow.•
You;.
" In the lecture delivered at York more than a hundred
literary and scientific men were present. Seven of them
replied to my observations ; all whose objections I at-
tempted to refute, to the satisfaction and conviction, as I
am informed, of many of my hearers." ·• • • " Most
of the objections urged against the science were derived
from the writings of Mr. Stone ; consequently their re-
futation was an easy task."-Mr. Sandwith, Beverley.
• Circumstances like these mar appear of small importance taken
singl7, but when numerous scientific or taleoted individuals thus be-
come impressed with a reliance on Phrenolog7, although the7 may
not make it an especial study, each one has a local inftueoee, anil
their united weight will soon conatitute " public: upinion."
169
SECTION IV.
LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY,
" The Schoolmaster ii abroad."
THE literature of a science is one of the most decided
tests of the extent to which public attention and patron-
age are bestowed upon it. When men of ability write
works on a particular subject, we must conclude them to
be infiuenced either by a conviction of its intrinsic value,
or by the probability of gaining fame or profit from their
exertions. The earlier works on phrenology were dic·
tated by the feeling of its great value to mankind. Several
of the later and smaller books have obviously proceeded
from the latter infiuence ; being borrowed (in all essential
points) from the writings of Spurzheim and Combe, and
produced only to meet a demand, not to create it.• We
may take this as one among many evidences in proof that
a considerable body of the community is beginning to
appreciate phrenology. They do not despise the science
who have become willing to purchase the retailed know-
ledge of it ; and ifthere be now found many purchasers of
elementary works, there must be many persons busied in
learning phrenology. The increasing number of phreno-
logical works, and the demand for successive editions,
are satistical facts of no mean importance to phrenologists
• Catechism or Phrenology- What is Phrenology?-Phrenology
Simplified, &c.
I
170 IV. LITERATURE OP PHRENOLOGY.
who are anxious to see the knowledge of their science
spreading through the community. The formation of
societies, the countenance of men in authority, and the
support of talented individuals, are desirable circum·
stances, and furnish so many additional corroborations;
but the sale of elementary works is a much better criterion
of public estimation.
The following enumeration of works, authors, and
supporters, is intended primarily as an illustration of the
progress of phrenology in public consideration. As in
other parts of this volume, however, secondary uses have
also been kept in view, and it has been endeavoured to
make the lists useful to phrenologists and others. It is
not improbable that some of the smaller works may have
escaped recollection or research ; and if any have done
so, it is more likely to have happened with respect to the
hostile works. The lists of writers are probably more
imperfect. Some few may have been overlooked; and
it is a nice point, in several instances, to draw the distinc·
tion between incidr:.:ital notices of phrenology, on the one
hand, and papers or essays upon the science, on the other.
Articles or notices in newspapers might have been cited
numerously enough, were not such productions of too
transitory a character ; and slight notices of phrenology
occur in many books not expressly referred to. It is in
such casual notices that antiphrenology makea the best
figure in regard to authorities. The reason is obvious.
Thirty years ago every body was hostiie to phrenology,
and its enemies bad a numerical majority till within
these ten years past. Age and authority were also
strongly opposed to the science. Consequently, if noticed
at all, it was usually in condemnation or derision ; and if
noticed by the older and established authors, it was de·
cidedly discountenanced. Hence would it be easy to
make a much more respec!table list of works containing
unfavourable allusions to phrenology, than might appear
IV. LITJ:RATURE OT PHRENOLOGY. 171
Crom the paltry list of works published avowedly in op-
position to the science. But such can form no proper
test of the degree in which phrenology is now regarded ;
and many of the principal adverse authorities have been
already alluded to. The question of political reform has
been carried, and is highly popular; yet a list of divisions
in the Houses of Parliament, from the time of its first
agitation, would show a great majority against that ques-
tion, whether we considered numbers, power, rank, or
political celebrity. So is it with phrenology; the past
men of note were almost all arrayed against it : the aged
still are so ; the present rising names are on its favourable
list ; and not a few risen names will be found in the Fifth
Subsection, containing the names ofindividuals presenting
testimonials in favour of phrenology, to the Secretary for
the Colonies or to the Civic Council of Edinburgh, in the
spring of 1836. ·
1. CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OP WORKS ON PHRENOLOGY.
1807. ANONYMous.-Gall's Theory of Physiognomy,
with Hufeland's Critical Remarks. 8vo.•
1815. SPURZHEIM.-The Physiognomical System of
Drs. Gall and Spurzheim. 8vo. Price Sis. 6d.
Edinburgh Review, No. 49. t
1815. SPURZHEIM.-Outlines of the Physiognomical
System. 12mo. Price Ba.
(Query-A second edition in 1819, under title of
"Outlines of the Phren~logical System"?)
• I have not been able to obtain a cop7 of this work, and am
doubtful of ita exac:t title and contents. Neither have I seen the
" Outlines." ·
t The references are to reviews or notices of the works,
I 2
172 IV. LITERATURE ·OF PHRENOLOGY.
1815. FoRsTER.-Sketch ·of the New Anatomy and
Physiology of the Brain and Nervous System of Dn.
Gall and Spurzheim, considered as comprehending a
complete system of Zoonomy. Reprinted from the
Pamphleteer, with additions. 8vo. pp. 150. Price 5s.
1817. SPURZHEIM.-Examination of the Objections
made in Britain against the Doctrines of Gall and Spurz-
heim. 8vo. Price 2s.
Annals o( Medicine and Surgery, March, 1817.
1817. SPURZHEIM.-Observations on the Deranged
Manifestations of the Mind, or Insanity. 8vo. Price 71.
1819. CoMBE.-Essays on Phrenology. 8vo. pp. 416.
Price 12s.
A second edition in1825. (See Systemof Phrenology.)
Phrenological Journal, Vol. I., p. vi. and p. 615.
Literary and Statistical Magazine, No. 12, Nov, 1819.
1820. MACKENZIE.-Illustrations of Phrenology, with
seventeen Engravings. 8vo. pp. 273. Price 151.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. III., p. 487.
1821. SPURZHEIM.-A View of the Elementary Prin-
ciples of Education, founded on the Study of the Nature
of Man. 12mo. pp. 360. Price 7s.
Second edition in 1828.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. I. p. 579.-Vol. VI. p. 16S.
1821. CoMBE.-Outlines of Phrenology. 8vo. pp. 82.
Price ls.
Second edition in 1823. pp. 28.
Third edition in 1824. pp. 32.
Fourth edition in 1829. pp. 32.
Fifth edition in 1835. pp._36.
1821. ABERNETHY.-On Gall and Spurzheim's System
of Physiognomy and Phrenology. 8vo.
"o'•·•' ,,Google
JV, LITERATURE OP PHRENOLOGY. 173
1823. VARious.-Transactions of the Phrenological
Society. 8vo. pp. 448. 5 plates. Price 14s.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. I., p. 146.
Medico-Chirurgical Review, 1824.
1823. VARious.-The Phrenological Journal, No. 1.
8vo. pp. 164. Price 4s. (A quarterly periodical, con-
.tinued regularly to the present time ; but now published
at 28. 6d.)
Medico-Chirurgical Review, 1824, &c.
1823. ANONYMous.-Observations on Phrenology as
aft'ording a Systematic View .of Human Nature.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. I. p. vi.
1824. CoMBE.-Elements of Phrenology. 12mo. pp.
24-0; Price 4s.
Second edition in 1825. pp. 252.
Third edition in 1828. pp. 228.
Fourth edition in 1836 (in press).
Phrenological Journal, Vol. I., p. 615. - Vol. II., p. 491. -
Vol.V. p. 819.
1824. DE VILLE.•-Outlines of Phrenology. 8vo.
pp. 123.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. I., p. 625.
1825. ANONYMOUS ?t-A Treatise on Naval Disci-
pline ; with an Explanation of the important Advantages
• The author " appears unfortunately to have intrusted the com-
pilation and editing of it to some person not possessed of information
and ability adequate to do justice to the subject."-Phren. Journal.
t " We give the author all credit for bis zeal and good intentions;
but are sorry to remark a want both of good sense and knowledge of
our science in some of his observations. He says, for example, that
the naval officer who is skilled in Phrenology ' will immediately dis-
' cover all those who have Destructiveness, Secretiveness, and Firm-
• ness largely developed, and he will consequently be aware that cor·
poral punishment is not suitable for such individuals; for ajlogging
•would be a grati:ficalion to IUCh an organisation.' This is a discovery
of which the author baa the exclusive merit, &c,"-Phren. Journal.
I 3
174 rv. LITERATURE OJ' PHRENOLOGY.
which Naval and Military Discipline might derive from
Phrenology. Svo. pp. 40.
Phrenological Journal, VoL II. p. 468.
1825. ANONYMous.-An Apology for the Study of
Phrenology. 8vo. pp. S2. Price Is. (By Dr. Barlow.)
Phrenological Journal, VoL III. p. 191.
1825. SPURZHEIM.-Phrenology, or the Doctrine of
the Mind ; and of the Relations between its Manifesta-
tions and the Body. 8vo. pp. 303, fifteen plates. Price
16s. (With the next this forms the third edition of " The
Physiognomical System ;" but they are more properly to
be regarded as the first editions of distinct works.)
Phrenological Journal, Vol. II. p. 619.
1825. SPURZHEIM. - A View of the Philosophical
Principles of Phrenology. 8vo. pp. 216. Price 7s. (See
the preceding.)
Phrenological Journal, Vol. III. p. 269.
1825. SPuRzHEIM.-A Sketch of the Natural Laws of
Man. l 2mo. pp. 220. Price 6s.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. V. p. S25.
1825. COMBE. -A System of Phrenology. Secontl
edition, with plates. 8vo. pp. 580. Price l 2s. {The Es-
says on Phrenology formed the first edition of the present
work.)
Third edition in 1880. pp. 7M. Price I5s.
Fourth edition, improved and enlarged. Price 20s.
(To be published in July or August, 1836.)
Phrenological Journal, Vol. III. p. 104.
Edinburgh Review, Vol. XLIV. p. 2SS.
1826. CoMBE. - A Letter from George Combe, to
Francis Jeffery, Esquire, in answer to his Criticisms on
Phrenology in the 88th Number of the Edinburgh Re-
view. 8vo. pp. 81. Price la. 6d.
IV. LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY. 175
Second edition in 1826. - Also printed in the Phre-
nological Joumal.
1826. SPURZHEIM.-Phrenology in connexion with the
Study of Physiognomy. Part I. Characters. S4 plates,
royal 8vo. pp. 191. Price 22s.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. III. p. 578.
1826. SPURZHEIM. - The Anatomy of the Brain; with
a General View of the Nervous System. Eleven plates,
8vo. pp. 2S4. Price 14s.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. IV. p. 89.
1826? ALEXANDER. -A Lecture on Phrenology, M
illustrative of the Moral and Intellectual Capacities of
Man. 8vo. pp. 44. Price 2s. 6d. .
Phrenological Journal, Vol. IV. p. 156.
1827. SPURZHEIM. - Outlines of Phrenology; being
also a Manual of Reference for the Marked Busts. I 2mo.
pp. 100. 0
Price 2s. 6d.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. IV. p. 47S.
1828. CoMBE.•-The Constitution of Man considered
in relation to Extemal Objects. 12mo. pp. 336. Price
6s.
Second edition in 1835. pp. 460. Price 4s.
"Henderson Edition" in 1835. pp. 460. Price 2s. 6d.
Third edition in 1835. pp. 400. Price 4s.
Fourth, or "The People's Edition," in 1835. Royal 8vo.
double columns, pp. llO. Price ls. 6d.
• " While adverting to Mr. Combe's work, we may mention that
a disgraceful plagiarism bas recently been committed upon it, in a
small volume, styled ' The Art of Beiog Happy; by Bourne !!all
Draper.• The whole of Mr. Draper's chapter on •the physical,
organic, and moral laws' is an abridgment from Mr. Combe's book,
entire pages of which are transcribed into ' The Art of Being Happy ;'
and all without the slightest acknowledgment."-Phren. Journal, IX.
576.
J 4
116 IV. LITERATURE OP PHRENOLOGY.
Fifth edition in 1885. 12mo. pp. 408. Price 48.
Sixth edition in 1886. 12mo. pp. 408. Price 48.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. V. p. Sl9. - VoL IX. p. 575.
Medico-Chirurgical Review. October, 18S5.
Educational Magazine. (November?) l8S5.
Presbyterian Magazine. May, 18S6.
1828. CoMBE. - Correspondence relative to Phreno-
logy ; between Sir William Hamilton, Bart,, Dr. Spurz-
heim, and Mr. George Combe, in January, February, and
March, 1828. 8vo. Price ls. 6d.
1828. WILDSMITH. -An Inquiry concerning the Con-
nexion of the Mind and the Brain, with Remarks on
Phrenology and Materialism. 8vo. pp. 74. Price 2s. 6d.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. V. p. 448.
· 1828. HOLLAND. - "Dr. Holland has published a
work ' On Education,' in which the subject is treated OR
phrenological principles." (Phrenological Journal, Vol. V.
p. 323.)
1829? EPPS. - Hone Phrenologicre; being Three
Phrenological Essays, namely, On Morality; On the best
Meansofobtaining Happiness; and,.On Veneration. 12mo.
pp. 281. Price Ss.
Second edition, in 1834.
1829? -? -A Lecture upon the Truth, Reason-
ableness, and Utility of the Doctrines of Phrenology. By
the Editor of the Chesterfield Gazette. pp. 26.
Second edition, in 18!9?
Phrenological Journal, Vol. V. p. 6SS.
1829. CoMBE. -A Letter on the Prejudices of the
Great in Science and Philosophy against Phrenology,
addressed to the Editor of the Edinburgh Weekly Journal.
8vo. pp. 27.
IV. LITERATURE OP PHRENOLOGY. 177
1829. CoMBE. - Answer to "Observations on the
Phrenological Development of Burk, Hare, and other
atrocious Murderers, &c. by Thomas Stone, Esq." &c.
8vo. pp. 16. Price 6d.
1829. GREIG. - Observations on a late Pamphlet by
Mr. Stone, on the Phrenological Development of Burk,
Hare, &c. 8vo. pp. 14. Price 6d.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. VI. p. 234.
1829. THOMPSON. -An Essay on the Phrenology of
the Hindoos and Negroes; by James Montgomery, Esq.
- Together with Strictures thereon by Corden Thompson,
M.D. 8vo. pp. 62. Price Is. 6d.
Phrenological Journal, VoL VI. p. 244 and p. S98.
1880. SPuRZHEIM. - Phrenology: Article of the Fo-
reign Quarterly Review. With Notes from G. Spurzheim,
M. D. 8vo. pp. 70. (N. B. This was a reprint of the
Article named, originally written by the late Richard
Chenevix, F.R.S.)
Phrenological Journal, VoL VI. p. 304.
1880. SPURZHEIM. -Appendix to the Anatomy of the
Brain ; - containing a Paper read before the Royal So-
ciety on the 14th of May, 1829; and some Remarks on
Mr. Charles Bell's Animadversions on Phrenology. Seven
lithographic plates. 8vo. pp. SI. Price 3s. 6d.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. VI. p. 603.
1830. ANONYMOUS.- Phrenology in Edinburgh. 8vo.
pp. 24. Price 6d.-(A satirical poem, shortly afterwards
withdrawn from circulation.)
Phrenological Journal, Vol. VI. p. S46.
1831. ANDREW CoMBE.-Observations on Mental De-
rangement : - being an application of the Principles of
Phrenology to the Elucidation of the Causes, Symptoms,
I 5
178 IV. LITERATURE OP PHRENOLOGY.
Nature, and Treatment, of Insanity. Small 8vo. pp. 892.
Price 7s. 6d.
1881. ANONYMOUS. - A Catechism of Phrenology,
illustrative of the Principles of that Science. 18mo.
pp. 72. Price Is.
Second edition, in 1831. Seventh edition, in 1834.
N.B. The ninth edition is advertised in the present
year of 1836. We are unable to give the dates of each
editiop..
Phrenological Journal, Vol. VII. p. 89. - Vol. X. p. 52.
1831. DEWHURST.• -A Guide to Human and Com-
parative Phrenology; with Observations on the National
Varieties of the Cranium. 12mo. pp. 302. Price 3s. 6d.
(There is a " Phrenological Card," by the same author,
price 6d. We know not the date.)
Phrenological Journal, Vol. VII. p. SIS.
1831. ANONYMOUS. - An Exposure of the Unphilo-
sophical and Unchristian Expedients adopted by Anti-
phrenologists for the purpose of obstructing the Moral
Tendencies of Phrenology :- Being a Review of Anti-
phrenology, &c. by Dr. Wayte.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. VII. p. 615.
1838. CARMICHAEL. - A Memoir of the Life and Phi-
losophy of Spurzheim. Svo. pp. 96. Price 4s. 6d.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. VIII. p. 261.
1838. CHURCH.-Presumptive Evidence of the Truth
.and Reasonableness of Phrenology. Chichester.
' Phrenological Journal, Vol. VIII. p. 280.
• "We cannot refrain from expressing our regret that Mr. Dew-
hurst shouldhave sent forth thiscrude andincorrect elementarr work.••
-Phrenological Joumal, VII. Sl7.
IV, LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY. li9
1833. LEVISON. - Mental Culture ; or the Means of
Developing the Human Faculties. 12mo. pp. SOO. Price
68.
Phrenological Journal, VoL VIII. p. 647.
1834. CoMBE. -Three Lectures on Popular Educa-
tion. 8vo. pp. 80. Price 2s.
1834. EHN· - The Phrenologist. Price 2d. (This
is a weekly periodical, devoted to teaching and dissemi-
nating Phrenology.)
Phrenological Journal, Vol. VIII. p. SSS.
1834. NoBLE. - Essay on the Means, physical and
moral, of estimating the Human Character.
1835. CLARKE.-Christian Phrenology; or the Teach-
ings of the New Testament respecting the Animal, Moral,
and Intellectual Nature of Man. 8vo. pp. 48.
Second edition in 1836. Price 6d.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. IX. p. SSS.
" Christian Reformer - Monthly Repository."
1835. SAUNDERs.-What is Phrenology? Its Evi-
dences and Principles familiarly considered. 18mo.
pp. 56. Price ls. 6d.
1836. COMBE. -Testimonials in favour of Phrenology.
Svo. pp. 167. Price 2s. 6d. (See No. 5. oftkis Section
for particulars respecting the Testimonials.)
Phrenological Journal, Vol. X. p. 102.
1836.- CoMBE. -The Suppressed Documents; or an
Appeal to the Public against the Conductors of the Scot-
tish Guardian. 8vo. pp. 14.
1836. ANONYMOUS. - "The Christian Physician has
three leading aims - to teach Phrenology ; to shew that
happ~ness is the invariable result of obedience to the laws
of nature, and misery the punishment of their neglect ;
I 6
180 IV. LIT2RATUR2 OF PHRENOLOGY.
and to advocate liberal views in politics, and toleration in
religion. It consists of 24 pages, and is sold at 4d.'' -
" An Essay on Phrenology is contributed to each number
by Dr. Epps."-(A monthly periodical.)
Phrenological Journal, Vol. IX. p. 569.
1836. MACNISH.-An Introduction to Phrenology, in
the form of question and answer. 18mo. pp. 186. Price
2s.6d.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. X. p. 98.
Atheneum. June 1896, p. 447.
" Reviewed in many places." Dr, Macnish,
1886. ANONYMous.-Phrenology Simplified; being an
Exposition of the Principles and Applications of Phreno-
logy to the Practical Uses of Life; intended as a sequel
to the " Catechism of Phrenology.'' pp. 208.'*
Phrenological Journal, Vol. X. p. 52.
1886. Cox.-Caldwell's Thoughts on Physical Educa-
tion, and the True Mode of Improving the Condition of
Man ;-:-and on the Study of the Greek and Latin Lan-
guages. With Introductory Remarks by George Combe,
and Copious Notes by Robert Cox. (To be published in
June, 1836; but I scarcely know how far it is to be
accounted a work on Phrenology.)
1886. BROWNE. - Five Lectures on Insanity, delivered
before the Managers of the Montrose Lunatic Asylum.-
(In thepress, April, 1836.)
1886. VARious.- Selections from the Phrenological
Journal; consisting of the most interesting Articles in
• " In short, the volume is altogether 80 disgraceful a production,
and 80 evidently interferes with literary property, that the publisher
bas thought it prudent to comply with the demand of the proprietors of
the Journal, that it should be instantly withdrawn from circulation."
• • • . " The anonymous compiler of this volume, colling ltiwuelf a
member of the Phrenological Society," &c.-Pbrenological Journal,
X. P• 52.
IV. LITERATURE 01!' PHRENOLOGY. 181
the first twenty Numbers, some of which are .either scarce
or out of print. 12mo. Price about 51. (In the preu,
Mag, 1886.)
In addition to the preceding works, there are a few
others, which appear not to be met with in London, and
concerning the dates of which no particulars have been
ascertained. They are : -
Internal Evidences of Christianity, deduced from Phre-
nology, by Medicus. 12mo. Price Ss. 6d.
Facts in favour of Phrenology, in Two Letters to a
Friend in Oxford, in reply to the Strictures of the Edin-
burgh Review. Svo. Price 2s.
Principles of Phrenology explained. - " A pamphlet
compiled by our Librarian, Mr. Macglashan, Teacher."
(Letter from Mr. Leighton of Dundee.)
A Phrenological Chart. By D. G. Goodyer. Price 6d.
Two editions.
2. CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF ANTIPHRENOLOGICAL
WORKS.
- ? TUPPER.-Inquiry into Dr. Gall's System.
Svo. Price &.
1817. GoRDON.•-Observations on the Structure ofthe
Brain, with an estimate of the claims of Gall and Spurz-
heim. 8vo. Price 71. 6d.
Annals or Medicine and Surgery, March, 1817.
1824. RoLPH.-Strictures on Phrenology, showing that
• Mr. Carmichael, in his Memoir or Spurzheim, speaks of a
pampliletby Gordon,in1817. It is presumed thathealludestothe
work above named. I cannot hear of any oJher.
182 JV. LITERATURE OF PBJlEliOLOGY.
Anatomy, Reason, Common Sense, and Scriptme, are not
in accordance with Phrenological Principles.
Phrenological Journal, VoL I. p. 651.
1825. ANONYMOUS. - A Vindication of the Church of
Scotland from the Charge of Fatalism urged against it in
the Phrenological Journal, No. 8.
Phrenological Journal, VoL III. p. 252.
1825. ANONYMous.-Travels in Phrenologasto. By
Don Jose Balscopo. 8vo. pp. 126.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. III. p. 659.
1826. HAMILTON.-An Essay on Craniology; being
the substance of a Paper submitted to the Philosophical
and Literary Society of Leeds. 8vo. pp. 104.
Phrenological Journal,. Vol. III. p. 47S.
1828. STONE.-Evidences against Phrenology. Price
31. 6d.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. V. p. 264;- Vol. VI. p. 140.
London Medical and Surgical Journal, Nos. ·2 and 5.
1829. STONE. - Observations on the Phrenological
Development of Burk, Hare, and other atrocious Mur-
derers; Measurements ofthe Heads of notorious Thieves,
&c. &c. Presenting an extensive Series of Facts, sub-
versive of Phrenology. 8vo, pp. 75. Price 2s. 6d.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. VI. p. 1, p. 95, p. 98, p. 2S2,
p. 254, p. 2S7.
Combe's Answer, &c. 1829.
Greig's Observations, &c. 1829.
1829. STONE.-A Rejoinder to the Answer of George
Combe, Esq., to " Observations on the Phrenological
Development of Burk, Hare," &c. 8vo. pp. 18. Price 6d.
1829. MoNTGOMERY.-An Essay on the Phrenology
of the Hindoos anci Negroes; by James Montgomery,
IV. LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY. 189
Esq. Together with Strictures thereon by Corden
Thompson, M.D. 8vo. pp. 62. Price ls. 6d. (Mr.
Montgomery's Essay was first published apart.)
Phrenological Journal, VoL VI. p. 244. and S98.
1829. WAYTE. - Antiphrenology, or Observations to
prove the Fallacy of a Modem Doctrine of the Human
Mind.
Phrenological Journal, Vol. VII. p. 6IS.
An Exposure of the Unphilosophical and Unchristian Expedients,
&c. ISSI.
S. LIST OF PHRENOLOGICAL AUTHORS AND EssAYISTs,
WITH THEIR WORKS AND PAPERS.
JoHN ABERNETHY, Surgeon.
On Gall and Spurzheim's System of Physiognomy and
Phrenology. 1821.
WHITELAW AINSLIE, M.D.
Case of large Organ of Number.-Phren. Jour. VI.
107.
JOHN ALDERSON, M.D.
Case of Morbid excitement of the Organ of Number. -
Phren. Jour. IV. 558.
Address to the Hull Society for Phrenological Inquiry.
-Pbren. Jour. IV. 566.
DISNEY ALEXANDER, M.D.
A Lecture on Phrenology. 1826.
W. H. ATHERTON, Solicitor.
On Sea-sickness. - Phren. Jour. II. 645.
On Deficiency in the Power of perceiving Colours. -
Phren. Jour. ID. 44.
184 IV. LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY.
EDWARD BARLOW, M.D.
An Apologyfor the Study of Phrenology.-1825.
DAVID BRIDGES.
Case of J. G. - Phren. Trans. 289.
JAMES BRIDGES, w.s.
On the Sentiment of Veneration.- Phren. Jour. III. I.
W. A. F. BROWNE, Surgeon.
Lectures on Insanity. 1836. (In the press.)
Notice of Bouillaud's Experiments to discover the
Function of the Brain. - Phren. Jour. VII. 133, 224.
On Morbid Manifestation of the Organ ofLanguage, as
connected with Insanity. - Phren. Jour. VIII. 250, 308,
414; IX. 162.
On Religious Fanaticism. - Phren. Jour. IX. 289, 532,
577,
Case of a Patient in the Montrose Lunatic Asylum. -
Phren. Jour. X. 45.
(Rev.?) ROBERT BucHANAN.
Case of James Gordon, executed for Murder.-Phren.
Trans. 327.
JOHN BUTTER, M.D.
On the Faculty of perceiving Colours. - Phren. Trans.
209.
CHARLES CALDWELL, M.D.
Letter on the Development and Characters of the Ame-
rican Indians, &c.-Phren. Jour. IV. 189.
Letter on a Primitive Tribe in America. -Phren. Jour.
VII. 281.
New Views of Penitentiary Discipline, &c.-Phren.
Jour. VII. 385, 493.
IV. LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY. 185
G. D. CAMERON, M.D.
The Cerebral Development of Henry Griffiths, a mur-
derer. - Phren. Jour. 11.181.
Case of deficient Tune. - Phren. Jour. II. p. 642.
ANDREW CARMICHAEL, Surgeon.
A Memoir of the Life and Philosophy of Spurzheim.
18SS.
On the Mode of studying the Instincts of the Lower
Animals.- Phren. Trans. 380.
An Essay on Dreaming, including Conjectures on the
proximate Cause of Sleep.-Trans. of the College of Phy·
sicians, II. 48. - Philosophical Magazine, LIV. 252.
On the proximate Cause of Sleep.- Phren. Jour. IX.
164, SIS.
RICHARD CHENEVIX.
Gall and Spurzheim's Phrenology.• (An Essay in the
Foreign Quarterly Review, No. 4; republished by Spurz-
heim, in 1830.)
RICHARD CHURCH.
Presumptive Evidence of Phrenology. 1833.
REV. HENRY CLARKE.
Christian Phrenology. 1835.
ANDREW COMBE t, M.D.
Observations on Mental Derangement, 1831.
On the Effects of Injuries of the Brain upon the Mani-
festations of Mind.-Phren. Trans. 183.
· • This essay may be considered the best historical and descriptive
sketch or Phrenology, up to the date or its first publication; but the
paper being first written anonymously, and r&opublisbed only by
another person, after the author's death, the name or Chenevix is not
quite properly introduced into a list that excludes anonymoua authors.
t Thia gentleman, his brother Mr. George Combe, Mr. Simpson,
and others, appear to have many anonymow articles in the Phreno-
logical Journal.
186 JV. LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY.
Observations on Dr. Barclay's Objections to Phreno-
logy. - Phren. Trans. 89S.
Essay on Phrenology, read to the Medical Society of
Edinburgh, in 1823. - Phren. Jour. I. SS7.
On Hypochondriasis.-Phren. Jour. III. 51.
On the Talent for recollecting Names.-Phren. Jour.
III. 120.
On the Inftuence of Organic_Size on Power of Function.
-Phren. Jour. IV.161.
Address to the Phrenological Society, November 1828.
-Phren. Jour. V. 475.
On Mental Derangement.-Phren. Jour. V. 48S.
On the Exciting Causes of Mental Derangement.-
Phren. Jour. VI. SS, 259.
On Mental Exercise as a means of Health, VI. 109, 288.
(Communicated under the signature of "Medicus"; but
affiliated to Dr. Combe, in the Index.)
Also some physiological papers in the Phrenological
Journal, on the skin, muscles, education, &c.
GEORGE CouBE, W.S.
Essays, and System of Phrenology. 1819. Three edi-
tions. These Essays first appeared in the Literary and
Statistical Magazine, 1817, 1818, 1819.
Elements of Phrenology. 1824. Four editions.
Outlines of Phrenology, 1821. Five editions.
The Constitution of Man. 1828. Six editions.
Three Lectures on Education. 1834.
Testimonials in favour of Phrenology. 1886.
Suppressed Documents, &c. 1836.
Preliminary Dissertation on the Progress and Applica-
tion of Phrenology.- Phren. Trans. I.
Continuation of the Case of J. G.-Phren. Trans. 29+.
On inferring Natural Dispositions and Talents from
Development of Brain ; with Cases.- Phren. Trans. 806,
lSS, 319, 862.
IV. LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY. 187
Phrenological Analysis of some of the Maxims of La
Rochefoucalt.-Phren. Trans. 382. ,
Correspondence with Dr. Barclay. - Phren. Jour. I. 40.
On Concentrativeness. Phren. Jour. II. 246.
On Musical Talent: Case of Mr. D. W. - Phren. Jour.
III. 97.
• Two Letters to Francis Jeffrey, Esquire. - Phren.
Jour. IV. 1, 242.
Correspondence with Sir William Hamilton. - Phren.
Jour. IV. 377 ; V. I, 158.
Correspondence with Mr. Syme and the Editor of the
Caledonian Mercury, respecting some blunders of Mr.
Stone.-Phren. Jour. V. 264.
• Answer to Mr. Stone's' Observations.'- Phren. Jour.
VI. I.
• Letter on the Prejudices of the ' Great in Science and
Literature' against Phrenology. -Phren. Jour. VI. 14.
Report of Visit to Dublin.-Phren. Jour. VI. 75.
Practical Phrenology : Choice of Servants ; Criminal Le-
gislation. - Phren. Jour. VI. 211.
Letter to Professor Blumenbach.- Phren. Jour. VIII.
531.
Visit to Newcastle.-Phren. Jour. IX. 519.
RoBERT Cox, W.S.
Caldwell's Thoughts on Physical Education, &c. 1836·
Cases of Natural Dispositions and Talents inferred
from Casts. (Conjointly with Mr. James Simpson.)-
Phren. Jour. VIII. 206, 406.
On the Character and Skulls of Esquimaux. - Phren.
Jour. VIII. 289, 424.
On the Skulls and Character of the Thugs of India. -
Phren. Jour. VIII. 524.
On the Character and Development of Burns.- Phren.
Jour. IX. 52.
~ • Also published apart from the Phrenological Journal.
188 IV. LITERATURE OJI' PHRENOLOGY,
On Combativeness. - Phren. Jour. IX. 147.
On Destructiveness, and the mutual Inftuence of the
Faculties. - Phren. Jour. IX. 402, 498.
OnBenevolenceandDestructiveness.-Phren.Jour. X.I.
JAMBS DEVILLE, Tradesman, London.
Outlines of Phrenology. I824.
H. W. DEWHURST, " Surgeon-Accoucheu·r."
A Guide to Human and Comparative Phrenology. ISSI.
BRIAN DONKIN.
Case of Natural Talent and Disposition inferred from
Development.- Phren. Trans. SIO.
c. s. DREWRY.
Proposed Method of Ascertaining the solid Contents
of the Head. - Phren. Jour. VIII. 408.
RICHARD EDMONSON.
On the Organ of Weight. - Phren. Jour. VII. I06;
IX. I42.
On Weight and Constructiveness.-Phren. Jour. IX.
624.
L. H. EHN.
, The Phrenologist. I8S4.
JOHN ELLIOTSON, M.D.
Phrenological Experiment ; being an Inference of Cha.
racter from a Skull. - Phren. Jour. IV. 258.
Address to the London Phrenological Society, Novem-
ber, 1827. - Phren. Jour. V. 70.
On the Arguments of Drs. Majendie and Bostock
against Phrenology.- Phren. Jour. V. 92.
Cases of Williams and Bishop, murderers. Lancet,
14 January, 1832. - Phren. Jour. VII. 444.
Cerebral Development of Smithen, incendiary. Lancet,
No. 487.-Phren. Jour. VIII.244.
IV. LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY. 189
N.B. Dr. Elliotson's Lectures, reported in the Lancet
and Medical Gazette, decidedly embrace Phrenology,
where necessary ; and his Physiology also adopts and
illustrates the principles of the science. In the Annals of
Medicine and Surgery, March 1817, is a review of the
controversial works of Spurzheim and Gordon, mentioned
on page 7 of this volume, from the pen of Dr. Elliot-
son ; and the critique of the Phrenological Transactions
and Journal, in the Medico-Chirurgical Review (1824),
is understood to have proceeded from the same author.
JOHN EPPS, M.D.
Horie Phrenologicre. 1829.
Essays in the " Christian Physician."
F. F. FAVELL, M.D.
Case of diseased anterior Lobe of the Brain, with loss
of intellectual Power. - Phren. Jour. VII. 103. (It does
not appear whether Dr. Favell is a phrenologist, in the
the proper sense of the term.)
CHARLES FoLLEN, J. U. D. Professor of German
Literature in Harward University. U.S.
Funeral Oration ; delivered at the Burial of Spurzheim.
- Phren. Jour. VIII. 817.
THOMAS FoRSTER,
Sketch of Craniology; or the New Anatomy and Phy-
siology ofthe Brain. 1815.
Essays on Craniology. - Pamphleteer.
JEAN FossATI, M.D.
Report on the State of Phrenology in Italy. - Pbren.
Jour. V. 299.
GEORGE GARDNER, Surgeon.
Phrenological Notice of Mr. John Lissons. - Phren.
Jour. VIII. 536.
190 IV. LITERATURE 01' PHRENOLOGY.
D. G. GooDYER.
A Phrenological Chart. Anno - ?
JAMES GRATTAN.
Case of Derangement of the Faculty of Language. -
Phren. Jour. IX. 471.
WILLIAM GREGORY, M.D.
A singular Affection of the Organ of Language, pro-
duced by the Action of Morphia. - Phren. Jour. VIII.
161.
w. R. GREIG.
Observations on a late Pamphlet by Mr. Stone. 1829.
GEORGE HANCOCK (Barrister?).
On the Functions of the Organs of Comparison and
Wit. -Phren. Jour. IX. 435, and X. 14.
On Concentrativeness. -Phren. Jour. IX. 617. .. ·"
Hon. D. G. HALLYBURTON, M.P.
Letter on certain Italian Busts : - Cresar, Cicero,
Ariosto, Michael Angelo, and Galileo. - Phren. Jour.
IV. 251.
J. J. HAWKINS.
A Sketch of the Life of J. C. B. Hawkins (a precocious
child.)- Phren. Jour. VII. 14.
J. D. HoLM.•
Reply to Mr. Owen's Remarks on Phrenology.-Phren.
Jour. IX. 489. (Copied from •.Owen's New Moral World.')
• This gentleman proposes to publish a Biography of Spunbeim,
for which he has ample materials; but is prevented at present, "by
the Law of Libel, as it now stands." It may indeed be expected
that the publication of Spurzheim'a Letters will consign to infamy
with posterity some name1 now held in temporary repute.
o,g,;zed by Google
IV, LITERATURE 01' PHRENOLOGY. 191
N. B-Mr. Holm has at different times defended
Phrenology from newspaper attacks- Age, Satirist, John
Bull, &c. ; but it has already been mentioned that the
notice of such controversies does not enter the scope of
this volume. In endeavouring to collect references to the
daily or weekly press, for thirty years past, the trouble
would have very much exceeded the advantages to be
gained by it.
ALEXANDER Hoon, Surgeon.
Case of Diseased Organ of Language. - Phren. Trans.
285. Same case continued in Phren. Jour. III. 26.
HOPPE, M.D.
On the Situation of the conjectural Organs of Hunger
and Thirst.- Phren. Jour. II. 484-.
On the Arrangement of the Phrenological Faculties. -
Phren. Jour. IV. S07.
Description ofan Icelandic Skull ; and Case ofderanged
Time. - Phren. Jour. V. 455.
On Concentrativeness. - Phren. Jour. IX. 612.
JOHN HOUSTON, M.D.
On the Authenticity of the Skull of Dean Swift. -
Phren. Jour. IX. 603.
JAMES INGLIS, M.D.
Case of Injury sustained by the Organ of Language. -
Phren. Jour. X. 68.
J. L. LEVISON, Surgeon.
Mental Culture. 1833.
Account of Dr. Spurzheim's Visit to Hull.-Phren.
Jour. V. 82.
Case of Spectral Illusion. - Phren. Jour. V. 430.
Celebral Development of Joseph Pugh, murderer. -
Phren. Jour. V. 622.
192 IV, LITERATURE 01' PHRENOLOGY.
On the Organ of Weight.- Phren. Jour. VI. 1S4, 343.
Case of a Deaf and Dumb Girl.-Phren. Jour. VI. 844.
Account ofthe Siamese Twins.- Phren. Jour. VI. 615.
Phrenological Cases. - Phren. Jour. VII, 380.
Memoir of Mr.John Lisson. - Phren. Jour. VIII, 532.
Discussion with the Editors of the Phrenological Jour-
nal, touching their criticisms ofhis work above mentioned,
in their 9th volume, divers places.
GEORGE LYON, w.s.
The Harmony of Phrenology with the Scripture Doc-
trine of Conversion. - Christian Instructor, December,
1823.
On the Causes of National Liberty.- Phren. Jour. II.
598 ; III. 223.
Disposition and Talents of Mr. Vandenhoff, inferred
from Development. - Phren. Jour. IV. 501.
WILLIAM MAcGLASHAN, Schoolmaster.
Principles of Phrenology explained. (Date unascer-
tained.)
Sir G. S. MACKENZIE, Bart.
Illustrations of Phrenology. 1820.
Case of John Bellingham.- Phren. Trans. 339.
On the Organ of Weight and its Function. - Phren.
Jour. IV. 284; IX. 349.
Essay read to the Royal Society ofEdinburgh.- Phren.
Jour. VI. 332, 355.
Correspondence withDugaldStewart, on Phrenology.-
Phren. Jour. VII. 303.
Prospectus of an Association for the Advancement of
Mental Science. - Phren. Jour. IX. 281.
ROBERT MACNISH, M.D.
Introduction to Phrenology. 1836.
N.B.-The Philosophy of Sleep, and other works by
IV. LITERATURE OP PHRENOLOGY. 198
the same author, are imbued with Phrenology, and in
some measure directly connected with the science; though
scarcely in so decided a manner as to warrant their being
called works on~Phrenology.
J. J. N1coL, Surgeon.
Two Cases of Apoplexy,-attended with Lesion of some
of the knowing Organs and Language.- Phren. Jour. III.
616.
DANIEL NoBLE, Surgeon.
Essay on the Means of estimating the Human Charac-
ter. 1834.
On the Temperaments. - Phren. Jour. IX. 109, 262.
. On the Application of Phrenology to the Investigation
of Insanity. - Phren. Jour. IX. 447.
OTTO, M.D.
Case of uncommon Affection of the Faculty of Colour.
-Phren. Jour. III. 420.
Character and Development of Ane Nielsdatter, an In-
ranticide. - Phren. Jour. IV. 302.
Character of Peter Nielsen, a murderer. - Phren.
Jour. V. 87.
Ca,se of Sudden Propensity to Murder. - Phren. Jour.
VI.611.
Cases illustrative of Phrenology. - Phren. Jour. VIII.
63.
Case of morbid Activity of Destructiveness. - Phren.
Jour. VIIl.144.
G.M. PATERSON, M.D.
On the Phrenology of Hindostan. - Phren. Trans. 430.
Letter on Phrenolo~ in Calcutta, &c. - Phren. Jour.
III. 101.
ROBERT PATTERSOK.
Cerebral Development and inferred Character of an
Egyptian Mummy. - Phren. Jour. IX. 356.
K
194< IV. LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY. '
RICHARD POOLE, M.D.
View of some of Dr. Spurzheim's Lectures. - Phren.
Trans. 89.
N. B. - Favourable papers on Phrenology were pub-
lished in the New Edinburgh Review, October 1821, and
January and October 1822. Dr. Poole was the editor of
this Review.
H. J. PRINCE.
Character and Development of William Manual, a pre-
cocious Child. - Phren. Jour. IX. 344.
A. A. ROYER, M.D.
Descriptive Catalogue of Gall's Collection. - Phren.
Jour. VI. 480, 602; VII. Z7, 181, 250.
THOMAS SANDWITH, Surgeon.
A comparative View of the relation between the De-
velopment of the Nervous System and the Functions of
Animals. - Phren. Jour. IV. 479.
N.B.- Mr. Sandwith has defended Phrenology in the
Hull Newspapers, &c. on occasion of hostile attacks.
EDWIN SAUNDERS, Dentist.
What is Phrenology? 1835.
G. M. SCHWARTZ,
Directeur en Chef du Oontrole de Suede aStockholm, ~c.
Remarks on the Reflecting Faculties. - Phren. Jour.
VI. 326.
WILLIAM Scorr, W.S.
Functions of Combativeness, Destructiveness, Secre-
tiveness. - Phren. Trans. 131.
Development and Character of King Robert Bruce.-
Phren. Trans. 247.
IV, LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY. 195
On Wit and the Feeling of the Ludicrous. - Phren.
Jour. IV. 195.
On Individuality. - Phren. Jour. V. 226.
On Tragedy. - Phren. Jour. V. 516.
J. B. SEDGEWICIC.
On the artificial Compression of the infant Head by
barbarous Nations. - Phren. Jour. VI. 377.
N. B. SHURTLEFF, M.D.
Anatomical Report on the Skull of Dr. Spurzheim. -
Phren. Jour. X. 39.
JAMES SIMPSON, Advocate.
On the Organ of Weight.-Phren. Jour. II. 412
(Anonymous, but referred to Mr. Simpson in the Fourth
Volume of the same Journal), IX. 193.
Analysis of Eloquence. - Phren. Jour. V. 165.
Analysis of Atherston's Herculaneum.-Phren. Jour.
v. 437,
Cases of Character inferred from Development. -
Phren. Jour. VIII. 58, 68, 206, 406.
Hints for a Model Normal SchooL- Phren. Jour. IX.
397,
ALEXANDER SMART.
On the application of Phrenology in the Formation of
Marriages.-Phren. Jour. VIII. 464.
J. G. SPURZHEIM, M.D.
The Physiognomical System of Gall and Spurzheim.
1815.
Outlines of the Physiognomical System. 1815.
Examination of the Objections against Phrenology.
1817.
On Insanity. 1817.
Elementary Principles of Education. 1821.
Phrenology ; or the Doctrine of the Mind. 1825.
JC 2
}96 IV. LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY.
Philosophical Principles of Phrenology. 1825.'
Sketch of the Natural Laws of Man. 1825.
Phrenology in connexion with Physiognomy. 1826.
Anatomy of the Brain. 1826.
Outlines of Phrenology. 1827.
Phrenology ; Article in the Foreign Quarterly, repub-
lished with Additions. 1830. (The additional notes are
copied into the Phrenological Journal, Vol. VI. p. 304.)
Appendix to the Anatomy of the Brain. 1830.
Letter to the Editor of the Phrenological Journal. -
Phren. Jour. II. 408.
Strictures on Dr. Fossati's statements.- Phren. Jour.
v. 422.
On the Heads of Burk and Hare. - Phren. Jour. VI.
237.
Phrenological Lectures in 1825. - Reported in the
Lancet.
CoRDEN THOMPSON, M.D.
Strictures on Mr. Montgomery's Essay. 1829.
WALTER To».
Rep~y to an Antiphrenological Essay, by the Rev.
Charles Findlater. - Phren. Jour. IX. 241.
H. c. WATSON.
Case of a Dumb Girl with great deficiency in the Organ
of Tune.•-Phren. Jour. VI. 103.
• I take advantage of a reference to these papers, to make an ad-
ditional comment to each. There was an intimation given, along
with the report on the dumb girl, that a further report should be made.
Unfortunately, the child died a few months afterwards; the mother
not having observed any change. Her death was from small-poL
There is an editorial note on the question as to the use of the double
brain, mentioning Tiedemann'• case of Moser, insane on one side,
or supposed to be so. I had read the notice of that case, but con-
ceived it inapplicable as evidence. An insane man might believe that
one side of his head talked to the other, without the fact being so ;
just aa he might believe one leg to be made of glass or butter, without
the fact being so. · The co-e:dstence of sanity and insanity, in one
person, appears quite possible, if the two hemispheres can act indi-
vidually.
IV. LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY. 197
On the Organ ofComparison.-Phren. Jonr. VI. 383;
IX. 494.
On the Organ of Wit.-Phren. Jour. VI. 451.
On Memory.-Phren. Jour. VII. 212.
Strictures on Sir William Hamilton's Experiments on
the Brains of Animals.-Phren. Jour. VII. 434.
On the Development of Botanists.-Phren. Jour. VIII.
97.
On the Use of the Double Brain.•-Phren. Jour. IX.
608. (See Note on the preceding page.)
HENRY WIGHT.
Case of partial Disease of the Brain, and corresponding
loss of Mental Power.- Phren. Jour. V. 4-05.
WILLIAM WILDSMITH, Surgeon.
Inquiry concerning the Connexion of the Mind and the
Brain. 1828.
GEORGE WILSON.
A Case of Idiocy.-Phren. Jour. IX. 126.
NEVILLE Woon.
Remarks on a Review of a Paper on Phrenology by
Dr. Milligan.-Analyst, No. II.
H. G. WRIGHT.
Remarks on the Hostility of the Religious to Science.
-Phren. Jour. X. 57.
4. ANTIPHRENOGICAL AUTHORS AND EssAYISTS.
JOHN BARCLAY, M.D.
Correspondence between Dr. Barclay and Mr. George
Combe.-Phren. Jour. I. 46.
N. B. Dr. Barclay attacks Phrenology, in his Inquiry
concerning Life and Organisation.
JC s
198 IV. LITBRATVRE OP PHRENOLOGY.
JOHN BEATTIE, A.M.
A Refutation of Phrenology.-Phren. Jour. VI. 447.
Rev. CHARLXS FINDLATER.
Essay against Phrenology. -Phren. J our. IX. 241.
JOHN GORDON, M.D.
On the Structure of the Brain, with an Estimate of the
Claims of Gall and Spurzheim. 1817.
N.B. The reputed author of the Review of the Physio-
gnomical System, in No. 49. of the Edinburgh Review.
Rev. R. W. HAMILTON.
Essay on Craniology. 1826.
Sir WILLIAM HAMILTON, Bart.
Correspondence with Dr. Spurzheim and Mr. Combe,
in 1827 and 1828. Phren. Jour. IV. 379; V. 1, 153, 163.
Experiments on the Brain, &c.-Monro's Anatomy of
the Brain, and copied into Phren. Jour. VII. 434.
THOllAS HoPE, MD.
Opinion of Phrenology, as intimated in a Speech to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh.•- Phren. Jour. VI. 862.
EDWARD MILLIGAN, M.D.
"Dr. E. Milligan, of this city, who has long and inde·
fatigably kept up a skirmishing warfare against the Phre-
nologists, and who, as he himself is thoroughly convinced,
has repeatedly overthrown them 'Dy dint of an algebraic
formula and otherwise, makes a fresh attack in the first
volume of the Transactions of the Provincial Medical
• Scarcely entitled to rank as an essay or paper on PhrenologJ ;
being merely a newspaper report copied into the Phrenological Jour-
nal. The editor of the latter says that the report was corrected by
Br. Hope himself. This circumstance, together with the desire to
give the best appearance to the antiphrenological writers, induces me
to include Dr. Hope with them.
JV, LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY, 199
and Surgical Association, just published."-Phren. Jour.
VIII. S83. (We are unaware whether this attack ought
to be regarded as an antiphrenological essay, or a casual
notice.)
JAMES MONTGOMERY.
Essay on the Phrenology of the Hindoos and Negroes.
1829.
THOMAS RoLPH, Surgeon.
Strictures on Phrenology. 1824.
DUGALD STEWART.
Correspondence with Sir G. S. Mackenzie, in 1821. -
Phren. Jour. VII. 303.
THOMAS STONE, M.D.
Evidences against Phrenology. 1828.
Observations on the Development of Burk and Hare.
1829.
Rejoinder to a Letter from Mr. Combe. 1829.
J. B. TUPPER, M.D.
' Inquiry into Gall's System.
WAYTE, M.D.
Antiphrenology. 1829.
5. LIST OF INDIVIDUALS GIVING TESTIMONIALS ON
THE TRUTH OR UTILITY OF PHRENOLOGY, IN
1836.
Sir G. S. Mackenzie, Bart. having addressed a letter
to Lord Glenelg, Secretary of State for the Colonies, re-
presenting that great advantages could be derived from
the use of phrenology in classifying convicts, and solicit-
ing a public trial of the skill of phrenologists in predi-
cating disposition from configuration ofhead, his Lordship
x:4
20() IV. LITERATURE 01' PHRENOLOGY.
declined the proposal, on the grounds of having no funds
for the purpose and no faith in the science. Sir George
Mackenzie assured his Lordship that the trial should be
made without expense to Government, and offered to
meet the second ground of objection, by producing cer-
tificates, in support of the science, from individuals
of acknowledged credit and ability. Through the in-
strumentality of Mr. Combe, a circular was sent round
to many phrenologists, to request such certificates from
them. At this juncture, the professorship of Logic,
in the University of Edinburgh, became vacant, and
Mr. Combe offered his services to the patrons of the
University. But in consequence of founding his per-
sonal claims to the. chair upon his popularity as an
author and lecturer on a new and yet disputed science,
Mr. Combe deemed it proper to request testimonials of
the truth and value of phrenology, to present to the Civic
Council of Edinburgh, as patrons of the University. The
certificates to Lord Glenelg and the testimonials to Mr.
Combe were thus given almost at the same time, and have
been published together. The following list, copied from
the index of the published pamphlet, includes the names
and professional designations, &c. of the individuals pre-
senting the certificates and testimonials. A very few
profess themselves to be too little conversant with the
organology of the science, to give positive testimony on
this part of it ; but all support the philosophical claims of
phrenology in their testimonials, and most of them bear
testimony to the orgariology. Altogether these certifi-
cates, &c., present such a weight ofpersonal evidence col-
lected in six weeks' time, as must have greatly astonished
the opponents of phrenology, who would fail to collect an
equal weight of present authority against the science,
should they labour as many years.
IV. LITERATURE 0:5' PHRENOLOGY. 201
Testimonials to tAe Patrom of the UnitJersity of Edin-
burgh.
I. From CHAs.CowAN,Esq., M.D.E.,M.D.P.,M.R.C.S.E.,
Bachelor of Letters of the Sorbonne, El~ve of the
Ecole Pratique, Member of the Medical Society of
Observation of Paris, &c., Lecturer on Anatomy,
Translator of Louis on Consumption.
I
2. From E. BARLOW, Esq., M.D.; Graduate of the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh of the year 1803; Member of
the Royal College of Surgeons of Ireland ; Fellow
of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical So~iety of
London ; Senior Physician to the Bath Hospital,
and to the Bath United Hospital, &c. &c.
3. From his Grace the LoRD ARCHBISHOP OF DuBLIN.
4. From HEWETT CoTTREL WATSON, Esq., F.L.S., &c.;
formerly Senior President of the Royal Medical
Society of Edinburgh; author of the " New Bo-
tanist's Guide," the "Geographical Distribution of
British Plants," and other works.
5. From Sir G. S. MACKENZIE, Bart., F.R.S.L., formerly
President of the Physical Class of the Royal So-
ciety of Edinburgh, and V. P. of the Society of
Scottish Antiquarians, and President of the Astro-
nomical Institution of Edinburgh ; Fellow and Ho-
norary Member of several Scientific and Philoso-
phical Societies in Britain, on the Continent, and
in America; author of " Travels in Iceland," of
" An Essay on Taste," of " Illustrations of Phre-
nology," of" An Agricultural Survey of Ross and
Cromarty Shires," and of various Memoirs in the
K 5
202 IV. LITERATURE OJ!' PHRENOLOGY.
Transactions of Societies and Periodical Works,
and in Brewster's Edinburgh Encyclopa!dia, &c.
6. From JAs. L. DRUMMOND, Esq., M.D., Profeuor of
Anatomy and Botany in the Belfast Royal Insti-
tution ; President of the Belfast Natural History
Society ; Honorary Member of the Natural History
Society of Newcastle-on-Tyne, and of the Cu-
vierian Society of Cork; author of " Thoughts on
Natural History," "First Steps to Botany," and
" Letters to a Young Naturalist."
7. From V. F. HovEDEN, Esq., M.A., late Fellow of
Trinity College, Cantab.
8. From FRANc1s FARQUHARSON, Esq., M.D., F.R.C.S.,
Edinburgh, Vice-President of the Phrenological
Society.
9. From W. A. F. BROWNE, Surgeon, Medical Superin-
tendent Montrose Lunatic Asylum; formerly Lec-
turer on Physiology, &c. ; President of the Royal
Medical, Royal Physical, and Plinian Societies, &c.
JO. From WILLIAM WILDSMITH, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons, London, ofthe Councilof the
Literary and Philosophical Society of Leeds, &c.
ll. From Sir W. C. ELLIS, M.D., Physician to the Lu-
natic Asylum for the County of Middlesex.
12. From JoHN ScoTT, M.D., Fellow of the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons.
IS. From Rear-Admiral BULLEN.
14. From R.WILLIS, M.D., Member ofthe Royal College
of Surgeons in London, Librarian to the same In-
IV. LITERATURE OF 'PHRENOLOGY. • fl03
stitution, and Member of the Royal Medical and
Chirurgical Society.
15. From Dr. ROBERT MACNISH, Member oftheFaculty
of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, and author
of the Philosophy of Sleep, &c.
16. From ROBERT FERGUSON, Esq., M.P.
17. From the same.
18. From RICHARD ToNSON EVANSON, Esq., M.D.,
M.R.I.A., Professor of the Practice of Physic in
the Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland.
19. From Dr. WILLIAM GREGORY, F.R.S.E., Fellow of
the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh;
Member, and formerly President, of the Royal Me-
dical Society ; Corresponding Member of the
Societe de Pharmacie and of the Phrenological
Society of Paris ; and Secretary to the Phrenolo-
gical Society of Edinburgh.
20. From J. P.NICHOL, Esq., F.R.S.E., Professor ofPrac-
tical Astronomy in the University of Glasgow.
21. From Captain MACONOCHIE, R.N., F.G.S., Secretary
to the Royal Geographical Society of London,
&c. &c.
22. From ANDREW COMBE, M.D., Fellow of the Royal
College of Physicians ofEdinburgh, and Physician
in Ordinary to their Majesties the King and Queen
of the Belgians.
2S. From Professor BaoussAts, of the Faculty of Medi-
cine of Paris; - Dr. BEsSIEREs, of the Faculty of
Paris, Member of the Anthropological Society,
JC 6
o'""''ed 'YGoogle
2()4' IV. LIT•JlATURB OF PHJlBNOLOGY·
author of" An Introduction to the Study of Phre-
nology," &c.;-M.DAvm RICHARD, Member of
the Society of Natural Sciences of France, and of
the Anthropological and Phrenological Societies of
Paris; - Dr. CASIMIR BRoussAis, Physician and
Professor to the Val-de-Grace, Agreg6 et Profes-
seur Suppleant d'Hygi~ne to the Faculty of Me-
dicine of Paris, Member of several Learned So-
cieties, and Vice-President of the Phrenological
Society of Paris;- Dr. J. ROBERTON, Member of
several Learned Societies, and President of the
Anthropological Society of Paris; - Dr. FossATJ,
President of the Phrenological Society of Paris,
Member of several Learned Societies, formerly
Clinical Professor, and Director of several Italian
Hospitals ; - M. BouILLAUD, Professor of Clini-
cal Medicine to the FacultyofParis ;-M. TURPIN,
Member of the French Institute ;- M. JULES
CLOQUET, Professor to the Faculty of Medicine of
Paris, and Surgeon to the Hospital of the Faculty
of Paris; - M. Sanson ( Ain6), Professor of Cli-
nical Surgery in the University of Paris, and suc-
cessor to the Baron Dupuytren as Surgeon of the
Hotel Dieu; - M. PELTIER, President of the So-
ciety of Natural Sciences and Member of the Phi-
lomathic Society ;- M. FREDERICK LEo, Paris ;-
Dr. FERRus, PhyEician to the Hospital of Bicetre,
Professor of Clinical Medicine on the Diseases of
the Nervous System, &c.;- Dr. JosKPH VIMONT,
of the Faculty of Paris, Honorary Member of the
Phrenological Societies of London, Edinburgh,
Boston, &c., and author of a "Treatise on Human
and Comparative Phrenology;"- Dr. GAUBERT,
Ex-Professor of the University of France, Knight
of the Royal Order of the Legion of Honour,
Principal Editor of the Journal of the Phrenolo-
JV. LITERATURE OP PHRENOLOGY. ~
gical Society of Paris, Member of the_ Anthropo-
logicalSociety, &c. ;-M. DuMoUTIER, Anatomical
Aaaistant to the Faculty of Medicine of Paris, and
Honorary Member of several Learned Societies ;
- and Dr. F.&LIX VoISIN, of the Faculty of Paris,
Physician to several Hospitals of that City, Foun-
der of the Establishment at Vauvres for the Treat-
mentoftheInsane, and Founderof the Orthophrenic
Establishment.
24. Extrait du Discours prononce ala Seance Aunuelle
de la Societe Phrenologique de Paris, par M. le
Professeur ANDRAL, President, Professeur a la
Faculte de Medecine de Paris, Titulaire de I'Aca-
demie Royale de Medecine, Membre des SociM&
de Medicine de Bogota, d'Edimbourg, &c. et Me-
decin de l'Hopital de la Pitie, Medecin Consultant
du Roi, Chevalier de la Legion d'Honneur, &c.
Avril 1835. (Published in the 'Journal de la
Societe Phrenologique de Paris.')
25. From Dr. W. F. EDWARDS, F.R.S., Member of the In-
stitute of France.
26. From ALEx. J. D. DoRSEY, Esq., Master of the En-
glish Department in the High School of Glasgow.
<J:l. From S. HARE, Esq., Proprietor and Medical At-
tendant of the Retreat for the Insane near Leeds.
28. From Dr. WILLIAM WEIR, Lecturer on the Practice
of Medicine at the PortlandStreet Medical School,
Glasgow, formerly Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary,
and one of the Editors of the Glasgow Medical
Journal.
29. FromDr.RoBERTHUNTER, Professor ofAnatomy and
Physiologyin theAndersouian University, Glasgow.
9)6 IV. LITERATURE OP PHRENOLOGY.
30. From ALEXANDER HooD, Esq., Surgeon, Kilmarnock.
31. From JoHN MILLER, Esq., Surgeon, Kilmarnock.
32. From Dr. J. S. COMBE, Member of the Royal College
of Surgeons of Edinburgh.
33, From GEORGE SALMOND, Esq., Procurator-Fiscal of
Lanarkshire;-WALTER Morn, Esq., Sheriff-Sub-
stitute of Lanarkshire;- and Mr. D. M•CoLL,
Governor of Glasgow Jail
34, From Dr. JoHN MACKINTOSH, Surgeon to the Ord-
nance Department in North Britain, Lecturer on
the Principles ofPathology and Practice ofPhysic,
Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edin-
burgh, Member of the Medico-Chirurgical and
Wemerian Natural History Societies ofEdinburgh,
of Montreal, Heidelberg, and Brussels.
35, From ANDREW CARMICHAEL, Esq., M.R.l.A., Dub-
lin.
36. From Dr. JoHN ELLIOTSON, F.R.S., President of the
Royal Medical and Chirurgical, and of the London
Phrenological Societies; Professor of the Prin-
ciples and Practice of Medicine and of Clinical
Medicine, and Dean of Faculty, in the University
of London ; Senior Physician of the North Lon-
don Hospital; Fellow ofthe Royal College of Phy-
sicians of London ; formerly Physician to St.
Thomas's Hospital, and President of the Royal
Medical Society of Edinburgh, &c. &c. &c.
37, From JAMES SIMPSON, Esq., Advocate.
SS. Fromthe Honourable D. G. HALLYBURToN, M.P. for
Forfarshire.
o'9'"'ed byGoogle
IT. LITERATURE OP PHRBNOLOGY. m"/
S9. From WILLIAM HUNTER, Esq., A.M., late Professor
of Logic, &c., in the Andersonian University,
Glasgow.
4-0. From ALEXANDER MACKINTOSH, Esq., Surgeon Su-
perintendent, Dundee Royal Lunatic Asylum.
41. From RoBERT CHAMBERS, Esq., one of the Conduc-
tors of Chambers's Edinburgh Journal.
42. From CHARLES MACLAREN, Esq., Editor of the
Scotsman Newspaper.
43. Second Letter from GEORGE SALMOND, Esq., Procu-
rator-Fiscal of the County of Lanark.
44. From WILLIAM HUNTER, Esq., Town-Clerk of
Forfar, and President of the Forfar Phrenological
Society.
45. From DAVID MURRAY, Esq., Physician in Forfar.
4-6. From ALEXANDER SMITH, Esq., M.D., Physician in
Forfar.
4\'. From JoHN F. ALLAN, Esq., Licentiate of the Royal
College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.
48. From the Honourable Judge CRAMPTON, formerly
Fellow and Professor of Law in Trinity College,
Dublin.
49. From the Rev. Dr. FRANCIS SADLIER, S. F. Trinity
College, Dublin.
50. From c. OTTO, M.D., Professor or Medicine in the
University of Copenhagen, Physician to the Civil
2()8 IV. LITERATURE OP PHRENOLOGY.
Prisons, Member of the Royal Board of Health,
and of the Medical Societies in Copenhagen, Edin-
burgh, .Stockholm, Paris, Montpellier, Berlin,
Leipzig, Lyons, &c. &c.
51. From THOMAS WYsE, Esq., M.P., Chairman of the
Committee on Education in Ireland.
52. From JAMES JouNsoN, M.D., Physician-Extraordi-
nary to the King, Editor of the Medico-Chirur-
gical Review, &c. &c.
53. From the Rev. Dr. SPRAGUE, Pastor of a Presbyterian
Church at Albany, New York.
N.B. Some additional names of other persons send-
ing Testimonials will be given in the Sup·
plement.
Certificates to tire Secretary of State for the Colonial
Department.
I. From Dr. WILLIAM WEIR, Lecturer on the Practice
of Medicine, formerly Surgeon to the Royal Infir-
mary of Glasgow, and joint Editor ofthe Glasgow
Medical Journal.
2. From ALEXANDER HooD, Esq., Surgeon, Kilmarnock.
3. From RICHARD CARMICHAEL, Esq. M.R.I.A., Cor-
responding Member of the Royal Academy of Me-
dicine of France,. Honorary Member of several
Medical Societies ; Consulting Surgeon of the
Richmond Surgical Hospital, and Author of several
Works on Surgery.
4. From EDWARD BARLOW, M.D. of the University of
Edinburgh; Member of tlie Royal College of Sur-
o'9'"'ed byGoogle
IV. LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY. 209
geons of Ireland; Senior Physician to the Bath·
Hospital, and the Bath United Hospital; Fellow of
the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of Lon-
don, &c. &c.
5. From Messrs. ALEXANDER Hooo, JoHNCRooKs, and
JOHN MILLER, Surgeons, and Dr. ROBERT WAL·
KER, Kilmarnock.
6. From ROBERT FERGUSON, Esq., M.P. for Haddington-
shire.
7. From JoHN FIFE, Esq., one of his Majesty's Justices
of the Peace for the Borough of Newcastle-upon-
Tyne, Member of the Royal College of Surgeons
of London, Member of the Medico-Chirurgical
Society of Manchester, and of the Royal Medical
Society of Edinburgh, Lecturer on Surgery in the
Newcastle School of Medicine, &c. &c. &c.
8. From Dr. W. C. ENGLEDUE, late President of the
Royal Medical Society ofEdinburgh, and Secretary
to the Phrenological Society of Portsmouth.
9. From Dr. JAMES INGLis, M.R.C.S.E., and Soc. Ed.
Med. Reg. Soc. Ed.;- SAM. M'KEuR, Esq., Sur-
geon, Castle Douglas;-the Rev. WM. GLOVER,
A. M., Minister of Crossmichael ; -Dr. JoHN
CoLVIN, Bengal Establishment, M.R.C.S. Lond.
and Mem. Med. and Phys. Soc. Calcutta.
IO. From S. HARE, Esq., Proprietor and Medical Attend-
ant ofthe Retreat for the Insane in Leeds.
11. From Dr. JAMES STEWART (A), Surgeon, Royal
Navy, and Physician Extraordinary to.His Royal
Highness the Duke of SussEX.
210 IV LITBRATURB OP PHllBNOLOGY
12. From Dr. JAMES ScoTT, LL.B., Surgeon and Lec-
turer to the Royal Hospital at Haslar ; Licentiate
of the Royal College of Physicians of London ;
Surgeon and Medical Superintendent of the Royal
Naval Lunatic Asylum ; President of the Hamp-
shire Phrenological Society, &c. &c.
IS. From HEWETT COTTRELL WATSON, Esq., F.L.S., late
President of the Royal Medical Society of Edin-
burgh ; Author of the " Geography of British
Plants,'' and other works.
14. From Sir WILLIAM C. ELLIS, M.D., Superintendent
of the Lunatic Asylum for the County of Mid-
dlesex, at Hanwell.
15. From Dr. DISNEY ALEXANDER, late one of the Phy-
sicians to the Wakefield Dispensary and the Pauper
Lunatic Asylum, Lecturer on Phrenology, Author
of an Essay on the best Means of preserving
Health, of a Treatise on the Croup, and of Lec-
tures on the Internal Evidences of Christianity.
16. From GEORGEMARTELL,Esq., Member of the College
ofSurgeons, London, Surgeon to the Jail of Ports-
mouth, and Senior Surgeon to the Dispensary,
&c. &c.
17. From JAMES SIMPSON, Esq., Advocate, City As-
sessor of Edinburgh, and author of " Necessity of
Popular Education as a National Object."
18. From HENRY WITHAM, Esq., of Lartington, York-
shire, Member ofthe Geological Society ofLondon,
and Royal Society of Edinburgh, &c. &c. ; and
Author of a Work on "The Internal Structure of
Fossil Vegetables."
JV, LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY. 211
19. From Dr. FRANCIS FARQUHARSON, Fellow of the
Royal Collegeof Surgeons of Edinburgh, and Vice-
Preaident of the Phrenological Society.
20. From Dr. S. E. HIRSCHFIELD, Bremen.
21. From the SURGEONS to the NEWCASTLE INFIRMARY,
and Fifteen other Gentlemen ofthatTown, namely,
JoHN BAIRD, Senior Surgeon to the Newcastle In-
firmary; -T. M. GREENHow, Surgeon to the New-
castle Infirmary, &c.; - WM. HuTToN, F.G.S.,
Member of the Geological Society of France, &c.
&c., and Secretary of the Natural History Society
of Northumberland, Durham, and Newcastle-on-
Tyne; - JNo. BunDLE, V.P. of the Natural His-
tory Societyof Newcastle-upon-Tyne, F.G.S., &c.;
- RoBT. WM. SwAN ;-J. CARGILL, M.D.;-
WILLIAM MORRISON, Member <if the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons of London, &c.;- ANTHONY
N1cHoL ;- WILLIAM NEIHAM, Member of the
Royal College of Surgeons, London, of the Royal
Medical Society, Edinburgh, &c. &c. &c.; -JOHN
THOMPSON, c.M., Member of the University of
Glasgow ;-D. MACKINTOSH, Surgeon to the New-
castle Lunatic Asylum, &c.; - J. C. BRUCE, A.M.
-RoBERTCuaaIE ;-JoHN FENWICK, Alderman
ofNewcastle-upon-Tyne;-R. B. BowMAN ;-M.
H. RANKIN, Solicitor, Newcastle, Author of" Pre-
sent State of Representation in England and
Wales;" -WM. CARGILL~
22. From W.A.F. BROWNE, Esq., Medical Superintendent
of Montrose Lunatic Asylum.
23. From Dr. C. OTTO, Professor of Materia Medica and
Forensic Medicine in the University of Copen-
hagen ; Physician to the Civil Penitentiary ; Mem-
212 IV, LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY. '
ber ofthe Royal Board of Health, the Royal Me-
dical Society of Copenhagen, and thirteen other
Medical Societies abroad ; Editor of the Danish
Medical Journal "Bibliothek for Lieger," &c. &c.
24. From the Honourable DovGLAS GoRDON HALLY-
BURTON, M.P. for Forfarshire.
25. From Dr. PATRICK NEILL, F.R.S.E. and F.L.S.,
London.
26. From Dr. JoHN ELLIOTSON, F.R.S., President ofthe
Royal Medical and Chirurgical, andofthe London
Phrenological Societies; Professor ofthe Principles
and Practice of Medicine and ofClinical Medicine,
and Dean of Faculty in the University of London ;
Senior Physician of the North London Hospital;
Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Lon-
don; formerly Physician to St. Thomas's Hospital,
and President of the Royal Medical Society of
Edinburgh, &c. &c. &c.
27. From Dr. JoHN ScoTT, Fellow of the Royal College
of Surgeons, Edinburgh.
28. From JosEPH VIMONT, M.D., of the Faculty ofParis,
Honorary Member of the Phrenological Societies
of Paris, London, Edinburgh, Boston, &c.
29. From Dr. WILLIAM GREGORY, F.R.S.E., Fellow of
the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh,
Member and formerly President of the Royal Me-
dical Society, Corresponding Member of the So-
ciete de Pharmacie, and of the Phrenological So-
ciety of Paris, and Secretary to the Phrenological
Society of Edinburgh.
SO. From Dr. RoBERT HuNTER, Professor of Anatomy,
&c. in the Andersonian University, Glasgow.
IV. LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY. 213
31. From RosERT MAcNISH, Esq., Member of the Fa-
culty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, and
Author of" Philosophy of Sleep," &c.
32. From RICHARD Poou, M.D., Fellow and joint Li-
brarian of the Royal College of Physicians of
Edinburgh ; Author of various Articles in Periodi-
cal Journals and the Encyclopmdia Edinensis,-as
Language, Phik>logy, Matliematics, Mind, Phik>-
sophy, and Education, the last of which has been
republished separately.
SS. From CHARLES MACLAREN, Esq., Editor of the
Scotsman.
34. From WILLIAM WILDSMITH, Esq., Member of the
Royal College of Surgeons, London, and of the
Council of the Leeds Philosophical and Literary
Society ; and author of " An Inquiry concerning
the Relative Connexion which subsists between the
Mind and the Brain."
S5. From Mr. WJLLIAM BREBNER, Governor or the
County and City Bridewell, Glasgow.
S6. From H.A.GALBRAITH, Esq., Surgeon to the Glasgow
Royal Lunatic Asylum.
37. From GEORGE SALMOND, Esq., Procurator-Fiscal of
Lanarkshire; WALTER Morn, Esq., Sheriff-substi-
tute ofLanarkshire;- and Mr. D. M•CoLL, Go-
vernor of Glasgow Jail.
SS. Account of Mr. CoMBE's Phrenological Examination
of Heads of Criminals in the Jail of Newcaatle-on-
Tyne, October 18S5.
39. From Dr. JOHN MACKINTOSH, Surgeon to the Ord-
nance Department in North Britain; Lecturer on
214" IV. LITERATURE 01' PHRENOLOGY.
the Principles of Pathologyand Practice of Physic;
Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edin-
burgh ; Member of the Medico-Chirurgical and
Wernerian Natural History Societies of Edinburgh,
Montreal, Heidelberg, and Brussels.
40. Certificate from HENRY MARSH, Esq., M.D.,M.R.I.A.
one of the Physicians to Steven's Hospital, Con-
sulting Physician to the Dublin General Hospital,
St. Vincent's Hospital, and the Institution for the
Diseases ofChildren ;-ROBERT HARRISON, Esq.,
M.D., M. R.I.A., Professor of Anatomy and Physio-
logy, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland ; -
RICHARD ToNSON EvANSON, Esq.,M.D., M.RI.A.,
Professor of the Practice of Physic, Royal College
of Surgeons in Ireland; - JAMES ARMSTRONG,
D.D., M.R.I.A.;-FRANCISWHITE, Esq.,President
of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland; -
W. F. MONTGOMERY, Esq., M.D., Professor of
Midwifery to the King and Queen's College ·of
PhysiciaRs in Ireland; - WM. W. CAMPBELL,
Esq., M.R.I.A., Demonstrator of Anatomy to the
College of Surgeons in Ireland, Resident Assistant
Physician to the Dublin Lying-in Hospital;-
ANDREW BouRNE, Esq., Barrister;-THOMAs E.
BEATTY, Esq., M.D., late Professor ofMedical Ju-
risprudence, RoyalCollege of Surgeons in Ireland ;
-ARTHUR Row.GAYER, Esq.,LL.D., Barrister;
ANDREW CARMICHAEL, Esq., M.R.I.A:;-JoHN
HousToN, Esq., M.D., Curator of the Museum,
Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland, Surgeon to
the Cityof Dublin Hospital, Surgeontothe_Charter
Schools of Ireland, and to the Deaf and Dumb In-
stitution for Ireland ; - H. MAUNSELL, Esq.,
M.D., Professor of Midwifery to the Royal College
of Surgeons in Ireland, and Member ofthe Medical
Society of Leipzic.
lV. LITERATURE OF PHRENOLOGY. 215
41. From His Grace the ARCHBISHOP of DUBLIN.
42. From the PROVOST of TRINITY COLLEGE.
4S. From H. LLOYD, Esq., F.T.C.D., Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Dublin.
44. From MouNTIFORT LONGFIELD, Esq., F.T.C.D.,
Whayleaw, Professor of Political Economy.
45. From PHILIP CRAMPTON, Esq., Surgeon-General,
Dublin.
46. From AR. JACOB, Esq., M.D., Professor of Anatomy,
Royal College of Surgeons, Dublin.
6. OPINIONS OF ANTIPHRENOLOGISTS.
In the original plan of this volume it was designed to
give a series of extracts from the published opinions of
authors and men of philosophical eminence, who have
written upon phrenology, or have alluded to it in their
works. The publication of Mr. Combe's Testimonials,
&c. hu rendered this measure unnecessary on the phre-
nological side of the long controversy ; at least, in so far
as such opinions may be held to sanction the science.
The Testimonials are sufficient, though they might be
doubled with small pains. For the present, the list of
antiphrenological opinions shall be postponed, in pity to
their authors. Should the publication of the Testimonials,
and of this volume, fail to operate as a salutary warning
to the enemies of phrenology, to cease from misrepresent·
ation and abuse of tbe science in future, the intention
will be resumed and carried into effect, so far as living
authors and periodicals are concerned.
As phrenology is now on the eve of being universally
received by society, the individual members of the com-
/'
·216 IV, LITERATURE OF PHRBNOLOGY.
munity will speedily have· their eyes opened to the-serious
injury inflicted on them, in consequence of the misrepre-
sentations of antiphrenologists keeping the lights and
benefits of phrenology from their,sight; indeed, many do
already begin to see the loss they have sustained. The
consequences to these hostile writers and periodicals may
readily be guessed. When persons become aware that
they have been duped and seriously injured by others,
they are so very little disposed to forgive, to applaud, or
to support their deceivers, that the reputation of hostile
authors and the profits of hostile periodicals may be con-
sidered likely to be soon placed in serious jeopardy; and
the sooner their antiphrenological efforts are forgotten so
much the better for them.• But Phrenology teaches for-
giveness; and its adherents will not be severe in visit-
ing past sins, upon those who behave more decently in
future. It is too much, however, to expect that con-
tinued attacks will be quietly allowed in the present day.
Indeed, we confidently anticipate that periodicals continu-
ing their attempts to vilify phrenology and phrenologists
will very soon be thrown out of circulation ; and we main-
tain that phrenologists are performing a public good and
duty, in striving to arrest the circulation of such works as
mislead readers from a truth so extremely important to
the best interests of the human race.
Mr. Combe's exertions, in collecting testimonials of the
truth and value of phrenology, should give a hint to the
honest opponents of that science, - and a few such there
are, - to attempt the same thing. If the doctrines of
phrenologists be erroneous, it becomes a very serious
public duty in those who deny their truth, to make a
• The writer of this volume knows instances whi:re the editors ot
periodicals have already lost subscribers and advertisements in con-
sequence of the want of honesty, and the scurrility of their attacks
on Phrenology. He hopes the Phrenological Journal will record all
such attacks in future, and thus set a mark on the works in which
they appear,- particularly periodicals.
IV. LITERATURE OP PHRENOLOGY. 217
strenuous and united effort to arrest the further spread or
such errors, while any portion of the community yet hangs
in doubt or dii1belief. Were there the slightest chance
that the living authors and editors, who have opposed
phrenology, would furnish statements of their present
opinions on the subject, an application should be made to
them for such opinions. If no opposer of the science be
induced to attempt this, and misrepresentations of phre-
nology still continue to blemish the periodical press of
Britain, the printed records of their attacks shall be col-
lected. Such a collection will teach phrenologists and the
public - for phrenologists will soon be the public - what
authors and journals are to be shunned as their enemies.
We say that phrenologists and the public will be one,
because a true philosophy of mind, when fairly et<ta-
blished and understood, must form the groundwork of all
our social institutions ; and it will then become as neces-
sary for every individual to know something of the prin-
ciples and applications of phrenology, as it now is neces-
B&l'Y for persons to know something of the social laws to
which they must submit. We already see that intelligent
men of all classes in society, from the senator to the me-
chanic and labourer, evince deep interest in the science;
but the 11tep from all classes to all individuals will require
time, although less time than many may now suppose,
since the stronger minds are fast adopting phrenological
views, and the feebler minds will necessarily follow them.
L
218
V. GENERAL SUMMARIES.
1. PHRENOLOOit::AL SocJETIES.
Number of Societies. - IT appears that Phrenological
Societies had been formed in twenty-four places, up to
April 1836, and that two societies now exist in five ol
them; making a total of twenty-nine. (What othe1·
science can boast so many ?) Of these, three appear t<
have become extinct ; one has expanded into a Natura.
History Society; and another has joined itself to such an
institution. The number of existing societies is now
twenty-four, with a probability of four or five others
immediately to be formed, if not already commenced.
Scarcely above a dozen of these societies are really in a
state of good and regular activity, so far as meetings go;
but their books and casts are producing benefits. The
years from which five of them date their existence (the
second societies in Dublin, Dunfermline, and Glasgow,
and those of Kerriemuir and Newburgh) have not been
ascertained. The first society was instituted in 1820.
In 1825 only three were in existence. In 1830 there
were twelve. In the spring of 1836 there were nineteen,
besides the five above mentioned, probably all established
after 1830. Two of the three extinct societies were formed
in 1826 and 1827. The hvo which have expanded into
V. GENERAL SUMMARJES. 219
Natural History Societies were instituted in 1827 and
1884. The dates and numbers may be thus stated : -
1820 1 Society.
1824< 1
1825 1
1826 2
1827 2
1828 2
1829 3
1832 1
1833 2
1834< s
1885 5
23
Unknown dates - 6
29
Extinct, &c. 5
24
Of the existing societies, sixteen are Scottish, six are
English, and two are Irish. The three extinct societies
were English ; and of the expanded societies one was
English, the other Irish.
Number ofMembers.-In twenty now existent societies
the number of members amounts to seven hundred and
fifty-eight. For Newburgh, Stirling, Tillicoultry, arid
the second Dublin Society, no returns have been procured.
The average number of members for the other societies
is thirty-eight, within a fraction ; and taking half this
average for the four societies mentioned, we get eight
hundred and thirty-four members of phrenological so-
eieties. The Belfast Society contained forty-four, and the
L 2
V. GENERAL BUMMAIUE!I.
'Warwick Society had twenty-eight members when tlleir
spheres were enlarged. We may fairly assume these aa
the phrenolog)cal members of a society embracing phre.
nology as one of its objects; thus raising the aggregate to
nine hundred and six members for twenty-six societies ;
some of which societies are not yet twelve months old,
and only two of which. were in existence twelve years
ago, with about fifty members. Were we to join the
number of persons, who have been members of phreno-
logical societies, and have seceded therefrom, through
motives not involving any disbelief (see Dundee, p. 125.,
and Hull, p. 140.), we might raise the aggregate to twelve
hundred. Nor would the few who have been members of
two societies make any material deduction from this esti-
mate. But the general estimate of nine hundred will be
adopted in the table presently to follow.
Medical Members. - The number of medical members
in phrenological societies has been ascertained for only
·sixteen out of the twenty-four. They amount to one
hundred and five; the members of the sixteen so-
cieties being six hundred and thirty-one. This gives a
proportion of one in every six members ; malting it
abundantly evident that phrenology has more particularly
attracted the attention of medical men, as asserted on
· page 70. No one will think of saying that in every
·six educated men one of them belongs to the medical
profession. Taking the number of membera at nine hun-
dred, the medical members will exceed one hundred and
fifty.
Meetings. -These vary from twelve to fifty-two per
annum. As the aggregate number of meetings for seven-
teen societies amounts to four hundred and thirty-six, the
average for the whole may be taken at twenty-six ; which
gives six hundred and twenty-four meetings in the year.
Allowing for irregularities, &c., from five hundred to fi~e
hundred and fifty may be taken as nearer the true number.
v. OENERAL SUMMARIES. 221
Income, &c. - The Dundee and Portsmouth Societiee
demand no entry-money. The others, so far as returns
have been made, require a payment varying from half-a.
crown to a guinea; and all have an annual subscription;
in one instance, of only two shillings ; in thirteen cases,
varying from four shillings to one guinea. The subscrip-
tion to the other ten is unascertained. The annual in-
come of the fourteen societies amounts to S68l. 4s.
Supposing the two hundred and forty-seven members of
the other ten societies to pay only five shillings each, on
an average, their income amounts to 6ll. 15s. The en-
trance-money varies from a crown (in one instance, half-
a-crown) to a guinea; and will more than compensate for
defaults in payment by absent members, and other draw-
backs. In general terms we may state the annual income
of Phrenological Societies at U!JWards of four hundred
pounds.
These summaries may appear moderate or small, espe-
cially in regard to pecuniary matters, when compared
with the statistics of old established and titular societies,
- such as the Royal and Linm~an Societies of London, or
the provincial Philosophical and Literary Institutions -
which include many departments of science, or even the
whole range of literature and science, within their objects.
Few, however, if any, societies devoted to single sciencee
will be found to exceed the phrenological societies in
numerical statistics, and none are increasing at such ,a
rapid rate. Probably, there is no single science having
so many societies instituted exclusively for its cultivatioµ.
How would two dozen anatomical, botanical, chemical,
geological, or entomological societies be supported ? T~e
study of the three former sciences constitutes a compul-
sory part of medical education, yet provincial societies
for their cultivation would not be supported as are those
for the reeisted science of phrenology. ·
L 3
V. GENERAL SUMMARIES•
2. PHRENOLOGISTS, ANTIPHRENOLOGISTS, &c.
. Professed Plirenologists.• - In addition to members of
societies, most of whom may be called professed phreno-
logit1ts, the local notices make it abundantly evident that
there are many phrenologists scattered through Britain,
who do not limit themselves to mere belief, but really
l!tudy the subject to some extent. In Rugby, it is said,
that there are only about five persons conversant with the
science; six or eight in Kilmarnock; a score inMontrose;
a score at least, and possibly ten times as many, in Dun-
dee; fifty in Dunfermline; about a hundred and twenty
~n Portsmouth ; and two or three hundred in Manchester.
In Beverley, Coventry, Derby, Doncaster, Nottingham,
Wakefield, &c. &c. there are individuals competent to in-
struct others in the science. A few are to be found in
Alyth, Bath, Brechin, Dunbar, Greenock, Haddington,
Halifax, Hull, Leeds, Liverpool, Newcastle, &c.; several
in Arbroath and (apparently) Belfast; and many in
Dublin, Edinburgh, and London. In phrenology, how-
ever, as in every other science, the number of""!! com-
petent disciples must be few. If any individual were
required to make a list of very competent geologists or
entomologists, astronomers or botanists, his list would
necessarily be very short; and lists of individuals, who
are moderately conversant with those sciences, would still
be extremely limited, if compared with the mass of the
people. The conjecture may be hazarded, that there are
• " The words "profess" and "profession" are frequently used in
&his volume, in the sense attached to "declaration," "open avowal,"
or " public repute." I make an explanation of it here, in conse-
quence of having given offence to a phrenologist, by this use of the
word "profession," when addressing him on the subject of the present
volume. He took it in the sense of "pretension without practice.,.
No of!'ence was at all intended on my part, butthe circumstance called
attomtion to the word, and I then perceived in myself a very greu
tendency to the use of it with various application&.
V. GENERAL SUMMARIES. 22S
already a greater number of persons moderately well in-
structed in phrenology, than there are of persons equally
advanced in geology, entomology, botany, astronomy, or"
similar sciences. They may be guessed at 5000.
Believers iJt Phrenology. - In all probability, very few .
towns in England, or villages in Scotland, are now with-
out some few individuals favourably disposed towards·
phrenology; and as facilities for instruction are afforded,
to them, the numbers of competent phrenologists will
rapidly increase. It can scarcely be questioned that, in
the last ten years, the numbers of persons interested in'
the science, and desirous of obtaining some knowledge or'
it, have increased more than twenty-fold. It has been
expressly stated that there are many believers, and persoDS'
· interested, in Alyth, Beverley, Bradford, Dunse, Gala-
shiels, Glasgow, Haddington, Halifax, Hawick, Rudders·
field, Hull, Kelso, Kilmarnock, Leeds, Melrose, Monifeith,
Montrose, Newcastle, &c. &c.; that the subject is gaining
ground in Cupar, Derby, Liverpool, London, Notting•
ham, Wrexham, and other places; that the feeling is gene-
rally favourable in Bath, Belfast, Dublin, and Greenock ;
that about twenty persons in Rugby and Forfar, respec-
tively, are believers; a hundred and thirty to a hundred,
and fifty in Dunfermline; five or six hundred in Dundee;
six or seven hundred in Portsmouth ; a very great number
(two or three hundred being only a moderate portion of
them) in Manchester ; and in London and Edinburgh
they may be estimated at thousands. If these places,
taken together, give any approach to a fair average foi:
the British Islands, the aggregate of persons favourably
inclined to the science must be very many thousands ; and
it is far from unlikely that the greater part of these have
become believers in the general principles of the science
within half-a-dozen years, - certainly within a dozen
years. Whatever the present numbers may be, they are
L 4
V. GENERAL SUUMAR.11!!8.
augmenting so rapidly that another half dozen years will
give them an overwhelming weight in society; and our
institutions, - social, educational, political, and otherwise,
- will very soon begin to be importantly influenced and
modified by phrenological principles. Individuals may
b~ disposed to smile if we say that political power must
fall into the hands of the phrenologists, in the course of a
few years. But let them smile, as the Tories smiled at
the Reformers, it will not change the course of events.
If our statesmen do not become phrenol-Ogists, the phreno-
logists will become tke statesmen. The result will arrive,
however brought about : - phrenologists will guide the
State, whether they or others be the instruments for bring-
ing their doctrines into actual practice.• We may take
100,000 as a rude estimate for the number of believers.
Antiphrenowgists. - These worthies are allowed to be
still numerous in many places; bnt only in very few
towns do they now exceed the supporters of the science.
In Newcastle, it appears, that they yet do so. In some
towns, as Dundee and Manchester, it seems doubtful
whetherany persons would now callthemselves antiphreno-
• It is not intended, by this intimation to say that the 1•~ml set
of Phrenologists must become members of the Government. They
l!ile merely the advocates of certain principles; and these principles
must hereafter form the groundwork of legislation, when their truth '
and value become recognised by the people at large. Should peraonsthea .
in political power refuse to modify their own conduct in accordance
with principll'B adopted by the people,they will of course share the fate
o( all other rulers who resist the wishes ofthe nation ruled, Phrerio-;
logy will teach the people to return a very different set of represeni..
tites from those recently returned by the reformers. Phrenologis~··'
will be guided by the previous lives anJ actions of their repr11!lel\tat19e;t,o
not by empty promises made on the hustin~s, and those too often made
by indh·iduals whose conduct in private life proves them to be utterly
regardless of moral obligations, except in so far as they may believe
it expedient to their pel"liOnal intenosts to assume tile semblance or
respect for truth and justice. Had the principles of Phrenology llffll
well understood by their constituents, we should have seen the reform
repre;ientativew greatly sutw.rior to Whigs and· Totfai,:~ft!bloddy
aqd 111teUectually ; inst..ad uf beiug-41,a diey. ~~iff!M ..,.01'lwr-
ialten collectively'-inl"erior to'tbem .\n .¥en0nal Character. 1Clv• ""'-'{
V. OEN.KRAL SUMMARIES.
logists. Everywhere, however, the great body of the
public must be held neutral or indifferent. These will
gradually fall into the opinions of the stronger party.
Ten years ago the Lord Advocate Jeffrey said " that the
great body of the public" concurred with him in rejecting
phrenology. Thisgreat body of the public, in the present
day, neither rejects nor receives it. In Jess than ten
years hence, Mr. Combe will say to Lord Jeffrey "the
great body of the public concurs with me in receiving
phrenology." As to antiphrenologists really acquainted
with the science they oppose, there can scarcely be one.
Persons hostile to phrenology cannot take the pains ne-
cessary to the acquisition of a thorough knowledge of it.
In doing so they would become phrenologists. Indivi-
duals may not always have the candour and honesty to
avow self-conversion, while working against phrenology;
and some may have their judgment so distorted by pre-
judices, as to continue erroneous opinions in despite of
considerable knowledge. The body of instructed anti-
phrenologists, if existing at all, must be made up of these
classes ; and charity bids us hope that the latter is the
larger segment. In fact, however, there are few or no
competent antiphrenologists. Several gentlemen, whose
veracity and judgment are indisputable, openly certify
that the antiphrenologists of their towns are not suffi-
ciently acquainted with the facts and principles of the
science, to entitle their opinions to any weight. And the
page• of antiphrenological writers will afford indubitable
examplea that their authors have had very small knowledge
of the aubject they were opposing.
s. PHRENOLOGICAL Woau.
Jn. attempting to eatimate the number and value of
phrenological worb, it will be convenient to class them .
LS
V, GENERAL SUMMARIES.
under separate heads, according to the design of the
works, or prominent objects in the views of the writers ;
the circulation being more influenced by such circum-
stances, than by the name of the writer or talent called
forth in producing the works.
First. - Of works teaching the principles of phreno-
logy we have, by Spurzheim, The Physiognomical Sys-
tem, Sls. 6d.- Outlines of the Physiognomical System,
Ss. - Phrenology, 16s. - Outlines of Phrenology, 2s. 6d.
Philosophical Principles of Phrenology, 7s. - Physiog-
nomy in connexion with Phrenology, 22s. The united
value of the six works amounts to 41. 7s. (The author so
mixed up his French and English works, by calling trans-
lations new editions, and confused editions by changes of
name, that we are unable to say whether more than single
English editions of the above works are in existence).
The introductory vrorks of Combe are three, Outlines, Is.
Elements, 4s. - Essays or System, 12s. Of the first
there are five editions, three editions of the second, and
the like number of the third ; the price of the last edition
of the System being 15s. The united cost of the three
:works, as now before the public, is 20s.; and inclusive
of the different editions, it may he named at 2l. l6s. To
these we must add M•Kenzie's Illustrations, I 5s. -
,Forster's Craniology, 5s. - Macnish's Introduction, 2s.6d.
-TheCatechism ofPhrenology, said to he in nine editions,
ls. - Saunders' What is Phrenology ? in two editions,
ls. 6d. -Dewhurst's Guide, 3s. 6d. - These amount to
Il. Ss. 6d., or, including the several editions, to ll. 191.
The prices of Macglashan's Principles and Deville's Out-
lines have not been ascertained. Estimating them at Ss.
, together, we obtain 61. I8s. 6d., as the cost of the seven-
.teen works, or 91. 5s. as the cost of all the thirty-four
.editions. If we allow an average sale of one thouaand
copies to each, the sum paid for the introductory works
v. GENERAL SUMMARIES. 227
teaching phrenology.will amount to 9~01. for 34,000
books. · .
Seconcl.-As works teaching the applications ofphreno-
logy, may be enumerated the following: - Spurzheim's
Sketch of the Natural Laws, 6s. - Education, in two
editions, 7s. - Insanity, 7s. - Combe's Constitution of
Man, 6s. ; and also four editions at 4s., one at 2s. 6d., and
one at Is. 6d. - Combe's Lectures on Moral Philosophy,
2s. -Andrew Combe on Mental Derangement, 7s. 6d. -
Clarke's Christian Phrenology, 6d.-Epps' Horre Phreno~
logicre, in two editions, Ss. 6d.-Levison's Mental Culture,
6s. The cost of these nine works, or seventeen editions,
amounts to 21. 3s. 6d., or 31. 16s. Taking the same
average of one thousand copies to an edition, we have the
sum of 3800/. paid for 17,000 books treating of the ap·
plications of phrenology. -
Third. - Of collective, periodical, and miscellaneous
works, we have the Phrenological Journal, its first twenty
Numbers being 4s., and the succeeding twenty-eight
Numbers being 2s. 6d.; total price 71. IOs. - The Phreno-
logical Transactions, l 4s. - The Phrenological Bijou,
5s. 6d. - Memoir of Spurzheim, 4s. 6d. - Spurzheim's
Anatomy of the Brain, and Appendix, 17s. 6d. -The
cost of these six works, in fourteen volumes, amounts to
91. Ila. 6d. Since the circulation of such works is likely
to have been much more limited than that of the other
two classes, we may reduce the average to one half, and
call it five hundred copies. This gives 47871. 10s. for
SOOO books (in sets) or 7000 volumes.
Fourth. - There are also above two dozen pamphlets
and small works, chiefly of a controversial cast. Several
of them are out of print (in London, at least) and their
prices unknown to us ; but the ascertained cost of thirteen,
varying from 6d. to 61., is 25s. Hence we c~J>not be far
L 6
228 V. GENERAL SUMMARIES.
wrong in allowing 50s. for the whole. Combe's Answer
to Jeffrey, and two or three others, sold pretty largely;
but some of these works appear to have had an extremely
limited circulation, being chiefly of a personal or local
interest. The average sale must consequently be taken
at a low rate, say two hundred and fifty copies of twenty-
five pamphlets. This gives 6251. for 6250 books or
pamphlets.
The total number and value of phrenological works sold,
according to these somewhat rude estimates, is the follow-
ing: -
Works. Editions. Volumes. Value.
First Class 17 84 84,000 £9,250 0
Second - 9 ]7 17,000 S,800 0
Third - 6 6 7,000 4,787 10
Fourth - 25 25 6,250 625 -0
57 82 64,250 .£18,462 IO
Vimont's work is properly a French publication, and
omitted on suchaccount. All thepublicationsofthe present
year(1886)are also omitted,except Macnish'slntroduction
to Phrenology, which would likewise have been left out, on
account of its recent date, had not a statement been made
in the Phrenological Journal, that fifteen hundred coplea
had been sold within the first two months after pab
, lication. We cannot, therefore, err on the side of exag-
geration, in adding it to the list of works eatimatiecho
average one thoUS&Dd copies each. The various edi_,
of Combe's works are estimated at one thousand copies
eaeh, making a total of ninetee
. n thousand. In r~
this .is scarcely more than half the ac:tual ales ;.J.,Jilr.
' Combe's Testimonials, preeented to the Civic Ce~"of
Edinburgh, show the numbers thus: -:- Esea_ya an~_,~J-m
V. GENERAL SUMMARIES. 229
+250- Elements 4500 - Outlines 5720 - Lectures 1000
- Constitution 8000 in 12mo, li,915 in 8vo; making a
total of 41,415. These are the certificates of the printers,
and it would appear that about 35,000 copies have been
circulated. Our estimate of 19,000 only must leave a
large surplus towards compensating any possible over-
estimate of other works. The value of Mr. Combe's
printed works would seem to be between seven and eight
thousand pounds. No trifling sum for works on moral
science, where the author aims at utility and cheapness,
not at private gain.•
4. PHRENOLOGICAL AUTHORS AND EssAYJSTS.
The authors of works on phrenology are twenty-four,
besides those who have written anonymously. Adding
the essayists mentioned in preceding pages, the writers on
phrenology amount to seventy-five. Of the authors, fif•
.teen are medical men, one is a lawyer, one a minister, one
a schoolmaster, and one a tradesman. Sir George Mac-
kenzie, and four others whose professions are unascer·
tained (Church, Forster, Greig, Ehn), complete the
twenty-four. Among the seventy-five writers, the pro-
fessional designations of twenty-eight are unknown to us.
Out of the remaining forty-seven, six are lawyers, two are
1 divines, two are tradesmen, one a schoolmaster, three live
on the labours of-others (commonly called independencel'l),
·~the other tliirty·three are medical men. It appeata
./rom these proportions, that more than two-thirds of the
:. persons writing on phrenology are members of the medifl81
!::'" ··.'
. • The C<lftltilulilm of .Illa" has been ,,...._ted·and pablillie!l~in
'{·~ranee; German1, and Sweden. The syi1e,,. bas been tral)slated into
-"l Oiemnin. · 'l1le Amenllhan appeared in French. Copious portions
10~'~'~'~ work• bav• beela republilMd in Denmark 1 aild
RAerN reprints of Mr. Combe's ~hole work. have been publisbe4 in
WAiibtAai. -= 'fte·above.awn refers to" British editionsonl7. · ··
2SO v. GENERAL SUMMARIES.
profession. About one-third, or rather more, of the
authors of works, or writers in general, are Scottish. The
others are probably English, except Spurzheim and Car-
michael ; but continental Europe and America have added
nine or ten to the writers. These have been joined with
the British list, in consequence of the Phrenological
Journal having been the medium for publishing their
papers. Of course, Antiphrenologists are not included.
5. PHRENOLOGICAL MUSEUMS.
The aggregate number of human busts, casts, models,
and skulls, in fifteen museums belonging to phrenological
societies, amounts to nearly three thousand. For the
other societies the returns are incomplete. Collections
belonging to individuals, including the commercial ones
of Deville, Bally, and O'Neil, greatly exceed this amount.
Without including the marked busts, which are usually
artificial, the number of such illustrations of human
phrenology, now distributed through Britain, may be
guessed at from ten to twenty thousand, ::_nearer the
latter. Perhaps froQl four to fi-re thousand may be dis-
tinct; the rest being duplicates. The numbers both of
originals and duplicates is rapidly on the increase. Animal
skulls, collected expressly for phrenological illustration,
seem to be fewer. But if we include all the animal skulls
in our museums, and which can be made subservient te
phrenological illustration, they will many times exceed
the human skulls, casts, &c.
6. PHRENOLOGICAL LECTURES.
Between the years 1815 and 1825, inclusively, only
about twenty courses of lectures on phrenology w~
V. GENERAL SUMMARIES. 291
given. From 1826 to 1896 there were nearly a hundred
courses. By a rude calculation (probably too low) the
number of lectures may have exceeded a thousand, with-
out including those delivered in London. At the average
of a hundred auditors to each lecture, and one shilling for
each auditor, the sum paid for phrenological lectures has
been 50001. The want of exact data prevents this being
much better than a mere guess. On his first visit to
England, 1814-1817, Spurzheim delivered ten or a dozen
courses of lectures ; the attendance being only forty in
the metropolis, and fewer in other places. During his
later residence in Britain and occasional visits, 1825-1891,
he lectured in many places, to audiences varying from
forty to two hundred and fifty in the country, and
from a few scores to upwards of seven hundred in Lon-
don. Mr. Combe began to lecture in 1822. For some
years his auditors in Edinburgh were few. The writer
of this volume had the pleasure of hearing his course in
1829, and thinks the attendance was only thirty or forty.
By the certificates accompanying the Testimonials, it
appears that in the winter of 1892-9, the number of
tickets for his whole course was two hundrP-d and twenty-
five, besides seven hundred persons admitted to single
.lectures. For another course, in 1894-5, the tickets to
the whole were two hundred and twenty-four, besides
eleven hundred and fourteen visiters to single .lectures.
These two courses were delivered at the request of the
Edinburgh Philosophical Association. Lectures on Moral
Philosophy, by Mr. Combe, were even more popular;
there being five hundred and fourteen tickets to the whole
course of twenty lectures, and four hundred and ninety-
five visiters to single lectures. In 1824 and 1836 Mr.
Combe lectured in Glasgow, to a hundred and fifty in the
former, and five hundred in the latter year, when the issue
Of tickets was checked by the want of space to accommo-
date auditors. The same want of accommodation had
282 V, GENERAL SUMMARIES.
been felt in Newcastle, in 1835, the Lecture-room being
filled by three hundred persons.
Without going into further particulars, it is sufficiently
evident that the attendance on phrenological lectures has
greatly increased; and this circumstance, like so many
other indisputable evidences, proves the increase of public'
attention to the subject. The long popular science of
botany will afford us a very good comparative test how
far the numbers attendant on phrenological lectures
bespeak interest in the subject. In 1835, Dr. Lindley,
Professor of Botany in the London University, wrote, -
" Could any one, let me ask, have got together in London,
" in the year 1820, a public class of botany consisting or
" fifty students? Could they even in 1825? And yet
" the season that has just passed has witnessed classes of
" two hundred persons, attracted by the mere interest of
" the subject, and not brought together by academical
"compulsion." Mr. Combe's classes of three to five
hundred, in Newcastle, Edinburgh, and Glasgow, were
" attracted by the mere interest of the subject, and not
brought together by academical compulsion." Neither
was Mr. Browne's class of five hundred in Montrose thus
congregated. Neither was Spurzheim's audience of seven
hundred at the London Institution. Nor were the hun-
dreds, who have attended single lectures or short courses,
by other phrenologists, brought together. by academical
compulsion. In regard to every thing ellle than its own
intrinsic value and interest, Botany stood a fairer chance
than Phrenology, from 1820 to 1886; yet we find a Pro-
fessor of the former science publicly boasting of the
numbers attending botanical lectures in the metropolis,
although not more than an unendowed phrenologist can
bring together in a second or third rate provincial towa.•
• The largest audience yet attending a lecture on Phrenoloa ap-
pears to baYe been auncted by Dr. Brou..ia, of Pari1, in April
1896; die lintof bia coune of lectures ba•ing two tbeuUDd auditon.
V• . GENERAL SUMMARIES. 288
7. TABULAR VIEWS.
Subject to the doubts and uncertainties before men•
tioned, the following Tables may represent the progress
and present state of Phrenology in Britain: -
Aggregate Numbers.
Phrenological Societies now in existence 24
Meetings of such Societies each year, 550
Members of Phrenological Societies 900
Avowed Phrenologists • 5,000
Believers in Phrenology • 100,000
Phrenological Works 66
· Ditto, including different editions 95
Volumes presumed to have been sold - 64,000
The printed copies of Mr. Combe's five
works alone • - 41,415
Authors of Phrenological Works 24
Writers on Phrenology 75
Phrenological casts, busts, &c. - - 15,000
Ditto, excluding duplicates 5,000
Phrenological lectures, 1815-1836 1,000
Pecuniary Value, ~c.
(ncome of Phrenological Societies
1 Value of Phrenological Works
(single copies) to 183!)
Ditto, a copy of each edition
,: ·Ditto, of all volumes sold -
"''.P>ittO; ofMr.Combe's works alone
•.ftid for lectures, 1815-1886
.~ p; ., .. .' .
tnu ·. .1
. ~n u .i t . J .., 4 .:. :. •.. 11 ; ••
i£ 8. d.
400 0 0
21 0 0
25 0 0
18,462 10 0
7,531 2 6
5,000 0 0
' :.;
V. GENERAL SUMMARIES.
Proportions of 1l!.edical Men.
Members of Phrenological Societies 1 in 6
Authors and Writers on Phrenology ;-
about 2 in 3
Lecturers ; - probably more than 2 in 3
Cltronological Progress.
Societies Works Editions Total of.
formed. published. publi.bed. Publications.
-1815 0 4 0 4
1816-1820 1 4 0 4
1821-1825 2 14 3 17
1826-1830 9 18 6 24
1831-1835 15 14 15 29
Total• 27 54 24 78
• Periodirals are attributed to their years of commencement, and
not counted in after years. One Society and a few works are omitted,
in consequence of the dates being unascertaiued. The present year
bas already produced, or promises -
Societies, 5..:.. Works, IO-Editions, 6.
285
SUPPLEMENT.
A FEW additional particulars have been obtained since
the sheets of this work were in the hands of the printer.
These, together with explanations on one or two points,
are added here by way of supplement.
Pkrenow!l!J and eke RO!Jal Society ofLondon.
The subject of Spurzheim's paper, mentioned on page
28 of this volume, was a compat'ison of the brains of an
ourang-outang, an idiot, and an ordinary human being.
The paper was read to the Society in 1829. By the
Athenooum for June 1836, page 418, it appears that, on
the 9th of that month, a paper was read to the same
Society, on "the Brain of the Negro compared with that
of the European and the Ourang-outang ; by Frederick
Tiedemann, M.D., Professor of Anatomy ·and Physiology
in the University of Heidelberg."
Pkrenolo!l!J and Metaphysics.
The contrast of Phrenology and Metaphysics, on page
51, appears more laconic than precise. Phrenology differs
from metaphysical science in not regarding mind simply
as an abstraction, apart from the organization on which it
depends; but it rather contrasts, in this way, with the
metaphysical mode of studying mind, than with 171'1ta-
pkyaics in the broadest acceptation of that term. In some
SUPPLKMENT
sense, indeed, every thing may be said to admit of m~
physical consideration ; albeit nothing can be undentood
by metaphysical reasoning alone.
State ofPhrenology in Aberdeen.
The science appears to be attracting rather more atten-
tion here, than was known to Dr. Murray in April. Thia
gentleman probably directed attention to the more aristo-
cratic portion of the community of Aberdeen ; but I have
been since favoured with a letter from the town, convey-
ing the following intelligence: -
I. There is yet no Phrenological Society ; but one is in
course of formation here.
II. Several hundreds, at least, admit the general prin.
ciples of phrenology ; and approaching to one hundred
make a study of the science. Perhaps there are a good
many antiphrenologists ; very few, if any, of whom are
acquainted with the science in a sufficient degree to pass
judgment on its claims.
III. The Rev. H. Clarke, of Dundee, gave two lectures
here in the present month of June; which were very well
attended, considering that they were ver) imperfectly
advertised. There are a Medico-Chirurgical Society, a
Mechanics' Institution, and one or two other Jess public
societies; the two former are very well supported.
" I may further state that about four months ago, ten
individuals, including myself (chiefly engaged in trade or
·manufacture), resolved to associate ourselves for the pur-
pose ofstudying Phrenology as a science of mind, with the
view of its practical application in our individual and soci-1
capacities. Mr. Clarke's visit was quite unexpected to
us, but has done the cause of phrenology much good,in
this quarter. We are making all the inquiries we ~an
preliminary to the forming a society on a proper ~
SUPPLEMENT. 287
and have a reasonable prospect of a steady, probably a
rapid, increase."-"James Straton, fishing-tackle maker."
(Page 112.)
State ofPhrenolo!l!I in Edinburgh.
Two small pamphlets, in continuation of Mr. Combe's
Testimonials, have been printed. They conclude with a
very pleasing letter from Mr. William Fraser, of Edin-
burgh, who enjoys good opportunities for ascertaining the
state of public feeling on the subject of phrenology, in
this city. In reference to Mr. Combe's courses of lec-
tures, both to the working classes and to the "mercantile
and trading portions of the community," this gentleman
writes : - " At the commencement of the above courses
" of lectures, the science of Phrenology was in great dis-
" repute among these classes in Edinburgh, but the lucid
" and masterly exposition which you gave of its principles,
" and of its practical application to all the duties of life,
" invariably elicited unqualified praise from all ranks of
" your hearers, and has completely turned the tide of
"public opinion in its favour. (Page 129.)
Stat,e ofPhrenolo!l!I in Exeter.
It is stated in the Christian Pioneer (1835), that a
Phrenological Society exists in this city. I have not
heard or seen any other notice of it.
State of Phrenolo!l!I in Stirling. .
I. The Phrenological Society ofStirling was established
in December 1834.-. It now contains from twenty-five to
·thirty members ; none of them being medical men. Its
collection is yet very small, including only eight casts or
busts, and as many books. The entrance and annual
subscription are one shilling each. The meetings are
. weekly, from October to April.
2S8 SUPPLEMENT.
II. A good number of persons admit the general prin-
ciples of phrenology; very few being entitled to the ap-
pellation of " phrenologists." No antiphrenologists are
known.
III. Mr. Aitken lectured here in 1834, and was rather
well attended. The Stirling School of Arts, for giving
instructions in the arts and sciences, consists of two hun·
dred and eighty-five members.
Mr. William Mackison, Secretary of the Society, fa-
voured me with these statements. Is not the annual sub-
scription too low? A museum and library cannot be
formed with such limited funds. (Page 164<.)
State ofPhrenology in Taunt.on.
II. About twenty persons admit the general principles
of phrenology ; eight or ten of them being entitled to the
designation of phrenologists. There is one antiphreno-
logist. He says " that he has never read any ofthe pub-
lications on the subject."
III. A course of seven lectures was delivered to the
Mechanics' Institution here, in 1834, by Mr. E. W. Cox,
solicitor (to whom I am indebted for thi11 notice), attended
by about one hundred auditors. This is the only scien-
tific institution in Taunton. (Page 165.)
Additional Works.
1836. JAMES. Thoughts on Phrenology. 18mo. pp,:58.
Price Is. 6d.
18S6. - ? A Key to Phrenology. Price 6d.
I have not seen this work, and know not by whom
it is written ; but would beg to warn the public
against the catchpenny books on the science which
will speedily abound. Combe's Outlines is a cheap
work, and is quite sufficient for those who will not
SUPPLEMENT. 239
go to the higher price of his Elements, or of
Macnish's Introduction. It would be well for'per-
soi1s to consult the notices or reviews inthe Phreno-
logical Journal before buying any work on the
Science, and neYer to purchase those published by
anonymous authors.
Caldwell's Thoughts on Phgsical Education, ~c.
Having now seen a copy of this work, I would add that
it should not have been included in the list of works on
phrenology ; albeit both its author and present editor draw
largely on that science. It contains so much valuable
.matter not necessarily connected with phrenology, that
we cannot fairly claim it as a phrenological work. To
parents, teachers, political rulers, and indeed to all persons,
it may be warmly recommended, as a very valuable pro·
duction. (Page 180.)
Nobk's Essag on the Means ofestimating Character.
A notice of this work in the ninth volume of the Phre-
nological Journal, page 264, should have been referred to.
The work does not appear to be met with in London.
Authors should take care that copies of country publica·
tions are transmitted to the London agents of their pub-
lishers. (Page 178.)
Writers on Phrenologg.
Appended to the circular mentioned on page lll, was a
request that authors on phrenology would specify their
works and essays on the subject. Mr. Cox, of Taunton,
thus answers the request. "I published in 18SS a work
founded on the principles of phrenology, entiUed ' The
Scheme of Creation,' being the substance of four lectures
on the questions, - ' Where am I ?' 'What am I r
SUPPLEMENT.
' Why am I?'" . "In all my essays, published in
the Monthly Repository and elsewhere, phrenology is th
basis of all the principles, moral, political, and philosophi·
cal, which are there discussed." As the designation bas
been limited in the preceding pages, Mr. Cox does not fully
'come under that of a writer on phrenology.
In the tenth volume of the Phrenological Journal, are '
certain st1ictures upon Mr. Browne's remarks on religious
fanaticism, in a letter signed "John Maxwell, M.D." The
author of the letter ought, perhaps, to have been included
in the list of writers on phrenology.
Mr. Combe's Additional Testimonials.
The continuation of Mr. Combe's Testimonials contains
certificates or letters from the following persons: -
54. From CHRISTOPHER DUNKIN, Esq., Albany, United
States.
55. From Monsieur G. M. ScHwARTz, lateProfessor ofNa-
tural Philosophy and Chemistry; Director-General
of the Royal Board of Control, and Director of the
Royal Technological In~titution; Chevalier of the
Polar Star; Member of the Royal Academies of
Sciences, Agriculture, and Military Science at
Stockholm, as well as of other Foreign and Swedish
learned societies.
56. From Rev. ADAM BaowN, Minister of the Camero- I
nian Chapel, Kilmarnock.
57. From Professor HoPPE, Medical Inspector of Copen-
hagen; Corresponding Member ofthePhrenological
andMedico-Chirurgical Societies ofEdinburgh,&c.
· 58, From Dr. D E. H1ascHl'ELD, Bremen.
SUPPLEMENT. 241
tSbedi59.
y is th
osopli
From RICHARD CARMICHAEL, Esq:, M.R.I.A.; Cor-
responding Member of the Academie Royale de
Medicine de France, &c. &c. &c. ; and Consulting
Surgeon of the Richmond Surgical Hospital,
Dublin.
ion bl
1otrur
60. From JAKES O'BEIRNE, Esq., M.D. of the University
nal, r of Edinburgh; Surgeon Extraordinary tothe King,
~ligioi &c. &c.
•." Tt,.
iclud~ 61. From RoBERT HARRISON, Esq., M.D., M.R.I.A..
Member of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ire-
land andLondon; Professor of Anatomy and Physi-
ology in the Royal College of Surgeons in Ire-
land, &c.
ntaiDJ 52. From D.G. KIESER, M.D. Gottingen, Ordinary Public
[ni~
jenerl
:oftb
oft!
aies
uce ·
hvedi
Professor, and Member of the Medical Faculty at
Jena; Privy Councillor to the Grand Duke ofSaxe
Weimer ; Director of a Clinical Hospital ; President
for 1836 of the Association of German Philoso-
phers and Physicians; Vice-President of the Impe-
rial Academy of Sciences of Charles Leopold ;
Member of the Academies and Societies of Harlem,
Gottingen, Moscow, Berlin, Marburg, Halle, Bonn,
Erlanger, Jena, &c.; Author of several Physiolo-
gical and Medical Works.
63. From Dr. W. F. MONTGOMERY, Professor of Mid-
wifery to the King and Queen's College of Physi-
cians in Ireland.
64. From Dr. JOHN MoLLAN, Upper Gloucester Street,
Dublin.
65. From HILL W. RowAN, Esq., Chief Magistrate of
Police, Ireland.
66. From THOMAS WYSE, Esq., M.P., Chairman of the
Committee on Education in Ireland.
M
2(.2 SU~PLBMENT. ~
67. From GBOBGE RENNIE, Esq., Sculptor, London.
68. From Rev. GEORGI: LAWSON, Minister of the Ass
ate Synod, Kilmarnock.
69. From Mr. WILLIAM FRASER, Edinburgh.
THE EN I>.
LoNOON:
Prii!tcd hy A. SPOTl'!"'- ~': tl(111r,
~;,w.!'.i:.rci.:t.:._:,il!arc.
