{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1827__jsf___demonologia.pdf","mytitle":"Demonologia","mylang":"de"}
0
DEMONOLOGIA;
OR,
NATURAL KNOWLEDGE REVEALED;
BIUJIG
AN EXPOSE
• . QP
thattmt a•ir .~~~Jolien ~upntttttont,
. -
.CREDULITY, FANATICiSM, ENTHUSIASM,~ IMPOSTURE,
All COJIJIJICTBD WITH TID
DOCTRINE, CABALLA, AND JARGON,
AIIVLEI'B.
4PI'A&ITIONB.
AI'I'JlOLOOT,
CIIAU»,
IJBIIOI'IOLOGY,
DEYILS,
DIYII'IATIOJI,
DRE&JIS,
DIUTEIWSCOPJA,
EnU1VI&.
PATAUSII,
FATB,
P&IARS.
GBOSTa,
IIINID.
OF
HILL,
HYPO<'RITES,
II'ICANTATIONS,
INQUISITION,
JUGGLERS,
LIIGINDS,
MAGIC,
MAGICIANS,
MIRACLES,
IIIONitS,
NYMPHS,
ORACLE~,
PHYSIOGNOMY,
PURGATORY,
PREDESTINATION,
T8a W'HOLB UNFOLDING
PREDICTIONS,
QUACKERY,
RELtCS,
SAINTS,
SECOND SIGHT,
SIGNS IJEFORE DEATH,
~ORCERY,
SPIRITS,
SALAMANDERS,
SPELLS,
TALIS~IANS,
TR4DITIONS,
TRLALS, &c.
WITCHES,
WITCHCRAFT, &cc• .!tc,
K.A.NY 81~ PHENOMENA IN THE PAGE OF NATURE.
J.onuon:
.JOHN BUMPUS, 23, SKINNER-STREET.
I
1827.
.i
~I
o, "',,Coogle
:.' 4 ?. I f"', 5: s---·
r
··~ } ~,-~·\V;t 1·~ '·\' ('~
v
o,,,,,.., ,Coogle
CONTENTS.
O•servatio111on Ancientand .Vodwn Superstilion~, ~c.
Proof• and Trials tfGuilt in Superstilioul Agea
Amology, IJrc.
Practieat .4Jtro/ogy, life.
Naturol Astrology -
hdiciat ur Judiciary .dltrology
Origin of Astrology -
Astrological Schemes, &c.
Table of the Twelve HOU8ell
Signs to the Houses of the Planets -
Angles or Aspects ofthe Planets
The Application of Planets -
Prohibition
Sep~tion - .
Translation of Lightand Virtue
Refrenation
Combustion
Reception
Retrogradation
Fruatration
The Dragon's Head and Tail
Climacteric -
Lucky and Unlucky Days
Genethliaci
Genethliacum
Barclay's Refutation of Astrology .-
Page
1
!I
- 18
- 25
- 26
- 27
- 28
- 29
-30
- 32
-33
-M
-35
-35
- 35
-35
-35
-36
-86
-36
- 36
- 37
- 39
- 41
- 4!
.f3
vi CONTENTS.
Pap
On tM Origin and Imaginary Efficacy ofAmulm and Clumru, in
tla4 Cure ofDiwues, Protectumfrum Etlil Spirit~, ~c. • 51
Definition of Amulets, &c. - 56
Effect of the Imagination on the 1\Iind, &c. - 59
Hiltory of Popul4r Meaicina, 8fc.-Hqw infiue~~eed by Su~•ti·
• 67
• 73
Origin, Objects, and Practice of Alchemy, &c. - 81
Alkahat, t11' Akahut • 85
Magician - 91
Magi, t11' MagMnl 96
Magic, Magia, Mateia • 99
Magic of the ·Eastern nations,-a brief View ol the
Origin and Progress ofMagic; &c.-
Chaldeans and Persians
Indians
Egyptians
Jews
PrtdictWn
FatalUm, t11' Pred&tination -
Divination
Artificial Divination
Natural Divination
Axinomancy
Alectoromantia
Arithmomancy
Belomancy
Cleromancy
Cledonism
Coscinomancy
Capnomancy
Catoptromancy
Chiromancy
Dactyliomancy
E:rtispicium
Gastromancy
-·
;.
-
o;g,,,,,,Google
• 101
• 109
• 110
-115
- 113
~tS6
• 14!
- 14t
- 1411
• 143
- 145
- 144
- 1.W
• 145
- 145
• 146
- 146
• 147
- 147
- 148
- 148
- 149
Oract.
CONTHJ!IjTS.
Geomancy
Hydromancy
Necromancy
Oneirocritica
Onomancy, or On01118Ulancy
Onycomancy, or Onymancy
Omithomancy
Pyromancy
Pyscomancy, or Sciomancy -
Rbabdomancy
vii
Page
- 149
- 150
- 150
- 150
- 15!
- 154
- 155
- 155
- 155
- 156
- 157
Ouran, M' Uran, &lingua
Dreonu, c!rc-
- 168 .
- 164
F11te
Brizomancy
Origin of interpreting Dreams
OpiDiollB on the ca11Be of Dreams
- 164
- 164
- 166
- 168
Pl&yliog1wmy
Apporitiotu
- 171
- 178
DfttmiiCOpia, M'lfM:tmd•Jight
WitcMs, Witchcraft, Wi111rds, .!fc.
Witchcraft proved by Texts of Scripture
Dr. More's Postscript
- 194
- 204
- !!5
- !26
The CoufeSBions of certain Scotch Witches, taken out
of an authentic copy oftheir Trial at the Assizes held
at Paisley, in Scotland, Feb. 15, 1678, touching the
bewitching of Sir George Maxwell - 259
Depositions of certain persons, agreeing with confes-
sions of the above-said witches - !64
The Confession of Agnes Sympson to King James - !67
The White Pater-noster • 270
The Black Pater-noster • 270
&rcery - 272
Sorut-Sortilegium
Sibyll
Till~-
- 278
- 28!
- 288
o "'"'''Coogle
viii CONTENTS.
PhilttrS, Chann~, ifc.
Hell
Page
- !85
- 286
lnquilition
Inquisition, or the Holy Office
.Denwn
Dtinunowgy
-297
-297
-307
- 308
Derivation of the strange and hideous forms of Devils,
&c. ·• 315
The Narrative of the Demon of Tedworth, or the dis-
turbances at Mr. Monpesson's house, caused by
Witchcraft and Villany of a Drummer - 338
1'he Dmum tfJed&urgh - 355
1'he Ghost ofJulim CtPsar - 360
The Ghosts of the slain at the Battle of Marathon - 360
Familiar Spirit; or ancient Brownie - 361
~Egyptiam - 362
Jugglers, their Origin, Erploits, ifc. - 378
Legend1, ifc.-Mu-aclu, ifc. - • 393
Jlonkl and Friars.-Saintl and Hermit• - 405
Of the Hermit of the Pillar-(St. Simeon Stylites, St.
Teleeephorus, St. Syncletia) - 427
Holy Rllilpu-Mania, &c. &c. &c. - 431 _..
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
PREFAC£.
AMONG the multifarious absurdities and
chicaneries, which at different epocha of
society .have clung to, and engaged the
attention of man, absorbing, as it were,
his more active intelligence, the marvellous
and the ridiculous have alternately and
conjointly had to contend for pre-emi-
nence ; that, whether it were a mountain in
the moon or a bottle conjuror; a live lion
stuffed with straw or a mermaid; a Cock-
lane ghost or a living skeleton ; a giant or a
pigmy; the delusive bait has invariably been
swallowed with avidity, and credited with all
the solemnity of absolute devotion.
If we look back towards what are called
the dark ages of the world, that is, at times
when men were mere!Jokels, and when the
reins of tyranny, superstition and idolatry,
were controlled by a few knowing ones, we
shall see the human mind at its lowest ebb of
debasement, grovelling either under the lash
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
X PREFACE.
ofdespotism; or sunk beneath the scale ofhu-
man nature by the influence ofpriestcraft,-
a time, when the feelings ofmen were gallop-:
ped over, rough shod, and the.dignity ofthe
creation trampled under foot with impunity
and exultation, by a state of the most passive
and degenerate servility ·: how much must
it now excite our wonder and admiration of
that supreme Providence, who, in his merci-
ful consideration for the frailest of mortals,
by a variety of ways and means best suited
to his omnipotent ends, has dragged us gra-
dually, and, as it were, reluctantly to our-
selves, from · darkness to day-light, by ex•
tinguishing the stench and vapour of the
train oil of ignorance and superstition,
lighting us up with the brilliant gas of rea-
son and comparative understanding, while,
under less despotic and more tolerant times,
we are permitted the rational exercise of
those faculties which formerly were rivetted
to the floor of tyranny by the most humili-
ating oppression !
The pranks of popes and priests, con-
jurors and fire-eaters, have comparatively
fled before the piercings of the intellectual
ray. Witches no longer untie the winds to
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
PREFACE. xi
capsise church-steeples, and" topple" down
castles,-they no longer dance round the en-
chanted cauldron, invoking the '' ould one"
to propitiate their cantrip vows :-Beelze-
bub himself with his cloven foot is seldom if
ever seenabove the "bottomofthebottomless
pit ;" ghosts and apparitions are "jammed
bard and fast" in the Red sea ; demons of
every cast and colour are eternally spell-
bound ; legends are consigned to the chim-
ney-corner of long winter-nights ; miracles
to the "presto,quick, change and begone!" of
the nimble-fingeredconjuror; and holy relics
to· the rosary of the bigot. Amulets and
charms have lost their influence ; saints are
uncanonized, and St. Patrick, St. Dennis,
& Co. are flesh and blood like ourselves ;
monks and holy friars no longer revel in
the debauches of the cloister; the hermit re-
turns unsolicited from the solitude of the de-
sert, to encounter with his fellow-men ; the
pilgrim JayS' by his staff, leaves the Holy
Land to its legitimate possessors, and the
tomb of St. Thomas-a-Becket, to enjoy, un-
molested, the sombre tranquillity ofthe grave.
Quacks and mountebanks begin also to caper
within a narrower sphere ; to be brief, the
word of command, to use a nautical phrase,
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
Xfi PREFACE.
has long been given, u every. man to his sta--
tion, andthecooktothe fore-sheet,"-worldly
occupations have superseded ultramundane
speculations. Astrologers themselves, who
once ruled the physical world, have long ago
been virtually consigned to the grave of the
Partridges; and floods and storms are found
to be phenomena perfectly consistentwith the
natural world. 'Ve also know that the sun is
stationary, that the moon is not made ofgreen
cheese, and that there are stars yet in the fir-
mament which the centifold powers of the
telescope of a Herschell will never be able to
explore. .
The Reformation, which originated in
the trammels of vice itself, gave the Devil in
hell and his agents on earth, such a " bell!J-
go-.fister," that they have never since been
able tocometo thescratch, butin such a petty
larceny-like manner, as to set all theirdemo-
nolog-ical efforts at defiance. This is the first
time"oldNick" was ever completely floored;
though, it would appear, from the recent
number of new churches, built no doubtwith
the pious intention of keeping him in abey-
ance, that he has latterly been making a
little head-way;-these, however, with the
cc Holy alliance," like stern-chasers on a new
o ,,,,,,, ,,Googk
1
1
...i
PREFACE, xiii
construction,should theH ouldone"attempt to
board us again in the smoke of superstition,
will, without much injury to the huH of the
church,pitchhimbacktoPandemonium,there
to exhaust his demonological rage in the sul-
phurettedhydrogen of hisown hell; while the
lights of revealed religion, emanating from
these soul-saving foundations, like Sir Hum-
phrey Davy's safety-lamp, will give us timely
warningof the choke-damp of damnation be-
fore it have time to explode about our ears.
It behoves us, nevertheless, to pray that
we may merit this protection, and to watch,
for we know not at what hour the cracksman
may pay us an unwelcome visit; for, what-
ever pampered- hypocrites and mercenary
prayer-mongers may pretend to the contrary,
our worldly goods, although but of a tempo-
rary and perishable nature, are as essential
to our existence anc:l respectability here be-
low, as our spiritual faith is necessary to our
heavenly and eternal happiness above, how-
ever unequal the comparison.
Among the creatures of the Devil, no one
bas a more decentclaim to his clemency, than
thecaterwaulingcanting hypocrite. The hy-
pocrite is a genus to which a varietyofspecies
belong, the subdivisions of which are too nu-
xiv PREFACE.
merous for our present purpose; we shall only
therefore offer a few remarks on one kind
of these vampyres~ drawn from daily obser-
vation. If not absolutelygluttons, although
many of them are gourmands in excess,
hypocrites are invariably fond of their un-
godly guts, for which they are at all times
ready to sacrifice their God, their King, their
country and their friends. They have a
stomach like a horse~ and a reservoir like a
brewer's vat. Thehypocriteofcircumstances
prays, or pretends to pray, in adversity~ and
swearsin good earnest,like a trooper~ in pros-
perity~-he is either a roaring bedlamite ora
whining calf,a peevishidiot~a buffoon~ora dis-
gustingbacchanal ;-inshort, he is capable of
such derogatory pranks and extremes~ that, as
the occasion serves, he with equal facility rises
from the bended knee of supplication to ex.;
tend the hand of venality, aye, and of sensu-
ality·too, to the object ofhis latent and un-
governableconcupiscence. Hisbloated chops,
at one time, re_semble a passive pair of bag-
pipes,while, at another~ they are infiatt.~ with
all the arrogance· ofbeggarly pride and mo-
mentary superfluity~ He is never ashamed
to beg, and only aft'B.id to steal-although
equally adapted for the one as the other.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
PREFACE. XV
A consummate, a brawling, and a sus-
picious egotist-he will hear no one but
himself, no opinion but his own. In his
own house he is a bear ; in the house of
another, a nuisance; and every where a nil
desideratum. Self-eulogy is his most con-
stant theme ; and his loathsome flattery,
either applied to himself or others, is invari-
ably bespattered with the most impihul in-
vocations of the Deity, to witness his rebel~
li~us professions ofpatience, submission, ab-
stinence, and every otherexoticvirtue,which
he knows only by name. His cant is of the
basest and most servile description ; and for
the attainment ofsome object, however piti-
ful orpaltry, important or consequential, he is
the same venal wretch all over. Where his
expectations are defeated, and the yearnings
ofhis bowels unappeased~ his sycophancy is
succeeded by slander, impertinencej insult,
and the most unfounded suspicion. The
cringing,. wriggling wretch, at length,
having wormed himself through a world. of
uopitied degradation, filth, and obscenity, at-
tempts, at the end of his career, to offer up
to his God, what bas been indignantly re-
jected by the Devil-he dies as he lived, a
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
xvi PREFACE.
pauper, equally to fortune and fame-with-
out one redeeming qualification to keep
alive even his name, which is never men-
tioned unless mingled with that kindred con-
tempt and insignificanc~ to which it was by
nature and existence so closely allied.
Popular traditions are always worth re-
cording; they illustrate traditions and exem-
plify manners: they tend to throw off the
thraldom of the intellect of man, and stimu-
late him to exertions compatible with the
intentions of his existence. It is with this
view that the materials of which the follow-
ing pages are composed, have been collected.
Priestcraft, the foster-mother ofsuperstition,
is now stmk too far below the horizon ever
to set again ·in our illumined hemisphere.
The history of their former influence may,
nevertheless, enlighten and amuse, as well
as guard the tender ideas from receiving im-
pressions calculated to stupify the reason and
riper judgment; thus withdrawing the flimsy
veil of error and credulity, by an exposure of
those fallacies too often credited, because
frequently passed over without the aid of in-
vestigation through the more refined medium
of moral and physical research.
,,, ,,,bvGoogle
OBSERVA~IONS ON ANCIENT AND
MODERN SUPERSTITIONS, &c.
THB mind of man is naturally «o addicted to the
rnarvellons, that, notwithstanding the brilliant
eroscations of knowledge that have been elicited
and dift'ased oat of chaotic darkness since the
establishment of the Christian religion, and the
revival of learning and the arts, the influence still
of ancient superstition is by no means entirely
annihilated. At the present period, however, it
is principally confined to the uneducated portion
of the community ; although, at a more remote
period, its limits were by no means so circum-
scribed. A belief in the existence of apparitions,
witches, sorcerers, and magicians, is still credu-
lously supported in many parts of the world, though
less so in civilized Europe than in other countries,
Lapland and some parts of Sweden and Norway
excepted. But how much must it astonish us
when we look back to the distant ages of Greece
and Rome, the nurseries of the sci~nces and the
arts, to find the greatest heroes and statesmen
imbibing and fostering t\Je same ridiculous preju-
dices, and strenuously cultivating the same belief,
paying obedience to augurs, oracles, and sooth-
.&
o''""e' .yGoogle
2 OBSERVATIONS ON ANCIENT AND
sayers, on whose contradictory and equivocal
inferences their prosperity or adversity was made
to depend. In fact, little more than a century
ago, do we not behold things still more extrava-
gantly credulous and ferocious; namely, the burn-
ing ofwomen for the imaginary crime ofwitchcraft,
incidents of which we have given in the body of
this w~rk, a crime much more innocent than that
of priestcraft, which ~iumphantly prevailed at the
very same period, and which still holds the minds
ofthonsands in subjection?
A belief in judicial astrology was supported and
c:ultivated by men remarkable for their extraordi-
nary genius and talents.
Legends, miracles, prQphecies, &c. are relics of
superstitious ages. What also is extraordinary, is,
that ~w species of superstilion, if any, originate~
with the populace. They were the inventions of
barbarous ages before the dawn of reason--after-
wards the fabrications ofmen.actuated by ambition,
and a desire to servilize the human mind.
As regards the Romans only, a. people wh010
we are taught from .our. infancy to respect, and
who, indeed, in their better days, were truly vene-
rable.for their virtue and valour, what is there in
their history more al!tonishing than their implicit
belief in augury•? Their.belief in omens o~ pre-
• . The discipline of the augurs is of very ancient date,
haw.ioi been pmhibited by Moses, in Leviticus. The cup put
. io Joseph'sllllck, was that used by Joseph to take aoguriea by,
In its more general signification, augury comprises all the
4ifl"ereut kinds of divination, "hich Varrow distinguishes into
four species of•ngory, according to the four elements; namely,
Jlgrot!J411CJI, or aurury by fire; aerornaacv, or augury by thll air;
,,, ,,,bvGoogle
- J
MODJUlN SUPB.RSTITIONI, &:c. 8
tematural appearances of the heavenly bodie~, in_
eclipses, comets, and dreadful thunder-storms,
ma.y be forgiven. They had made small pl'Ogl'eiJJ
in astronomy; they had not learnt that an eclipse
is a matter of common calculation; and that swrms
are, in most cases, highly beneficial to the earth,
aad nowise connected with past or fo~re eveats.
Bot when we fiad them giving implicit credit to
their priests, who thought proper to predict good
or evil, merely from the appeanmce of the entrails
ofsacrificed animals, from the flight of birds, frona
chickens, foxes, &:.c. we are at a loss to. concei••
how a deception of this kind conld have prevailed,
without being detected and exposed by the good
sense of the people. The mob alone, or the com.,.
mon soldiers and sailors, were not merely influ-
enced by tbe reports of the augurs•; their kings
or commanders undertook no expeclition without
eonsulting these oracles, and were always unsoc-
eessfal, if they confided so much in themselves as
to disregard their opiOions. In some cases, it is
easy to suppose that they might have been in con-
cert with the augurs, to promote some favourite
point, to raise an enthusiasm in the people ia theit
favour, or to inspire the soldit-.rs with fortitude in
some dangerous enterprise. But it is not so easy
to suppose that this 'was always the case, because,
upon the evidence of their histori~s. it appears
that there was. generally bot little connexion be-
lydrtlfiUJftq/, or augury by the water; and Beomancy, or augury
by tbe eartb.-See DIVIIUTIO!If, The RoiiUUI augurs took thek
presages concerning futurity from birds, tte.Jta, and tbe ·appear-
ancee of the heavens, &c.
• See Auaua~o
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
4 OBSERVATIONS ON ANCIBN1' AND
tween them; and that, although the people looked
to the commander for order•, they regarded the
augurs 88 superior beings who were to grant
8UCCBU.
The art of augury the Romans had from the
Tuscans, and the Tuscans from the Greeks, who
probably derived it from the Chaldeans; but the
progress of the art is u absurd 88 the origin of it
is obscure. The only wonder is, that it had so
much influence upon a people, in the whole of
whose history we find so many brilliant examples
of solid sense, of learning, and of eloquence.
Their historians, who rank among the most learned
of their writers, and of whose abilities we can evert
now be judges, gravely relate the process of con-
sulting augury, and the success of it. Yet the
augurs were mf!n following one another in regular
succession. Was there none to betray the secrett
W 88 the art of juggling an hereditary secret with-
out one interruption ? Tyranny first broke the
chain. Wheri Rome was governed by tyrants,.
.these despised augury, and prose¢uted their wicked
purposes, whatever might be the appearance of
tbe eflllrails of an ox; and as they, no doubt, often
succeeded in their enterprises, augury would na-
tnmlly fall into disrepute. These circumstances.
- in the ·great chain of causes and events, would·
naturally pave the way for a more rational religion.
We are indebted to Henry VIII. for the com-
mencemeat of the reformation ; but, if the pope
would have sanctioned his lust and his extortion,
that advantage would have probably been derived
from a better sovereign.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
MODBR:N 8UPBR8TITIONS, &c. 6
It is a circamstaoce no less remarkable, Uiat,
Dotwithstandiog we read of the aoperatitions of
the Greeks end Romans with wonder and some
degree of contempt, we oaoaot acquit ourselves
of having yet retained a very considerable portion
.of the same superstitious spirit. We IU'e even
U:ldebted to them for almost all our popular whims.
A hare crossing the way-a person sneezing-
.stumbling-heariag strange voices-and the iUI-
ing of salt upon the table, were all with them
.omens of gQOd or evil, according to circumstance~,
.and ~n so with thoasands at the present time,
and in this enlightenedcountry. Persons of other-
wise no mean ondentanding ha.ve been greatly
perplexed, and have even turned pale ~t aucb
.ocounenees. To the above may be added, a coal
!Starting from the fire•-the death-watch-these-
4iment of the sugar rising to the top of the te.oup,
.and many others. We may alao mention the suc-
-4le&S of those impostors, who pretend to calculate
utivities (•ee AsTROLOGY) and predict events;
and the many foolish instances for belief in tbe
auc:.c-ess of lottuy-tickets.
lgnDI'ant as the Romans were of a superintend-
• A coal starting out of the fire propostict.1te1 either a pone
or a c;.of&n, as the imagination may figure either one or the other
represented upon it: the death-watch, a epeciea of licldng spider,
die inleparable companipn of ol!l bootes and old furniture, it,
when beard, a nre prognostic of a death in the family: the
aedlment of the sugar, in the form of froth, rlalog to the top of a
cap of tea, it an i•falli614 prellllg8 of the penon going to receiye
money: the itching of the palm of the band, which it to be ina-
mediately rubbed on wood, " that it may come to good," or on
brua, " tlaat it may come to pass," &c. it the eM"fllin forebodior;
IJf bems abo11t to bava Dloaey .paid or otherwile trallafenect
o "'"'''Coogle
6 OBIJBRVATIONS ·ON A'MOIBNT AND
.ing Pro'ridance, and of the revealed will of the
Divine t:M•jesty; their tmst in such .omena was
paidowable, and deceived as they were' by the 8r-
'1ifices··of their soothsayers, Who C'68ld oontrive to
•time their ·prophecies, aad express them ill such
a' mal'lher that they'shoald appear to be punctually
·fulfilled, we clllinot wonder if the wisest 'amoag
th~tn were mduced ·to place confidence in impos-
·tore. Bot that we should be as much attached to
'Ibis species of diVination is a weakness, than which
·there is none we ought more to blush at. Although
·We bdallt of oor superier understanding, ·improved·
"is ·it is by the kno'Wiedge·of eighteen oenturiee,
'We 'ate 'guilty 'Of a weakness whioh is e.s::ctt11able
·~ly ill an unenlightened h'eathen. This subject
'Mikht, ·p$'haps, be treated with the ridienle ·of
.aatire, or lhe. silence of coatempt, bat the more
we oodsider· it, :the more we should be inclined to
·doubt the·fact, that there· can exist a human and
:teasonable being so·weak; as to believe that futu-
rity can' be revealed by trifting events, -or·by the
..lowest of mankind, under the name of conjurors.
But the fact cannot be doubted : cases of the kind
~oocar every day; and the happiness of individuals
and families often lies at the mercy of such impos-
.ten.
Tbose·who are additlted tothis species of·super-
stitious credulity are no doubt of that class of
people who are called well-f!Uaning, and would be
· ·-greatly incensed were we to ask them wht'ther they
·b~lieved in the superintendance of a Divine Pro-
. ~-ViAl~~·, They would answer, "Surely- God
fol'bid "We tlid not l" And yet, is it consistent with
o.,,,, ,,Coogle
MODBRN BUPBRSTITIO'NS, &c. 7
our received ideas, or with tlte renaled wisdom
and perfections of the Deity, to sopposto that he
should dedare that fatuity is locked up from tM
penetration of mankind, and yet ahoald reveal the
events of it ·by tbe sediments ef a eop of coffee,
the dame of a candle, or the starting of a saJ.
phureo~s OOal? Ia llGt this offeri.Dg the greatest
insult to him! A step farther, we have, iadeed,
gone, aad but a step towards the very hig*est in-
salt ; we have supposed that he makes known' the
secreta of· futurity to the meanest vagrata and
impostol's, to the men and women·whom the .ma-
gistrate· Yery properly. puDishea ·as much agaiat
their fore-lmowledp as against their iuolinafion.
The iatpossibility of our acqairiDg by any means
a knowledge of·fatare events, and .tJae miserable
ooadition of Iauman life if we had that knowledge,
.-ight be here.insisted on ; but theymust lJe obviou
'to ev~ thinking man. A better. dissuasive frGm
the credulity which is the subject of this dilcouree,
would be to insist upon the gross and .inaaltiag
impiety of endeavour.iog to pry into what the Deity
has pronounced bidden and concealed, and tbat·by
agents the moat mean and oonte!Dptible. Letthole
who are still credulous in the $ppearanoe of their
ooff66 grounds, their spilling of salt, their .passing
onder a ladder or scaffolding •, and all the para-
• These are but a Yery small proportion of tile minor apedea
14 auperstitiona which Influence wealt"and uninstructed minda
ill all countries. The vulgar, even in tbe most enlightened
periods, are not entirely exempt from belief in tbe powen·or
~rcery ltlld magic, and otber fantastical and iinaglnary ·agen-
'ciel, such u Exorcismt, Charms, and Amulets. lt'.li pleasln~,
llowenr, to c:oatraatihe preNiJU1uaet, lllwlitth dlere'lt almost
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
8 OBSBRVATIONS, &c.
phemalia of the impostures of pretended divines,
consider with what propriety, decency and respect,
they can hereafter appeal to the Deity by the epi-
thets of all-•uing and omniscient; and when they
have done that, let them reflect upon the dignity
and importance of those agents, in whose revela-
tions they confide, in preference to his dectees.
Under the head of superstition may be ranked
fatalism ; for it follows from this dogma of faith,
that all means of averting predestined events, that
is, all future events whatever, are notonly unavail-
ing, bQ.t impious. It is manifest, that if this were
consistently adhered to, every etfort conducive to
self-preservation, or even the common comforts
and accommodations of life, would be paralysed ;
there would be no end to all the duties of social
life; nay, to the very existence of the human spe~
cies. Though this speculative principle, however,
has never been able entirely to overpower and ex-
tinguish the feelings and dictates of nature to this
extent, except among a few fantastical maniacs,
there are proofs enough in the history of mankind
of its pernicious practical etfeots. One of the
most conspicuous examples of this, is found among
the professors of the Mabomedan faith, in their
abstaining from the means of stopping the progress
an extinction of the&e delusione, with a,;~s not very remote. It
Ia only 182 yean, (couutiuc from 1819) since pat numben
of persona were condemned to death, in the ordinary coune of
law, and executed for witchcraft, in England; and only 119
yean (from the llaDie date) tince the like diagraceful proce~.,
~ took place in Scotland. The lik.e trial,, convlctiona, and
•.aecutiona, took place in New England, in the end of the Ir""-
~entur,.. See Evelp', Jlemoirt, vol, xi, P• 85._
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
PROOII'S AND TRIALS OP GtJILT. 9
of the plague. Amonr Christian secta, profeuing
ihie doctrine, the like evils have arisen in an in-
ferior degree, as exemplified in the opposition
which the inoculation of the small-pox met with
from tbis religioas prejudice. &e Sir Gilbert
Blaru'• Ek~M~tt• ef Medical Logic, page 208.
PROOFS AND TRIALS OF GUILT JN
SUPERSTITIOUS AGES.
IT were well, perhaps, did the cruelties practised in
former ages laygenerallyatthe door of superstition.
The extraordinary trials to which those suspected
of any guilty action were conducted with many
devout ceremonies, by the ministers of religion,
were declared to be the judgments of God. The
kinds of ordeal were various, e. g. holding in the
band a red .hot bar ; plunging the arm into boiling
walter ; walking blindfold a~dst burning plough-
shares ; passing through fires; challenging the
· accuser to single combat, when frequently the ablest
champion was permitted to supply his place ; swat:.
lowing a morsel of consecrated bread ; swimming
or sinking in a river for witchcraft,· or, as it was
called, weighing a witch ; stretching out the arms
before the cross, till the soonest wearied dropped
his arms, and lost his es~te, which was decided by
1his very short proeess, calledjuidciu• crud•, &c.
A dispute occurred between the Bishop of Paris
and the Abbot of St. Denis, about the patronage of
a mooastery, and Pepin, surnamed the Short, not
being •ble to pronounce upon tbei~ confused claiuu,
B2
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
10 PaOO.S A:ND" TRIALS OF G:OILT
decreed that it should be settled by GBe of these
jadgmcata :of God: viz. The jvdgtnn&t of tA.
erou. Eaoh of the disputanta obose a IDIUl, and
both of the men appeared ill the chapel, where they
extended their arms in the form of a cross. The
spectators, more orderly than those of the present
day ; still, although they watched every motion of
the combatants with the most pious attention, the
old English spirit, which rules so prevalently at the
present period, was proofagainst every other con-
sideration-they betted on the feat, first on one
aide, then on theother, adcording as the odds seem-
ed to ron in fa?our or·against. The Bisbop~s man
was first tried ; ·be let his arms drop and ruined his
patron for ever. Though these trials might some-
times be evaded by the artifice of the priest, nn-
merous, nevertheless, were the innocent victims
who suffered from these superstitious practices.
They were very frequent between the tenth and
twelfth century. William Rnfus, having ~used
Hildebert, the Bishop of Mana, of high· treason,
..,.. on the verge of submitting to one of these
trials, when he was convinced by lves, Bishop of
Chartres, that they were against the canons of the
constitution of the church, and adds, that in this
.manner " buwcentiam defendere, est innocpatiam
perdere." In 1066 an abbot of St. Aubin of An-
pn, having refused to present a horse to the vis-
count of Tours, which the viscount claimed in right
of his lordship, whenever an abbot first took pos-
aeaaion of that abbey ; the ecclesiastic o8'ered to
jnstify himself by the trial of the ordeal, or by
dael, for which purpose he proposed to find a sub-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
'IN SUP&JUJTITIOUa AGBS. 11
atiblte. Tlae duel was first agreed to by tb vis·
c.unt; but, reftectingthat these combatants, tboup
unctioned by the church, depended solely on the
address or vigour of the adversary, and conse-
quently could afFord no substantial proof of the
equity of his claim, he proposed to compromise tile
matter in a manner which strongly characterised
these times : he s11rrendered his claim, on condition
that the abbot ahould not forget to mention him,
his wife, and his brothers, in his prayers ! As the
orisons ·appeared to the abbot of comparatively
little value with the hors~, the proposal was ac-
eepted.
In the tenth century the right of representation
was not settled : it was a question whether a son's
sons ought to be accounted amoDg the children of
the family, and succeed equally with their uncles,
if their fathers happened to die while their grand•
fathers sarvived. This point was decided by oDe
of these combats. The champion in behalf of
the right of children to represent their deceased
father, proved victorious. It was then established
by a per.petaal decree, that they should from that
·time fonrard.share in the inheritance along with
their uncles.
In the eleventh century, the same mode was
adopted, to decide between two rival liturgies! A
couple of knights, clad in complete armotlr, were
the tests to decide whicb was tbe true and authentic
liturgy.
The capitularies of Dagobert say, that if two
neighbours dispute respecting the boundaries o{
tlleir p088essiou, let a piece of turf of the con-
"''-.,Coogle
12 PROOFS AND TRIALS OF GUILT
tested land be dug up by the judge, and brought
by him into the court, and the two parties shall
touch it with the points of their swords, calling on
God to witness their claims : after this, let them
combat, and let victory prove who is right or who
is wrong. In these combats in Germany, a solemn
circumstance was practised in these judicial com-
bats. .In the midst of the lists they placed a bier;
by the side of which stood the accuser and the
accnsed, one at the head and the otht>r at the foot,
where they leaned in profound silence for some
time before ~e combat commenced. In his pre-
face to Way's Fableaux, Mr. Ellis shews how
faithfully the manners of the age are painted in
these ancient tales, by observing the judicial
combat introduc*'d by a writer of the 14th cen-
tury, :who, in his poem, represents Pilate as
challenging Jesus Christ to single combat; and·
another; who describes the person who pierced
the side of Christ as a knight who joisted with
Jesus.
It appears' that judicial combat was p£aetised
by the Jews. Whenever the Babbins had to de-
cide on a dispute about property between two par-
ties, neither of which could produce evidence to
substantiate the claim, it was terminated by single
combat. The Rabbins were impressed with a
notion that consciousness of right would give ad-
ditional confidence and strength to the rightful
possessor. It may, however, be more philosophical
to observe1 that snch judicial combats were more
frequently favourable to the criminal than to the
innocent, because the bold wicked man is ~sually
o''''"'" ,,Coogle
IN SUPBKSTITIOU8 AG.BS. 13
more ferocious and hardy than he whom he singlet
out as his victim, and who only wishes to preserve
his own quiet eqjoyments : in this case the assailant
is the most terrific opponent.
Those who were accused of robbery in these
times were put to trial by a piece of barley bread,
on which the·mass had been performed ; ancl if the
accused could not swallow it, they were declared
guilty. This mode of trial was improved by adding
to the lJread a slice of cAeese ; and such was their
credulity and dependance on heaven in these ridi-
culous trials, that they were very particular in this
holy lJread and clleese, called .the cormed. The
bread was to be of unleavened barley, and the
cheese made of ewes milk in the month of May •.
The lJleeding of a corpse was another proof of
guilt in superstitious ages ; nor is the custom yet
entirely abolished. If a person were murdered,
it was believed, that at thE' touch or approach of
the murderer, the blood gushed out from vario~s
parts of the body. By the side of the bier, if the
smallest change was.perceptible in the eyes, mouth,
feet or hands of the corpse, the murderer was.con-
jectured to be present, and many innocent pers~
doubtless mllSt have suffered death from tbis idle
chimera; for when a body is full of blood, warmed
by a sudden external heat and symptoms of en~
·suing putrefaction, some of the blood vessels ~11
• Do Caage bas remarked, that tbe common expression,
" Jlay tllis piece ofbread choke 111<! !" originates with this custom.
The anecdote of Earl Godwin's death by swallowing- a piece of
bread, in making thla asseveration, is recorded in our bbaory.
lfit lie true, it was a aiqolar oUafortone•.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
14 PROOFS AND TRIALS OF GUILT
burst, 88 they will all in time." This practicewu
-once allowed in England, and is still looked on in
some of the uncivilized parts of these kingdoms 88
a means of detecting.the criminal. .It forms a rich
picture in the imagination of our old writers ; and
their histories and ballads are laboured into pathos
by dwelling on the suppositions phenomenon.
All these absurd institutions, Robertson observes.
cherished and inculcated, form the superstitions of
the age believing the legendary histories of those
saints who crowd and disgrace the Roman calendar.
These fabulous miracles had been declared authen.
tic by the bulls of the Popes, and the decrees of
Councils-they were greedily swallowed by the
populace; and whoever believed that the Supreme
· Being had interposed miraculously on those trivial
occasions mentioned in legends, could not bot ex-
pect his intervention in matters of greater import-
ance when solemnly referred to his decision. Be-
sides this ingenious remark, the fact is, that these
custems·were a substitute for written laws, which
that barbarous period bad not; and as it is impos-
sible for any society to exist without laws, the ig-
norance of the people had recourse to these ens-
toms, which bad and absurd as they were, served to
terminate controversies which might have given
birth to more destructive practices. Ordeals are,
in fact, the rude laws of a barbarous people,rwbo
have not obtained a written code, and not advanced
enough in civilization, to embrace the refined in-
vestigations, the subtle distinctions, and elaborate
U.quiries, which are exacted by a ~urt of Law.
It may be presumed, that these ordeals owe their
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
IN SUPBRSTITIOtJS AQBs. 15
origin to that one of Moses, called the " W aten
of .Jealonsy." The Greeks also liad ordeals, for
we rend in the .Antigonus of Sophocles, that the
soldiers offer to prove their innocence by hand-
ling red hot iron, and walking between fires.
One cannot but smile at the whimsical ordeals
of the Siamese. Among other practices to dis-
cover the·justice ofa cause, civil or criminal, they
are particularly attached to the use of certain con-
secrated purgative pills, which the contending par•
ties are made to swallow. He who retains them
longest, gains his cause! The practice of giving
Indians a consecrated grain of rice to swallow, is
known to discover the thief in any company, by
the contortions and dismay evident on the connte.
aance of the real thief.
In tho middle ages they were acquainted with
secrets to pass unhurt these secret trials : one is
mentioned by Voltaire for undergoing the ordeal
of boiling water; .and this statement is con6rmed
by some of our late travellers in the East. The
Mevleheh dervises can hold red-hot iron between
their teeth. Such arti6ces have been often pub-
licly exhibited at Paris and London. On the
.ordeal of the Anglo-Saxons, Hr. Sbaron Turner
observes, that the hand was not to be immedi-
ately inspected, and was left to the chance of a
good,.constitution to be so far healed during three
days (the time they required to be bound up and
sealed, before it wu examined) as to discover
those appearances when inspected, which were
allowed to be satisfactory. There was also much
·preparatory trainingt suggested by the more ex-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
]6 PROOFS AND TRIALS OF GUILT
perienced : besides, the accused had an opportu-
nity of goittg alone into tAe cAurcA, and making
terms with the priest. The few spectators were
always at a distance ; and cold iron or any other
inoffensive substance might be substituted, and the
fire diminished at the moment. There can be no
doubt they possessed these secrets and medica-
ments, which they always took care to have ready
at hand, that they might pass through these trials
in perfect security.
There is an anecdote of these times given by
Camerarius, in hia .. Horae Subsceciv~B," wbich
may serve to show the readiness of this apparatus.
A rivalship existed between the Austin Friars.and
the Jesuits. The Father-general of the Austill
Friars was dining with the Jesuits; and on the
table being removed, be entered into a formal dis·
course of the superiority of the monastic order,
and charged the Jesuits, in unqualified terms, with
assuming the title of " Fratres," while they held
not the three vows, which other monks were. ob-
liged to consider as sacred and binding. The
general of the Austin Friars was very eloquent
and very authorative : and the superior of the
Jesuits was very unlearned, but not quite half a
fool. He was rather careless about entering the
list of controversy with the Austin Friar, bu.t
arrested his triumph by asking him if he wouJd see
ooe of his Friars who pretended to be nothing
more than a Jesuit, and one of the Austin Friar's
who religiously performed the above-mentioned
three vows, show instantly which ofthem would be
the readiest to obey his snperiora ? The Auatin
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
IN SUPERSTITIOUS AGES. 17
Friar consented. The Jesuit then turning to one
of his brothers, the Holy Friar Mark, who was
waiting on them, said, "Brother Mark, our compa-
nions are cold ; I command you, in virtue of the
holy obedience you have sworn to me, to bring here
instantly out of the kitchen fire, and in your hands,
some burning coals, that they may warm them-
selves over your bauds." Father Mark instantly
obeys, and to the astonishment of the Austin
Friars, brought in his bands a supply of red burn-
ing coals, and held them to whoever thought pro-
pt'r to warm himself; and at the command of Ips
superior, returned them to the kitchen hearth.
The general of the Austin Friars, with the restor
his brethren, stood amazed; he looked wistfully on
one of his monks, as if he wished to command him
to do the like ; bot the Austin Monk, who per-
fectly understood him, and saw this was not a time
to hesitate, observed,-" Reverend Father, for-
bear, and do not command me to tempt God I I
am ready to fetch you fire in a chafing dish, bot
not in my bare hands.'' The triumph of the Jesuits
w~ complete; and it is not necessary ta, add, that
the miracle was noiae~ about, and that the Autin
Friars CQldd never account for it, notwithstanding
their strict performaQce of ~e three vows.
o "'"'''Coogle
18
ASTROLOGY, &c.
" Tbis is tbe excellent foppery of tbe world, that when we are
1kk io fortune (often the surfeit of our own behaviour)
we make guilt of our 'ditaaten, the sun, the muon, ud die
1tan1 as if we were villains by necessity 1 fools by heavenly
compulsion; knaves, thieves, and treachen (traiton), by
1pberical predominance ; drunkards, liars, and adulteren, by
-an inforced obedience of planetary influence J and all that we
are evil in by a Divine thrusting on J an admirable enllion of
whoremaster to lay his goatieh disposition to the charge of a
1tar I My father compouuded with my mother under the Dra-
gon's tail; and my nativity wu·under Ur111 Mqjor; so ·that it
foUow1, I am rough and lecherottL....-Tut, I should have lteen
that I am, had the maidenliest star in the firmament twinkled
at my butardiziDjr·"-8BAI<8PBARE.
IT is a siogolar fact, that·men the·mosteminent
for their learning were those who indulged most in
the favourite superstition of judicial Astrology;
and as the iogeoious Tenhove observes, whenever
an idea germinates in a learned bead,-it shoots with
additional luxuriance. At the present time, how-
ever, a belief in judicial Astrology ;can oaly exist
in the people, who may be said to have no belief
at all ; for mere traditional sentiments can hardly
be said-to amount to a belief. ·
It is said that Dr. Fludd • was in possession of
• Dr. Fludd, or, as he stated himself in Latin, De FluctiliiU,
was the second son of Sir Thomas Fludd, Treasurer of War to
Queen Elizabeth, was born at Milgate in Kent 1 and died at hie
own bouse in Coleman-Street, September 8, 1687· He was a
strenuous supporter of the Rosycrucian philosophy ; was coo-
eidered a man of some eminence in his profeiBion, and by no
mean• an insignificant writer.
"''-.,Coogle
ASTROLOGY. 19
the MSS. of Simon Forman, the Astrologer. We
have seen that the studies of Mathematics, As-
tronomy, and Medicine, were early united in seve-
·ral persons connectedwith the faculty of medicine.
'ReQl Astronomy gave birth to ju~icial Astrology ;
which Offering an ample field to enthusiasm and
imposture, was eagerly pursued by many who had
no scientific purpose in ·view. It was connected
with various juggling tricks and deceptions, affect-
ed an obscure jargon of language, and insinuated
itself into every thing in which the hopes and
fears of mankind 'Were concerned. The professors
of this pretended science were at first generally
·persons of mean education, in whom law cunning
'supplied the plaee of knowledge. Most of them
·engaged in the emperical practice of physic, and
·some, throu~ the credulity of the times, even
arrived at a degree of eminence in it ; yet since
the whole foundation of their art was folly nod
deceit, they nevertheless gained many proselyte&
and dupes, both amoll'g the well-informed and the
ignorant.
When Charles the First was confined, Lilly, the
famous Astrologer, was consulted for the hour that
should:favonr his escape.
A story, which strongly proves how much
Charles II. was bigotted to judicial astrology, and
whose mind was. certainly not unenlightened, is
recorded in Burnet's History of his own times.
The most respectable characters of the age, Sir
William Dugdale, Elias Ashmole, Dr. Grew, and
others, were mem~ers of an astrological club•.
• Kelaacthoa wu also a believer in judicial astrolo,.y, and
o "'"'''Coogle
ASTROLOGY.
Congreve's oharacter of Foresight, io Love for
Love, was then no uncommon person, though the
humour now is scarcely intelligible. Dryden cast
the nativities of his sons; and, what.is remarkable,
his prediction relating to his son Charles, was ac-
complished. This incident is of so late a date,
~ne might hope it would have been cleared up;
·but, if it be a fact, it must be allowed that it forms
a rational exultation for its irrational adepts.
In 1670, the passion for horoscopes and ex~
pounding the stars, prevailed io France among the
first rank. The new-born child was usually pre-
•ented naked to the astrologer, who read the first
lineaments in its forehead, and the transverse lines
in its hands, and thence wrote down its future
destiny. Catherine de Medici& brought Henry IV.
then a child, to old Nostradamus, whom antiquaries
esteem more for his Chronicle of Provence than for
his vaticinating powers. The sight ofthe reverend
seer, with a beard which "streamed like a meteor
io the air," terrified the future hero, who dreaded
a whipping from so grave a personage. Will it
be credited, that one of these magicians, having
assured Charles IX. that he would live as many
days as he should turn about on his heels in 1111
honr, standing on one leg, that his Majesty every
morning performed that solemn exercise for aa
hour; the principal officers of the court, thejudges,
an interpreter of dreamL Ricbelleu aud Muarine were eo
aupentltioua u to employ and pension Moria, auotber pretender
to utrolon, who cut the nativities of these two able politici&M.
Nor waa Tacitus himself, who generally appean superior to
aupentition, untainted with this folly, as may appear from the
·twenty-second chapter of the eixth book of his Annals.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
ASTROLOGY. 21
the chancellors, and generals, likewise, in compli-
ment, standing on one leg, and turning round I
It bas been reported of several famous for their
astrological skill, that they have suffered a volun-
tary death merely to verify their own predictions:
this bas been said of Cardan, and Burton the au-
thor of the Anatomy of Melancholy.
It is curious to observe the shifts to which astrolo-
gers are put when their predictions are not verified.
Great winds were predicted, by a famous adept,
about the year 1586. No unusual storms, how-
ever, happened. Bodin, to save the reputation of
the art, applied it as a figure to some revolutiou
in the state, and of which there were instances
enough at that moment. Among their lucky and
unlucky days, they pretend to give those of various
illustrious persons and of families. One is very
striking :...,-Thursday Wll!l tbe nnlucky day of our
Henry VIII. He, his son Edward VI.' Queen
· Mary, and Queen Elizabeth, all diedon a Tkurltlay!
This fact had, no doubt, great weight in this con-
troversy of the astrologers with their adversaries.
The life of Lilly, the astrologer, written by him-
self, is a curious work. He is the Sidropkel of
Butler. It contains so much artless narrative,
and at the same time so much palpable imposture,
that it is difficult to know wht'n he is speaking
what he really believes to be the truth. In a sketch
of the state of astrology in his day, those adepts,
whose characters he bas drawn, were the·lowest
miscreants of tbe town. They all speak of each
other as rogues and impostors. Such were Booker,
George Wharton, Gadbary, who gained a liveli-
o "'"'''Coogle
ASTROLOGY.
hood by practising on the credality of e\'en men of
learning so late as in 1650, to the 18th century•
In Asbmole's life an account of theae artful impos-
ton may be found. Most of them bad taken the
air in the pillory, and ·others bad conjured them..
selves up to the ga.Uows. This seems a true state--
ment of facts. But Lilly infoi'Dl8 us, that in his
various conferences with angels, their voice resem-
bled that of tl\e .Irish! The work is certainly
curious for the anecdotes of the times it contains.•
'fhe amours of Lilly with his mistress .are charac-
teristic. By his own accounts, he was a very
artful man; and managed matters admirably which
required deception and invention.
In the time of the civil wars, astrology was in
high repute. The royalists and .the r~::bels bad
their astrologers as well as their soldiers! and the
predictions of the former had a great iniuence
over the latter. On this subject, it may gratify
curiosity to notice three or four works which bear
an excessive price; a circumstance.which cannot
entirely be occasioned by their rarity; and we are
induced to suppose, that we still have adepts in
this science, whose faith must be strong, or whose
scepticism weak.
, The Chaldean sages were nearly put to the route
by a quarto park of artillery, fired on Jhem by
Mr•.John Chamber, in 1691. Apollo did not use
Marsyas more inhumanly than his scourging pen
this mystical race, and his personalities made them
feel more sore. However, a Norwich knight, the
very Quixote of astrology, arrayed in the enchanted
armour of his occult authors, encountered this
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
AS'rROLOGY.
pagan in a most stately carousal. He came forth
with " A. defence of 1udiciall Astrologye, in an-
swer to a treatise lately published by Mr. John
C~amber. By Christopher Knight. Printed at
Cambridge, 1603." This is a handsome quarto of
~bout 500 pages. Sir. Christopher is a learned
and lively writer, and a ~night worthy to defend a
better cause. But his Dulcinea bad wrought most
wonderfully on his imagination. 'fhis defence of
this fanciful science, if science it may be called,
demoQStrates nothing, while it defends every thing.
It confutes, according to the Knight's own ideas :
it alleges a few scattered facts in favour of astrolo-
gical predictions, which may be picked up in that
immensity of fabling which disgraces history. He
strenuously denies, or ridicules, what the greatest
writers have said against this fanciful art, while
he lays great stress on some passages froJD obscure
authors, or what is worse, from autlwrs of no
authority. The most pleasant part ia at the close,
where he defends the art from·the objections of
Mr. Chamber, by recrimination. Chamber had
enriched him68lf by medical practice, and when
be charges the astrologers by merely aiming to
gain afew beggarly p~ce, Sir Christopher catches
fire; and shews by.his quotations, that if we are to
despise an art by its professors attempting to sub-
aiat on it, or for the objections which may be raised
against its vital principlt-s, we ought by this argu-
ment most heartily to despise the medical science
and medical men! He gives here all he can col-
lect against physic and physicians, and from the
confessions of Hippocrates and ~alen, Avicenna
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
ASTROLOGY,
and Agrippa, medicine appears to be a vainer
science than even a~trology ! Sir Christopher is a
shrewd and ingenious adversary; bot when be says
be only means to give· Mr. Chamber oil for his
vinegar, he has totally mistaken its quality.
The defence was answered by Thomas Vicars,
in his "Madnesse of Astrologers."
But the great work is by Lilly; and entirely
devoted ·to the adepts. He defends nothing ; for
this oracle delivers his dictum, and details every
event as matters not questionable. He sits on the
tripod ; and every page is embellished by a horo-
scope, which he explains with the utmost facility.
This voluminous monument of the folly of the age,
is a quarto, valued at some guineas ! It is enti-·
tied, "Christian Astrology, modestly treated of
in three Books, hy William Lilly, student in As-
. trology, 2n:d edition, 1659." There is also a
portrait of this arch rogue, and astrologer I an
admirable illustration for Lavater!
Lilly's opinions, and his pretended·science, were
such favourites ofthe age, that the learned Gataker
wrote professedly against this popular delusion.
Lilly, at the head of his star-expounding friends,
not only formally replied to, but persecuted Gata-
ker annually in his predictions, and even struck at
his ghost, when beyond the grave. Gataker died
in July 1654, and Lilly having written in his
Almanack of that year, for the month of August,
this barbarous Latin verse :-
Hoc in tumbo, ja'c"et presbyter et nebulo!
Here in this tomb lies a presbyter and a kDave I
He bad the impudence to assert, that h~ had pre-
ASTROLOGY. 26
dieted Gataker's death ! But the truth ia, itwaa an
epitaph to the " lodgings to let:~ it stood empty,
ready for the first passenger to inhabit. Had any
other of that party of any eminence died in that
month, it would have been as appositely applied
to him. Bot Lilly was an exquisite rogue, and
never at a fault. Having prophesied, in bis Al-
manack for 1650, that the parliament aloocl upon a
tottering foundation, when taken up by a JDe88ell·
ger during the night, he contrived to cancel the
page, printed off another, and shewed his copies
before the committee, assuring them that the
others were none of his own, but forged by hia
enemies.
PRACTICAL ASTROLOGY, &c.
BY the word Astrology (derived from the Greek
G.rrfiP• a star, and Aoyoc, a ducour1e,) is meant
the art ofprognosticating or foretelling events• by
the ASPHCTS, POSITIONS, and INFLUENCE o(
the HEAVENLY BODIES.
By AsP.RCT is to be understood an angle formed
by the rays of two planets meeting on earth, able
to execute some natural power or inOoence; which
may be better explained by the following table.
• Tile noted T&UXII:'RSD, in the seventeenth c~ntory, waa ift."
neted at Berlin with the respective ofticea ofprinter to the court,
bookseller, almanacll.-maker, astrologer, chemist, and first pby-
liciaD. M-agen dally arrived from the m0t1t respeetable
ilouses in Germany, Poland, Hun,ary, Deumark, and even frma
Eurlud, for the purpose of consultinf him reepectinf the future
fortUDes of aew-bom infaate, acquaintiuf him with the hour of
their aativity, ud soliciting his advice aad directioae as to their
~emeat. Muy velumee of thia singular correepoadence
81'$ still preserved iq the Royal library at Berlin. He
tlied ia bl«b reputatioa aad favour with hie euperatitioua coq"
lea1~ea 1 aJUI his aatrolodeal Almaaack is atlll pubU....
~ -• of the lew eali«bteaed proviaceaDf GenaaD7•
0
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
CHARACTERS OF THE
Six Ndrlhertt S~ Sriuthern ·
Planets. A~pect$.
'Sigtu. Sip.
.
r -A.Eies. ~ Libra. l) Saturn. d ·Conjaoction.
tS
II
gg
Q.
~
T.ums. J 'fit ScoqJio. "JJ. Jupiter. , *Sextile.
ae.ini. .t Sagittarius• 0' Mars. A Trine,
. 'I:
Oancer. Vf :capricorn. 0 Sun. D Quartile.
Leo. ::;:: Aquarius. e .Earth. 8 Opposition.
Virgo. * Pisces. 2 Venus.
~ ?.IP.rcury.
l> Luna.
This art, or rather this conjectural science, is
principally divided into NATURAL and 1u.DI-
CIARY.
NATURAL ASTROLOGY
Is confined to the study Of exploring natUI'al ef-
fects, ·as CHANG.Il OF WEATHER, WINDS, STOJUMS,
·HURRICANES, THU·NDBR, . li'LOODS, . E:ARTll'-
(lUAKBS, and the·like. In this sense it is admit-
ted to be a .part of natural philosophy. It 'W88
under this view that Mr. Goad, Mr. Boyle, and
Dr. Mead, pleaded for its use. The first endea-
vours to account for tlle diversity of seasons from
the .situations, habitu(les, 'and motions of the pla-
netis ; and to explain 'an infinity of,phe~onrena 'by
the contemplation of ·the stars. ''I'he Honomrable
Mr. Boyle admitted, 'that all physical bodies are
io:ftllel¥led by tile ·heav.eoly· bodies ; and th~
o''''"'" ,,Coogle
A'SUOL~'Y, •
d>ootar'a opi,laion, ,jn ,b_is ·M'Hti~ ~Boemilg the
lPOiW:R-R O.F TH~·Sl/N .A.ND MoON·
, r&;c, is .ip ~~­
,vour. of ,tbt- doetrine. :BJit th~e.pl'edicfiqQS ·aW
inftiJe~ are ridieuled and ®tirely,e~plPdtld ,bf
the moat esteemed J',llQW;,m ph.iJ,Qwpbers, Qf wbitlb
the reader .may hJlve a IMI'Jled •peoiQJen in &.-
HAULT's Tract. Physic. pt. ii. c. Zl.
JUDICIAL OR JUDICI.&RY ·ASTROLOGY
1iJ a farther pretence to discover or foretel MORAL
EVENTS, or such as ·have a dependence on the
FRBBDOM OF THE WI-LL. fn 1
this department~
astrology· we meet with all the idle conceits about
the HORARY REIGN of planets, the DOCTRINE OP
HOR08COPBS, the Dl8'iRIBUTIQN OPTHB HOUSES,
the CALCULATION OF NATIVITIES, FORTUNES,
LUCKY and UNLUCKY HOURS, and other ominous
f~talities.
The professors of this conjectural science main-
tain " that the Heavens are one great book,
wherein God has written the history of the world ;
and 'in which every man may read.his own fortune
and the transactions of his time. This art, say
they, hadits rise from the same hands as Astro-
nomy itself: while the ancient Assyrians, whose
serene unclouded sky favoured their celestial ob-
servations, were intent on tracing the paths and
periods of the heavenly bodies; they discovered
.aconstant settled relation or analogy between them
!IDd things below ; and hence were led to conclude
these to be the parca:, or fates or destinies, so much
.tal\,~d ofocwhich pr~side at ~.ur birth, and disp~se
.of OJU' future fate."
J • • • •
AS'l'ROLOGY.
The study of Astrology, so ftatt~ring to human
·curiosity, ·got early admission into the favour of
mankind, especially of the weak, ignorant, and
ttft'eminate, whose follies induced the avaricious,
·erafty, and designing knaves, to recommend and
promote it for their own private interest and ad-
Yantage.
Ori9in of Astrology.
We meet with the first accounts of Astrology
in Chaldea ; and at Rome it was known by the
name of theBABYLONJSH CALCULATION; against
which Horace very wisely cautioned his readers-
- - - nee Babylonios
Teotaris oumeros.-LUI. I. od. xi.
that is, consult not the tables or planetary cal,m-
lations used by Astrologers of Babylonish origin.
This therefere was the opinion of the Romans
on the subject of Astrology. Others have ascribed
·the invention of this deception to the Arabs: be
this as it may, judici~tl Astrology has been too
much used by the priests of all nations to increase
their own power and emoluments.
The Egyptians, the Chaldeans, the Greeks and
Romaris, furnish us with innumerable instances of
the extent to which Astrology was carried for in-
terested purposes. Brahmins in India, who take
upon themselves to be the arbiters of good and
·evil hours, and who set an extravagant price
upon their pretended knowledge of planetary in·
8uence and predictions, maintain their authori'tJ
at the present day by similar weans. Nor am()Jlg
the Christians, notwithstanding the enlightened
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
.ASTJlOLOOY.
•
era in which we live, are we without out Aatrolo-·
gers, as well as its admirera and advocatea ; for.
though they may not have all pursued and adopted
tbe same technical method, still it is certain, that-
whoever pretends to ditScover future events by other
means than through tb;e light of Divine revelation,
may be properly classed onder the apecies of j11-·
didal Astrologers.
Allrological Sclaeme1, ~c.
Thoae who pretend to reduCE' the practice oC
Astrology to a aystem, present the world with cer-
tain schemes formed npon the ASPECTS of the
planets, and attribute certain qualities or powers
to each sign. Thus, to ·discover the inftuence of
the heavens over the life of a person, they erect
a THBMB, at the given time of the moment the
person was born, by which the Astrologers pretend
to discover the star that presided, or in what part
of the hemisphere it was placed, when the indi-
ridual came into the world. The erection of this
TRBMB they perform, or at least pretend to reform,
lrith the assistance of the celestial globe, or pia.
nispbere, with regard to the fixed stars ; bot with
respect to the planets, they doit with Astronomical
tables. T9 accomplish these, they hav.e ·recourse
to a semi-circle, which they call POSITION, by
which they represent the six great circles passing
through the intersection of the Meridian and Hori·
zoo, and dividing the Equator .into twelve equal
parts. The spaces included between these circles,
are what they call the twelve HOUSBS; which tbq
J'efer to the twelve triangles marked in their
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
•
~e·;· plaweidg> ei~·of tbowe Kous·asi abev6 ·.Mld
lliJ! 111idem8tlvthe horiZ'bn:
Tb~· fitst:o( the HOm!IBS' under the trori~n· · te­
ft'rd the BaSt, they .eatl the Hoa6SCOPJt, or!
Houss· oF LIPB; the second, the Housa oP
WBAL'l'H ; ·tbe third; fhe·Iloflss oF Btt6THBR8·;
the (9ortb> 1~ IIiOUSB <W P ARRNT8';. &t. ; ·a& ill
clearly expressed in the following·liwes·:
Vita, lucrum, fratres, genitor, natique Valetud,
U:ror, Monr,. ptetas, et mania, ainlci iutmiei.
Whioh, translated by some Eoglisl1 students in
&strology, rum thus·:
The first bouse shews life, the second wealth doth giYe ;
Tlil!' third bo'w' lirelliren, fourth liow parelitillive ;
JWtlt·tile ftftlr; the llix'tb dil6aae~~ brio&,
The ~&vtnlth. wecllock, and the ejptlrdeatb's stinJJ·
!'be ninth religion J the.tenth honour shews •
Friendship the eleventh, and twelfth·our woes.
Table of tlie T-welve Houses.
As'trolegen draW' their table· of the· TWBATB
Hovtes ioto a tripte quadrangle prepared for tbe-
pupose, ·of which there M'e fol!r principal al\gl~
tW<t of them- filliag: equally dpon· the borizoa, aDCt
tlae ether:tw4' upoa the meridiatr,. Which anglet JWEf
sodivided duM .ttl trillogies· far tbe 12 lwos~•. 'id
whick they place the 12 si'~lill of the- Zodiaoi to
eaoh of which ilf attributed a particolat' quality,-'
viz.
t,......AJtfis, denated by the sign r, is, in their
e':lfthl1agant opmiott, a masculine, dinrnaf,
eardiiial, ·equinootlat, eustet'ty sign, ·hot and
· dty,~t&e day lt01tse of Mars.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
AITBOLOGY.. 31
t.-TAIJRI:fa, ts, is a fellliaiae, noetunal, me·
l&Deboly, bestial, furiou sign-ooldiand dry.
3.--GEMINI, II, is a masculine sign, hot and
moist, diurnal, mrial, human, double-bodied,
&c.
_4.-CANCBR, gp, is a feminine, nocturnal, pWer·
· matic sign, by natur-e cold· and. moist, die
only house of Luna.
5.-LKo, Q., is a sign, masculine, diurnal; bes-
tial, choleric and barren; a commanding,
kingly sign-hot and dry, the only house of
the sun.
6.-VIRGO, JIR, is a feminine-, noc~nal, melim·
choly, and barren sign.
7.-LIBRA, ::e:, is a sign masculine, card~al.
equinoctial, diurnal, sanguine and human,
hot and moist.
8.--Sco•PIO, m., is a feminine, nocturnal~ cold
·and phlegmatic Borthern sign.
9.-SAGITTARIUS, f 1 is a sign masculine, chole~
ric, and diurnal, by nature hot and dry.
10.-CAPRICORN, 'if, is a feminine, nocturnal,
melancholy, solstiti~l. moveable, cardinal, and
southern sign.
11.-AQUARIUS, ::, is a masculine, diurnal,
fixed, sanguine, and human sign.
12.-PISCES, *,is a feminine, nocturnal, phk!g·
matic, northerly double-bodied sign, the last
of the twelve.
o;g,,,,,,Google
ASTROLOGY.
Having tbu bolisecl their sigDJ and clirected
them in their operations, they afterwards come to
enquire of their tenants, what planet and fixed.
atars they have for LODGERS, at the moment of
the nativity of such person ; from whence they
draw conclusions with regard to the future incident
of that person's life. For if at the time of that
penon's aativity they find Mercury in 27° 52 min.
of Aquarius, and in the se~tile aspect of the horo-
scope, they pretend to foretel that that infant
will be a person of great sagacity, genius, and
understanding ; and therefore capable of learning
the most sublime sciences. ·
Astrologers have also imagined, for the sa~~~e
ridiculous purpose, to be in the same houses dift'er-
E'nt positions of the signs and planets, .and from
theiJ' different aspects. opposition and conjunc-
tion, and according to, the rules and axioms they
have prescribed to themselves and invented~ have
the sacrilegious presumption to judge, in dernie~
re.ort, of the fate of mankind, though their pre-
tended art or science is quite barren either of
p~oofs or demonstrations.
Sign& to the Houses of the Planets.
Tbe planets have allowed themselves each, ex-
cept SoL and LUNA, two signs for their hooses;
to SA·ruRN, Capricorn and Aquarius ; to JUPITBR,
Sagittarius and Pisces; to Mars, Aries and Scor-
pio ; to SoL, Leo ; to VBNUS, Taurus and Libra;
to MBRCURY, Gemini and Virgo; and to LUNA.
C.ncer.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
ASTROLOGY.
Angle• or A.~t• of tiN Plmtttl.
By their continual mutations among the twelve
ligna, the planets make several augles or.aspecta ;
tbe most remarkable of which are the five follow-
ing, viz.-
d CoNiUNCTION.-6. TRINB.- D QUAD•
RATB.-* SBXTJLB.-8 OPPOSITION.
A CoNIUNCTION is when two planets are in
one and the same degree and minute of a sign ;
and this, according to. Astrologic8l clint, either
good or bad, as the plaueta are either friends or
enemies.
A TRINB is when two planets are four signa, or
-1.20·degrees distant, as MARS in twelve degreea
of ARIBS, and SoL in twelve degrees of LBo.
Here SoL and MARS are said to be in Trine A•-
pect. And this is an aspect of perfect love and
friendship.
A QuADR.ATB AsPBC'f is when two planets are
three signs, or 90 degrees distant, as MARS in
10 degrees, and VBNUS in 10 degrees of LBo.
This particular aspect is of imperfect enmity, and
Astrologers say, that persons thereby signified,
may have jars at some time, but of such a ·nature
·as may be perfectly reconciled.
A SRXTILB AsPRCT, is when two planets are
two sign~, or 60 degrees distant, as JUPITER in
15 degrees of Aries; and SATURN in 15 degrees
of Gemini ; here J UPITBR is in a sextile aspect
·to SATURN. This is an aspect offriendship.
An OPPOSITION is, when two planets ate dia·
metrically opposite, which happens when they are
. 0 2 •
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
6 signs, Ol' 188- ~egrees (which· is one half of the
circle) asunder; and this is an aspect of perfect
htte6.
A PA·tt't'tlJI A8Piw1t, is "\then hto planets ate in
a ,ptitfect aspett to the very same degree aad
minute.
.DBXTBR AsPECJTg, are those whioh are ®~
trary to the suct~essklb of signs ; as a planet, for
iristance, in Aries, casts its sex.tite det6ter to
Aquariu••
.SiNISTB.R ,AfiPBCT; is with tire mccaision of
sigui, ali a planet in Aries; for example. t:asta ita
sextile sinister in Gemini.
Itt:additiob to these, A.etrelogfin play a litinlber
4lf.uther di:Terting trieks; beilee We read of tbfl
APi>LiCATION-P.RORtBITION-TRANSLA'ti61t
....._.R-m'llRN~TlbN'-COMBUSTION -ExcitPTidN
.;,.._RaTROGADATION; &.c. of planets.
THE APPLICATION OF PLANETS.
Applieation of the planets is performed by .Ae-
'tmlegers-m three different ways.
I. Wilen a light planet, direct and swift in its
.arotie\\1 applies to a planet more poaderous ud
•wi11 motion ~ as Mereury in so of Ariett, :and
Jupiter in 12° of Gemini, and both direct; here
Mercmy applres to a -sextile &f Jupiter, by dlr~ct
a~licllti()lo.
2. When they are both retrogade, as Mercury
·jn 2{}0 ·of Aries, and ,Jupiter in 15° of Gemiti;
here M-eroory, tlte lighter planet, applies to the
wextile aspect of Jupiter; and this i~ . by retr&gra·
t••t~.· .
3.When one of tlle planets is direct, and
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
81
the other retrograde; for example, if Mercury
were retrograde·ja 18• of A.ries, and J apiter
direct in 14• of Gemini ; in this case MercQJ')' ap~
plies to .a sextile of Japiter, by a retrop-ade
motion.
PROHIBITION,
is when two planets are applying either by body or
aspect; and before they co•e to their pt~r#l• as-
pect, another planet meets with the aspeet of the
former and prohibits it.
SEPARATION,
is when two planets have beea lately in ~nc~
tion, oraspeet, aDd are st>parated from it.
TRANSLATION OF LIGHT AND VIRTV.E,
is when a lighter planet separates from the body
or aspect of a heavier one, and immediately ap-
plies to another superior planet, and ·so translates
the light and virtue of the first planet to that
which it applies to.
RBF:RBNATION,
is when a planet i8 .applied to the.body or aspect
oC another ; and, before it comes to it, faUs ret.e-
grade, and ao refrains by ita retrograde motion.
CoMBUSTION.
A planet is said to be combust of Sol, when it
is within so 30" of his body, either before or after
his conjunction: but Astrologers complain, that a
planet is more aftlicted when it is applying to the
body of Sol, than when it is separating from com-
bustion.
\
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
• ........OLOGT.
RBOBPTIOllf,
is when two planets are in each other's dignitiet,
and it may either be by house, exultation, triplicity,
or term.
RBTKOGRAD.~TIO:N,
ia when a planet moves backward from !Wto g.t,
SO, 7', and so out of Taurus into Aries.
FRUSTRATION,
iJ when a swift planet applies to the body or u-
pect of a superior planet ; and before it cooaes to
it, the superior planet meets with the body or
•spect of some other planet.
THB DRAGON's HBAD AND TAIL.
To the seven planets, viz. SATURN, JuPITER,
MARS, SoL, VENUS, MERCURY, and LUNA;
Astrologers add, two certain nodes or points,
called the Dragon's bead, distinguished by tbia
aig~ ~. arid the Dragon's tail by Q. In those
two extremities of the beast, oar students in As·
trology place such virtues, that they can draw from
thenoe wealth, honour, preferments, &c. enough
to ftatter the avarice, ambition, vanity, &c. of the
fools who follow them. Sensible, however, that
the adiRirers of this art support their princi-
ples and defend their doctrines by examples found-
ed on their own experience and on the authority
of history ; there is no necessity for us here to ex·
pose the weakness and futility of their arguments.
o;g,,,,,,Google
.A.8TRO.LOGY.
Tully's proof will suffice; who, amidst the darkest
clouds of supentition and ignorance, and in the
yery heyday of paganism and idolatry, aud whilst
religion itself seemed to countenance Astrology,
inveighs severely against it in Lib. 2, tk tlevinat.
" Quam multa ego Pompeis, quam multa Crauo,
quam multa kuic ipsi Casari a Ckaltl«ii dicta
818mini, neminem eorum nisi 1enectute, nisi tlomi,
nisi cum clantate eue moriturum 1 ut miAi pw
Mirum vitleatur quem quam e:dare, qui etiam nune
credaslis, quorum predicta quotidie 'Oideat r• et
eventis refelli •.
_CLIMAOTBRJO,
..~trologers have used their best artifices, and em-
ployed all the rules of their art, to render those
years of our age, which- they call climacterics,
dangerous and formidable.
CJimacterick from the Greek, K>..cpa"""c, which
means by a scale or ladder, is a critical year, or a
period in a man's age, wherein, according to As-
trological juggling, there is some notable altera-
tion to arise in the body ; and a person stands in
great danger of death. The first climacterick., say
they, is the seventh year of a man's Hie ; the rest
Me multiples of" the first, as 21, 49, 56, 63, and
84; which two last are called the grand climacte·
ricks, and the danger more certain.
Marc Ficious accounts for the fourftlation of
• I ao well remember tbe Chaldean predictions to Pompey,
te Cruaas, and to this aame Ce~~&r, that none of them aboal4 die,
hat full of yean and rlory, and in bia hoaae, that I 11111 aurprilecl
that there are yet aome persona capable to believe those, wboae
pnclktlont an e'ery day centradlcted and refutedby the cosrt.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
• .ASTRO-L08y·.
&his opinion: ·he tella us there 11 a yw,r UJ!igned
fM each planet to rule over the body of a maD,
eae.h in his turn ; now Saturn beiniJ the moat
male.ftcml (malignant) planet of all, every seventh
year. whicb fa_
lls to its Jot, becomes very dangerous;
especially those of 63 and 84, when the person is
already advanced in years. Aooording to UU.
doctrine, some hold every seventh year an esta..
hlisbed climacteric; bot others only allow the title
to those produced by the multiplication of the
climacterical space by an odd number, 3, 5, 7, 9,
&c. Others observe every ninth year as a Climao-
terick.
There is a work extant, thongh rather scarce,
by Hevelios, under the title of Annu• Cli•acte-
rieu~, wherein be describes the loss he sustained
by his observatory, &c. being bumt; which, it
would appear, happened in his grand climacterick.
Suetooios says, that Augustus congratulated his
nephew opoll his having passed his first grand
climaoterlck, of which he was very apprehensive.
Some pretend that the climacteric\ years are
fatal to political bodies, which perhaps may be
granted, when they are proved to be so to natural
ones; for it must be obvious that the reason of
•ncbdanger can by no means be disMvered·, nor
what relation it can have with any of the bombers
above-mentioned. Though this opinion hasa great
deal of antiquity on its side ; Aulos Gellius says,
it was borrowed from the Cbaldeans, who, possi-
.bly, might receiveitfrom Pythagoras, whose philo-
nplly tamed JnQ()b on numbers, and who imagined
an extraordinary virtue in the number 7·.
o;g,,,,,,Google
- 'l'be prineipal authors ou the·suhjoot of. olirna.-
tericks, are PLATO, CICERO, MACROBIUS, Au•
LU~ GBLLIUS, arnongtlleancieots; AttooL, MA·
GIRUS, and SALMA'rtOs, among the modernt.
ST. AucusTJNB, ST. AMsaosB, BBDA, and
BOBTJVS, all coantenanee the opinion.
LuckY AND U~tucK Y DAvs.
Astrologers bavf' also bretJ~ht under their in-
spection and controol the days of the year, ;vhich
they have presumed to divide into lueky and an-
lu~ky days ; calling even tbe sacred scriptures, and
the common belief of Chri.&tians, iD former ages, te
their assistance for this purpose. They pretend
that the Utb day of the first month wu a blessed
day among the lsr~lites, authorised therein, as
they pretend, by the several foflowillg passages.out
ef Ezt~du•, c. xii. v. 18, 40, 41, .C21 ol. ·Lttnlica,
c. xxiii. v. 6. NuntlJers, c. xxviii. v. 16. " F~r
·hundred and thirty year• being expired of tlwir
. dwelling in Eg1fPl, wea in tlte •If 6mM day·dc·
part;d they lheace."
With regard to evildays and times, Attrologen
refer to A1n06, c.·5, v. 13, and c. vi. v. 3. Ecclu~
.aticu•, c. ix. v. 12. Psalm, X.Xx\'ii. Y.l9. OIHJ.
ditd, c. xii. Jeremit:tll, c. xlvi. v. 21, and to lob
cursing his birth-day, chap. iii. v. 1 to 11. In cob-
firmatioli of which lhey also quote a calendar., ft..
.heted out of several ancient Rom&· catholic
.prayer boob, written on ~lbnn. befete priating
was invented, in which were iDiieried. tlie uafortU-"
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
ASTROLOGY.
~te day. of each month, as in the followiD~
veraes.;-
l Alf17ART,-Prifu diu,....;,,, d ltptifJUI lr'llfteiJt ....U.
F&aav.laY.- Q-'« nbit mortem, prHtmlit terlUIfort-
•bacw.-Prlmu ffUIIIdentn~J, tlimmapit qllllrla liUIMt.,.,
Aran...-Den~~~ et tmdentu ut mortU wiMre plentu.
libv.-Tertilll occidit, et Septimu ora relitlit•
.lv~rz.-.Dftuu Pallucit, tplilltlenufetleralludt.
J11LT.-7a- ,_., 1114U:fiJI, J11Ui dert.,ldefoctiJI.
A11G111T.-Prinul 11eclllfortem, perditqu• nCIIIIda c:olortem.
bPTIDIB&a.-TertiiJ Septemllril, et ""'"'fert mt.1liJ memllrU.
OcTOB&a.-nrn... et d~~~tu; ut ricut mor• aUemu.
!{OVIIMB&a.-Scot]HUI uf pint..., et terl#tu ut villi tilcdul.
J>IICBMB&a.-Septimtu R!JIIfllll, tliro"" cfelltu ut A~uU.
This poetry is a spooimen of the rusticity and
ignorance at least of the times; and is a convincing
proof that Christianity had yet a very strong tine-
tore of the Pagan superstitions attached to it, and
which all the purity ofthe gospel itself, to this very
day, bas not been able entirely to obliterate.
That the notion of lucky and unlucky days owes
its origin to paganism, may be proved from Roman
history, where it is mentioned that that very day
four years, the civil wars were begun by Pompey
the father; Cesar made an end of them with hi•
son, Cneius Pompeius being then slain; and that
the Romans accounted the 13th of February an
anlocky day, because on that day they were over-
thrown by the Gaols at Allia ; and the Fabii at-
tacking the city of the Recii, were all slain with
·the,exception of one man: from the calendar of
-Ovid's "Fastorom," Aprilis erat mensiB Greeci.
.mupicatismmu ; and from Horace, lib. 2, ode 18,
.0111'8ing the tree that bad nearly fallen upon it;
uk raefado pomit die.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
ASTROLOGY. 41
Tbe liumbel"ofremarkable events that happened
oo some particular days have been the principal
means of confirming both Pagans and Christians
in their opinion on this subject. For example.
Alexander the Great, who was born on the 6th of
April, conquered Darius and died on the same day.
The Emperor Bll88iaaus Cat"&&alla was born and
died on a sixth ·day of April. Augustus was
adopted on the19th of August, began his Consul..
ate,conquered-the Triumviri, and died the sameday.
The Christians have observed that the 24th of
February was four times fortunate to Charles the
;Fifth. That Wedoesday was a fortunate day to
Pope Sixtus V. for on a Wedne11day he was born,
on that day made a Monk, on the same day made
a General of his order, on that day created a Car-
dinal, on that day elected Pope, aod also on that
day inaugurated. That Thursday was a fatal day
to Henry VIII. King of England, aod his J»Oite-
rity, for he died on a Thursday ; King Edward
VI. ou a Thursday ;· Queen Mary on a Thursday ;
and Queen Elizabeth on a Thursday. The French
have observed that the feast of Pentecost had beeo
lucky to Henry III. King of France, for on that
day he was born, on that day elected king of Po-
land, and on that day he succeeded his brother
Charles IX. on the throne of France.
GBNETHLIAOI.
(From yr;,r~:>.,, origin, generation, nativity.) ·.
These, so called in Astrology, are peraons whe
erect Horoscopes ; or pretend what shall befal a
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
• Alfl"RRLOGY•.
Jban, by moria of the stars mcli pllelided· at his
Dativity •. The ancients called tbera Clmidtny
and by the general name mathematici : accordingly
the several civil and canon laws, whica we .ind
Jbade. against the mathematicians, oni.)T respect the
Geuethliaci, or Astrologers; who were expelled
Rome by a formal decree of the senate, and yet
ioondso m.ooh protection from the credulity of the
~, tbat they r~mained unmoleatetl. lienee
·an ancif.nt author speaks of them, as Aor.inMta
,-nM&,quod in civilate 7&0/Jtra s.ewpe d wta6i6rlr,
d retiFNitituf'.
GENETHLIACUM, (Genetk/iac poem,)
Ia a composition in verse, on the birth of some
plince, or-other illustrioos person; in which the
poet promises him great honours, advantages,
•ncceues, victories, &c. by a kind of prophEK:y or
prediction. Suob, for instance, is the eqlogue of
. .
Virgil"to PoUio. beginning . .
SiceUtlu JJ1111m, 'avlDrnajor11 C111111111111.
There are also Genethliac speeches or orations,
made to celebrate a person's birth day.
BARCLAY'S REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
Astrologic,J superstition, it is s~d, traascended
from the Cbaldeans, who tranamitted it to the
Egyptians, from whom the Gteeks derived it,
whence it passed to the Romans, who, doubtless,
* Antipater and Achioapolus hue shewn, that Geo~thliolosJ
•*'d •Miier l!e fo11nded oo tbe time of the conaeptioo dtaoon
llaat,of tll"'iirfl. ·
48~AObOeY. 41
were the fiNt te.~ it~Mer Euop«t,. tboup
aome will have it.to be- of i:gytJt)ao. erigin. Uld·
ascribe the inveatioa to CHAM·; but it is to- th
Arabs·that we owe it. At Rom~. the people were
ao infatnat.ed lrith it, the Astrologers, or, as tAter
~e called, the matbematicians, maintaiaed their
groaad in epite of all the- edicts to ~spel ~em out
of the city •.
The OrapDos introduced and practised• thi• art
among the lndiaas, aad thereby coutit.ted them-
selves tbe arbit«a of goo~ and evU boars, wlaicb
gives theta vast autherity, and ia cooeequence ol
this superetoga&ioa, they are coDSUlted as Oracles,
and take good care they never sell their answen
but at a good pme.
. The aame superstition, as we have already
shewn. bas prevailed in more modem ars ....
natioDB. The French hittomms remark, that, in
the timeGf Queea Catllerine of Medieis,Aatrology
was in so great repute, that the most inconsider-
able thing was not undertaken or done without
oonaulting the stars. .And in the reigas of king
Henry III. aad IV. of France, the predietioas of
Astrologers were the eommon theme of tlte court
eoatersatiOa.
Thie predominant huao•r ia the French court
was well rallied by Barclay in hi& A~is, lib. ii,
· dD account of an Astrologer wlm bad undertaken
to- instruct kiag Henry in the event of a war then
thteuteoed by the hlction of ·the Guises.
" Yo11 maintain," say.li Barclay; " that the cir•
• Aatrologen and wlae men ef tbe preeent day, tbaolr.t toll
,..,.,._ or fW!» ill dlt civil code, limit tlelr ltar-fUillt facul&ift
lo the •akinr of calendars or almana~:ka.
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
ASTROLOGY.
•nnstancea of life and death depend onthe place
and iatluence of the celestial bodies, at the time
when the child first comes to light ; and yet you
own, that the heavens revolve with such vast rapi-
d.ity that the situation of the stars is considerably
changed in the ·least moment of 1ime. What cer-
tainty then can be in your art, unless yoo suppose
the midwives constantly careful to obse"e the
dock, that the minute of time may be conveyed
to the infant, as we do·his patrimony1 How ellen
does the mother's danger prevent this care? And
haw many are there wh~ are not touched with this·
1nperstition ? Bot suppose them watchful to your
wish; if the child ))., long in delivery; if, as is
qften the case, a band or the·head come first, and
~e not immediately followed by the rest of the
body ; which state of the stars is to determine for·
him ; that, when the head made its appearance, or
when the whole body was disengaged ? I say
nothing of the common errors of clocks, and other
time-keepers, sufficient to elude all your cares.
. " Again, why are we to regard only the stars at
his nativity, and not those rather which shone when
tbe foetus was animated in the womb? and why
must those others be excluded, which presided
wvhile the body.remained tender, and susceptible of
the.weakest impression, during gestation l
" Bot setting this aside, and supposing, withal,
the face of the heavens accurately known, whence
arises this dominion of the stars over our bodies
.,.d minds, that they fi\USt be the arbiters of our
happiness, our manner.of life, and death? Were
all t.bo~~e who went to battle, and died together,
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
ASTROLOGY.
born under the seme poaition of the heavens ? mel
when a ship is to be cast away, shall it admit DO
passengers bot those doomed by the stars to s11ft'er
shipwreck ? or rather, do not persons born under
every planet go into the combat, or aboard the
v~sel; and thus, notwithstanding the disparity of
tJJeir birth, perish alike? Again, all who wen
born under the sauae coafignration of the stars do
.not live or die in the same manner. All, who were
bQru at the same time with tbe king, monarchs?
Or are all even alive at this day '! I saw H.
Villeroy here; nay, I aaw yourself: were all that
c.:ame into the world with him as wise and virtnona
• be ; or all born onder your own stars, astrolo-
gers like yon? If a man meet a robber, you will
say he was doomed to perish by a robber's hand;
but did the same stars, which, when the traveller
was hom, subjected him to the robber's sword, did
they likewise give the robber, who perhaps -was
bom long before, a power and inclination to kiD
him? For yon will allow that it is as much owiog
to the stars that the one kills, as that the other i.t
killed. And when a man i& overwhelmed by the
fall of .a boose, did the walls become faulty, be-
canae the stars had doomed him to perish thereby ;
or rather, was his death not owing to this,. that
the walls were faulty? ·The same- may be said
•ith regard to honours or employ : becaJ)se the
stars which shone at a man's nativity, promiSed
bim preferment; could those have ·an inftuenoe
·~~r 9ther persons not born onder them, by whose
.saft'rages he was to riser or how do·the stars at
.,_ ·~·_, birth aDnnl, or·aet aside, -the contrary
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
~ ASll'tmLOO'Y~
~'ftuenoos .of·other sian,·wbich ebone at;the birtlt
'f1f another?
" The-1ntth is, 'opposing the -reality of a)l -
the
planetary powers ; as the son which visits an infi•
nity of-bodies with the ·same rays, •has not the .same
effeot on all, as 10me -thiugs are bardeaed thereby,
u olay; others•sef,ened, as w«X; some seeds -ch&-
rished, others destroyed; •the- tender herbs scorehed
np, otber6 secured -by their .coarser juice: ·so,
-where so many children -
are 'born.together, like a
field ·tilled so many different ways, aooording to
the "Yarious health, habitude;- and temperame&t of
1the ·parents, the siiBle-celestial inftnx·m08t operate
differently. ·lf.tbe genius be-suitable and•toward--
ly; it most preoominate,therein :-if oontt:ary, itwiU
only correct it. So ·that to foretel ·the life and
manners ·of a child, ·yon are not only to look into
·the ·heaTens,:bot into·the parents, into the·foriane
'which attended the pregnant mother, and a thou-
·sand other circumstances·utterly iuaeceuible.
" ·'Further,· does ·the power -that ·peFtends the .
·new·bom infimt a life, ·fodnstaace of fcwty years;
or perhaps a -violent ·death -at .thirty ; does ·41Bat
· powerI say, endure and PeSide stia in-theheaveas,
.-waiting the destined-time, when, -deseendmg·opeQ
'eartlt·, it may'·prodnce sudt -an .effed? Or is it
infused into the infant himself; .·so 1hat bf.ing obe·
·rished, and gradually -growing up-together with
·him, ·it ;bursts 1ferth ·
.at· the -appointed ' time, aod
'fulfils ·what the stars bad given it in dlarge? 1Ex.
•ist in the heavens ·it ()annot; in that depellidiDg
'immediately-on-&ceP&aineen~n- of tile-start;
:when that is ebaugell the• eht·-eGDileoted•1ritltit
'''""""Coogle
.t&'IIBOLOQl':.
must (leMe, .aad..a ,ne\f, pethl\ps a contrary one,
takes place. What repository have you ·for tbe
former power to remain in, till the time comes for
its delivery? If you say it iuherits or resides in
the infant, not to operat~ on him till he beg~
to maQbood.; ·the auswer is more preposteroua than
the former; .for thiA. in the instaace ofa shipwr.eok,
,yo.u ~t ·suppoee 1he·clluse why the winds IH'iae,
end the ship .isleaky, or 'the pilot, through ig~
:ranee of the place, runs on a shoal or a rook. So
the farmer is the cause of the war that impove-
rishes him ; ·or of the favourable season, whiCh
brings him a·plenteous harves.t.
•• Yon b88St much of the event of.a few pred.io-
·~ions, which, eonsideriQg the multitude of.th.e
yo.ur art has .produced, plainly c.onfeas·its imperti-
nency. A milliou of ~ptiooa ar.e ·indu&Uioutly
hidden af!d 'rorgot, iu favour of some eight or·ten
~tJUn§'6 w.bich .lmve sacceeded •. Out of so many
.conj~ctures, it mu.st be preternatural if some·do
not )lit; and jt is•cer.tai,n, that, by considering you
only aa guessers, ·there is no room to · ~ast you
have been successful therein. l)o you know what
fate awaits France in this war; ,lind ,yet are not
•apprehenaive.what shall befal yourself? ·Did ·yon
not foresee the oppci'Sition I was this ,day to .mat-e
you ? If you C8D ~y whether the king will van-
• In' l528, the astrologers having propheeie'd incesaant raiaa
1aad .fearful ftooda, the abbot •f !it."Bartholomew, ·in Saritlllel.t,
hailt a hoqae on Harrow·the-Hill, and atorecl.it with prov.ia••
Many persons followed his example and re'paired to high plac~
HoweYer, no extraordinary floods appearing, tho disappointed
_.._,en pldiM the ·p-'Ple ltJ ow~ tbeinaelvee mi1tak11a
juat.-,h~d~~;th-.ir.calep~a,..,-........_
o.,,,, ,,Coogle
ABTROLOGT.
quish his enemies, find out fint wbether he wiD
·believe you.
DES CARTES and AGRIPPA, as they inveigh
much against. some other sciences, . eapecially
Agrippa, so the latter of them does not favour or
apare astronomy, but particularly astrology, which
be says, is an art altogether fallaaious, and that
all vanities and superstitions 8ow out ofthe boiODl
uf astrology, their whole ,foundation being upoa·
conjectures, and comparing £uture occurrencee
by past event&, which they have oo pretence for,
.mce tbey allow that the heaveoa never have been,
·oor ever will·be, in one exact position since the
world commenced, and yet they borrow the eft'ecta
ud influence of the stars from the most remote
~es in the world, beyoud the memory of things,
pretending themselves able to display the hiddeta
·natures, qualities, &c. of all sorts of animals,
.tones, metals, and plants, and to shew bow the
·lAUDe does depend on the skies, and flow from the
atars. Still Eudoxus, Arcbelaus, Cassandras,
Halicamassus, and others, confess it is impossible,
that any thing of certainty should be discovered
.by the art of judicial astrology, in consequence oC
·the innumerable co-operating causes that attend
the heavenly inOuences ; and Ptolemy is also of
·this opinion. In like manner those .who have
prescribed the rules of judgments, set down their
maxims so various and contradictory, that it it
impossible for a prognosticator out of so many
·nrious and disagreeable opinions, to be able to
pronounce any thing certain, unless he is i.Jlward11
inspired .with some hidden instinct and sense of
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
ASTROLoGY. 49
fatore things, or unless by ·some occult and latent
communication with the devil. And antiquity
witnesseth that Zoroaster, Pharaoh, Nebuchad-
nezzar, CEsar, Crassus, Pompey, Diatharus, Nero,
Julian the Apostate, and several others moat
acldicted to astrologers' predictions, perished un-
fOI'tubately, though they were promised all things
fatoorable and auspicious. And who can believe
that any person happily placed onder Mars, being
iB the ninth, shall be able to cast out devils by his
presence o.ly ; or he who hath Saturn happily
constituted with Leo at his nativity, shall, when
he deputs this life, immediately return to heaven,
yet are tile heresies maintained by Petrus Apo-
neosis, Roger Bacon, Guido, :Donatus, Arnoldus
de Villanova, philosophers ; Aliacensia, CBJ"dinal
and divine, aDd many other famous Christian doc-
toJ'S, against which astrologers the most learned
Pious Miraodola wrote twelve books, so fully as
scarcely one argument is omitted against it, and
gaTe the death blow to astrology? Amongst the
aneieat Romans it was prohibited, and most of
the holy fathers oondemned, and utterly banished
it out of the territories of Christianity, and in the
synod of Martinus it was anathematized. · As to
tl1e predictions of Thales, wlao is said to have
foretold a soarcity of olives and a dearth of oil,
so commOGiy avouched by astrologers to maintain
the glory of theu ·science, Des Cartes answers
with an easy reas,:m and probable truth, tbat Tbales
beiDg a great aataral philosopher, and thereby
well a~qnainted lrith the Yirtue of water, (which
he maintained was the principle of all thiags,) be
D
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
50 ASTROLOGY.
could not be ignorant of the fruits that stood the
most in need of moisture, and how mtich they
were beholden to rain for their growth, which
then being wanting, he might easily know there
would be a scarcity without the help of astrology;
yet if they will have it that Thales foreknew it
only by the science of this art, why are not others
who pretend to be so well skilled in it.<! precepts,
as able to have the same opportunities of enrich-
ing themselves? As for the foreteJling the deaths
of emperors and others, it was but conjectures,
knowing most of them to be tyrants, and bated,
and thereupon would they pretend to promise to
others the empires and dignities, which sometimes
spurring up ambitious minds, they neglected no
attempts to gain the crown, the astrologers thereby
occasioning murders, and advancements by secret
·instructions, rather than by any rules of art, which
they publicly pretended to, to gloss their actions
and advance the honour of their conjecturing
science : by the same manner might Ascletarion
have foretold the death of Domitian, and as for
himself being torn to pieces by dogs, it was but a
mere guess, for astrologers do not extend their
predictions beyond death, and therefore he did
not suppose his body would be tom to pieces after
his death, as it proved, but alive as a punishment
for his boldness in foretelling the death of the
emperor, which being a common punishment, had
it . proved so, it had been by probability from
custom but not of the rules of astrology.-Su
,
BLOME's Body of Philosophy, pt. iii; chap. 14,
in the kiatory ofNature. ·
61
ON THE ORIGIN AND IMAGINARY EFFICACY OF
AMULETS 4' CHARMS,
In the Cure ofDiseases, Protection from Evil Spirits, ~c.
AMULETS are certain subst.aJfces to which the
peculiar virtue of coring, removing, or preventing
diseases, was attached by the superstitious and
credulous; for which purpose they were usuaiJy
worn about the neck or other parts of the body.
The council of Laodicea prohibited ecclesiastics
from wearing amulets and phylacteries, under
pain ofdegradation. St. Chrysostome and1erome
were likewise zealous against the same practice.
" Hoc apud nos," says the latter, " superstitioste
mulierculte in parvulis evangeliis, et in crucis
ligno, et istiusmodi rebus, qure habent quidam
zelum Dei, sed non juxta scientiam usque hodie
factitaut."-Vide Kirch. Oedip. Egypt.
At the present day, although by no means en-
tirely extinct, amulets have fallen into disrepute;
the learned Boyle nevertheless considered them
as an instance of. the ingress of external effluvia
into the habit, in order to shew the great porosity
of the human body. He moreover adds, that he
is persuaded "some of these external medicaments
do answer;" for that he was himself subject to a
bleeding from the nose ; and being obliged to use
several remedies to check this discharge, he found
the moss of a dead man's skull, though only applied
so as to touch the skin until the moss became
warm from being in contact with it, to be the most
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
62 AMULETS A,!ND CHARMS.
efficacious re~edy. A remarkable instance of
thie oatqre wa tl®l..wniC)ftted to Zwelfer, by \he
chief physician to the states of Moravia, who,
having. prepared sometroches, or lozenges oftoads,
a,fter the {llai)Be.l' of Van Jlctlmoot, tt~ ®cy'We.Q.d
ihat being worn, as a~nle~. they preserved him,
his domQstics, 11ontl friends. from the plag¥tt. bQt
whe.n applied to the c.arbnncles or buboes, a ~
sequence of this clisease. in otbers, t,bey fOWld
themselves greatly relieved, aQd Ulan]' even save,d
by thetp. 1\fr.·Boyle al$o shew& how the eftlQvi,a,
even Gf eold amulets, 111ay, in the course of ~e,
pervade the. p.ores of the living animal. by $Qp-
posiQg an a,gre.em.ent bettween the pQI'es of the.
skia fl.tld the figure .of·the c.orpuscu.le&. . B•i
~as Elemonst.rated the pQSsibility of this oc.cuueJCe,
in his last proposition de febri.h:u.s ; the ~ U.s
~o been sbewn by Dr. Wainwri,ght, Dr. ~.
~u.d Qthers. There were also verbal or lettered
charms, which wer.e freqo.e.nt.ly SQ,l.lgOr chw.\ated,
and to which a greate.t degree of etlicMy was
ascribed; a.nd a belief in the c.arative pow6fs .of
J;D.usic b~s even extended to Ja.ter time~. h the
last Qep.~ury, Orazio Be.nevoli oompos.e.d. a m,ass
fqr the c.essation of the plague at R~e. It '<Pa&
pe.rforwed in St. Peter's church, of which he· was
mae..stro di capella, and the singers,.amGuutmg.to
mote than two htlndred, we.re an~WFd in d.ift'ereot
circles of the dome ; the sixth.cbelir occqp.ying the
sn_m.mit of the oupela.
Th~ ori~n of amulets ·may be ttac~d to ._
most r~.ote v.ges of .rnankilld. In our r~arches
to discov.er ud h 1he period when. tetn.e.d.iea wae
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
A.Mlfr.&'l'S &ND·ORAIDIJ, al
first arapmytd for tke alleviation otl bodiltan61"
ibg, we •e soon.lost in ootljeotaret Or. i~lfOlvai in
table ; ..., are aable to reach tbf pt*'iod many
eoontry, 1'tben dae inhabitants,...,. deatitute ofme·
dioal reaoarcee, and we 6adatb06g.tbemcM taft0'81\.
tivated tribes, thatmedioiae ia cherished asa·bl8111'•
hag, aa~ practised Ill an ar.t. u by tle inllabitabCB
of N-ew"Bolland and New Zealaad, by th6te of
Llplaad ad GreeDialld~, of N.ortb Amerioa. aad
dMa illterlOll of AAiea. The pere~ feellqa of
dae nft"eter, abd the Mniety of th..e- aboat laim,
muat, in dte·ntdeat state of tociety, hMe inciald ll
apirit of illduatry aad:N&eM'ell to·pt'OCute ~
tioD, tl•modiloation of hea& and eoLl, of~
ull drynet~; aDd tile regolatioa and' ehan&'& of
tiet III'Ml habit, mUit iatniti-.ely have absgested
theMselves for the relW of pain, and whea tbeet
.-o•r.c• failed, cbatnll, tlmtdatl, sad iaeant.
tiobs, were the .u.f:illral espedielltl of the buba·
tillbs, «JVer JaOre inclined to bdolge tho delnai-ve
bope of nperatitioa tban to liaten tGo tle· voice of
aober reason. Trac. of a•alets aay M diao01>
vered in v-, early blttory. Tbe learnt~~ D~.
W atbunoa is evidently 'WrOIIfJ'• when lte asligns
tb• ori~n of tbese aagical instnanlents te the age
of the Ptolemies, which was not more than 300
7ear1 before Christ; this is at once refuted by the
teatimooy ef Galea. who 1ells as tltat tbe Egyptiala
ktor, NMbeplus, whe litetl GOO years before tlae
Christian era, had written, that 11 green jMper cnt
lnto the lorrn of a dragon snrrottnded with rays,
ifapplied extenially, woaJd atrengthtlll the stomaoh
- -s-a of dipitioa. We .'-a"e m..,....ver tM
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
M AMULBTS AND CHARMS.
authority of the Scriptures in support of this opi-:
nion: for what were the ear-rings which Jacob
buried under the oak of Sechem, as related in
Genesis, but amulets! and we are info~ed by
Josephus, in his Antiquities of the Jews, (lib;.viii.
c. 2, 5,) that Solomon discovered a plant ~fticaciotis
in. the cure of epilepsy, and that he employed:-the
aid of a charm or spell for the purpose of assisting
its virtues ; the root of the herb was concealed in
a, ring*, which was applied to the nostrils of the
demoniac; and Josephus himself remarks, that he
himself saw a Jewish priest practise the art of
Solomon. with complete success in the presence of
Vespasian, his sons, and the tribunes of the Ro,man
army. Nor were such means confined ~o dark
and barbarous ages ; Theophrastns pronounced
Pericles 'to be insane, because be discovered that
he. wore an.; amulet a~ont his neck ; and in the
declining era of the Roman empire, we find that
this superstitious custom .was so general, that the
Emperor Caracalla was induced to make a public
edict, ordaining, that no man should wear any
superstitious amulets about his person.
In the progress of civili~tion, various fortuitous
incidentst, and even errors in the choice and pre-
• From this art of Solomon, e.xhibited through the medium of
a'rillg or seal, we have the eastern stories which celebrate the
seal of Solomon, and record the potency of its sway over the
.vatioua orders of denum~, or of genii, wbo are supposed to be
the invillcible tormentors or benefactors of the human race.
t The discovery of the virtues of the Peruvian bark may
here serve as an illstance. The story goes, that an Indian (some
say a monkey) beillg ill of a fever,- quenched his thirst at a
pool of water, etrongly hapreguated with the bark from IIOIIlO
AMULBTS AND CHARMS. 55
paration of aliments, must gradually have unfolded
the remedial powers of many natural substances :
these were recorded, and the authentic history of
medicine may date its commencement from ·the
period when such records began.
We are told by Herodotus, that the Cbaldeaos
and Babylonians carried their sick to the public
roads and markets, that travellers might con·
.verse with them, and communicate any reme-
dies which had been succes&fully used in similar
ca8es ; this custom continued during many age3 in
Assyria : Strabo states that it also prevailed among
the ancient Lusitanians, or Portuguese : in this
manner, however, the results of experience de-
scended· only by oral. tradition. It was in the
temple of &culapius in Greece, that medical
information was first recorded ; diseases and cures
.were then registe~ed on durable tablets ofmarble ;
the priests and priestesses, who were the guardians
()f the temple, prepared the remedies and directed
.their application ; and as these per~o~s w~re am-
bitious to pass for the .descendants of, ..Esculapius,
they assumed the name of the Asclepiades. The
writings of Pausanias, Philostratus, and Plutarch,
abound with the artifices of those early phys,icians.
.Aristophanes describes in a truly comic manner,
~e craft and pious avarice of these godly men,
and mentiw the dexterity and promptitude with
which they collected and put into bags the offer-
ings on the altar. The patients, during this period,
reposed on the skins of sacrificed rams, in order
trees haviDg aeddentally fallen into it, and that be wae in con-
sequence cured. ·
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
Gl .AWULTfS..!'MD CIU.••8.
that theymight proe>ure cehltial \'iMdDS; A•' soota
• they 1tere'beli~ed 1oM 88te4tp, a priest, c~thed
ia tJae dri!N of Aculapius, il&ithting his mannetlf,
aDd accompanied by the daaghterll of the Oorl,
that is, by young Mh'e.es, thoronghly iDStr'U_,~ ib
theirparts,ateted aDd deli.-ered a medical'Opinion.
Dejinitiora of A~nuleta, etc.
All remedies working as it were aympatbetieally.
and plainly unequal to the el'ect, may be terme.t
Amulets; whether Ulled at a distance by another
peraeu, or immediately about the patient : M
th~e varioaa a~ related. By the Jews, they 'wWe
called Katnetl; by the Greeks, Pkylact~ne., u
already mentioned; and by the Latins, A•*•
or ~lwrc ; by tile CathOlics, Agnw Dft, er
oouecrated relicts, and by the natives of Goins,
where they ate etill held in great veneratioa.
FeliBMa. Differeat kinds of matkials by theM
different people, ha•e been veaeratJeda.l supposed
capable of preserving &om danger SDd infectiutr,
u well aa to remove diseuea when actually preeeDt.
Plutarch relates ef Pericles, an Atheaiaa ~
nl, tbat when a frieocl came to see hi1n, and iar.
quiring after his health, he teacbe4 out his head
8IHl shewed him his.Amalet; by which.lte ineut to
intimate the truth of his illaesa, aad. at die sam&
eifue, tbe ooofideobe he placed ia ttweordin&I'J
remediei.
AID1lteta still eontinue among us to the preeeat
day, iadeed there are few instances of amoiellt
superstition some parcel of which has not been pre-
served, and not unfteqaently they have been adapt-
ed by men of otherwise good understanding, who
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
AJIVLBTB .UI'D OIU.JUIB. lJI
plead in •xcoae, dlat they are not b&t1aeotts, tOll
litde, ad if they can do no po4 they can do no
Jaani:l. Lord Baeon, whom flo one can suspect of
being an ignoraat man, aays, that if a man weer
a bone riDg or a plan_,t seal, strongly believing, by
that means, that be might obtain his misttess,
or that it woald preserve him unhurt at sea, or ia
hattie, it would probably make him more aotive
aad le• timid ; as the audacity they might inspire
would conquer and bind weaker minds in the e~~
catiaa of a peril•• duty.
There are a 'fllriety 4f Aunllets aaed by the
COIDDIOD people for the oureof ague; and howe..et
thie may be accoullted for, whether by the imagi-
btiou or the diMaae aobaidin1f of its'""' IIOOOI'd,
many have been apparently oared by tlaem, when
11M Peruviall bark had previoaaly failed. Agoee,
says Dr. Willis, reaiatiogAmulets Jaave often been
applied to thewrist with ~acoeaa. A.uRAOADAIRA
witlea ia a conical form, i. '· in the shape of aa
lsocelea triangle, beginning with A, then A B;
A B B., a:ad " on, and placed 'Dilder each other,
will have a good eft'ect. The berb Lunaria, ·ga·
tlleeecl by moonlight, we ace uanred by very re-
spectable authorities, laas performed seme surpris-
iag eves. Naam8D, we are told (namero deus
impare gaudet) was cured by dipping seven times
in the river Jordan. An old gentleman, of eighty
years of age, who had nearly exhaWited his sob-
stance upon physicians, was cured of a strangury,
~ a new glass bottle tbat had never been wet in-
aide, only by lll8.king water io it, and burying it
a tile earth. There were also certain formaliti~
D2
38 AMU·UBTS AND 'CHARMS~
performed "t the pool of Bethseda for the.cure of
di~~es. Dr. Cham~erlayne's ~odyne ·necklace
for a lo~g tjme was..the si11a.qua non of mothers
IU)d .nurs~s, until its virtue was lost by its reve-
ren,::e. being destroyed ; and those which have sue·
.ceeded it have nearly ron their race. The Grey
~iverwort was at one time thought not oDly to have
cored hydrophobia, but, by having it about the per-
son, to have prevented mad dogs from biting them.
Calvert paid devotions to St. Hobert for the re-
covery of his son, who was cored by this means.
1'~e son also performed the necessary rites at the
shrine, and was cored not only of the hydrophobia.
"but ofthe worser phrensy withwhich his father had
instilled him:" Cramp rings were also used, and eel
skins tied round the limbs, to prevent this spasmo-
dic affection ; and also by laying the sticks across
on the floor in going to bed, have also performed
cures this way. Numerous are the charms, amu.-
lets,,and incantations, used even in the present day
for the remoyal of warts. We are told by Lord
Yerulam {vol. iii. p. 234,) that when be was at
Pari~ .be bad above an hundred warts on his hands;
and that the English Ambassador's lady, then at
c~urt, and a woman far abo\·e all superstition, re-
moved them all only by rubbing them with the fat
side o( the rind of a piece of bacon, which they
afterwards nailed to a post, with thefat side towards
the ~outh. In five weeks, sa)s my Lord, they were
all remqved.
A.s. .Lord Verulam is allowed to have been as
great a genius as thls country ever produced, it
may not be irrelevant to the present subject, to
/
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
AMULBT8 AND CHARMS; 69
give, in his own words, what he has observed re-
lative to the power of Amulets. After deep meta-
physical 9bservations in nature, and arguing in
mitigation of sorcery, witchcraft, and divination,
effects .that far outstrip the belief in Amulets, he
observes "we should not reject all of this kind,
because it is not known how far those contributing
to superstition depend on natural causes. Charms
have not their power from contracts with evil
spirits, but proceed wholly from strengthening the
imagination ; in the same manner that images and
their influence, have prevailed in religion; being
called from a different way of use and application,
sigils, incantations, and spt:lls.
Effect of the Imagination. on the Mind, 8rc.
Imagination, indubitably, has a powerful effect
on the mind, and in aU these miraculous cures is
by far the strongest ingredient. Dr. Strother says,
the influence of the mind and passions works upon
the body in sensible operations likea medicine, and
is of far the greater force upon the juices than ex-
ercise. The countenance, he observes, betrays a
good or wicked intention ; and that good or wicked
intention will produce in different persons a strength
to encounter, or a weakness to yield to the prepon-
derating side. " Oar looks discover our passions ;
there being mystically in our faces, says Dr. Brown,
certain characters, which carry in them the motto of
our souls, and therefore probably work secret
effects. in other part'!," or, as Garth, in his "Dis-
pensatory," so beautifully illustrates the idea :
o "'"'''Coogle
• AIIULBTS olJCD C11ARif8.
" Tlaas paler loob impetuou nee prodaba,
And cbilly virrins redden iato flame:
l!ee envy oft transformed ln wan disrulse,
And mlrtb eitll py add llllillnr lo tile eyes~
Oft our COIDplu-.s 4o the ""' tleclare,
A.ud tell what piiAiens iD the features are.
Hence 'tis we look, tbe wond'rous cause to find,
Bow body acts upon impauhe mind."
Addison, on the power and pleasttte of the imagi-
nation (Spect. vol. vi.) concludes, from the pleasure
and pain it administers here below, that God, who
kriows all the ways of aiDicting us, may so trans-
port us hereafter with such beautiful and glorious
visions, or torment us with such hideous and
ghastly spectres, as might even of themselve-s sur~
fice to make up the entire of Heaven or Hell of
any future being.
St. Vitus' daooe waa C111'ed by visiting the tomb
of the saint, near Ulm, every May. Indeed, there
ls some reason in this a&Sertion ; for exercise and
change of scene and air will core many obstinate
diseases. The bite of the Taran~la is cured by
music ; and what is D1ore wonderful stiH, persons
bitten by this noxious animal are only to be cured
by certain tunes ; thus, for instance, one might be
cured with .. Nancy Dawson," while another could
only reap a similar benefit from " Moll in the
wood," or " Oft' she goes."
The learned Dr. Wiltis, whom we have already
mention~, in his treatise on Nervous diseases,
does not hesitate to recommend Amulets in epilep-i
tic disorders. "Take," says he,,. some fresh Pttony
roots, cut them into square bits, ·and hang them
round tbe neck, changing them as often as they
dry. In all probability the hint from this cireum..
___ o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
.uiUL~ AND c•.&.llMI. A
atMGe1naatakMi ~r tlae AltOCIJBeneallaoei, wiUcla
.,._ In snob atrong requisition some tiae ago, imcl
\fhicb produced so macJa benefit to the proprietor. J
u the doctor, a little furdaer on, prescribe. the
tame root for the looseness, fevers, and convulaiou
of claildreo during the tim" of deatition, tnixei,
to make it appear more iniracolous, With acuae
elk's hoof.
Turner, whose ideas on hydrophobia are 10 ab•
nrd, where he u$erls, trlat tJae symptoms may not
appear for forty years after the bite ; aad who
asserts, " that tbe slaver or breath of tach a des
is infectioaa ; and that lnen bit, .-iU bite like dogs
again, aod die mad; although he laagba at th6
Anodyne necklace, argoes much in the 8888
m801Hlr. It is oot ao very strange that the emavia
from external medicines entering our bodies,
should eft'ect such considerable chores, when we
.ee the eficieat ()a•se 9f apoplexy, epiJepay,. . .
terics, plague. and a nomlier of other disontera-
couailts, as it were in imperceptible vapoura.
LapislEtitea (blood stone) bung about the arm,
by some similar secret means is said to prevent
abortion, and to facilitate delivery, wheD wom
round the thigh. Dr. Sydenham, in the iliiiiO
passion,-orden a live kitten to be laid constantly
on the abdomen; others have used pigeoas aplit
alive, and·applied to the soles of the feet witb sue-
eeu, in pestilential fevers aad convulsions. The
coart of king David thought that relief might bo
obtained by external agents ; otberwise they woald
aot have .dviaed him to seek a yonog virtJin ;
doubtless tbereby illl&giaing that the virgm ol
yaath would impart a portion of its warmth and
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
89 AMULETS AND CHARMS.
strength to the decay of age• . "Take the .heart
and liver of the fish and make a smoke, and the
devil shall smell it and flee away." (Tobit, c. vi.)
· During the plague of London, arsenic was worn
as an amulet against infection. During this me-
lancholy period, Bradley says, that Bucklersbury
was not visited with this scourge, which was attri-
buted to the number of druggists and apothecaries
living there.
. During the plague at Marseilles, which Belort
attributed to the larva of worms infecting the
1aliva,jood, and chyle; and which, he says, were
lr.atclted by the stomach, toolc their passage into
the blood, at a certain size, hindering the circula-
tion; affecting the juices and solid parts, advised
amulets of mercury to be worn in bags suspended
at the chest and nostrils, either as a safeguard or
as ·a means of cure; by which method, through
the admissiveness of the p~;~res, effluvia specially
destructive of all venemous insects, were received
into the blood. " An illustrious prince," conti-
nues Belort, " by wearing such an amulet, escaped
the small-pox."
, An Italian physician (Clo~ini) ordered two or
three ·draohms of crude mercury to be worn as a
defensive against the jaundice; and also as a pre-
servative against the noxious vapours of inclement
seasons: "it breaks," he observes, "and conquers
the different figured seeds of pestilential distem-
pers floating in the air; or else, mixing with the
air, kills them where hatched."
. Other philosophers have ascribed the power of
mer&ury in these cases, to an elective fa~ulty given
out by the warmth of the body; which attracts the
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
AMULBT8 AND CHARMS. 83
Infectious ·particles outwards. ·For, say they, all
bodies are continually emitting effiuvia: more or
less around them, and some whether they Le ex-
ternal or internal. The B~th waters change the
colour of silver in the pockets of those who use
them ; mercury the same ; cantharides applied
externally (ot taken inwardly) affects the urinary
organ; and camphor, in the·same manner, is said
to be an antipbrodesiac. Quincey informs us,
that by only walking in a newly-painted room, a
whole company bad the smell of turpentine in their
urine. Yawning and laughing·are infectious; so
is fear and shame. The sight of sour things, or
even the idea of them, will set the teeth on edge.
Small-pox, itch, and other diseases, are infectious;
if so, mercurial amulets bid ·fair to destroy the
germ of some complaints when used·only as an
external application, either by manual attrition or
worn as an amulet, or inhaled .by the nose. One
word for all ; amulets, medicated or not, are pre-
carious and uncertain; and,·now a-day, are seldom
resorted to, much less confided in.
Baglivi refines on the doctrine of effiuvia, by
ascribihg his cures of the bite of the tarantula to
the peculiar undulation any instrument or tone
makes by its strokes in.the air; which, vibrating
upon the external parts of the patient, is commu-
nicated to the whole nervous system, and produces
that happy alteration in the solids and fluids which
so effectually contributes to the cure. ·The con-
traction of the solids, he says, impresses new
mathematical motions and directions to the fluids;
in one or both of which, is seated all distempers,
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
8& A.M1JL....S AND OBABIIL
aDd without avy <rther help than at csonti11111Uite of
filith, will alter their quality, at philosophy aa won•
derfal and intrloate u the nature of the poYoai
it is intended to upel ; bbt whiola, bo"WeTer,
supplies this obsenation, that, if the patticlee of
aound ~an do ao much, the effiu'ria of amulets may
do more.
The Hoors of Barbary, aud generally throop.
oatthe Mahommedafl. dominions, the people 8l'e
remarkably attached to oharms, to which and
nature tbey leave the cure of almost every disf.elo..
per; and this is the more stroogly impressed on
diem from the belief in predestination ; which,
anordiog to this sect, stipulates the evils a man
ia to ••lfur, aa well as the length of time it ia
ordaiacll be tbould live upoo the larul of his
forefat1aers : consequently, they oonceive that the
iaterfereDce of secondary means would avail them
notlting, an opinion said to have beara esatertained
by KiDg William, but by no means calculated for
nations, liberty, and commerce; upon the prioci·
ple, that when t.lle one waa entrenched upon, mea
wonld probably be more sudden io their revenge
an4 dislike physic and its occupatien, and when
actuated with religions enthusiasm, nothing could
lltand ~em in any service.
" A long and intense pa88ion on one objeet,"
oblerves an old navy surgeon •, " whether of
" pride, love, anger, fear, or eDvy, we aee hav•
•• brought on some universal tremors ; on others,
•• CJODvulsioas, madness, .melanc:boly, conauaap·
" tion, hectieks, or sooh il chronical disorder,
• J()hn Atl~lna, author of the Nny Sorgeon: 174!.
AMULBTS .AND ORABMI. 85
" u hu wasted their flesh or their aCreagth,
" a8 cert&inly as the taking in of aliy poi1011ous
" dTogs would have done. .A:ny thing frightful,
•* sudden, ad surprising, upon soft, timorous ...
" tures; not only shews itself in the counteklanoe,
" bot produces sometimes very troublesome ooll..
" sequences ; for instance, a parliaalentb.ry fright
" Will make even grown men ah•t tbemsel-.es,
" ~~ them out of their wits, tuna the •air grrey.
" Sarprise removes the hooping-cough ; looking
•• from precipices, or seeing wbeele taia swiftly,
" ~ves giddiness, &e. Shall then tbeae little aeci•
" dents, or the pusiona, (from oaprice ot humour
•• perhaps,) produce those eftectl, and uot be able
•• to do aay thing by am:alets t No, as the spirits
.. in many Cllses resort in plenty, we find wllere
" the fancy detel"Dlines, giving joy aBd gladness to
" the heart, strebrfh and ieetness to the litllbs,
,. lust a ft...ncy to the eyes, palpitation, and
" priapism; so amoiem, ondel' atrong imaginatio~,
1' d c8rried with more foree to a distempered part;
.. and, ander these ciremstances, it. nat.Gral
" powets exel't better to a discasaion.
" The cores compused mdais manner are.net
" more admirable than many of the distempers
•• theJDSetvet. Who oaa &pp!'eheod r,y what im-
., penetrable method tbe bite of a mad dog• or
" tarantula should produce their symptoms! The
• Tlll'll~r, in his ce~llectlon of Cases, p. 406, givea one of a
woman who died bydropbohical, from a mad dog bitiDJ her gownJ
aod of a yonng man who died raving mad, from the scrateb of a
~lltt fb~tr y~ attn dlt aeci'dwt.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
66 AMULETS AND CHARMS.
••. touch of a torpedo,· numbness ? or a woman
•• impress the marks ofher longings and.herfrights
-'' on her fretus? If they are allowed to do these,
" doubtless they may the other ; and not by mi-
" racles, which Spinoza denies the possibility of,
" but by natural and regular causes, though in-
" scrutable to us•
. . '' The best way, therefore, in using amulets,
" must be in squaring them to the imagination of
" ·patients: let the newness and the surprise ex-
,. ceed the invention, and keep up the humour by
" a long roll of' cures and vouchers : by these and
" such means many distempers, especially of
4' women, that are ill all over, or lcnow not what
·" they ail, have been cured, I am apt to think,
~· more by a fancy to the physician than his pr~
•• scription; which hangs on the file like an amulet.
" Quacks again, according to their boldness and
•• way of addressing (velvet and infallibility parti-
~~ cularly) command success by striking the fancies
" of an audience. If a few, more sensible than
" the rest, see the doctor's miscarriages, and are
" not easily gulled at first sight, .yet when they
~· see a man is never ashamed, in time jump in
·~ to his assistance."
Our inability upon all occasions .to appreciate
the efforts of nature in the cure of disease, must
always. render our notions, with respect to the
powers of art, liable to numerous errors and mul-
tiplied deceptions. Notbing is more natural, and
at the same time more erroneous, than to attribute
1be cure of a disease to the last medicine that had
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
HISTORY OF POPULAR MBDICIMBS, &c. t/1
been employed; the advocates of amulets and
charms• have ever been thus enabled to appeal
to the testimony of what they aie pleased to call
experience, in justification of their superstitions ;
and cases which in truth ought to have been. con·
,sidered lucky escapes, have been triumphantly
puffed off as skilful cures ; and thus have medi-
cines and practitioners alike acquired unmerited
praise or unjust censure.
HISTORY OF POPULAR MBDICINBS, BTC.-BOW
INFLUBNCBD BY SUPBRSTITION•
. " Did Marcus lll!-Y ' twas fact l then fact it is.
No proof so valid aaa word of his."
DEVOTION to authority and ·established r<111tine
has always been the means of opposiug the pro-
gres~ ofreason, the advancement ofnatural tnttbs,
and the prosecution of new discoveries ; whilat,
·with effects no less baneful, has it perpetuated
many of the stupendous errors which have been
already enumerated, as well as others no less
weighty, and which are reserved for future dis-
cuasion.
To give currency to some inactive substance aa
• This species of delusion reminds us of the Florentine quack,
who gave the countryman his pills, which were to enable him to
find his lost ass. The pillsbe«ioning to operate on hia road home,
olilised him to retire into a wood, where be actually did find hia
aaa. The clown, aa a matter of conne, aooo spread the report
of the wonderful aucceaa of the empiric, who, no doubt, in coo.
eeqaelice of tbia circumataoce, reaped an a10ple reward frolll
the proprietors of atrayed cattle.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
88 INPI.U'SMOS tt}P S4JU1t-S'l'ITIOlf OV8R
possessing &xtraotdinary, nay wonder'fal meditmld
prop«ties, reqttires only "e sanction of a few
~ names ; and when established upon such a
bui&; in~nttity, argttlh~nt, lllld even experittt•nt,
lhJ op9 their im~ batteries. In this ~
net hav~ aU the nolt,.a and patent medicines got
in~ tepu~ th~fl e~r were held in any estimation.
And tbe same d~votion t() authority which indnees
us to retain an accustomed r~y upon the bate
assertion and presumption either of ignorance or
partiality, will, in like manner, oppose the intro-
d'tldion of·a DOYel ~aotioo "\tith asperity, tmlen
indeed it be suppot!ted by authorities ofatiD greater
weight and consideration.
The history of various articles of diet awl medi-
cine,will amply provehow mach theirreputationand
fate have d•pended upen authority. For ins~,
it waa not aaflit Many years aftet ipecacuanha t.8tl
Jteeaa· hnported iuto Eogland, that Helvetius, oG-
der the patronage of LoaiB XIV. succeeded ia
iDtr~hacmg it iato practice : and to the praise of
KdberiM, queen of Charles II. we are inde~
for tk g\meral illtrodaetiott of tea into Englaad.
Tob~, notwitbstlliDding its fascinating powers,
has suffered romantic vicissitudes in its fame dd
obat'Mlet ; it bas been soocessively opposed and
commended by physicians, condemned and eulo-
gized by priests and kings •, and proscribed and
• Jawt *e Firat wrote a pltilippie llfi*Jnt it, •tkMd a
" CowwT&RIIII.AeT& TO ToBAcco," ill wlaiela tbe toyal autlles,
with more prejudice than diJaity, iafiorme Ilia loTillc eal.jedl,
~ "il I. • e~~~tome INa- to CIU _,,,lflltrfullto th -•..,....
foil to tile 61-aille, dimJeroiU to tle ,.,,, llflfl ilt tAe tfct* ,.._
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
P()Pt]LAR IIBJ>ICIMI'8, 8tc. 89
protected by g~vem!Jlenfs, \Vtlilst, at kogth, this
once insignificant prodqetion of a little ialaad, or
an obscure district, baa soceeeded in 4iftPiDg
itself through every climate, and in subj~ ~
inhabit3nts ofevery country to its dOIIlU.ion. The
Arab cultivates it in the homing desert ;-tile
Laplander and Esqoimaox risk tbeir lives to pro-
cure a refreshment so delroiou in tlae4' llriatry
solitude;-tbe seaman, grant bim ltut tbia ~ry.
$D.d be will endure with cheerfuloe" every other
privation, and defy the fury ofthe raging ele..U;
-Gd, in the higher walk of civiUzed society. at
tbe ldlrine of fashion, in the .,W.ce aocl in tj)e cet-
tage, the fascinating influence of this 11h-aolar
phwt, OOIII.ID8Dds an equal tribute .of de'fotion and
attac.b.meat. Nor is the history of the potatoe less'
extraordinary or less strikingly illustrative of the
impe&'ious mtluence of a11tbority. In fact, f.Jle in-
tr,oductioo of this valuable plant received, for Qlere
than two centuries, an unprecedented oppollitiqn
frQID vulgar prejudice, whieh all tlae philosophy of
tile age was unable to dissipate, until Louis XV.
w.ore a bunch of the flowers of the potatoe in the
IDidst of llis court, on a day of mirth and festivity.
The people then, for the .first time, obsequiously
adwowledged its utility, and began to express
their astonishmeat at the apathy which had so lo1ag
p&'evailed with regard to its general cultivation.
The llistory of the warm bath furnishes us with
aaotller curieua in&tance of the vicissitudes to
which the reputation of our valuable resources are
ft-. tJuruif, f!W'eBt reumblilal Me l&Drrillle stgfitl1' llll•ke •I Ck
pit Utat i6 6ottomluae."
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
70 INFLUBNCB OF SUPERSTITION OVBR
so uniformly exposed.. That, in short,. which for
so many ages was esteemed the greatest luxury in
health, and the most efficacious remedy in disease,
fell into total disrepute in the reign of Augustus,
for no other reason than because Antonius Musa
had cured the emperor of a dangerous malady by
the .use of the cold bath. The coldest water,
therefore, was recommended on every occasion.
This practice, however, was but of short duration.
The popularity of the warm bath soon lost all its
premature and precocious popularity; for, though
it had restored the emperor to health, it shortly
afterwards killed his nephew and son-in-law Mar-
cellus; an event which at once deprived the remedy
of its credit, and the physician of his popularity.
An illustration of the overbearing influence of
authority, in giving celebrity to a medicine, or in
depriving it of that reputation to which its virtues
entitle it, might be furnished in the history of the
Peruvian bark. This heroic remedy was first
brought to Spain in the year 1632, where it re-
mained seven years before any trial was made of its
powers. An ecclesiastic of Alcala was the first to
whom it was administered, in the year 1639; but
even at this period, its use was limited, and it
would have sunk into oblivion, but for the supreme
power of the Roman church, by whose protecting
auspices it was enabled to gain a temporary tri-
umph over the passions and prejudices which
opposed its introduction. Innocent the Tenth, at
• The prohibition of the bath was numbered among the re-
atrictioua to which certain priesteuea were bound by the rigid
rulea of their order. ·
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
'
POPULAR MBDICINBS, &c. 71
the intercession of Cardinal de Logo, who was
formerly a Spanish jesuit, ordered that its nature
and effects should be duly examined, and on its
being reported both innocent and salutary, it ·im-
mediately rose into public notice. Its career, how-
ever, was suddenly arrested by its having unfortu•
nately failed in the autumn 1652 to cure Leopold,
Archduke of Austria, of a quartan intermittent:
from this circumstance it had nearly fallen into
disrepute,
As years and fashion revolve, so have these
neglected remedies, each in its turn, risen again
into favour and notice ; whilst old receipts, like
old almanacks, are abandoned, until the period
may arrive that will once more adapt them to the
spirit and fashion of the times. Thus it happens,
that most of the new discoveries in medicine have
turned out to be no more than the revival and re-
adoption of ancient practices.
During the last century, the root of the male
fern was retailed as a secret nostrum, by Madame
Nooffieor, a French empiric, for the cure of the
tapeworm : the secret was purchased for a con·
siderable sum of moiiey by Lewis XV. The
physicians then discovered, that the same remedy
had been administered in that complaint by
Galen.
The history of popular remedies for the cure of
gout, also furnishes ample matter for the elucida-
tion of this subject.
The celebrated powder of the Duke of Portland,
was no other than the diacentaureon of Coelius
Aurelianus, or the antidoto6 ex duobw centaureta
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
12 INFLU4'NCE OP SUPERSTITION OVER
·gMWibru Qi .£tius, the receipt for whi4:b a fri~
of his ~race brought with him from ISwitze.-land ;
ioto which cQontry, in &H probability, it had been
iatrodoced by the early medical writers, who had
transcribed it from the GreE!k vol~. soon after
their arrival into the western parts of Europe.
The activ.e ingredient of a no less celebrated
remedy for the same disease, the ecw mUicinale, a
aedioine brought into fashion by M. Husson,
whose name it bears, a military officer in the ser-
vice of the :Kiog of France, about fifty years ago,
bas been discovered to bethe colckicum autumnak,
or 11Uad01D ~affron. Upon investigating the virtu~
of this JDedioine, it was observed that similar
effects in the cure of the gout were ascribed to a
~n plant, oaUed Hermodactyllos, by Oribasios•
and lEtiust, bot more partic~ly by Alexander
of Tralles, a physician of Aaia Minor, whoae
prescription consisted of hermodac,.tyllos, ginger,
pepper, commin-seed, aniseed, and scammony,
which, he says, will enaltle those who take it, to
walk immediately. An inquiry was immediately
instituted after this unknown plant, aad upon pro·
eoring a specimen of it from Constantinople, it
was actually found to be a species of colchicum.
The uae o.f Prnssio acid in the cure of con-
sumptions, lately proposed by Dr. Majendie, a
French physiologist, is little else thaD the revival
• An eminent physician of tbe fourth ceut•ry, born at Per-
gamua, or, according to others, at Sardis, where be resided for
some time.
t CaUed- AmWeou., (r.oa the place of Ills birth, loarilbeli u
4l~andr~, J!.lteut the encl of the fifth ceatary.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
----------- ~-'"'- - -··
.ALCBYMY. 13
of the Dutch practice in this complaint ; for we
are informed by Lumteus, in the fourth volume of
his "Amenilat.i• ..AcadamictB," that distilled laurel
water was frequ~utly used in Holland in the cure
ef pulmonary consumptiou. The celebrated Dr.
James's fever powd~r was evidently not his original
composition, but an Italian nostrum, invented by
a person of the name of Lisle, a receipt for the
preparation of which is to be found at length in
Co/borne's eotl'plete English ,Di8JHmary for t"M
year 1756. The various sec:ret preparations of
opium.which have been lauded u the discovery of
modern iimes, may be rec:ognised in the works of
ancient, authors.
ALCHYMY•.
THE science, if it deserves to be distinguished
by the name of Alchymy, or the transmutation of
metals into gold, has doubtless been an imposition,
which, striking on the feeblest part of the human
mind, has so frequently been successful in carrying
on its delusions.
The Corrina of Dryden (Mrs. Thomas) during
her life, bas recorded one of these delusions of
• The word Alcbymy seems to be compounded of tbe 4rabic
aupaent~tiYe particle al, and tbe Latin Kemia or Greek. X"'l'""'•
t~. 'fla\11 ety1pology, laowever, it objected to by some,
who deny the .Arabiaos any abare ill. the composition uf tiJe
word ; urging that alcllemia oecnra bi an author wbo wrote before
tbe· Europeaoe· liad· any commerce with tbe' Arablaoa, .or: t!ie
.ArabiaiiS aoy.leU'Diog,:f.··~· befure tbe tbne 6f MahOmet;
H
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
74 AU::HYMY~
AJc~. . FI'OJR•the drcriJMtaDCelf, it'iS very pro-
bablethe;sage was nOt less decei~ed ~than his patro-
ness. . Au infa.ta*d lover .Of tbis 41elueive·art met
one who ;pretended to have t,he ;power of trans-
muting iead to•gold ; that is, ·in·their lf.lnguage, :the
imperfect·Jhetals.·to the petfect ene. "This ·Ber~
metic philosopher required onJy. tbe ~materials and
time, to pellfonn.his goiden oparatHms. He WJ1S
takan to: 1he :.country reSidence ctf 'his patroness,
a long laboratory was .bunt, and that .his labours
might•Dot he impeded.:by an1 disturbance, no orte.
was pemoitted to eaf.er:into it. 'His door>Was ·Mn-
trived to· turb.ona pivot>; so that, 1
unseen and un..:
seeing, his meals were conveyed .to him ·without
distracting the sublime contemplations of the
sage.
During a residence of two years he never con-
descended to speak but two or·three times in the
year to his infatuated patroness. When .she was
admitted into the hiboratory, she saw 'with pleasing
ostonishtnent, stills, immense eanldrons, long flues,
and three or four V ttlcanian ~res, blazing at differ~
ent cf1rners of this magical mine : nor did ,;be be-
bold ·with less reverencethe venerable figure ofthe
dusty philosopher. Pale and emaciated With daily
ol)eratious anti nightly vigils, he revealed io her,
in unintelligilJlejargOn, his progress ; and having
sometimes condescended to explain, the mysteries
of the ..Al'.cana, site .beheld or . ~med .to bebold,
stme&Qis·.of ftoid; and heaps of iolid -ore,·saattend
around' the laboratory. · Sometimes he required· a
new still, .and sometimes vast quantities of.~ad.
Sbe begu ,• .,.. w lower her ··imagi&Mlfioia :to ·t~~t
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
AU:BYMY.
staadard of .reason. 'Two years bad now elapsed,
vast quantities ,of 'lead .bad gone in, and nothing
but lead ,had come .c)ut. Sbe disci4)sed her senti-
ments to tbe ,philosopher ; be candidly confessed
be wai himself aurpllised at bi~ 1atdy processes ;
b1lt that no• he would exert himself to tbe utmost,
and ·tbat be would :ventare w perform a laborious
operation, which hitherto be had hoped not to have
been neeessitated to employ. His patroness re-
tired, .and the · golden visions of expectation re-
sumed all their •lustre.
One day as .they sat at :dinner, a terrible shriek,
and one crack followed by another loud as the re-
port.of cannon, assailed their ears. They hastened
to the laboratory ; two of tbe greatest ·stills had
burst, .and one part of the laboratory and the bouse
were in tlames. We are told that after anetber
adventue of this kind, this victim to Alchymy,
after ruining another patron, in despair swallowed
poison.
Even more recently we bave a history of an Al-
chymist in the life of Romney, the painter. This
Alcbymist, aftel' beittowing much time and money
on preparations for the grand projection, and
being near the decisive hour, was induced, by the.
too earnest request of his wife, to qait his furnace
one evening, to attend some ofher company at the
tea-ttable.. WJlile,.tbe p:ro~ctor was attending the
ladies, IUs furnace · blew up ! 'In consequence•of
this event, he conoei.veclsuoh lin-
antipathy against
bill·~e. tltat he :ooald n.
ot endure the idea or living
with ,her again.
o,,,,, ,,Coogle
76 ALCHYMY.
· Henry IV. was so re~oced by his extravagancies,
that Evelyn observes in his N.umismata, be en-
deavoured to recruit his empty coffers by an Al-
chymical speculation. The record of this singular
proposition; cont~ilis "the most solemn and seri-
ous accou!'lt of the feasibility and virtues of the
philosopher's stone, encouraging the search after
it,and disp~nsingwith all statutes and prohibitions
tO the contrary." This record was very probabl_y
communicated (says an ingenious antiquary) by
Mr. Selden to his beloved friend Ben Jonson,
when be was writipg his comedy of the Alchymist.
After this.patent was published, many promised
to answer the King's expectations so effectually
(adds the same writer) that the J,lext year he pub-
lished another pa1ent; wherein he .tells his sub-
jects, that the ltnppy hqur was drawing nigh, and
by means of the STONE, which he should be master
of, he would pay all the debts of the nation in real
gold and silver~ The persons picked out for his
new operations were as remarkable as the patent
itself, l;leing a most " miscellaneous rabble" of
friars, grocers, mercers, and fishmongers I
:fhis patent was likewise granted authoritat6
parlia111enti.
, Prynne, who has given this patent in his Aurum
}l.egilfa, p. 136, concludes with. this sarcastic ob-
servation :-" A projectnever so seasonable and
ne'cessary as now !" ·And this we repeat, and oar
succes$ors will no doubt imitate us!
· Alchymists were formerly called multiplurs; as
flppears from a statute of Henry IV•.repealed
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
ALCHYMY. 77
in the preceding record. The statute being ex::.
tremely short, we shalf give it for the reader's
satisfaction.
" None from henceforth shall use to multiply
gold or Jilver, or use the craft of •ultiplication;
and if any the same do, be shall inonr the pain of
felony.''
Every philosophical mind must be .convinced
that Alohymy is not an art, which some have fan·
cifully traced to the reff&Otut tirnu ; it may rather
be regarded, when opposed to such a distance of
time, as a modern imposture. Cesar commanded
the treatises of Alcbymy to be burnt throughout
the Roman dominions-Cesar, who is not less to
be admired as a philosopher than as a monarch.
Mr. Gibbon bas the following succinct passage
relative to Alchymy: " The ancient books of AI·
chymy, so liberally ascribed to Pythagoras, to So.
lomon, or to Hermes, were the ·pious frauds of
more recerit adepts. 'The Greeks were inattentive
either to the use or abuse of chemistry. In that
immense register, where Pliny has deposited the
discoveries, the arts and the errors of mankind,
there is not the least mention of the transmutation
of metals ;.and the persecution of Dioclesian is the
first authentic eTent in the history of Alchymy.
The conquest of Egypt by the Arabs diffused that
vain science over the globe. Congenial to the
avarice of the human heart, it was studied in
China as in Europe, with eq1l4ll eagerness and
equal success. The darkness of the middle ages
ensured a favourable l'eception to every tale of
wonder ; and the revival of teaming gave new
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
..\WHYMY.
vigour to hope, aQ.dsaggested morespecious artsto
deoeptjpn~ Philo•ophy, witltthe aid,ofespeiienee,
has at length banished the study of Alchymy; aDd
the pre11eat age, however desiiou· of .riches, is
conoont tp, seek them by tbe:: ~letmeans of
commerce 8iMd industa-y." .
Elias Ashmole writes in his diary-" May 13,
1663. My father :&okboue (an Asttolog.er who
had adopted him.·fqr his .•~a common practiee
with the~ lll~n) JJing .sick in Fleet Diteb,. over
against St. .Do1111tan's chureli, aad pot knowing
whether he should liv~ or die, about elevea.of the
elock told me in Syllnblu the ttne matter of the
Pltilosopher's Stone, which be bequeathed to me
as a legacy," By this we learn that a miserable
wretc}l knew the art of .,aki.ng gold, yet always
lived a beggar; and that Asbmola really imagiued
be was in .poaBession of the. sJUablM cif a MJCrel I
be bas however built a curious moaument of the
learned follies of the lli&'t oontw-y, in his " Thea•
trum Cbe~iown Britunieum." Though Asluaole
is rather tbe historian of this vain science than an
adept, it may amuse literary leisure to torn. ovs
ltis quarto vqhune, in which he has collected t8e
wor)u! of sev~al English Alchymists,. to whieh
~baa subj(Uned his Commentary. It aft'ords a
~urioos spt!'Gimen of Rosicrociaa Mysteries~ and
A&bmole relates stories, which Yie fur the miraca-
.!lu•, wi~ tb~ wjldest fancies of Arabian iaveotioo.
Of tbe Philqsopb~~~~ Stone. .he says, he kaowi
~nougb t9 hold his toogoe, but not eooagh .~
apeak. Thia Stone baa Dot only the powea: of
traa.smQ.tlog llilY imperfect earthy matter: into its
o"'."'' ,,Coogle
ALCHYMY.
~most degree of perfeotien, and can.ClOIM'Mt the
hues~ metals mtogold, ftints into atone&, &c. but
it bas still. more oocalt yirtoes, wlten the 81'cana
have beea entered iDto, by tlte choice fathen of
)lermetic mysWies.· Tle vegetahle atone bas
power O¥er the n8t.IK'es ofman, beast, fowls, fishes,
and all kinds of trees and plaata, to make them
ioori.sh and bear .hit at any time. The magical
stone discovers .any person nerev.• he is con-
cealed ; while the angelical stone gives the appa-
ritions of angels, and a power of conversing with
them. These great mysteries are supported by
·occasiooal facts, aDd. illustrated by prints of the
most divine and incomprehensible designs, which
we would hope .were intelligible to tbe initiated.
It may be w.Grtb shewing, however, how liable even
the latter were to blunder on these Mysterious
Hieroglyphics. Ashmole, in .one of hia·claemical
works, prefixed a fro~J-t.ispiece, which, in several
compartments, exhibited Phrebus on a lion, and
opposite to him a lady, who represehted Diana,
with the moon in ·one hand and an arrow in the
oth~r, sitting on a ~rab; Mercury on a tripod, with
the scheme of the heavens in one hand, and his
eacluceus in the other. They were intended to
~xpress the materials of the Stone, and the season
for the proce8s• .Upon the altar is the host of a
man, his .bead covered bJ an astrological scheme
dropped fr.om the ·clons ; and ori the altar are
the.e wQrdt, MEJiOU.RIOPHILUS A'HGLious, i.e.
the English lover of hermetic philosophy. There
is a tree and a little creature gnawing the ro(/t, a
pillal' adorned with musical and''maibeipatical iJ1·
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
80 ALCHYMY.
stroments, and another with·militaryensigns; This
stmn.ge c,ompositton created great inquiry among
the chemical sages. Deep mysteries were conjec-
tured to be veiled by :it. Verst's were written in
the highest •train· of -the Rosicrucian · language.
Ashmo,le confessed he meant nothing more than a
kind of pun on his own .name, for the tree was ·the
ash, and the creature was a mole. · One pillartells
his lov.e ·of music and .freemasonry, ·and the other
his military .preferment and astrological studies !
He afterwatds regretted that no one .added a se-·
cond volume to his work, from w.hich he himself
had been .hindered, for the honour of the family of
Herme11, and " to shew the world what excellent
men we had once of our nation, ·famous for this
kind of philosophy, and masters ofso transcendant
a secret."
Modcm chemistry is not without a !tope, not to
say a certainty, of .verifying the golden visions of
the Alcbymists. Dr. Gertanner, ofGottingen, has
lately adventured the following prophecy: " In
the nineteenth century the transmutation of inetals
will be generally known and practised. Every
chemist and every artist will make gold; kitchen
materials will be ofsilver, and even gold, which will
contribute more than any thing else to prolong life;
poisoned at present by the oxyds of copper, lead,
and iron, which we daily swallow with our food •.
This sublime chemist, though he does not venture
to predict that unhersal Elizir +, which is fu pro·
• PhilO)IOpb. llrlllfazioe, Vol. vi. p. 888.
t Deacartea imagined thathe had fouod out a diet &bat would.
prolong blalife five hundred yean. ·
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
ALCHYMY. 81
long life at pleasure, yet approximates to it. ~t
chemical friend observed, that " the metals seem
to be composite bodies, which nature is perpe-
tually preparing; and it may be reserved for the
future researches of Science to trace, and per-
haps to imitate, some of these cprious operations."
Origin, qbjecta, and Practice of Alchymy, ~c.
WB find the word Alchymy occurring, tor the
first time, in JULIUS FlRMICUS MATBRNUS, an
author who lived under Constantine the Great,
who in his Mathebia, iii. 35, speaking of the
influence of the heavenly bodies, affirms, '' that
if the Moon be in the house of Saturn, at the time
a child is hom, he shall be skilled in Alchymy."
The great objects or ends pursued by Alchymy,
are, 1st, To make gold ; which is attempted by
separation, maturation ; and by transmutation,
which is to be effected by means of the Philoso-
pher's stone. With a view to this end, Alchymy,
in some writers, is also called 'ltO(fiT'"l> poetice, and
XJWtnnr~'fiT'flJ, chryao poetice, i.e. the art of making
gold ; and hence also, by a similar derivation, the
artists themselves are called gold-makers.
2d. An universal medicine, adequate to all dis-
eases.
!Jd. An universal dissolvent or alkahest. (See
ALKAHBST.)
4. An universal ferment, or a matter, which
beiog applied to any seed, shall increase its fe-
cundity to infinity. If, for example, it be applied
B2
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
ALCHYMY.
to gold, it shall change the gold into the phi~Qto·
pher's:.ttea.e ~f:gold,,..-if ,to silver, into the .pbilQ&o·
pher's stone ofsilver,-and if to a tree. the result
is, the philos()pher's stone of tbe tree; whioh
t.-ansautelJ ~ery thing it is applied to-,. into tr.ees.
The. origin and .aqtiquity of Alchymy have beea
much controverted. If Wtl may credit legend
and tradition, it must be as old as the flood ; nay.
Adam himself, is represented by the Alchymist,
as an adept. A great part, not only of the hea-
then mythology, but of the 1ewish an,d Christian
Revelations, llre supposed to r~fer to jt. Thus
SuiDAS will have the fable of the Philosopher's
Stone, to be alluded .to in )he fable of .the Arg()-o
pauts·; and others find it.it:a the book of Mosr..s.
&c. But if the alta of the art be ¢Juu.-ined by the
monument of bistor.y, it willl0$e .nuoll of this fan~
cied ~tiquity. The teamed Dane, Bl)rricbius,
has taken immen&e l)ilins to pl'O•e that it wus.oot
unknoWn to the ancient Greeks and .Egyptiaas.
Crounguis, on the contrary, with·e(Juttl!ldclreaa,
undertakes to show its novelty. Still not olle ((){
the ancient poets, philO'Sophers, or physictall,!l,.fl'om
the time of Hornet till fow hundred Jears a~
the birth of Christ, meuUO$ aJly.tbing.at>ou.t it.
The first author who speaks of makieg geld, is
Zos.imu.s the Pomopolite, wbo lived about tbe be-
ginning of the fifth century, and who bas a tre&-
tise express upon it, ¢all~, '' the divilie art of
making gold and silver," in manuscrq,t, and ia. as
,formerly, in tbe King of France's library. The
next is &n~~ Gaze~&, anothe~ Gtee' writer,
towards ~ close of the. $able . ~ntm:y, ia whom
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
------ ~~-~~
ALCBYMY. 83
we iind tbe foUowiDg paaa.ge :......•~ Snob as are
~tled in the ways of nature, can ~ silver ~and
tin, and chugiDg their nature, can turn them
iu.to gold." T.lte BIUile writer tells us, that be was
" wont to call himself XJWfiOxoo~, gold melter, and
'Xi'll'fVTJ'I~, dlemi11t." Hence we may oollclode,
that a l).otioo of I!Oale such art u Alchymy was in
~ Q.t that ~ge; bot as neither of these artists
inform 1Jil bow lohg.it W been pt'eW'ioosly known,
their ~estimony wiU not caJTy us back ·b~yond the
age in whiell tbey lived.
In fact, we find no earlier or plai~er tuces of
the univeriJal Qtediojne meDtio~ed any where else;
11.01' &JPong the pbysipians Jlnd naturalists, from
~~ to Geber tlle Arab, who is supposed to
have lived in the seventh century. In that au~or's
wo•k, ~nf!Wed the '' Plti.lo&ophW• Stone," men-
tiol!l is.made of Q. medicme that cures all leprous
dis~~. This passage, tome a.uthors suppose,
to h8ve ghe~ t.be fir.st hint oi 'the matter; though
Geber l}j~elf, perhaps, meaat :Do,silch thing ; for
by attenc;ling to the A.rabi.e.style aad diction of this
an~r, wJU«, abounds ill allegory, it is highlypro-
~le, tAat by man he means gold; and by leprous,
or other diseases, the other metals; which, with re-
l,atioQ ~ gol!l, ~e aU i_,ure.
The m~ner iQ. 1tbieh Snidas ·accoliats for this
tpW. sU.~Ge of old ~qtbors with regard tn Alcby·
my, is, that Dioclesian procured all the 11ooks of
~ the ancient Egyptians to be burnt ; and that it was
in these that the great mysteries of chymistry
were contained. Corringius calls this statement
in question, and asks how Snidas, who lived but
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
ALCHYMY.
five hundred years before os, should know what
happened eight hundred years before him? To
which Borrichius answers, that he had learnt it of
Eudemos, Helladius, Zosimus, Pamphilius, &c. as
Suidas ]limself relates. ·
Kercher asserts, that the theory of the -
Philoso·
pher's Stone, is delivered at large in the table of
Hermes, and that the ancient Egyptians were
not ignorant of the art, bot declined to prosecute
it. They did not appear to transmute gold ; they
had ways of separating it from all kinds of bodies,
from the very mud of the Nile, and stones of all
kinds : bot, be adds, these secrets were never writ-
ten down, or made public, but confined to the
royal family. and handed down traditionally from
father to son.
The chief point advanced by Borrichius, and in
which he seems to lay the principal stress, is, th~
attempt of Caligola, mentioned by Pliny, for pro·
curing gold from Orpiment, (Hist. Nat. I. xxxiii.
c. 4.) Bot this, it may be observed, makes very
little for that author's pretensions ; there being no
transmutations, n() hint of any Philosopher's Stone,
but only a little gold was extracted or separated
from the mineral.
The principal authors on Alchymy are, Geber,
Friar Bacon, Sully, John and Isaac Hallandus,
Basil Valentine, Paracelsus, Van Zuchter, and·
Sendirogius.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
..
I
l
85
ALKABEST, OR ALCAHEST,
IN Chemistry, means a most pure and universal
menstruu'm or dissolvent, with which some chemists
have pretended to resolve all bodies into their first
matter, and perform other extraordinary and un-
accountable operations.
Paracelsus and Van Belmont, expressly declare,
that there is a certain Ouid in nature, capable of
reducing all sublunary bOdies, as well hemogene-
ous as mixed, into their ens primum, or original
matter of which they are composed ; or into an
uniform equable and potable liquor, that will unite
with water, and the juices of our bodies, yet will
retain its radical virtues ; and if mixed with itself
again, will thereby be converted into pore ele..
mentary water. This declaration, seconded by the
asseveration of Van Belmont, who solemnly de..
clared himself possessed of the secret, excited
succeeding Chemists and Alchymists to the pur-
suit of so noble a menstruum. Mr. Boyle was so
much attracted with it, that he frankly acknow-
ledged be bad rather been master of it, than of
the Philosopher's Stone. In short, it is not diffi-
eult to conceive, that bodies might originally arise
from some first matter, which was once in a ·fluid
form. Thus, the primitive matter of gold is, per-
haps, nothing more than a ponderous ftuid, which,
from its own nature, or a strong cohesion or at-
traction between its partioJes, acquires afterwards
a solid form. And henee there does not appear
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
86 ALKAHBST.
any absurdity in the notion of an universal ens,
that resolYes all bodies into their Ens Genitate.
The Alcahest iji a subject that has been em-
braced by many authors; e. g. Pantatem, Phi-
lalettes, Tacbenius, Ludovi<:ut, &.c. Boer-
haave says, a library of them might be col•
lected; and Werdenfelt, io his treatise de Secretis
Adeptorum, has given all the opinions that haye
been entertained concerning it.
The t«m Aloahest is not peculiarly found in
any language: Belmontdeclares, lie first obterved
it in Paraeelsos, as a word that was unknown
before the time of that author, who in hiJ second
book, De Viribu1 Metllbrorum, treating of die
liver, has these rather remarkable WOl'dS : &t
etiam alkabest liquor, magnllm sepates eonser-
vaqdi et oonfortaodi, &c. '' T~re is also the
" liquor A/Jcerhest, of great efficacy in preserving
".the liver; as also in coring hydropsieal and all
" other diseases · arising from disorders of that
" part. ~fit have once conquered its like, it be-
" comes superior to all other hepatic medicines ;
" and though the liver itself was broken and
" dissolved, this medicine shoold supply its plac.e."
It :was this pauage alone, quoted from Para-.
~sus, that stil04llatedsucceeding chemists to an en-
qttiry after the Alkabest ; there being 011ly ano-
ther illdizect expre11sion, in all his work, relating
to it.
As it·was .a frequent practice with Paracelsus
io transpose the letters of his words, and to ab..
l>l'eviate 01' otbel'wiae. conceal them; e.g; for ·t.ar-
~. ~e woul4 Wl'ite Sutralur; f1>r Nit,_., .Jiu,.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
ALKAHBST.
trin, &c. it is supposed that Alcaheat nmat be a
wor4_disguised in the same Dl8Diler. Heace some
imagine.it, and 1fith much probability, to be fermed
of alkali ell; coosequeotJy tltal it was the Alka-
line salt of tartar salatilized. TJais appeat'S to have
heer1 Glauber's opiDien; who, in fact, performed
~urprisiug things with such .a menstruum, upon
~objects of all the three. kingdoms. Others will
have. it derived from the. German word algeist,
that is, .wholly spirituous or volatile ; otlaera are
of opinion, that the word Alcahest is takea from
saltz-&eist, which signifies spirit of salt ; for the
universal menstruum, itis !laid, ia to be wr~ht
from water : and Paraoelsus himself ealla salt the
centre of water, wherein metals ought to die, &c.
In fact, spirit of salt was the great menstruum he
.1Uied on most ooeasions.
The Commeatator on Paracelsus, who gave a
Llltin editioa of INs works at Delft, IW!orea us
th$t the alcabest wasJDef!Cally, ooow.tei iat.o a spi~
.rit. Zwelfer jRdged.it to be a spirit of Tinegar
reetitied . frwn verdigris, and .&.dtey .thought
he discovered it in bis soap.
There ha\'6 neverdaele~W .been SIMile syoonimous
~ Jnore siguifieaat woJ';ds 1111ecl for the AJUhest.
v..n ~~elmont, the elder. aeMiouit.\ly .-COlD.~
pound name of igaU-aq•ti, fi~~&oWJlter : bot iae
here seems to alt.ie to tbe.oiroolated liquord P~
racelsu~ which he terms ue. ftmit.,ifB prnperiy·of
oouami11g all tbiog:s ; and >W.ter~ u.•aeeount.of ita
liquid Mrm. .. .The same •thor .ealls it ltfJtW (h.
~ .infernal: fire ; a w.ord. ,alsoJ used by .PQI'aP
'!~~· .He.also .eatitl~ it, .. ~lliMlnn,et felicU..
o.,,,, ,,Coogle
..
88 ALKAHBST.
" mum omnium saliom," .. the highest and mast
•• succe11sful ofall salts ; which having obtained the
"supreme degree of simplicity, purity, and sub-
" tilty, enjoys alone the faculty of remaining on"'
'' changed and unimpaired by the subjects it
'' works upon, and of dissolving the most stub-
'' born and untrnctable bodies ; as stones, gems,
" glass, earth, sulphur, metals, &c. into real salt,
'' equal in weight to the matter dissolved ; and
" this with as much ease as hot water melts down
" snow."-" This salt," continues he, "by being
" several times cohobited with ·Paracelsos,' Sal
" circulatom, loses all its fixedness, and at length
" becomes an insipid water, equal in quantity to
" the salt it was made from."
Van Belmont positively expresses that this salt
is the product of artand not ofnature. " Though~
says be, a homogeneal partofelementary earth may
be artfully converted into water, yet I deny that
the same can be done by nature alone ; for no na-
tural agent is able to transmute one element into
another." And this he offers as a reason why the
Elements always remain the same.
It may throw some light into this affair, to ob-
serve, that Van Belmont, as well as Paracelsns,
took.waterfor the universal instrument of cbymistry
and natural philosophy ; and earth for the un-
changeable basis ofall things-tha~ fire was assign-
ed as the sufficient cause of all things-that semi-
nal impressions were lodged in the mechanism of
the eal't.&-that water, by dissolving and ferment-
iug with this earth, as it does by means of fire,
brings forth every thing; whence originally pro-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
ALKAHBST.
ceeded the animal, vegetable, and mineral king·
doms: even man ~imsEllf, according to Moses, was
thus at firs~ created. ·
Tbe great cbaraoteristic or property of the Al-
kahest, as bas already been observed, is to dissolve
and change all sublunary bodies-water alone e~­
cepted.-The changes it induces proceed in the
following:manner, viz• .
1. The·subject exposed to its operation, is con-
verted into its three principles, salt, sulphur, and
mercury ; and afterwards into salt alone, wbicb
then becomes volatile; ·and, at length, is wholly
turned into insipid water.-The manner in which
it is applied, is by touching the body proposed to
be dissolved ; e. g. gold, mercury, sand, glass, ·or
the like, once or twicewith the pretended alkabest;
and ifthe liquor be genuine, tbe body will on tbi$
application be converted into its own quality of
salt.
2. It does not destroy the seminal virtues of the
bodies thereby dissolved.-For instance,-gold,
by its action, is reduced to a salt ofgold; antimony,
to a salt of antimony ; saffron, to a salt of saffron,
&c. of the same seminal virtues, or characters with
the original concrete. By seminal virtues, Van
Belmont means those virtues which depend upon
the structure or mechanism of a body, and which
constitutes it what it actually is. Hence an actual
and general aurum potabile might readily be
gained by ibe alkahest, as converting the whole
body of gold into salt, retaining its seminal virtues,
and being withal soluble in water.
3. Whatever it dissolves may be rendered vola·
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
98 ALKAHBST.
tile by a sand-beat ; and if, after volatilizing the
solvent, it be distilled therefrom, the body is
left pure insipid water, equal in quantity to itseri·
giDal self, but deprived of ita seminal virtaes.
Then, .if gold be dissolved by the Alk.abest, the
metal first becomes salt, which is pokble gold ;
but when the menstruum, by a further application
of fire, is distilled therefrom, it is leftmere element-
ary water. Whence it appears, that pore water is
the last produc&n or effect of the alkabest.
4. It suffers no change or diminution of force by
dissolving the bodies it works in ; consequently
nstain1 no re-action from them ; being the oaly
immutable menstruum in nature.
5. It is incapable of mixture, and therefore re-
JD3ins free from fermentation and putrefaction ;
coming oft'ill! pure fPOm the body it has dissoll1ed,
as when first applied to it ; without leaving the
leas.t foulness behind.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
91
MAGICIAN.
One. VJho practiHs the art ofMagic. (Vide DM-
nati&n, &retry; and Magic.)
)'HB ancient magicians pretended to extrOOI'dinary
powers of ioterpreti,g dreams, foretelling ftltare
eveats,, and accomplishing many woaderful tlftngs,
by their superior knowledge of the aecret powers
of nature. of the virtaes of plants and mineralw,
!MKl of the motions and ioftneoces of~ stan. And
118 tbe art .of magie among Pagan aations· was
fouuded on their system .of theology, and the .magi
who first exerased it "'ere the p.riests of the gods,
they .pretended to derive these extraordinary p.ow•
ers from tire assistance oftfi& gods, whieh assist-
ance. they sought by a variety of ri-tes .and .saori•
fices, adapted to their respective natures, by the
use of charms and superstitious wordS; .and alto by
ceremonies .and suppliea~ns : they p~tended,
likewise, in the proper use &f tbei(' art, to a power
ofcompelling the gods to eJiecute their desires and
commands. An excellent writer has shewn, that
the Scripture brands alt these powers as a shame-
Jess imposture, and reproacbea those who assumed
them with an otter inability ofdjaooferiog, or ac-
eompliahing, aay thing SllpSmatural. ·(See Isaiah,
dvii. 11, 12; 18. chap. xli.ll3,.24. chap. xliv. 26.
leremiab, x. 2,3,8, 14. chap xiv..14. chap. xx•ii.
9, 10. chap•.i. 36.· Ps. xxi. 6. Jonah·, ·ii. 8.)
Nevertheless, JRany of the Ghri8tiaa fathers, as
o,,,,, ,,Coogle
•
92 MAGICIAN.
well as some ofthe heathen philosophers, ascribed
the efficacy of magic to evil d~mons ; and it was
a very prevailing opinion in the primitive, that
magicians and necromancers, both among the
Gentiles and heretical Christians, had each their
particular dmmons perpetually attending on their
persons, .and obsequious to their commands, hy
whose help they could call up the souls ofthe dead,
toretel future events, and perform miracles. In
supportofthis opinion, it has been alleged that the
names by which the several sorts ofdiviners are de-
- scribed in soripture, imply a communication with
spiritual beiags ; that the laws of Moses (Exod•
.uii. 18. Lev. xix. 26, 31. chap. xx. f¥'/. Deut.
xviii.lO, 11.) against divination and witchcraft,
prove the efficacy of these arts, though in reality
they prove nothing more than their execrable
wickedness and impiety; and that pre~nsions to
divination could not have supported their credit in
all the heathen nations, and through all ages, if
11ome instances oftrue divination had not occurred.
But the 'strongest argument is derived from the
scripture. history of the Egyptian magicians who
opposed Moses. With regard to the works per-
foJlllled by these magicians, some have supposed
that God himself empowered them to perform true
miracles, and gave them an unexpected success;
but the history expressly ascribes the eft'ects they
produced, not to God, but to their own enchant•
me.o.ta. Others imt&gine, that the dt:¥il assisted the
magicians, not in performing true miracles, but in
deceiving the senses of the spectators, or in pre-
•enting before them delusive appearances of true
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
.MAGIClAN. 93
miracles : against which opinion it has been urged,
that it tends to disparage the credit of the works
of .Mose~. The most common opinion, since the
time of St. Austin, has been, that they were not
only performed by the power of the devil, but were
genJiine miracles, and real imitations of those of
Moses. In a late elaborate enquiry into the true
sense and design of this .part of scripture history,
it has been shewn that the names given to magi·
cian.s seem to express their profession, their affec-
tation of superior knowledge, and their pretensions
both to explain and effect signs and wonders, by
observing the rules of their art; and therefore, tbat
they are the persoos, whose ability of discovering
or effecting any thing supernatural, the scripture
expressly denies. Tbe learned author farther in.-
vesiigates the design for which. Pharaoh employed
them on this occasion : which, he apprehends, was
·to learn froiJ) them, whetherthe sign given by Mosea
was truly sppernatural, or only such as their art
was able to accomplish. Accordingly it is observ-
ed, that they did n()t undertake to outdo Most's, or
to controul him, by superior or opposite arts of
power, but merely to imitate him, or to do the
same works with his, .with a view of.invalidating
the argum~nt which be drew from his miracles, in
support of the sole divinity of Jehovah, aud .of his
own mission.. The qtaestiou on this was oot, are
the gods ofEgypt superior.to tbe gods of Israel, or
ca~ any evil spirits p.erfQI'm greater miracles tb&o
tho~~ wlii.ch }fq~ea perfo.~:med .
by the usistance of
J ebovah 1 b~t. th~ question .is,. ate th.e works of
)JOfes proper:.}»'oofs, tbat the god of lsl'881 is
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
M MAGJOJA.N.
Jiell~, ,tlie only :&<Wereign of uture, ud oon-·
seqaently rthat Moses aets by his commission; or,
are· they merely the wonders of nature, alld the
effects 1>£ magic? In this light Philo, (de Vita
Mosis, lib. i. p·
. 616.) and Joaephu8, (Antiq. Jod.
hb. ii. cap. 13.) place the subject. Moreover, it
appears fDOm thepriociples and conduct of Moses,
that he ~oold .not have allow:ed the magieians to
have pemormed rt>al miracles ; because tbe scrip-
tore represents the whole body of magicians as
impostors ; ·the sacred -writers, Moses in partico-·
Jar, .describe all the heathen deities, in the ·belief
of wboae existence .ood influence the magic art wa's
foonded, as .unsupported by any invisible spi·
rit, and uttedy impotent and senseless·: the religion
of Moses :was built on the unity and sole d,ominion
ofGod, and the sole·.divinity of Jeho•ah was the
point which Moses was .now about. ·to establish,
in direct -wositi.on to the priociple8 of ·idolatry;
so thatlifhe had allowed·tbat the·h~then idols, or
any.eviJ.spirit .-pportiog their ·cause, enabled the
magicians ·to ltuna' tods inCJo serpents, and water·
iote blood, .00 to ereate ·froga, .he would· have
oonteadicted the great desi~n of his tmissi.on, and
orer.tbrinvnthe)whele fabric ofbis;religion ; besides;
MoteS appropidates .all Mwacles to God, and urge$
hiS own, bQth ia general and separately, as an .ab-
aoluteaad-aothentio.proof, ·both of1he sole divinity
of Jebowh, ud -.f his own mission; which ·be
could notjustly have done, if his opposers perfurm-
ed·mi,raolea, and .~veo tthe 'eaole with his. • On· ~
other•hand, it bas :been 'urged, that Moses ile·
scribes :the works of the magioil&ns in 1he •ery
o.,,,, ,,Coogle
MAGICIAN. 95
same languageas hedoeshis own, (ExocJ.vii.ll, 12.
chap. v. 22. chap. viii. 7.) and hence it is conclud-
ed, that they were eqnally miraculous. To this
objection it is replied, that it is common to speak of
professed Jogglers, as doing what they pretend
and appear to do; but that Moses does not affinn
that there was ·a perfect conformity betweea ·his
works and those .of the magicians, ·buUhey did so,
or in like manner, using a word which expresses
merely .a ·general similitude; ·and he expressly re-
fers aH they did, or attempted in imitation·of him-
self, not to the invocation ofthe power of.demons,
or ofany superior beings, bot to human artifice·and
impostore. The original words, translated en-
ckantmenll, {~od. ·vii. U, 22. and chap. viii. 7,
18.) import deception:and,coocealmeat, and ought
to have·beenTendePed, ;seoreiBlights 9r joggliass.
Oor learned writer flll'ther shews, tliat -the werks
performed by the magicians ·did not ·exceed the
cause, or human artifice, to which they aTe as-
cribed. Farmer's Diu. on Miraeles, 1771, oliap.
3. § 3. chap. 4. § 1. (See 1tiAGu.)
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
96
MAGI, OR MAGEANS,
~ TITLE which the ancient Persians gave to their
wise men or philosophers.
The learped are in great perplexity about the
word maous, f'"'Y o'. Plato, Xenophon, Herodotus,
Strabo, &c. derive it from the Persian language,
in which it signifies a priest, or person appointed
to o,fticiate in h9ly things ; as druid among the
Gauls ; gymnosophist among the Indians ; and
Levite, amc.ng the Hebrews. Others derive it
from the Greek f'E'Y"'• great; which they say, be-
ing borrowed ofthe Greeks, by the Persians, was
returned in tha form pay~; but Vossius,with more
probability, brings it from the Hebrew r-un haga,
to· meditate ; whence .o-.mo, D;J.aaghim, in La·
tin, meditabundi, q. d. people addicted to me-
ditation.
Magi, among the Persians, answers to 110~,, or
tj>tX.otT~ot, among the Greeks; sapientes, among
the Latins ; druids, among the Gauls ; gymnoso-
pltists, among the Indians ; and propltets orpriests
among the Egyptians.
The ancient magi, according to Aristotle and
Lacrtius, were the sole authors and conservators
of the Persian philosophy; and the philosophy
principally cultivated by them, was theology and
politics ; they being always esteemed as the inter·
preters of all law, both divine and human; on
which account they were wonderfully revered by
the people. Hence, Cicero observes, that none
MAGI, OR MAGEANS, 97
were admitted to the crown of Persia, but such as
were well instructed in the discipline of the f11119i ;
wlto taught Til /Javl)..u:a, and showed princes how
to go-vem.
Plato, Apuleius; Laertios, and others, agree.
that the philosophy of the magi related princi-.
pally to the worship of the gods : they were the
persons who were to offer prayers, supplications;·.
and·sacrifices, as if the gods would ·be heard by
them alone. But according to Lucian, Suidaa;
&c. this theology, or worship ofthe gods, aa it was
called, about which the magi were employed, was
little more than the diabolical art of divination ;
for that f'«ytt«, strictly taken, was.the art of divi-
nation.
Porphyry defines the magi well ; Cicero calls
them divina •apientu, &c. in iisdem ministrantes ;
adding, that the word magw implied as much in
the Persian tongue. These people, be says, are held
· in such veneration among the Persians, that Da-
rius, the son of Hystaspes, among other things, had
it engraved on his monument, that be was master
of the magi.
Philo J odas describe the magi to be diligent
enquirers into nature, out of the love they bear to
truth ; and who, setting themselves apart from
other things, contemplate the divine virtues the
more Clearly, and initiate others in the same mys-
teries.
Their descendants, the modem magi, or fire
worshippers, are divided into three classes;
whereof the first and most learned, ·neither ate
o.or kill animals ; but. adhere to the old institution
F
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
98 MAGI, OR MAG.BANS.
of·abstaibing &om living creatures. The magi
of the- SE~oohd (jfass~ reftain only &otn ·taine ai-
mals ;•;ner do ibe·la8t ~ill allindift'erently, it being
the firm distinguishing dogma of them all, Tn-
p.ET"~XVwf1iv e«Jia&, tAat 1/ure u a transmigration of
.o..u. .I
To intimate the similitude between animals and
men, they·used to call the latter by the name.of
the :fonner; thus, their fellow priests they called.
Uons; the .·priestesses, lionesseS ; . the servants,
80'W'S, &c.
99
MAGIC, MAGIA, MATEJA,
IN i~· apci~nt sens~. implies the JCieace, or disci-
pline,or doctrine, of thet~~Qgi, or wisellleD ofPenia..
The origin of magic, and :the naag;., 1a u(ll'ibed to
Zor~r ; S~mllliqa derives tbe very ..u.e fr~bl
~roaster, who, Jte says, . wu Al'DIUDed Jfllg,
whence magu~: Otllers, iastead 9fmakiDg bi8l tbe
author of the Persian philosophy, mate him only
the restorer and improver thereof; allegiD(. that
many of the Persian rites in UBe a.mong the magi,
were bc;.rrowed from the Zabii, among the Chat-
deans, who agreed in many things with the magi
of the .Persians ; whence some make the name
flla!JUS common to both the Cbaldeens .and Per-
sians. Thus Plutarch mentions, that Zo1'081ter
instituted magi among the Cbaldeaos ; in imita-
tion whereof the Persians had theirs too.
MAGIC, in a more modem sense, is a science
which teaches to perform.wonderfal and surpris-
ing eft'eots.
·· The word ·magic originally..carried along with it
a very innocent, nay, a very laudable meaning;
beiag,used·purely to signify the study of wisd0111,
aod the more sublime parts of knowledge ; but in
regard to the ancient f11111Ji, enga~ themselves io
astr~gy, divination, sorJlery, ~e. · the term .magic
ia .tit0e became odious, aud waa only used to
signify an unlawful and diabolical kind of aoience,
depending on the devil and departed sools•
. If any wonder how vaia and deeeitfal a science
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
100 MAGIC, MAGU, MATHIA.
should gain so much credit and authority over
men's minds, Pliny gives the reason of it. 'Tis,
says he, because it has possessed itself of three
sciences of the most esteem among men, taking
from each all that is great and marvellous in it.
Nobody doubts but that it bad its first origin in
medicine, and that it insinuated itself into the
minds of the people, onder pretence of affording
extraordinary remedies. To these fine promises
it added .every thing in religion tb~t is pompous
and splendid, and that appears calculated to blind
and captivate mankind. And, lastly, it mingled
jucliciary astrology with the rest, persuading peo-
ple curious of futurity, that it saw every thing to
come in the heavens. Agrippa divided magic
into three kinds, natural, celestial, and ceremonial
or superstitious.
NATURAL MAGIC, is no more than the appli-
cation of natural active callSes to passive things,
or subjects ; by means whereof many surprising,
but yet natural effects are produced.
Baptista Porta has a treatise of natural magic,
or of secrets for performing very extraordinary
things by natural causes. The natural magic of
the Chaldmans was nothing but the knowledge of
the powers of simples and mine111ls. .The magic
which they call theurgia, consisted wholly in tbe
knowledge of the . ceremonies to be observed in
the worship of the gods, in order to be acc:eptable
to them. By the virtue of these ceremonies, they
believed they could converso with spiritual beings
and core diseases. ·
CBLBSTU t. MAGIC borders nearly on j~diciary
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
•
MAGIC OF THB B:A.STBRN NATIONS. 101
astrology ; it attributes to spirits a kind of rule or
dominion over the planets ; and to the planets, a
dominion over men ; and, on these principles,
builds a ridiculous kind of system.
8UPBRSTITIOUS, or GEOTIC MAGIC, consists
in the invocation of devils : its effects are usually
evil and wicked, though very strange, and seem-
ingly surpassing the powers of nature : they are ·
supposed to be produced by; virtue of some com-
pact, either tacit or express, with evil spirits ;
bot the truth is, these supposed compacts have
not the power that is usually imagined ; nor do
they produce half those effects ordinarily ascribed
to them.
Naude has published an apology for all the
great men suapect~d of magic. Agrippa says,
that the ;words used by those in compact with the
devil, to invoke him, and to succeed in what they
undertake, are, dies, mits, jes.
quet, 1Jenedoifet,
doU'Dima, enitemaus. ·There are a hundred
Qtber superstitious formolre of words prescribed
for the same occasion, composed of pleasure,
or gathered from several different languages; or
patChed from the Hebrew, or fnt.med in imitation
of it.
Magic ofthe Eastern nations,-a briefview ofthe
· . origin andprogretts of Magic, ~c.
CHA.LDBANS AND PBRSIANS.-The origin of
almost all our knowledge may be traced to the
earlier periods of antiquity. This is peculiarly
tbe case with respect to the acts denominated mu-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
•
lOO MAGIC Oli' THB JU.STERN NA.TlON8.
gio~l. There 1rere few ancient nations, .howev(ft'
barbarous, which could not furnish many indiVi-
duals to whose spells and enchantments the powers
of nature and the immaterial world were snpposed
to ·be subjected. The Chaldeans, the Egyptians,
and, indeed, all the oriental nations, ~ aoo11&-
fumed to refer all natural effects for which they
could not' account, to·the agency ofDemons. De•
Jhonll were b~lieved (See DB:uoltoLOGY,) te
presid~ over herbs, ·trees, rivers, mountains. and
abimals ; every member of the human body W1lS
under their pgwer, and all corporeal diseaaes were
produced .by their malignity. For instance, ifany
happened to be aftlicted with a fever, little anxiety
~as manifested to discover lts cause, or·to adopt
rational tneasures·for its care ; it must no d.onbt
have been occasi()ned by some eril spirit re&iidfDi
ill the body, or influencing in sometnysterionl WfJ.j
the fortunes of the suiferer. Thatinluence could
be oountetacted only by certain. magical rites,-
bence the observance of those rites soon obtained
a permanent establishment in the East.
Even at the present day many ·uncivilized peo·
ple hold that all nature is filled with genii, of
which some exercise a beneficent, and others a
destructive power. All the evils with which man
is aftlicted, are considered the work of these imll-
ginary beings, whose favour must be propitiated
by sacrifices, incantations, song~t. If the Green-
JantJer.be unsuccessful in fishing, the Huron in
bunting, or in war ; if even the scarcely half-rea~
soning Hottentot finds every thing is not right in
his mind, body, or fortune, no time most be lost
:
MAGIC OF THB B.A.ITBRN NATIONS. J.G8
Wo11e th~ spirit be invoked. Aftet 11le niDOVal
'of some present evil, the nest stroogeat d•n iD
the luunao mind is the attaimoeot of some f11tue
good. This good is often beyond·the powet, and
atitl oftener iteyond· the inclination of man, ~
be8tow; it most.therefore be .sou~t from beiap
· which are supposed to possess oooaiderable iafllt.
eoce over bwnao afrain, and which beiDJ eleyatod
llbove .the baser p888ions of oar nature, 'Wete
.tho~h~ to regai'd with peouJiar fuOIU' .n.whe
acknowledged their pqwer, or innked their ail ;
beace. the nomerooa rites which have in aU .-
and COODtries been obaerved in coDIIIltiDg aaperior
Uac.Uig.encea, and tbe eqully noaero111 mod~
in Which ~ pleasure has been collliDiiDioated t.
mortals.
The Qlaldeana were iDere .celebratei fer tlleir
skill in Astrology,than Magic ;. of th~ farmer, &ey
were beyond ~t the invemon: a.o famous ~d
they become in divining from upects, pG&itiona,
and ioftoences of the stan; tllat aU Aatrolagen
were termed Chaldeaos, particularly by the Jewa
aa41 Romans.
Of all species of idolatry, the worship of the
heaveply ~odies appear• to have been among the
mO&t aocwot. The Babylonilliaa :S.oon perCl'ited
tbat,these bodies ooatioually ~g..e4 their .place.;
and that some of them mov.ed ill regulal' orbits ;
they conolotled, therefore, that Wa regularity of
motion must neceasarily imply some designing
eau.se-something superior to mere.joert matter :
hot.tbe pr~v.al notion of.one supreme .being pre..
ahliag over the Wli"erse, was almost e&#nct, from
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
104 MAGIC OF THE EASTERN NATIONS•
.
;a period· little subsequent to the delnp, to the
:vocatio'n of Abraham. Hence arose the bltliefthat
the stats were genii, of which some wer.e the
.friends, and others the enemies of men ; that they
possessed an incontrollable power -over human
afFairs ; and that to their dominion were subjected,
not only the vicissitudes of the seasons, of the at-
mosphere, and the productions of the earth, but
·also the dispositions and thoughts ofmortals. T:hey
'Were supposed to delight in sacrifices and pr.
ayers•
.Hence a species of worship,,subordinate to that of
·the gods, was established in their honour. It was
·beUeyed.that no event could be foreknown, no ma-
gical operation performed, without their aid ; and
they conferred extraordinary and supernatural
powers on all who sought their favour. Men emi-
nent for authority or wisdom, were thought, after
their decease, to be incorporated with the race
ofgenii, and sometimes even of gods.
. There is little doubt that the Baal of the Scrip·
tnres, is the same with the Belus of profane
historians.. Like Atlas, king of Mauritania, he
excelled in the knowledge of Astronomy; but
superstition bas assigned to the celebrated founder
of th.e Babylonian monarchy a gre~ter dignity than
to his western rival; the former was long worship-
.ped by tbe Assyrians as one of their chief gods,
;while to the latter wAs committed the laborious and
no very enviable task. of supporting the earth
~m his shoulders. . Indeed aU the successors of
Jlelus enjoyed the rare felicity of being honoured
both living and dead.. On leaving the globe, their
souls being transformed into genii, were distributed
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
--~-------------~·- ---
MAGIC 01' THB BASTBlt-:N 'NATIONS. 106
tU.Oagb the immensity of space, to auperintend
the nations, and to direct the influence of the hea·
~eniy orbs. The Cbaldeanmagii was chielyfoud-
ed on Astrology, and Will much conversant with.
certain animals, metals and plants, which were
employed in all their incantations, .and the virtue
of which was derived from Stellar inftnenoe. Great
attention was always paid to . the positioos and
configurations presented by the celestial sphere ;
and it was only at favonrabl" seasons that the ao-
&emn rites were celebrated. Those rites were ac-
oompanied with many peculiar and fantastic ges~
hues, by leaping, clapping of bands, prostrations,
iood cries, and not nnfreqnently nninteUigible ex-
clamations•. Sacrifices and burnt-offerings were
used to propitiate superior powers ; but our know·
ledge of the magical rites exercised by oertain
Oriental nations, the Jews only excepted, is ex-
tremely limited. All the books professedly writ-
te.n oo the subject, have been swept away by the
torrent of time. We Jearn, however, that the pro-
fessors among the Cbaldeans were generally divi-
Cled into 1hree classes ; the A&caphim, or charm-
ers, whose office it was to remove present, and to
• Qumdam opera magica mulieribus perfecta fuere, sicut de
productione aquaram reperimus apud Cbaldeos; ai decem
Virgiaea ae oraeot, veatimeo~ riabra inducant, talteat ita at uoa
altera impellat, idque progredieodo et retrogredieodo, digitos
denique versus solem certis signis extendant, ad &nem perducta
illl actione, aquas illici et prodire dicunt. Sic acrlbuot, si qua.
tuor malieree io tergajaceaot, et pede• auas com compo.iooe
981'101 ccelum extendant, certa.verba, certos item geatue, adbi-
beat illas -t~rpl hac actione grandinem decidentem avertere.-
Tiedman'1" Disputatio de qutrstione, qu111 fuerit artium magicarum
orlfo."
F2
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
106 lf~GIO 0' 1'HB 'BNB'I'BRN :NATIONS.
avert :ratcue·conthrgent evils ; ·to coutruot tlfU.
nnms, &c. ; ,the M~cuc'Aeplt.im, ·or:magioiaoa :pro-
perly s~ s:alled,, who were conversant with the
occult powers of nature, · and the ·i11J)emat.ial
world ; and the Cheudim, ·or astromgers, .fto
oonatitated by far the moat numerous ·ami •re-
spectable class. And from the 881embliDg of 1he
wise men on the occasion ·of the eoxtraordiuary
dream of Nebuohadn~ar, it would appear that
Babylon.had also her OMict'o~ici, or interpreter•
of dream&-& species of.diviners indeed to which
almost every nation.of antiquity gave birth.
The talisman is probably a Chaldean invention.
It was generally a small image of stone, .or oftmy
metallic substance, and was of various·forms. On
it were several mysterious characters, which were
cut under a certain configuration of the planets,
and some believed to be powerfully efficacious,
not only in averting evils, but .in unfolding the
dark and distant picture. Some learned men have
lately expressed their doubts as to the antiquity
ofthe talisman, ani:1 have even contended that it
is not older than the Egyptian Amulet, which was'
probably 'invented bat a short time before the
Christian era; bot we have the authority of the
sacred writings for asserting that the Serapbim,
which, according to the Jewish Doctors, gave
oracular answers, and \thich, both in form and use,
bore a great. resemblance to the talisman, was
known at an early period. There is no alight
reason for concluding that the latter ,is either an
imitation of the former, or that both are one and
the same device.-Like the Chaldean Aatrologen,
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
HAGto OJ' TBB BAS'I'BltiN MAT.IONS. J07
the.P~niln tbgi, :from .whom oor wp~ 1r1qic is
derived, .belongs to the priesthood. Bot tbe· wor-
ahip of the 3'0ds, was not their,ehW occapatieo ;
they were great proficieo1s in the arts ofwhiob we
are D.ow treating. Atfint.tbey were diatiugui.W
for their ardour in the pursuit of knowledge ; they
endeavowed .to.pene~e 1huecrets of nature by
the only way .in which those secrets can ~ dia-
oovered---experiment and reason. The former
furaisbed them:With facts; the IaUer taught them
bow these facta might be·made the fouadation of
higher researches, and rendered subservient to the
paWic utility. While they continaed in this iDJIOI.
cent and·laudable career, devoting,.like th~ druids,
no~considerable portion of.their..time to .the oare
of diseases, by means of herbs aad.other ~
productions, they deserved and obtained the grati-
tude of their countrymen ; bot in proceas.of time
they.became desirous.of increasing .the reverence
with which they.were regarded by .all rao.ks : they
grew ambitious of·higher hOnours, to direct .the
i!Oilnsels of the state, and to render even their
sovereigns- subject to their sway. · They joined
therefore to<
tJie wol'ship of;the gods, and to dte
.profession of medicine and natural magic, a pre-
tended fa~iliallity'With superiorpower~~, from which
they oouted of deriving;~lt.tbeir knowledge. Like
.Plato, .who probably i,nbibed ll)anyof their notions,
·they taught ·that ·Demons bold a middle rank·be-
tween gods aod men ; thatthey (the-Demons).pre-
sMled not oaly over diVinations, allgaries, conju- ·
rations, oracles, and every speoie1r of ,naagio;.hut
.also oTer sacrifices .and .prayer, which in ·b~f
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
108_ MAGIC OP TRB BASTBRN NATIONS~
ofmen they preaeoted, and rendered &llieeptable.
to the gods. Hence they were mediators,.whose
miaistry was tJaoaght indispensable in aU magical-
aJUI religious rites. The magi constantly persuaded
their credulooa countrymen, that to them alone
,was conceded the high privilege of communicat-
ing with gods and demons, and of being thereby
enabled to foretel future events.; they even went so
far as to assert that by means of their incantations,
they obliged the latter to execute all their com-
mands,.and to.serve them with the same deference
as servants do their masters. The austerity of
their .lives was well calculated to. strengthen
.the impression which their cunning bad already
made on the multitude, and to prepare the way for
whatever impositions they might afterwards wish
. te practise•
. All the three order of Magi enumerated by Por-
phyry, abstained from wine and women, and the
first of these orders from animal food. These were
indulgences w]lich th.,y considered too vulgar f9r
.men who were the favourites of Orosmades, Are-
manias, and of the inferior Deities, and who were
so intimately connected with the offspring of those
Deiues, the numerous hosts ofGenii and Demon.
. Three kinds of divination were chiefly cultivated
·by the Magi; nsctOfNlncy, which appears to ha.ve
,been twofold; the pl'edicting o( future events by
the inspection of dead bodies, and the invok-
ing of departe«t spirits, which were forced to un-
fold the dark dec..;ees offate-a science which has
~ in all ages been almost universally diffused over
the earth; ltcaMfiUIM?f, by which demons, in
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
MAGIC 01 TH& INDIANS; 1'()9
obedience to certain powerful songs, were obUged
to enter a vessel filled with "!ater, and to answ_,r
wh!ltever questions were put to them ; and Aydro-
mancy, which differs from lecanO.ancy in this, that
.the voice of the demon was not beard, but his form
was perceptible in the water, in which he repre-
sented, either by means of his satellites, or by
written verses, the cause and issue of any particu-
lar event. Whether the celebrated Zoroaster was
acquainted with these three species, cannot be well
determined. He has been called the inventor of
magic ; with what justic~, is quite as doubtful. It
bas been inferred, and perhaps with greater piau~
sibility, that he did not as much invent as method-
ize the art. He may likewise have so extended
its bounds as to eclipse the fame of his predeces-
sors ; and from that, as well as from the other con-
jjideration, the honour of the invention may have
been .assigned him.
· INDUNs.-Of Indian magic we know even leis
than we do of that exercised by any other ancient
nation. We liave however reason to. conclude
that much of it was similar to that ·for which the
.magi, from whom it was probably derived, were
· held in so bigb estimation. But the divination of
the .Indians differed in one respect from that of all
other people ; they admitted in it affairs of public
moment, but rigorously excluded it from all pri-
vate concerns. The reason of this prohibi-
tion probably was, that the science WJlS es~
· teemed..too sacred to be employed on the ordi-
nary occurrenpes oflife; Their Gymnasophists, or
Bracbmans, (it is not clear that there was any dis-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
110 MAGIC OP 'rHB EGYPTIANS.
tinction between 1}1em.)were rqgarded,wifh.as mucll
Je¥8l'flllce.as tbe magi; and were pr:obably more
wortlly: of it• . :Some of .them .dw.elt in.wootls, and
others in the immediate ..-ioinity of cities. ·They
performed the ceremonies.of religion ; by them in·
deed kin~ .worshipped-the deities of the country;
not a fe.w pretended to :supellior powers, to cure
diseases by:enehantments, and .to .foretel future
events by .the stars ; but. generally speaking;
they were.a useful 81ld honourable body of-men;
Their skill iu medicine was great : the care which
they took in educating youth, in familiarizing it
withgeoerous and virtuous sentiments, did·them
peculiar honour ; and their maxims and discourses,
asl'ecorded :by historians, (if indeed tpose histo•
rians .be deserving of full credit) prove that they
were much.accustomed. to profound reflection OJl
the principles of civil polity, morality, religion,
and ~hilosophy. They preserved their dignity
ander;tbe sw.ay of the most powetful·princes, whom
they~ would not condescend to visit, or to trouble
for:the-slightest favour. ·If ·the ·latter desired the
acltice ·Or the prayers ·of the former, they were
obliged either to go tbemselres, or to send mes-
aeogets.
EGYPTIANS•.-Tbe·.Egyptians' also had tbeit-
m&giqians from the remotest .antiquity. Though
tb•emag~ciaos wereUDable to contend.With Moses,
they w•re greatly superior to ·the Gbaldean Aatto-
lo~ers; the Persian·Magi, and· the bdian- Gymno-
sophists ; they-appear to have possessed a deeper
iosipt· into the arcana of nature than any odt•
profeaaors of tbe art. By whaLextraordioary
BUGJO OIP-'J'IHB JIG'YPTIA.lll. 111
poweni 'their .rode were changed into serpents_
the oWaters·of the Nile. in1o blood, aod the lad of
Egypt covered with frogs, has mach perplexed
wise and ;good men. Of all the .methods of solu-
tion 'Which the leaming.aad piety of either Jewish
or Christian commematon have applied to thi•
diflicult problem, none appean so 001111onaot with
the meaning of the sacred text, aod at the same
time liable to so few objections, as this ; that the
magicians were not, in the present case,.impostors,
and that they really'accomplished, by means of sn..
pematural ·agents, the wonders recorded by the
inspired penman•. Earth, air, and ocean, may
contain many tJUngs of which our philosophy bas
never dreamt. If this consideration should bwn-
ble the pride of learning, it may remind the Chris-
tian that secret things belong not to him, but to a
higher power.
It was maintained by th~ Egyptians that besides
the Gods, there were many demons which commu-
nicated with mortals, and which were often ren.:
dered visible by 4lertain.ceremouies and songs; that
genii exercised an habitual aod powerful ioftoeoce
over every particle of matter ; that thirty-six of
these.h~iogs presided over .the varioqs members o{
tbe.hnman body; and that bymagioal incantations
it might be strengthened, or debilitatedt, aftlicted
with, or delivered from diseases. Thus, in everY,
case of sickness, the spirit of p.reaiding over the
• Tbia method of 10lviDJ the above problem is 11ipported by
the aathorit)' ofliiUy fatll8n ofthe cbureb.
t Amalia cum frai· Amplesiltae Ladieee aeqairet lmpotea-
tem 1e1e ab ea red4itum coatelldebat pertillacinbae. Vide
HerciclotiiiD, Jib, t.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
112 M.A.GlO OP THB BGYPTIA.NS.
aftlic~ part, was first duly invoked. Butthe ma·
gicians did not ,trust solely to their vain iuo-
cations ; they w«ewell acquainted with the virtues
of certain herbs, which they wisely employed in
their attempts at healing. These herbs were
greatly esteemed : thus the cynocepha/ia, or as
the Egyptians. themselves termed the a&yritu,
which was..used as a preventive against witch-
craft ; and the nepenthe•, which Helen presented
in a potion to Menelaus, and which was believed
to be powerful in banishing sadness, and in restor-
ing the mind to its accustomed, or even to greater
cheerfulness, were of Egyptian growth•. But
*.It is clearly sbewnby tbe earlieRt records, that the ancients
were in the possession ofmany powerful remedies; thusMelampus
of Argos, tbe most ancient Greek physician with whom we are
acquainted, is said to have cured one of the Argonauts ofsterility,
by administering tbe rust of iron in wine for teo days; and tbe
same physician used Hellebore as a purge, on tbe daugbten of
King Prretus, who were atllicted with melancholy. Venesec-
tion was also a remedy of very early origin, for Podalerius,
on his return from the Trojan war, cured the daughter of Dame-
thus, who had fallen from a height, by bleeding berin both arms.
Opium, ora preparation of tbe poppy, was certainly known in
tbe earliest ages; and it was probably opiuQI that Helen mixed
wltb wine, and gave to tbe guests of Menelaus, under the e·x-
pressive name ofnepenthe, (Odyss. 4,) to drive away their cares,
and increase their hilarity; and this conjecture receives much
eupport from tbe fact, that the nepenthe of.Homer was obtained
from tbe Egyptian Thebes, (whence the Tincture of Opium bll8
been call~d Thebaic Tincture;) and if the opinion of Dr. Dar-
win may be credited, tbe Cuinrean Sibyll never sat on the por-
tending tripod without first swallowin~ a few dropa of the jolt~
of the cherry-laurel.
" At Pbrebi nondum Patieaa, imJDaois in antro,
Baccbatnr vates, magnum Iii pectore possit
Euu11iue deum : tanto 11181il ille fategat
Oa rabidum,fera corda domans, fingitqoe premendo."
.£NBID, L vi. v.78.
MAGIC OP THE EGYPTIANS. 113
.whatev.er might he the virtues of suob herbs, they
were used rather for their magical than for their
·medicinal qualities ; every core was cunningly
ascribed to the presiding demons, with which not
·a few boasted that they were, by means of their
·art, intimately connected.
The Egyptian amulets are certainly not so an-
cient as the Babylonian Talisman, bot in their
uses they were exactly similar. Some little figures,
supposed to have been intended as charms, have
been formed on several mummies, which have at
various times been brought into Europe. Plu-
tarch informs us, that the soldiers wore rings, on
which the representation of an insect, resembling
There i~ reason to believe that the Pa«an priesthood were under
the influence of some narcotic during the display of tbeir oracu-
lar powers, but the elfecta produced would seem rather to re-
semble tho~ of opium, Or perhapa of atramOoiiiDI, thao of
Prussic acid. Monardus tells us, that the priests of ..e Ame-
rican Indians, whenever they were consulted by the chief gen-
tlemen,orcacipu, as tbey are called, took certain Ieaveaof tbe
tobacco, and cast them into the fire, aod then received the
smoke which they thus produced in their mouths, in consequence
of which they fell down upon the ground; and that after having
remained for some l\me in a stupor, they recovered, aod deli-
vered the answers, wbii:h they prt"tended to have received
during their supposed iatercoune with the world of apirill. The
aedative powers of the garden lettuce were known in the earliest
times. Among the fables of antiquity we read, that after the
death of Adonis, VenUB threw herself upon abed of lettuces, to
lull her grief and repreaaher desires. TJJe aea onion, or ttpdll,
was administered by the Egyptians in cases of dropsy, under the
mystic title of the Eye of Typhon. The praeticea of incision
and scarification, were employed in the camp of the Greeb
before Troy, and the application of spirit to wounds, was also
understood, for we find the experienced l'leator applying a
fataplaam, composed of cheese, onion, and meal, mixed up
with the wine of Pramnoa, to the wounds of Machaon.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
.JJA ,MAGIC OF THB .GYPTIANtf.
out~tle, WQS ina~ribed; and we learn frQm ~.
tbat th.t judges had always susp~nded rouQ4 ~eir
necb a IJmfdl image of tr~th .for_..~cl of emerfd~•.
The superstition~ belief in the virtues of Amul~
is far from extinct in the preJient age; the Copbte,
the Arabians, and Syrians, and, iQdeed, almost all
.the iohabitants of Asia, west of the. Ganges, whe-
thu ChristiaDIJ or )fabometans, still use them
epjn.st possible evils.
The descendants of the Pharaohs, lik~t the Cbal-
dean kings, were always great encouragers of As·
tronomy ; 1111d thougb the Bubjeots of the latter
were not ao eminent u tbese of the former in ..-
si~ science, we have pod reason to con~lode
that they made no inconsiderable progress in it.
Herodotus, and other ancientbjstorians1 assert tha.
t
.Astrology.was, from the remotat times, oultivaU!d
by that people. They usually, indeed, prognol-
ticated the general course of life, the disposition,
and eyen the manner of death, of any one, by re-
ference to the deity presiding over the day on
which he was born ; and not unfrequently by
their eastern neighbours, by determining the po-
sition of the stars at the momeut of delivery.
As Moses passed the greatest part of his life in
Egypt, and as he could know little by personal ex-
perience of other nations, itmay perhaps be inferred
that generally when be warns the Israelites against
prevailing superstitions, he has a particular eye
to Ulose observed in the country in which the pos-
•· ..Eia addatar qaod acripait Ne~ep1191, draconem radios ha-
bentem inacalptam, collo aaapenaaiJI, ita 11t contiageret veotrL
calum, mire ei prodeaae.-TJ&DMA!f,
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
HAGIO OP THB JBWI. Uti
,terity of Adam had 10 long resided. He ..US
.frequent alluaion, ind~, to tbe magical rite. Blld
idola~us practices of the Ca~hllitea ; butintbla
oase he appears to apeak rather from the-informa-
tion he had acquired fromothera than from hia cnm
experience. ShOuld thia iDference be admitted,
w~ $ball hne reuon for believingthat both Witch-
craft and Necromaacy were known to the Eep-
ii~s; and that some days were couidered Jacky,
and others unfavorable, for the prosecution ol-,
importaa-t affair. _A careful perusal ef the Pea&a-
teueh. and a refereace to the Gt-eek Historians
-who have written on the affairs of Egypt, and
~hose works are DeCe1181'Y to elucidate IDUlJ ob-
•cu~ allusions in tJ.e aacred text. will flll!liab tile
more c'urioas reader with i:aformation on some mi-
nor PQints, which Ollr limits, as a miscellaneous
work, aecesaarily oblige ns to omit.
~BWS •.-We have hitherto had toG mach rea-
1100 te complain of tbe paucity of information -a~
fol!ded by ancient writers on the m~c of the
Eastern na1ioos i but wtls we come to consider
that of the lews, we net longer labour .oader .ao
heavy a disadnntag& The Holy Scripturea. .the
works of native writers, and above all, the lalto-
rians researches of leame4 Christiaa .commeat.-
tol'S, fDJlDiBb -us with abundant materials, &am.
whiob we shall select sooh as appear best adapW
to give an intelligible, but necesaarily brief, view
of the subject.~Many lew.iah Doctors assign to
1heir magic a preposterous antiquity. They aase~~t
• On the subject of the Jewish magi!, the_ work.& of Bu:r.torf,
Licbtfoot;Bekk.er, aDd others, have been consulted.
o "'"'''Coogle
116 MA(HC OF THE J BWS.
that it is of divine origin; that it was known to
'Adam and Abraham, both of whom were animated
by the same soul ; that the latter taught it by
·means of his concubines to his children ; and that
he wore round his neck a precious stone, the bare
sight of which cured every disease, and which,
after his death, Qod hung on the sun ! But leav-
ing these wild fables, we have sufficient authority
(or saying, that the Jews were at a very early
period addicted to the magical arts. This pro-
.peusity, which first originated in Egypt, wail much
increased by their subsequent intercourse with
the inhabitants of Syria, and above all, with their
Chaldean conquerors. Thus we read in the Book
of Kings, that they t:J&ed divination, and observed
the cry of birds. Hence the frequent and awful
denunciations employed by the inspired writers
against the praotisers of their forbidden arts. ·
Lightfoot bas proved, that the Jews, after their
return from Babylon, having entirely forsaken
idolatry, and being no longer favourecJ with the
gift of prophecy, gradually abandoned themselves,
.before the coming of onr Saviour, to sorcery and
divination. The Talmud, which they still regard
with a reverence bordering on idolatry, abounds
with instructions for the due observance of super-
stitious rites. After the destruction of their city
and temple, many Israelitish impostors were
highly t>stcemed for their pretended skill in makic.
Under pretence of interpreting dreams, they met
with daily opportunities of practising the most
11hameful frauds. :Many Rabbins wt>re quite as
well versed in the school of Zoroastt>r as in that
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
MAGIC OIP THE JEWS. 117
of Moses. They prescribed all kinds ofconjniatien,·
somefor thecure ofwounds, someagainst thedread·
ed bite of serpents, and other11 against thefts ud
enchantments. Like the Magi, they boasted that
by means of their art they held an intercourse with
superior beings. Thus Bath-kool, daugl&ter oft/ie
voice, is the name given by them to the echo :
they regarded it as an oracle, which in the second
temple, was destined to supply the defect of the
Urim and Thummim, the mysterious oracles ofthe
first. Of Bath-kool many absurd stories are related.
Thus when two Rabbins went to consult her con-
cerning the fate of another Rabbin, Samuel, the
Babylonian, they passed before a school, .in which
they heard a boy reading aloud, and Samuel dUd.
(Sam. ch. xxv. v. 1.) On enquiry they subse-
quently found that the object of their anxiety was
no longer an inhabitant of the earth ; and thus a
casual coincidence, of which no reasonable milD
would have been surprised, was confidently as-
cribed to the oracular powers of Batbkool. Two
other Rabbins, lona and losa, went to visit Acha
in his sickness ; as they proceeded on their way
they said, "let us. bear what sentence Bath-kool
-will pronounce on the fate of our brother." Im-
mediately they heard a voice, as if addressed by
a woman to her neighbour-" the candle is going
out ; let ~Qt the light be extiogui11hed in Israel."
(Lightfoot, vol. U. p. 267.) No more doubt was
entertained that tbes~ words proceeded from Bath-
kool, tbau tl!at Elias now assists at the circuiD-
.cisioQ of every J.ewisb child.
The diviQtt.tions of~~ Israelites werQ fotQlded
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
Jl8 XA.GIO OP TRB JBWS.
on the inftoence ofthe stars, and on the operations
of-spiiitl :that singular peopledid not, indeed, like
the Cbaldeans and Magi, regard the. hea\"enly
bodies as goas.and gehli; but they· ascribed to
them a gnat poW-er over the actions and opinions·
of inen. H~e .theoommon proverb, 'such.a oae
may be tbaakfal to his stan,' when spoken of any
person distinguished for his wealth, power, or
wdom. The mazzal-tool was the happy, and.tbe
mazzal~ra the malign~nt influence; and the fate
of -every :oae was supposed to. be regulated·by·
either one 'or the other. Like the notiGils from
which their superstitions opinions were derived,
the Jews constructed horosoopes,. and predicted
the fate -of every oue from his birtl). Thus if -y
one W'ere:bO'm tinder tlae dominion of the son, it
was prognosticated that be woUld be fair, gene-
rous, open-hearted, and ·capricious; ODder Venus,
rich and wanton; nnder Mercury, witty, and ofa
retentive memory ; onder the Moon, sickly, and
inconstant ; under Saturn, unfortunate ; under
Jupiter, just, and oDder Mars,.sooceasfol•.
.As to the spirits whc)se agency was so often
employed in -divination, we Jiave full information
&om· MII'DMSeh; Ben ·Israel, and -others. " Of
~r.ic"ecl spirits," says the author, ,, there are seve-
ral yarieties, of which some are intelligent and
cunning, others ignorant and stupid. The foroier
flying from one extent. of the earth to the other,
become acquainted with tbe general cause of hu-
man eveatS, both past and present, · and seine-
times with those of the future. Hence many
mortals conjure these spirits, by whose assistance
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
MAGIC Of' TH8 IBW8. JU
they eff'ect wonderful things. · The books of the
cabalists, and of some other writers. contain the
names of the spirits usually invoked, and a parti-
cular account of the ceremoniel' are accompanied.
If (continues the same author,) these spirits ap-
pear to one man alone, they portend no good ; if
to two persons together. they presage noevil:they
were never known to appear to three mortals as-
sembled together."
The magical rites ofthe Jews were, and indeed
are still. chiefly performed on various important
occasions, as on the birtl\ of a child, a marriage,
&c. On such occasions the evil spirits are be-
lieved to be peculiarly active in their malignity,
which can only be counteracted by certain en-
chantments•. Thus Tobit, according to the di-
rections of the angel Raphael, exorcised the
demon Asmodeus, whom be compelled, by means
of tbe perfume 6f' the heart and liver of a fish. to
fly into upper Egypt. (Tobit, ch. viii. v. 2 and 3.)
·1osepbus does not think magic so ancient as
many writers of this nation do; he makes Solo-
mon the first who practised an art which is so
powerful against demons ; and the knowledge
• Lea Juj(a crolent qae LUia veut faire moarlr let Pl1lODa
claDs Je buitiane jour aprh leur oaielli.oce, et lea ftllee danale
yqt-uni~me. ,Voici le remMe dee J uifs Alleman• pour ..
pr4!aerver de ce danger. lis tirent dea traits en ronde uec de
· Ia craie, ou uec dee charbons de bola, aur lea qoatre man de
Ia cbambre oi eat l'accoucbee, et ile 4!crivent'sur cbaque trait:
.Jidtrm! Eve I .qui Lilli 1e,.etire. Ils ecrivent an11i aur le parti
de cbambre les noms dee trois anges qui pre•identa Ia medicine,
s-f, Banmud, at &nm411felof, ainsi que Lilis el1e-m~tne lear
apprit qa'il falloit faire lenqu'eUe eep~oit de lea fUre toat
tona noyer dana Ia mer. Elilll,tu tplllted by Btclrw.
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
12() MAGIC OF THB JEWS.
qf which, he asserts,. was commu~icated to that
prince by immediate inspir9,tion. The latter, con-
tinues the weakly credulous historian, invented and
transmitted to posterity in his writings, certain.
incantations, for the cure of diseases, and for the
expulsion and .perpetual banishment of wicked
spirits from the bodies ofthe possessed. This mode
ofcure, hefurther observes, is very prevalent in our
nation. It consisted, according to his description,
in the use of 11 certain root, which was sealed
up, and held under the nose of the person pos·.
sessed; the name of Solomon,· with the words
prescribed by him, was then pronounced, and the
demon forced immediately to retire. He does not
even hesitate to assert, that he himself has b('en
an eye-witness of such an effect produced on a
person named Eleazar, in presence of the em-
peror Vespasian and his sons. Nor will this re-
lation surprise us, when we consider the deep
malignity entertained by a Jew to the Christian
religion, and his ceaseless attempts to .depreciate
the miracles of our Saviour, by ascribing them to
magical influence, and by representing them as
easy of accomplishment to all acquainted with the
occult sciences.
We should scarcely credit the account, were it
not founded on unquestionable authority, that on
the great day of propitiations, the Jews of the
sixteenth cen~ury, in, order to avert the angel of
Samuel, endeavoured to appease him by pre-
sents. On that day, and on no other throughout
the year, they believed that power was given him
to accuae them before the judgment-seat of God.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
MAGIC OF THB JBWS. 121
They aimed, therefore, to prevent their grand
enemy from carrying accusations against them, by
rendering it impossible for him to know the ap-
pointed day. For this purpose they used a some-
what singular stratagem ; in reading the usual
portion of the law; tht-y were careful to leave out
the beginning and the end,-an omission which
the devil was by no means prepared to expect on so
important an occasion. They entertained no
doubt that their cunning, in this instance, had
been more than a match for him.
The cabal is chiefty conversant with enchant·
ments, which are effected by a certain number of
characters. It gives directions how to select and
combine some passages and proper names of
Scripture, which are believed both to render
aupernatural beings visible, and to produce many
wonderful and surprising effects. In this manner
the Malclla-slleva, (the queen of Sheba who vi.
sited Solomon,) who bas often been invoked, and
as often made to appear. But the most famous
wonders have been effected by the name of God.
The sacred word Jehovah, is, when read with
points, multiplied by the Jewish doctors into
twelve, forty·two, and seventy-two letters, of
which words are composed that are thought to
possess miraculous energy. By these Moses slew
the Egyptians ; by these Israel was preserved from
the destroying angel of the Wilderness ; by these
Elijah separated the waters of the river, to open a
passage for himself and Elisha ; and by these it
bas been daring and impio111ly asserted, that the
Etemal Spn of God cast ont evil spirits, Thfil
G
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
1.22 MAGIC OF' THB .JEWS.
name of the devil is likewise uaed in magical de-
vices. The five Hebrew letters of which that name
is composed, exactly constitute the number 364,
one less than the days in the whole year. Now
the Jews pretended, that owing to the wonderful
virtue of the numbt-r comprised in the name of
satan, he is prevented from accusing them for an
equal number of days: hence the stratagem of
which we have before spoken, for depriving him
of the power to injure them on the only day in
which that power is granted him.
Innumerable are the devices contained in the
Cabal for averting possible evils, as the plag-Ue,
disease, and sudden death. But we see no ne-
cessity, nor even utility, in prosecuting the subject
further. We have said enough to convince the
reader of the gross superstition and abominable
practice of those who, even in their present state
of degradation and infamy, have the arrogance to
style themselves God'speculip,rpeople,-assomany
ligllts to enlighten the Gentiles.
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
'
I
I
123
PREDICTION.
Prophecy, Divination, or foretelling future events, eltlaer bJ
divine Revelation, by art aa4 hWIIIUI iavention, or by con.jec:-
ture.-See Divination, page 142.
FEw great moral or political revolutions have
occurred which have not had their accompanying
progrwstic ; and men of a philosophic cast of
mind, in the midst of their retirement, freed from
the delusions of parties and of sects, while they
are withdrawn from their conflicting interests,
have rarely been confounded by the astonishment
which overwhelms those who, absorbed in active
life, are the mere creatures of sensation, agitated
by the shadows of trntb, the unsubstantial appear-
ances of things. Intellectual nations are advanc-
ing in an eternal circle of events and passions
which succeed each other, and the last is necessa-
rily connected with its antecedent : the solitary
force of some fortuitous incident only can inter-
rupt this concatinated progress of human affairs,
That every great event bas been accompanied by
a presage or prognostic, has been observed by
Lord Bacon. "The shepherds of the people should
understand the prognostics of &tate tempest•;
hollow blasts of wind, seemingly at a distance, and
1ecrehwel1ings of the sea, often precede a storm•.,
Sueh were the ·prognostics discerned by the poli-
ti.} Bishop Williams, in Charles the First's time,
who clearly foresaw and predicted the final suocesll
!R the puritanic party ia our coQDtry : attentive to
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
PRBDJCTJON,
his own security, he abandoned the government
and sided with the rising opposition, at a moment
when such a change in the public administration
was by no means apparent. (See Rushworth, vol. i.
P· 420.)
Dugdale, our contemplative antiquary, in the
spirit of foresight, must have anticipated the scene
which was approaching in 1641, in the destruction
of our ancient monuments in cathedral churches.
He hurried on his itinerant labours ·of taking
draughts and transcribing inscriptions, as be says,
" to preserve them for future and better times."
It is to the prescient spiritofDugdale that posterity
is indebted for the ancient monuments ofEngland,
which bear the marks of the haste, as well as the
zeal, which have perpetuated them. Sir Thomas
More was no less prescient in his views; for when
his son Roper was observing to him that the
Catholic religion, under the " 'Defender of the
Faith," was in a most flourishing state, the answer
of More was an evidence of political foresight :-
" True it is, son Roper ! and yet I pray God
that we may not live to see the day that we would
gladly be at Je~e and competition with heretics,
to let them have their churches quietly to them-
selves, so that they would be contented to let us
have ours quietly to ourselves." The minds of
men of great political sagacity were at that mo-
ment, unquestionably, full of obscure indications
of the approaching change. Erasmus, when before
the tomb of Becket, at Canterbury, observing it
loaded with a vast profusion ofjewels, wished that
tho•e had beeo distributed among· the poor~ aod
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
PREDICTION.
that the shrine had only been adorned with boughs
and flowers:-" For," said he, " those who have
heaped up all this masa of treasure, will one
day be plundered, and fall a prey to those who
are in power." .A prediction literally fulfilled
about twenty years after it was made. TAe fall
of tlie religiotU hmuu was predicted by an un-
known author, (seeVisions of Pier's Ploughman,)
who wrote in the reign of Edward the Third.
The event, in fact, with which we are all well ac-
quainted, was realized two hundred years after-
wards, by our Henry VIII. Sir Walter Raleigh
foresaw the consequences of the separatists and the
•ectaries. in the National Chorcb, which occurred
about the year 1530. His memorable words are,
,. Time will even bring it to pass, if it were not
resisted, that God would be turned out ofcllurchu
into banu,and from thence againinto the.fleltU and
mountain1, and onder ludgu. All order of disci-
pline and church government, left to netDMU of
opinion, and men's fancies, and as tnany kindl of
religion spring up as there. are parish churches
~thin England." Tacitus also foresaw the cala-
mities.which so long desolated Europe on the fan
of the Roman empire, in a work written five hun-
dred years before the event ! In that sublime an-
ticipation of the future, he observed, '' When the
Romans shall be hunted out from those countries
which they have conquered, whatwiD then happen?
The revolted people, freed from their master-op-
pressor, will not be able to.subsist without destroy-
ing their neighbours, and the most cruel wars will .
exist among all these nations." Solon, at Athens,
,.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
contemplatiDg oa the pert and citadel of Muny-
chia, sudtleDly exclaimed, '' how bliad is man to
fu.turity ! could the Atheniansforesee what mischief
this will do, they would even eat it witb their own
teeth, to get rid of it." A prediction verified more
than uro hundred years.afterwards ! Thales de·
sired to be buried in an obscue qoarter- of Mil&
sia, observing that that very spot would in time be
the forum. Charlemagne, in his old age, observ-
ing from the window of a castle aNorman descent
on his coast, tears started in the eyes of the aged
~onarcb. He predicted, that since they dared to
threaten his dominions while be was yet livmg, ·
what would they do when he should be no more !
A melancholy prediction of their- subsequentiocur-
sions, and ofthe protracted c&lamities oftheFrench
nation during a whole century.
In a curious treatise on '' Divination," or tire
knowledge of future events~ Cicero has preserved
a complete accomit of the state contrivances prac-
tised by the Roman. government, to instil among
the people those hopes and fears by which they
regulated public opinioo. The Pagan creed~ BOW
become obsolete and ridionlous, bas occasioned
this treatise to be rarely consulted; it remains,
however, as a chapter in the history of man !
There appears to be something in minds which
.take in extensive :views of human nature, which
serves them as a kind of Divination, and the con-
soionsness ofthis faculty has been asserted by some.
Cicero appeals to Atticos how he had always
judged of the affairs of the republic as a good di·
viner; and that its overthrow had happened, as
•
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
PRBIHCTION.
he bad foreseen, fourteen years before.
Att. lib. 10, ep. 4.)
127
(Ep.ad
Cicero had not only predicted what bad happen-
ed in his own times, bot also what occurred long
aftel', according to Cornelius Nepos. The phi-
losopher, indeed, affects no secret revelation, nor
visionary second·aight; - he honestly tells us,
that that art had been aoquired merely by study,
and the adminstration of public afthlrs, while he
reminds his friend of several remarkable instances
of his successful predictions. " I do not," says
Cicero, " divine human events by the arts prac-
tised by the ·augurs ; hut I use other signs." Ci-
cel'O then expresaes himself with the guuded ob-
scurity of a philosopher who could not openly
ridicule the prevailing superstitions, although the
Dature of his " Ugns" are perfec1Jy comprehensi-
ble, when iD the great pending events of the rival
conflicts of Pompey and Cmsar, he shewed the
means he used for his purpose: " On one side I
oonsider the humour and genius of Clll$ar, and on
the other, the condition a,nd manner of civil wars."
(E;p. ad. Att. lib. 6, ep. 6.) In a word, the poli·
tical diviner, by his experience of the personal
character, anticipated the actions of the indivi-
dual. Others, too, have asserted the poasession of
this faculty. Du Vard, an eminent chancellor of
France, imagined the faculty to be intuitive with
him ; from observations made by his own expe·
rience. " Born," says he, " with constitutional
infir~ity, a mind and body but ill adapted to be
laborious, with a most treacherous memory, en.
joying no gift of nature, yet able at all times to ex~
o''''"'" ,,Coogle
PREDICTION.
ercise a sagacity so great.that I do not know, since
I have reached manhood, that any thing of im-
portance has happened to the state, to the public,
or to myself in particular, which I had not fore-
seen • ." The same faculty appears to be describ-
ed by a remarkable expression employed by
Thucidides, in his character of Themistocles, of
which the following is a close translation. " By a
species of sagacity peculiarly his own, for wbieh
he was in no degree indebted either to early educa-
tion or after study, he was supereminently happy in
forming a promptjudgmentinmatters that admitted
but little time for deliberation ; at the same time
that he far surpassed all his deductions of the fu-
ture from the PAST; or was the best guesser of
the future from the past."
Should this faculty of moral and· political pre-
diction be ever considered as a science, it may be
furnished with a denomination, for the writer of
the life of Thomas Brown, prefixed to his works,
in claiming the honour for that philosopher,
calls it '' the Stochastic," a term derived from
the Greek and from Archery, meaning to " shoot
at the mark."
Aristotle, who collected all the curious know-
ledge of his times, has preserv-ed some remarkable
opinions on the art of divination. In detailing
the various subterfuges practised by the pretended
diviners of the present day, he reveals the secret
principle by which one of them regulated his pre-
• This remarkable confe..ion may be found in MeJU~~~~e'•
Obaervations sur Ia langue Fran~oise, Part 11. p. llQ.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
PRBDICTIOlC.
dictions. Be frankly declared that the PUTUKE
being always very obscure, while the PAST was
easy to know, his predictiou laad uwr tlaefvture
mew ;for he decided from the PAST, as it appeared
in human affairs, which, bowevel', he concealed
from the multitude. (Arist. Rhetoric, lib. vii. c. 6.)
With regard to moral predictions on individuals,
many have discovered the future character. The
revolutionary predispositionofCardinal Retz, even
in his youth, was detected by the sagacity of Car-
dinal Mazarine. He then wrote a history of the
conspiracy of Fresco, with such vehement admi-
ration of his hero, that the Italian politician, after
its perusal, predicted that the young author would
be one of the moat turbulent spirits of the age !
The father of Marshal Biron, even amid the glory
of his son, discovered the cloud which, invisible to
others, was to obscure it. The father, indeed,
well knew the fiery passions of his son. " Biron,"
said the domestic Seer, " I advise thee, when
peace takes place, to go and plant cabbages in thy
garden, otherwise I warn thee thou wilt lose thy
bead upon the scaffold !" ·
Lorenzo de Medici bad studied the temper of
his son Piero ; for we are informed by Guicciardini
that he bad often complained to his most intimate
friends that " he foresaw the imprudence and ar-
rogance of his son would occasion the ruin of his
family."
There is a singular prediction of James the first,
of the evils likely to ensue from Laud's violence,
in a conversation given by Hacket, which tbe
King held with Archbishop Williams. When tbe
G2
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
J.a0 PRBDlCTION.
King waa bani pressed to promote Laud, he gave
his reasons why he intended to " keep Laud back
from all place of rule and authority, because I find
be hath a restless spirit, and cannot see when mat-
teJ'IJ are well, but loves to toss and change, and to
bring things to a pitch of reformation floating in
his own brain, which endangers the stedfastness
of that which is in a good pass. I speak not at
random; he hath made himself known to me to be
such a one." James then relates the circumstances
to which he alludes ; and at length, when still pur-
sued by the Archbishop, then the organ of Buck-
ingham, as usual, this King's good nature too easily
yielded ; be did not, however, without closing
with this prediction : " Then take him to you !
bot on my soul you will repent it !"
The future character of Cromwell was apparent
to · two of our great politicians. " This coarse,
unpromising man," observed Lord Falkland, point-
ing·to Cromwell, " will be the first person in the
kingdom if the nation comes to blows I" And
Archbishop Williams told Charles the First con-
fidentially, that "There was that in Cromwell
which.foreboded something dungerous, and wished
his Majesty would either ,_rio him over to him, or
get him t.aken oft'!"
Tbe incomparable character of Buonaparte,
given by the Marquis of Wellesley, predicted his
fall when highest in his power. " His eagerness
of)>ower," says this great Statesman, "is so inor-
dinate; his jealousy of independence so fierce; his-
keenness of appetite so feverish, in all that touches
his ambition, even in the most trifling things, tbat
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle J
PREDICTION. 131
he must plunge into dreadful difficulties. He is
one of an order of minds that by nature make for
themselves great reverses."
After the commencement of the French Revo-
lution, Lord Mansfield was once asked when it
would .end? His Lordship replied, " It is an
avent witlaout precedent, and therefore tcitltout •
ptagaostic." The fact is, however, that it bad
both ; as our own history, in the reign of Charles
the First, bad famished us with a precedent ; and
the prognostics were so plentiful, that a volume
of passages might be collected from various wri-
ters who had foretold it.
There is a production, which does honour to
the political sagacity, as well as to his knowledge
o( human nature, ·thrown out by Bishop Butler in
a Sermon before the House of Lords, in 1741 ;
he calculated that the unreligious spirit would
produce, some time or oilier, political disorders,
similar to those which, in the 17th century, bad
arisen from religious fanaticism. " Is there no
danger," he observed, "that aU this may raise
somewhat like tlaat levelling apiril, upon Atheist-
ieal principles, which in the last age prevailed
upon enthusiastic ones! Not to speak ofthe pos-
sibility that different sorts ofpeople may unite in
it upon these contrary principhs fl All this has
lit«ally been accomplished !
If a prediction be raised on facts -
which our own
prejudice induce us to infer will exist, it must be
chimerical. The Monk Carron announces in his
Chronicle, printed in 1532, that the world was
about ending, as well as his Chronicle of it ; that
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
132 PREDICTION.
the Turkish Empire would not last many years ;
that after the death of Charles V. the Empire of
Germany would be torn to pieces by the Germans
themselves. This Monk will no longer pass for a
prophet ; be belongs to that class of Chroniclers
who write to humour their own prejudices, like a
certain Lady-prophetess who, in 1811, predicted
that grass was to grow in Cheapside about this
time!
Even when the event does not always justify the
prediction, the predictor may not ht1ve been the
less correct in his principles of divination. The
catastrophe of human life, and the tum of great
events, often torn out accidental. Marshal Biron,
whom we have noticed, might have ascended the
throne instead of the scaffold; Cromwell and De
Retz might have become only the favourite gene-
rals; or the ministers of their Sovereigns. For-
tuitions events are not included within the reach of
human prescience ; such must be consigned
to those vulgar superstitions which· presume to
discover the issue of human events, without pre-
tending to any human knowledge.. lo the science'
of the Philosopher there is nothing supernatural.
Predictions have sometimes been condemned
as false '?nes, which, when scrutinize may
scarcely be deemed to have failed : they may have
been accomplished, and they may again revolve on
us. In 1'149, Dr. Hartley published his " Ob-
servations ~o Man ;" and predicted the fall of the
existing governments and hierarchies, in two sim-
ple propositions ; among others-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
PRBDICTION. 133
Prop. 81. It is probable that all the ci11il go·
vernmmts will be overturned.
Prop. 82. It is probabk tlaat tlae pruent
fo'l'm8 of Claurch govemfltBftt toill be diuolved.
Many indeed were terribly alarmed at these pre-
dicted falls of Church and State. Lady Charlotte
Wentworth asked Hartley when these terrible
things would happen ? The answerof the predictor
was not less awful : " I am an old man, and shall
not live to see them." In the subsequent revolu-
tions of America and France, and perhaps latterly
•that of Spain, it can hardly be denied that these
predictions have failed.
The philosophical predictor, in foretelling some
important crisis, !\om _
the appearances of things,
will not rashly assign the period of time ; for the
crisis,he anticipates is calculated on by that inevit-
able march of events which generate each ether in
hu,uan affairs ; but the period is always dubious,
being either retarded or accelerated by circum-
stances of a nature incapable of entt!ring into his
moral arithmetic. There is, however, a spirit of
political vaccination ·which presumes to pass be-
yond the boundaries of human prescience, which,
by enthusiasts, bas often been ascribed to tbe
highest source ofinspiration ; but since " the lan-
guage:of prophecy" hasceased, snch pretensions are
not less impioua than they are unphilosopbical. No
one possessed a.more extraordinary portion of this
awful prophetic confidence than Knox the reform-
er: he appears to have predicted several remark-
able events, and tbe fates of some persons. We
are informed that when condemned to a galley in
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
1M
Rochelle, he predicted that " within two or three
years, be should preach the Gospel at St. Giles's,
in Edinburgh," an improbable event, which never-
theless happened as he bad foretold. Of Mary and
Damley, he pronounced that, "as the King, for
the Queen's pleasure, had gone to mass, the Lord,
in his justice, would make her the instrument of
his overthrow." Other striking predictions of
the deaths of Thomas Maitland, and of Kirkaldly
of Grange, and the warning he solemnly gave to
the Regent Murray, not to go to Linlitbgow, where
he was assassinated, occasioned a barbarous people
to imagine that the prophet Knox had received
an immediate communication from heaven.
An Almanack-maker, a Spani!h friar, predicted,
in olear and precise words, the death of Henry
the Fourth of France ; and Pierese, though be had
no faith in the vain science of Astrology, yet.
alarmed at whatever menaced the life of a beloved
Sovereign, consulted with some of the King's
friends, and had the Spanish almanack before his
M~esty, who oourteously thanked them for their
aolioitade, bat utterly slighted the prediction : the
e.vent occurred, and in the following year the
Spanish friar spread his own fame in a new fllma-
nack. This prediction of the Spanish friar was
the result either of his being acquainted with the
plot, or from his being made an instrumentfor the
purposes of those who were. It appears that
Henry's assassination was rife in Spain and Italy
before the event occurred.
Separating human prediction from inspired
prophecy, we caD only ascribe to the faculties of
•.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
PllBDIOTIO'N.
man that acquired prescience whieh we have de-
monstrated, that some great minds have unques-
tionably exercised. Its principles have been dis·
·covered in the necessary dependance of effects on
general causes, and we have shewn that, impelled
by the same motives, and circumscribed by the
same passions, all human affairs revolve in a circle;
and we have opened the true source of this yet im-
perfect science of moral and political prediction,
in an intimate, bot a discriminative, knowledge of
the past. Authority is sacred when experience
affords parallels and analogies. If much which
may overwhelm, when it shall happen, can be
foreseen, the prescient Statesman and Moralist
may provide defeuive measures to break the
waters, whose streams they cannot always direct;
and the venerable Hooker has profoundly observ-
ed, that " the best things have been overthrown,
notso much by puissance and mightof adversariea,
as through defect of council in those that should
have upheld and defended the same • ."
" The philosophy of history," observes a late
writer and excellent observer, " blends the past
with the present, and combines the present with
the future ; each is but a portion of the other.
The actual state of a thing is necessarily deter-
mined by its anteoedent, and thos progressitely
through the chain of bilman existence, while, as
Leibnitz has happily expressed the idea, the
present is always foil ofthefuture. A newand beau-
• This wu written iD 1560, and before the era of revolution•
bad comm~nced even among ounelves. He penetrated Into
the important principle merely by the force ofbis own medita-
tion.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
136 FATALISM.
tifullight is thus thrown over the annals of inan·
kind, by the analogies and the parallels of different
ages in succession. How the seventeenth century
bas influenced the eighteenth, and the results of
the nineteenth, as they shall appear in the twen-
tieth, might open a source of PRHDICTIONS, to
which, however difficult it might be to affix their
dates, there would be none inexploring into causes,
and tracing their inevitable effects. The multi-
tude live only among the shadows of things in the
appearance of the. PRBSBNT; the learned, busied
with the PAST, can only trace whence, and how~
all comes ; but he who is one of the people and one
of the learned, the trne philosopher, views the
natural tendency and terminations which are pre-
paring for the FUTURE."
FATALISM, oR PREDESTINATION.
UNDER tbenameofmaterialism things very differ-
ent from thosegenerallyunderstood aredesignated:
it is the sarpe with respect to fatalism. Ifit. be main-
tained that every thing in the world, and the world
itself, are necessary ; that all that takes place is
the effect of chance or of blind necessity, and that
no supreme intelligence is mixed with, nor in fact
mixes with existing objects ;this doctrine is a kind
of fatalism, differing very little from atheism. But
this fatalism has nothing in common with the doc-
trine which establishes the innateness of the facul-
ties of the soul and mind, and their independence
upon organization. We cannot, then, under the
first consideration, be accused of fatalism. .
o "'"'''Coogle
FATALISM• 137
.
Another species of fatalism is that which teo.che~
that in truth there exists a Supreme Being, crea-
tor of the universe, as well as of all the laws and
properties connected with it; but that he has fixed
those laws in so immutable a manner, that every
thing that happens could not happen otherwise.
In this system, man is necessarily carried away by
the causes that compel him to act, without any par-
ticipation whatever of the will. His actions ar~
always a necessary result, without voluntary choice
or moral lioorty ; they are neither punishable or
meritorious, and the hope of future rewards
vanishes, as well as the fear of future punishment.
This is the fatalism with which superstitious
ignorance accuse the physiology of the brain•,
that is the doctrine relative to tbe functions
"Of the most noble organization in the world.
" I have effectually proved," says Dr. Gall,
" that aJI our moral and intellectual dispo-
sitions are innate ;.that none of our propensities
or talents, not even the understanding and will,
can manifest themselves independent of this or-
ganization. To which also may he added, that it
does not d~pend upon man to he giftedwith organs
peculiar to his specit's, consequently with such or
such propensities or faculties. Must it now be
inferred that man is not the master of his actioM,
that there exists no. free will, consequently neither
a meritorious nor an unworthy act ?"
Before this conclusion is refuted,let us examine
with the frankness worthy oftrue philosophy, how
• Vide Lecture• on Phrenolo,y, b)' Dn.Galland Spart&heim.
138 FATALISM.
far man i~ submitted.ro the immutable Jaws of his
Creator, how far we ought to acknowledge an in-
evitable necessity, a destiny, or fatalism. To un-·
ravel confused ideas, is the best method ofplacing
truth in its clearest point of view.
Man is obliged to acknowledge the most pow·
erful and determined influence of a multi-
tude of things relative to his happiness or
misery, and even over his whole conduct, without
af himself being able either to add to, or subtract
from that influence. No one can call himself to
life ; no one can choose the time, the climate, or
the nation in which he shall be hom; no one can
fix the manners, laws, customs, form of govern-
ment, religious prejudices, or the auperstitions
with which he shall be surrounded from the mo-
ment of his birth; no one can say, I will be master
01' servant, the eldest son or the youngest son ; I
will have a robust or a debilitated sta~ of health ;
I will be a man or a woman ; I .will have such or
such a constitution : I will be a fool, an idiot, a
simpleton, a man of understanding, or a man of
geniua, passionate or calm, of a mild or cross na-
ture, modest or proud, stupid or circumspect,
oowardly or prone to voluptuousness, humble or
independent : no one can determine the degree of
prudence or the foolishness of his superiors, the
noxious or useful example he shall meet with, the
result of his connexions, the fortuitous events, the
-influence of external things over him, the condition
of his father and mother, or his own, or the source
ofirritation that-his desires or passions will expe•
rieDce. The relations of the five senses with ex·
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
VATALISM. 189
tenlal things. and tlte number and functions ofthe
'9iscera and members, have been fixed in the same
invariable maDDer ; so nature is the source of our
propensities, sentiments, and faculties. Their re-
ciprocal influence, and their relations with external
objects, have been irrevocably determined by the
laws ofour organization.
As it does not depend upon ourselves to have or
see when objects strikes our ears or our eyes, in
the same manner our judgments are necessarily the
resaltsof the laws of thought. "Judgment, very
rightly," says Mr. Tracy," in this sense is indepen-
deot ofthe will; it is not under our controul, when
we perceive a real relation betwixt two of our per-
ceptions, not to feel it as it actually is, that is, such
as should appear to every being organized as our-
selves, if they were precisely in the same situa-
tion. It is this necessity which constitutes the
oertainty and reality of every thing we are ac-
quainted with. For if it o•dy depended upon our
fancy to be affected with a great thing as if itwere
a small one, with a good as if it were a bad one,
with one that is true as if it werefalse, there would
no longer exist any thing real in the world, at least
for us. Therewould neitherbe greatness nor small-
ness, good nor evil, falsehood nor truth ; our fancy
alone would be every thing.. Such an order of
things cannot even be conceived; it implies con-
tradiction.
Since primitive organization, sex, age, constitu·
tion, education, climate, form of government, reli-
gion, prejudices, superstitions, &c. exercise the
moat decided inftuence over our sensations and
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
140 FATALISM•.
ideas, oar judgments and the determination of our
will, the nature and force of our propensities and
talents, consequently over tho first motives of oar
actions, it mnst be confessed that man, in several
of the most important moments of his life, is under
the empire ofa destiny, which sometimes fixes him
like the inert shell against a rock ; at others, it
carries him away in a whirtwind, like the dust.
It is not then surprising that the sages ofGreece~
of the Indies, China and Japan, the Christians of
the east and west, and the Mahomedans, have
worked up this species of fatalism with their dif~
ferent doctrines. In all times our moral and intel-
lectual faculties have been made to take their
origin from God ; and in all times. it bas been
taught that all the gifts of men came from heaven ; -
that God has, from !111 eternity, chosen the elect;.
that man of bimsC:M is incapable of any good
thought ; that every difference between men, rela~
tive to their faculties. comes from God; that there
are only those to whom it has been given by a su~
perior power who are ~apable of certain actions ;.
that every one acts after his own innate character,
the same as the fig tree does not bear grapes, nor
the vine figs, and the same that a salt spring does
not run in fresh water; lastly, that all cannot dive
into the mysteries of nature, nor the decrees of
Providence.
It is this same kind of fatalism, thjs same
inevitable influence of superior powers, that
has been taught by the fathers of the church.
St.Augustine wished this very same doctrine to be.
preached, to profess loudly in the belief of the iofal.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
4
-,
FATALISM. 141
libility of Providence, and our entire dependence
upon God. " In the same manner, be say11, no one
can give himself life, no oae can giYe himself un-
derstanding." If some are unacquainted with the
truth, it is, according to his doctrine, because they
have not recehed the necessary capacity to know
it. He refutes the objections that might be urged
against the justice of God : be remarks that neither
has the grace of God distributed equally to every
one the temporal goods, such as address, strength,
health, beauty, wit, and the disposition for the arts
and sciences, riches, honors, 8tc. St. Cyprian at
that time had already said, that we ought not to be
proud of our qualities, for we possess nothingfrom
·ourselvE-s.
If people bad not always been convinced of the
influence of external and internal conditions rela-
tive to the determination of our wi11, upon our
actions, why, in aU times and among every people,
have civil and religious laws been made to subdue
and direct the desires of men ? There is no reli-
gion that bas not ordained abstinence from certain
meats and drinks, fasting and mortification of the
body. From the time of Solomon the wise down
to our own time, we know of no observer of hu-
man nature that bas not .acknowledged that the
physical and moral man is entirely dependant on
the Jaw!! of.the creation.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
142
DIVINATION,
Is the art or act of foretelling future events, and
is divide_d by the ancients into artificial and natural.
ARTIFICIAL DtVINATION,
Is that which proceeds by reasoning upon certain
external '.ligns, considered as indications offuturity.
NATURAL DtVINATION,
Is that which presages things from a mere inter-
nal -sense, and petsu~ion of the mind, without
any assistance ofsigns ; and is of twokinds, the one·
from nature, and the other by influx. The first is
the supposition that the soul, collected within it-
self, and not diffused, or divided among the organs
of the body, has, from its own nature and essence,
some foreknowledge of future things : witness
what is seen in dreams, ecstasies, the confines of
death, &c. The .second supposes that the soul,
after tbe manner of a minor, receives.some secon··
dary illumination from the presence of God and
other spirits.
Artificial divination is also oftwo kinds; the one
argues from natural causes; e. g. the predictions
of physicians about the event ofdiseases, from the
poise, tongue, urine, &c. Such also are those of
the politician, 0 venalem urbetn, et mo:r peuturam,
si emptorem i11veneris ! The second proceeds
from experiments and observations arbitrarily in~
stituted, and is mostly superstitious.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DIVINATION. 143
The systems of divination reducible uader thiJ
head, arc almost incalculable, e. g. by birds, the
entrails of birds, lines of the band, points marked
at random, numbers, names, the motion of a sieve,
the air, fire, the Sortes Pramestinte, Virgilianm,
aod Homericre ; with numerous other8, the princi-
pal species and names of which are as follows :-
i\XINOMANCY,
Was an ancient species of divination or method
of foretelling future events by means of an axe
or hatchet. The word is ·derived from the
Greek, a£c"71• securis; 1-'a" na, divinatio. This art
was in considerable repute among the ancients;
and was performed, according to some, by laying
an agate stone upon a red hot hatchet.
ALBOTOROM.~NTIA,
Is an ancient kind of divi~ation, performed by
means of a cock, whieh was used among the
Greeks, in the following manoer.-A circle was
made on the ground, and divided into 24 equal
portions or spaces : in each space was written one
of the letters of the alphabet, and upon each of
these letters was laid a grain of wheat. This
being done, a cock waa placed within the circle,
and careful Qbservation was made of the graias he
picked. The letters corresponding to these grains
were afterwards formed into a word, which word
was the answer decreed. It was thus that Liba-
nius and Jamblicus sought who should succeed the
Emperor VJllens ; and the oock. aDswering to the
o "'"'''Coogle
144 DIVINATION.
spaces 9EOA, they concloded opon Theodore, but
by a mistake, instead of Tbeo~osios.
ARITHMOMANCY,
Is a kind of divination or method of foretelling fu-
ture events,· by means of numbers. The Gema-
tria, which makes the first species of the J ewisb
Cabala, is a kind of Arithmomancy.
BELOMANCY,
Is a method of divination by meaBs of arrows,
practised in the East, but chiefly among the Ara·
bians.
Belomancy has been performed in different man-
ners : one was to mark a parcel of arrows, and to
put eleven or more of them into a bag ; these were
afterwards drawn out, and according as they were
marked, or otherwise, theyjudged offuture events.
Another way was, to have three arrows, upon one
of which was written, God forbids it me ; upon
another, God orders it me; and upon the third
nothing at all. These were put into a qoiver, oat
of which one of the three was drawn at random ; if
it happened to be that with the second inscription,
the thing they consulted about was to be done; if
it chanced to be that with the first inscriptio~, the
thing was let alone ; aod if it proved to be that
with1>ut any inscription, they drew over again.
Belomancy is an ancient practice, and is probably
that which Ezekiel mentions, chap. xxi. v. 21.
At least St. Jerome understands itso, and observes
tbat the pf!lctice was frequent among the Assy·
rian41 and Babylonians. Something like it is also
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DIVINATION. 14:)
mentioned in Hosea, chap. vi. only that staves are
mentioned there instead of arrows, which is rather
Rhabdomancy than Belomancy. Grotins, as well
as Jerome, confounds the two together, and shews
that they prevailed, much among the Magi, Chal·
deans, and Scytbians, from whom they paased to
the Sclavonians, and thence to the Germans, whom
Tacitus observes to make use of Belomanc7.
CLBROMANCY,
Is a kind of divination performed by the throwing
of dice or little bones ; and observing the points
or marks tamed up.
At Bura, a city of Achaia, was a temple, and a
celebrated Temple of Hercules ; where such as
cousulted the oracle, after praying to the idol,
threw foor dice, the points of which being well
scanned. by the priests, be was supposed to draw
IUl answer from them,
CLBDONlSM,
This word i~ derived from the Greek xA.,.,,, which
signifies two things; viz. rumour, a report, and
avis, a bird ; in the firat sense, Cledonism should
denote a kind of divination drawn from words oc.
casiooally uttered, Cicero obsemils, that.the Py..
tb~oreansmade ob11ervations not only ofthe words
o(the gods, b!lt of those of men ; and accordingly
believed the pronouncing of certain words, e. g.
incendium, at a meal, very unlucky. Thus, instead
of prison,.th~y used the words domiciliufll; and to
-void eri~u1es, ~id . e.,..,nidu.. In the S~Oild
Jl
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
146 DIVINATION.
sense, Cledoni.sm should seem a divination drawn
from birds ; the AIDe with omithomaatia.
COSGINQMANCY.
As the word iaplies., is the art of divination by
.aaeans of a sieve.
The ~ ·being taspended, after repeating a
certain. foraa of words, it is takeR betweeu two
fingers only ; and the names of the parties suspect-
ed, repeated : be at whose name the sieve turns,
trembles or shakes, is cepated pilty of the evil in
question. TJUs doobtless must be a very ancient
practice. Theocritus, in his third ldyllion, men- ·
tiOBS a woman who wat very skilful in it. It was
sometimes -also practised by euspendiag the si~
by a thread, or 4iltinr it te the points of a pair of
soiua.r~ giving it room tG tvn, and naming as
he:fwe dle par¢iaa sospe<ltecl : mdlm manner Coa-
conomancy is still practised in some parts of,Eng·
land. From Theocritus it appears, that it was.
not only used to find out persons unknown, bot also
to diacov;er the 11eor.ets ofthose who were.
·CAPNOMA NCY,
Is a kincl of divination by' mea~~s .of 11mok-e, tl'l!led
bJ the aacients in their sacrifices. The general
l'tlle was--'Wben the smoke was thin and light, and
ascendedatrairpt up~ it was 'a ·good omen; ifon the
cenka~ihvas .anill one.
'Dlere"'*'anether- species of Capn0111ancy wbieb
c:ooaistedill'Obserriogo
thnmo'ke:arisiogfrmll pepp)'
uuljeasalllin seed;-cut •poa homing ootds.
o,,,,, ,,Coogle
j)JVUfATION, U7
CATOPTROM'ANCY,
Ia another species of divination uaed by the an-
cients, performed by means of a mirrof.
Pausanias says, that this method of divination
was in use among the Aohaions ; where those who
were s~k, and iD cianger pf death, let do•n a
mirr~r. or look.ing-glass, fastened by a thread, into
a fountain before the temple of Ceres ; then look-
ing in the gl~. if they saw a ghastly disfigured
face, they took it as a sure sign of death ; but, on
the contrary, if the face appeared fresh and healthy,
it. was a tok.e'Q. of recovery. Sometimes gluses
were u~ withoat water, and the images of future
&Woes. jt is said, were represented in them.
CHIROMANCY,
Js ~art of divining the fate, temperament, aad
disposition of a person by the Jines and l.UleameDts
of the hands.
There are a great many authors on this vain and
trilling art. viz.•Artemidoros, Fludd, Joluumes De
lndagme, Taconerus, and H. Dele C\uunbre, wh9
IU'e among the best.
· M.DeleCham'We insists upoa ittbat theincllna-
tions ofpeople may be known from consulting the
lines on the banda ; there being a very near correa·
pon~~ between the partsofthehand and theinter-
..W.pwts pfthe bod-y.the beQrt, .liver,&o. " whereon
the passions and inclinations much depend." He
a&\8, howev.er, that the roles and precepts of Chi-
rolllaiWy are not aWJiciently warranted; tbe expe-
riaePta on whicb they stand not being well Teri,.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
148 DIVINATION.
fied. He concludes by observing, that there should
be a new set of observations, made with justness
and exactitude, in order to give to Chiromancy
that form and solidity which an art of science de-
maoda.
DACTYLIOMANCY.
This is a sort of divination performed by means of
a ring. It was done as follows, viz. by holding a
ring, suspended by a fine thread, over a round
table, on the edge of which were made a number
of marks with the 24 letters of the alphabet. The
ring in shaking or vibrating over the table, stopped
over certain of the letters, which, beibg joined
together, composed the required answer. · But
this operation was preceded and acoompanit>d by
several superstitions ceremonies; for, in the first
place, the ring was to be consecrated with a great
deal of mystery; the person holding it' was to be
clad in linen garments, to the very shoes ; his head
was to be shaven all round, and he was to hold
vervein in his hand. And before he proceeded on
any thing the gods were first to be appeased by a
formulary of prayers, &:c. ·
The whole process of this mysterious rite is giveQ
in the 29th book ofAmmianus Marcellino•·
BXTISPJCIUM,
(From uta and 6picere, to view, consider.)
·The name of the officer who shewed and examined
.the entrails of the victims was Extispex.
Thil method of divination, or of drawing pre-
saps ulatin to futurity, was much praotiscd
fJlr.oughout Gr~ece, where there were two families,
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DIVINATION. 149
the JarAitle and Clytidts, consecrated or aet apart
particularly for the exercise of it.
The Hetrorians, in Italy, were the first l!.:dil-
pices, among whom likewise the art was in great
repute. Lucan gives us a fine description of-one
of these operations in hia first book.
GASTROMANCY.
-This species of divination, practised among the·
·aacieilts, was perfo~ by means ofwords coming
or appearing to come out of the belly.
There is another kind ofclivination called by the
samename, which is performed by means ofglasses,
.or other round transparent nssels, within which
certain figores appear by magic art. Hence its
.name, in consequence of the figures appearing as
if in the belly of the vessels.
GBOMANCY,
Was performed by means of a number of little
points or dots, made at random on paper ; and af-
terwards considering the various lines and figures,
which those points present ; thereby forming a
pretended judgment of futurity, and decicling a
proposed question.
Polydore Virgil defines Geomancy a kind of
divination performed by means of clefts or chinks
made in the grOUild; and be takes the Persian
megi to have been the inventors of it. De in'Dmt.
rer. lib. ), c. 23.
• •• Geomancy is formed of the Greek yc terra,
eRtb; and f"l"'"a, divination; it being the ancien
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
16t
custom to cast lifll~ pebbles on the grmmd, and
thence to form their conjecture, instead of the
points above-mentioned.
HYDROMANCY, 'YAPOMATEIA,
The art ofdivining or foretelling future events by
means of water ; and is 'bne of the four general
kinds of divination : the· other tl:ttee, 8$ · repti-
ing the other elements, vit. fite a:ftd eardJJ ue
denominated Pyromancy, Aeromancy, an«< Qee-
mancy already mentioned.
The Persians are said by Vari'() to bafe b&ea die
first inventors of Hydromancy; obsening also that
N nma Pompilius, and Pythgoras, made use ofit.
.There are \'arious Hydromantic machines and
vessels, which are of a singularly curioUs nature.
NECROMANCY,
Is the ~ of communicating with devils, and doinr
. surprising things by means of their aid ; particular-
ly that of calling up the dead and extorting answers
from them. (See MAGIC.) · ·
0NEIROCRITICA,
Is the art of interpreting' dtea1D'8 ~ br·t~llHJdMHJ ·M
foretelling future eventS by:JiieabS ofdteatbs~
From ~everal passages of Scripture, it ~ppeara
that, under the Jewiah dispensation, there was
aucb a· thing as foretelling future events by tireams ;
but tbere was a particular gift or revelation~
Digitizec byGoog[e
DIVINATIOM. 161
quired for that pnrp<NJe. Hence it would appetW
that dreams are actually significative of sometbiug
to come ; and aU that is wanting among us is, the
Oneirocritica, or.the art of knowing what: still it
is the general opinion of the preseJtt day that
dreams are mere chimera, induced by various
causes, have no affinity with the realization offu-
ture events ; bot having, at the same time, indeed,
some relation to what hu already traospired.
With respect to Joseph's dream, "it wu pos•
sible," says an old author, "for God, who knew
all things, tO discover to him what wu in the womb
offate ; and to introduce that, he might avail him-
self of a dream; not but that he might as well have
foretold it from any other accident or circumstance
whatever ; unless God, to give the business
more importance, should purposely commuoi9ate
such a dream to Pbaroah, in order to fall in with
the popular notion ofdreams and divination, which
at tbat time was so prevalent among the Egyp-
tians."
The name given to the interpreters of dreams,
or those who judge of events from the circum-
stanoes of dreams, waa OneirlJcritiu. There is
not much confidence to be placed in those Greek
books called Oneirocritics ; they are replete 1Vith
superstition of the times. Rigault has given us a
collection af the .Greek and Latin works of this
kind ; one of whieb is attributed to Astrampri-
ehus; another to Nicepborus, the patriarch o(
Constantinople ; to which are added the trea.bse:t
of Artimedorus and Achmet. But the boob
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
162 ·DIVJlo(ATION.
themselves are little else than reveries or waking
dreams, to explain and account for sleeping
ones.
The secret of Oneirocritinn, according to all
these authors, consists in the relations supposed
to exist between the dream and the thing signified ;
but the1 are far from keeping to the relations of
.agreement and similitudes ; and frequently they
have recourse to others of dissimilitude and con-
·trariety.
ONOMANCY, or O:NolllAMANCY •,
Is the art of divining the good or bad fortune
which will befall a man from the letters of his
name. This mode of divination was a very popu-
lar and reputable practice among the ancients.
· The Pythagoreans taught that the mindS, ac-
tions, and successes of mankind, were according
to their fate, genius, and name ; and Plato himself
inclines somewhat to the same opinion.-Ansonius
to Probus expresses it in the following manner :-
Qualem ereavit moribue,
J uuit voeari lfOMI!f&
Muudi eupr~mo1 arbiter.
In this manner be sports with tippling Meroe, as
• Tlda word il eupposed to be formed from tile Greek 0...,
JWDe 1and -7«1&, divioatioo. Tb~re iliofact eometbiac radler
liD<ular io tbe etymolo<y ; for, io etrictneu, Ooomaacy lbould
rather li<oify divioatloo by auee, b~ioJ formed from oi'Of,
...,_. aod -7tua. To eiplfy divioatioa by oamet it ebould llo
0110-tomaacy.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DIVINATION. "163
ifher name told she would drink pore wioe with-
out water.; or as be calla it,...,,. •erri•. Thus
Hippolytus was observed to be tom to pieces by
his own coach horses, as his name imported ; and
thus Agamemnon signified that he should liDger
long before Troy; Priam, that he should be re-
deemed oat of boadage in his childhood. To this
also may be referred that of Claudius Ratilius :-
NomioO.aa eertia credam decarrere moreal
lloribua aat Potiu ..-loa certa dari l
It is a frequent and no less jaat observation in
history, that the greatest Empires and States have
been founded and destroyed by men of the same
name. Thus, for i.ostance, Gyrus, the son ofCam-
byses, began the Persian monarchy ; and Cyrus,
the son of Dariue, ruined it; Darius, son of Hys-
taspes, restored it; and, again, Darius, son of
Asamis, utterly overthrew it. Phillip, son of
Amyotaa, exceedingly enlarged the kingdom of
Macedonia; and Phillip, son ofAntigonus; wholly
lost it.· Augustus was the first Emperor of Rome ;
Augnstulus·the last. ·constantine first settled the
empire of Constantinople, and Constantine lost it
:wholly to the Turks. ·
There is a similar observation that some names
are coaatantly unfortunate to princes: e. g. Caius,
among the Romans; John, in France, England
and Scotland; and Henry, in France.
One of the principal roles of Onomancy, among
the Pytbagoreans, was, that an even number of
.vowels in a name signified an imperfection in the
H2
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
15.4 IJlVINA'IIlO:N,
left side ofa man; and lin odd naa~r itttile fti~t.
-Another roltt, about aa·good aa this, •u. tllat
those persons were the most happy, in whose
namea the numeral letters, added together, made
the greatest sam; for which reason, say they, it
was, that Achilles vanquished Hector; the nume-
rallettera, in the former name, amounting to a
greater number than the latter. And doubtless
it was from a like principle that the young Romans
toasted their mistresses at their meetingH as often
as their names contained letters.
Nania eex c:yatbis, teptem Justina bibatur !"
Rhodingius describes a singular kind of Ono-
mantia.-Theodotus, King of the Goths, being
curious to learn the success of his wars against
the Romans, an Onomantical Jew ordered him to
shut up a number of swine in little stys, and to
give some of them Roman, and others Gothic
names, with different marks to distinguish them,
and there to keep them till a certain day ; which
day having come, upon inspecting the stys they
found those dead to whom the Gothic names had
been given, and those alive to whom the.Roman
names were assigned.- Upon which the Jew fore-
told the defeat of the Goths.
0NYCOHANCY, or 0NYMANCY.
T~is kind of divination is performed by means
~r the Snger nails. The ancient practice was, to
rub the nails of a youth with oil and soot, or wax,
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DlVlNA.TlOK. 166
aod to bold up the nails, thus prepared, against the
sun ; upon which there were supposed to appear
figures 01' characters, which shewed the thing. re-
quired. Hence also modern Chiromancers call
that branch of their art which relates to the in-
spection ofnails, 0NYCOIU.NCY.
O&NlTHOMANCY,
Is a kiod ot" of divination, or method of arriving at
the knowledge of futurity, by means of birds; it
was aJDong the Greeks what Angary was among
the Romans.
PY&OIUNCY,
A species of divination performed by means of
fire.
The ancients imagined they could foretel f11t&•
rity by inspecting fire and flame ; for this 'par.
pose they considered its direction, or which way it
tamed. Sometimes tlaey added other ma&tera to
the fire, e. g. a vessel full of. urine, with its neck
bound.round with wool ;· ~d narrowly watdaed tile
side in which it would burst, and thence took their
prognostic. Sometimes they threw pitch in it, and
if it took fire instantly, they considered it a favour.
able omeo.
. : PYSCOM,AJ'iC)", or SciQJfANCY,
An·art among .the ancients of raising or calling
up the manes or souls of deceased.pers~s, to give
intelligence of things to come. The witch who
conjured up the soul of Samuel, to foretel Saul the
eyent of the battle be was about to give, did so
by Sciomancy.
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
156 DIVINATION.
RHABDOMANCYI
Was an ancient method of divination, performed
by means of rods or staves. St. Jerome menti-
this kind of divination in his Commentary on Ho·
sea, chap. 'fi. 12. ; where the prophet says, in the
name of God : My people ask coumel at their
stocks; and their staffdeclardh unto them :which
passage that father understands of the Grecian
RluJbdomancy.
The same is met with again in Ezekiel, xxi. 21,
22. where the prophet says : For the kiag ofBa~
lon stoodat the parting ofthe way, at the bead of
the two ways, to tJSe divination; he made his ar-
rows bright; or, as St. Jeromerenders it, hemized
his arroJDS ; he consulted fiJith images; he looked
in the liver.
If it be the same kind of divination that is allud~
ed to in these two passages, Rlt.abdtJmancy most
be the same kind.of superstition with Belomaooy.
These two, in fact, are generally conf()onded. The
Septuagint themselves translate t:l•m of Ezekiel,
by paf3&c, a rod ; though in strictness it signifies
an arrow. So much however is certain, that the
instruments of divination mentioned by Hosea are.
different from those of Ezekiel. In the former it
is ll']) etso, 1?po maklo, his wood, his staff: in the
latter am Miti&m, arrows. Though it is possi-
ble they might use rods or arrows indift'ereDtly ; or
the military· men might use arrows and the rest
rods.
By.the laws of the Frisones, it appears that the
ancient inhabitllllts of Germany practised Rhab-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
OllAOLBo 1&7
domancy. The Scythians were likewiaeacquaiot·
ed with the use of it: aod Herodotus observes,
lib. vi. that the women among the Alani sought
and gathered together fiDe straight waoda or rods,
and used them for the same sopentitious purposes.
Among the various other kinds of divination,
not here mentioned, may be enumerated : CAiJo..
mat~ey, performed with keys; AlplmOM.anCy or
AleurOfflllncy, by floor; Keraun01copia, by the
consideration ofthunder ; Akctromancy, by cocks;
LitAOflfartcy, by stones ; EycA1WIItartcy, by lamps;
OOICOP!J, by eggs; Licanomancy, by a basin of
water ; Palpitatim, Saluatio, wa>.fl", by the pul-
sation or motion ofsome member, &.c. &.c. &c.
All these kinds of divination have been con-
demned by the fathen ofthe Church, aod Co~ncils,
as supposing.some compact with the devil. Fludd
bas writt~rrsevcral treatises on divination, and its
different species ; aod Cicero has two books of
the divination of theaocients, in which be confutes
the whole system. Cardan also, in his 4th Book
de Sapientia, describes every species of them.
ORACLE.
THK word oracle admits, onder this head, of two
significations: first, it is intended to express ao
answer, usually couched in very dark aod ambigu-
ous terms, supposed to be given by demons of old,
either by the mouths of their idols, or by those of
their priests, to those who consulted them on things
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
1'68 ORACLB.
to COllie. The PYTHJAN • ·was ·ahtays in_a rage
when abe gave ·oracles. ,.
Ablao:court observes that the atudy or research
of the meaning of Orachs was bat a fruitless thing.;
and they were never understood until tbey were
accomplished. It is related by Historiaas, that
Croesns was tricked by the ambiguity and eqaivoea-
tion of tbe oracle.
Kpo&CJIOC 'AAv, ~•af3ac ptyaX,, apX'I, rcaraA,crtc.
rendered thus in Latin :-
Crcssus H alym superans magnam pervertet
opum vim.
Oracle is also used for the Demon who gave the
answer, and the place where it was given. (Vide
DEMON.)
The principal oracles of antiquity are that of
Abre, mentioned by Herodotus ; that of Amphia-
rus; that of the Branchidre, at Didymus; that of
• PYTBIAK·or Pnsu.,ln utiqnity, the prietteu of Apollo,
b)' ~hom be delivered oracle&. She was thus called from tho
pel himself, wbo was styled Apollo Pytlairu, from his slaying the
serpent Python ; or as others will bave it, aarcwovwo3arlcu, be·
c:auae Apollo, the suo, ia the cauae of rottenness; or, accordin{
to others, from wiiJillculol'"', I.._, because people went to bear
ud consult bis oraclee.-Tbe prieateu was to be a pure virriu.
She sat on tbe covercle, or lid, of a brazen vessel, mounted on a
tripod; and thence, after a violent enthusiasm, abe delivered her
oracles ; i.e. abe rehearsed a few ambiguous and obscure versee.
which were taken for oracles. .
All the Pytbie did not seem to have bad the same talent at
poetry, or to have memory enough to retain their le880n.-Plo-
tarch and Strabo make mention of poets, who were kept in by
~upiter, ·aa interpreters. ,
The solemn games instituted in honor of Apollo, ud. in me-
"7 ofbisk!llinr thuerpeot Python witbbis arrow1, were called
Pfthia or Pytbian gamea. ·
o,,.,,, ,,Go~gle
ORAOLB. laD
the Campa, at Laeedemon ; that of Dodoaa; tbt
of J npiter Ammon ; that of Nabarca, in the Coun-
try of tbe Anariaci, near the Caspian sea; that of
Trophonios, mentioned by Herodotus ; that of
Chrysopolis ; that of Claros, in Ionia ; that of
M:allos ; that of Patarea; that of Pella, in Mace-
donia ; that of Pbaselides, in Cilicia ; that of Si-
nope, in Papblagonia; that of Orpbeua's head,
mentioned by Philostratos in his life of Appolo-
nius, &c. Bot, of all otliers, the oracle of .Apollo
Pythia, at Delphi, was the most celebrated ; it
was, in short, consolted always as a den&Ur reuort,
in cases of emergency, by moat of the princes of
those ages.-Mr. B&~Yle observes, that at first, it
gave its aDSwera in verse; and that at length it
fell to prose; in consequence of the people begin•
nipg to laugh at the poomeu of ita versification.
Among the more learned, it is a pretty general
opinion that all the oracles were mere cheats and
impostures ; calculated either to serve the .avari-
cious ends of the heathen priests, or the political
news of the prinees. Bayle positively ·asserts,
they were mere human artifices, in which the devil
had no hand. In this opinion be is strongly sup·
ported by Van Dale, a Dutch physician, and M.
Fontenelle, who have expressly written on tbe
subject.
There are two points at iaaue on tbe subject of
oracles ; viz. whether they were human ordiabolical
machines; and whether or not they ceased upon
the publication and preaching of the GoHpel ?
Plutarch wrote a treatise on the ceasing of some
oraclu: and Van Dale bas a volume to prove that
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
160 ORACLB.
they did not cease at the coming of Christ; bot
that many of them had ceased long before the
coming of that time, and that others held out till
the fall of Paganism, onder the Empire of Tbeo-
dosios the Great, and wben it was dissipated, these
institutions could no longer resist. ·
· Vim Dale was answered by a German, one Moe-
bius,. professor of Theology, at Leipsic, in 1686.
Fontenelle espoused Van Dale's system, and im-
proved upon it in his history of oracles ; wherein
he exposed the weakness of the argument used by
many writers in behalfof Christianity, drawn from
the ceasing of oracle&.
Baltbus, a learned Jesuit, answered both Van
Dale and Fontenelle. He labolll'S to prove, that
there were real oracles, and such as can never be
attributed to any artifices ofthe Priests or Priest-
t>sses ; and that several of these became silent in
the first ages of the Church, either by the coming
ofJesus Christ, or by the prayers of the Saints.
This doctrine is confirmed by a letter from Father
Bonchet, missionary to Father Balthus ; wherein
it is declared, that what Father Balthus declares
1>f the ancient oracles, is experimented every day
in the Indies.
It appears, according to Bonchet, that the devil
still delivers oracles in the Indies; and that, n.ot by
idols, which would be liable to imposture, but by
the mouths of the priests, and sometimes of the
bye-standers ; it is added that these oracles, too,
cease, and the devil becomes mute in ptoportion as
the Gospel is preached among them.
It was Eusebius who first endeavoured to per..:
o''''"'" ,,Coogle
ORACLB. 16.1
auade the christians that the coming ofJesas Christ
had struck the oracles dumb ; though it appears
from the laws of Theodosios, Gratian, and Valen·
tinian, that the oracles were still consulted as far
back as the year 858. Cicero says the oracles be-
came dumb, in proportion as people, growing leu
credulou~, began to suspect them for cheats.
Two reasons are alleged by Plutarch for the
ceasing of oracles ,
: the one was Apollo's chagrin,
who, it seems, •• took it in dudgeon," to be inter~
rogated about so many triBes. The other was,
that in proportion as the genii, or demons, who
had the m·anagement of the oracles, died and be-
came extinct, the oracles must necessarily cease.
He adds a third and more natural cause for the
ceasing of oracles, viz. the forlorn state of Greece,
·ruined and desolated by wars. For, in conse-
quence of this calamity, the smallness of the gains
suffered the priests to sink into a poverty and con-
tempt too bare to cover the fraud.
Most of the fathers of the church imagined it to
be the devil that gave oracles, and considered it as
a pleasure be took to give dubious and equivocal
answers, in order to have a handle to laugh at
them. Vossios allows that it was the devil who
spoke in oracles; bot thinks that the obscurity of
his answers was owing to his ignorance as to the
precise circumstances of events. That artful and
studied obscurity, wherein, says he, answers were
couched, shew the embarrassment the devil was
under ; as those double meanings they usually bore
provided for the accomplishment. When the thing
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
ORACLE.
foretold did not happea accordingly, the orack,
forsooth, was always miaunderstood.
Ensebius bas preserved some fragments ef a
Philosopher, called Oenomaus, who, out of resent..
ment for haviDgbeen so often fooled by the oracles,
wrote an ample confutation of all their imperti-
nences, in the following strain : " When we come
to consult thee," says he to Apollo, " if thou seest
what is in the womb offuturity, why dost t)lou use
expressions that will not be understood ? if tboo
dost, thou take~t pleasure in abusing us : if thou
dost not, be informed ofus, and learn to speak more
clearly. Hell thee, that if thou intendest an equi-
voque, the Greek w.ord whereby thou affirmedst
that Crresus should overthrow a great Empire, was
ill-chosen ; and that it could signify nothing but
Croesus' conquering Cyrus. lfthings must neces.-
sarily come to pass, why dost thou amuse us with
thy ambigaities ? What dost thou, wretch as thou
art, at Delphi ; employed in muttering idle pro-
p~esies r·
Bot Oenamaus is stilf more out of humour with
the oracle for the answer which Apollo gave the
Athenians, when Xerxes was about to attack
Greece with all the strength of Asia. The Pytbian
declared, that Minerva, the protectress of Athens,
had endeavoured in vain to appease tbe wrath of
Jupiter; yet that Jupiter, in complaisance to his
daughter, was willlng the Athenians should save
themselves within wooden walls; and that Salamis
ahould behold the loss of a great many children.
dead to their mothers, either when Ceres was
•pread abroad, or gathered together. At this
o "'"'''Coogle
OURAN, OR UKAN, 80ANGU8. 168
OeDamauIoseeall patiencewith the Delphian god :
" This contest," says he, " between father a
daughter, is very becoming the deities! It is ex-
cellent, that there sboald be contrary incliaati881
and interests in .heaven ! Poor wizanl, thou art
ignorant who the children are that shall aee SalUDit
perish; whether Greeks 01' PeT!Iiaoa. It is cer-
tain th~y Dlnst be either one or.the o&ber ; bot thou
needest not have told so openly tlrat thou kneweat
not whicla. Thou concealeattllle time of tlae battle
on4er these fine poetical expressiooa, eitlt.er a1Aea
C~ru u•prtad abroad, or gathered tog•tlt.er: and
tboa wooldst cajole us with aoch pompous lan-
guage ! who knows not, that if there be a sea-
fight, it must either be in seed-time or barYest! It
is certain it cannot be in winter. Let things go
how they will, thou wilt secure thyself by this Ju-
piter, whom Minerva is eodeavouring to appease.
If the Greeks lose the battle, Jupiter proved in-
exorable to the last; if ~ey gain it, why then )f~
nerva at length prevailed."
OURAN, OR URAN, SOANGUS,
TaE name of an imagiDary set of magicians in the
island Gromboccanore, in the East Indies.
The word implies tMn-devils l these people, it
seems, having the ari of rendering themselves in-
visible, and passing where they please, and, by
these means, doing infinite mischief; for which
reason the people bate and fear them mortally, and
always kill them ob the spot when they can take
them.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
I
164 DRBA.MS, &.c.
In the Portuguese history, printed 1581, folio,
there is mention of a present made by the king of
the island to a Portuguese officer, named Brittio.
ourans, with whom, it is pretended, he made
incursions on the people of Tidore, killed great
numbers, &.c.
To try whether in efFect they had the faculty
ascribed to them, one of them was tied by the neck.
with a rope, without any possibility of disen-
·gaging himself by natural means ; yet in-the morn-
ing it was found he had slipped his collar. But
that the king of Tidore might not complain that
Brittio made war on him with devils, it is said be
dismissed them at lengt~ ·in their own island.
DREAMS, &c.
l'BB art.of foretelling future events by dreams, is
called
BRIZOMANCY.
Macrobius mentions fiVE' sorts of dreams, "~·
1st, vision ; 2d, a discovery of something between
sleep and waking ; 3d, a suggestion cast into our
fancy, called by Cicero, Vesum; 4th, an ordinary
dream; and 5th, a divine apparition or revelation
in our sleep ; such as were the dreams of the pro-
phets, and of Joseph, as also of the magi of the
East.
ORIGIN OF INTBBPRBTING DRBA.MS.
The fictitious art of interpreting.dreams, hacl
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DREAMS, &c. 166
its origin am~ng the Egyptians ·and Chaldeana ;
countries fertile in superstitions of all kinds. It
was propagated from them to the Romans, who
judging some dreams worthy of observation, ap-.
pointed persons on pnrpose to interpret them.
The believers in dreams as prognostics of fu-
ture events, bring forward in confirmation of this
opinion, a great variety of dreams, which have
been the forerunners of very singular events:-.
among these are that of Calpburoia, the wife of
Julius Cresar, dreaming the night before his death,
that she saw him stabbed in the capitol : that of
Artorius, Augustus's physician, dreaming before
the battle of Philippi, that his master's camp was
pillaged ; that of the Emperor Vespasian dream-
ing an old woman told him, that his good fortune
would begin when Nero should have a tooth drawn,
which happened accordingly.
Cresar dreaming that he was committing incest
wjtb his mother, was crowned Emperor of Rome ;
and.Hippias the Athenian Tyrant, dreaming the
same, died shortly after, and was. interred in his
mother earth. Mauritius the Emperor, who was
slain by Phocas, dreamed a short time previous to
this event, that an itnage of Christ that was fixed
over th~ brazen gate.of his palace, called him and
Jeproached him with his sins, and at length de-
JDanded ~f him whether be would receive the
punishment due to them in this world or the next;
pnd Mauritius answering ill this, the image com-
JDanded.that be sl;u>uJd be given, with hi!J wife and
childr~n., into the .bands 9f PbQcas. Whereupon
lrfauritiu~, awa"-enip,g iu great fear, asked Phil-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
186 DRBAIIS, 8tc.
lipu, his son·m-law, w~tber be knew any soldier
in the al'my called Pbocas, he answered that theN
was a commissary so called ; and Phocas became
his successor, having killed his wife and five chil-
dren. Arlet, duting her ·pregnaooy by William
the Coaqueror, dreamed that a light shone from
her womb, Ulat illumined all England. Maca,
Virgil's mother, dreamed that she was delivered of
a laurel branch.
Tile ridiculous infatuation of dreams is still so
prominent, even among persons whose education
shoald inform them better, and par1ioularly among
the fair sex, that a conversation seldom passes
among them, that the subject .ofsome foolish incon-
, siatent dream or other, does· not form a leading
featur-e c;f their gGSsip. " l dreamed lut night,"
says oae, •• that we~ my teeth drepped out."-
'' That's a sign," replies another, ~· that you will
loae a friend or some of your relations."-" rm
afraid I shall," returns the dreamer, ... for my
cousin (brother, or some other person connected
with .the family or its inter.ests,) is very ill." &c.
Opinioas on t~ .cauu of.
drUI.88.
Avicen makes the cause of dreams to be an
ultimate intelligence moving the moon in themidst
of that light with which the fancies of men are
illuminated while d!.ey sleep. Aristotle refers the
cause of them to common sense, but placed in dle
fancy. Averroes places it in the imagination. De-
mocritus ascribes it to little images, or represen·
tations, separated from the things· themselves.
Plato, among the speoifio aDa concrete notions of
DRKAAJS, &c. 167
the soul. Albertos to the superior ioluencea
which continually fJowfrom the sky, through many
specific mediums. And some physicians attribute
the cause of them to vapoors and humours, and the
affections and cares of persons predomioant when
awaike; fOI', say they, by reasoo of the abun-
dance of vapours, which are exhaled in conse•
quence of immoderate feeding, the brain is so
ateft'ed by it, that monsters and strange chimera
are formed, of which the most inordinate eaters
IIBd dr.inkers fiK'nish us with sufficient instauces.
Some dreams, they assert, are' governed partly by
the temperature of the body, and partly by tile
hWDour which mostly abounds in it; to which may
be added, the apprehensions which have preceded
the day before ; which are often remarked in dogs,
aad other animals, which bark and make a noi~e
ia ·their sleep. Dreams, they observe, proceediog
from the hamours and temperature of the body,
we see the choleric dreams of fire, combats, yel-
low colours, &c.; the phlegmatic, of water, baths,
cL sailing on the sea, &c. ; the melancholies, of
thick fumes, deserts, fantasies, hideous faces, &c.;
the sanguines, of merry feasts, dances, &c. They
that have the hinder l""rt of their brain clogged
with viscous humours, called by physicians ephial-
te.'l incubus, or, as it is termed, night-mare, ima-
gine, in dreaming, that they are sufFocated. And
thoae who have the orifice of their stomach loaded
witb malignant humours, are afFrighted with strange
~ions, by reason of those venomous '-"pours that
mount to the bra.in, and distemper it.
. f;icero tells a story of two Ar4?adiaus~ who, tra·
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
168 FATE.
veiling together, came to Megara, a city ofGreece,
between Athens and Corinth, where one of thetn
lodged in a friend's house, and the other at an
inn. After supper the person who lodged at the
private bouse went to bed, and falling asleep,
dreamed that his friend at the inn appeared to
him, and begged his assistance, because tbe inn-
keepAr was going to kill him. The mu imme-
diately got out of bed mach frightened at the
dream ·but recovering himself and falling asleep
again, his friend appeared to him a second time,
and desired, that as he would not assist him in
time, be woold take care at least not to let his
death go unpunished ; that the inn-keeper having
murdered him, had thrown his body into a cart
and covered it with dong ; he therefore begged
that he would be at the city gate in the morning,
before the cart was oat. Strock with this new
dream, he went early to the gate, saw the cart, and
asked the driver what was in it; the driver imme•
diately fled, the dead body was taken out of the
cart, and the innkeeper apprehended and ~xecuted.
FATE.
FATE, in a general sense, denotes an inevit-
able necessity, depending on some superior cause.
It is a term mach used among the ancient philo-
sophers. It is formed a fando, from speaking c
and primarily implies the same with effatum, i. e.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
J
\
-------"!""!!"--~-,.~·--·--~
FATB. 169
a word or decree pronounced by God ; or a fixed.
sentence, whereby tbe deity has prescribed the
order of things, and allotted every person what
shall befal him. 'l'he Greeks called ~1'-"PJU"''• quari,
~PfW'• ne:nu, a change, or necesswy series o(
. things, indissolubly linked together ; and the mo-
d~rns call it P.RoVJDBNCB. Bot independent of.
this sense of the word, in which it is used some·
times to denote the causes in nature, and some·
times the diyine appointment, the word Fate has a
farther.meaning, being used to express some kiad
of necessity or other, or eternal designation of
things, whereby all agents, necessary us well as
voluntary, are swayed and directed to their ends. .
Some authors have divided Fate into' Astrologi-
cal and Stoical.
ASTROLOGICAL FATB, denotes a necessity of
things and events, arising, as is supposed,.from
the iotluence and.positions of the heavenly bodies,
which give law to tbe.elements and mixed bodiea,
as well as to the wills of men.
STOICAL FATB, or FATALITY, or FATALISM,
is de6oed by Cicero, an order or series of causes,
in which cause is linked to cause, each producing
others ; and in this manner all things flow from
the one prime cause. Cbrysippus defines it a na-.
tural invariahle succession of all things, olJ eterno,
each involving the other. To this fate they sob.,.
ject the very_gods themselves. Thus the poet
observes, that the " parent of all things made
laws at the beginning, by wbicb be not only binds
other things, but himself." Seneca also remarks,
Eadem necessitas et deos alli9at. Irrevqcabif4
I
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
170 FATE.
divina pariter et humana cursit vehit. Ipse ille
omnium conditor et rector scrip~it quidqa fata,
sed sequitur; sernel scripsit, semper paret. This
e\ernal .aeries of causes, the poets call poapa.a. and
parce, or destinies.
By some later authors Fate is divided into Phy-
&ical and divine.
The first, orPhysical fate,is an orderandseriesof
physical causes, appropriated to their effects. This
series is necessary, and the· necessity is natural.
The principal or foundation of this Fate is nature,
or the power mid manner of acting which God
originally gave to the. several bodies, elements,
&c. By this Fate it is that fire warms ; bodiea
commnnimite motion to each other ; the rising
and falling of the tides, &c. And the effects of
this Fate are all the events and phenomena in the
universe, except such as arise f~;om the liUIIUlJl.
The second, ordivine Fate, is what is more com·
monly called Providence. Plato, in his Phmdo,
includes both these in one definition; aa intimat·
ing, that they were c.ne and t4e same thing, ac-
tively and passively considE-red. Tbm, Fatum
&t ratio qtulllmn divina, le:rque nature cotMI,
que transiri . ruq.U4at, quipp8 a cawa ~ddl,
que B11perior sit quibusvis impedimentis. Though.
that of Bootius seems the clearer of the two:-
Fatua, says he, e&t inhtU'en& rebus molilibru du-
politio per quam prot~idn&tia suis queque mctet
ordinibus.
171
PHYSIOGNOMY •, 41Y~IOTNOMIA.
THBRB seems to be something in Pbysiogaomy,
and it may perhaps bear a macb parer p'hilosepby
than these authors (see Note,) were acqoainte41
with. This, at least, we dare say, that of all the
fanciful arta of the ancients, fallen into disase by
the modems, there is none has so mach fouPCiatioo
in nature as this. There is an apparent corre•
spondence, or analogy between the coaoteoance
and the mind ; the features and lineamentS of the
one are directed by the motions and aft'ections of
the other: there is even a peculiar arrangement
in the members uf the face, and a peculiar ditpfl-
sition of the countenance, to each particular affec-
tion ; and perhaps to each particular idea of the
mind. In fact, the language of the face (phy-
siognomy,) is as copious, nay, perhaps, as distinct
and intelligible, as that of the tongue, (1pucA.)
Thanks to bounteous nature, she has not confined
us to one only method of convening with each
other, and of learning each other's thoughts; we
have several :-We do not wholly depend on the
tongue, which may happen to be bound; and the
ear, which may be deaf:-but in those cases we
• The art of koowlor; the humour, tempe..-Dt, or dlspoli-
tiou ofa penon, from obeenatiou of tbe liuet of tbe face, aDd
tbe character of itt memben or feature•, ia called Physiognomy.
Baptitt Porta aad Robert Fludd, are among tbe top modem
autbon, and it bat tiDce been revived by Lavater, on tWa ..._
ject. The ancient autbon are tbe Sopldtt Adamautiue, Me&
Arittotle, whose treatite ou Phylior;nomy it trantiatediuto Latiu
bJ 4J. Laeuaa.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
17~ PHYSIOGNOMY.
have another resource, viz. the Countenance and
the Eye, which afford us this further advantage,
that by comparing the reports of the tongue, (a
member exceedingly liable to deceive,) with
those of the face; the prevarications of the former
may be detected.
The foundation of Physiognomy is the different
objects that present themselves to the senses, nay,
the different ideas that arise on the mind, do
make some impression on the spirits ; and each
an impression correspondent or adequate to its
cause,- each, therefore, makes a different im-
pression. If it be asked how such an impression
could be effected, it is easy to answer; in short, itis
a consequence of the economy of the Creator, who
has fixed such arelationbetween the several partsof
the creation, to the end that we may be apprized
of the approach or recess of things hurtful or use-:
ful to us. Should this not be philosophical enough
for our purpose, take the manner of the Cartesian
language, thus: the animal spirits moTJed in tlte
organ by an object, continue their motion'to the
brain ; from wltence that motion is propagated to
thu or that particularpart of the body, as is most
suitable to the design ofnature; hadng.first made
a proper alteration in the face by means of its·
nerves, especially the P ATRET-ICI and MoTORES
OocULORUM. See Dr. Gurther's work, anno
1604.
The fuce here does the office of a dial-plate,
and the wheels and springs, inside the machine,.
putting its muscles in motion, shew.what is next to
be expected from t~e striking part. Not that the
.PHY8190NOMY. 173
motion of the spirits is continued all the way by
the impression ofthe object, as the impression may
terminate in the substanceof tbe brain, thecommon
fund of the spirits; the rest Dr. Gurtber imagines,
may be effected much after the same manner as
air is conveyed into the pipes of an organ, which
being uncovered, the air rushes in; and when the
keys are let go, is stopped again.
·. Now, if by repeated acts, or the frequent enter-
taining of a private passion or vice, which nat,Jral
temperament has hurried, or custom dragged on
to, the face is often put in that posture which
attends such acts ; the animal spirits will make
such passages through the nerves, (in which the
~ence of a habit consists,) that the face is
sometimes unalterably set in that posture, (as the
Indian religious are by a long continued sitting in
strange postures in their pagods,) or, at least, it
falls,.insensibly and mechanically, into that pos-
ture, unless some present object distOrt it there-
from, or some dissimulation·hide it. This reason
is confirmed by observation : thus we see great
drinkers with eyes generally set towards the nose;
the abducent muscles (by some called bibatorii, or
bibatory muscles,) being often employed to put
them in that posture, in order to view their beloved
liquor in the glass, at the time of drinking. Thus,
.tao, lascivions persons are remarkable for the
ooulorum mobilupettdantia, as Petronios .calls it.
Hence.also we may account for the Quaker's ex-
pecting face, .waiting the spirit to move him; the
melan.choly face of most sectaries ; th~ st!ldioos
face of men of great application of mind; revenge-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
174 PHYSIOGNOMY.
ftd aod bloo4y •en, like executioners in the act;
aadthough silence in a sort may awhile pass for
wisi0111, yet sooner or later, St. Martin peeps
through tbB disguise to undo all. " A changeable
fa~:e," continues Dr. Go.rtlaer, '' I have observed to
abow a cltang•abk 111ind, but I would by no means
hare what baa beeu said be uudentood as without
exception; for I doubt not but soiJletimes th!'N
are .found men with great aod virtuous souls under
very unpromising outsides."
" W e.re our observations a little more strict and
d.eiWate, n might, doubtless, not oaly distinguisla
laahits aad tempers, bat also profeuiona. In
elect, does there need much penetration to diJ..
tinpiah the fierce looks of the veteraa soldier,
the contentious look of the practised pleader, the
aolemn look of the minister ofstate, or m.any otben
Qf the like kind ?"
~ very remarkable physiological anecdote hu
beea given by De La Place, in hie " Piecu l•-
4errutanl18 et peu conrwu." Vol. iv. p. 8•
. .Jle wu assured by a friend that be had seen a
·volWPinOUB aud secret correspondence which had
been carried on between Louis XIV. and his fa·
vQurite pbyaician De.la Cbambre on this acienoe:
the &ith of the moaarch seems to haVJ' beea great,
* the purpose to which this correspondence
ttlpded ns extraordinary ind~d, and perbapa
aeareely oredible. Who will believe that Louit
XIV. was so convinced of that talent, which De
Ia · Chambre attributed to himself, of deciding
.merely by the pbyaiognomy of peraons, not on.,
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
PHYSIOGNOltiY. 175
on the real beat of their character, but to wbat
employment they were adapted, that the king en·
tered into a secret correspondence to obtain the
critical notices of his pkysiognomilt. . That
Louis XIV. should have pursued this system,
undetected by his own courtiers, is also singular;
but it appears by this correspondence, that this
art positively swayed him in his choice of officers
and favourites. On one of the backs of these let·
ters De Ia Chambre had written, " If I die before
his majesty, he wilt incur great risk of making
many an unfortunate choice."
This collection of Physiological correspondence,
if it does really exist, would form a curious pub-
lication. We, however, have heard nothing of it.
De la Chambre was an enthusiastic physiogno-
mist, as appears by his works : " The Characters
of the Passions," four volumes in quarto; " The
art of Knowing Mankind ;" and " tbe Knowledge
of Animals."
Lavater quotes his ~ vote and interest'' in be-
half of his favourite science. It is no less curi·
ous, however, to add, that Phillip Earl of Pem~
broke, under James I., had formed a particular
collection of portraits, with a view to physiog·
nomonical studies.
The great Prince of Conde was v.ery expert in
a sort of Physiognomy which shewed the pecu-
liar habits, motions, and positions of familiar
life, and mechanical employments. · He would
sometimes lay wagers with his friends, that he
would guess, upon the Pont Neuf, what trade
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
176 PHYsiOGNOMY.
persons were of that paaaed by, from their walk
and air.
. The celebrated Marshal Laudohn would have
entert>d when young, into the .service of the
great Frederick, King of Prussia ; but that mo-
narch, with all his penetration, formed a very erro·
neous judgment of the young officer, (as be himself
found in the sequel,) and pronounced that be would
never do ; in consequence of which Laudohn en-
tered into the service of the Empress~Queen,
Maria Theresa, and became one of the most for-
midable opponents of bis Prussian Majesty. Mar-
shal Turrene was much more accurate in his
opinion of our illustrious John Duke .of Marlbo:-
rough, whose future greatness he predicted, .when
he was serving in the French army as Ensign
Churchill, and known by the unmilitary name oC
the ''handsome Englishman."
In the fine arts, moreover, we have seen no
less accurate predictions of future eminence. As
the scholars of Rubens were playing and jesting
:with each other, in the absence of their master,
one of them was accidentally thrown against a
piece on which Rubens had just been working,
and a considerable part of it was entirely disfi-
gured. Another of the pupils set himself imme-
diately to repair it, and completed the design
before his master returned. Rubens, on revie~ing
his work, observed a change, and a difference that
'SUrprised and embarrassed him. At last, suspect.
ing that some one had been busy, he demanded
an explanation; adding, that the execution was in
_ DijitizedbyGoogle
PHYSiOGNOMY. 17'7
ao masterly a manner, that he would pardoa the
impertinence on ace~unt of its merit. Encou-
raged by this declaration, the young artist con-
fessed, and explained the whole, pleading, that
his officiousness was merely to screen a comrade
from his master's anger. Rubens answered, "if
any one of my scholars shall excel me, it will be
yourself." This pupil was the great Vandyck.
Lavater, who revived physiognomy, has, on-
questionably, brought it to great perfection. Bot
it may justly be doubted whether he is not deceived
in thinking that it may be taught like other
sciences, andwhetherthere is notmuch in hissystem
that is whimsical and unfounded. Every mao,
however, has by nature, something of the science,
and nothing is more common than to suspect the
man who never looks his neighbour in the face.
There is a degree of conning in such characters,
which is always dangerous, bot by no means new.
" There is a wicked mao that hangeth down his
head sadly ; but inwardly he is full of deceit.
Casting down his.countenance, and making as if
he beard not. A mao may be known b)' his look,
and one that bath understanding, by his counte-
nance, when thou meetest him."-ln several of
Lavater's aphorisms, something like the following
occurs: '' Aman's attire, and excessive laughter,
and gait, shew what be is."
I 2
·o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
lVS
APPARITIONS.
·p.A.RTIAL darkness, or obscurity, are the most
powerful means by which the sight is deceived :
night is therefore the proper season for apparitions.
Indeed the state of the mind, at that time, prepares
it for the admission of these delusions of the ima·
gination. The fear and caution which most be
observed in .the night; the opportunity it affords
f~ ambuscades and assassinations; depriving us
of society, and cutting off many pleasing trains of
ideas, which objects in the light never fail to intro-
duce, are all circumstances of terror: and perhaps,
'on the whole, so much of our happiness depends
upon our senses, that the deprivation of any one
may be attended with a proportionate degree of
horror and uneasiness. The notions entertained
by the ancients respecting the soul, may receive
some illustrations from these principles. In dark,
or twilight, the imagination frequentl} transforma
an inanimate body into a human figure; on ap-
proaching .the saine appearance is not to be found:
hence they sometimes fancie-d they saw their an-
.cestors ; bllt not finding the reality, distinguished
these illusions by the name of s'kades.
Many of these fabulous narl'ations might origi-
nate from dreams. There are times of slumber,
when we are sensible of being asleep •. On this
principle, Hobbes has so ingeniously accounted for
the spectre which is said to have appeared to Bru-
• When the tbouP,ts are much troubled, and when a penon
alee~ without tbe circumataoce of JOior to bed, or puttiar ol"
bia clotllee, aa when be node In hie chair; it ia nry dUiicalt, u
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
APPARITIONS. 1?'9
loS; that we oanDOt resist the temptation ofinsert-
ing it in his'oWii wOrds. ••..we-~d," says lie, .. of
M. Brutus, (one thatbad his life given him bylnlius
Ct!Bsar, and was also his favourite. and notwith·
standing murdered him) that at Philippi, the night
befo~ he gave battle to Augustus Caesar, be saw
a fearful apparition, wbiob is commonly related by
historians as a vision ; bot considering the circum-
stances, one may easily judge it to have been but a
short dream. For, sitting in his tent, pensive and
· troubled with the horror of his rash act, it was not
bard for him, slumbering in tbe cold, to dream of
tlrat which most affrighted him ·; which fear, u by
degrees it made him wake, so it most needs make
the apparition by degrees to vanish : and having
no assurance that hE' slE"pt, be could have no cause
to think it a dream, or any thing but a vision."-
The well-known story told by Clarendon, oftbe ap-
parition of the Duke ofBuckingham's father, will
adinit ofa similar solution~ There wits no man in
the kingdom so much the wbji!ct ofconversation ae
the Duke ; and, from the corruptness of his cb..
racter, he was very likely to fall a sacrifice to the
enthusiasm of the times. Sir George Viliers is
said to have appeart'd to the man at midnight-
there is therefore the greatest probability that the
man was asleep ; and the dream affrighting him,
made a strong impression, and was likely to be re-
peated.
It must be confessed, that die popular belief of
Hobbes remarks, to dlstioroilh a drena ftom a rea'lity. Oe
abe cGDtrar)', he that compoeea bimtelf to lleep, io eue of aay
aacoutb or absurd faocy, eaaily auspecta it to ban beea· a
clream.~L&viATBA!f, par. i . c. I. · 1
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
lSO AJIPARITIO'NS.
departed .spirits occasionally.holding a coJDJDuai...
cation with the buiiUUl raoe, is replete-with- matter
of curious speculation• . Some Christian divibes.
with every just reason, acknowledge no authentic
source whence the impression of a future state
could ever have been communicated to man,. but
from the Jewish prophets or from our Saviour him-
lfelf, Yet it is certain, that a belief in our exist-
ence after death bas, ft'om time immemorial, pre-
vailed_
in countries, to which the knowledge of-the
gospel could never have extended, as.among. cer-
tain tribes ofAmerica. Can then this notion have
been intuitively suggested? Or is it an extravagant
supposition, that the belief mightoften have.arisen
from those spectral illusions, to which men in eYer_y
age, from the occasional influence of .morbific
causes, must have been subject? 'And what would
have been the natural self-persuasion, if a savage
saw before him the apparition of a departed friend
or acquaintance, endowed with the semblance.of
life, with motion, and with signs of mental intelli-
I.J'DCe, perhaps even boldiag a converse with him t
Assuredly, the conviction would scarcely fail to
arise of an existence after death. . The pages .of
history attest the fact that:-
" I(aneeatry can be iD aught belie•'d,
Deacendin' epirita bave convera'd with man,
And told bim Hc:reta of the world unltnowo."
But if this opinion of a·life hereafter, bad ever
among heathen nations their origin, it must neces-
sarily be imbued with the grossest absurdities, in-
cidental· to so fallacious a soaree.of intelligenee.
Yet still the mind has clung to such extravagancies
with avidity; ,., for," as Sir Thomas Brown has
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
.APPARITIO!tS. 181
remarked, " it is the heaviestatoae:that melancholy
can·throw at a man, to teD btm that he ia at the
end· of his nature ; or that there is no fotore state
·to come, uoto which this seems .progressively and
otherwise made in vain." It bas remained there-
fore for the light of revelation alone, to impart to
this -belief the consistency and conformation of di-
vine truth, and to connect it. with a rational system
of rewards and punishments.
From the foregoing remarks,_we need not be
surprised that a conviction of the •occasional
appearance of ghosts or departed spirits, should,
from the remotest antiquity, have been a popolar
creed, not confined to any distinct tribe or race of
people. In Europe, it was the opinion of the
Greeks and Romans, that, after the dissolution of
the body, every man was possessed of three differ-
ent kinds of ghosts, which were distinguished by
the names of Munes, Anima, and Umbra. These
were disposed of after the following.maDDer: the
Manes descended into the infernal regions, the
Anima ascended to the ski~, and the Umbra ho-
vered about the tomb, as being unwiiUng to quit
its connexion with the body. Dido, for instance,
when.about to die, threatens to haunt &neas with
her.umbra l at the same time, she expects.thatthe
tidings of 'his punishment will rejoin her . mqu
below•.
• For the notion of this threefold soul, read the followiag
•enea attributed to Ovid :- ·
]!is duo aunt nomini i MAlliE&, CAao, SPIRITVI, U..IIG:
Quatuor isla loci bia duo suecipiunt,
' Teria lerlt CARif-, tumulnm cin:umvolat u•••A
Orcat babet MAwu, 8PI&JTUI utra petit.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
1851 APPARI'I'fONS.
The opinioatt regarding ghosts which were en•
tertaiDed during·the. Christian era, 'bat more'pat~
ticularly during the middle ages, are very multi-
farious; yet these, with the authorities aanexed to
them, have been most industriously collected by
Reginald Scot. His .researches are replete with
amusement and instruction. " And, first," says he,
•• you shall understand, that they hold, that all the
soules in heaven may come downe and appeare
to us when they list, and assume anie bodie saving
their owne: otberwise(saiethey) such soules should
not be perfectlie happie. They saie that you may
know the good soales from the bad vpry easilie.
For a damned soale hath a very heavie and sonre
Jooke; but a saint's sonle hath a cheerfull and mer~
rie countenance: these also are white and shining,
the other cole black. And these damned soules
also may come up out of hell at their pleasure, al~
though Abraham made Dives believe the oontrarie.
They aftkme, that damned soules walke oftenest:
De:d unto them, the sonles of pnrgatorie ; and most
seldom the soules of saints. Also they saie, that
iD the old lawe soules did appeare seldom ; and
after doomsdaie they shall never be seene mi>te : in
the time of'grace they shall be most frequent. The
walking.of these soules (saith Michael Andrll\88) is
a .aste excellent argument for the proofe of par-
gatorie; for (saith be) those soules have testified
that which the popes have affirmed in that behalfe; .
to wit, that there is not onelie such a place of pn~
nishment, butthat they are released from thence by
masses, ·and such Qther satisfactorie works, wh~re­
by the goodness of the masse is also ratified and
confirmed.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
•
APPAlliTIGlll. 188
"These beavenlie or pnrgatorie aoals (aaie
they) appeare most commonlie to them tlaat are
boroe upon Ember daies; because we are in beet
date at that time to praie for the one, and to keepe
~ompanie wi!h the other. Also, they saie, that
soules appeare oftenest by night ; becauae men may
then be at best leisure, and most quiet. Also they
ne\'er appeare to the whole multitude, seldome to
a few, and oommonlie to one alone; for »O one
may tell a lie without controlment. Also, ~ are
oftenest seene by them that are readie to die : a
Thrasella saw Pope Foelix ; Ursine, Peter and
Paule ; Galla Romana, S. feter ; and as Musa
the maide sawe oar Ladie : which are the mc.t
certaine appearances, credited and allowed in
the church of Rome; also, they may be seeae
of some, and of some Qther in that presence not
seeoe at all; as Ursine saw Peter aad Paule, aad
yet manie at that iastant being present ooald not
see anie such sight, bat thought' it a lie~ u I
do. Michael Andrreas confessetb that papists see
more ~isions than Protestants : he saitb also, tllat
a good soule can take none other shape than a
man ; manie a damned soule may and doth take
the shape of a blackmore, or of a beaste, or
of a serpent, or speciallie of an heretike."
Such ia the accoonts which &ot baa giveD re-
garding the Popish opiniqo ofdeparted spirits. Ia
another part of his work, he trimopMildy
asks_. " Where are the soules that swarmed
in. time past? .Where are the spirits? Who
heareth their noises ? Who seeth their vi-
sions? Where are the soules thatmadesuch m~
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
184 Al»PARITIONS.
for trentals, whereby to be eased.of their pain11 in
·porgatorie? Are they all gone to ltalie, bec:at~~e
masse are growne deere bere in Eoglaod.?-The
·whole course may be perceived to be a false.prac-
tice, and a counterfeit vision, or rather a lewd in-
vention. For in heaven men's soules remaioe not
in sorrowand care, neither studie they there how to
·COmpasse and get a worshipfoil burial .here. in
·earth. If they did they would not have forel!lowed
..olong. Now, therefore, let us notsoffer ourselves.
.to .be abused anie longer, either with conjuring
·priests, or meloncholicall witches ; bot be thankfoll
to God that hath delivered os from such blindness
and -error • ." This is the congratulation of a true
Protestant at an early period of the reformation ;
and it is certain, that with the disbelief of that
future state of purgatory, taught by the Romish
church, the communication of the living with the
dead became less frequent. Still, however, soote
beliefof the kind prevailed, though less tinctured
with superstition. An author, styling himself The-
opbilos losulanus, .who, half a century ago, wrote
on the second-sight of Scotland, affixes the term
-irreligiow to those who should entertain a doubt
on ~e reality of apparitions of departed souls.
'' Such ghostly visitants," he gravely affirms, ''are
not employed on an errand of a frivolous concern to
lead us into error, but are employed as so many
heralds by the great Creator, for the. more. ample
demonstration of his power, to proclaim tidings for
ou instruction; and,.as we are prone to despond
• Seot'a Dlaeoverie of Witchcraft, book xv. chap. S9; aleo
Dlaeoune on Devils and Spirits, tbap. 28.
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
.APPARITIONS.
in religious matter, to confirm oar faith of the ex-
istence of spirits, (the foundation of all religions,)
and the dignity of human nature." With due .de-
ference, however, to this anonymous write!', wboaa
we should scarcely have noticed, if he had not
echoed in this assertion an opinion which was long
·popular, we shall advert to the opposite sentimellta
expressed on .the subject byafar moreacute, thourb
less serious author. The notion, for instance, of
the solemn character of ghosts, and that they are
.never employedonfrivolous errands, is bot too aoc-
cessfuliy ridiculed by Grose•. ''In most of the
relations of ghosts," says this pleasant writer,
" they are supposed to be mere aerial beiDgs witA-
oot substance, and that they can pass through walla
and other solid bodies .at pleasure. The usual tiJJe
_1at which ghosts make theirappearance is midnight,
and seldom b~fore it is dark ; though some auda-
cious spirits have been said to appear even by day-
light. Ghosts commonly appear in the same dress
they usually 'wore when living: though they are
sometimes clothed all in white ; but that is chiefty
the church-yard ghosts, who have no particular
business, but seem to appear pro bono publico, or
-to scare drunken rustics from tumbling over their
graves. I cannot learn that ghosts carry tapers in
their hands, as they aresometimes depicted, though
the room in which they appear, if without fire or
candle, is frequently said to be as light as day.
Dragging chains is not the fashion of EngUsh
• Pbiloaopby of Apparitions, by Dr.Hibbe,t.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
186 APPARITIONS.
gboata ; chains and black vestments being cbieOy
tbe accoutrements of foreign spectres, seen in arbi-
trary governments : dead or alive, English spirits
are &ee. If, during the time of an apparition,
there is a lighted candle in the room, it will barn
estremely blue: this is so universally acknow.-
ledged, tbat many eminent philosophers have
baaied themselves in accountingfor it, witboutever
doubting the troth of the fact. Dogs too have the
faeulty of seeing.spirits •."
.There are ·several other minute particulars r~
specting ghosts given by this author, for the inser-
tion of -.hicb we have not room ; yet it would be
inexcusable to omit noticing the account which he
baa sabjoined, of the awfully momentous errandl
npon which spirits are sent. " It is somewhat reo
markable," be adds, " that ghosts do not go abmn
tlaeir boainesa like the persons of this world. · In
caaes of murder, a ghost, instead of going to the
nextjustice of peace, and laying its information,
er to the nearest relation of the person murdered,
appears to some poor labourer who knows none of
the parties ; draws the curtain of some decrepit
nw:se, or alms-woman ; or hovers about the place
wlaere the the body is deposited. The· same cir-
cuitous road is pursued with respect to redressing
• ~ . orphans or widows ; when it seems aa .
if
the moat certain way would be to go to the,person
• " At I •t in the paqtry. Jut.oi&IJt couotiDf my spoon•,"
1&)'1 the butler, lo the Comedy of the Drummer," tbe caqdJe,
.methoupt, burnt blue, aqd the apay'd bitch look'd as if abe aaw
tometbiof,"
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
APPARITIONS. 187'
guilty of the injustice, and haunt him OODtinually
till he be terrified into a restitotion. Nor are the
pointing out lost writings generally managed in a
more summary way·; the ghost commonly applyill!
to a third person, ignorant of the whole afl'air, and a
stranger to all concerned. But it is presumptooos
-to scrutinize far into these matters : gbosta have
undoubtedly forms and customs peculiar to them-
selves."
The view which Grose bas taken ofthe character
of departed spirits is pretty correct, although I
have certainly read of some spirits whose errands
to the earth have been much more direct. One
ghost, for instance, has terrified a man into the res-
titution of lands, which had been bequeathed to the
poor of a village. A second spirit has adopted the
nme plan for recovering property of which a ~
phew had been wronged ; but a third has haunted
a hoOJe for no other purpose than to kick up a row
in it-to knock about chain~, tables, and other fu~
niture. Glanville relates a story, of the date of
1632, in wbich a man, upon the alleged information
of a female spirit, who came by her death foully,
led the officers ofjustice to a pit, where a mangled
corpse was concealed, charged two individuals with
her murder; and upon thisfictitious story, the poor
fellows were oondemaed and executed, although
they solemnly persevered to the last in maintaining
their innocenee. It is but too evident, in this case,
by whom the atrocious deed bad been committed.
Other apparitions of this kind may be conside~
ed aa the illusions of well-known diseases. Thus
there can be no difficulty in considering the follow~
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
188 APPARITIONS.
inr apparition, given on the authority of Aubery
and Turner, Bll having bad its origin in the Delirium
_Tremens of drunkenness. " Mr. Cassio Bur·
roughs," says the narrator of this very choice~ yet,
_
we believe, authentic story, "was one of the most
_
beaptiful men in England, and very valiant, but
.very proud and blood thirsty. There was in Lon-
don a very beautiful Italian lady," (whom he se-
duced.) "The gentlewoman died; and. after·
wards, in a tavern .in London, he spake of it,"
(contrary to his sacred promise,)" and then going''
(OI,lt of doors) the ghost of the gentlewoman did
appear to him. He was afterwards troubled with
the apparition of her, even sometimes in company
w.~en be .was drinking. Before she did appear,
he did find a kind of chilness upon his spirits. Slae
.did appear to him in the rooming before he Wll
killed in a duel." ·
Of the causes of many apparitions which have
been recorded, it is not,so easy as the foregoing
narrative, to obtain a satisfactory explanation•
.Such is the case of the story related of Viscount
Dundee, whose ghost about tbe time he fell at the
battle of Killicranky, appeared to Lord -Balcarras,
then under confinement, upon the suspicion of la-
oobiti.sm, at the Castle of Edinburgh. Tbe spectre
drew aside the curtain of his friend's bed, looked
at.ed(astly at him, leaned for some time on the
.~&Jltlepiece, ~d then walked out of the room.
The ~1, not aware at the time that he was gazi~g
.on a phantom, called upon Dundee to stop. News
soon arrived of the unfortunate hero's fate. Now,
rega_rding this, and otber stories of the kind, .how·
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
APPARITIONS. 189
ever authentic they may be, the most interesting
. particulars are suppressed. Of the state of Lord
Balcarras's health at the time, it bas not been
deemed necessary that a syllable should transpire;
No argument, therefore, either in support of, or in
opposition to, the popular belief in apparitions;
can be gathered from an anecdote so deficient in
any notice of the most important circumstances
upon which the developement of troth depends.
With regard to the spectre of Dundee appeanng
just at the time be fell in battle, it·must be con-
sidered, that agreeable to the well-known doctrine
of chances, which mathematicians have so well in-
vestigated, the event might as well occur then u
at any other time, while a far greater proportion of
other apparitions, less fortunate in such a supposed
confirmation of their supernatural origin, are quiet-
ly' allowed to 11ink into oblivion. Thus, it is the
office of superstition to carefully select all success-
ful coincidences of this kind, and register them ir~
her marvellous volumes, where for ages.they ba\'e
served to delude and mislead · the world.
To this story we shall add another, from Bean•
mt~nt's World of Spirits, for no other reason, than·
because it is told better than most ghost stories
with which I am acquainted. It is dated in the
year 1662, and it relates to an apparition seen by
the daughter of Sir Charles Lee, immediately pre-
oeding her death. No reasonable doubt ·can be
placed on the authenticity of the narrative; as it.
waa drawn'up·by the Bishop ofGloucester, from
the recital oftbe youog lady's fa~er.
" SirCharles Lee, by his 6rstlady, had only one
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
190 APP.!.RITIONS.
daughter, of which she died in child-birth; and
when she was dead, her sister, the Lady Everard,
desired to have the education of the child, and she
was by her very well educated, till she was mar··
riageable, and a mateh was concluded for her with
Sir William Perkins, but was then prevented in
an extraordinary manner. Upon a Thursday night,
she, thinking she saw a light in her chamber, after
she was in bed, knoclied fur her maid, who pre-
sently · came to her; and »he asked, • Why she
left a ~die burning in her chamber ?' The maid
*d, ' She left none, and there was none but whaf
she broughtwith her at that time. Then she said it
was the fire, but that, her maid told her, was quite
out; and said she believed it was only a dream.
Wherea,pon she said, it mightbe so, and composed
herself again to sleep. But abouttwo of the clock
she wa5 awakened again, and saw the apparition
ofa little woman between her curtain and her pil-
low, who told her she was her mother, t}tat she
was happy; and that by twelve of the cl6ck that
day she -should be with her. Whereupon she
knQCked again for her maid, called for her clothes,
and when she was dressed, went into her closet,
'6Dd came not out again till nine, and then brougbt
out withher a letter sealed by her father ; brought
it to her aunt, the Lady Everard, told her what
bad happened, and deelared, that as soon as abe
was dead, it might be sent to him. The lady
· • tlu~nght sbe was suddenly fallea 1118d, and there-
upon sent presently away to Chelmsford fer a pby-
. sician and surgeon, who both came immediately;
ba~ the ,pbysieian · could discern noindication of
Dijitized by Coogle
APPARITIO~S. 191
what the lady,imagined, or of any india~tioa ef
her 4ody: notwithstanding the lady would needa
have her let blood, which was done accordingly.
And when the young woman bad patieotly letthem
do what they would with her~ she desired that the
chaplain might be sent to read prayers; and when
prayers were ended, she took her guitar and
psalm-book, and sat down upon a chair without
·arms, and played and sung so melodiously and
admirably, that her music-master, who was then
there, admired at it. And near the stroke of
twelve, she rose and sat herself down in a great
chair with arms, and presently fetching a strong
breathing or two, immediately .expired, and was
so suddenly cold, as was much wondered at by the
physician and surgeon. She died at Waltham, in
Essex, three miles from Chelmsford, and the letter
was sent to Sir Charles, at his house in Warwick-
sbire; but be was so aftlicted with the death of his
daughter, that be came not till she was buried, but
when be came he caused her to be taken up, and
to be buried with her mother, at Edmonton. as she
desired in her letter."
This is one of the most interesting ghost-stories
on record. Yet, when strictly examined•• the
mQ.nner in which a leadingcircumstancein the caae
.is reported, affects bot too much the supernatolal
air imparted to other of its incidents. For what-
ever might have been averred by a physician of
tlte olden time, with regard to the young lady'j
sound state of health during the period she SQ.W her
mothel"s ghost, it may be ask.ed-if any practi-
tioner of the present day would have b,een proud
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
APPARITIONS.
of such an opinion, especially when death followed
so promptly after the spectral impression.
---'" Tbere'• bloom upoo ber eheelt;
But oow I eee it is oo livior bue,
But a etranre bectie-like tbe unnatural red
Wbicb autumn plaote upoo the perish'd leaf."
Probably the languishing female herself might
have unintentionally contributed to the more strict.
verification of the ghost's prediction. It was an
extraordinary exertion which her tender frame un-
derwent, near the expected hour of dissolution;
in order that she might retire from all her scenes
of earthly enjoyment, with the dignity of a resigned
christian. And what subject can be conceived
more worthy the masterly skill of a painter, than
to depict a young and lovely saint cheered with the
bright prospect of futurity before her, and ere the
quivering flame of life, which for a moment was
kindled up into a glow of holy ardour, bad expired
for ever, sweeping the strings of l1er guitar with
her trembling fingers, and melodiously accom-
panying the notes with her voice, in a bymnof
praise to her beavE!nly Maker? Entranced with
such· a sight, the philosopher himself would dis·
m!ss for 1he time his usual cold and cavelling scep-
ticism; and giiring way to•the superstitious impres-
sions ofless deliberating bye-standers, partake with
them in the most grateful of religious solaces, which
the spectacle must have irresistibly inspired. ·
Regarding the.confirmation, which the ghost's
:mission is, in the same narrative, supposed to have
~cewed.from the·completion of a foreb,oded death,
.,. ----·--- ~ --
APPA.RITION8.
ail that can be said of it is, that the coiaoidence
was .a fort•aate one; for, without it, the story
would, probably, never have met with a recorder,
and we should have lost one of the sweetest anec-
dotes that private life has ever afforded. But, on
the other hand, a meJority of popularghost-stories
might be adduced, wherein apparitions have either
visited our world, without any ostensible purpose
and errand whatever, or, in the ciroomstaooes of
their mission, have exhibited all the incolllistenoy
of conduct so well exposed in the quotation which
I have given from Grose, respecting departed spi.
rits. " Seldom as it may happen," -says Nicolai,
in the memoir which he read to the S~iety ofBer..
lin, on the appearance of spectres occll&ioned by
disease, "that persons believe they see human
forms. yet examples of the cast' are not wanting.
A respectable member of this ac"demy, distin-
guished by his merit in the sdence of Botany,
whose truth and credulity !U"e unexceptionable,
once saw in this very room in which we are now
assembled, the phantomof the late president M"u..
pertius." But it appe~s that this ghost was see~
by a philosopher, and, consequently, no atte~pt
was ~nade to connect it with superstitiQUIJ specula.
tions. The unceJ'tatinty, however, of ghostly pre~
dictions, is not unaptly illustrated in the table-tal~
of Johnson. "An acquaintllOce," remarks Boa-
well, " on whose veracity I ca~ de(lend, tpld ~ne,
th•t walking home one eveP,ing at Kil~ljlrnock, he
heard himself called from a wood, by the voice or
!l brother, who had go._., to ~erica; and thenext
packet brought an account ofthat brother's d~ta-,
~
o ,,,,.,, ,,Googk
¥\'f DBUTBROSOOPlA, Oll SfiOND·SIGHT.
~~ uae~rted.. that this jrieiq>lioable calli"!!
W.88 ~ fhbg, Velf· weR· kpo.'WQ. Dr. ,Johnson said
that o~ !Jayrat ,Os{Qrd, :as be. was. totnibg ~e key
of hjl! cb&Qlber, be'h•ardhis mo&her:distint>tly•call-
ipg s.. .Sh.e was then at Litchfield.; but aotlifag
en814ed." Thill 'casual. admis8ion,, .which, in the
Of)Jlr&e of CO..Veff~OD, traaspilied ftOIIl a man,
lainueif .sttoog)y ~in~ .with· sdp•stition, ..pwe-
oludes any farther remai'U OQ the alleged natnre
and. erraqd ofghosts, wbich~:would·now~indeed, be
highly. .supeJ:ft~ou~ " :A. lady onoe. asked ..me,"
~ys :}Jr•.Coleridge, ''1if,l beUe!fed :in ghost& aad
~pparitiollS? I ~swe~ed 1!fith trutb u4 simplicity,
No, .~adam! I ha'Ve seen.far too many ~elf • ."
DEU'l'EROSCOPIA,'1·oa ·SECOND-SIG~.
THE nearer we approach to times ,w~en supersti-
tion shall be universally exploded, .tile mo.re we
consign to oblivion the antiq_uated no~ons of for-
mer days, respecting every llegree of supernatural
agency or communication. It is .n~t long ago,
however, since the second sight, as it is called,
peculiar to the Scotch Highlanders, was , subject
of dispute, and although it be true, as some assert,
' that all argument is against it,' ye~ it .is equally
certain that we have »;laDY well attested ~cts forit.
We think upon the whole that the.questio.n is placed
in its true lig-ht, in th~ followins .o.ommuni~a#,on
from a gentleman in Scotland, ·wbo had oppo~·
I . , •• ' •
• Th~ : Friend, a lliries of B~~ays, by S. T. Coleridge, E1q•
.,.1. l, pep...· . . ..
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
~B:UTJUtoSCOPIA, OR 8B00~~8lQHT. ~
lliti~ to kno\V the facts he relate., aad who baa
evidently sense enough not to .c~ tllem farther
than the.y will ~. What ia called jn this ptUt of
the island by the Frencb WOI'd preHatir~Nnt, ap-
pears to me to be a ap,ecies ()f s~nd .aigflt, and it
is by no means unoommon :.why it i,9 l~a itUended
to in ..the • busy haunts of men,' dum jn the
seqtaestered habita~ons of the llighlandei'B, .is
accounted for by the following de&ail, and .lfe
apprehend upon very just grounds.
'' Of all the subjects "!hich philosQphers ha•e
chosen for exercis~ng their faculty of reaaODiDg,
~re is not .one more worthy of 1heir attention,
than~dle contemplation of ~e-:h......_an .mind. There
they will find .an ample field wherein they may
-:ange at la.-ge, and displa,y tllei.r ,powers ; but at
the same time it must be ob.se"ed, .that here, un-
l~ss th~ phil~sopll~ calls in religion ~ his aid, he
will be }.ost in a labyrinth of fruitless coojeotur~.
and here, in particular, he will be obliged 'to have
a reference to a great first cape ; as the mind of
man (whatever may be asserted'of material sub-
stances,) .could never be formed by chance ; and
he will find .its affections so infinitely various, that
instead of endeavouring to investigate, he will be
lost in admiration.
· '' The faculty or affections of the mind, attri.
bated.to our neighbours of the Highlands of Scot-
~d, of having a foreknowledge of future events,
or, as it is commonly ~xpressed, having the second
right, is perhaps one of the most singular. Many
""ve been the arguments .both for aQd ·against the
re~ exiate~c•. of tbis ·wonderf~L gi~t, 1 all~ not
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
198 DBU'l'BROSCOPIA; OR SECOND-SIGHT. ·
be an advooate on either side, but shall presume'
to give you a fact or two; which I know to be welt
authenticated, and from· which every one' is af
liberty to infer what they please. ·
"The late Rev. D. M•Sween was minister of
a · parish iu the high parts of Aberdeensbire, aod
was a native of Sky Islaud, where his mother con-
tinued to reside. On the 4th of May, 1'138,
Mr. M•Sween, with his brother, who often came
to viait him from Sky, were walking in the fields.
After some interval in their discourse, during
which the'minister seemed to be lost in thought,
his brother asked him what was the matter with
him; he·made answer, be hardly could tell, but be
was certain their mother was dead. His brother
endeavoured to reason him out of this opinion,
but in vain. And upon the brother's retom home,
he found ·that his mother bad· really died on that
very day on· which be was walking with the mi..
nister;
" In April, 1744, a mao of the name of Forbes,
walking over Culloden Muir, with two or three
others, was suddenly, as it were, lost in thought,
and when in some short time after he was inter-
rupted by his companions, he very accurately de-
scribed the battle, which was fought on that very
spot two years afterwards, at wbich description
his companions laughed heartily, as there was QO
expectation of the pretender's coming to Bri~n
at that time." '
Many such· instances might be produced, but
I am afraid these are sufficient to stagger the cre-
.dulity ol mo•t people. But to the incredulous, I
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
OBUTBROSElO.PIA, OB SBCOND-SIGRT. 197
shall only say, that I am very f~ from attributing
the second sight to the Scotch HighJandera mol'tl
.than to ourselves. I am preUy certain thero is no
man whatever, who is not so~etimes seized with a
foreboding in his mind, or, as i.
* may be tenne4, a
kind of reflection which it is not jn his power to
prevent ; .and although his thoughts may not per·
~aps be employed on any particular exigency, yet
be is apt to dread from that qullrter, where be
is more immediately concerned. 'r.!lls opinion i_s
agreeable to all the bea~hen mytholo~sts, particu-
larly Homer and Virgil,_where ~UDlerous instances
might be produced, an~ these justified . jn the
event~· but there is an au~ority which l h9ld in
JDOre veneration than all the others put together, I
mean that now much. disused book called the Bible,
where w~ meet wi~ m&lly examp\e~, 11rbicl~ may
Llorroborate the existence of soc~ an affection in
the mind ; and that too in persons :who were not
ranked among prophets. I shall instance one or
two. The first is tbe.l4tb chapter of lS~muel,
where it is next to impossible to imagine, that had
not Jo011-than b~n convinced of some forebodi~g
i_. his mind, that he would certairdy be successful,
he and his armour-hearer, being only two it~ num-
ber, would never have encountered a whole gar-
rison of the enemy. Another instance is in t.he
{Jth chapter of f.sther, where the king of Persia,
(who was no prophet,) was so much ~onbled in
his mind, that he could not sleep, neither could he
assign any reason for his being so, t,ill the very
r~n was discovered from the means· that were.
q~ to divert his mel.ancholy, ~· the reading of
o.,,,, ,,Coogle
198 DEUTBftOBCOPIA, OR BBCOND-SH1R't.
the.tecords, where he found· he had forgot ·to dO' a
thmg which he was onder an obligation t0 perform.
Many of the most judicious modern authors tllso
favour this· opinion. Addi&On makes his 'cato,
sometime before his fatal exit, express. himself
thus, "What meaDs.tbis Aetwinus that bang$ upon
mel" Shakspeare also makes Banq'uo :exclaim,
when be is about to set out on his journey~ .. A
heavy summons hangs like lead upon me."; :oe
Foe makes·an instance of this kind tbe means of
saving the life of Cmsoe, at the same time adfuo..
nisbing his readers not to make light of these emo-
tions o{the mind, but to be upon their guard, and
pray to God to assist them and .bear them tliougb,
and direci them in what may happen to their pre-
judice in consequence thereof. ·
~~ To what, then, are.we to attribute these sin-
gular emotions? Shall we impute them to tile
agency of spiritual beings called guardian Angels,
or more properiy to the '' Divinity that stirs with-
in us, and points out an hereafter 1'' However
it may be, it is our business to make the best of
such hints, which I am confident every mari bas
experienced, perhaps more frequently thiltt he is
awareof. ·
". In great towns the hutry and di$8ipeticm tllat
attend tbe opulent, and the little IAi&lll'e that tbe
poor hne, from following the at"ooations which
necessity drives them to, prevent tbem from tak·iag
ony notice of similar instances to the foregoing,
which may happen to themselves. · But tbe oaae is
quite ttift'erentin the Higbtnnds ofScotland, •here
they live ·solitary, and have little to do, or see
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DBU'PB&08COPU, 0& !YCeltD41GII'J'. 1J9
tlone, aild eollseqiullltlj• oo~elj halre bat
fe• id~ Wihe11 ao.y·thing of tlae·abo•e .~
oeours, they b.te leieme ·to •rood oveir it, .-
~ot-get it baniabeii'U.. their minds, by which
means it gaias a deep ancl latiag.impNuiba, .-ad
oftea varieaa circumstances riley•bppen by wbioh
it may be interpreted, just like dtt!ancientoraoJes
by the priests ofthe heathen deities•.. Tiia aOIMary
.lituafion·of oar 'eighboQISi8 alao pNCiaoti9e ofan
opinion ofa worse ~-.cy-1 l8eiiD the beliefia
spirits and apparitiou, tb· wliich DO people on
earth are mote addicted than the Scotc~ High•
Ianden :·thiS opilrioa tfaey'sack ill with their ••
tiler's mUk, and it increases with tbeir yean, and
a1ature. Not a glen or stiath, bat is haunted by
its partioalar goblilu and jaan.. And, iad8841..
tbe faee ofthe csouaary ls in some plaoea such, ~
it 1ff181'8 a very aoleDm appeanuace, even to a phi-
losophic,eye. Tile fall·ef eaear.cc. efwater- dowa
awep deoli•ities, the·whistlmg of the wind amoag
heath, rocks and eavems, a loose r.....cmt of a
rook .falling from ita top, and in .ita coarse 4owa-
ward bringing a 'hundred more with jt, so that it
appears like the wreck of nature ; the hooting of
the night-owl, the chattering of the .heath-cpck,
the pale light of the moon on the dreary pros~t,
with here and there a solitary tree on an eminence,
wliicb fear magnjftes to an unu.aal size; all these
considered, it is not to be wondered at, that eve11
an enlightened mind should be Strock with awe:
what'theli must be the emotion of a person pre-
judioed from his mfanoy, when left alone in ftch
a situation!" ·
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
iOO DBUTBROICOPIA, OR SBCOND·SIORT.
Until the laat century the spirit Brownie, in the
Highlands of Scotl~d, was another aubject Of
second sight, as the following story will shew.-
,. Sir Normand Macleod, and some others, play-
ing at tablea, at a game called by the Irish Fal-
mer-more, wherein there are three of a aide ancl
each of them threw dice by turns ; there hap-
pened to be one difficult point in the diSposing Of
the table-men; this obliged the gamester, before
be changed his man, since upon the disposing of it
the winning or losing of the game depended. At
last ·th-e butler, who stood behind, advised the
player where to place his man ; with which he
complied, and won the game. This being thought
extraordinary,.and Sir Normand bearing one whis-
per him in the ear, asked who advised him so skil-
fully ? He answered, it was the butler; bat
this seemed more strange, for he could not play at
tables. Upon thia, Sir·NwJiUUld asked him bow
long it was since he bad learned to play ? and the
fellow owned that be never played in his life ; but
that be saw the ·spirit Brownie reaching his arm
over the player's head, and touohing the part witla
his finger on the point where the table-man was to
be placed • ."
• ~· There is a species to whom, In the Highlands, ia ascribed
the r;uardianship or auperintendence of a particular clan, or
famUy of distinctioo. Thee the famUy ofGurllnber waa hUDted
!Jy a spirit called Garlen Bodachar 1 that of tbe Baroo of K~
charden by Sandear or Red Hand, a spectre, one of wbote
baads Ia aa red as blood 1 that of Tullocbr;orum by May Mou-
lacb, a female ftr;ure, whose left hand and arm were covered
with hair, who Ia alao meadoaed aa a fa81Uiar atteadant upon
the clan Grant.'' Sir WALT&R Scon'a Boann Mt•n-a&LIY.
o,,,::: ,,Coogle
DBUTEROSOOPU, OR &'BCOND-81GH'f. 201
The. circa.mstaooe, however, deserving most
•tice, is the reference which the objects.of 8ecoJ~d·
.s~ght are supposed to bear to the seer's assumed
gift of p~opheoy. It is said, in one of the numer-
ous,illustratioos which have been given of this fa-
culty, that" Sir Normand MacLeod, who has his
residence in the isle of Bwnera, which lies between
the lsleof North-Uist and Harries, went to the
lsl.e of Skye about business, without appointiog
~y time for his return : his servants, in his ab-
seoce, ~ng altogether in the l~ge hall at night,
one of them, who bad been accustomed to see the
secood-sight, told the rest they must remove, for
they would have abundance of company that night.
One ofhis fellow-servants answered that there was
very little appearance of tbat, aod if he bad any
vision of company, it was not like to be accomplish·
ed this night ; but the seer insisted upon it that it
was. 'fhey continued to argue the improbability
of it, because of the darkness of the night, and
the.danger.of comiog through the rocks that litt
rou~d the isle; but witb~n an hoar after, on~ Q{
Sjr Normao<t's men came to the bouse, bidding
them to provide lights, &c. for his .JDa~tte.r had·
newly landed.
T):le following illostratit•ns of the sett~ad~sight
are given by.D~. Fei'Jiu, in his "ThtlOr~ of Ap-
pariti.oos."
•• A gentleman coaeected with ary. family, an
officer ia th.e a.r:my, and cer.tainly aaclicted to no
s~perstition, was. qDJlrtered early in life, in tbe
middle of the .last cent11ry, n~ the castle of a
K 2
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
·202 DEUi'£1WSClOPU, OR SMOMb·SIGit'l'.
gentleman in the north of Scotlabd, Who was sop-
posed to possess the second-sight. Strange ru-
mours were aftoat respecting the old 'chieftain. H~ -
had spoken to an apparition, which ran along the
battlements of the house, and had never been
cheerful aftentards. ilis prophetic visions sur·
prise even in the region of crednlity ; and his re-
tired habits favoured tbe popular opinions. My
friend assured me, that one day, while he was
reading a play to the ladies of the family, the
chief, who had been walking across the 'J'oobJ,
stopped suddenly, and assumed the look of a seer.
He nmg the bell, and ordered a groom to saddle a
horse ; to proceed immediately to a seat in the
neighbourhood, and enquire after the health of
Lady - . Ifthe account was favourable, he
then directed him to call at another castle, to ask
after another lady whom he named.
" The reader immediately closed his book, and
declared he would not proceed till those abrupt
orders were explained, as be was confident they
were produced by the second-sight. The chief
was very unwilling to ·explain himself; but at
length the door bad appeared to open, and that a
little woman without a head, bad entered tht> room;
that the appantion indicated the death of some
person of his acquaintance; and the only two per-
sons who resembled the figure, were those ladies
after .whose bealtb'behad sant to enquire.
" A 'few hours at'terwaras, the servant returned
with an account that one of the ladies had died of
an apoplectio fit, about the time when the vision
appeared.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DBUTBROSCOPIA, OR BBCOND-SIGHT. 203
" At another time the chief was confined to his
bed by indisposition, and my friend was reading
to him, in a stormy win~-night, while the fishing-
boat belonging to the castle was at sea. The old
gentleman repeatedly expressed mach anxiety
respecting his people; and at last exclaimed, " my
boat is lost !" The Colonel replied, " how do you
know it, sir?" He was answered, " I see two of
the boatmen bringing in the third drowned, all
dripping wet, and laying him down close beside
your chair. The chair was shifted with great pre-
cipitation ; in the course of the night the fisher-
men returned with the corpse of one of the boat-
men!"·
It is perhaps to be lamented, that such narra- .
tives as these should' be quoted in Dr. Ferriar's
philosophic work on Apparitions. We have lately
seen:them advanced, on the doctor's authority, as
fli'\'ouring the VuJgar belief in Apparitions, and in-
troduced in tile· ·same volume 'with the story of
Mrs. Veal.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
204
WITCHES, WI'l'CHCRAFT, WIZAltDS, &c.
" Wltat are the~e.
So withered and 10 wild io their attire;
Tbatlook not like the iobabitants o' the Earth,
And yet are on't 1 Live yon T or are you au,ht
Tbat men may question 1 • • • •
• • • • • • •
* * * * You should be women,
And yet your beards forbid- me to Interpret
That you are eo."-Macbetlt.
WITCHCRAFT implies a kind of sorcery, more
especially prevalent, and, as supposed, among
old women. who, by entering into a social com-
pact with the devil, if such an august personage
there be as commonly represented, were enabled,
in many instapces, to alter the course of n~!Jlre's
i_mmutable laws ;--to raise winds a~d 'storms,-to
perform actions that require more than human
strengtb,-to ride through the air upon broom-
sticks,- to transform themselves into various
shapes,-to afflict and torment those who might
have rendered themselves obnoxious to them, with
acute pains and lingering diseases,-in fact, to do
whatsoever they wished, through the agency of the
devil, who was always supposed to be at their
beck and call.
All countries can boast of their witches, sorce~
rers, &c. they have been genial with every soil,
and peculiar with every age. We have the ear-
liest account of them in holy writ, which contains
irrefutable proofs, that whether they existed or not.
o,,,,,_
,,Google
WITCHES, W.lTC~ORAPT, WIZARDS, &c. -
the same superstitions ideas prevailed, and conti-
nued to prevail until within the last century·. The
age of reason bas now, however, penetrated the
recesses of ignorance, and diffused the lights of
the Gospel with good effect among the creduloes
and uninformed, to the great discomfit of witcbea
and evil spirits.
During the height of this kind ofignorance and
superstition, many cruel laws were framed against
witchcraft ; in consequeilce of which, numbers
of innocent persons, male and female•, many,
of them no doubt friendless, and_oppressed with
age and penury, ru;td disease, were condemned and.
burnt for powers they never possessed, for crimes
they neither premeditated nor committed. Hap-
pily for humanity these terrific laws have long
.since been repealed. An enlightened age viewed
with horror the fanaticism of Pagans, and gave
proof of its emancipation from the dark and mur-
4erons trammels of ignorance and barbarity, by a
recantation of creeds that bad no other object in
view than to stain the dignity of the creation by
binding down the human mind to the most abject
state of degeneracy and servility.
The deceptions of jugglers, founded on optical
illusions, electrical force, and magnetical attraction,
have fortunately, in a great measure, gone a great
way to remove the veil of pretended supernatural
agency. The oracles of old have been detected as
• In the year 1646 two hundred persons were tried, con-
demned, and esecuted.fGr witchcraft, at the Suffolk and E-x
al8izes ; and in 1699 five persons were tried by special cGm-
miuion, at Paisley, iu Scotland, condemned and burnt alive,
fGr tile l&llle lmapaary crbne.-(See HowaLL'I Letter•.)
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DOG WITOH 88, WITCHCRAYT, WIZARDS, &o.
mere macltinery ; thepopish miracles,slightsofhabd ;
every other supernatural farce bas abated the 8811le
fate. We hear no more of witches, ghosts, &c;
little children go to bed without alarm, and people
traverse unfrequented paths at all boors and sea·
sons, without dread of spells or incantations. · ·
In support, however, ofthe existence of witches,
magicians, &c. many advocates have been found ;
ud it is bot justice tosay, that all who have argued
for, have used stronger and more forcible and ap·
propriate reasoning than those who have argued
against the~. If the bible be the standard of our
holy religion, and few there arewho doubt it;it must
alsobe thebaSisofoor belief; for whateveris therein
WJ;itten is the WORD OF GOD, and not a par-
cel of jeux d'.sprits,· cottundrums, or quidpro:.
qlt06, to p~zzle and defeat those.who consuit that
saored volume for information or instruction. Nor
do we .believe all the jargon and orthodox canting
of priesta, who lay constructions on certain po8;.:
sages ~ond the comprehension of men inore en·
lightened than themselves, especially when they
presume to tell us that such 'and such a word or
sentence mus.t be C\lnstrued such and such a way,
aDd not another. This party purpose will never
effect any good for the cause of religion and truth.
In the oourse of this article we shall quote the
texts of Scripture where witches are mentioned in
the same manner as we have done those that allude
to apparitions,&c.withoutoffering any verydecided
comment one way or the other, farther than '\IVe shall
also in this casegive precedence to the stan~ard of
the Christian religion, which forms a partofdaelaw
o,,.,,,_,,Google
WITCRBS, WJTORCRA.IiT, WIZARD8,&c. *W
ofthe llmd ; stiU Jll6iataining oar former opiaion,
that, do•btless, there have at-one time been nego-
tiations otrried on between hnman beings aad
spirit&; and for this assertion we refer to the Bible
itself, for prooftbat-tbere have been witches, sorcer-
ers, magicians, who had the power of doing many
wonderful things bymestns ofdemoniac agenoy, but
w:Jrat.bas become of, or at what precise time, this
power or oomrnunication becaltle extinct, we may
D'Ot able to inform (Jar readers, althoughwe canven-
tirre to ilSSnre them'that no such diabolical ascend-
ancy prevails at.the present period among the in-
habitants of the ~rtb.
That this superstitious dread led to the perse-
cution of many innocent beings, who were sup-
posed to be guilty of witchcraft, there can be no
question ; our own statute books are loaded with
penalties against sorcery; and, as already cited, at
no very distant period, our courts offaw have been
di'agraced bycriminaltrialsofthatnature;andjudges,
who are still quoted as models of legal knowledge
and discernment, not only permitted such eases
to go to a jury, but allowed sentences to be re-
corded which consigned reputed wizards· to capi-
tal' punishment. In Poland, even so late as the
year 1739, a juggler was exposed to the torture,
until a confession was extracted from him thai be
was a sorcerer; upon which, without further proof,
he was hanged ; and instances in other countries
might be multiplied without end. But this, al-
though it exceeds ·in atrocity, does not equal in
absurdity the sanguinary and bigoted infatuation
of the Inquisition in Portugal, which actually con-
o.,,,, ,,Coogle
208 WITCIIBS, \VITCHCRAPT, WIZARDS, &c~
demned to the. flames, as being posseued of the
devilJ a horse belonging to an Englishman. who
had taught it perform some uncommoll tricks; and
the poor animal is confidently said to have beeo
publicly burned at Lisbon, in conformity with hia
sentence, in the year 1601.
The only part of Europe in which the .acts of
110rcery obtain any greatcredit, where, ln. fact, sup-
polled wizards will practice incantations, by which
they pretend to obtain the knowledge of future
events, and in which the credulity of the people
induced them to place themost implicit oonfidenoe.
On such occasions a magical drum is usually em-
ployed. This instrument is formed of a piece of
wood of a semi,..oval form, hollow on the flat side,
apd there covered with a skin, on which various
u~couth figures are depicted ; among which, since
the introduction of Christianity into that country,
an attempt is usually made to represent the acts
of our Saviour and the apostles. On this cover-
ing several brass rings of different sizes are laid,
while the attendants dispose themselves in many.
aotic. postures, in order to .facilitate the charm ;
the drum is then beat with the horn of a rein-deer,
which occasioning the skin to vibrate, puts tbe
rings in motion round the figures, and, according
tothe position which they occupy, the officiating
aeer pronoun~es his prediction•.
• It is J;ather an unfortunate circumstance that all the books,
(and thrre were several,) which treated of the arts of conju-
ration, as tbey were practised amour the ancients, not one I•
now extant. aod all that we know opoo that subject baM been
"olleclold from isolated fact• 'l'l·hich have hee"u incidentally mea-:
D'g't' od by s;oogle
WITCHRS, W11CHCRAPT, WIZARDS. &e. 209
"The remedy," says a late writer•, "specifi-
cally appropriated for these maladies of the mind,
is the cultivation of natural knowledge; and it is
equally curious and gratifying to observe, that
though the lights of science are attained by only a
small proportion of the community, the benefits of
it diffuse themselves universally ; for the belief of
ghosts and witches, and judicial astrology, hardly
exists, in these days, even amongst the lowest vul-
gar. This effect of knowledge, in banishing the
vain fears· of superstition, is finely alluded to in
the last words of the following admirable linei
quoted from Virgil, e. g.-
Felix qui potuit rerum cocuoacere cauaa•,
Atque metua omues et inexorable fatum,
Subjicit pedibua, Strepilumque Acllerontu 11vari.
But in order to shew with what fervour the be-
lief in witches and apparitions was maintained
about a century and a half ago, we lay before
our readers, as it is scarce, "Doctor Henry More,
his letter, with the postscript to Mr. J. Glanvilt,
minding him of the great expedience and useful-
ness of his new intended edition of the Dremon of
Tedworth, and brieOy representing to him the
tioued in other writinp. From these, however, itwould app~ar,
that many of the deceptions which ltill continuo to excite as-
tonishment, were then «enerally known.
* Sir Gilbert Blane, Bart.
+Glaovil wu chaplain to his Majesty, aod a fellow of the
Royal Society, and author of the work in question, entitled
" 8ADUCE8Jrol TBIDMPBATtJI, or a futl and plain eYidence con-
cerning witches and apparition~,'' io two part&, .. vro•in« partly
by holy Scripture, aod partly by a choice collectloa of modern
relatione, tbe re"l e:~;iateoce of apparitiona, 1pirit1• aocl
witches," Pfinted noo,
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
210 WITCifBS'; Wl'tCltC.RAP'l', WIU.RD9, ~.
marvellous weakness and gollerie of Mr. W~b­
stet's• display of Witchcraft."
" Sir,
" When I was at ·London, I called. on yo~r
bookseller, to know in what forwardness this new
intended impression of the story of the Dremon of
Tedwortb (see p. 223) was, which will undeceive
the world touching that fame spread abroad, WI if
Mr. _1Jfompesson and yourself had acknowledged
the business to have been .a meer trick or impos-
ture. But the story, with your ingenious consider-
ations about witchcraft, being so often printed al-
ready, he said it behoved him to take care how
be ventured on a' new impression, unless he bad
some new matter of that kind to add, which might
make this editionthe more certainly saleable ; and
therefore be expected the issueof that n~ised story
of the spectre at Exeter, seen so oft for the dis-
covery of a murther committed some thirty years
ago. But the event of this business, as to juridi-
cal process, not answering expectation, be was
discouraged from making use of it, many things
being reported to him from thence in favour ofthe
party most concerned. But I am told of one Mrs.
Britton, bel' appearing to her maid after her
death, very well attested, though not of such a
tragical event as that of Exeter, which he thought
considerable. But of discoveries of murtb~r I
never met with any story more plain and UDeXCCI~
tionable than that in Mr. John Webster his display
of supposed Witchcraft : the book indeed itself, ~
• Webster,another divine, wrote " Criticisms and interpreta-
tlo1of Scripture," a~ainst the e:dstence of witches, &c. · .
WITCRBS, WlTOliCRAIPT, WIZAllDS, &c. 21.1
confess, is but a weak and impertinent piece ; but
dtat stor-y weighty and convincing, and such as
him8elf,· (thOugh otherwise an afFected caviller
against lilinoat all stories of witchcraft and appa-
ritions~) is Constrained to assent to, as you shall see
ftoni·bis own confession. I shall, for your better
easle, or hecause you may not haply· have tile- book,
treo8orioo it out ofthe writer himself, though it be
S(lmethiog, chap.l6, page288, aboutthe year ofour
Lor-d 1~, (as neat as I can remember, having
lost my nates and tile copy of the letters to Ser-
jeant H ution, but I am sure that I do most per-
fe«ltly remember the substance ofthe story..)
" Near unto Chester-le-Street, there lived
one Walker, a yeoman of good estate, and a
widower, who had a young woman to his kins·
woman, that kept his house, who was by the neigb-
bqur8 suspected to be with child, and was towards
the dark of the evening one oight sent away witlt
~Mark Sharp, who was a collier, or one that
digged coals underground, and one that had been
born in Blakeburn hundred, in .Lancashire; and so
she was not heard of a long time, and no noise or
tittle was roade about it. In the winter time after,
one Janu& Gritltam, or Grime, (for so in that
country they call tbem) being a miHer, ·and living
about·2 miles from the pli1ee where Walker lived,
was one night alone in the mill very late griading
cot'ti, and aoout 12 or 1 a clock at night, he came
down stairs from having been putting com in the
hopper: the mill doors behig shut, there stood a
woman opun the midst of the floor witb her hair
about her head hanging down and all bloody, with
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
!J.2 WlTCHJS, WITCHCRAFT, WIZARDS, &c.
five large wounds on her bead. He being muc&
affrighted and amazed, began tQ bless himself, aod
at last asked her who shewas and what she wanted t
To which she said, I <Jm the spirit of such a JOO·
•an who lived with Walker, and being got with
cAild by kim, he promised to send me to a private
place, where I should be '(1)8[/ lookt to" till I tD6S
brought in bed and well .again, nnd then I slwultl
come again and keep his house. And accordingly,
said the apparition; I rDas one night late sent atDay
with one Mark Sharp, who upon a moor. naming a
place. that the miller knew, slew me with a pick,
such as men dig coals witlud, and gare me tlaue
fit1e wounds, and after threw my body ir&to a coal
pit hard by, and hid the pick under a ban• .; mul
his shoes and stockings being bloody, he endeavour-
«~ to wash 'em; but seeing the blood would not
forth, he kid them there. And the apparition
further told the miller, that be must be the man to
reveal it, or else that she must still appear 8lld
haunt him. The miller returned home very sad
and heavy, but spoke not one word of what he had
seen, but eschewed as much as be- could to stay in
the mill within night without company, thinking
thereby to esQape the seeing again of that frightful
apparition. But notwithstanding, one night when it
began ~ be dark, the apparition met him again,
and seemed very fierce and cruel, and threatened
him, that ifbe did not reveal the murder she would.
continually pursue and haunt him ; yet for all this,
he still concealed it until St. 77tomas's Eve, before
Christmas, when being soon after sun-set in his
garden, she appeared again, and then so threaten-.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCH·BS. WITCHCRAFT. WIZARDS, &c. 213
ed him. and afFrighted him, that he faithfully pr~
mised to reveal it next morning. In the morning
he went to a magistrate and made the whale mat-
ter known with all the circumstances; and diligent
search being made, the body was found in a coal.
pit, with five wounds in the head, and the pick.
aud shoes and stockings yet bloody, in every cir..;
cumstance as the apparition had related to tiNt
miller; whereupon Walker and Mark Sharp were
both apprehended, but would confess nothing. At
the assizes following, I think it was at Durham,
they were arraigned, found guilty, condemned.
and executed; bot I could never hear they confest
the fact. There were some that reported the ap•
parition·did appear to the judge or the foreman
of the jury, who was alive in Chester-le-Street
about ten years ago, as I have been credibly in-
formed, but of that I know no certainty : there are
many persons yet alive that can remember this
strange murder and the discovery ofit; for it was,
and sometimes yet is, as much discoursed of in the
North Country as any that almost has ever been
heard of, and the relation printed, though now not
to be gotten. I relate this with great confidence,
(though I may fail in some of the circumstances)
because I saw and read the letter that was sent to
sergeant Hutton, who then lived at GoldsbrugA, in
York1Aire, from the judge before whomWalker and
Mark Sharp were tried, and by whom they were
condemned, and had a copy of it until about the
year 1658, when I had it, and many other books
and papers taken from me; and this I confess to
be one of the most convincing stories, being of
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
~4. WITCHBS, WITCHCRAFT, WIZARDS, ~c.
undoubted verity, that ever I r~d, h~ard, or kne~
of, and carrieth with it the most evident force to
make the most incredulous to be satisfied that there
are r~ally sometimes such things as apparitions."
Thus .far he.
.. This.story is so consic:lerable ~at I ;wl\ke.JDen·
tion ofit in my Scholea, on the Immortality of the
Soul, in my Volumen Pllilosophi(:;u.m, tqm. 2,
whioh 1 acqu!Unting a friend of mine wi~, .a pro-
dent, intelligent person, Dr. J. D. be of his own
~ccord offered me, it being a thing of much con-
sequence, to send to a friend of his in the north
for ~eater a~urJlnce of the troth ofthe narrative,
which ~otion I willingly eQlbracing, he did .accord-
~1y. The answer to this letter from his friend
Mr. ShqJerdson, is this : I have .done what I cap
to .inform myself of .t~e passage of Shaq1e a.,l
Walker; (here are ve,ry few 1f1en that I could
.,eet that were t(len. men, qr at ~he tryaZ, sav~
~hese two in the inclosed papfr, bO~k me~ at that
time, and both at the trial; and for Mr~ L~ley.
be li1Jed next door to Walker, and what he.hat"
given under his hand, can depose if tk~.re U161'e
oc~asion. The other geratleman awit his attuta·
tion with his 01Df& had; but 1 being not there got
not his name to it._ I could have sent you twent_y
{JQr&;Cis .that cou/4 have ,said thus .m.,.~h an4 more
l4;Y .Mqrsqy; .but I thought tlwse most prpp~r· (Aat
c0'1141 ,p.ak jrQfl' t~ir own eyes and ears. ,:'bus
far (continues. Dr•. More,) M.r. Sh~P,erdson, tlte
Doctor's discreet.and faithful intelligen~r. Now
for Mr. l,.un4ly, or Mr. Luf{llty,. Being !lD ancient
geDtl~man, and at the trial of Walker and Sharp
· o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITOHBS, WITOHORAli'T, WIZARDS, &c. 2l:S
11pon tbe murder <>f A.ntu Walker, saith, That he
doth very well remember that the said Anne was
servant to Walker, and that she was supposed to
be with child, but would not disclose by whom ;
b~t bei,og removed to her aunt's in the same town
called Dame Caire, told her aunt (Dame Caire)
.that be that got her with child, would take care
9oth ~f her and it, and bid her not trouble herself.
!iter some time she had been at her aunt's, it was
obs~ned that Sharp came to Lumley one night,
being .a sworn brother of the said Walker's; and
Uaey two .that night called her forth from he.r aunt's
house,.which nightsbe was murdered; abontfoar·
teen d~ys after the murder, there appeared to one
Grainie_ !1 fuller, at his mill, six miles from Lum-
18g, the .likeness of a woman with her hair aoout
ber head, and the appearance of five wounds in
her bead~ as the said Graime gave it in evidence;
~at that ,appearance bid him go to .a Justice of
peace, and relate to him, how that Walker and
Sharp bad murthered her in such aplace as sbe
was murthered ; hut he, fearing .to disclose a thing
pf.that natureagainst a person of credit as Walker
was, would not have done it; upon which the said
Graime did go to a justice of peace and related
f.4e wh9le. matter-. Whereupon .the justice _of
• .This story muat·bt;·accountedfor some WilY or other JQrbelief
~n tbe ~ppellr.nce of.tbe llppuitioDI must be credited. Either tbe
millerhimselfWll&tbe murderer,orbe wll& privy to it,unperceiTed
by 1M ac;tulll perpl!tr~t~n J or.he mightbe~ JU:Complice befl)fe
~ C.ct, ,or llt the, tim" it wu coa,unitted, but without ha.Yi:Dg
in.Ucte4 any of tbe wounds•. Tbe•compf!nctioua, ~iaitWga of~il
trt)llbled coD&Cience, tbe .drelld.of tbe lllw in tbe event of tlroe
dhcl~ure, coDu.;g f~om uy one bat himself, doubtleaa made
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
!16 WITCHBS, WITCHCRAFT, WIZARDS, &c.
peace granted warrants against Walker and Sharp,
him re&olve to dieburthen his guilty mind; and pretended auper-
natural agency waa the fittest channel that presenteditselffor the
occasion. That Walker and Sharp never confessed any thine,
ought not to be matter ofwonder. There was no evidence apnlt
them but the miller'a apparition, which, they were weU allUred,
would not be likely to appear &<ainat them; they were deter-
mined thereforenot to implicate themselves; well-knowing, that
however the case stood, Graime the miller could not be con-
victed, because, in the event of his story of the apparition heine
rejected, they must be acquitted, although suspicion and the
circumstances of the pregnancy, &c. were against them; and
again, if the millerbad declared himself, after this, as evidence
for the crown, his testimony, if taken at all, would be received
with the greatest caution and distrust ; the reault miflat, in fact,
have been, that the strongest suspicions would have fallen upon
him as the real murderer of Anne Clarke; for which, under
every consideration of the case, be might not unjustly have been
tried, condemned, and executed. The ltatemeot of Lumley
proves nothing that was not generally known. .Tlaat ~e
Clarke was murdered was well known, but by whom nobody
ever knew. She afterwards appeared to the miller; and why
to the mUier in preference to any one elae, unlees be had baa
tbe least laand in it? end with the uception of Sharp 1111c1
Walker, the only living beioc who waa tboronchly acquainted
with the catastrophe, but who himself was, in fact, as guilty a1
either of the other two.
Tbe Mr. Faohalr, who swore be saw "the likene88 of a cllild
aiaading upon Walker's shoulders" durinr the trial, oupt to
laave been freely blooded, cupped, purged, and dieted, for a
month or two, until the vapours of his infantile imagination bad
learned to condense themselves within their proper focus: thea,
and then only, micht his oath have been listened to. Besides, the
diil4 could onlybe a fretus, at what period of r;eetation wearenot
told.and to baveappeared in proper form, it ought to have bad ill
principal appendage with it-the mother. The two, however
mir;ht ba9e been two heavy for Walker'a sboulden : neve.......:
leis, the gallantry ofthe times, certainly, would not have rcfnaed
her a seat in th! dock alonpide her pilty paramour 1or a chal,
in the witlieBB'·box, If abe came to appear aa evidence ......r...t
h~ ~- .
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCHES, WITCHCRAFT, WIZARDS, &c. 217
and committed them to a prison; but they found
boil to appear at the next assizes, at which they
came to their trial, and upon evidence of the cir-
cumstances, with thatofGraime ofthe appearance,
they were both found guilty and executed.
"The other testimony is thatofMr. James Smart
and William Lumley, oftke city of DurAam, who
saith, that the trial of Skarp and Walker was in
the month of August 1631, before judge Daven-
port. One ~r. Fanhair gave it in evidence upon
oath, that he saw the likeness of a child stand upon
Walker's shoulders during the time of the trial, at
which time the judge was very mach troubled,
and·gave sentence that night the trial was, which
was a thing never used in Durham before nor
after ; out of which two testim~nies several things
mayc .be counted or supplied in Mr~ Webster'11
story,·though it be evident enough that in the main
they agree ; for ·that is but a .small disagreement
as to the years, when Mr. Webster says about the
year of· our Lord 1632, and Mr. Fanhair,' 163L
But unless at Durham they have assizes but once
in tl)e year, I understand not so well how Sharp
and Walker should be apprehended some little
time after St. Thomas" day, as Mr. Webster has,
and be tried the next assizes at Durham, and yet
that be in August, according to Mr. Smart's testi-
mony. Out of Mr: Lumley's testimony the chria-
tian name of.tbe young woman is supplied, as also
the name of the town near Chester-le;.Street,
namely, Lumley: tbecircumstance alsoofWalker's
sending away his kinswoman with Mark Sharp are
&opplied out of Mr. Lumley's nwative, and the
"
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
2\8 WlTCRJlS~ WITCHCR..A.FT, WIZ.A.:RDS, &c.
time rectifte4 by, telliog it was.about fourteen days
till \he spebtre after the murder, w~n as Mr.
Webetar makes it a long time.''
We sb~l not follow the learned Doctor. thto.gb
the whole of his lelter, which principally now eon·
sists in rectifying ~me little dif!Cllepatlcies:io the
accolJnt· M ·the murder of An~-e Walker~ and tile
execution of the murderers, upon clrcnuiiBtaDtial
evidence, suppported by the miller's story of the
apparition, betWeen the account given by Mr.
Webster., and·that here related by Lumley aad
Sharp. Mr. Webster's account, it would.appear,
was taken from a letter written by Judge Daven·
port to Sergeant Hutton, giving a detailed narra·
tive of the whole proceeding as far as came within
his judicial observation, and the.exercise of his
funetiona; which it also appears Dr. Mo~ like-
wise saw ; a copy of which, he states, be had in
fact by him fur some considerable time, but which
he unfortunately lost : his account, therefore, is
from sheer recollection of the·contents of this let· .
ter, but as there is very little difference in the
material points, unless with raspect to the date of
the year, between the account given by Webater, .
and that related from the ·Doctor's memoty, . we
shall offer no farthe_r obsertation than that the
whole savours so much of other similar stories, the
result of superstition and igne>raoce, that it claims
an equal proportion of credit : for if, at the time
.we allndle to, they would liang, born, or drown a
woman for a witch, either upon her own evideace,
or that of some ofher mali~ant and less peaceably
disposed. neighbours, it.cannot be matter of sur·
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
Wi.TCRBS, WITCRCRAPT, WIZARDS, 8te. 219
prise, that two individuals, for a crime really com-
mitted, should be banged as murderers upon the
testimony of the apparition of a murdered person,
givea through 'f:be organ of a miller, who re-
sided only six miles from the spot.
That Dr. Henry More was not only an enthu-
siast and a visionary, (both of which united in the
same person, constitute a canting madman) but
also a humorous kind of fellow when he chose to be
jocular, and it would appear be was by no means
incap11ble of relaxing the gravity of his counte-
nance as occasion served him, may be still fur-
ther inferred from the following extracts of the
sequel of his letter to the Reverend Joseph Glan·
vil:-
... 'This smry of Anne Walker, (says Dr. M.)
I tlliak you witl do well to put amongst your addi-
tioas in the new hnpression of your new edition of
your Demon of Tedwortb, it being so excellent-
ly well attested, AND SO UNEXC.BPTIONABLJt IN
BVBRY RBSPBCT ; aod hasten as fast as you can
1ltat impression, to undeceive the half-witted world,
wbo so much exutt and triumph in the extinguish-
ing the belief of that narration, as if the crying
do'Wil the trnth'of that of the Dremon of Tedworth,
were indeed the very slaying ofthe devil, and that
they may now, with more gaiety and security than
ever, sing in a loud note, that mad drunken catch-
Hay bo I tlae Devil ia.dead, &e.
Which wild song, though it may seem a piece of
levity ·to mention, yet, believe me, the application
thereofbears ·a sober and weighty intimation along
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
221) WITCHBS, WITCHCRAFT, WIZARDS, &c.
with it, viz. that these sort of people are very hor-
.ribly afraid that there should be any spirit, lest
there should be a devil, and an account after this
life ; and therefore they ~e impatient of any thing
th~t implies it, that they may ·with a more full
swing, and with all security from an after reckon-
ing, indulge their own lusts and humours ; and I
know by long experience that nothing rouses them
so much out of that dull lethargy of atheism and
sadducism, as narrationsofthis kind, for they being
qf a thick and gross. spirit, the most subtle and
solid deductions of reason does little execution
upon them ; but this sort of sensible experi.QlenfB
cuts them and stings them very sore, andso startles
them, that a less considerable story by far than this
of the drummer of Tedworth, or of Ann Walker,
a Doctor of Physic cryed out presently, ift4is be
true 1 have been in a wrong bor all this time, aad
ilaust begin rny account anew.
" And I remember an old gentleman, in. the
country, of my acquaintance, an excellent justice
ofpeace, and a piece of a mathematician, but what
kind ofa pbiloiopher be was you may understand
from a rhyme of his own making, which be com-
mended to m~ . at my ~ing horse in his yard ;
which rhyme is this :-
Ens u nothin1 tiU 1aueJlndl out;
Smte mdl in notAitlf, 10 114U1At fOU aboul.
Which rhyme of his was so rapturous to himself,
that at the reciting of the second verse the old man
turned himself about upon his toe as nimbly as one
may observe a dry leaf whisked round in the ooriu~r
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
WJ'TCHBS, WlTCHCR'APT, WIZARDS, &c. 221
of an orchard walk, by some. little whirlWind.
With this philosopher I have bad many discourses
concerning the immortality of tbe soul and its
destruction: when I have run bim quite down by
reason, he would bot laugh at me, and say, this is
logic, H., calling me by my christian name ; to
which I replied, this is reason, Father L., (for I
used and some others to call him) but it seems
you are for the new ligllts and the immediate in-
spirations, which I confess he was as little for as
for the other; but I said so only in the way of
dro.Yery to him in those times, but truth is, nothing
but palpable experience woold move him, and
be~ a bold man, and fearing nothing, he told me
.he had used all the magical ceremonies of conju-'
ration be could to raise· the devil or a spirit, and
had a most .earnest desire to meet with one, but
nevB conld do it. But this he told me, when he
did not so much as think of it, while his servant
was pulling oft' his boots in the hall, some invisible
hand gave him such a clap upon the back that it
JDade all ring again ; so, thought he, I am invited
to converse with a spirit; and therefore so soon as
his boots were oft' and his shoes on, out he goes
into tbe yard and next field to find out the spirit
that had ~iven him this familiar slap on the back,
but. found him neither in the yard nor tbe next
field to it.
.. But though he did not feel this stroke, albeit.
he thought it afterwards·(finding nothing came of
it) a mere delusion; yet not long before bis death
it had more force with him than all the philo8ophi-
~~ iP'gtJblents I could use to him, thottgh I could
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
- WJ,'l'CiiBS, W•TCifellA'PT, WIZARDS, &c.
wind him and non-plus him as I pleased ; bat yet
all my argum~w. bow solid soenr, m"de no iDa-
pression o,pon him, wherefGre after se\'~ retlee-
tions ofthi• nature, whereby I woald prove to bim
the soul's diatinction from the body, and ita immor·
~ty, when nothing of such subtile considerations
did any mQI'e e~ecution in his mind, thaa some
)jgbtening is said·to do, thoagh it melts the sword
on the fuzzy consistency of the scabbard : Will,
4aid 1, Fat'Mr L., thowgA none tif thue tAir&g6
'110116 you, I have soT~Nthiag still behind, fmd "''""
your•elf has ·acl:Rowledged to me to he fnM!, tiMJI
. way do tlte lnmness : do you remember the cl4p fHI
your bac~, when your sertJant was pulling off1JOfl"
lwots in the kall1 .Auure yot~rself, said I, Fa(Mr
L., that goblia will 6tt tlte first tiat tDill lJid ~
ttJelcome i" tA. otltr tDOrld. Upoa that bia eou-
tenanoe changed most semibly, and be was aore
confounded with robbiag up of his meRlOry thaD
with all the rational and philosophical arg1110enta.
tiol!ls that I could produce."
How the various commentators on holy writ
have re()Onciled to their minds the existeooe of
apirits, witches, hobgoblins, devils, &c. we are
11nable tn decide, for the want of a folio before
us; but, if there are none of this evil-boding fra-
wnity " wandering in air " at the present day,
they must be all swamped in the Red-sea,ready to
be conjured up from tile ., vasty deep," by the
king of spirita_
aloue; for as sure as the Bible is tbe
word oftruth, we find therein such descriptions of
spirits, ap.,aritiQ.QS, witches, and devils, as would
Quake~ Ql'dioary man's hair stand OD end. ~
WJTOHB8, WITOllORAJi''f, WIZA.:RPB, &e. 8
.
it is tfom tbia aoQrce alene that lli. More argaea
for their exiatenoe, aod which he baa f11lly corro-
borated by hia old hobby, ''The Demon of Ted-
worth," and the unfortunate Anne Walker.
" lqdeed {aay11 the learned diviae) if there were
any ~odeaty left in mankind, the biatori~ of the
BiWe might abundantly assure ..en of the exist-
eace of qels and spirits."
In anothw place be observes, " I look upon it
~ a special piece ofprovidence that tb"re are ever
aad anon such &esh ex~ples of apparitions and
witchcraft, as may rub up and awaken their be--
numbed aod lethargic minds into a suspicion at
least, if not assurance, that there are other intelli-
gent beings besides those that are clothed in heavy
earth or clay; in this I say, methinks the divine
providence does plainly interest tbt:l powers of the
dll!'k kingdom, permitting wicked men and wome)\
aod vagrant spirits of that kingdom, to make
league• or ooYenant one with another, the con-
fession of witches against their own lives being
so palpable an eYidence, besides the miracu-
lous feats they play, that there are bad spirita,
which will nece11sarily open a door to the belief
that there are good ones, and lastly that there ia
a God." '),'here is beyond a doubt much plausibi-
lity, supported by strong and appropriate argument,
in thia declaration ofthe Doctor's. But as it is not
our province to confute or explain texts or pas-
sages of Scripture, much less to warp theJD round
to particular purposes, we shall reply by observ-
ing that, although we do not entirely concur in
the belief of the non-existence of witches, appari-
o "'"'''Coogle
224 WITCHES, WITCHCRAFT, WIZA'RDS, &c.
tions, &c. at an earlier period ofthe world; we-do;
from our very souls, sincerely believe that there
are no guests of this description, at the present
day, either in the water or roaming about at large
and invisible, on terrajirma; or floating abroad in
ether, holding, or capable of holding, converse or
communion, either by word, deed, or sign, with
the beings of this earth, civilized or uncivilized,
beyond those destined by the God of heaven to
constitute the different orders, c1asses, and genera
of its accustomed and intended inhabitants. How·
'
ever, as we live in a tolerant mixed age, we have
no faultto find with those who may attach faith to
the opposite side ofour creed.
We shall now, previous to laying before our
readers some of those dismal stories of witches,
wizards, apparitions, &c. ofthe days of yore, giYe
the postscript to Dr. More's letter to the author of
•• Saducismus 1.'riumphatus;" a postscript, in fact,
that might with more propriety be styled a treatise
on the subject it relates to; but the rarity of the
document, as well as its curiosity and the great
learning and ingenuity it betrays, wiJI, we feel as-
sured, be received as an apology for bringing it
under iheir view in this part of our paper, on the
subject matter it bears so strongly upon; We give
it the more cheerfully as it exemplifies certain pas•
sages of Scripture that have never been handled,
at least so well, by after-writers who have attempt*
ed the illustration.
o "'"'''Coogle
WITCHES, WITCHCRAFT, WIZARDS, &c. ·~
Witchcraft proved by the following te:d& of
Scripture.
Exodus, c. xxii, v. 18. Thou shalt not &ujfer a
WITCH to live.
2 Chronicles, c. xxxiii, v. 6. And he caused Ais
children to pass througla the fire in the Valhy of
the Son ofH innom; alio he observed time&, and
used ENCHANTMENTS, and used WITCHCRAFT,
cuad dealt with (J FAMILIAR SPIRIT, and with
WIZARDS : Ae wrought much e'Dil in the &ight of
the LJrd, to provolce him to anger.
Galatians, c. v, v. 20. Idolatry, WITCHCRAFT,
hatred, 'Mriance, emulations, wrath, ltrife, sedi-
tions, heresies.
Micah, c. v, v. 12. I will~t offWITCHCRAPTS
out of thine .band ; and thou shalt have no more
soothsayers. .
Acts, c. xiii, v.6, 8. 1f And when they had gone
through the isle unto Paphos, they found a certain
Sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name wa&
Bar-jesus.
But Elymas the Sorcerer, (for so is his name by
interpretation,) withstood them, seeking to tnrn
away the deputy from the faith.
Acts, c. viii, v. 9. 1f Buttbere wasacertain mao
'Called Simon, which before time in tbe same city
used Sorcery, and bewitched the people of Sama-
ria, giving out that himself was some great one.
DEUTERONOMY, c. xviii, v. 10, 11. There shall
not be found among you any one, that maketh his
son or his daughter to pass through the fire, ~r
that useth divination, or an observer of times, or
an enchanter, or a \Vitcb.
L2
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
- DR. MORB'8 l'OS'f8C&lP'f.
Or a charmer, or a·consulter with familiar spi-
rits, or a necromancer.
12. For all that do these things are an abomi-
nation : and because of these abominations, the
Lord thy God doth drive them from before ...ee.
DR. MoRE's PosTSCRIPT.
The following scarce, curious, and learQed docu-
ment, loag since out of print, forms a postscript
written by Dr. More, who, it appears. strenuous-
ly advocated the existence of preternatural agen-
cies, against the opinion of many eminent men,
who wrote, at that time, on the same subject ; and
however much the belief in witches, &c. may have
been depreciated of later years, we will venture to
say that few of the present day, layman or divine,
could take up his pen, and offer so learned a refu-
tation against, as Dr. More has here done in sup-
port of his opinions founded on Scripture.
" This letter lying by me some time before I
thoughtit opportune to convey it, and in the mean-
while meeting more· than once with tho~ that
seemed to have some opinion of Mr. Webster's
criticisms and interpretations of Scripture, as ifhe
had quitted himself so well there, that no proof
thence can hereafter be expected of the being of a
witch, which is the scope that he earnestly aims
at ; and I reflecting upon that passage in my let-
ter, which does not stick to condemn Webster's
whole book for a weak and impertinen.t, piece,
presently·thought fit, (that you might not ~ that
censure over-rash or unjust) it being an endless
· ta.k to shew all the weakn~ and impertinencie~
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITOHBS, WITOHOB..A.PT, WIZAaDS, &c. !Jill
of his diacoune, briefty by way of Porucript, to
hint the weakness and impertinency of this part
which is counted the master-piece of the work,
that thereby you may perceive that my judgment
baa not been at all rash touching the whole.
" And in order to this, we are first to take
notioe what is the real scope of his book ; which
ifyou peruse, you shaJI certainly find to be this :
That the parties ordinarily deeaed witches and
wizzards, are only knaves and queans, to use his
phrase, and arrant cheats, or- deep melancholists ;
bot have no more to do with any evil spirit or
defil, or the devil with them, than be bas with
other sinners or wicked men, or they with the
devil. And secondly, we are impartially to define
what is the true notion of a witch or wizzard,
which is necessary for the detecting of Webster's
impertinencies.
· '' As for the words witch and wizzard, from
the notation of them, they signify no more thaa
a wise man or a wise woman. In the word
wiz~ard, it is plain at the very first sight. And
I think the most plain and least operose deduction
of the name witch, is from wit, whose derived
adjective might be wittigh or wittich, and by
contraction afterwards witch ; as the noun wit
is from the verb to weet, which is, to know. So
that a witch, thus far, is no more than a knowing
woman; which answers exaotly to the Latin word
.aga, according to that of Festus, Saga dicta anus
qua multa &ciunt.· Thus in general: but use ques-
tionless bad appropriated the word to such a kind
of skill and knowledge, as was out of the common
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
228 · DB. MORE'S POSTSCRIPT.
road, or extraordinary. Nor did this peculiarity
implyin it any unlawfulness. But there was after
a further restriction and most proper ofall, and in
which alone now-a-days the words wit~h and wiz-
:r.ard are used. And that is, for one that bas the
knowledge or skill of doing or telling things in
an extraordinary way, and that in virtue of either
an express or implicit sociation or confederacy
with some evil spirit. This is a true an«\ adequate
definition of a witch or tDizzard, which to whom·
soe.ver it belongs, is 11ucb, tl vice 'Oersa. But to
prove or defend that there neither are, nor ever
were aoy such, is, as I said, the main scopo of
Webster's book: in order to which, he endeavours
in his sixth and eighth chapters to evacuate all the
testimonies of Scripture; which bow weakly and
impertinently he bas done, I shall now shew wit&t
all possible brevity and perspicuity.
. " The words that he descants upon are Deut.
e. xviii. v. 10, 11 : ' There shall not be found
among you any one that usetb divination, or an
observer tftimes, or an enchanter, or a witch, or a
charmer, or a consulter with familiar spirits, or a
wizzard, or a necromancer: The first word in ·
the Hebrew is o•oop OD'i'· kosem 'kesamim, a di-
viner. Here because ODt' kasarn, sometimes ·bas
an indifferent sense, and signifies to divine by na-
tutal knowledge or human prudence or sagacity ;
therefore nothing of such a witcb as is imagined
·to make n visible league :with tbe devil, or to have
her body sucked by him, or have carnal copulation
with him, or is really turned into a cat, hare, W9lf
or dog, can be deduced from this word. A good-
,,.,,,,,Coogle
--------------~.
WITCHES, WI'fCHCRA.PT, WIZARDS, &c. 229
ly inference indeed, and hugely to the purpose, as
is apparent from .the foregoing definition. Bot
though that cannot be deduced, yet in that, this
divination that i~ here forbidden, is plainly de-
clared abominable and execrable, as it is v. 12, it
is manifest that such a divination is understood
'bat really is so; which cannot weU be'conceived
to be, unless it imply either an express or impli-
cite inveaglement with some evil invisible powen
· who assist any kind of those divinations that may
be comprehended under this general term. So
that this is plainly one name of witchcraft, accord-
ing to the genuine definition thereof. And the
very words of Saul to the witch of Endor, are,
::!Uot;) '~N.l 'IO'Dt'; that is to say, • Divine to me, I
pray thee, by thy familiar sptrit.' Which is more
than by natural knowledge or human sagacity.
'' The next word is m.110 megnonen, which,
though our English translation renders· [goon]
tem_p1U,) • an observer of times;' which should
rather be a declarer of the seasonableness of
the time, or unseasonableness of the time, or
unseasonableness as to success ; a thing which i~r
·inquired of also from witches, yet the usual sense,
rendered by the learned in the language, is prtE8·
tigiatur, an imposer on the sight, Sapientes prisci,
says Buxtorf, a I'll [gnajin, oculus] dedurerunt el
t)•lfO [megnonen] esse eum direrunt, qui tenet et
prtE8tringit oculos, utfauum pro "'ero "Dideant. J.Jo,
another word that signifies a witch or a wizzard,.
which has its name properly from imposing on the
sight, anc.l making th~ by-stander believe be sees .
forms or transforiQations of things he sees not! As
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
1J80 Dll. MOllE'S POSTBCRIP'P.
when Anne Bodenbam traosformed herself before
Anne Styles in the shape of a great cat; Anne
Styles's sight was so imposed upon, that the
thing to her seemed to be done, ·though her eys
were only deluded. But snch a delusion certaioly
cannot be performed without confederacy with evil
11pirits. For to think the word signifies pr~&ligi·
ator, in that sense we translate in English, juggler,
or a lwcus-pOC1U, is so fond a conceit, that no
ma& of any depth of wit can endure it. As ifa
merry juggler that plays trioks of legerdemain at a
fair or market, were saoh an abomination to either
the God of Israel, or to his law-giver Moses ; or
as if a hocus-pocus were so wise a wight aa to
be consulted as an oracle : for it is said, v. 14,
' For the nations which thou shalt possess, they
consult,' 01
llU10 megnonenim. What, do they con·
suit jugglers and hocus-pocusses? No, certainly,
they consult witches or wizzards, and diviners, as
Anne Styles did Anne Bodenham. Wherefore
here is evidently a secon~ name of a witch:
" The third word in the text is U1Ml0 mella·
che1h, which our English translation renders, an
enchanter. And, with Mr. Webster's leave,(wbo·
insulteth so over their supposed ignorance) I
think they have translated it very learnedly and
judiciously; for charming and enchanting, as
Webster himselfacknowledges, and the words in-
timate, being all one, the word, U1MJO menaclr.e~h,
here, may very well signifiy enchanters, or charm-
ers; but such properly as kill serpents by their
charming, from U1Ml nacha1h, which signifies a
•erpent, from whence comes wn nicltuh, to kill
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
. WITCHES, WITCHOJlAW'J!, WtZA.:DS, &c. !II:
serpents; or make away with tbem. For a verb ia
pihel, sometimes (especially when it i11 foraed
from a noun) has a contrary signification. Thua
from w-,w radix is w-,w radicu evul8il, from nzn
cini1 nu, removit cinerea, from HIOM pecccwit ~
B$pUJtnt apeccato ; and SO lastly from UlMl aerpena,
is made wmliberavit aaerpeatibua, J48fllpe occiden-
do wl fugaAdo per iacantalionem. And therefore
there seems to have beea a great deal of skill and
depth ofjudgment in our English translators that
rendered WnlQ menachesJ., an enchanter, espe·
cially when that of augur or soothsayer, whiob the
Septuagint call 'Ouo~v&{cSI'"'o" (there being 110 many
, harm~ess kinds of it) might seem less soitab,le with
dlis black list : for there is no such abomination in
adventuring to tell, when the wild geese fly high
·in great compan~es, and cackle much, that barli
weather is at hand, but to rid serpents by a charm
is above tbe power of nature ; and therefore an
indication of one that bas the assistance of some
invisible spirit to help him in this exploit, as it
happens in several others; and therefore this is
another name of one that is really a witch.
" The fourth word is J:JW'O mecassep/,, which
our English translators render, a witch; for which
I have no quarrel with them, unless they should so
understand it that it must exclude others from
being so in that sense I have defined, which is im-
poa~sible they should. Bot this, as the foregoing,
is but another term of the same thing ; that is, of
a witch in general, but so called · here from the
prestigious imposing on the sight of beholders.
Buxtorf tells us, that Aben Ezra defines those to
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
232 DR. MO'RB'S POSTSC1Ul'T.
be O•flVJ::IO [ mecassephim] qui mutant et tramfor•
mant res naturalu ad aspectum oculi. Not as
jugglers and bocus-pocusses, as Webster would
ridiculously insinuate, bot so as I understood the
thing in the second name; for these are but seve-
ral names of a witch, who may have several more
properties than oti.t' name intimates. Whence it
is no wonder that translators render not them
always alike. But so many names are reckoned
up here in this clause of the law of Moses, that, a&
in our conrmon law, the sense may be more sure,
and leave no room to evasion. Aad that here this
name is not from any tricks of lt'gerdemain as in'
common jugglers that delude the sight of the
people at a markt't or fair, but that it is the name
of such as raise magical spectres to deceive men's
sight, and so are most certainly witches, is plaiD
from Exod. chap. xxii, v. 18, ' Thou shalt not
suffer,' M!lW::IO mecassephoA, that is, • a witch, to
live.' Which would be a law of extreme severity,
or rather cruelty, against a poor hocus-pocus for
his tricks of legerdemain.
'' The fifth name is .,~n .,~·n chobher chebher,
which our English translators render charmer,
which is the same with enchanter. Webster upon
this name is very tedious and flat, a many words
and small weight in them. I shall dispatch the
meaning brieRy thus : this ;~n ;~•n, chubler
cltebher, that is to say, socians societate1n, i$ ano-
ther name of a witch, so called specially either
from the consooiatiog together serpen_ts by a
charm, which bas made men usually torn it (from
the example of the Septuagint, brC..twY ~11"aoc~l}..,) a
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCHES, WITCHCRAFT, WIZARDS, &c. 233
charmer, or an enchanter, or else from the society
or compact of the witch with some evil spirits ;
which Webster acknowledges to have been the
opinion of two very learned men, Martin Luther
and Perkins-, and I will add a third, Aben Ezra,
(as Martinius hath noted,) who ,gives .this reason
of the.word .,:l•n chobher, an enchanter, which
aignifies socians orjungens, viz. QuOd maligrws spi-
ritus sibi associat. And certainly one may charm
long enough, even till his heart aches, ere he make
one serpent assemble near him, unless helped by
this confederacy of spirits that drive them to the
charmer. He keef.ls a pudder witb the sixth verse
of the fifty-eighth Psalm to no purpose ; whereas
from the Hebrew, o•um'Jo ;.,,; llOW•·N; .,'WN o'no
o•.,:m .,:l'", if you repeat a'll'o ~eo,..~ ;,jb before
.,:l,M, you may with ease and exactness render it
thus : • That hears not the voice of muttering
charmers, no not the voice of~ confederate wdzard,
or charmer that is skilful.' But seeing charms,
unless with them that are very shallow and sillily
credulous, ca.n have no such effects of themselves,
there is all the reason in the world (according u
the very word intimates, and as Aben Ezra has de4
clared,) to ascribe the effect to the a!sistance, con·
federacy, and co-operation of evil spirits, and so
o•"'l:lM .,:l'", chobher chabharim, or .,:ln ,:I'M, chob-
her chebher, will plainly signify a witch or wizzarEI
according to the true definition of them. But for
J.Webster's rendering this verse, p.ll9, thus, Qu~S
non audiet vocem mussitantium incantationes docti
incantantis, (which he saitb is doubtless the most
Jenuine rendering of tbe place) let any skilful man
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
234 DR. MORE'S POSTSCRIPT.
apply it to the Hebrew text, and he will presently
find it grammatical nonsense. If that had been
the sense, it should have been o~no ,::1,n ,,:ln.
''The sixth word is :::nN '1N1W, shoel obh, which
our English translation renders, ' a consulter with
familiar spirits;' bot the Septuagint 'Eyyanip~.
Which therefore must needs signifie him that bas
this familiar spirit : and therefore ::l'N "JMW sl&oel
obh, I conceive, (considering the rest of the words
are so to be understood) is to be understood of tfle
witch or wizzard himself that asks counsel of his
familiar, and does by virtue of him give answeri
unto others. The reason ofthe name of::l'N obh,itis
likely was taken first from that spirit that wasin the
body of the party, and swelled it to a protuber-
ancy !ikethe sideof a bottle. Butafter, withoutany
relation tothatcircumstance,0 BHsignifiesas much
as pytho ; as pytko also, though at irst it took its
name from the pytltii vates, signifies no more than
spiritum divinationis, in general, a spirit that teUs
hidden things, oi things to come. And OBHand
pytAo also agree in this, that they both signify ,
either the divinatory spirit itself, or the part;
that has that spirit. Bot here in ::l'N '1N'lV, sloelobA;
it being rendered by the Septuagint 'EyyanlJ&v8oct
OBH is necessarily understood of the spirit it-
self, as p.ytho is, Acts xvi. 16, if you read 'lrVWf'G
.V~towa, with Isaac Casaubon ; but if 71'V~,.,,~, it
may be understood either way. Of this •vdlf'a
,{,~..,,, it is recorded in that place, that ' Paul
being grieved, turned and said to that spirit, I
command thee, in the name of Jesos Christ, to
come out ofher, and he came outat thesame hour;'
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCHES, WITCHCRAFT, WIZARDS, &c. 98S
which signifies as plainly as Rl\y thing can be sig-
nified, that this pytAo or spirit of divinatioa, that
this OBH was in her: for nothing can come eut
of the sack that was not in tJte sack, as the Spa-
nish proverb has it ; nor could t.his pgtlao come
out of her unless.it was a spirit distinct from her;
wherefore I am amazed at the profane impudence
of J. Webster, that makes this pytko in tbe maid
there mentioned, nothing but a wicked humoar of
cheating and cozening divination : and adds, that
this spirit was no more cast out of that maid thaD
the seven devils out of Mary MagdaleDe, which be
would have understood only of her several vices·;
which foolish familistical conceit he puts upon
Beza as well as Adie. Wherein as he is most
110just to Beza, so he is most grossly impious and
blasphemous against 1.he spirit of Christ in St.
Paul and St. Luke, who makes them both such fools
as to believe that there was a spirit or divining
devil in the maid, when according to him th'ere iJ
no such thing. Can any thing be more frantic
or ridiculous than this passage of St. Paul, if there
was no spirit or devil in the damsel? But what·
will this profane shuffier stick to do in a dear re-
gard to his beloved bags, of whom he is sworn
advocate, and resolv~d patron right or wrong ?·
" But to proceed, that :lUt, ohla, signifies the
spirit itself that divines, not only be that bas it, is
manifest from Levit. xx. 27, Vir.autet~uivetnulier
•Juerit (:l'l~ CM::I] ;, eis pytAo. And 1 Sam.
xxviii. 8, Divina qucew mihi (:l'H:l] per pytlw-
•em. In the Septuagint it is i, Tw, Eyyaornl'~•
tbat is, by that spirit that sometimes goes into the
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
236 . DR. MORB'S POSTSCRIPT.
body of the party, and thence gives answers; but
here it only signifies a familiar spirit. And lastly,
:l•N n'1.v:::1, bagnalath obh, 1 Sam. xxviii. 7, Quti
Aabit pythonem; there OBH must needs signify
the spirit itself, of which she of Endor was the
owner or possessor; that is to say, it was her fa-
miliar spirit. But see what brazen and stupid im-
pudence will do here, ::l•N M'1.V::l, bagnalath ohlr,
with Webster must not signify one that has a fa·
miliar spirit, but the mistress of the bottle. Who
but the master of the bottle, or rather of whom the
bottle bad become master, and by guzzling bad
made his wits excessively muddy and frothy, could
ever stumble upon such a foolish interpretation!
But because N'!l obh, in one place of the Scripture
signifies a bottle, it mwit signify so here, and it
must be the instrument forsooth, out of which this
cheating quE'an of Endor does ' whisper, peep, or
chirp like a chicken coming out of the shell,'
p. 129, 165. And does she not, I beseech you,
put her nib also into it sometimes, as into a reed,
u it is said of that bird, and cries like a hotter-
bump ? certainly be might as well have inter•
preted Nl::l n'1.v:::1 bagnalath obh, of the great tun of
Heidelberg, that Tom. Coriat takes such special
notice of, as of the bottle.
"' And truly so far as I see, it must be some
such huge tun at length rather than the bottle, that
is, such' a spacious tub as be in his deviceful ima-
gination fancies Manasses to have built ; a puvdo,
forsooth, or oracular edifice for ' cheating rogues
lind queans to play their cozening tricks in ;' from
that place ~ Cbron. xxxiii. 6, :mt MWVI, Et fecit
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCHES, Wl'l'OHCRAFT, WIZARDS, 8tc. 237
p!Jlhonem. _Now, says he, how could Manassea
make a familiar spirit ? or make one that had a fa-
miliar spirit? Therefore he made a bottle a ton,
or a large tub, a paYrEiov, or oracular edifice • for
cheating r.ogues or queans to play their cozening
tricks in.' Very wisely argued, and out of the
very depth of his ignorance of the Hebrew tongue,
whereas if he had looked into Buxtorf's Dictionary
he might have understood that mttll signifies not
only fecit but also para'Cit, comparavit, acqui&ivit,
magnifecit, none of which words imply the makin,.-
of 0 BH in his sense, but the only .appointing them
to be got, and countenancing them. For in Web~
stcr's sense he did not make ·~lil' jidegnoni neither,
that is wizzards, and yet Manasscs is said to make
them both alike. ·~ll'1'' ::I•N MUlll', Et fecit pytl10nem
et magos. So plain is it that ::I•N, obit, signifies
pytho, and that adequately in the same sense that
pytho does, either a familiar spirit, or him that has
that spirit of divination. But in ::I'N M~ll::l, hagna-
lath obh~ it necessarily signifies the familiar spirit
itself, which assisted the witch of Endor ; whereby
it is manifest she is rightly called a witch. As for
his stories of counterfeit ventriloquists, (an,d who
·knows but some of his counterfeit ventriloquists
may prove true ones,)_that is but the threadbare
sophistry of Sadducees and Atheists to elude the
faith of all true stories by those that are of coun-
terfeits or feigned.
"The seventh word is ·~'.l/'1', jidegnoni, whicll
our English translators render a wizzard. And
Webster is so kind as to allow them to have trans..
lated this word aright. Wizzards, then, Webster,
o''""e' .yGoogle
288 DR. MORE'S POSTSCRIPT.
will allow, that is to say, be-witches, but not she·
witches. How tender the man is of that sex ! But
the word invites him to it •:,r;n•,jidegnoni, coming
from scire, and answering exactly to wizzard
or wise-man. And does not witch from wit and
toeet signify as well a wise-woman, as I noted
above? And as to the sense of those words from
whence they are derived, there is no hurt herein ;
and therefore if that were all, ''J'ln•,jicJestumi, had
not been iu t.his black list. Wherefore it is here
understood in that more restrict and worse aense :
so as we understand usually now-a-days witch and
wizzard, such wise men and women whose skill is
from the confederacy of evil spirits, and therefore
are real wizzards and witches. In what a bad
sense ''JUJ'T•,jidegnoni, is understood, we may learn,
from Levit. xx. zt, 'A man also or woman that
hath a familiar spirit, or that is a wizzard,jidegnoni,
r.hall be put to death, they shall stone them with
stones,' &c.
'' The last word is o•non w·n,, dorem kamme-
thim, which our translators rightly render necro·
mancers ; that is, those that either upon their own
account, or desired by others, do raise the ghosts
of the deceased to eonsult with.; which is a more
particulartermthan ~u~ ;31~, bagnal obh: bot he that
is bagnal obit, may be also doresh hammethim, a
necroJD8tlcer; as appears in the witch of Endor.
Here Webster by c•non, Aammethim, the dead,
weuld understand dead statues ; but let him, if he
can, any where shew in all the Scripture where
the word C•non, kammethim, is used of what \'Vas
not once alive. He thinks he hits the nail on the
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCH RS, WITCHCRAFT, WIZA'RDS, &:c. !laO
aead in that place of Isaiah, viii. 19, • And when
they say unto you, seek unto [M':lNil, that is, to :l•N
m~~. such as the witch of Bnd·or was,] them that
have familior spirits, and to wizzards that peep
and that mutter; [the Hebrew has it Q•JMI!>M and
C•9lt9ltOM ; that is, speak with a querulous mur-
murant or mussitant voice, when they either
conjure up the spirit, or give responses. If this be
to ' peep like a chicken,' Isaiah himselfpeeped like
a chicken, xxxviii. 14-,] should not a people seek
unto their God? for the living, (CIMOM ~N,) to the
dead 1' Where hammethim is so far from signi-
fying dead statues, that it must needs be under-
stood of the ghosts of dead men, as here in Deu-
teronomy. None but one that had either stupidly
or wilfully forgot the story of Samuel's being
being raised by that :l\N n")l:l, bagnalath obh, the
witch ofEndor, could ever have the face to affirm
that o•non, hammethim, here in Isaiah, is to be
understood of dead statues, when wizzards or ne-
cromancers were so immediately mentioned before,
e8pecially not Webster, who acknowledges that
:l\N ~~-trw, shoel obh, signifies a necromancer in
this Deuteronomical list of names. And there-
fore, forsooth, would have it a tautology that do-
resh kammethim should signify so too. But I say
it is no tautology, this last being more express
and restrict. Arid besides, this enumeration is not
intended as an accurate logical division of witches
or witchcraft, into. so many distinct kinds, but a
reciting of several names of that ill trade, though
they will interfere one with another, and have no
:~ignifications so precisely distinct. .But as I said
o "'"'''Coogle
240 DR. MORE'S POSTSCRIPT.
before, this fuJler recounting of them is made that
the prohibition in this form might be the surer
fence against the sin. And now therefore what
will J. Webster get by this, if doresk kammetkim
will not signify a witch of Endor, when it must ne-
cessarily signify a necromancer, which is as much
against his tooth as the other ? Nay indeed this
necromancer is also a witch or wizzard, accordi~~
to the definition produced above.
" The rest ofthe chapter being so inconsiderable,
and I having been so long already upon it, I shall
pass to the next, after I have desired you to take
notice bow weak and childish, or wild and impu-
dent, Mr. Webster has been in the interpretation
of Scripture hitherto, in the belief of his sage
dames, to fence off the reproach of ·being termed
witches; whereas there is scarce one word
in this place of Deuteronomy that does not
imply a witch or wizzard, according to the real de-
finition thereof. And truly he seems himself to be
conscious of the weakness ofhis own performance,
when after all this ado, the sum at last amounts
but to this, that there are no names in all the Old
Testament that signifies such a witch that destrQy
men or beasts, that make a visible compact with.
the devil; or on whose body he sucketh, or with
wh~m he both carnal copulation, or that is really
changed into a cat, bare, dog, or such like. And
to shew it amounts to no more than so, was the
task we undertook in this chapter. .
" But assure yourself, if you peruse his book
carefully, you shall plainly find that the main drift
thereofis to pro¥e, as I above noted, that there.ia
WITCHES, WITCHCRAFT, WIZARDS, &c. 241_
no such witch as with whom .the devil bas any
thing more to do than with any other sinner,
,rhich, notwithstanding #lis conelasion of, his a
little before recited, comes infinitely short of~ and
therefore this sixth ehapter, consisting of about
thirty pages in folio, is a meer piece of imperti.
nency. And there will be witches for all this,
whether these particulars'be noted in them or no;
fur it was ·sufficient for Moses to name those itt
sounding terms in general, which imply a witch
according to that general notion I have above de,.
livered; which if it be prohibited, namefy, the
having any .thing to do with evil spit-its, their being
suckt by them, or their having any lustful or vene-
rous tran.<~actions ·with them, is much more pro~
hibited.
·~ But {or some of these particularities also they
may seem to be in some manner hinted at in some
of the words, especially as they are rendered some-
times by skilful interpreters : fori:)W~ (Mecaueph;)
is translate~ b,v ·Vatablus, and the vulgar Latin
Malefiaus, by the Septuagint 'appruc6r, that is fe ,
.
nefieus.
: which word signifies mischievously enough
_both to man and beast. ~esides that Mecasseph
..carries along with it the signification of transform\~!.
tion also ; and haply thitt may be the difference
betwixt J:)W::JO Meca'sseph, ~nd fJ'lrO M~gnonen,
that the former uses prestigious transformations to
some great mischief, a~ where .Otaos Magnus tells
of those tbat have transformed themselves into
wolves, to men's ibinking, 'and have pre~ently fallen
upon worrying ·of IJheep. Others tran~formed in
their a.s~ spjrit, into vad()1J~ 1~:1pes, get intu
)(
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
242 DR. MOR.oB'IS P0811SORIPT.
houses and do misehief to men aad children, u .I
remember .Rem~gius report~:- · And .Qerefore it is
less wonder that that sharp law of Hoses is against
the nmw~ Meta118epl&ah; -such a ·witch as this is,·
' Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live;' this may
be a more peculiar signifiGation of that word. And
now for making a compact ·with the .devil, how
niUurally does that name "'l::lM ,:lm Clwblnr Ckb-
btr, sigaifie that feat also? Bat for 'Suckiog and
copulation, though rightly stated it .may be true,
yet I confess there is nothing hinted towards that
so far as I see, as indeed.it was neidaer neoessu:y
that 'the other should be. Bat these are the very
dregs, the fez magomm et •agamm, that sink in
those abominations, against which a . sufficient
bar is put already by this prohibition in general by
so many names. And the other is filthy, base, and
nasty, that the mention thereof was neither fit for
the sacred style of Hoses's law, nor for the years
ofthe people.
In my passing to the eight chapter I will only
ta¥ notice by the way:Ofthe shameless impudence
ofJ. Webster, who in favour to hil beloved hags,
that they may be never thought ·to do any thing
by the assistance of the devil, makes the victory of
Moses, with whom the mighty hand of God wu,·
or of Christ, (who was the angel that .appeared
first to Moses ia the bush, and .conducted the
children of Israel out of Egypt-to the promised
land) to be the victory only over so many hocus-
pocusses, so many jugglers that were, as it seems,
old and exceUent at the tricks of Legerdemain ;
.which is the basest derosation to the.glory of that
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCHES, WlTCHC&APT, WIZAB.WJ, &c. 2.e8
vicltory, ltlld the vilest reproach against the God of
Israel. and the person of Moaes, that eitber the
maliciooawit ofany devil pan invent, or the dulaeu
of any sunk soul can stumble upon. Asauredly
there was a real oonftict here betwixt the kingdom
of light and the kiBgdom of darbaess and the evil
spirits thereof, which assisted the C'OIO,n Har-
,,.,im,the Magicians of Egypt; who before that
name is named, that no man may mistake, are cal·
led QI£>W~, ~ccusqpAirn, such kind of magicians
as can exhibit to the sight manifold prestigious
transformations through diabolical assi.nce, and·
are rendered Malijicia by good interp~;eters, as I
noted above ; .that is, they were wizzards, or be·
witches. The selfsame word being used in that
severe law ofMoses, • Thou shalt notsuffer a witch
to live.' Are not these magicians then examples
plain enough that there are witches ; that is to say,
such wretched wights as do strange miraculous
things ·by the assistance or consociation of the
evil spirits ?
.. 0 no, says Mr. Webster, t,hese are only
t::III)!IM Claacatnim, wise meo and great naturalists,
who all what they did, they did·Qn'IOI-,',~. by their
bright glittering lamince, for, so QIOn; forsooth
most sigoi6e. Bot what nicessity thereof that
wn'1·shonld signifie lamina 1 there is only the pre..
seoce of that one place, Gen. iii, 24. ~, om,
where it is ~~ only that signifies the lamina, and
that ola long form, scarce uaual in those magical
la,Jai114' with signatU'reS celestial upon them, w.hich
J. Websf.tlr would be at; bot Dh'7 signifies merely
JclnfMI,; so- that QM1DM;~ by this •oco..t IDW
. · I
I
. 244 ·.bR. MORR'S POSTSCRIPT.
signifie by their flames, if it be fmm om ardere,
flammtJre : ·and therefore Bnxtorfins judiciously
places the word under o,; abscondit, obvolvit,
reading not cn•t:~m::~ but cn•oH'1:l, which. is as
much as to say, ocettltis suis rationib11s Ma!ficis,
which is briefly rendered .in English, ' by their en-
chantments:,' which' agrees marvellously well with
c•£lU1::lO Mecassepki"'• which is as much as Pr~
tigiatores Magici, or snch as do strange wonder-
ous things in an hidden way, by the help of evit
spirits. But thatthe Egyptian magicians should do
those .things.that are there recorded ofthem in Ex-
odus, by virtue of any lamel11, ur plates of -metals,
with. certain -sculptures .or figures, under such or
such a constellation, is. a thing so sottisb andfoolish
that no man that is not himself bewitched by some-
old hag or hobgobling, can ever take sanctuary
here to save biniselfor his old dames from being in
a capacity, fr<!m this history in Exodus, of being
a'10ounted witches. For ifthere may be be-witches,
that is magicians, such as these of Egypt were, I
leave J. W ebs:er to scratch his head to find crut
any rea~on why there may not be she-witches_also..
" And indeed that of the witch of Endor, to pass
at length to tbe eighth chapter, is as plain a r•roof
thereofas can be desired by any man whose minrt
is not blin_
dedwitb prf'judices. But here J . Web,
ster,. not impertinently, 1 confess, for the general,
(abating him. the many tedious particular imperti-
neuces that he has clogg'd his diaGourse with) be,
takes himself to these two ways, to '!hew there was
nothing of a witch in all that whole narration.
First, by ·pr~tending that> all the tr_..sactiop on die
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCHES; WITCHCRAFT, WIZAR•DS, &.c. 245
woman of Endor's part was nothing but collosiun
and a cheat, Saul not being in the same room with
her, or at least seeing nothing if be was•. And then
in the next place, that Samuel that is said to ap-
pear, could neither be Samuel appeuing in bis
body out of tbe grave, nor in his soul ; nor that it
was a devil that appeared; and therefore it most
be·some colluding knave, suborned.by tbe witch.
For the discovering the weakness of his former al-
legation~ we need but appeal to the text, which is
this, 1 Sam. xxviii, v. 8.
'' •And Saul said, I pray thee, divine onto me
by the faJnlliar spirit, and bri..g me up whom I
shall na_.eonto tbee,' •1
Ht:J-•O'IDplt thatis,do theoffice
..ra divineress,or a wise woman, ' I pray thee unto
01e, ::mt:l Beobh, by virtue of tbe familiar spirit,
.whose assistance \hou bast, not by virtue of the
bottle, as .Mr. Webster would have it. Does he think
that damsel in the' .Acts, which is said to have
had tmiip.a n~WJ'O(, that is to have had :l•N 0Ait,
(:arried an aqua-~ita bottle about with her, bung
at her girdle, whereby she might divine and mu'-
ter, chirp, or peep out of it, as a chicken out ofan
:t'gg-ahell, or put ber neb into itto cry likea bittern,
or take a dram of the bottle, to·make her wits mor.e
qoick and divinatory. \\'ho but <.ne wbo bad taken
too many drams of the bottle could ever fall into
such a fond conceit'! Wherefore :lUt Obh, in this
place does not, as indeed no where else, signifie
an oracular bottle, or pa11T£io11,.- into which Saul
might desire the -woman of Endor to retire into,
nad bims61f expect.answers in the next room; but
signifies that familiar spirits. by virtue of whose
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
246 DR. IIORB'8 POSTSOIUPT.
assistance she was coneeived to perform all those.
wond'rous otlices of a wise woman. Bat we pro-
ceed to verse 11.
" • Then said the woman, whom shall I bring
up onto thee1 And he said, bring me up Samuel.'
Surely as yet Saul and the woman are in the same
room, seeing the woman askt, •Whom shall I briag
up onto thee l' and be answering, • Bring up unto
me Samuel,'it implies, that Samuel was so hrooght
up that Saul might see him, tmd DOt the witeb
only. Bot we go on, verse 12. ·
'' • An.t when the woman saw Samuel, she cryed
with a loud voice ; and the woman apak:e to Saul,
saying, why hast thou deceived, for thou artSaul?'
Tho' the woman·might have some suspicions before
that it was Saul, yet she now seeing Samuel did
appear, and in another kind of way than her spi-
rits used to do, and in another hue, u it is Jll08t
likely so holy a soul did, she presently cryed· out
with a IGud voice,' 'not muttered, chirpt, and peept
as a chicken coming out or'the shell;' that now the
was sure it wa8 Saul, for abe was not such a fool, as
to think her art could call up real Samnt'l, bot
that the presence of Saul was the cause thereof:
and Josephus writes expressly, "Ott .9tatrciJ&n-vo,:ro
,.JIUIOJI liJ!Opa ff€J'JIOJI Ked ~otrptwi; rapttrrfTac, Kal wop6c
r.,,. 81/d,. w"'""'YtJI, ' o-V, f'lllh•, ' Baf!WVC l1dw~; i. e.
'Tbe womanseeing a grave god-like mania startled
at.it, and thus astGnished at the vision, turned her•
self to tbe king, and said, art DOl thou king Saul ?'
Versel3. ·
'' • And the king aaid unto her, lte D&t afraid:;
for what saweat thou! And the woman aaid un.to
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCHBS, WITCJro.AYr, WIZARDS, &c. 247
Saul, I aaw. Goda uoeadiag out·of t~e earth.'
The kiag here .assures the woman, that.tbo' he was
Saul, yetno hurt sheaid come to her, and therefore
bids laer not be afraid. Bat she. toraiog her faee
to Saul as she spake to him, aqd he to her, and s~
her sight beiag oft' from the objeet, Saul asked
her, • What sawest·thoa.?' and she in like manner
answered, • I saw Gods,' &.c. For Gods, I sap-
pose any free translator in. Greek, I..atiD, aod
English, would say, ~lf'Ol'«c, genio., spirits. Aad
tnmN signifies Angels as well aa Gods ; and it ~
likely these ~ise women take the spirits they CQD-
verse with to be good aagels, aa Ann Bodenham
tbe witch told a worU.y and learaed frieod ofmioe,
that these spirita, such as she had, were good spi-
rits,.aM would do a man all good offices all the
days of his life ; and 'tia likely this-woman of En-
dor had ·the same opinion of hers, and there-
fore we need not wooder that she calls them o•n'JH
Eloclim, especiallySamuel appearing among them,
to say nothing of the presence of Saul. And that
more than one spirit appears at a time, there are
repeated examples in Ann Bodenham's magical
evocations of them, whose history, I must confess,
I take to be very true.
" The case stands therefore thus : The woman
aud Saul \aeiag.in the same room, she t~ning her
lace from Saul, mutters to herself some ma-
gical form of evocation of spirits ; where upon
they beginning to appear and .riae up, aeem-
ingly out of the .earth, upon the sight of Samuel's
-countenance, she cryed out to Saul, and turoing
-her face towards him, spoke to him. Now that
'
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
248 DR, JrfORB'S. POSTSCRIPT.
·Saul hitherto saw nothing, though in the .same
.room, might be either because the body of the
woman was interposed betwixt his eyes and them,
or the vehicles of those spirits w.ere not yet attem-
'pered to that conspissation tbat they would strike
the eyes of Saul, tho' they did of the witch. And
that some may see an object, others not ·seeing it,
you have an instance in the child upon Walker's
shoulders, appearing to Mr.' Fairhair, and it may
be to the· judge,· but invisible to. the rest of the
Court ; and many socii exampl~s there are. But
' I proceed.to v~rse 14.
" 'And he said unto her, what form is he of!
and she said, an olrl man cometh up, and is cover-
c~ with a mantle.' He asks here in the sin-
gular· number, because, his mind was only fixt
on.Samuel. And the woman's anawer is exaetly
according- to what the spirit appeared to her, whea
her eye was upon· it, tJiz. rf..11 t1'r 1t
14N ' an old mao
coming up ;' for he was but coming up when she
looked upon him, and accordingly describes him-:
For n;l1 there, is a particl.e of the present tense,
and the woman describes Saul .from his.age, habit~
and motion he was in, while her eye was upon hi,m.
So that the genuine and grammatical sense in· this
answer to ' what form is he of'!' is this, an old man
1:oining up, and the same covert>d with' a mantle~
tbis is his form and condition I saw him in.
Wherefore Saul being so much concerned herein.
either the woman or he changing their postort>s or
llfandings, or .Samuel hy ~is having sufficiently
conspillsaterl his vehicle, and fitted it to Saul'a;
a;ight also, it follows in the text : ' And Saul pe~
WITCHES, WITCHCKAPT, WIZARDS, 8tc. ·~
ceived it was Samuel, and be stooped with his face
fA> the ground and bowed himself.' ·
" 0 the impudeDt profanenes's and sottishness of
·perverse shofllers and whifflers ! that upon the
ht'ariag of this passage ean have the face to deay
tbat Saul saw any thing, and meerly because the
woril ' perceived' is used, and not • saw," wlien
the woro l p~rceived,' plainly implies that he saw
Samuef, ·and something more, namf'ly, tbat by .his
foriner familiar converse with him, be wai aaSoUr.ed •
it was he. So exquisitely did be appear, an~
~ver-oomingly to his sensE'S, that he could not but
acknowledge (for so the Hebrew wor4 h• signifies)
that it was he, or else why tlid he stoop with ·
bis face to tbe very ground to do him honour ?
" No, no, says J. Webster, he saw nothing him-
.self, but stood waiting like a drowned puppet (sec
-of what a base rude spirit this ·squire of bags is,
to Uiie StiCh language of a prince in his distress,)
.in another r.oom to bear what would be the issue ;
.for all that he un~erstood, was from her cunning
·and t,iug relations. That this gallant of witches
.shoold dare to abuse a prince thus, and feign him
.as much foolisher and sottisher in his intellectuals,
·-as be was.taller in stature than the rest of the peo-
ple, even by head and shoulders, and merely for•
sooth, to secure his old wives from being so much
as io a capacity of ever being suspected for
witches, is a thing extrem~ly coarse and intoler-
ably sordid. And indeed, upon the consideration
of Saul's being said to bow himself to Samuel,
(which plainly implies, that there was there a Sa-
omel that w~s the object of his sight, and of tlie
\12
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
100 DR. •ollll'l fOSUCIUPT•
reverence he made) his own heart misgi"ea him
in this mad adventure, arid be shifts oft' from tJaence
to a oonceit that it W88 a confederate knave, that
the woman of Endor turned out into the reem
where Saul was, to act the part of Samuel, luning
first put on him her own short cloak, which sh
osed with her maund ODder her arm to ride to
fairs or markets in. · To this ooUDtry-slonch in the
woman's mantle, must king Saul, stooping witb his
face to the very ground, make his profoiUld obey-
aance. What was a market-woman's cloak and
Samuel's mantle, which Josephus calls a,tMo~&,
itpcura,l, a 1 sacerdotal habit,' so like one aaotber?
Or ifno'- how caine this woman, being so surpriz'd
of a sudden, to provide herself of sacb a saoer-
dotal habit to cloak her confederate knave in !
·Was Saul as well a blind as a drowned puppet,
that be could not discem so gross and bold an im..
posto.J"as this? Was it possible that he should
not perceive that it was not Samuel, when they
caiDe to confer together, as they did? How could
that confederate knave change his own face into
the same ftgve; look, and mein that Samuel bw;l,
which 1fas exactly knowu to Saul? How ceuld
be imitate his voice thus of a sudden, and they
diacoQJ'Sed a very considerable time together?
"Besides, knaves do not use to speak what
things are trtle, but what things are pleasing. And
moreover, this woman of Endor, though a Pytflo-
neis, yetabe was of a very good nature and benign,
which J oeepbus takes notic& of, and extols her
miglatily for it, aDd therefore she could take 110
delight to lay further weight on tbe oppressed spi-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCHBft, WITC.61lArt, WIZAilDS, &c. 26J
rit ofdietl!eoe4.king Saul 1 which ie.another sip
tbat thuucene was.acted bo.S:folk, aod that there
waa·uo oeuzeoiug in it. As aLso that it is aoother,
that she spoke so magnificently of what appearod
to her, tbat abe saw Goda ucendiag. Could ·.-
then pouibly adventure to turn out • country·
slouch with a maund-woman's.oloak to act 1he part
of so God..like ·aad divine.a personage ef·Samul;
who was 9tti"l~ ,.,1 IJAOfl", as the womao describes
him in Josephus Antiq. Judaic. lib. vii. c. 16,
unto all which you may add, that the Scriptor& it-
self,. which w~ written by inspiration, says ex-
pressly, v.erse 20, ttmt it was Samuel. And the
son of Sirach, ~hap xl.vi. that Samuel himself.pro- .
pbesyed after his death, referring to this story of
the woman of Endor. Bot fo.r our uew iospired
seers, or saints, S. Scot, S. Adie, I'Od if yeu wiU,
S. Webster, 11worJi advocate of the witohet, w•
thus,madly and boldly, again¥tallsense andre~J&Q-.
against all antiquity, all interpreters, aad .agai!M~
the iDBpired .scripture itaell, will have ao Samuel
in this scene, but a cnoning cenfedtlrate knave,
w.bether.~e inspired scripture., .or these iablowa
.buft'oons. putred .up with nothing but ignorance,
vanity ud .stupid infidelity, are t.e be believed, let
any one judge.
" We come now to his other allegatiorh wherein
we shall be .brief, woe having .exceeded tbe mea•
sure of.a postscript alrt-ady. • It was neither Sa-
muel's soul,' says he, 'joined with his body, nor
his soul out of his body, nor the devil; and th~
fore it muat be some .cODfedemte bave suborn&d
b.y that cunning, ch~inr quean of Endor.' B"t
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
262 DR~ MORE'S POSTSCRIPT.
I briefly answer, it was the soul of Samuel biai-
self; and that it is the· frnitfulDPss 'of the great
ignorance of J. Webster in the sound principles
of theophosy and true divinity, that has enabled .
him io heap together no less than ten argumentS to
d~sprove this asaertion~ and all little to the pur~
pose : so little iiHleed,'.that I· think it little to the
purpose partic.ularly t9 answer them, but shall hint
only some few .troths which will.rout the whole
band ofdrt,m. · ·
· '' I s~y therefore tbat departad souls, as other
spirits, have an dvre~l.11wv in them, such as souls
have in this life; and have lfotb a faoulty and a
right to move of themselves, provided there be no
express law against such or'such a design to which
their. motion tends.
" Again, that they have apower of appearing in
tlleir own personal shapes to whom there is occa-
sion, as'Anne Walker's soul did to the miller; and
that this being a faculty of theirs either natural or
acquirable, the doing so is n$ miracle. And,
" ThiTdly, That it was the·strong piercing- de-
sire, and deep distress and agony of mind in SaoJ,
.in his perplexed circumstances, and the great
oompassion anti goodness ofspirit in tile holy soul
1.1f Samuel, that was the effectual 1nagick that
drew ~im to condescend to conveflJe with Saul
in the woman'11 boose at End6r, as a keen sense
ofjustice and revenge made Anne Walker's soul
appear t,()· the miller with her fh·e wounds in her
head. · · '
" The ridged and harsh severity that W ebater
f611cit's Samuel's ghost would b11ve used against
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCH~S, \vi"l'OI;lCRAPt, WiZAitDSt &c. ~
die woman, or sharp reproofs to Saul ; as for the
Iattin, it is somewhat expressed in the text, and
Saul had his excuse in readiness,· nod the good
soul of SaJJ111el was sensible of his perplexed con-
dition~ And as for the former, sith the soul of
Samuel might ·indeed have. terrified the poor
woman, and so unhinging her, that she had been
fit for nothing after it, bot not converted her, it i•
no wonder if he passed her by ; goodness and for-
bearanc~ more befitting an holy angelical soul than
bluster and fury, such as is fancied. by that rude
goblin that actuates the bodyand pen of Webster.
''As for departed souls; that they ~ever have
any care or regard to any of their fellow souls here
upon earth, is expressly against the known exam·
ple of that great soul, and universal pastor of all
good souls, who appeared to Stephen at his stoning,
and to St. Paul beft1re his conversion, though then
in his glorified body; which is a greater conde-
scensionthan this of the soul of Samuel, which was
also to a prince, upon whose shoulders lay the
gre.at affairs of the people of Israel ! To omit that
other notable example of the angel Raphael so
called (from his office at that time, or from the an-
gelical order he ~doptcd into after .his .death)
but was iDdeed. the ~oul of Azruias~ the son of
..Ananias tbe Great, and of Tobit's brethren, Tobit,
v.l2. Nor does that which occurs, Tob. xii. 16,
at aU clash with what we. have said, if rightly un-
derstood : for his sayipg, • I am Raphael one of
the seven holy angels which present the prayers
of the saints, and which go in and out before the
glory of the holy one,' in the Cabbalistical sense
054 DR. MORB'S POI'rSC.RIPT.
signifies DO inore than thu1, that he WU 008 of the
uivenal society of the.holy angels, (and a Raphael
in ,the order of the Raphaels) whioh minister to
the saints, and reinfor~ the prayers of good and
holymen by joining thereto their own; and as they
are moved by God, minister to their necessities,
DDprayed to themselves, which would be ,au abe-
mioation to them, but extreme prone to second
the petitions of holy sincere souls, and fOl'Wal'd to
'eogage in the aocompli&hiog of them,· as a truiJ
good man would sooner relieve an indigent crea-
ture, over-hearing him making his moan to God
in prayer, than if be begged alms of himself,
though he might do that without sin. This Cab-
balistical acooont, I think, is infinitely more pro·
bable, thaa that Raphael told a downright l)e to
Tobit, in saying he was the soo of Ananiaa when
he waa not. And be it so, w411 J. Webster •y,
what is all this to the purpose, when the ·book of
Tobit is apochrypbal, and consequently of DO
authority ? What of 110 authority ? Certainly of
in&nitely more authority than M.r. Wagstalf, Mr.
Scot, and MT. Aclie, that Ml'. Webster so fre-
quently and reverently; quoteth.
" I but, will he farther add, these apparitioaa
\\'ere made to good and holy men, or to elect vee-
seta; bot King Saul waa a wretched reprobate.
Tbis ia the third liberal badge of honour that thia
ill-bred advocate of the witches bas bestowed on
a distressed prince. First, a ' drowned puppet,'
p. 170, then a • distracted bedlam,' in the same
page, which I paued by before ; and no• a
• wretched reprobate.' But 818oredly Saul was a
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCHES, .WJTCHCRAPT, WIZARDS, &c. ~
brave prince and commander., as Jo~epbos juii&IJ
describes him, and reprobate only in type, as
Jsmael and Esao ; which is a mystery it aeema,
that J. Webster was not aware of. And therefore
no such wonder that the soul of S~oel had such
a ki.Ddness for him, as to appear to him in the
depth of his distress, .to settle his mind, by telliag
him plainly the upshot of the whole bosineas, that
he should.lose the battel, aad he and his sons be
slain, that so he might give a specimen of the
bravest valour that ever ,.. atchieved by any
commander, in that he would not sutfer his coon··
try to be overrun by the enemy while be waa alive
without resistance; bot though be knew certainly
he should fail of auccess, and he and his sons dye
iu the figbt, yet in so jut and honourable a cause
as the defence of his crown aad his conotry, would
give the enemy battel in the field, and aacri6ce
his own life for the safety of his people. Out of
the knowledg~ of which noble spirit in SanJ, and
his resolved valour hi this point, those words haply
may come from Samuel, • TG morro'W sba1t thou
and thy sons be \Vitb me,' (as an auspicious insi-
nuation of their favoora\de recep&n into the other
world,) iD t::l•p-ncmt'1'10, in tAalamo jtestorum, as
MIIDStet has noted out of the Rabbins.
" Lastly, as for that weak imputation, that this
opinion of its being Samuel's soul that appeared
is Popish, that is yery plebeianly and idiotically
spoken, as if every thing that the'Popish party are
for~ were Popish. We divide our zeal against so
mapy thing& that we fancy Popish, that we scarce
reaerve ajust share of detestation against what i•
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
256 DR. MORB1S POSTSCRJl»T,
tr.uly. so : Such as are that gross, rank and scan-
dalous .impossibility of ' transubstantiation,' the
various modes of fulsome idolatry and lying im-
postures, the uncertainty of their loyalty tO their
' lawful soveraigns by their superstitions adhesion
to the .spir-itual tyranny of the Pope, and that bar-
barous and ferine crut'lty against those that are
.not either such fools as to be persuaded tO believe
such things as they would obtrude upon men, or
·are not so false to God and their own consciences,
as k~owing better, yet to profess them.
" As for that other opinion, that the greater
part of tbe:reformed divines bold; that it was the
devil thatappeared in Samuel's shape; and though
Grotius also seems to b.e inclined thereto; aHeg-
iog that passage of Porpkyriu8 de. .abstittentia
.Ani•aliun, where be describes one kind of spirit
.to be I'EJIO( d?raTqXi;~: ~utrEw~;, 'lravTo~f?OJITE Kat 1roX(,.
Tft01rOJI, tJ1r0Kpm$pEJIOJI l(.(lt ~mff: Kat aalpova~; Kal tJNxa~;
Tt8vqKorw,. (which is, I confess, very apposite to
this story ; nor do I doubt but that in many of
these necromantick apparitions, they are ludicrous
spirits, not the souls of the deceased that appear,}
yet I am clear for the appearing of the soul of Sa-
muel in this story, from th~ reasons above alleged,
and as clear that in other necromancies, it may be
t~e devil or such kind of spirits, as Porphyrins
llbove describes, ' that change themselves into
omnifarious forms and shapes, and one while act
the parts of dremons, another while of angels or
gods, and another while of the· souiR of the de-
ceased.' And I confess such a spirit as this ~ight
per!Jouate Samuel here, for any tbing W ebater baa
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCHES, WITCHCRAFT, WIZARDS, &c. fJf/1
alleged to tbe contrary, for his argumtmts indeed
are wonderfully weak and woodw, as may be un-
derstood out ofwbat 1have hinted concerning tbe
former opinion, but I. cannot further particula- .
rize now.
'' For I have made my postcript much longer
than my letter, before I was aware; and I need
not enlarge to you, who are so well versed in these
things already, and can by tbe quickness of your
parts presently collect the whole measures of Her-
cule.
s by his foot, and sufficiently undE-rstand by this
·time it is no rasb censure of mine in my letter, tbat
Webster's book is but a weak iapertinent piece of
work, the very master-piece thereof being so weak
.and impertinent, and falling so short of tbe scope
be aims at, which was really to prove that there
was no such thing as a witch or wizard, that is
not any mention thereof in Scripture, Ly any name
' of one that bad more to do•witb the devil, or the
devil witb him, than with other wicked_ men ;'
that is to say, of one who in virtue of covenant,
either implicit or explicit, did strange thingsby the
help. of evil spirits, but that' there are many sorts
of deceivers and impostures, and divers persons
under a p<lssive delusion of melancholy and fancy,'
which is part of his very title-page.
" Whereby be does plainly insinuate, that there
iJ nQJhing but couzenage or melancholy in the
whole business ofthe fears of witche:i. But a little
to mitigate or smother the greatness of this false
a~sertion~ he add$, • At)d thi\t then~ is no corporeal
l~gue betwixt the devil and the witch ; and that he
does u9tsncl!. oQ t~e witches bQd1• DC»" has c~n~l
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
258 · D'R. MORB!s ·l'OS'fSCRIPT.
·copulationwithher, northewitches turned into dogs
or cats; &c. AU whieh things as you may see in
his book, he understands in the grossest imagin-
able, as if the imps of witches had mouths of ~
to suck them, and bodies of flesh to lie with them,
od at this rate he may understand a corporeal
league, as if it were no league or covenant, unless
some lawyer· drew the instrument, and engroJsed
it in vellum or thick parchment, and there were so
many witnesses with the hand and seal ofthe party.
Nor any transformation into dogs or cats, nltleas
it were real and corporeal, or grossly carnal;
which none of his•'witch-niongers, as he rudely aDd
slovenly calls that learned and serious person; Dr.
Casaobon and the rest, do believe. Only it is a
dispntable case of their bodily transformatioa,
betwixt bodinus and remigius ; of which more in
my Sckolia. But that without this carnal trans-
mutation, a woman might not be accounteda witch,
is so foolish a supposition, that webster himself
certainly most be ashamed of it.
" Wherefore if his book. be writ only to ·prove
there is no such thing as a witch that covenants in
parchment with the Devil by the advice of a law-
yer, and is really and carnaJly turned into a dog,
cat, or hare, &c. and with carnal lips sucked by
the devil, and is one with whom the devil lies
carnally; the scope thereof is manifestly imper-
tinent, when neither Dr. Casaubon, nor any one
else holds any such thing; Bot as for the true
and adequate notion of a witch or wizard, such as
at first I described~ his arguments all of them are
too too weak and impertinent, as to the di&proving
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
•
WITCHES, WITCHCRAFT, WIZARDS;&c. to9
tbe existence of saeh a witch aa this, who betwixt
his deoeiven, impostors, and melancbolists on one
hand, aDd those gr~ss witches be describes on the
other hand, goes away. sheer as a hair in a green
l>alk betwixt two lands of com, none of hit argu-
ments reaching her, or getting the sight of her,
himself in the mean time standing on one side
amoagst the deceivHB and impostors, his book, as
to the main design be drives at, being a meer
cheat aad impostor;
'' C. C. C. May, !lS, 1678."
Tun CoNFESSIONS op CERTAIN ScoTCH
WITCHES, taken out of an authentic copy of
·their trial at tl&e A••ise• held at Pauley, in
Scotland, Feb. 15, 1678, touching the 6e-
ufitclting of Sir George Maxwel.
Tbe tenonr of the .confessions as taken before
justices. As first of Annabil Stuart, of the age
of •4 years, or thereby ; who declared that she
waa. brought in the presence of the justices for the
crime of witohcraft ; and declared, that one bar-
lest last, the devil, in the shape of .a black maJl,
came to her mother's house, and reqoi•ed the de-
clarant to give herself op to him ; and that the
devil promised her she shoold not want any thing
that was good.-Declares that she, being enticed
!by her mother, Jennet Mathie, and Bessie WtJS,
who was officer to their several ;meetings, abe pot
laer hand to the crown of her head, and the other
~o the sole of her foot, and did .giYe hirself up to
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
..
260 WITCHES, WlTCHCRAPT, WIZARDS, &.e.
the devil. Declares .that her mother promised her
a new coat for doing it. Declares that her spirit's
name was Ennipa, and that the devil took ber by
the band and nipt her arm, which continued to be
sore for half an hour. Declares that the devil, in
tJ1e shape of a bl11ck m~n, lay with her in the bed,
under the clothes, and that she found him cold.
D~~lares, that thereafter, be placed her nearest
hi~elf, aod declares she was present iri her
mother's bouse when the effigy of wax was made,
and that it was made to represent Sir .George
llaxwel. Declares, that the biack man, ·Jannet ·
Mathie, the declarant's mother, (whose spirit's
.aame was Lemdlady; Bessie Weir, whose spirit's
name was Sopha ; Margaret Craige, whose spirit's
name is Rcgerum, and Margaret Jackson, whose
spirit's name is Locas) were all present at the mak-
ing of the said effigy ; and that they bound it .on a
11pit, and turned it before the fire ; and that it was
turned by Bessie Weir, saying, as they tamed it,
Sir George Maxwel, Sir George Maxwel, and
that this was expressed by all of them, and by the
declarant. Declares that this picture was made '
in October last. And further declares that upon
the ..t~ird day of January instant, Bessie Weir
came.to her mother's house, and advertised her to
come to her brother Jobo Stuart's upon the night
followiug ; and that accordingly she came tQ. the
place, where she found Bessie Weir, Margery
Craige, Margaret Jackson, and her brother Joho
Stuart, and a Ulan witli black cloaths, and a blue
band, and white handcuffs, with bogers, and that
)lis f~et were ~lovell : tf:l!l~ declar!lQt sa' duwn by
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
•
WltC.HR8, WITCHCRAFT, WIZARDS, &c. 261
the fire with them when they made a picture of
clay, in which they placed pins in the breasts and
sides ; that they placed one in every side, and one
in the breast; that the black man did pot the pins
in the picture of wax; hut is not sore who pot the
pins in the picture of clay ; that the effigies pro~
duced are those she saw made ; that the black mao's
name is Ejsal.
This declaration was.emitted before James Dun-
lop, of Husil, and William Gremlage, &c Jan. Z'/,
1677, ita est Robertus Park, Notarius Publicus.
"THE SECOND CONFESSlON is of John Sioart,
who being interrogate anent the crime of witch-
<>raft, .declared that upon wednesday, the third
day of January instant, Bessie Weir, in Pollocton,
came to the declarant late at night, who being
without doors near to his own house, the said Be!l-
sie Wei.r did intimate to him that there was a meet-
ing to be at his bouse, the next day; and that the
devil under the shape of a black man, Margaret
Jackson, Margery Craige, and the said Bessie
Weir were to be present; and 1hat Bessie Weir
required declarant to be there, which be promised ;
and that the next night, after declarant bad gone
to bed, the black man came in; and called the de-
clarant quietly by his name, upon which he arose
from his bed, put on his clothes and Ughted a can-
dle. Declare, that Margaret Jackson, Bessie
Weir, and Margery Craige, did enter in at a
window in the cavil of declannt's house; and that
the first thing the black man required, was, that
the declaraht should renounce his baptism, and
deliver bimsel(wholly to him; which the declaran\
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
I
I
262 WlTCHBS, WITCHCRAFT, WIZARDS, &e.
did, by potting one band on the crown ofbis bead,
and the other on tbe sole of his foot; and that be
was tempted to it by the devil promising him that
be should not wa~t any pleasure, and that he
should get his heart filled on all that should do him
wrong. Declares, that be gave him the name of
looat for his spirit's name; that thereafter the
devil required every one of their consents for the
making of the effigies of clay; for the taking away
the life of Sir George Maxwel, of Pollock-, to re·
venge Jbe· taking of declarant's mother, lannet
Mathie, that every· one of the persons above
named, gave their consent to the making of the
said effigy, and that they wrought tbe clay; that
the black man did make the figure of the head
and face, and two arms, to the said effigy; tJaat the
devil set three pinsin the.same, onone eachside and
oae in the breast ; and that the declarant did hold
the candle to them, all the time tJae picture was:
makillg. And that he observed one of the black
man's feet to be cloven-that his apparel was black
-that he bad a blueish baud andhandcuft's-that
be had hogers on his legs, without shoes; and that
the black man's voice WIJ.S hough and gorutie: and
farther declares that after they had begun tbe fram-
illgof the effigies, his sister, AnnabilStuart, a child
of 13 or 14 years of age, came knocking at the
door, and being let in by the declarant, sbe staid
with them a considerable time, but ·that she weat
away before the rest, he having opened the door for
laer-tbat the rest went out at the window at which
they entered-that the ~ffigies was plaeed by Bes-
sie Weir in his bed-straw. He farthel" declarea
__ o,,.,,,,,Google
WITCHES, WITCRCRAPl'T, WIIU.RD81 &c. 263
be himself did en·Yy against Sir Geor.ge Maxwei,.
for apprehending Jaonet Mathie, his mother; and
that Bessie Weir had great malice against this Sir
George Maxwel, and.that her quarrel was, as the
declarant conceived, because tile said Sir George ·
had notentered her husband to his harvest service;
al~o that the said e.f/igies was made upon the fourth
day.of January iostant, and that the devil's name
was Ejoal; that detlar.ant's spirit's .name waa
hnas, and Bessie Weir's spirit's name, who was
officer, was Sopha; and that Margaret Jackson's
spirit's name was Loctu; and that Anoabil Stuart's
spirit's name, the declarant's sister, was Enippa;
but does not remember what Margery Craige'•·
spirit's name was. Declares that he cannot write.
This confession was emitted in the presence :Of
the witnesses to the other confession, and on the
same day.-Jta est. Robertus Park, Notariw ·
Pu6licus.
Tho next'confession is that of Margaret, relict
of Thomas Shaws, who being examined by the
justices, anent her being guilty of witchcraft, de-
clares that she was present at the making of the
first effigies and picture that wete made in 'Janne.t
Mathie's boose, in October; and that the devil, in
th.e shape of a black man, Jannet Mathie, Bes8ie
Weir, Margery Craige, and Annabil Stuart, were
present at the making ofthem, and that they were
made to representSirGeorge Maxwel, of Pollock,
for the taking away his life. Declares, that 40
years ago, or thereabout, she was at Pollocksbaw
Croft, with some few sticks on her hack, that the
black man came·to'her, and tliat she did giv'e up
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
264 WI'tCHI>S, WITCBCRAPT, WIZARDS, &c.
herself unto him, from the top of herbead to tb·esole
ofher foot; and that this was after declarant· bad
renounced b·er baptism, and that the spirit's name
which he designed her was Locas: and that about
the third or fourth of January instant, or thereby,
in the night-time. when she awaked, she found
a man to be in bed with her, whom she sup·
posed .to be her husband, though ller husband bad
been dead twenty years or thereby. and that the
said man immediately disappeared ; that this mao
\ who disappeared was the .devil. Declares, tbat
upon Thursday the fourth ofJanuary instant; she
was present in the house of John Stuart, at night,
~hen the .ejjgies of day was made, and that she
•aw the black man there, sometimes sitting,
aometimes standing with John Stuart; and
that the black man'& cloaths were black, aud
that be bad white handcuffs; and that Bessie
Weir, in Pollocton, and Annahil Stuart, ip Sbaws,
and Margery Craigie, were at the aforesaid time
and place at making the said effigies of clay ;. and
de~lares that she gave her consent to the making
ef the same, and that the devil's name who com-
peered in the black man's shape was Ejoll•
.Sic Subscribitur, ila est, Robertus Park, Nota-
tius Publicus, &c.
Then follotrs the depOBitions of certain person&,.
agreeing with confessious of tAe aho~e,said
witches.
· " Aodr. Martin, Senitour tp the Lord of Pol~
hlck, of the age of t~ir~ ~e~r'~o.r ~.·Jr~by, d~pl;ls~~
•
Wl'fCHBS, WITCHCiU.FT, WIZARDS, &c. 265
nes, that he was present in the boose of Jannet
Mathie, Pannel, when the picture of wax produced
was found in a little hole in the wall at the back of
the firf'-that Sir George, his sickness did fall
upon him about the eighteenth of October, or
thereby-that the picture of wax was found on the
--- of December, and that Sir George his
sickness did abate and relent about the time the
picture of wax was foond and disco•ered in Jannet
Mathie's bouse-that the pins were placed in the
right and left sides; and that Sir George Max-
wei, of Pollock, his pains, lay most in his right and·
left sides. Depones, that Sir George's pains did
abate·and relent after the finding of the said pic-
ture of wax, and taking out the pins as is said-
that the pannel, Jannet Mathie, bas ·been by fame
and broite a reputed witch these several years
past. And this is the truth, as he shall answer to
God.-Sic 'Subscribitur, :Andr. Martin."
•• Lawrence Pollock, Secretary to the Lord of
Pollock, sworn and purged of partial counsel, de·
pones that on the - day of December be was
in the Pannel Jannet Mathie's ~louse when the
picture was found ; and that he did not see it be-
fore it was brought to the Pannel's door-that Sir
George Maxwel of Pollock's sickness did seize
upon him about the 14th of October, or there-
abouts, and he did continue in his sickness or dis-.
temper for six weeks, or thereby-that SirGeorge's
sickness did abate and relent after the finaing of
tbe said picture of wax, and taking out of the pins
that were·in the effigies-that by open bruit and
cemmon fame, Jannet Mathie, and Bessie Weir, ·
N
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
•
266 Wl'fCBES. WITC,~~RAFT, ,W!IZAB~~- &c. ·
and Margery Craige, are lJrant!if to. ~ witc~~·
D~poDeS, ~~ t4e.truth is tb~, .aa ~e shall answer
to ~od•....._sio SulJscrib. Lawrence Pollock."
" LODAWIO' STUART,-:Of A~c~eahead; being
s:wom aDd.purged of partial Cq1Jnse}, deponet~, tb~t
Sir· G.eorge's sickness fell up~ ~m the ~4th ()r
13th day of Oetober-~a~ ~e 'W~ not presentat
the finding,9f the picture ,of·wax ; ~ut that he.,bad
seen Sir.G~org~ M~q;wel. of PQllock, afte,rit was
foand; and having ~een him in his_sicknel!B.often~
times before, ~ did per~~ilre t:ha~ Sir Ge,rg~ bad
sepsibly recovered after the tim.e that the said.pi~
ture was said to bave been ·,found,. which w.as.
~pon the 11th or_
12tb of December-tl;u~t Jannet
Mathie and Margery Craigie, two of the Papnel,
are by report of the country $Wd to ~e witch~s­
thathe having come t9 Pollock, he did see Sir
George Maxwel, whose pains did ~ecur, aud that
his pains and torment5 w~re greatly increase_
d in
respect of what they were before ~e findipg o.f the
picture of wax-that upon the eighth of ~anuary~
when they left the said:S.ir_George Maxwel, of
Pollock, the de~onent James Dunlop, of Hooail,
Allan Douglass, and ·seyeral.others, d,i«J go to .the
house of John Stuart, Warlock; on PoiJ()Cf,ks~aw,
and there he found a picture of clay in _
the said·
John Stuart's bed-stra'fl-that there W4;11'~ t.Juee
pins in the said picture of clay, and that the_
re was
one on each·side, aud one in tb~· breast~~nd fur-
ther ~epont:s, ·that being _
returned to Sir,.George:a
house, Sir George told·the depo~ent.that h~ (quod
grt>at ease of his pains, and that it w~ before~
de)IODent· Houosii, and the re~t, did reveal tQ biul
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCHBS; WITCBC.R.A.:J'T, WIZAJlDS, &o. 267
that they had fopnd·the said.pkltore Gf olay, and
f~er; .
that this is the truth, :as be sballaMwer to
God.--Sic.. Sacb,ri. Lodowick Stuart;~ ··
Tb~e ar~ more depositiObB of a similar nature
when~ th~se we~e extracted, bot these are enough
to dU,cover that the oolifessioo of those witches are ·
neither fabl~s ..nor dreams. It ·belongs 1111, .there-
fore, in tbis\~nligbtened age~ when superstition bU'
fled .b~fore the reys of science and tbe inlueooe of
religion, to account fur the then prevalent notion,
whicil a.
ppears so far to be aothe~tticated, of the
exjsteooe ~f :witches. Itis not enough to say that
people ar~ barbarous, ignorant, or untotigtitened,
to exculpate .them from charges inrolviDg such
strong points·as supernatural with human tageooy;
In this sta.ge of investigation, nothing is more n~·
tural t)lao, to ask, did witches ever exist?.:Yea.
-Upon what authority? Sacred Writ._,..Are there
such being~ a.s.witches now ? We hear oftlone.-
Then th.e lQt grand question, to wbich·a secret of
some importance i~ attached-:-What ,bas .beoome
of ·tbem? have they ·vanished into viewless air,
witboot l~viog a wreck be~d ;; or ere tliey: coo-
signed to the '' oottom of;the bottomless pit?'' Of
tbi~ we •ay say something beresft6r ;. while in the
me110ti~e welar before our. readers
THB CoNFESSION OF.AGNES SYMPSON To
} ' .. . '
. .. KING JArt~BS.
'' Iten&.-Fyled and convict .for sameole, as she
co~est before his Majesty that the deYil in man's
likeoessmethergoingootin the fields~ from her own
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
268 WITCHES, WITCHCRAFT, WIZ.ARDS, &c.
hl>use a Keith, betwixt five and six at even, being
alone, and commendit her to be at Northborrick
Kirk the next night. And she passed then on
horseback, conveyed by her good-son called John
Cooper, and lighted at the Kirk-yard, or a little
before she came to it, about eleven hours·at even.
They danced along the Kirk-yard, Geil~ Duncan
plaid to them on a trump, JoAn Fien, mussiled,
led all the rest; the said Agnes and her d~ughter
followed next. Besides there were Kate Grey,
George· Moile'• tDije, Robert Guer1ox, Catherine
Duncan Buchanan, Thoma• Barxhill and his
wife, Gilbert Macgil, Jokn Macgil, Catkerine
~Iacgil, with the rest of their complices, above
an hundred persons, whereof there were six men,
a~d all the rest women. The women made first
their homage and then the men. The men were
turned nine times Widdersbins about, and the ·
women six times. John Fien blew up the doors
and in the lights, which were like mickle black
candles sticking round about the pulpit. The
devil started up himself in the pulpit, like a mickle
black man, and every one answered here. Mr.
Rober~ .Guenon being named, they all ran birdie
girdie, and ·were angry ; for it was promised he
should.be.called Robert the Comptrpller, alias BDb
the Bowar, for expriming of his n11me. The .first
thing be demandit was, as they kept all promise,
and been good servants, lind what they bad done
since the last time they convened. At his com-
mand they opened up three graves, two within, and
one without the Kirk, and took ·otr the joints· of
their·fingers, toes, and neis~, and parted them
"''·.,Coogle
WITORBS, WITCHCRAFT, WIZARDS, &c. 269
;amongst them : and the said .Agne• SympM)n got
for her part .a winding--sheet and two joints. The
devil commanditthem to keep thejoints up'on them
while they were dry, and then to make a powder of
the~ to do evil withal. Then he commandit them
to keep his commandments, which were to do all
the evil they could. Before they departed they
kiSBed his breech [the record speaks more broad.]
He [meaning the devil] had on him ane gown and
ane hat, which were both black : and they that
were assembled, part stood and part sate: John
Fien was ever nearest the devil, at his left elbock ;
Graymarcal keeped the door."
The Scotch ac<;ent has been here retained for
the better auth~nticity of the matter ; the confes-
sion here given being, in all probability, a prin-
cipal reason 1!'hY King James changed his opinion
relative to the ~xistence of witches; which, it was
reported, b~ was inclined to think were mere con-·
ceits; as he was then but young (not above five or
six and twenty years of age) when this examiJta-
tion took place before him ; and part of the third
(lhapter of his Demonologie appears to be a tran-
aoript of this very confession.
Agnes Si~psoo was remarkable for her'•skill in
diseases, and frequently, it is said, took the pains
apd sickness of the afflicted upon herselfto relieve
tltem, and afterwards translated them to athird
person : she made use of ~long· Scripturill rhymes
and .prayers, containing the principal points of
Christianity, so that she seemed not so niucb a
•bite .
witch as a holy woman. . She also used non..
aeiUJic:al rbyJDeS in · t\le ·instruction of ignorant
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
27.0 .WI'fCHES, WI'l'CBCRA'li'T, WIZARDS, &c.
people, and taught them to say.tbe"\fhite and black
.Pater~nc)!lter in metre, in set forms, to .be used
morning·BDd evening; and at other times, as ·occa-
sion might require.
The .White Pater-noster runs thus:-
God w•s my fo_
ster,
'He'fostered me
Under (be book of Palm tree.
· St. Michael ifas II!)' daliae;
. He was bern~at Bethlehem.
He was made of flesh and blood,
God send m~ my right food ;
My rigbi &bed,·uid ilyne too, · ·
That I may, too. yon kirk go,
.. To read upon yon sweet bpolt, .
·· · Which lbe mtgtny Ood of heaven shook.
;()pen, open, heaven's yaits,
..8teik, lltellt, bell's yalta, ·
. All saints be the better, · ...
: That he~ the white prayer, Pater-n~a~r.
; . ' . .
Tltt. Blizclt Paier-ftoster;
·Four neults in this h~a~ for holy angels,
A. ppit'ln the midst, that Ohriat J eeus,
Lw:aa, Marcus,.Mathew, J.oaane,, . ·
~.i be ·~nto tbi~ h~~s.e~ a~~.~-~~ tlaat ~~lo~, ~ . .
Whenever she. reqakedt:etl ·nswer! lro•;the
~~~il;..o~ ,6/p.y o~~auon,·,ke alwaya,appearefl:'~Jj .her
;ip the ~~p.e ~...;dog; Iii\.~. when· sbe:wisbedidm
.t9 ~pllJ't, :she C<UUqreel him.inttheifoHow:ilrg·m.w-
~ri namely:" l ·dw'ge:thee.to.r.departlou:the:law
.the>~ .liV,tJst::e>Q :'~·: ~ .!it!Js ~.soid>lwas tb$lang••
:wiUi wbiclt~e;di&!!liSil$1 .IWDI&Iter~ons~tiwlg With
.hi~ on·old Lady !EclmiJtea'a JJidkness. ~: i'f-he.,nw&n-
~r:.in w.hicb .!lbtt, raiaetl,the·~il wu wi&h :tfleSP.
words; '' Eliluome~ aQd ~-i*'aki te·Dl}' ~ he
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
WITCHES, WITCHGRAP'r, WIZARDS, &c. 271
·08Yel' failed t'o appear10 her in the shape of a·dog,
as usual. Her sailing with her Kemmer• and fel-
low witches in a boat is related as a very remark-
able story, where the-d&¥il caused them all to
drink good wine and beer without money ; and of
her neither seeing the sailors nor they her ;
and of the storm which the deril raised, whereby
the ship perished; also her baptizing, and using
other ceremonies .upon a cat, in th& company of
other witches, to prevent 'Queen·Anne frbm· com-
ingto Scotla~d. ' . . . .
.. Tha(mieb is most reni~kable in John· Fein, is
the devil appearing to him, not in black;' blih~hite
raiment, altholi~b .he proposed ~:as· ·hellisb • oove-
wat' to ·.laim ·as ·aay-in :the l)lack·c08tllinw <· Bis
skimll;ring alOng. ~be ;surface -~ -tbe »ea· wi1!h'·bis
~QlllpahiOils......,hia >fore~lling theleak in the Qaeen's
sbi.,........is ~sing a:storm by-throwing ti~at into tt.e
sea, during the King's voyage·to DetnnatJc;...;.his
raising a JDist on .the King's· return, by getting
,Satan,td cast ~ thinglike a foot-ball int6 tie·sea,
-nch:.pau,ed..aoclMli smoke,·aa' to · eadang~r his
'lthjealj'1.being .driveD; on the ooast of1 rEngla:ad--<-
dda openiDg\loicb· by means {Jf lt)roery1 by -
bielrely
blowing:int.o a .woman.'•~ band -\fbile. s~: sat "r:the
.a.e-his e~Jlbarking in a:boat,with rottaer:witches,
,sailing ove11 tbe:;s"a,. getting, on boar~fof a ship,
:drinking wine aDd .ale there~ ..and afterward&. sink;.
iia~ lthe' '!feasel with . all .on .board.....;.his J k.ismng
~SataD's .-a:.again, ..at. anodlft; .conveatlde'+hiS
-being carried.into the air, io chasing a cat) toHhe
.purpose·,of raisiag ,astorm; according 1o Satanls
preacript.Wa~ ' He pre~ olso to: telhmy. inan
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
272 .SOROBRY.
how long he would live, provided he told him the
day of bi8 birth~
SORCERY.
THE crime of .witchcraft, or divination, by the as.
sistanpe of evil spirits. .
Sorcery is held by some to be properly what the
,_nci~nts called &rtilegiUIIJ, ordivination by means
ofSortes ~ lo~. · ·
Lord Coke.(:} Imtit. fol. M:,) describe$ a Sor•
cerer, qui ut#ur,sortibus, et incantationibtu-dtbw"
~iua. Sol!cery, h¥ Stat. lo.Jac" iaJelony. · Ia-
~·~ book it is .said tQ. be a branch of heresy~
8Jl4 by Stat. 12,.CarolusII. it is excepted out of
,the general pardo01.
Sorcery is pretended to have been a very com-
mon thing formerly; the credulity, at leaat, of
thol!e ages made it pass for sueh ; people· D
que1,1tly soft'ered for it. Ia a more enlightened
~d less .believing age, sorcery has·Bed before the
penetrating rays:of. scieDce, like every otller spe-
cies of human superstition and complicated tlUJ.
~. · For, indeed, itis a very probable opinion:,
that the several glaring instances of sorcery .vie
JQeet, in our old law books and·historians, if -,reU
inquired into, would ,be found at bottom, to have .
mor.e human art and desperate' malignity and viD-
_
dictive cunning- about them., tlaa8 of demoniacal
:an<t preternatural agency. Wereit no.t- fo~ a1f"l~"
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
SO'In'ES.---BORTILBGIU'M. · .273
regulated poliee aoting·nader·wise regulations for·
the safety and harmony of society, sorcerers and
evil spirits would be equally as prevalent -and de.~.
structive·at the present day, as they were some
two or three hundred years ago·.
SORTES.-SORTILEGilJM.
THB ancients had a method of deciding dubious
cases, where there appeared no ground for a pre-
ference, by Sortes or lots, as in casting of dice,
drawing tickets, and various other ways, many
of which are still adopted;
The . ancient 11ortu or lots, were institnted by
God himself; and in the Old Testament we meet
with D'lany standing and perpetual laws, and a
DO\Dber of particular commands, prescribing ood
regolati~g the use of them. Thus Scripture in-
forms us that the lot fell on St. Matthias, when a
suecessor to Judas in the apostolate was to be
chosen. Our Saviour's garment itself was cast
lots for. Sortiti sunt Christo 'DUkm.
The SoRTBS Pranutinee were famous ·among
the Greeks. The method of these was to pot a
great number of letters, or even whole' woras;
into an urn; to shake them together, and throw
them OUt; and wbateYer should chance to be maae
out in the arrangement .of the letters, &c. com-
.posed the answer 6fthis oracle.
In what repute soever this mode of divination
N~
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
~ SOR1RS~~l\T.U.l$fUlJ¥,
formerly· .might 1\av.e.·,~tt.,)\1. l>Mitml•ftne,s,
that, iJl Cic~o~s.tilll~.. jts, qre!lit was;,Jmt lo'W;; •.,.
much so, ~t QOJiEl bijt;lbft ·JPPat:cr«ttlP.~IJJ pu.t:()f
the P9Pula~ ha<l re,c~u·rs~. to, it.;,, Ina~.q{.tbis
another kind of sortes ,l'V~ .~od~t into ·Greece
and Italy; which was, to take some celebrated
poet, as for instance Homer, Euripides, Virgil,
&c., to open the book; and whatever first pre-
sented itself to the eye on opening, it thus was
taken for tb~. o.-dinaace of bea_~.en. · This made
what was called the Sortes Homericte and Sortes
Virgil~'!{/4, wbi~ ~qcceede~ t,b., we :(}f the S~te$
· Pram~stina;_ . ;
.This ~.up~rstif.ion pP.~~s~~ ~~~ ~1)\o C\l~stiaoity;
and the Christi~ ~o~k .tb~r 110\'f.es. put..of the
Old and Ne~ Testament! T}w, fir.st p~age,~that
P.I;~senw;d. its.~l£o,q qpening·~ bfiiOk,ofScripture, was
~~4 the aQ,WEV pfG9d; •.eU'. If: the first
p~~~ ~hP.-t :W~Ml~~ !lid qot happen to be ~PY
thing to ~~13 ,p,Qrpo,e, for .,whieh . ~ sor.t~ we.-e
Q~~s~~~, ~o~~r hoqk WtLS..openf!d,· a~d so on
until ~o.m~~hing w~s. PJet w,~tlt ~t .Plight~· oQe...way
o,r, ~' ,o~JJe.l1, ! ~~ : UJ,k~n for "n ~&)VIer,· This was
!ailed, §pr~,$tl~qf;lf1fl· 11 .•
St. Augus~~~tu;l~eA n~tdisap~n:oye of t~i{J ,me-
tho~ .ufJ~a,rpi~g;f9~urity, p.rovided; -it be.not used
fpr, wprl,IJlJ,p,1ilr~~ ~ . a!ld, ·in fact, hec;.;wns bav-
~~g ,p~c~:itJ~i,mseJ(. , . . , , ., . · ;
...Pr~9fY qf~pura :ad~ll;: tMHl!et~u~topl was to
lay the.~~~ .q,n: ~~ aJ,~ar;·· llO«J. wpray:~ Lol"d
that ,he wop.l4. dit\co'fflr .hy ~t:,.rllllt w~ to .
come. to
, pass. Indeed, in~ce11 o.f the Uj;e of th~ Sane-.
tu'!f .Sllt&Ct'qr&ffl1 .l¥'e JJ!ry .freqqen~ iq hjstory.
oi~itizec ~vGoogle
SOHTBS.--sORTtl.oBOiUM. if.")
Mr. Fleurf te\ta. US . ·that Heraclius, in .hiiJ war
against Cos!Hies;:to leam·where he should tal~ up
his· winter qua~rs; purified his army for tbree
days, and then opened tbe Gospels, and ·discovered·
thereby·that the ·place appointed fot- 'them· 'Wftlt in
Mbania. '· ,.) ' '1, 1 •• r
Gilbert of Nogent informs us, that,· in his''time,
vi:&. abont the beginning of the twelfth century'
the custom :was, ·at the con~ration· of bishops; to
OODSolt· the Sortls.Sant!torrmt, to learn the sue·
dess, ·fate, and' ·other particulars · of their apisoo·
pate'. ."This:pwaotice is foanded on a suppesition:
tliat God .preSides <1ver the Sorte1, and this· is
atreng11iened·bY Prov: chap. xvi. verse 33, Where
it is said, "·The ,lot u·clut into the lap, ht the
aol&ole distx*ng d.lr~Jia of the Lord.'' ·
In fltdt, huUiy..dli\'illeiJ have held, and even·.now
many <~flthem atill hold~. tbat tlie ·tot is oouducted
in a partioolar.' manner by Providence ; that·it is
an extr&<lrdiDally marmer, in which God detlares
b~ '\Viii· by a'.kiDd· of'·immediate revelatiGn... The
Sortes·Sa.tcntttm, he~ver, .· were condemaed by
tbe ooaneil of Agda, in.606, at the time they were
b.eginniilg.to bike footing in ·Fl'ance. ·
This practice crept in among tlie Christians, ·of
<;asually opening. the sacred books .for directions
~ , ;important eironmstimees; ·.to know the •conse-
quences.of events ; .and what they had to fear from
~ir rulers. ·.
: .This, consultation of. the divine will from the
ScriptlH'es, was of two kinds-:;_The first consisted,
• I have said, ·in casually ~nlng those ~tingS;
bill not before ~ giridanc& of heaven bad •beeu
"''·.,Coogle
2'76 80.RTBS.--M&TI~~GUUl...
i~lored with pra_yer, fasting, aDd 'Other atts·of
religion. · ·The second w~ much more simple :
the first -wor~ of the Scriptur~, which.were sing-
iQgpr reading, at .the very instant when the per-
son, who came to know the disposition of heaven,-
entered the church, being considered either ao ad~
vioe, or a prognostic.
St. Austin, in his t>pistle to Jannarius; justly.·
~ondemns the practice ; .bot St. Gregory·of Tours,:
by the following instance, ·which he relates as ha.v.. ·
iog happ~ned to himself, shows thathe entertained
a better opinion of it:- " Leudastos, Earl ·of
1'ours," says .he, "who was for ruining me witll.
Queen ;Fredegonde, coming to ·Tour's, big with
eril dea)gns agaip.st me, I withdrew to·my oratory
under a deep concern, where I took "the PsalmS~
to try if, at opening th!'lm, [ should light upon
ai)Rle consoling verse.. My heart revived within
me, when I cast my eyes on this ofthe 77th Psalm,
• He caused them to go Qn with confidence, whilst
the sea.swallow:ed up their el)emies.' Acc()rdingly,
the Count 11pok.e not·a word to my prejudice ; and
~aving Tours that very day, the boat in which be
was, sunk in a .st~u;Gl, but his skill in swimming
saved him~"
. The following is also ··from t)Je same author.
"Chranmes having revolted tagainst Olotaire, his
brother, and being at Djjon; ·the ecclesiaaties of
the pla~e, in order to foreknow the success ·ofthis
procedure, consulted the saered bO()ks; but instead
of the Psalms, they outde use of St. Paul's·Epis-
tles, al}d.the Prophet Ieaiab. Opening:the latter
~ey read.these wo~:ds : ' I wi~ pluck up the fenbe
o''"""'b,Google
----------------------~---~
SORTBS.......SORTILBGIUM. t.n'1
ofmy vineyard,·and it shall be destroyed,· because
instead of.good, ·it has. brought forth bad grapes.'
The Epistles ·agreeing with the prophecy, it was
coDCluded to be a sure presage of the tragical end
of Craomes." · · .
St. CoJJSortia, · in her youth, was passionately
courted by ·a yooog Dian of a very powerful fa.·
mily, though she had formed a design of taking
the veil. Knowing that a ·refusal would expose
ner parents to many inconveniences, and perhaps
to danger, she desired a week'• time to determine
her choice. At the expiration of this time, which
!Jhe bad employed in devoot exercises, her lover,
accompanied by the most distinguished· matrons
of .the city, came to know her answer. " I can
neither aoeept of you nor refuse you," said she,
'' every thing is. in the hand of God: but if you
will agree to- it. let OS go to the' church, and have a
mass said ; afterwards, let us lay ibe holy gospe-l
on the altar, and say a joint prayer ; then we will
open the book, to be certainly informed of the di-
vine w:ill in this affair." This proposal could :not
with propriety be· refused ; and the ·first · verse
which met the ·eyes:of both, was tbe following :
" Whosoever loveth father or mother better tban
me, is not worthy of me." .Upon this, Oonsortia
said. " Yon see God cllnms me as his 6wn ;" and
the lover acquiesced.
Bot a~ot the eighth century, this practice be-
gan to lose ground, .as soon or late, reason and
authority will get the better of that which .is
founded on neither. ltwas proscribed by severaf
popes and coundls, arid in .terms which rank it
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
2'f6 SOBTBI.-SORTIL'BGIUM~
amcqag Pagan ·sa'pel'stitions:.. Howeveri some
trac~ ef tbis·~uatem are:foud for -several 1lge'S
after, both in tae Greek·1lDd the Latin.'•thuroh.
Upon th,~. ~Oil8ecrati(ln of a bisbo~ ·after laying
the bible upon his head, a ceremony still sabsisted,
that the ~t verse .w:hicb .ot'ered itself, was ac-
c<mnted 8lHDl8D o£ his future bebanuur, and of
th~ good 0, evil which was reservea for him· in the
"oqr.$e of hia epiaeopaoy. Thus, a Bishop· ofRo-
chester, at hill consecration by Laofranc; Areh-
biahop oti.Caaterbary, had a very happy presage
h:a tbese wordJ :·'' ·Bring ...ther the best robe, and
put it ~ hi.m." ·Bot the·answer of the Scripture,
at ~e .conseoration of St. Lietbert, :Bishop of
Cambray, was still more gratefttl: ., This is my
belovE\d son, in whom I am well plea&led." The
death of Albert, Biahop ofLiege, is said· tO have
been intimated to him by these wo~s. ·which the
Archbishop, who consecrated him, found at the
'Opening of the New Testament, ''And the )9ng
sent IN1 e.xeootiooer, _
and commanded his ·head to
be .brought; 1q1d. ~e went and beheaded him in
the prison.'' Upbn .this the primate- tenderly em-
bracing tbe new bishop, · said· to ·bini' With tears,
" My son, bavilig.given yourself up to the service
of God., ..carry·youl'8elf righteously and devoutly,
and prepare yout'lelf·for the trial of ·martyrCJom."
The Bishop was afterwards murdered ·by the
treacherous conniv.ance of.the ElnperorHenry VI.
These prognostics were alleged npon the most
imp~IJ:tault occaliiona. · De· Garla11de, ·Bithop of
Orleans, became so odious to his oletgy; thai they
sent a complaint apia&t him .to Pope Alexander
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
.&Q~T¥•-rSO~T..lJ.JI,GIUH. S9
UJ, c~~clQJ!jng jn .this ..-aw:pUlt : " Let your
,.p~~lical, lum4s pt~t on st,engtb to drip naW
~- iniqtJity of this man; that ·the curae. prognos•
\ioated on the d•y ~f. bia cQQSecra,tion, may oyer-
take him.; .forth~ gospel~t.being opened• .accord-
itlg to crctp-, the tirat words were,. ..And· the
yfiu"!! mma1 lefWW.U AialU.~n clotl•,fledfrom tlaem
1l!iked;'
William of }{abnabpry rela,tes, that ·Hugh de
)Joataigne,, :J;Jishop of Auxer.re, was .obliged to
p .to Rome, ,to. ~nve.- different charges IN-ought
'falQSt'the p&Jrity,of his .tDDrala, by edm~ of his
._pter.; bqt ~~y who ~eld. with the:-bishop~ as
an·i~¥fr.agable. proQf 9! hi$ spotless chastity, in-
sisWd that.the pr.Qgop,stic OJl.the.day of, his conse-
GQI.tioa ~aa. " HQ.ij, Mary, full of.grace.''
I.prO<l~d to tbe.seo9Dd·m~r ~f this eonsol-
~~(10, wb,iM WI\'J to go .into ll church with 1be
.tipn,ofrece\ving, as a ·declaration of th~ will
of Heaven, any words of the ScriP.ture which
~cht chan~ to. be sung Ql' read,_ at the. moment
~£ tile per•on's.entratwe. Tbos,: it is .said, St. An-
t),wpy, tQ put an end tQ his irresolotio-:t about re-
~~ement, .went io a. church, where ·immediately
~earing t~.dMQon pronounOO<these werds, ~·Go
Je.ll nll th~IJ .ht11t;.
. and give it to the poor, then
~~~e ~9d follow .me;" .be applied them.·tohimself,
,a a,dh:~t. UUIWlti® from God, and withdrew to
tb~t solitudeJor wbi.eh he is so celebrated among
the Catholics. ..
. ,T~ .follcnring: p01sage from Gregory of Tours,
is1t4m J'e1Qarkable to ~ omitted. He relates that
Clovi1; the fint Christian king of France, march-
•
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
280 SORTBS.-SORTILEGIUM.
ing against Alaric, King of the Visgoths, and
befug near the city of Tours, where the body of
.St. Martin was deposited, be sent some of his no-
bles, with presents to be ofFered at the saint's
tomb, to see if they could not bring him a promis-
ing augory, while be himself uttered this prayer:
"LOrd,ifthou wouldest have mepunishthisimpious
people, the savage enemy of thy holy name, give.
me some signal token, by which I may be assured
that such is thy will." Accordingly, his messeD~
gers bad no ·sooner set foot within the cathedral,
than they heard the priest chaunt forth this verse
of the eightE-enth Psalm, " Thou bast girded me
with strength for war, thou hast subdoed under
me those that rose op against me." Transported
at these words, after laying the presents at the
tomb of the saint, th'ey hastened to the King
with this favourable prognostic; Clovis joyfully
accepted it, and engaging Alaric, gained a com:..
plete victory.
Here also may be subjoined a passage in the
history of St. LOois IX. In the first emotion& ef
his clemency, he bad granted a pardon to a.cri-
minal under sentence of death ; bot some minutes
after, happening to alight upon this verse of the
Psalms, " Blessed is be that doth·righteou.sness
at all times;" he recalled his pardon, saying, "The
King wha has power to 'ponish a crime, and does
Qot do it, is, in the sight of God, no less guiltythan
if he had committed it himself."
The·&rtes Sanctorum were fulminated against
by varioos councils. The council of Varres
" forbade all ecclesiutics, under pain of excom·
•
- · o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
SORTES.-SOllTILEGIUM. 281
mubication, to perform that kind of divination, or
to pry into futurity, by looking into any book, or
writing, whatsoever." The council of Ayde,
in 506, expressed itself to the same effect ; u
did those of Orleans, in 5ll; and Auxerre, iJi
696. It appears, however, to have continued
very common, at least in England, so late
as the twelfth century : the council of Aenbam,
which met there in 1110, condemned jointly, sor-
cerers, witches, diviners, such as occasioned death
.by magical operations, and who practised fortune-
telling by the holy hook-lots.
· Peter de Blois, who wrote- at the clolle of the
twelfth century, places among the sorcerers, those
who, under the veil of religion, promised, by cer-
tain superstitious practices, such as the lots of the
Apostles and Prophets, to d~scover bidden and
future events: yet this same .Peter de Blois, one
of the most learned and pious men of his age, in a
letter to Reginald, whose election to the see of
Bath had a long time been violently opposed, tells
him, that he hopes he bas overcome all difficdlti'es;
and further, that he believes he is, or soon will be,
established in his dioce8e: " This belief/' says
he, " I ground on a dream I lately had two nights
successively, of being at your consecration ; and
also, that being desirous of knowing its certain
meaning, by lots of· human curiosity, and the
Psaltt-r, the first which occurred to me were, ' Mo-
. sea and Aaron among his priests.' "
Thus, tbougb the ancient fathers, and, since
them, others have in general a~d, that the
Sortes S.anctorum ·cannot be ·cleared of supersti·
•
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
. SIBYLS.
tion, thouth they ~as&ert.that it w~ tempting God,
to e1peet_
that he w_
ould inform tis oftfuturity, ~d
rev~al to u8··the secrets of his wiU, ·whenever the
sacred book.is operied for such :a.purpose, .though
it contain 'nothing ·wliiOh looks 'like a prorMfi~ of
that kind from: God ; though so far froin being
warranted by _any eccleiiasticallaw, it: bas been
oondemned by several, ancl, at last, .In more en·
lightened tbnes, hal·been.altogethft, abolishedi ~yet
they do not deny,.that there have been occasions,
when discreet and pious perso11s have opened
the sacred book, not to diseoTer futurity, but to
meet witb some passage to support them in tfmes
of distress and pers~tion.
·SIBYLS.
THIS word is $Oppoll!ed to be .formed of the two
Greek words,"'" for &e11 Dei, ud ~x, counsel.
The Sibyllre of autiquity were virgio-.
prophet-
e~ses_. or .maids IJUppo~ted to be divinely inspired ;
;who, in tbftheigbt -ef their: eatbasiasm, 9¥elora·
cl~ $1l,d fQI'etoW;tbin.gs to. come... · . · ..
Authors ~re at··v;uia~ce with respect to thenom·.
her of aiby)s. ..Capella reckQJls but two ; .viz.
Eropbyte ri. Troy~ called .SibyUa .PJ;n'ygia; aod
Sinuachia o{.&Jtbreea.. -,Solinns mentions three,
viz. Cumrea, D~lpbica• ..aild ·Eryth1'818. . ·.&Jiao
makea their.nuoib~r four,. anil Varro..mc~:eaaea it
to teu, ·deJJominating.thea from the places ·of their
btrth; the Persian, Delphic, Comeau,-
Ery.t.laraeao,
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
'lALISMA'RS.
Seriiao, £omui, HeUespoatio or Troiad, P.hry-
!ian, ancl. Tibartine. ·of these the most cele-
-~ are, ~e ErytlmeaD, Delphic, and Cumean
Sibyls.
- The .Sibylline orackle were·held in great vener-
ation by..the ..-re.oredolous ameog the ancients;
.but t,My lf«e. niocb suspected by the better in-
.fOimed. · :The •k• wherein they were written,
...er~ kept by the llooians with infinite otU'e ; and
iaMbiag of moment .- undertaken without con-
;aultillg tlaem. Tarqain first committed them to
the custody of two patrician priests for that par-
pose.
TALISMANS•
. .~·
·VAGICAL figures, engraven or cut under snpersti-
·tious obseiovanoes of the ebaracterisms and confi-
'gttratioos·ofthe heavens, are called talismans; to
which some astrologers, hermetical philosophers,
aud other adepts,' ~ attribute wonderful virtues,
·patticnlal'ly that of cailing down oelestial iniJa-
eaces. '
1 The author ofa book, intituled 'lalismitM ·Jw-
•elfle•, prenonooes a talisman is the seal, figure,
obatacter, or image of a heavenly sign, constella-
tion, or planet, ebgraven i»n a sympathetic stone,
or on a metal corresponding to the star, &c. in
order to receive its inftuences.
The talismans of the Samothracians, so famous
of old, were piecea of iron formed into certain
o.,,,, ,,Coogle
TALISMANS.
images, and set in rings, &c. .They were held
a8 preservatives against all kinds of evils. There
were other talismans taken from vegetables, and
others from minerals.
Three kipds of Talisman~ were usuaUy·distin-
guished, viz. Astronomical, which are kllOwn by
the signs or constellations of the heavens engra\'ea
upon them, with ot~er figures.
, and some tuiintelli-
gible characters. MtJgical, which bear very ex~
traordinary figures, with superstitious words and
names of angels unheard of. And mizt, which
consist of signs and barbarous words ; but have no
superstitious ones, or names of angels.
It is maintained by some rabbiu, that the
brazen serpent raised by Moses in the Wilderness,
for the destruction of the serpents that annoyed
the Israelites, was properly a Talimwn.
AU the miraculous things wrought by ApoJio·
nius Tyanreus are attributed to the virtue and 0.:-
tluence of .
Talismans ; and that.wizard, as he ia
.called, is even said to have been the inventor of
them.
Some authors take several}\unic medals,-.-.e-
dals, at least, whose inscriptions are in the Roaie
characters,-Cor talismans, it being notorious, that
the northern nations, in their heathen state, were
much devoted to them. M. l(eder, howevef, has
shewn, that the medals here apeken of aie quite
other things than talismaDB.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
·285 ·
PHILTERS, CHARMS, &c.
A DRUG, or other preparation, used as a pretended
charm to excite love. These are distinguished·
into true and spurious : the spurious are spells or
charms supposed to have an effect beyond the or-
dinary law of natur~, by some inherent magic
virtue; such are those said to be possessed for7
merly by old women, witches, &c.-The true
Philters were supposed to operate by some natural
ed magnetical power. There are many enthusi-.
astic and equally credulous authors, who have en-
couraged the belief in the reality of these Philters;
and adduce matter in fact in confirmation of their
opiniens, as in all doubtful cases. Among these
may be quoted Van Belmont, who says, that by
holding a certain herb in his band, and afterwards
taking a little dog by the foot with the same hand,
the animal followed him wherever he went, and
quite deserted his former master. He also adds,
that Philters only req_uire a confirmation of Mu-
mia•; and on this principle he accounts for the
phenomena of love transplanted by the touch of an
herb ; fo'r, says he, the heat communicated to the
herb, not coming alone, bnt animated by the ema-
nations of the natural spirits, determines the herb
towards th~ man, and identifies it to him. Hav-
• By Mumia Ia here.understood, that which waa used by aome
ancient pbyaicians for aome kind of implanted tpirit, found
chiefly In carcases, when the infused spirit is fled ; or kind of
sympathetic influence, communicated from one body to another,
by whic:h ml!snetie curet, ~e. were aid to be performed. Now,
liowever, deservedly exploded.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
HBLL.
ing then received this ferment, it attracts the spi-
rit of the other object magnetically, and gives it an
amorous· motion. Bat all this is mere absurdity,
and has fallen to the ground with the other irra-
tional hypothesis from the same source. ·
HELL,
I
A PLACB of punishment, where, we are told in
Scripture, the wicked are to receive the reward.Pf
their evil deeds, aff:er this 1~. In ·tbis sense,
bell is the antithesis of HBAV£N.
Among the ancients hell wa'c.alled by various
names, Taprapo~:, Taprapa,Tartartls, Tartara; 'Ao,,,
H aiJes,lnjernWJ, Infema, It~.jeri, &c.-:-Thel ews,
wanting a proper n~me for it, called it GsheTUUI,
or Gehinnon, from a valley near Jerusalem, wher~
in was Tophet, or place where a fire was perpe-
tually kept. ·
Divines reduce the tormenq ofbell to two kinds,
pama damni, the loss and privation,of the beatific
vision ; and pana ler&81U, tlie honors ofdarltileia,
with the continual pains offire inextinguishable-.
Most nations and religions have a notion of a
hell. The :bell of the poets is· ~rrible enough :
witness the punishment ofTityos, Prometheus, the
Dan.eids, Lapith.e, Phlegyas, &c. described by .
Ovid, in his Metamorpkolis. Virgil, after a survey
of Hell, 1E1feid, lib. ·vi. declares, that if be bad a
hundred mouths and tongues, they would not suf-
fice to recount all the plagues of the tortured.
The Nw Testament represents hell as a lakt of
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
HELL,
fire and brifi'Sione ; and a worm tohicA dU• not,&c:
&v. xx.lO, 14, &c. Mark ix.4a, &c.' ~nke xvi.
23, &c.
The Calfr~s are said to admit thirteen hells, and
twenty-sev;en p~~dises; where every p~rson finds
a pl11oo saited to the degree ofgood or evil he has
done.
ThE>re are two greatpoints.of9ootro\'"ersy among
writers, touching hell : the _
first, whether there be
. . .
any local bell, any proper JWd specdic place of
tor~nt by fire? the second, whether the torments
~f. hell are to, be eter~al?
1. The locality of heJI, .~d the reality ofthe fire
tbereo~. ~ave lu~en controverted from the time of
Orige.o.· Thatfather, in his treatisellifl' A(Yxa,,inter-
preting the scripture ac{(onnt metapboric~lly, mt\ke&
hell to consist not in .eternal puoil>bments, but in
the coDscience of sinners, the ~~~ns~ of their guilt,
and the r~membrance l)f their past.pleasures. St.
Augu~tine ~entions se.vcral of the same QpioiQD in ·
his time; and Calvin,·.and many.of .his· fQllowers,
have embraced it in our:s.
The retainers to the contrary opinion, wbo are
much the.gre~test part of mankjpd, are divided as
tO situa,tioa,. and other: cirQumstanoes .of this
horrible scene. The Greeks, ~fter HQmer, He-
siod, &c. COnceived bell, TO?I'OV T~Va V1r0 ·rrn- 'Y')V
fU'Yav, &c. a large and diU'k place under the
ear~h. -~uoian, de Luctu; aqd El.Ul!lthiqs, Ofl
Homer•. ,
Soine of the Romani! lodged in the subterranean
regioJlll ~ireotly ,under the l~ke A verQ...a, in Oam-
pania,•whi.cbtb~y w~e led:ti). fJ;otn the.considera-
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
HBLL.
tion ofthe poisonous ·vapours emitted by that lake.
Through a dark cave, near this lake, Virgil makes
~neas descend to hell.
Others placed hell under Tenarus, a promon-
tory: of Laconia ; as being a dark frightful place,
beset with thick woods, out of which there was no
finding a passage. This way, Ovid says, Orpheus
descended to hell. Others fancied the river or
.
fountain of Styx, in Arcadia, the spring-head~of
hell, by reason the waters thereof were mortal.
Bot these are all to be considered as only fables
of poets; who, according to the genius of their art,-
allegorizing and personifying every thing, from the
certain dt'ath met withal in those places, ·took oc-
• casion to represent them as so many gates, or en~
tering-places into the other world.
The primitive Christians conceiving the earth a
large extended plain, and the heavens an arch
drawn over the sarpe, took bell to be a place in
the earth, the farthest distant from the heavens;
so that their hell was our antipodes.
Tertollian, De Anima, represents the Christians
of hi& time, as believing hell to be an abyss in tbe
centre of the earth : which opinion was chiefty
founded on the belief ofChrist's descent into hades,
hell, Matt. xii. 40.
Mr. Wiston has l~tely advanced a new opinion.
According to him, the comets are to be conceived
as so many hells, appointed in the coone of their
trajectories, or orbits, alternately to carry the
damned into the confines of the sun, there to be
scorched by his ftames, and thtm to.retorn them to
starve in the cold, dreary, dark regions, beyond
the orb of Saturn.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
HELL.
The reverend and orthadox Mr. T. Sornden, in
an express Inquiry into the nature and place of
Hell, pot contented with any of the places hitherto
assigned, contends for a new one. According to
him, the sun itself is the local hell.
This does not seem to be his own discovery :
it is probable be was led into it by that passage
in Rev. xvi. 8, 9. Though it most be add~d.
tha~ Pythagor;as seems· to have the like view,
in that be places hell in the sphere of fire; and that
sphere in the middle of the universe. Add, that
Aristotle mentions solde ofthe Italic or Pythagoric
school, who placed the sphere of fire in the son,
and even called it Jupiter's Prison,-De CGlo,
lib. ii.
To make way for his own system, Mr. Swinden
undertakes to remove bell out of the centre of the
earth, from these two considerations :-1. That a
fond of fuel or sulphur, sufficient to maintain so
fllfioos and constant a fire, cannot be there sup-
posed; and, 2. That it must want the nitrous par-
ticles in the air, to sustain and keep it alive, And
.how, says be, can such fire be eternal, whep by
degrees the whole substance of the earth must be
consumed thereby ?
It must not be forgot, however, that Tertullian
had long ago obviated the former of these difficul-
ties; by making a difference between arcanu1 and
publicus ignis, secret and open fire: the nature
of the first, according to him, is such, as that iL
pot only consumes, but repairs what it preys upon.
TIJe J~tter .difficulty ,is solved by St. Aognstipe!
0
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
29C): NELL.'
who alleges, that God supplies the central fire with
air, by~ 'miracle.
Mr. Swinden, however, proceeds to shew, that
tbe central parts of the earth are posse8sed by
water rather than fire ; which be confirms by what
Moses says of 0ater undsr the eartk, Exod. xx.
from Psalm :iodv. 2, &c.
As a further. proof, he alleges, that there would
want room in the centre of the earth, for such au
infinite host· of ibbabitants as the fallen angels
and wicked men.
Drexetius, ~e know, bas fixed thedimension8 of
hell to a German cubic mile, and the number of the
damned to an hundred thousand millions : JJe
Damnator, Career, &c. Rogo. But Mr. Swin-·
den thinks be need not to have been so sparing in
his number, for that there might be•found an hun-
dred times as many ; and that they must be insuf-
ferably crowded in any space he could allow them
on our earth. It is impossible, he concludes, to
stow such a multitude of spirits in such a scanty
apartment, without a penetration of dimensions,
which, be doubts, in good philosophy, even in res-
pect of spirits:'' lfit be (headds,)wby Godshodht
prepare, i. e. make, a prison for them,' when they
might all have ·been crowded ·together into a
baker's oven." p. 206. .
His arguments for the sun's being the local belt
are: 1. Its capacity. t ' Nobody will deny the stUl
spacious enough ·to receive all the damned con-
veniently ; so that there will be no want of room.
Nor wiU 6re be wanting, -ifwe admit of Mr. Swto.:
o.,,,, ,,Coogle
HBLL. 291'
den's argument againat Aristotle, whereby he de-·
monatrates, that the snn is bot, p. 208, et •eq.
The good man is " filled with amazement to think
what Pyreaian mountains of sulphur, how maoy
Atlantic oceans of scalding bitumen, must go to
maintain such mighty ftames as those of the son ;
to which our JEtoa and Vesovios are mere glow-
worms.'' p. 187.
2. Its distance and opposition to the empy-
reom, which has usually been looked upon as the
local heaven: such opposition is perfectly anawer-
able to that opposition in the nature and office of a
place of angels and devils, of elect and reprobate,
of glory and horror, of hallelujahs and ctll'sings;
and the distance quadrates well with Dives seeing
Abraham afar off, and the grtat gulph betwem
them; which this aut}(or takes to be tbe solar
vortex•
.a. That the empyream is the highest, and the
son the lowest place of the creation ; considering it
as the centreofoursystem; and that the sun was the
&rat part of the.visible world created ; which agrees
with.the notion of its being primarily intended or
prepared: to receive the angels, whose fall he sup-
poses to have immediately preceded the creation.
. 4. The early- and almost universal idolatry paid
to the sun ; which snits well with tbe great sobtilty
of that spirit, to entice mankind to worship his
throne.
II. As to the eternity of W tort~UJ&u, we have
Origen again at the head.of those who deny it; .j{
being the doctrine of that writer, that not only
men, bot devils themaelves, after a•oitable course
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
HELL•.
of puoisbinent, answerable to their respective
crimes, shall be pardoned and restored .to heaven.
-D8 civit. Dei. 1. xxi. c.17. The chief principle
Origen went upon was this, that all punishments
was amendatory ; applied only to painful medi·
oines• for the recovery of the patient's health. And
other objections, insisted on by modern authors,
are the disproportion betweeo temporary crimes
and ~ternal pooisbinents,. &c. .
The scripture pbrasesforeternity, as is observed
by Archbishop Tillotson, do not always import an ·
infinite duration : thus, in the Old Testament, for
8Ver often signifies only for a long time ; parti-
cularly till the end of the Jewish dispensation :
thus in the epistle of Jude, ver. 7, the cities of
Sodom and Gomorrah are said to be set forth for
an example, sufferingthe vengeance ofeternalfire;
that is, of a fire that was not extinguished till those
cities were utterly consumed. So one generation
is said to come, &.c. but the earth endureth for
ever.
In effect, Mr. LeClerc notes, that there is no
Hebrew word which properly expresses eternity :
c;,n holam, only imports a time whose be~nning
or end is not known; and is accordingly used ia a
more or less extensive sense, acoording to the
thing treated of.
Thus when God says, concerning the Jewish
laws, that they must be observed c;,,; leholam, for·
ever, we are to understand as long a space as we
should thiqk fit; or a apace whose end was un-
knowp to the Jews before the coming of the Mea-
,iah. .AU general laws. .and such as do not regard
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
HBLL.
particular occasions, are made for ever, whether
it be expressed in those laws, or not ; which yet is
to be understood in such a manner, as if the sove-
reign power could no way change them.
Archbishop Tillotson, however, argues very
strenuously,that where hell torments are spoken of,
the words are to be understood in the strict sense
1.>f infinite duration ; and what he esteems a peremp-
tory decision of the point is, that the duration of
the punishment of the wicked is in the very same
sentence expressed by the very same word which
is used for the duration of the happiness of the
righteOus, which all agree to be eternal. " These,
'speaking of the wicked, shall go away t" '1oXa6&v
evtwvwv, into eternal punishment; but the rightt>ous,
tat {w,, au""'' into life eternal."
Oldhwe, in his " Satires upon the Jesuits," al-
ludes to their "lying legends," and the numerous
impositions they practised on the credulous. The
following lines are quoted from these legendary
miracles, noticed under the article LEGEND, and
the amours of the Virgin Mary are narrated in
vol. ii. under the article Religious Nouvellete :-
Tell, how 6le.,ed Yirgin to come down was seen,
Like playhouse punk descending in machine,
How she writ flillet-dou.r and l011e discourse,
Made aufgnations, trilib, and amours 1
How hosts diatreat, her smock for 6at11Nr wore,
Which vanquished foeal
-.-..---
.How liah in conventicles met,
And mackerel were the flait of doctrine cau,bt;
How cattle havejudicious hearen been I
How consecrated hi~~~~ with bells W81'41 bung,
And fleec kept mass, and huly aratlienJS '"~!
How pi!f• to the rosary kneel'd, and sheep were t!luclit
'l'o blnt Te Dmm aild lllllftliJICtlt1 ' •
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
BKLL.
How.fl!l-:ftiJP, ofchorcb·cen•are bOU181 rid
Of insecta, which at Cllrle of fryar died.
Bowferryi"'.C()tell religious pilgrimsbore
O'er waves, without the help of sail or oar;
Bow tllllotll crllb tbe 1acred imllf• bore,
And ewam a catholic to the diataot shore.
With sbama like these the giddy rout mislead,
·Their folly and their superstition feed.
These are all extravagant fictiooa in the " Gol-
den legend." .. Among other gross and equaUy
absurd impositions to deceive the mob, Oldham
.also attacks them for certain poblioatiODB OD topics
not less singular. The tales he has .recounted,
says·Oldham, are only _
baits for children like toys
at a ·fair ; but they have their profounder and
higher matters .for thelearned and the inquisitive.
One uodertaket by acales of miles to tell
· Tbe bouods, dimensions, and extent of bell';
How many German leaguet tbat realm coatalD•I
How many hell each year expends
In coals, for roasting Hupnote Bl)d friends I
Another frights the rout with useful storiet
Of wild chimel'llll, limbos, PuaoiToar&s I
Where bloated souls in smoky durance haag
Like a Westphalia gammon or neat's tongue,
To be redeemed with maBBesand a so~g.
Topographical descriptions of HELL, PURGA-
TORY, and even HEAVEN, weraonce favourite
researches among certain orthodox and zealous
defenders of the papish church, who exhausted
their ·materials in fabricating a hell to their own
ideas, or for their particular P11fP086· There is a
treatise of Cardinal Bellarmio, a jesuit, on Purga·
tory, wherein he appears to possess all the know-
.ledge of' a land-measurer 8Jilong the secret tracts
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
HBLL•
.and formidable .divisions of'' the bottomless pit."
This jesuit informs us that there are beneath the
earth four different places, or a place divided into
four parts; the deepest of which is hell: it con-
tains all the souls of the damned, where \Viii be
also their bodies.after the resurrection, .and like-
wise all the demons. The place nearest hell i8
purgatory, where souls are purged, .or· rather
where they appease- the anger of God by their
auffellings. The same fires and the same torments,
lie says, are alike in both ·places, the only dift~
renee between hell and purgator:y ·oensiStiag in
.their duration. Next to purgatory is the lim6o
.of those infaats who die without having received
the sacrament ; and the'fourth place is the ·limbo
of the Fatlaer1; .that is to say, of those jwt .aen
who died before the death of Christ. But since
the days -of tbe Redeemer thiS.Jaat :division .is
enipty, like an apartment to Jet. A later Catholic
theologist, the famous Tillemont, condemns all
tlae· illmtriotu pagam ·to tlu eternal tonMnts
of hell I beeause . they lived before the time of
Jesus, and, therefore, could not be benefited by
the redemption ! Speaking of young Tiberius,
who was compelled to fall on ·~is own sword,
Tillemont adds, " Thus by his own band be ended
his miserable life, to begin an.Otlur, the miSery of
which sill never end !'' Yet history records no-
thing bad of this prince. Jortin observ,es, that
be added this reflection in his later edi~ion, so that
the good man as be grew oMer grew more uncha-
ritable· in his religio~s notions. It is in this matter
too that the Benedictine editor of Justin Martyr
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
HELL.
speaks of the ilhistrioos pagans. This father,
after highly applauding Socrates, and a few more
who resembled hlm, inclines to think that they are
not fixed in Aell. Bot the Benedictine editor
takes infinite pains to clear the good father from
the shameful imputation of supposing that a vir-
·tuous pagan might be •awd as well as a Benedic-
tine monk •!
., The adverse party, who were either philosophen
or reformers, received all such information with
great suspicion. Anthony Cornelius, a lawyer in
the 16th century, wrote a small tract, which wu
so effectually suppressed, as a mousier of atheism,
that a copy is now only to be found in the banda
of the curious. This author ridiculed the absurd
and horrid doctrine of infant damnation, and wu
instantly decried as an atbiest, an:d the printer
prosecuted to his ruin ! Coolius Secundus Curio,
a noble Italian, published a -treatise De Amplitu.
dinelJeatiregno Dei, to prove that heaven bas more
inhabitants than bell, or in hlR own phrase, that the
elect are more numerous than the reprobate. How-
ever we may incline to smile at these works, their
design was benevolent. They were the first streaks
of the morning-light of the Reformation. Even
such works assisted mankind to examine more
closely, and hold in greater contempt, the extra-
vagant and pernicious doctrines of the domineer-
ing papistical church.
• For a cviou1 specimen of tbia o4itlm tlttolo6i-, aee tle
" Ceaaure'' of the Sorbouue on Marmontel'• Belilariua,
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
INQUISITION.
IN the civil and canon law, inquisition implies a
manner of proceeding for the discovery of some
crime by the sole office of the judge, in the way
of search, examination, or even torture. It is
also used in common law for a like process in the
king;s behalf, for the discovery of la¥s, profits,
and the like; in which sense it is often confounded
with the office of the
Inquisition, or tAe Holy 01/it~,
Which denotes an ecclesiastical jurisdiction esta-
bJished in Spain, Portugal, and Italy, for the trial
and examination of such persons as are suspooted
to entertain any religious opinions contrary to
, those professed in the church of Rome. It is
called inquUition because the judges of their 'of-
fice take cognizances of crime or common report,
without any legal evidence, except what they them-
selves fish out;
Some people fancy they see the original inquisi·
tion, ·in a constitution made by Pope Lucius, at
the council of Verona, in 1184, where he orders
the bishops to get information, either by them-
selves or by their commissaries, of all such persons
aa were suspected of heresy ; and distinguishes
the several degrees of suspected, convicted, peni-
tent, relapsed, &c. However this may be, it is ge-
nerally allowed, that Pope Innocent Ill., laid the
first foundation of the Aoly olftct; and that the
Vattdois and Albigenses were what gave the oc-
o 2 .
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
INQUJSJTION.
casion to it. The pontiff sent several priests, with
St. Dominic at 'their bead, to Tbolouse, in order
to blow np a spirit ofzeal and persecution amongst
the prelates and princes. These missionaries were
to give an account of the number of heretics in
those parts, and the behaviour of the princes and
persons in authority to them ; and thence they
acquired the namea of inquisitors : but these ori-
ginal inquisitora bad not any court, or any autho-
rity ; ·they were only a kind of spiritual spies, who
were to make report .of their discoveries to the
Pope.
The Emperor Frederick II. at the beginning of
tile 13th cantury, extended their power very con-
siderably : he com'mitted the taking oognizances
of the crime of heresy, to a set of ecclesiastical
judges; and as fire was the punishment decreed
to the obstinate, the inquisitors determined indi-
rectly, with regard both to tlie .persons and the
crimes ; by which means the lai~y was cut off fr~m
its own jurisdiction, and abandoned to the devout
madness and zeal of the ecclesiastics.
After the death ()f Frederick, who had long
before repented the power he bad given tbechureb-
men, as having seen some of the fruits of it;
Pope Innocent IV. erected a perpetual tribunal
of inqn~itors, and depriYed the bishops and seen-.
lar judges of the little power. the .Emperor Frede-
rick bad left them. .And this jurisdiction. which
depended immediately on h,im~lf,- he took care to
introduce into most olthe states of Europe. But
the inquisitors were so fiery h.ot,. and made sucb
horrid butchery among the reputed heretics, thaJ
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
JlfQCI81'I!IOM.
they raised an uDivNaal detestattlon, even ln aome
Catholic countries themselvea. Hence it waa that
their reign proved very short both in France and
Germany; nor was even Spain entirelyaubject to
themtill the timeofFerdinand and Isabella, in1448,
when their power was increased, unde( the pre-
tence of clearing the country ofJudaism and Ma-
hometanism. The power of the inquisition is very
much limited in some countries, particularly at
Venice, where it is received under such modifica-
tio~s as prove a great check on its authority. In-
deed at Venice it seems rather a political than a
religious contrivance, and serves rather for the
security of the state, than that of the church.
There are appeals from the subaltern inquisitions
in Italy, to the congregation of the holy office at
Rome.
It is the constant practice of the inquisition to
affect, in all their procedures, to inspire as much
terror as possible ; every thing is done with the
'most profound silence and secrecy, and with the
greatest rigour and pretended impartiality. When
a person is seized all the world abandons :him ;
not the nearest friend dares to speak a word in his
defence ; that alone would be enough to render
them suspected of ~eresy, and would bring them
within the claws of the inquisition. The criminals
are seized, examined, tried, tortured, and unless
they recant, are even condemned and executed,
without ever seeing or knowing their accusers ;
whence the revengeful have a fair opportunity of
wreaking their malice on their enemies. When
the inquisition h.as dope with them,:and condemn·
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
aG0 1NQ.UIStT1()1(6
ed thalli to death, they are tW'Iled .o.
ver to the ,e,.
..colar arm, with a world of prayer, and :pions en-
.treaty;that their lives may not be tonched.
Time is no manner of security in point of he·
r~y, nor does the grave itself shelter the accused
from the pursuits of the inquisition ; even the de-
«:eased have their trials, and they proceed in all
their form and solemnity against the dead car.-
C8)1eS. The execution is always deferred till the
number of condemned is very great, tliat tbe
multitude of sufferers may strike the deeper
horror, and make the scene mor,e ·terrible and
· shocking.
The inquisition of .Rome is a congregation of
twelve cardinals .and some other officers, where
the Pope presides in person. .This is acpounted
the highest tribunal in Rome ; it began iu the time
of Pope Paul IV. on.occasion oftbe Lutheranism.
The inquisition is very severe in the Indies. It
is true, there must there be the Oliths 1.fseven wit-
nesses to condemn a man ; but the deposition of
slaves or children are taken.· The person is tor·
tnred till he condemns himself; for his .accusers
are never brought to confront him. Persona are
accused for the most slender expression against the
church ; or even for a disrespectful word against
the inquisitors. ·
The standard of the inquisition is a piece of red
damask, on which is painted a cross, with an olive
branch on one side and a sword on the other; with
these words of the Psalm, E.xurge, Domine, etju-
dica causam meam.
This infernal engine of tyranD)', bigotry, and
o'"'''', ,,Coogle
lNQUISITION~ 001
1nperstition, did not become known in Spain be·
fore the year 1484. The court of Rome owed
this obligation to another Dominican, John de
Torquemada. As be was the confessor of Queen
Isabella, be had extorted from her a promise that
if ever she ascended the throne, she would uae
every means to extirpate heresy and heretics•
. Ferdinand had conquered Grenada, and had ex·
pelled from the Spanish realms multitudes of un..
fortunate Moors. A few remained, who, with
the Jews, he compelled to. become Christians :
they at least assumed the name, but it was well
known that both these nations naturaUy respected
their own faith, rather than that of the Christians.
'fhis race was afterwards distinguished as Chris-
tiano& novos ; and in marriages, the hlood of the
Hidalgo was considered to lose its purity by
mingling with such a supicious source.
It was pretende-d by Torquemad, that this dis-
simulation would greatly hurt tbe holy religion.
The Queen listened with respectful diffidence to
her confessor ; and at length gained over the king
to consent to the establishment of the unrelenting
tribunal. Torquemado, indefatigai.Jle in his zea}
for the holy see, in tbe space of fourteen years
that he exercised the office of chief inquisitor, is
said.to have prosecuted near eighty thousand per-
sons, of whom six thousand were condemned to
the ftames.
Voltaire attributes the taciturnity of the Spa-
niards to the universal horror such proceedings
spread. "Ajealousy and suspicion took posses-
aion o~ aU ranks of people: friendship and socia-
•
INQUI81TJON.
bility were at an end !. Brothers were afraid of
brothen, fathers of their children."
The situation and feelings of one imprisoned in
the cells of the inquisition are forcibly painted by
Orobio, a mild, and meek, and learned man, whose
controveny with Limborch is well known. When
he escaped from Spain he took refuge in Holland,
was circumci~ed, and died a philosophical Jew.
He has left this admirable description of himself
in the cell of the inquisition:-" Inclosed in this
dn.ngeon I coold not even find space enough to turn
myself about; I suffered so much that I found my
brain disordered. I frequently asked myself~ am
I really Don Bathazaar Orobio, who used to walk
about Seville at my pleasure, who so much enjoy·
ed myself with my wife and children ? I often
imagined thatall my life badonly been a dream, and
that I really had been hom in this dungeon ! The
only amusement I could invent was metaphysical
disputations. I was at once opponent, respondent.
~d phteSes !" In the cathedral at Saragossa is
the tomb of a famous inquisitor ; six piUan sur-
round the tomb; to each is chained a Moor, as
preparatory to his being burnt. On this St. Foix
ingeniously observes, " If ever the jack-ketch of
any country should be rich t>nough to have a
splendid tomb, this might serve as an excellent
model."
Bayle informs us, that the inquisition punished
heretics by fire, to elude the maxim, Eccle&ia non
novit sanguinem; for homing a man, say they;
does not ahed hi• blood! Otho, the bishop at tbe
Norman invasion, in the tapestry worked by Ma·
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
HfQUlBITtON. 801
tilda, the queen of William the Conqueror, ia
~presented with a mace in his hand, for the pur-
pose, that when he di&patc/Nd his antagonist, he
might not spill blood, but onJy break bones ! Re-
ligion has had her quibbles u well ulaw.
The establishment of this despotic order wu
resisted in France ; bot it may perhaps surprise
the reader that a recorder of London, in a speech,
urged tbe necessity of setting up an inquisition in
England! It was on the trial of Penn the Quaker,
in 1670, who was acquitted by the jury, which
seems highly to have provoked the said recorder.
"Magna 0/aarta," says the preface to the trial,
,.. with the recorder of London, is nothing more
than Magna F-- !" It appears that the jury
after being kept two days and two nights to change
their verdict, were in the end both fined and
imprisoned. Sir John How.ell, tile recorder, said,
" Till now I never understood the reason o{ the
policy and prudence of the Spaniards, in suffering
the inquisition among them ; and certainly it will
not be well with us, till something like unto tlu
Spanish inguisilioa be in England." Thus it
will everbe, while both parties, struggling for p~e·
eminence, rush to the sharp extremity of things,
aud annihilate the trembling balance of the con-
stitution. But the adopted motto ofLord Erskine
must ever be that of every Briton, " Trial by
Jury."
Gabriel Malagrida, an ol4 man of seventy, so
late as the year 1761, was burnt by these evange-
lical executioners. His trial was printed at Am·
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
304 lNQl1181TION•
aterdam, 1762, from the Lisbon copy. Aod for
what was this unhappy Jesuit condemned?. Npt,
as some imagined, for his having been concerned
in a conspiracy against the King of Portugal. No
other charge is laid to him in his trial, bot that of
having jndulged certain heretical notions, which
uny other tribunal but that of the inquisition~
would have looked upon as the deterious fancies
of a fanatical old man. Will posterity believe,
that in the eighteenth century an aged visiouary was
led to the stake for having said, amongst other
extravagances, " that the Virgin having com..
manded him to write the life of Antichrist, told
him, that he, Malagrida, was a second John, but
more clear than John the Evangelist ; that there
were to be three Antichrists, and that the last
should be born at Milan, of a monk and a nun,
in the year 192~ that he would marry Proser-
pine, one of the infernal furies."
For such ravings as these the unhappy old man
was burnt in recent times. Granger assures us,
that a horse, in his remembrance, who had been
taught to tell the spots upon cards, the hour of the
day, &c. by significant tokens, was, together with
his owner, pot into the inquisition, for both of
them dealing with the devil ! A man of letters
declarea that, having fallen into their hands, no-
thing perplexed him so much as the ignorance of
the inquisitor and his council; and it seemed very
doubtful whether they bad read even the Scrip-
tures. •
The following most inter~ting anecdote rela-
ting to the terrible inquisition, exemplifying how
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
INQUISITION.
the use of the diabolical engines of torture forces
men to confess crimes they have. not been guilty
of, was related to Mr. D'lsraeli by a. Portug1,1ese
gentleman.
A nobleman in Lisbon having heard that his
physician and friend was imprisoned ·by the inqui·
Bition, under the stale preted of Judaism, ad-
dressed a letter to one of them, to request his
freedom, assuring the inquisitor, that his friend
was as orthodox a Christian as himself. The
physician, notwithstanding this high r~commenda.
tion, was pot to the torture; and, as was us,naUy
.the case, at the height of his sufferings, confessed
every thing they wished. This enraged the no-
bleman, and feigning a dangerous illness, he b~gged
the inquisitor would come to give him his last spi.
ritual aid.
As soon as the Dominican arrived, the lord,
who bad prepared his confidential servants, com-
manded the inquisitor, in their presence, to ac-
knowledge himself a Jew; to write his confession
and to sign it. On the refusal of the inquisitor:
the nobleman ordered his people to put on the in·
quisitor's bead a red-hot helmet, which to his as-
tonishment, in drawing aside a screen, he beheld
glowing in a small furnace. · At the sight of this
new instrument of torture, " Luke's iro~ crown,''
the monk wrote and subscribed this abhorred con-
fession. The nobleman then observed, " See now
the enormity of your manner of proceeding with
unhappy men I My poor physician, like you, has
confessed Judaism ; but with this difference, only
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
806 I'NQVJSITIOl!h
torments have forced that from him, which fear
alone bas drawn from yl>n !"
The inquisition bas not failed.of receiving its
doe praises. Macedo, a Portuguese Jesuit, bas
discovered the •• Origin of the lfUJUirition," in
the terrestrial Paradise, and presumes to allege,
that God was the first who began the functions of
an inquisitor over Cain and.thework.menof Babel!
Macedo, however, is not so dre8JiliAg a personage
as be appears ; for he obtained a professgr's chair
at Padua, for the arguments he delivered at Ve•
nice, against the Pope, which were.published by
the title of "The Literary Roarings of the Lion.of
St. MMk ;" besides, be is-the author of 109 dift8r,
ent works ; but it is·curious bow far our interest
is apt to prevail over conscience,-Macedo praised
the inquisition up to heaven, while .be. sank the
Pope to nothing.
Among the great revolutions of this age, the
inquisition of Spain and Portugal is abolished,
bot its history enters into that of the human mind;
and the history of the inquisition ·by Limborcb,
translated by Chandler, with a very curious " In-
troduction," loses none of its value with the phi·
loaophical mind. This monstrous tribunal of hu-
man opinions, aimed at the sovereignty of the in-·
tellectoal world, without intellect. It may again
be restored, to keep Spain stationary at the mid-
dle ages!
~·-=- -- - · - o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
..
DEMON,
A ·'N AM B the ancients gave to certain spirits, or
.genii, which, they say, appeared to men, either to
do them service, or to hurt them.
Tbefirst notion ofdemons was brought from Chal-
dea; whence it spread itself among the Persians,
Egyptians,. and Greeks. Pythagoru aod Thales
were the first who introduced demons into Greece.
Plato fell in with the notion,and explained it more
distinc.tly and fully, than any of the former philo~
sophen had done. By demons, he understood
spirit~~, inferior to gods, and yet superior to men ;
which inhabited the middle region of the air, kept
up. the communication between gods and men, car-
rying the offerings and prayers of mea to the gods,
aod bringi!'g down the will of the gods to men.
Bot he allowed of none bot good and beneficent
ones : though his disciples afterwards, finding
themselves at a loss how· to account for the origin
of evil; adopted another sort of demons, who were
enemies to men.
There is nothing more common in the heathen
theology, th~ Qlese good and evil genii. .And the
same superstitiousnotion we find gotfooting among
the Israelites, by their commerce with the Chal·
deans. Bot by demons, they did not mean the
devil, or a wicked spirit: they never took the word
demon in that sense, nor was it ever used in such
signification, till by the evangeli~ts and some
modem Jews! The .word is Greek, ~tpwv.
Gale endeavours to shew, that the origin and in·
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
308 DKMONOLOGY.
titution of demons was an imitation of the Messiah.
The Phrenicians called them c•;,l.O Baalim. For
they had one supreme being, whom they called.
Baal, (and Moloch, and various inferior deities
called Baalim,) whereof we find frequent mention
in the Old Testament. The first demon of the
Egyptians was Mercury, or T.huet. The same
author finds some tesemblance between the several
offices ascribed to the demons and those of the
Messiah.
Demoniac, is applied to a person possessed with
a spirit, or demon. Jn the Raman church, there
ia a particular.office for theexorcism ofdemoniaca.
Demoniacs are also a party or branch of the
Anabaptists, whose distinguishing tenet it is, that
the devil shall be saved at the end of the world.-
~ee DBMONOLOGY.
DEMONOLOGY.
- - - - - " Spirits, when they pleue,
Can either sex aasume, or both; so soft
And uncompoundf.d is their essence pore,
Not ty'd or manacled with joint or limb,
Nor founded on the brittle strengtli of booea,
Like cumbrous ftesb 1but in what shape they chuse,
Dilated or condeoa'd, bright or obscure, ·
Can e:aecute their airy purpoaea." MrLTOif.
DIABOLUS, a devil, or evil angel, is one ofthose
celestial spirits cast down from heaven for pretend·
b1g to equal himself with God.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DEMONOLOGY. 309
The Ethiopians paint the devil white, to be even
with the Europeans, who paint him black.
We find no mention made of the word devil in
the Old Testament. but only ofSatan : nor in any
heathen authors do we meet with the word devil,
in the signification attached to it among the Chris-
tians ; that is, as .a creature revolted from God :
their theology went no farther than to evil genii, or
demons, who harassed and -persecuted mankind,
though we are well aware many names are given
to the devil both in holy writ and elsewhere.
" 0 thou I whatever title auit thee,
Auld Horoie, Satan, Nick, or Clootie,
Wba ill yon cavern grim an' aootie
Cloaed under hatches,
Spairge1 about the brimatane clootie,
To acaud poor w_
retches."-BvRNs.
Demon was the name gh-en by the Greeks and
Romans to certain genii or spirits, wh~ made
themselves visible to men with the intention of·
doing them either good or harm.
The Platonists made a distinction between their
gods, or dei mnjorum gentium ; their demons, or
those beings which were not dissimilar in their ge-
neral character to the good and evil angels of
Christian belief; and their heroes. The Jews and
the early Christians restricted the appellation of
dem.)ns to beings of a malignant nature, or to·
devils; and it is to thf'early opinions entertained by
this people, that the outlines of later systems of
Demonology are to be traced.
" The tradition of the Jews concerning evil
spirits,are Yarious ; some of them are founded on
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
310: DEMONOLOGY.
Scripture ; some borrowed from the notiena of tlie
pagans ; some are fables of their own invention ;'
and solbe are allegories." The demons ·of the Jews
were considered either as the distant progeny of
Adam or ofEve, which had resulted ·from an im-
proper intercourse with supernatural beings, or of:
Cain. ·As this doctrine, however, was extremely
~"Molting to some few of the early Christians, they
maintained that demons were the souls -of departed
bamiUl beings, who were still permitted to interfere
in the affairs of the earth, either to assist their
friends or to persecute their enemies. This doc-
trine, however, did not prevail.
A.n attempt was made about two centuries and a
halfago to give, in a condensed form, the various
opinions entertained at an early period of the Chris·
tian era, and during the middle ages, of the nature
of the deblons of popular belief. We shall thera.
fore lay this chapter before our readers, which,
being so comprehensive, and at the same time so
concise, requires no abridgment;-" I, for my own
part,do also thinke this argument about the nature
and substance of devels and spirits to be diffieult,
as I am persuaded that no one author hath in &Die
certaine or perfect sort hitherto written thereof.
In'Which respect I can neither allow the ungodly
and profane sects and doctrines of the Sadduces.
and Perepateticks, who denio that there are any.
spirits and devils at all ; nor the fond and supersti-
tious treatises of Plato, Proctios, Plotenus, Por-
phyria; nor yet the vaine and abtlJl'd opinions of
Psellus, Nider, Sprenger, Cumanus, Bodin, ·Mi-
chel, ADd~eas, Jamea Matheus, Laarentiu.s, Aaa~
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DEMONOLOGY~ 811
nias, 1amblicos, &.c. ; who, with manie ot\aen,write
so ridicalous lies in these matters, as if they were
babes &aied with bogges ; some affirming that the
souls of the dead become spirits, the good to be
angels, the bad to be divels ; some, that spirits or
divelS' are onelie in this life ; some, that they are
men; some that they are women; some thatdivet.
are ofsuch gender that they list themseh·e8 ; some
that they had no beginning, nor shall have ending,
as the Manechies maintain ; some that they are
mortal and die, as Plutarch affirmeth of Pan ; some
that they have no bodjes at all, bot receive bodies
according to their fantasies and imaginations ; some
that their bodies are given unto them; some, that
they make themselves. 'Some saie they are wind;
some that one of them begat another ; some, that
they were created of the least part of the masse,
whereofthe earth was made; and some, that they
are substances between God and man, and that
some of them are terrestial, some celestial, some
waterie, some airie, some fierie, some·starrie, and
some ofeach and every part of the elements ; and
that they know our thoughts, and carrie our good ,
works to God, and praiers to God, and ·retum hia
benefits back unto us, and that they are to be wor-
shipped; ·wherein they meete and agreejumpe
with the papists."-" Againe, somesaie, that they
are meane between terrestrial and celestial bodies,
. communicating part of each nature ; and that, al-
though they be eternal, yet they are moved ·with
afFectionS ; and ·liS there are birds in the aire, fishetJ
in the water, and worms in the eartli, so in the
fourth element, ·which is the fire, is the habitation
ofspirits and devils."-" Some saie they are onelie
312 DEMONOLOGY.
imaginations in the mind of man. Tertollian saith
they ar~ birds, and ftie faster than aniE' fowle in
the aire. Some saie that divels are not, but when
they are sent ; and therefore are called evil angels.
Somethink that the devilsendeth his angels abrode,
and be himselfmaketh his continual a~ode in hell,
his mansion-place."
In·allnsion to this subject a late writer remarks
that" It was not, however, until a much later pe-
riod of Christianity,· that more decided doc·
trines relative to the origin and nature of demon.i
was established. These ,ten~ts involved certain
very knotty points relative to the fall of those an-
gels, who, for disobedience, bad forfeited their
high abode in heaven. The Gopstics, of early
Christian times, in imitation of a classification of
the different orders of spirits by Plato had at-
tempted a similar arran~ement with respect to an
hierarchy of angels, the gradation of which stood
as follows :-The first, and highest order, was
named seraphim ; the second, cherubim ; the third
was the order ofthrones ; the fourth, ofdominions;
the fifth, of virtues ; the sixth, of powers ; the
seventh, of principalities ; the eighth, of arch-·
angels ; the ninth, and lowest, of angels. This
fable was, in a point~d manner, censured by tbe
apostles ; yet still, strange to say, it almost outlived
the Pneumatologists of the middle ages. These
schoolmen, in reference to the account that Luci-
fer rebelled against heaven, and that Michael tbe
Archangel warred against him, long agitated tbe
momentous question, what orders of angels fell on
this occaaion ? At length it be~am~ the prevailing
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DBMONOLOGY. ·813
opinion that Lucifer was of the order of seraphim.
It was also proved, after infinite research, that
Agares, Belial, and Barhatos, each of them de-
posed angels of great rank, had been of the order
of virtues; that Bileth, Focalor, and Phrenix,
had been of the order of thrones ; that Gaap had
been of the order of powers ; and that Pinson had
been both of the order ofvirtues and powers; and
Murmur of thrones and angels. The pretensions
of inany other noble devils were, likewise, can-
vassed, and in an equally satisfactory manner, de-
termined. Afterwards, it became an object of
enquiry to learn, how many fallen angels bad been
engaged in the contest. This was a question of
vital importance, which gave rise to the most la-
borious research, and to a variety of discordant
opinions.-It was next agitated-where the bat-
tle was fought? in the inferior henven,-in the
highest region of the air, in the firmament, or in
paradise l how long it lasted ? whether, during
one seeond, c.r moment of'time, (punctum temporis)
two, three, or four seconds? These were queries
of very difficult solution ; bot tbe notion which
ultimately prevailed was, that the engagement was
concluded in exactly three seconds from the date
of its commencement; and that while Lucifer,
with a numb.er of his followers, fell into hell, the
r.est were left in the air to tempt man. A still
'newer question arose outof all these investigations,
whether more angels fell with Lucifer, or remained
in heaven with Michael? Learned clerks, how-
ever, were inclined to think, that the rebel chief
bad been beaten by a superior force, and that,
p
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
314 DEMONOLOGY.
consequently," devils ·of darkness were fewer in
number than ·angels of light.
· " These discussions, wbic:;h, during ~ number of
successive centuries, interested the whole of
Christendom, too frequently exerci~.ed the talents
of the most enidite characters in Europe~ The
last object of'demoriologists was to collect, in
some degree of order, · Lucifer's routed forces,
and to re-organise ·them' under a decided ·form of
subordination or government. Hence, extensive
districts were given to certain chiefs ·that fought
under this general. There was· Zemimar, "the
lordly monarch ofthe North," as Shakspeare styles
him•, who had this distinct proViMe of devils;
there ·was Gorson, the king of the South ; Amay-
mon, the king of the East; and Goap; the prince
of the West. These sovereigns· bad many noble
spirits subordinate to them, whose various ranks
were settled with all the precis<lness'of ·heraldic
distinction ; there were devil .dukes, devil mar-
quises, devil earls, devil knights, devil presidents,
and devil prelates. The armed force under·Lu-
cifer seems to have comprised nearly 2,400 legions,
of which each demon ofrank commanded a certain
number. Thus, Beletb, wbom Scott has de-
scribed as a '' great king and terrible, ritling on
a pale horse, before whom go trumpets and all
melodious music/' commanded 85legions ; Agarer,
* This king is lnvo)f.ed in the fi~t pvt of .Shalr.e(llt!ll'e'a pi4J
of Henry the Sb:th, after .~lte foUowlng ~aoner :7 .
" You speedy helpers tbe,t are substitutes
Under the lordly monarch ofthe North-: ·• '
Appear!" ·
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
DEMONOLOGY.
the first dak.e under the power of the East, com·
manded 31 legions ; Leraie, ,a ~t marquis,
30 legions ; .Morax, a great earl and pNident,
36 legions ; Furcas, a knight, ·20 legions ; and
after the aame manner, the forces ofthe other devil
chieftains were enumerated.
DerifJation of tlu strange and Aideotu forma of
De-oils, ~c.
In the middle ages, when conjuration was regu-
larly practised in Europe, devils of rank were
supposed to appear onder decided forms, by which
they were as well recognised, as the head of any
ancient family wonJd be by his crest and armorial
bearings. The shapt>s they were accustomed to
adopt were registered along with their names
and characters. A devil would appear, either like
an angel seated in a fiery chariot, or riding .on an
infernal dragon; and carrying in his right hand a
viper, or assuming a lion's bead, a gooRe's feet, and
a hare's tail, or puting on a raven's bead, and
mountedon a strong wolf. Other forms made use·
of by demons, were those of a fierce warrior, or
an old man riding upon a crocodile with a hawk
in his band. A human figure would arise having
the wings of a griffin ; or sporting three heads,
two ofthem like those of a toad and of a cat; or
defended with huge teeth and horns, and armed
with a sword ; or displaying a dog's teeth, and a
large raven's•head ; or mounted upon a pale horse,
apd exhibiting a serpent's tail; or gloriously
crowned, and riding upon a dromedary ; or pre-
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
316 DEMONOLOGY.
senti.ng the face of a lion ; or bestriding a bear,
and grasping a viper. There were also such
shapes as those of an archer, or of a Zenophillis.
A demoniacal king would ride upon a pale horse;
or would assume a leopard's face and griffin's wings;
or pot on tbe three heads of a boll, of a man, and
a ram with a serpent's tail, and the feet of a goose;
and, in this attire, sit on a dragon, and bear in his
hand a lance and a flag; or, instead of being thus
employed, goad the flanks of a furious bear, and
carry in his fist a hawk. Other forms were those
of a goodly knight; or of one who bore lance,
ensigns, and even sceptre; or, of a soldier, either
riding on a black horse, and surrounded with a
flame of fire'; or wearing on his head a Duke's
crown, and mounted on a crocodile; or assuming
a lion's face, and with fiery eyes, spurring on a
gigantic charger, or, with the same frightful as-
pect, appearing in all the pomp of family distinc-
tion, on a pale horse ; or clad from head to foot in
crimson raiment, wearing on his bold front a
crown, and sallying forth on a red steed.
Some infernal Duke would appear in his proper
character, quietly seated on a griffin; another
spirit of a similar rank would display the three
heads of a serpent, a man, and a cat ; he would also
bestride a viper, and carry in his hand a firebrand;
another of the same stamp, would appear like a
duchess, encircled with a fiery zone, and mounted
on a camel; a fourth would wear the aspect of a
boy, and amuse himself on the back of a two-
headed dragon. A few spirits, however, would
be content with the simple garbs of a horse, a leo-
_ _ oi~itizec ~vGoogle
DEMONOLOGY. 317
pard, a lion, an unicorn, a night-raven, a stork•. a
peacock, or a dromedary ; the latter animal speak-
ing fluently tbe Egyptian language. Others
would assume tbe more complex forms of a lion
or ofa dog, with a griffin's wings attached to each
of their shoulders ; or of a bull equally well gifted;
or of the same animal, distinguished by the sin-
gular appendage of a man's face; or of a cro1f'"
clothed with human flesh ;.or of a bart with a fiery
tail. To certain other noble devils were assigned
such shapes as those of a dragon with three heads,
one of these being human; ofa wolfwith a serpent's
tail, breathing forth flames of fire ; of a she woll
exhibiting the same caudal appendage, together
with a griffin's wings, and ejecting hideous matter
from the mouth. A lion would appear either with
the head of a branded thief, or astride upon a
black horse, and playing with a viper, or adorned
with the tail of a snake, and grasping in his paws
two hissing serpents. These were the varied shapes
assumed by devils ofrank. To those ofan inferior
order were consigned upon earth,·the duty of car~
.rying away condemned souls. These were de-
scribed as blacker than pitch: as having teetblike
lions, nails on their fit;lgers lik.e those of the wild
boar, on their forehead horns, through the ex-
tremities of which, poison was emitted, having
wide ears flowing with corruption, and discharsing
serpents from their nostrils, and having cloven
feet•. But this last appendage, as Sir Thomas
• This description is taken from an ancient latin poem, de-
scribinr the lamentable vision of a devoted hermit, and np-
posed to have been written by St. Bernard, in tbe year lill8'
a tranalatioo of which was ptinted for private diatribatlon !.7
WUiiam Yates, E1q. of Maocheater.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
818 DEMONOLOGY.
:Brown has ·learnedly pro\'ed, is a mistake, which
bu arisen fioom the devilfrequently appearing to
the .Jews in the shape of·a rough and hairy goat,
this animal beiag the emblem·of sin-offerings•.
· It is wo~hyoffarther remark, says·Dr. Hibbert,
that. the forms ol the demons deacribed by St. Ber-
nard, difl'ers little from that whieh is no less ca.re-
'fully ·pourtrayed by Reginald Scott, 300 years
later, and, perhaps; by :the Demonologists of the
'preaeut·day. ·· u In our cbitdhood/' says he, ''our ·
motWrs' maids haYe so- temfied us with an ouglie
deveU having homes on his head, fier in his mouth~
aad a taile in:his bfeecb, eies like a bason, fangs
lib a dog, clawes Uke a bear, a·skin like a tiger,
·ad a voice roaring like 'a lion,-wbereby we start
and are afraid when we beare one cry bough."
It is atill an interesting matter of speculation
worth noticing-why, after the decay of the regu-
lar systems of demonology taught in the middle
eges, the same ·hideous form should still be at~
tacbed to the deVil? The learned Mede has re•
-JDad:ed, "that. the devil could not appear in
hwnan ahape while man was in his integrity ; be-
caase be was a :spirit fallen from his first glorious
perfection ; aad, therefure, must appear in such a
shape which might argue his imperfection and
abueme~at, which was the shape of a beast ; othel.'-
wise, no reason can .be given, why he should not
• Sit Tlaomas Brown, Who thinks that this view'may be con-
traell by ezpo11UionaofHoly Scripture, remarks, that, "·where-
as it is nid, thou abalt not olfer nnto devils; (the original word
is segbuirim), that is, rongh and hairy go~ts, because iu that
abape the devil must bave often appeared, asia expouoded by
the Rabin 1 u Tremellius bath &1110 e.1.plained ; aad u the
word·Aacemab, the god of .Emath, iat.y 110me c:oiiCOiTed."
o "'"'''Coogle
~JfHONOl.OGY. 319
rather have .appeared ~o Eve jn ~e shape of a
woma;n .tban, of aserpent. But. sinpe the fall of
man, the caae· is altered : now we know he can
tak~. _upQn bi.q:tiae Jhap.e ~f.man. He appe&Q. it
seelllS; ~ thes. .:ofman'simp:eaec~on, e•~her for
a,g~ or de(orJDity, as like an. ol4. man ~for so.the
~itohEIS say) ;·and perhaps it is no~ altogetherfalse.
w~ich ·is vulgarly affirme4, that the devil appear-
iJ:ag iq hum.aa shape, has always a defQ~ity:ofsome
~COf:lth membf:')r oc other, as thot,tgh he could not
yet ~e upon hi~ bum!lJl sh~pe eDttirfly, f91" that
man ~sel~is not entirely.and utterly faHen as he
is." (hose, _
with considerable IE!s~ seriousoess, 9~
!)er~~ .that •• although th~ devil ~an ·partly trans-
forJn himself into a variety of shapes, he ~nnot
change. his ·cloven f~et~ which will al~a!s mark
him under·every ·app~~ance. ,
. The late Dr. Ferriar·took some ~OJlble to trace
to their ~a~ source .spectral figures, ,wb,icb have
been attributed to demoniacal visits. , ~ his obser-
vati!>ns on the :wo~k~ of &my, t,he c~mmissjoner
in Lqrraine, for the trial of witches, he mllkes ~
following remark ;...:._.. My editiq~.of.this book wa•
printed by Vincente, .at Lyons, in ,1~; itis en-
titled D~mpnolatr~a. The· tr~~ls app~ar to. have
begun ;ID. l.583. :Mr, Remy.seems_to ·lrave felt
great·anxiety·to·ascertain the exact features od
dress ofthe demons, with "'hom many pe~ple sup:-
posed themselves to be, familiar. Yet nothiog
ln!-nspired in ·his examin~tions, whicb, varied from
the usual figures exhibited by the gross s~ulpture!l
and paintings of the middle age. . They arf;' said
to be black faced, with sunk ~t fiery eye,s, th~~;:
o.,,,, ,,Coogle
320 DBMONOLOGY.
mouths wide and·swelling of sulphur, their hands
hlliry, with claws, their feet horny and cloven."
In another part of Dr. FeiTiar;s, the foiloWing
account is also given of a case which passed under
his own observation :-" I had occaaion," he ob-
~erves," to see a·y~urig' married woman, w.hose
first indication of illness .was a spectral delusion.
She told .me that her apartment. appeared to be
suddenly filled with devils, and that her terror
impelled her to quit the house with great precipi-
tation. When she was b~ought back~ she saw the
whole staircase filled with diabolical forms, and
was in agonies offear for several days. After the
first impression wore off, she heard avoice.tempt-
ing her to self destruction, and prohibiting her
from all exercises of piety. Such was the aooount
given by her when she was sensible of the delu-
sion, yet unable to resist the horror of the impres-
sion. When she was newly recovered, I bad the
curiosity to question her, as I have interrogated
others, respecting the forms of the demons with
which she had been claimed ; huf I never could
obtain any other account, than that they were very
small, very much deformed, and had·horns and
claws like the imps of our terrific modern roman-
ces." To this illustration of the general origin
ofthe figures of demoniacal illusions, I might·ob-
sene, that, in the case of a patient suffering under
dtlirium tremens, . which came under my n'oiice,
the devils who flitted .around his bed were de-
scribed to me as exactly like the forms that he
bad recently seen exhibited on .the stage in the
popular di'ama of Don Giovanni.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DEMONOLOGY. 321
With the view of illustrating .other accounts o{
apparitions, I shall now return to the doctrine of
demonology which ·was once taught. Although
the leading tenets of this occult scienoe·may be
traced to the Jews and early Christians, yet they
were matured by ourearly communication with the
Moors of Spain, who were the ohief philosophers
of the dark ages, and between whom and the ita-
. fives of France and Italy, a great communication
subsisted. Toledo, Seville, arid Salamanca, ·be-
came the greatest schools of magic. At the'latter
city, prelections on the black art were, from a
consistent regard to the solemnity of the subject,
delivered within •the walls of a vast and gloomy
cavern. The schoolmen taught, that all know-
ledge might be obtained from the assistance of the
fallen angels. They were skilled in ·the abstraot
sciences, in the knowledge of precious stones, in
alchymy, in the various languages of mankind
and of the lower animals, in the belles lettres, in
Dloral philosophy, pneunatology, divinity, magic,
hiatory, and prophecy. They could contToul the
~ds, the waters, and the influence of the stars ;
they could raise earthquakes, ·induce diseases, ·or
core them, accomplish all vast mechanical under-
takings, aad release souls out of purgatory. They
ooaldinftuence the passions of the mind-procure
the· reconciliation of friends or foes-engender
mutual discord-induce mania and melaooholy-
or direct the force and oLjects of the sexual
affections.
Sooh was the ·object of demonology, as taught
by its most. drtliodox professors. yet other sys-
P2
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
- DEMONOLOGY.
~· of it were devised, which bad their origin in
cauees attending the propagation of ChriatiaDi~y.
For it must have been a work of much :time to
eradicate the universal belief, that t)le . Pagan
deities, who had become so numerous aa. to fill
every part of the universe, were fabulous beings.
Even many learned men were induced to side
with the popular opinion on the subject, and did
nothing more than endeavour to reconcile it with ·
their acknowledged systems of demonology. They
taught that such heathen objects of reverence were
fallen -angels-in league with the-prince of dar.kn*,
who, until the appearance of our SaviQur, bad been
allowed to range on the earth uncontrolled, and
to involve the world in.spiritual darkness and·
delusion. According to the various ranks w)Qch
these spirits held in the vast k~ngdom of Lucifer,
they were sutfered, in theb: degraded stat~, to take
up their abode in.the air,.in mountains, in spri~,
or in seas. Bat, although the various attributes
ascribed to the Greek and Roman deities, were,
by the early teachers of Christianity, considered
in the humble light of demoniaoat delusions, . yet
for many centuries they p~ssessed great influence
e~r the minds of the mlgar. In the reip of
Adrian, Evreux, in Normaady, was not oon·
verted to the Christian faith, until the devil, w.ho
had caused the obstinacy of the inhabitants, waa
finally expelled from the temple of Diana. To
this goddess, during the persecution of Diooleaiau,
oblations were rendered by the inhabitant. of
London. In the 5th century, the worship of her
uisted at Turin, and incurred the rebuke of
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
J;tBMONOLOGY., at3
St. Maximus. · From the ninth.to· the fifteenth
century,. .several· denuneiations tookplace. ·of the
women w.ho; in France. and Gerillany, travelled
over_imJaiense·spaces Of the ·earth, acknowledging
Diana ·as· the&- ·mistress and ,conductor. . In re-
beilcfJOg St. P11ul's cathedral, in London, remains
~., several ·of the animals used in her saciifices
were found ·
; ·for slight trac~s of this description of
• reverence, subsistedso·late as the reign of Edward
the First, and oLMary. Apollo, also, in an early
period of Christianity, had· some influence at
Thomey, now Westminster. About the 11th cen-
tury, Venus formed the subject·of a monstrous
apparition, which could only have been credited
from the influence which she was still supposed to
possess. A young man had thougbtlessly.put hir;;
ring around the marble finger of her image. This
was construed by the Cyprian goddess as a plighted
token of marriage ; she accordingly paid a visit to
her bridegroom's bed at night, nor could he get
rid of his l:ted-fellow until the spells of an exorcist
had been invoked for his relief. In the year 1536,
just before the ~olcanic eruption of Mount Etna,
a Spanish· merchant, while travelling in Sicily,
saw the apparition of Vulcan attended by twenty
of his· Cyclops~ as they were escaping from the
eft'eets which the over heating of his furnace fore-
boded•.
To the superstitions of Greece and Rome, we
are also indebted for those subordinate evil
• See an interesting dissertation on this subject, in Douce'~
Illustrations of Shakspeare, Vol. i, p.ll82. It is also nc_~ticed
Ill the Border Minstrelsy, Vol. ii. p 197.
llBIIONOLOGY•
spirits called gtlnii, who fOt' ·many centuries were
the subject of numerous spectral illosiqns. A
phantasm of this kind appeared to Brutus in his
tent, prophesying that he should be again seen at
Philippi. . Cornelius Sylla had the first intimation
of the sodden febrile attack with which be was
seized, from an apparition who addressed him by
his name ; concluding, therefore, that his death· was
at hand, he prepared himself for the event, which •
took place the following evening. The poet Cas·
sins Severns, a short time . before he was slain by
order of Augustus, saw, during the night, a·human
form of gigantic size,-his skin black, his beard
squalid, and his hair dishevelled. The phantasm
was, perhaps, not unlike the evil genius of: Lord
Byron's Manfred :-
"I see a duak and awful figure rile
Like au infernal god from out tbe earth ;
His face wrapt io a mantle, and hit fora
Robed as with anJ;ry elmrds; be stands betweeD
TJt.yselfand me-but I do fear him not."
The emperor Julian was struck with a speetre
clad in rags, yet bearing in his. bands a born oC
plenty, which was covered witb a lioen clotll.
Thus emblematically attired, the spirit walked
mournfully past the hangings of the apostate's
tent•.
We may now advert to the superstitious narra-
tives of the middle ages, which are replete witb
the notices of similar marvellous apparitions.
*Dio of Syracuse was visited by one of the furlea in penoa,
whose appearance tbe soothsayers regarded as iodicatiwe of 1M
death whieb occurred ofbia10i:t, aa well as hit own diiiOlutioJJ,
DBMONOLOOY. 325
When Bl'11Do, the Archbishop ofWirtzborg, a·short
period before his sodden death, was sailing with
Henry the Third, he descried a terri6c spectre
standing upon A rook which overhung.the foaming
waters, by whom be· was hailed in the following
words :-" Ho! Bishop, I am thy evil genius.
Go whether thou chooseit, thou art and shalt be
mine. I am not now sent for thee, bot soon thou
shalt see me again." To a spirit commisSioned
on a similar. errand, the propheti~ voice may be
probably referred, which was sai.d to have been
heard by 1ohn Cameron, the .Bishop of Glasgow,
immediately before his decease. He was sum-
mood by it, says Spottiswood, " to appear before
the tribunal of Christ, there to atone for his vio-
lence and oppressions." .
· I shall not pursue the subject of Genii much
farther. The notion of every man being attended
by an evil genius, was abandoned much earliE'r
than the far more agreeable part of the same doc-
trine, which taught that, as an antidote to this in-
Ouence, each individual was also accompanied by
a benignant spirit. " The ministration ofangels,"
says a writer in the Athenian oracle, " is certain,
bot ·the manaer ,,ow, is tbe knot to be untied!'
'Twasgenerallythoughtbytheancient philosophers,
that notonly kingdoms had theirtutelary guardians,
but that every person bad his particular genius, or
good ar>gel, to protect and admonish him by
dreams, visions, &c. We read that Origin, Hie-
rome, Plato~ and Empedocles, in Plutarch; were
alao of this opinion; .and the Jews themselves, as
appears by that instance-of Peter's deliverance out
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
~ DBKONOLOG~
of pri!JOB. They be~eved it could not be Peter,
butbis angel., ·But·for, the particular attendance
of bad ang~ls, we.booeve itinOt.; and we must
deny it, ull it finds better. proofthan ~l)jreoture."
Sue~ .we~ the objects of superstitious reverence,
derived from the Putbeon. of Greece and :Rome,
.the.whole synod oi .whieh was:supposed to consist
of. ~ewona, who were stillactively .bestirring them·
aelves..to..delude mankind. But ia. the West of
Europe,.a host· ofo~er :demons, far ·more formid·
abl~... were broaght into play, who bad their origin
in Celtic, 'Eeutooio, and .even Eastern fables ; and
as their existence, as well as inOaenee, was not
ooly by,~he early Christians, but ev~ \ly the refor·
mers•.boldiy,&SieriecJ., .itwas.long before the rites
to which they had been acoastomecl were totally
eradic~. , 'l'hosi.n.Orkney, for instance, it was
custom~ry, . even du~ the last century, for lovers
to meet Jvitbin. the J>ale ofa large circle of ston~s•
.which bad been·dedicated to the chief of the an·
f,ie~t Scandinavian,deitie,s. . Through a bole in
ooe of the pilltU."s, the hands of contracting parties
were joined, .and .the faith they plighted~· was
J)allled tbJ, prQmiae.of Odin, to.violate which '!U
infamous• . But the mftnence of. the Dii Majores
of the Edda was slight and·transient, .in compari-
son with that .ofthe duergar or dwarfs, ·who figure
away in lbe' same mythology.. and whose origin is
thus recited. Odin and .his brothers killed the
giant Ymor, from whose wound rau so much blood
tbat,all the families oftbe.earth were drowned, ex·
cept one that saved biltlself. on board a bark.
These gods then made, of the giant's bones of his
o.,,,, ,,Coogle
DEMONOLOGY.
flesh and his blood, the earth, the waters, and the
heavens. Bot in the body of the monster, several
wonns ·bad in the course of putrefaction been en-
gendered, which, by order !lfthe gods, partook of
both human shape and reason. These little beings
posses~ed the most delicate figures, and always
dwelt in subterraneous caverns or clefts in the
rocks, They were remarkable for their riches,
1heir activity, and their malevolence•. ·This is the
origin of. our modern faries; who, at the present
day, are described as a people of small stature,
gaily drest in habiliments of greent. They pos-
sess material shapes, with the .means, however, of
making themselves invisible. They multiply their
~pecies; they have a relish· for the same kind of
food that affords sustenance to til(' human race,
and when, for. some festal occasion, they would
regale themselves with good beef or mutton, they
employ. elf arrows to bring down .their vietims.
At the same time, they delude the shepherds with
the substitution of some vile substance, or illusory
• Sir Walter Scott bas supposed that thia mythological ac-
count of the duergar bears a remote allusion to real history,
having an ultimate reference to the oppressed Fins, wbo, before
the arrival of the invaders, uader tile conduct of Odin, were
the prior posse880n ofScandinavia. The followers of tJJia hero
saw a people, who knew how to work the mines of the country
better than they did ; and, therefore, from a superatitioua re-
gard, transformed tJJem into spirits of an unfavourable cbara~­
ter0 dwelling iq the interio~ of rocb, ·and surrounded with
immense riches.-Border MirutTtl•y, v. ii. p. 179.
t Itis said that, in Orkney, they were often seen clad in com-
plete armour.-.Bnrnd'• ducriptillll of Orkney. Svo. Edinburgh,
1101••• 63.
oi~itizec ~vGoogle
DEMONOLOGY.
image, possessing the same form as that of the
animal they bad taken away: These spirits.are
much addicted to music, and when they make their
excursions, a most exquisite band of music never
fails to accompany them in their course. They
areaddicted to theabstraction ofthehuman species,
in whose place they leave substitutes for living
beings, named Changelings, the unearthly origin
of whom is known by their mortal imbecility, or
some wasting disease. When a limb is touched
with paralysis, a suspicion often arises that it bas
been touched by these spirits, or that, instead of
the sound member, an insensible mass ofmatter
has been substituted in its place.
In England, the opinions originally entertained
relative to the doergar or dwarfa, have sustained
considerable modifications, from the same attri-
butes being assigned to them as .to the Persian
peri6, an imaginary race of intelligences, whose
ofnces of benevolence were opposed to the spight
ful interference of evil spil:its. Whence this con-
fusion in proper Teutonic mythology bas origi-
nated,is doubtful; conjectures have been advanced,
that it may be traced tothe intercourse the Crusa-
ders had with the Saraeens ; and that from Pales-
tine was imported the corrupted llllme, derived
from the peris, offaries; for under such a title the
duegar of the Edda are now generally recognized;
the tnalevolent character of the dwarfs being thus
sunk in the opposite ·qualities of the peris, the
fairies. Blessing became in England, proverbial :
•• Grant that the sweet fairies may nightly put
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DEMONOLOGY. ( 829
money in your shoes, and sweep your house clean."
In more general terms, the wish denoted, "Peace
be to the house•.
Fairies, for .many centuries, have been tile ob.
jects of spectral impressions. In the case of a
poor woman of Scotland, Alison Pearson, wbo '
suffered for witchcraft in the year 1586, they
probably resulted from some plethopo state ofthe
system, which was followed by paralysis. Yet,
for these illusive images, to which the popular
superstition of the times had given rise, the poor
creature was indicted for holding communication
with demons, under which light fairies were then
considered, and bnrnt at a stake. Doring her
illness, she was not unfrequently impressed with
sleeping and waking visions, in which.she held an
intercourse with the queen of the Elfland and the
good neighbours. Occasionally, these capricious
spirits would condescend to afford her bodily re.
lief; at other times, they would·add to tbe severity
of her pains. ln such trances or dreams, she
would observe hercousin, Mr. William Sympso.uoe,.
of Stirling, who had been conveyed away to _the
hills by the fairies, from whom she received a salve
that would cure every disease, and of which the
Archbishop of St. Andrews deigned himself to
reap the benefit. It is said in the indictment
against her, that "being in Grange Muir with
some other folke, she, being sick, lay downe; and,
* In Germany, probably for aimilar reaaooa, tbe dwarfs·han
acquired tbe name of elver-& word, observes Mr. Douce, de·
rived from the Teutonic of htljira, whicll etymologi1b ban
translated juiXIf'..
Dijitized by Coogle
830 DEMONOLOGY.
when alone, there.came a man to herclad in green,
who said to her, if she wonld be faithful, he would
do her good; but she being fea~ed, cried out; bat
nae bodie came to her, so she said, if he came in
God!s D81De, and for the gude of her soul, it was
all well ; bot he gaed away; he appeared another
tyme like a luati€! man, and many men and women
with him-at seeing him she signed herself, and
pray and past "'itb them, and saw them making
merrie :w.ith pypes, and gode oheir and wine ;~
she was· carried ,with them, and..whea she telled
any of tlaese things, she WIIS sairlie tormented by
them,·and the first ·time she gaid .w\th: them, . she
gat a sair straike frae ..one of them, wbicla.took all
tbtt poustie (pow.er) of her aide frae her, :ap.d left
an ill~far'd mark on her side.
" She saw the gode neigh!>ours make their saw•
(salves) with ponns and fyres, ·and they gathered
the herbs bE-fore the son was up, and they cam
verie fearful sometimes to her, and ftaire (scared)
her very sair, which made ber cry, and threatened
they would use her worse.than before; and at last,
they ·to~k away the po:werof her haile syde frae
her, and made her lye many weeks. Sometime~
they would come•and sit by her, and promise that
she.should never want if she would be faithful,
bot if she would speak and telle of them, they
would murth.,r her•. Mr. William Sympsoune is
with them who healed her, and telt her all things;
-ne is a young man, not six yeares older than her-
self, and be will appear to her before the court
comes ;-he told her he was taken away by them ;
and he bid her sigt1 herself that she be not taken
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DEMONOLOGY. 331
away, ·for the teind of them are tane to hell every
yeare•."
Another apparition of a similar kind. may be
found on the pamphlet which was published A. D.
1696, onder the patronage of Dr. Fowler, Bishop
of·Glocester, relative to Ann Jefferies, " who was
fed for six months by a small sort of airy people,
called fairies." There is every reason to suppose,
that this female was either affected with hysteria,
or with that highly excited state of nervous irrita-
bility, which, as I have shewn, gives rise to ecstatic
illusions. The account of her first fit is the only
one which relates to the present subject. In the
year 1005, says her historian, " she then being
nineteen years of age, and one day knitting in an
arbour in the garden, there came over the hedges
to her(as she affirmed) six persons of small stature,
all clothed in green, and which she called fairiu:
upon which she was so frightened, that she feH
into a kind of convulsive fit : but when we found
her in this ·condition, we brought her into the
house, and put her to bed, and took great care of
her. As soon as she was recovered out of the fit,
she cries out, ' they are just gone out of the win-
dow ; they are just gone out of the window. Do
you not see them?' And thus, in the height of
~er sickness, she would often cry out, and that
with eagerness; which expressions we attributed
to her distemper, supposing her light-headed."
This narrative of the girl seemed highly interest-
ing to her superstitious neighbours, and she was
* Minstrelsy of the Scottiah border, vol. ii. pare 215.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
382 DEMONOLOGY.
induced to relate far more wonderful stories, upoll
which not the least dependance can be placed, aa
the sympathy she excited eventUally induced her
to become a rank impostor•.
But besides fairies, or elves, which formed the
subject of many spectral illusions, a domestic spi-
rit deserves to be mentioned, who was once held ia
no small degree of reverence. In most northern
countries of Europe there were few families that
were without a shrewd and knavish sprite, who,
i.n return for the attention or neglect which he ex·
perienced, was known to
- - - - - " sometimes labour in the quem,
And ftootlen make the breathlen housewife cham;
And liOIIletimes make the drink to bear no ban& !"
}Ir. Douce, in his Illustrations of Shakspeare,
has shewn, that the Samogitre, a people formerly in-
habiting the shores ofthe Baltic, who remained ido·
latrous so late as the15th century, had a deity named
Putseet, whom they invoked to live with them, by
placing in the barn, every night, a table covered
with bread, butter, cheese, and ale. If these were
taken away, good fortune was to be expected ; botif
they were left, nothing bot bad luck. Thjs spirit
u the same as the goblin-groom, Puck, or Robin
*Before dismi11ing this subject of fairies, I ahall aligbtly
" adyert to the strange blending which took place of Grecian aad
Teutonic fableL " We find," aya Sir Walter Scott, "tile
elve& accordingly arrayed in the c01tume of Greece aacl Rome,
and the fairy queen and her attendants transformed Into Diana
aod her nympha, and invested with their attribntea aod appro-
priate insignia." Mercury was also named by Harwnet, ia tile
year 1601, the prince of the fairiet.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DEMONOLOGY.
Good-fellow of the English, whose face arid
hands were either of a russet or green colour,
who was attired in a suit of leather, and armed
with a flail. For a mach lesser fee than was
originally given him, he would assist in thresh-
ing, churning, grinding malt or mustard, and
sweeping the boose at midnight•. A similar tall
"lubbar fiend," habited in a brown garb, was
known in Scotland. Upon the condition of a lit-
tle wort being laid by for him, or the occasional
sprinkling, npon a sacrificial stone, of a small
quantity of milk, he would ensure the succe88
of many domestic operations. According to Olaus
Magnus, the northern nations regarded domestic
spirits of this description, as the souls of men
who had given themselves up during life to il-
licit pleasures, and were doomed, as a punish-
ment, to wander about the earth, for a certain
time, in the peculiar shape which they assumed,
and to be bound to mortals in a sort of servitude.
It is natural, therefore, to expect, that these
familiar spirits would be the subjects of many
apparitions, of which a few relations are given
in Martin's Account of the Second Sight in Scqt-
land. " A spirit," says this writer, "called
Browny, was frequently seen in all the most con-
siderable families in the isles and the north of
Scotland, in the shape of a tall man ; but within
*"He would chafe exceedingly," says Scot, "if the maid
or good wife of the bouse, bavin& compassion of his nalr.edoen,
laid ani cloths for him besides his messe of white bread and
milke, wh~ch was his standing fee. For in that case be Aitb,
what have we herei Hempton hamten, here will I nenr
more tread nor etampeo."
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DEMONOLOGY.
these twenty or thirty years, he is seen bo.t
rarely." .
It is useless to pursue this subject much far-
ther : in the course of a few centuries.,' the realms
of superstition were increased to almost an im-
measurable extent; the consequence was, that
the air, the rocks, the seas, the rivers,- nay, every
lake, poo), brook, or spring, were so fiJled with
spirits, both good and evil, that of each province
it might ·be said, in the words of the Roman
satirist, " Nosiba regio tam plena est numinibua,
ut facilius possis deum quam hominem inveoire."
Hence the modification which took place of sys· ·
tems of demonology, so as to admit of the clas-
sification of all descriptions of devils, whether
Teutonic, Celtic, or Eastern systems of Jllytbo-
logy. "Our schoolmen and other divines," ·says
Burton in his Anatomy of Melancholy, .. make
nine kinds of bad devils, as Dionysius bath of
angels. In the first rank, are thoae false gods of
the Gentiles, which were adored heretofore in
several idols, and gave oracles at Delphos and
elsewhere, whose prince is Beelzebub. The ,,_
Cond rank is of liars and equivocators, as Apollo,
Pythias, and the like. The third are those ves·
sels of anger, inventors of all mischief, as that of
Tbeutus in Plato. .Esay calls them veSSels of
fury: their. prince is Belial. The jotArth are ma·
liciou~, revengeful devils, and their prince is
Asmodeus. The fifth kind .are coseners, such
as belong to magicians and witches; their prince
is Satan. The sixth are those al:!rial devils that
corrupt the air, and cause plugues, thunders,
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
DEMONOLOGY.
fires, &c..spoken ofin Apocalypse and Paule; the
Ephesians name them the prince of the air:
Meresin is their prince. The 161Jmth is a de.
stroyer, captaine of the furies, oausing wars, to-
molts, combustions, oproares, mentioned in the
·Apocalypse, and called Abaddon. The eight'A is
that accusing or calumniating devil, whom the
Greeks call Aul./3oXor:; that drives us to despair.
The ninth are those tempters in several kindes,
and their prince is Mammon."
:But this arrangement was not compreh~paive
enough; for, as :Borton adds, ''no place w.as
void, but all full of spirits, devils, or other inha-
bitants; not so much as an ·haire·breadth was
empty in heaven, earth, or waters, above or under
the earth ; the earth was not so full of flies in sum-
mer as it was at all times of invisible devils."
Pneumatologists, therefore, made two grand dis-
tinctions of demons ; there were celestial demons,
who inhabited the regions higher than the moon;
while those of an inferior rank, as the Manes or
.Lemnres, were eithar nearer the earth, or grovel-
led on the ground. Psellus, however, .. a great
observer of the nature of devils," seems to have
thought, that such a classification destroyed all
distinction between good and •evil spirits : he,
therefore, denied that the latter ever as~ended the
regions above the moon, and contending for this
principle, founded a system ofdemonology, which
had for its basis the natural history and habi-
tations ,of all demons. He named his first class
fory devils. They wandered iii the region near
the moon, but were restrained from entering into
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
•
386 DBIIONOLOGY.
that luminary ; they displayed .their power in
blazing stars, in fire-drakes, in counterfeit suns
and moons, and in the euerpo sa~~to, or meteoric
lights, which, in.vessels at sea, flit from mast to
mast, and forebode foul weather. It was sup-
posed that these demons occasionally resided in
the furnaces of Hecla, Etna, or Vesuvius. The
second clasa consisted of aerial devils. They
inhabited the atmosphere, causing tempests,
thunder and lightning; rending asunder oaks,
firing steeples and houses, smiting mea and beasts,
showering down from the skies, stones•, wool,
and even frQgs ; counterfeiting in the clouds the
battles of armies, raising whirlwinds, fires, and
·corrupting the air, so as to induce plagues. The
third class was terrestrial deoi/8, such as lares,
genii, fawns, satyrs, wood-nymphs, foliots, Robin
good-fellows, or trulli. The fourth class were
aqueous de-oils; as the various description of water.
nymph, or mermen, or of merwomen. The fifth
were subterranean deoils, better known by the
name d~emones itallici, metal-men, Getuli or
Cobals. They preserved treasure in the earth,
and prevented it from being suddenly revealed;
they were also the cause of horrible earthquakes.
Psellus's sixth «:lass of devils were named luci-
fugi; they delighted in darkness; they entered
into the bowels of men, and tormented those
• Bellusspellltl with coute111pt of this petty instance of ma-
levoleoce to tile human race : " atouea are tbrowo down from
<he air," be remarkl, " which do uo harm, Q8 devila·llaviJII
flttle streog«h, and beiog JDere ac:arecrowe.'' So modi.for ct.
,or~ ofmeteoric atoue11, ·
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DBMO'NOLOGY.
whom they possessed.with phrenzy and the falling
sickness. By this power they were distinguished
from earthly and aerial devils; they could only
enter into the bnman mind, which they either
deceived or provoked with unlawful affections.
Nor were speculations wanting with regard to
the common nature of these demons. Psellos
conceived that their bodies did not consist merely
of one element, although be was far from denying
that this might have been the case before the fall
of Lucifer. It was his opinion, that devils pos·
sessed corporel;ll f111mes capable of sensation ;
that they could both feel ®!I be felt; they could
injure and be burt; .that they llll!lented when they
were beaten, and that if struck into the fire,
they even left behind them ashes,-a fact which
was demonstrated in a very satisfactory expe-
riment made by some philosophers upon the bor-
ders of Italy ; that they were nourished with
food peculiar to themselves, not receiving the ali-
ment through· the gullet, bot absorbing it from\he
exterior surface of their bodies, after the manner
of a sponge; that they did not hurt cattle from
malevolence, but from mere love of the natural
and temperate beat and moisture of these ani-
mals ; that they disliked the beat of the sun,
because it dried too fast; and, lastly, th'at they
attained a great age. Thus, Cardan had a fiend
bound to him twenty·eigbt years, who was forty-
two years old, and yet considered very young;
He was informed, from this very authentic source
of intelligence, that devils lived from two t~
three hundred years; and that their souls dieci
Q
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DEMONOLOGY.
with their ·bodies. The very philosophical state-
ment -,vu, nevertheless,·. combated by other ob-
aerveis. " Hanie," says.· Scot,' " affirmed that
spirits were of aier, .because they had been cot iD
sunder and closed presentlie againe, and also
because they vanished away so suddenlie."
'' Tlte NARRATIVE of tits .DEMON OF TED·
WORTH, or the disturbance• at. MR. ·MoN-
PESSON'S /wuse, caused by WITCHCRAFT arad
VILL_AINY OF. 'fHE DRUMMER."
" In winter's tedious nights, sit by the fire
With good old folk.s; and Jet them tell the tales
Of woeful ages long ago betid." ·
"Mr. John Monpesson of Tedworth, in the
County of Wilts, being about tbe middle of
March, in the year 1661, at a neighbouring town
called Ludlow, and hearing a drummer beat there,
he enquired of tbe bailiff of the town at whose
bouse he then "as• :what it meant. Tbe bailitr
told him, that they had for som~ days pa,st been
annoyed by an idle drummer; -,r~o demanded
money of the constable by virtue of apretended
pass, which he thought . was counterfeited., Qn
hearing this, Mr.·Monpesson sent for the feUow,
and aslted.him by what authority he went up aud
down the country in that manner. with .
his dr~.
The drummer answered, .that he had good au-
thority, and produced his pass, with a warraJlt
under the hands of Sir William Cawley, and
Colonel Aylift'~ o,f .Greten~am. Mr. ~Q~pe..ssop,
how:ever, beJng ,a~HaiJltp4 ~ith ~-~tmfl-wri~
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
DEMONOLOGY. 889
of these gentlemen, discovered ·that th~ pass and
warrant were counterfeit, upon which he oom-
manded the 'vagrant to lay down his drum, and at
the same time gave him in charge to a oonstable,
to carry him before the next justice of the peace,
to be farther examined and punished. The fel-
low then confessed that the pass and warrant were
forged, and begged earnestly to be forgiven and
to have his drum restored: upon this Mr. Mon-
pesson told him, that if, upon enquiry from Co-
lonel Ayliff, whose drummer he represented him-
self to be, he should tum out to be a~ honest
man, he should listen to his entreaty and have
the drum back again ; but that, in the mean
time, he would take care of it. The drum, there-
fore, was left in the bailiff's hand; and the drum-
mer went off in charge of the constable, who, it
appears, was prevailed upon, by the fellow's en-
treaties, to allow him to escape.
About the middle of April following, at a time
when Mr. Monpesson was preparing for ajonmey
to London, the bailiff sent the drnm to his house.
On his return from his journey, his wife informed
him that they had been very much alarmed in the
night by thieves, and that the house had like to
have been torn down. In confirmation of this
lllarm, Mr. Monpesson had not been above three
nights at home, when the same noise was again
heard which had disturbed the family in his ab-
sence. It consisted of a tremendous knocking at
1be doors, and thumping on the walls of the house ;
upon which Mr. M. got out of bed, armed himself
with a brace of pistols, opened the street door to
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DBMONOLOGY.
ascertain the cause, which he had no sooner done,
than the .noise removed to another door, which he
also opened, went out, and walked ronnd the
boose; bot could discover nothing, although he
heard a strange noise and hollow sound. He bad
no sooner returned arid got into bed, than be was
again disturbed by a noise and drumming on the
top of the house, which continued for a length of
time, and then gradually subsided, as if it went off
into· the air.
The r_toise of thumping and drumming, after
this, was very frequent; usually for five night&
together, when there would be an intermission of
three. The noise was on.the outside of the house,
which principally consisted of board ; and usually
came on just as the family was going to bed,
whether that happened early or late. After con4
tinning these annoyances for a month on the out-
side of the house, it at length made bold to come
into the room where the drum lay, four or five
nights in every seven ; coming always on after
they had got into bed, and continuing for two
hours after. The signal .for the appearance of the
noise was the hearing of a hurling of the air over
the boose ; and when it was about to retire, tbe
drum would beat the same as if a gnud were
being relieved. It continued in this room for the
space of two months, during which time Mr. Mon-
pesson lay thttre to observe it. In the early part
of the night, it used to be very troublesome, bot
after it had continued two hours, all would be
quiet again.
During the prevalence of this disturbance,
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DEMONOLOGY. 841
Mrt. Monpesson was brought to bed, and the
night on which this occurrence took place, there
was but very little noise made, nor any at all for
the three subsequent weeks of her confinement.
.A.fter this polite and well-timed cessation, it re-
turned in a sudden and more violent manner than
before ; )t followed and teased their youngest chil-
dren, and beat against their bedstead so violently
that every moment they were ' expected to be
ltroken to pieces. On placing their hands upon
1hem It this time, no blows were felt, although
they were perceiYed to shake exceedingly. · For
an hour: together the drum would beat roundheads
arid cuckold, the tat-to~ and several other martial
pieces, as well as any drummer conld possibly
6J:ecate them. After this, a scratching would be
heard UDder the children's beds, as if somethiag
tbafhad iron claws were at work. .It would lift
the children up in their beds, follow them from one
room to another, and for a while only haunted
tbem) without playing auy other pranks.
'Ibere was a cockloft in the bouse, which had
aot been observed to be troubled ; and to this
place the children were removed ; . and were al-
ways put to bed before daylight disappeared, bot
here they were no sooner .laid, than their disturber
was at his work again with them.
On the fifth of November, 1661, a terrible JlOise
was kept up; and one of Mr. Monpesson'a servants
observing tw6 boards moving in the children's
room, asked that one might be given to him; upon
which a board came (nothing moving it that he
saw) within a yard of him ; the man said a~n,
o "'"'''Coogle
342 DEMONOLOGY,.
let me Aam it in my hand; when it was brought
quite clbSe to ·him, and in this manner it was con,
tinned-moving up .and down, to od .fro, for at
least .twenty minutes together. Mr. Monpesson,
however, forbade his servant to take'liberties with
the· invisible and troublesome gu'est .in future.
This circJlmsQ1nce.took place in the day-tjme, and
Wa& witnessed by awhole room. fnll: of people,
The morning lhis occurred, itleft a very oft'ensive
10lphureou8 smeD behind, it. At night, :the.'mi..
nister of the parish, one Mr. Oragg, ana.enral
of the qeighboors, paid Mr. M. a visit. The fDi.i
nister prayed at the children's bedside, -.ben 'the
demon was then extremel,- tronltleaome and boU...
~roU8. , During time of·prayer it retired into tlie
cockloft,. but aa soon as prayers :wer~ over .it
returned·; when in the presence and· sight o'f the
company,·the chairs began to walk'and strat about
the room of their own accord, the.cbilclreil's ailoes
were thrown· over their heads; and! every. thing
loose moved about tbe.room. At ~e. same ~
a bed;.p9at .was .thrown. at the,..minister, wlli'ch
struck him·on the leg, but so:gently that a lock ·of
wool coald not have fallen more gently; :and it
· was obse"ed. that it stopped just where • fell,
witheof :rolling or othe~wise ·moving .,from. ·the
place.
In con8eqoence of the demon tormentiag the
children so incessantly, he had them remoted to a
neigllbour's houae, taking his eldest daughter,.
whowas about ten years ·of age, into his own cham·
ber, where it had .not .been for .a mootb before~
but, as soon as she was in bed, tb~ aoise .began.
_ o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DBMONOLOGYo
there ~. and·'fbe:·:di'JlmmiDg,·cODI:inued for
tb\te& weeks with: other noises ; and. if any par-
ticular thing was ;caHed ~r to be beaten on thQ
drum, it .·would perform it. ·The: chil~rer& · ,were
brought -hom~ again, ill corisequenae of the bouse
where they w~re plaeod being!crowde4 with .s~
gers.' .They were 1oow placed in the parlaur~
which, it was ·remarked, had hj.tilerto oat ~­
disinrbed ; but na .0~ were they here, 'than
their tormeritpr, .while they were Jn _
lied, amused
himse' With . pulling :tbl!ir hair and bedgo-.ns..
WitOOut ~ftef'iJig any other Tiblenee. , ' <1 . :.. . , .
· It wae-~ked~ that when tbe:noi~e was load-
est, and when it came with the:most-.sudden and
snrprising.'Violence,· no dog aboutithe llolile would
move ·oi bark, :though the knocking apd,thnmping.
were .often•60· boisterous and rude,. that they .w&re.
heard·a.t ·a:cbDsi~ble: distance ,in:the fields,:ancit
awakened tlie'..-eigboopra in .the.villbge, :some .of
whom U.-ed·very:near this.houie. Notupfr.eq~Uy.
the servima would. be·li~ted:up; '\'Pith tbeir.;bed, to
A·eonsiderabl~ height, :an4. the, -let :geatly down,
again·..mtbout .himD.;;;at other: times ·it -would lie.
likeagreatwMghtupon·their·feet...: ;,.,,,( , '" .
About t._d end :of.December, 1661, the.dr.am-,
ming was les8 frequen*,: -I)at1~n a m>ise like the.
ebinking of money·.wait sabstitated ; f.ot .it,.occa-
sioned>· ·as it'was thought, in conseqaeoce,ofsome-:
thing Hr• Monpesson's motber 'had said· the .day
before 4lo ·a- neighl;ow; .who spoke about fairiet~
leaving mooey·bebind' tbiem ;-.viz. )that abe .sboul4
like it w-ell,..if it weald leave them some ,ttunMe
tbem amendi· for· the. uoa.ble it .bad gaused tbelll;
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
8U • DBHONOLOGY.
Tbe foUowiag .night, a great dlinking and jingliog
of money was heard all over .the house. After:
this it left off ita toder pranks, and amused itself
in little apish and less troableaome tricks. Oa
Christmas moming, a little before daylight, one of
tbe little ·boya was hit, as he was getting out of
bed~ up~n a sore place·on his.heel, with the latch
of· the door, the pin of: W'bich, that fUtene«l it to
the door, was so small, that it was a matter of no
little diffiCulty for any one else· to pick it. The
night after Christmas, . it threW' the old .Jentle-
woman's clothes about"tbe·room, and.bid Iter bible
in the aabes; with a number of other miachievqus
tricks of the same kind.
· After this, it becaine very troublesome to one
of Mr. Monpesson's servant men, a atoat fellow,
and of sober conversation. This •man. slept in
the house during the greater part of the .distur·
bance ; and fur several Bights sometbiag woulcl
attempt to pull the bedtclothes off him, which he
often, though not-always, prevented by maia force;
his shoes were &eflllently thrown at his head, ..uc;l
sometimes be wolild find himself forcibly held, as
it were, hand and feet ; but he found that when be
could .use a swor41 which he had by ·him, -
struck with it, the spirit let go his hold. . ,
Sbme short titne' after these contests, a soa·of
:Mr. Thomas Bennet, for whom tbe drummer had
sometimes worked, came. to the boose, and men•·
tioned some words to Mr. Honpessoo that tile
drummer ·bad spoken; which it seems were not
well taken ; for they were no sooner in. bed, ~
.-.edi1UD began to beat iD a:mott violent IUDner:
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
DBIIONOLOGY.
the geatleaaan.got up and oalled his man,:wlao was
lying with Mr. Monpesson's servant just men-
tioned, whose name was John. As soon as M-r.
Bennet's man .was gone, John heard a ruatiiog
noise in his chamber, as if a person in silkS were
moving up and down ; he immediately put out his
band for his sword, whioh he felt was withheld by
some one, and it was with difficulty and much tug·
ging, that be got it again into his possession,
which he had no sooner done, than the spectre left
him; and it was always remarked it avoided a
sword~ About the beginning of January, 1662,
they used to hear a singing in the chimney before
it descended; and one night, about this time,
lights were seen in the house. One ofthem cam~
into Mr. Monpesson's chamber, which appeared
blue and glimmering, and caused a great stiffness
in the eyes ofthose who beheld it. After the light
disappeared, something was beard walking or
• creeping up stairs, as if without shoes. The light
was seen four or five times in the children's cham·
ber ; and the maids confidently affirm, that the
doors were at least ten times opened or shut in
their presence; and that, when they were opened,
they heard a noise as if half a dozen had entered
together ; some of which were afterwards beard to
walk about the room, and one rustled about as if
it had been dressed in silk, similar to that Mr.
Monpess~n himself beard.
While the demon was in one of his knocking
moods, and at a time when many were present,
a gentleman ofthe company said, "Satan, if the
drummer set thee to work, give three knock$ and
I Q2
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
846 D&IIOOWLOOIV".
110 more-;" wbioldt;did .very diatinody. ancl8&oppecL
Tbe.same. gentleman then knocked:to;henr if it
would answer him as it was accustomed to do.
For.further proof, he. required it, :if it actually
were the.drummer that employed him' as.the agent
of his malic~, to give fi~c knocks and no more
that night ; which it did, and quietly left -
the house
for the remainder of the night. This was done in
the presen~e of Sir Thomas Chamberlaine ofOx-
fordshire,_ and many other creditable per&ons.
· On Saturday morning, all hour before daylight,
January 10, a -drum was heard beating upon- the
•utside_
of Mr. Monpesson's chamber, from "·hence
it went to the other end of the house, where some
gentlemen strangers lay, and commenced playing
at their door four or five different tones ; and at
lE'ngth iew off in the air. The next night, a
blacksmith in the village, and Mr. Monpesson's
men John, who was lying with him, heard a noise
in the room, as if somebody were shoeing a horse j
and something came with something like a pair of
pincers, and nipped· at the blacksmith's nose the
whole of.the night.
Getting up one morning to go a journey, ·Mr.
Monpesson heard a great noise below, where the
children lily; and on running down· instantly with
*pistol in his hand, he heard a voice cry out, a
witch ! a witch ! similar to one they had beard on a
former occasion. On his entering the apartment,
all became quiet again. . .
· The demon having one·night played some little
pranks at the foot of Mr. Monpesson's bed, it
went into another bed, where one ofhis daughter»
I
.ODIOlil8L8G'l'.
Jay;aoclp81secLfmm o-. side.to tile otber;. lilftiug
ber up as it.paueci'under ber. :A.t that time:tlaere
were three ,kinds;of Misea in ·tJte bed. They at-
tempted to thrust ·at it wit!. ·a sword, but:it con•
tinuaUy evaded. them. Tlae' folloMng night· it
oame panting like.a dog oat of b~eatb, when.some
oae present tOok ·a ltedpost to strike at it, when it
was immediately 10atclaed out of ·Jaer. band~ ·ODd
company coming np stairs at ~ same time, the
room was fiUed Wlith a nauseoue stench, alid very
bot, although there was no fire on, and ·during a
very ~p winter's riigbt. It continiled panting
an hotv and a half, .p~ng and 'scr.atcbing; and
aftenwds went into the' adjoining chamber.
where it·began to knock·a Iit~e, and seemed to
rattle a chair; thoa it CODtinued for two or: three
nhigta in saecesaion. . The old lady's bible after
this .was lonrid again amoag the ashes,· with .the
leaves downwar..... lt 1f88 ·taken up by. Mr.
Moopesson, w~ observed.:thilt it lay open.at the
Ulird chapter.of St. Mark;. where mention is made
Qf the. nacJean·spirits falling down before our
Saviour, aqd ·of his .giving power to the. .tweh~
Apostlea to cast out devils, aild of the Scribesr
opinion, and that ·he cast them,out through Beel"l
zebob. ·
ne foUowing morning .ashes were scattered
over the obamber floor, to see what impressions-
would .be left upon it; in tbe morning, in one
place they found the resemblance of a great claw
iD. another .that of a $maHer one, some letters in
another, whieb oonld.not be decyphered, besides a.
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
DKIIOMOLOGT.
oamber of-circles ucl's011dche~·in the ..._,which
aoone•Dildentood except·the demonitaelf.
About this time, the ao~Ol' ofthe narratioa w.ent
to the bonae.to en41uire ·after tlae truth .of tire eir-
oumitancel whkh made so much aoile ia that
partofthe country. The> demon had left oft' dram·
ming, and the tenible noises it was in the habit ef
making before he arrived ; bot most of the remark-
able facts already related, were confirmed to him
there by several of the neighbours, on wlaose ve-
l'a(ljty he could depend, who bad witnessed them.
It now used to haunt the children after they.wen
gone to bed. On the night be was there, the
children ·went to bed aboat 8 o'clock; a maid
servant immediately came dowa and informed na
that the spirit was come. . The neighbours th.n
present went away, as well as two ministen whG
had previously been some time in the houae, but
Mr. Monpesson the author, and another gentle-
man who came with. him, went up to the room
where the children were in bed. A acratcl.ing
'Was heard as they went tip stairs, and jut u they
got into the room, it was perceived jut behintl
the bolster of the bed in which the children lay,
and appeared to be lying against the tick. The
noise it made was like that made with long naiJe
upon the bobter. There were two little girls.
about seven or eight years of age, in the bed.
Their hands were outside the bedclothea, so thai
it was perfectly Yiaible the noise was not made by
them which was behind theirhead. : they had beea
.10 used to it of late, and always with soJD.e preaont:
DBMO'NOLOGY.
ib. the aaoaaber. that they aeeJNd to Wtet very
little notice of it. The narrator, who wu ataadintr
at the head ofthe bed, thrust his hand behind the
bolater from whence the noise pl'QCeeded, when it
was immediately heard in an()ther part of th~
bed ; but as soon as hill haod was taken away, it
returned to the aame pla()e as before. On being
told that it would imitate noises, he made trial by
scratching several tim~ upon the sheet, as five,
seven, and ten times : it exactly replied to them by
equal numbers. He looked under and behind the
bed, grasped the bolater, sounded the wall, and
madeeverypossible se&fch to find outany trick, con~
trivance, or other cause, as well as his friend, but
could discover nolhing. So that in truth be con~
eluded, that the noise was made by some spirit
or demon. After it had scratched about for half
an hour or more, it got into the middle of the bed,
wader the children, where it lay panting loudly,
like a dog out of breath. The author then put
his hand upon the place, and plainly felt the bed
bearing up against it, as if it contained something
within thrusting it up. He graspe~ the feathe.t
to feel if he could distinguish any thing alive;
then looked every where about to see if there were
any dog or cat, or other cr~ture, i~ tbe room ;
every one present followed his example, but still
they discovered nothing. The motion it caused by
its panting was so violent, that it had a visibl~
eft'eot on the room and windows. In this manner it
coatinued for half an hour, the time the author wq
presimt. During this panting, so.methipg waa
seen in a linen bog that Will! hong up against
·31& DBMON'GLOG:Y:•
another·betH dtat;WBB taken for a mow or rat~
hut upon the closest.examination of it; oething
was found in it of any description. .
The·author and his :friend afterwards slept in
the very idetatical- ohamber where .the principal
disturbance had been first made. He was awa.
kened by a terrible noise made on the outside'of
the chamber door. ' He awoke· his ftiend, and
asked three distinct times who WllS there, but
received no answer. At rast he exclaimed, " ita
the ntime of God wAo is it, mul wluJt would you
ha-oe1 To whioh a voice answered, nothing r»ith
you. Thinking it was some ofthe servants of the
house, they went to sleep again. Melltiooing,
however, the circumstance the next morning to
Mr.. Moopesson, he declared that no one of the
house lay that way, or had any baaineas- there..
abouts, and that none of his servants had got up
until they wete .called by him ·some· time aftw
day-light. This the servants confinned, and pro-
tested that the noise was opt made. by them.
Previous to this, Mr. Monpesson baq ·told na,
that it would go away in the middle of the night,
and return at different times about four o'clock,
which was supposed to be about the hour it waa
heard by the author and his ·friend.
. Anothec circumstance connected with:this s~m­
ingly mysterious business was,· that tile author's aer..
vaot coming up to him in the morning, told him,
that one ofhis' horses, the one wbioh he bad.rode,
,._.all in a sweat, and .appeared in every otlter
respect as ifit had been out all night. His•friend
and him ~ent down to the stable, and. actuaii}L
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
D:KMONOLOG.Y~o
fomulhim in the state he was represented..to...be.
On inquiry bow the hor8e had been trea~d. he
was assured that the animal had been well fed;
and taken care of as he used to ·be; his servant
besides was extremely oaref'ol of his horses. "·The
horse," says the author, " I bad bad a ·good time,
and never knew but be was very sound. But
after I had rid him a mile or two very gendy
over a plain down from Mr. Monpesson's boose;
he fell lame, and having made a hard shift to
bring me home, died in.two or three days, no one
being able to imagine what be ailed. This, I con-
fess, might be the consequence of an accident, or
some unusual distemper, but all things put to-
gether, it seems. very probable that it was some-
what else.''
Mr. Monpessoo then stated, that one morn-
ing a light appeared in the children's chamber, .
and a voice was heard crying-a witch ! a witch !
for at least an hundred times together. At ano•
ther time, seeing some wood move on the chimney
of a room where be was, he fired a pis.tol among
it; and on examining the place afterwards, several
• drops of blood were discovered on the hearth, and.
on several parts of the stairs. For two or three
nights after the discharge ofthe pistol nothing was·
beard, but it returned, and so persecuted a little
child newly t•k.en.from the nurse, that the poor·
infant was not suffered to rest either day or night ;
nor would the mischievous demon suffer a candle'
to bum.in the room, buteither ran up the ·chim.ney'
with them alight, or threw them under the · bed~
It so frightened tbi~ chil<t by leaping upon it, that
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DBIIONOLOGY.
it continued in &ts for several hours ; and ulti-
mately they were obliged to remove the children
oat of the house. Something was heard the
next night, about the hour of midnight, coming up
stain ; it knocked at Mr. Monpesson's door, but he
not answering, it went up another pair of stairs to
his mao's chamber, and appeared to him at his
bed foot. The exact shape and proportion of the
demon he could not discover; all he saw was a
great body, with two red and glaring eyes, which
for some time were steadily &xed upon him; and
at length they disappeared.
On another occa~ion, in the presence of stran-
gers, it purred in tbe children's bed like a cat, and
lifted the children up so forcibly, that six men.
could not keep them down; upon which they
removed the children to another bed, but no
sooner were they laid here than this became more
troubled than the &rat. In this manner it con-
tinued for four hours, and so unmercifully beat the
poor children's legs against the posts, that they
were obliged to sit up all night. It then emptied
cbamber-pob, and threw ashes into the beds, and
placed a long iron pike in Mr. Monpesson'a, I;Uid
a knife into his mother's. It would fill porringers
with ashes, throw every thing about, and kick up
the devil's diversion from morning till night, and
from night till morning.
About the beginning of April, 1663, a gentle-
man that lay in the boost>, bad all his money turned
black in his pockets; and one morning Mr. Mon·
pesaon going into his stable, found the horse he
was accustomed t~ ride upon, lying on the ground
_ o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
DBMO.MOLOGY• 333
with one of ita hind legs in its mouth, aud fastened
thefe in such a mauner; that several men with a.
Ieaver, had the greatest difficulty in getting it out.
After this there were a number ofother remarkabl~
things occurred, but the author's account extend•
~o fau-ther; .with the esception that. Mr. Monpes--
soo wrote him word, that the house was after-
W1D'ds,. for several nights, beset with seven or eight
beings in the shape of men, who, aa soea as a goD
was discharged, would scud away into an ajoiains
arbour.
The drummer, however1 it appears,~ was appre.
hended in consequeac~ of these stnmge and mys-
terious ,occurrences. He was ikst, it seems,
committed to Gloucester jail iOr.stealing, where •
Wiltshire man going. to- see him,· the drummer.
squired the news in Wiltshire·: 1he reply .wast
aooe·: · No~ returaed he, do fO'il not hear ef th~
dnunming at a gentleman•s house at Tedworth l
That I do, said the other, enough: '' I, quoth the
VuiiUiler, I ha.e phlgaed him (or something to
6at purpose) and be never shall be qniet until he
has made me satisfaction for taking away my
drum. Upon information made t'> tbia eft'ect, the
drummer was tried for a wi:a11ard at Sarum., and all
the main circumstances here !'elated being sworn
to at the assizes, by the minister of the pariah, and.
eeveral othera.of tile most intelligent and sub-
ataotial iDhabitaatB, who had been eye and ear•
witnesses of them, from time to time, for many.
years past; the drummer was se~tenced to trans·
portation, and accordingly sent away ; and as the
atory runs, 'tia.said, that by raising storms,.and.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
3M: nEMONOLOGY,
terrifying.'the seamen, he. COJttrived, •ome bow-or
other, to get back. agailh' Aad what is .still aa
remarkable, is, ~ during his .r~traint.and· at..;
se~ce, .Mr. .MoopessoD's: boase remained.. nadia- .
tul\bed ;' bot.as.BOOb· as..the.deinon.of his quiet re-'
turned, he.fell to bl8 old triok& again as bad 8s eve~,t1
The drummer bad. been ·a. :soldier·uder Cr«J~t.
well, and used to talk mneb of :!~ gallant .boob"
which he had ef an old fellow, wbo .was counted a
wizzard. .
On the authority of Mr. Glanvil, who had .u..
fro~ Mr. Monpess~m, we have .tJiefoHo.wing story.
· "The geaJtleman, Mr. Hill, ~w.h~~WaS ·wifu. me,.
being in oom'paily witb,orie Comptonof Somet"set-1
shire, who pradised pby.sic, and primuida...to
strange matters, related to: hini.t}lis •ry of HI\
.Honpesflon's d.isturl)aoce.' The .phyllician'·\Old
him, ;he was ·sure it was ootbiog bnt ·a. reDd811..
vous of witches, and that·for.an :hundr~·poa.de
be .wool<\ 'wid-erta'ke to c
rid the house ·of.all ctistUr·
bance; . ·In pursuit: of this dis~o1U'8e, ~ be talkt of
many;Jaigh t!Jing8, and having. drawn my: ~iend
into ltnotber . room, apart from the rest of tlae
eotttpaoy, said, be would ·make ·
him:sepsible tbafl
be:oould do something: more .than..ordinary, aod
asked hhn· who he desired to see:;. Mr•.Hill .had
rio greatoopfidence in hiS talk; but..yet being ear-
nestly 'pres•ed to name some one, he said Jae de..
aired to.see ~o oDe iso much as. his .wife; whO ·w.as.
tbeu.maay .siNs 'distarit frolil them.at ·her h~e•
Upon< this; Co~pton . took up.a looking-glass that.
waa in the;roo~~ :ODd se~g it down again, bid my:
friend look .into it1 w~ob he did, aDd then,. a~ he.
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
THB ·DBMON ()p JEDBURGH. 3M
most solemnly and serionsly professeth, he saw the.
exactimage of his wife,intbat habit which·shethen.
wore, and working. at her.needle in such a part·of '
the room, there ·also. represeated, in which and.
about which time abe really was;88 be-found upon·
enquiring upoli his return.home. The gentleman-
himselfaverTed tbia to me, and.he is a sober, intelli-
gent;, and credible person. Compton bad no know-·
ledge of him before$ and was an utter stranger to.
the person of his wife. The same man· is again.
alluded to, in the story ofthe witchcrafts of Eliza-
beth Styles, whom he discovered to be a witch, by·
fbtetelling her cOming into a house, and going OGt•
again without speaking. He was by all accounted
a very odd person."
THE DEMON OF JEDBURGH. · · ·'
IN 1762, when Captain Archibald Douglass, ·who
was ·ihen on a recruiting party in the: Sea'th
of Scotlimd, his ·Bative country, lay in the b)wn:of
Jedburgh, his serjeant complained to him 'that the-
boose in which .he was quartered was haunted by
a spirit, which had several times appeared t() bim
by candle Jight in a very frightful form. ·The cap-
tain, who was a man of sense and· far from beiag·
superstitious, treated the serjeant as a person who
bad IGst his·.reason, threatened to cane him as a
coward, and told him that goblins· and spirits were
beneath ·the notioe of' a soldier. The captain the·
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
:1$6 THB DEMON oi' IBDBUllGH• .
night following had a strange dream, in.whieh he
aaw the landlady of the inn, where the serjeant lay,
in company with a grt~&.t number of other females,
ascending in the air, some riding on brooms, some
oa asses, ·and others on cats, &c. The landlady
'invited him to accompany them in their. ferial ex•
CUI'IIioa, to which consenting, he got opoJJ a goat
behind one of the women, and was carried with
great:velocity to a large heath near Loodon1.which
he well knew on their arrival.
When all the females bad alighied, his ears were
soddenly alarmed with a thousand yells the most
hideous that could be conceived, to the sound of
•hicb they all danced in a circle. The eaptaift
was placed in the untre; beholding all the wild.
vagaries with wonder and horror. 'When th~
music had ceased and the dancing closed, sudden·
ly he found himself by a phalanx of infernal furies,
whose forks were all aimed at his breast. The
horror of this scene soddenly awaked the captain,
who •as glad to find himself safe and in a soaad
Ilkin at his mother's boose, where be lay tbat night.
The nt~.s,t morning the serjeant, like the knight
of the sorrowful countenance, waited on the cap·
tain for fresh orders, again declaring that he had
seen the apparition which had threatened his life.
The captain heard him with less impatience and
inattention than he had the preceding day, aayillg,
I myself have had ~ restless night and a terrible
dream, bot these things, I tell yon again, are be.
neath the notice of a soldier. However, ~oatinoed
the captain, I am resolved to sift this matter tiD I
diftover the ground.of your complaU\t. I have a
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
THE DBIIION OF .JEDBURGH. 8()7
notion that you, likemyself, have been making too
free with the bottle. The seljeant replied, most
11olemnly declaring that he was most perfectly in
his senses when he saw a frightful spectre standing
at the side ofhis bed, and which changing its ap·
pearance, retired in the shapeof a great black cat,
jumpingfrom the window over the church steeple.
Now to let yourhonour into a secret, continued the
soldier, I was informed this morning, that the land·
lady is neither more nor less than a witch, and
her goodman is second-sighted, and can tell,
awake him from his sleep when you please, the
precise hour of the night, and the exact minute.
To cut short our story, the captain at night ac-
companied the seljeant, well provided with fire
arms, and a sword, to the chamber alluded to.
Having placed the arms upon the table, he lay
down by the soldier's side in a bed withoutcurtains,
bot enclosed with a frame of wainscoting with
sliding doors. At midnight, they heard three
knocks on one of the pannels, when the captain
-arose, ran to the door, which be found fast locked,
JUld having a candle, searched every corner of the
room without making any discovery. He lay down
A second time, and aboutan boor after again heard
tJae knocking three distinct times as before. At-
tempting to get up, the whole wainscoting tumbled
·down upon the bed, the violent noise of which
alarmed the seljeant, who cried out, the witch !
the witch is within ! It was a cQnsiderable time be-
Jore they could extricate themselves from tbe
·boarding, bot so sooner was the captain disentan·
gled than he saw a prodigious large. sable oat
168 THE DEMON Ofi' JEDBURGH,
8ying to the window, at.which hefired a pistol, and
shot oft' on~ of ita ears.
· Next morning the captain called the landlord,
and enquired how longhia house had been haunted.
The landlord replied, yon must ask my wife,·when
she returns home, for she is seldom in bed after
midnight. J ost as the husband was so saying, the
wife came into the kitchen, and falling into a
swoon upon seeing the captain, fell down pros-
trate on the 8oor, discomposed her head-dress, and
diacoTered a terrible wound on the left side of her
head and the want of an ear. The captain swore
that he would take her before the provost, in order
that she might be committed for trial, but the bus-
band interfering, arid the captain well knowing
that.he could not continue in the country till the
next circuit, contented himself with telling the
story among the circle ofhis friends, none ofwhom
had the least reason to doubt his veracity, as he
-was a gentlem~n of strict honour, undaunted cou-
rage, and tried integrity.~It may be inferred from
this that witches have a capacity of changing their
outward form, and appearing in the shape ofa cat,
or the like, at the will ; but this might only be in
the imagination of the captain and the serjeant,
for it would be hard to account for the loss of thls
:witch's real ear, had she changed her body to that
of the animal upon which the captain supposed he
.bad .fired.
How to reconcile these and various similar
·stories to the standard of common credence, is a
task no less diffioolt 'than problematical ; and to
.aacertain the real C!'U8e of the scarcity, now a days,
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
THE DEMON OF JBDBURGR. 359
ofsuch mysterious and unaccountable occurrences,
is at least a proof that the devil has been lo,.ing
latterly, from some cause or other, much of his
ascendancy over the human mind. To attempt
to explain, or do away with the supposition, that
spirits, apparitions, demons, or other preternatural
agents, " hobgoblins damned," or ondamned,
would be to attack the fundamental parts of the
christian religion, which we are told and taught to
believe constitutes a part of the law of the land.
Thewisest philosophers, heroes, and vagrants, have
all, from the remotest antiquity downwards, testi~
fied to their appearance; and divines themselves
have been equally orthodox, and active in pro-
mulgating the force of their testimony in support
of the doctrine of preternatural agency ; which
neither the supposition of a morbid imagination,
'' contained in tabular views • of the various com-
parative degrees of faintness, vividness, or inten-
sity, supposed to exist between sensations and
ideas, when conjointly excited or depressed," can
account for on rational principles, when the mind
is curious to be divested of all these presumed
causes. That there are states and conditions of
the mind, when, from intensity of excitement, the
imagination may be played upon no one will deny ;
but that such causes should always have existed,
is equally as preposterous and absurd~till be-
tween these and imposture, pe3rhaps troth may lie ;
and then it is 1;\ point of scepticism.that does little
honour to the social compact, to cast even a shade
(){ doubt on the moral character of a man~ whose
* See Hibbert's Philosophy of Apparitions.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
360 THB GHOST OP IUIJHJS C&SAR.
veraoity was never before impeached on any other
-.ubjeet.
THE GHOST OF JULIUS C..ESAR.
MARCUS BRUTUS, one ofthe murderers ofJulius
·Cresar, being one night in his tent, saw a mon-
strous figure come in about the third hour of the
night. Brutus immediately cried out, what art
thou, a man or a god ? and why art thou come
hither? The spectre answered, I am thy evil
genius; thou shalt see me at Philippi. Brutus.
calmly answered, I will meet thee there. How•
ever, he did not go, but relating the affair to Cas-
sius, who being of the sect of Epicurus, and be-
lieving nothing ofthese matters, told him it was a
mere fancy ; that there was no such thing as genii
or other spirits, which could appear to men; that
even if they should appear, they could not assume
a human shape or voice, and had no power over
men. Though Brutus was somewhat encouraged
by those reasons, he could not entirely get the
better of his uneasiness : but this very Cassius, in
the midst of the battle of Philippi; saw Julius
Cresar, whom be had assasinated, riding up to him
full speed, which t~rrified flim so much, that he fell '
upon pis qwq1$word. ·
7~ g¥sts of the slain at the battle_ ofMarathoa.
· Pausanias writes, that four hundred years after
the battle of Marathon, there were stiU beard in
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
THB GHOSTS OIP THB SLAIN. 361
the place where it was fought, tbe neighing of
horses, and the shoats of soldiers, animating one
another to the fight. Plutarch also speaks or
spectres seen, and dreadful howlings heard in the
public baths, where several citizena of ChOlronea,
his native town, had been murdered. He says, that
the inhabitants bad been obliged to shut up these
baths, bot that, notwithstanding the precaution.
great noises were still heard, and dreadful spec-
tres frequently seen by the neighbours. Plutarch,
who is an author of acknowledged gravity and
good sense, frequently makes mention qf speotrea
and apparitions ; particularly he ~ays, that in the
ftlmous battle above alludecJ to, seveJ1ll soldier•
saw the apparition of Theseus fightipg for tho
Greeks and against the P~rsian11.
Familiar spirit or ancient Brot{mic.
lt is recorded in Socrates, that after the defeat
ofthe Athenian army under the pnetor Laches, as
be was flying incompany witll the Athenian general,
and came to !1. place where several roads met, he
refused to gp the same roat:l that the others took,
and.the reason being asked him, be answered that
his genus, or familiar spirit, who frequently at..
tended him, dissuaded him from it; and the event
justified ~e prec~utioo, for all those who went a
difFerent way, were killed, or m~de priSOPera by
the enemy'IJ cavalry.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
GIPSIES-EGYPTIANS.
IN most parts of thE' continent the gipsies are
called Cingari, or Zingari; the Spaniards call
them Gitanos, the French Bohemiens or Bohe-
miennes.
It-is not certain when the Gipsies, as they are
now termed, first appeared in Europe ; but men-
tion is made of them in Hungary and Germany,
so early as the year 1417. Within 10 years after-
wards we bear of them in France, Switzerland
and Italy. The·date of their arrival in England
is more uncertain ; it is most probable that it was
not until near a ·century afterward. In the year
1530, they are spoken of in the following manner,
in thE' penal statutes. .
" Forasmuch as before this time, divers and many outlandish
people calling themaelv~ l:r;yptians,_ualot; no craft nor feat of
merchandize, have come fnto this realm, and gone from &hire to
ahire, and place to place, ·in-great company, and U86d great
aabti.l and crafty means to deceive the people; bearing them in
miadthat they, by palmiltrj~could tell men's and women's foe-
tunes 1 and 10 many timet, by craft and subtilty, have deceh·ed
the people of their money; and also have conunitted many
heinous felonies and robberies; to the great hurt and deceit of
the people.they have come among," &c.
This is the preamble to an act, hy which the
Gipsies were ordered to quit the realm under
heavy penalties. Two subsequent acts, passed in
1555 and 1565, made it death for them to remain
in the kingdom; and it is still on record, that
thirteen were executed under these acts, in the
co1mty ofSuffolk, afew years before the restoration•.
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
. GIPSJBS-BGYPTIANS. 861
It was not till about the yead783, that they were
repealed.
The Gipsies we~ expelled France in 1560, and
Spain·in 1591: but it does not appear they have
been extirpated in any country. '!'heir collective
numbers, in every quarter of the globe, have been
calculated at 7 or 800,000•. They are most numer-
ous in Asia, and in the northern parts of Europe.
Various have been the opinion relative to their
origin. That they came from Egypt, has been
the most prevalent. This opinion (which has pro-
cured them here the name of Gipsies, and in
Spain that of Gittanos) arose from some of the
first who arrived in Europe, pretending that they
came from that country; which they did, perhaps,
to heighten their reputation for skill in palmistry
and the occult sciences. It is now we believe
pretty generally agreed,. that they came originally
from Hindostan ; since their language so far coin-
cides with the Hindostanic, that even now, after a
lapse of nearly four centuries, during which they
have been dispersed in various foreign countries,
nearly one half of their words are precisely those
of Hindostant; and scarcely any variation is to
be found in vocabularies procured from Uie Gipsies
in Turkey, Hungary, Germany, and those in Eng-
landt. Their manners, for the most part, coincide,
as well as the language, in every quarter of the
• GreJiman's History of the Gipsies.
t Grellman's opinion seems extremely plausible, that they are
of the loweat.cJan of Indians, called' ~t~lkrl, and that they left
India when Timur JJar; ravar;ed that country in 1408and 1409>
puttiar; to death Immense numbers of all ranks of people.
t Mr. Marsden flret made inquiries amonr; the English Gip-
sies concernin1 their lan,aap.-Yidc Archeolo1ia, vol. ii.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
364 GlPBIES-BGYPTIANS.
globe whet~ they are found ; being the same idle
wandering set of beings, and seldom professing
any mode of acquiring a livelihood; except that of
f()rtone-tellio~.. Their religion is always that of
p. 382--386. Mr. Coxe communicated a vocabulary of worda
ated by thole of Hun&ary.-See tbe same vol. of the Archeo-
lop, p. SST. Vocabulariee ~fthe German Gi,Psies may be aeea
ill Grellman's Book.. Any penon wishing to be coov!nced of
this similarity oflanguage, and being possessed of a vocabulary
of words used in Hindostan, may be satisfied of itstruth by con•
ve~ing with the fint Gipsey be meets.
* Margaret Finch, a celebrated modern adve~turetll, wae
buried October 5!4, 1740, at ·Beck.enliam, in Kent. This re-
markable person lived to the age of 109 yean. She was ooe
of the people called Gipsies, and bad the title of tbelr queen.
After travelling over various parts of the ldngdom, during tbe
greater part of a century, she settled at Norwood, a place
notorious for vagrants of this description, whither her great
ll{e and the fame of her fortone.telliog, attracted oumero..
visitors. From a habit of sitting em the ground, with her -cbla
resting on her knees, the sinews at length became so contracted,
that she could not rise from that.posture. After her death they
were obliged to inclose her body io a detp square box. Her
funeral was attended by two mourning coaches, a sermon wa1
preached on the occasion_
; and a great concourse ofpeople at-
tended the ceremony.
There is an engraved portrait of Margaret Finch, from
a drawing made in 1739. Her· picture adorned .the sign of a
house of public entertainment in Norwood, called the Gip- ·
sey house, which was situated in a small green, in a valley, sur-
rounded by woods. On this green, a few families of Gipsies
used to pitch their tents, during the summer sea£on. In winter
tliey either procure lodgings in Loudon, or take up their abode
in barns, in some of the more dia,taot counties. In a coUage ':
that adjoined tbe Gipaey bonae> lived an old woioan, grand-
daughter of Queen Margaret, who inherited her title. She waa
niece of Queen Budget, who was buried (•ee Ly-., Yol i.
p. 107.) at Dulwich, in 1768. Her rank aeemed, bowt;nr, te
l~!t merely titular; nor do wa find that the gipsies paid her ·ant
particular respect, or that she dill'eted ill any other ~er
J.ha.lt tilat of beinl' a bouaebolder, from the rest of her .tribe.-
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
0 OIP81BS...._BOYPTIAN8. 865
t,be.country in which.they reside ; and though they
are no great frequenters either of mosques or
churches• they geuer.aJly. conform to rites and "
oeremonies as they fHI.d them established.
Grellman, says that, in Germany, -they seldom
think of any D1arriage ceremony; but their chil-
dren.are baptized and the mothers churched. Ill
&glflqd their -children are •baptized, and their
~ead buried, according to the rites of the church;
perhaps the marriag.e ceremony is not more re-
gar.d~d tbPn,in 0 Germany ; but it .is certain they
ere sometimes married in churches. Upon the
whole, :as Grellman Qbserves, we may certainly
regard the Gipsies as a ,singolar phenomenon in
~uropa., For.the space of.between three and four
hundred years they have gone .wandering .about
lik.eo pilgrjm~ apd strangers, yt?t .neither time nor
~ample bas made in: them any ~teration : they
J,'~n ev~r aod eve~y where what their fathers
were: .A.frica mak;es them .no blacker, nor does
.E11rope!Qake them.whiter.
o .F.e.w of . the deseendants of the aboriginal
.Qipsies are to be ·found any where in Europe,
IQJ.d in &glaad less than any where else. The
s~veority of the ·pQiice agajnst this .description of
tbe, d~enerate vag~tbonds .existing at the pre-
aent :day, have considerably thinned their pha-
_Jan.J,e&, ~ brought them to something like a due
sense of the laws and. expectations of civili21ed
,SQciety. , What remail;ts of them, nevertheless~
.contrive one way or other to elude the vigilance
of tbe l~Jws by diff~rest masked callings, under
- GfP8IBS-BGYPTIAW8.
which they oatenaibly appear to 'carry on their
uaoal traffic.
The modem Gipsies. pr*Dd that they de.
rive their.brigin ftom·.the·.ancieot .Egyptians,.who
"~rete famou . (or .their .knowledge in. astronemy
-aiid·,other:soiences; and, under the pretence of
fortane-.teJiing, find. means to rob or .defraad the
igaraoLand supentitioas. To eoloor their iJa.
postures,: they arli:fieially discolour their face8;
.and speak a ·kind of .gibberish or cant peooliar to
t!Jemselves. They rove up and down' ·the coBB1ry
in. large companies, .to the great terror of the
farJMI'IJ,, from whose geete, tarkeysj · anti .tOwll,
'they take oonai,lerable eontribotio~. ' .. ; .. : .
When a fresh recruit ·r& admitted into the·fta·
ternity, he is to ·tak~ the f~;tllowing oath, .t•
mini!Jtered by the.principal maraitder, after gcting
1hrdogh the annexed forms:- . :. .·
.. First, a new name is ·given to :him, by,,..,._.
he is ever after to. be called ; then standiag up
in the middle of the assembly,· and direetiug biB
face to the dimber dmftb.r,.or prinoipallaanof.the
gang. he repeat.& the following oath,• wbiehis·diO"
tated .to him by some· experieooed m~mbel' of
'the fraternity; .namely, ''1, Cr.aak Cali&, do
awear tD he a. true .brother, and ·that· I will, iD
all things; obey the ~ooandg·of the great-tawny
·prince;. lind· keep his oonosel, .ancl 'not di\'ulge
the seerets ofmy brethren. i . ·'
~· I will never leave 'llor forsake the colbpany,
hu.t obsew.e and keep all -the- times of appoint-
ment, ei~er by 'day ·or ~ night, ·ia '-every place
whatever.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
GJPBIB~YPTIA.NS. . 867
.. l will not teach :any ·one to eant, nor will I
disclose any of oui ~yliteriei te them. · ·
" I will take my prinoe's pal't ag,.inst all: that
ah~l oppo~e. him, or:any of uw, aecerdmg to the
u&moat,ofmy ability;:nor will I so'ft'er him, -or any
ene -
beiOIJgiog.to us, to be abua~d J,y any s~ge
Air.,_, ~' ·H:t»ken, :Pllilla~th, .&.ad-_
tJJ..•· Iri14·TO§lel, Ssigmen, ·wlitp J1tckf, Jack-
mea, Bm#dy.BfiiJiets, .Dt~MmertJr6-, Clopper Do:.
gen•1 Patricou. or c,.,ab.; but will defend him,
Gr them, as muoh as I c8n, against all other out·
liea whatever. I will not conceal aught I win
Mt of Liblrituft, or pun the IWffmamt~ but·will
pret~erv.e it..for the use :Of 1he .colllpany. : Lastly,
I wiD oleave to ·my Dozy-wap;t: stitly, and ·will
briJlg her Duds§, Margery PratOr"sU, ·· Gobler~,
0~ .a..at.~, or. Tibl of· thf .Butt•ytt,
'' uy tWDg else I CaD. come at, ·as tlrinniu'"§ for
. ,, . '
hw WPpputgs. . .
The canters, it·would appear, have atrndiuon~
that from the three first articles of this ·oath,
the first .fouDil~ of a oertai'n boastful, worshipful
fraternity, (who pretead to derive their ori~n
&om the elriast,times) borro•ed botll the hint
81\d the form of tbleU· •tablishment; and that
their pret.eadecf: derivation af tile first w.or<\ .Adam
ia a forgery; it being ·o~ly ,from tbe first .Adam
Ty,... · At the . adibi~&ion of a ne\f brother, a
general etotk is railed .fdri •
b(IOJB. or drink, to
• A priva~ d~~illn~ bou~. • t ·Tb~ ~~~., heclt;ei or
bullies. ·; · f Hie weneli, &c; ': ~ Clothes. . 0Rena.
I Tnrkia. '· ••.Y•uai:Ptglo .. H Geese~ ~~ Pl'aD•
4ler, goode, or money acquired by thefl,
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
. .. GiPIIBS"'-BUYPTIAN'R•
!fa!re themselres merry on the occasion. As 'for
peckage or eatables,- this they oan procure with-·
o~t money, for while some are sent to break
tie rntrmans, or ,..oods ·and bushes, for firing;
others are,~tached to filch geese~ chickens, hens,
duoks, or m~ards, and pigs. Their morts, or
wo~• .are their b11tchers, who presently make-
bloody "'ork with what living things are brought
Co tbe,m; and having made. holes in the groond
onder some remote hedge, in an obscure plaoe,.
they make a fire, and boil or broit their food;·
and when it is done enough, fall to work tooth and ·
n~l; and .baring eaten more. li\.e beasts thart
f:tu.man beings, they drink more like swine tbmt
men, ente~aining each other during the time with
s~gs in the cantiQg dialect. As they live, so.they
~ie together, promiscuously, ·and know ·not ho1r to
claim a property dther in their goods or children ;
.and this general interest ties them. more . firmly
t~ether, than if all their rags· were twisted into
l'opes, to bind them. indissolubly from a . sepa-
ntion, which detestable union is farther con-
.solida,ted by the preceding oath. ··
They stroll up and down all summer-time iD
drov~. ~d . dexterously pick pockets while they
are telling fortunes; and the.money, rings, silver
thimbles, &c. which they .get, are instantly con-
veyed from one hand to another, till the remotest
person of the gang (who is not suspected, because
they come.not near the person robbed) gets .pos-
session of it ; so that in ·the strictest search, it is
.impossible tO recover it, while the wretches, with
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
·GIP8U:S..:...0BGYPTU.NS. S()9
imprecation•; oaths, · and protestatioos, disclaim
the thievery. ·.
That by·which they were said to get •the most
money, was, wbea young gentlewomen of good
families arid reputation, have ·happened to be with
ebild before- marriage, a round sum is often be~
atow.ed among Gipsies, for some mort to take the'
child; and, as. in these oases it was never-heard of·
more by•the.·trUe mother aod family, so the dis~
grace was kept concealed from the world; and,
in the event of the child surviving, ita parents
are never.known.
The following account of~se wandering beings.
H taken from Evelyn's Journal, which throws some-
light on their degeneraoy from the primitive
tribes•
. ." In our statutes they are called Egyptians;
•hieh implies:a counterfeit kin.
d of rogues, who
~being English or Welsb people/ disguise them•
sel~es in uucouth habits, aaearing tl:ieir faces
and llodiea, and f~ to tbemselves ·an un.
known, canti..g language, wander up and down ;
and under pretence of telling fortunes, curing
diseases, &c. abuse the . common J*>ple, trick
them :of.their money, and steal allthat is not too
hot or .too heavy for them. See several statutes
~a-against them, 28 Henry VIII. o.lO.l & 2.
Philip and Mary, c. 4 &. 5. Eliz. o•.2(). .
.·•.• The origio .of this tribe of vagabonds oalled
Jiigyplicml, ~Utd popularly .Gipsies, is ·somewhat
obscure ; aUeast the reason of the .denomination il
ao. It ia certain, the aneient EgJ.ptians had the
aiUile of great cheats, and were famous fQr: tho
a2
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
370 GlP(ilf.B-:-IGY~'J'l.A.MS.
~btilty of their .iQlpoatlll'~J•.·wheoe)e. the .aame
might afterwards pass proverbially . into ·.ot.Mr
l&PgiJag!", as . is p~~Uy i)ertaiQ it did inU. .tbe
Greek :~d LatW, or els,e the aacien~ .Egypti--.
l}eiog .muoh versed in .as~I:Q.y, .which in thOJe
days was little bett~r th~Jn~troJqgy, thenamaw.aa
on .tllat. soore .aijutumed by tbeae dise.rt de·boau
~t,.~. .as the Fre.ncb call them, or telletw of
good fo_.tuue~ Be tbis • it. may• .there:ia .. ioaroe
any cq~try in. ~urope, even aUho preaent.day.
but bas its EJYpti~s. thoJJgh aot all.of. them Mde~t
this denomination : the Latins called them~-;
tbe ltaliaos, CingDIIi, and Cilfgwi; tbe Gennana,
Zigeuna; the l"renpb, Bolumism; otbera. ·8••
ce-., "'d o~ers Tsr.•ar.r, &c. .. , ..
Monster, Geogr. L. iii. c. 5. relates, thai they
made their first appetUance in.GerJQaDy; ill'1417,
exceedingly tawny ancl:sun•hanlt, aod in. pitiful
array, though they ~ted quality. and trav.ellekt
with a train of.hAAtUil dQiS.after.tbem,.likenebles.
Be adds, tlaat they ud.,pillpilrtiJ uo.- KiDg Si-t
pm'Wld· of Bohemi-, tuad· o~er . prinees~ T.o
Jeai'!f< )aftef!fN~ ,~h~ :cauae .ioio .fraoce,. and:
thence .passed, into.England. · .!1
P,.aquie~. in hii BecberCfhea, L. ..IV.•. e.; 19;
relates the origin ofthe. Gipsies th~s: Oa.the 12tW
Qf Ap.-il, 1427, there..came to..Paris.tWCIJ,ye. pe.:
nitents, or .peraens, as..they .sai~. adjudged tO
peDiiDce ; viz. one ·dllM, .one .cooot,. and tea ~­
'faliers, or pe{loils on hon.e~k; they.tOok.~oa
· themiebes the. characters of .ChriatiaDI: ofc tlatt~
Lower::Egypt;,.. ~llpellllid .~by .th~ · S8J'aelis:t~ who
laaTi.Dg.made applicatiem1to -the.·Pope; aiid ·oaa..;
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
.QIPSIBI..;...;.BGYPTI.A.Nl\. 871
feued 6eir sins~ reoei"ed 'for peD81108, that tlaey
should travel. through the world .for seven .years,
without everlyiag in a bed. ·TJaeiJ., traio oousiated
of UO persons, men,•wOmen, aad claildrea, .which
were all thet·were'left o~ 1200, who came t~
out of Egypt\;. T.hey had lodgings asaigned ·them
id the chapel,· atid people weat ia .crowds ·to ue
them. Their. ears were perfora~, and aiher
bookies hlmg to1hem. Their hair waa noeedioJ)y
bladk aad frizzled ; their. women were qgly;1
tlliHeiJ, and pr.e~nders to telliDg of fertuneJ.
Tile bishop :aooil after obliged them to ·retire, and
esee....autiioated·such as had ·shewn them. theft
banda•.,
By 1Ul ordinance ofthe estatea of Orleans, in. the:
yea~~l660~ it was eqjoiaed, that all these impoetott
uder the ~ame :of Bolteflaicm• and Egyptian~~ do
quit the kingdoia .on the penalty of the gallies.
Upon this they :.diiperaed into lesser compuies,
and spread themselvu-;f)fJtt .E~rope. The ·~t
time we hear of :tJlem U..Eaglenc:hvas three years
afterw:ards; v.iz•.aono U6& : : ·. .
.·Ralph V.olatel!ranaa; making tnentio.n.of th811l-
a8irtns, that they. fi'rat pr®ee4~d or· stllo~d fiom
amo.ag ~e .Uxii,. a .pe«.ple .of Persia .or P.er&ia.
(Bee GJPSI.Bfl.) . ,·.
The .f~&owing ~uiacterUtie aket~; of one. of
the priuiitiYe gipsiei• j* ably::delineated in the po.
pa)Q BOYel, of Quenta.!Qiirwird; :witb,.wbidb we
ahall·dose:tbil~artible t . : _ . . ; . . . . : .
Or~- who eould nt'ilev.e the match proudect
for him by ·tfte K,iogjJoeata love Isabelle; and tQt..
Iowa her :esnort_, ·..Queatia, however, .,11niaGNea
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
..
Brfl .GIPSI.RI!-BGYPTUNB.
bi111, aBd sostaiua a noble combat .with' his co•·
pui~ the renoW-ned ·Donais; till a body o(, tbe
archers ride up to his relief. The assailants.are
carried ol'. prisoners, and our victorious Scot
porsaes his liangerous way, under uncertain gui·
dance, as the following extract will shew :
" While lie hesitated whether it would be bet-
ter ta send hack one of his followers, he bt>ard the
~last of a hom, and looking in the direction from
w~icb tlle.sound came, beheld a ·horseman riding=
very fast towards them•.Thelow size, and wi14;
&bllftgy, untrained state of the animal,. reminded
Quentin ofthemountain breed ofhorses in his own-
country ; but this was much more finely limbed•
•• with the siune appearance of hardness, was
more rapid in its movements. The· head pai•·
tioularly, which, in the Scottish poney, ·is of\en
lumpish and heavy, was small and well placed io·
the·neck of this animal, with thin ja:ws, full spark-
ling eyes, and expanded nostrils•
•• The rider was even more singular in his ap·
pearance-than the horse which he rode, thougt.:
that was extremely unlike the horses of France.
Although be managed his .palfrey with great dex-
terity, he.sat with his feet in ~road s&ii'rups, some-
thing resembling a shovel, so short,· that his k~
were well nigh as high as the pommel of his sad-
dle. Hii lfreu was a .red turban of small size, ia
which he w.Ore a sullied.plume, secured by a clUJ'
of silver; his tunic, which was shaped like those of
tLe Estradiots, a sort of troOps whom the Vene-
tiau at that time levied in the pro'tincea; on the
eutem side of their gulf, was green in co)GUI\'
OIPSIES-BGYPTJANS. 3?3
and tawdrily laced with gold; he wore very wide
drawers ortrowsers of white, though none of the
cleanest, which gathered beneath the knee,· and
his swarthy legs were quite bare, unless for the
complicated laces which bound a pair of sBDdals
on his feet; he had no spurs, the edge of his large,
stirrups being so sharp as to serve to goad the
horse in a very severe manner. In a crimson·sash
this singular horseman wore a dagger on the right
side, and on the left a short crooked Mobrish
sword, and by a tarnished baldrick over the shoul-
der bung the born which announced his approach.
He bad a swarthy and snn-bomt visage, with a
thin beard, BDd piercing dark eyes, a well-formed
~outh and nose, and other features which might
have been pronounced handsome, but for the
black elf~locks which bong around his face, ·and
the air of wildness and emaciation, which rather
seemed to indicate a savage than a civilized man~·
· " Quentin rOde up to the Bohemian, and said
'
to him, as he suddenly assumed his proper po-.
aition on the ·horse, ' Methinks, friend, you will
prove but a-blind guide; if you look .at the tail of
your horse rather than his ears.'
" • And if I were actually blind,' answered the
Bohemian, •·I could gaide you through any coun-
ty in this realm of·France, 'or in tboae adjoining
to it.'
" • Yet you are no Frenchman born,' said tbQ
Soot.
" • I am aot,' answered the guide.
" •What countryman. then, are you?' demanded·
Quentin.
•
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
~.f GIPSI BS-BGYPTJANS.
"'I amofntJ eonntry,'ailswered·the gnide.
" • Hew l of no country?' repeated the Scot.
"· •No !~ ·~wered the·· BOh~miiui, 4 of none.
I am a Zingaro, ·a Bohemian, an Egyptian, or.
whatever the Europeans,.:in their different lan-
guages, uiay·cha.se to call our people; ·but I have
no country.' ·
" ' Are you a Christian?' asked th.eScotchman..
··~ The Bohemian shook his head.
''' D'og',' sai<\ Quentin~ (for there was little
toleration' in the spirit of c~tholicism in.'those
days,) • dost thou worship Mahoon ?'
" • No,' .was the ·indifferent and concise answer
of the guide, who neither seemed offended nor
surprised at the young man's ·violence of 'iD&n·
ner~ . ;
" ·• .Are yon.a·Pagan then, or what are you l'
'' ' I have no religion,' answered the Bohe-
mian. ·.
. " .Durward .started ·bacln for; thoagh he ltad
heard of SaracE-ns and idolaters,· it bad nevet
entered intorhis ideas or·belief,•that·any 'bodyot
men ~onli;l exist who· practiSed no mi1d8' ofworship
whatsoever. He recov'ered;fl'om his astouiahment,
to ask where hiffcguide.osnally dwelt!· ,, : · · "
" • Wherever I chance to be for :the.time: -~
plied .~e. Bohemian.· ' I have no,home! · ·
"'How do you guard your property?'
" • Excepting!the clotbea which I W8!1t; and the
horse I ri~e on, I have no property.'
"• Yet you dress ·gaily, and' mie !ga)l&ntty;
said Durward. · • What are y~t. meaba. of sob·
sistence ?' . 'j
.GIPSIBH-BGYPTIAN8. 8'J6
"'I eat when I am hungry, .drink when I am
thirsty, and have no other means of .aubaiatenoe
than chance throws in my way,' replied the vaga-
bond.
" ' Under wbose laws do you live?'
" ' I aoknowledge o~ence to none, but as it
anita my pleasure,' aaid tbe Bohemian.
"' Who is your leader, and commands you!'
'' ' The father of our tribe-if I chase to obey
him,' said the guide--• otherwise I have no com·
m_ander.'
.·" ' You are then,' said the wondering querist,
'.destitute of all that other men are combined by
-you have no law, no leader, no settled means of
subsistence, no house, or home. You have, may
Heaven compassionate you, DO country-and,
may Heaven enlighten and forgive you, you have
no God ! What is it that remains to you, de-
prived of government, dom~tic happiness, and
religion?'
" • I hlwe ·liberty,' said tlie Bohemian-• I
crouch to oo on~bey no one--respect no oae.-
1 go Wlaere I 'will--live as I cim--and die when
my day comes/
." ' ,But you are subject to instant executlo'n, at
tile pleasure of the Judge.' ·
. u:•Be .it' so,' returned the .Bohemian; 'I can
but .die so much the sooner.'
" ' And to imprisonment also,' saiti the Scot;-
• and w~,·then, is your boasted .freedom?'
'' ~ Ia DlJ"ih~ugbts,' said the Bohemian, • whicli
no chains can bind ; while yours, ev6n when your
limb4 -~ free, remain fettered by .your raws and
376. .GJPSJEs,-BGYPTIANS.
y~r superstitions, .your dreams of local attach-
ment, and your fantastic .visions of civil policy.
Such as I are free in sp~t when our limbs are
chained-You are imprisoned in mind, even whe1t
your limbs are most at freedom.'
" • Yet .the freedom of your thoughts,' said the
Scot, • relieves not the preasore of the gyves on
your limbs.'
'' • For a brief time that may be endured; and
if within that period I cannot extricate myself,
and fail of relief from my cotnrades, I can always .
die, and death is the most perfect freedom of all.'
Tl1ere was a deep pause of some duratioa,
wbjch Quentin at length broke, by resumiAg his-
queries.
.· '' •Yours is a wand.eriag race, unknown tG
the nations of Europ«r-Whence do they deri'~
thcir origin?'
·~ • I may not tell yon,' ~swered the Beh6lDian~
" • When will they relieve this kingdom from.
their presence, and return.to the land from.wheo-ce
they came?' said the Scot.
u • When the dey of their pilgrima8e aha~~ be
accomplished,' replied his vagrant guide.
· " • Are yon· not sprung from tboae. tribes of
Israel which were carried into captivity beyond.
tbe great river Euphrates?' aaid Quentin, wbo had
not forgotten the lore which had been taught .him.
at Aherbn>tbock.
" • Had we been ao,' aaswered ttae. Bohemia•,
• w~ bad followed their faith, . aa~ piuti&ed th6it'
ritea.'
H • What is ~bi.ne .oYD name t• aaid Dorward,
"''-.,Coogle
GlP.81ES.....,EGYPTIANS. f117
."'My proper niline is only known to my
brethren-The men beyond oor tents call me
Hayradain Maagrabin, that is, Hayraddin the
.African Moor.'
" ' Thou speakest too well for one who hath
lived always in thy filthy horde,' said the Scot. ·
" ' I have learned soine of the knowledge of
this lanai,' said Heyraddin.-' When I was a tit.:
tle boy, our tribe was chased by the hooters after
human fieah. An arrow went through my mother's
bead, ud she died. I was entangled in the
blanket ou her shoulders, and was taken by the
pursuers. A priest begged me from the Provost's
archer&, and trained me up in Frankish learning
for two or three years.'
" • How came you to part with him?' demanded
Dorward.
" ' I ·stole money from him-even the God
which be worshipped,' answered Hayraddin, with .
perfect composure; ' he detected me, and beat
me-l stabbed him with my knife, fled to the
woods, and was again united to my people.'
" ' Wretch I' said Durward, • did you murder
your b'eoefactor?' ·- -
" • What had he to do to borden me with his
beoetlb! !-The Zingaro boy was no house-bred
cur to dog the heels of his master and crouch
beneath his blows, for scraps of food-He was th~
imprisoned wolf-whelp, which at the first oppor~
tunity ·broke his chain, rended his master, and re-
taroed to his wilderness.'
" There was another. panse, when the young
Scot, with a view·of still farther investigating the
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
. 878 JlJGGLBRS, &c. ·
character and ·p~ose: of this suspicious gttide,
asked·Hayraddin, ' Whether .it ·was not t.roe that
his people, amid .theii- igno~, pretendoo·t.o a
knowledge of futurity, which· was not given to·tbe
sages,.p.hilosopbers, .and di'rill'EW, 'of r,oore .pollslied
society?' ·
· "'We pretend to jt,' said Hayraddin, •·and it
is withjostice.'
" ' How. can.-
it be that so high a gift is })&;
atowed on so abject a·:race?' said·Quentin:· ·
" ' Can I tell you?' answered H&yraddtn--
'Yes, I may. indeed; .bat it is when yo11· sblill
explain 'to me why the dog can t,race tlie · foot~
steps ~f a maD, .while ·man~ the ·.boble a&imal:,
bath no power to trace those of the dog. ·
· These
.. powers, which .seem to _you s~ ·wouderfol, are
instinctive in our' race. From the lines on ·ttae
face and on the hand, we can. tell the:future· fate
. of those wh~ consult us, .even as surely as you
know from. the blossom ofthe tree in spring, what
fruit it will.bear in the harvest.' "
.·
JUGGLERS, THEIRORIGIN,EXPLOITS,
&c.
THOSE occupations. which. were of th~ moat ab-
solute necessity to.the support.of.existenc~, were,
doubtless, the earliest, and, in ~Et inf~cy p{ .s~
ciety, the sole employments th~t eagaged ~tten·
tion. Bat whe11 the ~ an4 ind~try .of .a fe~
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
JUGGJ,.BBS.
were follDd·sufficient for the mainteaance oftnany,
property b~gan to accWIUlla~ in the hands of in-
dividuals, a11d as all COilld .no' Ienger be engaged
in the productions of the necessaries of life, those
-.ho were excluded.applied their.ingenuity to thoae
arts which, by contributing ·to the convenience·of
the .former, might enable them to participate in the
fruits of their labour; and ·several of these have
acquired· a.pte.emi~ence. oMer•the more useful avo-
eations. A taste for the wonderful seems to be
"utural to man in every stage of society, and at
almost every period·oflife; We, th~refore, cannot
wonder that, from the•earliest ages, persou have
been fo~nd, who,·moreidle 01'.aiote ingenious thau
otlters, have availed themselves of this propensity,
tG obtain an easy livelihood by levying oontribu-
tious 01J the curiosity of the pnblic. Whether this
Urate is to be considered as aproofof the weakness
of ourjudgment, or ofinnate inquisitiveness,w•iob
stimulates us to enlarge the sphere of our know·
ledge, mast be l~ft to \he decision of metapbysi-
ci~ns; it is.sufficient for our prest!nt purpose to
know: that it gave rise to a numm;ous cla.Ss of· pel'•
sons; whoin; whether performeni of sleight of hand,
rope-dancers,. mountebanks, teachers of -animals
to perform exthror.dinary tricks, or~ in· ~tt, w.ho
flelude the ~senses, 'and practice haimrless deciep.tio•
on sp~ctators, ·we include ulider the coDimon title.
ofJugglers. , · · .'
· 'lf>t~ arts served··ad other p'!lrpo&e than:that
of mere amusement, they yet merit acertain de-
gree. .of eoooriragemwt, :. as affording at One~ ..a
chea.p. and innocent divenion; bUt ,'Jugglen .ire.-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
880 JUGOLBRS.·
queotly exhibit instructive experiments in natural
philosophy, cbenristry, and mechanics; thD8, the
IOlar miscroscope was invented from an instru-
ment to· reflect shadows, with which a Savoyard
amused a German populace; and the celebrated
Sir Richard Arkwright is said to have conceived
the idea of the spinning nlachines, which have 80
largely contributed to the prosperity of tbe cotton
manufacture in this country, from a toy which be-
purchased for his child of an itinerant iihowman.
These deceptions have, besides, acted as an agree-
able and most powetful antidote to superstition,
and to that popular belief in miracles, conjUl'ation;
10rcery, ·and witchcraft, which preyed upon the
minds of ourancestors ; and the effects of shadow•,·
electricity, mirrors, and the magnet, once formid-
able instruments in the bands of interested peraons.
for keeping the vulgar in awe, have been stripped
of their terrors, and are no longer frightful in their.
most terrific forms.
That this superstitious dread led to the perse-
ootion of many innocent beings, who were sup~
posed to be guilty of witchcraft, is too well known
to require illustration: our own statute books are
loaded with penalties against sorcery ; at no very
distant period our courts of law have been dis·
graced by criminal trials of that nature ; and
judges who are still cited as models of legal know-
ledge and discernment, not only permitted such
oases to go to a jury, but allowed sentences to be
r~orded which consigned reputed wizards· to
capital punishment. In Poland, even so late aa
the year 1739, a :Juggler was exposed to thE! tor-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
JUGGLERS. 381
ture, ulltil a confession was extracted from him
that he was a sorcerer, upon which, withoutfurthef
proof, he was immediately hanged; and instances
in other countries might be multiplied without end.
But this, although it exceeds in atrocity, does not
equal in absurdity, the infatuation of the tribiiiUllof
the inquisition in Portugal, which actu{l.lly con-
demned to the flabtes, as being possessed with the
devil, a horse belonging to .an Englishman, who
bad taught it to perform some uncommon tricks ;
and the poor animal is confidently said to ha•e
been publicly burned at Lisbon, in conformity with
his sentence, in the year 1601.
The only parts of Europe in which the arts of
sorcery now obtain any credit, is Lapland; where,
indeed, supposed wizards stillpractiseincantations,
by whieb they pretend to obtain the knowledge of
future events, and in which the credulity of the
people induces them to place the most implicit
confidence. On such occasions a magic drum is
oaually employed. This instrument is formed of a
piece of wood of a semi-oval form, hollow on tbe
flat side, and there covered with a skin, in which
various uncouth figures are depicted; among which,
sincethe introduction ofCbristianity into that coun-
try, an attempt is usually made to represent the acts
of 6Ur Saviour and the Apostles. On this covering
1everal brass rings of different sizes are laid,
while the attendants dispose themselves in many
antic postures, in order to facilitate the charm ; the
drum is.then beat with the horn of a rein-deer,
'WilWh occasioning the skin to vibrate, putl the
rings in motion round the figures, and, according
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
JUGGLERS.
to the positions which they.occupy, the officiating
seer pronounces his prediction.
It is unfortunate that ~fall the books (and there
were several) whieh treated ofthe arts of conjura-
tion, as th_ey were practised among the ancients,
·not one is now extant, and all that we know upon
the subject is collected from insolated facts which
have been inciden,tally mentioned in other writings.
From these it would. however, appear, that many
ofthe 'deceptions which still continue to excite as-
tonishment, w~re then common.
A century and a half before our re~, during the
revolt of the slaves in Sicily, a Syrian of their
number, named Eonus, a man of considerable
taleot, who after having witnessed many vicissi.
tudes, was redooed · to that state, b~came the
leader of his companions by pretendingto an in-
spiration from the gods ; and in or.der to confirm
the divinity of his mission by miracles, .be use4
to breath flames from his mouth when addressing
his followers. By this art the Rabbi Barchschebaa
also made the credulous Jews believe that he w~
the Messiah, daring the sedition which he excited
among- them mthe reign of Adrian; and, two
centuries afterwards, the-Emperor Constantina was
impressed with great dr~d. wlaen. informed that
one of the body-guards bad been seen to breathe
out fire. · Historians tell us tbat these deceptions
were performed by putti~g inftaminable substances
intO a nut~shell pierced at both erids, whic,. 'Nu
theD secretly conveyed into the month and breafbed
•Our own fire-.eaters ~ontent themselv61
·~A......... a small ball,
_,,,~,-,,Coogle
- JUGGLERS•
which is sufFered to b:urn until nearly consumed ;
more flax is then tightly rolled round it, and the
fire will thus remain within for a long time, and
sparks may be blown from it without injury, pro-
vided the air be inspired, bot by the month bot
through the nostrils. The ancients also performed
some curious experiments with that inflammable
mineral oil called Naphtha, which kindleson merely
exposing near afire. Allusion is supposed tohav~
been made to this in the story of the dress of
Herculus, when it is said to have been dipped in
the blood of Nessus. Many assert that -it was
with this substance Medea destroyed Creusa, by
sending to her a dress impregnated with it, which
burst into flames when she drew near the fire of
the altar ; ·and there can be no doubt that it was
used bythe priests on those occasions when the
sacrificial offerings took fire imperceptibly.
The trial by Ordeal, in the middle ages, in which
persons accused of certain crimes were forced to
prove their innocence by walking blindfold among
burning ploughshares, or by ·holding heated iron in
their hands, was probably little else than a juggling
trick, which the priests conducted as best suited
their views. The accused was committed to their
care daring three entire days previous to the trial,
and remained in their custody for the same space
.after it was over ;-the Ordeal-took place in the
church under their own immediate inspection ; they
not only consecrated, but heated, the iron them-:-
'Selves; mass was then said, and various ceremonies
were performed, all calculated to divert the atten•
tion of the spectators ; and when the operation
was over, the part which had been exposed to the
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
JUGGLERS.
fire, was carefully bound up and sealed, not to be
apened until the end of the third day ; doubtless,
therefore, the time before the trial was occupied in
preparing the skin to resist the effects ofthe heat.
and that afterwards in. obliterating the marks of
any injuryit might have sustained. That such was
the fact has, indeed, been acknowledged in the
works of Albertus Magnus, a Dominican friar,
who, after the trial by Ordeal had been abolished,
published the secret of the art, which, if his ac-
count be correct, consisted in nothing more than
covering the hands and feet at repeated intervals
. wi~ a paste made of the sap of certain herbs
mixed together with the white of an egg.
This deception was, however, practised in times
more remote than the period to which we have
. alluded. There was anciently an annual festival
held on Mount Soracte, in Etruria, at wbich cer~
tain people called Hirpi, used to walk over live
embers, for which performance they were allowed
some peculiar~ privileges by the Roman senate ;
the same feat was achieved by women at the tem-
ple of Diana, at Castabula, in Cappadocia·; and
allusion is even made, in the Antigone of the Gre-
cian poet Sophocles, who wrote nearly five cen-
~ries anterior to our rera, to the very species of
Ordeal which has beenjust noticed.
In modern times, much notice has been excited
by jugglers, who practised deceptions by fire.
Towards the end of the seventeenth century, one
Richardson, an Englishman, excited great uto•
nisbment at Paris, by pretending to chew burning
eoals and to swallow melted lead, with many .other
JUGGLERS. 385
equally extraordinary feats; some of which are
·thus recorded in Evelyn's diary :-October the
8th, 1672, ttxtk leave of my Lady Sunderland,
·who was going to the Hague to my Lord, now
ambassador there. She made me stay .dinnel" at
··Leicester House, and afterwards sent for Richard-
son, the famous fire-eater. He, before us, de-
·voured brimstone on glowing coals, chewing and
swallowing them. · He melted a beere glasse and
eat_e it quite up; tlK>n taking a live coal on his
tongue, he put on it a raw oyster; the coal was
blowne on with bellows till it Oamed ana spar-kled
in his mouth, and so remained until the oyster was
· quite boiled ; then he melted pitch and wax with
sulphur, which be dranke· down as it flamed."
Many ofour readers must recollect Signora Girar-
delli ; and -
Miss Rogers, the American fire-eater,
who was announced as having entared a heated
oven with a leg of mutton in her band, and having
remained there until it was baked ! This young lady
exhibited all the tricks usually perfOrmed by such ·
.peJ"Sons; she washed her hands in boiling oil, and
then suffered aquafortis to be poured ov.er them ;
but below the oil, there, no doubt, was a qunntity
of water, the air from which, when heated, forcing
· itselfthrough the supernatant oil, gave it the ap-
pearance of boiling, when in reality its temperature
probably did not exceed a hundred degrees of
Fahrenheit; and when tlte hands were once well
coated with oil, there was no danger from the aqllft-
fortis. She had also a ladle of melted lead, out of
which she appeared to take a little with a spoon
and pour into her mouth, nod then to return in the
s
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
386 J:UGGLBRS.
shape of a solid lump ; but in pretending to .take
the lead into the spoon, it was, in fact, quicksilver
that was received, through a dexterous contri·
vance in the ladle, and this she swallowed, the
solid lead having been previously placed in her
mouth. She, besides, repeatedly placed her foot
on a ba~ of hot iron ; bot the rapidity with whith
she removed it scarcely allowed time to injure the
most delicate skin, even had it not been previously
prepare4 ! the cuticlc of the hands and ofthe soles
of the feet may, however, be easily rendered suffi-
ciently .callous to support a longer experiment.
This effect will be produced if it be frequently
punctured, or injured by being in continual con·
tact with bard substances ; repeatedly moistening
it with spirit of vitriol will also at length render it
horny and insensible ; and thus if is not nncom•
moo to see the labourers at copper-works take- the
melted ore into their hands~
_ The exhibition of cups and balls is of great anti-
quity, and depends entirely on manual dexterity.
It is mentioned in the works of various ancient
authors, one of whom relates the astonishment of a
cou~tryman, who, on first witnessing the perfor-
mance, exclaimed, " that it was well he bad DO
sqcb animal on his farm, for under such hands DO
doubt all his property would soon disappear."
Feats of strength have beeri common to. all
countries in every age. More than nfteen han·
dred years ago, there were persons who -exe\ted
astonishment by the since ordinary exhibition of
supporting vast weights upon the breast; and of
.even suffering iron to be forged on an anvil placed
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
.JUGG!.BRS,
upo!l it~ But these were mere tricks : .to support
the fonner, it is oaly neeessary to. plooe the body
in such a position, with the shoulders and feet
resting against some support, es that it shall form
.an arch; and as for the latter, ifthe anvil be large
\
and the u'Jwaer small, the stroke will scarcely be
felt; for the aetion and reaction being equal and
reciprocal, an anvil·of two hundred pounds weight
will resist the stroke of a hammer of two pounds,
wielded-with the force of one hundred pounds, or
of four pounds with the impetus of fifty, without
injury to the body. ·
In the beginning of the seventeenth century,
there was a German, who travelled over Europe
. under the appropriate name of Sampson, and who
rendered himself celebrated by the uncommon
strength which he displayed : among many other
extraordinary feats, it is said, that he could so fix
himself between two posts, as that two or even
more horses, could not draw him from his position.
The same exploit was attempted not many years
back, in this country, by a person who placed him-
self with his feet resting in a horizontal posture
against a strong bar; only one horse was employed,
and the man was enabled to resist the entire force
of the animal, until both his thig}J bones suddenly
snapped asunder. Another had the temerity to
try the same experiment, and, in like manner,
broke both his legs. These instances clearly show,
that apparent strength is often nothing more than
ajudicioos application of the mechanical po_wers
to the human frame ; and from the catastrophe
attending the two latter may be deduced the anato-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
·JUGGLERS.
mical fact, that the sinews of. the arms possess a
greater·power of resistance than the largest bones
of the body.
Feats of tumbling, rope dancing, and .hor-se-
manship, were practised at very early periods.
Xenopbon mentions a female. dancer at Athens,
who w1'ote. and read while standing on a wheel
which revolved with the greatest velocity; bot the
manner in which this was performed is not ex-
plained. Jovenal seems also to have alluded to a
similar performance at Rome, in that passage
where he says :
" An mtJKi• of>ldctant arlimumjactata pettJUro,
Corpora quiqiU 1oldnt rectum ducmderefunem,
· Quam tu.'' Sat. :dv. v. 265.
·which, however, also wants explanation, although
one of his most judicious translators bas rendere~ it
- - - - " The man who springs
Lilo'ht through the hoop, and on the tight-rope swings.''
Gifford•
.Addison tells us, that, in his travels through
Italy, he' witnessed an annual exhibition that is
peculiar to the Venetiam. " ~set of artisans,
by the help of pules, which they laid across each
others' shoulders, built themselves up in a kind of
pyramid ;. so that you saw a pile of men in the air,
of four or five rows, rising one above another.
The weight was so equally distributed that every
man was well able to bear his part of it ; the
stories, if they might be so called, growing less
. and less as they advanced higher and higher. A
JUGGLERS. 389
little boy presented the top ofthe ,pyriUilid, who,
after a short space, leaped off, with a great deal
of dexterity, into the arms.of one who caught him
at the bottom." But this was Qnly the. revivalof
an ancient feat, which, as we learn from the follow·
ing verses of the poet Claudian, .was formerly.
practised among the Romans :-
" Yel qui mare nrrum sesejaculantur in aural,
Corpqraque adi.ficant celeri crusentia IIU'II,
Querain compolilam puer aupentatu1 in arce"'
Emicat, et vinctas plani<F, vel eruribwll.«renl,
Pendulo librato jigit ve1tigia mlta."
De Pr. el 0/Jyb. Cono.
" Men pil'd on men, with nctive leaps arise,
And build tbe breathing fabric to the skies;
A sprightly youth above the topmast row
Paints the tall pyramid, and cro,vn~ the show."
Addison.
In the thirteenth century, these performances
were introduced at Constantinople, by a strolling
company from Egypt, who afterwards travelled to
RomQ, and thence through great part of Eut:,ope.
They could stand in various postures ou horses
while at full speed, and both mount and dismount
without stopping them ; and their rope-dancers
sometimes extended the rope on which they poised
.themselves between the masts ofships. ·
. It appears also that the ancients ·taught animals
to perform many tricks that are still.exhibited, and
some even yet more extraordinary. 'In the year
643, a ·learned dog was shown at .the Byzantine
court, which not only selected, and returned to the
several owners, the rings and ornaments of .the
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
JUGGLERS.
spectators, which were thrown together before
him~ but on' being asked his opinion respecting
the character of some·of 'the females who were
present, be expressed it by signs at'once so iig-
nificant and correct, that the people were per-
suaded be possessed the spirit of divination. In
the reign of Galba, an elephant was exhibited at
Rome which walked upon a rope stretched across
the theatre ; and such was the confidence reposed
in his d~xterity, that a person was mounted 'on
him while he performed the feat.
It most require tbe. exercise not alone of .vast
· patience, but also of extraordinary cruelty, ming-
led perhaps with much kindness, to train animals
to exhibit a degree of intelligence approaching to
that of human beings. It is said· that bears are
taught to dance by being placed in a den with a
floor of heated iron : the animal, endeavouring to
avoid the smart to which his paws are thus ex-
posed, rears himself on his hind legs, and alter-
nately raises them with the utmost rapidity, during
all which time a flageolet is played to him; and
after this lesson has been frequently repeated~ be.
becomes·so impressed with the associated recollec-
tion of the niusic and the ·pain, that, whenever he
hears the same tune, heinstinctively recurs to the-
same efforts; in order to escape thefancied danger.'
.In the middle of the last century, there was ·an
Englishman, named Wildman, who excited great
attention by the possession of a secret through the
means of which he enticed bees to follow him, and
to settle on his person without stinging him. A
similar circumstance is related in Francis Broce'-s
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
JUGGLERS. 391
voyage to Africa in 1698, in which mention is
made of a mao who was constantly surrounded by
a swarm of these insects, and who had thence ob-
tained the title of '' King of the bees."
Only one instance is recorded in ancient his·
tory of the art of supplying the deficiency ofhands
by the use of toes; and that is of an Indian slave
belonging to the emperor Augustus, who, being
without arms, could, notwithstanding, wield a bow
and arrows and put a trumpet to his month with
his feet. ·
Oflate years some persons have exhibited them-
sehes in the character of stone-eaters; but al-
though these are·to be considered as mere jugglers,
yet it would appear that ~ere have been others
who actually possessed the faculty of digesting
similar substance~~. Of the instances on record
we shall merely select one, froni the ·~ Dictionnaire
Physique," of father Paulian :~" The beginning
of May 1760, there was brought to Avignon
true lithophagus, .or stone-eater, who ..bad been
found, about three years before that time, in a
northern .island, by the crew of a Dutch ship•
He not only swallowed flints of an inch and a half
long, a full inch broad, and half an inch thick;
bUt such stones as he could reduce to powder, such
as marble, pebbles, &c.~ he made up into paste,
which was to him a most agreeable and wholesome
food. I examined this man with all the attention
I possibly could; I found ~is gullet very large, his
teeth exceedingly strong, his saliva very corrosive,
and his stomach lower than ordinary, which I im-
puted to the vast quantity of flints be had swal-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
JUGGLERS.
l~wed, being :about :five and twenty, one day with.
another. ·IJis keeper made him eat raw tle~h with
the stones, but could ne~er induce him to swallow
bread; he would, however, drink water, wine, and
brandy, which last liquor appeared to afford him
infinite:pleasure. He usually slept twelve boars
a day, sitting on the ground, with one kn~e oyer
the other, and his chin resting on it; and ~hen not
asleep be passed the greater part ef his time in.
smoking." In the year1802, there was a French-
man, who, indeed, did not profess to eat. stones,
but who publicly devoured ut the amphitb.eatr~, in
the city of Lisbon, a side of raw mutto11; with~
tabbit an~ a fowl, botk alive : he advertised.a rep~
tition .ofthe.experiment, with the additiop. of a Uve
c;at ; but the magistrates, deeming the -exhibition
too brutal for the public eye, would not again allow:
its performance. Notwithstanding the public;: di~
play of this man, and.the extraordinary fact of his
having-appeared. to swallow living animals, may
rank him in the class ofjugglers, jt is still prob~ble
that he was no impostor ; for instances o( sue~.
uncommon powers of the stomach ~re by no mean11
rare, and among others we read of another French-
man who was inthe constant habit, as an amateur.,
J){ eating cats alive, and was even strongly sns-
pected of having devoured a child.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
393
LEGENDS, &c. MIRACLES, &c.
A LEGEND* was originally a book used in the
old R<?mish churches, containing the lessons that
were to be read in divine service. Hence also
the lives of saints and martyrs came to be called
legends, because chapters were read out ofthem at
matins, and in the refectories ofthe religious houses.
The Go.LDBN LEGENo is a collection ofthe lives of
the Saints, compiled by James De Varasse, better
known by the Latin name of J. De Veragine,
Vicar~Geoeral of the Dominicans, and afterwar.ts
Bishop of Genoa, who died in 1298. It was re·
ceived into the church with the most enthusiastic
·applause, which it maintained for 200 years; bot, in
fact, it is so full of ridiculous and absurd romantic
monstrositiea, that the Romaoists themselves are
now generally ashamed of it. On this very account ,
alone the word Legend got into general disrepute.
The following is stated to be the origin of those
ecclesiastical histories entitled Legends :-The
professors in rhetoric, before colleges were esta-
blished in the monasteries where the schools were
held, frequently gave their pupils the life of some
saint for a trial of their talent at amplification.
The students, b~ing constantly at a Joss to furnish
out their pages, invented most of these wonderful
adventore8. Jortin observes, that the Christians
• Legend is also used by authors to· signify the words or
letters en(l'aven about the margilis; &c. of coins. It Is also ap-
plied to the iDKription of medals, of which It servei to ezplliin
the figures or devices. In poin~ of strictness the legend dilfers
fro~ the inscriplion, the latter properly signifying words In-
stead of figures· placed on the reverse of a medal.
8 2.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
39f LEGENDS, MIRACLES, &c.
used to collect out of Ovid, Livy, and other pagan
poets and historians, the miracles and portentS, so
found there, and accommodated them to their own
monks and saints. The good fathers of that age,.
whose simplicity was not inferiok' to their devotion,
were so delighted with theie flowers of rhetoric,
that they were induced to make a collection of
these miraculous compositions ; not. im~ning
that, at some distant period, they would become
matters of faith. Yet when James De Veragine,
Peter Nadal,_ and Peter Ribadeneira, wtote the
Lives of 'the Saints, they sought for the materials
, in the libraries of these monast~ries; and, awaken-:
ing fr.om the dust the manuscripts of amplification,
imagin~ they made an inl'aluable present to the
world, by laying b~fore them these voluminous ab-
surdities. The people received these pious fictioas.
with all imaginable simplicity; and as the book is.
adorned with a number of cuts, these miracles.
were perfectly intelligible 1to their eyes. Fleury,
'nllemont, Baillet, Launoi, and Ballendus, cleared
away much of.the rubbisli~ The .enviable title of
Golden LegeJtd, ·by which James De .Veragine.
called his work, has been disputed ; iron .or lead
might more aptly express the.character of this folio.
'The monks, when theworld became.more critical
in their reading, gave a graver tum to their narra-
tives, and became more penurious .of.theh; absurdi-.
ties. The faithful Catholic contends that the line
of tradition. has been. preserved unbroken; not-
withstanding that the originals .were lost in the ge-
neral wreck of litek'ature from the barbarians, or
came dow:n in a most imperfect state, Baronius
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
LBGBNDS, MIRACLES, &c~ 393
baa given the ·lives of many apocryphal saints ;
for instance, .of a Saint Xenoris, whom be Ctllls a
Martyr of Antioch.; bat it appears that Baronius
._,i»&-reaft·this work in Cbrysostom, which sig~
nifies a ooople or pair, he.mistook it for the name ·
of a aaint, .arid continued to give the mo~t authen-
tic biography of a saint who never existed! The
Catholics confess this sort of blunder is not uncom~
moo, but then it is only fools w~o laugh I
As·a specimen of the happier inventions, one is
given, .embellished by .the diction of Gibbon the
historian.·
" Among the insipid.legends of ecclesiastical
hi!ltory, I .am tempted to distinguish the memora·
ble fable of the Seoen Sleeper•, whose imaginary
date corresponds .with the reign of the younger
Theodosins, and the conquest of Africa by the
Vandals. When the emperor Decius persecuted
th~ Christians, seven noble .youths of Ephe!ilJS con-
cealed themselves in a spacious cavern on the side ,
of an adjacent moontain, where they were do()med
to perish by the tyrant, who gave orders that the
entrance should be firmly secured ·by a pile of
stones. ~ey immediately fell into a deep slum-
ber, which ;was miraculously prolonged without
injuring the powers oflife, during a period of .one
hundred and eighty..seven years.. At the end of
that time. the slaves 1>f·Adolius, to whom the in-
. heritance of the mountain had descended, re-
moved the ston~ to: supply materials for ,some
J;ostic edifice. . The light. of the son darted into
the'caverwand.the Seven Sleepers were permitted
to ;aWake : ·after·a slu~ber, as they thought, of a
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
396 LEG.Ij:NDS, .MIRACLES, &c.
few hours, t~ey were pressed by thecalls of.hunger ;
and resolved that,Jamblicbtls, one oftheir number,
should secretly.retu~n to the.city to purchase breacl
for the use of his <;ompanions. ·· The youth,.if.we
may still employ that appel.lation, could noJong~r
reeognise the . once familiar aspect. of his na-
tive country; and his surprise,was increased by
the appearance of a large .cross, triumphantly
erected over the principal gate of Ephesus. . His
singular dress, and obsolete language, co_
nfounded
the baker, to whom be offered an ancient medal of
Decius as the current coin of the empire; and
J amblichus, ·on snspicion of a secret treasure,
was dragged before the judge. Their muiual ip-
quiries produced the amQing discovery that. two
ceoturies.werealmost.elapsed:since Ja~blicbns and
his friends bad escaped from·the rage of a.pagan
tyrant. -The bishop· o( Ephesus, the clergy, the
m~gistrates, tbe people.
• and, it is said, the emperor
Theodosius himself, hastened to visit the cavern of
tlie Seven Sleepers; who,bestowed their benedic-
tion, related their story, ·and at the same instant
peaceably expired.
· This popuhir tale M_
allomet learned _when .he
drove his camels to the fairs ofSyria; and he .h&S
introduced it, as a divine . revelation, into the·
·Koran." The s:.une .story has been.adop,ted and:
adorned, by the .natives _
from Bengal to Africa,:
who profess the Mahometan religion.
· These monks imagine~ that holiness was often.
proportioned to a saiat's fUtbiliess• .·St. lgnatins.
delighted, say they, -to appear abroad with.old·
dirty shoes ; he never nsed a .oomb, .butsuft'ered,
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
LEGENDS, MIRACLES, &c. 397
. hia. .hair to run into clots, and religiously abstained
, from pairing his nails. One saint attained to such
. a pitch of piety as to have near three hundred
patches on his breeches; which, after his death,
were exhibited in public as a stimulus to imitate
such a holg life. St. Francis discovered, by cer-
tain experience, that the devil was frightened away
by similar kinds of unmentionables; but was ani-
mated by clean clothing to tempt and seduce the
.wearers ; and one of their heroes declares that the
purest souls are in the dirtiest: bodies. On this
subject a story is told by them which may not be
very agreeable to fastidious delicacy. Brother
Juniper was a gentleman perfectly pious in this
principle ; indeed so great was his merit in this
species ofmortification, that a brother declared he
could always .nose .Brother Juniper when within a
mile of the monastery, provided he was at the due
point. Once, when the blessed Juniper, for he
was no saint, was a guest, his host, proud of the
ho!Jour of entertaining so pious a personage, the
intimate friend of St. Francis, provided an excel-
lent hed and the finest sheets. Brother abhorred
such luxury ; and this too evidently appeared
after his sudden departure in the morning, unknown
to his kind host. The great Juniper did this, says
his biographer, (having told us what be did) not so
much from his habitual· inclinations for which be
was so justly celebrated, as from his excessive
piety, and as much as he could to mortify worldly
pride, and to shew how a true saint despised clean
sbeeta.
Am~ng other grotesque miracles we find, iil the
398 LBGBNDS, · MIRACLBS, &c.
life of St. Francis, that he preached a sermoa ia a
desert, bot he soon collected an immense andien~
The birds shrilly warbl~d to every sentence, an4
stretched out their necks, opened tbeir beaks, and
when he .finished, dispersed with a holy rapture
.into four companies, to report his sermon to all the
birds of the universe. A_grasshopper remained a
week with St. Francis during the absence of the
Virgin Mary, and fastened on his head. He grew
so companionable with a nightingale, that when a
nest of swallows began to twitter, he hushed them,
by desiring them not to tittle tattle of his sister the
nightingale. Attacked by a .wolf. with only .the
sign manual of the cross, he held a lonl§' dialogue
with his rabid assailrmt, till the wolf, meek as ~
lap-dog, stretched his paws in the hands of the
saint, followed him through towns, ·and became
half a Christian. This same.~t. Francis bad such
a detestation of the good things of this world, that
he would never suffer his followers to touch money~
A- friar having placed some money in a window
collected at the altar, he observed him to take it
in his mouth and throw it on the dung of an as11!
St. Phillip Nerius was such an admirer ofpoverty ·
that he frequently prayed God would bring him to·
that state as to s~nd in need of a penny, and find
none that would give him one! But St. Macaire.
was so shocked at having killed a-louse that he en-.
dared seven years of penitence among the thorns
and :briars of a forest.
The 'following miraculous.incident is given re-
. specting two pious maidens. The night of the•
Nativity of Christ,· afier the first mass, they both
o "'"'''Coogle
LEGENDS, MJRAOLES, &c. 399
retired into a solitary spot of their nunnery till the
11econd mass was rang. One asked the otber,
" why do you want two cushions, when I have
only one ?" The other replied, '' I would place it
between us, for the child Jesus ; as the Evangelist
says, "Where there are two or three persons assem-·
bled I am in the midst of tbem."-This being done,
they sat down, feeling a most lively pleasure at
their fancy ; and there tbey remained from the na- .
tivity of Christ to that of John the Baptist; but
_this great interval of time passed with these saintly
maidens, as two hours would appear to others.
The abbess and her nuns were alarmed at their
absence, for no one could give any account of
them. On the eve of St.John, a cowherd passing
by them, beheld a beautiful child seated on a
cashion between this pair of run-away nons. He
hastened to the abbess with news of this stray
sheep, who saw this lovely child playfully seated
between these nymphs, who, with blushing coon~
tenances, enquired if the second bell bad already
rung ? Both parties were equally astonished to find
our young :devotees had been there since the birth
of Christ to that of John the Baptist. The abbess .
inquired after.the child wbo sat between them: .
they solemnly declared they saw no child between
them, and persisted in their story•.
'' Such," observes a late writer on this subject,.
., is one of the miracles of the ' Golden Legend,'
which a wicked wit mjgbt comment on, and see;
nothing extraordinary in the whole story. The,
two n"Qns might be missing b~tween the nativities,
and be· found at last with a.child seated between ·
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
400 LEGENDS, MIRACLES, &c.
them. They might not choose to account either
for their absence or their child : the only touch of
miracle is, that they asseverated they saw no child,
that I confess is a little (child) too much.
Ribadeneira's Lh·es of the Saints exhibit more
of the legendary spirit than Alban Butler's work
on the sanie ·subject, (which, by the bye, is the
most sensible history ofthese legends ;) for wanting
judgment and not faith, the former is more volu-
minous in his details, and ·more ridiculous in his
narratives.
Alban Butler affirms that St. Genevieve,· the
patron of Paris, was born in 422, at Nanterre,
four miles from Paris,· near the present Calvary
there, atld that she died a virgin on this day in
512, and was buried in 545, near the steps of the
high altar, in a magnificent church, dedicated to
St. Peter and St Paul, began by Clovis~ where he
also was interred. Her relics were afterwards
taken up ·and put into a costly shrine about 630.
Of course they worked miracles. . Her shrine of
gold and silver, covered With precious stones, the
presents of kings and queens, and with a clu~ter of
diamonds on the top, presented by the intriguing
Mary de Medicis; is, on·calamitous occasions, car-
ried about Paris in procession, accompanied by
shrines equally miraculous, and by the canons of
St. Genevieve walking barefoot.
· The miracles ofSt. Genevieve~ as related in the
GoldenLegend, were equally numero08 and equally
credible. It relates that when sbe was a child,
~t. Germaine' said to .her inother, · "'Know ye for
certain that on the day of Genevieve's nativity the
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
LEGENDS, MIRACLES, &c. 401'
angels sung with joy and gladness/' and looking_on
the ground he sa,w a penny s!gned with the cross;
_
whjch came there by the will of God ; lie took
it up, and gave it to Genevieve, requiring her to
bear in mind that she was the spouse of Ch:rist.
She promised him accordingly, and ofteri werit to
the minister, tbat she might be worthy of her.
espousals. " Then," says the Legend~ " the
mother was angry, and smote her on the cheek-
God avenged the child, so that the mother became
blind," and so remained for one and twenty inonths,
when Genevieve fetched her some holy water;
sjgned her ,with the sign of the cross, washed her
t)yes, and she recovered her sight It further re-
IJltes, that by the Holy Ghost she showed many
people their secret thoughts, and that from fifteen
:years to fifty, she fasted every day except Sunday
and Thursday, when she ate beans, and barley-
~read of three .weeks _old. Desiring to build a
church, and dedicate it to St. Denis and other
martyrs, she required materials of the priests for
that purpose. " Dame," answer.ed the priests,
'' we would ; but we can get no chalk nor lime."
She desired them to go to the bridge of Paris, and
bring what they found there. They did so till
two ~:swineherds came by, one of whom said to the
Qther, ' I went yesterday after one of my sows
and found a bed of lime ;" the other replied that
he had also found one J,lnder the root of a tree
that the wind had blown down. St. Genevieve's
priests of course inquired where these discoveries
were made, and bearing the tidings to Genevieve,
the church of St. Denis was began. During its
Dijitized by Coogle
402 L'EGB'NDS, MIRACLES, &c.
progress the workmen wanted drink, whereupon
Genevieve called for a vessel, prayed over it,
signed it with the cross, and the vessel was im-
mediately. filled ; " so," says the Legend, " the
workmen drank their belly full," and the vessel
oontinued to be supplied in the same way with
"drink"fortheworkmen till the church wasfinished.
At another time a woman stole St. Genevieve's
shoes; but as soon as she'got home lost her sight'
for tbe theft, and. remained blind, till, having re-
atored th~ shoes, St. Genevieve restored the wo-
man's sight. Desiring tbe liberation of certain
prisoners condemned to death at Paris, she went
thither and found the city gates were shut agait1st
her, but they opened without any other key than
ber own presence. . She pray.ed over twelve men·
iu, that city po!Jsessed with devils, till the men
,.-e suspended in the air, and the devils were
ox,.Ued. A child of four years old fell into a pit,
and weskiUed; St.Genevieve only covered herwith·
her maQ.tle:and prayed over her, and the .child came;
to life, Nl4t waa baptised at Easter. On a voyage
to Spain sk8l'l'ITed at a port '' where, as of cns•'
tom, ships w.e wont to perish." Her own vessel
was likely to atrike on a tree in the water, · which
seems to have outed the ~s ; she .commanded
the tree to be cut down, and began to pray ; when
lo, just as the tree began to fall, ·~ two wild:
heads,. grey and honibh, issued thereout, which
stank so sore, that the.people there were enve-
nomed by the space of two hours, and never after
perished ship there ; thant• be to God and this
lloly S@int." '
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
LEGENDS, lfllt~CLBS, &.c. 403·
At Mee.la,. a m8$ter not fofgiving his servant
hi~ faults, t~ St. GenevieTe ttmyed him, she
prayed against hiat, He. was ~ately seized
with a hot ague : ....oa the morrow·h& oame to the
holy virgin, mooing with open mouth tik~ a Ger-
man bear, his tongue hanging ott like a boa,, and
requiring pardon." She tben btesse.d him, the fe-
ver left him, and the servant was pardttoed. A girl·
going out with a bottle, St. Genevieve 'c-.Ued t~ .
her, and asked what she carried : she aus•ered
oil, which she had bought ; bat· St. Genevie~
seeing the devil sitiiogtoo the bottle, blew·upon it,'
and the bottle broke, but the saint blessed the oil;
and caused her to bear it hoine safely notwith--
s~ding. The Golden Legeod says, that the peo-.
ple who saw this, marvelled that the saint could:
see the devil, and were greatly edified.
·· It was to be expected that a saint ofsuch mira-
culous powers in her lifetime should possess them
after her death'" and accordingly tho reputation of·
her relics is very high•.
Several stories of St. Genevieve's- miraculous ·
faculties, represent them as very convenient in
vexations caRes of ordinary occurrence ; QDe of
these will serve as a specimen. On a dark wet
night, she was going to chtu'ch with her maid'ell•~:
with a candle borne before her, which the wind·
and rain pot out ; the saint merely called for the \
candle, and as soon as she took it in her hand•
it was lighted again, " without any fire of this'
world." · ·
Other stories of her lighting candles in this
way, call to mind.a candle, greatly venerated by
/
404 LEGENDS, MIRACLES, &c.
E. Worsley, in a" Discourse of Miracles wrought
in the Roman Catholic Church, or, a full refuta-
tion of Dr. Sti.lling8eet's unjust Exceptions against
Miracles," octav<P, 1676. At p. 64, be says;·
,; that tbe miraculous flJa:C candle, yet seen at
Arras, tbe chief city of Artois, may givetbe reader
entertainment; being most certain~ and never
doubted ofby any. In 1105, that is, much above
720 years ago, (of so great antiquity the candle is,)
a merciless plague reigned in Arras·. The whole
city, ever clevout to the Mother of God, expe.·
rienced her, in this their necessity, to be a true mo-'
ther of mercy ; the mllflner was thus : The Virgin
Mllry appeared to two men, and enjoined them to
tell the bishop of Arras, that on the next Saturday
towards morning she would appear in the great
church, and put into his bands a wax candle bum~
ing ; from whence drops of wax should fall into a
vessel of water prepared by the bishop. She said,
moreover, that all the diseased that drank of this
water, should forthwith be cured. 7'his truly pro-
mised, truly 'happened. Our blessed Lady appear-
.ed all beautiful, having in her hands a wax can:.
die burning, which diffu"ed light over the whole
church ; this she presented to the bishop ; be
blessing it with the sign of the cross, set it in the
:urn of water ; when drops of wax plentifully feU
down into the vessel. The diseased drank of it;
all were cured; the contagion ceased; and the can-
dle to this day, preserved with great veneration,
spends itself, yet loses nothing; and therefore re-
mains still of the same length and greatness it did
720 years ago. A vast quantity of wax, ·made up
__ o "'"'''Coogle
.MONKS AND FRIARS, &c. 4()5
.ofthe many drops which fall into the water upon
those festival days, when the candle burns, may be
justly called a standing indeficient miracle."
This candle story, though gravely related by a
catholic wr~ter, as" not doubted of by any," and
as therefore not to he doubted, miraculously failed
in .convincing the protestant Stillingfteet, that
" miracles wrought in the Roman catholic church,"
ought to he bt:~lieved.
MONKS AND FRIARS.-SAINTS AND HERMITS.
THB early monks attracted the notice of the
people. by tho rigid exercise of their devotions.
The greater part of them passed their time in de-
serted places, in divine contemplation, and in the
acquisition of useful knowledge ; in consequence
of which, "they began to be venerated and consi-
dered as heavenly-minded men, approaching. to the
perfection of angels ; but in the course of time,
and on this very account, their reclusion, and the
regard in which they were held, soon induced
multitudes to betake themselves to the same
courses oflift>, though no~ with the ·same views; as
being more profitable than the remuneration re-
sulting from· their own homely and industrious
avocations. The numbers that embraced this pro-
fession became at length so overwhelming and in-
tolerant, that factions burst out amongst them, to
which the spirit of the people soon became sub-
ject, and to cause grievous disturbances thereby,
both to church and state. Many of the wander-
ing hordes, under the denomination of monks, are
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
406 MONKS AND FRIARS, &c.
represented by Gregory Nazianzen, as crews of
.ruffians and banditti, rather than as sober-minded
men, professing a scrupulous morality, with a view
to the amelioration of society and the welfare of
mankind in general. They were cruel, rapacious,
insinuating, cunning, and not uofrequently malig-
nant in the extreme, indulging in the vilest pro-
pensities that shock and disgust human nature;
and if we may believe their contemporaries, no•
species of vice was unknown to, or left unprac-
tised by them. ·
The first dawn of monkish influence and power
in the western world, w.
as ushered in by St. J e-
rome, who. though represented as a very pions
and good man, but having some passious the world
bad not yet gratified, grew wroth with and re-
tired into the east, where he turned monk. ; and,
as if to be revenged of the ungrateful world, he
openly professed, that it were hardly possible to
receive salvation in it without adopting the same
course as he had done, that was, to become a
monk..- And although thus far monkery had its
way paved in the west by t~e resolutions of Je~
rome, it was many years after his dentb, before any
order of monkhood was instituted in tbat quarter.
Benedict, who lived about an hundred years af..
ter St. Jerome, being reckoned the father of the
order in the western parts, and although it does
not appear that be formed any order of monka,
with the three vows, yet since the oldest monkish
~rder in the Roman church is <-ailed by his name,
we shall give first a short sketch of him and his
order; leaving the reader to take, as well in this ia-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
MONKS AND FRIARS, &c. 40'7
stance as in those that follow, as much for granted
as he can well ~wallow, without danger of being
choked.
Of the birth, parentage, and education of the
Blessed Benedict, all we can state is, that his boli•
ness drew his first pious and miraculous breath in
Rome, about the year 480 ; and that having,
whilst a boy, become weary of a wicked world, he
retired to the Desert of Sabolea in Italy, where
he was kindly received and. hospitably entertained
by a monk, whose name was Roman, who lived
retired from man, in the cleft ofan immense high
rock, of.difficult and hazardous acceu. The gene•
rous and christianlike Roman supplied his young
guest with a· portion of all be begged, borrowed•
or stole, or could possibly spare out of his own all
devouringpaunch. Butitwouldappear, that getting
tired of his protege, whose appetite, perhaps, might
betoogreatadrawback uponhisfortuitousresourcea; .
·or whether in the midst of an accidental and unex-
pected blow out that he met with, somewhere or
other, on an Easter-eve, he forgotto sopply hisguest
in the cranny with his .usual fare; 'be this as it
may, all protecting Providence, that " feeds the
young ravens," and who '' tempers the ·wind to
the shorn lamb," was not on this occasion unmind-
ful of young Benedict ; for it turned out that a
certain .priest, whose name we are not favoured
with, and who it appears had been on a.similar
foraging expedition as Roman, against Easter·
tide, was hailed by a voice from heaven, and bid
'' not to tuB> 10 much care of Ais own gut, .but to
carry tlfl!,t he And prcn1ided to the place 'tJJhtrt &-
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
408 MONKS AND FRIARS, &c.
nedict ftJas." The priest obeyed ; gave Benedict
the contents of his market bask~t. and also ·told
him that it was Easter-day, an event that was un-
known to him previous to tbis unexpected visit.
Having, however, been subsequently forced out
of his den to procure food, for it does not appear
that either Roman. or the priest ever returned,
srime shepherds discovered him crawling among
the.bushes covered with'' beasts' hair;" at which
they became.so terrified, that taking him for sooie
savage monster, they were about to depart, when
they had a glimpse of his physo,q, which certainly
formed an encouraging contrast when compared
with the preter human developement of his body;
the result was, the shepherds took courag~ and ap-
·proached him; and having, as the story goes, been
much edified with his discourse, they informed tb·e
neighbourhood of the affair, which.was the means
of young Benedict being well supplied with every .
thing he stood in need of; in return for wbich,
they were as well repaid with godly exhorta-
tions. Dot the devil, who, no doubt, is always
on the que vive when any of his opponents are
getting a-head of him, was resolved. to put young
'Diet's chastity to the test, appeared to him in the
shape of a blackbird, and approached so near to
his mouth that 'diet might, had he thought pro-
per, have grabbed him ; but, instead of availing
himselfof this opportunity to crush old Beelzebub;
'
he heroically suffered him to eseape, although he,
tbe devil, left behind him " so. terrible a disho-
nest -carnal temptation," that Benedict never be-
fore nor after this time, felt such queer and inde,
o,,.,,, ,,Googl_
e
MONI\.S AND FRIARS, &c. 409
s~ribable sensations ; in· short, he was in such a
quandary, that he hesitated and doubted whe:.
ther it would ~ot be better for him to return once
more to the world, the flesh, sin and the devil;
yet, having recovered himself a little from the pa·
r()xysm with which the devil had contrived to pos-
sess him, be threw off his clothes and rolled among
thorns. But whereas Benedict, for sundry causes
and reasons moving him thereunto, did keep a
raven, which said raven the aforesaid Benedict
did constantly every day feed with his own hand,.
which raven, Benedict, whether from similarity
of appetite or other latent and peculiar passion,
always addressed by the familiar and consangui-
neous appellation of brother; on this occasion,
having offt-red him a part of the poisoned loaf,
the sagacious raven rejected it with indignation,
and commenced flying and croaking- about his
JDaster; pointing out to him, in the most raopenous
~aDil•r, - the evil intended him. Alarmed at such
conduct, Benedict said, Brother, I did not offer
you this loaf that you should eat it, but that you
might carry it and hide it somewhere, that it
may never do any hurt. This was done, the raven
disposed of the poisoned loaf, returned, and hf!,d hi~t
dinner as usual•. ·
Notwithstanding this disapptiintment, Floren-
tino did not <'ease to persecute Benedict. He got
together, for this purpose, a number of common
stmmpets, whom he sent to dance naked before
the holy Friar; this ordinance, to the great joy of
Florentino, tb~y correctly performed to tJ,te letter,
•
T
410 ~ONKS AND: FRIARS, &c;
which compelled ~eoedict to leave the place, lest·
peradventure he. might be tempted di r_wOO to sin
against th~ fteah, as he waa in the wilderness, by the
Devil in the shape of a. blackbird. But that joy
was not of long duration, for soon after FlOren·
tjno's bouse _fell down .upon him. and killed him.
When.Benedict heard of bis death, .he w:as. ex-
ceedingly tt:ouble4, ~ot because he died during .his
wicked course~, but becawe he 1ad, he said, lo1t
an enemy, who,ifhe hadlit~ed,1110uld have iacreaatd
his merit~ muck. After th~s·gTeat loss, Benedict
was inforiped,.that Apollo ~till had a temple on the
mountain .of Callillo, and was worshipped in it
'With sacrifices ; he accordingly mustered together
some of his brethren, and went and polled it tiown
to the.ground, set fire to all the groiVes that sur-
rounded it, and having built a monastery on. the
same spot, he converted the whole country round
to chri~tianity•
. The Devil, .as may easily be suppoied, got very
angry with Benediot for having deprived him of
that mountain, .called .
out Benedict, Benedict, tOr
the purpQse of speaking to him, but Benedict,. it
appears, did not vouchsafe to answer him; in con-
sequence of which, the Devil left him, ejaculating,
as he fled away, Maledict, Maledict, what bast
thou to do with me? Why do you persecute me
· so much ? And, in the height of his' diabolical
passion and despair, threw down a wall that was
building, which unfortunately fell upon a boy and
killed him·; but Benedict, to be revenged of the
])evil, soon brought him to .life again. Brother
Plaudo had been drowned, if hroth4p' Mauro had
not been sent by Benedict to draw h~m out of the
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
MONKS AND FRIARS, 8tc. 4Jl'
water. There was a great f'uris made to know who
was the author of that miracle; .Benedict coo-
fe.rring the meHt.·on Mauro, and Mauro, equally
courteous and condescending, attributing it to
Benedict•
. The·order styled the Benedictine, was not only
the oldest but the richest in the RomaJi church.
The costume was black, in.complimeut, no·doubt,
to the Raven, who had the honour of being Bene-
dict's first brother; and the leather b~lt which they .
wore, was believed to possess so much virtue, that ·
it was kissed kneeling by all who visited them, if
they wished to be well•eceived.
The second order of monks, and which, simi·
Jar to the others, arose out of the relaxations
of the Benedictines, was that of Clu11y in France,
instituted about the year 900, by Abbot Odo.
. 'fhis order differed very little from the Bene-
dictine. 'Vhen Odo- was a boy he was much. de-
lighted with Virgil : " he was cured of that dan-
gerous appetite by a vessel, which was very curi-
ous, being shewn to him, but which was within full
of deadly serpents; and lest Odo should, by his
great fondness for Virgil, have been hindered from
applying that vision right, the application was
made by a voice from Heaven ; and which Odo
haviag beard, he flung away his Virgil and all his
serpents with it. And having been after that
much devoted to• St. Martin, though he met with
no serpents in his way, as he went by night to St.
Martin's church to pray to him, he met with herds
of foxes, which so pestered him, that he scarcely
knew what to do ; this plague cont;inued until a .
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
lt2' MONKS AND FIUARI!i, &c.
kind wolf came, and did offerOd~ his assistanc~,
and of which Odo having accepted, that wolf,
when be .travelled, was aoch a gnard to him, and
when be was within doors aocb a porter, that the
foxes never molested him any more.''
The third order of monks in the Roman chnrch ·
was the Camalduman in Italy, instituted by Ro-
maaldus about the year 970. He was bom at
Ravenna, and bad been sentenced to liYe 40 days
in a monastery, for having been concerned in a
' duel; in which his father, who was a dnke, had
killed his adversary; and it was from this circum-
stance that he was miraculously converted into a
monk, an honour which he had previously fre-
quently resused, at tht1solicitation of a brother of
the order with whom he bad contracted an ac-
quaintance. The monk at length asked whether
he would consent to be one of them, if St. Apolo-
nar appeared to him, io which he replied he would.
It was therefore contrived that St.Apolonar, Qr his
representative, should actually appear; and in
order to receive this visit, his friend, the monk and
himself, spent the night in prayer before an altar.
Just as the cock crowed, St. Apolonar emerged
from onder the identical altar, where, no doubt,
his proxy had previously been concealed, " clothed
with lightar;ad having a golden censorin his hand f be
went aboot in his pontificalibos, and incensed all
the a.ltars in the church. and after he had done
that, went back by the same way that he came.
And though it is not said that Apolonar did speak
a word to Romuald us of turning monk, he did
nevertheless, upon thttt vis\on, take the habit upon
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
_·MONKS AND PRtARS, &c. 413
Lim; ~d not having leanat to read and sing his
psalter, he waa taught it by a monk whose name
was Mariaus, and who switched him so severely
on the left-side llf his head, that his left ear lost
its bearing; and which was borne with tbat cheer-
fulness, that he spoke to Maurinus to switeh him
on the other side of the bead, when he deserved
to b,e corrected."
Never was monk so kicked and cuffed about,
persecuted and tormented by the Devil, as poor
Romuald118. At first tile DeYil knocked such a
dut at the door of his ·oell whenever he went to
bed, that lle could not get a wink of sleep for the
noise. Being at length so much exhausted for
want of a nap, be ,began, notwithstaDding the
_
.horrid noise, to · snooze a little, when the Devil
turned himself into SOUle heavy body and laid so
laeavy .upoa-bis thighs and legs, that he severely
bruised them, and broke some of the bones. ·-And
though monk Romualdus often made his tormentor
Jilink out of his cell, ashamed of his evil doings, be
would, nevertheless, not cease to molest him. So
frequently, in fact, was be visited by Armadeus,
and so numerous were their conflicts, that a brother
monk could not approach the cell of Romualdus
without being mist~en for the Devil by him : and
'
bt'lieving this to be the case, he would cry out as
· .loud as his l"ngs would permit-" Accursed, what
wou/d'st tbou ha'Dt! 1 Bold dog, I forbid thee to
come lure; thou poisonousserpent, tkat was thrown
down from HeavBn, I do forbid thee!" These
were the weapons with which this miraculously
converted monk bad always ready to meet the
, o.,,,, ,,Coogle
414 MONitS AND FRIARS, &c.
Devil wheaever he made his appeanmce. One
evening, however, as he was muttering over hie
CompkttU, a whole squadron of Devils rushed iil
upon him, knocked him down, kicked him for fall·
iog, and in6icted several very severe wounds
upon his precious· body ; and although be was
weary and faint witb·loss of blood, he continued
saying all the while his Compklul till he com-
pleted, when by a short pray~r he dispersed the
whole battalion.
Aftler this great ad glorious victory, the Devil
would never grapple with him again; but would,
sometimes, in the:shape of a ~ven, a Bustard,
an Ethiopian, or some savage beast, stand at a dis-
tance, loU out bis tongue, and -make wty·faces at
-him. And although Romualdus was a bit of·a
-dueliUt, as '!'8 have .already shewn, would chal-
lenge and dare the Devil to come np to the mal'k,
.bis devilship was too good ajudge to ventore near
·him ; and finding at length that be ,tas no Diatch
·for Romualdos, be stirred up divers monks to per-
secute him, which, in fabt, they did with great
fury, but with as ill sacceaa as he ;who prompted
them•
.The fourth order of monks.ill that of the Valle
Umbrosa, instituted by one Gilbert, from whom his
fratemity aasumcd the name of Gilbertines. The
reader will at once know enough ·of this Mr. Gil-
bert when ·we inform bim, at once, tLat be was
the pupil of _Romualdus, and .that be was called to
be a monk by acrucifix, whiob, when he .was in
the act of worshipping it, nodded its bead ana
amiled at him.
The fifth order is the Carthusian, instituted to-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
.llfO~KS AND PRIARS, &c. 415
.wards the end of the eleventh century; it is go-
·yerned by iustitations·.f' its own making, and is
the strictest order in the Roman ·church. This
monas~ry was generally the last refuge of the dis-
~ontented, rather than the retreat of unfeigned
piety and devotion; who threw themselves into this
aolitary state of life, to which they fettered them-
selves, by indissoluble vows, for the remaindn of
their days. They were allowed enough of good
bread and.wine,. and although they abstained from
Oesb, and every thing that bad touched it, they
had a plentifol supply of good fish and ftoit. ·
· This inhuman'Order:was·institttted byone Bruno,
a German, bot whb was a canon of the church of
Rheims ; of whom .the .reader ,;ni learn enough,
when we inform him that he was driven to this
deterrbinatiob by a Pamian doctor, with whom he
had been intimately·acqu&inted, and of whose piety
as well as learning, he entertained a very high
opinion, and who for three days following after
his death, when he was on the'point of being com-
mitted t-o the gtave; sate up, and loudly declared,
tltat by thejustjudgment of God'be was damned ;
which, as soon a8 be bad pronounced, he lay down
again.
. There_is ano1iler story that the bishop of Gre-
noble, the uight before Bruno and his six compa-:
nions came to him, in quest of a solitary place. to
Uve in, had a vision, in which be saw Christ come
down from Heaven, and in a deser:t place of his
diocese, called the Chartreuse, built a. palace.
He likewise beheld seven stars of the colour of
* See Geddea'a Tracts.
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
416 . MOHS AND FRIARS, &c.
gold, which having joined themselves together,
they made a crown, which by degrees raised itself
from the earth, and ascended up into heaven.
The bishop at first sight knew Bruno and his com-
panions . to be the seven stars be bad seen ;
and in consequence of this recognition, he b~
stowed upon them all the lands called · the Char·
treuse. In order, also, that Bruno should ba as
little remiss in his duty and gratitude, be erected
the monastery as conformable to the vision of the
bishop as means and materials would allow.
The sixth order of monks in the Roman church
is the Cistertian, said to have been instituted ·by
Abbot Robert; but whether it was so or other·
wise, Bernard bas always been named as the
founder.
Bernard w~ born in France in the Utb ceo~
tury ; and to do him juatice, he seems to have bad
the best natural parts, and the most learning of
any of the monastic founders ; and bad it not
been for the tragical fraud he adopted to promote
a :very unfortunate cruzado, and the other frauds
he used in favour of the Pope, to whom Jae adhered
during the time of a schism, his sincerity and piety
might have been judged equal to his other talents.
His mother, during the time she wu pregnant
with him, dreamed she had a white dog in her
woinb, which in all probability was the reason the
Cistertian monks dressed in white, in the same
manner as Benedict's raven might have' suggested
the colour to the vestments of the Beaedictines. ·
During his infancy Bernard was much ·troubled
with head-ach; and an old woman having been '
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
.MONKS.AND FIUAR8, &:.o. 417
sent for to cure him, be. woold riot su&'er her to
oome near him, fi:om the belief that she made use
of charms. One Cbriitmas-day, when .be was
at church, during his boyhood, he prayed that the
very hour in which Christ was born might be re-
vealed to .him; and when that hour came, he saw a
new-born infant. What a pity it js that Bernard,
who has written so much, did not record that hour,
the day, .the month, and the year, about which
cbronologers are still so much divided.
During a hard frosty night, Bernard was seized
with a violent paroxysm of satyriasis, or strong
caroal inclination : be precipitated himself into a
pond of water, and remained there until be was
almost frozen to death.
On another occasion, during the time be was
preaching to a very numerous congr~gatioo, who
w.ere listening to him, a temptation of vain glory
invaded him, and be beard a voice within .him say..
ing, set, how all the people do attend unto your
word8. He was just going to leave off preaching to
mortify this temptation, but perceiving it wti·tbc
Devil who had addressed him, for the parpose of
interrupting his sermon, be turned about his head
to the tempter, and thus coolly spoke to him-As I
did n.ot begin this serJRon for thee, .so neithe1· will
I end it for thu, and so went on preaching as
before.. He was always very sickly; and not only
rejc;~iced that be was so himself, but he judged it
fit that all monks ought to be so : for which reason
be built Claraoal, and all his other monasteries, in
low dalbp places.
Bernard labonred bard to bring all his monks tQ
T2
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
4Ul .IIO~D AND l'lli.AJUJ, b.
an uuinterraptad:attention to their devotiona; and
having one day, as be was riding, beetl told by a
peasant, " tluJt hefound that to 6~ tilt euy thing f'
he promised him tlie mule he rode upon,. if. be
would bot say the Lord's prayer without·any ~is­
traction of thought. .The· peaaant began .the
prayer, but before be got half through it, he con•
fessed t!Ult " it came into his mind, whether with
the mule he was to have the saddle and bridle
also."
BeingatPavia, a womaa possessedof a devil was
brought before hiP~ ; but before Bemard had time
to otter a word te the woman, the devil cried out,
'' do you think that such an onion .
and leek car-
rier as this, is able to throw me out of possession i"
Upon which Bernard ordered the woman to becar-
ried to St.Sirus'church, in 1Vhicb, though Siros bad
previously dispossessed all that had ever come be-
fore him, be would not do it at this time, that Ber-
nard might have the honour of it himself. The
devil, however, set .tbem both at defiance, and in a
sooftiog manner told them, that neither little Siry
nor little Barny shonld turn him ont. Bot .the
devil was mistaken for. once in his life; little
Barny, as he styled. him, soon served an eject-
ment upon him. To another woman tn the same
city, on whom the devil had lain in a ~ery dis•
honest manner, be gave a stick, with which she so
belaboured him, that he never troubled her any
more.
After Bernard bad persuaded the kiDgs of Eng-
land and France to submit to the·Pope; but not
being able to orevail upon the l)ake of Aquitaine,
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
MONJtS AND PB.JA.B.S, &(:, 419
he went one day to him with the sacrament in his
hand, when the Duke threw himself down at his
feet ; on which Bernard ·gave him a lusty kick,
and tiade him rise and acknowledge the true Pope.
The Duke rose immediately, and being thus
kicked into it, made his submission, and acknow-
ledged the Vicegerent of Heaven.
_
The seventh order of monks is the Celestine,
instituted by Petros Moronus, who having after-
wards become Pope, took the name of C~elestine.'
This JtOor monk was persuaded by Cardinal Cages-
tan, who took. the name of Bonif8<'e the 8th, to ab-
dicate the Roman chair, that he might spend his
whole time in devotion, But his successor, Boni-
face, fearing that were he·at liberty in his monas-
tery, it might come into his bead to return to the
pontifical chair, kept him a close prisoner as long
as he lived.
The eighth order of monks is the Williamite,
called also the order of· ·Monte• Yirginis, and of
Monti1 Olfoeti, instituted by one William, a noble
Italian, which at one time possessed 47 monaste-
ries. ·There were Hermite• who were ·likewise
called WiHiamites, from William; Duke of Aqui-
taiu, but they were amalgamated with the men-
4icant order of the monks of St. Austin.
The ninth order was the Sylvestern. There
was also another instituted by the_
noiJies of Milan;
called the Humiliate, who having quarrelled with
Cardinal Borromeus, Archbishop of Milan, dis-
solved the order and seized all their revenues,
which were immense.
An the preceding orders, besides the Cartbusi-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
420. MONKS AND FRIARS, &.e.
aas, were all onder the Benedictine rule, wbose-
monks were both the oldest and richest pertaining
to the Roman church, in which the ~onastic
rule.~ are four in number-namely, the rule of St.
Bazil, St. Austin, and St. Benedict.:
The orderof monks under St. Autin's rule, as ~t
was called, were the cllDOilS regular, the Pre.otl-
stratemes; the Dominicans; the Hieronomites, in
various shapes ; the SeT'Oites ; the Jesuits ; tbe fAu-
cigeri; the Boni Jem; tbe Trinitarians; the.Ere-
mites of St• .Augu.tin; the Thea#nes; the Pau-,
testte; the military orders qf St. JohN qfJeruaalem,
·'
of St. Ja,mes of CMnportella, of the Tevtomd
order, of St. Lazaf'UI. and of St. Mauritifu.
The Dominican order, ,of which only we sball
here allude, is the third under the rule of St.
Austin, was instituted ~bout the begjnning of the
13th century, and is both the first mendi~t order:
and the first order that had a solemn confirmation
from the Pope. They are very numeroos,· and
_have still many convents ~o Spain and Portugal.
Dominick,.-the founder of this order, was born
in Spain, in 1170. His mother, when ~be :was.
with child with him, dreamed that she was deli-
vered of a hog, with a flaming torch in his mo,atb,
an emblem appropriate enough for an inquisitor ;
and when he was b,ptized, his god mother, al-
th~gb it was visible to no one else, saw a star tbat
illuminated all the world ; and .as he lay in his
crad~e, a S"'!U'Jii of bees _pitched upon his lips~
And, although fro~ the day of his.bap~m to th~
day of his death, be is said never to bave com•
mitted on~ mortal sin, he would, nevertbele!ls, ~e-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
MONKS AND FRIARS, 8tc. 421
fore.be was seven years old, rise out ·of his ~ostly
bed, for his parents were said to have been; very
rich, and lie upon the ground. When be was ·a
boy he wonld never play or me any pastimes ; and
when he arrived at man's estate, be gave all tha~
had been·left him by his father, with the exception
of his books, among the poor; and having nothing
else left to give, be gave them his books also.
Seeing a woman one day weeping bitterly for
the loss of her brother, who bad been taken cap·
tive by the Moors, be begged her to take him, and
to sell him to those infidels, and with the money be
should fetch, redeem her brother; bat, to his ex-
treme mortification. the wom~~on refused to._comply
witb his desire.
One day, when Dominick was in his study, the
tlevil so pestered him in the shape of a ftea," leap-
ing and frisking about on the leaves of his book,
that he found it impossible to continue his reading;
irritated atlengtb by such unhandsome treatment,
be fixed him on the very spot where he finishe«J
reading, and in this shape made use of bjm to find
the place again. Having at •last, however, re1
leased old uick from this demonological dilemma,
he appeared to him again in his study in the
·guise of a monkey, and grinned so •" horribly a
ghastly grin,•· and skipped about so, that hew~
more annoyed now than before•.. To pot a ~to.p
'to-these monkey tricks, Dominick forthwi(JJ com•
manded him, ,the said m()nkey, to take the candle~
stick _and hold it for him; this the mo~key did,
and Dominick made him continue holding it,
o.,.,,, ,,Coogle
4. ·MONKS AND PRJARS, &c.
until it was burnt down to the bottom of the wick,
and although th~ monkey made ·a horrid noise
at burning his fingers, he was forced to bold it
until it was burnt out, which it did until it had
burnt the devil's monkey fingers to the·bone~
Having gone into France with the bishop of
08ma, of whose church Dominick was a canon,
though by preaching and working miracles he
converted the Albigensea about Toulouse by thou-
sands in a day, he, nevertheless, so roused Simon
de Montford, who was general of the Pope's cru-
zado against those christians, by which Montfort,
· and his cruzado,· to which Dominick was the chief
chaplain, that many thousands of those poor
christians- were butchered.
That part of France mast necessarily, at that
time, have been very populous, otherwise there
could not have been so many of those christians
left for Montfort to murder, after Dominick had
made such extensive conversions among them, for
assuredly Montfort _would not lay violent bands
on any of his proselytes. The greatest conversion
ever made by Dominick was after he had the
rosary given him by the blessed virgin, whose vir•
toes Dominick successfully eulogized with all tbe
eloquence be was master of. There was one,
however, desperate enough ·to ridicule both the
ros;lry and the mountebank oratory upon its vir-
tues; but he was soon punished for his audacity,
by· a great number. of devils getting into him;
but Dominick relenting at the sufferings of the
demoniac, although he did not deserve ·such com-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
MONKS AND FRIARS, &c. 423
iniaeration at his bands, called the devils to an
account for the uproarious noise they made; when
the following colloquy passed between them.
DoMINICK..-How came you to enter this mlm,
and bo'w many are you in number?
DEVILS.-(q[ter tremendous howlinga.) We
came into him forbaving 11poken disrespectfully of
the rosary; and for his having laughed and made
" ~rry game" of your sermons. We are 15,000
in number, and have been forced much againstour
iaclination to enter tlne who might have done us
infinite services. ·
])oM.-Why did so many a8 15,000 of yon en-
ter him?
Dsv.-Becau.se -there are 15 decads in the
rosarj which he derided.
Dov.-Wby did you sutrer this mau to be
brought to me?
DBv.-(All together roaring out.) It was done
to our great confusion : we could not prevent it.
DoM.-ls not all true I ·have said of the virtues
of the rosary ?
DBv.-(After the most hideoua be//OtDing) Cor-
sed be the hour iu which we entered into this
alatue TWoe be unto us for·ever ! Why did we not
suffocate him before be was brought hither t But
it is now too late and we cannot do it, for .thou
boldest us in burning flames and chains of fire, so
that we are forced to declare the truth to:thee, to
our great prejudice. 0 yes ! 0 yes! ·Know all
christian men and women, . that this cruel Domi-
nick, this ,impla(lable enemy of ours, ba8 never
saidone word concerning the virtues of the rosar •
42.£ MONKS AND FRIARS, &.e.
that is not most tme; and· know ·ye further, that
if you do not believe him, great calamities will be·
fall you.
DoM.-Who was. the man in tbe world the d...
vii hated the most?
DEv. (All of them.) Thou .art the very man,
who, by thy prayers, and by thy severe ways of
penance, and .by thy serJll()ns, hast'shown the way
to Paradise to every one, and hast snatched our
prey. But know thou, that our dark congrega-
tion and i~tfernal troop ar:e so enraged against ·
thee, that a ·brigade of the strongest and most mis-
chievous .spirits have a commission to fall upon
thee and them.
DoM. (turni11g to the people,) God forbid,
0 Christians I that you sh.ould believe all that is ·
said by the dev-ils, who are liars, and ,inventors of
lies. Not but tl!at the Almighty is able to com-
mu.nicate so much strength to the vilest and most
miserable sinner, as will overcome all infernal
hosts, as yo.u see I do at this time, who am the
greatest of sinners.
DEV.-Cursed be so great humility as this,
which te11rs and torments us. so much.
DoM. ( Thr:orping his stole, for he:had. not
his scapulary yet, ~which has much more wirtue,.
about the neck of the Demoniac~) Of which state
of men among· Christians are there the most.
damned?
Here an extraordinary circumstance took place,
for no sooner bad Dominick's stole touched the.
neck of the demoniac than ·a great quantity ofi
thick gory blood burst out at his n..ose, and a poi-.
"''-.,Coogle
MONKS· AND f'R.ARS, &c. 421>
S6oous clay from his ears. At this sight, Domi-
nick. commanded the rebellions devils to de~ist
from tormenting the poor sinner.
Dsv. We will with all our heart, ifye will suf-
fer us to depart.
DoM. Ye shall not stir until ye have auswered
the question put yon.
DEV. In bell there are a great many bishops
and princes, but not many country people, who,
though not perfect, are not very great sinners.
There are also a greatmany merchants, and towns-
,people, .sncb as pawnbrokers, fraud~lent bakers_
,
grocers, Jews, apothecaries, gamblers, rakes, &c.
who were sent there for covetousness, cheating..
voluptuousness, &c•
. DoM. Are there any priests or monk11 in Hell ! .
Dsv. There are a great number of priests, but
no monks, with the exception of such as bad trans•
gressed the role of tbeir order.
DoM. How are yon oft' for Franciscans?
DBv. Alas ! alas ! we have not one yet, but we
expect a great number of them af,ter their devo-
tion is a little cooled.
DoM. What saint in heaven does the devil fear
moat? ·
Instead of returning any answer to this ques-
tion, the devils begged Dominick by all that was
sacred to be satisfied with the torments h~ bad al·
ready inflicted upon them, and with those to which
they were condemned in bell, begging he would
not insist upon a true. answer to that question be-
fore so great a congregation, to the ruin of their
kingdom ; telling .him, that if be would ask the
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
426 MONKS A.ND PRlARS, &c.
angels they would tell ·him who it was.. This,
however, would not satisfy Dominick, -who, what-
ever virtues he might have, bad little mercy in his
~omposi&n, especially, .it would appear, ·towards
devils. He persisted upon their telling; and,
perceiving how reluctant the demons were ~o com-
ply with his wishes, he threw himself upon the
groood, and went to work, hammer and tongs,
with his rosary; upon which sulphureous Oames
of fire burst forth from his nose, mouth, eyes and
ears ; after this above an hondred angels, clad in
golderi armour, appeared with the blessed virgiD
in the midst of them, holding a golden rod in her
band, with which she gave the demoniac a switch
on the back, commanding, atthe same time, th~
devils to retam trne answers to Dominick's ques-
tions; at this .they llll roared out lustily, 0 our
aemy! 0 our damner I 0 our confusion! Why
diclst thou come down frotn heaven to torment tU
lt.ere 1 Why art thou so powerful fill intercusor
for <~inners 1 0 thou most certain and secure way
to heaven ; but since thou commandest it, a1e nuut .
tell the truth, though it will confoundru, and bring
tDOe and miseryon our princes ofdarknessfor ecer.
Hear, 0 Christians, continued the devils, this mo.;.
ther of Christ is too powerful in preserving all her
servants from hell; it is she that, as a sun,dissipates
all our darkness, a11denerontesand brings to nought
aU our machin'atiom. We· are forced ·to confesa
that nobody is damxed who perseveru in Iter holy
worship; and is dewted to her. · 011e sighfrom her
kas more power than t'M prayers of all tlte saints;
and wefear her more than allthe citizens ofPa,.~
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
MONKS AND FRIARS, &e. -
dise; and you must all know, that vast number1 of
Christians are, contrary to right, saved by calling
upoM her at tlte time oftheir death ; and tlaat tD6
ahould long ago have destroyedthe churclt, ifitJuul·
not beenfor this little Mary; andbeing nowforced
to it, we must own, ·that none who perse-oere in tire
exercise ofthe rosary, can undergo the eternal tor-
ments if hell, for sne obtains contrition for all /
Aer devout servants.
Here the confab ended between 15,000 coward-
lydevils, and Dominick, wha exhorted the con--
gregation to join with him in reciting the ·rosary :
and behold a great miracle : at every angelical
salutation, a multitude of devils rushed out of the
demoniac in the shape of burning coals, and the
b_lessed virgin having given the congregation her
benediction, disappeared, leaving Dominick in
quest offresh enterprises against the devil and hia
horde.
Dominick was a proud designing man, and of a
very ferocious disposition. The stories related of
the St. Franciscan order, are equally absurd and
ridiculous.
Similar stories are too numerous: we shall ther&-
.fore close this ~object with
Tlte Hermit ofthe Pillar•
.(St. Simeon Stylites, St. Telesephorua, St, Syn•
c(etia.)
We are informed by Alban Butler, that St.
Simeon Stylites, the ycleped hermit of the pillar,
astonished the whole Roman Empire by hif mor·
tifications. In the monastery «!f Heliod.<>rt(s, . a
4!18 .MONllS AND FRJARS, &c.
man 65 years of age, who had spent 62 years so
abstracted from the world that he was ignorant of
the most obvious things in it ; the monks ate but
once a day ; Simeon joined the communities, and
ate but once aweek. Heliodortis required Si-
meon to he m<•re private in his mortifications:
" with this view," says Butler, '' judging the
rough rope of the well, made of twisted palm-tree
leaves, a proper instrument oJ .penance; Simeon
·tied it close about his naked body, where it re-
mained unknown both to th~ community and his
:superior, till such time as it having ate into his .
ileab, what he had :priv~ely done was discovered
by the effluvia proceeding.from the wound." But·
ler says, that it took three days to disengage the
saint's clothes, and that " the incisions of the phy·
sician, to cut the cord out of his body, were at-
tended with such angui$h and pain, that he lay for
some time as dead." After this be determined te
pass the whole forty days of Lent in total absti-
Pence, and retired to a hermitage for that purpose.
Bassos, an abbot, left with him ten loaves and wa-
ter, nod coming to visit him at the end of the forty
days, found both loaves and water untouched, and
the saint stretched on the ground without signs of
life. Ba8sus dipped a sponge in water, moistened
his lips, gave him the eucharist, and Simeon by
degrees swaUowed a few lettuce leaves and other
herbs. He passed twenty-six Lents in the same
.manner. In the first· part of a Lent be prayed
standing: growing weaker, he prayed sitting ; and
towards the end, being almost exhausted, h" pray-
ed lying on the ground. A.tthe end of three years
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
MONKS AND FRIARS, &c. 429
be left his hermitage for the top of a mountain,
1nade an inclosure of loose stones, without a roof,
and having resolved to live exposed to the incle-
mencies of the weather~ be fixed his resolution by
fastening his right leg to a rock with a greatiron
chain. Multitudes thronged to the mountain to
receive his benediction, and many of the sick re-
covered their health. But as some were not satis-
fied unless they touched him in his enclosure, and
Simeon desired retirement from the daily con-.
course, be projected a new and unprecedented
manner of life. He erected a pillar six cubits high,
(each cubit being eighteen inches,) and dwelt on
it four years; on a seconrl of twelve cubits high,
he lived three years ; on a third of twenty-two cu-
bits high, ten years; and on a fourth, of forty
cubits, or sixty feet high, which the people built
for him, be spent the last twenty years of his life.
This occasioned him to be called Stylites, from
the Greek word stylos, a pillar. This pillar did
not exceed three feet in diameter at the top, so .
that he could not lie extended on it ; he had no
seat with him ; he only stooped or leaned to take a
little rest, and bowed his body in prayer so often, ·
that a certain person who counted these positions,
found that he made one thousand two hundred ·
and forty-four reverences in one day, which if he
began at four o'clock in the morning, and finished
at eight o'clock at night, gives a bow to every
three quarters of a minute ; besides which, be ex.. ,
horted the people ~wice a day. His garments ;
were the skins of beasts ; he wore an·iron· collar
round his ne~k, pnd bad a horrible ulcer in his
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
480 MONKS AND. FRIARS, &c.·
fpot. During.his forty days' absti_nence through-
out Lent, be tied himself to a pole. He treated
himself as the outcast of the world and the worst
of sinners, worked miracles; delivered prophecies,
had tlie sacrament delivered to him on the pillar,
and died bowing upon it, in the sixty-ninth of his ·
age, after having lived uppn pillars for six and
thirty years. His corpse was .carried to Antioch
attended by the bishops and the whole country,
and worked miracles on its way. So far this ac·
count is from Alban Butler.
Without mentioning circumstances and mira-·
cles in the Golden Legend, which are too numer-
ous, and some not iit to be related ; it may be
observed:, that it is there affirmed of him, that
after his residence on the pillars, one of his thighs
rotted a whole year, during which time be stood
on one leg only. Near Simeon's. pillar was the
dwelling of a dragon, so very venemous that no-
thing grew near his cave.- This dragon met with
an accident ; he had a stake in. his eye, and com-
ing all blind: to tile saint's piliM, and .placing his:
eye upon it for three days~ without doing harm to
QY one, Simeon ordered earth and water to be·
placed on the dragon's eye, which being done, out
came the stake, a cubit in length ; when the peo-
ple· saw this. miracle, they glorified God, and ran
away for· fear of the dragon-, who arose and
adored fortwo hours, an!l returne-d to his cave.
A woman sw~lowed a little serpent, which tor-
mented her for many years, till she came to Si-
meon, who causing earth and water to be laid on
her mouth~ the J.ittle· serpent camo out four feet
~OLY RBLtQUB-MANIA. 431
and a-half long. It is affi~med by the Golden Le-
gend, that when Simeon died, Anthony smelt a
precious odour proceeding from his body; that the
birds cried so much, that both men and beasts
oried ; that an angel came down in a cloud ; that
the Patriarch of Antioch, taking Simeon's beard
to put among his relics, his band withered, and
remained so, till multitudes of prayers were said.
for him, and it was healed ; and that more mira·
cles were worked at and after Simeon's sepulture,
than he had wrought all his life.
. HOLY RELIQUE-MANIA.
Oli the first introduction of the relics of saints,.
the .mania became universal ;. tht>y were bought
and sold, and, like other collectors, made no scru-
ple to steal them. It is not a little amusing. to
remark the singular ardour and grasping avidity
of soine- to enrich themselves with religious mor·
sels ; their little discernment, the curious imposi-
tions and resources of the vender to impose on
the good faith and.sincerity of the purchaser. It
was not uncommon for the prelate of the plac~ to
ordain a fast, in order to implore God that they
might not be cheated with the relics of saints,
which he sometimes purchased for the holy benefit
of the village or town. . Guibert de Nogen wrote
a treatise on the relics of saints : acknowledging
that there were many false ones, as well as false
lcgend11, he reprobates the inventors. of those
lying miracles. It was on the occasion of one of
~nr .Saviour's teeth, that De Nogen took. up bis
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
432' HOLY RELIQUE•MANIA.
pen on this subject, by which the monks of St. Me- .
<lard de Soissons pretended to work miracles ; a
pretension which he asserted to be as chimerical
as that of several persons who believed they pos-
si;.ned the navel, and other parts less comely, of
the body of Christ. '
There is a history of the translation of Saint
Lewin, a virgin and a martyr, by a monk of Ber-
gavinck ; her relics were brought from England to
Bergs. The facts were collected from her bre-
thren with religious care, especially from the con-
ductor of t~ese relics from England. After the
history of the translation, and a panegyric on the
saint, he relates the miracles performed in Flan-
ders since the arrival of her relics. The prevail- .
ing passion of the times to possess fragments of
saints is well marked, when the author particula-
·rises, with a certain complacency, all the knavish
modes they resorted to, to carry off those in ques-
tion. None then objected to this sort of robbery,
because the gratification of the ruling pas11ion had
made it worth while to supply the market. ·
There is a history, by a monk of Cluny, of the
translation of the body of St. Indalece, one of the
earliest Spanish bishops; written by order of
the Abbot of St. Juan de Ia Penna; 'wherein the
author protests to advance nothing but facts; hav..
ing himself seen, or learnt from other·witnesses,
all be relates. It was not difficult for him to gain ·
his information, since it was to the monastery of
St. Juan de Ia Penna that the holy relics were
transported, ana those who brought them were
two monks of that hoqse~ :Pis minute detail of
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
HOLY RHLIQUB-MAlUA. 488
circumstances, he has authenticated by giving the
names of persons and places; and the account was
written for the great festival immediately ins.ti-
tuted in honour of this translation. He informs us
of the miraculous manner by which they were so
fortunate as to discover the body ofthis bishop, and
the different plans that were concerted to carry it
off; with the itinerary of the two monks who ac-
companied the holy remains ; during which they
were not a little cheered in their long and hazar-
dous journey by visions and miracles.
Another has written a history of what he terms
the translation of the relics of St. Majean to the
.monastery of Villemagne. Tramlation is, in fact,
only a softened expression for the robbery com-
mitted on the relics of the saints, by two .monks
who carried them off secretly, to enrich their mo-
nastery; and they did not stick at any artifice, or
lie, to achieve their undertaking. They imagined
every thing was permitted to get possession of
these fragments of mortality, which now bad be-
come such an important branch of commerce.
They even ·regarded their possessors with a hos-
tile eye. Such was the religious opinion from the
ninth to the twelfth century. Our Canute com-
missioned his agent at·Rome to purchase St. Au-
gustine's arm for one hundred talents of silver and
one of gold ! a much greater sum, observes Gran-
ger, than the fint.:llt statue of antiquity would then
have sold for. Another monk describes a strange
act of devotion, attested by several contemporary
writers. ' When the saints did not readily comply
l1
o "'"'''Coogle
434 HOLY RBLIQUJl·MANU..
with the prayers of their votaries, they ftogged
their relics with rods, in a spirit of impatience,
which they conceived necessary to enforce ob~
dience. To raise ouradmiration, Theofroy, abbot
of Eptemac, relates the daily miracles performed
by.the relics of saints-their ashes, their clothes,
or othermortal spoils, and even by the instmments
of their martyrdom. He inveighs against that
luxury of ornaments which was indulged in under
a religious prete:x..t. " It is not to be supposed
that the saints are desirous of such a profusion of
gold and silver. They wish not that we should
raise to them magnificent churches, to exhibit that
ingenious order of pillars, which shine with gold ;
nor those rich ceilings, nor those altars sparkliDg
with jewels. They desire .not the purple
parchment for their writings, the liquid gold to
decorate the letters, nor the precious stones to
embellish their covers, while you have such little
care for the ministers." The pious writer has not
forgotten himself, in his partnership-account with
the saints.
Bayle observes, the Roman church not being
able to deny that there have been false relics which
·have wrought miracles, they reply t~at the good
intentions of those believers who have recourse to
them, obtained from God the reward for their good
faith ! In the same spirit, when it was shown that
three bodies of the same saint are said to exist
in several places, and thattherefore they could not
all be authentic, it was answered, that they were
all genuine ! for God bad multiplied and miraca-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
HOLY RBLIQUB•MANU. 435
lo111ly reproduced them, for the comfort of the
faithful! A curious specimen ofthe intolerance of
good sense.
Prince Radzivil was so much affected by the
Reformation being spread in Lithuania, that he
went in person to pay the Pope all personal ho-
nours. On this occasion his holiness presented
him with a precious box ofrelics. On his return
home, some monks entreated the prince's permis-
sion to try the effects of them on a demoniac, who
hitherto had resisted every exorcism. They were
brought into the church with solemn pomp, ac-
companied by an innumerable crowd, and depo-
sited on the altar. After the usual conjurations,
which were unsnccessfnl, the relics were applied.
The demoniac instantly recovered. The people
called out a miracle I and the Prince raising his
hands and eyes to heaven, felt his faith confirmed.
During this transport of pions joy, he observed
that a young gentleman, who was keeper of his
treasure of relies, smiled, and by his motions ridi-
culed the miracle. The Prince, indignantly, took
the young keeper of the relics to task ; who,
on promise of pardon, gave the following •ecret
intelligence concerning them. In travelling from
Rome he had lost the box of relics ; and not dar-
ing to mention it, he had procured a similar one,
which he had filled with the small bones of dogs
and cats, and other triftes similar to those that
were lost. He hoped he might be forgiven for
smiling, when he found that such a collection of
mbbish was eulogized with such pomp, and had
even the virtue of expelling demons. It was by
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
436 HOLY 'RBLIQUB-MANU..
the assistance of this box that the Prince disco-
vered the gross impositions of the monks and de-
• moniaos, and Radzivil afterwards became a zealous
Lutheran.
Frederick the Elector, surnamed the W'ue, .was
an· indefatigable collector of relics. After his
death, one of the monks employed by hi~ sOli-
cited payment for several parcels he had pur-
chased for our me Elector; bnt the times had
changed ! He was advised to resign this business;
the relics for which he desired payment they were
willing to return l that since the Reformation of
Luther, the price of such ware had considerably
fallen ; and that they would be more esteemed,
and find a better market in Italy than in Germany!
In his " Traite preparatif a l'Apologie pour
Herodote," c. 39, Stephens says, " A monk of
St. Anthony, having been at Jerusalem, saw there
several relics, among which was a bit Gf the finger
of the Holy Ghost, as sound and entire as it bad
ever been; the snoot ofthe seraphim that appear-
ed to St. Francis ; one of the nails of a cherubim ;
one of the ribs of the Verbum caro factum, (the
Word was made flesh,) some rays of the star that
appeared to the three kings of the east ; a plU.al
of St. Michael's sweat, when be was ·fighting
against the devil; a hem of Joseph's garment.
which he wore when he cleaved wood, &c•.. All
which things," observes our treasurer of relics, ·
" I have brought with me home very devoutly."
Henry III. who was deeply tain~d with the super-
stition of the age, summoned all the great in the
kingdom to ineet in London. This summons .ex-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
HOLY RBLIQUB·MANIA. 431
cited the most general curiosity, and multitudes
appeared. The king then acquainted them that
tht- great master of the knights templars had sent
him a phial containing a small portion of the •a-
cred blood of Christ, which be had ,!!he.d upon the
eross ! and attested to be genuine by the seals of
the patriarch of Jerusalem, and others. He com-
manded a procession on the following day, and,
adds the historian, that though the road between
St. Paul's andWestminster Abbey was very deep
and miry, the king kept his eyes constantly fixed
on the phial. Two monks received it, and depo~
sited the phial in the abbey, " which made all
England shine with glory, dedicating it to God
and St. Edward."
In his life of Henry VIII. Lord Herbert no-
tices the greatfall of tlr.e price ofrelics at the dis-
solution of the monasteries. "The respect given
· to relics, and some pretended miracles, fell, inso-
much as I find by our records, that a piece of St.
~ndrcw'sfinger, (covered only with an ounce of
silver,) being laid to pledge by a monastery for
forty pounds, was left unredeemed at the dissolu-
tion of the bouse ; the king's commissioners, who,
upon surrender of any foundation, .undertook to
pay the debts, refusing to pay the price again ;"
that is, they did not choose to repay the forty
pounds, to recei-ce a piece oftkB finger of St. An-
drew. About this time the property of relics sud-
denly sunk to a South-Sea bubble ; for shortly
after the artifice of the Road of Grace, at Boxley,
in Kent, was fully opened to the eye ofthe popu-
laoe, and a far-famed relic at Hales in Gloucester-
o,,.,,, ,,Coogle
488 HOLY RBLIQUB•MANIA..
shire, of the blood of Christ, was at the same time
exhibited. It was showed in a phial, and it was
believed that none could see it who were in mortal
sin : and after many trials usually repeated to the
same person, the deluded pilgrim at length went
away fully satisfied, This relic was the blood of
a duck, renewed every week, and put into a phial;
one side of which 1!as opaque, and the other tram-
parent; either side of which was turned to the
pilgrim which the monk thought proper. The
success of the pilgrim depended on the oblations
he had made. Those who were scanty in their
offerings, were the longest in getting a sight of
the blood. When a man was in despair he usually
became generous.
THE END.
W. WILSON, PRINTER, 17, 81tiJIINER·8TREET, LONDON,
u''"'' ,,Coogle
