{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1827__newham___principles_of_education.pdf","mytitle":"Principles Of Education","mylang":"de"}
THE
PRINCIPLES
OF
PHYSICAL, INTELLECTUAL, MORAL, AND
RELIGIOUS
EDUCATION. *
BY
W. NEWNHAM, ESQ. \-vl hf
^\-[
AUTHOR OF A TRIBUTE OF SYMPATHY, &C. &C.
i
-
" Take this child, and nurse it for me, and I will give thee
thy wages." EXODUS ii. 9.
" II n'y a rien de petit dans 1'education des enfans" GARDIEN.
IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL- '
LONDON :
J HATCHARD AND SON, 187, PICCADILLY.
MDCCCXXVIl.
LONDON:
JBOtSON AND PAIMER, PRINTERS, SAVOY STREET, STRAND*
TO
MAJOR GENERAL ORDE,
MY DEAR SIR,
A dedication is
usually a field for the
display of the feebleness of an author, and
for the flattery of his patron. But since
both the former and the latter, would be alike
degrading to yourself, and unworthy the
great design of the following pages ;
may I
be permitted to deposit the accompanying
volumes on the altar of friendship, as an
ottering of deep and personal esteem for one,
whose lively interest in my literary pursuits
has been repeatedly manifested ;
whose life of
retirement has been devoted to the duties of
a father; whose views on the necessity for
IV DEDICATION'.
religion as the basis of all successful educa-
tion coincide with my own ; and whose
moral relation to a beloved branch of my fa-
mily claims the gratitude of,
My dear Sir;
With great regard,
Your's very sincerely,
W. NEWNHAM.
Farnham, April 2, 1826.
PREFACE.
IN the present age of education, when the mind
of almost every individual is more or less engaged
upon this important subject, it can scarcely be
deemed extraordinary, that the attention of some,
should be more particularly occupied by its prin-
ciples ;
nor need it
require apology, if these
should be disposed to impart to others, the result
of their lucubrations.
That education must go forward is
indisputable ;
that it has received a stimulus to activity which
no human power can arrest, is beyond a ques-
tion ; that some kind of instruction must in future
be provided for the poor, is agreed on all hands ;
that the diffusion of general education among the
lower orders of society must have a reflex opera-
fa
VI PREFACE.
tion upon the higher, and necessitate the better
instruction of the class immediately above it ;
and
that this will be communicated to the next as-
cending grade, and so on in a constantly improving
ratio from the lowest to the highest, is consonant
with sound reasoning, and with the dictates of
experience ;
and that the universal diffusion of
instruction will prove a blessing or a curse, ac-
cording to the quality of the boon communicated,
and in proportion as it
may be calculated to fit or
to unfit the individuals for the performance of the
duties belonging to their respective class, and to
their individual station, can no longer be denied.
It is then of the very first importance, to consider
the principles on which the processes of education
should be founded, an attention to which, when
modified by circumstance, and accommodated to
situation, will furnish sufficient data, on which to
ground a successful attempt. It is the considera-
tion of these principles, which will form the sub-
ject of the following pages ;
a subject well worthy
the attention of the philanthropist, but all-import-
ant to the parent.
The greatest mistakes have arisen in education,
from entertaining only general and undefined
views of its nature and purposes. It has been
too frequently contemplated as a professional pro-
PREFACE. Vil
cess, by which the abilities of untutored man
were to be elaborated, and by which he was to
be moulded into assimilation with his fellow-man,
and with his immediate progenitors ;
instead of
including the development of all his faculties, and
the perfection of all his powers. The former, or
more general view of this matter, is contented
with entrusting this process for a few years to a
professional pedagogue; the latter obliges us to
inquire, what are the powers and faculties of
man ? how are they to be developed ? what are
the surest means of improving their strength and
acumen? how are they to be exercised? how is
their growth to be favoured, and their luxuriance
repressed? to what morbid actions are they
liable ? how are the worth and the happiness of
the individual, and the well-being of society to be
secured ? how is man to be taught his duty to
God, and educated in his fear ? how is he best to
shew forth his own powers as a rational being,
and to display the glory of his creator, as a moral,
religious, and immortal creature ? These inquiries
lead in detail to the several topics of which edu-
cation should be composed ;
and it is only thus
that we can obtain just opinions, or arrive at be-
neficial results.
To facilitate research on this extensive field, it
b 2
Vlii PREFACE.
is well to arrange the several objects of pursuit
and investigation,
under the general heads of
physical, intellectual, moral, and religious edu-
cation.
By the former term is intended all the attentions
which are required by the animal nature of man,
to preserve it in its feeblest infancy ;
the succes-
sive development of the several functions of the
body, the phenomena of whose perfect action
constitute health ;
the influence of external phy-
sical agents upon these functions, and the pre-
cautions they require; the necessary exercise
and repose of all the organs of which the body is
compounded, and particularly of those devoted to
the senses ;
the education of the faculty of speech ;
and the gradual augmentation and perfection of
the power of all these several organs and func-
tions.
Intellectual education may include all which re-
lates to the manifestations of mind, and to the
organ by which these are rendered cognizable ;
the several peculiarities of individuals ;
the influ-
ence of the temperaments of the body ; the deve-
lopment and education of the intellectual faculties,
that is, of curiosity, attention, perception, reason,
reflection, memory, imagination, conscience, will,
imitation, and their influence on the process of
PREFACE. ix
instruction, as well as on the development of the
physical powers.
By the terms moral and religious education, we
understand that which relates to the social and
spiritual nature of man ;
all which attaches to his
situation here, and to his prospects hereafter in a
world to come : and under these general terms,
we include the inculcation of religious principle ;
the management of the temper and disposition ;
the arrangements of discipline ;
the formation of
good, and the counteraction of bad habits ;
the
regulation of the passions ;
the growth of the vir-
tues; the subjugation of vice; the process of
mental instruction ; the question of, and the re-
spective limits to, rewards and punishments ;
the
good and evil of society ; the cultivation of the
talents ;
the choice of books, and regulation of
literary pursuit ;
the amusements, and finally the
accomplishments of the young.
On many of these subjects, great errors and
mistakes have arisen ;
have been consecrated by
time, fostered by prejudice, and encouraged by
indolence. Thus, for instance, the first, or phy-
sical education has sometimes claimed the exclu-
sive attention ; and the question seems only to
have been, how large a quantity of bone, and
muscle, and fat could be concentrated within a
x PREFACE.
given space : the acquisition of intellect has been
lightly esteemed; and the moral qualifications,
and religious hopes and prospects,
have been
altogether forgotten : the object has been to form
a most perfect . animal ;
and this object,
when
accomplished, has left man an isolated being, un-
fit for the society in which a kind Providence has
placed him, and without a single hope or wish
after futurity.
With another class of individuals, the march of
intellect has been omnipotent, and to its exten-
sion every other object has been sacrificed ;
the
attempt has been made to fill the mind with
knowledge of every kind ;
the intellectual facul-
ties have been strained to their highest degree of
tension, and under this exclusive method of ma-
nagement, the brainular organ, and with it the
physical powers, have given way ;
health has
been offered up, upon the shrine of miscalled
reason ;
and even the highest hopes, and fondest
anticipations of the immaterial being have been
subordinated to the secondary, however valuable
acquisition of literature.
By a third class, the education of the spiritual
faculties has been made the object of undivided
attention ;
the acquisitions of human learning
have been despised; the situation of man as a
PREFACE. Xi
social being, and in his relation to others, and to
the supreme Governor of the universe, who has
placed him in a sphere of trial and probation, and
to whom he is accountable for the employment of
all his talents, and the fulfilment of all the pur-
poses of his creation, has been overlooked ;
and
it has seemed as if the exclusive object of instruc-
tion had been, not to prepare the individual for a
residence in this world, but for immediate trans-
lation to a better.
If we were to estimate the relative prevalence
of these mistakes, we should say, that the second
were the most frequent, and that the last oc-
curred but seldom. But there are also combina-
tions of these states ;
as for instance, of the first
and second, to the exclusion of the third ; or of
the second and last, to the exclusion of the other.
All these misconceptions are of vital importance,
and they are only to be obviated by the detailed
consideration of the principles upon which the
education of each rests ;
and by taking a com-
prehensive view of the results, and then esti-
mating the necessary preponderance which should
be given to either, in order to prepare the indi-
vidual for the situation in life he is designed to
occupy.
If for instance, the education of the poor be the
Xii PREFACE.
question at issue, the especial object should be
to prepare them for their daily labour ;
for the
efficient discharge of their duties as servants and
subjects ;
for the regular and entire performance
of the relative and social virtues ;
and for their
keeping the commandments of God, living in his
fear, and walking as in preparation for eternity.
It would be cruelty to give them such a develop-
ment of the intellectual faculties, as would unfit
them for labour, and render them dissatisfied with
their share of blessing, which a just and holy God
has most equally diffused over the whole world,
suited only in its measure, and degree, and kind,
to the respective classes, orders, and individuals,
composing its inhabitants.
So also with regard to the mechanic, physical
power is the great object, with such a degree of
intellectual acquisition, as may qualify him for the
duties of his station, and his aspirations after
immortality. But as we advance onwards to
professional life, we shall find a necessity for
giving the preponderance to the intellectual facul-
ties, and for developing and maintaining only such
a degree of physical power, as may be necessary
to preserve the integrity of the bodily functions
from the agency of intellectual irritation, and to
render them adequate to the active duties of life ;
PREFACE. xiii
always remembering the primary importance of
religious principle to guide and guard these several
states from misapprehension and erroneous ten-
dency.
The simple object of the following pages has
been to develop these views, and to exhibit the
principles, upon which the powers of the animal
machine may be carried to their highest state of
perfection, consistently with the situation and the
wants of the individual ;
to shew the grounds upon
which intellectual education must be built, in order
to be successful ;
to describe the wants, the neces-
sities, the good, the bad, the passions and the
habits of social man ;
and to point out the way in
which these objects are to be rendered subser-
vient to the first great aim of Christian education,
that of preparing the child of mortality to become
a child of God ; believing on his word, obeying
his commands, adoring his ways, and earnestly
striving after the performance of duty now, with an
eye steadily fixed upon the hope set before it in
the Bible.
In the performance of this design, the author
has advanced opinions to which he scarcely ex-
pects to obtain the unqualified consent of man-
kind at large ;
but he has been guided only by a
wish to do good, and he has given the result of the
XIV PREFACE.
best judgment he could form, undiverted by self-
ish, or relative, or social influence ;
unconstrained
by prejudice ;
undistorted by passion ;
and undis-
mayed by the prospect of that recoil which is
excited by the enunciation of propositions, which
the human mind in its attachment to ancient
opinions, and governed by interest, and swayed
by passion, and palsied by prejudice, and en-
slaved by custom, and rendered torpid by indo-
lence, hesitates to admit, because they are incon-
venient, and because they disturb its present
ease, and the quiet calm of its listless, and inen-
ergetic repose. A patient hearing, and a cautious,
principled examination of his views is all he asks;
in courting publicity, he is only anxious for the
good of the rising generation ;
and if his own
opinions be erroneous, he hopes to be convinced
of his errors, and to be enabled to retract them ;
but if
they be, as he believes them to be, correct,
he then equally expects that they may be adopted
and acted upon by all those parents, who are
particularly anxious for the welfare of their
children.
i. But it will be said perhaps, here is another
system of education, and consequently another
failure ; since no system can be applicable to every
variety of individual. Nothing can be more true ;
PREFACE. XV
and this is precisely one of the principles deve-
loped in the following pages, which do not there-
fore contain a system, but rather the rudiments of
general principles, which not only admit but
even require modification, according to the com-
mon properties of physical temperament, and
also according to the usual characteristics of men-
tal manifestation.
2., "The principles are impracticable; they
are such as no human being ever did, or ever
could adopt and pursue ; they require the powers
of an angel, and are altogether beyond the reach
of sublunary agency !" If it be merely meant
to state, by this objection, that we are not able
to accomplish all the good we would, the experi-
ence of every day confirms what is in itself, a
manifest truism ;
but if it be farther intended
that we should not aim at any thing beyond our
own standard of excellence, is it not as probable
that we may have erred in fixing that standard
too low, as that another may have been wrong in
carrying his views beyond it ? Besides, does not
the experience of every day declare, that difficul-
ties are to be overcome by continued perse-
verance, which at first sight appeared insur-
mountable? No person ever yet crossed the
Alps, by sitting at their base considering their
PREFACE.
immensity, and declaring them impassable ;
none
ever yet passed at once from infancy to man-
hood, or traversed at a glance all the interme-
diate space between a first acquaintance with
the definition of a line, or a point, to the intri-
cacies of conic sections. A Tyro in Delectus
might readily declare of a volume of Tacitus
that it was utterly incomprehensible and untrans-
lateable, and yet some years of study, and effort,
and pursuit, would enable him to enjoy the
terse beauties of this same incomprehensible
author ;
so true it is, that that alone is
imprac-
ticable, with the nature of which we are unac-
quainted, or that we are too indolent to attempt
its
conquest. Besides, if it be impracticable, it
is also untrue ; for truth is founded on some of
the laws of nature ;
and it is impossible to say
of that which forms a part of nature's economy,
and is interwoven with her government, that it
is impracticable ; since that which exists in na-
ture is true, and if true, practicable under favour-
able circumstances, while on the present occa-
sion these circumstances may be created and
controuled by the sincere adventurer. By this
test, the author would have his opinions tried ;
and then, no matter what may be the difficulty
of putting them in practice ; the greater the ob-
PREFACE. XV11
stacle, the greater the effort necessary to sur-
mount it; the larger the proportion of energy
which must be brought to the undertaking ;
the
greater will be the watchfulness, and patience,
and perseverance, and self-devotion which will
be required. Let not the principle be stigmatised
as impracticable till it has been fairly tried, and
then success will crown the attempt.
3.
" Too great a power has been ascribed to
education^ and the anticipations of its influence
are too sanguine !" It may be so : we pass
through life between a series of hopes and disap-
pointments; and it is very probable, that the
fair prospects of to-day may be clouded over
ere 'tis
night, and that our fondest hopes may be
blasted. But this is not a reason, why we should
not indulge the pleasures of hope, or rationally
employ it as a stimulus to exertion in the pur-
suit of good, which has been proved, not to be
utterly beyond our reach. Although we cannot
in any case, command success, we may deserve it ;
although we cannot be certain of results which
are beyond our controul, it is our duty so to act,
as if
they were within our grasp, and to put
forth every energy in their pursuit ;
well knowing
that success is promised to the diligent ;
and that
it is only they who strive for victory, that can
PREFACE.
hope to obtain it ;
it is only they who seek to do
their duty, that can expect the favour and bless-
ing of the Most High ;
it is only they who aim
beyond themselves, and beyond the mere letter
of precept, that can look with confidence for the
assistance of the Spirit of grace.
4.
" But the author is a materialist! for he
constitutes the brain, the organ of the manifesta-
tions of mind ;
and if the operations of intellect
be the function performed by that viscus, why the
natural conclusion is, that the brain thinks, rea-
sons, defines, judges, compares, imitates ;
in fact,
possesses the attributes of mind, and is there-
fore mind !"
Nothing can be more erroneous
and inconclusive than this argumentation ;
let it
be tried for a moment on any other organ, the
liver for instance : its function is to secrete bile ;
it receives a certain impulse from the nervous
system ;
it is
largely furnished with blood from
which a certain fluid is strained off by a me-
chanism of elaboration which has ever eluded
our investigation ;
but the evidence or mani-
festation of which process is the production of
bile : is therefore the liver bile ? Neither is the
brain mind, but that organ, which receiving its
stimulus from the immaterial principle, as the
liver does from the nervous system, is employed
PREFACE.
by a mechanism which we know not, for the pur-
pose of manifesting the nature of the impulses
which it has thus received.
5. Another class of objectors will be found to
assert with confidence,
" that the author is a
spiritualist,''' for that he has every where main-
tained the supremacy of mind, and the complete
subordination of the brain, and of the appetites,
and passions to its behests ;
and the free agency
of man ;
and his entire accountability for every
one of the mental manifestations !
For, how-
ever the functions of the body may be influenced
by predisposition ;
however the temper and dis-
position may be modified by constitution, and
altered by circumstances, and soured by disease,
or improved by discipline; still, these are all
forming part of that system of trial and proba-
tion in which we are here placed ;
and man, the
spiritual, indestructible, immaterial being, is an-
swerable for all his thoughts, feelings, and ac-
tions ;
for he was created very good originally,
and his spiritual powers were fully adequate to
the controul and regulation of all his appetites
and passions ;
which were completely subor-
dinated to his reason, and conscience, and sense
of religion, and the influence of the love and
worship of the Most High. And if he have
XX PREFACE.
fallen from this high estate ;
and if he be now
become sinful, prepense to evil, and prone to
error, he is not the less culpable for his miscon-
duct, he is not the less accountable for his ac-
tions; for he has the will to choose good, and
eschew evil ;
and in all circumstances of difficulty
and danger, he may refer to the precepts of the
gospel, the principles of the Bible, the example
of his Saviour, for his confirmation and guidance ;
and he has the promised aid of the Holy Spirit
to assist him, when feeble nature is exhausted ;
so that the function of the brain is
completely
subordinated to moral and religious principle, and
to the impulse which it receives from a mind
under their influence, or averse from them.
6. It may be farther objected that this work is
most unequally written ;
that a considerable de-
gree of energy is expended upon trifles, while
important matters are passed over with a degree
of languor altogether inexcusable. The author
feels and knows the truth of this remark ;
a re-
mark which exemplifies the validity of one of
his principles ;
for he has written during the
short intervals, snatched late at night, from the
shreds of a day previously exhausted by pro-
fessional duties, and not unfrequently under the
pressure of considerable disorder of the system,
PREFACE.
which though not enough to constitute disease,
has been sufficient to interfere with the integrity
of the brainular organ ;
the varying shades of
whose health or disease, will have left their im-
press upon the manifestations of mind ;
an evil,
which however he may deplore, he knows not
how to have remedied, and for which he honestly
intreats the indulgence of his readers.
7. But finally, the author is
" a methodist, an
enthusiast, his views are deeply tinctured with
the gloom of retirement, his precepts are too ex-
clusive in their operation, his code of morality is
strict, he fancies evil where no evil exists, his
portraits are caricatured, his opinions are the re-
sult of prejudice and narrow-mindedness, and
his conclusions so frequently lead to an inter-
ference with the established order of things, that
they surely cannot be correct." To all this host
of objections may he be permitted to reply that
it is much to allow that there is method in his
madness, and that he would rejoice in being a
methodist if by this term be intended a steady,
defined, methodical, invariable adherence to re-
ligious principle ;
he would glory in being evan-
gelical, if indeed he should directly or indirectly
prove the messenger of glad tidings to any
anxious parent, who with a deep feeling of her
c
XXii PREFACE.
responsibility, is only solicitous for the highest
welfare of her offspring ;
he would congratulate
himself on becoming an enthusiast, if by this
term be intended the highest degree of zeal and
devotion to a good cause ; he would reply, that
they are mistaken who think his views gloomy,
for although he may have raised a warning voice
against the folly and fashion of this world which
passeth away, and although he may have pro-
tested against its vices and its irreligion, and
against conformity to its maxims, and its low
standard of sincerity and truth ; yet his constant
aim has been to form an active, useful, principled
citizen of the world, living in its centre, a life of
constant activity, yet with views carried far be-
yond it ;
he would vindicate his precepts from
the charge of exclusiveness, by comparing them
with the clear commands of God, and the unso-
phisticated words of Divine Truth; he would
affirm, that the strictness of his moral code is not
more strict than the Christian ethics contained in
the pure and holy law of God; his only fear
would be that of having fallen short of the spi-
ritual meaning of that most sublime, and fearful
array of virtues; he would reply farther, that
fear is not the prominent characteristic of his
mental system, but that he would rather warn of
PREFACE. XX111
danger unnecessarily, than delude the victim to
inevitable destruction by avoiding to point out
the snares and temptations with which his path-
way is
encompassed ;
he would affirm, that his
portraits are all drawn from observation, and -ac-
tually now possess, or have possessed their living,
moving, thinking, acting originals, of which his
resemblances are a faithful copy ; he would de-
clare that his opinions are the result of deliberate
reflection, and unbiassed judgment, the judgment
of a mind not readily assailed by prejudice, nor
easily perverted by fancy, nor led astray by the
dreams of a waking imagination ;
and lastly, he
would appeal for the justice of his conclusions to
fact and argument, and if the former should be
found coincident with the latter, no matter how
frequently they may interfere with things as
they are ; it cannot be the conclusions which are
wrong, if the premises and reasoning be correct ;
and the fact of their being found at variance with
much of the practice of mankind, should only
urge a rigid inquiry into the present plans, in
order to ascertain if they be the very best that
can be pursued, and to be fully satisfied that
every kind and degree of farther improvement is
utterly impracticable.
But if such be the various and contradictory
c 2
Xx'lV PREFACE.
views of the author and his opinions, it would
not be very unfair to conclude that there must be
something good about him ;
and that if he have
excited the complaints of so many different rea-
soners, it may have arisen from his combating
their respective errors, and interfering with their
respective prejudices. It is just possible that he
may have traced out that golden path of truth
and sincerity, which is equally distant and dis-
tinct from the opposite extremes of error ;
and
perhaps it would not be too much to ask for him
a patient inquiry, and a close investigation of his
views and opinions ;
and if these cannot be
proven to be false, they would at least deserve to
be tried by experience. Reason and experience
are the impartial judges to which he appeals ;
and most inexpressibly happy will he be, if in
after years, he may entertain the satisfaction of
hoping, that his imperfect thoughts, (and nobody
is more conscious of their imperfections than
himself,) may have been useful in arresting the
attention, to that principled education; the great
object of which is to prepare man, for all the
conflicts of the world, to fortify him against the
difficulties and perplexities, the errors and temp-
tations to which his course is liable, the mazes
of doubt, and the labyrinths of prejudice, and
PREFACE. XXV
the whirlpools of passion, and all the other in-
gredients, which constitute the bitterness of the
present scene of trial and probation ;
to conduct
him to principled and virtuous conduct here,
founded on obedience to the will of heaven, and,
through these, to that eternity of happiness
which is
prepared for all those who have loved
and served God in sincerity, believed in him as
their Saviour, received him as their king ;
attended
to him as their prophet, and trusted in him as
their Advocate, Mediator, High Priest, and In-
tercessor :
" to Him be glory for ever and ever."
CONTENTS OF VOL. I.
PART I.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
CHAP. I. Introductory observations Division of the sub-
ject objects of physical education objects of moral educa-
tion tt wi ioiy Vi4o
v
oV < Vufcus .
page 1
CHAP. II. On affection, as the governing principle ofparental
education .. . wwiy ti ,
'<#<!> \ IMUM <!** 15
CHAP. 3. On self-denial, as an influential principle ofparental
education . . . . . .'25
CHAP. 4. Onphysteal education General principles earliest
physical attentions precautions with regard to air, washing,
clothing, and the function of the skin generally. .33
CHAP. 5. Physical education continued. On food nursing-*
regular system offending maternal diet wet nurses dry
nursing sleep weaning, and its appropriate change of diet.
General observations on food . .44
CHAP. 6. On dentition mode of facilitating that process
precautions necessary to be observed . .73
CHAP. 7. Development of the loco-motive function caution
against putting an infant early upon its feet muscular
exertion dependant on volition development of the function
of expression, as connected with the muscular system Phy-
siognomy language, natural and artificial . . 79
CHAP. 8. Influence of external physical agents climate
spring summer winter autumn gradual acclimatisation
precautions influence of vicissitude how guarded against
XXVlil CONTENTS.
how rendered usefulhow the system may be fortified
against it particular precautions required by each season
influence of the seasons upon the mental manifestations,
and
upon their organ, the brain . . .85
CHAP. 9. The cold bath: directions and cautions as to its
employment important function of the skin, contemplated
by physical education, not solely as ornamental, but highly
useful excessive care precautions required by health
extensive connexions of the skin pressure to be avoided : its
injurious consequences specific contagions to which this
organ is liable small pox vaccination modification of
general rules required by individual peculiarities, fyc. 102
CHAP. 10. Of exercise its objects how accomplished evils
arising from indolence, and from excessive exertion neces-
sity for alternating the periods of exercise and repose sepa-
rate modifications of exercise walking exercise of the
hand necessity for maintaining the equilibrium of muscular
power, and the injuries arising from aforgetfulness of that
principle precautions to be observed on this subject the
strength of the individual system, or particular organ of that
system, must be consulted, and its exercise regulated accord-
ingly influence of amusements in fulfilling this indication
other objects of exercise gracefulness of form agility of
the body activity of the circulation general health horse-
back exercise swimming carriage exercise dancing con-
clusion .vV^v itsjft i 4>$V i^ b . HI
CHAP. 11. Exercise of the senses their uses general laws
regulating their employment, and their connexion with the
brain division of the senses of the sense of touch its
usas liability to error too great susceptibility caution re-
specting this property of the hand as the principal organ of
this sense . 4 . . . 126
CHAP. 12. Exercise of the senses continued of the sense of
taste its use peculiarities influenced by habit its organ
the tongue this sense intended as a safeguard to the diges-
tive functions its monitions too frequently disregarded its
influence principally corporeal degrading when it becomes
an object of mental solicitude important cautions on this
subject the taste is susceptible of education necessity of
preserving it from sophistication the indirect influence of
CONTENTS. XXIX
this sense on the brain cautions on the subject of diet
simplicity of taste desirable conclusion .
\<>'
A 136
CHAP. 13. Exercise of the senses continued of the sense of
smell its object its organ the nose its uses intended as
a safeguard to the respiratory function possessed in very
different degrees by men and animals conduces little to the
advancement of intelligence more perfect in savage than in
civilized life in a great measure voluntary it is susceptible
of education, and capable of considerable association its too
acute sensibility, and its antipathies precautions required
by the exercise of this sense perfumes tobacco snuff
their agency on the brain and the digestive organs . 148
CHAP. 14. Exercise of the senses continued of the sense of
hearing its object its organ how produced different
degrees of perfectness active or passive its uses, princi-
pally intellectual a musical ear improved by culture the
adjuvant motions of the ear to be developed external atten-
tions to the education and improvement of this sense cau-
tions respecting it .
.,... .157
CHAP. 15. Exercise of the senses continued of the sense of
sight its object rays of light their different capacity for
caloric laws regulating their transmission the eye is the
organ of sight sketch of its physiology different degrees
of vision, and power of accommodation of the eye to varying
distances and circumstances sight is active or passive
voluntary or involuntary its uses its highest state of per-
fectness improved by culture, and assisted by the other
senses optical illusions power of education habit and
exercise defects of vision distinct sight how preserved
precautions on this subject the correction of bad habits
the modifications of exercise direct and indirect advantages
resulting from them intellectual and moral associations,
fyc. deformities of vision squinting method of cure con-
clusion ..... 165
CHAP. 16. Exercise of the faculty of speech articulate lan-
guage language of animals, and of feeling language de-
pends on the faculty of imitation the organ of voice art
of modulating sounds distinctive peculiarities this faculty
not often found, perfect as a gift of nature influence of
education in developing the powers of the chest and larynx,
XXX CONTENTS.
and cautions respecting their exercise defective pronuncia-
tion often the result of want of attention how to be rente-
died various imperfections of speech, with their causes, and
method of treatment, as well as their extensive and injurious
influence when uncontrouled very few imperfections are
beyond the reach of remedy principles upon which this part
of physical education should be conducted conclusion 188
CHAP. 17. Of puberty importance of adhering to general
principles particular attention demanded by the state of the
physical system, and mental manifestations of this period
cautions with regard to society development of the moral
powers general attentions to the preservation of health
necessity for constant employment, and for parental super-
vision direction of the intellectual faculties cautions with
regard to reading, and the encouragement of moral motives
and just principles of action >-j\-&,'\
-
)
>
v 212
PART II.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
CHAP. 1.
Magnitude of the subject Man differs from other
animals the former distinguished by reason and reflection
from the instinctive propensities of the latter man too pos-
sesses an immaterial and immortal principle called soul ; and
this constitutes him a being accountable for his actions to his
fellow-creatures and his God difference of individual cha-
racter not wholly depending upon education, but upon the
possession of a greater or less degree of aptitude for submis-
sion to this process upon what then is education operative ?
upon the organ of mind ; that organ is the brain reasons
for believing the brain to be the organ of mind ; viz. the
greater complication of this organ in man than in other
animals : the award of internal consciousness ; hereditary
predisposition, and individual peculiarities . . 225
CONTENTS. XXXI
CHAP. 2. The same subject continued the brain is the organ
of mind, since its manifestations are influenced by causes
whose primary agency is undoubtedly material; since they
are perverted by slight causes of nervous irritation, and in
their turn also produce a reciprocal agency upon the body
since they are developed by exercise since they are influ-
enced by disease since there is a relation between these
manifestations and the degree of perfection of the organ
since the latter is subservient to the will, and since this is its
only conceivable use in the animal economy modern cranio-
logy, and the doctrine of the plurality of the brainular
organs 'V* . . . . 239
CHAP. 3. The same subject continued of the temperaments
their influence upon the manifestations of mind he tsan-
guineous the phlegmatic the choleric the melancholic
temperaments these are seldom seen in their state of sim-
plicity and purity varieties influence of the temperaments
upon the intellectual faculties, and upon the conduct of the
life . **&v ^ 9 . 260
CHAP. 4. On the development of the manifestations of mind
man is to be studied as a whole, compounded of many parts
three grand divisions according to the predominance of phy-
sical power, or of the intellectual, or of the affective facul-
ties balance of power of the intellectual faculties in de-
tail, and first of curiosity the appetite for knowledge it
precedes attention novelty and sensation its great objects
hence inconstancy and changefulness regulation of curio-
sity . . . . . 269
CHAP. 5. The same subject continued on the faculty of at-
tention in what it consists it is the eye of thought it is
improved by curiosity how submitted to the influence of
education, and improved by exercise objects the most simple
will serve for its development general impressions to be
avoided, and the attention to be fixed by some tangible
detail oaution as to the gradual combination of these
perspicuity of thought and diction impossible without atten-
tion the multiplied opportunities for its exercise morbid
states of attention absence reverie excessive attention ;
first from interesting the feelings too much, and next by an
XXX11 CONTENTS.
exclusive employment of the understanding, terminating in
the several varieties of monomania, or single uncompounded
insanity habits attention should be always under the power
of the will the imperfection attending its notices, and the
uses to which it should be applied genius conclusion 276
CHAP. 6. On perception it is the result of attention to im-
pression it
performs for the mind a function analogous
with that of nutrition for the body its ultimate object
how improved and perfected perception sometimes dull;
sometimes inaccurate from haste ; sometimes morbidly acute
its influence on other mental manifestations its exer-
cise . . . . . .288
CHAP. 7. On reason it is the peculiar attribute of man in
what it consists its uses state of this faculty during sleep
condition of man as a social and religious creature in re-
gard to his reasoning faculties the influence of evil propen-
sity upon him, and the conclusions to be drawn from the pre-
ceding considerations i< 'i*
'
. 293
CHAP. 8. On reflection its importance its nature and pro-
perties its peculiar offices how distinguished from imagi-
nation it is slowly developed 'it is matured by age, culture,
and observation its principal use ,V 301
CHAP. 9. On memory it is either active or passive, voluntary
or fortuitous ; depending upon association influence of in-
voluntary memory recollection its employment it
pre-
serves images which have been stored in the mind by the
faculties of attention and reflection it has also a tormenting
agency consequences of this property circumstances fa-
vourable to its development, and to the art of increasing its
power ..... 307
CHAP. 10. On imagination difference between it and the
combined agency of memory and reflection its general cha-
racters necessity for its submission to the judgment its
influence upon the mental manifestations its practical errors
its evil tendency its illusions prejudice superstition
its peculiar influence on the female mind its uses the
principal occasions for its cultivation influence of religious
novels . . . . .317
CHAP. 11. On conscience it is not a simple product of the
CONTENTS. XXXI11
understanding its nature its offices
it forms a moral
judgment of actions, and? is governed and instructed by the
law of God it directs the conduct, and is a guide in diffi-
culties its decisions are always the same with those who
possess a similar amount of knowledge an evil conscience
a good conscience a tender conscience conviction its result
conscience improved by knowledge and exercise how is
this to be accomplished and preserved its sensibilities are
to be encouraged, and its slighter admonitions listened to
evil of inattention general results conclusion '
->'& 326
CHAP. 12. Of the will definition of its power and extensive
influence its agency upon the animal functions elucidated
by examples influence of the will upon the determinations
of man it should be guided by prudence and caution in-
flexibility feebleness of the will vacillation ofpurpose ^its
causes and consequences the will is a talent to be im-
proved its wanderings to be controuled by reason, and by
regulating the passions but reason is insufficient,, even when
aided by the associated virtues and the will can be only
thoroughly governed by Christian motives, based on Christian
principle the will is influenced by the state of the animal
frame, as in the hypochondriac, and in extreme old age
but more frequently by a want of steady principle hence
the object of education will be twofold the influence of the
will should be on the side of that which is good, but it is in
favour of that which is evil how is this explained ? not by
reason, but revelation it is only to be restored by Omnipo-
tence objects of education to instruct the will, and ennoble
its tendencies, by inculcating a principle of obedience, and
enlisting the passions in its service the character is consti-
tuted by the will in action the difficulty of submitting this
principle to the Divine Government, fyc. . . 334
CHAP. 13. Of the faculty of imitation its importance in
the formation of habits influence of example, and of pre-
cept it is not simply an automatic act, but an intellectual
faculty it forms the grand pivot of human action prone-
ness to imitate evil example, and its perpetuity caution
automatic tendency of this faculty its agency on social
.
life it
impairs the originality of thought and action
fashion custom to be limited to the imitation of good ex-
XXXIV CONTENTS.
amples mimicry ridicule buffoonery satire feigned
disease, and the precautions it
requires sympathy ge-
nuine benevolence awkward habits, as yawning, stammer-
ing, Sfc. influence of imitation on the formation of national
and individual character, and the importance of good mo-
dels emulation a result of imitation effects of this faculty
upon the human heart and conduct moral influence of the
desire of resembling others -vast importance of developing
this faculty, and of giving it a good bias it is to be em-
ployed on worthy objects gradual extinction of imitation in
advancing age influence of public opinion ,
. .r.
j ^355
CHAP. 14. Influence of education upon the organ of the in-
tellectual faculties, and upon its great variety of function
rules to be observed ; first, the original preponderance is to
be consulted, arid fostered if possible, but counteracted when
necessary second, the harmony and equilibrium of the men-
tal powers are not to be sacrificed to our social institutions
third, in the development of the intellectual faculties, their
influence upon the physical system, and especially upon the
brain, is to be duly estimated with regard to the degree of
excitement produced to the undue preponderance of any one
faculty, more especially as respects the memory the atten-
tion association the will, and the judgment cautions on
all these subjects letav &3i * k*b% *\
378
CHAP. 15. The same subject continued -fourth, influence of
the passions on the intellectual organ and faculties passion
a violent desire its power not irresistible to be controuled
by reason exciting and depressing passions cautions re-
quired by either the influence of the passions on the brain,
and through it, upon other parts of the animal economy the
passions are for the most part virtues or vices, as they may
be directed and employed necessity for self-controul edu-
cation legislation religion, and their respective agen-
cies ..... 414
CHAP. 16. Exercise of the intellectual faculties this con-
sists in the study of the arts and sciences, and in the per-
formance of the moral virtues knowledge is
power ; and the
greatest possible amount should be obtained, always avoiding
confusion, feeble and immature results advantages arising
from tJic mechanical arts from the study of the fine arts
CONTEXTS. XXXV
from storing the memory with Christian principles cautions
required by this faculty the proper objects for its exer-
cise are language and the belles lettres, natural history,
botany, geology, mineralogy exercise of the imagination to
be found in geography, astronomy, natural philosophy
history, and the precautions it requires it is oftener neces-
sary to repress than to stimulate the imagination influence
of mathematical studies, geometry, 8fC. precautions re-
quired by the exercise of the intellectual faculties ^.i- 426
CHAP. 17. Conclusion peculiar situation of man as a moral
and social being how influenced by Christianity imper-
fection of every other ethical code advantage of the re-
vealed will of God the right of the strongest necessities
of society power of intellect government ofChristian prin-
ciple and motive influenced by its alliance with mortality
the choice of good, and refusal of evil, is
repugnant to
human nature, but superinduced by Christian principle
agency of the latter upon the animal economy, and the mani-
festations of mind this is only attainable by divine grace
it is however promised to all who seek for it sincerely adju-
vant principles to be found in self-esteem, benevolence, emu-
lation, Sfc. infinite importance of these principles, and con-
sequent necessity for Christian education, and for parents
educating their own children caution as to what parents
and what children are here intended parents often mistake
themselves children are not playthings defective imitation
of the young grand motives for action to be found in doing
justly towards man, and in walking with God and this
constitutes religion common mistakes on this subject par-
ticular notice of the supposed connexion of religion with in-
sanity, and explanation of this apparent condition . 452
PART III.
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
CHAP. 1. On the duties of relationship, as connected with
moral and religious education . .
page 481
XXXVI CONTENTS.
CHAP. 2. On the influence of maternal self-devotion ; and on
the mischievous agency of excessive affection over the great
business of moral education A J^w . . 508
CHAP. 3. On the general principles of moral instruction 530
CHAP. 4. On religious instruction vps\t o\ 537
CHAP. 5. The same subject continued early religious educa-
tion :
uiyj - <V-*v,\ . \ \wv.
552
CHAP. 6. The same subject continued particular fundamen-
tal principles to be inculcated y *vfl ,
'...** i 576
CHAP. 7. 7%e same subject continued some errors in reli-
gion to be avoided employment of catechetical instruc-
tion . . . * ,'f; 603
CHAP. 8. The same subject continued on the duty of
keeping holy the sabbath day on religious worship on
prayer . . ..j\, |(
619
PART I.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
VOL. I.
THE PRINCIPLES
OF
PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
CHAP. I.
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS DIVISION OF
THE SUBJECT OBJECTS OF PHYSICAL
EDUCATION OBJECTS OF MORAL EDUCA-
TION.
OF all the duties which man is
enjoined to
perform, during the period of his probationary
existence, none is more important than the
education of his offspring; comprehending,
under this term, what indeed should never be
disunited : all which concerns the develop-
ment and perfection of his animal powers, as
well as of those functions which relate to his high
destiny, as a rational and immortal being.
Yet, perhaps, there is no one pursuit, in which
a greater number of mistakes are daily and
hourly committed ; none over which prejudice
exerts a more baneful influence, or which is more
frequently rendered unsuccessful from a mis-
apprehension of its proper objects, and of the
B 2
4 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
means by which they are to be realized. This
unfortunate result commonly arises from a for-
getfulness of those first principles, by a steady
and uniform adherence to which, success can
alone be attained : and by the omission of which
education is lowered to a series of disconnected
impulses, and leaves its subject to become the
sport of principles without an object : of feel-
ings, emotions, and passions, uncorrected,
and without design.
Man is a complex being ; possessed, in com-
mon with the superior animals, of a nicely con-
trived body, whose several organs are most
exquisitely adapted to their variety of function ;
and endowed, like them, in a greater or less
degree, with instincts, appetites, and passions ;
but distinguished from all around him, by the
faculty of speech, the gift of reason, the pos-
session of that high intelligence, which teaches
him that he is destined to live for ever ; and that
he has an immortal spirit which will survive the
wreck of nature, and will retain its present
capacities of suffering and enjoyment.
This spirit is
incorporeal and immaterial :
it is indestructible and unchangeable. Its
boundaries admit not of being defined, and we
can form no conception of its essence. The
only mode of acquaintance with its nature
is from the manifestation of its attributes.
These manifestations are made known to us.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION'. 5
through the medium of the brain ;
and can be
alone carried to their highest degree of present
perfection, by raising the tone of that impor-
tant organ, and inducing the greatest possible
aptitude for the performance of its infinitely
diversified operations.
Yet the brain is not mind, but only the mate-
rial organ through which the agency of the
spiritual and immaterial principle is rendered
cognizable, and available for the daily purposes
of life.
This is an important principle, and deserves
a moment's longer consideration ;
since there
are those who may be startled on the very
threshold of our undertaking, by what they
may be induced to call a physiological subtlety,
and which prejudice may denounce as bordering
on materialism. The charge of materialism
will, however, rest on those who represent the
mind as susceptible of growth in infancy ;
of
development during adolescence ;
of attaining
its full energies in the period of manhood ;
as
liable to decay in common with the failure of
the animal powers towards the decline of life ;
as obscured and enfeebled by disease ;
as
having its functions destroyed by a variety of
accidents ;
and may we not add, as annihilated
by death ? for if the spiritual principle be thus
exposed to the same natural and morbid
changes which act upon the body, what ground
G PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
have we for supposing that the last is not
change ;
or that the mental manifestations have
had any higher origin, than that which results
from the principle of life, and the influence of
its harmony upon the healthy play of the
several organs of the body ?
But no ! the spiritual principle of man, the
divinity that stirs within him, continues always
the same, and suffers no change from the
varying circumstances of organization. Its
manifestations may, indeed, be fettered by the
material medium through which they are con-
veyed ;
and thus we can understand, at once,
why those manifestations should be feeble in
early infancy ; why they should become defined
as the brain is developed; should be energetic
as it
approaches its highest state of perfection ;
and should be obtuse in the decrepitude of ad-
vancing age : we can understand how those
manifestations are entirely precluded in the idiot ;
how they remain suspended during sleep ;
are
rendered uncertain and vague by disease ;
are
distorted in insanity ;
and altogether cease at
the period of dissolution. This principle, then,
is immaterial ;
its
apparent changes are only
indicative of the several alterations which take
place in its organ, the brain : from all these, it
rises identically the same ;
and when it has
escaped, at death, from its prison-house, the
body, it returns to God who gave it.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 7
In this, consists, the great distinction be-
tween man and other animals. To them, death
is the termination of existence ;
to him, on the
contrary, it is only the commencement of an
eternity, in which the soul has to answer
for the deeds done in the body; and accord-
ingly, as these have been good or evil ;
accord-
ingly as it
may have received Christ as its
Saviour, believed on, and obeyed Him ;
as it
may have been washed in the blood of His
atoning sacrifice, clothed with His righteous-
ness, and transformed into His image; or, as
it
may have rejected the offers of His mercy
and grace, and have remained finally impeni-
tent, it will enter into the enjoyment of happi-
ness beyond the grave, or will suffer inter-
minable misery. Such are the capacities for
joy or sorrow of the immaterial principle,
during the continuance of life: such, therefore,
must be its unchanged capacities in a future
state, though inconceivably heightened by its
escape from the material tenement by which it
has been so long encumbered.
The objects of Education, then, will be two-
fold, viz: physical and moral.
By the term physical education, we intend
the art of developing the several organs of the
body, and of perfecting their functions, ac-
cording to the peculiarities of the individual,
and his relative situation with regard to society,
8 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
climate, present and future prospects. This
will also comprehend the means of obviating
the influence of all the agents which tend to
shorten the duration of life, or to impair the
energy of any one of the bodily functions ;
and
will lead us to estimate the operation of air, ex-
ercise, food, and clothing.
If, however, the physical instruction of man
were confined, exclusively, to his corporeal
powers, our task would be soon accomplished,
though we might, even then, take some im-
portant hints from the education of the lower
animals. But we must never lose sight of the
important truth, that man is an intellectual being,
possessing faculties of a higher order, and
which are designed to influence and direct so-
cial life. We have already shown, that the
spiritual principle is not , strictly speaking, sus-
ceptible of education. It is confessed that we
know nothing of the nature of the union which
subsists between this principle and the body :
but it is also broadly stated, that the soul is
destined to govern that body ; and, therefore,
needs an organ of communication with it. This
organ is the brain, and many of the peculiar
manifestations of mind, and of its ever-varying
shades of intelligence are influenced by, and
depending upon, its peculiar condition. The
development of its powers becomes an object
of the first
consequence ; and we possess the
PHYSICAL EDUCATION7
. 9
means of accomplishing this object, not only
through the medium of those grosser agents
which operate upon it, as well as upon the
other bodily functions, but also through the in-
fluence of purely mental operations ; for although
the soul itself does not acquire strength by ex-
ercise, yet the energy of its material organ is
increased by it ;
and thus its manifestations
may be varied, cultivated, pruned, repressed,
according to the necessities of the individual.
In effecting these invaluable results, we must
not lose sight of the general principle of econo-
mizing the expenditure of human life : nor
omit the employment of any method devised
for its prolongation ;
the means of maintaining
it in a flourishing state ;
and of removing those
causes which may tend to shorten its con-
tinuance.
We may here assume, that moderate exer-
cise of the organic functions, provided the
organs themselves are in a state of integrity,
is not only without any injurious influence, but
directly tends to strengthen the powers of the
animal economy. We must recollect too, that
symptoms of languor and debility will equally
arise from the want of due employment, as from
that excessive action which terminates in irritation.
To discriminate between the varied and oppo-
site causes which may produce a similar effect,
is of the highest consequence ;
since exertion
10 PHYSICAL EDUCATION'.
will prove a remedy in one case, though of
most baneful influence in the other.
The active fulfilment of every function is ne-
cessary to the development and perfection of
the organ upon which it is dependent :
yet,
each, according to its peculiar structure, has
its period of exercise and quiescence; short, for
example, with regard to the heart; and long
as respects the brain. In order to obtain the
highest degree of health, these periods must be
duly proportioned. Where the exercise has
been immoderate, signs of increased action of
the vessels take place, and fatigue, as its con-
sequence, ensues ;
and if longer continued, a
state of morbid irritation is the result. Too
great repose, on the contrary, diminishes the
energy of the organ, and a sluggish and con-
gested state of its circulation ensues; while it
is rendered so susceptible, that the slightest
exertion soon becomes immoderate.
Before we quite quit the subject of the general
principles of physical education, we must just
notice the influence of habit. . Man is the
creature of habit rather than of instinct-, and
the formation of good habits, arising out of the
reiterated practice of correct principles, is a
most important branch of education. Animals
the most abundantly supplied with instincts,
are incapable of acquiring habits properly so
called, at least, to any considerable extent :
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 11
while man, possessing few instinctive qualifica-
tions, is mainly dependent upon reason in the
daily conduct of his life. That the essential
difference between habit and instinct may
be clearly marked, it must be recollected that
the agency of the latter may be traced very
soon after birth, long before habits can have
been acquired : and that while instinct is in-
nate, invariable, indestructible, and, however
opposed, is re-produced as soon as the obstacle
to its free exercise is removed, and perpetually
asserts its power and prerogative: habits are
acquired, and may be forgotten :
they admit of
a thousand indefinite modifications ; they can
only be contracted by the concurrence of the
will or thought ; they are generally the product
of systematic education, and are commonly
influential in proportion to the intelligence
which embraces them, and over which they
exert their power. The voice of instinct may
be controuled by, and subordinated to the in-
fluence of custom : hence the importance of
forming correct habits. Such, however, it must
be remembered, can be alone produced by the
influence of just principles, and the inculcation
of these is the peculiar province of moral edu-
cation.
By the term moral education, we intend the
full development of the powers of the mind ;
the formation of just views and motives, and
]2 PHYSICAL EDUCATION'.
their application to the daily conduct of life ;
the regulation of the temper, the feelings, af-
fections, and passions ;
with regard to the indi-
vidual, his situation in society, and, above all,
his relation to God, as a fallen, erring, de-
pendent being: possessing no other hope of
safety, than that which is found in the full,
perfect, and sufficient sacrifice of a Redeemer.
There can be no effective moral education, unless
it begin and end in Christian principle ;
in the
entire depravity of the human heart ;
in the
utter inability of man to do any thing of him-
self, to think a good thought, or do a good
action, but through the purifying influence of
the Spirit of grace ;
in his possessing no other
hope of pardon and acceptance with God, than
in the finished righteousness of his Saviour; in
the necessity of good works as the evidence of
his belief in Christ, and love towards him; and
of daily increasing conformity to his precepts,
will, and image.
The only pure source of Christian principle
will be found in the unsullied pages of inspira-
tion, which are profitable for doctrine, for
reproof, for correction, for instruction in righ-
teousness. This must be the foundation of all
our views, motives, and actions : here must be
our last appeal ;
our light in darkness ;
our all-
sufficient guide in
every difficulty ;
our con-
stant counsellor; our never-failing support,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 13
under adverse circumstances : nor need we fear,
that if we sincerely desire to do the will of God,
we shall be assisted by his Spirit, who has ex-
pressly declared,
" Suffer little children to
come unto me, and forbid them not, for of
such is the kingdom of heaven." This first
principle of moral education must never be
lost sight of: the glory of God, and the good
of man, should be the only objects before us ;
whatever will advance these, respectively re-
quires our culture: whatever is opposed to
them, nay, whatever is indifferent, (if it be pos-
sible that such a quality can attach to any part
of human thought or action,) demands our
steady, uniform, and sedulous care to era-
dicate.
Moral or Christian education, thus defined,
will comprise within its limits, the particular
study and government of the temper and dis-
position ;
the religious instruction of the
understanding; the implantation of just prin-
ciples of action ;
the extension of these prin-
ciples to the thoughts and intents of the heart ;
the regulation of the will and affections ;
the
practice of self-denial, as the basis of enlarged
charity and benevolence ; pointing out to the
young mind the evils of selfishness, and of its
infinitely varied modifications, as they exist
in the maxims of the world, and in every code
of ethics founded on expediency, or on any
14 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
other basis short of the morality of the bible.
It will comprize, within its limits, all which
relates to the task of repressing the evil pas-
sions, as they begin to manifest themselves in
earliest infancy, and giving them a correct bias :
it will comprehend the practice of every virtue,
and will be particularly watchful over the read-
ing, the amusements, and the society of the
young ; always keeping in view one uncom-
promising rule of action, viz: is it right; and
acknowledging no other standard of right than
the pure and holy precepts of the gospel.
Such then are the principles which will be de-
veloped in the subsequent chapters, and applied
to the successive stages of infantile life. Before,
however, we fully enter on the regular pursuit
of the plan we have proposed to ourselves, we
shall devote a few pages to the consideration
of the grand motives which will stimulate,
strengthen, and encourage the Christian parent,
in the performance of the duties before her.
15
CHAP. II.
ON AFFECTION, AS THE GOVERNING PRINCIPLE
OF PARENTAL EDUCATION.
IN order to provide for the care of the young
and feeble, Nature has furnished animals (and
particularly the female) with an instinctive love
of their progeny ;
and the operation of this au-
tomatic influence, in the self-devotion which it
produces, is most exquisitely and beautifully
pourtrayed by many of the lower animals, in the
wonderful ingenuity they exhibit to attract the
attention of the disturber from their young to
themselves ;
and even in the occasional sacrifice of
their own lives, in order to protect and preserve
that of their offspring.
In proportion as the infancy of man is more
feeble and helpless ;
as he possesses fewer in-
stincts to extricate him from danger; and de-
mands the longer exercise of self-denying attention
to rear and to defend his feeble frame ;
so has it
been most wisely appointed by the author of all
good, that he should not be dependent upon an
instinctive propensity for all the constant care
16 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
which he requires ;
but upon a principle of affection,
based on the best feelings of the human heart,
and supported by the conscientious discharge of
duty. Let it be recollected, however, that in
order to secure its beneficial results, affection must
be founded on principle, for nothing short of this
will enable the parent to forego her own ease and
comfort ;
and even the combined gratification of
herself and her offspring, for their real arid
eventual good : and surely, if instinct will lead
animals automatically (though occasionally) to
prefer the well-being of their young, to their own
comfort and safety, it is not too much to ask, that
reason and religion should induce parents, sys-
tematically, to deny themselves ;
to do violence
to their own feelings ;
and cheerfully to sacrifice
their immediate pleasures for the good of their
children.
The views of the Christian parent extend far
beyond the present gratification of her child: her
efforts are devoted to forming the mind, and mo-
derating its tone and temper : she watches over
its every manifestation, and directs it in its proper
path : she guards it from the dangers with which
it is environed ;
it becomes her peculiar care to
regulate the disposition and the conduct, to pre-
serve it from evil, and administer an antidote to
its failings :
and, as she considers the incessant
watchfulness required, and the unwearied steady
pursuit of one great object, through a thousand
intricacies and difficulties ;
and contemplates,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 17
with mingled emotions of anxiety, fear, delight,
and hope, the zeal, the earnestness, the for-
titude, which it demands : and when she esti-
mates, still farther, that the little beings com-
mitted to her charge, may owe their everlasting
happiness to her care and instructions, or may be
miserable from the want of them ;
and at the
same time, regards the many occasions on which
she must enforce a moral discipline, painful to
herself, and obnoxious to her child, she can but
lament that this delightful task should be sur-
rounded with a deepening hue of anxious solicitude ,
she exclaims, who is sufficient for these things ?
and feeling her own inability, she will look for
strength to Him, who alone can impart it, and
who giveth liberally to^all who ask him. Let her
be animated by this consideration; by the pro-
mise of the blessing of Heaven upon Christian
education ; by the cheering hope that her efforts
may be blessed ; and, that having trained up her
children in the way in which they should go, she
may see them steadily pursuing the path of truth,
and finally hail them among the happy throng of
those who have " washed their robes in the blood
of the Lamb."
In the pursuit of these objects, a principle of
affection
preeminently operates as the motive,
and sheds a glowing lustre on the parental cha-
racter, while it adds a peculiar value to every
instance of fondness. In general, it is found ne-
cessary, for the maintenance of affection, that it
VOL. i. c
18 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
should be reciprocal ; yet, in the present instance,
there can be no return of love congenial in its
nature and degree. In early infancy, the mother's
duty consists in an uninterrupted series of cares
and watchful anxieties for the well-being of her
helpless and unconscious offspring: alike inca-
pable of estimating the value of the assistance it
receives, as of feeling (at least for some months)
any degree of love for the kind hand which im-
parts it. All is given, on the one part, by the
unsparing energy of the truest, self-denying bene-
ficence : all is received, on the other, by the
helpless arms, the yet undeveloped mind of in-
fancy. Thus, the mother's pleasure is derived
from the influence of principled affection; not
from the circumstances of its expression, which,
in themselves considered, are often abstractedly
painful.
As we advance a little onward in the pathway
of infantile life, parental pleasures are increased ;
but with these, an accession of anxieties is
closely united. The mother is delighted with the
lisping accents of her infant^ and with such tes-
timonies of its affection, as it is in the power of
the little creature to bestow. Yet how inadequate
are these expressions of fondness, when weighed
against the increase of her cares; when to the
temporal wants of her child, are now added those
of the mind ; the duty of its development and
cultivation; and the extirpation of those evil
tempers and dispositions which begin to shew
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 19
themselves. Every succeeding year adds to her
solicitudes, and requires a larger, and still larger
exercise of the principle, which we shall find in-
fluencing the performance of every duty ;
actu-
ating her through life, and even tinging its last
expiring rays with the same characteristic im-
pression ;
and leaving a mother's prayer, and a
mother's blessing, as the last breathings of mor-
tality ; which, not even the pain and languor of
disease ;
the feebleness of decay ;
or the imme-
diate prospect of dissolution could supersede :
and why ? Because this affection rested upon
principle.
But, inasmuch as the human mind partakes of
imperfection ;
and as affection retains its double
origin, so is its exercise encompassed with dan-
gers, against which it behoves the parent to
guard. It may become excessive. Children are
blessings from the hand of God ;
and affection is
a talent to be exercised to his glory. They are
the immediate boon of our Almighty Father, and
should be used and improved to his honour : but
they possess so extensive a hold upon the human
heart, and the voice of natural fondness is so loud
and imperative that there is
great danger, lest
these very blessings, which ought to increase our
gratitude to God, and prove the sources of the
manifestation of our love towards him, may of
themselves engross that heart, which should be
supremely fixed on the Author of our benefits.
c 2
20 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
Where this is the case, the parent will lose
sight of what should ever be her great actuating
principle ;
viz : that of training up her offspring in
the nurture and admonition of the Lord : she will
abandon the uniform design of subordinating
every feeling, emotion, and desire, to the influ-
ence of Christian precepts and motives ;
and she
will allow considerations of present comfort and
expediency to influence her views and conduct.
Self-indulgence and mistaken fondness will usurp
the prerogative, and claim the title of principled
affection. Nor is this a matter of small moment ;
for, in addition to its injurious influence upon the
young, it will operate insensibly upon the pa-
rent's mind ;
she will not be so deeply sensible of
the responsibility of her situation ;
and she will
no longer be acting under the sanction of Him,
without whose blessing and assistance every
effort will be unavailing.
Affection becomes excessive, whenever its ex-
ercise interferes with the performance of any of
the commands of Him who is our Father and our
Sovereign ; when it
interrupts, or unfits the mind
for attention to any of the duties of religion ;
when
it
engrosses too much of our time and thoughts ;
and when it renders us unnecessarily anxious,
or diverts our care from any proper and worthy
object. In all these cases it has lost its character
of being a principled affection ;
and nothing short
of this essential property will preserve its in-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 21
fluence from becoming baneful to those who ex-
ercise it, as well as those who receive its ex-
pression.
A mother's affection, too, is sometimes irregular
in its manifestations ;
as for instance : where it is
particularly fixed upon owe object, and not equally
distributed to the whole of her offspring. This
will display itself in partiality, in little marks
of distinction which are painful to the feelings of
other children, and which, though perhaps in
some measure accounted for and excused, by the
greater amiability of the one, will not only not
render the others more what we could wish them
to be, but will be calculated to exasperate, and to
excite a recklessness of temper and of feeling,
which should at all times be most carefully
avoided, most anxiously repressed. The evil will
not rest here ;
for it will destroy the harmony of
the nursery, repress the growth of the kindlier
affections, interfere with the mutual interchange
of benevolent expression, and introduce discord,
with all its hateful progeny of unhallowed emo-
tions. It is, however, true that one child may be
more amiable than others ;
and therefore be more
likely to engage the parent's esteem : and it is
also allowed that some testimony of approbation
should be distributed to those who do well : but
then, such marks of favour should be dispensed
with an impartial hand ;
it should be shewn, tha't
they are conferred upon the exercise of particular
and valuable traits of character, and not upon the
22 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
favorite individual ;
and they should be calculated
to stimulate others to imitation, not to rouse
their envy.
The parent should most diligently guard against
being captivated by the brilliant talents of one
child, so as to pay a greater degree of attention
to the cultivation and ornament of a fruitful soil,
to the neglect, or at least to the heartless and
spiritless culture of that which does not afford so
good a promise of fruitfulness. The individual
with fewer talents may constitute the finest cha-
racter ;
and if not, to give a certain degree of pro-
minence to the abilities of the one, so as to admit of
a painful contrast by the more retiring and less daz-
zling, but perhaps exquisitely sensitive being, will
be productive of great evil. The converse of this
conduct is
precisely that which the case demands ;
viz : to bring forward the abilities which lie con-
cealed; to make their possessor forget his in-
feriority; and to employ the greatest delicacy in
adapting our means of improvement to the actual
deficiencies of the mental manifestations.
It is of the utmost consequence, that children
should repose an entire and unshaken confidence
in the parent ;
and should perceive that her con-
duct towards them springs from affection, and is
influenced by inviolable truth and justice, which
can never be the case unless the strictest impar-
tiality be maintained; while upon it will hinge
the parent's happiness, both immediate and re-
mote ; the return of affection from her offspring ;
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 23
her success in forming their minds, communi-
cating instruction, and maintaining discipline;
as well as their present peace, and future affec-
tionate union.
There is no danger here of affection being
placed on an improper object ;
but it
may be led to
attach too great importance to some one parti-
cular which is
really of minor consequence.
Thus, its energies may be directed to procure for
its favorite, the appropriation of a supposed good ;
the development, for instance, of some promi-
nent talent, the possession of which may be more
shewy than intrinsically valuable. A preference
is given to its evolution, and great pains are be-
stowed upon its cultivation, under the expecta-
tion, perhaps, that other desirable mental
manifestations will follow in its train ;
and that
those which we are anxious to repress, will be
dispossessed and excluded by its first and greatest
influence. Yet all this inconclusive ratiocination
proceeds from the want of a due regard to that
law of relation, which so extensively, and almost
indefinitely associates each talent with others,
both with those which are similar and dissimilar
in their nature ;
and to the entire exclusion of
that most necessary part of the mental hus-
bandry ;
the eradication of its weeds.
Again, the acquisition of knowledge ;
the de-
velopment of the mental manifestations ;
the habit
of observation and reflection ;
the effort to induce
a greater degree of fruitfulness, a& well as to re-
24 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
press excessive luxuriance ;
and the removal of
morbid tendency, all require painful exertions:
exertions, at least, which are at first painful.
But affection may err in conducting this process :
it
may dislike to occasion the necessary pain ;
and from this motive, it
may be induced to relax
its strenuous endeavours ;
and to fail in enforcing
vigorously and undeviatingly, that system of dis-
cipline which is really indispensable. In this
way, many a desirable object will fail of being
obtained ; many an evil propensity will receive a
degree of tacit countenance, which will give it
strength, and render it difficult of after-sub-
jection. This error proceeds from a forgetfulness
of its being a part of the curse adherent to our
fallen nature, that all our valuable acquisitions, to-
gether with every victory over selfishness, and the
manifold evils connected with it, shall be procured
only with difficulty. But we must never relax our
judicious efforts to promote that which is good,
because it
may not be obtained with facility ;
never wink at that which might originate future
unhappy consequences, because it may occasion
disturbance to the present ease of ourselves and
our little charge. That is the truest effort of af-
fection, when, in opposition to inclination, we
correct what is wrong ;
and when we prefer the
welfare of our offspring, and obedience to the
commands of God, before our immediate gra-
tification.
25
CHAP. III.
ON SELF-DENIAL, AS AN INFLUENTIAL PRIN-
CIPLE OF PARENTAL EDUCATION.
IT is manifest, from the train of reasoning pur-
sued in the foregoing chapter, that the exercise
of principled affection requires the constant ha-
bitual practice of self-denial. It has, indeed, been
asserted, that the performance of those duties,
which more particularly appear to be influenced
by this principle is, in fact, nothing more than
the refined gratification of one universally opera-
tive and absorbing motive ;
viz :
self-love.
There is, however, a broad line of distinction,
which, in practice, cannot be sophisticated.
When we consult the dictates of selfishness, we
act so as that we may secure our own immediate
comfort ;
that we may obtain the good opinion of
those around us, and conciliate their approbation
of our conduct: but we are not anxious that the
motives, the principles, and the object of our
actions should be correct ;
we are not solicitous
for the consequences of our opinions, as they may
affect others ;
and we consult only that which will
be most pleasing and grateful to our presentfeelings.
How exquisitely is this distinction exemplified
26 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
in the principled conduct of the maternal parent ;
in her incessant care ;
her deepening anxieties ;
her sleepless nights ;
her ever-watchful eye ;
her eager mind, uniformly on the wing ;
her phy-
sical powers (often inadequate to the task) ener-
gized in the pursuit of one great object ;
and
that object involving a continued sacrifice of her
own ease, pleasure, and convenience, to secure
the welfare of her offspring. During its helpless
years, her attention to its every want ;
her soli-
citude to preserve it from the slightest physical
evil ;
and the cheerfulness and delight with
which the pleasures of repose, selfish enjoyment,
and even health itself, are voluntarily yielded to
secure this boon, present a spectacle of most
disinterested affection. The good of her children
is the governing motive of a mother's heart ;
but
its influence must be uniform, and she must not
hesitate to extend that as a principle of action,
which she has already adopted almost automati-
cally and unconsciously, as a stimulus to exertion.
She is not called upon to exercise it during the
period of her infant's helplessness alone ;
she is
not allowed to confine this influence to the neces-
sities of its animal nature ;
but she is taught by
these very circumstances, that if such be its phy-
sical wants, and such the abjuration of self re-
quired for their supply ;
how much more important
will be the extension of this principle to the
nascent manifestations of mind, the development
of good, and the subjection of evil dispositions.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 27
The self-denial here required is greater, in pro-
portion as the sacrifice is demanded of the mind,
rather than of the body, as in the former in-
stance ;
and as the good to be accomplished is
more remote and contingent ;
less immediately
obvious to the impression of her senses. Here,
therefore, is the fear, lest a spurious affection
should usurp the attributes of the genuine prin-
ciple, and substitute its sinister agency, for the
pure and holy influence which it counterfeits.
There is a deep-felt struggle in the mother's
breast, between a sense of conscious duty, to-
gether with the future happiness of her child;
and the clamorous voice of natural feeling, which
cannot bear to occasion pain to those, whose
constant comfort has formed the great pursuit of
her life. And when the heart is thus contending
with the understanding and the conscience, there
is some danger that the former may prevail. Yet
this is self-love, and therefore requires to be sub-
dued.
Perhaps the following considerations may
assist in strengthening the mind for the perform-
ance of this arduous task ;
this conquest over
self.
The immortal interests of the young, are of pri-
mary and inappreciable importance ; nor should we
ever balance between that conduct which will
ensure present peace only, and that which proposes
to itself the regulation of a mind, upon the due
government of which will depend the eventual hap-
28 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
piness of this life, and the brightening prospects
of futurity. This would be to obtain a suspicious
calm, a prelude of the coming storm : the other
to secure that quiet equanimity which will not
be disturbed by the agitated billows of this
world's wild wanderings ;
that sunshine of the
soul which can only be effectually preserved by
the reflected rays of the Sun of Righteousness.
Unless the foundation of this peace be laid in
earliest life ;
unless the mind be imbued from
infancy with a spirit of humility and self-diffi-
dence, acquired by buffeting, and often unsuc-
cessfully contending, with the opposing waves of
corrupt propensity, it will presently find its little
skiff, tossed on the widely-extended ocean of life,
and perfectly unable to live through its storms :
while, on the contrary, if, with the skilful hand
of the maternal pilot, it shall have been con-
veyed over the dangerous rocks of early youth,
and shall have been gradually taught to steer its
own course by the compass of eternal truth, and
the light of the polar star of Christianity, it shall,
it will pass over its tempestuous voyage with joy
and peace ;
and may anticipate reaching its haven
of security, when
" With steady helm and well- bent sail,
" Her anchor drops within the vail ;
"
Triumphant then she claps her wings,
" And her celestial sonnet sings,
"
Glory to God."
These considerations might be sufficient to
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 29
evince the necessity for self-denial ;
but there
are other important collateral motives, and it
is well that the mind should be strongly
fortified against those opposing maxims of expe-
diency, which may so fatally assail its happiness
and usefulness. The natural proneness of the
human heart to evil, and especially, the reflection
that parents have been the means of conveying
that tendency to their offspring ;
and that they
form the connecting link, in that chain of evil
propensity, which extends from their first proge-
nitor, and will reach to the very last of the fallen
race of Adam's posterity, will form an additional
incentive to the exercise of this principle. For
if they understand and feel the secret sins of
their own heart, they can but wish that their
children were delivered from the influence of that
corruption ; they can but pray that a new heart
should be given them, and that they should be
renewed by divine grace, and transformed into
the likeness of the Son of God. And while they
wish and pray for this great change, they must
evince their sincerity, by employing the means
they possess of correcting this natural bias and
tendency to evil : and it is
precisely in opposing
these wayward and corrupt propensities, that
they are called upon to deny themselves.
Their own comfort, too, depends upon it. The
only effectual security they possess that children
will prove blessings, consists in their being truly
religious. The truth of this assertion will be
30 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
more fully demonstrated at a future stage of our
investigation ;
but even here it
may be remarked
that much may be accomplished by early
training the mind to habits of good action,
springing from pure motives ;
and by the uniform
correction of what is evil. Nothing can occasion
more exquisite grief to a parent, than the un-
kindness or misconduct of a child in after life ;
nothing, on the contrary, can afford more exqui-
site delight, than to see such a child acting up-
rightly, and living usefully and happily. Such
a certainty will support declining age ; enable it
to contemplate, on the very verge of dissolution,
the grave's narrow confines with peace, (so far, at
least, as this prospect is
depending upon outward
circumstances,) and to quit the present sphere of
action with serene and unruffled satisfaction.
How earnestly and importunately, then, should
the Christian parent intercede with the God of
grace, that He would be pleased to give her off-
spring a new and perfect heart ;
how zealously
should she set about the great duty of turning
that heart into the way which leadeth unto life.
As the parent's happiness very greatly depends
upon the character of her offspring ;
so does the
very comfort of the child itself rest on the due
cultivation of the mind, the regulation of the
heart, and a ready submission to the will of God.
Without these, no outward circumstances, how-
ever promising, will be able to communicate a
blessing ;
and even the gifts of Providence will
I
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 31
have been bestowed in vain. When the grace of
God influences the heart, its agency will be traced
in the life : but that mind, from which weeds
have been eradicated as they spring up, will make
a much more shining character in the Christian
course, than one which has indeed been subjected
to this new and living principle, but which has
remained uncultivated, self-willed, a prey to
unsubdued tempers and dispositions, as well as
ungovernable habits.
The exercise of self-denial, in the necessary
discipline of the young, is painful, but it is sa-
lutary ,
and the parent should guard against such
specious sophisms as may be urged in excuse
for neglecting this duty ; or, at least, for failing
to extend its influence systematically over the
whole temper and conduct: such, for* instance,
as, that at present children are not accountable
creatures; that they are young now, and will
know better bye and bye ; or if not, that it will be
then time enough to teach them ;
that it is a trivial
error, and will be of no consequence ;
or that it
is a fault of youth, which age will remove ;
and
others of a similar nature. To these excuses,
we reply, that we know not when children become
accountable creatures, and that it involves a
palpable solecism to argue, that this period
should be suffered to arrive, before they are
taught to know what is right and what is wrong ;
before, in fact, they are instructed how to con-
duct themselves as such : we reply, that in this
32 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
case they become more ignorant, by delay* in com-
municating moral knowledge, and developing its
influence in action, as well as more difficult to be
taught, since evil blinds their eyes, envelopes
their understanding, and hardens their heart :
we reply, that no error is trivial, since it increases
and is fostered by the tardy semblance of oppo-
sition, and real effective indulgence, while it
gains strength by association : and we reply,
that the improprieties of the young, are not likely
to be corrected in the adult, unless they are
early opposed ;
while the sins of youth are re-
membered, felt, and grieved for, during the
course of a long life, and often form a basis
for embittered retrospects. The heart must be
deeply impressed with the futility of these ex-
cuses ; for, although the understanding may be
convinced, such is our natural weakness, that we
shall be often tempted to take shelter under their
protecting influence, in order that we may be
shielded from the upbraidings of conscience.
But consider, parents, what an important trust
has been committed to your charge ;
and O ! that
you may be enabled faithfully to perform it ;
that
you may give an account of your stewardship,
without blushing for neglected duties ;
and that
you may thus promote the present comfort, and
future happiness, of your children.
CHAP. IV.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES EARLIEST PHYSICAL
ATTENTIONS PRECAUTIONS WITH REGARD
TO AIR, WASHING, CLOTHING, AND THE
FUNCTION OF THE SKIN GENERALLY.
WE shall, for the present, confine our attention
to the physical education of children, from the
period of birth, to the few succeeding months,
including their earliest wants, and avoiding, as
far as possible, all the diseases to which they are
liable. These perhaps, may form the subject of
some future investigation ;
but with our imme-
diate object, we shall consider simply, the healthy
functions of organic life ;
and only incidentally
allude to its morbid actions. In pursuing this
subject, it is
quite impossible to lay down any
general and positive rules, which are universally
applicable : on the contrary, these, so far as we
may attempt them, will require to be modified,
not only according to the several varieties of phy-
sical temperament, but also according to the pe-
culiarities of each individual. Yet, even here,
we shall find some first principles to guide our
conduct ; principles which are generally appli-
cable, and which will admit the required accom-
modation in the mode of their employment.
VOL. I. D
34 PHYSICAL KDUCATION.
1. Nature has furnished infants with organs,
adapted to the growth, conservation, and per-
fection of the individual ;
which in their state of
integrity, are fully adequate to these purposes.
2. These organs all partake of the general
character of feebleness which attaches to the foetal
system ;
and are not, at first, capable of ex-
ertions, which would be only moderate at a more
advanced period of adult life.
3. If the functions of organic life be excited,
beyond the powers of the system to support 'such
action, exhaustion and irritation will be the
result. Debility, and consequent inenergetic
action will first take place; these will be suc-
ceeded by a greater or less degree of morbid
activity ;
and if the plan of excitement be per-
severed in, the tone of the organ so affected, will
be irretrievably lost: disease of structure will
succeed to disorder of function ;
and the stamina
of the system will be impaired, if not destroyed.
4. The great objects of physical education,
are, to second the designs of Nature ;
to deve-
lop the power of the organs she has provided ;
to augment that power by gradually increased
exertion, so as to carry it on to its highest state
of perfection ;
to preserve it from over-excite-
ment ;
to remove the causes of disease ;
and by
slow degrees, to accustom the constitution to that
variety of circumstance, and intensity of action,
which will be required in after life ;
and which
will furnish the individual with a robust frame,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 35
capable of resisting the more common occasions
of valetudinarian existence, as well as render it
infinitely less susceptible of their influence.
In attending to these principles, we shall have
to combat the prejudices of the ignorant; and
shall frequently incur the contemptuous smile of
disapprobation, from those who prefer a routine
of evil to an adherence to principle, which they
either cannot or will not comprehend. Thus
error is
perpetuated : and our climate, changeful,
as it
undoubtedly is, bears the entire blame of
the numerous victims of consumption and scro-
fula, in every frightful form ;
an effect, which, in
a great number of instances, should be ascribed
to the debility of some organic function, and par-
ticularly, that of the digestive organs, occasioned
by their excessive and imprudent excitation in
early life ;
a debility, which clings to the animal
frame through the remainder of its hours, and
renders it
incapable of resisting those changes
of season, which under a wiser and more rational
system of treatment, it would have borne without
injury.
But it is high time for parents to escape from
the thraldom of erroneous custom, however em-
balmed by the accumulated prejudices of ages
and centuries ;
however sanctioned and en-
forced by the oracular insinuations of nurses, and
the numerous train of advocates for the continu-
ance of all that had been done by their grand-
fathers and grandmothers, from time immemorial.
D 2
36 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
It is time for them to take upon themselves the
direction of their nursery, to listen to the dictates
of reason, and enforce obedience to its results.
It is high time for parents to consult only the
good of their offspring ;
to draw aside the veil
of mysticism, with which this subject has been
invested by the interested and the ignorant ;
and
to see, to think, to act, for themselves ;
to dare
to deviate from every irrational method, however
consecrated by unthinking opinion, purblind rou-
tine, or sightless prejudice; and to admit of no
system of action, which will not bear the test of
investigation. The stake is one of no trifling im-
portance ;
even the health and comfort of their
children ;
each of these, it is within their power
to secure ;
and let them not be thrown away for
lack of a little energy and perseverance. Do not
be alarmed, parents, -at the results of antiquated
experience, from the earliest traditions of the
nursery, being arrayed against what will be
termed these novel theories. The whole force of
these terms consists in an entire forgetfulness of
their real meaning ; for, it is clear, that experience
is of no value, if it consist in the mere accumu-
lation of facts ;
and should only be admitted, as of
any weight in the argument, when it is the result
of legitimate reasoning, from the observation and
comparison of a large body of conclusions, ac-
cumulated by a mind capable of appreciating, and
associating these results, according to their se-
veral bearings. But this is
precisely the object
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 37
of theory, which will ever go hand in hand with
experience; and will, in fact, always consist in
the inferences of an enlightened mind, from rea-
son and observation. Let us call things by their
right names : this so vaunted experience is, in
fact, nothing more than routine, empiricism, a suc-
cession of dangerous experiments, undertaken
without a rational object, and perpetuated for
want of it. The advocates of this system wish to
give it
currency by the authority of a high-
sounding, and highly esteemed term, and to
throw odium upon theory, by investing it with the
attributes of hypothesis. We have, however, re-
marked, that theory is the result of reason and
experience ;
and one moment's consideration
will equally shew, that a fondness for hypothesis is
really to be ascribed to those, who blindly pursue
the beaten path, assuming, without reason, that it
is the very best. The recommendations con-
tained in the following essay, are the legitimate
deductions of reason, from extensive and long-
continued experience ; and, on these grounds,
they challenge attention, while they proceed upon
the principles just now inculcated. Having thus
cleared away some of the principal objections,
which may be advanced against the plans to be
now proposed, we shall, at once, enter in detail
upon the important work before us.
The first object which demands our attention,
is, that the little frail being, which has just made
its entr into this world of cares and anxieties,
38 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
should be gradually accustomed to its change of
temperature and of general circumstances. No
sooner does it utter its first cry of surprise, than
it breathes the air of heaven, and thus commences
its own independent existence. It is of conse-
quence, therefore, that the atmosphere in which
it lives should be pure, and frequently renewed,
that it
may not receive into its lungs, air which
has lost its vital properties by having been fre-
quently respired, or which may have been im-
pregnated with gaseous matters, of a deleterious
or disagreeable quality. For this purpose it is
desirable that the nursery should be an airy,
spacious room; and, if possible, possessing a
south-eastern, southern, or south-western aspect;
commanding a cheerful prospect, and easily ac-
cessible to the rays of the sun.
The air, which the infant first inhales, is always
of a temperature so much lower than the medium
which has surrounded it before birth, that the
transition must be disagreeably felt ; and, al-
though the great difference is soon compensated
by the evolution of heat, which nature has pro-
vided for in the function of calorification; yet,
while that function is so recently established,
and but feebly performed, it is of great importance
that the lungs, as well as the surface of the body,
should be guarded from the impression of a low
temperature, and should be only gradually ac-
customed to contact with the open air. While,
however, exposure to cold should be avoided,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 39
too great heat should be equally guarded against :
the infant should feel comfortably warm, and
the skin should be moist ;
but violent perspiration
is injurious, and produces susceptibility to the
action of cold, by weakening the tone of the
pores of the skin. Sudden exposure to a stream
of air should be guarded against, and therefore
the infant should be carefully defended from its
impression, while it is carried from the nursery
to the chamber of the mother, and returned again
to the former. After a few days in summer, a
fortnight in spring or autumn, but not under a
month (if the weather be severe) during winter,
may it be taken out of the house, and permitted
to enjoy freely, the pure air by which it is sur-
rounded.
The function of the skin is one of great impor-
tance, and it is of the first consequence to pro-
mote that insensible perspiration, which not only
preserves it in a healthy state, but is certainly
one great outlet, by which the superfluous, and
perhaps too, the noxious fluids of the system,
may be, and are eliminated. Every source of
obstruction to its pores should therefore be care-
fully removed ; and its minute and delicate ves-
sels should be stimulated and strengthened in
their action, while they should be energized, and
enabled to resist sudden and morbid impressions.
These objects are to be accomplished by clean-
liness, and gentle continued friction. As with
the air, so with regard to the temperature of the
40 PHYSICAL EDUCATION,
water to be employed ;
this should not, at first,
be quite cold, but tepid, and should be gradually
reduced until it can be employed quite cold\ and
it may then be continued at the common tem-
perature of the atmosphere. If cold water can
be freely used, after the system has been gradu-
ally accustomed to its impression, there can be
no question but that it will prove salutary, since
it will diminish the irritability of the skin, and will
therefore render it less liable to the morbid in-
fluence of cold, as well as excite that reaction in
the extreme, or capillary vessels, which will pre-
serve them in a healthy state.
There are, nevertheless, some weakly children,
to whom the employment of cold water is not
entirely safe :
these, however, only form the ex-
ception which confirms the general rule. When
it is found by experience, that this application
does not produce early reaction, and the steady
evolution of a permanent glow upon the surface ;
when, on the contrary, the skin remains pale
shrunk, and bloodless, and the infant appears
languid and heavy, tepid water should be em-
ployed for a longer time, and should be more
slowly abandoned, while the friction to the sur-
face of the body should be increased in frequency,
in order to give a greater degree of activity and
strength to the function of the extreme vessels.
In general, it will be found, that the use of cold,
followed by friction, will produce quick reaction,
and create that fine mottled appearance of the
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 41
skin, which in children is the hue of health.
These principles are applicable a fortiori to the
cold bath. Except in cases where it is employed
as a remedial measure, the prolonged application
of cold, (and this is the idea usually conveyed by
the term cold bath,) is a dangerous experiment
with children, calculated to disturb the balance
of the circulation, to deprive one organ of its due
supply of blood, and' to produce congestion in
another. Where it is employed, its effect should
be most narrowly watched ;
but as a general rule,
cold affusion, or cold sponging will be preferable,
and may most advantageously supersede the cold
bath. The whole surface of the body should be
washed twice a day ;
the natural excretions should
be removed at once, and the neighbouring parts
always immediately purified ;
since by attention
to these directions, excoriation of the skin, so
frequently arising from want of care, and imper-
fect ablution, will be a circumstance of very rare
occurrence. The same system of treatment is
also particularly called for to the head, which, as
it is more frequently exposed, so is it of the
greater consequence that it should be accustomed
to the vicissitudes inseparable from our climate
a climate which we cannot change, and to which
therefore it should be the object of physical edu-
cation to bring its subjects, not only to bear with
impunity, but to suffer with advantage.
With the same views, we must here add a few
words on the subject of clothing, the object of
42 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
which should be, by preserving animal heat, to
diminish the impression of these vicissitudes upon
the surface. This should be accomplished in the
simplest possible manner, so as to render the
child easily changed, and to admit of the great-
est freedom in the little automatic movements of
its limbs. The dress should be applied by means
of strings, and ought not to contain a single pin.
It has been frequently known, that the irritation
of a pin upon the surface of the body, has not
only kept up a fit of incessant crying, but has
sometimes produced (where the cause has not
been discovered) in very irritable children, con-
vulsions. No pressure should be permitted upon
the chest or abdomen, beyond that which is in-
dispensably necessary to retain the clothes. The
good sense of mankind has in this instance tri-
umphed over many an antiquated prejudice ;
and
the system of improvement upon nature's form,
has gradually given way to the simpler method
of not interfering with her wise designs, but only
of protecting their accomplishment. Yet there
still remain some traces of this barbarous custom*
which it is hoped will ere long be superseded by
the wider diffusion of common sense, and by an
attention to rational principles.
One other caution presents itself with regard
to dress, viz. as it concerns the head. Nature
has intended this part of the body to be defended
from sudden change by the hair ;
and it is there-
fore desirable, except in particular cases, that a
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 43
single cap should be worn. But it should also be
recollected, that this organ is most abundantly
supplied with blood, during the circulation of
which much heat is evolved, and that conse-
quently it does not require so much clothing as
other organs more sparingly furnished ;
while a
flannel cap is always useless, and a down pillow
positively injurious. In families, the individuals
of which are predisposed to water in the brain,
it has been found useful to keep the head always
cool, and never to accustom them, while children,
to any cap at all, either by night or day, but
constantly to suffer the cool air to blow upon
them.
44
CHAP. V.
ON FOOD NURSING REGULAR SYSTEM OF
FEEDING MATERNAL DIETWET NURSES-
DRY NURSING SLEEP WEANING, AND ITS
APPROPRIATE CHANGE OF DIET GENERAL
OBSERVATIONS ON FOOD.
THE important question of diet next comes be-
fore us. For the first few hours after its birth,
the infant requires no food, nor indeed until it is
proper that it should receive the nourishment
which nature has provided.
Beyond all comparison, milk, the milk of the pa-
rent, is the best adaptedfor the health and growth of
the child.
The practice of mothers nursing their own off-
spring, has, of late years, become so much more
general than formerly, that it is no longer neces-
sary to enforce this duty with the same amount
of general argument. Yet there are those, whose
undecided and wavering minds may be confirmed
by the consideration, that the process of lactation
is most undoubtedly beneficial to both parent and
infant ;
whose sole nourishment should be de-
rived from this source, for at least the first four
months of its existence. If too this process be
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 45
conducted upon just principles, it will not mate-
rially interfere with the health and comfort of the
mother. In addition to all the considerations of
duty and expediency usually urged upon this
question, it
may be as well to remark, that al-
though chemistry has detected in this apparently
simple and homogeneous secretion, several prin-
ciples differing in their nature and properties ;
yet that it has, and ever must fail to discover the
peculiarities with which it is invested as a vital
fluid, and the infinitely varied modifications which
it
may receive in consequence. This remark is
supported by the common observation, that the
milk of one individual will agree with an infant,
while it will not thrive upon that produced by ano-
ther apparently equally healthy nurse, although
placed under precisely similar circumstances. If
this vital fluid be capable of receiving a variety of
modifications, it will surely partake the peculi-
arities of the maternal system, and as such, will
be possessed of a certain relation to, and easy
assimilation with, that infantile frame, which has
hitherto derived its growth and development from
this source. Admitting such to be the case, we
can believe that the fcetal constitution will receive
a permanent impression, from the milk by which
it is supported and evolved ;
and extending this
influence to the individual organs, it is not impos-
sible, but that the manifestations of mind, the
temper, and disposition, may be severally modi-
fied by this impression upon its organ, the brain ;
46 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
and this perhaps may serve to explain the wide
difference of constitutional tendency, h*abit, and
disposition, which has been remarked between
children of the same family, who have been
nursed by the mother, and those who have re-
ceived the attentions of a substitute. The idea
of this relation and affinity established between
the maternal nutriment, and the system of her
offspring, is also countenanced by the fact, that
this secretion is much more fluid at first, and
much thicker, and more highly nutritious after-
wards, as the digestive powers of the infant are
strengthened and accommodated to its employ-
ment.
One other selfish motive may yet be added,
if any be required, to induce mothers to perform
this delightful duty. It has been remarked, that
that formidable disease, cancer, has much less fre-
quently attacked married than unmarried females.
This observation is
perhaps a little too sweeping ;
for it will be found, on nicer scrutiny, that it
should be confined to those married females who
who have had families, and have performed all
the maternal functions : and this is not only coinci-
dent with experience, but agreeable to that law
of the constitution which awards the highest state
of health to the moderate employment of every organ
and function of the body.
But this moderation will not be observed if the
mother be always nursing her offspring, and the
infant be almost constantly receiving a supply of
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 47
food. Here, on the one hand, the system of the
parent will be enfeebled ;
and on the other, the
digestive powers of the infant will sooner or
later be impaired. It is absurd to suppose, that
nature has denied to the young of her most per-
fect work, the capacity for digesting the food she
has provided : on the contrary, we know that the
stomach is
supplied with especial and extraordi-
nary powers for this purpose. How is it then
that we so frequently hear of children being-
troubled with acidity, flatulence, in fact, with
indigestion ? The answer is obvious : these
symptoms arise from an erroneous system of
feeding !
It has been already assumed as a principle, that
every organ requires its period of exercise and
repose, and that it becomes feeble, in proportion
as it is over employed. Let an adult, with the
strongest digestive powers, only make the expe-
riment : let him take, to the extent of repletion,
food as often as it is
generally given to an infant ;
and in order to complete the parallel, let him use
as much exercise as he is capable of, in order to
set against the growth of the child ;
and let him
say if he can continue this system for one week
only, without suffering indigestion ? But if nature,
with all her wonderful resources in full operation,
cannot bear this mode of excessive nutrition, how
injurious must be its influence upon the feeble
organs of infancy !
Nothing can be more absurd than the position,
48 PHYSICAL EDUCATION'.
that an infant cries only from hunger : on the
contrary, its uneasiness is
generally occasioned
by indigestion ;
and the following is a faithful
sketch of its frequent state, and of the curative
methods commonly employed. It is first over-
fed, and then lulled into uneasy slumber, from
which it no sooner wakens than it is again fed :
it sleeps and wakens, and is fed again : after a
short interval it cries again, not from hunger, but
from the uneasy sensation produced by the pre-
sence of acid in the stomach. Every dyspeptic
patient knows that it is difficult to distinguish
the craving which is symptomatic of acidity, and
the sensation of real hunger: he learns indeed by
various circumstances by experience and rea-
soning, to discriminate the two ;
but an infant
has not the same power of judging, and therefore
no sooner feels uneasiness of the stomach, than
it cries, and is gratified by food. Its meal is
completed, and the child is
quiet, from two
causes; first, the acid is diluted, and its impres-
sion upon the nerves of the stomach is less con-
siderable ;
and secondly, the sensibility of that
organ is diminished, by its distension primarily,
and by that distension acting, secondarily, upon
the nervous system, producing a loss of energy
of the brain, and consequent disposition to drow-
siness. The sleep of oppression follows ;
but
what is now the state of the digestive organs?
The stomach is fatigued and enfeebled, and the
source from which its supply of nervous energy
PHYSICAL EDUCATION". 49
is derived, is irritated. And how is it
proposed
to remedy this state, but by a repetition of the
same senseless treatment, and by continued exci-
tation of these important viscera, till
by and bye,
the stomach is relieved from its load by sickness,
or a dose of medicine.
It may be said, that children thrive and grow
fat upon this system. Although the fact were
allowed, it would afford no evidence in its favour ;
for there are some robust constitutions which no
mischievous management will destroy, but which
will rise superior to all the causes which operate
their injury: and the accumulation of fat is by
no means an evidence of health ;
but is very
generally an expression of the system having re-
ceived a superabundance of nutrition, from which
it relieves itself by the deposition of fat ;
and it
is also the frequent companion of a certain feeble-
ness of the circulatory and absorbent functions.
It is then highly desirable that infants should be
in good case, but by no means that they should
be loaded with fat. Another great evil arising
from this system of over-feeding, is the neces-
sity for the frequent exhibition of Godfrey's
Cordial, Dalby's Carminative, and a hundred
other vaunted nostrums, each perhaps more mis-
chievous than its predecessor, but all agreeing in
this one property, that of containing opium, for
the purpose of relieving the flatulence, and con-
sequent incessant crying of the patient.
Instead of these destructive plans, by which
VOL. I. K
50 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
the tone of the stomach is ruined in early life, and
the foundation is securely laid for those disorders
of that viscus, which we find so prevalent in after
years ;
instead of all this unnecessary crying and
pain this early recourse to medicine in the hate-
ful form of empirical remedy, or indeed in any form
at all :
only let a simple, rational, and easy me-
thod of treatment be adopted, and the plea for
their exhibition will vanish. Only let the sto-
mach be supplied with food of a proper quality
not in excessive quantity and let there be an
alternation of exercise and repose in the employ-
ment of its digestive functions, and all will go on
well.
During the first month, the infant will generally
pass its time between eating, sleeping, and dress-
ing. It has generally been found, that six meals
in the day, are abundantly sufficient for a healthy
child ;
but perhaps in the first few weeks, a se-
venth may be allowed with impunity, provided the
quantity taken at any one time be not too great,
and that the infant be strong and robust. These
occasions should be so regularly arranged, as to
leave an interval between each of three hours
during the day, and a longer period of rest during
the night, when neither mother nor child ought
to be disturbed. The night should be conse-
crated to repose ;
and this may most readily be
managed ;
for healthy children are so much the
creatures of habit, that they will easily fall into a
systematic and regular plan of this kind a plan
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 51
which will also contribute to their comfort and
well-being :
thus, the hours of six in the morning,
nine, twelve, three in the afternoon, six, and nine
in the evening will be the most convenient ;
and
if in compliance with prejudice, another meal
must be taken daily, let the first commence at
five in the morning, and the last be taken at
eleven at night. But this indulgence should
never be allowed after the first month, when the
regular six meals each day should be adhered to.
In this way, it will be found that children will
sleep through the whole night, and produce no
disturbance to their immediate attendants ;
while
the parent's health will be preserved, and she
will furnish a highly nutritious milk for her nurse-
ling. It is indeed true, that from a very obvious
law of the economy, which has been already re-
ferred to, such nurses will not have an excessive
quantity of milk ;
but then this secretion will be
possessed of more nutritive qualities; and its
preparation will not make an injurious demand
upon the constitution of the mother.
The evidence of the success of this plan is not
to be sought in the quantity of fat deposited on
the infant, nor in the quantity of the milk produced
by the parent ;
but in the unimpaired health and
comfort of both. According to the system of over-
feeding, the anxious mother is a perfect slave to
her infant, who repays all her overweening atten-
tion by pain, and tears, and sorrow :
according to
the plan proposed, the period of nursing is one of
E 2
52 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
health and comfort to both, and affords to either
a good prospect of longevity. Let mothers then be
conjured to adopt this method ;
and let them not
be frightened by the assertions of ignorance, that
it is impracticable; nor of prejudice, that it is
destructive : reason and experience have proved
its advantages, and it
may be confidently af-
firmed, that a sensible mother never made the
trial, and failed of success : and if it be practi-
cable, it is
surely worth struggling for, when
forty-eight hours will remove every difficulty in
the way of its accomplishment.
A hale constitution is the greatest boon that
can be conferred upon the young; and pros-
pective health is a far greater blessing, than a
temporary and injurious gratification ;
a gratifica-
tion, which even shortly ceases to be such, and
loses its very nature ;
for the infant which is fed
systematically, will have a far greater enjoyment
of its food, than the pampered child of luxury,
who never knows what real hunger means. The
danger is, not that it should not get enough, but
lest even under this restricted system it should
take too much.
The diet of the parent is of too great importance
to be entirely overlooked, though it is a subject
upon which we cannot enter minutely. The plan
which will be found to agree best, will be that
which deviates least from the mother's usual me-
thod of living, provided that has been of a simple
character. It should consist of a moderate sup-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION". 53
ply of animal and vegetable food, one pint of
porter, and one, or at the most, two glasses of
wine during the day. All highly seasoned dishes,
every deviation from simplicity of fare, should be
avoided : more alcoholic stimulus than the quan-
tity just mentioned, is not required, and will
generally prove injurious. The object is to fur-
nish for the infant, a highly animalized fluid ;
and
a large proportion of animal food is therefore to
be allowed, which will be infinitely better than
three or four pints of porter, because it will sup-
port without stimulating, and produce a good
secretion of milk without consecutive exhaustion.
Where this secretion is too thick and small in
quantity, and the system appears to require a
larger proportion of fluid, than is furnished by
the usual allowance of tea, the wine may be
taken mixed with water, and white wine of a light
kind is always to be preferred. When the parent
is not very strong, an excellent plan will be
found, in taking half a pint of milk the first
thing in the morning, and again the last thing at
night, which will communicate strength without
excitement, and furnish the
" materiel
"
from
which the maternal secretion will be easily
elaborated.
By observing these simple rules, and by se-
curing undisturbed nights, even weakly ladies
have made excellent nurses, and have been
blessed with a share of health, they never knew
54 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
before, while they have experienced the de-
light of imparting the same to their offspring.
Air and exercise should be taken in mode-
ration ;
but great fatigue of every kind, and es-
pecially that which dissipates the mind, and
enervates and exhausts the spirits should be
avoided. Cheerfulness and contentment are also
indispensable pre-requisites ; and above all things
anxiety and every depressing cause should be
sedulously avoided. Anger and other stormy
passions, are particularly injurious ;
and the
parent should be careful not to nurse her infant
while under the influence of this or any other
over-excitement, since it is
quite impossible, but
that the vital properties of the milk, secreted
under such circumstances, should be materially
and mischievously altered.
To return however from this digression, there
are females who cannot make good nurses, and
there are others in whom it would be wise to
abandon the attempt. There are those, whom
nature has incapacitated for the performance of
this delightful duty ; and there are others whose
state of health renders it unadviseable. The
latter individuals are to be found, not so much
among the class of weakly ladies, who, we have
just seen, may by proper attention often nurse
with great advantage, but, among those whose
debility is
dependent upon the evil influence of
some pernicious habits of society, or upon some
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 55
morbid action of the system, whose present ob-
scure and dormant powers will perhaps be
aroused into energy by the process of lactation,
and may too probably impress a similar morbid
agency upon the infantile constitution. Thus
have we often seen the children of consumptive
patients early suffer from similar symptoms, and
become the victims of this ruthless malady,
even before their parents. In these and similar
cases, the mother is bound, as an act of duty, to
abandon the attempt to nurse herself; and it
then becomes a question, whether she shall seek
a foster-parent, and delegate a hireling substitute
to perform the duties to which she is inadequate,
or, whether she shall bring up the little one by
hand.
From the principles which have been advo-
cated, it must be seen that the weight of opinion
is
decidedly in favour of the latter method,
which the author believes to be possessed of
great and preponderating advantages, while it
offers no insuperable difficulties ;
in fact, none
which may not be surmounted with facility.
From his own professional experience, he would
say, that the latter were, caeteris paribus, the
healthiest children : while he has never known
it
necessary to abandon the plan of regular feed-
ing, except where the obstinacy or prejudices of
the parent, prevented its
having a fair trial. He
believes too, that if this system be judiciously
5(> PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
acted upon, it will in no case be productive of
augmented trouble ; but then systematic regularity
is of the first consequence.
Since every law of physical education should
be founded upon a close observation of nature's
own operations, and upon the nearest possible
approximation to her own works, so should the
choice of food be regulated by this unerring
principle. The best substitute for the maternal
aliment will be found in new milk and water,
in the proportion of two thirds of the former to
one third of the latter. The number and order-
of meals should be the same as when the infant
is suckled ;
the food is given by means of a pre-
pared bottle ; and the quantity for each meal
should be from three to four, or even five or six
ounces, according to the size and age of the in-
fant. The delicate and irritable stomach of
young children is not yet equal to the digestion
of vegetable matter, and therefore this, in its
every variety of form must be interdicted. By
degrees the proportion of milk may be increased,
while that of water is diminished. Great care
must be taken to exhibit the milk and water at
one uniform temperature, and that as nearly as
possible coincident with the warmth of the blood :
the bottle also should be carefully washed with
warm water, after every period of its employ-
ment, for if this precaution were omitted, a
small quantity of the milk remaining in rt,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 57
will become sour, and will then communicate
acescent properties to the next meal ; the small
portion of parchment with which the bottle is
prepared, should be renewed, at least once in
every day. For a similar reason, care should
be taken, both in natural and artificial lactation,
that the infant do not fall asleep while sucking ;
since a minute proportion of milk remaining
about the mouth, will very soon become sour,
and being swallowed on the next occasion of
taking food, will easily give rise to indigestion,
and pains in the stomach and bowels. This
plan being pursued with undeviating regularity,
the infant will thrive, and go on comfortably and
contentedly ;
but if the quantity given be in-
creased, or the frequency with which it is exhi-
bited, pain and disorder of function, will be the
inevitable consequence. It will often happen,
that under this management, the bowels will
require some slightly aperient remedy ;
an indi-
cation which will very generally be accomplished
by a little manna, added to each portion of milk
and water ;
but upon more important occasions,
a few grains of Henry's magnesia, or a tea-spoon
full of castor oil, may be given with advantage.
In spite of every precaution, the child will some-
times take too much, and acidity of the stomach,
flatulence, and consequent pain will be produced ;
in these cases, the warm bath, general friction upon
the bowels,, and the occasional exhibition of the
58 PHYSICAL EDUCATIOX.
rhubarb mixture* will be found useful. But we
are here treading on the diseases of children, a
subject which is not now before us, and we re-
trace our steps.
Before we consider the process of weaning,
we must make a few remarks on sleep. It is a
common observation that sleep contributes as
much to growth as food ;
it is a remark arising
from obvious fact, and which cannot be distorted
by prejudice. Those who derive this conse-
quence do not comprehend the reason of the
fact, or perceive how forcibly it
impugns the
validity of their own system of over-feeding.
The observation is however true of natural sleep
only, for it is that alone which is refreshing and
beneficial ;
and it is so, for the following rea-
sons :
Because, the process of digestion goes on more
perfectly (as we are taught by the example of
animals) if the sensorial energy be accumulated
upon the stomach, than if it be expended upon a
variety of other objects :
*
The following will be found a most useful formula in these
cases :
Rhubarb,
Magnesia, (calcined) of each twenty grains,
Laudanum six drops,
Syrup of Poppy one dram, (fluid),
Peppermint, or Dill water, two fluid ounces ;
Dose, a tea-spoonful occasionally.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 59
Because, by the continuance of this state, the
infant is saved from an unnecessary meal :
And because, the energy of the brain is re-
cruited by repose, and is thus rendered adequate
to the purpose of maintaining the full vigour of
all the organic functions, instead of being ex-
hausted upon fruitless, and unavailing, if not mis-
chievous exertions.
Natural sleep should never be disturbed. As
no opiate direct or indirect should be given to
procure it, so also an infant should never be
awakened, but suffered to sleep on, until it arouses
of itself, which it will inevitably do, when the
wants of the system demand a supply of food.
It will generally happen, that when the nurseling-
is not overfed, and is healthy, it will at first
sleep a great deal ;
but there are children pos-
sessed of highly irritable constitutions, in whom
a great degree of wakefulness is observed ;
this
will be superseded by air and exercise, propor-
tioned to their strength and age, but always to
the extent of diminishing the irritability of the
brain by inducing moderate fatigue.
Sleep is never to be procured by means of
opium, or of rocking ; the two are classed to-
gether, because they both operate on the same
principle, though in different ways, viz. by pro-
ducing congestion in the vessels of the brain. The
era of cradles is
happily gone by, but there are
still various succedanea, which are all erroneous
in principle, in so far as they allow of a rocking
60 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
or other analogous motion, and as they accumu-
late too much heat about the infant, and do not
sufficiently allow a free circulation of air. The
child should be always accustomed to sleep upon
a mattrass, without a pillow, and to be laid down
awake ;
it will then slumber peacefully, if it be
well and its system require repose : and if not,
it had better be exercised and amused, than
lulled into the somnolence of disease. If in
compliance with custom, it must have a pillow,
it should be composed of some hard and not
easily compressible substance, which should also
be a moderately good conductor of caloric, but
it will be far better without any ; and unsophis-
ticated as it is
by nature, it will require none,
and will as easily obtain the good habit of sleep-
ing without, as the bad one of rinding a soft
pillow indispensable. Parents must not be sa-
tisfied with having banished cradles, cots, and
every other similar substitute from the nursery ;
they will have done good by halves only, if a
rocking-chair be left behind, or if
rocking be ever
permitted. An infant may be soothed in its
little sorrows, and thus the calm preceding sleep
may be wooed, but it should never be forced by
rocking, or any other motion of a kindred nature.
Let it be remembered that in .this particular,
children will either go to sleep quietly, or will
become the torment of their attendants, and
will ever require the opiate which has been for
A few times administered ;
this is one important
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 61
reason why such a practice should be stigma-
tized. But let parents be deeply impressed with
the injury they do their offspring, by considering
the fearful risk, at which sleep is obtained by the
instrumentality of rocking.
First, the immediate effect of this motion is to
produce congested brain, and sleep as its con-
sequence ;
not however, natural repose, but the
slumber of disease that which enfeebles, not
invigorates ;
for the removal of this state of con-
gestion, a process of reaction is established the
circulation through the brain is
quickened, and
the equilibrium is restored ;
but this morbid
operation frequently repeated, gives rise to a
degree of diminished energy, which predisposes
that organ to congestion from slighter causes on
the one hand, and on the other to irritability
and its associated wakefulness, furnishing a pre-
text, and excuse for a repetition of the same
miserable treatment.
Secondly, the remote effects of this absurd
and noxious custom are to diminish the power of
the brain, and its consequent capacity for the
acquisition of knowledge; to increase its liabi-
lity to vascular fulness, and develop the ten-
dency to convulsion during teething, or any
other of the more common irritations of infancy :
to augment the facility with which reaction of
its vessels may be excited, and thus render it
easily susceptible of that morbid state, the ter-
mination of which is very generally hydro-
(52 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
cephalus ;
and by its loss of energy, to inter-
fere with the due supply of nervous influence
to other organs of the body, giving rise at this
period of childhood particularly, to disorders of
the digestive function ;
this function suffering
most, because it is the most employed, and requires
the largest share of cerebral support. Enough
has surely been said to secure the entire aban-
donment of this dangerous custom, the injurious
influence of which, is so extensively felt so uni-
versally operative.
It is desirable that the rays of the sun should
not be permitted to fall upon an infant during
sleep ;
and that upon its awakening, it should re-
ceive the light as directly as possible. For this
purpose, as well as that the abundant secretion
of saliva may find a ready exit, the child should
be laid upon its side, and with its face directed
towards the window, taking care by means of a
green blind to defend it from the impression of
an intense pencil of light. The object of these
precautions, is to avoid irritation of that impor-
tant organ the eye; to prevent a habit of con-
tracting the brow, or pinkering the lids, and to
obviate any tendency to obliquity or squinting.
When the infant is carried by its nurse, it
should be always in the horizontal posture, for
the first three months; before which time, it
should not be permitted to be held erect, much
less to be placed upon its feet. It is also de-
sirable, when it does sit
up, that it should be
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 63
carried, alternately and indifferently upon either
arm of its attendant, who should always be of
a sufficiently athletic form to accomplish this
process without difficulty; or she will seek to
remedy her own feebleness, by constituting her
side a point d'appui for the baby's knees or
thighs; thus producing a degree of pressure,
which may exert an injurious influence upon its
growth and configuration. Let not these little
precautions be considered as trifling, or despised
as unworthy of attention ; nothing which may
possibly affect the health, comfort, or due pro-
portion of her infant, can possibly be beneath a
mother's care.
Weaning. The process of weaning is
generally
invested by the anxious parent with many fore-
boding anticipations ;
and if by this term be
understood any sudden change from its diet of
already animalized food, to one which entirely
requires a process of elaboration in order to
bring it into this state, then, indeed, is it a
period of fearful interest, and one of great mo-
ment to the infant. But sudden changes should
always be contemplated as inadmissible ;
and
the transition from its entire dependance upon
the parent, to its final relinquishment of the
maternal support, should be gradually effected.
Having brought the little nurseling to the pe-
riod of four months old, the first alteration in
its system of diet, should be the substitution of
one meal of vegetable matter in the day, for
G4 PHYSICAL EDUCATION'.
one period of sucking. It will now therefore,
receive five meals from the mother, if indeed it
should still continue the habit of taking food six
times in the twenty-four hours. But it will be
generally found that an infant, which has been
brought up upon the plan before described, not
only will not require more than jive meals in the
day, but will not easily be induced to take more ;
there will not be found an interval, in which a
sixth can with propriety be administered ;
so
that under present circumstances, it will very
commonly be taken to the parent only four times
in the day.
Man was destined by nature to be an omni-
vorous animal, and it is clear that she could
never have intended him to take animal food,
before she had furnished him with teeth to divide
it ;
consequently, the first change should be of
a vegetable nature, and should consist of that
which does not require mastication. The function
of digestion is to be strengthened by exercise,
and it is to be gradually prepared, for the great
variety of objects over which its power is
to be exerted. For this purpose, gruel, arrow-
root, baked flour, panada, and a variety of other
farinaceous matters, may be selected; but in
general, none will answer better than the tops
and bottoms prepared by Lemann. Whichever
of these several articles may be selected, it
should be regularly given, and at one certain hour;
the stomach will not yet bear frequent and ca-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 65
pricious changes. This system may be pursued
for two months, after which the infant may be
nursed only three times in the day, and receive
its two meals of farinaceous food. By this plan
the maternal milk will become more highly ani-
malized, and the stomach of the child will be
gradually prepared for solid animal food.
When the infant has completed its seventh
month a still further change may be effected :
it should be suckled only twice in the day ;
it
should receive its two farinaceous meals as be-
fore, and the fifth may partake of an animal
character, by mixing good mutton or beef broth,
or the gravy of these meats, with some bread,
so as to make a compound of partly animal,
partly vegetable matter. The objects of this
change, are, first, that the weaning may be as
gradual as possible ; and, secondly, that the
stomach should not be deluged with gravy,
broth, &c. in their simply fluid state. It should
never be forgotten, how difficult of digestion are
fluids in general -how fatiguing to the stomach
are all soups and similar articles in themselves ;
but when mixed with bread, rice, pearl barley,
or any other vegetable matter, which will give
them a proper degree of consistence, they will
be found to answer well. In another month, the
infant is to be nursed only once during the day ;
and the intermediate meals, will be alternately
the proposed mixture of animal and farinaceous
matter, and the simpler fare of tops and bottoms.
VOL. i. F
66 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
Finally, when the little nursling has completed
its ninth month, it is to be altogether weaned,
and at this time a still greater change in its diet
may with propriety be effected. Where this
system has been adhered to, the process of
weaning, instead of being one of difficulty and
sorrow, will be most easily accomplished, and
will never produce inconvenience to its subject.
Like the plans before mentioned, if steadily
pursued, it will not fail to secure the health and
comfort of all parties : and the final loss of the
maternal support will never be felt by the con-
stitution.
At this time the infant will generally have ac-
quired four or more teeth ;
and now, if not be-
fore, should commence the important action of
mastication the sine qua non of good digestion.
If the simple movements of childhood be atten-
tively watched, it will be observed, that this is
in a great measure an instinctive or automatic
act ;
but it is so frequently impaired by the early
acquired habit of swallowing rapidly and indis-
criminately, every atom of food placed within
the mouth, that 'the child needs to be taught
afresh its
importance. The object of mastica-
tion is two-fold, first, to divide and break down
the food into minute portions, so as to expose
the largest possible surface to the action of
the saliva ; and, secondly, to promote a regular
and considerable flow of tKat fluid, and its inti-
mate commixture with the food, in order that
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 67
it
may be partially dissolved by it, and that the
whole may form a pultaceous mass, well calcu-
lated for submission to the operation of the
gastric juice. It will now be seen of how great
importance is this first action, of the first de-
veloped sense, the taste ;
and wanting which,
how necessarily imperfect, wijl become the pro-
cess of alimentation. Parents should, therefore, be
particularly careful to induce a habit of regular and
deliberate mastication, and this will be best ac-
complished by giving the child a tough crust of
bread, which will amuse it
long, and form a good
basis for the exercise of its masticatory powers.
Animal food in small quantities, and in sub-
stance may next be given once a day, and in
proportion as the infant masticates better, its food
should be less fluid, and more solid, in order to
establish that harmony in the digestive function
which is so necessary to its perfection. There
still exists in the minds of some individuals a
prejudice against animal food ;
it is, however,
founded in error, and has arisen from the obser-
vation of cases in which it has been given to
excess, or where it has not been of a proper
quality. Mistakes on either side are frequently
made. Animal food is recommended for children,
and therefore they are dosed with it several times
in the day ;
or it should be of a light nature,
and easy of digestion, and therefore they are sup-
plied with fish, poultry, veal, lamb, c. &c. and
above all with stewed meat ! ! This is altogether
F 2
68 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
wrong, and a few hints on this subject are sub-
joined.
Except in particular cases, animal food in sub-
stance need only be taken once in the day, and
this will materially contribute to the strength.
Children so fed, will be more robust, and stand
possessed of a firmer muscular fibre better sta-
mina and more extensive power of resisting
disease, and of bearing up under its attack, than
those whose diet has consisted of vegetables,
pudding, &c. The countenance of the latter is
generally sallow ;
their flesh is flabby ;
however
fat they may become, they are nevertheless
feeble ; they possess a weak muscular fibre are
inadequate to much exercise are not lively and
active are easily susceptible of slight causes of
morbid action and do not recover kindly from
their little maladies ; they are the soil for dis-
ease, and easily fall victims to scrofulous pre-
disposition. On the other hand, an excessive
quantity of animal food, produces plethora, pre-
disposes to inflammatory action, and gives rise
to irritation of the several important viscera
essentially linked together as they are in pro-
ducing the phenomena of animal life.
It would be well to attend to the following pre-
cepts in the choice of food :
First, all white meats, and all young meats
are difficult of digestion ; hence, fish, fowls,
veal, &c. &c. should not be chosen for the diet of
children in general.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 69
Secondly, all sophisticated food, all meat
dressed a second time is difficult of digestion ;
hence, hashes, minced meat, &c. should be
avoided. The appetite of children needs no
provocative ;
their diet should be simple, and a
smaller quantity of plain food will be more nu-
tritious, than a larger proportion of that which
has undergone a piquante process of cookery.
Thirdly, in general boiled meat is not so easily
digestible as that which has been roasted, espe-
cially if it be thoroughly done ;
the more nutri-
tious parts will have been dissolved, and the
fibrous remains are fatiguing to the stomach.
Where boiled meat is given to children, it should
be prepared by placing it in a small quantity of
cold water, gradually heated up to the boiling
temperature, and then suffered to boil slowly,
or rather gently simmer, till it be sufficiently,
but not over-dressed, after which the broth and
meat should be eaten together.
Fourthly, old meat and red meat, and there-
fore mutton and beef, but particularly the former,
are the best suited to the digestive powers; and
as often as may be, that which has been broiled
or roasted. There can be no objection to cold
roasted meat, for the food of children, but it
should never be warmed up again. It is de-
sirable that mutton or beef should have been
killed a considerable time before it is dressed.
Fifthly, much fatty matter, and particularly
when warm, is undesirable, and therefore should
70 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
be avoided, although it is best to accustom the
stomach to take small quantities of fat, especially
when cold, in order that it
may be habituated to
its use, and escape unpleasant singularities in
after life. Butter is never necessary, and very
generally hurtful. As children almost always
possess a tendency to acid stomach, sugar should
be avoided, except in very sparing quantities.
Sauces and pickles, of every description, should
never gain admittance to the nursery table.
Sixthly, the common beverage of the young
should consist of the most simple fluids ;
of which,
milk and water, or barley water, will form the
best menstruum for digestion. But as this pro-
cess does not require much fluid assistance, while
it is rather impeded than not, by any considerable
dilution of the juices which nature has prepared
for this purpose, it is desirable to be almost nig-
gardly in the supply of liquids : and except
where a bad habit of frequent drinking has been
contracted, it will be always found that there is
little thirst, where there is a good digestion.
Where thirst is
present, irritation of the mucous
membrane of the alimentary canal may be safely
predicated ;
and the parent will do wisely to
suspect either too large a supply of food, or too
complicated a bill of fare.
Seventhly, the diet, however, is not to be
exclusively animal : even with the principal meal,
a certain proportion of vegetable matter should
be always taken ;
and pudding may be sparingly
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 71
added, after a proper quantity of animal food has
been eaten. Parents, however, should be very
cautious with regard to the quantity of either
article. Pudding is generally to be preferred to
other pastry. Ripe fruit in its season may also
be allowed, but with a judicious, and perhaps
what might be termed a parsimonious ration ;
and in the winter, dried fruit may cautiously sup-
ply its place : but in all these cases, moderation
should never be forgotten. It will also form a
good principle for the recollection of parents,
that as the discretion of children cannot be relied
upon, they should be careful to decide when
these indulgences should be granted, and when they
ought to be withheld ; always keeping in view, that
it is better to furnish their table with simple and
insipid articles, in order that appetite alone may
induce them to eat, that appetite which will never
forsake them while in health, and with which
they will enjoy a dry crust of bread infinitely
better than the pampered victim of luxury and
refinement will its bread and butter, with super-
added sugar, as an extraordinary solicitation of
the palate. In proportion as children grow, they
require and take a larger quantity of food : it is
therefore most desirable to possess a criterion by
which we may judge of the reality of their wants ;
and none is better, than the simplicity and insi-
pidity of the supply afforded them.
Eighthly, there are peculiarities of individual
constitution, which will render necessary the ob-
72 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
servance of a particular diet. Where the infant
is endued with a lively susceptible system, and
the sanguineous temperament is strongly marked,
this should be sparing, even approaching to ab-
stinence, and should consist less of animal, and
more abundantly of vegetable food, than where
the constitution is of a cold phlegmatic dispo-
sition, and where a scrofulous tendency prevails.
This remark is of still greater importance, when
the predisposition has been already developed,
and inflammatory maladies on the one hand, or
glandular enlargements, rickets, or other symp-
toms of scrofula have shewn themselves.
73
CHAP. VI,
ON DENTITION MODE OF FACILITATING THAT
PROCESS PRECAUTIONS NECESSARY TO BE
OBSERVED.
AFTER considering the several varieties of food,
with which the infant is to be supplied, it is ne-
cessary to make a few remarks on the organs pro-
vided by nature, for the mastication of that food,
viz. the teeth. About the seventh or eighth
month, the middle teeth of the lower jaw are
generally first cut : these are followed, in three
weeks or a month, by the corresponding ones of
the upper jaw : then the two lateral teeth, both
below and above ;
and so on in succession, until the
first or temporary set is completed, about the end
of the second year. This process however some-
times commences a little earlier, and is occasion-
ally protracted a little later.
It is not now our design to enter upon the dis-
orders incident to teething ;
we have only to
consider the best mode of facilitating the comple-
tion of that function, and of preventing any of its
attendant maladies. The teeth are immediately
invested by a little fibrous membrane ; and it is
usually before their escape from this covering, not
74 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
when they are simply hidden by the gums, that
the most violent constitutional symptoms are pro-
duced. The remedy for this source of irritation,
does not consist in lancing the gums, but in libe-
rating the tooth : the former operation will afford
no relief, except that which is dependent upon
the loss of blood from the neighbourhood of an
inflamed part : the latter will sometimes instanta-
neously mitigate the symptoms. But then it will
not be sufficient that the gums be scratched, or
that the lancet be passed down to the tooth ;
it
must also completely divide the investing mem-
brane. If only a few fibres of that structure
remain entire, they will prevent the escape of the
tooth itself, and the morbid state will not be
relieved ;
but if every fibre be freely separated,
the symptoms depending upon this cause of irri-
tation will vanish as if by enchantment.
Where the plain and simple fare before de-
scribed, has been regularly observed, it will be
found that the work of dentition usually proceeds
without difficulty, requiring only attention to
keep the head cool, and the bowels open by the
simplest remedies. But under other circum-
stances, or in some highly susceptible children,
the local irritation will excite considerable febrile
reaction ;
but particularly, will manifest its effect
upon the nervous system, producing convulsions,
disturbed sleep, frightful dreams, and a variety
of other consequent morbid actions. These symp-
toms are caused by the pressure of the teeth upon
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 75
the irritable fibrous structure which invests them :
remove the cause, and the effect will cease. Let
not then prejudice operate the prevention of
this salutary remedy : let it not interfere with the
completeness of the curative plan, for upon this
will entirely depend its success.
Parents are not to expect the immediate ap-
pearance of the teeth, although they may have
been set at liberty. It has been stated, that the
period of greatest irritation is long before they
are ready to ulcerate the gum, and therefore it
may be long before they make their appearance ;
but the morbid effects will be removed. One
caution is here necessary : it is not every disorder
of infancy which is dependent upon the irritation
of teething ;
other sources of local mischief may
exist in some one organ or function of the body :
and although about the known period, when dif-
ferent teeth must be preparing for their exit
from their imprisoned state, no harm will ever
result from dividing their investing coverings ;
yet much evil may arise from carelessly concluding
that this is the source of irritation, and assuming-
it as the sole cause, without sufficiently consider-
ing whether there may not exist in the system
some other disordered action, which may per-
chance form the first link in the chain of morbid
sympathies.
When no surgical treatment is required, and
onlyji slight degree of pain, and local heat and
fulness are present, the little creature will derive
76 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
much comfort from having the gums frequently
rubbed with the finger ;
and it
may be permitted
to masticate any tough but not very hard sub-
stance, since the latter might occasion pain from
pressure with it
upon an inflamed surface. When
the gums are highly irritable, and much swollen,
the application of a leech to them would be use-
ful ;
and when this cannot be accomplished, two
or more leeches may be applied behind the ears :
but in general, the liberation of the tooth will
produce that calm of the system, which will be
the harbinger of returning health.
There are some persons, who object that we
ought not to interfere with nature's processes ;
as
if an infant placed in civilized society could ever
be considered as in a state of nature ! as if these
very objectors themselves were not a mass of so-
phistications ;
and as if nature did not sometimes
fail in her wise intentions, requiring the assist-
ance of her powers where they are inadequate,
and the repression of her well-meant actions
where they are inordinate.
During the work of dentition, it is
always of
importance to keep the head moderately cool,
and to observe a greater abstemiousness of diet,
often abstracting animal food entirely. When a
disordered state of the bowels exists as a compli-
cation of this process, it should not be checked,
but rather encouraged by the exhibition of small
doses of magnesia. Under these circumstances,
a flannel bandage applied over the whole abdo-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 77
men is of the greatest possible service, and the
warm bath will always be useful. Where, how-
ever, there exists a disposition to convulsions,
the bath should not be prolonged far, or too fre-
quently repeated, since under these circum-
stances, it
may have a tendency to produce con-
gestion in the vessels of the brain ;
it is here that
the mustard foot bath will be productive of more
decided advantage. But when any threatening
malady exerts its influence upon the system, the
eye of medical supervision is indispensable.
The temporary set of teeth commonly begin to
be shed about the seventh or eighth year, and to
be replaced by the permanent ones, which oc-
cupy the situations of the former. This change is
generally accomplished without any constitutional
distress. It often happens, that on the first teeth
being pushed off, there is not sufficient room for
their successors ;
and in order to prevent great
deformities at this period, the mouth should be
frequently inspected by a professional dentist ;
especially where there are threatened irregulari-
ties of growth, where there is a deficiency of
space, or where the teeth press too much upon
each other.
Two important considerations must here be
noticed, in order to preserve the teeth :
first, for
the purposes of cleanliness, they should be rub-
bed with a soft brush, and a little water only,
night and morning ;
and secondly, all portions
of food which have not been swallowed, should
78 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
be carefully removed after each meal ; since
these remaining about the teeth, often give rise
to those decompositions which terminate in the
loss of their healthy structure, a loss, not only
of consequence to personal appearance, and per-
sonal comfort, but also of great importance to the
health and longevity of the individual.
79
CHAP. VII.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE LOCO-MOTIVE FUNCTION
CAUTION AGAINST PUTTING AN INFANT
EARLY UPON ITS FEET MUSCULAR EXERTION
DEPENDENT ON VOLITION DEVELOPMENT
OF THE FUNCTION OF EXPRESSION, AS CON-
NECTED WITH THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM PHY-
SIOGNOMY LANGUAGE, NATURAL AND AR-
TIFICIAL.
THE development of the muscular power, and
particularly of the loco-motive apparatus, will
now form an important object of consideration.
The first actions of infancy are altogether auto-
matic, independent of the will, and characterized
by no particular design ; yet they serve to
strengthen and increase the muscular fibre, and
thus render it adequate to those voluntary exer-
tions which it will presently be called upon to
perform.
After a few months, it will be observed that
many of the child's motions are subservient to vo-
lition ;
and that they are directly, though imper-
fectly (because the harmony between the will,
the nervous system which conveys its notices,
and the muscles which obey them, is not yet tho-
roughly established) employed for the attainment
80 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
of some particular object. Nurses are too apt to
avail themselves of the first intimations of these
feeble exertions, and to promote the action of
walking; their great object of desire is to get the
infant upon its legs. This process, however,
should never be hastened. If a child walks be-
fore the bones are strong enough to bear the
superincumbent weight, these will yield, and a
greater or less degree of deformity will be the
consequence ;
the legs will become bowed, or
curvature of the spine will be occasioned ; and
all this for the sake of indulging the indolence of
the nurse, or the less pardonable vanity of the
parent. The wish and aim of both, should not
be however to have the infant early upon his legs,
but to procure the development of the muscular
and bony systems, so as to obtain their fullest
power, and to secure the greatest possible degree
of gracefulness and strength. In the pursuit of
this object, no artificial help should ever be given
to the little pupil : it may be exercised in various
ways, and when eight or nine months old, it should
be placed upon the carpet and suffered to crawl
about according to its will. When it has strength
sufficient for other actions, it will get upon its feet,
an event, which however joyful, ought never to be
urged. The consequence of leaving this process to
nature, will be, that although children will not run
alone till a much later period, parents will be abun-
dantly rewarded for their patience, by the firm and
graceful step, and upright forms of their offspring.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 81
The loco-motive function is
depending upon
muscles, and the nerves which supply them, as
the medium of communication with the brain : the
muscles being incapable of action without the
influence of the will ;
and the power of volition,
not residing in the nerves themselves, but being
transmitted through them from the brain. Hence
their reciprocal dependence, and the necessity
for their mutual integrity, in order to ensure
muscular motion. There is a point in our re-
searches beyond which we cannot advance : na-
ture has ordained a barrier which reason cannot
penetrate ;
and the Almighty Author of nature
has fixed a limit to our intellectual pursuits, per-
haps in order to humble the pride of man, and to
prove to him, if he will listen to its voice, that
this cannot be his final and most perfect state of
existence. Thus, in the present instance, we
know nothing certainly beyond the explanation
which has been just given : we know not how the
will transmitted through the nervous system,
produces muscular motion.
The attention will not be confined, at this time,
to the development of those muscles which are
concerned in preserving the body upright, and
whose perpetual agency alone abstracts man, the
lord of the creation, from the universal law of
obedience to the influence of gravitation ;
or to
those by whose instrumentality progression is
accomplished : there are other sets of muscles
to be employed ;
such as those by which he
VOL. I. G
82 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
takes hold of external objects ;
those destined to
the organs of sense, for the purpose of applying
accommodating, or removing these from the im
mediate contact of their respective excitants;
those by which voluntary expressions are pro-
duced, as gestures, and articulate sounds; those
which belong to the variety of function, of the
organs destined to the nutrition of the body,
as mastication, deglutition, inspiration, &c. All
should be exercised in their degree, and this very
exercise will procure amusement for the waking
hours of an infant.
Of these actions, the minute detail of which
must be left to the parent, the most important is
the exercise of the muscles, which are concerned
in the function of expression ;
since their develop-
ment, and its consequences, forms the connecting
link between the individual and society ;
since
the expression of the countenance will be pleasing
or the contrary, accordingly as the muscles des-
tined to the manifestation of particular emotions,
of an agreeable character are called into exercise ;
and since the frequent demand upon these very
muscles will necessitate the employment of those
benevolent feelings, affections, and passions,
whose exertions will become more energetic from
repetition ;
and will acquire, at once, the power
of habit, as well as will be strengthened by the
growing influence of reason and the understanding.
Parents will do well to consider the extreme
importance of early rinding occasion for the de-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 83
velopment of these kindlier emotions, in order
that they may do all in their power to stem the
torrent of stormy passions which are inherent in
our fallen nature, and which so readily shew
themselves upon the slightest contradiction. If
little can be accomplished in the way of correc-
tion, much may be effected, by rousing and
bringing into action, all that we most wish to
cultivate, and which constitutes the individual
an amiable character. This subject will, again,
come under our notice, in considering the moral
education of the young : and we shall here only
remark further, that the function of expression
is addressed to the eye, the organ of touch, or
the ear. The two former may be included under
one term, gestures ; and may be subdivided into
physiognomy, and those assistant actions which
give energy, or point, or pathos to expression:
the latter constitutes another mode of the same
function, and is dependent upon the voice.
Physiognomy constitutes an essential distinc-
tion between animals, and man, the features of
whose countenance are infinitely varied by cor-
responding emotions. This variety of expression
is
performed by forty-five muscles, and two dif-
ferent nerves ;
one of which furnishes the mus-
cles of ordinary motion, while the other supplies
those particularly destined to inarticulate lan-
guage ;
and which (according ro the recent
discoveries of Mr. Charles Bell) is larger and more
complicated in animals, in proportion as their
o 2
84 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
countenance is more expressive. But, above all,
the voice is the great organ of expression, with
its train of articulate sounds and subordinate ma-
nifestations ;
such as the actions of sighing,
yawning, sobbing, laughing, &c.
Language may be of two kinds ;
that which
has been termed affective, or which follows irre-
sistibly from the influence of feeling, and is
strongly depicted in the countenance ;
and con-
ventional language, or that which results from the
necessity of a mutual interchange of intelligence,
and which comprehends articulate sounds, ren-
dered signs of particular ideas, by the the intel-
lectual faculty, and infinitely diversified and
modified by the tongue : these leading to artificial
language, elementary sounds, letters, vowels,
consonants, &c. c. But we cannot now pursue
this subject, which will yet come before us at a
later period of our investigation ;
the chief object
of its introduction in this place, having been to
excite the attention of parents to the former of
these subdivisions.
85
CHAP. VIII.
INFLUENCE OF EXTERNAL PHYSICAL AGENTS
CLIMATE SPRING SUMMER WINTER AU-
TUMN GRADUAL ACCLIMATISATION PRE-
CAUTIONS INFLUENCE OF VICISSITUDE
HOW GUARDED AGAINST HOW RENDERED
USEFUL HOW THE SYSTEM MAY BE FORTI-
FIED AGAINST IT PARTICULAR PRECAU-
TIONS REQUIRED BY EACH SEASON INFLU-
ENCP; OF THE SEASONS UPON THE MENTAL
MANIFESTATIONS, AND UPON THEIR ORGAN,
THE BRAIN.
WE have now conducted our little nursling
through some of the earliest years of infancy;
and we have to trace, still further, many of its
opening connexions with external nature, and
with society ; together with the gradual widening
and development of those affinities, and their
influence upon the animal system.
And first, we shall premise a few remarks, with
regard to the influence of the physical agents by
which the child is surrounded ;
and on the best
means of rendering available for its good, all that
is useful ;
and of protection from all that is in-
jurious. On a subject involving consequences so
momentous, such a review of the relative situa-
tion of man, at his first entrance into active life,
86 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
cannot be trifling or useless ;
but will lead to re-
sults, calculated to secure the health and well-
being of the young.
The influence of climate and situation upon the
character of the bodily functions and mental
manifestations, has been greatly over-rated on
the one hand ; and, on the other, has not been
sufficiently appreciated. The middle course will
probably be found correct, and this truth will be
established, that the system does acquire a cer-
tain degree of character from the air it breathes ;
and which, however it
may be modified in after-life
by varying circumstances, will still cleave to the
individual ;
and form> to a certain extent, the light
and shading of that group of phenomena, the as-
semblage of which is termed the character.
The correctness of this observation is rendered
apparent, by a moment's glance at the variety of
national feature, although marked by the same
advanced stage of civilization ;
and especially by
contrasting the inhabitants of the Torrid Zone,
with those of more northern countries. Our im-
mediate object, however, is with the offspring of
a temperate climate; and, more particularly, with
the nursling of our own happy Island, whose
infancy, though it
may have been cradled in
storms; though November's fogs may have
hovered around its earliest days ;
and though it
may have been exposed to the endless vicissi-
tudes of our ever-changing atmosphere, has
nevertheless been protected by institutions the
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 87
most beneficent ; by an advanced stage of social
refinement ; by the benignant influence of a
paternal government ;
and by as large a share of
intellectual worth, as will be elsewhere found.
It has been already remarked, that one object
of physical education, should be to accustom the
constitution to the changes we have alluded to,
so that it may be brought to bear, with impunity,
not only the cold and humid character of our
springs ;
the occasionally intense heat and dry-
ness of summer ;
the damp fogs of autumn ;
and
the severities of winter : but the rapid transi-
tions of temperature; the influence of spring,
summer, autumn, and winter, in one day. It will
be well to consider, shortly, the operation of
these causes upon human health.
The general coldness of the spring, an atmos-
phere loaded with moisture, and the relaxation
consequent upon the fitful gleams of sunshine
and its occasional warm rays, together with the
rapidity with which each change succeeds the
former state; predispose the constitution to
attacks of catarrh ; acting upon different indivi-
duals, according to their peculiar morbid tenden-
cies, in a very dissimilar manner :
producing
common cold in one ;
sore throat, in another ;
cough, in a third ; affections of the bowels, in a
fourth ;
and rheumatism, in a fifth :
all, however,
giving rise to those general irradiations from local
malady, which we characterize by the term, fe-
brile re-action, or fever. The great sphere, upon
88 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
which the morbid impression is first made, is the
skin, and the mucous surface of the lungs. It
is upon these analogous structures, that the air,
and each morbific agent with which it is impreg-
nated, acts : and it is by these, principally, that
the baneful agency of cold and moisture is re-
ceived. The peculiar character of this state, is,
that it carries off the warmth of the body, and
checks insensible perspiration, even more rapidly
than dry cold ;
at the same time that the nervous
system is rendered more susceptible by that re-
viving quality of the vernal atmosphere, in which
nature rejoices, and which we all feel, in a
greater or less degree, in the buoyant lightness
and elasticity of the animal spirits.
To this state of constant change, succeeds the
more steady warmth of summer : a period, in-
variably marked in our climate by the diminu-
tion of disease, and of consequent mortality.
When, however, as it sometimes happens, the
heat is very great, or long continued, and accom-
panied by a considerable interval without rain, a
febrile state of the system is
produced, which
may be relieved by perspiration. It may fre-
quently occur, that the excessive loss thus occa-
sioned, will disturb the balance of the circulation ;
and that some one organ will be the sufferer,
more commonly the head, the liver, or the mucous
surface of the stomach and bowels ; giving rise
to a state of irritation, which is manifested in the
first instance, by excessive thirst; and is aug-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 89
mented by the great quantity of fluids taken in
consequence, upon the mistaken principle of
allaying that thirst. Under these circumstances,
the appetite generally fails ;
the breathing is
oppressed ;
and the whole system becomes lan-
guid. Another source of disease, during this
period, is, the imprudent exposure of the body to
a stream of cold air, (and that air blowing usually,
in our hottest weather, from the east and north-
east,) in order to get cool ;
in consequence of
which, the secretion from the skin is checked,
and congestion in the digestive organs follows,
occasioning fever, and perhaps, inflammatory
disease.
After a dry hot summer, there generally suc-
ceeds a warm and moist autumn; the effect of
which is rapidly to increase the list of sickness.
The animal frame has been previously excited,
even to a state of irritation ;
and now, in the
feebleness of exhaustion, it is exposed to a still
more powerfully-operative cause of debility and
relaxation. The maladies of this period are con-
sequently marked by a greater degree of inten-
sity; by exasperation upon slight causes ;
and by
diminished power of vital resistance ;
so that the
salutary efforts of the system are less energetic.
During this season we must not forget to parti-
cularize the influence of fruit, abundantly taken
into the stomach, already irritated by the pre-
ceding heat, and therefore predisposed to morbid
action; while this tendency is increased by the
90 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
alternations of temperature, during the long
nights, which are now become cold, and always
damp. Hence the more violent disturbance of
the alimentary function. A new source of mor-
bid action is also developed, by the quantity of
vegetable matter in a state of decay ;
and under-
going those changes, during which, certain gaseous
products, of a noxious quality, are set at liberty,
and operate upon the human system in a manner
unseen, unknown; but which we have every
reason to believe, gives rise to disease ;
and
which, if it do not, still unquestionably communi-
cates a prevailing character to other disease, and
stamps it with increased obstinacy and malignity.
To this state succeeds the cold of winter, and
that contraction of the surface, which is precisely
opposed to the preceding relaxation : that shrunk,
and almost bloodless state of the capillary cuta-
neous vessels; that consequent diminution of
transpiration, and dryness of the skin, which
throws the blood upon the interior, and produces
too great a degree of congestion there, and sub-
sequent reaction, in order to establish the equi-
librium of health. The lungs are often irritated,
not so much from the impression of the tempera-
ture of the air immediately upon them, as from
their suffering by sympathy with the skin. To
children, with whom the circulation is
always
quicker, and more readily excited, than in the
adult ;
and who, at the same time, by no means
possess, an adequate and compensating amount of
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 91
strength to support the increased action, the effects
are often of very serious consequence, and the
organs of respiration commonly suffer first.
It is a perfect mistake, though a very common
one, to suppose that cold is healthful. A certain de-
gree of cold is, indeed, favourable to the strength
and comfort of those who are strong enough to bear
it; but it is destructive tofeeble life. Many children
will not sustain well, the impression of a low
temperature, if they we fatigued, that is, if they
are feeble: and generally, it is the robust only,
and those who possess strong stamina, that can
bear a prolonged exposure to its influence. There
are those who will doubt the assertion, that cold
is injurious to human health: let them ask their
medical attendants; let them consult their own
parish registers; let them, above all, refer to
the bills of mortality ;
and they will find the
number of deaths, always, in proportion to the
severity of the winter; always arriving at their
maximum in a season of extraordinary cold ;
ex-
isting at their minimum during mild winters;
and varying in their mean results between these
extremes, exactly as the character of the season
may lean to one or other of these states. Mode-
rate cold, or that which is
proportioned to the
strength of the system, will contribute to the
tone of the muscular fibre, increase the appetite,
and prove a beneficial stimulus to health.
How then can the morbid influence of these
seasons be guarded against? How can they be
92 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
rendered useful to the young? How can the
body be fortified against the innumerable changes ?
And how can the individual be prepared to rise
superior to them ? These objects are to be ac-
complished, by the constant employment of cold
sponging, every morning, to the whole body ; by
the use of flannel, worn next the skin; and by
every prudent exposure to the vicissitudes of
weather. The first of these diminishes the sus-
ceptibility of the surface ; daily removes from it
the accumulation of insensible perspiration ;
con-
stantly gets rid of the unnecessary cuticle ;
braces
the extreme vessels ;
and gives rise to that salu-
tary reaction, by which the tone of health is im-
proved :
thus, at once, by its impression upon
the nerves of this sensible membrane, the skin,
diminishing its irritability, and giving it a greater
power of resistance to the influence of morbid
agents. The utility of flannel rests upon its
being a bad conductor of heat ; and, by this pro-
perty, preserving a steady temperature ; pre-
venting the caloric of the body from being too
rapidly abstracted, and maintaining the entire
surface in a state of uniform healthy secretion ;
precluding the check which must, otherwise, be
frequently given to the function of the skin ; and
which, when once communicated, can only be re-
moved by that reaction, which constitutes the phe-
nomena of cold and fever. It must be recollected,
too, that under exposure to a broiling sun, flan-
nel will keep the body cool, by excluding the
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. . 93
burning rays ;
and will prevent that febrile state
which is the common consequence of insolation,
by keeping under the excessive temperature
which prevents perspiration; and by obviating
the chill which is so frequently experienced from
sitting in a stream of cold air, after the body has
been heated by exercise.
The function of the skin is so all-important,
that to preserve it in health is
worthy of our first
care. A precaution of great consequence, arising
from this principle, is to take children out for
exercise, when they are sufficiently warm to keep
up the temperature of the surface by the exertion
of walking ; not, as is too frequently the case,
to take them out cold, in order that the body may
be in the same state with the atmosphere. This
is a most mistaken idea, as well as a most mis-
chievous prejudice. Instead of children being
driven from the nursery fire, that they may be
kept cool, the greatest care should be taken, early
in our springs, that they should go from home
warm, so that the cold moist air, should not be
able, suddenly, to abstract such a proportion of
the heat of the body, as to induce an unnatural
state ;
but that it should possess a superfluous
quantity, with which it
may slowly part, until
exercise shall have promoted that salutary glow,
which will preserve the temperature from being
morbidly depressed. Notwithstanding every care,
by the time the little pedestrians return to the
nursery, the body will often have been much
94 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
cooled down ;
and now it is important to restore
its regular heat gradually ; and, on no account,
to run immediately to the fire for this purpose.
The effect of this sudden change, will be, to
destroy the balance of the circulation; to exhaust
the living power of the skin ;
and produce catarrh,
chilblains, &c. On returning from a walk, there-
fore, exercise and amusement should be the
order of the day: -if the extremities are cold,
they may be carefully rubbed with a piece of
flannel, or the hand only, until warmth be com-
pletely restored to them ;
and the hours of ex-
ercise should be so regulated, as that, upon re-
turning from their walk, some food should be
shortly given them, which will assist the system
in its salutary effort to keep up the capillary cir-
culation. In these attentions to the skin, the
state of the stomach must never be overlooked,
and the functions of the bowels must be regu-
larly executed ; for, where this is not the case,
we shall never succeed in preserving a steady
temperature of the surface.
The warmth of the nursery should be always
uniform, and never excessive, since this relaxes
the habit. The thermometer, placed at a distant
corner of the room, should stand at from 60 to
65, never suffering it to sink much below the
former degree, nor allowing it to rise above the
latter, without adding to, or abstracting some of
the artificial heat. Thus fortified and prepared
to encounter vicissitude, the body is to be freely,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 95
though prudently exposed, in order to enlist the
influence of habit, in support of that state of
health to which it has been carried.
There are very few days on which children
may not advantageously buffet with the winds
and storms, and cold of our climate, and its
every variety ; but in bad weather, the period of
their walks should be curtailed, so as not to allow
of their becoming fatigued and debilitated con-
sequently, easily assailed by disease : and on the
same principle, a feeble, sickly child, or one who
is only suffering from temporary indisposition,
should not be thus exposed in an ungenial season :
the greatest care should also be taken to secure
dry, as well as warm feet, upon returning from a
walk. Excessive fatigue should be avoided, even
under the most favourable circumstances, since it
produces a morbid condition of the system, and
generally gives rise to slight febrile re-action :
but commonly the buoyant spirits of infancy will
be a fair criterion of the measure of exhaustion,
and when these begin to flag, the walk should
not be prolonged.
During the summer, in addition ko the precau-
tions above mentioned (and which are common to
every season), children should not be exposed to
the fervid ray of a noontide sun ;
their hours of
air and exercise should be selected from the
morning and evening. Great care should be
taken not to obstruct nature's cooling process
perspiration, nor suffer it to be rashly checked by
96 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
sitting in a draught. The former of these im-
prudencies frequently produces primary irritation
of the brain ;
the latter more commonly acts first
upon the mucous surface of the bowels, and
affects the brain only secondarily. Cold water
may be still abundantly employed in the morning;
but at other parts of the day, when the body is
freely perspiring, and is at the same time weakened
by fatigue, it might not be applied with impunity.
Every effort should now be made to preserve
the nursery cool, and particularly the sleeping
apartment, in which all kind of curtains, blankets,
c. may be dismissed, and the lightest possible
clothing only should be employed : the room
may be daily scoured with advantage in the morn-
ing, and as soon as it has become dry, it should
be closed, in order to keep out the heated air, as
well as the rays of the sun, until these no longer
assail the aspect, and until the cooling breeze of
evening may be safely admitted. The window
may then remain open to a late hour, but the
door should be closed, thus taking care to avoid
a current of air.
Thirst, during the period under consideration,
is commonly an indication of irritation of the
mucous surface of the stomach ; where the indi-
vidual is
healthy, and perspires moderately, there
will be no considerable thirst ;
and when this
symptom does exist, let the attention of the
parent be mainly directed to the digestive func-
tion: small quantities of fluids may, however, be
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 97
permitted, though this symptom is not generally
diminished, but increased by their exhibition ;
and a sparing supply of cooling, subacid, ripe
fruit will be better than much fluid. Where some
liquid must be taken, imperial, in very minute
quantities, will answer well. Cold infusion of
weak green tea will also be admissible, since it
tends at once to relieve the irritation of the
stomach the thirst, which is its consequence,
and the excitability of the brain and nervous
system, which usually accompany it.
It often happens, that in consequence of the
excessive secretion of the mucous membrane of
the skin, the bowels are constipated ;
this state
should only be relieved by the mildest remedies :
calomel should not be exhibited, since it will only
irritate an already irritated surface, and produce
phenomena, which are often thought to indicate
the necessity for its repetition, while they are in
fact the offspring of this valuable remedy, when
judiciously employed, but otherwise destructive
poison. During the extreme heat of summer, the
general diet should be mild and unirritating, and
may partake more of a vegetable character.
The principal additional precautions required
during autumn, are to defend from the sudden
changes of temperature between day and night ;
to avoid every debilitating cause ;
to be doubly
cautious as to the digestive functions ;
to abstain
from considerable quantities of fruit, especially of
plumbs, nuts, c. and to shun the exhalations
arising from vegetable matters during their pro-
VOL. I. II
98 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
cess of decay ; avoiding all marshy low grounds,
especially towards evening ;
the edges of ponds
which have been now drawn down, for the pur-
pose of being fished ;
and generally, all situations
in which vegetable remains are subjected to the
combined agency of warmth and moisture ;
and
choosing elevated and dry spots for their regular
walks. It will not any longer be right to wash
the nursery every day, since the atmosphere is so
loaded with moisture, that it will not become
readily and sufficiently dry. When symptoms
which are called bilious supervene, in spite of
these precautions, let them not be trifled with :
obsta prindpiis is an excellent motto ;
and many
a promising child has been lost, by deferring a
remedy till to-morrow that day which, though
pursued with unabating ardour, is never over-
taken.
Lastly, winter arrives ;
and here we have prin-
cipally to notice the great difference between
individuals in their power of resisting cold ;
and
the distinction which should consequently be
made with regard to their exposure, and the
degree of external clothing which may be neces-
sary. Particular care should be taken, that with-
out being smothered in a pillow of down, or alto-
gether buried in a featherbed, a sufficient number
of blankets should be employed to preserve the
animal heat during sleep. After the morning
ablution, dry friction should be diligently used,
in order to arouse the vital action of the skin ;
ind breakfast should be always taken before going
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 99
out for a walk; which should never be protracted,
when notwithstanding every attention to the
above mentioned rules, the little ones are suffer-
ing from cold.
Before we quite quit this part of our subject,
we must make a few remarks on the influence of
the seasons upon the manifestations of mind !
We have all experienced the gladdening efficacy
of a spring day upon the animal spirits ;
an effect
not depending upon association with the revival
of nature after her long repose, but arising from
the impression of the air upon the nervous sys-
tem : it is the season of new life and activity, and
the brain manifests an increased degree of exci-
tability ; the production of nervous energy is
exuberant, and we have only to guard against its
morbid excess. The brain thus excited, is ex-
posed to the heat of summer, and rendered sus-
ceptible by its previous suraction, it becomes easily
irritated, producing headache, languor, weariness,
great prostration of strength, and inaptitude for
mental exertion. Proceeding a little further,
this state is converted into one of acute disease ;
and the patient is subjected to inflammatory
action of the brain, or to what has been termed
nervous fever ;
at all events, the early irritability
of the spring is followed by a period of languor
and debility. The season of autumn is still more
strongly marked by the feebleness and exhaustion
which are the consequence of preceding excite-
ment, and which form at once the expression and
the measure of the suffering which the constitution
H 2
100 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
has sustained from the preceding wear and tear
of the nervous system, the centre of all sympathy,
and the source of all the regular and healthy
functions. Winter, on the contrary, and a mode-
rate degree of accompanying cold, braces up the
nervous system, diminishes its susceptibility, and
restores its equilibrium : it is then, during the
latter period, that the greatest demand may be
made upon the brain with impunity. The infer-
ence to be drawn from these considerations is to
be careful not to stimulate the brain during its
period of excitability, but rather to diminish its
tendency to irritation, which is to be effected by
calling its attention to a variety of objects, in
preference to fixing it
intently upon one pur-
suit ;
and by engaging it in those drier studies,
which will arrest its tendency to effervescence,
rather than goad its already highly susceptible
function. The languor and hebetude which cha-
racterize the succeeding periods, indicate a degree
of oppression connected with debility, which will
not bear great exertions ;
stimuli of every kind
should therefore be withheld, and the faculties
should be by no means stretched beyond their
ready reach :
great efforts of study should be
avoided ; intensity of thought or feeling are in-
temperate, while the lighter and more amusing
pursuits are desirable. Winter again is the period
for mental exertion ;
when it may be gradually
wound up to its highest pitch of activity, and
during which the brain will bear with impunity,
and advantage, those intellectual efforts which
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 101
before would have been both imprudent and
injurious.
Thus it will be seen, that with varying modi-
fications, there is always one great object with
regard to the nervous system, viz. to withhold sti-
mulants, and to preserve its organ in a state of
energy, but not of excitement : this is greatly to
be accomplished by developing the understand-
ing, and repressing the imagination. Precocious
intellect is a curse rather than a blessing, and
requires increased care to preserve it from morbid
tendencies. Let parents cease to sigh after pro-
digies of talent, and let them aim to develop in
their children a sound, well-regulated understand-
ing, solid memory, and substantial reasoning
powers, rather than the shewy brilliance of more
attractive, but less durable properties : above all,
let them regulate the demand for brainular exer-
tion, by the proportionate energy of the individual
organ ;
and let them not ask for too great, or too
prolonged mental exercise ;
always keeping in
view the necessity of watching over the health as
an indication of the degree of tone accumulated
in the nervous system, and as a beacon to pour
its light upon the path of education to teach
them whether to proceed, or to hold their hands.
Let them never suffer the brain to be irritated ;
this must enfeeble it, and WILL ultimately defeat
the best intentioned designs for augmenting its
powers and capacities.
102
CHAP. IX.
THE COLD BATH ! DIRECTIONS AND CAUTIONS
AS TO ITS EMPLOYMENT IMPORTANT FUNC-
TION OF THE SKIN, CONTEMPLATED BY PHY-
SICAL EDUCATION, NOT SOLELY AS ORNA-
MENTAL, BUT AS HIGHLY USEFUL: EXCESSIVE
CARE PRECAUTIONS REQUIRED BY HEALTH
EXTENSIVE CONNEXIONS PRESSURE TO BE
AVOIDED : ITS INJURIOUS CONSEQUENCES
SPECIFIC CONTAGIONS TO WHICH THE SKIN
IS LIABLE SMALL POX VACCINATION MO-
DIFICATION OF GENERAL RULES REQUIRED
BY INDIVIDUAL PECULIARITY, &C.
WE have already spoken of the advantages of
cold ablution ;
but it
may become an interesting
question as to the utility of the cold bath. As a
remedy, we more than doubt its frequent value ;
but for strong and healthy children it
possesses
advantages, when employed with due precaution,
especially as it affords to boys the opportunity of
learning to swim ;
an acquisition which certainly
should not be omitted in physical education, both
as a mode of exercise, and for its
prospective
utility, in saving life from otherwise inevitable
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 103
destruction, under circumstances of danger and
destitution. This point will come before us here-
after. We have only now to remark, that the cold
bath should not be allowed to weakly or sickly
children ;
and that for those who are apparently
robust, it should never be repeated if it
produce
languor instead of refreshment a sense of chilli-
ness rather than an active glow, or even a ten-
dency to drowsiness in the room of a feeling of
lightness and elasticity. It should be deemed
inadmissible, because imprudent, in a damp season,
during the continuance of which we have seen
that the skin is more susceptible, and the im-
pression of cold is much more extensively and
more permanently felt. It should never be
employed when there is a kind of instinctive
aversion from it, or any feeling of debility and
loss of health, or creeping chilliness, or that state
of the surface which is called goose-skin.
Under proper management, exercise taken
before the cold bath, is not objectionable, pro-
vided the body has not been fatigued and debili-
tated by its violence or protraction. When pro-
fuse perspiration exists as a consequence of great
exertion, the cold bath would be unadvisable ;
but particularly would it be mischievous, if the
body shall have been suffered to lose its high
temperature after this state of excitement, and
the cold plunge shall have been taken just at
the moment when the system had parted with
so much of its caloric, that it was beginning to
J04 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
feel cool, and to suffer from the lassitude of pre-
ceding exertion.
The hour when the cold bath may be taken is
not indifferent : the morning, between breakfast
and dinner, and after moderate exercise, is the
period to be preferred : on the principles before
enumerated, it must be inexpedient with an empty
stomach, and terribly injurious when that viscus
is distended. It is also desirable that the uni-
versal application of cold water should be sudden,
and therefore the child should be taught to plunge
head first into the bath, which will secure that
important organ, as well as the lungs, from con-
gestion and irritation. This plan should, how-
ever, be voluntary : the shock of such a plunge
where the child is fearful, should never be per-
mitted, since the impression upon the nervous
system would be so great, as to endanger the
regularity of the capillary circulation. Neither
should the bath be prolonged : considerable
activity should be used while remaining in it, and
the body should then be wiped dry, and freely
rubbed ;
it should never continue exposed to the
action of the air or the sun, but the dress should
be rapidly adjusted, and exercise be immediately
taken, so as to ensure a healthy reaction upon
the surface, and to render it
permanent. Where
this reaction of health is fully established, the
cold bath will be useful, since it will strengthen
the capillary vessels, and drive the blood into that
remote structure, in which it is believed that the
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 105
process of assimilation will take place, thereby
contributing to the nutrition and tone of the sys-
tem ;
while it will also invigorate the heart and
larger blood vessels, by calling upon them for
that increased energy of action, by which the
blood is returned to the extremities. The secret
of the cold bath proving beneficial, then, depends
upon re-action; and when this does not take
place when the skin is too susceptible of the
impression of cold, and the heart and arteries are
too feeble to ensure a quick return of the blood
to the surface, it is positively injurious, and should
never be repeated. Whenever the digestive func-
tion is disturbed whenever there may be any
deviation from the strictest health whenever any
disease of the skin may be present, the cold bath
is
generally contra-indicated, and should not be
hazarded.
The skin is an organ of such extensive sym-
pathies and connexions, that its function is worthy
of particular regard; but in a treatise on Phy-
sical Education, it is to be contemplated, not as
is too frequently the case, in the light of an
ornament to the body, for the preservation of
whose beauty every consideration is to be sacri-
ficed, but as a mucous membrane, of vital import-
ance to the general health, for the due perform-
ance of whose function every other consideration
is to be yielded. Indeed it will be found that the
former is a most mistaken view, and that the only
106 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
means of securing a good complexion is to main-
tain the health of the skin.
Since the principles upon which this indication
is to be conducted, have been already considered,
it only remains for us in this place to stigmatize
that excessive care which induces parents to shield
from the breath of heaven, and the cheering light
of its grand luminary, every atom of the surface
of the body, lest it should ruin the complexion.
This idea is altogether erroneous ;
since the skin,
even more manifestly than other organs, is under-
going that constant process of decay and repara-
tion, which is the joint effect of the due balance
of the functions of nutrition and absorption ;
'
a
process to which every organ of the human body
is subjected, and by which, in a short time, it is
most effectually changed, so that no effect pro-
duced upon the skin can be
*
permanent, unless,
indeed, it
may have given rise to organic disease.
Let, then, this beautiful covering be freely and
readily exposed ;
let it be preserved in a healthy
state, and accustomed to all the vicissitudes of
season ;
it will assuredly brave them without
injury ;
and although it
may have been bronzed
by the fervid ray of the dog star, it will again be
blanched by December's snows; while neither
heat nor cold will destroy its
healthy texture, and
while its functions will have proved beneficial to
the general play of organic life.
Another consideration here presents itself, viz.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 107
that this excessive care defeats its own object ;
for the skin is not an isolated membrane, governed
by its own laws, and existing for itself, but de-
pending entirely upon the regular and harmonious
performance of the function of other organs, so
that no external applications no care extended
only to the surface, can preserve its good appear-
ance ;
in fact, it will be observed, that where the
error here combated has been acted upon, though
the skin may have been rendered softer and
whiter for a short time ; yet a hundred causes
operating upon it
immediately, or remotely through
the medium of other organs -the loss of health
occasioned by the absence of sun and air the
sudden impression of an alternating temperature
the slightest disorder of the stomach the smallest
increased secretion of bile affections of the mind,
&c. &c. will destroy all the work of so much
solicitude, and such over-weening attention ;
be-
sides that the excessive susceptibility of the sur-
face thus induced, will frequently lay the founda-
tion of morbid affections of the pulmonary and
other mucous surfaces, which in constitutions so
predisposed, may terminate in consumption. In
this, as in other analogous instances, no plan will
ultimately succeed, but the principled one of relin-
quishing all inferior considerations for the sake
of health. And since the appearance of the skin
is
dependent on the system in general, the only
care should be to carry that system to its highest
state of perfection.
108 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
Nothing presents a greater variety than the
complexion ;
but this is not to be improved or
altered by cosmetics, which are either useless or
injurious. Where indeed there exists disease of
the skin, it is to be treated as such, and comes
under the appropriate care of the surgeon or
physician ;
but with the differences of natural
complexion, every interference is mischievous.
Where the skin is very delicate, and liable during
winter to become irritated from exposure to cold,
some slight stimulant (as, for instance, the cam-
phorated soap) will prove useful ;
but all other
applications, save and except cold water in abun-
dance, that grand catholicon of youth and health
should be diligently avoided. It is however ne-
cessary, that after every ablution, friction with a
dry towel should be employed until the cutaneous
circulation be restored perfectly, and until the
surface be completely dry ;
and in this way the
ultimate beauty and delicacy of this exquisite
structure will be best consulted.
Another important consideration in the manage-
ment of the skin, is to avoid unequal pressure
upon its surface, which so frequently occasions
corns and other serious inconveniences : for this
purpose it is essential, not that the shoe should
be made large, but that it should fit the foot.
The occurrence of chilblains should likewise be
guarded against by the precautions above-men-
tioned as necessary to the general health of this
organ, and by enveloping the foot, before the
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 109
arrival of winter, in flannel, or washed leather
socks.
Pressure is not only mischievous upon the sur-
face, but it is even more so upon the organs con-
tained in the great cavities of the body ; hence,
any stricture upon these cavities should be avoid-
ed ; they should be allowed uncontrolled liberty,
in order to obtain the full development, and
secure the healthy function of the internal vis-
cera. The article of dress therefore is not unim-
portant : we have already said, that its object
should be to preserve the circulation and secre-
tion of the skin, and the general health of the
body ;
and we may now add another character-
istic, viz. that t
it should be such as to prevent
disease ;
and that it should be varied according
to the season, and to the peculiarities of indivi-
dual constitution.
While we are noticing the skin, we may just
remark on the specific contagions to which it is
liable, and which are received into the system by
cutaneous or pulmonary absorption, and con-
veyed through the medium of the atmosphere
from indefinite distances, or communicated by
contact with substances imbued with the poison,
or by means of a centre of infection generated
around the bed of the sick. Of these, however,
we shall only particularly mention the small pox,
for the purpose of recommending vaccination,
and of adding our testimony to the fact, that
when (and there are many such instances) this
mild remedy has not proved an entire preservative
110 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
from the tremendous scourge it was destined to
supersede, it has so entirely modified its charac-
ter, as to have deprived it of its malignity, and
to have rendered it altogether a malady, so miti-
gated in its influence, as that it need excite no
uneasiness in the bosom of the most anxious
parent. The grounds on which this opinion is
founded ;
as well as a comparison of the common
course of small pox in the unprotected, of small
pox modified by preceding vaccination, and of the
common results of the vaccine malady ; together
with the influence of the latter upon the general
rate of infantile mortality, must be left to a future
treatise on the diseases of children. In the mean
time, let parents early embrace this boon of a
beneficent Providence, and submit their offspring
to the prophylactic efficacy of vaccination, as
soon as they are a few months old, and earlier,
if there be any danger of that ruthless monster,
whose sting it has so effectually removed.
In conclusion, we shall only remark, that the
rules of health must be modified, not only by the
peculiarities of individual constitution ;
but by
the situation in society in which the infant now
moves, and by that which it is hereafter destined
to fill ; by the local character of its present habi-
tation ; by the habits necessary to be acquired
for its future profession or other occupation ; by
the dangers and diseases to which it
may be ex-
posed ; by the peculiar talents it
may possess ;
and by the feeble action of its organs, or the
morbid tendency of their functions.
Ill
CHAP. X.
OF EXERCISE ITS OBJECTS HOW ACCOM'
PLISHED EVILS ARISING FROM INDOLENCE;
FROM EXCESSIVE EXERTION NECESSITY FOR
ALTERNATING THE PERIODS OF EXERCISE
AND REPOSE SEPARATE MODIFICATIONS OF
EXERCISE WALKING EXERCISE OF THE
HAND NECESSITY FOR MAINTAINING THE
EQUILIBRIUM OF MUSCULAR POWER, AND IN-
JURIES ARISING FROM A FORGETFULNESS OF
THIS PRINCIPLE PRECAUTIONS TO BE OB-
SERVED ON THIS SUBJECT THE STRENGTH OF
THE INDIVIDUAL SYSTEM, OR PARTICULAR
ORGAN OF THAT SYSTEM, MUST BE CON-
SULTED, AND ITS EXERCISE REGULATED
ACCORDINGLY INFLUENCE OF AMUSEMENTS
IN FULFILLING THIS INDICATION OTHER
OBJECTS OF EXERCISE GRACEFULNESS OF
FORM AGILITY OF THE BODY ACTIVITY OF
THE CIRCULATION GENERAL HEALTH
HORSEBACK EXERCISE SWIMMING CAR-
RIAGE EXERCISE DANCING CONCLUSION.
WE shall now fully, and in detail, consider this
important branch of physical education ;
its
objects, advantages, and defects.
1. The objects of exercise, are, to develop the
powers of the several organs and functions of the
body ;
to carry these to their highest state of per-
fection, consistently with their place in the ani-
112 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
mal economy, and with the well-being of the
whole ;
to avoid giving an undue preponderance
to any one organ; and to correct it where it
already exists.
2. These objects are to be accomplished, by
assisting the powers of nature ;
not by counter-
acting her intentions; by taking enlarged views
of her purposes ;
and by wisely and prudently
developing the force of her antagonist resources,
in order to remedy excessive action " where it
may be found ;
"
not by directly opposing and
diminishing this exuberance of vitality.
3. The want of sufficient exercise produces de-
bility, from a defective supply of vital energy ;
a supply which is
always proportioned to the de-
mand made upon it. Excessive exertion leads to
a similar result as the consequence of exhaustion;
while irregular and capricious exercise partakes
of both these evils : the organ, at one time, suf-
fering from the languor of indolence, and, at
another, being easily subjected to the debility
of exhausted power.
4. The principle of exercise may be abused ;
it may be too great at any one time ;
or it
may
be continued too long ;
or too frequently renewed
without a sufficient interval of repose, in which
to recruit the exhausted energies of the system ;
it may produce too great a degree of excitement,
in some important organ or function ;
it
may give
rise to a state of general febrile irritability, watch-
fulness, and incapacity for sleep ;
it
may be
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 113
erroneous in principle, and produce results pre-
cisely opposed to those which were wished, and
intended ;
or it
may be altogether insufficient,
and thus lead to atrophy of the organs in ques-
tion, to their defective nutrition, and to the loss
of their support in the animal machine; disturb-
ing its harmony, and giving rise to various pheno-
mena of disordered function, or diseased structure.
That the powers and influence of exercise are
not over-rated in this sketch, may be shewn, by
a very familiar example; viz: in the contrast
between the withered arm of the beggar, and the
brawny, muscular, athletic limb of the black-
smith : the former arising from defective nutrition,
in consequence of want of exercise, the arm
having been bandaged to the side, or carried in
a sling, and all action having been carefully
avoided : the latter, being characterized by an
excess of nutrition, developed by almost inces-
sant, and very great exertion. Not only the
health, but also the appearance of the body, is in
a great degree dependent upon the application of
this principle.
We have, however, mentioned the necessity
for alternate periods of repose and exercise : and
we will here, distinctly avow our belief, in the
great importance of selecting a period, during
the day, in which growing children should be per-
mitted, and even enjoined, a perfect intermission
of all their active exercises, and which should be
entirely devoted to quietude. No time will be
VOL. I. I
114 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
ultimately lost by this arrangement ;
and it will
be far better to spare one, or even two hours,
from the pursuit of some fashionable, and per-
haps very desirable accomplishment, in its proper
situation, than that the powers of the body, the
energy of the brain, and, consequently, the ca-
pacity for mental exertion should be impaired.
It is not to be expected that the muscular powers
of children, even with all the variety of occu-
pation which a judicious parent will devise, in
order to employ different sets of muscles at dif-
ferent and distinct periods, should be adequate
to the protracted exertion of a long day, under
which, even those of an untrained adult would
suffer materially : and it will be found a very be-
neficial plan, to take one or two hours after dinner,
to be dedicated to repose and relaxation ;
in
which, even their customary amusements should
be intermitted, and the recumbent posture be
superstitiously observed. This will assist the
process of digestion and assimilation ;
restore the
tone of the fatigued muscles ;
and permit such
an accumulation of nervous energy, as shall
suffice for the expenditure of the remainder of
the day.
The first modification of voluntary exercise,
is that of walking; and as soon as it is capable of
doing so, the infant should be accustomed to go
from one part of the nursery to another in quest
of its little playthings. Two objects will be thus
most easily accomplished :
by degrees, firmness
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 115
and steadiness will be given to its progression ;
and there will be less danger of accident when it
comes to walk abroad ;
while it will learn its own
powers, be taught to satisfy its own wants, to
become independent of those around it, and to
acquire the good habit of shifting for itself, under
the various little emergencies of life ;
thus con-
tributing at once to the gracefulness of its form,
its power of active duty, its ability to escape from
the difficulties and dangers with which life is en-
compassed, and to the enlargement of its sphere
of usefulness to itself, and to society at large.
With this principle before our eyes, let us not
fancy, however, that we can improve upon na-
ture's form, and endeavour to mould it according
to our ideas of beauty : if we do, we shall fail in
the attempt, while we shall make a sacrifice of
health and utility at the shrine of folly or fashion,
which too often, and even now too extensively,
would have the fairest and the best part of the
creation " fine by defect and delicately weak."
The mode of exercise, next in the order of
its importance, is the development of the pow-
ers of the hand, that wondrous instrument
by which man is so advantageously distin-
guished from the brute creation ;
and through the
medium of which, his acquaintance with ex-
ternal nature is so extensively enlarged. We
have not here to descant upon the hand as the
principal organ of the sense of touch ;
this will be
noticed in a future chapter : but it should be one
i 2
11G PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
of the earliest parental cares to develop its mus-
cular powers ;
to employ it at first in taking hold
of tolerably large bodies, yet not so large but
that it can easily grasp and carry them ;
and by
degrees to accustom it to those very minute
movements which characterize its functions, and
which, as for instance in the art of writing, can
never cease to excite our wonder and admiration.
It is here of considerable importance, to give the
preference to the right hand ; for although it
may
be very convenient to be able to employ both
hands indiscriminately, yet if the child should
contract the early bad habit of giving the prefer-
ence to the left, it will be productive of a great
degree of awkwardness, and will involve a train
of associated actions, often very difficult of eradi-
cation. The employment of a spoon for the pur-
pose of feeding itself, and a knife and fork as soon
as they can be permitted with impunity, and with-
out risk, will be desirable upon the principle men-
tioned in a foregoing paragraph. A variety of
other details will suggest themselves to the pa-
rent, both as they relate to personal duties, or
present amusements.
In all these cases, and indeed as a principle
universally applicable, it is necessary to main-
tain the proper equilibrium of muscular power ;
since if this were lost, and an undue preponde-
rance were given to one set of muscles, the cor-
responding ones would lose their power in a ratio
proportioned to the too great excitation of their
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 117
antagonists, and to their own feebleness of inac-
tion ; and, in many instances, inconvenience, and
in others, deformity would ensue. This is
par-
ticularly the case, with regard to the muscles,
which preserve the body in an upright posture ;
those especially which are destined to support
the head and neck upon the trunk, and the trunk
upon its bony foundation. It will be readily un-
derstood, why the spine suffers particularly un-
der these circumstances, and why from its great
importance, it ought to form an object of the
parents' unremitting care.
It sometimes happens that the muscles of the
back become palsied from the irritation of denti-
tion, or some primary disturbance of the ali-
mentary function ;
and that a degree of lateral
curvature of the spinal column is the consequence :
but more frequently this arises in weakly children,
at a later period of their life, and too often from
the preposterous nature of some of our social in-
stitutions, and from the absurd demands made
upon the powers and structure of the parts con-
cerned. Where children are weakly, from pos-
sessing a frail constitution, or as the consequence
of preceding disease, or as the result of too rapid
growth : and where they are called upon for long
continued exertions to sustain the erect position
of the body, the muscles so employed will be-
come fatigued, and in order to relieve them, there
will be a gradual leaning to one side or the
other, automatically produced ;
and in process of
118 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
time this will occasion a curvature of the spinal
column. Thus, with regard to boys, it will very
generally be found, that they acquire the habit
of balancing themselves on one side, and gene-
rally on the same foot in preference to a change of
sides ; they commonly sit on their benches with
a similar lateral inclination ;
and perhaps, also,
they usually sleep on a soft bed, with the head
considerably raised, so as to favour one side, and
to produce a slight deviation of the vertebrae
from the straight line. Fortunately, their active
exercises so far strengthen the muscles of the
spine, that this effect of evil habit never amounts
to positive distortion : but if to these causes
should chance to be superadded bad health, the
slightest obliquity is then rapidly developed into
positive curvature.
So more particularly with regard to girls, who
are originally possessed of less muscular energy ;
whose locomotive system is not developed by the
active uncontrouled amusements of boys, or by
analogous pursuits ;
who are especially called
upon for much greater efforts to support the body
in an upright position ;
whose occupations in va-
rious ways, above all in the acquisition of accom-
plishments, as music, drawing, &c. without a
sufficient change of object, are peculiarly calcu-
lated to produce this effect ;
who are commonly
not allowed seats which would assist in support-
ing the back ;
and who are more subject to
causes inducing general languor and debility, we
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 119
cannot feel surprised that they should often be-
come the victims of bad habit and consequent
deformity. We cannot pursue this subject farther
than to remark, that the means of obviating this
truly unfortunate state, are principally, t>y avoid-
ing the mischievous practices which lead towards
it. But these habits are generally the result of the
inadequacy of the muscular power, to the demand
made upon it for exertion. The grand method of
prevention, then, consists in the development and
increase of this power, a plan which will mainly
depend upon the principle of affording the muscles
so engaged, alternate exercise and repose ; upon regu-
lating the demand for exertion, to the power of
supporting it; increasing their tone by friction,
&c. ; avoiding a soft bed, and selecting, as far
as possible, a perfectly horizontal position for the
hours of sleep ; allowing a frequent change of
pursuit, and, above all, considerable spontane-
ous exercise in the open air ; diminishing the
number of hours allotted to those pursuits which
are particularly injurious ; permitting the use of
chairs (instead of stools) which will allow the
feet to rest upon the ground afford a firm, and
large, and easy seat, and give a sufficient degree
of support to the back, according to its natural
curvature ; invigorating the general health ;
and
finally, calling in the assistance of good habit,
in order to counteract the evil tendency. With
regard to the latter agent, it will be found that
while all mechanical means will speedily lose
120 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
their impression, the influence of good resolution
will increase in proportion as the understanding
is enlarged, and will contribute, at the same
time, to strengthen the manifestations of mind, as
well as the general functions of the body.
The author believes, in common with other of
his professional brethren, that the chair with a
small elevated seat, and a perfectly straight back
does not afford the relief that is required : it is in
fact an unnatural seat, for the slightest reflection
must convince the parent, that nature never could
have intended the sitting posture to be one in
which the foot could not reach the ground, and
rest comfortably upon it, and to be consequently
a posture of fatigue ;
and that the child never can
derive comfort and support from a perfectly
straight machine adapted to a column which
nature, in her infinite wisdom, has constructed
of an inimitable curve. Let it ever be recollected,
that the continued action of sustaining the body
against the influence of the laws of gravitation, is
most painful and difficult ;
and let it be adopted
as a maxim for undeviating observance, not to
make this the principal position of the day : for
if it be so, it will defeat its professed object, and
distortion will be the result. With such deform-
ity, accomplishments, however desirable, will be
dearly purchased ;
and too often they will prove
utterly useless to the possessor, and will be com-
pletely lost in the countervailing influence of
disease ;
or by the disordered functions of the
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 121
system, which will frequently accrue indirectly,
as a consequence of the pressure made upon the
organs destined for their performance.
It will often happen, that one part of the ani-
mal machine one organ or function is strong,
and another feeble : it will be the part of wisdom
to proportionate quantity of exercise accordingly;
it
being the invariable object to maintain that
equilibrium in the powers of the system, which is
necessary to the harmony of its functions, and to
the production of a state of health. Thus, for
instance, a child may be possessed of a large
appetite and a strong stomach, but a very feeble
power over the ulterior process of digestion :
here,
the object will be to relieve the latter function
from oppression, by diminishing the exercise it is
called upon to perform, viz. by abstracting a cer-
tain proportion of daily food ; and the stomach
being less exercised, will accommodate itself to
the new order of things will lose a corresponding
ratio of its excessive strength, and will become
in harmony with the other viscera.
At another time, the energy of the brain will
unduly preponderate over the rest of the system,
in consequence of which the latter will be worn,
fatigued, and impaired, by mental excitement;
while the former will be rendered irritable, and
ultimately feeble from inordinate exertion. In this
case, it will be the first object to develop the
muscular power ;
not to stultify the intellectual
organ by indolence or incongruous activity ;
but
so to employ the sensorial energy upon the mus-
122 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
cular and organic systems, as to diminish the ex-
treme irritability of the brain, and give it the
required opportunity for repose.
It will sometimes happen, that one limb, or
one class of muscles, is feebler than natural ;
and
here, the judicious parent will take care not to
impair the vigour of those which are strong, but
gradually to wind up the feebler organs, and aug-
ment their tone, so as to preserve the balance of
power, a chimera in politics no longer worth
contending for, but a maxim of the first conse-
quence in the economy of the human system.
The same principle will be found applicable to a
variety of other circumstances in the animal sys-
tem. In accomplishing this object, the domestic
instructor will wisely avail herself of the early
amusements of children, so as at once to obtain
the particular purpose in view ;
and at the same
time, to form a little epitome of human life, that
she may convey the important lessons of conduct
which regard their own present, or prospective
wants, and the wants of those around them ;
or
which relate to some situation in which they may
hereafter be placed ;
thus rendering gymnastic
exercises, lessons of real life.
There are other objects to be accomplished by
exercise : the gracefulness of the form, and the
agility of the body, are acquisitions of no trifling
moment. Thus it will be a matter of solicitude
with parents, to teach their offspring to walk
gracefully, and at the same time firmly ;
and this
having been accomplished, they should be accus-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 123
tomed to rapid progression over uneven ground
to run, to leap, and surmount every little obstacle
in their way. This will not only render them up-
right in their form, active, and independent ;
but will also materially contribute to their gene-
ral health ; and, particularly, will obviate any
tendency to the occurrence of defective circulation
in the extremities, and to chilblains as its conse-
quence. With the same intention, the games of
cricket, prison bars, foot ball, &c. will be useful,
as children grow up, and are strong enough to
endure such exercise. With regard to girls,
these amusements may be advantageously sup-
planted by bass-ball, battledore and shuttlecock,
and similar active and playful pursuits. The de-
gree ^of power which may thus be developed in
the constitution, is always great, and sometimes
almost incredible : and although a parent does
not wish to make her children great runners or
walkers, or to have them remarkable for their
performances of agility, yet she is anxious to see
them apt for all athletic exercises, and possessed
of robust constitutions.
In all these, and analogous exertions, care
must be taken to repress a dangerous excess ;
and to avoid those amusements which may not be
pursued without considerable risk, as, for in-
stance, the game of quoits, or the exercise of
climbing, and other objects of a similar nature.
As the child advances in years and strength,
these exercises may be characterized by any par-
ticular aim, so as to give that bias to his thoughts
124 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
and feelings, which may be desirable to assist him
in his choice of a profession, and at the same time
to prepare him for the easy discharge of its duties.
Where it is admissible, horseback exercise will
be found conducive to health, and will prove a
desirable acquisition for every gentleman. This
mode of exercise is less violent than those we
have just mentioned ;
but as it is not unaccom-
panied by danger, the child should be first taught
to ride without stirrups, and upon a readily yield-
ing soil, that if he should fall, he may do so
without the prospect of material injury.
The exercise of swimming has been already
alluded to, and may be rendered one of conside-
rable importance : since it
possesses peculiar
advantages, arising from the influenced the dense
medium in which it is taken, upon the body ;
from its decided contribution to cleanliness ;
and
from the great and general muscular exertion
which it demands. The precautions which it re-
quires are those which have been mentioned in
treating on the cold bath ;
and those which may
be connected with the possibility of accidents,
and with the occurrence of too great fatigue.
Carriage exercise is better fitted for the invalid,
than for the robust child, and requires no especial
directions; we shall therefore suffer it to pass.
None can doubt the utility of dancing, as a
mode of exercise, on the principles which have
been before laid down, from the degree of general
and graceful motion it affords to almost all the
muscles of the body : but when it ceases to be
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 125
natural ;
when it is
sophisticated into a midnight
revel, is continued so long as to produce fatigue,
and is attended by a hundred other sources of ex-
citement, irritability, and exhaustion ;
then does
it cease to be useful ;
then does it become abso-
lutely injurious, and ought to be proscribed. The
early loss of the manners of innocence, and of the
graceful simplicity of a natural carriage, are no
trifling evils, for which it will be difficult to find
any equivalent advantage. As a moral employ-
ment, it will again come before us in considering
the amusements of the young, which we here
contemplate only as a modification of exercise,
and in their general bearing upon health.
In conclusion, we have only to remark, that
different temperaments and dispositions will de-
mand varying modes of exercise, accordingly as
the prevailing cast of character may lean towards
indolence, effeminacy, or lassitude, on theone hand,
or on the other towards excessive mobility, thought-
lessness, irascibility, or folly. But here again we
are treading on the very verge of moral education :
indeed, so intimately must and ought the two to
be united, that they insensibly glide into each
other's domain: their objects are often similar :
and while the mind receives its notices through
the medium of the body, it is scarcely possible
that any considerable impression should be made
upon the latter, without producing a correspond-
ing effect upon the manifestations of that imma-
terial principle, with which it is in so direct
and intimate a relation.
126
CHAP. XL
ON THE EXERCISE OF THE SENSES THEIR USES GE-
NERAL LAWS REGULATING THEIR EMPLOYMENT ;
AND THEIR CONNEXION WITH THE BRAIN DIVISION
OF THE SENSES OF THE SENSE OF TOUCH ITS
USES LIABILITY TO ERROR TOO GREAT SUSCEP-
TIBILITY CAUTIONS RESPECTING THIS PROPERTY
OF THE HAND AS THE PRINCIPAL ORGAN OF THIS
SENSE.
IN order that man might receive notices of exte-
rior objects ;
that the sphere of his gratifications
might be enlarged ;
that he might acquire the
materials of reflection ;
that he might be warned
of the approach of danger ;
that he might be ena-
bled to investigate the wonders of nature ;
and that
he might be brought acquainted with the will and
commands of the Author of nature, he has been
furnished with those organs which are termed the
senses ;
and whose principal business it is, to be
the media of receiving impressions from without,
and of transmitting them to the brain.
Unlike the muscular system, which we have
so recently contemplated, the senses will not
derive strength and perfection from exercise car-
ried to the very verge offatigue. More delicate in
their texture; more essentially and intimately
dependent upon that organ which presides over
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 127
the nervous system, and the essential character
of which is to require long intervals of repose, and
to be irritated, and excited to morbid action, when
called upon for extraordinary exertion, at least
during the period of childhood and youth ;
it will
be no longer an object to employ the senses to
their greatest possible capacity of endurance, but
rather to repress their activity to husband their
resources, and to beware lest they should be
excited beyond their just measure of action ;
in
which case, a degree of morbid sensibility would
be the result.
Without, therefore, pushing the exercise of the
senses to any considerable effort, the wise parent
will anxiously and imperceptibly direct their ap-
plication ;
she will foresee and correct their morbid
associations, and will obviate those bad habits
which might prevent the future conservation of
the individual, in a world, in which the impres-
sions of sense are continually multiplied, and
infinitely varied ;
and in which a distinct ac-
quaintance with surrounding objects is imperi-
ously required, exactly in proportion as the young
shall mix more or less extensively with its inhabit-
ants. Thus, then, the senses constitute the sen-
tinels of the animal economy.
But inasmuch as the impression received upon
the organ of an individual sense, is not always
correct, or sufficient since it often requires to
be modified and enlarged by association with the
information obtained by means of the other senses
128 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
and since, moreover, it is desirable that the
intelligence thus received should be conveyed to
the understanding, and duly estimated by the
sentient immaterial principle, it has been wisely
ordained, that the sensation should not be pro-
duced in the organ of sense, but in the brain.
The former only receives the impression, and
transmits it to the latter viscus, which forms the
material organ of mind.
That the absolute sensation is not produced in
the organ itself, is shewn by the following consi-
derations ;
viz. that if in any way the communica-
tion between it and the brain be interrupted or cut
off, there is no perception of the impression made
upon the organ of sense, until the mode of inter-
course be restored ;
that the same effect will arise
from stupifying the nerve which forms the instru-
ment of communication between it and the brain ;
that if the brain itself be not in a condition to
receive the impression if it be in a state of mor-
bid excitation, or under the influence of sleep, or
benumbed by reverie or deeply engaged in some
intellectual pursuit, some profound meditation
some difficult problem some abstruse metaphy-
sical reasoning, the impression will in vain be
made upon the organ of sense it will pass un-
noticed and unheeded ;
while on the contrary, if
the attention be awakened, the slightest impres-
sion will not only be perceived at once, but will
actually be invested with an intensity of character,
which it intrinsically wants :
and, lastly, recol-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 129
lected or associated impressions may be, and
often are, developed in the brain itself, (as in the
act of dreaming,) and are clothed with the force
and apparent reality of actual existence, although
none such shall have been made upon the pecu-
liar organ : all clearly shewing, that however
habit may induce us to ascribe our sensations to
the external structure, yet that they cannot be
produced without the intervention of the brain.
This is a very important inference, as it concerns
the function of that viscus, and its relation with
the sentient immaterial principle to which it is
subservient. As such it was necessary to be stated
in this place : but we shall not venture upon the
debatable ground, crowded as it is with unsatis-
factory hypotheses, as to the mode by which this
impression is first made, and then transmitted to
the brain, and received and elaborated by it.
Here we stumble over the terra incognita of Phy-
siologists and Metaphysicians, and might readily
be lost in the clouds of conjecture which ever
hover around it, and oblige investigators to grope
their darkling way, without the aid of the light of
reasoning, and purely analytical investigation.
Man is possessed of five senses ;
viz. the touch,
taste, smelling, hearing, and sight each pos-
sessing its specific and appropriate organ in the
skin, the tongue, the nose, the ear, and the
eye. And since these organs are under the in-
fluence of the will, and capable of active as well
as of passive exertion, they are susceptible of im-
VOL. I. K
130 PHYSICAL EDUCATION,
provement by education ;
so far, at least, as re-
gards the measure and the mode of their applica-
tion, and so far as to increase their power and
susceptibility, and thus render them more capable
of executing their important office. This exten-
sion of organic sentient power must always be
defined, however, by the general limits just now
prescribed.
I. Of the sense of touch.
The skin is the organ by which this sense is
produced ;
but the manner in which the impres-
sion is made upon it, as well as the precise nature
of that impression, has escaped investigation. We
only certainly know, that it is not a mechanical
or chemical action, but that it is depending upon
that hidden relation between itself, and the pro-
perties of exterior bodies which we cannot fathom ;
that it is under the influence of the will ;
that it
may suffer fatigue and exhaustion, and be re-
cruited by repose, and that it gives an exact idea
of the configuration of bodies. By the instrumen-
tality of the skin we appreciate the relative varia-
tions of temperature ;
and from its high degree of
sensibility, as well as from its being deprived of
any natural protection either from cold or heat,
as in other animals, it is in this respect an organ
of very exquisite delicacy, and affords by it an
illustration of the passive and involuntary agency
of this sense, through which it serves, in a variety
of ways, to warn of the approach of danger,
and excites to the employment of those precau-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 131
tions which are necessary to the conservation of
the individual.
The notices conveyed by this organ must,
however, be received with caution ;
for in spite
of the common adage, that
"
feeling is truth,"
there can be no question but that the skin, even
in a healthy state, is liable to erroneous impres-
sion, and requires to have its intimations corrected
by the aid of the other senses, or of the under-
standing :
thus, for instance, it has been already
remarked, that it is the channel through which
we are made acquainted with relative temperature :
but this information by no means extends to the
absolute heat of bodies ;
the energy of the im-
pression will depend upon the medium through
which it is
conveyed upon the state of the phy-
sical system at the time upon the power of ab-
stracting or communicating caloric, and other
circumstances. Thus two bodies, at precisely the
same temperature, will convey to the brain a very
different impression ;
and even the same body,
touched at the same moment by the two hands,
they having been previously placed in different
degrees of warmth, will convey to the one an
impression of heat, to the other of cold. Hence,
the importance of Physical Education, to correct
these erroneous impressions by the aid of judg-
ment, the light of science, and the results of
experience.
In some cases there exists too great a sus-
ceptibility of the surface to external impressions,
K 2
132 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
and in others too little. In the former instances,
the slightest impressions of cold and moisture
produce considerable effects upon the skin ;
and
as it is an organ of such extensive sympathies, its
disagreeable sensations soon excite a morbid reac-
tion upon the system ;
this is also shewn by the
most trifling scratch producing, occasionally, very
high symptoms of constitutional irritation. Where
this is the case, the excessive sensibility may be
subdued by cold bathing; and by habitual, but
graduated exposure to wet, and cold, and damp,
and fog ;
and by inducing a degree of indiffer-
ence to the lesser accidents of life ;
while exten-
sive friction, on the contrary, may be useful,
in developing a sensibility which is too obtuse.
Above all, it is desirable that children, as they
grow up, should be exposed to wet and cold about
the face and head, which are the parts more
particularly liable to these morbid actions.
Parents should be cautioned against allowing
the common practice of tickling children ;
since in
those who possess irritable skins, it
might not be
unattended with danger.
A remarkable proof of the extent to which this
susceptibility may exist or be carried, under par-
ticular circumstances, may be found in the case of
blind persons, who have not only been enabled
to recognise their situation by the well known,
though varied impression of different objects, and
have been taught to read words written upon the
hand, and to perform many mechanical arts, as
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 133
weaving, &c. but have been known also to excel
as sculptors. There can be no doubt, but that
by great attention, a similar delicacy and accu-
racy of tact might be obtained. In common with
the other senses, however, that of touch is mate-
rially perfected by the aid of its fellows, while it
is also employed to correct their erroneous im-
pressions.
The principal means by which we obtain active
information concerning the properties of external
objects, through the medium of this sense, is from
the instrumentality of the hand, by which we
estimate the weight, the density, the consistence,
the mobility, the configuration, extent, and di-
mensions of bodies. It is
necessary for these
purposes that the substance itself should be ex-
plored ;
and nature has given to the hand a won-
derful degree of sensibility, by which it distin-
guishes the almost infinitely varied modifications
of form, and size, and quality. But as this pro-
perty is
very greatly under the influence of habit,
it is desirable to accustom children early to dis-
tinguish blindfold the characters of bodies ; re-
cognising, confirming, or correcting their impres-
sions afterwards, by means of the other senses.
The perfection of this sense may often be useful
in passing through life : and there are many cir-
cumstances in which a delicate tact will convey
information that can be acquired in no other way;
all of which shew the great importance of its
exercise.
134 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
The infant very early employs the hand auto-
matically in touching bodies presented to its
notice, as if to form an acquaintance with their
nature and properties. Presently, this instinctive
propensity is extended, and may be applied to
judging of their form and distance. Till, how-
ever, the intimations of this sense have been
corrected by time, mistakes will frequently be
made, and the child will be liable to falls and
blows in consequence. The desire to obtain an
acquaintance with the objects around it, should
not be repressed, but encouraged, care being
taken to remove out of its
way such as might
prove injurious. It is right, notwithstanding, that
it should be taught, as early as possible, to recog-
nise even these ;
but then this information must
be acquired under the guidance of the parent ;
and as the child advances in life, the application
of the sense may often be rendered useful to his
future prospects. To the perfection and delicacy
of this sense not only is its frequent exercise
necessary, but the skin of the hand should be
preserved from becoming hardened, (as by labour,)
which diminishes its sensibility, and consequently
the accuracy of its tact. Individuals are con-
stantly observed who possess peculiarities of this
sense, in consequence of which, the touch of
some particular bodies invariably produces very
disagreeable sensations. It is desirable that these
aversions should be conquered in early life, as
they often lead to ulterior inconvenience, when
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. J 35
suffered to proceed uncontrouled ;
and nothing
will be more constantly verified than this prin-
ciple that the fewer and simpler the wants,
desires, and aversions of a child, the greater will
be its happiness and comfort in this world ; pos-
sessions which will mainly consist in a mind con-
tented with that which it has, and not easily
driven from its centre of peace by any of the
little disquietudes of life.
136
CHAP. XII.
EXERCISE OF THE SENSES CONTINUED OF THE SENSE
OF TASTE ITS USE PECULIARITIES INFLUENCED
BY HABIT ITS ORGAN THE TONGUE THIS SENSE
INTENDED AS A SAFEGUARD TO THE DIGESTIVE
FUNCTION ITS MONITIONS TOO FREQUENTLY DIS-
REGARDED ITS INFLUENCE PRINCIPALLY CORPO-
REAL IT IS DEGRADING WHEN IT BECOMES AN
OBJECT OF MENTAL SOLICITUDE IMPORTANT CAU-
TIONS ON THIS SUBJECT THE TASTE IS SUSCEPTI-
BLE OF EDUCATION NECESSITY OF PRESERVING IT
FROM SOPHISTICATIONTHE INDIRECT INFLUENCE
OF THIS SENSE ON THE BRAIN CAUTIONS ON THE
SUBJECT OF DIET SIMPLICITY OF TASTE DESIRABLE
CONCLUSION.
II. Of the sense of taste.
THE object of this sense is to distinguish the
varieties of flavour attached to different bodies ;
but it is
very remarkably influenced by the gene-
ral state of the animal machine, and by the for-
tuitous concurrence of many external circum-
stances. As it exists in man, the information it
conveys is less perfect and more circumscribed
than in animals : with the latter, it forms a cer-
tain guide as to what is the proper object of food,
and often, too, of instinctive medicine ; and, on
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 137
the contrary, generally discovers that which is
noxious. This fact is the more remarkable, since
animals are by no means governed in this parti-
cular by an universal law ;
for a vegetable pro-
duction most carefully avoided by one class, will
be greedily devoured by a second, and as con-
stantly rejected by a third. The sense of taste
is to them an unerring guide as to what is useful
or injurious, but in man its powers are by no
means so extensive : an allwise Providence has
more than supplied this instinctive advantage by
the use of reason ;
and man has as carefully
abused the gift, by converting .this sense into an
instrument of purely sensual gratification, destruc-
tive to the general health, instead of being, as it
was intended to be, one of its most important
safeguards.
The impressions conveyed by the taste, are,
for the most part, simply agreeable or disagree-
able : but these results are wonderfully influenced
by habit, and modified by individual peculiarity.
Thus an article of diet, which may have been
grateful at one period of life, will become, by ab-
staining from it, so positively disagreeable, as that
its recollected impression shall always be asso-
ciated with an emotion of decided aversion :
and,
on the contrary, that which we now regard with
positive antipathy, may, by a steady persevering
mental effort, be gradually, not only tolerated,
but relished. Parents will do well to recollect
this important principle ;
and to be assured, that
138 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
by this physiological law, they will overcome
any repugnance which may have been early
shewn towards some valuable and simple articles
of diet. We know, indeed, there exists an ex-
ception to this rule, in the idiosyncracies of par-
ticular constitutions, in consequence of which,
certain articles offood act as poisons. In general,
the impression upon the palate of brandy, tobacco,
and other articles, is at first absolutely disagree-
able ; yet, by repeated habit, and reiterated
volition, the unpleasing impression will be en-
tirely lost; its nature will be changed, it will
afford gratification ;
and when thus acquired, as
a new taste, it will cost the possessor more pains
to supersede, than it ever did to obtain the habit.
But if antipathies are to be thus conquered, for
the mere gratification of sense, surely parents
need not hesitate to combat them, where health
and comfort are endangered by their existence.
The tongue is the organ of taste, and the very
perfection of the sense resides at its extremity.
It is entirely under the influence of volition ; for,
without the voluntary application of bodies to
its surface, there will be no development of its
impressions. In order to obtain the most com-
plete and accurate information from this sense, it
is desirable that the body to be tasted, should be
applied to the tongue in a fluid form : hence the
importance of the action of mastication ;
by
which, not only is the sapid body minutely divi-
ded, and therefore more readily applied to a larger
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 139
portion of the sensible surface of the organ ;
but
it is mixed with saliva, and is thus presented to
the gustatory nerves in the form of minutest di-
visibility, as well as in that fluid state which is
best calculated to produce accurate impressions.
Thus then, the taste is the appointed means of
perfecting the process of mastication and insali-
vation; and, as such, it forms the first link in the
chain of good digestion, of which nature has
evidently constituted it the watchful guardian.
This conclusion is still farther established by the
fact, that when the impression of an article of
food upon the tongue is disagreeable, the entire
process seems to be arrested ;
that organ becomes
dry ;
the secretion of saliva is discontinued ;
the
throat refuses, or at least is unwilling, to swallow
this unprepared morsel; and the stomach auto-
matically withholds its aid of digestion.
Unfortunately, its monitions are too frequently
disregarded, and a loss of the digestive power is
the consequence. Nature has most wisely ap-
pointed, that the sensibility of the tongue should
be increased by hunger, and diminished by the
satisfaction of the appetite. Hence the gout,
with which the simplest diet is taken by an unso-
phisticated palate, when the system really needs
to be recruited :
hence, also, the loss of relish,
the palled appetite, as soon as nature's wants
have been supplied. On the same principle, a
similar phenomenon is observed in disease : when
the power of the stomach is enfeebled, or when
140 PHYSICAL EDUCATIOX.
any process of irritation is going on in the system,
in consequence of which the function of nutrition
is
intercepted, or that it is rendered desirable to
cut off an exuberant supply, the tongue becomes
coated with fur; the extremities of the nerves
are obscured by this means ;
the sense of taste
is rendered obtuse, or is entirely lost; the ap-
petite is gone. It will be an object of physical
education to watch over these states ;
to instruct
the child in their occurrence ;
and to employ the
appropriate remedy; viz: abstinence, in some
cases; temperance and moderation, in all.
There are, however, some instances of disease,
which are characterized by excessive appetite;
but in these, the expression of want is so very
different from natural hunger, that it cannot be
mistaken for it, and does not even form an excep-
tion to the foregoing general rule, but only demon-
strates a particular state of irritation of the di-
gestive organs. It is to be remarked, notwith-
standing, that there exists a morbid feeling,
arising from the presence of acid in the stomach,
and from impaired digestion, so nearly allied to
the expression of hunger, that it
readily admits
of being mistaken for it. It may, however,
always be distinguished from the healthy craving
of nature, by its being excessive, almost amounting
to positive pain ;
and by its
occurring at periods,
when the process of digestion of food previously
taken, cannot possibly have been accomplished.
This sensation is, also, sometimes the result of
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 141
the indulgence of the appetite of children, and is
then, partly, the effect of habit ; partly, that of
acidity and indigestion. In either case, it will
be always well to exhibit a dose of magnesia,
with, or without rhubarb : if the feeling be merely
the creation of habit, the necessity for taking
medicine will soon supersede it : and if it result
from the presence of acidity, it will be relieved
by that remedy.
Thus then, the sphere of the influence of this
sense, is principally corporeal : and although it
admits of being applied, in some few cases, to
scientific purposes, yet, for the most part, it
scarcely gives any intellectual notices ;
but is,
and ought to be, almost entirely and exclusively,
a sense of nutrition : and as it does not contribute
to intelligence, so neither should the latter be
devoted to it. Yet, perhaps, there is no one
sense, over which the watchful eye of physical
education is more imperiously required ; none,
whose excesses exert, ultimately, a more baneful
influence upon the manifestations of mind ; and,
as such, we shall not hesitate to subjoin a few
more remarks on its mode of management.
Nothing can be more painfully degrading, than
to find the powers of the immortal spirit em-
ployed upon the gratification of this sense ;
to
observe it become an object of pursuit ;
of fore-
thought; of attention; of anxiety; diverting the
understanding from its appropriate operations ;
and usurping that time which should be bestowed
142 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
on the attributes of reason ;
that solicitude, which
can alone be properly fixed on the grand objects
of being good, and doing good. If, then, pa-
rents would shield their offspring from the allure-
ments of the palate, and protect them from its
engrossing temptations, they will carefully lay
the foundation of indifference and moderation;
they will sedulously instruct them, that they eat
to live, not that they live to eat and drink ; and
in so doing, perhaps, they will confer upon them,
the greatest boon of physical education. Nature
herself has pointed out the mode of accomplishing
this object, in the method by which the sense
may be carried to its highest degree of perfection.
For taste is susceptible of education and improve-
ment, as well as the other senses. It exists,
however, in its most perfect state, not in the re-
fined and fastidious palate of the alderman, but
in the unsophisticated habits of the simple dietetic.
There are instances on record, of the extreme de-
licacy and accuracy of taste. In those whose oc-
cupation leads them to depend on this sense, as,
for example, in the purchasers of wine, the plans
adopted for preserving its accuracy, are, to avoid
drinking that fluid in common; to abstain from
all kinds of stimuli ;
and even generally not to
swallow the small mouthful taken by way of ex-
periment, and carefully to rince the mouth after-
wards ;
thus shewing that the accuracy of the
sense depends upon the simplicity of its treat-
ment. It is found that this delicacy of taste is
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, 143
easily lost, by the employment, and especially,
by the abuse of stimuli ;
and by the frequent
exhibition of highly-seasoned dishes, and all other
sophisticated food.
Thus then it will be ultimately concluded, that
he who deviates least from nature's own pro-
cesses, who adheres to the greatest poss ile sim-
plicity of diet, will actually enjoy the greatest ag-
gregate amount of pleasure : for when the palled
appetite of the luxurious citizen requires to be
goaded by the daily application of some new and
stimulating food ;
and when consulting the ca-
prices of a vicious and worn out taste, becomes
the business of his life, the child of nature will
enjoy its simple food ;
will eat the bread of cheer-
fulness, and drink the water of contentment;
and with very little thought as to the quality of
to-morrow's fare, will derive a greater amount of
positive pleasure from the exercise of this sense ;
while his faculties will remain unimpaired, and
he will secure all the superadded gratification of a
clear head, and a well-stored mind. The author has
known individuals, who, from having abandoned
habits of gourmandise and epicurism, have after-
wards assured him, that now, for the first time in
their adult lives, they knew what it was to sit down
to table hungry ;
to eat with enjoyment ;
to rise sa-
tisfied, yet with remaining appetite; and never to
feel the incumbrance of an overloaded stomach.
The intimate connexion and sympathy between
the stomach and the brain is well known. All
144 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
have experienced how impossible it is to call
upon the latter organ for energetic exertion, when
the former is fatigued by too much exercise, or
stimulated by improper articles of diet. When
the stomach is distended, the action of the heart
and lungs is interfered with, and congestion in
the vessels of the brain is the consequence, thus
producing an immediately morbid condition of
that viscus. And again, the same state of the
digestive function will operate upon the brain, by
making a larger demand upon it for a supply of
nervous energy, than its
proper situation in the
animal economy deserves, and thus leaving it less
to spare for intellectual operations. Besides all
which, there is an intimate sympathy between
the two organs, by means of which, disordered or
irritated function in the one, always produces a
corresponding state of morbid action in the other.
Thus with children, convulsions and other symp-
toms of irritation of the brain, do frequently re-
sult from oppression of the stomach ;
and it is
quite impossible to expect the full, and healthy,
and energetic performance of the cerebral func-
tions, if the stomach be irritated by the quality
or quantity of its food. If farther proof were
necessary, of the dependence of the one organ
upon the other, it
might be found in the peevish-
ness and irritability produced by indigestion the
tendency to drowsiness consequent upon it to-
gether with its almost constant companions, un-
easy and unrefreshing sleep, interrupted by
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 145
dreams, night-mare, and the motley group of
physical enemies which sit upon our pillow, and
exert their influence upon the distempered fancy.
It is vain to expect the development of the'
powers of the understanding, or the healthful
manifestations of mind, unless the diet be frugal,
and the digestive function be performed without
difficulty. It has been said, that the fare of the
coal-heaver should consist of beef steaks and
porter ;
while that of the man of letters, should
be composed of vegetables, fruit, and water.
But the application of this assertion requires
caution ;
for a diet of the former carried to re-
pletion, will actually undermine muscular strength :
while the abstemious bill of fare of the latter,
if taken in any considerable quantity, will ine-
vitably produce acidity, flatulence, indigestion,
and impaired brainular energy. The diet, there-
fore, of the athletic, should mainly consist of
animal food, but should not be carried to the ex-
tent of repletion ;
while that of the literary
character should be much more sparing, but
should still consist of small quantities of food of a
similar nature. The great danger for the man of
studious habits, arises from determining too large
a quantity of blood to the head ;
but this may be
equally accomplished by vegetables and water,
as by beef and porter, if taken in too great quan-
tity : in either case there will be plethora ;
the
only difference will consist in the relative propor-
tions of the several constituent parts of the blood.
VOL. I. L
146 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
In an individual so predisposed to cerebral con-
gestion, or irritation, the great object will be to
avoid quantity ;
to let the diet be nutritious and
easily digestible ;
but most carefully to avoid a
large proportion of fluids, as water, tea, coffee,
&c. ;
the baneful effects of these consisting, not in
the influence of their essential properties, but of
their bulk. The observation of this simple plan
will be found more conducive to health, than all
the bleeding, leeching, cupping, vegetable diet,
and medicine in the world; all of which, wanting
the simple attention to quantity of the ingesta, will
be always inefficacious, and often injurious.
With all these truths before them, let parents
be especially anxious to form for their children a
simple taste: and they will never fail to bless them
for it in after life. From experience, the author
can safely say, that those children -are the happi-
est, the most intellectual, and do actually pos-
sess the largest amount of animal enjoyment,
whose diet is the most uniformly simple : the
crust of bread of the intelligent, is more to be
envied than the complicated fare of the most pam-
pered, yet heavy, dull child. The irritated spoiled
infant has been often seen to throw away its bread
and butter in distasteful passion, if it wanted the
addition of sugar to render it palatable ; while the
frugal meal of the nursery from which these arti-
cles are excluded, has afforded unmingled satis-
faction ;
the bodies of its little inhabitants have
been better nourished, and the evil tempers of the
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 147
mind have been kept at a distance. The author
is not about entering a crusade against butter and
sugar : he may not indeed admire either the one
or the other abstractedly ;
but his principal ob-
jection to them is, that they stimulate the sense
of taste, and induce children to eat more than
is
necessary more than they otherwise would.
Left to itself, a child knows no other limit to its
devouring propensity, than the absolute incapa-
city of receiving more ;
and the consequence of
this state is perceived in the oppressed breathing
which follows the principal meal. The very op-
posite of this state should be the criterion of hav-
ing taken enough ;
the child should never know
from its sensations after dinner, that it has a
stomach : and should he be peevish, fretful, lan-
guid, and irritable, a state of morbid excitation is
produced, which cannot but be extensively preju-
dicial. On the same principle, all hashed meats,
sauces, c. are to be avoided ;
and no kind of
stimulus, but that of health, should be given.
This is the only way of securing strength and
comfort of body, peace of mind, activity and en-
ergy of intelligence, as well as good temper;
boons surely of sufficient value to induce parents
not to neglect the physical education of this
sense.
L 2
148
CHAP. XITT.
EXERCISE OF THE SENSES CONTINUED OP THE SENSE
OF SMELL ITS OBJECT ITS ORGAN, THE NOSE
ITS USES INTENDED AS A SAFEGUARD TO THE RESPI-
RATORY FUNCTION POSSESSED IN VERY DIFFERENT
DEGREES BY MEN ANJ) ANIMALS CONDUCES LITTLE
TO THE ADVANCEMENT OF INTELLIGENCE IS MORE
PERFECT IN SAVAGE THAN IN CIVILIZED LIFE IN A
GREAT MEASURE VOLUNTARY IS SUSCEPTIBLE OF
EDUCATION, AND CAPABLE OF CONSIDERABLE AS-
SOCIATION ITS TOO ACUTE SENSIBILITY ITS AN-
TIPATHIES PRECAUTIONS REQUIRED BY THE EXER-
CISE OF THIS SENSE PERFUMES TOBACCO SNUFF
THEIR AGENCY ON THE BRAIN AND THE DIGEST-
IVE ORGANS.
III. Of the Sense of Smelling.
As in the sense we have just contemplated,
savours are its object, so in that now submit-
ted to .our notice, their place is
occupied by
odours. These are emitted during certain states
of the odoriferous body, varying according to its
individual peculiarities ;
and often arising from
different substances, in circumstances precisely
opposed to each other ; yet all agreeing in this
one particular, that they are conveyed from the
odorant body, and diffused through the medium
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 149
of the atmosphere ;
and that they are powerful in
inverse proportion to the squares of their distance
from it ;
thus forming a means of calculating that
distance, when we are previously acquainted
with the nature of the plant or animal. This
mode of calculation is however rendered altoge-
ther uncertain, by the varying power of giving off
their peculiar odours, according to the state of
their health, age, &c ;
and by the different ca-
pacities of the atmosphere to receive and to con-
vey them, according to a certain law unknown to
man, although the fact be familiar, especially to
sportsmen.
The nose, and the structure depending upon
and connected with it, form together the organ of
this sense. The mode by which its impressions
are received, is through the medium of inspira-
tion ;
and thus we are brought acquainted with a
variety of qualities of bodies, which we know
from experience to be connected with certain
states of their power of giving off smells. And
although it would be difficult to catalogue the
almost endless variety of odours, yet they may
be all classed under the generic terms of agreeable
and disagreeable. On these two qualities will
hinge the principal office of this sense ;
viz. that
of performing for respiration, what the tongue
does for digestion ;
and of distinguishing the dif-
ferent qualities of the atmosphere freely inhaling
the purer breeze, and rejecting it when loaded
with noxious particles. Thus its office is analo-
150 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
gous with that of taste ;
and it will be remarked,
that when exposed to disagreeable smells, the
chest seems to perform inspiration with regret
and difficulty. It is also an adjuvant to the
former sense, warning us of certain injurious
states of the food presented to us, and thus influ-
encing the digestive function by the nausea and
disgust which it
produces.
Animals possess the sense of smell in very dif-
ferent degrees ;
in some much more perfectly,
and in others much less so than in man. It is,
however, in its influence principally corporeal,
and contributes very little to the advancement of
intelligence, except in a small number of in-
stances, as, for example, in the pursuits of the
chemist, to whom it is often valuable in directing
his researches, and conveying 'to him some notice
of the good or baneful properties of bodies sub-
mitted to his investigation ; and occasionally
leading to a train of analysis, which has conducted
him in the pathway of brilliant discovery.
The sense of smell is not very early developed ;
and, probably, nature, in her wisdom, has pru-
dently ordained, that from its vicinity to, and
immediate connexion with the cerebral viscus ;
and in consequence of the easy excitement of
that organ, through the medium of stimuli applied
to the nose, it should not arrive at its state of
maturity, or even considerable activity, during
the period of the brain's greatest tendency to irri-
tation ;
a hint worthy of reception, in order to
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 151
avoid in the years of infancy, and early childhood,
powerful impressions upon this- sense. It has
also been remarked, that the sense of smell exists
in a greater degree of perfection in savage, than in
civilized life : a fact probably arising out of the cir-
cumstance, that in the former state* man is more
dependent for his conservation upon his senses,
than upon his understanding ;
and that they are
consequently rendered more acute by his neces-
sities, and by the habitual exercise of this func-
tion in ways which pass unheeded in society.
The perception of smell is in a great measure
voluntary; and when assailed by any odour which
is noxious and disagreeable, we instinctively hold
in the breath, and even close the nostrils, in
order to prevent the possibility of its access :
while, on the other hand, we expand the nostrils,
and greedily inhale every particle of air we can,
when it is
presented to us with agreeable proper-
ties. As it is voluntary, so is it
susceptible of
education ;
and it
possesses some peculiarities
which are well worthy the attention of the parent,
both by way of caution and of improvement.
It is, in the first place, capable of considerable
association : it informs us of the first harbin-
gers of spring, and is regaled and delighted by
the perfume of the primrose and the violet : it
acquaints us with the return of autumn, and is
disagreeably affected by the emanations of decay-
ing leaves and vegetables ;
and warns us not to
linger on the banks of marshes, and other situa^
152 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
tions where warmth and moisture acting upon
vegetable matter in a state of decay, have contri-
buted to evolve effluvia which are injurious to
health.
This law of association may be improved by
education : it
may be made the first link in the
chain of an acquaintance with the delightful sci-
ence of botany ;
and thus may form an introduc-
tion literally strewed with flowers and sweets, to
a knowledge of nature's laws and the study of her
economy, in the widening sphere of her ample
domain ; commencing with the development of
life ; passing onward to the period of decay ;
and
never terminating but in the illimitable transform-
ations of matter, which, however it may be sub-
jected to change, can never be annihilated. It
is well therefore to exercise this function, and to
teach the young by degrees to distinguish bodies
through its
instrumentality, always correcting
their mistakes by means of the other senses.
The work of education is not only to develop
the powers of the olfactory function, but also to
blunt its too acute sensibilities, and to remedy
the antipathies, which unfortunately it occasion-
ally contracts. Instances have occurred, in which
the smell of even apparently very simple bodies
has produced unexpected and powerful effects
upon the nervous 'system, fainting, hysterical
paroxysms, and other morbid phenomena. Cases
have likewise been recorded, in which the most
violent aversions have been contracted, and kept
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 153
up through the medium of the nose. Under all
these circumstances, it will be the part of educa-
tion to diminish the acuteness of the one state,
and to conquer the intensity of the other ;
and
these objects are to be accomplished by graduated,
but persevering and habitual exposure, and by
the aid of the understanding ;
the latter (where
there is an intelligent mind) being the most power-
ful means of superseding the too acute, or eyen
painful monitions of this sense. In all these
cases, the particular affection or aversion, what-
ever it
may be, is probably depending upon indi-
vidual peculiarity ;
and we know, that this may
be carried to such an extent, that the smell of
assafoetida, or the snuff of a candle shall be pleas-
ing to some, while the most grateful odours shall
be positively disagreeable to others :
yet these
peculiarities are productive of so much inconve-
nience to the individual and to society, that they
should be eradicated, and they may be superseded
by the means above-mentioned.
It remains for us only to notice some few pre-
cautions which the exercise of this sense, or the
state of its organ may require. The membrane
composing the latter, from the delicacy of its
structure, and from its constant exposure to at-
mospherical vicissitude, and other sources of irri-
tation, conveyed on the wings of the wind, is very
liable to be affected with catarrh, or what is com-
monly called cold in the head. In these cases there
is often much inconvenience, difficult breathing,
154 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
c. from the accumulation of mucus in the nose,
requiring in younger children attention to remove
it, care to prevent its being swallowed, caution
to select such a position for the patient during the
night, as that it
may have a free exit from the
nostrils, and that it
may not be in danger of run-
ning down into the throat, and also to prevent
the nose and lip from being excoriated by the
irritating properties of the discharge.
In general, perfumes of every kind should be
studiously excluded from the apartments, or the
dress of the young; since they can answer no
useful purpose ;
since they are altogether un-
mcessQry, where perfect cleanliness is observed ;
since they contribute to habits of luxurious effe-
minacy, and since it is not easy to calculate the
extent of their influence upon the animal eco-
nomy : this only we know, that such influence is
not beneficial ;
but that in many instances it is
powerfully excitant to the system, and banefully
operative upon it.
The agency of tobacco in every shape upon
this sense, is also to be deprecated. Perhaps
there may not be much danger to be apprehended
just now from the pernicious and filthy custom of
smoking ;
but the author would feel that he were
guilty of a dereliction of his duty, did he not
stigmatize, with severe reprobation, the disgust-
ing practice of taking snuff, a habit which has of
late years become much more general. To say
that it is opposed to cleanliness ought to be a
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 155
sufficient reason for guarding against it, and an
abundant ground for pronouncing it a practice
which is ungentlemanlike ;
for although custom
may for a time have lent its sanction to the habit,
and fashion may have consecrated it with her
approving smiles, yet custom and fashion may be
under the influence of folly, while the principles
which are characteristic of the gentleman, are
the same under every modification of society,
and in every quarter of the globe ;
and will sur-
vive the constant changes, and bizarreries d'esprit
of those who aim to be distinguished from the
vulgar herd by some singularity ;
a singularity
which is rendered current by their example, and
is aped by a host of silly, but admiring imitators.
That the stimulation of this sense through the
medium of tobacco is considerable, and is
produc-
tive of great gratification, is apparent from the
difficulty with which the habit is relinquished by
its votaries. This alone might induce a suspicion
of its injurious influence ;
but a little inquiry into
the nature of that influence will shew that it is
powerfully excitant to the nervous system, and
that it is more than suspected of producing irri-
tation of the brain. A common excuse for snuff-
taking is to relieve drowsiness : how is this
effected through the agency of tobacco, but by a
mode analogous to the influence of opium in
fact, by irritation of the brain ? None will con-
tend that the mere act of stuffing the nose with a
disagreeable powder, can in itself be pleasing.
156 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
This is not the case ;
it is the subsequent stimu-
lation of the nervous system, which gives rise to
the state of enjoyment so difficult to be aban-
doned. But that stimulation of this organ, which
is sufficient to produce agreeable sensations, must
be a minor degree of irritation, and which often
repeated, will terminate either in positive injury,
or in the development of predisposition to dis-
ease. It has been asserted, indeed, that snuff-
taking is injurious to the digestive organs, from
the immediate application to them of this irri-
tating powder. The author believes that this is
not a primary effect, but a consequence of the
irritation of the brain. Here he would take his
stand, and entreat parents carefully to avoid lay-
ing the foundation of a habit of snuff-taking, or
indeed of the use of tobacco in any shape, as
they value the lives and comfort of their children.
The effect of other noxious and disagreeable va-
pours need not be noticed ;
for they are suffi-
ciently repugnant to the organs of sense, not to
allow a fear that they should become habitual.
We have now treated of the senses, which are
principally corporeal, and we shall pass on to
notice those which are more especially intellec-
tual.
157
CHAP. XIV.
EXERCISE OF THE SENSES CONTINUED OF THE SENSE
OF HEARING ITS OBJECT ITS ORGAN HOW PRO-
DUCED DIFFERENT DEGREES OF PERFECTNESS
PASSIVE OR ACTIVE ITS USES THESE PRINCIPALLY
INTELLECTUAL A MUSICAL EAR : IMPROVED BY
CULTURE ADJUVANT MOTIONS OF THE EAR, TO BE
DEVELOPED EXTERNAL ATTENTIONS TO THE EDU-
CATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THIS SENSE CAU-
TIONS RESPECTING IT.
IV. Of the Sense of Hearing.
THE objects of this sense are sounds impressed
upon the sentient organ the ear, of whose beau-
tiful and exquisite mechanism for conveying these
sounds to the expansion of the auditory nerve, it
would be difficult to convey an accurate, yet in-
telligible description, even if the design of the
present work would permit such a digression.
Sounds are occasioned by the vibrations of a
sonorous body, and are produced by the percus-
sion of such body : these vibrations are propa-
gated to the immediately surrounding atmosphere ;
and the impulse thus given is
repeated and com-
municated to the ear, whose external form is well
calculated to collect, and to concentrate these
158 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
impulses, which being thus brought to the in-
ternal mechanism, are carried onwards by an
inimitable arrangement of structure, until the re-
quired impression is made upon the auditory nerve,
and the brain. Thus, this sense is not excited by
the presence of the body itself, as in that of touch ;
nor by some of its integral parts, as in those of
taste and smell, but by the atmosphere which has
received and conveyed the first vibratory impulse.
There is a great variety in the extent and per-
fection of this sense, both with regard to different
classes of animals, and to the individuals of which
they are composed. With some, it is more deli-
cate than in man, at least so far as relates to the
reception of simple sounds, necessary to the con-
servation of organic life ;
with others it is much
more imperfect. With respect to man, the defi-
ciency in his power of receiving, and distinguish-
ing the minuter vibrations of simple bodies, is
more than abundantly compensated by the infi-
nite variety of sounds which he is capable of de-
tecting, and which form for him so many signs of
ideas.
This sense is passive, as when we hear without
particular attention, and receive the sounds as
they happen to be impressed upon the sentient
organ ;
it is active, as when we listen, when we
adapt the ear with intense energy to catch even
the whisper of interest, and will scarcely venture
to breathe, lest we should lose a single impulse
of that medium which conveys to us intelligent
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 159
notices ;
and not only gives us the sensation of
simple sounds, and distinguishes their difference
not only teaches us, in many cases, the nature of
bodies, their relative situation with regard to
ourselves, their distance from us, and from each
other, as well as the direction in which they are
moving but also informs us ofwhat is passing in the
minds of others ; brings us acquainted with their
feelings, emotions, ideas, and habits of thought
and action ;
and awakens in our own minds cor-
responding trains of thought and of feeling ;
thus
contributing essentially to the development of the
understanding, as well as of the imagination.
A farther use of this sense, which indeed has
been presupposed in the former paragraph, con-
sists in the communication, not only of affective
language that of feeling and passion ;
but also
of conventional language, which however, though
useless, or at least incompletely useful without
the ear, is, notwithstanding, dependent for its
origin and variety, principally upon the faculty of
intelligence, the wants of the understanding, and
of the immaterial principle of which it forms an
important manifestation ;
it is, in fact, the crea-
ture of society, and is rich or poor exactly in
proportion to the extent of civilisation, and to
the degree of culture which the intellectual opera-
tions have received : hence the great difference
of different languages.
In enumerating the uses of the ear, we must
160 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
not forget to notice the pleasure to be derived
from music, which results, in all probability,
mainly from the association of ideas, recalled to
our minds by the sounds of harmony. That it is
not invariably thus, appears, however, from the
fact, that sometimes persons of lively imagina-
tion, extensive association, and correct judgment
to combine their results, are not possessed of a
musical ear, and do not derive pleasure from the
concord of sweet sounds : neither is a musical
ear always the most correct and delicate when
applied to other sounds ;
so that, as it should
seem, the pleasure derived from music must be
dependent rather upon some peculiar state of the
function of intelligence, than of the sentient
organ, upon which the impression of sound is
first made.
This sense may be improved by culture. The
degree of perfection to which it
may be carried,
is exemplified by circumstances which have ren-
dered its cultivation a matter of imperative ne-
cessity ;
as for instance, in savage life, where the
acuteness of the senses supplies, in some measure,
the want of the protection afforded by the insti-
tutions of civilized society, and all the conveni-
ences connected with them ;
and in the blind,
where the total failure of one of nature's most
important methods of communication with ex-
ternal objects, has rendered it desirable to supply
the deficiency, by increasing the activity and
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 161
extending the sphere of .the sense the best cal-
culated to secure the largest amount of intelligent
notices.
In one other circumstance, this sense has lost
a degree of its power, by the habits, probably the
dress, of social institutions. Nature has provided
the ear with certain muscles, for the purpose of
more effectually directing its attention to the finer
sounds, and also of collecting a larger number of
atmospherical vibrations. In the great majority
of instances, the power of moving the ears has
been completely lost, partly from pressure upon
the external structure, but principally by the
wasting of these muscles consequent upon want
of exercise. Yet there are individuals who still
retain this faculty, and who are perfectly con-
scious of employing these organs when they wish
to direct the ear particularly to catch fine sounds.
But so rare is the possession of this gift, that the
persons so endowed become objects of wonder
and curiosity, rather than of admiration. It may
be well, however, for physical education to no-
tice and restore this power ; upon the principle
of carrying the organ to its greatest degree of per-
fection ;
and with the consciousness that nature
has made nothing in vain, to reinstate the faculty
of moving the ear by the development of its
muscles.
One of the earliest parental cares will be, to
prevent any tendency to inflammation and exco-
riation behind the ears ;
an affection so frequent
VOL. I. M
162 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
and so troublesome, when a sufficient degree of
ablution has not been observed ;
and which, if
suffered to continue, may become, perhaps, both
difficult of cure, and dangerous in its conse-
quences. The remedy is to be found in clean-
liness, repeated washing, and, if
necessary, some
slightly stimulating lotion to relieve the enfeebled
vessels, and strengthen the skin of the part.
In the efforts to cultivate this sense, it is
desirable to teach children to distinguish at first
simple sounds, and by degrees those which are
more complicated, or at least compounded of seve-
ral simple tones ; together with their relative dis-
tances, and the precise spot whence they come.
It is extraordinary, but not more so than true, how
little we possess naturally the means of distin-
guishing the direction in which sounds approach
us. Every one whose opportunities have per-
mitted the experiment, must have remarked, that
if he endeavoured during the night to form an
opinion, upon which way a stage coach passing
his window was travelling, he has been frequently
deceived, and oftener wrong than right. Habit,
and the want of exercise, render it difficult to
distinguish these slighter differences ;
but edu-
cation may supply the deficiency, and give a
greater degree of accuracy to the monitions of
this sense : and it is self-evident, of how great
importance such an acquisition may be to the
individual and his conservation.
In the further improvement of hearing, it is
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 163
desirable to teach children to recognize persons
and things by certain appropriate sounds ;
to be-
come acquainted with the footsteps of individuals,
the different cries of animals, and indeed every
variety of sonorous vibration, in order to give a
greater degree of accuracy and energy to the or-
ganic impressions. In effecting these objects,
the first thing to be taught, is the faculty of at-
tention ;
the direction of the organ towards the
purpose of obtaining every possible notice. Having
secured the attention, (no contemptible conquest
in the volatile age of childhood,) the parent will
proceed to develop the power of hearing quickly,
as well as accurately ;
and of keeping up the
effort of listening without fatigue, as well as of
discriminating the slighter [shades of articulate
sounds, and their minuter variations.
There are a number of methods, through which
the exercise of this sense may be carried on by
means of the impression of natural objects upon it ;
such are the tones of the human voice, the varied
expression of feeling, and the conventional result of
articulate language. Nor is this unimportant ;
for through the medium of the ear, our sympathy
with others is
extensively awakened ; and in ad-
dition to our widening sphere of intelligence,
through the aid of language, which will again
come to be considered in a subsequent chapter,
we are also roused to a sense of feeling. The
accents of joy, the shriek of sorrow, the cheering
of courage, the soft breathings of love, the con-
M 2
164 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
solations of pity, c. all awaken corresponding
emotions, and enrich the understanding with a
thousand ideas, arising out of the social state,
and connected with all our best hopes, and views
and feelings, and actions ;
while they powerfully
aid, and gently stimulate the imagination. The
latter property should be carefully watched with
those, whose too luxuriant fancy is a little liable
to run wild ;
and especially should they be
guarded from the excessive influence of music.
Its soft luxury should only be sparingly permit-
ted to children of fervid sensibility ;
while their
imaginative musings, fostered by the harmony of
sound and song, should be counteracted by giv-
ing a preponderating largeness and weight to the
understanding.
We shall only farther remark, that the sense of
hearing is liable to be powerfully affected by any
cause of morbid irritation to the brain and nervous
system, to the energy and well being of which,
the prosperity of this sense must be for ever in-
debted : it is therefore necessary to be watchful
against the imprudent stimulation of that organ
and its appendages.
165
CHAP. XV,
EXERCISE OF THE SENSES CONTINUED OF THE SENSE
OF SIGHT ITS OBJECT RAYS OF LIGHT THEIR
DIFFERENT CAPACITY FOR CALORIC -LAWS REGU-
LATING THEIR TRANSMISSION THE EYE IS THE
ORGAN OF SIGHT SKETCH OF ITS PHYSIOLOGY-^
DIFFERENT DEGREES OF VISION, AND THE POWER
OF ACCOMMODATION OF THE EYE TO VARYING CIR-
CUMSTANCES SIGHT IS ACTIVE OR PASSIVE, VO-
LUNTARY OR INVOLUNTARY ITS USES ITS HIGH-
EST STATE OF PERFECTNESS IMPROVED BY CUL-
TURE- AND ASSISTED BY THE OTHER SENSES
OPTICAL ILLUSIONS POWER OF EDUCATION, HABIT,
AND EXERCISE DEFECTS IN VISION DISTINCT
VISION HOW PRESERVED PRECAUTIONS ON THIS
SUBJECT THE CORRECTION OF BAD HABITS THE
MODIFICATIONS OF EXERCISE TOGETHER WITH THE
DIRECT AND INDIRECT ADVANTAGES RESULTING
FROM THEM INTELLECTUAL AND MORAL ASSOCIA-
TIONS,^. DEFORMITIES OF VISION SQUINTING
METHOD OF CURE CONCLUSION.
V. Of the Sense of Sight.
THE immediate object of this sense is that which
imparts the idea of colour ;
and this is
dependent
upon the rays of light reflected from different bo-
dies, and passing directly or indirectly to the
sentient organ, in separate pencils, with a dis-
166 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
tinctness which baffles confusion ;
and with a
velocity so great, as at short distances to be quite
inappreciable. Thus a body reflecting all the
rays of light, appears white ; red, where it has the
power of reflecting only the red rays, and so with
regard to all the primitive colours, and the shades
which are compounded of their union ;
while
black, or the absence of all colour, results from
the absorption of the entire light.
These rays possess a different capacity for
caloric, the maximum of which exists in the red
ray ;
so that substances will not only give the
sensation of warmth according to the inverse ratio
of their power of reflecting, or the direct ratio of
their power of radiating or transmitting the rays
of light ;
but also according to their power of
reflecting or transmitting particular rays : a cir-
cumstance worthy of attention in selecting the
dress of children, as it
may not only contribute
to their comfort, but as it
may avoid also the too
great irritation of an important and highly delicate
organ.
The rays of light are also partly dependent
upon the medium through which they pass :
thus they may be reflected from some bodies,
according to laws, which admit of being ascer-
tained or defined ;
and yet pass in right lines so
long as they continue in the same medium : but
in passing from a rarer to a denser medium, or
from a denser to that which is more rare, they
are bent from their straight course, and acquire a
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 167
convergent or divergent property, while in other
cases they may be simply transmitted.
The eye is the organ of sight, and consists as
such, of the eye, properly so called, and of the
several appendages by which it is contained,
moved, protected from injury, and preserved in a
state of moisture ;
as for instance, the bony cavity
in which it rests, the eye-lids and eye-lashes,
its peculiar muscles, and the apparatus by means
of which the tears are first secreted, and then
conveyed away. It would lead us too far astray
from our immediate purpose, if we were tempted,
in this place, to explain the phenomena of light,
and the laws by which it is governed ; together
with their application to the theory of vision, and
the several questions which may perhaps be still
considered as moot points in physiology : or to
describe the anatomy of the eye, its complicated,
though beautiful structure, and the subservience
of every part to the grand object of procuring
perfect and distinct vision ;
or to detail the me-
chanism of sight, and trace the rays of light from
their first impinging upon this perfect optical
instrument, until they had formed a distinct
image of the object upon the retina, or expansion
of the optic nerve. Such indeed would have
been an interesting pursuit ;
but we are forbidden
by the nature of our undertaking to be tempted
aside by the beauty of every wild flower, which
blows at a little distance from our path. Ours
is the humbler task of gleaning in the field of
168 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
science, and selecting only those scattered ears
of truth, which when bound together in a sheaf,
will readily admit of useful application to the ne-
cessities of the young.
Passing over a variety of interesting matter,
we can only say, that by means of its muscles,
the eye is directed by the will to objects with
which it seeks an acquaintance ;
and that it is
accommodated by their instrumentality to the
different distances at which those objects are
placed: while by the agency of other muscles,
and of the eye-lids, it is automatically defended from
injury : while it is preserved from the irritation
of extraneous bodies by the eye-lashes, and kept
moist and transparent by the tears.
The offices performed by these several parts
are indeed accessary, but still
indispensable to
distinct vision : and these being pre-supposed,
the rays of light, after experiencing a certain de-
gree of refraction, finally form an exact picture
(though inverted) of the object to be represented
upon the retina ;
thus producing that impression,
the essential action of which is unknown, but
which is perceived by the sentient organ, and
conveys to it, a distinct idea of the forms towards
which the attention of the eye may have been
directed. We must not attempt to explain, why
an inverted picture of the object, impressed upon
the retina, creates an idea of that object in its up-
right posture ;
nor why we perceive singly, al-
though the impression made upon the organ be
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 169
double ; phenomena, which are probably not to be
explained by the structure of the eye only, nor
entirely by the laws of habit and association;
but chiefly upon certain peculiarities of the intel-
lectual function, which we cannot fathom, and
the attempt to detect which, would perhaps only
convict the inquirer of ignorance, or lead him
along the path-way of interminable conjecture.
This sense is more or less perfect in different
animals, and in man as well as in different indivi-
duals of the same species. In some animals des-
tined to seek their food during the night, it is much
more perfect in a weak light, and is almost de-
stroyed by the intensity of a noon-tide sun, as in
those of the cat-tribe : in others, whose habits
are of a different character in birds, and espe-
cially in birds of prey, it is wonderfully strong,
and capable of being exercised at great distances.
There are none, who have been accustomed to
travel across desolate wilds during the night,
who have not thankfully owned the superiority of
this sense, in their faithful courier, the horse,
over themselves ;
and there are few who have not
experienced the advantage in circumstances of
danger and difficulty, of leaving him to choose
his* own way ;
as well as the evils arising from
obstinately persisting to choose for him. These
varieties arise chiefly from the power of receiving
or excluding a greater number of rays of light,
under particular circumstances. On the whole,
the strength of sight in man is very considerable,
170 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
and admits of great changes, according to his
different occupations and necessities. The vari-
eties to be remarked, with regard to the sight of
individuals of our own species, are depending
partly upon the original structure of the optic
nerve, and its greater or less degree of susceptibi-
lity to impression ; partly upon the perfection or
imperfection of the eye, considered simply as an
optical instrument ; partly, on the influence of
education, habit, culture, and the general modes
of life ;
and not a little, on attention to, or the
neglect of, precautionary measures for the pre-
servation of its health.
The sense of sight is under the influence of the
will : it is active, as when we direct the attention
to investigate particular objects ;
or passive, as
when they merely pass in review before us : in
the former case, the will acts on the muscles of
the organ of sight, to adapt it to the necessary
distance ;
and on the retina, or nervous expan-
sion, in order that it may be prepared to receive
a greater exactitude of impression ;
and this
again exciting that sympathetic and harmonious
action, which links together every part of this
complicated machinery, and forms one beautiful
whole.
Thus influenced by the will on the one hand,
and by the state of the retina on the other, this
sense is peculiarly susceptible of education ;
and its perfection mainly depends on the habits
induced by instruction, and on the state of the
PflYSlCAL EDUCATION. 171
brain, to which many of its phenomena must be
referred. During the first few months of early
life, the sense of vision is only passive, if indeed
it admit even of this application ;
for the infant,
although it
apparently sees every thing, discerns
nothing. If in its mute unconscious gaze, any
impression be made upon the sentient organ, that
impression is not perceived by the brain ;
but after
a little time, it begins to take notice, to recog-
nise those to whose kind care it is principally in-
debted ;
and so, by degrees, the sense is deve-
loped. Such is the delicacy of the organ of sight
in early infancy, that it should be gradually
accustomed to sensation ;
and the stimulation of
intense light, as of the sun, for example, should
be avoided ;
or the eye may readily be distorted,
or rendered so irritable, as to be productive of
serious inconvenience in after life. The same
principle should not be forgotten a few years
afterwards, especially during the hours of study,
when the eye is particularly engaged. Under
these circumstances, it is desirable that the light
should fall directly upon the table, from the top
of the room, and from a northern aspect: but
where this preferable situation cannot be ob-
tained, the study should be defended from the
intense ray of a summer's sun, by Venetian blinds,
painted green ; and the pupil should be so placed,
as that the light should fall either directly upon
him, or on his left side, which will prevent the
172 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
formation of a shadow by the hand intercepting
the rays of light.
The sense of sight informs us of the positive
and relative distance of bodies from ourselves,
and from each other ;
of their size, figure, mo-
bility, c. : all within a certain and defined dis-
tance, called the sphere of vision ;
this however
varying very greatly in different individuals, of
whom the extremes will commonly be found in
the peasant, and the man of letters ; the one be-
ing accustomed always to look at distant bodies
on a large scale ;
the other almost exclusively
rivetted to fris desk, and his eye fixed on minuter
objects.
,
The perfection of. vision is, that it should be
clear, distinct, quick, at all distances, and that
it should be long preserved ;
readily embracing a
whole without losing sight of the details of which
it is composed, or of the relation established be-
tween the several objects which these details com-
prise.
To the accomplishment of this perfection, it is
necessary that the eye should be a good one, con-
sidered as an optical instrument; that the general
health should be unimpaired, since upon this
depends the exertion of muscular power, and the
consequent easy adaptation of the organ to dif-
ferent distances ;
that the intellectual powers
should be in full operation ;
that the eye should
be accustomed to execute frequently, and under
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 173
varying circumstances, the function of compari-
son between what it sees, and what it knows ;
that it should be assisted by the other senses,
and more particularly by that of touch ;
and that
it should be strengthened by exercise.
The dicta of this sense are subject to a great
variety of illusions, with some of which it is de-
sirable early to acquaint the young mind, in order
that it
may be saved from self-deception ;
that it
may form more accurate judgments, and be de-
fended from the fatal influence of superstitious fear,
so readily produced and fostered in the credulous
eye of infancy, by tales of ghosts, and similar
preternatural appearances, which may be referred
safely to optical spectra, arising from the circum-
stances in which light arrives at the sentient
organ; the state of that organ; or of the brain, to
which its impressions are referred. Thus with
regard to colour, it is not unusual to meet with
individuals who cannot discern particular colours,
notwithstanding that these distinctions in their
every variety of shade and blending, form the
peculiar and appropriate object of this sense. In
these cases, as we possess no means of convincing
the intellect, the existence of the specific colour
must be received as one of the prejudices of edu-
cation ;
and the child must be taught to feel that
the fault of his not perceiving it rests with him-
self : a very useful lesson upon which to ground
the precept, to distrust the evidence of his
senses ;
to lean not to his own understanding ;
174 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
to believe some things which he cannot demon-
strate or comprehend ;
and to acknowledge that
there are many which, though not contrary to
reason, are entirely beyond its appeal, and which
must be received as matters of belief, on other
evidence than that of the senses. The analogy
of this principle with that on which our best
hopes for futurity are founded, may be, perhaps,
highly useful in after life.
The eye is often deceived in judging of dis-
tances, and of the relative situation of different
bodies ; unacquainted with the laws of perspec-
tive, it is called upon to exercise them, and is
frequently led to erroneous conclusions. Each
one may convince himself of this truth, by the
simple experiment of endeavouring to estimate
the comparative distance occupied by a portion
of ground unbroken by any object of interest,
and of one smooth level ;
or by a similar space
intersected by the industry of man, by houses,
trees, fields, hedges, flocks, and herds : the latter
will appear to be much the larger; because the
eye having many points to rest upon, forms its
judgment of the whole from the aggregate of
these points. The same result may be obtained
by contrasting a meadow and a garden : in which
comparison the latter, though of an equal size,
will appear to be much the larger. Again,
another error may be made apparent, in the lumi-
nous spectrum which results from whirling rapidly
round an ignited stick : the eye perceives a com-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 175
plete and unbroken circle of fire, although there
is really only a single point; a deception which
arises from the burning portion arriving a second
time at every point of the circumference of
the circle described, before the first
impres-
sion upon the retina has had time to subside.
Another exemplification of the illusions of this
sense, arising out of the refrangibility of light,
may be found in the broken appearance of
a stick which has been partly immersed in
water: all these instances tending to shew the
imperfection of the sense, and the necessity for
education and exercise, before its reports can be
received as true.
The perfection to which vision may be carried,
is
readily exemplified by the effect of different
pursuits upon it; by the accuracy of anatomical
expression in the portrait painter, or the sculptor ;
or by the delicacy of colouring, the judicious
management of light and shade, and by the
grouping of the several objects which constitute
the forte of the landscape painter : and which
place us at once in the society of those long lost,
or in scenes over which memory fondly wakes,
and which kindle with emotion, a thousand in-
teresting reminiscences. In a different way, the
same sense is
highly developed in the professional
architect, to whom we are indebted for some of
the finest models of human art and industry,
And to mention only one other instance of the
influence of this law, and to descend to a much
176 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
humbler example, the same principle is discover-
able in the quiet and accurate eye of the sports-
man, who brings down his bird in rapid flight, and
sometimes with unerring certainty.
These examples, by shewing the power of edu-
cation, habit, and exercise, on the perfection of
this sense, are encouraging to persist in the effort
after improvement. But all have not the same
power of attaining excellence ; since, in the first
place, the focal distance of the eye differs in dif-
ferent individuals. It is of great importance, that
parents should ascertain this circumstance, or they
may be often, though unwittingly, guilty of in-
justice to their children ;
in ascribing that to
awkwardness of manner or perverseness of dis-
position, which is in truth, only the expression of
a natural defect in the organ of vision ;
to be
counteracted, not by correction and moral disci-
pline, but by gradually developing that power of
accommodation to circumstance which the eye
possesses. The common focal distance of the
human eye, or that in which individuals gene-
rally see to read distinctly, and at the same time
conveniently, is from eight to nine inches ;
but it
will be more or less, according to circumstances;
adopting this distance, as the one in which a
book should always be held, will produce, in many
cases, indistinct vision, and lead to perpetual
error, which may be ascribed to carelessness, or
which may be productive of inordinate exercise,
fatigue, and exhaustion to the eye ;
and thus
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 177
early lay the foundation of disease, or of prema-
ture old age. This organ, then, should be gra-
dually accustomed to change, and much may be
done by perseverance. It must however be re-
collected, that, under these circumstances, the
eye is more liable to fatigue, and requires, there-
fore, longer intervals of rest. Where the irrita-
bility consequent upon exhaustion has been
induced, great advantage has been derived from
the application of cold water, which may with
propriety be allowed to evaporate.
It has been stated, as one of the characteristics
of good vision, that it should be long preserved.
This, however, requires considerable care, and an
attention to some important precautions.
First, reading, which generally occupies the
eye most intently, and therefore produces the
earliest symptoms of fatigue, should not be con-
tinued too long in one unbroken period, but
should be subdivided into the occupation of dif-
ferent parts of the day, and alternated with some
other pursuit. A change of exercise is, in itself,
repose ; and, with a little care, this may be
always effected without any material loss of time ;
while, by this process, the organ will be more
strengthened, than by a complete alternation
from active exertion to absolute quiescence.
Reading, during the twilight, should be strictly
prohibited. There is no practice which tends
more certainly to develop morbid predisposition
than this unfortunate habit : for the eye is strained
VOL. r. N
178 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
beyond measure to continue its pursuit, and is
thus rendered weak and irritable. Sudden tran-
sitions should always be avoided ;
for although
the eye has the power of excluding the greater
number of rays, by the contraction of the iris
almost to a point, and again, of receiving a
larger proportion by its dilatation ; yet this cannot
be effected rapidly or frequently, without a degree
of suffering which is injurious. Every individual
may convince himself of the truth of this asser-
tion, by the effect produced upon the visual
organ, by the sudden introduction of candles, after
sitting in the dark, or at least in a very weak
light; an experiment which should always be
avoided in practice : for as soon as the light ceases
to be sufficient for the common purposes of em-
ployment, at that instant should candles be in-
troduced. A similar effect should be guarded
against in the change from the labours of the
study, which, it has been recommended to furnish
with Venetian blinds, and to defend from a very
strong light, to the amusements of the play-
ground, and exposure to insolation. The tran-
sition should be gradual, and light should be
admitted into the room for a few minutes before
the little pupils leave it for their out-door exer-
cises. It is desirable to avoid much reading by
candle-light, for a similar reason as that on which
the eye should be defended from the full blaze of
the meridian sun. But, above all, the attempt to
read by moonlight should be most uncompro-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 179
misingly forbidden ; since its insufficient, but
dazzling brightness, is peculiarly injurious to this
delicate organ.
The very lucid, resplendent, and brilliant eye,
especially where this is
accompanied with a dark
coloured iris, is commonly one of excessive sen-
sibility ; always bordering upon, and without
great care, easily converted into irritability, and
that impatience of light which prevents distinct-
ness of vision, and gives rise to blinking of the
eye-lids and other awkward habits, which are in
reality the expression of its suffering, and of
nature's mode of attempting its relief by excluding
the too-powerful light, where the exquisite sym-
pathy established between the retina and the iris,
has proved insufficient to save the organ from dis-
tress. The voice of unsophisticated nature
should ever be attended to; and it becomes
the parent to expound its slightest intimations,
and to act upon them. It is in these cases, that
attention to the colour of the dress and of sur-
rounding objects, may be useful. But in every
instance it behoves the" parent to distinguish
between bad habit, and organic changes which
admit of remedy. Imperfections should be dis-
covered, and the eye accustomed by slowly aug-
mented exercise, to all the little circumstances
of life, which, though they may be hurtful, are
yet unavoidable ;
while it should also be em-
ployed by degrees, in discovering all that nature
has revealed, or the industry and genius of man
have unfolded.
N 2
180 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
The modifications of exercise for this sense are
almost as numerous as the daily occasions of life.
One of the most important, consists in teaching
it to carry on its vision to sentences, or parts of
sentences posterior to the one, which at the in-
stant engages the eye and the organs of language,
so as to rivet the power of the understanding
upon what the child reads. While the words of
a sentence may be pronounced without thought,
ideas will not be communicated by reading ;
but
they cannot fail to be so, where the intellectual
faculty is in active exercise, and in unison with
that exquisite mechanism, by which nature has
allowed the admission of words as the signs of
ideas ;
and has likewise provided for their
enunciation. Without having acquired this habit,
no one can read well ;
for none can give to lan-
guage its
proper emphasis, who has not previously
embraced the design of the author, and compre-
hended his sentiments and mode of argumenta-
tion ;
and none can do this, unless he can carry
on the eye to subsequent parts of the page before
him. No pains will be ill bestowed, in obtaining
this acquisition, which is invaluable to the pupil ;
inasmuch as it converts him from the parrot to
the rational being ;
teaches him to arrange his
ideas, and to communicate them, as well as the
ideas of others, to those with whom he stands
associated.
It is
highly desirable to instruct the eye in the
advantage of symmetry and order, in the arrange-
ment of all the child's playthings, and of all na-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 181
tural objects. It will be seen, upon investigation,
that much more depends upon this principle than
immediately appears. For, in the first place,
the faculty of attention is developed by it ;
and
the memory is strengthened, not so much as a
consequence of this activity of attention, as from
the habit af arrangement. The author is by no
means an advocate for the adoption of any system
of technical memory: on the contrary, he believes
that all such systems are based upon a fallacy,
and are too mechanical to be really useful : but
every one who attends to the operations of his
own mind, will have often found, that he has
been assisted in restoring ideas and their signs,
by recollecting the page of the book, or the situ-
ation of the page in which they were written ;
or by recalling the order in which the attention of
the thinking faculty was directed towards them.
All are sensible of the advantages of arrangement
in facilitating the acquisition of knowledge ;
and
of the fact, that ideas thus systematically con-
nected, will be afterwards elaborated with regu-
larity; that the individual possessing such, will
think and reason correctly, and will avoid that
confusion of intellect which so frequently leads
to erroneous opinion, imperfect or distorted judg-
ment, and mischievous action. The same advan-
tage of order in assisting the recollection, is felt,
in the demonstration of an abstruse problem of
Euclid, or in the appropriation of any closely
reasoned argument leading, as it should always
lead, to one point.
182 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
This, however, by no means comprehends all
the advantages which accrue from the eye being
accustomed to order. Habits of neatness and
cleanliness are depending upon it; every thing
must be in its proper place ;
the keeping of the
character must be complete ;
the eye discerns,
and the understanding is discomforted by want
of arrangement and disorder : the smallest devi-
ation from the neatness so essential to the gentle-
man, is discovered and remedied ;
and thus
intercourse with society is rendered much more
pleasing. And still further, the same principle
is applicable to orthography. When the recol-
lection momentarily fails, and we forget whether
we have spelt a word correctly or not, the eye
accustomed to order, immediately informs us whe-
ther it looks aright. A variety of other illustra-
tions might be added ;
all tending to shew that
the perfection, as well as the agrmens of the
character, and the faculty of obtaining and com-
municating knowledge, depend greatly upon
rigid attention to this principle.
The eye should also be accustomed to discern
distinctly at different distances, both near and
remote, in order that it may obtain the greatest
possible number of exterior notices ;
notices too,
which it will be seen are not merely valuable as the
gratifications of sense ;
but as leading to results
of great importance, a few of which may be thus
briefly stated.
1. Distinct vision enlarges our acquaint-
ance with natural objects. The phenomena
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 183
of nature's productions, present an almost endless
source of admiration, and of constant pursuit,
(the great secret of happiness in this lower
world, for without it
every blessing is insipid, or
at least but half enjoyed,) and the earlier the at-
tention is fixed upon them, and the interest and
curiosity of the young concerning them is excited,
the better. All knowledge is useful for itself,
and for its application to the daily purposes of
life : but here particularly the operation of a
master-hand is to be traced, and the young will
be most readily led to enquire who made all these
wonders ;
and may by degrees be informed of
the bounty and love of that Omnipotent Archi-
tect, who created and upholds all things ;
and
thus may be conducted to the knowledge, that
man is the most astonishing product of his Al-
mighty hand ;
and to all the duties arising out of
his relation to Him, from whom are derived life
and breath, and all things. This, of course, im-
plies an acquaintance with the general laws of
nature's economy, which must only be gradually
unfolded ;
and the first link in the chain of which,
must be, to fix the attention to natural objects,
and to recognize them in little paintings, draw-
ings, or engravings. For this purpose, the art of
drawing may be exceedingly useful, while at the
same time, it will give a great degree of ac-
curacy to the minute observations of the visual
organ.
2. Again, there is not a feeling more deeply
rooted in the human breast, than that of selfish-
184 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
ness. The hopes and fears, the joys and sorrows
of the young, begin and end commonly, in their
own immediate gratification :
they live as isolated
beings, and as if the world around them, were pro-
d uced solely for their amusement and comfort ;
and
this microcosm of their own creation, extends
not beyond the narrow sphere of their individual
little circle. But the eye must be accustomed to
look abroad to the whole family of man, and to
the entire kingdom of nature ;
to trace a peopled
world in miniature, with all its minute, yet com-
plete arrangement, by aid of the microscope ;
to
recognize and respect the wants, and benevolently
relieve, by little sacrifices of their own pleasure,
the necessities of the poor around them ;
to walk
at large over the limits of our globe, and in
tracing its geographical boundaries, to become a
citizen of that world and to feel sympathy for the
wretched state of its inhabitants ;
and yet further
to have the views enlarged, and by means of the
telescope to carry the eye forward, in all the ma-
turity of the developed understanding; and
through the medium of the delightful science of
astronomy, to become acquainted with a plurality
of similar worlds, as that on which it lives and
breathes; peopled, perhaps, by beings of a simi-
lar character with themselves, possessing the
same views and prospects, and surrounded by
similar objects of wonder and delight.
3. In order to the pursuit of all these objects,
the eye, and light, as its stimulus are indispen-
sable. This sense, therefore, above all the rest,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 185
preeminently enlarges the sphere of our know-
ledge. By its instrumentality, we can avail our-
selves of the wisdom of past ages, and find works
to assist and conduct our investigations. By its
means, through the agency of writing, a commu-
nication has been established with the wise and
good of distant regions ;
and by the art of print-
ing, these writings have been perpetuated, in-
definitely multiplied, and diffused over a large
sphere. We may not forget to notice also, the
employment of this sense in the mode of tele-
graphic communication, a plan hitherto employed
principally for hostile purposes, but which admits
of being applied to the transmission of intelli-
gence, unmingled with the alloy of warlike pre-
paration. These are only a few of the objects
to which the sense of sight may be directed ;
but
they will abundantly shew the importance of the
foregoing precepts for its
improvement and pre-
servation.
We must not entirely quit this part of our
subject without noticing that unfortunate de-
formity, which is commonly termed squinting,
arising from the feebleness of one, or the exces-
sive strength of other muscles of the eye, thus
gaining power over its antagonist, and producing
distortion. As an object of surgical attention,
this does not fall within our notice ;
we cannot
therefore, attempt a history of this singular
affection. We merely mention it here, for the
purpose of putting the parent upon her guard,
186 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
against the first symptom of deviation ;
to be-
ware of exposing the child in any situation, in
which it
may receive the rays of light obliquely ;
to take care that these should always fall in
right lines upon the eye, and when the predis-
position has been already developed, to be very
attentive to correct it early. And how is this
to be effected? Not by the usual method of
teaching a child to read through a flat glass,
all of which, with the exception of its cen-
tre, has been covered with some opaque sub-
stance. This plan very commonly leaves the
source of the evil untouched : while the muscles
from being quiescent are enfeebled rather than in-
vigorated, and therefore, are more readily con-
firmed in their morbid habit. Hence the con-
stant failure of goggles, employed surely in utter
forgetfulness of the only curative indication,
which consists in strengthening the feeble mus-
cles and developing their power, so as to restore
the lost balance of antagonism. This rule is
equally applicable to both the cases we have
supposed; and it is to be carried into active
operation by means of the will, and of those
exercises judiciously devised by the anxious
parent, and pertinaciously followed by the prin-
cipled instructor. Much time, patience, and per-
severance are required ;
but these surely may be
afforded, where the stake is of such great im-
portance; and if
early attended to, the author
verily believes, it is in the parent's power to re-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 187
medy the defect, or allow it to continue ;
an al-
ternative, between which there can be no hesi-
tation no difficulty of selection.
Thus then, each one of the senses is devoted
to its peculiar function ;
these produce impres-
sions only, and are subordinate to the intellect ;
it is the mind alone, which consecutively to these
impressions forms ideas, or those notices by
which objects are represented to us. The im-
pressions of the senses, are only the exciting
causes of, the materials for intellectual operation ;
they are subordinate instruments ; they often
require to be guided ; they are necessary to the
development of some of the faculties of mind,
but in no degree determine its power ;
and de-
prived of them all, the man may still retain the
vigour of his spiritual (spiritual as precisely op-
posed to material) faculties, and be the same
thinking, reasoning, ever-living soul.
188
CHAP. XVI.
EXERCISE OF THE FACULTY OF SPEECH ARTICULATE
LANGUAGE LANGUAGE OP ANIMALS THAT OF
FEELING LANGUAGE DEPENDS ON THE FACULTY
OF IMITATION THE ORGAN OF VOICE ART OF
MODULATING SOUNDS DISTINCTIVE PECULIARITIES
NOT OFTEN FOUND PERFECT AS A GIFT OF NA-
TURE INFLUENCE OF EDUCATION IN DEVELOPING
THE POWERS OF THE CHEST AND LARYNX, AND
CAUTIONS RESPECTING THEIR EXERCISE DEFEC-
TIVE PRONUNCIATION IS OFTEN THE RESULT OF
WANT OF ATTENTION HOW REMEDIED VARIOUS
IMPERFECTIONS OF SPEECH, WITH THEIR CAUSES,
AND METHODS OF TREATMENT, AS WELL AS THEIR
EXTENSIVE AND INJURIOUS INFLUENCE WHEN UN-
CONTROULED A VERY FEW IMPERFECTIONS ONLY
ARE BEYOND THE REACH OF REMEDY PRINCIPLES
UPON WHICH THIS PART OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION
SHOULD BE CONDUCTED CONCLUSION.
FROM the exercise of the senses, we advance
to that of the faculty of speech ; another step
towards intellectual exertion, another link in
the chain which inseparably unites physical with
moral education. We have already seen, that
these are mutually dependent ;
but we have yet
to trace the degree of that dependence, and the
intimacy of that connexion, in consequence of
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 189
which, the one separated from the other will
ever prove abortive of good, if not the immediate
parent of evil.
We have already noticed the language of ex-
pression, as it is attached to the development of
the muscular system ;
and it is now the lan-
guage of articulation, the distinctive accom-
paniment of reason, and the exclusive attribute
of man, which claims our attention. It is in-
deed probable, that animals possess the power
of communicating their impressions to each
other, by a mode of language peculiar to them-
selves, and the attentive observer of nature will
have remarked this in numberless instances ;
but
the various expressions employed are not com-
prehended by other tribes of animals, nor by
man ;
these are necessarily limited to the ex-
planation of their wants and desires, their joys
and apprehensions, the immediate care of their
young, or the supply of their necessities ; they are
the result of instinct the product of passion
the offspring of present want; they are not
susceptible of education, or applicable to the
purposes of reason, but merely characteristic of
powerful, natural, unconstrained, unsophisticated
emotion.
It is
probable that man possesses the power
of accommodating this language of feeling in a
degree very inferior to that enjoyed by many of
the animals around him. We trace its influence
in the first cry of infancy ; and the well prac-
190 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
tised ear of the parent, will readily distinguish be-
tween the expression of pain, or discomfort, or
want, or passion : we observe it in the early indica-
tion of the delight, and a variety of other little cir-
cumstances in the helpless existence of the young.
This may be considered as the only natural, and
absolutely physical expression of feeling. Lan-
guage, properly so called, depends upon the
exclusive privilege of man, viz. the faculty of
imitating the sounds which he hears, and of mo-
dulating the tones which he produces. The de-
velopment of this power is the office of physical
education, proceeding from the simplest sounds,
to those which by the common consent of man-
kind, have been determined upon, as repre-
sentative signs of certain things, and states, and
modes of existence, which by various combi-
nation, become the elements of language, and
embrace at once the simplest, as well as the most
complex ideas.
The organ of voice, that which is concerned
in this astonishing combination of wonders, con-
sists of the entire mechanism employed for the
purposes of respiration ;
but the principal means
of forming articulate sounds, are to be found
in the throat and mouth. Thus the air con-
tained in the lungs, is driven through the trachea,
or air-tube, in expiration ;
and as it
passes
through its superior aperture, it is divided and
modified, by that beautiful arrangement of move-
able cartilages, ligaments, muscles, and nerves,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 191
which compose what are termed the larynx and
glottis; but it receives its final and distinctive
impression its character of articulation in the
cavity of the mouth, where it is
variously in-
fluenced by the structure of the soft" arch of the
palate, and the sinuosities of the nose ; by the
roof of the bony palate, the arrangement of the
teeth, and above all, by the muscles of the
throat and tongue, assisted by a similar acces-
sory structure of the lips and jaws. It would
have afforded pleasure to the author to have
dwelt at some length upon the mechanism here
employed, and upon the relative influence of
each of its
parts ;
but it would be to deviate too
far from the course he has prescribed for himself,
which compels him to say only just so much as
may be necessary to render the rules of physical
education comprehensible.
Thus then it should seem, that the contraction
and dilatation of the glottis, its elevation and
depression, constitute the chief art of modu-
lating sounds ;
while the last and final character
of articulation, and distinct pronunciation, is
given by the other parts of this exquisite ar-
rangement of structure, the function of which
it has baffled the highest efforts of human in-
genuity to imitate. Attempts of this kind have
not been wanting, and various hypotheses have
been invented to account for the phenomena of
the human voice ;
but a moment's reflection will
convince the inquirer, that no comparison can
192 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
be fairly instituted between an artificial musical
instrument of any kind, and that living organ,
which consists not only of a great variety of de-
licate parts, depending for their action upon dis-
tinct efforts of volition ;
but which are presided
over by the intellectual faculty, and which can
alone undergo that infinity of modifications,
which consitute this mechanism the most perfect
of all musical instruments, and gives to its
function that peculiar character and value which
it
possesses, as the medium for effecting a regular
and extensive interchange of ideas.
The human voice is not however of one uni-
form tone ;
on the contrary, each individual pos-
sesses some distinctive peculiarities, through
which he is easily recognized by those who
know him, and which, moreover, serves in some
measure, to maintain the consciousness of his
own identity. Nor is this difference astonishing,
when we recollect for an instant the structure
of the parts concerned, and the modifications
these must undergo from original organization
from the influence of age during the successive
periods of infancy, childhood, youth, and matu-
rity from the characteristic difference of the
sexes from the growth and development of the
muscular powers, and the degree of exercise to
which they have been subjected from the changes
impressed upon them by the influence of high
health, and of general or local malady ;
and
above all, from the peculiar bias arising from the
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 193
several modes and habits of thought, action, and
feeling, all of which are particularly manifested
through the influence of this function.
In so complicated an arrangement, liable to
be affected and disturbed by so great a number
of causes, it need not excite astonishment, that
it is not often found perfect as a positive gift of
nature, or as the simple result of the faculty of
imitation. It is however, capable of being car-
ried to a great degree of relative perfection, by
habit, and graduated exercise. These are the
particular objects of physical education ;
and
they consist in improving and developing the
powers of nature, as well as in correcting her
erroneous tendencies. The importance of this
subject will justify the length of the following
observations.
It has been shown that the force of the voice
was dependant upon the strength of the lungs
and chest, associated with that of the muscles,
which are particularly concerned in the office of
expelling the air ; and, moreover, that its tones
are communicated to it
by the mechanism of the
larynx and glottis ; Here, again referring the
most perfect state of the function to the size,
strength, and muscularity of that organ. The
development of this muscular system forms a first
principle in the education of the voice, and it
will be recollected, tliat gradually augmented
exercise becomes the most powerful means of ac-
complishing this object. This is to be attempted
VOL. i. o
194 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
by aiming at great distinctness of pronunciation ;
by repeating aloud at different distances from the
parental auditor ; by declaiming in the open air,
under the several variations of temperature, and
of atmospherical pressure ;
and lastly, by de-
clamation during the action of progression, which
as it is attended with the greatest difficulty,
should only be attempted when the muscles shall
have acquired a certain degree of previous tone
and hardihood. Where the chest is originally
feeble, care must be taken that the exercise be
not excessive : but even where this constitutional
defect exists, it
may be greatly counteracted by
the process of graduated exertion just now re-
commended ;
and besides, it
may be advan-
tageously combated by that system of diet,
and those attentions to clothing and general
exercise, which are suited to the climate ;
which
should be addressed to "the body at large as well
as to the organ itself; and which have been pre-
viously enforced, as best calculated to secure the
largest amount of muscular power.
The same law will be beneficially extended to
the muscles of the glottis and larynx ;
but here
it must be recollected, that these parts are so
constituted as to be preserved in a state of
moisture by a constant mucous secretion, and
that the easy and full
employment of the voice,
will depend upon the regularity of this secretion.
When the glottis is relaxed, and the quantity of
mucus superabundant, the voice will become
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 195
hoarse, and many of its tones indistinct; and
when, on the contrary, long disuse shall have
occasioned an augmentation of its irritability,
it often becomes excessively sensible, and dry
from evaporation of the fluids destined to moisten
it ; and this gives rise to that tickling sensa-
tion, so easily succeeded by cough, which fre-
quently interrupts the progress of an unpractised
reader. A similar remedy is
applicable to both
these states : for the constant habit of moderate
reading, will brace the vessels of the part, and
prevent their pouring out an excessive quantity
of their appropriate fluid ; while, on the other
hand, it will diminish the sensibility of the organ :
and since the supply is
always regulated by the
demand, it will induce a more abundant secre-
tion of mucus, which will preserve the parts
from the drying influence of the air passing over
them in rapid succession.
Another very important caution with regard to
the preservation of these organs, is to avoid fre-
quently drawing in the air during the action of
reading. Such a habit, while it
prevents the in-
dividual from retaining a sufficient quantity of
breath, to give energy and distinctness to his
enunciation of a long sentence, is
particularly
enfeebling to the powers of the chest, upon which
the force of the voice is
dependant. For a simi-
lar reason, much reading after the principal meal
of the day should always be avoided ;
for although
the mechanical action produced upon the stomach
o 2
196 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
has been thought to be favourable to the process
of digestion, yet the calling off the nervous in-
fluence from that viscus to the organs of speech,
and to intellectual activity, will in itself be mis-
chievous ;
while the augmented capacity of the
distended stomach will diminish the power of the
chest's expansion, and render necessary frequent
inspiration, to a degree which must prove ex-
hausting ;
and will occasion that irregular catch-
ing of the breath, which is distressing to the
pupil, painful to the instructor, and injurious to
the development of the faculty of speech.
It sometimes happens that defective pronun-
ciation depends upon the want of hearing cor-
rectly, or of attending sufficiently, so as to form
a just appreciation of sounds. It is only after
having long\ heard others speak, that the infant
can himself enunciate. The faculty of speech
is not a gift of nature's, or an innate power, but
the result of imitation ;
and as the entireness of
this process depends, in some measure, upon the
accuracy of the ear, its
early and careful educa-
tion is of the first importance ;
and its impres-
sions once systematically made, will not be easily
effaced. The development of the sense of hear-
ing has been already treated of ;
and it will be
here only necessary to remark, that as first im-
pressions, with all their charms of freshness and
of novelty, usually ensure the greatest share of
attention, and leave behind them the most in-
delible traces of their influence, so is it of im-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 197
portance, that the earliest tones which vibrate
upon the ear of infancy, should be harmonious,
clear, distinct, and correct. It is not enough
that the attention may have been awakened by
sound : the quality of that sound is deserving-
consideration. Particular care should be taken
on the part of the parent, with regard to the just
and simple, and melodious tones with which she
first arouses the slumbering organ of her child,
always being anxious to avoid the quick and
hurried enunciation of expressions containing a
variety of sounds, until the ear has been accus-
tomed, first to the more single, and then to the
more complicated impressions. In this way only
can accuracy of attention and delicacy of organic
tact be acquired, while a great deal of future
trouble will be spared. It must be evident of
how great importance it is to possess a nurse,
whose education shall have been such as to ensure
correct pronunciation, and whose voice shall be
harmonious and agreeable ;
but above all, one
who will attend to the directions of the parent.
A certain feebleness of voice is likewise pro-
duced by the indistinct formation of the nasal
sounds, arising from the irritation of cold, or from
any other cause which morbidly excites the lining
membrane of the nose, and from paralysis of the
muscles concerned in this process. The reme-
dies for these states consist in discovering and
removing the cause on which they depend ;
and
in strengthening the feeble and unconscious
198 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
muscles by constant employment, and by par-
ticularly directing the will to their operations.
There are other imperfections of this function,
of which the more common are stammering, lisp-
ing, and the erroneous pronunciation of the letters
r and /; of these, the former may be the result
of imperfect structure, or of a lively uncontrouled
imagination, which allows the ideas to be pro-
duced faster than the words in which they should
be clothed. Stammering, in the first case, may
be the result of primary disease, or of sympa-
thetic disturbance, as from the irritation of teeth-
ing, or of disordered stomach ;
and when once
formed, it
may remain long after the cessation,
or complete removal of the cause which had in-
duced it; and it
may then be considered under
the second class of predisposing causes, viz. bad
habits, rendering the action of the muscles irre-
gular and incomplete ;
and these are by far the
more common origin of this painful affection.
Lisping may be produced by the tongue being
placed beyond the teeth in the act of pronouncing,
or when these having been lost, there is no longer
a point d'appui to receive the pressure of its ex-
tremity, so that the air escapes with too great
facility before it has been fully formed into the
regular sounds. The incomplete pronunciation
of the letters r and /
commonly arises from the
little pupil finding some degree of difficulty in
imitating the sounds correctly, in consequence of
which he substitutes others which, to his un-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 199
practised ear, approach nearly to that which is
correct ;
but which, in reality, are always inhar-
monious and defective. All the several deviations
from euphony may be ascribed to defective orga-
nization the loss of voluntary power over the
muscles of the larynx, glottis, or tongue the loss
of teeth the consequences of convulsions, from
whatever cause arising, and the increased growth
of the tongue depending upon an excess of nu-
trition of that organ, or upon some morbid action,
inflammation, &c. Perhaps, also, there may be
other causes, which may have primarily exerted
their influence upon the brain, and which, though
difficult of detection at their source, may have
left behind them traces of morbid influence, not
easily to be effaced. It is well known how
readily a certain effect produced upon the in-
tellectual organ, either immediately, or mediately
through the function of the stomach, will inter-
fere with accurate pronunciation : this is exem-
plified by the hesitation resulting from the in-
fluence of wine, and other alcoholic fluids, whose
primary impression is exerted upon the nerves of
the stomach ;
as well as by the agency of opium,
tobacco, and other narcotics, whether introduced
into the system by the stomach, or in any other
way. In all
probability there may be many other
such causes, which elude our investigation.
Imperfect pronunciation is often encouraged by
the carelessness or indulgence of parents, who
selfishly prefer the lisping accents, and inhar-
200 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
monious gibberish of infancy, to the slower pro-
cess of perfect and natural development : and
did the evil rest here, we would not have stig-
matized so venial a fault ;
but the mischief con-
sists principally in the erroneous bias impressed
upon the organ of thought by this semi-elabora-
tion of the signs of ideas, which is always at-
tended by a corresponding imperfect grasp of the
ideas themselves. The parent is often anxious
to possess a little prodigy of talent and acquire-
ment ; and will most unthinkingly sacrifice the
best qualities of mental operation, for the pos-
session and display of precocious power ; an attri-
bute altogether incompatible with infancy ;
the
semblance of which may indeed be obtained by
excessive stimulation, and will always be fol-
lowed by positive loss of strength. In all these
cases, the simple indications are to remove the
occasional cause, where this can be effected ;
and
where this is
impossible, to controul and counter-
act its influence, as well as the bad habit which
has remained after the morbid impulse has sub-
sided, by calling in the aid of the powers which
nature has bestowed, and which will not be
appealed to in vain.
There may be a few cases of originally defec-
tive organization, or of morbid states induced by
disease, which are really beyond the reach of
remedy : but we have the highest authority for
believing that these are very rare instances ;
and
consequently the patient should act with the
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 201
same degree of hope, and zeal, and energy, and
unbroken, undiminished perseverance, as if cer-
tain of success. Thus doing, he will have the
satisfaction of reflecting that he has done all in
his power, and will be perfectly sure of controul-
ing, though he may not finally and effectually
subdue the unfortunate tendency. Where the
fulfilment of the first indication is impossible,
attention to the second is so much the more im-
perative, viz. the removal of bad habits ;
and this
is to be accomplished by developing the powers
of the organ of speech, and carrying them to their
greatest degree of attainable perfection. We
cannot hope to embrace this all important subject
so thoroughly as it should be done, and we must
therefore rest satisfied with detailing a few of the
first principles upon which this part of Physical
Education should be conducted.
I. What is the object of language, but to faci-
litate the interchange of ideas ?
By the very
terms of this proposition, it is clear that ideas
should precede, or at all events be coincident
with, the words which are destined to convey
them ;
and as a necessary inference, that the
minds of children should be stored with words,
only as they become capable of comprehending
and attaching to those signs the idea of the thing-
signified. Thus, the first sounds expressed to
the infant should be such as may be readily
associated with some person or thing, with which
it
may become easily acquainted. This principle
202 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
is exemplified in the case of idiots :
they have a
language of their own, expressive of their wants
and pleasures, their hopes and fears, so far as
their defective organization enables them to smile
on the one or deprecate the other ;
but they pos-
sess not the power of articulation, because the
faculty of speech is useless to those who cannot
think : the music of the human voice falls un-
heeded upon their unconscious ear ;
the impres-
sion is made upon an organ incapable of percep-
tion, and the interesting process of the communi-
cation of exterior notices to the sentient principle
within, is arrested on the very threshold. The
point at which nature stops is
precisely that to
which our educational attention should be di-
rected, viz. to give such sounds as will excite
distinct impressions, and produce a correspond-
ing effect upon the percipient organ, and the
conscious principle to which it is subservient.
II. The faculty of speech is
entirely subordi-
nated to the action of the brain ;
and it will be
rapid or slow, exact or inaccurate, accordingly as
the ideas may be freely or sluggishly elaborated
as they may or may not be clear and well de-
fined. Hence the necessity for the art of think-
ing, of judging of the immediate and relative
value and influence of certain simple elements of
thought, and of the effects resulting from their
association. This is not within the unassisted
power of infancy; but it must be the office of
the instructor to produce clear ideas, and to
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 203
suffer such only to be enunciated by the pupil.
It cannot be necessary, in order to enforce atten-
tion to this rule, to do more than refer to the
perfect misery of listening to those who talk
eternally and say nothing those living automa-
tons, whose existence is a mere mockery of man,
whose little circle of thought knows neither be-
ginning nor end, but is one continued and un-
broken round of insipidity. Ideas must precede
words, and children must be accustomed to attach
clear ideas to all they say.
III. A vague or erroneous expression should
never be used before children ;
neither should
they be permitted to employ one unthinkingly;
Where the habit of regular and consistent thought
has been developed, this principle will follow as
a matter of course ;
for he who thinks accurately
and orderly will express himself with precision,
and in appropriate terms. Yet in common con-
versation, we are too apt to employ a loose or
inaccurate phraseology, which children greedily
catch, and which is often the parent of devious
thought, and fallacious reasoning. For the same
cause, it is desirable to avoid rapidity of expres-
sion before them, since they cannot correctly fol-
low it, and therefore can comprehend only im-
perfectly, and retain merely the shadow of the
sentiment, while they have lost the substance. A
similar view will induce the parent to prevent her
little pupil from precipitately catching words to
which the defined meaning has not been insepa-
204 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
rably attached. Since the object of the instruc-
tress is not to educate parrots, but human beings,
with the high destiny of immortality before them,
there is not a single maxim, or any part of the
process, which should not be subservient to this
distinctive attribute of man. It is not possible to
calculate how far one erroneous or undefined ex-
pression may lead : the impression to which it
gives rise may be confused ;
an imperfect idea
will be perceived ;
an inaccurate notion will be
the result ; hasty opinion will be developed ;
fallacious judgment will be formed ; obliquity of
thought and action will be occasioned ;
and under
the influence of the perversity of the human heart,
the whole mental manifestations may be disturbed,
and the most pernicious errors, or the most la-
mentable deviations from moral rectitude may be
the ultimate end of this apparently trifling cir-
cumstance. So true is it, that in all which relates
to the conduct of infancy, nothing can be trifling;
nothing can be even of inferior, or of secondary
importance.
IV. The voice should be gradually exercised;
and in order to do this correctly, it must be re-
membered that every word consists of letters
which require a separate and distinct act of voli-
tion for their perfect enunciation ;
and it must not
be expected that children should be early able to
connect together so intimately, a variety of these
acts of volition, as to leave no hiatus between
them no break in the uniformity of their ex-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 205
pression. Care should be therefore taken, that
the pronunciation should be perfectly correct, and
complete with regard to syllables, letters, and
punctuation, as well as harmonious and agreeable.
For this purpose, it is
indispensable, that the ar-
ticulation should be slow, so as to allow the child
fully to embrace the idea to be conveyed ;
for
whatever is
inaccurately conceived, will of neces-
sity be imperfectly uttered. On this account it
is not generally desirable to exercise the memory
on the repetition of sentiments which it cannot
comprehend ;
or on the acquisition of a stock of
words, without a corresponding extension of the
materials for thought, which is injurious, inas-
much as it
only adds to that useless lumber of the
mind, which gives the appearance of disorder and
confusion, without adding a single atom to its
riches. For the same reason, it is not a good
plan to teach a child to read and spell before he
has learned to pronounce ;
that is, before he has
acquainted himself with certain forms, and their
appropriate signs, and has thus learned to con-
nect every mode of expression with some natural
object, or some intellectual quality.
V. Bad habits are to be corrected by the con-
stant uniform substitution of good models, and
by unwearied attention ;
at least where there ex-
ists no defective conformation ; and even then,
much may be done towards remedying this error
of nature, by the unabated perseverance of art,
grafted upon this principle. Where there occurs
206 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
difficulty in
pronouncing any one particular letter,
and consequently all words and syllables in which
it is found, it will be commonly advisable to
get quit of the idea of the obnoxious letter, by
a little detour or a ruse de guerre. So long as the
powers of volition are absolutely employed in the
removal of a vicious pronunciation, so long will
they be directed in spite of oneself, and in such
way to the muscles concerned, as to perpetuate
the erroneous sound. A similar automatic con-
nexion is observable under many other circum-
stances : but call off the attention from the, mus-
cles you propose to employ, you will catch them
off their guard, and induce them to act correctly
before they are aware of acting at all. Thus in
the case of faulty pronunciation, no progress will
be frequently made by a direct process ;
but dis-
miss the formidable letter altogether ;
substitute
sounds of an analogous, but not identical cha-
racter ;
let them advance by degrees in similarity
to the unfortunate stumbling-stone ;
and then
finally, and without apparent effort, or any par-
ticular direction of the will to the subject, intro-
duce the very sound you wish to have correctly
pronounced, and, in all probability, success will
attend this process, at all events, after having
been foiled a few times ;
for in this, as in every
instance of failure, however mortifying, an unsuc-
cessful attempt should only prove the stimulus to
greater and more energetic exertions.
VI. Thus much having been accomplished,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 207
and the difficulty having been introduced and
conquered in every variety of combination, the
exercise of the voice is to be carried on beyond
the mere enunciation of simple sounds, to the
complication of many sounds, and to the senti-
ments they embody. Under every modification
of plan, the original idea is never to be lost sight
of for a moment, viz. that the exercise of the
voice is to be coincident with, and consequent
to, the development of the mental manifestations ;
and must form the external symbol of the thing
intended to be represented. The first step in
this process is the variation of the tone of the
voice ;
the reading quick or slow according to
the action of thought .or feeling which may be
supposed to have influenced the writer or speaker;
laying a proper emphasis on certain words of
the sentence, and modulating the voice, as it
may
be required to give its full zest, and life, and en-
ergy to the spirit of the author. The more simple,
didactic, or ethical writers should be selected in
the first instance, for the perusal of children, un-
til having learned to speak with purity and cor-
rectness, to think with regularity, and enunciate
with precision, they may advance a step farther
in the attributes of intellectual manhood ;
and
until animated by feeling and passion, the energy
of the character may be fully pourtrayed. This
must be a slow process : no good will arise from
the early excitement of those spirit-stirring emo-
tions, which constitute so valuable a part of the
208 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
manifestations of mind ; but by degrees the pupil
should be conducted to them, and to the correct
mode of expressing those feelings which are so
materially influenced and modified by the state
of society, and by the operation of age, sex,
climate, temperament, various external circum-
stances, and the fluctuating conditions of health
and disease. The easy adaptation and change of
voice to different modes of expression, so as to
convey every shade of mental variation of the
individual who speaks, or of the writer whose
sentiments he adopts and appropriates, can only
be a work of great time, and attention ; always
bearing in view, that the development of the
mind must keep pace with the exercise of the
voice ;
and that no plan will succeed, which is
not established upon the principle of forming the
understanding, and developing the feelings, be-
fore the organs of speech are called upon for the
appropriate expression of those emotions, without
which it is
impossible to read well.
VII. There is
nothing so good, but that it is
liable to abuse ;
and so, in conducting this pro-
cess, there is danger of losing that simplicity of
character which is so necessary to the age of
childhood. This however will generally arise
from expecting too much ; from seeking the ex-
pression of the more complicated emotions, and
deeper feelings, which belong rather to a more
advanced period of maturity. This will be the
fault of the instructor, and must originate from a
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 209
forgetfulness of the principle, that the reach of
the understanding, and the actual unfolding of
the imagination, together with the positive exist-
ence of their combined fruit, as exhibited in the
manifestations of feeling, emotion, and passion,
should precede the attempt to form their charac-
teristic expressions. The judicious parent will be
careful to call for the exercise of those feelings
only which are appropriate. But even here, a
little
knowledge, a little feeling, and a conscious-
ness of their possession, are dangerous, and de-
structive to simplicity. The remedy is easily
found in making the pupil feel his ignorance, his
want of varied feeling, and the small extent of
his acquirements compared with what they might
have been ;
or with what must always be beyond
the power of his reach. In spite of all our care,
however, evils will sometimes spring ;
and we
have to notice in this place, as in some measure
accruing from these plans, a certain degree of
affectation on the one hand, or of pedantry on the
other : both evils to be corrected by developing
the powers of the understanding, since they can
have no existence in a strong mind, and are al-
ways to be cured by that extension of real know-
ledge, which teaches its possessor to be diffident,
modest, and humble ;
and by that intimate ac-
quaintance with self, which produces a preference
of the unvarnished expression of simple character,
to all the gaudy tinsel of some faulty models.
VOL.. I. P
210 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
Enlarged knowledge and good taste will be found
remedies for these defects.
VIII. The great use of the faculty of speech,
should be to facilitate the application of the pow-
ers of the understanding ;
to assist in the accu-
mulation of facts ;
in reasoning upon them ; in
comparing our ideas ;
and in drawing conclusions
from these comparisons. Not a single link in this
chain can be spared : individual facts can be of
no value, except in so far as they admit of being
classed and arranged, and of forming a basis for
the legitimate deductions of cool and sober the-
ory. On the contrary, without these facts as
landmarks, and as
"
points de depart" for reasoning,
the latter will be no better than the wildest
ravings of hypothesis. There is danger of falling
into either error ; principally on account of that
natural indolence and love of ease, so congenial
to the human mind, which dislikes the labour of
investigation, and which has been so much fos-
tered by the superficial and sketchy education of
later years. There is however no royal road to
excellence ;
and if ever the results of science shall
acquire a greater degree of certainty than they at
present possess, it must be by diligent observa-
tion, aided by dispassionate reasoning. Facts
can only be of general value as they form the
ground-work for opinions ;
and again as these
opinions become the basis of principles, upon
which the goodly superstructure of every day
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 211
conduct must be reared. In the record of facts,
again, there exists this especial source of fallacy,
that no two individuals will similarly observe the
same appearances, or will derive from them im-
pressions which are identical. This barrier to the
acquisition of truth will remain insurmountable,
so long as the brain continues to be the organ of
mind, and is characterized by that infinite variety
of physical constitution, which meets us wherever
we cast our eye : for while this order of things
remains, (and it is unchangeable,) so long will
the notices of external objects, conveyed by this
mechanism, produce corresponding, and therefore
infinitely varied impressions upon the sentient
and immaterial principle. There are, notwith-
standing, general rules of thought ;
the general
principles of the human mind are uniform ;
and
that alone will be good reasoning, which consists
in applying these rules, according to the greater
or less prevalence of these active principles, in
each individual case. Here again there are two
sources of. error; viz. that first, of adhering too
exclusively to opinions invested with the imposing
garb of general principles : and secondly, of being
induced to modify and change those general prin-
ciples upon a small number of disjointed facts.
Hence arises the importance of the investigation
of facts of reasoning, comparison, and inference ;
and a fortiori, hence the consequence of carrying
to its highest state of perfection, that organ of
speech, by which the external manifestation of
these processes is to be conducted.
p 2
212
CHAP. XVII.
OF PUBERTY IMPORTANCE OF ADHERING TO GENE-
RAL PRINCIPLES PARTICULAR ATTENTIONS, RE-
QUIRED BY THE STATE OF THE PHYSICAL SYSTEM,
AND MENTAL MANIFESTATIONS OF THIS PERIOD
CAUTION WITH REGARD TO SOCIETY DEVELOP-
MENT OF THE MORAL POWERS GENERAL ATTEN-
TIONS TO THE PRESERVATION OF HEALTH NECES-
SITY OF CONSTANT EMPLOYMENT AND OF PARENTAL
SUPERVISION DIRECTION OF THE INTELLECTUAL
FACULTIES CAUTIONS WITH REGARD TO READING
AND THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF MORAL MOTIVES
AND JUST PRINCIPLES.
SYSTEMATIC writers on physical education have
commonly devoted a great deal of time and at-
tention to that particular period, when the full
powers of the animal machine are evolved, and
youth slowly glides into maturity. We differ,
however, from these writers in our estimate of
the relative importance of this period, and of the
degree of detail necessary in considering its phe-
nomena. We believe that it
requires no particu-
lar or exclusive rules, but only the prudent appli-
cation of those principles of physical and moral
education, which have been already, or which
will be hereafter explained and enforced. It will
therefore be sufficient to recall the attention of
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 213
parents to some of those simple principles, which
have been already mentioned as consisting of two
distinct kinds, viz. physical and moral ; but which
for the sake of convenience, will here be thrown
together in a very few paragraphs.
I. The period of puberty is characterised by
the rapid growth and development of the body ;
and especially by the preponderance and suscep-
tibility of the nervous system. These communi-
cate a certain degree of irritability,, or aptitude for
excitement, or morbid action to the several func-
tions of the system : and it often happens, as a
consequence, that an undue stimulus is
given to
some one organ or function, which is followed by
a loss of the balance of the circulating system,
and by a greater or less degree of positive dis-
ease. The effects of this morbid condition are
principally exhibited upon the function of ali-
mentation, in which the remarkable and bizarres
cravings of the stomach, are strongly contrasted
with the feebleness of digestion, and the sluggish
motion of the bowels : this function once im-
paired, the vigour and energy of all the rest are
undermined ;
and these effects are early visible
upon the head, upon the chest, and upon the
skin : headache becomes a frequent complaint,
attended by bleeding at the nose, which most
frequently relieves, but sometimes exasperates
this symptom; the action of the heart is dis-
turbed, and it becomes liable to palpitation and
oppression, in consequence of its too great irrita-
bility, as well as from the loss of its muscular
214 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
power ;
the lungs become congested, and a con-
siderable degree of breathlessness and anxiety is
the result; while a certain amount of general
languor is remarked, and is particularly exhibited
in the function of the skin, which becomes
clouded, pale, and sallow.
II. A corresponding influence is exerted upon
the mental manifestations, and these are charac-
terised by a certain degree of mobility and sus-
ceptibility, accompanied by proportionate feeble-
ness. The aptitude for intellectual energy is
diminished, while the operations of the imagina-
tion acquire and exert an undue power over the
general habits of thought and action. Works of
imagination are therefore earnestly desired, while
there is a proportionate amount of loathing, amount-
ing to more than satiety, aye almost to disgust, for
those which require the labour of thought, or
demand the elaboration of idea. An analogous
extent of tenderness of feeling, an easy suscep-
tibility to powerful emotion, is also most readily
to be traced ;
a sensibility, which duly appre-
ciated, and modified by the restraints of educa-
tion, and developed understanding, is an attribute
of great value, and a source of pleasure to its
possessor, and of good to others ;
but which,
when allowed to exert its uncontrouled sway,
hurries its victim into all the littlenesses of mor-
bid excitation. The same state also renders the
mind highly susceptible of friendship, that purest,
best boon which has survived the fall, but which
requires great care with regard to the object
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 215
upon which it is placed, and to the degree in
which it is exercised :
always considering it as
an evil when it ceases to be the quiet solace of
the cares and sorrows of life; and when it be-
comes one of those stormy passions, the indul-
gence of which leads almost unconsciously to
every variety of misery and woe.
The general attentions required by these states,
are therefore easily divided into an arrangement
similar with that of the foregoing phenomena.
Hence,
III. The development of the moral powers,
must keep pace with that of the body ;
and the
two together must be guarded from those excesses
to which they are liable.
IV. The physical attentions required, are such
as subdue the susceptibility of the nervous sys-
tem, and preserve the balance of the circula-
tion. The general rules to sustain the health,
which have been before insisted upon, are only
now to be more rigidly observed. The digestive
function claims pre-eminent notice, and is to be
guarded from morbid action, by maintaining the
greatest simplicity of diet, which should be even
sparing in quantity ; by avoiding spices, highly
seasoned dishes, and stimulants of every descrip-
tion ; by abstaining from the excitement of alco-
holic fluids ;
and by securing a regular action of
the bowels.
With regard to dress, this should be light and
cool, and especially such as to avoid the accumu-
216 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
lation of heat during the night. This principle,
however, is not to be carried to excess : the body
must be preserved comfortably warm, or con-
gestion in the vessels of the brain will be the
consequence ; but a state approaching to heat
should be carefully avoided. Feather beds are to
be cautiously excluded ;
and a horse-hair mat-
trass or straw palliasse substituted in their room ;
and this will in a great measure prevent the little
pupil sleeping longer than nature requires for her
refreshment, and enable it to escape the irritation
which is the consequence of prolonged sleep : but
if, in spite of this precaution, there should be a
disposition to the continuance of morbid slumber,
the little disciple of correct education should be
aroused early, and be accustomed to that uni-
versal cold ablution, which should be the first
duty of the day, and which will so materially
promote health and comfort. Habits of the strict-
est personal cleanliness, will be now of the very
greatest importance, and should be superinduced
and fostered by every practicable means, and
every eligible encouragement.
The exercise should be proportioned to the
strength, but should be carried only so far as it
can be borne with impunity ;
and should be such
as may be best calculated to produce robustness
and vigour of constitution ;
to occasion an equable
distribution of blood over the whole body ;
to
give rise to a great degree of indifference for the
vicissitudes of climate ;
to obviate the disposition
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 217
to prefer warm rooms, which are relaxing and
injurious ;
and to produce such a measure of
fatigue without exhaustion, as will ensure regular
quiet sleep, and yet will not require the devotion
of a large proportion of time to this state, in order
to restore that irritability of the system, which
has been expended during the day.
, The object of this discipline is to prevent an
undue accumulation of vital energy in any one
organ of the body, and so to prevent the irritation,
which would frequently be its consequence. At
this period, it is
particularly desirable to provide
constant occupation for the pupil : idleness is the
prolific parent of moral mischief; an incessant
round of employment, on the contrary, is the
best safeguard from its influence ;
and every
waking hour should find its
appropriate pursuit of
duty, amusement, or exercise. And lastly, it is
important, that in all these several states, children
should not be left to themselves, but should be
always under the constant supervision of the
parent ;
or of those to whom a parent's watchful-
ness may with propriety be delegated. And here
the author must be permitted to mention the
great, the indispensable importance of obtaining
trust-worthy and principled domestics about the
young ;
such as will consider only, what is for the
real good of their little charge. Infinite mischief
has often resulted from unprincipled servants,
who to gratify their own depraved imagination,
have dared to stimulate that of the unconscious
youth committed to their care.
218 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
V. The particular attentions required in the
conduct of moral education, will immediately be
considered as general principles uniformly
operative upon the character; but the present
discussion will scarcely be complete, without
pointing the parent cursorily to those measures
which are rendered especially necessary during a
period, which experience has shewn to be readily
productive of indelible mischief, unless counter-
acted by the bias of reason and religion. As the
exercise of the body has been recommended, so
the regular employment of the intellectual powers
should be a principal object with the parent. At
this time, at least if the preceding years have
been well improved, those powers will be ade-
quate to considerable exertion, and they should
be called upon to the full extent of their ability.
They should, however, be so directed as to
strengthen the understanding, and develop the
reasoning capacity ;
while they repress the luxuri-
ance of the fancy, during this imaginative season
of human life. With this view, the memory may
be exercised upon such objects as will add to its
useful store of solid principles and arguments,
and will teach the habit of arranging and classify-
ing its thoughts. In the fulfilment of this inten--
tion, mathematical pursuits will be of the greatest
advantage. It is unfortunate that the studies of
youth too frequently lead to a contrary result :
but we cannot now enter upon this subject in
detail ;
we can only shew the general principles
which should guide a parent's conduct. It need
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 219
scarcely be added, surely, that the pages of a
novel or a newspaper are not fit to be placed in
the hands of the young and inexperienced : this
is too palpably the fact to demand argument in
its support :
but, alas ! even the page of history
is contaminated with many a narrative which
ought not to meet their eye ;
and still more, their
classical reading is too frequently defiled with
allusions which should never find entrance into
their bosom ;
and with histories, tales, or satiri-
cal notices, whose only tendency is to demoralize
the heart. The obvious conduct of the parent
should be to
prevent the contact of such impurity
where this is possible ;
and where it cannot be
avoided, to supply an antidote to the poison, by
the constant development of good principles of
action, as the pillar and ground of the truth.
The active state of the imagination may be also
rendered available for the purpose of developing
a fear of doing wrong, of losing that rectitude of
motive and consistency which can alone entitle
the individual to esteem; or of harbouring for a
moment a thought, or feeling, which it
might
blush to reveal to its parent. Respect for itself
and its friends will be also found a powerful
means of exciting the imitation of good and vir-
tuous conduct, and the abhorrence of that which
is evil. But a far more powerful motive may be
obtained by the sanctions of religion ; in the love
of God ;
the fear of offending him ;
the desire of
obeying his commands, and incurring his favour
220 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
and blessing; a principle which reaches to the
thoughts and intents of the heart ;
to the very
mainspring of action, long before the individual
is conscious of having directed the powers of his
mind to such a subject. The voice of conscience is
another most valuable safeguard to the young ;
but
this can only be rendered powerfully and exten-
sively operative, in proportion as the attention is
constantly directed towards it, and as it is based
upon the foregoing principle ;
for conscience is,
in fact, none other than the involuntary judgment
which an accountable being passes upon his own
actions, and thoughts, and motives, by comparing
them with some standard of right ;
and that stan-
dard can only be the revealed will of God. In
order to the possession of a tender that is, a
susceptible conscience, it must be constantly en-
gaged, and employed upon the minuter occasions
of life ;
for it is only by being conscientious as
to trifles, that a successful barrier can be raised
by appealing to its decisions, against the inroads
of that mighty torrent of vice which so frequently
threatens to overwhelm the young and unguarded.
One other principle to be now inculcated
though this, indeed, will result from the former,
is the subordination of passion to reason of rea-
son to the word of God :
this, this alone can
ensure safety to the young, or preserve them from
the shoals, and quicksands, and rapids with which
their introduction into life is beset. And this
must not be reserved as the subject of an occa-
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 221
sional lecture ;
it must be the daily, hourly,
undeviating object of thought, of action, of pre-
cept, and example.
To this slight sketch of principles, which will
be further developed in a subsequent part of this
treatise, we shall only add the importance of
watching over the choice of a companion, and
the formation of those friendships which are
usually so warm, and which exert an influence
so powerfully operative upon the mind, as almost
to preserve it from error, or to ensure its ruin.
Let parents, then, be doubly watchful. And we
shall now pass to the second part of our inquiry,
viz. the application of Physical Education to the
development of the Intellectual Faculties, which
will prepare us for the consideration of that which
more exclusively attaches to the subject of moral
and religious instruction.
END OF PART
PART II.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
CHAP. I.
MAGNITUDE OF THE SUBJECT MAN DIFFERS FROM
OTHER ANIMALS THE FORMER DISTINGUISHED BY
REASON AND REFLECTION FROM THE INSTINCTIVE
PROPENSITIES OF JTHE LATTER MAN TOO POS-
SESSES AN IMMATERIAL AND IMMORTAL PRINCIPLE,
CALLED SOUL ;
AND THIS CONSTITUTES HIM A BEING
ACCOUNTABLE FOR HIS ACTIONS TO HIS FELLOW
CREATURES AND HIS GOD DIFFERENCE OF INDIVI-
DUAL CHARACTER NOT WHOLLY DEPENDING UPON
EDUCATION, BUT ALSO UPON THE POSSESSION OF A
GREATER OR LESS DEGREE OF APTITUDE FOR SUB-
-
MISSION TO THIS PROCESS UPON WHAT THEN IS
EDUCATION OPERATIVE? UPON THE ORGAN OF
MIND; AND THAT ORGAN is THE BRAIN REASONS
FOR BELIEVING THE BRAIN TO BE THE ORGAN OF
MIND ;
viz : FIRST, THE GREATER COMPLICATION
OF THIS ORGAN IN MAN, THAN IN OTHER ANIMALS :
SECOND, THE AWARD OF INTERNAL CONSCIOUSNESS I
THIRD, HEREDITARY PREDISPOSITION, AND INDIVI-
DUAL PECULIARITIES.
IN entering upon the vast field of enquiry
which now presents itself for our consideration,
the author feels the importance, as well as the
difficulty of the subject ;
and with a deep con-
VOL. I. Q,
226 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
viction of the advantages resulting from method ,
in conducting himself and his readers through
the labyrinth of thought, he will endeavour to
arrange his observations, with a view to the dis-
tinctions observable in different individuals, with
regard to their peculiar amount of intelligence ;
to the organ by which the intellectual operations
are carried on ; 'to the development of some of
the manifestations of mind ; and to the influence
of education both upon that organ, and upon its
great variety of function.
I. Man differs from all the other animals by
which he is surrounded. We admire the wonderful
instincts with which the latter are provided for the
conservation of their lives ;
the supply of their
wants ;
and the perpetuation of their species.
We see the power and wisdom, and goodness of
an all-wise and all-bountiful Creator, in the exact
adaptation of their structure to their habits ;
their situation in the scale of animated nature ;
their necessities, and their subordination to man.
We delight in the docility of one ;
in the power of
a second, and in the submission of that power to
man ;
in the parental affection of a third ;
in the
courage and self-devotion of a fourth ;
in the sa-
gacity of a fifth ;
in the fidelity and constancy of
a sixth ;
in the amount of intelligence, quickness
of perception .
accuracy of memory, betrayed by
a seventh; and we naturally, and most justly,
refer these several operations to their peculiar
organisation, and their individual aptitude for the
display of these several faculties.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 227
But there is a broad line of distinction between
such peculiarities, and the distinguishing attri-
butes of him who was constituted the lord of the
creation ;
and who has, alas ! too frequently ex-
erted his power with a despotic sway. Man
alone reflects and reasons; he alone assists the
operations of his own understanding; considers
his thoughts; reviews the conduct of his past
life ;
recalls events, over which time may have
thrown its mellowing tints, or invested with the
darkness of oblivion ; investigates his most secret
motives ;
carries his scrutiny where none but his
own, and the piercing eye of Omniscience can
penetrate ; passes judgment upon his own actions ;
blames or approves ; praises or condemns : he
alone, it is, who can remove from his mind those
ideas which might embarrass his progress, or ob-
struct his pursuit after truth ;
he alone possesses
the power of accumulating and preserving the
result of his meditations, and of so variously
associating and combining them, as to discover
new paths for the operation of his intelligence,
and by the aid of memory and selection, to ren-
der these several combinations available for the
government of himself, and for the guidance and
direction of his conduct towards others ; he alone,
it is, who possesses that internal principle which
informs him he shall never die ;
a principle which,
though imprisoned in a material tenement, and
depending upon it for many of its manifestations,
is nevertheless immaterial, and possesses an in-
dependent existence ;
a principle whose ener-
Q 2
228 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
gies are now repressed by its intimate alli-
ance with the body, but which, even here, is
destined to exert a certain influence over that
body during its probationary state of existence,
and afterwards to survive the wreck of its earthly
tabernacle ;
to escape from the cloud of mortality
which invests, and obscures, and perverts its
agency, and only to acquire its full powers in the
atmosphere of heaven, and in the light of the
Sun of Righteousness. It is the possession of
this principle which constitutes man a moral, a
religious, an accountable being ;
which not only
raises him, in the scale of animated existence, by
the extent of his intelligence ;
makes him to dif-
fer from the most sagacious animals which sur-
round him, by the superadded powers of reason
and reflection ;
enables him to exchange the na-
tural consequences of dissolution, the crumbling
of the body into its original elements, and its
re-appearance under a variety of new forms and
combinations, for a hope full of immortality, for
the prospect of a joyful resurrection, and an en-
trance into that world, wherein dwelleth righte-
ousness, and peace, and love ;
and which leads
him by the light of revelation so to act, as in the
presence of Him who judgeth the heart, is ac-
quainted with the most secret thoughts, and in
whose strength alone it is that he can walk so as
to please God.
But not only do we discover these grand marks
of distinction between man and other animals :
there are, perhaps indeed, less prominent, but
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 229
not less certainly defined differences between
the several species and varieties of which the
genus man is composed ;
and also between the
individuals of the same species, notwithstanding
the great similarity of their external circum-
stances, and of the operation of those causes
both physical and moral, which tend more par-
ticularly to influence the development of the ma-
nifestations of mind. It is quite impossible to
give the same reach of capacity and genius to all :
for although the apparent characteristics of the
different classes of society may be depending
principally upon education ; yet it will be found,
not only that one class, but that one individual
of that class will be more susceptible of the pro-
cess of instruction than another. Each possesses
a certain proportion of intelligence, which may
be considered as the soil into which a variety
of moral seeds are thrown by the intellectual
husbandman. But there are original differences
in that land ;
and it is only by the due consi-
deration of these, that a successful culture can be
conducted. For as one kind of soil requires a
peculiar season, and an appropriate manure,
while it
possesses a greater aptitude for the
growth and perfection of one kind of grain rather
than another ;
so with regard to man, there are
original aptitudes for the reception of instruction ;
there are privileged organisations, which are not
only more susceptible of intellectual effort than
others, but which appear to possess a greater
power of bringing to maturity some peculiar
230 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
talents, the predominance of which make up
what is
justly termed the character of the indivi-
dual. And although we have no precisely analo-
gous processes with those of agricultural chemistry,
by which we can certainly determine the exact
properties of the several strata, and thus ascer-
tain with precision, the kind of cultivation that
may be required, and the grain most suited to the
soil, and possessing the best prospect of arriving
at maturity :
yet an attentive observer of mental
phenomena, will very early distinguish these pe-
culiarities, and will regulate his educational pro-
cesses
accordingly. These distinctive properties,
however, are to be ascertained only by watching
the manifestations of mind ;
and not by any ar-
bitrary or fancied law, by which the kind and de-
gree of intelligence has been supposed to be ca-
pable of estimation.
Upon what, then, does education operate ?
Does it exert its unconscious though acknow-
ledged power upon the soul, the immaterial prin-
ciple ;
or upon the brain, or upon some tertium
quid? If the latter, what is this mysterious
power, this intermediate something? Is it ma-
terial or immaterial ;
animal or spiritual ? Is it
to be entitled reason, mind, intellect, spirit,
what? If it be material, its existence is capable
of demonstration, and does it then hold its seat
in the brain, the heart, or any of the other vis-
cera? If it be immaterial, in what does it differ
from the soul ;
and why suppose the existence
of two immaterial, and therefore, indestructible
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 231
and immortal principles, in the same individual ?
If it be neither material nor immaterial, there is
a reductio ad absurdum of the proposition : and
we may, therefore, safely say, that soul, mind,
spirit, are convertible terms; of which reason,
reflection, judgment, conscience, &c., are at-
tributes, and manifestations ;
and that they
are depending for their communication with the
external world, upon some organic medium. The
latter proposition follows necessarily from the
former ;
for since the soul is an immaterial prin-
ciple, and cannot be susceptible of change or
education, there must be some organ by which
its manifestations are made known ;
and by which
it receives and conveys intelligence : and this
medium of communication will be subject to
organic changes, and will be capable of undergoing
certain healthful as well as morbid impressions,
in common with the other functions of the body.
We shall, therefore, in future speak of mind and
its manifestations ; and of the organ by which the
operations of mind are conducted.
II. That organ is the brain For the develop-
ment of this important proposition, we must be
forgiven for a considerable degree of prolixity.
1. We have remarked that some mode of orga-
nization was necessary for the purpose of trans-
mitting the influence of volition to certain func-
tions, as well as of receiving the impressions of
exterior objects. Destroy the communication
between the brain and the voluntary muscles of
an animal, and it will cease to be capable of loco-
232 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
motion, or of any other action dependent on the
will : cut off the connexions of that viscus with
any of the organs of sense, and the impression of
external objects will be made in vain ; they will
no longer be perceived by the animal, which will
remain blind or deaf, without taste, tact or smell,
precisely as if the impressions had never been
imparted. It is not pretended to explain the
manner in which this process is conducted, neither
is it necessary to the argument; all that it is
designed to prove is, that it
really exists, and that
it is performed by the brain, because it can be
accomplished by no other means than those which
nature has provided : for if the brain be incapable
of this function, the voluntary powers of animals,
and their limited intelligence, must be referred
to some other organ of their body, or to some in-
organic and immaterial principle. To suppose
the former, would be to imagine that a function
would be better executed by another organ than
that which nature has placed in immediate rela-
tion with it, and that the brain and nervous sys-
tem had been produced almost in vain : to con-
tend for the latter, would be to assume the im-
mortality of animals, (for that which is immaterial
is also indestructible, and exempted from change,)
a position manifestly absurd, and therefore un-
tenable. It follows, then, that with them the brain
is the organ of volition, instinct, and sensorial
function. Why, then, should we hesitate to be-
lieve that the same organ is capable of conduct-
ing the more purely intellectual operations of man,
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 233
between whom and the lower animals the chief
difference consists in his possessing an immaterial
principle called mind, and reason, which is its
attribute ; especially when we observe a regular
gradation of simplicity or complication of struc-
ture in the brain, according to the necessities and
capacities of the individual species. This obser-
vation, however, by no means extends to the size
of the organ in question, which is not always
found to be in direct proportion to the amount of
intelligence ;
but is limited to the gradual multi-
plication of its parts, up to its most complicated
and most perfect structure in man. This is not
to be explained on the ground of the greater per-
fection of these faculties, which he possesses in
common with other animals ;
for it is manifest
that in the delicacy and reach of his senses he is
very far behind them ;
and surely, then, the con-
clusion irresistibly follows, that this greater com-
plexity must be subservient to some superadded
principle which THEY do not possess; and as the
difference between them consists in the posses-
sion of reason on the one hand, or its absence on
the other and as reason is an attribute of mind,
can it be rationally doubted that this superadded
principle is mind, or that the brain is its organ ?
2. Our own feelings a certain internal con-
sciousness, lead us to refer the action of thought
to the brain. When engaged in abstruse medi-
tation, connected argument, or the elaboration of
idea, we instinctively lean the forehead upon the
hand, from an automatic conviction tlvit the brain
234 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
is at that moment suffering from a state of over-
excitement. In fact, we all know that this organ
is distressed by prolonged reasoning and study ;
and that it is recruited by repose, and again en-
abled to pursue its function. Moreover, , we ob-
serve that it suffers more in proportion as an organ
of mind than of sense ;
for when it is rendered
incapable by fatigue of continuing its mental ope-
rations witji effect, the eye, which has been em-
ployed the whole time as the sentient medium of
communication, remains quite fresh and unfatigued.
The reason is obvious, and consists in the greater
intensity of action required for one, rather than
for the other process a conclusion already sup-
ported by the common sense of mankind, who,
without attempting to explain the cause, all con-
cur in the fact, that mental occupation is more
fatiguing than bodily labour. Again, the organic
faculties are susceptible of debility and exhaus-
tion, while the energy of the mind remains active
and unimpaired ;
for when the continuance of
intellectual operation has become painful from
weariness, if the object of pursuit be changed, so
as to give a new direction to the intensity of the
brainular action, it will be found that the mind is
as active and vigorous as ever. It is true that
the varying states of the brain, modified according
to this change of circumstance, are not always,
perhaps are never to be demonstrated, but this
forms no objection against the reality of their
existence, since the same is the case with other
organs, with the mode of performance of whose
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 235
functions we are utterly unacquainted ;
and surely
it is not the part of wisdom or prudence to deny
the existence of all which we cannot see. But
if, during the exercise of the manifestations of
mind, fatigue and exhaustion be produced, and
repose be followed by refreshment if an imma-
terial principle cannot be susceptible of the
changes involved in these several conditions ;
and
if, notwithstanding their existence, the energy
of the mind shall have remained unimpaired, to
what can we rationally refer these changes, but
to the brain, as the organ of mind ?
3. A similar view is still further supported by
considering the original or acquired difference of
individuals in the calibre of their intellectual ma-
nifestations. Scarcely any two individuals can be
found who will think precisely alike on the same
subjects : the same truths similarly put, and pre-
sented to different minds, through analogous but
not identical media, will produce very dissimilar
impressions, according to certain original apti-
tudes which we cannot demonstrate or explain.
Many of these peculiarities, or at least the pre-
disposition towards them, are hereditary : the
traces of their verisimilitude will be discernible
at a very early age, long before education and
habit, or the faculty of imitation can have exerted
their influence :
moreover, these peculiarities are
by no means necessarily handed down from parent
to children, for in the latter we sometimes trace
the early predominance of very opposite modes of
thought and reasoning. In investigating the minds
236 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
of children, we scarcely find any two in one family
which are not characterized by very different
properties ; such, for instance, as the remarkably
quick and distinct perception of one, prompt and
faithful memory of another, imagination of a third,
judgment of a fourth, genius of a fifth, sagacity
of a sixth, association of a seventh, analysis of an
eighth, &c., while some, or all of the remaining
qualities may be most lamentably wanting.
Not only do we discover this total difference
of intellectual attributes, but there are also to be
most easily observed, peculiarities of disposition ;
good or bad temper ; kindness ;
affection ; gene-
rosity ;
selfishness ; passion ;
stubbornness ; do-
cility, &c. We may not here omit to notice the
varying manifestations of mind, according to the
age of the individual ;
its feeble and faint scin-
tillations in infancy ; the gradual increase of its
strength in advancing years ;
its clear and steady
light during the period of maturity ;
and its gra-
dual declension into the very indistinctness and
obscurity of twilight towards the close of life ;
at
a period, too, when the immaterial principle is pre-
paring for its change of infinite glory, and aug-
mented power,
Lastly, it is
necessary to notice here the differ-
ence in the modes and habits of thought and
action between the sej:es.
Every one who has paid
the smallest attention to the phenomena of mind,
will have discovered that there is an original and
striking difference between the intellectual powers
of the male and female, independently of any
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
influence which may have been exerted by edu-
cation, and which has unquestionably served
more prominently to develop and mark the dis-
tinctive features of the character. No process of
studied and persevering amalgamation will ever
annihilate these peculiarities, or confer upon the
one the essential attributes of the other. There
will always be in the male a greater aptitude for
bold and original thought, for comprehensive
analysis, for clear and connected reasoning, and
for slowly but accurately formed judgment,
wrought out from a mass of heterogeneous prin-
ciples, however distorted by prejudice or clouded
by passion ; while in the female, there will ever
be found a greater susceptibility for discovering
the minuter shades of character, as well as the
distant bearings of fact and opinion. The re-
moter associations will be almost instinctively
and instantaneously seized : there will be a
greater delicacy of tact and feeling, which will
often lead its possessor to just and adequate
conclusions, without the labour of a slow and
lengthened process of argumentation : and there
will be a more defined influence exerted by the
dictates of the heart overthe decisions of the under-
standing. Many exceptions to this general rule
will be found ;
but even these only serve to con-
firm the difference between individuals, as well
as between the several classes of society.
But if the mental manifestations be so totally
dissimilar if they may be communicated from
generation to generation, not as the result of an
238 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
after process of education, but altogether anterior
to it ;
if the mental capacity of children in the
same family be radically different ;
if the charac-
ter of each be marked by peculiarity of disposi-
tion ; if, in some, there shall be observed a very
obviously defective condition of the mental phe-
nomena ; and if these be materially influenced by
the period of life, and by the accident of sex,
surely we are irresistibly led to the conclusion
that these circumstances are rather attributes of
materiality ;
that it cannot be predicated of the
immaterial principle, an emanation from the Di-
vinity, that one is essentially different from ano-
ther (and if so, where is moral responsibility ;)
that this difference is communicable ;
that it is
energetic in one, and defective in another ;
that
it
possesses good and evil dispositions, as the
original gift of the Creator ;
that it is susceptible
of growth, maturity, and decadence ;
and finally,
that it is marked by peculiarity of sex ;
but that
these changes are impressed upon the immaterial
principle, through the medium of its alliance with
the body, and especially by its connexion with
the brain.
239
CHAP. II.
THE SAME SUBJECT CONTINUED THE BRAIN IS THE
ORGAN OF MIND SINCE ITS MANIFESTATIONS ARE
INFLUENCED BY CIRCUMSTANCES WHOSE PRIMARY
AGENCY IS UNDOUBTEDLY MATERIAL SINCE THEY
ARE PERVERTED BY SLIGHT CAUSES OF NERVOUS
IRRITATION, AND IN THEIR TURN ALSO PRODUCE A
RECIPROCAL AGENCY UPON THE BODY SINCE THEY
ARE DEVELOPED BY EXERCISE SINCE THEY ARE
INFLUENCED BY DISEASE SINCE THERE IS A RELA-
TION BETWEEN THE MANIFESTATIONS AND THE DE-
GREE OF PERFECTION OF THE ORGAN SINCE THE
LATTER IS SUBSERVIENT TO THE WILL AND SINCE
THIS IS ITS ONLY CONCEIVABLE USE IN THE ANIMAL
ECONOMY MODERN CRANIOLOGY, AND THE DOC-
TRINE OF THE PLURALITY OF THE BRAINULAR
ORGANS.
4. THE manifestations of mind are farther influenced
by circumstances, whose primary agency is un-
doubtedly material, and whose reflex operation
is extended directly or indirectly to the immate-
rial
principle, through the medium of its organ
the brain. Such are the influence of temperature,
the state of the digestive powers, the use or abuse
of alcoholic stimuli, the employment of other
articles of diet, &c. According to these varying
circumstances, there will be a great difference
in the same individual at different times, in his
aptitude for thought and mental exertion. Every
240 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
one at all
acquainted with literary pursuits, knows
that there are hours of inspiration, when more
may be effected in this short space, than in days
of intense drudgery ; and it is degrading to sup-
pose that the mind can be thus liable to inaction,
or goaded into energy. Besides this languor and
activity may be traced to the morbid agency of
physical causes on the one hand, and to their
absence on the other. Thus excessive heat pro-
duces languor and incapacity for exertion; a very
low temperature renders the faculties torpid ;
a
moderate degree of cold braces them, and enables
intellectual operations to be conducted for a much
longer period without inducing fatigue.
It is matter of common observation, that after
dinner is not the time for intellectual exertion :
all find that the mental manifestations are con-
ducted with difficulty, and imperfectly ;
and that
if they are persisted in, they will very frequently
produce indigestion, in consequence of robbing
the stomach of that sensorial energy, which has
been drained off for the maintenance of the opera-
tions of mind. And if from any circumstance,
the stomach may have been Jirst disordered, it is
quite impossible to pursue any satisfactory trains
of thought : the attempt is
unavailing, and must
terminate in disappointment.
Witness again the rapid development of ideas
under the influence of alcoholic stimuli ; their
disordered association, and want of coherence,
when the stimulus has been carried beyond a
certain extent ;
the subsequent destruction of the
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 241
powers of volition ;
and the apparent annihilation
of the mental principle in the stupor of drunken-
ness. Witness also the reveries of the opium-
eater, and the disordered fancies to which these
individuals are subjected in their periodical loss
of excitement. And above all, witness the influ-
ence of certain articles of diet upon the mani-
festations of mind of green tea for example,
which may be selected as peculiarly exemplifying
this influence, on account of the very opposite
effects which it produces on different individuals,
accordingly as the brain may partake of an ex-
cessive or defective state of energy. There is
generally some degree of truth as a foundation
for common remarks ;
and however it
may be en-
veloped with the clouds of ignorance, or obscured
by the mists of prejudice, still the common sense
of mankind, will seldom admit to a permanent
recognition, that which is wholly and entirely
false : and before a prudent enquirer rejects ap-
parently vulgar errors, as utterly baseless and
worthless, he will do well to hesitate, and ask
what semblance of truth at least, had first given
currency and consistency to opinions, which ap-
pear in the present age, only in the garb of preju-
dice, and which are now generally associated
with ignorance and vulgarity. It is curious to
remark, that the rejection of all these deductions as
spurious, is in itself a prejudice ;
a prejudice as
complete and as operative, as the very principle
it
proposes to discard as the result of a similar
and irrational influence. So it is with the agency
VOL. I. R
242 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
of green tea: vulgar prejudice meets our atten-
tion in two very different shapes ;
the first, in
which this beverage is recommended as a sove-
reign remedy for headache ;
the second, in which
it is accused of exerting a noxious influence upon
the animal machine, particularly upon the ner-
vous system, giving- rise to unconquerable wake-
fulness : in the former instance, harmonizing,
and soothing, and raising the energy of thought ;
and occasioning in the latter, depression, lan-
guor, and a variety of miserable sensations, pre-
venting studious pursuits. To reconcile these
conflicting assertions upon the same principle is
impossible ;
but the simple truth will be found to
consist in this : that in one particular state of the
system, green tea produces a salutary, and that
in another and opposite condition, it exerts a
noxious influence upon the brain and nervous
system : and this in proportion as that brain has
been previously excited, and as it possesses
more or less power to support its increased
action.
5. The general conclusion, that the brain is the
organ of mind, is still farther confirmed by the
influence exerted upon its manifestations by the
slighter causes of nervous irritation ;
as well as
by the effect of certain mental emotions, upon
that viscus, and the organs connected with, or
depending upon it. Almost every one has expe-
rienced the familar effect of pain, in interfering
with those operations which are purely intel-
lectual, although there may not have been any
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 243
constitutional sympathy with the local source of
irritation : under such circumstances, we require
amusement, but deep thought is impossible, since
the organ of thought is disturbed, and no longer
possesses the capacity of directing its energies to
study. On the contrary, when any of the more
transient sources of uneasiness in passing through
life, shall have produced their effect upon the
mind, a corresponding state of the brain and
nervous system is excited ; the individual feels
generally languid, and suffers from wearisome
pains in the limbs ;
the back aches ;
a great de-
gree of susceptibility to external impressions is
generated ;
and the operation of slight causes is
most sensibly felt, which under other circum-
stances would have passed unnoticed ;
the skin
becomes peculiarly irritable ;
the digestive func-
tion is oppressed ;
the sleep is disturbed and
unrefreshing ;
a great degree of irritability is
developed ; every occupation is a task ; every
pleasure is a burden ;
the patient could quarrel
with a straw. And what is more remarkable,
this state may be effectually and quickly super-
seded by horseback exercise, or by any other
cause which will drain off by some other channel
the accumulated excitability of the brain. So
also, grief will pall the appetite, impair the vi-
gour of the system, anci if long protracted, will
destroy the tone of the stomach :
many of the
%
more stormy passions and emotions will disturb
the action of the heart, arrest its
pulsations, or
hurry its circulation, and (as has been most re-
R 2
244 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
markably exemplified in a neighbouring kingdom,
give rise to frequent disease :
suspense will inter-
fere with the function of respiration, and occasion
breathless anxiety and expectation : fear will
drive the blood inwards to its centre, and destroy
the power of volition over the muscles, so that
the possibility of escaping from the object of
terror is
quite taken away : and all these effects
are produced, not by the immediate agency of
mind upon the particular organs, but by its influ-
ence upon them through the medium of the
brain :
consequently the brain is the organ of
mind.
6. In this enumeration of arguments in support
of the present position, the influence of exercise
over the talents must not be forgotten ;
or the
effect produced by society and civilisation upon
the expression of the passions. Placed under
some unfavourable circumstances, the most splen-
did talents will become rusty from disuse ;
an
inaptitude for their employment will be occa-
sioned ;
and their possessor will be almost as if
he had them not ;
but let them be again called
into exercise; let their powers be slowly aug-
mented by graduated exertion ;
and they will
regain not only the power they had lost, but
will obtain a higher degree of perfection : a
process perfectly analogous to the function of
other organs of the body, but ill-suited, and in-
deed contrary, to every rational idea of the attri-
butes of an immaterial essence. So also nature
has provided men and other animals with so many
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 245
muscles of expression in common, for the purpose
of pourtraying the influence of certain passions ;
and these muscles are affected by the will, upon
the excitement of the particular emotion. But
man possesses a power beyond this ;
and in pro-
portion to his strength of mind and steady prin-
ciple, he not only exerts so decided a controul
over these muscles as to conceal his emotions from
those with whom he is placed in society ;
but he
actually struggles against the influence of the
rising passion, and seeks to repress it : he not
only perceives the operation of the impression
made upon the brain ;
but he revolves the bear-
ings of its uncontrouled influence ;
he forms his
own judgment of its tendency ;
he adopts the
resolution of encouraging or dismissing its
appeal;
and employs at once, the means of carrying his
resolution into effect : the automatic impression
of the brain is
superseded, and a new action is
called forth, thus proving the subserviency of
that viscus to the internal spiritual principle.
7. The influence of disease upon the mani-
festations of intelligence, forms another proof iii
confirmation of the position, that the brain is the
organ of mind. On this extensive subject, the
attention must be confined to a very few points
of the most obvious and frequent occurrence.
Thus we have seen all the intellectual faculties
suspended from hydrocephalus ;
we have seen
a child six years of age, altogether lose the use
of language from this cause, and have to learn
again by slow degrees, all which he had previ-
246 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
ously acquired, and in the same gradual manner:
we have witnessed children who were previously
remarkable for brightness of talents, recover from
an attack of convulsions with enfeebled intellect,
the power of which was never afterwards, or at
best only partially regained ;
we have seen the
little sufferers from a similar cause restored, but
remaining idiots for the remainder of life ;
we
have witnessed the perversion of ideas produced
by delirium ;
we have narrowly watched the slow
extinction of the attributes of mind, in the unfor-
tunate epileptic : we have observed the total sus-
pension of these manifestations from the operation
of any cause which may have produced sudden
pressure upon the brain, and their immediate
restoration as soon as the cause of oppression has
been removed ; we have seen the obstinacy and
perverse ratiocination produced by concussion of
the brain ;
and we have witnessed after some
days, the first dawn of returning reason exhibited
by the mind taking up the circumstances of the
accident which had occasioned it, precisely where
the mental functions had been interrupted : the
patient had been as in a dream, and on awakening
from it, returned by the aid of recovered memory
to the precise point at which the morbid pheno-
mena had been produced.
Now can the very highest efforts of credulity
believe that the mind the spiritual principle has
in these circumstances been itself subject to dis-
ease that its powers have been partially or com-
pletely suspended, enfeebled, regained, or annihi-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 247
lated ? Can it be supposed that the functions of
the soul have been suddenly perverted, or slowly
extinguished by accident, and restored by a sur-
gical operation ? If so, indeed, the soul of man
must be material, for its powers have been sus-
pended by pressure diminishing space, an effect
capable of acting only upon that which occupies
space, viz. matter ! On the contrary, what can
be more rational than the supposition, that all
these causes operating upon the organ of mind
should interrupt its manifestations ? It is indeed
true, that in some diseases of the brain, the sen-
sorial functions do not appear to have materially
suffered. This, however, will be found to be the
case only with those slowly developed affections,
which have given time and opportunity for the
exemplification of that universal law of the ani-
mal economy, viz. the power which it
possesses
of accommodating itself to change of circum-
stances ;
a law frequently exhibited by other
organs, even when they seem scarcely to possess
a single remaining atom of sound structure. And
moreover, it will be found in all these cases, that
however many of the animal functions depending
upon the brain were continued, and even per-
formed with tolerable energy, yet that as a rea-
soning, thinking, judging organ in fact, as the
organ of mind, its powers were most materially
impaired.
8. We pretend not to know any thing of the
mechanism of the brain's action ; neither, conse-
quently, do we profess to form any judgment
248 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
from its appearance or development, as to its pe-
culiar aptitudes ;
we wish only to study its eco-
nomy, and to make ourselves acquainted with its
resources, by watching, and carefully exploring
its manifestations. There is, notwithstanding,
some kind of mysterious relation between these
manifestations and the degree of perfection of the
organ ;
a relation, however, which is not depend-
ing upon its positive size, as has been already re-
marked, and as may be still further exemplified
by contrasting the stupidity of the ass with the
wonderful instincts, and astonishing sagacity of
the bee or the ant. Neither does this peculiarity
arise, as has been supposed, from the relative size
of the brain compared with the whole of the ani-
mal ;
for then not only will it be found that man,
whose superior intelligence is undoubted, is not
in possession of the largest proportional brain ;
;but also, that in individuals there is no kind of
comparison between the size of the brain and the
perfection of the mental manifestations. It has
been remarked, that the complication of this organ
was a better criterion ;
but even here it will be
impossible to account satisfactorily for individual
differences ;
and it will be wiser to confess, (it
is
always the part of wisdom to see and lament its
own deficiencies, and to be humbled by the re-
flection,) that as we cannot trace the mode of
union between mind and matter, so neither can
we ascertain, by considering the organ only, what
are the particular aptitudes for its function. There
is nothing particular in this arrangement ;
for the
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 249
same may be said of the stomach, liver, and other
organs. This only do we know, that according
to some law to us inscrutable, there is assigned
to the animal a certain moral sphere, which is
manifested to us according to the development of
the brain ; not, indeed, that the mind is charac-
terized by the conformation of its organ, but that
the original structure of the latter has been con-
stituted by the hand of Infinite wisdom, accord-
ing to the actual necessities of the former. Ad-
mitting this position, it is easy to comprehend
why man's is the most perfect, and most compli-
cated brain ;
even because it is placed in intimate
communion with that immaterial principle, which
is destined to live for ever ;
which is
capable of
exhibiting the highest moral phenomena ;
which
is placed here in a state of probation, and with a
certain relation to God and his creatures, impos-
ing upon man the fulfilment of positive duties ;
and in reference to a system of defined and
eternal rewards and punishments.
9. That the brain is the organ of mind, is still
further proved by its
subserviency to the will.
All the functions of that organ at least all its
intellectual and spiritual functions, are, during its
healthy state, and the continuance of its period
of activity and wakefulness, entirely under the
controul.of the immaterial principle. According
to its
guidance and direction, the brain will be
active or passive; will be usefully or injuriously
employed ;
will be stimulated by benevolence, or
rendered torpid by selfishness ;
will be aroused
250 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
by hope or paralysed by fear ;
will be animated
by principle to a sense of conscious duty, or will
be subjected to the deadening influence of a for-
getfulness of the claims of virtue ;
will be ener-
gized in the pursuit of the favour of heaven, or
will be degraded by the pollution of vice. It is
indeed true, that the modes of thought and feel-
ing may be influenced by the material organ
which conducts these operations, but the power
of employing and directing it, and of selecting
the objects for its attention is complete, and rests
entirely with the immaterial mind. Thus, there
is no chance of escaping moral accountability ;
the choice of good and evil rests entirely with
the soul ;
and it possesses the most integral
power of governing its operations, and of esti-
mating and selecting the notices it
conveys.
Here, then, is the great room for education, in
order to impress upon the organ such modes and
habits of thought and action, as shall render it
more extensively useful to the immaterial princi-
ple to which it is so uniformly subjected. And
if it be so entirely the servant of mind, how can
we refuse the conclusion, that it is its material
organ ?
10. If the perfect brain be not the organ of
the intellectual function, what is its use in the
animal economy ? It is, for the most part, un-
necessary for the continuance of the organic func-
tions. In a variety of instances these have been
carried on, when the structure of the brain has
been deficient ; they have been conducted, when
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 251
large, when the largest portions of the cerebrum
have been removed : their agency is not arrested
during the period of the brain's repose, as in
sleep, and it is uninterrupted in many of the
forms of maniacal hallucination. Thus the bodily
functions are not so entirely dependent upon its
influence ;
while it has been before proved, that
its integrity is necessary to the processes of rea-
soning. But if it be indispensable to the one,
and not so to the other, there can be surely no
hesitation in considering it as the organ of the
former.
There is, in fact, nothing extraordinary in this
position, although it has been often contemplated
with suspicion, in consequence of confounding
the organ of mind, with mind itself! ! No two
things can be more essentially distinct!! The
brain of great and adequate development is con-
ferred upon man in order to give him the faculty
of employing the powers of his mind ;
and it is
constituted obedient to his commands, that he
may be justly called to render an account of the
manner in which it has been employed. Thus,
it is the medium of communication between ani-
mated nature and the immaterial principle ;
but
it is not in itself mind, but matter; essentially dis-
tinct from the former, and possessing not one of
its attributes ; but forming that necessary link in
the chain of animated existence, which enables
the man to act, and think, and judge in connexion
with his relation to those around him, and to his
present period of probation. It is the window
252 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
which admits light into our house, and allows us
to look abroad upon surrounding nature, and to
receive notices of her operations. But then it is
not light itself: place an opaque substance before
it, and its function is lost :
yet light exists, and
the window is to be found ;
therefore the window
is not light, but merely transmits it. So the brain
is not mind, but its organ. Let it be obscured by
some cause, as in the idiot, and its function is
destroyed :
yet the immaterial principle exists,
and the brain is not that principle, but merely
receives and transmits the notices it requires.
1 1 . We may not quite abandon this part of our
subject without noticing, though very slightly,
the doctrine of craniology, and the much mooted
question of the plurality of the brainular organs.
All that we have yet written is independent of
this comparatively unimportant inquiry : but we
are naturally led to say a few words upon this
head, by the occurrence of the question, what
relation subsists between the several parts of the
brain, and the various manifestations of mind ?
We seek not to be wise, beyond what nature has
revealed ;
we profess not to unravel the intricacies
of the mysterious union of body and mind ;
nor
the mechanism by which the manifestations of
the latter are rendered evident through the me-
dium of the former. Our object is to study those
manifestations, their effects, and contingencies :
and not to perplex ourselves with curious and un-
profitable discussions, as to the quo modo of their
organ. We may be treated with the smile of
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 253
contemptuous scorn for this avowal, by many il-
luminated individuals : we confess that we are
careless of such treatment; and we shall pursue
our own way, for the comfort of ourselves, and
the good of others. This only do we know ;
that
the first step in the path of knowledge, is to feel
our own ignorance, and that humility and caution
are the attributes of science. This only will we
say ;
that when the individuals to whom we* may
be the object of pity and derision, have been able to
explain all the phenomena of secretion ;
when
they shall have been able to detect nature in
her hidden operations; and to declare how the
several fluids of the body are formed from one
and the same material, the blood ;
and why one se-
cretion is carried on by its particular organ, in
preference to any other ; then, and not till then,
will we confess the utility of endeavouring to ex-
pound the still more darkened function of the
brain; and then will we promise to turn our
whole attention to this investigation.
There have been several arbitrary methods of
judging from certain external appearances, the pe-
culiarities of individual manifestations of mind ;
such as that of the facial angle of Camper ;
the
occipital angle of Daubenton, &c. &c. ;
and fi-
nally the craniology of Gall and Spurzheim, that
mutative system which admits of no fixed princi-
ple ;
which has already more than once changed
the number and the seat of its organs ;
and which,
like every other system founded on arbitrary cal-
culation, is destined to fret its hour and sink into
254 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
oblivion ; leaving behind it, however, some facts
which may be useful to mankind ; for, in order to
give currency to its opinions, some truth, or at
least, some semblance of truth, must have been
mixed up with its perverse and perverting dog-
mas. We cannot stay to enter into a lengthened
discussion of these several systems ;
and it is
only on the plurality of organs in the brain, as it
forms the foundation of the latter system, that we
shall have to remark. We pretend not to deny
this fundamental position ;
we are not prepared
to enter the arena of controversy on this subject ;
and as a mere matter of speculation, we believe
it to be perfectly indifferent, whether the brain
be considered as one organ, consisting of many
parts, and performing several varieties of func-
tion; or whether it be acknowledged as many
separate organs, united under the controul of one
presiding and governing principle. As a mere
error of reasoning, we contemplate it as perfectly
harmless ; but we shall have to enter our decided
protest against the conclusions which have been
drawn from it, and which have been certainly
injurious to morality and virtue.
The doctrine of the plurality of brainular organs
is altogether unnecessary for the explanation of the
mental phenomena ;
it is liable to worse than erro-
neous application ; and therefore the opinion is not
harmless.
It is unnecessary. Nature frequently shews her
power of performing several varieties of function
by means of the same organ. Thus, for instance,
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 255
in her more simple productions, we shall often
find the same structure performing several offices,
according to change of circumstances, as may be
exemplified in the vegetable kingdom by the con-
vertible functions of the roots and leaves. We have
very recently seen this law exemplified in the
common bramble : a luxuriant shoot of the present
year, had reached the earth at the distance of
many feet from the original plant, and the
summit of its stem had there assumed its change
of function; its leaves had taken upon them
the office of roots, it had shot downwards
into the soil, and was now again sending forth
new branches from the secondary stock. So also
with regard to the nerves of the human body :
these cords, which for centuries were supposed
to be homogeneous in their structure and func-
tions, it has now been proved, are constantly
executing at least two very important and distinct
offices ;
viz. that of volition on the one hand,
and of sensation on the other : and we know also
that without any demonstrable change of struc-
ture, one or the other of these functions may be
destroyed, while its neighbour remains perfect
and entire. So also with regard to the astonishing
mechanism of the tongue and the hand, both of
which may be considered as complex organs, pos-
sessing varied functions ofa minute,yet most perfect
character. Passing over the diversified operations of
the former as the organ of taste and of language ;
and of the latter, as the organ of prehension and of
touch, we shall notice only their literary employ-
256 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION".
ment. In the process of articulation, the tongue
requires a separate act of volition for every word and
letter it
pronounces ;
and the hand is in the same
predicament for the formation of every word and
letter which it describes in writing. As well
might it be asserted, in despite of facts, that the
function of the leaves and roots of the bramble
required separate and distinct organs ; or that the
operations of sensation and volition could not be
conducted by the same nerve : as well might it be
asserted, that the hand required a variety of me-
chanical contrivances, suited to each function it
was called upon to perform ; nay more, that it
required a separate arrangement of bones, and
muscles, and nerves for every body, with whose
properties it sought an acquaintance by means of
touch, and for conveying these intimations to the
brain ;
as well might it be asserted, finally, that
the tongue and the hand, required each a distinct
organ, for its every act of enunciation of every
letter of the former, and for the formation of its
appropriate character in the latter ;
as that the
functions of mind demanded separate and dis-
tinct organs for their manifestation.
This position therefore is unnecessary ; and as
nature ever evinces a decided preference for sim-
plicity of arrangement ;
if it be unnecessary, we
may also add that it is improbable. Its improba-
bility is still farther evinced by what we daily
observe in society around us; where we meet
with one individual who possesses an extreme
development of the judgment, a purely intellec-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION, 257
tual being, the product of severe study, with very
little of corporeal stamina, and still less of the
affective faculties, a merely selfish, literary gour-
mand ;
and with another, whose life, devoted to
bodily exercise and hard labour, has been pro-
ductive of little development of mind ;
and yet
as far as can be ascertained, the brain of each is
the same both in respect to its quantity and con-
figuration.
Yet although we consider the hypothesis which
assumes the plurality of the brainular organs as
unproven, as unnecessary, and as improbable,
we are not prepared to deny their existence. In
fact, so long as it remains a merely speculative
error, an ingenious imagination ;
so long as the
entire subserviency of the organ to the governing,
presiding, immaterial principle be steadily kept
in view, it signifies not whether that brain be a
single organ, performing a variety of complicated
functions ;
or whether it be composed of many
separate organs united by one common tissue,
communicating with one common centre, and
obedient to one common lawgiver. We may
form our opinion, and we may smile at the efforts
of those, who have more powerful fancies than
ourselves : we may even perhaps deplore, the
poverty of our own imagination, which prevents
our entering into their enthusiasm ;
and we may
perchance sometimes almost pity their strenuous
advocacy of a system, which, possibly from the
above defect in our organisation, we might con-
sider as of very inadequate importance ; yet we
VOL. i. s
258 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
would not lift a pen, or say one word, which
might probably break the spell of the enchant-
ment by means of which they are lost in their
own reveries.
But when we are told that the manifestations
of mind are to be discovered by detecting certain
bumps and prominences on the cranium, with
which they are coincident ;
that the strength of
the organ is determinable by its size ;
that is, by
the quantity of brain which may be found in par-
ticular situations ;
that the manifestations of
mind are subservient to the strength of the organ,
that is, to its relative size ;
and that legislators
should proportion their punishment of crime, as
of theft for instance, accordingly as the individual
accused, shall possess the organ of covetiveness
in a greater or less degree ;
since in the one case,
the propensity to crime might be irresistible, or
partly voluntary, or wholly gratuitous : and con-
sequently, that the Supreme Governor of the
universe should contemplate in his creatures, the
same act as criminal or not, deserving of his
wrath or not, according to the proportion of brain
with which He had endowed them, thus destroy-
ing every specific standard of right and wrong,
and rendering man no longer the entire master of
his own actions :
why then indeed we say, that
reason and fact, experience and religion, are
against such absurd and untenable hypotheses.
It has never yet been proven, that the promi-
nences of the cranium have actually correspond-
ing prominences of the brainular substance.; or
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 259
that, in fact, they are not produced, by having
been the centres of ossification of the foetal cra-
nium, from which the radii of bone have ema-
nated : it has been shewn, that the amount of
intelligence is not in proportion to the absolute
size of the brain ;
and consequently, that as the
whole is constituted of parts, so neither can the
energy of any one portion be characterized by its
quantity; it has been shewn, that the brain is en-
tirely under the government of the immaterial
principle, and therefore cannot itself give laws to
the latter ;
and finally, that all moral, legislative,
and religious inferences drawn from the opposite
premises, must be utterly false and groundless.
s 2
260
CHAP. III.
THE SAME SUBJECT CONTINUED OP THE TEMPERA-
MENTS THEIR INFLUENCE UPON THE MANIFESTA-
TIONS OF MIND THE SANGUINEOUS THE PHLEG-
MATIC THE CHOLERIC THE MELANCHOLIC TEM-
PERAMENT THEY ARE SELDOM SEEN IN THEIR
STATE OF SIMPLICITY AND PURITY VARIETIES-
INFLUENCE OF THE TEMPERAMENTS UPON THE IN-
TELLECTUAL FACULTIES, AND UPON THE CONDUCT
OF THE LIFE.
IT has been already most distinctly avowed, that
the manifestations of mind, will be influenced by
the medium through which they pass ;
and ac-
cording to the particular circumstances of the
brain its original disposition or the aptitudes
impressed upon it as the result of educational
processes ; yet without changing their nature, and
without losing their entire subjection to the spi-
ritual principle, and to the higher motives which
govern it.
Analogous operations in external na-
ture may be noticed around us. Light and heat
are modified in their impression and apparent
qualities by the medium through which they pass,
without in any degree changing their nature ;
the
food of plants is received into their simple sys-
tem, is converted into sap, and without any
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 261
change of its nature, manifests itself in the de-
velopment of leaves, and flowers, and fruits of
ten thousand different characters ;
the blood
which circulates in the human system is shewn
in the form of a variety of secretions, without
any other change than that impressed upon it by
the medium through which it
passes. And if
this be the case with material objects, surely it is
not too much to assert that the will, the direc-
tion, the operation of the immaterial principle re-
main unchanged in their nature, however its ex-
ternal manifestations may have been modified by
the peculiar state of its material organ. It will
be necessary to consider shortly a few of those
general characteristics, which are usually thought
to be dependent on the brain, and which have
been commonly denominated temperaments.
The preponderance of one or more of these
temperaments, impresses a very decided differ-
ence on the manifestations of mind, according to
the prevalence of that which has been designated
the sanguineous, the phlegmatic, the choleric, the
melancholic temperament, and their several mo-
difications and combinations,
1 . The sanguineous temperament is characterized
by the vivacity with which impressions are re-
ceived and communicated ; by the quickness
with which desires are manifested ; by the ra-
pidity with which ideas are elaborated, and by
their instantaneous and often fanciful association,
from points of affinity scarcely, if at all dis-
cernible by other individuals possessing colder
262 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
systems; by a certain degree of eagerness,
changefulness, volatility, and uncertain gaiety or
depression of disposition ;
by an equable per-
formance of the bodily functions, which however
are readily susceptible of morbid impression ; by
a fresh complexion abundant supply of blood
quick and easily accelerated circulation. Action
is the dominant principle of the character ;
and
a rigid discipline, and a great degree of watchful-
ness are necessary to direct this activity and sen-
sibility to their proper and useful objects, in
order that the individual may be prepared for the
performance of the duties, which he owes to
himself and to society; and in order that he
may not become the sport of passion and emo-
tion of a violent character. It is manifest that
the feelings do not require to be excited ;
stimu-
lants will prove injurious, and the means which
soothe and allay irritability will be found more
useful than excitants. The provocatives of so-
ciety, will ever be observed to arouse and irritate
the possessors of this physical state, and the
object of the instructor will be always to econo-
mize the power of the system.
2. The phlegmatic individual is marked by the
sluggishness of all the vital actions ; by a poverty
of desire ; by a very low degree of sensibility ;
by disposition to indolence ; by indifference to-
wards surrounding objects of interest ; by consi-
derable tendency towards obesity ; by a defi-
ciency of the red particles of the blood, and a
redundance of the lymphatic system ; by an in-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 263
dolent state of the circulation, particularly in the
extreme vessels; and by the consequent pale
complexion and languid eye of the possessor.
Here, therefore, attention must be given to stimu-
late the too languid functions, and at the same
time to give strength to their respective organs ;
for without this, excited action would soon de-
generate into irritation. There is
usually a ten-
dency to somnolence, and it will often be diffi-
cult to keep the individual awake to active and
sensitive impressions. Yet when this object has
been accomplished, the labour will be abundantly
repaid, by the accuracy of perception the un-
abated application, and sustained attention, of
which he is capable, and which render him able
to acquire much, and a most desirable subject for
the process of education.
3. The choleric temperament is strongly cha-
racterized by deep intense feeling; by desires of
an energetic cast ; by a robust muscular frame,
and a great degree of corporeal activity ; by a
brownish sallow countenance, and by a strong
circulation of the blood. The individual is
pas-
sionate, soon angry, not readily appeased, not
easily forgetful of injuries, possessed of strong
affections, and indefatigable perseverance ;
he is
firm and tenacious of purpose, and is not always
amenable without difficulty, at the bar of reason
and conscience. These sudden gusts of passion,
and deeply felt emotion, will often occasion con-
siderable tendency to congestion in the vessels of
the brain ;
and either by its intermediate agency
264 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
through that viscus, or by its direct operation
upon the stomach and digestive apparatus in ge-
neral, will produce an abundant, excessive, or
morbid secretion of bile, and a great suscepti-
bility to other unhealthy states depending upon
it. When this impression is very frequently re-
newed, it becomes readily excitable, and may
degenerate into habitual disorder ;
or it
may ma-
terially interfere with the functions of other
organs, by destroying their balance of power. The
parental indications, must be, to diminish the
intensity of feeling to develop the judgment
to employ the reason to teach the child to think
before he allows himself to feel; and above all,
to refer his impressions to conscience, before he
suffers their influence to be encouraged on the
mind, or to be developed in action.
4. The melancholic temperament is distin-
guished by energy and stability of thought and
feeling, though not of that deep intense cha-
racter, which marks the choleric individual. The
mind is almost always active, but grave. The
body is
very commonly thin, and, especially to-
wards the decline of life ;
and is usually dry
from a deficient quantity of the circulating fluids.
It is not very easily, but it is profoundly affected
by causes operating upon it. The complexion
is
usually nearly approaching to a yellowish cast,
and uniformly dark. A high degree of nervous
susceptibility, almost indeed amounting to indis-
position, generally attends this state ; together
with a very marked liability to disordered func-
I
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 265
tion of the digestive organs. If the individual be
of a literary turn, his stomach will require the
greatest care to preserve it in order. There will
also be found in the melancholic, an aversion from
society, a fondness for solitude, an inclination to
depression, a tendency to hypochondriasis, and a
degree of irritability, which often requires the
management, and even the diminution of intellec-
tual exertion, the development of the social affec-
tions, the employment of the imagination and
fancy, the avoidance of long continued trains of
deep abstracted thought, and the amusement
which is
prepared by the relationship of life, by
the expectations of the coming day, and above
all, by the hopes of futurity, contrasted with the
trifling perplexities of the present hour.
The strongly marked temperaments thus de-
scribed, are seldom met with in their pure and
simple state :
they are almost abstractions, which
exist only in the mind of the philosopher, and are
variously modified and combined in real life.
Nevertheless, each individual will be found to
approximate more or less towards these almost
ideal portraits, and an occasional instance of per-
fect verisimilitude, will be now and then dis-
covered. These will serve as beacons to guide
the researches and the conduct of parents :
they
will designate abstract states, and the degree of
their prominence will give the prevailing tinge to
the character.
It will also be observed that a fair complexion,
light hair, and blue eyes, often accompany a great
266 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
degree of softness of manner, delicacy of tact,
and exquisite sensibility ;
that the influence of
violent desires will be commonly traced, where
there exists a brown complexion, dark hair, and
sparkling dark eyes ;
that a sallow complexion,
hair of no particular colour, and grey eyes, are
characteristic of the phlegmatic tendency ;
that a
complexion possessing much colour, of a roseate
hue, and accompanied by hazel eyes and brown
hair, are indications of a great degree of vivacity ;
while a highly coloured transparent sanguineous
countenance, tending to the flush of red, red hair,
and a peculiar redness of the eyes, almost ap-
proaching in appearance to inflammatory action,
generally betray a disposition to extreme suscep-
tibility, and to be easily carried away by the
short-lived tempest of wild and ungovernable
passion.
The intellectual faculties will be found in each
variety of temperament ;
but their display will be
manifestly influenced by the peculiar physical
predisposition. It has been already remarked
that these several generic characters will very
seldom be noticed pure and uncombined ; and that
they would be variously acted upon by different
circumstances of age, sex, habit, education, and
society; for man, even to the latest hour of his
existence, is involuntarily an imitative animal. Yet
allowing for all these peculiarities, there will still
remain some general rules by which the influence
of physical temperament may be traced upon the
manifestations of mind. Thus, for instance, the
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 267
faculty of association will be found more parti-
cularly prominent in the sanguineous and the
choleric, giving rise to lively imagination, hasty
opinion, inaccurate judgment, intemperate aver-
sion, imprudent friendship, unjust suspicion, and
ill-starred passion ; while the faculty of abstrac-
tion is more exclusively the property of the phleg-
matic and melancholic, with their train of slow,
but cool and sober judgment; juster views of the
absolute value, and relative connexion of things
slowly developed affections, but when once fixed,
not easily relaxed by the sunshine of prosperity,
or shaken by the storm of adversity, the lapse of
time, or the chilling effects of absence ;
but on
the contrary, exhibiting a tendency to self-will,
pertinacious adherence to opinion, unwillingness
to submit their prejudices to the bar of reason,
sombre gloomy views of things, fixed and rooted
hatred, inflexible decision, obstinate perseverance
in that which is wrong, as well as continued
pursuit of what is
right.
So likewise with regard to the conduct of the
life, a similar agency may be traced : the san-
guineous temperament betrays a greater promp-
titude of action ;
more spirit in the resistance of
injury or oppression ; more elasticity under the
influence of depressing passions, and a greater
reach of fortitude and fearlessness of danger. The
choleric exhibits juster views, and more exact
associations : the phlegmatic discovers a more de-
cided aptitude for analytical investigation, and
268 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
works out its motives and grounds for action, by
silent, slow, and independent reasoning ; and the
melancholic, while it broods over the miseries, the
vanity, the injustice, and the emptiness of man-
kind, detects the minuter distinctions and shades
of difference with a more prompt sagacity, and
nicer tact, than he who is less contemplative,
and more easily transported by the voice of
passion, or the scarcely audible whisper of pre-
judice.
269
CHAP. IV.
ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE MANIFESTATIONS OF
MIND MAN IS TO BE STUDIED AS A WHOLE, COM-
POUNDED OF MANY PARTS : THREE GRAND DIVI-
SIONS ACCORDING TO THE PREDOMINANCE OP PHY-
SICAL POWER, OR OF THE INTELLECTUAL, OR OF
THE AFFECTIVE FACULTIES BALANCE OF POWER
THE INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES IN DETAIL; AND
FIRST, OF CURIOSITY THE APPETITE FOR KNOW-
LEDGE PRECEDES ATTENTION NOVELTY AND SEN-
SATION ITS GREAT OBJECTS; HENCE INCONSTANCY
AND CHANGEFULNESS REGULATION OF CURIOSITY.
WE shall now proceed to notice the develop-
ment of some of the manifestations of mind.
Man is to be studied as a whole, not in any of the
isolated properties of his spirit. What, for instance,
is
memory without reflection ? What is percep-
tion without the power of combination, and vice
versa ? But the whole is made up of parts, and
we can only embrace that whole thoroughly, by
becoming intimately acquainted with its details.
These, therefore, will occupy our attention sepa-
rately ;
but we wish it to be steadily kept in view,
that the man, the character, is constituted by blend-
ing together the various lights and shades, which
come before us, so as to give harmony and homo-
geneousness to the whole. In the same way,
270 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
we separate the rays of light, by the action of the
prism, and we obtain the several primitive
colours :
again we combine them, and we find
that beautiful and apparently simple product, the
white light.
In conducting our observations upon children,
we shall find, particularly, three grand divisions,
according to the predominating influence of phy-
sical power, of the intellectual, or of the affective
faculties* In broad distinctions, we shall here
find the mechanic, the literary character, and the
philanthropist; but we shall also observe a variety
of evils peculiar to each class. Of the former we
have not much to say ;
of the two latter, the se-
cond may be said to constitute the sentimental
variety, or that which possesses the faculty of
retaining the impressions it receives, and of con-
cealing those which it elaborates, and of restrain-
ing their influence ;
the last, on the contrary, is
usually the man of strong passion, in whom the
impressions of the mind are manifested in action,
and lead to the performance of certain duties.
Moral impressions, however, do not always pro-
duce corresponding effects. An individual may
be powerfully affected by the impression of good,
and yet may not firmly and sincerely wish for its
possession ;
at least, not if such possession should
require any sacrifice to preserve it : and the same
may be said of evil without its producing one
effort to repel it: thus also, disgust is not al-
ways accompanied by repugnance ;
nor hatred
by the desire of vengeance. When, however,
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 271
there is a combination of these states ;
when the
sentimental trait is united to great bodily sensi-
bility ;
or when strong affections, and consequent
violent desires, are attached in the same indivi-
dual to great mobility of system ;
in either case,
the excitement will be preternaturally great,
and a considerable degree of exhaustion of the
bodily powers will be the result. It will be the
object of the watchful parent and prudent
instructor to take care that the too great acute-
ness of these properties should be blunted
and softened; or that the opposite qualities
should be developed in order to maintain the
balance of power, that political chimera for
which hundreds of thousands have lost their lives,
and hundreds of millions have been expended ;
but which in the mental kingdom is no phantom,
but a sober reality, to be received and acted
upon as a principle, and to be obtained in the
present instance, by the development of reason
and sentiment in the man of passionate activity;
and by infusing the glow of affection and passion
into the bosom of the cold sentimentalist. The
attention will at present be particularly directed
to the intellectual manifestations ;
and we shall
leave the affective faculties to be considered more
at leisure, when we come to treat of moral edu-
cation. Perhaps this arrangement may not be the
most logically correct, but it
appears to quadrate
best with the author's own views, and therefore
he does not hesitate its
adoption.
272 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
I.
Curiosity.
With the earliest dawn of intelligence this prin-
ciple is
developed ;
and though often most grie-
vously misapplied, it
expresses the first want of
the mind, and marks the nascent rays of reason
with a prospect of that glorious day which is at
hand, and of that high destiny for which man was
created. Curiosity is the expression of a desire
after knowledge : it is to the mind, what hunger
is to the body ;
and it is only to be satisfied by
the supply of its necessities ; by furnishing it
with those materials upon which the digestive,
assimilating, and nutritive powers of reason may
be employed. In its very nature and essence, it
is an enquiry into that of which we are previously
ignorant : but in some restless minds, it
may be-
come a very importunate, as well as impertinent
principle : and if it be not checked by some more
substantial counter agent, may often lead its pos-
sessor into the fairy regions of conjecture and
speculation.
The desire of wisdom originates curiosity : the
anxiety to be wise beyond what nature has re-
vealed, to pry into her secrets, and to unravel
those processes, which, however they may be
governed by some fixed and determinate laws,
she has obscured by a veil of impenetrable mys-
tery, is that which constitutes its excess. While
then the faculty under consideration, forms the
first motive of the sentient intelligent being, it
essentially precedes attention, and very generally
forms the stimulus which awakens it. We must
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATTOy. 273
first feel the want of knowledge, and the desire
to obtain it, before we can put in action the means
with which we are provided for this purpose,
that is, before we can attend. Novelty is the
great object of which curiosity is in quest ;
and
in the minds of children we find a prevailing
thirst for that which is new ;
a desire for reite-
rated and varied sensation. When the inquiry
after the aliquid novum is always fixed upon some
worthy and satisfying good, unmixed advantage
will be the result ;
but since the exercise of the
faculty precedes that of attention, it is clear that
the quality of the object of pursuit will not be very
important ;
and that the stimulus of mere sensa-
tion, of a new impression, will be more attractive
and operative than the desire of a more extended
acquaintance with some valuable, but perhaps
often unpalatable ti*uths. Hence arises a great
degree of inconstancy and changefulness, a desire
of flitting from object to object, sipping the
sweets of every flower of literature, without seek-
ing an acquaintance with its nature, or wishing
to be informed of its properties.
Curiosity may develop the faculty of attention ;
but produces in itself no permanent impression,
and leads to no important result: in gay and
thoughtless mood, it floats along the stream of
time ;
is
pleased with every new object, because
it is new ; and only quits it with distaste for some
other thing possessing this important pre-requi-
site. Attention, on the contrary, is arrested and
concentrated upon some one object from which it
VOL. I. T
274 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
is detached with difficulty, and with the nature
and properties of which, it seeks an intimate
knowledge. Thus, children are curious ;
but the
excessive mobility of their system prevents their
becoming attentive.
The simple object of education in the develop-
ment of this faculty will be to employ it in the
search after genuine wisdom ;
and to diminish
its
appetite for novelty, by concentrating its at-
tention upon a few objects, and those of substan-
tial value ; by directing its desire of sensation in
the pursuit of truths which will exert a moral
influence upon the mind, which will give it those
fixed principles that will preserve it from the
visionary hypotheses of every empty speculator,
and which, by deepening the impression of igno-
rance, compared with the immensity of the field
of knowledge, will preserve the mind humble,
and thus protect it from the snares of specious
error. It will also be the desire of the parent to
prove, that every thing is an object of curiosity,
only for its own worth ; not on account of the im-
mediate pleasure attending upon a first acquaint-
ance with it ;
but as it enlarges the boundaries of
knowledge ;
and as that knowledge is
applicable
to the purposes of a moral being, destined to live
and to be useful in society, and to give an account
of all its thoughts, and motives, and actions here-
after. The Christian instructress will also guard
against that changeful disposition, which is con-
tented with an imperfect acquaintance with the
several circumstances and things introduced to its
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 275
notice, by avoiding the stimulation of a succes-
sion of pursuits or amusements crowded together;
and by taking care that the pupil be thoroughly
grounded in all its present acquisitions before it
advances another step onwards. A prudent
parent will find curiosity a most important means
of communicating truth, and instilling good prin-
ciples ;
while she will most readily repress its
inordinate growth, its wild luxuriance, and the
caprice to which they lead.
T 2
276
CHAP. V.
THE SAME SUBJECT CONTINUED ON THE FACULTY OF
ATTENTION IN WHAT IT CONSISTS IT IS THE EYE
OF THOUGHT IMPROVED BY CURIOSITY HOW SUB-
MITTED TO THE INFLUENCE OF EDUCATION, AND
IMPROVED BY EXERCISE OBJECTS THE MOST SIM-
PLE WILL SERVE FOR ITS DEVELOPMENT GENERAL
IMPRESSIONS ARE TO BE AVOIDED, AND THE ATTEN-
TION IS TO BE FIXED BY SOME TANGIBLE DETAILS
CAUTION AS TO THE GRADUAL COMBINATION OF
THESE PERSPICUITY OF THOUGHT AND DICTION
IMPOSSIBLE WITHOUT ATTENTION AND THE MUL-
TIPLIED OPPORTUNITIES FOR ITS EXERCISE MOR-
BID STATES OF ATTENTION ABSENCE REVERIE
EXCESSIVE ATTENTION FIRST FROM INTERESTING
THE FEELINGS TOO MUCH AND NEXT BY AN EX-
CLUSIVE EMPLOYMENT OF THE UNDERSTANDING,
TERMINATING IN THE SEVERAL VARIETIES OF MO-
NOMANIA, OR SINGLE UNCOMPOUNDED INSANITY
HABITS ATTENTION MUST BE ALWAYS UNDER THE
POWER OF THE WILL THE IMPERFECTION ATTEND-
ING ITS NOTICES AND THE USES TO WHICH IT
SHOULD BE APPLIED GENIUS CONCLUSION.
II. Attention.
A GREAT adjuvant towards accomplishing the
important object with which the last chapter con-
cludes, will be found in the development of the
faculty of attention. Attention consists in the
direction of the intellectual organ, to some object
within the reach of its power ;
and forms one of
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION". 277
the most important processes of physical educa-
tion. As such, the instruction of this faculty
should become a primary object of parental soli-
citude, not only to secure all the good which will
accrue from its employment, but also to avoid
the errors with which it is encompassed.
There is here a very considerable analogy with
the history of the education of the senses, pro-
perly so called. In order that the impression
made upon them may be perceived, the organ
must be stimulated by its appropriate agent ;
curiosity must be excited, that it may attend
to the impression it has received, and that
this may be communicated to the brain, and
through it, to the immaterial principle. Thus
then, attention may be said to be the eye of thought ;
it is that state of the organ of mind, by which the
immaterial spirit seeks an acquaintance with the
nature and properties of objects, particularly of a
literary and moral character ;
and through it alone
can be procured the notices which will improve
the intellectual vision, and fit it for the acquisi-
tion of those stores of reasoning which can alone
in any degree satisfy the demands of the immortal
spirit, whose essential characteristic it is to be
always seeking after more knowledge ; enlarging
the boundaries of its intelligence ; widening the
sphere of its influence ;
and improving to the ut-
most every talent it
possesses.
Attention is improved by curiosity, which, as*
we have just seen, forms its desire, and stimulates
it to activity : but it is not easily fixed ;
and the
278 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
very first desideratum in education is to obtain
the power of arresting this faculty. This is to
be effected chiefly by developing the love of
knowledge ;
for in general the preference of ease
and indolence in an uneducated mind, will be
powerful enough to supersede curiosity, and ba-
nish attention. Scarcely a moment of the day
passes in which this faculty may not be occupied ;
and no opportunity for its exercise should be
suffered to pass unimproved. The most simple
and familiar objects will serve as the means of
improving attention, which may be fixed on pro-
perties of bodies which had escaped the child's
notice from the want of observation, and which
will not only develop the habit, but demonstrate the
necessity of the principle, and thus place it on
the firmest possible foundation.
Attention is capable of embracing the largest
whole, as well as the minutest details ;
but in
educating the faculty, we should not rest con-
tented with fixing it
upon general impressions,
which will be always vague, and lead the child
to the mischievous habit of drawing sweeping
inferences from a small and insufficient number
of premises. It must be ever recollected that
the whole is made up of parts ;
that general im-
pressions should be the aggregate of those which
are particular ;
and that we can only obtain sub-
stantial information on the nature and properties
*of a whole, by considering its details. It is to
these that the young pupil must be led, and then
to form his own conclusions from their sum. This
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 279
proceeding must be attempted, in the first in-
stance, by some tangible substance, possessing
well marked and distinguishing properties ;
and
care should be taken to communicate a clear and
defined idea of each particular, before these
become complicated by their combination. It
will be enough to make progress no matter how
slowly, provided always that there be continual
development of mind ;
for these exercises will by
and bye form .the elements of thought : and a
similar plan must be adopted from the more
simple to the more complicated forms of ratioci-
nation. Time will not be thrown away, which
is devoted to this pursuit ;
and the prudent parent
will discover, that while engaged in these exer-
cises, which to others may appear frivolous, and
without any adequate good as their object, she is
in fact educating this faculty ; inducing habits of
order and system into the mind ; eliciting the
power of quickly seizing the peculiarities of argu-
ment ;
and obviating that tendency to confusion
of idea, which arises from carelessness, and from
a habit of resting satisfied with certain superficial
and general impressions ;
and taking it for granted
that all which we do not know is in accordance
with these too hastily forfned, and commonly in-
accurate views ;
a method which surely leads not
only to error of reasoning, but also to obliquity
of action.
It is not consistent with the plan of the present
work to detail the many ways in which attention
may be awakened ; general principles only can
280 I NTELLF.CTU A L E IH'CATIOX.
be mentioned, and the parent and instructor must
be left to apply those principles.
Attention may be increased by any powerful
impression upon the nervous system : at first
curiosity will probably be a sufficient incentive ;
but in proportion as the extreme susceptibility of
infancy is diminished by the habit of employing
the several organs, and particularly by the reite-
rated stimulus of sensation, this faculty may be
aroused by some other gentle emotion, as sur-
prise : and in a world where every new impres-
sion enlarges the sphere of idea and of feeling,
and where almost every thing is new, there can
be no difficulty in finding occasion for its exer-
cise. This very surprise will be in itself the
communication of some new idea, as well as lead
the attention towards it. Attention, likewise,
may always be rewarded by some promised good ;
and that good itself may also tend to develop the
faculty still farther, and to enlarge the boundaries
of knowledge. Explanations of the works of
nature or of art ;
all which is beautiful in scenery;
all that is gratifying to the senses ;
all that is
connected with the wants and comforts of social
man ;
all that is interesting in relationship ;
all
that is sublime in the productions of talent, or in
the creation of the Supreme Governor of the uni-
verse, may be made subservient to this purpose,
and should be employed in a graduated scale,
proportioned and enlarged according to the
strengthened faculties of the child.
There are some diseases of this principle which
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 281
will demand care to prevent, and solicitude to
remove. The first of these is denominated Ab-
sence, a state in which attention, instead of being
rivetted to the immediate subject of inquiry, is
allowed to wander, and to be occupied by other
and disconnected thoughts. In a more advanced
stage, these thoughts present uncontrolled and
frequently monstrous images, without cohesion or
limitation ;
the mind roams abroad in lawless,
listless reverie ;
it traverses space without an
object ;
the ideas are wool-gathering in some
shadowy and unreal territory, and are absorbed
in that form of undefined contemplation, which
however grateful to the individual, knows no
bounds, acknowledges no rules, possesses no fixed
principles, wishes for no guide, and leads to no
result. This state is however mischievous, be-
cause it
interrupts the pursuit of substantial know-
ledge ;
stores the memory with a tribe of inco-
herent images ;
exhausts attention, and enfeebles
its legitimate powers of application in quest of
those sober realities whose modest, unassuming
pretensions are less attractive than the gaudy
tinsel of unsubstantial nothings, especially when
coupled with the labour of acquisition on the one
hand, and the luxurious repose of imaginative
musing on the other. Thought, however, is only
to be encouraged in proportion as it has an useful
tendency ;
and if indulged in, it must be possessed
of this attribute :
wanting this characteristic, it
is to be dismissed from the mind, and most sedu-
lously checked ;
the first symptom of reverie is
282 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
to be combated ;
and the habit of absence is to
be conquered by developing the faculty of atten-
tion.
On the contrary, attention may become ex-
cessive. Where this has arisen from a child being
too deeply interested in a subject ; (this effect
being generally produced by that which acts too
powerfully on the feelings ;) the brain will suffer
from the excitement of strong and lasting emo-
tion, and the intellectual capacity will be propor-
tionately diminished. When therefore, this ap-
pears to have been the case, the immediate ob-
ject of pursuit should be changed for one which
will stimulate less, and will allow the feverish
action to subside. But this effect must not be
obtained by abstracting the mind from its too in-
teresting pursuit, and giving it nothing to occupy
its place ;
for in that case, the intellectual organ
passes at once from a state of excitement to one
of absolute quiescence, and a loss of power is
the necessary consequence.
Attention may also become excessive, by being
fixed too exclusively upon one object. A great
degree of eagerness of inquiry upon one parti-
cular subject to the exclusion of others equally
important, or to their listless, heartless pursuit, is
the first symptom of this state. There ever will
be favourite objects of acquisition ;
there ever
must be pursuits which are peculiarly congenial,
and in which fatigue is never felt, from the con-
stant unwearied employment of all the mental
powers, and from the peculiar and inscrutable
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 283
aptitudes of the sentient organ; and indeed,
upon this basis will rest what is familiarly termed
taste. The object of the parent, therefore, will
be not to destroy or undervalue the characteristic
relish of her children ;
not to supersede their
original bias ;
but to guard the application of the
faculty, to shew that it should be concentrated
upon objects only in proportion to their relative
importance, and to their immediate and remote
influence upon the happiness and the worth of
mankind ;
and to develop a habit of strict de-
voted attention to pursuits which are best calcu-
lated to obviate the formation and growth of
those absorbing duties, which are the common
consequence, of indulging and fostering occupa-
tions for which there exists an especial fond-
ness.
The tendency of excessive attention will pro-
bably first exhibit its influence upon the merest
trifles ;
but let the parent be on her guard
against these very trifles, for they contain the ru-
diments of future great effects. Like the little
seed which we hold in our hands, we may please
whether we allow it to vegetate or not ;
but if it
be permitted to strike root in its congenial soil ;
if it be watered by the dews of heaven fur-
nished with its
appropriate food defended from
injury, and suffered to extend its foliage, the
acorn will become the monarch of the forest, and
will mock at all our impotent attempts to con-
troul its future growth. So with regard to these
284 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
tendencies to excessive attention, we may con-
troul them if we will ;
but if they proceed un-
checked ;
if they be suffered to develop them-
selves in habit, and to extend their influence over
every mode of thought, and action, and feeling ;
if
they be allowed to pursue their unabated desire of
influence ;
and to concentrate the intellectual facul-
ties upon one particular object, they will gather
strength by encouragement they will become
more and more prominent and imperious in their
demands ;
and will shew themselves in an obtru-
sive fondness for some specific hobby. The same
tendency will be exhibited sometimes in the fully
formed and absorbing desire for books, for society,
&c. or it will betray itself in a rage for building,
or collecting curiosities ;
it will gradually en-
slave all the powers of the mind ;
it will dege-
nerate into eccentricity, and will finally mock at
our puny efforts to controul its power, in the fully
formed stage of exclusive insanity, or what is
commonly termed monomania !
And if the victims of this fearful malady de-
serve our compassion ;
if to avert this last, this
greatest consummation of human woe be worth
a struggle ;
then let the first symptom of exclu-
sive fondness the predisposition towards one
reigning object of pursuit and inquiry be care-
fully watched ;
let its growth be most sedulously
guarded, and its
counteracting influence most
anxiously developed.
One other means of effecting this object, is,
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 285
not to reduce the mind to a state of mawkish in-
sipidity, but continually to retain the faculty in
subjection to the power of the will: this will
abundantly define its limits ;
and it will then be
easy for the parent to awaken attention to any
particular subject, to change its object, to diver-
sify its pursuit, to recur to its former trains of
thought, to interrupt it when fixed, and to supply
it with fresh associations in every practicable va-
riety, so as to complete its entire subjection to
voluntary power.
Attention may be imperfect ; that is, it
may fail
of embracing all the different properties of bo-
dies all the varying points of view, of any
given subject all the feeble parts as well as the
srtong holds of an argument all the intricate
windings of the casuist, the groundless assertions
of the dogmatical, as well as the sophisms of the
consciously feeble reasoner. Attention should
enable us to appreciate the difference, as well as
the degree of conformity existing between differ-
ent objects, when compared among themselves,
or with any acknowledged standard of excel-
lence. With this purpose in view, its highest
effort is to distinguish good from bad ;
its last at-
tainment, the morality of action. To this all
important design, every part of education should
be subservient.
The exercise of this faculty may be necessary
for the preservation of our being ;
for forming an
acquaintance with the properties of matter; for
286 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
our physical comfort, and convenience ;
for our
literary pursuits ;
and for our social duties ;
but
all these serve only to develop the power, and
improve the activity of the faculty, that it
may
be devoted to higher objects ;
that it
may assist
man during his period of probation, and may
teach him so to act, to think, to feel, as in con-
formity to the precepts of divine truth. Atten-
tion to religion, to the revealed will of God, is
then the ultimate object of the faculty ;
an object,
which, while it leads to the most beneficial re-
sults, will also react upon itself, invigorate its
powers, and give it, its highest degree of delicacy
and tact.
But we here border on moral education. We
shall only, therefore, remark in conclusion, that
what has been frequently termed genius, is
per-
haps nothing more than a modification of this
faculty ;
a particular aptitude for patient atten-
tion ;
the perseverance of great talent applied
according to individual predisposition, yet always
in subjection to that harmony, and equalization,
and perfection of the character, without which
even the highest efforts of genius will be mis-
applied or abortive. It is indeed, not easy to
describe with exactness, the nature of this re-
markable property ; but if it should appear to be
(as we believe) the persevering activity of atten-
tion, a rational clue will at once be found for
developing or directing that peculiar bias which
we term genius. We have a mortal aversion to
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 287
those talismanic terms, which are supposed to
imply some hidden and wonder-working agency,
some mysterious influence, with whose laws we
are forbidden to become acquainted ;
and we re-
joice to seize on an explanation of phenomena,
which will rescue them from the grasp of igno-
rance and prejudice, credulity and enthusiasm ;
and restore them to the powerful sway of reason,
and all which is not contrary to reason, though it
may be above its comprehension.
288
CHAP. VI.
ON PERCEPTION THE RESULT OF ATTENTION TO
IMPRESSION IT PERFORMS A FUNCTION FOR THE
MIND, ANALOGOUS WITH THAT OF NUTRITION FOR
THE BODY ITS ULTIMATE OBJECT HOW IMPROVED
AND PERFECTED PERCEPTION SOMETIMES DULL J
SOMETIMES INACCURATE FROM HASTE ;
SOMETIMES
MORBIDLY ACCUTE--1TS INFLUENCE ON OTHER
MENTAL MANIFESTATIONS ITS EXERCISE.
III. Perception.
MUCH that might have been said on this subject,
has been insensibly anticipated, in considering
the influence of the preceding faculty ;
and its
consummation and completion in the great busi-
ness of life. Clear and distinct perception can
only be the result of attention to impressions re-
ceived at the time, or revived through the medium
of other faculties, to be presently considered.
Attention would be useless, unless the notices it
conveys were perceived by the sentient principle ;
and without it, it would be impossible to form a
judgment of the relation subsisting between dif-
ferent subjects ;
and of the harmony, mutual de-
pendence, and connexion of the several objects
of knowledge.
Thus then, perception may be considered as
analogous with the function of nutrition ; it
appro-
priates the impressions which attention has con-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 289
veyed, and converts them to the purposes of the
immaterial thinking principle ;
and for this end
it
pervades every department, and influences
every operation of mind ;
and it
requires a more
strenuous and energetic exertion than the faculty
of attention ;
since to elaborate thought and
feeling are higher efforts, than the mere collection
of the materials from which they are to be cre-
ated. It is, for the most part, an active princi-
ple ;
for although perception may be produced
involuntarily, yet the idea excited by it will be
feeble and indistinct; and it will be possessed of
the opposite qualities, only in proportion to the
degree of attention which may have been be-
stowed upon it; and, exactly in the same ratio, will
it be productive of effect upon the mind; for the
faculty of perception will be of littl eavail, unless
the minute properties of the impressions which
occasion it be distinctly, separately, and con-
jointly noticed.
The ultimate object of perception is the harmony
and propriety of thought, of feeling, and of action ;
for no sooner is an impression perceived, than it
excites corresponding emotion, and gives rise to
a certain degree of activity, which enables the
mind to embrace the motive, the relation, the
general bearing, and final probable result of the
impression perceived, and of the subsequent as-
sociated action. It is then a most important
principle, and it will be augmented and improved
by the delicacy and perfection of tact of the
senses, through which impressions are conveyed ;
VOL. i. u
290 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
by the aid of judgment, which weighs in its ba-
lances the character of the perceptions excited ;
and by the help of conscience, which affords from
religious grounds the only sure principles for con-
duct, the only infallible test of its morality. In
order to ensure the accuracy of perception, it is
necessary that it should be vivid, full, deep, and
comprehensive ;
that it should be accompanied
with a corresponding excitement of the brain ;
that it should comprise all the different views of
a subject, connect its various relations, and em-
brace it as a whole, by combining into one view,
the several parts of which it is composed.
In children this faculty is often found too obtuse;
they are possessed of what is termed a dull per-
ception ; that is, they perceive an object only by
a small number of phases, and consequently form
imperfect ideas of its nature and properties. It
will often happen that this obscure and undefined
representation of things, arises from original de-
ficiency : but much more frequently it is the re-
sult of neglected education, and of a failure in
developing the power of attention to impressions
which have been made upon the sentient organ.
On the cpntrary, although originating in the self-
same cause, it will be sometimes found that per-
ception is inaccurate from being too quick; the
individual does not give himself sufficient time to
take in all the properties of an object, or all the
points of an argument, but rests satisfied with
eagerly grasping a very few, and imagining the
rest, so as to obtain only a defective and often
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 291
erroneous impression, producing a corresponding
incorrect movement of perception in the brain.
Perception may likewise become morbidly
acute: those impressions, which in a perfectly
constituted individual, should have passed un-
heeded, or should have been most slightly noticed,
and then immediately consigned to oblivion by the
award of common sense, are attended to with the
most tormenting accuracy ;
are dwelt upon in every
conceivable point of view ;
are treasured up in
the memory ;
and revived with all the ingenuity
of self-torture. Such individuals provide mise-
ries for themselves :
they are irritable, unjust to
others ;
and insensible to, or at the least inca-
pable of, enjoying the blessings of Providence
with which they are surrounded; they are car-
ried away by prejudice; and form opinions fre-
quently of a lasting character, and of a most
erroneous complexion, solely because they allow
themselves to become the sport of morbidly acute
perception, and do not allow time to take general
and comprehensive views.
Accordingly as the perception may have been
distinct, so will the judgment be accurate ;
in
proportion as it has been vivid, and at the same
time comprehensive, so will be the power of
selection, and the development of literary taste;
based indeed upon the faculty of individual asso-
ciation, and yet acknowledging one common
standard, viz : that which the majority of equally
well-informed individuals will agree to consider
as beautiful and excellent.
u 2
292 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
The great object of the parent in developing
this faculty will be exercise, graduated according
to its original power, and proportioned to the ac-
quirements of the individual. The constant aim
of these exercises, will be to enforce the necessity
for obtaining accurate and comprehensive ideas
of things ;
and not to rest satisfied with vague
notions. For this purpose, all the energies of
the mind are to be excited to receive and attend
to the perception ;
not to contemplate the object
at a distance, but to place it in immediate contact
with the thinking organ, and to view it in every
possible change of form, and variety of situation ;
and thus, clear and patient investigation will
arouse and quicken the dull, detain the too sen-
sitive, and soften and correct the morbidly acute
perception.
293
CHAP. VII.
ON REASON IT IS THE PECULIAR ATTRIBUTE OP MAN
IN WHAT IT CONSISTS ITS USES STATE OF THIS
FACULTY DURING SLEEP CONDITION OF MAN AS
A SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CREATURE IN REGARD TO
HIS REASONING FACULTIES THE INFLUENCE OF
EVIL PROPENSITY UPON HIM AND THE CONCLU-
SIONS TO BE DRAWN FROM THE PRECEDING CONSI-
DERATIONS.
., . IV. Reason.
THERE is, however, another form of mental ma-
nifestation, which is peculiar to man. In com-
mon with the animals around him, he attends to
and perceives external objects; but he does more;
he reasons upon the results thus obtained. Hav-
ing collected a certain number of data, he with-
draws his attention from exterior objects, closes
the avenues of external perception, abstracts his
thoughts from a constantly varied succession of
images, and fixes them upon himself. He re-
volves the operation of his own mind estimates
the judgments he has formed yields himself to
the power of conscience considers his inclina-
tions analyses his perceptions associates his
ideas estimates their relative influence recol-
lects what he has learned appropriates that
294 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
which he admires, and dismisses that which he
disapproves. The power of reasoning teaches
him that this is not his final state of existence,
leads him to inquire into that futurity of which
he possesses a certain indestructible conscious-
ness places him in connexion with a supreme
Being, the author and governor of his creatures
leads him to search into the attributes of Di-
vinity, to seek an acquaintance with the revela-
tion of his will, -and to learn obedience to his
commands. These are the great attributes of
reason, the distinguishing property of man, and
at once the evidence of his high original, as of
his future destiny. It is this which constitutes
him a rational, an accountable, a religious ani-
mal ;
it is this which enables him to rise on
the wings of thought; to carry his contempla-
tions far beyond the present scenes ;
to abstract
his attention from his bodily and social wants ;
to soar through infinite space, and identify him-
self with all places, persons, things, and periods ;
to act as in the immediate presence of the Most
High, and to be animated by the hopes and pros-
pects of eternity ;
or to live regardless of a bliss-
ful futurity, and yield himself to the dominion of
depraved inclination, wild ungovernable passion,
and that alienation from God and all that is
good, which too sadly characterize his present
state.
It will be desirable also in this place to re-
mark on the activity of the mind during sleep, as
a proof how greatly all its manifestations, and
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 295
especially those which we have just enumerated,
are influenced by its union with mortality, by its
imprisonment in that beautiful and exquisitely
adapted, but still material organization, so little
consistent with its large and illimitable desires
and hopes, joys and fears, its aspirations after
immortality. Almost every one is conscious of
the intense suffering he has experienced during
sleep, in fact, mental agony much greater than
would have been felt from similar causes during
a waking period ;
the memory of individuals long
since gone has been recalled with a fidelity and
accuracy, and presented with a fervour of feeling
far greater than would have been exhibited under
ordinary circumstances ;
the pleasing illusion
of joys which are past, or which are only now
in prospect, has been marked with a vividness of
impression, which has rendered the moment of
waking more desolate, more dreary, more keenly
subject to the bitterness of disappointment ;
ten
thousand associations are formed in inconceivable
rapidity of succession ;
and if there be a some-
thing fantastic in the grouping of the imagery
connected with these associations ; nay, more, if
they be sometimes ridiculous, incoherent, and ir-
rational, this is easily accounted for on the con-
dition of the organ of mind; no longer its obedient
servant, but under the influence of that peculiar
physical state, which veils its faculties, and re-
moves it from all its ordinary laws of action.
For this reason, in sound sleep, we are altogether
unconscious of what is passing within or without;
296 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
we cannot attend to, or measure the operations
of our own minds ; but if we take the instant of
returning consciousness, the precise period of
wakening from slumber, the simple actual moment
which elapses between the knocking of a ser-
vant at the door of our chamber, and that of
thoroughly rousing from sleep, we shall be able
to form some estimate of the immeasurable ra-
pidity of thought when disencumbered from its
material organ, by the long dream of successive
and often coherent circumstances, which will be
passed through in this infinitesimal portion of
time. It is
unnecessary to strengthen the argu-
ment by recurring to the phenomena of somnam-
bulism, since enough has been already adduced
to warrant the inference, that if during the hours
devoted to the repose of the sentient organ, the
immaterial principle may become the subject of
the highest joy or deepest woe ;
if it
may be
most powerfully affected by the recollection of
past scenes, and all the associations with which
they are connected ;
if its attention may be ex-
cited, and its feelings deeply involved by these
associated images ;
if such manifestations of
mind, be characterized by a degree of intensity
unknown to the state of wakefulness ;
and finally,
if the rapidity of mental operation shall appear
to be so much greater during sleep ; why surely,
the operations of mind must be clogged, not faci-
litated by its union with the body ;
and when
separated from it, it must be capable of an infi-
nitely higher reach of understanding, perception,
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 297
memory, feeling, association, in short, of all its
highest attributes.
All these peculiarities of mind tend to shew
that man is born into the world with inclinations,
and predispositions, which are independent of
instinct and organisation on the one hand, and of
experience on the other. For while we find his
instincts few and feeble, compared with many of
the inferior animals ;
and while with the most
perfect organisation, he is the most helpless, the
most dependent being, we also observe very early
in his career, the distant streaks of dawning rea-
son ;
we also find him gifted with a superadded
principle, which more than compensates for his
animal deficiencies, and which soon develops its
influence in those dispositions which are called
the character of infancy. It is unnecessary to
prove that these dispositions are not depending
upon experience, because they are anterior to it,
and therefore cannot arise from it.
But if, independently of these sources of the
primitive intellectual manifestations, there really
exist certain inclinations and predispositions which
characterize its actions, it is absurd to speak of
the human mind as a waste which requires cul-
ture, and in which any seed may be sown and
developed, according to the pleasure of the in-
structor : it is absurd to speak of it as a piece of
blank paper, on which any characters may be
impressed ;
it is absurd to designate it as capable
of being formed and moulded into any shape and
298 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
figure. Far be it from us to undervalue the ad-
vantages, or the efforts of education : it is most
important, but it is not omnipotent ;
it may modify
character, but it cannot alone communicate it ;
it may sow the seed, and water it
assiduously,
but it cannot ensure its germination or its arrival
at maturity ;
it may use its utmost effort to eradi-
cate the weeds as they shew themselves, but it
cannot prevent their re-production ; the germ of
good and evil propensity exists, and exerts its
counteracting influence ;
and however lamentable
the confession, it is not the less undeniable, that
the latter greatly preponderates. The turbulence
of passion, the gloom of selfishness, the vehe-
mence of anger, the rage of jealousy, and a
hideous groupe of unhallowed desires, and the
utter feebleness of any counteracting principles
the natural ease with which the former are exhi-
bited in full activity, and the difficulty and slow-
ness of progress by which good principles are
implanted, and good habits are wrought out ;
the
great aptitude for all that should "be most anxiously
avoided, and the indisposition towards all that
should be most sedulously cultivated, all shew
the preponderating influence of selfish propensity
an influence which, coupled with that self-
esteem which is so prominently manifest in the
human mind, must bias very materially our judg-
ment of good and evil, and thus lead to a con-
stantly operative source of error and obliquity.
Observation also lends its aid in confirmation of
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 299
the argument ;
for it will be found that this pro-
pensity cleaves to us throughout life, and distorts
our views, clouds our perceptions, gives a tinge
to our opinions, and characterizes their results.
We call evil good, and good evil ;
and though we
may not say with the great apostate angel,
"
Evil,
be thou my good," in so many words, yet our
conduct and choice will too often be a comment
upon this principle, and this should lead us to
suspect that they may be governed by a simi-
lar motive, viz. rebellion to the Majesty of
Heaven.
Such being the facts which are before us, and
such the reasoning upon them, we next inquire,
how it comes to pass that this is the case ;
and
without any curious speculations on the origin of
evil, we refer to the pages of inspiration, and we
find just so much as it hath pleased an all-wise,
all-bountiful, just, and merciful Creator to reveal;
we are taught that man was created in the image
of God in a state of uprightness, purity, and
happiness ;
that he fell from this state by dis-
obedience, and forfeited all title to His favour ;
that he is now far gone from original righteous-
ness ; that the thoughts of his heart are evil ;
that he is
subject to a variety of ills and priva-
tions, the consequences of his fall ;
and that the
Almighty has provided a way of reconciliation
between himself and his offending creatures,
through the sacrifice of his Son, upon condition
of their believing in him, and yielding obedience
300 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
to His commands ;
and all these circumstances
involving conclusions which should form the prin-
ciples of moral education, and which will there-
fore be developed in a future part of this work ;
though it was impossible to omit altogether the
explanation of phenomena, which we had been
detailing, and to the correct understanding of
which reason was altogether inadequate.
301
CHAP. VIII.
ON REFLECTION ITS IMPORTANCE ITS NATURE AND
PROPERTIESITS PECULIAR OFFICES HOW DIS-
TINGUISHED FROM IMAGINATION IT IS SLOWLY
DEVELOPED MATURED BY AGE, CULTURE, AND
OBSERVATION ITS PRINCIPAL USE.
V. Reflection.
As a corollary from conclusions which have been
already drawn from reasoning and analysis, and
from what experience and observation daily teach
us, we infer that the highest pleasures of that
rational creature man, ought to arise from in-
tellectual pursuits ;
since it is these which con-
stitute his generic character, which he pre-emi-
nently possesses, and which are here only in a state
of preparation for full expansion in a future world,
where evil shall be unknown ;
and where the
material veil, which now invests the mind, shall
be removed, and all its manifestations shall be
inconceivably heightened and improved. The
slightest consideration of his nature will shew,
that man was never destined to procure his plea-
sures from animal gratifications ;
since his indi-
vidual power is not adequate to obtain them for
himself; since their indulgence is an offence and
302 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
injury to that social compact, upon the continuance
and entireness of which he is dependent for his
existence ;
since he has been provided with rea-
son and intelligence to controul those "passions
and desires, from which animal gratifications
arise ;
and since from this very controul will ori-
ginate one of his purest pleasures. There is then
a great source of delight to the good man in com-
muning with his own mind, and this communion
constitutes that intellectual manifestation which
has been termed Reflection.
Reflection is that faculty by which man rests
upon an object which has been vividly and accu-
rately perceived, and by which he considers its
properties. But it is more ;
it is that by which
he estimates the value of the knowledge thus ac-
quired, and ascertains the relative connexion,
mutual dependence, associated influence, and
remote bearing of the qualities of objects so pre-
sented to the mind. It is the faculty by which
he forms these conclusions into so many resting
places, from which he may be enabled, by induc-
tive reasoning, to rectify his thoughts, mature his
actions, and enlighten his determinations. De-
prived of reflection, the individual would act upon
the stimulus of occasion ; his thoughts would as-
sume the shape and form of the immediate percep-
tion ; and his determinations would result from
the impression of sensation, and be its necessary
consequence. The voice of feeling and of passion
would alone be heard ;
and the creature of tem-
porary excitement would be hurried into follies
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 30
and inconsistencies, if not into more serious
errors and vices, which would lay the foundation
for after sorrow, regret, repentance, if not re-
morse.
The absence of reflection constitutes the heed-
less, thoughtless individual, whose views extend
not beyond the limited events of to-day, and who
never contemplates future contingencies ; he,
over whom the present mainly exerts its power,
and who never realizes to-morrow with all its
events, and their manifold results. Reflection,
on the contrary, is the equitable judge, which
not only summons its witnesses and examines
their evidence as to matters of fact, but inquires
into the qualities of actions, estimates the motives
which inspired them, the circumstances which
exert a controul over them, and the final results
to which they lead, and thus forms its decision ;
passing generally a much more enlightened and
impartial verdict, than would have resulted from
a trial by jury, with all its accumulated mass of
ignorance, obstinacy, perverseness, and prejudice :
not but that these very qualities operate unfa-
vourably in the individual, and actually oppose
the formation of a sound judgment ;
but they do
not exist in the same degree, nor is their influ-
ence so extensive :
they form, however, obsta-
cles which it is
necessary to remove, in order to
the complete exercise of reflection ;
and are
therefore so many beacons to excite the alarm,
and guide the conduct of the instructor.
Again, reflection broods over ideas, renders
304 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
them fruitful, and multiplies them. It is
by the
aid of this principle, that new ideas, or novel
combinations and associations are formed. A
great part of life should be devoted to the acqui-
sition of knowledge ;
but this having been re-
ceived into the mind, and incorporated with it,
reflection elaborates from it fresh thoughts ;
or
clothes them with a novel garb, according to the
peculiar views of the individual ;
or associates
them in other forms ;
or finds out new applica-
tions for the old principles with which they stand
connected. It does not communicate the vital
principle of thought ;
but it
develops it, and ex-
hibits its manifestations. It is not thought itself;
it is not judgment; but it is that process by
which the former is rendered available for the
production of the latter. For this purpose, it
constantly employs the agency of memory, whose
principal use indeed, is to be always subservient
to this faculty ;
to retain and reproduce, when
required, those notices which it
employs, and
which form the material groundwork for its
decisions.
Reflection is
very distinct from imagination.
At first sight, there may seem to be a great de-
gree of resemblance, because each rests princi-
pally on the power of association. It will be
seen, however, that there is this principal dif-
ference, that while reflection exerts its
agency
upon the positive qualities of objects presented
to the mind, imagination operates almost exclu-
sively upon unknown properties, of which it forms
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 305
an ideal picture, fancied images, and unreal re -
presentations, according to its own peculiar mood .
The two are not only perfectly distinct in their
design, but even opposed in their result ;
since
they in whom the faculty of imagination predo-
minates, do not easily form a judgment on the
sober realities of reflected truth ;
are often led
away by a lively fancy, from the consideration of
the just relation of ideas, to some distant, gene-
rally inconsequent, and often incongruous asso-
ciation ;
and do not allow themselves sufficient
opportunities for estimating the probable effects
resulting from the comparison of these relations.
It must be manifest, how impossible it is, that
this principle should arrive at its highest state of
perfection at once, or even in a short time. It is
essentially progressive :
scarcely cognizable in the
elastic hours of infancy, it is slowly developed in
after life, and is augmented in value by maturity
of age, by moral culture, .and by habits of deep and
minute observation. The great advantage arising
from maturity, is from its store of well selected
facts and opinions ;
and from the frequent oppor-
tunities which will have been afforded for correct-
ing the judgment, as well by the discovery of its
former errors, as by the verification of its earlier
decisions. Hence the importance of furnishing
an equivalent for the maturity of age, by the de-
velopment of this faculty, by its constant exer-
cise, and by daily teaching the young to think,
to reason, to reflect on all they learn, and all
they do. And since reflection is principally em-
VOL. i. x
306 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
ployed upon a moral estimate of persons and
things, and their ethical relations ;
so it is of the
first consequence to store the mind with the
grand principles of moral duty ; and above all to
lead it to be attentive to its own actions ;
to allow
nothing to happen, as it were by chance, or in-
stinctively ;
but always to induce it to refer to
the mainspring and motive of conduct : for it is
only by so doing, that reflection can be useful in
comparing what actually is, with what ought
to be.
To supply the mind with a fund of knowledge,
applicable to the daily purposes of life ;
to teach
it to yield to the force of truth, and to submit its
most cherished predilections, and its most esta-
blished convictions to the pare and holy influence
of the divine law ;
to obviate the interference of
passion, which might cloud the perception, and
pervert the judgment of things ;
and lastly, to
destroy the monster prejudice, and supply its ty-
rant sway, by the mild government of reason and
religion ; these are the principal objects to be
kept in view by the instructor.
307
CHAP. IX.
ON MEMORY IT IS EITHER ACTIVE OR PASSIVE
VOLUNTARY OR FORTUITOUS DEPENDING UPON
ASSOCIATION INFLUENCE OF INVOLUNTARY MEMO-
RY RECOLLECTION ITS EMPLOYMENT IT PRE-
SERVES IMAGES WHICH HAVE BEEN STORED IN THE
MIND BY THE FACULTIES OF ATTENTION AND
REFLECTION IT HAS ALSO A TORMENTING AGENCY
CONSEQUENCES OF THIS PROPERTY CIRCUM-
STANCES FAVOURABLE TO ITS DEVELOPMENT, AND
TO THE ART OF INCREASING ITS POWER.
VI. Memory.
THIS extraordinary faculty is either active or pas-
sive, voluntary or fortuitous : it is the former in
recollection : it is the latter in the involuntary pre-
senting and reproduction of images, whose recol
lection has long since faded from our view, and
whose memory still
clings to some distant asso-
ciation, the connexion with which is not often
perceived, and whose dependence it is frequently
difficult, and sometimes impossible to trace. An
attentive observer of the operations of his own
mind will readily distinguish this varied action of
the same faculty : he will frequently endeavour
to recollect some circumstance, event, opinion,
sentiment, &c. ; for this purpose, he will excite
x2
308 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
the intellectual organ ;
he will sedulously try to
remember any of the associated impressions with
which the one he is in quest of, might possibly
stand connected, in the hope that a similar train
of thought being once awakened, the lost idea
may be discovered in the group ; yet all this in
vain ;
whereas presently, when his thoughts are
no longer directed after it, it will be involuntarily
produced.
This simple fact of every day occurrence well
illustrates the two actions of this remarkable
faculty. Both are in all probability depending
upon the same law of association ;
the difference
consisting only in this, that in the one case,
there is a consciousness of its resulting from such
a principle, though the connecting links cannot
be perceived ;
while in the other instance, the
process is carried on unconsciously, and without
a direct reference to the influence of association ;
though it is as clear that it may exist without be-
ing perceived at all, as that its existence may be
discovered while its action remains concealed.
The involuntary presentation of images to the
mind, is often a most serious evil ;
not only be-
cause they revive painful impressions, or those
which a good man ever wishes to discard ;
but
because they distract the attention from the im-
mediate object of pursuit, arouse the feelings,
harass the mind, and render it unfit for the bene-
ficial operation of memory.
The influence of this involuntary memory is
exerted principally upon those ill
regulated minds,
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 309
which have not been subdued by habits of consist-
ent thought ;
but which have been permitted to run
wild, to think without order, to remember with-
out arrangement or precision ;
to live, in fact,
without an object ;
to indulge in reverie, and to
become the sport of any wind that blows ;
to have
their impressions bound together only by a rope
of sand which the first wave of emotion would
crumble into atoms. With such individuals, the
productions of memory are commonly faithless
portraits of the image which they profess to recall;
for the original impressions having been only
faintly perceived, and most loosely associated,
they have often possessed an erroneous character
in the first instance, or have been influenced in
their properties by the associations with which
they have been illogically connected. And as
much of the conduct of life depends upon the
power of reviewing the faithful records of me-
mory, it is of the greatest importance, that this
faculty should be subordinated to the will ;
and
that its involuntary operations should be pro-
duced, only when its voluntary office falls, and in
obedience to its behests. As with regard to the
faculty of attention, so also with respect to invo-
luntary memory ;
uncontrolled thoughts, dis-
jointed ideas, dissociated images, or morbidly
concatenated impressions, often indicate a state
of the system bordering on mental alienation ;
and should always demand particular attention to
the physical state of the brain. The most effec-
tual means of obviating these results from the
310 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
fainter to the deeper shades, will be, by the cul-
tivation and employment of the voluntary faculty.
By that form of memory which we term recol-
lection, we are capable of recalling ideas which
have been formerly produced, although the atten-
tion may not have been directed to them for a
long time. Generally, this will be effected in
the same order in which the impressions were
originally perceived ;
for in a mind at all accus-
tomed to system and arrangement, so powerful
will be the bond of association by which they are
united, that the revival of one idea, will serve to
resuscitate a long train with which it originally
stood connected ;
and to produce a series of re-
called impressions almost as vivid, and often more
accurate, than when originally perceived ;
and as
the records of memory, they stand undisguised by
the glow and colouring, which they had at first
received from the passions, emotions, and enthu-
siasm of the moment. Without memory, the ac-
quisition of knowledge would be of no farther
value, than the immediate gratification attending
its pursuit ; whereas, by means of this faculty,
the-recollections of past years may be renewed ;
the impressions arising from former pursuits may
be revived ;
and the individual may be thus
taught to avoid consequences, he ought to depre-
cate ; or he may be strengthened in the pursuit
of what is right, and in his conflict with present
difficulties, which he knows are not insurmount-
able, because they have been conquered before.
While such is the use of this faculty in action, it
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 311
is a source of great and unmingled pleasure to the
literary character, enabling him to enjoy over
again, and even more than enjoy the mellowed
influence of impressions formerly received. Nor
is this the only, or perhaps even the principal
source of the pleasure to be derived from its em-
ployment ;
for as a social faculty, it is of primary
importance in enabling man to recollect the per-
son, the expressions, the words, the mode and
habits of thought, of those friends who are re-
moved from him by space or other circumstances,
or who have been withdrawn from him by death,
but whose words and feelings it is most useful for
him to recall :
" Still o'er these scenes my memory wakes,
" And fondly broods with miser care ;
" Time but th' impression stronger makes,
" As streams their channels deeper wear ;"
BURNS.
still seeks the re-enjoyment of the past, anxiously
desires the continuance of its influence, and
cheerfully anticipates the future.
Memory preserves not only the original por-
traits which have been received by attention, but
also those which have been obtained by the phe-
nomena of reflection ;
those internal impressions,
which have been wrought out of materials previ-
ously obtained. Thus the memory is destined to
the conservation of ideas, as well as to the repro-
duction of our best feelings and affections ;
to
312 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
soften our sorrows, and place us in the society of
those long lost : thus too, it is not always sub-
mitted to the will ;
we cannot invariably remem-
ber all that we wish to do ;
and on the contrary,
recollection is often awakened by the slightest,
and apparently the most inconsequent causes.
But it is also a source of torment. Memory too
faithfully pourtrays what we are most anxious
to forget ;
or produces recollected impressions,
which are associated with some of the most ex-
quisitely painful moments of our existence. In
the latter case, we live over again scenes of the
greatest agony, and with the ingenuity of self-
torture, we encourage and dwell upon these re-
miniscences ;
we add to the usual power of
memory all the acuteness and intensity which it
can derive from voluntary exertion ;
and which
is still more extraordinary, we can feel a secret
pleasure in so doing : so strange a being is man,
and such his aptitude for sensation, that the lux-
ury of sorrow is indulged, the recollection of his
keenest sufferings is fostered and heightened, by
every aid which can be obtained from associated
impression.
There are, on the contrary, some circumstances
of thought and action which we would rejoice to
obliterate from our view, but which involuntary
memory continues to present to the mind : the
image of those whom we have injured; the re-
collection of our follies, vices, and crimes ;
the
memory of our errors ;
the perverse consistency
with which we have maintained them, and their
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 313
influence upon the minds of others ;
the thousand
instances in which we have deviated from the
path of rectitude, and gone astray from the law
of God; neglected opportunities of usefulness to
others, or of improvement to ourselves ; mispent
hours, perverted talents, abused affections, and
other multiplied forms of delinquency, are ob-
truded upon the mind, and fill it with images of
remorse. Happy, indeed, are they, who thus
possessing the sins of their youth, are enabled, by
Divine assistance, to exchange self-torturing re-
morse for genuine sorrow and repentance ;
who
are led by this principle to seek forgiveness from
Him who alone can give peace, who is abundant
in mercy, who waits to be gracious, and rejoices
to blot out the sins of those who believe in Him,
as a cloud, and as a thick cloud their transgres-
sions. Happy they, who learn from the uneasy
influence of this principle, that man is not upright,
and that he never can be happy, unless he has
some way of atonement ;
and who are led by this
knowledge to seek an interest in the proffered
sacrifice !
Happy they, who from this acquaint-
ance with the constitution of their nature, do
actually feel how impossible is an approach to a
state of perfection, and who are thence driven to
seek strength from Him who alone can impart it.
Happy they, who reflecting upon the influence of
this property of mind in a future world of woe,
and upon the inconceivable misery it must entail
from contrasting the wretched choice that has
been made, with the happiness which was once
314 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
placed within their grasp, and which they have
voluntarily thrown away ;
shall have been driven
to lay hold of the hope set before them ;
to fly
for refuge from their own recollections to the
offers of mercy and reconciliation, through an
interest in the sacrifice of Christ ! Let the parent
and instructor avail themselves of this important
property of mind to set before their pupils the
beauty of virtue, the misery of vice, the advan-
tages of piety, the wretchedness of sin ;
and let
it afford a stimulus to good conduct, from the
delight it
may yield on the one hand, and the
utter misery to which it will inevitably lead on
the other. Let it also be a primary object to
store the memory with images of good ;
with
moral principles which, when reproduced in after
life, will lead the individual in the right way, and
prove the fruitful source of rectitude of action,
while they will also form a fund of intellectual
delight. Thus, every part even of intellectual
education may, and ought to be made subservient
to the everlasting interests of man, to his moral
welfare here, and his highest prospects for futu-
rity.
It will be only farther necessary to remark of
this faculty, that it is much more easily exercised
upon connected thought, than upon loosely asso-
ciated, or disjointed ideas. This arises from that
principle of association in which the very life of
memory consists, and whose influence every one
has experienced in the facility with which a
mathematical demonstration could be imprinted
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 315
upon the memory, merely because every succes-
sive development of the proposition was grounded
upon that which had preceded it, or upon some
acknowledged datum. The increased energy
afforded to recollection by means of a diagram,
will also well illustrate the influence of material
objects in assisting the operations of memory ;
and displays the advantage in education of instil-
ling, where it is
possible, not abstract notions, but
principles connected with the philosophy of real
life ;
and so readily tangible, as to be associated
with some visible external circumstances. The
wise parent will most gladly avail herself of these
several helps to instruction ;
and aware of the
importance of memory to her success, she will
not think that time ill-bestowed which is devoted
to the development of this faculty. Much may
be accomplished by exercise, towards strengthen-
ing this property ;
but on the principles above
mentioned, it is always to be preferred that it
should be employed upon ideas, not merely words ;
that it should be engaged upon that which it is
capable of comprehending, rather than upon sim-
ple repetition. The latter is too mechanical; and
however the brain, as the organ of memory, may
be strengthened by mere exercise, it must be
confessed that it will be much more effectually
energized by employing that peculiar stimulus
which is suited to its* nature, and congenial with
its office ;
while it will also acquire a much
greater degree of power, by the reflex operation
upon it, of the immaterial principle. Thus the
316 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
employment of memory upon long pieces of which
the child does not understand a syllable, will do
but little good ;
while engaging it
upon that which
is within the reach of its
understanding, which
will give it ideas, and furnish it with principles ;
will augment the power of the faculty, while it
forms the character. Mathematical demonstra-
tions have been alluded to, and they are peculiarly
useful, not only as exercises for this faculty, and
as teaching the value of connected reasoning, but
as communicating habits of correct thinking, en-
larging the views, shewing the real powers of
argument, and enabling the young to detect illo-
gical or inconsequent conclusions from fallacious
or insufficient data. A child should be always
treated as a rational being, not as an automaton ;
and there will be very little hope of the beneficial
influence of instruction communicated upon the
latter principle. A certain proportion of know-
ledge may indeed be driven into the mind, by
the same process as that with which bears or dogs
are taught to dance; and it
may answer very
well for a similar purpose, viz. to exhibit for the
amusement, and excite the wonder of the idle and
the ignorant ;
but " cui bono ?" for what is it
available ? It is useless beyond this immediate
object; and we grasp a puppet instead of a ra-
tional being prepared, indeed, to perform its
part of silly emptiness, to pass through life un-
noticed and unknown, and to glide away from
existence, forgotten and not regretted.
317
CHAP. X.
ON IMAGINATION DIFFERENCE BETWEEN IT AND THE
COMBINED AGENCY OF MEMORY AND REFLECTION
ITS GENERAL CHARACTERS NECESSITY FOR ITS
SUBMISSION TO THE JUDGMENT ITS INFLUENCE
UPON THE MENTAL MANIFESTATIONS ITS PRAC-
TICAL ERRORS ITS EVIL TENDENCY ITS ILLUSIONS
PREJUDICE SUPERSTITION ITS PECULIAR IN-
FLUENCE ON THE FEMALE MIND ITS USES THE
PRINCIPAL OCCASIONS FOR ITS CULTIVATION IN-
FLUENCE OF RELIGIOUS NOVELS.
VII. Imagination,
THE influence of imagination might almost seem
to resemble that which would be produced by
the combined agency of memory and reflection:
the one preserving, the other vivifying, multiply-
ing, and uniting afresh the several ideas, which
have been the object of their particular attention.
But there will be found to be this difference ;
that while memory is conversant with positive
facts and reasoning, and is
materially assisted by
its connexion with external objects, and by order,
and method, and arrangement in receiving and
appropriating its stores ;
and while reflection pro-
duces new combinations from the ideas which it
has received, and the associations of which they
are susceptible :
imagination disdains the incum-
318 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
brance of thought, fettered with order and system
and regularity : it leaves behind it the beaten
track of facts and experience ;
it
despises the
slow process of working out its conclusions, or
even of forming its associations upon any regular
principle ;
it soars above the duller efforts of rea-
son and of the understanding ;
it sets no value
upon the assistance of material objects; it makes
a virtue of escaping from the sober rules of sub-
stantial argument; it admits no principle of
combination; but that of its own fanciful connec-
tion or ideal resemblance ;
and it
essentially con-
sists in the power of representing objects such as
they might exist, or in following trains of reasoning-
such as might be produced. These characteristics
are peculiar to itself; and shew, at once, that it
is in its very nature an inventive faculty ;
that it
lives, and breathes, and luxuriates in an atmos-
phere of its own creation ;
and by means which
it
enjoys, not in common with any other mental
manifestation, but which are peculiarly its own.
Its activity is
truly astonishing \
and there appears
to be no bounds to the reach of its influence ;
since its aspirations are without limit ;
and since
it
acknowledges no rules or laws by which its
operations may be controuled or directed. Such
a faculty, it is manifest, must be dangerous
to its possessor ; it
may be the source of great
delight; it
may add to the wit, and fancy,
and fertility of expression ;
but it also leads
its votary, or its victim, into an unreal
world ; produces a distaste for the sober realities
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION, 3J9
of life ;
and beckons it
astray from the surest
guides of conduct.
It is then clear, that unless imagination be con-
trouled and regulated by some steady principle,
it will prove a very imperfect and erroneous di-
rectrix, and will frequently lead to obliquity of
action: while, on the contrary, if held in proper
subjection to the judgment, it will become an or-
nament to its possessor, and a source of very con-
siderable pleasure. It is
always a veritable mis-
fortune, when the mind is governed by creations
of its own, not by things as they actually are ;
since it is constantly enticed away from truth, by
the meteoric glare with which the imagination has
invested some distant and ideal existence, and
which is finally dissipated just as it
appears to
be within the grasp, leaving the wanderer to ex-
tricate himself from the gloom of midnight de-
sertion, without a single ray to direct his path.
This tendency is
particularly exhibited in the in-
fluence of this faculty upon the amount of our
fears and hopes, as well as in estimating the pro-
bability of future joys and sorrows. A sober
summing up of probabilities does not satisfy it;
and the mind subjugated to its sway, becomes
the sport of idle tremors, or extravagant expecta-
tions. Accordingly as the brain may have been
roused by excitement, or enfeebled by any de-
pressing cause, so will the prospects of to-morrow
be enlivened by the glowing tints of hope, or
characterized by the sombre hue of uncertainty,
in which the absence of light is just enough to
320 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
give countenance to fear ; because there is an in-
ability to ascertain the real causes of disquietude,
and therefore imagination pictures them in every
fantastic and unsightly form. In the one case,
the imaginative look forward, and perceiving no-
thing to thwart their inclinations or oppose their
designs, heedlessly pass onward, till
they fall into
some unperceived danger, and regret too late
their precipitation. In the other, they are left to
grope their darkling way, until paralysed by
terror, they have neither strength, nor energy of
mind sufficient, singly and simply to pursue an
object they can no longer perceive.
But this faculty also leads the individual to
form a false estimate of mankind; he sees them
through the medium of fancy, and the portrait
thus drawn of their character, induces him to in-
vest them with more pleasing attributes than they
really possess ;
or to deny them the actual influ-
ence of any single valuable trait. By far the more
general is the former error, in which with true
confiding weakness, we contemplate the world as
containing all that is amiable, benevolent, and
good : and on the other hand, we look upon it
with painful suspicion, and we contemplate all
around us, as influenced by the coldest selfish-
ness, unfeeling interest, and the most malignant
passions. And since neither of these views is
entirely correct, we may often, if we yield our-
selves to the influence of this principle, become
the dupes of our unworthy confidence on the one
hand, or of ungrounded suspicion on the other.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 321
The imagination is also a fruitful source of
evil ;
and betrays the fearful corruption of human
nature ; many a crime which has not been de-
veloped in action for want of opportunity, has
been entertained, brooded over, and perpetrated
in imagination ;
the thoughts of man's heart are
evil, and that continually. Even when employed
upon subjects of high importance, its results are
not to be depended upon ;
since it is apt to sub-
stitute its own fancies, for that which has been
clearly revealed ;
it endeavours too curiously to
pry into the councils of the Almighty, and seeks
by its feeble wanderings to supply that which
Omniscience has thought fit to conceal ;
as if
the glimmering of a phosphorescent insect, could
supply the light of that magnificent orb of day,
in which the scintillations of the former are en-
tirely lost.
This faculty is
subject to a variety of illusions
which it would be endless to specify, and almost
impossible to particularize. But when once it
has usurped its power over the mind, there is
no possibility of saying,
" thus far shalt thou go,
and no farther." Creation after creation of its
own will be produced, and invested with the im-
posing attributes of truth ; the mind will be de-
ceived into obedience, by the semblance of reality,
and will as firmly believe its results, as if they
were the consequence of deliberate certainty.
And so powerful is this influence, that it will
supersede that of the judgment : hence the im-
possibility of reasoning away these hallucinations
VOL. i. y
322 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
when once formed ;
hence the frequency and
force with which they become motives to action ;
and the ungovernable impulse with which they
involve all the mental manifestations in their
train.
From this sinister influence, it is evident how
important is the part of imagination in the pro-
duction of prejudice, that canker-worm of the
soul which slowly gnaws at its very centre, and
destroys all its opening beauties ;
that strangling
ivy, which entwines around its manifestations,
prevents its growth, and finally impairs its vita-
lity. Prejudice mainly depends upon that pro-
perty of imagination, by which it estimates the
qualities of things, not as they really are, but as
it would have them to be, in order to concur
with some preconceived views and feelings.
It is again the principal prop of superstition
in every shape ;
for this arises from some fancied
images of fear, the nature of which the mind
will not be at the trouble of investigating and
comparing with what it
actually knows of the re-
vealed will of Heaven. Thus ignorant people
are generally superstitious ; every hamlet has its
legend of fear :
every glade is peopled with genii
of different and imaginative properties ;
the cry-
ing of the coming storm, the lurid glare of the
lightnings, and the rolling thunder are shriekings
of the spirit of the tempest, and indications of
its anger. To the same cause are to be ascribed
the histories of the several varieties of fairies,
and their supposed influence on human actions,
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 323
as well as the thousand superstitious observances
to appease their anger, or conciliate their good
offices. And it is curious to remark, that these
firm beliefs of superstition are peculiar to a state
of ignorance, and gradually vanish before the
diffusion of knowledge, and of the light of
Christianity ;
because these at once develop and
inform the understanding, and subjugate the
fancy to its government ;
while by shewing the
only real objects for fear, they teach man to blush
for his weakness and his folly. Ignorance, and
the absence of real religion, will always foster a
principle of superstition, which will as certainly
give way to the opposite sources of thought and
action.
A lively imagination is more particularly the
attribute of the female mind, arising partly from
that mobility and susceptibility of the nervous
system with which nature has endowed it, and
partly from the influence of female education
which is often admirably calculated to develop
this faculty to the exclusion of those which ought
to be its counter agents. While we have been
compelled to say much against its uncontrouled
influence, we must also add, that imagination is
the source of many pleasing manifestations ;
and
intimately connected with the performance of
many important duties. It is
highly embellished
by that genuine feeling by which the female
mind is so eminently characterized ;
it is the in-
centive to many an office of real self-denying
benevolence; it
gives an astonishing interest to
Y 2
324 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
*&&/*
the duties of the several relations ; it communi-
cates a zest to the finer feelings of humanity ;
it
proves a harmless source of gratification when
indulged within proper limits ;
it diversifies
existence with a variety of new and pleasing
changes and modifications, which really add to
the satisfaction of its possessor, while they aug-
ment her own happiness, and enlarge the sphere
of her usefulness.
It is then one of the good gifts of God ;
which
admits of being usefully engaged, but which is
liable to abuse, and partakes of the general
proneness of human nature to that which is evil.
We have no quarrel with the faculty itself, but
with its perversion ;
and it is
commonly so
readily developed, of such rapid growth, so eager
of pursuit, and engrosses the attention so greatly,
that the principal object of the parent's attention
will unquestionably be, not to stimulate its in-
fluence, but to repress its wild luxuriance ;
and
to furnish a barrier to its wanderings, in the in-
crease and constant appeal from its allurements,
to the decisions of reason and religion. There
may be cases in which it will be desirable to cul-
tivate the imagination ;
but in general, the object
of care is to prune its vagrant shoots. In order
to be safely exercised, it must in every case be
regulated by the judgment ; this alone can en-
sure its useful application ;
this alone can save
its possessor from the dangers which have been
pointed out, and from falling headlong over the
precipice upon whose very brink he is conducted.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 325
In conclusion, it is evident from what has been
written above, that it is most important when
the imagination is lively, to attend to the de-
velopment of abstracted and connected reason-
ing, in order to subdue the growth of fancy ;
and
that for this purpose, mathematical pursuits, an
acquaintance with the fixed sciences, and all
that will permanently attract the mind to the
substantial realities of life will be invaluable. It
will be also most clearly demonstrable, with
how sparing a hand the young should be supplied
with works of fiction and imagination generally,
whether in prose or verse ;
since they all come
under the ban of exciting this faculty and its
attendant evils ;
not that we would entirely ex-
clude their employment, but we would most
sedulously guard against their frequent perusal,
and against that greedy devouring of such works
which is the common failing of the young and
inexperienced. Especially do we object to that
common form of imaginative reading, the reli-
gious novel, by whatever title it
may be dignified
or disguised ;
and we object to it as a bad vehicle
for serious truth ;
and as calculated to produce
an erroneous impression the more certainly, from
its professed object, lulling suspicion, and dis-
arming caution. This however, is not the place
for entering at large upon a subject, which will
hereafter come to be fully considered.
320
CHAP. XL
ON CONSCIENCE IT IS NOT A SIMPLE PRODUCT OF THE
UNDERSTANDING ITS NATURE ITS OFFICES IT
FORMS A MORAL JUDGMENT OF ACTIONS, AND IS
GOVERNED AND INSTRUCTED BY THE LAW OF GOD
IT DIRECTS THE CONDUCT, AND IS A GUIDE IN DIFFI-
CULTIES ITS DECISIONS ARE ALWAYS THE SAME,
WITH THOSE WHO POSSESS A SIMILAR AMOUNT OF
KNOWLEDGE AN EVIL CONSCIENCE A GOOD CON-
SCIENCE A TENDER CONSCIENCE CONVICTION ITS
RESULT CONSCIENCE IMPROVED BY KNOWLEDGE
AND EXERCISE HOW THIS IS TO BE ACCOMPLISHED
AND PRESERVED ITS SENSIBILITIES ARE TO BE EN-
COURAGED, AND ITS SLIGHTER ADMONITIONS LIS-
TENED TO EVIL OF INATTENTION GENERAL RE~
SULTS CONCLUSION.
VIII. Conscience.
THIS powerful principle, in common with those
already considered, forms one of the manifesta-
tions of mind, which have been given to man by
his Maker, and which are developed by time,
reason, instruction, and religion. It is not a
simple product of the understanding, since it can-
not be acquired by study, and exists indepen-
dently of it, and anterior to it. The first glow of
shame, the earliest consciousness of having done
wrong, may be traced almost as soon as the
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 327
infant's indistinct perception of the nature of right
and wrong, and certainly long before it can have
become generally acquainted with those immu-
table principles of truth, which in after life serve
to govern and direct the conscience. As it can-
not be acquired by study, so neither can it reach
its highest state of perfection and purity without
it ;
without that extensive acquaintance with the
divine law and its holy requisitions on the one
hand, and with the extent of the depravity of the
human heart on the other, together with the fre-
quent temptations by which it is assailed, and its
liability to be overcome by them.
One of its principal offices is that of forming a
moral judgment of actions ;
and this it can only
accomplish in proportion as it is acquainted with
the pure standard of right by which these actions
are to be tried, even the law of God ;
and the
fearful distance to which man has been removed
from any possibility in his own strength, or indeed
from any wish of complying with its demands.
Such is the tendency of the human heart to evil,
such its distaste for that which is good, and such
its aversion from God, that its propensities are in
favour of that which is wrong ;
and these would
pervert the conscience as to the real nature of
good and evil, if it were not aware of this liability
to error, and of its proneness to be deceived ;
and
if it did not keep watch over the secret springs
of thought and action ;
if it did not avail itself of
every means of enlarging its views, and of adding
to its accumulation of facts for conducting the
328 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
operations of mind. Thus then the principle,
though implanted by the Almighty Parent of
good, admits of improvement, and of more and
more extended application ;
and in proportion as
it is
enlarged and enlightened, so will the good
man's conduct be more pure, and his judgment
of things be more accurate.
Another of the offices of conscience is that of
governing the conduct ;
and this it does as a con-
sequence of that moral judgment which it has
precedingly formed, but without the necessity for
constantly recapitulating the grounds on which it
has been produced. There is, however, nothing
extraordinary in this property, since the mind
uniformly observes the same process in deter-
mining the nature of objects, with whose distin-
guishing peculiarities it has been previously ac-
quainted, and which, upon the recurrence of the
same, or similar features, it invests with analogous
attributes ;
and forms its idea of that one object,
as compounded of all the separate ideas which it
had originally obtained of the qualities of the
body in question, so as to constitute a similar
aggregate. For the same reason, conscience is
a guide through all the perplexities and difficul-
ties of life :
laying aside the maxims of expe-
diency, and acknowledging no other standard
than the divine law, it finds a clue to direct it
through all the labyrinths of feeling, passion,
society, and prejudice; it
pursues the even tenor
of its way, and turns not to the right hand or to
the left, refusing to listen to the voice of any
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 329
motive or principle which might distort the sim-
plicity of its views.
Thus, then, the unsophisticated decisions of
conscience are always the same among those who
possess a similar degree of knowledge, the same
power of discerning good from evil, and the same
advantages of revelation. The latter is a very
important circumstance ;
for it will be observed,
that the agency of natural conscience is
very dif-
ferent in its effects from that of the pure and holy
principle which the influence of Christianity has
fostered, a proof that it
requires instruction. The
same result will be obtained from considering the
attributes with which the principle is invested, as
when it is designated an evil conscience, a good
conscience, a tender conscience. By the former
term is intended rather the absence of conscience,
which in itself is
essentially good, and can never
be changed in its nature, though it
may cease to
be obeyed. The latter phraseology implies that
it is
susceptible of improvement and refinement :
and so it is ; yet a tender conscience is not to be
obtained by any process of human reasoning, by
the possession of a superior degree of intelligence,
by the faculty of nicer and more delicate associa-
tion, or by the deliberate contrast and comparison
of different modes and habits of thought and
feeling, and adjusting these according to philoso-
phical views of what is right, according to the
fitness of things, the natural harmony and equi-
librium of the senses and intellectual faculties,
or by the wants of society : all these may be ac-
330 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
complished abstractedly from the power of 'con-
science, which is a superadded principle the
soul's judgment of its own actions, according to
the light which natural religion has imparted ;
but above all, according to the unerring principles
of Divine Truth.
When the conscience is tender, the immediate
consequence of an appeal to its decisions is con-
viction, the objects of which are the peculiar attri-
butes of virtue and vice. Accordingly as any line
of conduct which we have before us, or which
we have pursued, may have been influenced by
one or another of these principles ; accordingly
as our motives may have been pure and holy, or
base, and selfish and wicked ;
and accordingly as
our objects may have been good or evil, so will
this conviction produce that testimony of a good
conscience, which will strengthen us in the pur-
suit of good, and lead us with humble thankful-
ness to Him, by whose grace we may have been
enabled to stand, and who has promised more
strength according to our necessities ; or, on the
contrary, it will conduct to that uneasy state of
mind, which occasions dissatisfaction in the first
instance, and in its
advancing stage the misery
of regret, the anguish of remorse, the agony of
guilt, the horrors of despair! Happy they in
whom this conviction produces repentance, and
holy sorrow, and a sincere turning to God, with
a real desire to do his will ;
.for He waiteth to be
gracious, and will not be sought in vain by the
genuine penitent.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 331
A tender conscience is augmented by constant
exercise ; by the habit of attending to its slightest
notices ; by appealing, on all occasions, to its
decisions, and by encouraging and cultivating its
monitions ! ! In this way its delicacy of tact in
discerning good from evil is developed ;
and the
good man who lives in the constant fear of God,
finds that its influence purifies his views, and
that it becomes the centre and spring of moral
truth, because it is the depository of the will of
the Most High, and tries every thought, and feel-
ing, and action, by its conformity or disconformity
to this only standard. Thus, then, it is of great
importance to develop tenderness of conscience ;
and this is to be accomplished, or at least at-
tempted, so far as educational means will avail,
by storing the mind with the divine principles
which should regulate not only the conduct but
the heart ;
and ufifolding these principles in action
accustoming the child to trace their influence
in his own mind, and to listen to their dictates as
an act of duty in the first instance, and also as
involving in their consequences peace, and hap-
piness and holiness, or disquietude, misery and
sin.
This appeal to principle should be made on all
questions of right arid wrong ;
for here there can
be no trivial occasion ;
and it is of the first im-
portance that the young should be induced early
to attend to the operations of their own minds,
and to listen to the feeblest whispering of that still
small voice, which will form an unerring guide to
332 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
truth. The necessity of this will appear still
more evidently from another property of con-
science, which it
possesses in common with many
other mental manifestations, viz. that if it be not
encouraged, and if its notices be not received
and attended to, its sensibilities become obtuse,
and it ceases to perceive at all its slighter admo-
nitions ;
in fact, the individual is not aware of
their existence ;
and such is the progress of evil,
that after a time they are no longer excited by
the contact of vice. And if such be the natural
consequence, when its admonitions are only not
attended to, how much more is this the case,
when they are resisted, where there is a refusal to
entertain them, and an obstinate and fatal perse-
verance in overcoming the uneasy feelings which
are the result of early disobedience. By degrees,
there will occur a considerable diminution in the
strength and frequency of the good impression,
and that which now produces the recoil,
" Is thy
servant a dog, that he should do this thing," by
and bye terminates in the actual commission of
the crime so intensely deprecated.
What an important charge, then, is committed
to parents and instructors in the development of
this principle that by which we learn to see,
and hear, and taste, and discern evil at its first
approach ;
that which in its after influence ac-
cuses or justifies ; punishes by blame, or recom-
penses by approbation ;
leads the broken repent-
ant heart to the cross of the Saviour ; produces
dependence upon divine assistance, and saves
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATJONT. 333
from the wretchedness of remorse : for conscience
is a judge from whose tribunal there is no pos-
sibility of flight ;
there is no chance of escaping
the operation of its unbending laws ;
its inflexible
decisions are ever operative; for although for-
giveness may be obtained of those whom we have
injured, conscience never forgives, and can only
be appeased by having all its guilty stains washed
in the blood of the Lamb.
So much for the physical education of this
principle ;
the mode of developing its sensibilities
will more particularly consist in the formation of
good, and in the subjugation of evil principles
and dispositions, which will come before us in a
subsequent part of this work.
334
CHAP. XII.
OF THE WILL DEFINITION OF ITS POWER AND EXTEN-
SIVE INFLUENCE ITS AGENCY UPON THE ANIMAL
FUNCTIONS ELUCIDATED BY EXAMPLES INFLUENCE
OF THE WILL UPON THE DETERMINATIONS OF MAN
IT SHOULD BE GUIDED BY PRUDENCE AND CAUTEON
INFLEXIBILITY FEEBLENESS OF THE WILL VACIL-
LATION OF PURPOSE ITS CAUSES AND CONSEQUENCES
THE WILL A TALENT TO BE IMPROVED ITS WAN-
DERINGS TO BE CONTROULED BY REASON, AND BY
REGULATING THE PASSIONS BUT REASON IS INSUF-
FICIENT, EVEN WHEN AIDED BY THE ASSOCIATED
VIRTUES AND THE WILL CAN ONLY BE THOROUGHLY
GOVERNED BY CHRISTIAN MOTIVES BASED ON CHRIS-
TIAN PRINCIPLE IT IS INFLUENCED BY THE STATE OF
THE ANIMAL FRAME, AS IN THE HYPOCHONDRIAC
AND IN EXTREME OLD AGE BUT MORE FREQUENTLY
BY A WANT OF STEADY PRINCIPLE HENCE THE OB-
JECTS OF EDUCATION WILL BE TWO-FOLD THE IN-
FLUENCE OF THE WILL SHOULD BE ON THE SIDE OF
THAT WHICH IS GOOD BUT IT IS IN FAVOUR OF THAT
WHICH IS EVIL HOW IS THIS EXPLAINED NOT BY
REASON, BUT BY REVELATION IT IS ONLY TO BE
RESTORED BY OMNIPOTENCE OBJECTS OF EDUCATION
TO INSTRUCT THE WILL, AND ENNOBLE ITS TENDEN-
CIES, BY INCULCATING A PRINCIPLE OF OBEDIENCE,
AND ENLISTING THE PASSIONS IN ITS SERVICE THE
CHARACTER IS CONSTITUTED BY THE WILL IN ACTION
THE DIFFICULTY OF SUBMITTING THIS PRINCIPLE
TO THE DIVINE GOVERNMENT, &C.
IX. Will.
THE extraordinary and extensive influence of this
faculty deserves our most attentive and detailed
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 335
consideration. By the will, is intended, not
merely the function of volition, which man pos-
sesses in common with the lower animals ;
a
power which presides over some of the organic
functions, (particularly of the loco-motive appa-
ratus,) and influences others ;
but a deeply rooted,
governing principle of action ;
a manifestation of
mind most widely operative ; capable of the most
useful, but often employed to bring about the
most baneful results. It is a faculty, which is,
not only not coincident with the volition of ani-
mals, which is only an ephemeral act, arising
from a present and fugitive impulse ;
but which
peculiarly distinguishes man by its originating in
the immaterial principle ; by its being under the
government of reason ;
and by its possessing
some marked and abiding features, which though
too readily moulded by circumstances, do yet
retain enough of their primitive cast to be again
recognized under every change of form and senti-
ment; yea, even under the disguise of passion
and prejudice.
The influence of the will upon the animal func-
tions is
exemplified in the continued and ener-
getic perseverance of exertion, in spite of every
contravening obstacle, while there still remains a
ray of hope that the object of desire and of pur-
suit may be accomplished. In this way, it will
triumph over every difficulty ;
the most imminent
danger will not retard the progress ;
the prospect
of death itself will not appal ; animated by hope,
and supported by fortitude, the animal powers
336 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
are raised to the performance of efforts, which
would appear almost incredible ;
and which are
not to be found in the brute creation, because
they want that perfect principle, which can only
result from the union of the soul with the body,
and from its
deeply-felt and abiding influence.
The power of this faculty is elucidated by its
enabling the man to surmount the cravings of
nature, and to rise superior to its most pressing
wants, as in those miserable instances in which
patients have submitted to the severest privations,
with an obstinacy and firmness of purpose alto-
gether invincible. No matter what may have
been the powerful principle, which first called
into exercise this important property of the will ;
whether this may have been a fixed determination
thus to escape from the calamities of present
scenes ;
whether it
may have been the offspring
of superstition prompting a wish to imitate the
lengthened fasting of our Saviour ;
or may have
resulted from maniacal hallucination ;
the motive
for this powerful effort of the will is not material :
it is
only intended in this place to demonstrate
the existence of the faculty, and the mode in
which it serves to distinguish man from animals.
This astonishing influence is also still farther
elucidated by the remarkable instance related by
Dr. Cheyne, in his "English Malady," of an in-
dividual who had the power of dying when he
pleased. It is well known, that there are in the
human body some functions entirely under the
influence of volition, and others which are only
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 337
tially so ;
and that placed among the latter is the
function of respiration, which may be suspended
by the will for a certain time, after which the
desire of the system for air, supersedes the pre-
sent effort, and breathing is produced in spite of
the most determined resolution to the contrary.
The heart also may be influenced by the will ;
but in general, its unvaried action cannot be alto-
gether interrupted. The wisdom of this appoint-
ment is at once apparent, and will be still
farther proved by considering the extraordinary
power possessed by the individual in question,
over these and other organs necessary to the con-
tinuance of life. These he had been in the habit
of suspending, and again prepared to do so before
Dr. Cheyne and his friends : he composed him-
self upon the bed; by degrees respiration ceased;
the pulse and the action of the heart became
imperceptible, and the individual was to all ap-
pearance dead, so that the attendants concluded
he was dead. Yet while they were discussing
this strange phenomenon, the patient began to
shew symptoms of returning vitality, and was
restored. The sequel of this narrative is melan-
choly :
probably nature had been trifled with
once too often ;
and the several organs had suf-
fered too severely from the unnatural violence
they had sustained, to be again completely rein-
stated in their functions : for the patient, though
rescued from this state of apparent death, fell a
victim probably to his indiscreet voluntary efforts,
on the same evening ;
a proof at once, of the
VOL. j. z
338 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
power of the faculty, and of the wisdom of the
Supreme, in abstracting the most essential vital
organs from its influence.
By the agency of the will, man governs and
directs his determinations. In every instance,
however, the active exercise of the faculty,
should originate in the preceding judgment which
has been formed upon due consideration ; it
should constitute the power by which we act up
to the decisions of reason. Thus the will is sub-
mitted to the dictates of the understanding, and
should always be found in accordance with it,
and ready to yield a willing obedience to it, with
a greater or less degree of promptitude, according
to the circumstances under which the award of
judgment has been made, and in proportion as
the feelings may have been more or less power-
fully interested. The manifestation of these
mental determinations will also be hastened or
retarded under the sanction of prudence and re-
flection. For it will often happen, that a know-
ledge of mankind will lead us to be aware of the
inexpediency of conduct under our circumstances,
of which we cannot but approve in general, and
which has the consent of our judgment as to its
principle. Not that we would be mistaken to in-
tend, the possibility of vacillation as to the foun-
dation on which truth rests: this is immutable:
but although it is a duty never to disguise the
truth, or to be afraid of acknowledging and avow-
ing a belief in it ; yet we are not always called
upon for a manifesto of our decisions, and it
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 339
would often be imprudent and injurious to volun-
teer it. We despise the individual (for character
he has none) who can mould his views according
to the society in which he is placed, and accom-
modate his opinions to the notions or prejudices
of others ;
we lightly esteem the conduct of him,
who trims his little vessel to catch the favouring
breeze of fashionable opinion : all we wish to ex-
press, is, that the will is not bound to manifest in
action, all that the judgment has awarded as true;
but that it should take prudence for its guide;
and that while it should be inflexible to ill, it
need not make a parade of its inflexibility, ex-
cept when called upon to defend itself or its prin-
ciples ;
or when it has a proper opportunity of
enlarging the influence of correct thinking.
This important caution will often produce a
desire to conciliate the minds of those who are
hostile, to win the way to their hearts, and to ob-
tain a resting place for our moral machinery ;
all
of which would have been effectually precluded
by precipitate or premature action, by overween-
ing zeal, or by a repulsive manner. In the ac-
complishment of the decisions of judgment, the
mode of effecting our object or delivering our con-
viction, is too often prejudicial to the best cause;
the Christian seems too frequently to have forgot-
ten the manners of the gentleman; and prejudice
is excited against real religion, and its influence
is circumscribed, and its consequences are calum-
niated : effects which ought to be ascribed to the
want of an enlarged mind, to a firmness of pur-
z 2
340 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
pose not sufficiently characterized by delicacy of
tact, by maturity of reflection, and by prudence
in action.
While these are some of the evils attendant
upon the excessive strength of the will, the ma-
nifold mischiefs resulting from a certain feebleness
of that faculty must not be forgotten; since this
is a characteristic much more frequently to be
observed, and much more disastrous in its conse-
quences than the former. There are, whose judg-
ment may be abundantly convinced, but who can
never be relied upon for a compliance with its
awards : the slightest obstacle will turn them
aside : when no personal and interested motives
paralyze their exertions, the fear of giving offence
will often induce them to blink the truth, and lead
them into concessions which their conscience
must disavow, and which will be productive of
after-regret. These will become all things to all
men ;
not by yielding unessential forms and pe-
culiarities, appeasing prejudice, and soothing
passion, but by sacrificing their principles. They
have no fixed and abiding grounds of conduct :
but act from feeling, impulse, or the spur of oc-
casion ;
and however just their views may have
previously been, they suffer these to be over-
come ; they cannot endure to differ from others,
and deliberately prefer making shipwreck of
conviction on the ever-shifting sands of cir-
cumstance.
Again, a feeble will is too often led captive by
temptation, and subordinated to its power. For
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 341
however it
may be induced to see and to own the
folly and wickedness of its past actions, and to be
filled with unavailing regret for their conse
quences; however it
may firmly resolve to act
differently in future, yet is every good resolution
crumbled away before the first billow of tempta-
tion ;
and the will to do good is
supplanted by
the tendency to do evil. Happy indeed are they,
who, feeling their helplessness and inability to
resist the tempter, have cried unto the STRONG
for strength ;
and who feel that they can do no-
thing of themselves, but that they can do all
things through Christ's strengthening them. This
imbecility of the will is often a result of the want
of those good principles, which it is the object of
education to inculcate, and work out in action :
hence, the very great importance of maintaining
and enlarging the influence of this faculty ;
of
teaching the child to will to do right, and to avoid
wrong ;
and of accustoming him in every way to
exercise his power of selection, and of subse-
quent undeviating action. For although in the
hour of temptation, the only possibility of stand-
ing is through divine assistance, yet, there is no
right to expect that this aid will be vouchsafed,
except to those who exert themselves to the work,
and only in the way of constant, though humble
and dependent effort.
The will is a talent: if it be improved, the
blessing and assistance of the Most High may be
expected; but if that talent be neglected, if it be
buried in a napkin, it were absurd to expect pro-
342 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
teetion, while living in direct violation of the com-
mands of him, who alone is able to save. The
importance of this principle in after life, is not
only exemplified inaction, but also in the defence
of that judgment and of those opinions, which
should only be formed after just deliberation, and
are not then to be changed by every emotion of
feeling, or by every variation of impulse, but
only by a conviction of the understanding,
grounded upon subsequent elucidations of truth.
The will is too often feeble from its wanting these
essential characters, and in consequence of its
arising from the excitement of passion. In an
ill-regulated mind, this faculty will be enslaved
by any sudden and powerful emotion : the storm
of anger will supplant the voice of reason ;
subvert
the influence of principle ; produce a forgetfulness
of the laws of God; and lead to a sacrifice of all
that man should most value. This again will be su-
perseded by any new impulse of sufficient power to
gain the attention of the intellectual organ ;
and
thus, man, rational man, becomes the creature of
sensation ; tempest-tossed on the ocean of pas-
sion ;
hurried hither and thither by contradictory
emotions ;
the man of feeling, whose conduct is
never to be relied upon or calculated, because he
is governed by, instead of himself governing, his
senses ;
and these being dependent upon organ-
isation, are influenced by all its varying condi-
tions, and by every change of external circum-
stance which acts upon it. This state of excite-
ment of the will is to be subdued by the influence
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 343
of reason, and by listening to its dictates, which
serve to regulate the passions.
Reason itself, however, when employed as a
motive to action, produces only a very feeble
effort of the will ;
an effort which is
easily sub-
dued by the slightest obstacles, or called away
from its purpose by the most transient allure-
ments. Every one who considers the operations
of his own mind, will discover, that however ne-
cessary is the exercise of the understanding to
the controul of passion, however desirable for the
regulation of the will ; yet that as the basis for its
exercise, it is deficient, and leads to feebleness
and irresolution of purpose, and to the most
mortifying failures. And although it
may derive
additional strength from enlisting the feelings
and passions in its support ;
since these, when
regulated and governed by the will, are reci-
procally beneficial ;
and while they derive gui-
dance and direction from reason, impart also
strength, and firmness, and character to its deci-
sions :
yet even these associated powers, the
combined influence of the rational and affective
faculties, is insufficient to produce that firm un-
bending will, which can only result from the wish
to do good, from a sincere desire of yielding obe-
dience to the will of God, and of conformity to
the Bible; in fact, from Christian motives based on
Christian principles.
The faculty of the will, like the other manifesta-
tions of mind, is
particularly influenced by the
state of its material organ ;
and this again is
344 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
easily disturbed by the distant irritation of some
other organ or function of the body. Thus, the
will is rendered irregular and vacillating by dis-
ease of the brain, as in hypochondriasis and
other similar affections, whether they may
have been produced by the primary agency of
some cause operating upon that viscus, or by
the indirect influence of a distant source of irri-
tation, as disordered action of the stomach and
digestive apparatus. Every one at all conversant
with the varying forms of that changeful malady,
well knows the thousand whims and caprices, by
which the patient is alternately agitated to ac-
tion, or slumbers into total inability for exertion.
Reason with a hypochondriac ; convince his
judgment ; prove to him the fallacy, the utter
groundlessness of his fears and fancies ; obtain
from him a promise of the required exertion ;
restore him to himself by argument ;
and before
you have left the house, his morbid tendency has
returned upon him ;
his will to follow your ad-
vice has vanished ;
and he is the same uncertain,
feeble, changeful, miserable being as before ;
he
looks through the same gloomy medium, and in-
vests every object, and circumstance with the
sombre hue of dissatisfaction, rendered often ten-
fold more acute and distressing by his judgment
being convinced, and by the conscious feeling
that he is
offending God by his ingratitude, as
well as by the impossibility which he feels of
taking pleasure in the gifts of Providence. At
another time, a similar state will assume the form
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 345
of listlessness and indifference to every kind of emo-
tion, whether pleasing or the contrary ; fears, the
most unreal and ridiculous, will usurp their sway
over others ;
and in all these cases the will is
rendered feeble, if it be not almost entirely lost :
its imbecile efforts resemble only the puny and
unguided exertions of the infant, which moves its
little limbs at the command of the will indeed,
but without an object, and without the possibility
of relying upon it for any given action.
So also in the decrepitude of advancing age,
this faculty experiences a material diminution of
power : and if we ever do find firmness of pur-
pose united to energy of action in the aged, we
remark it as an instance of one who has escaped
the ravages of time. And even in the minor
forms of disordered animal function, particularly
of the stomach, every one who has taken the
trouble to watch the operations of his own mind,
will have experienced a painful feebleness of voli-
tion, which has often proved a source of torment :
indecision has frequently marked his conduct ;
and
he has traced the influence of this state on the
most trifling occasions ;
even more, perhaps, than
on more serious subjects, when a greater mental
effort being required, the morbid tendency of the
animal machine may for a time be superseded.
The general uneasiness and discomfort pro-
duced by this feebleness and uncertainty of the
will, is also an evidence of its being an unnatural
state ;
one that is
constantly augmenting the
morbid cause which originally produced it, and
346 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
which introduces disorder into the mental mani-
festations :
yet here, vacillation is to be traced to
a bodily cause, acting primarily or secondarily
upon the brain. Although, however, it
may be
consolatory to know that the imbecility of the
will is arising from a corporeal source, which
may either cease, or be remedied, and by the re-
moval of which the effect will vanish, yet let it
be remembered, that a similar vacillation may be
produced from the want of steady principle. Let
not any individual take shelter under this truth,
and plead the state of his animal system in ex-
cuse for his changefulness of purpose ;
for we
have already seen that this morbid tendency may
be superseded by a powerful mental impression,
by a decided exertion of the immaterial principle,
leading to energy of action. Let not any indi-
vidual satisfy himself that his energetic purposes
are to be placed to the score of disordered stomach
or irritated brain ; by no means ;
an all-wise
Creator has endowed man with a principle of
mind, whose vast powers are capable of controul-
ing the actions of the organ by which its mani-
festations are rendered apparent ;
and if he should
have the misfortune to suffer from the state of
that organ, it is his duty to employ remedial
measures ;
and the one of primary efficacy is the
impulse of correct motive and sound principle.
The object of intellectual education will here be
three-fold : to remove the bodily source of irrita-
tion ;
to prevent its recurrence ; and, by the
energy of communicated mental exertion, to su-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 347
persede the morbid influence upon the brain, and
strengthen that organ so as to overcome its ten-
dency to irritation from slight corporeal causes.
As the proper action of the will should lead to
the harmony of all the vital functions, so also
should it favour the union, and concentration, and
homogeneousness of all the mental manifesta-
tions. The peace and regularity of the former
are indeed disturbed by causes acting indepen-
dently of the influence of volition, as in convul-
sions ;
and then there are no other means of re-
lieving this state, but those which are calculated
to remove the morbific source of excitement. But
the exercise of the mental will is more abund-
antly defended from injury; for however its har-
mony may be disturbed by the convulsion of
passion, or other violent emotion, it has not only
to seek the removal of this irritating cause, but
it possesses the power of controuling that cause,
and of superseding its influence by the exercise
of principle. Thus is man left without excuse
from his organisation, for any violent, unjust, or
injurious exercise of the will ;
and is amenable,
in every instance, for the employment of his ani-
mal and mental powers, to Him who conferred
them, and who has annexed to their exercise
abundant helps for their government and controuL
If the brain were not diseased, or the mind
depraved, the influence of the will would always
be on the side of that which is
good; that which
would uphold the constitution, and ennoble the
nature of man ; that which would enlarge the
348 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
boundaries of his social virtues, and which would
cause him to live in the perpetual fear and love
of God. But it needs no laboured argument to
prove that the converse of this proposition is true.
We have only to look around us, and to see the
will of man exerted for the destruction of his fine
constitution ;
for the debasement of his intellectual
powers ;
for the injury of social order, and in
open hostility to the laws of heaven. We see
that his will is debased, depraved, constantly
leading him astray from that which is right ;
and
must we then conclude, in defiance of fact and
observation, that the mental organ of all is dis-
eased, and incapable of performing its function
aright ;
or that some other change has passed
upon the moral nature of man, by which he has
lost the will to do good, and inclines only to that
which is evil ? The former position is
altogether
untenable ;
and the only obstacle to our convic-
tion of the truth of the latter, is how to explain
the lamentable but unquestioned fact, in what
way the pure and holy nature of man has become
so prone to evil, so utterly incapable of all that is
good? Reason unassisted reason that god of
our idolatry, with all its
powers and resources,
is inadequate to the explanation of the fact, which,
however, stands before us, in indisputable dis-
tinctness, and is confirmed by the experience of
every day, and by the secret sanction of the heart,
however unwilling it
may be openly to confess the
humiliating truth. Where, then, reason fails, let
it not be attempted to supply her place by
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 349
curiously imagined hypothesis ;
but let the truth
of what is taught in Holy Writ be humbly ac-
knowledged ;
viz. that by the fall, man has lost
the power of governing the will, and has surren-
dered it
up to the despotic sway of the author of
evil, in consequence of which it is
prone to error,
and is
very generally exerted in favour of that
which is wrong; that it is feebly stimulated to
exertion by all that is truly good and benevolent ;
and that it is persevering even to obstinacy in
pursuit of that which is injurious to man, and
hostile to his Maker. Yet this stubborn will may
be subdued by the power of Omnipotence may
be enlisted on the side of virtue, may be moulded
by Divine Grace, and being taught of God, may
become at once the ornament, and the chief value
of the mind of man.
The great objects of education, therefore, will
be to instruct the will and ennoble its tendencies.
These are to be accomplished by inculcating a
principle of obedience. One of the earliest mani-
festations of mind, is that of a perverse will ;
and
it is of the first importance to subject this re-
bellious principle, and teach it submission ;
at
first, of course, merely as an act of attention to
the direction of the parent, and which must often
be obtained by calling off the mind from its im-
mediate object; since it always operates un-
favourably, if it can be avoided, to have an open
struggle between the will of the parent, and that
of the child. But as soon as an infant can be
instructed, it should be taught obedience as a
350 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
principle of submission to the will of the parent,
the propriety of which is not to be questioned,
must not allow of hesitation, and should always
be fully complied with : and this discipline is to
pave the way for that moral principle which is to
inculcate and form the basis of obedience to the
will of God ;
and which will prepare the mind
for the communication of that will, so far as it is
taught in His holy word. Much time may be
devoted to this purpose, and will not be thrown
away ;
for the will, will never be enlisted on the
side of virtue, unless it be first taught to yield
obedience to authority, and to be influenced by
principle. This, however, is only a negative edu-
cational process; passive obedience is not enough
for the vast powers of this astonishing faculty !
It must not only be taught to yield selfish dis-
position, but it must be also exercised on the side
of principle. The will is generally found per-
verse enough in infancy; and it will be the part
of the instructor to turn this strength of purpose
to good account ;
and to employ it on the side of
that which is upright, to teach it to sacrifice in-
clination to a sense of duty, and to be firm and
unbending in its adherence to principled convic-
tion. It is to be instructed in the laws of God,
and the universality of their operation, and in the
unchangeable nature of truth ;
and it is to be
frequently employed in acts of self-denial, and in
the exercise of other virtues which are not con-
genial to the human mind. These it is to be
taught to practise in obedience to the commands
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 351
of God : but as the opening mind is capable of
receiving it, the will is to be strengthened by
enlisting the passions and affections on its side ;
by exciting it from motives of love to parents or
other relatives, benevolence to man, pity and
compassion, the hatred of sin, the love and the
fear of God, &c. When the will is feeble, yield-
ing, changeful, the child must be first taught the
inconvenience of this vacillation, by the little pri-
vations he will bring upon himself: let him make
up his own mind, and then let nothing move him :
he will soon learn the advantage and necessity of
knowing his own will ;
and thus will be formed a
basis for that firmness of purpose which is indis-
pensably necessary.
But we must never trust to an automatic prin-
ciple, however valuable; for it will yield in the
hour of temptation : at best it can only form a
basis, and the goodly superstructure is then to be
raised by the plan of successive strengthening of
the will which has been just enumerated. Thus
will it be instructed in all that is
important ;
in
the necessity of obedience to the will of God, of
abstracting its attention from self, and of acting
upon Christian motives : thus will its tendencies
be ennobled, and transplanted from all that is
low, and grovelling, and selfish, to that which is
pure and noble, benevolent and heaven-born.
The importance of this principle will appear from
the consideration, that the will forms the character
of the individual, or the assemblage of phenomena,
which is constituted by that aggregate of mental
352 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
manifestations which is formed by the will in
action.
Without the influence of the will, man is a
mere machine ;
his valuable properties, if he
chances to exhibit any, are accidental ;
the ab-
sence of will makes a feeble, fluctuating, erring
mortal : but the will to do good or to do evil ;
to
exhibit certain modes of action and passion ; to
be firm in the pursuit of virtue ; unbending in
hostility to vice ; to be kind towards others ;
to
relieve the wants and miseries of mankind ;
to ob-
viate their ignorance, and to furnish them with
correct motives for their conduct ;
the desire and
pursuit of knowledge ; the subordination and em-
ployment of every acquisition to the glory of
God, and the good of his creatures ;
the exercise
of the social and relative affections ;
an attention
to the peculiar duties of individual station ; the
regulation of the passions ; every public and pri-
vate virtue ;
in fact, the character of the man is
dependent upon the exercise of the will ;
and
therefore the time will not be thrown away, which
is devoted to the instruction of this faculty.
Lastly, the importance of this process will ap-
pear from the difficulty of willing with force, per-
severance, and permanence ; since that which is
intrinsically valuable, is rendered still more so,
exactly in proportion to its
rarity, and to the obsta-
cles in the way of its
acquisition. And as the
advantage of a firm, unyielding will in passing
through life, has been sufficiently demonstrated ;
and since so many causes are constantly opera-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 353
tive to render it feeble and yielding ;
since it is
assailed by temptation in a variety of ways, and
often under the specious garb of spurious affec-
tion ;
since the unshaken exercise of firmness,
and justice, and benevolence pure, heaven-born,
expansive, practical, self-denying benevolence,
are unquestionably difficult ;
since the will is
prone to evil, and not easily excited in favour of
good ;
since the principle of submission to the
will of another excites a natural recoil in the re-
bellious heart of man ;
since the influence of the
understanding alone is confessedly feeble, and the
heart is too commonly perverted by feeling, emo-
tion, and passion ;
since the decisions of the will
are hastily made, irrespective of the dictates of
prudence and reflection ;
since its determinations
once formed are liable to be influenced by chang-
ing circumstances, and its settled purpose de-
flected from its course by the slightest obstacles,
even as is the passage of a cannon ball by en-
countering a loose silk handkerchief; since it
may be rendered vacillating by a peculiar state of
the body ;
and since its natural tendency is to-
wards that which abstracts the mind from God ;
so can there be no doubt as to the truth and ex-
tent of the present proposition, nor of the neces-
sity for the careful education of this faculty. And
after all that can be done, and a great deal may *
be accomplished, yet the whole labour will be
lost, if it be not accompanied with earnest prayer
to God for his blessing ;
for He alone can change
the heart; He alone it is who cannot change;
VOL. J. A A
354 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION,
who is the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever ;
who is the first and the last, the Almighty ;
He
alone it is who knows not the shadow of a turn-
ing ;
who is above the influence of circumstance,
and independent of contingencies ;
He alone it is
who can communicate his Spirit ; by whose aid,
we his children may be made like Him, and may
humbly and sincerely desire to imitate the Sa-
viour, in his obedience to the will of his heavenly
Father, and in the unchangeableness of his love
to man.
355
CHAP. XIII.
ON THE FACULTY OF IMITATION-ITS IMPORTANCE
IN THE FORMATION OF HABITS INFLUENCE OF EX-
AMPLE, AND OF PRECEPT-IT IS NOT SIMPLY AN
AUTOMATIC ACT, BUT AN INTELLECTUAL FACULTY
IT FORMS THE GREAT PIVOT OF HUMAN ACTION
-PRONENESS TO IMITATE EVIL EXAMPLE, AND ITS
PERPETUITY-CAUTION-AUTOMATIC TENDENCY OF
THIS FACULTY-ITS INFLUENCE ON SOCIAL LIFE
IT IMPAIRS THE ORIGINALITY OF THOUGHT AND
ACTION FASHION-CUSTOM-IT IS TO BE LIMITED
TO GOOD EXAMPLES-MIMICRY RIDICULE BUF-
FOONERY-SATIRE-FEIGNED DISEASE, AND THE
PRECAUTIONS IT REQUIRES SYMPATHY-GENUINE
BENEVOLENCE-AWKWARD HABITS, AS YAWNING,
STAMMERING, &C. INFLUENCE OF IMITATION ON
THE FORMATION OF NATIONAL AND INDIVIDUAL
CHARACTER, AND THE IMPORTANCE OF GOOD MO-
DELS EMULATION A RESULT OF IMITATION-EF-
FECT OF THIS FACULTY UPON THE HUMAN HEART
AND CONDUCT MORAL INFLUENCE OF THE DESIRE
OF RESEMBLING OTHERS-VAST IMPORTANCE OF
DEVELOPING THIS FACULTY, AND OF GIVING IT A
GOOD BIAS IT IS TO BE EMPLOYED ON WORTHY
OBJECTS-GRADUAL EXTINCTION OF THE FACULTY IN
ADVANCING AGE INFLUENCE OF PUBLIC OPINION.
X. Imitation.
WITH a few remarks on the faculty of imitation,
the present section on the development of the
manifestations of mind will be concluded. A very
A A 2
350 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
little consideration will shew the importance of
this property, and its extensive influence on the
habits, and thoughts, and actions of mankind.
It is the foundation of much of their practical
knowledge, and leads to consequences of great
moment. It has been already shewn, that nature
has placed her strong-hold for the acquisition of
language, in the function of imitation, and conse-
quently for the pursuit of science, which is
only to
be possessed through its medium : and it is not un-
reasonable to infer, from this appointment alone,
that a faculty so richly endowed, and so exten-
sively operative, must be one of great capabilities,
and destined to exert an astonishing influence
upon the mental manifestations. And accordingly
we perceive the extent of this influence in the
formation of habits in general, which result from
the successive imitation of oneself, or of some
other individual ;
and in the uniform force of ex-
ample, whether good or bad.
Nothing is more commonly talked about, no-
thing less frequently thought of, than the influ-
ence of example. The truth of this position is
founded on the unequivocal result of experience,
and is demonstrative of the agency of this mental
property. Such a result, however, leads to an
erroneous conclusion, viz. that example is of more
importance than precept. This apparent conse-
quence cannot be true, since the former owes all
its influence to the latter; example being only
precept in action, developed by society, roused
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 357
by circumstances and situation, owing all its in-
fluence to the uniformity of its repetition, and this
always depending upon the regular application of
the precept in which it
originates. Thus precept
and example are both equally the objects of edu-
cation ;
and the latter derives its pre-eminent
power, only from being associated with external
objects and circumstances, which strike the senses,
and consequently rivet the attention. When
therefore the force of example is extolled, let not
the influence of precept be undervalued : since it
is from this, that example derives its continuous
energy : and let these conclusions be drawn from
the acknowledged premises ; first, that example
which does not originate in precept or principle,
will never operate usefully upon the conduct ;
and secondly, that the very best principles will
lose much of their power to strike upon the young
mind, and of their aptitude to combine with its
associations, unless they are rendered more influ-
ential by being developed in action. To this may
be added a corollary, that if
examples placed be-
fore children be at variance with the precepts
inculcated upon them, the influence of the former
will predominate, because of their greater power
as united to objects of sense ;
and because of the
doubt and scepticism so readily evolved in the
human mind, with regard to the truth of the best
principles, where those very principles are utterly
disregarded in the daily conduct of the life.
The faculty of imitation then proceeds upon an
intellectual basis, and is not simply the result of
358 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
automatic influence : it refers not only to visible,
and tangible, and audible objects ;
but to those
also which are presented through the aid of the
purely mental manifestations. There is however
the germ of this faculty to be found in that or-
ganisation with which nature has endowed us.
We see it in the economy of animals, not only in
the pursuit of that which is congenial with their
nature, but also in the acquisition of habits, which
are directly opposed to the influence of nature.
With them however it is not an energetic or ex-
tensively operative faculty, since its place is sup-
plied by instinct. Man, on the contrary, is the
creature of imitation : the agency of both precept
and example are dependent upon this mental
quality ;
and thus does it form the great pivot of
human action, and embraces equally the respect-
ive sources from which the latter originates.
The watchful parent will soon discover the in-
fluence of this faculty, and will again observe too,
that it is characterized by that unhappy bias,
which we have before had occasion to remark,
gives to all the mental manifestations a greater
aptitude to evil than to good. The important
lesson to be derived from this fact, is to remove
out of the way of children, every pernicious ex-
ample, and to place before them for imitation,
such principles and such consistent practice as
will store the mind with that which is useful,
and which will give their prevailing tinge to all
its
operations.
The peculiarities of individuals; their modes
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION, 359
and habits of thought, and action, and expres-
sion, are handed down, by means of this propen-
sity, from generation to generation, and produce
an incalculable influence to the remotest pos-
terity. How important is it then that parents
should watch over their own hearts and conduct
aye, even over their thoughts, that any pecu-
liar and undesirable bias, may be counteracted
instead of being exhibited for imitation; that
even the rising passion or emotion struggled with,
and successfully, though difficultly opposed, may
not leave its transient expression upon the coun-
tenance ;
that any unfortunate predisposition of
their own, over which they lament, may not be
developed in their children by the instrumentality
of this faculty ;
and above all, that any morbid
tendency which they feel in their own hearts,
may not be thus aroused in the bosom of their
offspring, and acquire a hold there, which it will
afterwards be difficult to correct. The importance
of this leading principle will often be insisted
upon in the subsequent pages of this work; but in
this place, the attention will be confined princi-
pally to such attributes of this faculty as will
afford an opportunity of pointing out its relation
to the processes of education.
By the influence of imitation, the manners and
habits of individuals are propagated and perpe-
tuated. Man naturally looks with respect to
those who are placed above him in rank, or sta-
tion, or talent, or peculiar worth, and even
worthlessness ;
and almost in spite of himself,
3(jO INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
resolves to imitate them. Too frequently, indeed,
he overlooks the best points of their character,
and determines to ape their peculiarities, to rival
their follies, and to surpass their weaknesses and
vices. How powerful, therefore, is the influence
of this principle upon the minds of children, who
look up to their parents as the first and most im-
portant beings in the world ; to whom they are
taught undeviating obedience, which is in fact
only another form of imitation ; especially when
their peculiar aptitude for the employment of this
faculty is considered.
To a certain extent, the agency of imitation
possesses an automatic power, and produces an
irresistible impulse. Every individual must be
conscious of this tendency, and of the frequent
occasions on which he is called upon to withstand
its solicitations, when he finds himself insensibly
acquiring manners and habits which his feeling
dislikes, and his judgment disapproves. But
there is also provided a countervailing influence
in the mind of man, in the necessity of principle
to give full force and efficiency to habit and ex-
ample. This it will be the grand object of edu-
cation to develop, to teach the young to enquire
if the example be good, and consistent with cor-
rect precept, before they allow themselves to in-
dulge the propensity to imitate ;
and founded
upon this basis, there will be no fear for the
result.
The faculty of imitation has an astonishing in-
fluence upon social life, which is
composed of a
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 361
lengthened series of small, and often undefmable
acts, and feelings, and sentiments : and mutual
good offices, concessions, and forbearances, which
constitute the sum of human life and comfort;
and which descends even to the mode in which
these little, and apparently insignificant acts are
thrown together in thought, or embodied in con-
duct : that code of habitual intercourse which
has been agreed upon by common consent as ne-
cessary, and which may be ascribed to that sim-
plest benevolence, which forms the ground-work
of kindness to those we love, and of politeness to all
with whom we are acquainted : a term often
abused to signify only the exterior tinsel of man-
ner ;
the form without the substance ;
the falla-
cious imitation of the principle which really and
truly consists in doing towards others as we
would wish them to do to us, if our situation were
reversed, and in making all around us happy ;
especially exerting ourselves that others, and
particularly inferiors, may be led to forget their
inferiority ;
not by imitating their grossness and
vulgarity, not by descending to their modes and
habits; but by that genuine kindness which
overlooks the deficiencies of others, and in the
uniform desire to do them good, merges the dif-
ference which time and circumstance have placed
between them ; by that easy unostentatious con-
descension which flows from principle, and is ex-
ercised so naturally, that the one gains dignity
from its employment, and the other never perceives
that the principle has been in exercise. It is in
362 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
this way alone, that we can hope to benefit those
who are below ourselves, who must first feel an
interest in us, before they will enquire into our
principles, or seek to imitate our conduct, or
listen to our advice.
The experience of all ages, proves that the ex-
ercise of this faculty impairs the originality of
thought and action. They who are left to their
own resources, will always form more original
characters than those who are placed in the midst
of society, and in constant converse with men, and
books, and things: but at the same time, they will
lose much polish and refinement, and some of the
finer sensibilities of our nature. There will be
more of passion, less of sentiment, in their cha-
racter. Hence, there is commonly more of ge-
nuine poetry in the productions of the half civi-
lized, than in a subsequent stage of refinement
and of imitation. It is the influence of this
faculty, which constitutes what we term fashion:
which essentially consists in the desire of imi-
tating those to whom we attach some valuable
superior quality. A moment's attention to what
is passing before us in this respect will shew the
wonderful operation of this principle. Every
year perhaps, produces some new, absurd, and
ridiculous mode, which we soon learn to tolerate,
and even to admire, because it is fashionable:
this is presently superseded by some new folly,
and we wonder how we could have ever borne
the former custom, now exploded by that which
constitutes our present comfort, and which is des-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 363
tined to yield to some other equally ridiculous
change : and yet under each of these vicissitudes,
the mind feels a kind of necessity for imitation. It
is all very well to indulge this propensity, so long
as its objects are harmless, though the very acm6
of fashion is almost always ridiculous. But it
often happens that it is attempted to give cur-
rency by fashion, to that which invades the boun-
daries of some fixed and determinate principle.
Here, again, is applied the rule as above defined :
example, at variance with precept, cannot be
worthy of imitation ;
and however common may
be any particular mode, it should always be re-
membered that custom never can palliate that
which is
essentially wrong ; since, if it could do
so, virtue and vice would be convertible terms ;
the latter being commuted into the former, by
becoming more extensively operative : that which
is wrong, can never become right by the frequency
of its repetition. Here then will be found a
well-defined and distinctive line for the parent
and instructor. While the exercise of the fa-
culty of imitation is
permitted, it is to be circum-
scribed at once, by the characteristics of right
and wrong ;
it is not to be allowed to range at large
in fashionable follies ;
much less, errors and vices :
it is moderate in its pursuit of all that is modish ;
and should be equidistant from the affectation of
singularity on the one hand, and from the desire
of giving the ton to any particular object, or even
of very closely following it, on the other.
There is another form in which this faculty
364 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
frequently develops itself; viz: in an aptitude
for mimicry; a dangerous talent, and one that
requires always to be repressed ; since, however,
it may contribute to the amusement of its pos-
sessor or others, yet it can never be indulged
without occasioning pain to those who are its
subjects, and without fostering in the bosom,
emotions which every wise and good man would
be anxious to repress. What, in fact, is the pe-
culiar food for the growth and manifestation of
this talent, but little peculiarities, which, how-
ever they may pass for the mannerism of the in-
dividual to whom they are natural, or naturally
acquired, yet are always ridiculous when sepa-
rated from his general character, and imitated by
another. Ridicule then, is the peculiar and ap-
propriate pabulum of the excrescence mimicry;
and can this be indulged without exciting pain
in the individual so caricatured ; for under these
circumstances the resemblance is always a cari-
cature. Can this propensity be permitted, with-
out entertaining a disparaging estimate of him
who is its subject? And can this be consistent
with general philanthropy, or with that individual
kindness, which should be felt and exercised for
the whole family of man ? The principle of be-
nevolence must necessarily be stunted and re-
pressed in those who cherish this habit ;
and is
not this a fearful evil, and one which should
keep the parent always on the alert to check its
first appearance, rather than, as is too frequently
the case, to indulge it for the sake of the amuse-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION". 365
merit it affords, and hope hereafter to place a
limit to its influence ? A dangerous experiment,
analogous to that of an individual, who would
set fire to his house, that he might enjoy the
grandeur of the conflagration, and afterwards ex-
tinguish it when he pleased.
In close connexion with mimicry, is that grosser
form of vulgar imitation, termed buffoonery ;
a
mental manifestation which is characterized by
its low and broad humour ;
and which, though it
may compel the reluctant and involuntary laugh,
does always produce a sigh, that poor human
nature can be so debased, and the powers of the
immaterial spirit so degraded ;
and in the less be-
nevolent character, does generally excite contempt
for the miserable notoriety to which the buffoon
must stoop, in order to court attention ;
a homage,
for whose momentary incense, he pays the forfeit
of his just reputation as a sensible, a rational
creature.
Besides, the employment of these modes of
imitation is so nearly allied to satire, with all its
hideous and malevolent progeny, that it is quite
impossible to define where innocent (if it can be
innocent) and playful mimicry terminates, and
guilty, fiend-like satire commences. And who
would wisely or prudently venture on the debate-
able ground which exists between them, when
there is to be found a sure and certain method of
escape from danger, even that of avoiding alto-
gether the fatal circle of malignant passion, on
whose magic skirts so many have relinquished
3GG INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
their love towards others, and have forgotten
the first principles, which should govern their
conduct and feeling towards their fellow man.
In close approximation to the exercise of
mimicry, is the imitation of disease. The exten-
sive power of feigned malady, when assumed
with a fraudulent intention, is
pretty extensively
known; but perhaps a sufficient degree of atten-
tion has never been given to the fact, that the
principle of imitation which confers upon the men-
dicant the faculty of simulating real disorder,
does also give to the child an aptitude for assum-
ing the phenomena of disease, without any bad
intention, but merely from the propensity to imi-
tate. Though this tendency is by no means con-
fined to females, yet we observe its predominance
more frequently among girls, and especially among
those who are assembled together in boarding
schools ;
a fact which is most readily accounted
for on the greater sensibility and susceptibility to
impression of the female nervous system; and
which also admits this inference, that the re-
union of many girls in female seminaries is fa-
vourable to the development of that susceptibility,
a state of irritability, which it should be the constant
aim of the parent to subdue. The maladies most
readily proving contagious from example, are
those particularly which affect the nervous sys-
tem ; as, for instance, the epileptic paroxysm,
many of the protean forms of hysterical affection,
the grotesque gesticulations of St. Vitus's dance,
&c. &c. We have known this tendency even in
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 367
private families, especially in the latter form of
disease : but in schools, epilepsy and hysteria
have become reigning maladies, from the primi-
tive existence of one genuine patient. It would
be stepping aside from our present object, to
point out the means of detecting the mimotic
from the real malady ;
all we can do is, to state
the existence of the fact, and to infer the neces-
sary caution of avoiding, as far as possible, so
great an evil. Where the simulated state has been
produced, it will be found that reason is
unavailing
for its removal ;
and that it is
readily superseded
by a powerful impression unexpectedly made
upon the nervous system ;
of which impressions,
none is more effectual than the sudden shock
arising from the unforeseen affusion of a bucket
full of cold water upon the person of the invalid,
so soon as the paroxysm is threatened. We have
frequently known the happiest results from this
treatment ;
we have often found the dread of its
application effect a cure; and we have never ob-
served it fail, not only of removing the immediate
symptoms, but also of superseding the tendency.
Care is of course to be taken, that after the appli-
cation of cold, a due reaction should be excited
on the surface of the body by means of friction,
exercise, &c.
Sympathy is a compounded principle, result-
ing, in many instances, partly from active bene-
volence of disposition ;
but also frequently, and
in a great degree, from the influence of the faculty
of imitation. When we see the usual expressions
3G8 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
of joy or sorrow, we feel an irresistible propensity
to adopt them as our own ;
to weep with those
who weep, or laugh with those who rejoice ; and
this, without regard to the causes which produce
these respective symbols, and simply from the
tendency of our sensitive system towards this
simulative property. This is a dangerous pro-
pensity, and it is to be guarded by the develop-
ment of genuine sympathy, which must always
originate in principle, and invariably propose to
itself some defined object; consisting, therefore,
not simply in feeling, but in action as its result.
The sympathy which terminates in merely in-
effective good wishes, or in the luxurious enjoy-
ment of the external characteristics of pity, is a
spurious principle, and is to be most sedulously
guarded against. The faculty has been imparted
for the purpose of doing good to others ;
and
this, its
only legitimate object, is to be steadily
kept in view. Thus constantly is the parent led,
from considering the manifestations of mind,
characterized as they are by the state of the ma-
terial organ which conducts them to the highest
moral duties, and the most important social re-
sults. Another effect of this principle of sym-
pathy, as it results from the faculty of imitation,
is that of yawning, or stammering, or other bad
habit. It is well known how thoroughly infec-
tious is the former state ;
and that a most dis-
agreeable propensity to yawn, will be produced
in a whole company by one who may be guilty of
this serious breach of the rules of politeness ;
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 369
and all must have observed their tendency to
contract a habit of stammering from having re-
sided with those who were affected with this
painful infirmity. The great importance of avoid-
ing and counteracting these propensities is ob-
vious enough, and will constitute so many ob-
jects of pursuit for the parental instructor.
The influence of this faculty on the formation
of national and individual character must also
be remarked. It has been already noticed, how
deeply rooted in the very constitution of our
nature is the faculty of imitation; we have
watched -its influence over a variety of physical
states of the system ;
and we are now prepared
to trace the exertion of this agency, over those
attributes of thinking, feeling, and doing, which
make up the character. We have already traced
its operation as exhibited both in precept and
example; and as nations are composed of indi-
viduals, so is national character constituted by
the greater or less prevalence of individuals, who
actually do, though unconsciously, imitate those
around them. The tendency to sober thought,
to rumination, to retirement, aye, perhaps, even
to melancholy of the Englishman the gay and
giddy thoughtlessness, the lively imagination,
and perpetual change of pursuit of the French-
man the phlegmatic, business-like manner of
the Dutch, are either the results of this principle
handed down from generation to generation ;
or
they are the consequence of original difference in
the immaterial principle, a position we have else-
VOL. i B B
370 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
where shewn to be untenable : or they are the
effect of climate, an influence which though im-
mensely overrated, is after all to be resolved into
a varying condition of the intellectual organ, pro-
duced by the operation of physical causes, to
which it is
peculiarly exposed through the me-
dium of the nervous system ;
a condition very
analogous with that in which the faculty of imi-
tation consists. And as nations are compounded
of the few, multiplied many times, we have only
to trace the agency of this principle upon the
latter, and to complicate its effects by the multi-
tude of which a nation is composed, and we
have before us at once a solution of the problem.
Thus then, to imitate is to learn ;
to make the
first
probably feeble effort after the acquisition
of knowledge : to continue to do so, is to ad-
vance towards perfection, to gather strength by
exercise, to develop those aptitudes of the sys-
tem for certain actions, which required only the
stimulus of circumstance ;
to produce by habit a
degree of facility in the employment of these pe-
culiarities, and to communicate their prevailing
tinge to the great variety of mental phenomena,
thus constituting character.
In the formation of character, it is of great
importance to set before the young good models,
and to instil into their minds good principles,
the frequent imitation of which will produce so
wide an influence, coeval with the duration of
life, and coextensive with all the manifestations
which characterize its continuance. The opera-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 371
tion of this faculty is not only automatic and di-
rect, but it is also reflective ;
it is not only de-
veloped by the immediate impulse, but it is
called into action by ruminating on examples or
precepts long since attended to, and reserved by
faithful memory for the future wants of the in-
dividual, the conservation of his identity, and
the full expansion of his social, moral, and intel-
lectual character.
.It will be necessary to notice hereafter the in-
fluence of this faculty in the production of emu-
lation, a principle which will be considered in
the remaining part of this work, but which will
here be barely mentioned. By its means, how-
ever, the intellectual faculties may be aroused to
exertion, and carried to a degree of activity and
improvement previously unknown ; they will as-
pire after the laurels which have been won by
the master spirits of our day, and will at least
(although they fail in the attempt of arriving at
the same degree of perfection) deserve well for
this noble daring ;
and will reach a stage of im-
provement very far in advance of those, who,
with similar capacities, have been contented to
slumber on in listless indolence ;
who have rested
satisfied with merely vegetating through life, ex-
hibiting the same unvarying hues, beautiful in-
deed to the eye, but possessing no locomotive
powers, no aptitude for the formation of ideas,
or for the extension of the boundaries of know-
ledge.
The power of imitation over the human heart
B B2
372 1NTELLECTUA L EDUCATION.
and conduct, is frequently exhibited in society,
and few altogether escape its influence. Nothing
is more common than to hear the conduct of
others alleged as an excuse for, or a justification
of our own ; nothing more frequent than that the
usages of society should be announced as the
ground of our views and feelings. We adopt its
maxims ;
we receive its opinions ;
we are influ-
enced by its practice ;
and yet, perhaps, we se-
cretly disavow the restraint imposed upon us, by
the narrow though fluctuating boundary thus
described, fenced in as it is by a thousand pas-
sions and prejudices. Probably we are scarcely
ourselves aware of the extensive agency of this
faculty, nor of its slow and insidious approach.
At first we meet with opinions and sentiments
which are at variance with the principles we have
imbibed, and which we refer to the standard of
immutable truth ;
from the desire we feel of be-
ing pleasing to others, that is of resembling
them ;
from the wish to avoid singularity ;
from
the hope of escaping a charge of affectation, we
not only omit to bear a decided testimony against
such opinions, but we appear to side with them ;
by frequent repetition, and the imitation of our-
selves, this appearance is changed into reality ;
the repulsive sentiments excite less and less
painful feelings until their natural influence is
lost ;
and the fear of losing the good opinion of
those around us by differing from them, has been
positively changed into a desire to resemble
them ;
we think and feel in common, and having
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 373
adopted their maxims and opinions, we glide most
insensibly into that action which is their neces-
sary consequence. At first we may experience
an uneasy feeling from any compliance, which in-
volves a sacrifice of principle ;
but this desire of
imitation is the dexterous traitor, which inveigles
us away from our principles, and insensibly robs
us of our rectitude of conduct, and of the peace
of mind with which it stands connected. So ex-
tensively operative is this principle, that we
really become like those, who at first are the
objects of our compassion for their delusions ;
we enter into all their views, and perhaps even
surpass them in their delinquencies. The love
of uniformity in exterior, has been most com-
pletely successful in changing our character, and
in producing the wished for assimilation ;
but it
has been accomplished by the forfeiture of prin-
ciple by a departure from truth by an aban-
donment of peace of mind, and by the rejection
of the monitions of conscience. And where this
has not resulted in its full extent, still the same
influence may be traced in compliances which
will not bear the scrutiny of self-examination,
and which must not be allowed ; for a departure
from justice, even a leaning towards error, a
yielding or attempt to accommodate the immu-
table boundaries of truth, will always involve a
certain degree of guilt, and a proportionate award
of punishment. How important then is the duty,
how awfully responsible the situation of the pa-
rent, who has at once to employ the faculty of
374 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
imitation in the pursuit of good, and to check its
predisposition to evil ;
surrounded as it is, by this
malignant spirit in every pleasing form, invested
with every attraction that reason, and the under-
standing, and the fancy in all their endless va-
rieties of combination ; fashion, and its wor-
shippers ; custom, and its imposing sanctions;
together with social and relative connexions, can
throw around it ;
a deceitful glare, which nothing
but the pure and steady light of Christianity can
dissipate. Admitting such to be the fact, it is
easy to see how readily the young and inexpe-
rienced may be led astray; over whom the desire
of imitation is more influential, and the power
of detecting and resisting the operation of this
tendency is altogether feeble.
The great means of safety consist in employing
this faculty upon worthy objects ;
for it must be
exercised; and it will rather imitate that which is
evil and odious, than be unemployed. It will
at once be seen that the direction of imitation
will involve many considerations which regard
the gradual introduction to society, the choice of
companions, the formation of juvenile friendships,
the careful selection of books, and energetic
watchfulness over every description of reading ;
as well as the inculcation of various doctrines,
opinions, and maxims, which rather form the pe-
culiar objects of moral education, and which will
therefore come under our notice presently. We
shall only here beseech the attention of parents
to the education of the faculty, that it may re-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 375
ceive a useful, rather than contract an injurious
bias.
The influence of this principle is
particularly
exerted over the young ;
and it will be remarked,
that with augmenting years, there is an equable
and constant loss of the power of imitation, and
that it becomes eventually eclipsed, while all the
other faculties of the mind retain the freshness of
their vigour ; exactly in the same way as several
of the purely bodily organs, having served their
office (and often an important office too) in the
animal economy become useless, and finally cease
to exist. There are probably several causes
which contribute to this state. In the first place,
nature has most wisely conferred this faculty for
information of character, and has therefore ren-
dered it active in early life ;
but inasmuch as it
would be useless and mischievous when the
character was established, and since it would
subject it to perpetual change, at a period when
fixity and stability are necessary, its
power has
been most wisely diminished, in proportion as
the individual has reached maturity. If then the
parent would imitate the wise appointment of
nature, she will carefully employ and exercise
and direct this faculty in early life ;
in order that
solid principles may be soon acquired ;
that the
character may be early formed, and that it
may
be thus abstracted from that disposition to
change, and to be influenced by others which we
have seen to be pregnant with so much evil.
The final extinction of the faculty of imitation
376 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
is under the influence of a mental as well as of
a bodily cause. The wise man looks around
him ; he watches the features of the times, the
temptations to change, the fall of systems and
the birth of others : the hatred, the toleration,
and the final encouragement of the same modes
and habits of thought ;
he traces the fluctuation
of sentiment, and compares it with the unchang-
ing nature of truth ;
he broods over the muta-
tions of society, and the change to which all
around him is subjected ;
he observes the preva-
lence of selfishness, and the inadequate influence
of disinterested principle ; he sees that nothing
is so uncertain as man, moved by every zephyr,
and whirled in incalculable tracks by the gusts of
passion ;
he marks with aversion, the influence
of unprincipled reasoning and unhallowed desire,
and he concludes that his fellow man is not so
worthy of imitation ;
he is driven back upon
himself and his principles ;
he seeks to act up to
these with consistency; he lays aside the pro-
pensity to imitate ;
and determines in the strength
of divine truth to be guided only by its clear and
steady light. Where this change has taken place
upon a just foundation and sufficient information,
we meet with the man of sound judgment, and
just views of men and things ;
and on the con-
trary, where it has resulted from narrow and
confined sources of information, or in a mind
soured by repeated and by angry disappointment,
we shall find the man of strong feelings and pre-
judices.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 377
If left to itself, and its uncontrouled opera-
tions, and if the mind were governed only by the
morality of the Bible, the result of this faculty
would be most beneficial, in the formation of a
certain standard of public opinion, which would
then be always coincident with the pure source
of truth : a fact, which however superseded by
the existing state of society, nevertheless de-
serves consideration and presents an object wor-
thy of pursuit; since each individual has the
power of advancing truth by his example and in-
fluence. And although the legitimate operation
of public opinion is most lamentably perverted,
by our existing manners and social institutions,
yet each one has it in his power to contribute
something towards raising its standard value, and
diminishing the weight and extent of the causes
which pervert it. Let then, such be the constant
aim of all ;
let such be the hope, the prospect,
the ultimate design of education, viz. so to de-
velop this faculty, as that it
may contribute to
raise, rather than to depress the character.
378
CHAP. XIV.
INFLUENCE OF EDUCATION UPON THE ORGAN OF THE
INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES, AND UPON ITS GREAT
VARIETY OF FUNCTION RULES TO BE OBSERVED-
FIRST, THE ORIGINAL PREPONDERANCE IS TO BE
CONSULTED AND FOSTERED IF POSSIBLE, BUT
COUNTERACTED WHEN NECESSARY SECOND, THE
HARMONY AND EQUILIBRIUM OF THE MENTAL POW-
ERS ARE NOT TO BE SACRIFICED TO OUR SOCIAL
INSTITUTIONS THIRD, IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF
THE INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES, THEIR INFLUENCE
UPON THE PHYSICAL SYSTEM, AND ESPECIALLY UPON
THE BRAIN, IS TO BE DULY ESTIMATED WITH
REGARD TO THE DEGREE OF EXCITEMENT PRO-
DUCED TO THE UNDUE PREPONDERANCE OF ANY
ONE FACULTY ESPECIALLY AS RESPECTS THE ME-
MORY THE ATTENTION ASSOCIATION THE WILL
AND JUDGMENT CAUTIONS ON ALL THESE SUB-
JECTS.
WE now come to consider the influence of educa-
tion upon the organ of the intellectual faculties,
and upon its great variety of function : in doing
which, we shall embrace many observations,
which could not conveniently have been arranged
in the course that has been pursued.
I. Where so great a difference has been found
to exist, in the peculiar aptitudes of different in-
dividuals, it must form the basis of all successful
education, to ascertain the original prepondc-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 379
ranee ;
to consult and foster it where this is
pos-
sible ;
and to counteract it where it is necessary.
The former of these processes is by far the most
desirable ;
for although education may accomplish
a great deal by proper training, yet the native
tendency will frequently exert its power; the
mental shoot, though fixed by art in a certain
direction, will still shew the disposition it has
originally received ;
and since in the conflict be-
tween nature and education, a certain proportion
of mental energy is expended, which might have
been reserved for more advantageous employ-
ment, it is desirable to avoid this struggle, to
study the character, to watch the development of
mental attribute, and to employ the knowledge
thus obtained for the good of the individual.
Thus for instance, it should be early ascer-
tained, what is the power of the will, and its effi-
cacy to controul the passions ;
and it is right to
inquire if it be strong in proportion to the amount
of the imagination, and to the influence of the
sentiments and desires. Where the will is ener-
getic, cold, impassive, it will be the object of
the parent to diminish its
intensity, as well as its
abstracted character, by an infusion of the social
and relative duties and affections ; which, with-
out derogating from its strength, will diminish
its austerity, and communicate that tenderness of
feeling, that susceptibility to emotion, that be-
nevolence of disposition, which without detracting
from its stable principle, will take away from its
inflexibility, and will subject it to the influence
380 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
of social motive. And on the contrary, where
the irritable, fluctuating mind, is carried away by
lively feeling, by every change of emotion, or of
circumstance, whether imaginative or real, it will
be the first object to give it firmness, and fixity,
and permanence by the means which have been
already recommended, viz. by a development of
the judgment.
The same principle will induce the parent to
estimate fairly the powers of acquisition of the
child. Is he capable of ever filling the situation
in life, for which he is designed ;
and for what
pursuits will his apparent talents render him
peculiarly capable of success ? It is
misery to
children, and cruelty on the part of parents, to
persevere in bringing up their offspring, with a
view to future stations, which must be perfectly
uncongenial with the natural bias of their minds.
Under such circumstances, energy of pursuit
cannot be expected, neither the success which
results from it ;
the individual drudges on with
just so great a quantum of exertion as he may be
compelled to employ, without interest in his en-
gagements, and resting satisfied with the amount
of activity positively enjoined, and even generally
with something short of that demand. Chained,
perhaps for life, to studies and pursuits, which
are hateful to him, excellence is out of the ques-
tion, since the effort to acquire knowledge, can
only in such a situation result from principle,
which operates as a feeble incentive to do more
than indispensable duty ; while the disagreeable
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 381
occupations it involves render the mind irritable,
peevish, unfit for persevering exertion ; destroy
its cheerfulness ;
often invade the harmony of the
family circle ;
and produce a kind of dissatisfac-
tion most disagreeable to the sufferer, most pain-
ful to his friends, most injurious to his social
and relative value, most destructive to his energy
of action, and perseverance in well doing. It
must however be remembered, that the educa-
tional process by means of which these intellec-
tual faculties are manifested, will operate great
changes, and will exhibit latent qualities, the ex-
istence of which were not before suspected ;
so
that no judgment should be hastily formed, till
time and opportunity have been given for the ma-
nifestation of properties, which require the sti-
mulus of occasion, to betray their existence and
their influence. But when once the opinion has
been formed upon sufficient data, every effort
should be directed to the fulfilment of the conse-
quent indication.
II. The harmony and equilibrium of the men-
tal powers, are not to be sacrificed to our social
institutions of whatever character.
The tendency of nature, and the influence of
civilization are always to be considered in one
point of view ;
and especially, if the latter may
have advanced towards the refinement of luxury.
Whenever the appointments of society shall be
found opposed to the influence of unsophisticated
nature, it will be certain that they require a prin-
cipled resistance, since if left to exert their own
382 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
power, they will operate injuriously upon the
mind. The objects to which the attention of the
parent will be directed under this head, will be
either purely physical or mental, or will embrace
both at the same time. The former will be such
as tend to impair the vigour of the animal system.
Thus, for instance, in its mode of life, the sim-
plicity of the child may have been forgotten ;
and
luxurious indolence and effeminate care may have
been introduced.
This unfortunate mistake may Jirst develop it-
self in a choice offood : an idea which should never
be entertained by the young, whose only prin-
ciple should be to take moderately of that which
is placed before them ;
and this should always be
of the simplest and plainest kind, for which real
hunger will ever give a relish. The multifa-
rious resources of cookery to disguise the more
homely fare, to sophisticate its nature, vary its
gout, tempt the appetite, and stimulate the pa-
late, should be unknown in the nursery, as well
as every kind of sauce, and every other provoca-
tive to eat ;
the effect of which will always be to
produce an oppressed stomach, with a proportion-
ate diminution of the energy of the brain, and
consequent disorder of the intellectual manifesta-
tions. It is also of considerable importance to
the most perfect condition of that organ, that the
principal meal of children should be taken at an
early hour, and as nearly as possible to the middle
of the day, in order that the necessary supplies
may be communicated when most needed ;
and
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 383
that the energy of the sensorial power, may not
be accumulated upon the digestive function at the
period usually allotted to repose. For although
the process of digestion is in all probability more
completely performed during sleep ; yet the want
of perfect quiescence on the part of the brain, is
injurious to its functions: a fact which experi-
ence has abundantly declared in the uneasy slum-
bers of an oppressed stomach ;
the unrefreshing
sleep ;
the general languor of the system on the
following morning ;
and the disagreeable cerebral
sensations, if not positive headache ;
all
proving
that this organ has been irritated, and is therefore
less capable of its intellectual action.
The sleep of children should also be taken at
an early hour : not that it is
really very import-
ant at what period repose is obtained, habit be-
ing in this case almost omnipotent : but that the
brain has become exhausted during the day, by
the various functions it has been called upon to
perform ;
and if in this exhausted state, it should
be excited by the stimulus of candle-light, and
goaded by a variety of pursuits, even of amusement
and, a fortiori, of study, it will lose a correspond-
ing degree of its tone ;
its subsequent stage of
quiescence will be less complete, and its im-
paired energies will be less entirely recruited. If
children commence the night betimes, they will
also be prepared for early rising ;
a habit of sig-
nal advantage through life, and affording them at
once, the opportunity of exercise before break-
fast, and of employing the intellectual powers, at
384 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
the period best suited to their development, with
all the freshness of repose upon them, and when
there have been few objects to stimulate and ex-
cite this organ. All the more important pursuits
should be followed in the morning ;
while the af-
ternoon may be more completely devoted to
amusement, and to the perfection of the physical
powers. One other caution with regard to sleep :
its term should be such as is indicated by nature ;
but that is not natural sleep which is taken on a
feather bed and a down pillow, surrounded by
curtains in a close and ill-ventilated apartment ;
all causes tending to produce congestion of the
brain, and consequent prolonged slumbers. The
period of sleep to be determined by natural
waking, is when the individual is placed upon a
hard mattrass, when the head is preserved cool,
and a free circulation of fresh air through the
room, is permitted.
The exercise of children should not be arbi-
trary ; they should be allowed to take so much
as they are prompted to by the buoyant and
elastic spirit of infancy ;
and they should be en-
couraged in amusements, which will tend to the
development and the increase of physical power ;
but their regular periods of walking should not be
directly after dinner ;
since considerable exercise,
is then injurious to the ease and perfectness with
which digestion is accomplished; and since the
brain is rendered feeble, by the extraordinary
effort it is called upon to make under such cir-
cumstances. Where, indeed, the fare has been
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 385
simple, and the quantity taken has been small,
though sufficient, the mischievous effect of sub-
sequent exercise will not be much felt ; yet it
would be better to avoid the probability of dis-
turbing the circulation of the brain.
Parents should give up the wish for extraordi-
nary mental attainment on the part of their chil-
dren : it is far better to be possessed of a strong
intellectual organ, than of one whose dazzling
coruscations consume its own power, and gradu-
ally destroy its resources. So far from stimulating
an already brilliant child, great care should be
taken to diminish the intensity of the mental
actions : the brain should never be stretched
beyond the tension of health; and although there
can be no such thing as the acquisition of know-
ledge through the medium of amusement, yet
the periods devoted to this purpose should, at
first, be short, and the task easy; and both the
one and the other may be increased by degrees.
It has been remarked, that genius and insanity
are very nearly allied ;
an observation which
holds true in this respect only ;
that if the for-
mer, which we have believed to consist in intense
and persevering attention, be stimulated and ex-
cited, it will very frequently overturn the balance
of the organ, and produce insanity.
There exists, frequently, almost an insane de-
sire to bring children forward, to make them
prodigies of learning, and to urge their powers of
acquisition far beyond those of their understand-
ing ;
and in consequence, the capacity for ob-
VOL. i. c c
386 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
taining solid knowledge is impaired ;
the energy
of the brain is enfeebled ;
the corporeal powers
are attainted; and the individual, though per-
haps a good linguist, or a good mathematician,
ceases to become the man of general and avail-
able information. Thus from our social habits,
and from a desire of shewing off our children,
strength is sacrificed to precocity ;
the under-
standing is forced, and proportionably enfeebled ;
and, as every one knows, less capable of bearing
fruit afterwards. Stability is
yielded to orna-
ment ;
usefulness to brilliance ; permanence to
languor and decay.
Another very important precaution, is, that
during the period of study, the feet should be
kept warm. While the energy of the brain is
expended upon any intellectual pursuit, there is
always considerable tendency to coldness of the
extremities, in consequence of the blood being
principally distributed where it is most needed,
and from a certain proportion of the nervous
energy being abstracted from the function of ca-
lorification. But if this state should continue,
congestion in the vessels of the brain will be the
result, and as its consequence, a certain degree
of excited action, in order to relieve that con-
gestion : but this excitement is a morbid state,
a feverish irritation, and leaves the organ less
capable of energetic exertion. It is then, of the
first moment to preserve the warmth of the feet
during study, in order to avoid congestion of the
brain, and its consequences.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION". 387
Again, it is desirable to excite the intellectual
function generally, and not to employ its energies
upon one, or upon a few only of its manifestations.
If too great a preponderance be given to any one,
though a favourite faculty, the general strength
of the organ will be impaired ;
it will be accu-
mulated upon one mighty effort, and will sink
under its load. While, therefore, parents con-
sult the original preponderance, they will be
most careful not to goad, but rather to repress
with a gentle hand, the luxuriance of this very
power; a remark, we shall presently have oc-
casion to develop in greater detail. Education
should employ and harmonize the entire man;
should unfold the powers of the animal machine ;
prepare the heart to be actuated by all that is
good, and great, and noble ; enlarge the judg-
ment, so as to obtain a just measure of men and
things ;
and enlist the powers of the imagination
on the side of virtue, so as to extend the boun-
daries of the social compact, and add to its
beauty and entireness. Above all, the parent
wilL most jealously watch over the introduction of
the young to society ;
and its influence upon the
mental manifestations. This, more than every
other cause, disturbs that harmony of the mind,
which can alone secure its peace, or the maturity
of its fruits. The great objects to be guarded
against, are, the predominance of the imagi-
nation, and the development of a sickly sen-
sibility, together with the early excitation of
the passions. The provocatives of social inter-
c c 2
388 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
course, should be most sparingly and cautiously
administered ;
the imagination should be directed
to the actual wants of mankind ;
the expressions
of sensibility should be confined to that which
is in close and constant alliance with a system of
active and undeviating benevolence ;
and the pas-
sions should be employed only on the side of that
which is good, and amiable, and praise-worthy.
In the accomplishment of these objects, the re-
union of many children of different sexes, or
even of the same sex, should be carefully
avoided, because calculated to advance that pre-
maturity of feeling and passion, which it has
been particularly advised to repress. Whatever
institutions lead to this result are mischievous, and
often tend to the destruction of the purity, sim-
plicity, and peace of mind of the young, long-
before such a result can even be suspected. This
is no fancied conclusion, no ideal phantom, no
visionary creation, but resting on facts in the
author's possession.
Children are not, however, to be brought up
as ascetics ; they must mix with the world, they
must be educated in it, and partly conform to its
usages; but the longer it is before they are made
acquainted with its evil tendencies the better ;
the longer the passions are preserved dormant,
the more desirable, in order to give greater time
for the united persuasive sway of reason and
principle. But when they do mix with others
of their own age, let it not be in large parties,
and never, except under the superintending eye
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 389
of one who knows how to direct their pursuits ;
to discover the tendency to wrong ;
to discrimi-
nate the flowery and somewhat undefined verge
of passion ;
to detect the critical situation of the
young ;
and to turn their footsteps from the dan-
gerous precipice, without their perceiving the con-
troul which has been exerted over them. This is
a point of great consequence, and it is to be
effected not so much by counteracting the morbid
tendency, as by substituting another and a useful
bias. But if the social intercourse of the young
require to be so sedulously watched, of how
much more importance is it to regulate, aye,
rather to prevent the union of many, under cir-
cumstances calculated to develop the passions^
arouse the imagination, and give a preternatural
growth to the sentiments and feelings with which
it is allied.
We allude, in the first place, to the union of
children in order to be taught to dance ;
then to
children's balls; and finally, to their introduction
to society, and the fully formed stimulus of the
ball room. If children must be taught to dance,
let this instruction be communicated to families
at home, and under the eye of the parent.
But is the possession of this accomplishment
absolutely indispensable ? The reply will pro-
bably be in the affirmative, a proposition we
hesitate not to deny. It may be said, that chil-
dren will never lose awkwardness of manner, or
acquire the confidence so necessary to the ease
of quiet good breeding, unless they are taught to
390 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION'.
dance. We most fearlessly assert on the con-
trary, that the art of dancing can never confer
gentility ;
that 'good manners are essentially de-
pending upon delicacy of taste and refinement of
feeling ;
that a well educated mind, aided by the
society of other well educated minds, will always
possess all, and more than all that polish which
dancing can give ; ^that, at best, the art of dancing
can only confer upon the body that semblance of
grace, which belongs naturally to the well edu-
cated ;
and therefore, that it can be only evil by
giving currency to a counterfeit medium of inter-
course, and thus depreciating the sterling coin ;
and that consequently, it is useless to the well
educated and injurious to society, by levelling
those distinctions which ought ever to be pre-
served. But we go farther ;
we hesitate not to
affirm, that the artificial manner conferred by
dancing is discoverable from the natural ease of
the genteel and well educated, and never can be
placed in competition with it, while it leads the
young into the way of temptation. We object
not to the spontaneous gaiety of children, or to
their dancing among themselves, but to their being
taught to dance, which we have here proved to
be both useless and injurious. We object not to
drilling under proper restrictions, as a species of
gymnastic exercise, calculated to develop the
powers of the muscular system : it is not to the
exercise, but to the art of dancing, that these
strictures are applicable.
And if under the most favourable circum-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 391
stances the practice be objectionable, how much
more so must it be when many children meet
together to receive the dancing lesson, with all
the preparatives of dress, &c. obtaining their in-
struction probably from one of the most con-
temptible of the human race ;
and too often from
a man who is
bankrupt in principle, as well as in
fortune. Let parents deeply reflect on the cir-
cumstances in which they place their offspring,
for the sake of this little vanity of appearance.
Who can take fire into his bosom and not be
burned? Who can live in the atmosphere of
corruption and not be tainted by its influence ?
Still further, when we look to the consequences
of this art in the frequenting of children's balls,
an assembly which can scarcely be objected to,
if it be thought necessary to confer the art of
dancing ;
when we look to this assembly in mi-
niature, this epitome of that larger re-union of
grown up children ;
when we watch its influence
upon the imagination for days and weeks before-
hand ;
when we reflect on the time devoted to
preparation, the agitation and flutter of the little
heart during the period of expectation, and the
associated impossibility of serious attention ;
when
we look to the passions excited at the moment,
selfishness, envy, jealousy, discontent, and ha-
tred, with a mishapen brood of kindred emotions ;
when we contemplate the circumstances of can-
dle-light, music, refreshments: -all calculated to
stimulate and excite passions which should never
find their way to the bosom of the young; and
392 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
when we reflect on the physical mischiefs result-
ing from late hours, the privation of sleep, the
irritation of the brain, the exhaustion which it
suffers, and the languor which is the necessary
consequence; surely we have drawn a gloomy
portrait of simple unexaggerated facts, which
should induce parents to hesitate before they
commit their children, to take this first step in a
career so dangerous, so fraught with injury to
the health, debility of the intellectual powers,
and perversion of the moral character. We do
not here enter into the peculiar moral relations
of this art ;
these may perhaps yet come before
us : our object in this place, is to prove the mis-
chievous influence exerted upon the mental ma-
nifestations : and the harmony of those powers
is not to be sacrificed to any of our social insti-
tutions.
We shall only further remark on this head,
that the amusements of children, when assembled
in society should be most carefully watched and
directed, so as to give a rational and beneficial
influence to their intercourse. We should object
entirely to that of forfeits, unless the design of
the game were some valuable acquisition ;
and
unless the forfeits were awarded by some judi-
cious individual who could, and who would turn
them to good account, and not allow them to
become the vehicle of the most absurd, and alas !
too frequently of very equivocal consequences a
talismanic word ! which reminds us of a game
under this term, to be stigmatized as most per-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 393
nicious, and as too commonly leading the mind
to ideas, which it ought never to entertain.
On the subject of cards, we are not prepared
to enter a philippic against this amusement in
general, which is
principally objectionable on
account of the loss of time which it involves ;
but
with regard to the young, it is
placing in their
way the temptation to gamble, a spirit which
surely ought not to be fostered. No matter how
trifling the stake, if it be but an object of desire,
it will, at least in the unformed mind, develop
the principle of avarice, shrivel and contract the
heart into covetousness, foster the influence of
selfishness, and infringe the limits of benevo-
lence.
But if none of these consequences were to be
dreaded, (and surely any one of them is enough
to set at rest for ever the question,) the loss of time,
the abuse of that talent which should be devoted
to the acquisition of some valuable good ;
the loss
of time, which introduces disorder into the men-
tal manifestations ;
the loss of time, which throws
man v
back upon his animal nature, and leaves
him to become the sport of prejudice, circum-
stance, and passion ;
the loss of time, which unfits
him for combating with the evils of life, and for
preparing himself to meet its difficulties ;
the loss
of time, which deprives him of many of his
highest gratifications, and leaves no room for the
employment of his benevolent affections ; the loss
of time, which involves the pursuit of trifles, and
the forgetfulness of more important objects ;
the
394 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
loss of time, which debases the high powers of
his mind, and chains him down to the mere crea-
ture of sensation ;
the loss of time, which abstracts
him from the manifestations of his moral nature,
and unfits him for serious thought ;
the loss of
time, which calls off his attention from the will
of Heaven, and fixes it upon the sordid pursuits
of mortality ;
the loss of time, which can only be
improved during the continuance of that life
which is rapidly waning ;
the loss of time, the
only period allotted to us, to prove our obedience
to our Almighty Father, and to do his will ;
the
loss of time, which can never be regained, the
true estimate of which will perhaps not be formed
till the approaching night of dissolution, and for
the recovery of one hour of which, ages of amuse-
ment would then be cheerfully sacrificed ;
a loss
which can never be repaired, and the reflection
on which will add to the torments of the mise-
rable ; surely such a loss of time is a sufficient
objection to amusements, a sufficient plea for the
watchfulness of parents, who prefer the present
good, and future happiness of their children, to
the most trifling evanescent joys.
III. In the development of the intellectual
faculties, it is
necessary to consider their influ-
ence upon the physical system, and particularly
upon the brain, the organ by which their mani-
festations are exhibited ;
to estimate their rela-
tive influence, strength, and capacity ;
to propor-
tionate their frequency and intensity of exertion
accordingly; to preserve the organ from injury;
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 395
and to stimulate or repress the mental pheno-
mena as may be required, or to develop the coun-
teracting powers.
a. The exercise of the intellectual faculties is
fatiguing when actively pursued ;
but is not so
when the exertion is involuntary, or the result of
imagination. Every one must be conscious of
this difference in himself; let him engage the
faculties of attention, recollection, or reflection,
and abstraction, and he will presently find him-
self fatigued ;
and more or less so in proportion
to his previous habits. But the same sensation
of weariness does not arise as the effect of in-
voluntary memory, or imagination, or association ;
here there is no effort, and consequently the
energy of the organ remains unimpaired, while
the mind itself cannot be susceptible of fatigue.
The effect of this voluntary effort is produced
almost entirely upon the brain ;
and a very little
observation will shew, that it consists in irritation
of that organ, and in the determination of blood
to it, in order to support first the excited action,
and secondly to repair its wear and tear, and re-
store to it, its due tone. But it often happens,
that this re-action, either surpasses the degree of
irritation which has been set up ;
or is inade-
quate to its removal. In the former case, too
great arterial action is the consequence, and in
the latter, congestion, or a slow and sluggish ac-
tion in the vessels of that viscus. Both cases
are accompanied by cold feet, headache, c.
The indications are to avoid the causes which
396 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
produce these states, as too prolonged, or too ex-
clusive attention; to relieve them, if already
formed by change of pursuit, and by substituting
the lighter for the more serious employments ;
and lastly, to strengthen the organ against the
influence of these agents, by gradual custom, by
exercise calculated to develop the animal powers,
and by the free employment of cold water ap-
plied to the head, every night and morning.
There may be cases in which the general cold
bath, will serve to diminish the irritability of the
system ;
but more frequently, the local bath will
prove the safest, and a most effectual remedy.
Parents will do wisely to distinguish between
the approach of this state, and the languor of in-
dolence, the former being increased by remedies
calculated to remove the latter. And as all the
intellectual functions are depending for their
healthy manifestation upon the integrity of their
organ, it is of the first consequence to mark the
earliest stage of indisposition, since by a succes-
sion of these attacks, the brain is enfeebled, and
becomes less capable of voluntary application.
b. One or more of the intellectual faculties
may predominate, and may thus tend to infringe
the harmony of the whole, either by obtaining a
monopoly of the mental manifestations, or by the
too great excitation of their organ the brain.
Thus for instance, when the faculties of memory
and association are united, the individuals so
gifted are possessed of strong minds ;
but their
influence upon the organization generally is so
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 397
considerable, that it is desirable to possess a pro-
portional strong body. And since these faculties
are developed mainly by education, it will be in
the power of the parent to limit and guard their
exercise, to avoid their being greatly excited, and
to carry forward the energy of the animal frame
to its highest degree of perfection, in order that
it
may be able to sustain the efforts of the intel-
lectual faculties.
Again, susceptibility to impression may be the
principal characteristic of the mental system ;
or
on the contrary, there may exist a great want of
sensibility. As the medium for obtaining much
of our knowledge, and as the source of the affec-
tive faculties, this property of the mind requires
considerable attention ;
in the mode and degree
of its manifestation great variety will be found
to exist. Thus, the impressions resulting from
this susceptibility may be strong and lasting, or
feeble and fleeting ; they may be strong and
transient, or weak and durable. The child may
possess a general susceptibility to every impres-
sion, or it
may be confined to impressions of only
one kind ;
and all these differences exert a cor-
responding influence upon the character. In the
former, the purposes may be relied upon, and the
conduct will be consistent and persevering ;
in
the second, it will be fluctuating and uncertain;
the opinions will be liable to perpetual change ;
or they will be too feeble to exert a steady, per-
manent influence upon the life : the first will be
more subject to the operation of prejudice, and
398 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
will be persevering even in that which is
wrong,
while the second will be the mere creature of the
day. In the latter case, there may be found a
morbid degree of general sensibility, or this may
be confined to a single class of impressions, con-
stituting the man of feeling on the one hand, and
the devotee to some particular pursuit on the
other. Where there is a want of sensibility,
there will be found a cold, listless, and ^ener-
getic character.
According to the varying shades of these ma-
nifestations, there will exist a general predispo-
sition to gaiety, or gravity, or to that state of
placidity, contentment, and cheerfulness which
results from the just balance of these several dis-
positions. By the term cheerfulness however,
we intend the natural state of a well adjusted,
and well informed mind, not that artificial hila-
rity, which is too often assumed as a mask for
the heart which is ill at ease ;
or as a cloak for
feelings and passions, which if openly exhibited,
would be scouted from society ;
not that appear-
ance of lively interest in the views and feelings
of others, which forms the common mode of in-
terchange of the expression of good breeding ;
not a phenomenon which results from the affecta-
tion of humour, but a principle which is based
on the calm sunshine of the soul. The coun-
tenance may wear the expression of pleasure ;
the exterior may be contented, while the heart
does not participate the apparent peace ;
while
it is worn by anguish, agitated by passion, or
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 399
slowly consumed by intrigue. Too frequently,
this counterfeit hilarity admits of being applied
to the basest of purposes, and requires to be
most carefully guarded. We are not prepared to
deny that a pleasing exterior may be useful in
society; we are in some measure bound to con-
sider the happiness of others, and not to mar
their comfort by the communication of our gloom;
the concealment of painful emotion may some-
times become a duty, and still more frequently,
.it may be expedient ;
it is even highly necessary
to controul the feelings on many occasions ;
but
in general this is to be avoided : it should be con-
sidered as a finishing off to the character ;
the
young should be taught to be candid, open, and
unreserved ;
for it is far better that the generous
character thus formed, should experience some
few mortifications, than that it should be im-
pressed with the attributes of slyness, conceal-
ment, and hypocrisy. Besides, the inculcation of
this principle will lead to a just distinction be-
tween friends and acquaintance ;
and as the
young are gradually introduced into society, they
will be taught to feel that they should not com-
municate all that passes in their bosom, to the
ear of the uninterested companion. It must be
recollected too, that this affected gaiety not only
produces an injurious influence upon the cha-
racter, but that it is also directly mischievous by
giving rise to a great degree of excitement, which
is necessarily followed by languor and depres-
sion ;
both morbid states, which it is most desi-
400 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
rable to avoid. Every observer, who has watched
the effect of an exertion of this kind, to controul
the agency of painful impression, must be aware
how much that effort costs, and how great is the
exhaustion which is its consequence ;
how largely
it contributes to a system of excessive and en-
feebled action, which destroys the foundation of
real cheerfulness, while it circumscribes the influ-
ence, and distorts the manifestations of the mental
powers.
Where there exists a lack of sensibility, and a
consequent predisposition to a grave, phlegmatic,
or melancholic temperament, the mental system
is to be gently roused by every species of impres-
sion ; by all which will communicate a lively in-
terest to surrounding scenes ; by all the pleasing
recollections of past association ;
and by all the
anticipations of hope. Yet even these simple ex-
citants will not be borne by a highly susceptible
child, in whom a great degree of vivacity is deve-
loped, and whose irritable, and even restless
appetite for sensation, undermines the power of
the sentient organ, and consequently interrupts
the due performance of the bodily functions. In
this case, the excess of sensibility is to be sub-
dued ;
and in no way will it be more completely
effected, than by giving importance to some coun-
teracting power ;
as for instance, by cultivating
the judgment, which weighs events with their
results ;
which tries feelings and their remote
consequences; which makes abstractions, and
recoils the mind upon itself; which imagines,
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION*. 401
separates, combines, deliberates, demonstrates,
and produces all the phenomena of a sound un-
derstanding.
c. In this general review, the memory is well
deserving particular attention ;
for perhaps there
is no intellectual function, the operation of which
occasions a greater and more powerful impression
at once upon the brain, and also upon all the ma-
nifestations of mind. Caution is
required in the
employment of this faculty ;
its stores should be
very gradually accumulated, and not at the ex-
pense of an effort which must soon result in fa-
tigue, and must ultimately terminate in feeble-
ness. The early exercise of memory is desirable,
that it
may be accustomed to exertion, and that
it
may be thus saved from morbid excitement,
when called upon for a more strenuous effort. At
first it should not be engaged upon sustained ex-
ertions; it should be employed only for a short
time, and its powers should be carried by degrees
to their highest reach. Particularly should it be
frequently occupied in reviewing its former acqui-
sitions, since memory may be strong, but not
retentive, a property of the first importance, as
without it, there would be no possibility of select-
ing, combining, or comparing the materials which
it
may have obtained.
When the memory has been loaded and op-
pressed with a heterogeneous mass of multifarious
objects without form, order, or cohesion, then it
is that regularity of thought, and precision of idea
are precluded ;
there is no clue by which to un-
VOL. i. D D
402 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATIONS
ravel the intricacies of that which really possesses
no arrangement, and has been crowded together
without design. A great effort has been made for
indiscriminate accumulation, and the consequence
is, that the brain suffers from the unnatural sti-
mulus ; images float before the imagination, with-
out direction or controul, merely as the result of
undisciplined and involuntary memory, and con-
tinually haunt the waking hours. Much of the
disturbed sleep of children may be also ascribed
to this cause ;
for the irritated state of the brain
gives rise to the phantasmagoria of memory, and
the uneasy dreams of infancy. This effect, in
common with every other which disturbs the sen-
tient organ, produces towards it an increased
determination of fluids ;
for in what department
of the economy can irritation be set up, without a
corresponding increased momentum in the circu-
lation of its blood ? And since nature has most
wisely and sedulously guarded the brain, from its
liability to such an occurrence, the effort to pro-
duce it, must be followed by constitutional dis-
turbance proportioned to the degree of primary
irritation, the consequent afflux of blood to the
part irritated, the difficulty with which an in-
creased quantity of that fluid is sent to the brain,
or indeed borne by it, the efforts of the general
system to accomplish this object, and the pecu-
liar delicacy of structure, and extensive variety
of function of that viscus. A high degree of ner-
vous susceptibility will be the consequence of
this state, aad will be accompanied by a propor-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 403
tional diminution of mental energy for sustained
exertion ; we say for sustained exertion, because
the excitement which will accrue, may often con-
duct the faculty to the performance of almost
incredible temporary efforts ;
a dangerous height,
from which a cruel fall must be anticipated.
When the memory is active, we may omen
well for the intelligence of the child ;
but we may
be also sure, that the activity of intellect will
tend to impair the vigour of the physical consti-
tution. And since, upon this is
depending the
health of the organ of mind, and the integrity of
its manifestations, so is it of importance that the
faculty whose influence is the present subject of
consideration, should be cultivated only in pro-
portion to the physical power of the system.
Above all, let parents avoid stimulating the me-
mory to precocious efforts. When it
appears as
a gift of nature, it should be hailed indeed as a
boon, and developed with cautious, anxious care ;
but when no particular talent of this kind appears,
let it not be goaded into excited action. Let the
state of the system always be kept in view ;
when
this is feeble, let the number of the surrounding
objects be diminished ;
let the ideas be impo-
verished ;
let the sources of memory be cut off,
in order to restore the harmony between the brain
and the other organs of the economy. Let it not be
misunderstood, that there is any thing like a con-
stant relation between the strength of the animal
system, and the reach of the brain as the organ
of mind, so that the latter may be calculated
D D 2
404 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
from the former : this is by no means the case,
and would lead, if adopted, to constant error.
All that is intended to be asserted, is that the
brain as an organ is
depending for its vigour and
energy, upon the health and strength of the ani-
mal machine : and that whatever may have been
its original aptitude for intellectual operations,
yet that such exertions must not be pushed be-
yond what can be readily borne by the body
which contains and supports it, as well as is reci-
procally supported by it : for not only will the
brain thus suffer as an intellectual organ, but the
animal functions depending upon it will be feebly
performed ;
the health, and strength, and vigour
of the machine will be undermined ;
and the en-
ergy of the memory will be impaired ;
a fact which
has been experienced by all those who have had
the misfortune to suffer from irritation of that
viscus. When the brain is
capable of consider-
able action, but possesses little power to support
it, great advantage is to be derived from that
regular quiet exertion, which we have repeatedly
recognized as a principle, by which the powers of
the animal frame may be materially augmented :
and with this view, the utility of application, and
of systematic study, will be acknowledged ; an
important concession, the extent of which will
be best estimated by reflecting on the disappoint-
ments and mortification entailed by the exertion
of lively faculties unsupported by strength of
system.
d. Similar principles are applicable to the fa-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 405
culty of attention. We have already noticed
that children are perhaps never, at all events,
are very seldom fatigued by impressions which
are accidentally thrown in their way, or which
are involuntarily produced ;
hence we infer, that
the spontaneous efforts of this faculty may be
safely permitted, and encouraged, and are always
useful. If the attention were unrestricted and
uneducated, nature, that wise directrix, would
display her knowledge of her own power, and
would observe only just so much as she is capable
of receiving with precision, and embracing with
accuracy. But this tendency of nature is not
sufficient for intellectual, spiritual, immortal man;
he must do more than contemplate the necessities
of his every day existence. The limit of his
faculties is not therefore to be just such, as they
appear to be, through the cloud of materiality
which invests them; and yet the knowledge of
nature's own boundaries, will serve as a guide
for the process of education ;
to warn us when we
overstep the line of demarcation she has drawn,
and to teach us to proceed cautiously. Thus,
for instance, the children of the poor very seldom
suffer from headache, except as a symptom de-
pending upon some other disordered state ;
but
it will also be found, that in them, the faculty of
attention has not been developed, and is not
easily excited :
they will pass the most interest-
ing objects ; they will hear the most valuable
truths ; they may be stimulated by powerful
emotion; but no impression is received; atten-
406 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
tion is not awakened ; the eye, the ear, the heart
may be appealed to in vain ;
there is no sight, no
hearing, no feeling, because there is no attention.
The object of education is therefore so gradually
to develop this faculty, as that it
may be perfected
without injury to its organ. The danger consists
in this, viz. when education and art presume to
fix the attention with too great intensity and per-
severance, upon a multiplicity of objects, or upon
one object exclusively, and too much in detail.
There are a thousand ways of employing this
faculty without making it a matter of effort : the
objects which surround a child, will always afford
sufficient ground for calling out the attention,
without seeming to do so ;
whereas abstracted
attention is most difficult to infancy, and costs
much too great an effort. Gigantic powers of intel-
ligence may be almost ruined, by inducing them
to an effort of abstraction and analysis, to which
they are inadequate ;
and therefore the only
rational method of education, is to develop the
power before its exercise is called for, and this is
to be effected by short and varied exertions. Let
it however be always kept in view, that the object
of this caution is only to ensure the integrity of
the organ, and gradually to augment the reach of
the faculty ;
not in any degree to circumscribe its
influence, since this is of the highest importance,
and furnishes the most powerful means of correct-
ing those feelings and passions which we are anx-
ious to subdue.
It will be found that attention is a very exteu-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 407
sively operative principle, and that it
may be em-
ployed upon many of the slighter occasions of
life, in which diverting the faculty will often
call off the child from the indulgence of evil pro-
pensity, and avoid that collision between the
authority of the parent, and the will of the infant,
which it is so desirable on all occasions to keep
as much as possible out of sight. The mind may
be governed imperceptibly; but once make this
submission to authority a prominent point, and
associate it with the yielding of the child's will in
some favourite particular, it becomes an object
worth struggling for ;
a spirit of disobedience and
rebellion is developed ;
and a state of mind most
unfavourable to education is produced. All this
is very generally to be avoided by the aid of the
faculty of attention : and so in the subsequent
and more important circumstances of life, the
voice of excessive emotion* the influence of ex-
cited sensibility, the impulse of passion, the erro-
neous judgment of a heated imagination, the hasty
decisions of prejudice, and even the turbulence
of vice admit of controul by the counter-agency
of this principle wisely applied, and perseveringly
acted upon. It will at once be seen too, in how
great a degree injury of the animal frame is pre-
vented by this influence, in consequence of avoid-
ing the agitation and disturbance of the general
harmony, which would be the result of these
bursts of feeling and of passion : and thus will it
appear how important is the conservative agency
of this faculty, both on the moral and physical
408 INTLl.LECTUAL EDI'CATIOX.
powers. Thus too will be frequently saved thai
state of "
emportement
"
from contradiction, the
influence of which is so extensively felt both on
the animal and mental system ;
a state which has
its immediate result in violent anger, and termi-
nates in the production of evil will, and the indul-
gence of a desire for vengeance.
Let these effects be considered in detail for one
moment ;
and then let the parent judge if such
be not a faithful picture; and if it be not all-im-
portant to prevent the formation of phenomena,
which admit of.being changed by the intervention
of attention ;
but which, when fully developed,
bid defiance to controul. There exists in the
human mind a natural impatience of contradic-
tion, which is
early exhibited in the little gusts
of passion of infancy developed by the slightest
causes, and which may be easily foreseen or su-
perseded, if early attended to. But this requires
judicious management; it is to be accomplished
by engaging this faculty on some other subject :
but if a different plan be pursued ;
if the attention
be rivetted on the object of contradiction; and
the caprice or the will of the infant be attempted to
be conquered by force, the Immediate consequence
is a fit of obstinacy and passion. The whole sys-
tem is
agitated ;
the hair becomes erect ; the
eyes sparkling, and expressive of rage; the breath
is held by means of a powerful inspiration, while
the nostrils are expanded, and the mouth is
closed ;
the back is
immovably stiffened ;
the
limbs are fixed, and the whole muscular system
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 409
is rendered tense and unyielding; the little hands
are clenched ;
the skin becomes generally red,
and the face is even sometimes blackened from
the violence of the effort produced upon the chest;
the pulse is quickened ;
the infant stamps with im-
becile fury, and at length, the paroxysm may ter-
minate in most violent and convulsive crying.
But sometimes this state leads to a complete in-
terruption for the time, of the animal functions,
and fainting or absolute convulsions may be the
consequence, accordingly as the effect produced
may have been exerted principally upon the san-
guiferous or nervous system : the approach of the
former state will be indicated by paleness of the
skin, and a sudden relaxation of the violent ten-
sion of the commencing paroxysm ;
that of the
latter, by increased fulness and lividity of the
countenance, with oppressed breathing, and cold
extremities. At another time, the effect will be
shewn principally upon the digestive function,
and an excessive and disordered secretion of bile
will be the consequence. Thus then, the most
important functions of the economy ;
the energy
of the brain ;
the integrity of the nervous and
muscular systems ;
the circulation of the blood ;
and the process of digestion and assimilation are
arrested by the uncontrolled influence of a fit of
passion. The moral treatment of the young under
these circumstances is not here to be considered ;
and we shall only therefore intreat the parent to
reflect, that the frequent repetition of these pa-
roxysms will result in the formation of hatred,
410 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
and the desire to injure those who are its objects;
thus developing the most malignant passions, and
actually leading on the mind to evil, instead of
rescuing it from the precipice on whose verge it
totters. But enough surely has been said, to in-
duce the attention of parents to this most import-
ant particular.
It is
only necessary further to remark, that in
developing the faculty of attention, it is desirable
to fix it
upon objects extrinsic to the pupil. The
last thing which it should be taught to think of
as important, must be, the supply of its own
little wants. The sacrifice of its ease and grati-
fication, in order to procure that of others, should
be its first principle of action. But this will
never be accomplished, while attention is concen-
trated upon itself. Thus, from the earliest period,
it should be taught to think lightly of its trifling
personal disasters, which may thus be made the
means of adding to the energy of its character,
and of educing a degree of fortitude and supe-
riority to the common ills of life, which will be
of the first importance in enabling it to rise above
" the whips and scorns of time ;
"
while, on the
contrary, anxious attention to every little unea-
siness, especially that which it
may have brought
on itself by carelessness, (the best means of pro-
ducing care,) will evolve a timid character ;
the
indulgence of its little complaints will soon create
a pleasure in making them, will develop a fretful
disposition, and if it be but fostered for a while,
will terminate in absolute pusillanimity. Principles
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 411
and feelings are to be the objects of attention,
and the latter are to be overcome when erroneous,
and strengthened when judicious, by the influence
of the former. Such, and so important, are the
seemingly slight causes which demand the pa-
rent's care : causes apparently so small, isolated,
and uninfluential, as to be thought of little mo-
ment ;
but which, in fact, are widely operative,
and constantly advancing ;
not at any simple rate
of increase, but in the ratio of geometrical progres-
sion ;
and which, if allowed to proceed, will soon
surpass the power of calculation.
e. The influence of association upon the intel-
lectual organ, is far less extensively and less
deeply felt, than is that of attention. It is easier
to imagine circumstances and things, than to de-
prive events of their adventitious colourings. It is
less difficult to discover points of fancied resem-
blance and association, than it is to analyze
the intrinsic worth and real nature of opinion :
it is far less difficult to create by imagination,
than it is to dissect methodically : it is easier to
trace a new and imaginative route towards our
object, than to spend the time in the slow inves-
tigation of the attributes of truth ;
and hence the
impression upon the nervous system is far less
considerable from the employment of this faculty,
and it will often, therefore, form a good alter-
native of action, a remedy for the evils produced
by too close attention, and too abstracted pur-
suits ;
it
may be used advantageously as a medi-
412 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
cine when the energy of the brain flags, and when
the cautious parent intuitively descries that active
exertion should be arrested.
/. The exercise of the will, and of the judgment
which precedes it, produces a considerable, but
on the whole a steady, uniform, and beneficial
agency upon the intellectual manifestations. An
exception to this assertion will however be found,
when the will is the result ofpassion, not of judg-
ment ; for in this case, it will serve to prolong,
and extend the influence of the particular cause
which has produced it. One of the properties of
the will is, that it should be governed by the
passions and affections ;
but then it should only
be thus guided in submission to the judgment.
And again, another of its properties is, that itself
should govern and controul the influence of pas-
sion; and this it does as the result of principled
judgment. In this way its operation on the in-
tellectual organ is extensive, and it serves to
maintain a general moderation of desire, and to
introduce that restricted pursuit of objects which
will occasion harmony, and preserve the equili-
brium of the mental manifestations. Thus then,
the judgment enables man to estimate the relative
importance of objects, and to appreciate the de-
gree in which he ought to be affected by them;
placing in this way, a limit to his own actions and
motions ; but above all, to that excitement of the
brain, which results from the uncontrouled im-
pression of different objects upon the immaterial
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 413
principle, or its organ. The consideration of this
property, is of the greatest interest in the pursuits
of intellectual education; and much labour will
not be lost, when devoted to an object so indis-
pensable for the maturity of the mental fruits,
and for the culture of that soil, from which they
are to be reared and nurtured, expanded and per-
fected.
414
CHAP. XV.
THE SAME SUBJECT CONTINUED FOURTH. INFLUENCE
OF THE PASSIONS ON THE INTELLECTUAL ORGAN AND
FACULTIES PASSION A VIOLENT DESIRE ITS
POWER NOT IRRESISTIBLE TO BE CONTROULED BY
REASON EXCITING AND DEPRESSING PASSIONS
CAUTIONS REQUIRED BY EITHER THE INFLUENCE
OF THE PASSIONS ON THE BRAIN, AND THROUGH IT,
UPON OTHER PARTS OF THE ANIMAL ECONOMY
THE PASSIONS FOR THE MOST PART, VIRTUES OR
VICES, AS THEY MAY BE DIRECTED AND EMPLOYED
NECESSITY FOR SELF-CONTROUL EDUCATION-
LEGISLATION RELIGION, AND THEIR RESPECTIVE
AGENCIES.
IV. Influence of the Passions.
REASON alone produces a cold character, and
would deprive man of his highest motives to
energy of action, and intensity of feeling. Hence
he has been provided with passions and affections
which constitute the very soul of existence, and
without which nature herself, with all her won-
derful intellectual manifestations, would be lan-
guishing and monotonous, and would be deprived
of a great variety of ideas, which give to the me-
mory and imagination a thousand novel combi-
nations, and infuse into the whole character, a
degree of energy which is wanting, where the
quickening spirit of passion and affection does not
communicate its influence to the manifestations
of mind.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 415
Passion may be defined to be only a violent
desire ;
its exercise excites the animal machine,
and is therefore followed by depression ; .while
if it predominate in the character, a great degree
of suffering is
frequently occasioned by the agita-
tion it
produces. The term passion, may admit
of two applications ;
the first of which is only to
feel, the mere capacity for receiving impressions ;
while the second is the more active, and consists
in willing with energy, force, and perseverance r
the object of this will, defining the particular
desire or passion. Although, however, this may
be true in general terms, there is yet a certain
and defined distinction between passion and will,
notwithstanding that the former often precedes
and produces the latter. It is this, that while
the firmest will is the result of judgment formed
on the consideration and appreciation of many
motives ; passion essentially consists in an internal
feeling which, when active, fulfils for the imma-
terial principle, an office analogous with that
which is
performed for the body by the internal
sensations, as hunger, &c. For as these selfish
emotions, as hunger, thirst, pain, &c. , indicate
the particular wants of the animal system, so do
the affections and passions betray the necessities
of the mind ; shew the relation in which it has
been placed in society; exhibit the advantages of
moral motives; develop the tendencies of the
soul ;
evince the superior nature of man ;
call
loudly for the controuling agency of some su-
perior principle; and shew the importance of that
416 INTF.LLECTUAL EDUCATION.
guide, which can alone be found in revelation ;
while they declare to us if we will listen to their
voice, that the only remedy for the disorder and
confusion they frequently create is to be met
with in religion : and leave us to the necessary
inference, that as nothing here can repair the
mischiefs arising from their wild and wanton in-
fluence, so in the system of government of a
just and holy God, there must be some future
day of retribution, when all these inequalities
shall be made plain; when the just shall be re-
warded, and the wicked punished.
Thus then passion, although frequently giving
life, and energy, and character to the will, does
also often evince its power independently of that
principle, and on other occasions is controuled
by it. For however powerful may be the voice
of passion, it
by no means irresistibly commands
the action which is its consequence. There is
then no excuse for erroneous or vicious conduct,
since man is a free agent, and is not blindly
driven into action by the fury of uncontrouled
desire, except as a willing servant, or obedient
slave. He has been most beneficently provided
with counter-passions, with reason, reflection,
conscience, revelation, affording so many rules
for the government of himself; and then to plead
the influence of passion as the excuse for impro-
priety of conduct, is to give up his pretensions to
superiority, conferred upon him by the posses-
sion of a rational soul. Man is essentially a
deliberative animal ;
each motive to action may
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 417
be weighed in its turn ;
and it is for him to
choose between the operation of different im-
pulses, according to the rules of prudence, the
voice of reason, the maxims of wisdom, the dic-
tates of conscience, and the precepts of religion,
with which he has been provided for the express
government of himself.
The passions have been usually characterized
as exciting and depressing ;
the former embrac-
ing love, joy, hope, &c. the latter comprehending
grief, fear, remorse, &c. Their separate influence
upon the animal economy, as well as on the men-
tal manifestations, will be deferred till
they come
before us in detail in the subsequent volume. It
will be only proper to state here as a general
principle, that all the passions of necessity excite,
and are followed by a corresponding stage of de-
pression ;
but that the latter is
by no means in
proportion to the former state, for while in some
instances the period of excitement may be long
continued, and may be followed by depression
only as a consequence of exhaustion ;
in others
it
may be so short, so feebly characterized as to
be overlooked by an inaccurate observer, and thus
to induce the idea, that some passions are in their
nature essentially depressing. A minute inquirer
will however, always detect under the most un-
favourable circumstances, a period of excitation,
ihough sometimes so violent as occasionally to
destroy the power of resistance and re-action, and
that the system seems to sink at once under its
influence. It is of great importance that it
VOL. I. E E
418 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
should be clearly understood, that this period of
destructive excitation, does invariably precede the
depression which we witness, and which other-
wise we might erroneously fancy admitted of relief
by means of stimulants. But mental stimulants are
bad things ;
the mind is
always active enough
when not oppressed by morbid action, and the
most effectual method of relief, is, not by goading
it to excitement, but by diminishing the intensity
of the depressing cause, and by producing har-
mony of the intellectual functions. Thus for in-
stance, the depression of grief and fear is not to
be relieved by the excitement of joy and cou-
rage ;
but is rather to be subdued by the calm-
ants of resignation and hope, leading to fortitude
and patience. In every instance, the first im-
pression of passion is stimulating, and the con-
sequent stage depends upon the intensity of that
impression, and the degree in which the indi-
vidual yields to, or resists its influence. To at-
tempt to relieve the consequent depression by
excitement, is to establish an action in the sys-
tem, which it has no power to support, and under
which the equilibrium of the mental manifesta-
tions, will be for a time, perhaps for ever, and ir-
retrievably lost. The only rational treatment
therefore, is, to soothe the first feeling of irrita-
tion, and then to develop those powers of the
mental constitution, which will preserve its in-
tegrity during the continuance of the depressing-
cause, and will enable it to rise superior to its in-
fluence, though often by slow and almost imper-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 419
ceptible degrees. When the influence of passion
as an excitant is longer continued, that action
must be moderated if it be excessive, or sup-
ported if it be only in a due degree, by all the
resources of the intellectual manifestations.
With every wish to give the full energy of pas-
sion to the character, the parent will yet most
anxiously watch over its influence, when she re-
collects how easily the turbulence of the storm
is excited, and how long it is after that storm has
subsided, before the tossed billows are hushed to
repose, or before even a moderate degree of calm
is
produced.
The influence of the passions is exerted pri-
marily upon the brain ;
and through it, almost
immediately upon the functions of digestion, and
of the circulation. Indeed the rapidity with
which these secondary effects are produced,
would almost lead a careless observer to imagine
that they must have been the first expressions of
uneasiness ; yet this is not the case, and these
remote functions suffer only as a consequence of
the first morbid impression upon the organ of
mind. Here then is an instance of the power of
mental emotion, over the mental, or brainular or-
gan, and by its remote agency, upon every part of
the animal machine. Thus, by one master-
passion, not only will the intellectual manifesta-
tions, attention, perception, memory, &c. be de-
stroyed, or at least superseded, but the energy
of volition will be annihilated ;
the body trembles
because of the interrupted supply of nervous
E E2
420 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
energy to the muscles; the skin is pale and
bloodless, crimson or even blackish ;
the heart is
quickened, or irregular, or altogether arrested in
its action; the stomach ceases to digest, and
often takes on the action of vomiting, and an im-
mensity of bile is secreted, or it slowly loses its
power, and sinks from the continuance of a less
violent but persevering cause ; apoplexy and
other morbid symptoms are sometimes induced ;
and all these again exert a reciprocal influence
upon the already irritated brain, and through it
upon the mind.
Such is the agency of the passions on the ani-
mal functions immediately ;
their intermediate
operation on these functions will depend on the
peculiar character of the emotions they excite,
and on the degree in which these emotions are
called into action. Thus they will for the most
part be virtues or vices, according to the use
which may be made of them. When they are
exhibited in a moderate degree and without dis-
turbance to the mental harmony, they will form
so many points of energy and interest about the
character ; they will enlarge the power, and aug-
ment the opportunities of doing good, while they
will add to the happiness of the individual, by
multiplying his points of contact, and of useful-
ness with society. \
But when they become im-
moderate, they lose their character of usefulness,
the system is excited, the mind is agitated, the
good, the comfort, the happiness of others are sa-
crificed, good motives and principles sink before
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 421
their overpowering influence, the best resolutions
prove only a feeble barrier, and man is submitted
to that worst of all tyrannies, the despotism of
selfish desire ;
he blindly obeys its impulse, and
hurried along the precipitous path of passion,
is soon lost in the whirlpool of unhallowed con-
duct. Hence the necessity for self-confront, edu-
cation, legislation, religion ; for their relative influ-
ence ;
and for the exercise of every motive which
can cement the integrity of the social compact.
We cannot here enter particularly upon this sub-
ject ;
it must however be remarked, that man is
too feeble to exist independently ;
and that in
this very helplessness is found the necessity for
the combination of many, or in fact for the insti-
tutions of society, in which he tacitly agrees to
surrender a certain portion of individual right for
the common weal ;
he feels that if each one were
to act according to the stimulus of occasion and
of selfish passion, each would soon be subjected
to the right of the strongest; and truth and
justice, equity and virtue; would be banished
from the world.
In the very constitution of society therefore,
there is a voluntary yielding of a certain portion
of selfish desire, and man is taught the necessity
of self-controul. This is but a feeble motive to
action ;
and the love of good order, the integrity
of the social bond, the preservation of the na-
tural fitness of things, and even the blessings
arising from this voluntary yielding of the indi-
vidual, form very uncertain safeguards to society,
422 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
and are easily swept away before the voice of
passion, and the excitement of the organization.
For man is prone to evil and injustice ;
the love
of present ease and selfish gratification predomi-
nates ; he is often the dupe of prejudice, and still
more frequently the victim of vicious propensity.
The predisposition to sin rests upon him ;
he in-
herits it from his first parents ;
the thoughts of
his heart are evil ;
he prefers that which will give
him pleasure to that which will do good to others ;
he listens only to the invitation of corrupt pro-
pensity, and is deaf to the whisperings of con-
science ;
he is the creature of passion, and driven
of fierce winds ;
he experiences the ultimate con-
sequences of the fall ; he is almost wholly desti-
tute of all that is amiable ;
and this state is
per-
petuated by the want of education.
Education develops the intellectual faculties ;
fosters the influence of reason, and the monitions
of conscience ; cultivates habits of reflection,
augments the power of the will, and widens the
sphere of judgment ; supplies good principles ;
controuls vicious emotions ; develops the amiable,
and represses the selfish passions ;
instils good
motives, and furnishes worthy objects of pursuit.
In this way, not only are the passions susceptible
of education, but they admit, by its means, of
very extensive modification.
Yet all these are quite insufficient to procure
the peace and good order of society, or the soul's
calm, which can only be accomplished by legis-
lation and religion. The same law, which forms
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 423
the basis of society, viz. the surrender of a portion
of individual right for the common weal, has also
prompted the institution of civil government,
which essentially consists in the delegation of a
certain portion of personal right, into the hands
of a few, in order to obtain immunity from the
attacks of the wicked, and to secure the punish-
ment of crime. The most heinous offences against
society would often go unpunished, if left to the
vengeance of the sufferers, because these being the
more feeble, would not possess the power of de-
fence, much less of avenging themselves. Be-
sides, the very feeling of vengeance is one in
which crime should never be visited with punish-
ment ;
since it .is that which would often give it
undue severity, and occasionally lead to the com-
mission of crimes even greater than that for which
punishment is intended : in addition to which,
may be considered the unfavourable state of mind
produced by the necessity of individual judgment,
all of which are obviated by conferring this right
to punish every infraction of the social compact,
on the few upright and disinterested judges, who,
apart from passion, determine upon evidence,
and award the punishment where it is due. On
this principle, has proceeded the formation of hu-
man laws and human jurisprudence, a system
indispensably necessary to secure the outward
good conduct of man, and to lead him to controul
his passions.
But this reaches not beyond the exterior cha-
racter ;
it
may secure outward decency, and
424 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
prevent open injustice, or afford the means of de-
fence to the feeble, and of punishment to the
wicked ;
but it leaves the heart untouched, the
motives impure, the desires unholy. And nothing
can effect their renovation but religion, the influ-
ence of that Holy Spirit, by whose inspiration
alone, can the thoughts and intents of the heart
be changed ; that alone, which can rectify the
disorder introduced into the mind by sin ;
that
alone which can govern the unruly passions, and
furnish motives sufficient to induce man to strug-
gle against their influence ;
that alone, which can
make him subordinate the desire of selfish grati-
fication to the good of others ;
that alone, which
can urge him to strive after conformity to his
great exemplar ;
that alone, which can constitute
man rational, or make him truly happy ! ! Of
what avail is the possession of reason, his exclu-
sive privilege, if it do not lead to the wise em-
ployment of all his faculties ? But reason alone
will not succeed in constantly setting before him,
this prize as a sufficient object of desire ;
and it
is
only by the high sanction of religion, and by
its
every day influence, that he can hope to be
restored to the image of God, or to enjoy His
favour and blessing. Its precepts lead to happi-
ness :
nothing short of these can confer peace ;
and, possessed of this
"
pearl of great price," the
good man will be happy under the most adverse
circumstances. A stranger to the indulgence of
ambition, avarice, anger, hatred, jealousy, re-
venge, and other malignant passions ;
and dili-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 425
gently cultivating the love of others, benevolence,
&c. &c. he enjoys more peace than can be ex-
pressed, and enters into that happiness which
always results from the real desire and sincere
endeavour to resemble Him, whose we are, and
whom we ought to serve ;
and in whose hope and
confidence, we should rise superior to every cause
of care and anxiety.
426
CHAP. XVI.
EXERCISE OF THE INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES IT CONSISTS
IN THE STUDY OF THE ARTS AND SCIENCES, AND IN
THE PERFORMANCE OF THE MORAL VIRTUES KNOW-
LEDGE IS POWER, AND THE GREATEST POSSIBLE
AMOUNT SHOULD BE OBTAINED ALWAYS AVOIDING
CONFUSION, FEEBLE AND IMMATURE RESULTS ADVAN-
TAGES ARISING FROM THE MECHANICAL ARTS FROM
THE STUDY OF THE FINE ARTS FROM STORING THE
MEMORY WITH CHRISTIAN PRINCIPLES CAUTIONS RE-
QUIRED BY THLS FACULTY THE PROPER OBJECTS FOR
ITS EXERCISE ARE LANGUAGE AND THE BELLES LET-
TRES, NATURAL HISTORY, BOTANY, GEOLOGY, MINE-
RALOGY EXERCISE FOR THE IMAGINATION TO BE
FOUND IN GEOGRAPHY, ASTRONOMY, NATURAL PHI-
LOSOPHY, AND HISTORY THE PRECAUTIONS IT RE-
QUIRES IT IS OFTENER NECESSARY TO REPRESS THAN
TO STIMULATE THIS FACULTY INFLUENCE OF MATHE-
MATICAL STUDIES, GEOMETRY, &C. PRECAUTIONS
REQUIRED BY THE EXERCISE OF THE INTELLECTUAL
FACULTIES.
V. Exercise of the Intellectual Faculties.
THE exercise of the faculties so recently contem-
plated, consists in the study of the arts and sci-
ences, and in the performance of the moral virtues.
A few desultory hints only can be here given on
these connected subjects ;
while the last proposi-
tion will be particularly developed in the succeed-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 427
ing section of this work. The principle just now
laid down is applicable to every individual.
Knowledge is
power, and as such is to be sought
after and obtained ;
but it must always have a
practical bearing ; it, as well as every precept,
every opinion, every example, must have a ten-
dency to make man better, and to shew that he is
better, a better husband, father, friend ;
one
who fears God, fears to offend him, and earnestly
desires to obey and serve him here, and to be with
him hereafter for ever. Nothing can be more
universally operative than this law, which ex-
tends to the heart, and submits every power and
faculty to His glory who conferred them. Al-
though such be the tendency of every pursuit, it
will not be necessary that this should be promi-
nently impressed upon every single object of de-
sire : on the contrary, it is not always visible ;
but though not visible, it is operative ;
and that
pursuit which contravenes this object, is one which
ought to be abandoned. There is however a wide
difference between the exclusive pursuit of religi-
ous subjects, and the regular observance of all
that is in keeping with them. A few remarks
only are subjoined.
Whatever may be the peculiar characteristic of
the mental attributes, the exercise of the intel-
lectual faculties should be so directed, as to give
the fullest possible development to the greatest
possible number of manifestations, without intro-
ducing confused, insipid, or immature results.
428 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
Thus the study, and actually operative pursuit of
the mechanical arts, is possessed of signal advan-
tages, to those who are endued with too high a
degree of sensibility ;
since the development of
muscular power, will be most decidedly bene-
ficial, by calling off the energy of the brain from
purely intellectual objects. And on the contrary,
where there exists a certain hebetude of feeling,
and a lack of sensibility, the study of the fine arts
offers a resource of wonderful power, since this
requires the active and intelligent exercise of
imagination, and of the sentiments and passions.
The degree in which these may be safely culti-
vated, must be left to the discretion of the parent
and instructor, and will require to be varied per-
haps for every individual, and even for the same
individual at different periods of his life ;
for it
will be remarked, that identical impressions pro-
duce a much greater effect upon the animal func-
tions, and intellectual manifestations, at one time
than at another ; owing to the greater degree of
attention with which they may be received, the
peculiar aptitude of the mind for concurring with
them, and the particular state of the percipient
organ. And as the secret of intellectual, as well
as bodily health consists in the active exercise of
every function, and in avoiding the undue excite-
ment of any, it must be recollected, that this very
development of sensibility, by means of attention
to the fine arts, demands caution; and that if
continued too long at any one time, it will fatigue
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 429
the nerves, exhaust the powers, irritate the brain,
and introduce disorder and feebleness into the
spiritual functions.
It has been already noticed, how important it
is to employ the memory, that faithful storekeeper
of the mind, whose ample powers should be en-
gaged and accumulated upon useful and acces-
sible objects. Storing this faculty with practical
and available principles, moral precepts, and
the great truths of Christianity, must form the
first, (in importance,) the last, the constant, uni-
form object of the 'parent: but this involves a
subject not immediately before us.
It has been remarked already, that memory is
to a certain extent, mechanical and involuntary ;
and it will become so, in proportion as it is ex-
ercised upon objects with which it has no ac-
quaintance, and which have no tangible hold upon
the manifestations of mind. This, however, is
not a property of memory which it is desirable to
cultivate; for notwithstanding its occasional use-
fulness, its influence is upon the whole rather
baneful than beneficial. It is, therefore, better
not to commit to memory, as an exercise of the
faculty, that which leaves no decided impression
upon the mind ;
but to select objects on which
to employ its powers, that will communicate ideas
likewise : and then, in after life, whenever the
same words are reproduced from memory or re-
collection, a similar idea is associated with them,
and the sphere of the mind's operations is thus
kept constantly enlarging. But if a jargon of
430 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
words (which though containing ideas) con-
veyed in such a form, or clothed in such language
as is incomprehensible to infancy, be undesirable ;
a fortiori, every exercise of the memory is to be
sedulously avoided, which really and intrinsically
contains no idea, and is
entirely incapable of ex-
citing any. This is
really developing a faculty,
and consigning it at once to positive uselessness.
Let then the memory be exercised upon sensible
objects, and as far as may be, upon subjects
which the child can comr|r,ehend, or will be
able presently to comprehend, when the maxim is
re-excited in the mind by the exertion of volun-
tary, or the simpler action of involuntary memory.
One of the first objects of intellectual memory
will be the rudiments of language, orthoepy,
grammar, the philosophy of rhetoric, and the
belles lettres. In this course, too much should
never be attempted in a short time : the instructor
should be satisfied with slow progress, and
should seek rather for certainty of advance, than
for rapidity of progression. Let one subject be
well comprehended before another is introduced ;
and let there be regular days of rehearsal and ex-
amination, in order to keep the knowledge bright,
and preserve it when acquired from man's unfor-
tunate tendency to forgetfulness. Let this pur-
suit be rendered as attractive as possible ;
and as
far as may be, let there be a constant appli-
cation to the practical purposes of life; and let
this practice be sedulously interwoven with the
duties of the day. In this way will the young
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 431
learn to connect inseparably the ideas of know-
ledge and action ;
and the irksomeness of merely
speculative acquisition will be superseded by
that which makes a decided hold upon the mind.
But again, natural history presents a wide and
most amusing field for the exercise of this faculty,
because it enlarges the mind, communicates ideas,
and is so far connected with surrounding sensible
objects, that it admits of being recalled by the
thousand associations with which it is united.
Cultivate an acquaintance with nature in all her
forms, and there will; be developed a habit of in-
vestigation most useful in after life; while the
mind is stored with salutary knowledge, a taste
for literature is excited ; energy of pursuit after
the little objects of its care is communicated ;
not
to mention the moral effect to be derived from
this pursuit ;
viz. the natural answer to the most
natural enquiry of the child as to who made all
these wonders ;
and the equally natural conclu-
sion of the wisdom of the architect, as well as
the goodness and power of the Creator: ideas
which will ever be associated in the memory with
the object which first excited enquiry, and which
will thus lay the foundation for natural religion.
Instruction is to be found at every step ;
and we
have the highest authority for asserting, that the
best method of teaching, is by associating infor-
mation with the sensible objects which surround
us. Abundant opportunities will thus be found,
of proving the feebleness of the highest reach of
man's intellect; the extensive range of his igno-
432 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION'.
ranee ;
and his comparative incapacity to embrace
all that should come before him.
The study of the habits, manners, and instincts
of animals, will only form an introduction to
other branches of natural history, among which
we may notice particularly, entomology ; a pursuit
containing wonders at every step, and moreover,
leading to the use of the microscope and the ex-
planation of its
principles. In the mere history
of the ant and the bee, are contained wonders of
astonishing interest to children ;
and yet how
small a section of this department even, is em-
braced by these little industrious insects; which
again, must themselves, yield, in the attractive-
ness of their claims to attention, to the moth and
the butterfly tribe.
To this may be added ornithology, though we
shall pass it over, in order to particularize botany ;
an object more accessible to all, and which may
be practically pursued without the necessity of
inflicting pain. A taste for this delightful study
is most readily cultivated, and every walk may
be made subservient to it; the spirit of inquiry
is excited without, and will be most easily car-
ried on to that laudable enthusiasm, which will
enable the pupil to conquer the repulsiveness of
its rudiments ;
a forbidding approach, which,,
however, may be divested of its frown, by the
mode of communicating instruction. Every day
will then be a day of interest; and the search
after a new flower and its history, will take away
from fatigue; suspend the indisposition for ex-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 433
ertion ;
store the mind with ideas ;
and invest
every bud and leaf, not with blind wonder, but
with tenfold admiration, arising from the know-
ledge of its structure and functions, and of the
wisdom and skill displayed in their creation and
preservation.
It has been objected against this pursuit, that
it is calculated to develop ideas which may be in-
jurious to the modesty of feeling of female purity.
This is an objection of no moment : the memo-
rable observation at the institution of the order
of the garter may be here applied:
" honi soit
qui mal y pense ;
"
the evil rests only in the mor-
bid tendency of evil-disposed minds ;
and what
pursuit is there, which may not be converted into
an instrument of ill
by a prurient imagination ?
For besides that the study of botany is not ne-
cessarily depending upon the sexual system of
Linnreus, (a reply to this objection which we
shall however waive,) it is most unhesitatingly
asserted, that in a pure mind, this pursuit con-
tains nothing to contaminate, and will never
excite an idea which the most delicate female
need blush to own. The whole arrangement
will be contemplated as a matter of science, and
will never be invested with ideas which are brooded
over only by a want of delicacy of feeling, and by
a grossness of idea, which it will have been the
object of education to supersede. Even the sex-
ual system may be taught long before the young
mind would be capable of affixing a sensual idea
to certain phenomena ; all it would derive from
VOL. J. F F
434 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
the pursuit, would be that its investigations were
facilitated by a certain arrangement of stamens
and pistils, &c. : ideas sufficiently definite, and
the use of which in physiological botany may be
explained by a delicate mind, without producing
an indelicate idea ;
while the whole study is con-
sidered as unfolding some of those wonders of
creation, which mark the footsteps of the deity,
and admirably impress the mind with convictions
of the creating power, such as it is so desirable
to cultivate. Thus early introduced to the pur-
suit, it will continue as an object of amusement
and scientific research ;
and will never excite an
impure thought, except in a bosom which has
been previously corrupted. Let not then a mis-
taken squeamishness cut off from the young, this
source of delight and instruction ;
a source, which
they who strain at gnats, and swallow camels,
would exclude, and substitute for it some fashion-
able accomplishment, which without producing a
single idea, will lead its possessor into the display
of her person, and at the very least, place her on
the slippery verge of ternptation.
Before we quite quit this branch of our subject,
we must mention geology, as another department
of study, admirably calculated for an exercise of
the memory ; only stating distinctly, that we
mean not by this term, the wild speculations of
those, who to serve a particular purpose, have
invented hypotheses, each perhaps more injurious
in its
practical bearing than its predecessor ;
but
only that intimate acquaintance with the structure
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 435
of our globe, which is desirable as an object of
knowledge, which is now so common a pursuit,
and which it is necessary to be prepared with, in
order not to be led away from the truth, by the
confident assertions of the ignorant and the de-
signing, or the hollow sophisms of those who en-
deavour to supersede the difficulties incident to
the confined reach of human reason, by inventing
difficulties
which are greater because irrational.
The scriptures of inspiration never suffer from
really scientific information ;
the doctrines and
the facts of revelation need never fear the test of
discussion, but should always court the elucida-
tion of human learning and rational inquiry ;
for
they will derive support from that spirit of modest
inductive reasoning which characterizes true sci-
ence ;
and the only way of being prepared for the
cavils of objectors, is not by shunning that ground
over which superficial investigators have lightly
trodden, and carried their unhallowed fancies,
and from which they have drawn the most unphi-
losophical conclusions ;
but by conveying the
torch of patient research into the most secret
recesses of the earth, accumulating the facts
which it affords; and resting satisfied with the
result, although there may have remained many
phenomena unexplained, and although there may
not be a sufficient number of data whence to infer
a consistent theory of the past history of the moral
changes which the inhabitants of our globe may
have undergone. There are many of the appa-
rently simplest phenomena, the rationale of which
F F 2
436 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
we cannot explore ;
we have yet to obtain a satis-
factory explanation of the laws which govern the
wind; and shall the authority of revelation be
doubted, because all the apparent circumstances
of our globe cannot be explained according to our
views of the Mosaic History ? As well might we
doubt the existence of the wind, because we can-
not reduce its phenomena to a mathematical de-
monstration ;
as well might we doubt the exist-
ence of a thousand natural processes, with whose
laws we are unacquainted, but which we know
to be governed by a system of regulation as per-
fect and undeviating as any of those with which
we are thoroughly informed, though we cannot
trace the hand which governs and directs them !
But we reason from that we know, to that we
know not ;
we do not find facts opposed to
rational induction ;
and we conclude that there
are fixed and definite laws, an immutable Law-
giver and supreme Governor, although we cannot
follow all the steps of his mighty agency. Let
then this subject be considered, as one of desi-
rable investigation ;
let the mind be imbued with
its truths ;
let them be sought after in a spirit of
patient, diligent, humble research ;
let the pride
of learning be submitted to the feebleness of rea-
soning ;
let the aspirations of intelligence be con-
stantly subdued by the limited capacity of the
understanding; and let the judgment be stored
with that humble and diffident knowledge, which
will lead its possessor to the fountain of Supreme
Intelligence ; humbly craving the assistance of
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 437
his revealed will, and cheerfully submitting the
wanderings of imgoverned fancy, when reason
fails, to the true guidance of Him, who has pro-
mised His Spirit to those who ask, and who will
teach us all that is necessary for us to know !
Connected with the science of geology, is the
study of mineralogy, and the dependent pursuit
of chemistry ;
sciences which throw mutual light
upon each other, and which will contribute to
enlarge the young mind, as it is able to bear
them.
The development of the imagination, through
the instrumentality of works of fiction, is at best
problematical. We shall have occasion to notice
this class of composition in a subsequent part of
this design, and we shall here only remark, that
in order to their being placed in the hands of the
young, they will require a very rigid selection ;
and that such only can be deemed admissible, as
have a decidedly moral tendency. The danger of
creating an unreal world, and presenting it to the
view of children ;
of communicating a false esti-
mate of men and things ;
of forming erroneous
opinions of character ;
of producing a fluctuating
code of morality, instead of the fixed principles
of truth ;
and of developing a sickly sensibility,
is such, that the parent will here act with great
caution. Besides, there are abundant opportu-
nities of indirectly encouraging the imagination,
while it is employed upon sober realities, and
therefore while it possesses a clue to guide it
through the intricacies of uncertainty.
438 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATJON.
An acquaintance with the science of geography,
and the natural history of man ;
and with all the
wonders of our planetary system, and of the plu-
rality of worlds connected with it, couched under
the general term of astronomy, affords very abun-
dant opportunities for the enlargement of the
boundaries of 'this faculty. A similar power is
conferred by the common routine of scholastic
education, and by the necessary acquaintance,
with perhaps the more than questionable produc-
tions of ancient literature. The researches into
the other branches of natural philosophy, par-
ticularly into the laws which govern fluids at rest
and in motion ;
the phenomena of light and heat,
electricity, magnetism, &c. afford abundant re-
sources fpr encouraging the imagination, while
they also serve to restrain it within sober limits,
and to store the mind with that ample knowledge,
which will act as a counterpoise to its vagaries,
and prevent its wild luxuriance, by chaining it
down to the realities of experience, and of that
judgment without which the results of the former,
however extended it may have been, are but a
succession of hazardous and incoherent expe-
riments.
In this section of our inquiry, we must not
omit to mention history, with its motley group of
qualifications. The parent dares not forget the
dangers to the young which environ the page of
history ;
nor the poison which too frequently is
communicated by it, in the most dangerous, be-
cause the most attractive form. On its flowery
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 439
banks, too often lies concealed the noxious rep-
tile, of whose existence the victim is not aware,
until he feels its envenomed sting. The page of
history is too generally a record of the crimes and
vices of mankind, crimes and vices which are
despoiled of their native ugliness by the artificial
glare of some brilliant superadded quality : it
develops the character of those who have been
rendered great and conspicuous, not by their vir-
tues and beneficence, but by the injuries they
have inflicted, and the miseries they have en-
tailed. Hence an erroneous impression of right
and wrong may most readily be made ;
while the
child will become acquainted with a tissue of im-
proprieties, of which it would be desirable that
it should remain in entire ignorance, even of their
existence. Then again, the facts professed to be
related by history are distorted by prejudice and
party feeling ; impartiality is
scarcely to be ex-
pected ;
the most simple events are alternately
supported or enfeebled by evidence the most con-
tradictory and incompatible ;
the attractive hero
is seldom, if ever, represented in his true charac-
ter ;
and the historian has too often condescended
to make his subject the vehicle for communicating
a covert and insidious attack upon the great
truths of our religion. The nicest caution will
therefore be required, in the pursuit of this indis-
pensable branch of knowledge ;
and the develop-
ment of moral and religious principle should at
least be coeval with, if it do not precede, an attention
to the page of history ;
an attention which should
440 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
be paid only in the society, and under the imme-
diate guidance of the parent ;
and with the deep
feeling of the uncertainty which clouds its events,
and of their general hostility to the majesty of
heaven. The memorable anecdote of Sir Walter
Raleigh, when writing his history of the world,
and the conflicting testimony of writers, so ad-
mirably illustrated in Walpole's Historical Doubts,
will serve to establish the-former principle ;
while
the latter will be self-evident to any child whose
education has been founded on religious principle.
This subject will again come before us.
The study of the fine arts, by which life is
embellished, and the usefulness and happiness of
man are extended, affords a very delightful means
of cultivating the imagination, and of producing
those chastened manifestations of this faculty,
which give softness and delicacy to manner, and
strength and interest to action, while they widen
the sphere of intelligence, and augment social
pleasure. A devoted attention to the beauties of
nature is another method of improving and de-
veloping the fancy ;
while on the contrary with-
out it, the mind is rendered less susceptible of
those beauties, and loses in them many sources
of enjoyment, which an all-bountiful Creator has
provided. All the exercises of charity, an ac-
quaintance with the real wretchedness of poverty,
and the benevolent wish and endeavour to com-
municate relief, will afford other means of stimu-
lating this faculty, of giving point to feeling, and
sensibility to fancy, while it is still impressed
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 441
with the realities of life, and preserved from the
phantoms of idealism. The effect of this culti-
vation is not confined to the feelings and pas-
sions, but extends itself to the modes of thought,
and to the language in which these are clothed ;
for continued and multiplied associations of this
kind, occasion the whole intellectual and spiritual
man to participate their influence, and save him
from the stupid apathy of indifference, or the
more contracted circle of selfishness.
It is, however, oftener necessary to repress
than to stimulate the imagination, by developing
the faculties of attention and abstraction. Yet
a very high degree of these attributes, and active
mathematical pursuits, may be too great for a
feeble system. The truth of this remark is often
shewn by the absorbing influence of mathematics ;
so great indeed, as to occasion the common re-
mark, that a thorough mathematician is a very
disagreeable being, unfit for a residence in the
world, and so bigoted to his constant inquiry
after demonstration, as to be possessed of a very
narrow mind ;
to listen to nothing which admits
not of algebraical calculation, and lightly to
esteem the laws of evidence. With all his
boasted strength of mind, the exclusive mathe-
matician rests on the very verge of insanity ; and
his notorious eccentricities are the result of ap-
proaching so nearly to that region of undefined
and uncontrouled boundary, that he has breathed
its tainted atmosphere, although he may still
maintain his footing, on the utmost border of
442 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION'.
reason. It may be thought that this observation is
harsh, but let it be only fairly tried by experience ;
and above all, let its results be contrasted with
the man who makes some peculiar religious views
his equally exclusive pursuit, and then say if he
be not readily classed as a maniac, and very
generally held up as a warning against the too
eager pursuit of Christianity. But it is unphilo-
sophical to reason in one case,- in a way which is
inapplicable, to another precisely analogous in-
stance ;
and if the one borders on insanity, so
does the other as, in fact, both do ;
in either
case the harmony of the mental manifestations is
disturbed by the exclusive devotion of its object
to one engrossing pursuit.
Although, therefore, mathematical studies form
a useful means of controuling the imagination,
fixing the thoughts, giving them order and arrange-
ment, teaching the use and the value of reason,
and enlarging the powers of the mind, yet they
are not without their danger ;
a fact which illus-
trates the necessity for exercising all the powers
of the mind. The great effort at abstraction, re-
quired by the higher branches of mathematics,
may be gradually accomplished by the precursory
attentions to geometry, and the facilities afforded
by diagrams, and by the simpler calculations of
figures. The faculties of attention and abstrac-
tion may be also usefully employed by giving
them a practical bearing on the economy of life ;
by seeking an acquaintance with the physical,
mechanical and experimental sciences, and with
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 443
their direct influence on agriculture, manufactures
and commerce. In every branch of education, it
is always desirable to keep in view the practical
bearing of useful knowledge. It is this which
constitutes the value of information its being-
available for the purposes of life ;
and if this end
be not lost sight of, there will not be much to
fear from the highest efforts of abstraction.
In the varied range of these pursuits, and of
others which it is not within our place to particu-
larize, a few cautions are^ necessary, which we
shall only briefly mention. The age in which we
live is one of advancing knowledge in the lower
ranks :
by it, a stimulus has been given to every
order above them ;
and a measure of knowledge,
which would have sufficed a few years since, will
no longer secure its
possessor from the charge of
ignorance. The effect produced upon the lower
classes has had, and will continue to have its
upward operation ;
and that which was called a
satisfactory amount of information in the lawyer,
the divine, the medical man, and the soldier, will
no longer shield him from the opprobrium of
emptiness, or obtain for him that reputation which
is dearer than life. The active pursuit of know-
ledge is therefore become a matter of necessity,
not of choice.
Where so much is to be done, no time is to be
lost ;
and it becomes a question, at what age it
may be admissible to begin the process of educa-
tion. In its largest and unrestricted sense, edu-
cation should commence at the earliest develop-
444 INTELLECTUAL EDUCAT1OX.
ment of the intellectual manifestations ;
but in its
more restricted application it
may still be said,
the earlier the better, consistently with the powers
of the mental system, and the tone of that bodily
constitution by which it is encompassed and en-
cumbered. Where the sphere of pursuit is so
great, and where the life of the oldest man is not
long enough for all that is before him, the process
of education cannot commence too early ; pro-
vided always that it can be borne by the brain
with impunity ;
and that it be conducted in a
ratio proportioned to the activity of the mental
manifestations, and with the single view of giving
the highest degree of health and strength to the
apparent actions of the immaterial principle. This
is not to be accomplished by too early or too great
mental exertions ;
the development and continu-
ance of such must result in feebleness ;
the
spring of the mental power may be stretched
beyond its capacity of endurance, and may lose
its elasticity altogether ;
the early promise of the
brightest morning may be clouded over ere 'tis
noon ;
the buds and blossoms of the spring-tide
of life may be nipped -by the untimely frost, and
the fondest anticipations of excellence may be
lost in the gloom of mediocrity : the effort must
be proportioned to the individual mental energy.
Where this is considerable ;
where there exists
an inquiring mind ;
where a thirst for the pos-
session of knowledge is manifested ;
where cu-
riosity is
early developed ;
where the first mani-
festations of intellect are brilliant ;
and where the
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 445
constitution appears to own a sufficient degree of
power to support the brain's increased action,
slight efforts of study should be early commenced,
continued, and augmented with undeviating ex-
actitude, but in a degree always proportioned to
the increased vigour of the mental system, and
always so as to occupy without weariness, to em-
ploy without distraction, and to exercise without
inducing painful fatigue or disgust. But little
prodigies of knowledge are not to be desired; the
very term itself should excite a recoil in the mind
of the parent :
they may serve, indeed, to pro-
duce the quaint exclamation of a well-known
character,
"
Prodigious!" they may serve to ex-
cite the idle wonder of the ignorant, and the pity
of the well-informed ;
but the least which can be
expected is, that they should form a heap of lite-
rary accumulations, without character or cohe-
sion ;
a vast collection of materials, without form
and void ;
the power of acquisition having so far
gone beyond the development of mind, that the
faculty of reception has very far over-stepped the
capacity for appropriation. Where, therefore, the
child appears to be gifted with a dull apprehen-
sion, and to be generally characterized by obtuse
mental manifestations ; by a feeble animal frame,
or by a scrofulous predisposition ;
or where it
bears the marks of a highly irritable and too
easily susceptible brain, let the parent be timely
warned not to expect or hope for the early mani-
festation of mind; for if it be manifested, the
animal machinery by which its notices are ren-
446 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
dered apparent, will give way, or the mental
powers will be debilitated. The greatest delicacy
is required in the management of such an indi-
vidual ;
and let not prejudice blind the eyes of
the parent to the real nature of the soil she has
to cultivate ;
let not a silly vanity conceal from
her view the existence of a feeble system, or in-
duce her to sacrifice the strength and integrity of
the mind, for the hope of acquiring some brilliant
qualification; let her not be tempted to the ex-
clusive cultivation of some single manifestation,
more ornamental perhaps at the moment, but less
durable and valuable ;
attractive probably to others,
but rapidly evanescent, and yielding little comfort
or stability to its possessor ;
let nothing induce her
to sacrifice the health, and ultimate strength of
mind of her child, to the pride of precocious ac-
quirement ;
but let her endeavour to form a j
ust esti-
mate in her own mind, of the mental and bodily
system committed to her care ;
let her form an ac-
curate idea of the capacities entrusted to her for
cultivation, and let nothing induce her to swerve
from the line of conduct she will then prescribe
for herself. If she can divest herself of the influ-
ence of the opinions of those around her, she will
not be in much danger of forming an erroneous
estimate ;
that which obscures the perception,
and perverts the judgment, is the desire that her
children should appear superior to what they
really are, before the view of others. In the
peaceful moments of calm and pure abstraction
from the world, it is not difficult for her to carry
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 447
just views into her prospective conduct; and let
her impose it
upon herself as a religious duty, to
be influenced alone by these views ; let her sedu-
lously guard against the secret agency of selfish-
ness ;
and by her disinterested preference ot the
good of her offspring, to the gratification of her
own vanity, let her prove herself entitled to that
endeared, and endearing, and most comprehen-
sive epithet mother ;
and let her principled reso-
lution be supported by the recollection, that great
talent is not always, or indeed often, a great bless-
ing ;
that its cultivation involves both to parent
and child, a much higher responsibility ; that the
most talented are exposed to a host of tempta-
tions from which others are exempted ;
that they
do not form the most amiable characters; that
their talents often prove a snare to them, lead
them to trust in the pride of intellect, and create
a distaste for the humiliating truths of the gospel ;
that they are often led away by their exclusive
devotion to human literature; that they by no
means generally form the most sterling characters,
but are often more shewy than substantial, neg-
lecting the cultivation of the benevolent and social
affections; being sometimes deficient in appli-
cation, and remarkable for the fugitive nature of
the impressions they receive ;
often wanting in
true feeling, and possessing a hardness of heart
most unfavourable to the growth arid expansion of
the Christian spirit and temper.
While no parent need wish for her child the
possession of great talent ;
and while none can do
448 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
otherwise than feel a deficiency of intelligence as
a most serious misfortune ;
so let none be disap-
pointed by mediocrity. If without splendid powers
of acquisition, there may be but a mind willing
to receive, and capable of retaining instruction,
however dull may be the perception, however
great the painful effort of communicating know-
ledge, and the necessity for the reiteration of the
same principles day by day ; yet such will, by
plodding gently on, and by the gradual, constant,
equable though slow expansion of their intelli-
gence, ultimately form characters of sterling
weight and value, and will in all probability repay
the labour bestowed upon them in a much higher
degree, by an ample return of deeply rooted af-
fection, evinced not only in the halcyon days of
health and prosperity, but during the sunset of
life, on the pillow of sickness, the bed of death,
the storms of adversity, and even the most pain-
ful unconsciousness of disease.
There is too, the infinitely higher motive of
duty, the instruction of a child for its Creator :
that it
may fill
up the measure of its days usefully,
live in obedience to the will of God, and be active
in his service. This, this is the great end and
aim of Christian education ;
and since it is ac-
cepted according to that a man hath, and not ac-
cording to that he hath not, the cultivation of the
actually existing mental manifestations, however
few, has equally a promise of the blessing, which
is attached to training up a child in the way it
should go.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 449
This first principle of regulating the age of
communicating instruction, according to the na-
ture of each individual, and in a degree propor-
tioned at once to his capacity, and to the immense
field of knowledge which is before him, and which
proclaims from every corner of its wide expanse,
that not a day nor an hour is to be lost ;
while at
the same time, the highest mental acquisitions
are to be subordinated to the first and noblest de-
signs of the Creator : this principle will lead to
a just and vigorous employment of all the mental
powers. It is, however, to be recollected, that
the immensity of the field of knowledge, whose
boundary is
constantly enlarging, and seems more
distant as we proceed, requires a considerable de-
votion of time and labour to the aspirant after in-
tellectual acquisition; and that this must make
an inroad upon the robustness of the animal
fibre. The somewhat sedentary life which it
must of necessity involve, is unfavourable to the
perfection of the powers of the animal system,
and its attendant evils must be watched, and
guarded against with jealous care, or every men-
tal effort will prove abortive from the giving way
of the animal powers. The greatest attention,
therefore, should be given to regular exercise, and
to secure proper intervals of repose for the brain ;
not only in the customary periods allotted to
sleep, but also in the alternations of exertion and
quiescence during the day ;
in freedom from oc-
cupation, and unlimited bodily exercise ;
and in
the intervals of slight exertion, which are, in fact,
VOL. I. G G
450 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
hours of repose : for except in those large sections
of time which are devoted to absolute sleep, and
active bodily exertion, the brain suffers more from
positive indolence, listlessness, and inanity, than
it does from moderate exercise ;
it
preys upon it-
self, and is enfeebled by its want of action, in
obedience to the law so frequently mentioned,
which confers the highest degree of health and
enjoyment upon moderate exertion.
At all times, it must be recollected, that a se-
dentary life will often produce headache and
torpor of the bowels; states which should be
narrowly watched, and carefully obviated : the
first, by diminishing the intensity of the brainular
exertion ;
and the second by those attentions to
diet, or simple medicinal remedies, which will
ensure a regular performance of their functions.
One word only on the subject of corporeal
punishment as an incentive to diligence. We he-
sitate not to pronounce our unequivocal dislike of
a system, which establishes the connexion of
master and slave, between the instructor and his
pupil ;
which debases the one, as much as it de-
grades the other ;
which takes away from the
self-esteem of the young, and saps the foundation
of a great motive to industry; which makes him
vile in his own eyes, develops the evil passions of
hatred and aversion for his preceptor, destroys all
chance of confidence ;
and if it
may succeed in
gaining a month over Horace, or Virgil, or
Homer, or Telemachus, does so at the infinite
expense of mental attributes, which nothing can
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 451
replace ;
and thus diminishes the power of use-
fulness, and of extended acquisition in after life ;
detracts from the moral value of the man, and at
once sacrifices strength of mind for the develop-
ment of some very necessary acquisition, but
useful only in proportion as it is
supported by
energy of character. Let then other more ra-
tional methods of punishment be selected, such
as may be rendered available for extending the
sphere of knowledge, and which will confer
strength and stability on the mind, as well as
render it
apt for the performance of every good
word and work.
G G 2
452
CHAP. XVII.
CONCLUSION- PECULIAR SITUATION OF MAN, AS A
MORAL AND SOCtAL BEING HOW INFLUENCED BY
CHRISTIANITY --IMPERFECTION OF EVERY OTHER
ETHICAL CODE ADVANTAGE OF THE REVEALED
WILL OF GOD THE RIGHT OF THE STRONGEST
NECESSITIES OF SOCIETY POWER OF INTELLECT-
GOVERNMENT OF CHRISTIAN PRINCIPLE AND MOTIVE
INFLUENCED BY ITS ALLIANCE WITH MORTALITY
CHOICE OF GOOD, AND REFUSAL OF EVIL, REPUG-
NANT TO HUMAN NATURE, BUT SUPERINDUCED BY
CHRISTIAN PRINCIPLE AGENCY OF THE LATTER ON
THE ANIMAL ECONOMY, AND ON THE MANIFESTA-
TIONS OF MIND IT IS ONLY ATTAINABLE BY DIVINE
GRACE THIS HOWEVER IS PROMISED TO ALL WHO
SEEK FOR IT SINCERELY ADJUVANT PRINCIPLES
TO BE FOUND IN SELF-ESTEEM, BENEVOLENCE, EMU-
LATION, &C. INFINITE IMPORTANCE OF THESE
PRINCIPLES, AND CONSEQUENT NECESSITY FOR
CHRISTIAN EDUCATION, AND FOR PARENTS EDU-
CATING THEIR OWN CHILDREN CAUTION AS TO
WHAT PARENTS, AND WHAT CHILDREN ARE INTENDED
PARENTS OFTEN MISTAKE THEMSELVES CHIL-
DREN ARE NOT PLAYTHINGS DEFECTIVE IMITATION
OF THE YOUNG GRAND MOTIVES FOR ACTION TO BE
FOUND IN DOING JUSTLY TO MAN, AND IN WALKING
WITH GOD AND THIS CONSTITUTES RELIGION-
COMMON MISTAKES ON THIS SUBJECT PARTICULAR
NOTICE OF THE CONNEXION OF RELIGION WITH
INSANITY, AND EXPLANATION OF THIS APPARENT
CONDITION.
V. Conclusion.
MAN alone stands possessed of moral and affec-
tive faculties ;
this it is, which so essentially dis-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 453
tinguishes him ;
and which, in broad characters,
marks the difference between the highest order
of animal intelligence, and those manifestations
which are peculiarly the attributes of an imma-
terial, spiritual principle, destined to exert its
influence over social man, and to live for ever.
But the information conveyed by these faculties ;
the natural characteristics of this principle are few
and feeble, prone to error, liable to perversion,
influenced by sense, and disposed to that which
is evil. Man indeed possesses an internal con-
sciousness of the just and the unjust ; perhaps
too of the beauty of virtue, and the deformity of
gross vice : the wants and institutions of society
soon teach him in language which cannot be mis-
taken, the advantage of doing towards others, as
he would wish them to act towards himself. All
this may be worked out by reason from consi-
derations within himself, and from the social
relations.
But Christianity alone can teach him to love
his enemies, to return good for evil, and to pray
for those who despitefully use him and persecute
him. This is an effort of self-devotion to which
in himself he is quite incapable. Such are not
the virtues of savage life ;
where hatred towards
enemies of the most implacable, and unrelenting,
and unchanging nature ;
the desire of revenging
injuries in spite of every obstacle, indulged even
upon the oosterity of those who have been the first
cause of exciting this feeling; the inextinguishable
wish for retaliation, and the exhaustion of ingenuity
454 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
in the invention of every species of refined torture,
in order to render evil for evil ; the absolute love of
inflicting misery upon a prostrate foe ;
these are
the grand motives to heroic action, and excite the
greatest display of energy, and fortitude, and
perseverance, and sagacity. To the complete
subversion of these feelings the influence of civi-
lization is inadequate ;
it
may moderate the vul-
garity of passion, but it cannot change the heart,
or supply new and higher motives to action ;
it
may introduce maxims of expediency, having for
their basis self-love, pride, vanity, and other
equally suspicious motives, but it can never reach
the morality of the Bible ;
it
may subdue the
passions, controul the feelings, and induce man
to obey human laws, and sacrifice a portion of
his savage freedom for the good of all ;
it
may
introduce negative virtues, but it can never culti-
vate the graces of Christian forbearance, the for-
giveness of injuries, the benevolence of the Bible
towards those who are our enemies, the love of
those who have hated us, and the desire in every
way to do them good, and above all, to bring
them under the influence of religious motives,
and save them from the punishment of sin, to-
wards which their love of evil is rapidly has-
tening.
This last and highest motive to action can
alone result from Christian principle ; wanting
which, however amiable may be the character*
however influenced by good temper and disposi-
tion, however cultivated in society, however en-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 455
larged the intellectual powers, however stored
with learning, however subdued by philosophy,
however obedient to the sublimest code of heathen
ethics, the character is not only defective, but it
is worthless ;
it is never to be relied upon when
interest, feeling, or passion intervene ;
and it is
subjected to the thousand influences which per-
petually assail it, in the form of prejudice and
self-love.
Man is not left alone and helpless in this state
of conflicting emotion ;
for he has been provided
with the powers of reason, and the influence of
conscience, to guide him in his choice ;
and a
Revelation of divine truth has been graciously
vouchsafed him. He is therefore a free agent,
and too generally evinces that freedom by choos-
ing evil and eschewing good ; by wandering from
the paths of virtue, and by yielding himself to the
service of sin. Except in so far as he may be
restrained by education, or as his heart may be
renewed by the Spirit of grace, he will delibe-
rately prefer that which is wrong. Hence the
importance of moral education ; which, although
not adequate to effect a change of nature, can yet
do a great deal in developing the moral virtues,
and in repressing the passions ;
in giving a cor -
rect bias to the conduct, and in preparing the
mental soil for those seeds of divine truth, which
it will be the object of the parent to sow, to
water, to develop, to bring to maturity, in the
hope that under the blessing of Him who alone
456 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
can grant success, there may be an abundant
harvest, even unto life eternal.
We have already seen, that in the savage state
the right of the strongest is in fact the only ac-
knowledged right, to which every other conside-
ration must bow ;
and where this strength is
wanting, its place will be supplied by cunning,
artifice and opportunity. In a more advanced
stage of civilization, yet still wanting the ame-
liorating influence of Christian feeling, the rights
of the strongest are united with, sometimes are
influenced by, and occasionally yield to, the right
of social wants, the laws of necessity, the exist-
ence of an implied, or acknowledged compact, by
which man is bound together for the general good.
But this, too, is insufficient ; we advance a little
farther, and suppose a state of high mental cul-
tivation, yet without the influence of Christianity :
we shall here find some fine traits of character ;
some beautiful examples of virtue ;
some exalted
specimens of devotion ;
some occasional glimmer-
ings of the high destiny of man ;
the influence of
reason, and the power of simple conscience, and
we shall then find the right of the strongest, and
the implied laws of necessity, bow before the
majesty of mind. The individual possessed of
great mental powers exerts an influence unknown
to others ;
and while he rises above many of the
frailties of our nature, he exerts a command over
those who are less gifted, which nothing can
supersede. But all these, the rights of the
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 45?
strongest, the subdued claims of society, the pre-
rogatives of mind all all yield to the rights of
the most just, the love and power of virtue, the
omnipotence of Christian principles and Christian
motives.
These principles and motives are not innate ;
they are addressed to the immaterial soul, and it
alone is
capable of receiving them, and of being
governed by them ;
their inculcation is there-
fore the business of moral or Christian education.
It is the motive, the secret spring of action,
which characterizes that action ;
and such motive
can only originate with the spiritual principle;
manifested, indeed, in conduct, communicated
from one to another, instilled into or received by
the young mind, only through the medium of the
intellectual faculties, and their material organ the
brain, yet always addressed through this medium
to the immaterial, spiritual principle, the soul
whose powers are infinite, though obscured, and
whose duration is eternal. From its alliance
with mortality, and from the great change which
has passed upon it, in consequence of the fall of
our first parents, it is now placed in a situation
of difficulty and danger; a state of probation and
trial, in which, though enjoying perfect freedom
of choice, it feels the influence of predisposition
to evil, and of that aversion from God, which
leads it to choose that which is erroneous, and
tempts it to wander from the right way. Thus,
still
entertaining its perfect freedom of election,
the infant must learn, and must therefore be
458 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
taught to prefer what is painful, and to renounce
what is
pleasing ;
a maxim in theory, and a dis-
cipline in action, against which the human mind
revolts, and which can only be built upon obe-
dience to the revealed will of heaven, and upon the
system of rewards and punishments which it un-
folds. It is not natural to renounce the attrac-
tion of pleasure, and to act most steadily and
uprightly in a way that produces pain ;
and no-
thing short of a principle which is beyond and
above nature, and capable of controuling it, can
be sufficient for these things. How defective,
therefore, must be that system of education which
does not provide principles of religious instruc-
tion ;
which leaves the young to pick up their
motives and rules of conduct as they can, any-
where in after life ; which, in fact, permits to
remain undone that great thing, without which
every thing else is
badly done and wanting
which, man's highest intelligence, his reason, his
intellectual powers are so many instruments of
evil, and prove so many and so great curses to
his fellow-creatures.
This choice of good, this refusal of evil, this
result of Christian principle, this increase of
moral perfection, or rather this advance towards
that which is
only thoroughly attainable in a
world of perfect spirits, has also an extensive
physical influence. We have already frequently
had occasion to notice the agency of mind upon
matter ; and we shall therefore here only remark,
that this highest influence of a well-ordered and
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 459
well-principled mind, has a very extensive ope-
ration upon the animal economy in general, and
on the corporeal powers. This effect is salutary ;
for however we shall presently notice a supposed
connexion between the influence of religious feel-
ing, and a certain form of bodily malady, we
shall also prove that this arises from predisposi-
tion to disease, counteracting and superseding
the legitimate influence of Christian principle,
and substituting for it an ideal and unreal code
of laws for the government of individual action,
totally unfounded in truth, and entirely inap-
plicable fo the necessities of life.
But we go farther, and we trace the agency of
this choice upon the manifestations of mind ;
we
observe a deeply-rooted and sustained sensibility,
which enables the individual to
" feel to the
rising bosom's inmost core," but to feel only in
due proportion to the real and immediate cause
of passion, and its remote connexions ;
to ground
action upon feeling, only in proportion as it is so
based ;
and to support and perpetuate that action
with the most undeviating perseverance and ex-
actitude ;
we trace every faculty enlarged, and
strengthened, and directed to its proper object ;
we find them cultivated in due and just propor-
tion, and in harmony each with the other; we
find them subordinated to the highest motives,
and the love and esteem of virtue nurtured into
passion ;
that is, the pursuit of this principle is
invested with that intensity of desire after its
possession, that it constitutes passion ;
and in pro-
460 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
portion as this becomes the master principle, it
commands every other passion in its train, and
brings it into subjection. But this is
only at-
tainable through the assistance of divine grace,
and the aid of that Holy Spirit by whose influence
it is sustained ;
for it is not natural to the human
heart to seek and to obtain this victory over the
more imperative propensities of our fallen nature :
this can only be possessed by the conversion and
turning of that heart from evil to good, from sin
to righteousness, from Satan to God.
While, however, it is only by the aid of the
Spirit of grace that these fruits of piety and of
the choice of truth are to be procured, it is ours
to act as if they were within reach of our own
efforts ;
to strive after them with all the earnest-
ness of certain hope, well knowing that strength
and success have been promised to those who
seek and ask for it ;
who strive, not as uncer-
tainly, but as possessing an assured prospect of
eventual success.
But again, the effect of this choice is mani-
fested upon the nervous system ;
its susceptibility
is lessened ;
its irritability is subdued ;
its imme-
diate tendency is surrendered to principle ;
its
automatic actions are subordinated to the will ;
it
is energized to resist the incursions of anger,
hatred, malice, and a host of other dangerous and
malignant passions ;
and all its powers are em-
ployed to arrest the first impulse of emotions
which are hostile to the cultivation of virtue, and
to assist the shipwrecked mariner in clinging to
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 461
that wreck of his high original, which may enable
him to live through the storm of passion, and
eventually to gain that rock of security, where he
will find shelter from the tempest ;
where he may
rest in perfect safety ;
where he may look abroad
with complacency on the agitated ocean around
him, and may descry, and even anxiously wait for
the arrival of that friendly vessel, which will take
him to the ardently desired haven ;
that rock
being Christ his Saviour, and that vessel the visi-
tation of the last messenger, to transplant him to
the heavenly world, and transform him into the
image of his Redeemer.
There are however other motives, which guide
and direct this choice, and give it
stability and
permanence ;
and of these, the parent will rejoice
to avail herself; as for instance, the aid of the
principles of self-esteem and self-controul, the
love of others, emulation, the fear of shame, the
love of praise, &c. These passions will presently
come before us in detail : at first sight they may
be looked upon with some degree of suspicion, as
motives on which to ground the conduct of Chris-
tian education ;
but as has been observed already,
they are principles which are virtues or vices, ac-
cordingly as they may be employed ;
and it must
be the business of the instructor to give children
a decided leaning towards truth ;
and so to en-
gage them, as not only to obviate their evil bias,
but to render them available for the support of the
character, and for the enlargement of principle,
in that arduous struggle, which constitutes the
462 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
life of man a perpetual warfare, a conflict be-
tween obedience to the will of his great Com-
mander, and the opposing influence of his ene-
mies, whom he is directed to subdue, and over
whom he has been promised a final victory, if he
will contend for it.
But unless these principles be developed ;
un-
less this choice be firmly and deliberately made ;
unless the child be taught to know and feel his
own feebleness, and the only source of his
strength ; unless he be led to acknowledge his
proneness to error, and liability to fall into temp-
tation ;
and the only source of safety from the
one, and of defence from the influence of the
other, he will be thrown upon the wide world,
without pilot or guide, and will risk his present
health and comfort, his respectability, even his
very existence here, and his eventual happiness
through eternity, in the devouring whirlpool of
society : where surrounded on every side by dan-
ger, allured by the prospect of present pleasure
on the one hand, against which he only places a
distant, uncertain, and contingent benefit ;
where
agitated by the provocatives of passion, tempted
by vice, and tossed from billow to billow on the
conflicting elements of reason and passion, during
the night of self-dependence, without a ray of
divine light to guide him, possessing no steady
principle to secure his devious course, and want-
ing the uplifted eye of Christian hope and humble
confidence, he is left to his own resources, and falls
a victim to the machinations of his arch enemy,
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 463
resists the offers of mercy and strength constantly
made, and finally sinks impenitent and unrelent-
ing into that grave, to which the proffered pardon
can never reach, and where the fate of each indi-
vidual is irrecoverably fixed.
Seeing then that such is the fearful risk of
those whom we profess to educate ;
how all im-
portant is it, that instruction should have its basis
in Christianity; that it should commence, be con-
tinued, and completed on Christian principles,
and with a constant view to the immortality of the
soul, and its final condition. It is during life,
that this state after death is
irreversibly decided ;
and although we cannot renew the hearts of our
children, yet it is ours to act as if we could, by
diligently employing the means of religious in-
struction, sowing the seeds of divine truth, and
preparing the soil for the agency of that Holy
Spirit, which delights to dwell with the humble
and the contrite, and by whose holy inspiration,
the desert shall blossom as the rose, and the
fruitful field shall become a forest.
It is however certain, that to none but parents
can this basis of Christian education be safely in-
trusted : none besides will feel a sufficient inte-
rest, to devote the principal time to this pursuit;
none besides can carry out the principle into ac-
tion, and watch over, and ascertain, and direct
the motives ;
none besides can enter the secret
recesses of the heart, or explore the remote origin
of conduct and feeling ;
none besides can be ex-
pected to abstract themselves from the common
464 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
routine of scholastic education for the purpose of
studying the character, and examining what is
the real growth of principle, and what its influ-
ence upon the conduct. Hence the importance of
parents educating their own children ;
an axiom
which however requires some explanation and
restriction ;
as for instance, what parents and what
children are intended, and what limit is to be
placed to the education so recommended.
It is not every parent who is capable of under-
taking, or even of superintending the work of
education ;
and they, only need attempt this pro-
cess, who are convinced of its great importance ;
who feel the necessity, and are prepared to meet
the frequent occasions for the exercise of self-
denial ;
who are possessed of sufficient firmness
of mind to enable them to prefer the good of their
children to their present ease and comfort ; and
who have principle enough to support them
through the various trials to which they will be
exposed ;
and to sustain their judgment, syste-
matically and perseveringly to prefer the just to
the agreeable, the command of God to their own
ease, and the wishes of their offspring. But
there are parents, who though possessed of all
these qualifications, are [yet unfitted by nature^
or by the neglect of former opportunities, to con-
duct the education of their children, and with
whom therefore it is
imperative to delegate their
authority, and intrust the work of instruction to
others. Let not however such parents shelter
their supineness under the plea of incapacity ;
a
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 465
considerable period must elapse before the labour
of school discipline will begin ;
and in the interval,
the instruction and education of principle should
be carried on perhaps the most important part
of the entire process ;
and this requires nothing
more than what is commonly possessed by all,
and an honest desire to fill
up the measure of duty
here. Afterwards, when the labour of scholastic
instruction must be carried beyond the actual re-
sources of the parent, and beyond that which she
entertains the possibility of acquiring ; then and only
then, should she relinquish the task of education,
and devolve the authority upon others ;
either
upon a domestic tutor, or upon the principal of
some respectable boarding school. Whether of
these two is to be preferred, must be left to cir-
cumstances to determine ;
and probably no gene-
ral rule can be so safely drawn as to be applicable
to the great majority of all cases. Thus much
would we say, that where it is possible that a
sufficient degree of instruction by domestic teach-
ers can be obtained, it is to be preferred ;
but
that when this is uncertainly or improbably at-
tainable, the greatest quantum of good will result
from choosing a good boarding school. With re-
gard to boys indeed, it may perhaps be necessary
after a certain age to expose them to the disci-
pline of school : but still let the principle never
be lost sight of, to choose him for an instructor
who approaches most nearly to the parental qua-
lifications, and whose small number of pupils
makes his institution more completely resemble the
VOL r. H H
466 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
domestic circle, and enables him more perfectly
to devote himself to the study of the character of
the individual children intrusted to his care.
When parents are from indolence, or occupation,
or distaste, rendered unfit for the duty of instruc-
tion, it is of great importance, that it should not
therefore be left undone, until evil propensities
have gained the force of principle, and have been
ripened into habits ;
and however badly done by
a substitute, it had better be so performed, than
not done at all : but when the parent can be qua-
lified for this office, none will so effectually ac-
complish all its varieties of duty, as the tender
hand of the mother.
In mentioning these qualifications of the parent,
we have also defined a certain limit to the period
and extent of the education so intended : we shall
therefore only add here, that there are some chil-
dren, some few rebellious spirits, in whom the
discipline of home cannot be severe enough to
insure their obedience, and who may perchance
be awed into submission by the stern authority of
the preceptor. It will however generally be
found, that this treason against parental govern-
ment has been the result of early neglect, of suf-
fering slighter instances of disobedience to pass
unnoticed, till it has gained a complete ascen-
dancy over the mind, and bids defiance to con-
troul.
And when we look around, and contemplate the
comparatively small number of parents, who are
at all adequate to the instruction of their off-
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 467
spring ;
the fewer still who will submit to the ne-
cessary privations, and give up their own time,
and ease, and visiting, and various pleasures, for
the good of their children ;
the very few who are
sufficiently imbued with the importance of the
subject, and with the necessity for its
early com-
mencement ; and when to this we add the small
proportion of children who are favourable subjects
for the Qperation of parental care, we really trem-
ble for the rising generation.
And yet we are not without hope : a mighty
stimulus has been communicated to society;
juster views are more universally diffused ; the
necessity for improving education has become an
acknowledged principle; the universal dissemi-
nation of the Bible has served to awaken many to-
the nature of its truths, and to excite an interest
in favour of its moral precepts ;
the labours of be-
neficence have been extended, and have become
more particularly an individual concern than for-
merly ;
the manifestations of mind are enlarging,
and the influence of religion is at least widening,
if it be not more deeply felt ;
and from all these
circumstances, we augur favourably for the in-
creased attention of parents to the subject of
education.
Before we quit this part of our design, we have
one observation to make as regards parents, and
also with respect to children. Parents often treat
their children as if
they were created for their
own amusement solely ; they nourish them deli-
cately ; they foster extreme sensibility ; they do
H H2
4G8 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
not suffer them to be contradicted, and thus they
deprive them of the exercise of those powers
which they will one day require in society. There
is in all this, an essential mistake. Children are
not playthings ; they are destined to buffet against
the difficulties and perplexities of life ; they
should be the creatures of action, not of sensa-
tion ;
arid they must endure disappointment of
their wishes, contradiction of their intentions,
and frequent thwarting of their inclinations : how
erroneous therefore must be the system which
prevents the growth of these principles, or renders
them stunted and immature. This is to entail
misery upon the young ;
to destroy the vitality of
the benevolent affections ;
to render the mind
feeble and irritable, excitable on the smallest and
most trivial occasions, and altogether unequal to
the daily precepts and practice of Christian duty.
Again with regard to children, these may pos-
sess a certain degree of conduct and manner in
society, yet without its being the offspring of
principle : this is generally found as the result of
defective imitation, or of erroneous example, or from
the absence of correct judgment ;
and it will
therefore fail in every situation of difficulty, and
will leave its subject unprovided with the higher
attributes of man ;
since he will be raised only a
degree above an automaton, and will want all the
energy and perseverance, the principled pursuit,
the established character, the Christian motive,
which can alone be relied upon for support, and
for the production of consistency of design, and
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 469
firmness of action. However amiable may be this
feeble assemblage of mental manifestations ;
since
its whole weight does not entitle its possessors to
the attributes of character, they can only be con-
templated with pity and compassion; they are not
objects of scorn, but of deeply felt commise-
ration ; beings whose only safety consists in their
immunity from temptation; whose only chance
of passing through the world quietly, will result
from a silly, empty, good temper, which yields
to every blast, and submits to be wafted by every
zephyr, to glide on the bosom of every wave, to
go with the stream ;
thus escaping collision with
society, and stealing along without the necessity
of shewing their intrinsic feebleness, because they
will wisely never accept a challenge to evince their
strength.
After all that has been said, we must sum up
this conclusion to the second part of our design
by stating, that the grand motives to action
should be to dojustly towards man, and to walk
with God.
These motives possess a very extended influ-
ence, and reach to the minutest actions of the
day, as well as to every transient thought or
passing emotion :
they should be constantly ope-
rative, and partake of a larger measure of refined
sensibility, in proportion as they are acted upon
with more undeviating pertinacity. They form,
at once, the only just basis for the conduct of the
life, and for the government of the heart. The
former comprehends not simply obedience to the
470 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
laws of our country, or a willing compliance with
the usages of society ;
not only the regular per-
formance of that which is enjoined, but also that
true and genuine benevolence which would lead us
to prefer the good of others to our own, and induce
us to sacrifice much, in order to secure their real
happiness : it is not an unwilling, or a tardy and re-
luctant conformity to that which is required, but
a cheerful acquiescence with the demands of
duty ;
an acquiescence which gores beyond the
express limitation of the demand made upon it ;
which seeks to obey it in its spirit, rather than in
its letter; which enlists the whole heart in its
service, and which perseveres in the path of duty,
in spite of every obstacle, and is
prepared to sa-
crifice every prejudice, every personal feeling,
the friendship and esteem of many, many a favou-
rite sentiment and opinion, many a long cherished
feeling, and many a darling passion to the desire
of doing justly. Fiat justitia mat ccelum; and
though the individual may feel his own inability,
he knows where strength and grace have been
promised to the sincere believer, and the humble
Christian.
And this leads to the second basis of action,
viz: walking with God; a spirit which compre-
hends a submission of our own will to that of out-
Heavenly Father ;
a desire to obey his word ;
to
be active in his service ;
to be devoted to his ex-
press or implied commands ;
a subjection of the
heart to the sacred influence of the Spirit; and an
earnest and sincere wish to be led into the way of
INTELLECTUAL ED UCATION. 471
truth ;
a diffidence and distrust in our own
strength, and an equal confidence in the gui-
dance and support of His grace; a humble
and entire conviction of our helplessness, and
liability to error; a perfect prayer to be made
like unto Him who knew no sin, neither was
guile found in his mouth ; simplicity and inte-
grity of the heart before him ;
a constant aim to
subordinate the passions and affections of our
nature to the direction of his will, and not simply
to obviate their evil tendency, but to cultivate and
employ them in his service ;
meekness and ten-
derness and forgiveness towards those who have
injured us ;
the subjection of envy, hatred, re-
, venge, and every evil passion to the influence of
divine truth, and their exchange for charity, be-
nevolence, and compassion ;
the entire abandon-
ment of self-dependence ;
the submission of the
animal desires and ^vants to the necessities and
advantage of the soul ; the cultivation of a peace-
ful and compassionate disposition towards all
men ;
the bearing long with the contumely, and
calumny, and opprobrium of a world that lieth in
wickedness; patience under injuries; the sub-
jection of anger, and quiet consistency of con-
duct, as the only reply to the bitter words of our
enemies ; abounding in every good word and
work ; struggling against every darling error ;
diligence in every lawful employment; a steady
and unbending adherence to truth; a spirit of
universal love to that neighbour, who is defined to
be him, towards whom benevolence may be ex-
472 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
ercised, wherever situated, however circum-
stanced, and under every possible variety of cha-
racter ;
the diligent improvement of time ;
the
cultivation of talents ;
the submission of the pride
of intellect to the humility of the gospel ;
the fear
of God, and as a basis for all these fruits of the
Christian temper, faith in Christ, that active prin-
ciple which demonstrates its existence, not only
by professing its belief in the Saviour, but by ac-
cepting Him as the purifier of the heart, as our
prophet, priest, and king, to teach, to atone, to
command ;
as our advocate and intercessor ;
and
in the Holy Spirit the Sanctifier, that we may be
led into all truth, and bring forth the fruits of
the Spirit in a holy and amended life. In this
conflict with evil, in this belief in Christ, in this
pursuit of good, we are supported by conscience,
a faculty which has been already considered ;
that internaljudge which regulates the will, in the
most secret recesses of the heart, and subordi-
nates the other manifestations of mind, to that
which should be the one dominant principle.
But this constitutes religion ;
a term which
thousands misunderstand ;
which some deride as
visionary, and others despise as irrational ;
of
which the great majority of mankind are unmind-
ful, and which another large section neglect; a
principle which is identified by many with super-
stition, and singularity, and affectation ;
which
is often considered as the offspring of a heated
imagination, and a too easily excited brain ;
or
which is thought by others to consist in a string
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 473
of empty speculations bordering upon mysticism ;
or in the belief of a peculiar system of doctrines
without any practical bearing ;
an inoperative
creed, which leaves the heart untouched, and the
conscience unawakened, and the conduct at per-
fect liberty ;
which by some is built upon a round
of ceremonies, or upon certain external observ-
ances, or upon the performance of a given quan-
tity of good works ;
and by others is stigmatized
with its alliance to insanity ;
a principle which is
thought to be inimical to the graces of literature,
and to be closely connected with vulgarity, and a
narrow contracted mind ;
or which is said to
minister to the pride and self-complacency of its
professors, and to render them unfit for the duties
of life ;
and finally, a principle which clouds the
brow of its disciples with perpetual sorrow, is
adverse to rational enjoyments, spreads its gloomy
influence over every department of life, and makes
men miserable here, from the fear of misery here-
after : and these are only a few of the mistakes
which are very commonly made on the subject of
religion.
It would be endless to enter into a serious re-
futation of all these calumnies, and we shall only
shortly reply, that they all proceed from the
fallacy of assuming that to be religion which is not
so, a proposition which will be more fully de-
veloped in the next section. We shall therefore,
only remark farther by negatives, that religion is
neither visionary nor irrational ;
that it contains
not a doctrine nor a precept which is not in perfect
474 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
accordance with the original constitution, the
wants, and hopes, and fears of man, or which is
contrary to sound reason, although some parts of
its truths may be beyond its reach, as well as the
rationale of other simple natural phenomena; that
the source of the neglect it has experienced
is easily to be traced in the lamentable state to
which man has been reduced by the fall ; that it
involves no superstitious notions, no affected
feelings, no eccentricities of manner, but rather
in its legitimate agency, always checks them ;
that
attention to its duties, is the highest proof of a
sane mind, and well regulated heart ; that
although it
may contain mysteries to our feeble
apprehension, it is an enemy to mysticism in its
every form ; that that is religion only in name,
which consists in holding a certain number of
doctrines, which have not an immediate and con
stant influence upon the conduct ;
that that be-
lief is not genuine, which does not lead to, and
is not proven by the operation of practical prin-
ciple, carried into every thought and feeling and
action ;
that a round of unmeaning ceremonies,
of sanctimonious observances, or even the per-
formance of obvious duty on any thing short of
Christian motives are only substitutes for religion;
that the genuine principle gives the highest pos-
sible stimulus to the cultivation of mind, enforces
the duty of improving talent, derives a great or-
nament from literature, and extensive mental ac-
quisition ;
that it is an enemy to every thing
gross and vulgar, though it often exists in the
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 475
heart of the poor and the illiterate, who receive
and rejoice in its influence, while that of the man
of talent is deaf to its invitations ;
that it is de-
cidedly inimical to pride, and to that principle
which says,
" Stand by, for I am holier than
thou," while it inculcates the precept, and offers
the highest possible example of humility; that
it is
essentially a practical principle, a principle
of universal benevolence ;
and is the only source
of true, and rational enjoyment, of cheerfulness,
of hope, of peace.
And we shall only farther observe, that it is
not the offspring, or the parent, or even allied to
insanity. Our only reason for noticing this ob-
jection particularly, is that it is more closely con-
nected with our views of the manifestations of
mind, through the medium of their organ the
brain ;
and that these views afford a satisfactory
method of accounting for this supposed tendency.
Whenever an individual becomes insane, and
the exclusive and prominent idea assumes a re-
ligious form, it is immediately asserted that reli-
gion has produced this subversion of the powers
of reason ;
and it is often triumphantly exhibited
as a consequence of the baneful influence of at-
tention to its truths. But insanity is not a dis-
ease of the immaterial principle, but of the brain,
by which its operations are manifested. The
brain is liable to that perversion of its functions
which we term insanity, and when an exclusive
idea occupies the patient, monomania; and of this
form is religious insanity. We have before con-
476 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
sidered the raonomaniacal hallucinations, to arise
from an exclusive development of the faculty of
attention, overturning the balance of the brainular
system. But in order to the production of this
effect, there must exist predisposition ;
and this
predisposition may be excited by any object of
intense interest. It will very generally be found
that indications of strangeness, will precede a
more decided form of mental aberration; this
deviation from usual manner, or customary trains
of thought will by and by fasten according to
circumstances, upon some object of interest, and
usually of fearful interest. Thus, the fear of
poverty, the fear of man, the fear of death, the
fear of eternal punishment, become exclusive
ideas, and are brooded over with unceasing and
intense attention, until the balance o power of
the brainular system is
destroyed, and the pa-
roxysm of insanity is
fully formed. Thus it will
be remarked that the tendency precedes the at-
tack, and that its precise character is
only deter-
mined by adventitious circumstances. How un-
fair then to charge upon religion that which re-
sults from a morbid brainular action !
The correctness of these views of the subject,
is proved by the common phenomena of this
form of insanity. Nothing is more usual, than
that it should be accompanied by an irresistible
propensity to suicide; the individual dreads fu-
ture condemnation ;
he believes that his doom
will be sealed, by rushing unbidden into the pre-
sence of his Maker ;
and yet he commits the very
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 477
act, which in his own view, renders his situation
absolutely hopeless, thus proving his incapacity
to reason. Besides reason has no permanent in-
fluence over this malady ;
the author has thrown
the gleam of hope, of Christian hope, athwart the
mind of the monomaniac ;
he has seen his coun-
tenance lighted up with joy at the impressive ex-
hibition ;
but it was transient as an April ray, and
in less than forty-eight hours afterwards, the in-
dividual has been a corpse from his own hands,
thus shewing that mental remedies are inadequate
to the relief of this state. Besides, the only
successful method of treatment is directed to the
bodily system in general, and to the brain in par-
ticular. This alone is adequate to the removal of
the morbid action ;
and then the reflex operation
of mental impression may be called in to confirm
and strengthen the organ whose unhealthy con-
dition has been subdued ;
but till then it is use-
less. Then it is, that the hopes and consolations,
the truths and prospects of Christianity will be
beneficial.
Once more, look to the usual result of this ex-
clusive attention to religion as an insane idea. In
difew instances the individual recovers, and re-
mains actuated by genuine Christian principle ;
but in the great majority of cases, he is seen to
be thoughtless of religion, commonly occupied
by the eager pursuit of some other favourite ob-
ject ;
and which any little disappointment, or
bodily disorder would easily convert into an in-
sane hallucination. One other proof may be
478 INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION.
mentioned, viz. that religious insanity always as-
sumes a partial and exclusive view of divine
truth ;
it is not satisfied with the religion of the
Bible, but arises from distorted views of particular
parts, all tending to demonstrate the fault of the
percipient, reasoning, reflecting, judging organ.
And moreover, it often assumes impossibilities as
being commanded by exclusive and particular
revelation ;
as for instance, the imitation of our
Saviour's fast, thus again leading at once to
another form of perversion of the brainular func-
tion. Thus then, do we see that the assertion of
the influence of religion in producing insanity is
false and calumnious, the offspring of contracted
views, and erroneous judgment, or still more fre-
quently of a heart which is averse to real, vital,
evangelical religion ; which, being incapable of
finding fault with its obvious and legitimate ten-
dencies, endeavours to fasten upon it, what is
merely the result of disordered bodily action, a
morbid state which just views of religion tend
most essentially to relieve, as soon as the diseased
function of the brain has been subdued.
END OF PART II.
PART III.
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
CHAP. I.
ON THE DUTIES OF RELATIONSHIP, AS CONNECTED
WITH MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
PERHAPS the wisdom of the beneficent Creator
of the Universe shines no where more Conspi-
cuously than in the provisions which have been
made by his paternal care, for the happiness of
social man ;
and in the influence of relationship
upon that happiness. In no situation of life is
this more strongly characterized than in the basis
which has been thus laid for the moral and reli-
gious education of the young. For it must at
once be perceived, there can be no chance that
this process will be successfully conducted by
parents, who do not concur in their general views;
who do not assist, but rather thwart each other's
efforts ;
or towards children, who have not been
early impressed with the necessity of obedience
to their parents as' a principle of duty ;
not merely
as the spontaneous effusion of gratitude & virtue
circumscribed enough at all times in its opera-
tion, and which we shall here find would be in-
adequate to the wished for effect.
VOL. I. I I
482 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
What, then, is the basis of that relationship on
which has been erected the duty of education . It is
impossible here to enter into the various conside-
rations which should regulate the choice of a
companion for life : it must be presupposed that
this choice has been prudently and wisely made ;
and in order to give that view of the character
which is suited to our present purpose, we shall
assume that the completeness of this first relation
has received its full development in the possession
of children.
The^r^ desire of parents should be to confound
every distinction in one character, for one grand
purpose, and from one Christian motive. What-
ever individual differences may have existed, they
should now all be lost in that perfect amalgama-
tion which can alone ensure homogeneous views
and feelings, thoughts and actions, principles and
practice. Their primary aim should be to make
one common stock of their talents, their wishes,
their projects, and their hopes. It is scarcely to
be expected (though it may sometimes happen)
that individuals should come together who pos-
sess a perfect similarity of mental manifestation
and acquisition. Where this is the case, there
will be union without effort ;
where it is not,
there should be union upon principle. And this is
to be accomplished by carrying this principle into
operation, in the most trivial circumstances of
life. Nature rejoices to display her wisdom in
the minutest arrangements ;
and the power and
goodness of Providence are exhibited as much in
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 483
the agency of those laws which govern the direc-
tion of the feeblest ray of light, as in those which
controul the magnificent operations of the universe.
It is not upon the great occasions of existence ;
the mighty efforts of sympathy in joy or sorrow ;
the controul of tumultuous passion ;
the exertion
of a sense of right against some great and obvious
temptation to do wrong, that.we look for the in-
fluence of this principle ;
it is not in the charac-
ter of conduct arrayed in its holyday garb, for
the inspection of others, that we expect to trace
its legitimate agency, but on the feeling, and
action, and temper of every hour of the day ;
in
the quiet retirement of home, where no intruding
eye can penetrate ;
in that system of duty which
is ever and universally operative, and which ex-
tends over the whole field of vital action. We
do not trace the influence of health by the effect
of any particular exertion, but rather by the un-
disturbed harmonious functions of the system,
where none exists in excess, or by defect ;
and
in the power of this harmony to resist every dis-
turbing cause, and to preserve the equilibrium
of the economy. And so it is with this first prin-
ciple of parental duty: there must be an union
of soul ;
the peculiar talents of each must become
one common stock, from which to draw jointly
for the good of their children, since in this way,
each may supply the deficiencies of the other :
their wishes should be a sacred deposit, to secure
the integrity of which, each tacitly (but not openly
484 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
and ostentatiously) agrees to surrender some
selfish inclinations : their projects must be mutual,
and pursued with unabated and undivided ardour,
and should command their most strenuous co-
operation, their most perfect consent, their utmost
energy of feeling and action ;
and their hopes should
be fixed on the same basis, seek their accom-
plishment by the same means, and be fastened on
the same ultimate prospects ;
since in this way
alone can they secure the just education of their
children, and .prevent that contravention of design
which too frequently blasts the best directed
efforts of one parent, and at the least renders them
utterly powerless and ineffective.
An effect of this union will be congeniality ; a
principle so essential to the education of their
children, that it can scarcely be conducted with
any prospect of success where this is wanting.
Nor is this principle difficult of attainment ;
since
it rests on the possession of identical interests,
similarity of taste, conformity of will, and the
ready abandonment of inclination, where it stands
opposed to this adaptation of views, and amalga-
mation of feeling and disposition. Where there
has previously existed that union of heart which
we have supposed, it will be found that these its
fruits will not be wanting ;
since it is evident,
that two individuals who have become one for
one common purpose, viz. the promotion of their
own happiness, and the education of their chil-
dren, cannot be possessed of separate interests ;
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 485
it is in the nature of things impossible ;
and where
it can even be supposed to exist, it will plant the
mildew of decay on every prospect of peace, and
happiness, or usefulness. Neither can there be
a discrepancy of taste ;
for they who have been
accustomed to think and act alike, will most
naturally and inevitably form similar estimates of
good and evil, and will therefore be actuated by
similar objects of desire : the expressed, or im-
plied, or ascertained wish of the other will be to
each a law, with all the sanctity of Christian love
upon it ;
and therefore the will, which is desire in
action, will be conformable ;
while the exertion
of a similar principle will lead to that forgetful-
ness of self, which will subordinate every incli-
nation to the general good.
But if this principle be wanting if parents can
be so purblind to their own peace, as to fancy
they can have separate interests ;
that they may
differ in their views, which result from taste ;
that they may possess distinct and even opposite
wills ;
and that they may indulge varying inclina-
tions, the effect upon the education of their chil-
dren will be this :
they will teach them to under-
value and slight their authority ; they will shew
them that there is no immutable standard of right
and wrong, consequently no standard at all ; they
will practically declare, that there are no uniform
and universally applicable rules of conduct ;
that
there are no principles for the regulation of the
desires ;
no sufficient ground for the formation of
486 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
the taste ;
no limits for the wild, ungoverned
license of the will ;
and no necessity for subordi-
nating the inclinations to a sense of duty : conse-
quences all utterly subversive of successful moral
education.
But farther, in order to the unembarrassed
conduct of instruction, there must exist, on the
part of parents, a perfect community of thought ;
that openness and candour which admit of an
entire participation of views, and which will often
prevent an ineffective, because feeble attempt,
from becoming abortive by its very feebleness
and want of support. This consists not so much
in any active duty, as in the unobtrusive unre-
serve which admits, on the one hand, of reading
the motive for certain actions, and on the other
of perceiving the unbiassed opinion of both motive
and action. The necessity for this openness is
founded on the imperfection of our nature, and
on our consequent proneness to error. It allows
but of one limitation, viz. that it should not
always be exercised before children, because it
must occasionally lead to the expression of some-
what different views ;
and the idea of its being
possible that their parents could think and wish
differently, will always exert a baneful influence
upon their minds.
Thus, to a certain extent, there will also be a
participation of duties ;
for although, in general,
the more active avocations and exertions of the
father will mainly incapacitate him for those
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 487
minute attentions which he must of necessity
devolve, and so advantageously devolve too, upon
the mother, yet there will be found occasions for
the exercise of his influence, besides the constant
one of preserving her authority, seconding her
efforts, forwarding her views, maturing her pros-
pects, supporting her energies, guiding her prin-
ciples, and enlarging their operation, as well as
in protecting her designs. The mother rests
securely in this sustained and sustaining assist-
ance of her more constant duties, and feels that
confidence in her exertions which is so necessary
to success ;
well assured, too, that where this
undivided affection exists, there will not be with-
held the salutary office of monitor, should the
occasion for its exercise present itself.
It is not now our object, to enter fully into the
relative duties, except as they may stand con-
nected with education ;
and therefore we shall
only remark, that an union so formed will survive
all the common disasters of life ;
that it will be
augmented by time ;
that it will rise unimpaired
from the gradual extinction of that stirring passion
in which it originated ;
that it will be embellished
by the fairest hopes, diversified by the sweetest
cares, soothed by the most endearing recollec-
tions, preserved by mutual. happiness, aye, and
even fortified, and strengthened, and enlarged by
misfortune. It is not a fugitive feeling, connected
with youth, or health, or beauty, or wealth, or
interest : it will, on the contrary, survive the loss
of all these : it
may lose indeed some of its fer-
488 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
vour, but none of the constant steady light which
it diffuses all along the pathway of life : it is a
peaceful and enchanting affection, whose influ-
ence is exerted upon every changing scene, whose
spirit descends in a thousand blessings upon the
children which are its
pledge, and whose agency
is equable and uniform ; surviving the wreck of
the physical powers ; being preserved active to
the last moments of life ; ceasing not even with
existence, but extending to futurity !
Moreover,
it is supported by friendship, that noblest, purest,
most disinterested passion ;
it is built on solid
esteem ;
it is shrouded from every adverse blast
by the most sincere and unaffected devotion ; it
is defended by an uniform forgetfulness of self,
and by a thousand other conservative virtues,
which render such an union calculated to give an
indescribable charm to the leisure hours of wis-
dom, and to sow with flowers the track of the
good man.
This union forms the basis for all good educa-
tion ;
but we shall spend a few moments in de-
tailing the peculiar province of each parent ;
for
while their object is one and indivisible, circum-
stances render their mode of pursuing that object
somewhat different. This distinction will hold
good throughout society ;
for the mother will be
found to possess much the greater educational
powers ;
and her office will be but ill
supplied by
a substitute, even though that substitute be the
partner of her views, and the participator of her
hopes and fears. But although we separate the
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 489
peculiar duties of each, we would wish it to be
distinctly understood, that where one parent is
removed from the possibility of assisting in the
care of instruction ;
where one is incapacitated
by circumstances from attending to these duties,
or is inadequate to their performance, there is not
therefore an excuse for negligence : the whole
task of education must then centre upon the one,
and in him or her will be concentrated the spe-
cific duties of both. It is an arduous task which
none will approach without fear, none attempt
without feeling their deficiencies. Let it be re-
membered, however, that this feeling is the first
step towards success ;
the first advance towards
the acquisition of knowledge is to feel our own
ignorance, to know that we are deficient, to be
deprived of self-confidence and vain glory, and
then in the genuine humility of true wisdom, our
whole energies will be devoted to that most im-
portant task.
The duties of the maternal parent are not con-
fined to the corporeal preservation of her infant ;
these are important :
they are not confined to the
development of its mental powers, and their
widening sphere of intelligence ;
these also are
important : but her cares extend far beyond even
this, and reach to the arrangement of the mani-
festations of the moral existence of her offspring ;
a work which possesses no parallel in nature, and
which is most feebly pourtrayed by the simple
labours of the husbandman or the florist ;
a work
which, if so sacred a subject can be touched
490 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
without suffering from the contact of any unhal-
lowed emotion, approaches more nearly to the
creating power of Omnipotence, than to any
labour short of that commanding agency, which
first said,
" Let there be light, and there was
light." And so it is at the present hour, for with-
out his favour and blessing, every effort will be
fruitless and ineffectual :
" The breath of heaven must swell the sail,
" Or all the toil be lost."
And the Almighty still says,
" Let there be
light :" only at the present day, that light is to
be developed through the agency of inferior in-
struments, who nevertheless derive all their power
from the fountain of light and life.
This light has been eclipsed by sin ; clouds
and darkness rest upon the human mind ;
confu-
sion and disorder have been introduced into its
manifestations : and whatever good may have
survived the fall, is obscured from our view by
the perpetual night of ignorance. The light of
education breaks through this otherwise impene-
trable gloom ;
but it shews at the same time the
extent of the evil which has passed upon it, and
as the clouds of ignorance are rolled away, and
as we hail the dawning of a brighter day, we still
observe the mists of prejudice hovering over the
more prominent manifestations : a nearer inspec-
tion betrays the comparative poverty of the intel-
lectual soil, the wild luxuriance of its weeds, the
broken and confused state of its surface, the dis-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 491
ordered and mis-arranged grouping of its produc-
tions, the storms and tempests with which its
moral atmosphere is often visited, and its deter-
mined hostility to cultivation. If the fond mo-
ther should shut her eyes to these simple facts ;
if she should be determined not to see imper-
fection in her children : if she should believe that
the work of education consists only in developing
the powers of the mind as she finds them ;
if she
should ever separate the labour of instruction
from the distinguishing truths of revelation, the
result must be cruel disappointment to herself,
and wretchedness to her offspring.
One of her first objects will be to make herself
acquainted with, and to regulate the temper and
disposition, and as early as possible to convey a
knowledge of the Deity, and of the relation which
subsists between the creature and the Creator.
As the mind is capable of receiving them, just
notions of the laws of God, and of the obedience
they require ;
of the sinfulness of the heart, and
of the great truths of religion, should be commu-
nicated. She will inculcate with zealous and
watchful care, all the principles, and develop all
the attributes of the mind; she will cherish every
sensibility of the soul, repress their wild luxu-
riance, and direct them to their proper objects :
she will invest her child with its character, be-
cause that character will result from the succes-
sion and variety of the impressions, which will
have been made upon it
by her exertions ;
and
her attention to the employment of those facul-
492 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
ties, by which these impressions are to be per-
ceived, and rendered available for the purposes of
life ;
she will with anxious jealousy eradicate the
weeds of vice, and tenderly shield the early
growth of virtuous principle : she will aim to pro-
duce consistency of good conduct upon the high-
est motives, and watch over every emotion of the
heart.
There are other minor cares which come before
her ;
and she thinks nothing too little to merit
attention : she will recollect the importance of
Jirst impressions in passing through the world, and
knowing of how great consequence is the expres-
sion of the countenance, it will be a part of her
design to call into action those principles, and
emotions, which will harmonize the play of her
child's opening physiognomy ;
not with the view
of deceiving others, or of simply teaching controul
over the expression of painful feeling, but really
with the hope of giving vigour and extension to
the principles, whose expression she seeks to deve-
lop. And as we have already seen, she facilitates
the employment, and represses the premature
exercise of all the faculties.
All this proceeds upon a principle of affection,
which knows no bounds ; which admits not of
diminution, or caprice ;
which is ever in quest of
fresh opportunities for the exertion of its influ-
ence ;
which is sustained amidst the most adverse
circumstances, repeated disappointments, and
even the curse of ingratitude ;
and which can
only terminate with the capacity for its exercise.
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 493
External circumstances may change ; the prin-
ciple may be tried in the severest form ;
the insti-
tutions of society may pass away ; man may be
modified by a thousand changes ; aye even love
itself may change and grow cold ;
the purest
friendship may become languid ;
benevolence may
be stunted ;
ambition may be feeble : but mater-
nal solicitude is imperishable ;
it gathers strength
by every occasion of duty ;
it hovers over its ob-
jects with unceasing anxiety, and rests not but in
the full conviction of their present peace and
worth, and in the humble hope and depending
confidence of their happiness hereafter. This is the
talisman which directs a mother's exertions, which
supports her in every difficulty, enables her to
rise superior to trial, and steadily to pursue her
course of undeviating energy, till she has realized
the full accomplishment of her wishes. In doing
so, she is not satisfied with mediocrity : a mode-
rate degree of attainment is too cold and listless
an object of pursuit for pure affection such as
hers ;
and she can rest satisfied in nothing short
of the highest possible reach of intellect ;
of the
fullest expansion of the, heart ;
of the most
entire government of virtue ; and of the most
complete manifestation of the influence of prin-
ciple.
The duties which more particularly attach to
the paternal parent, are those which involve a
higher degree of authority than the preceding,
and which consist mainly in directing and go-
verning those manifestations of mind, and the
494 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
exercise of those principles which have been im-
planted by maternal care. Thus, one of its chief
objects is to repress evil tendencies, and place a
barrier to their encroachments ;
to watch over
the conduct, and trace it from its source in the
understanding or the heart, to its full
completion
in action; to check, with an unsparing hand,
every degree of obliquity ;
to ascertain the first
deviations from rectitude of principle, and to op-
pose the incursions of evil in every stage of its
progress ;
to root up vices, where these, in spite
ofconstant care, have obtained an ascendancy, and
established a footing in the character ;
to listen
to no plea for the continuance of that which is
wrong, or of that which wears the semblance of
wrong, or has in its ultimate tendency any bear-
ing towards wrong, but constantly and firmly to
oppose its influence both ^immediate and remote ;
to be persevering in the requisition of virtuous
principle, unbending in his hostility to vice, and
prompt in the encouragement of virtuous feeling ;
to rectify the words; be the guardian of the
principles ; purify the desires ; direct and en-
courage the efforts ;
ennoble and instruct the
opinions, and form the habits of his offspring.
Such is a slight sketch of a father's duty to his
children; a duty prompted by affection, while
again that love increases with the discharge of
duty, and is
immensely augmented by the con-
scious happiness which results from it, and by
the success which attends it. For success will
attend it, though not always to the full extent of
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 495
our wishes. And when we do fail, it will be
well if we have not to reproach ourselves with the
cause of such miscarriage; it will be well, if we
can look back upon the discharge of our parental
duties, to the full extent of their demand ;
it will
be well, if we have not to charge our failure in
some degree upon our own supineness upon the
neglect, or cold and insufficient employment of
the means within our reach ;
it will be well, if we
escape the reflection of having been, to a certain
extent, the author of our child's deviations from
rectitude, and of the paucity and poverty of its
acquirements; it will be well, if we can reflect
upon our past conduct, and enjoy the testimony
of a good conscience, that if we have failed of
obtaining success, we have at least deserved it ;
it will be well, if we escape the reproach of our
own children of having contributed to their mis-
conduct and misfortunes by the imperfect dis-
charge of duty.
It will be seen how closely connected, how
essentially interwoven are the specific and pecu-
liar duties we have enumerated ;
how they ori-
ginate from similar principles, and proceed to
their accomplishment in a way which almost
demonstrates their identity :
and, in fact, they
must be considered as universal in their agency,
and imperative upon both parents. Nor is this
extraordinary ;
for as the two individuals have
merged their specific qualities in one character,
so the peculiar attributes of each become common
property, and almost equally the duty and the
496 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
privilege of both, as well as the distinctive pos-
session of either.
But who is sufficient for these things ? It may
perhaps be said, that the standard of parental
duty has been fixed too high ;
and the mind may
shrink from the contemplation, and yield to the
deadening influence of a despair, which can
scarcely put forth one feeble effort to reach the
good which has been placed before it !
But is this possible? is it possible to aim too
high in such a pursuit ? is it not better to fail in
attempting to reach too high a degree of attain-
ment, than to fall short of accomplishing what
might have been done, in consequence of adopt-
ing too low a standard of duty and of hope ? Let
it be recollected that the natural tendency of the
human mind is to be arrested at some point short
of a perfect resemblance to the model which it
has proposed to itself for imitation. It is com-
monly satisfied with a somewhat distant approach
towards the beau ide*al of perfection, without
anxiously endeavouring to possess it. If the
current opinions and maxims of the world be taken
as the measure of our feelings, and duties, and
exertions, it will be found that we are satisfied
with such a nearness of approach towards them,
as will shield us from a charge of singularity or
ignorance. If we propose for our imitation the
conduct and example of some literary colossus, we
are contented with such a measure of exertion as
will place us in the vicinity of his habits, and
talents, and acquirements, without giving us a
MORAL AXD RELI G I O Us' EDUC ATION". 497
chance of thoroughly possessing the former, or of
surpassing the latter. So again, with regard to
moral and religious duty ; we adopt for our stan-
dard the pure and holy law of God, yet with a
consciousness of our inability to fulfil it. We
receive, and look to the example of Christ, as
worthy of our highest efforts at imitation, and
yet we know that it is far beyond our reach ! In
the present course of parental duty, have we
adopted a higher standard of exertion than is
thus proposed to us in the law of God, and in the
example of Christ ? On the contrary, are not
all the attributes we have mentioned, to be fairly
resolved into the same principles of obedience to
the one, and imitation of the other ? And if so, is
it possible that too high a standard can be chosen?
In neither case, may we be able to reach the
object of our desire, for in our own strength we
are perfect weakness : but certain we are, that
if we do not struggle for it, we shall never ap-
propriate a high degree of attainment, but shall
rest satisfied with an advance which is
very far
short of what we have it in our power to gain.
And if we feel our own weakness, we have the
same strength provided for our support in both
cases : exertion will add to our power ;
desire
itself will ensure our progress ;
sincerity will
form a ground-work for success ; humble de-
pendence on Divine assistance will afford a pre-
sage of going on from strength to strength ;
diffi-
culties will be smoothed ; obstacles will be cleared
away, and we shall finally arrive at a stage of
VOL. I. K K
498 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
advancement, which we had scarcely ventured
to hope, much less to expect.
Can we then fix too high a standard for our
aspirations ;
or will the attainment of our wishes
and our hopes be facilitated by aiming at that
which appears more practicable, because it is
more common place more within the sphere of
mortal and finite observation ; rather, will it not
be impeded, while the strength and courage need-
ful for the conflict will have been insensibly stolen
away ? Let not parents be discouraged ;
let them
look above ;
let them ask, and it shall be given
them ;
let them seek, and they shall find ; let
them knock, and it shall be opened. Let them
also recollect, that the promises vouchsafed to
Christian instruction, are not given to a meagre
performance of duty, but to that engagement of
the heart in this service, which enlists all the
powers and faculties of the soul in its train, and
carries them onward to their fullest attainable
perfection.
What then is the character of that filial rela-
tionship, upon which the duties we have men-
tioned are to be exercised ? The love of children
for their parents is an instinctive principle, and
is discoverable among the earliest manifestations
of mind. But it must also be remarked, that it
is an emotion which partakes largely of a selfish
character, and possesses very little of the dis-
interested peculiarities of parental affection. All
is given on the one hand with a comparatively
very feeble return of affection ;
all is received on
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 499
the other with no corresponding recompense of
duty and self-devotion ; consequently, with no
considerable expansion of the benevolent prin-
ciple. Filial affection is but feebly established
in nature ; the effects of this sentiment will not
admit of comparison with the self-devotion of
parental duty, while it commonly diminishes,
and vanishes away in proportion, as the young-
become independent of the aged for sustenance
and protection : in proportion as they feel their
own strength, and are enabled to assert their own
independence.
In fact a feeling of dependence, seems to be the
mainspring, and principal support of filial affec-
tion ;
but this is in its nature selfish, and also
evanescent ;
for it lessens with the occasions for
its exercise ;
and these are diminishing exactly
in proportion as the young acquire a more com-
plete development of the mental and physical
powers. This however, is a wise and necessary
appointment, for nature has ordained that the
child when it has reached the period of manhood,
should maintain itself; which could scarcely be
the case, if the same intense affection, and self-
devotion existed from it towards its parents, as is
constantly exercised by them.
Since then nature has ordained that the pas-
sion of filial affection should be comparatively
feeble; and since she has rendered it for the
most part a selfish principle, originating in a con-
viction of dependence and helplessness, and con-
sequently mainly built on a feeling of gratitude,
K K2
500 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
we shall observe that it requires a certain degree
of virtuous principle in action, to sustain its un-
deviating influence ;
an object of the very first
importance, for nothing is more painful than the
alienation and heartlessness of children towards
their parents. Filial love is not supported by
the performance of active duties ;
such is the
constitution of our nature, that all the energetic
exertions are prompted by parental affection ;
while the expression of these exertions is
only
excitant to filial love ;
and the duties it demands
in return are not generally of an active but pas-
sive character. This then resolves itself into a
principle of gratitude, for unwearied favours,
daily and hourly heaped upon it. But we know,
that the very nature of this principle excites a
recoil in the human, proud, and stubborn heart,
because it involves the idea of obligation. It is
also an impression of a most fugitive nature, and
very quickly passes away, while it continues es-
sentially decreasing from the period of its first
excitement by favours conferred. If we nar-
rowly examine our own hearts, we shall probably
find this to be the case ;
certain it is, that it is
most true, with regard to our Almighty Bene-
factor ;
certain it is, that it is most true, with re-
gard to those in whom we excite the emotion of
gratitude ;
it
very quickly exhausts itself in glow-
ing language ;
but when we look for its expres-
sion in action, in after life, we are commonly dis-
appointed. There are the most delightful excep-
tions to this rule ;
but in general, to oblige an
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 501
individual is to alienate him from us, and the
expectation of uniformly grateful conduct, is
quite chimerical.
Seeing then that this is the case in maturity,
can we feel surprised at its occurrence in in-
fancy? Can we wonder, when principle is so
feeble and passion so powerful, that the earliest
years of childhood, are often marked by the
storms and tempests of ingratitude, by feebleness
of affection, by selfishness, by forgetfulness of
duty, by disobedience, by the direct violation of
parental injunction ? This review will shew the
vast importance of developing the influence of
principle, in order to supply the lack of intense
natural affection; and it will also develop, what
particularly are the assistant principles for the
encouragement of which, every effort should be
directed ;
and perhaps the first and most impor-
tant is that of obedience.
From their earliest exercise of reason, children
should be taught to obey their parents, even be-
fore they can do so on principle ;
at least, before
they can understand the principle on which this
obedience is inculcated. The happiness and
well-being of our offspring is so essentially con-
nected with this virtue, that it cannot be too per-
tinaciously enforced. It is sometimes a painful
discipline ;
but if the dangers and miseries which
encompass disobedience be for a moment con-
templated, there can be no hesitation as to. the
choice of present inconvenience, to avoid future
wretchedness. An instance of disobedience
502 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
should never be overlooked, since if it be, the
child will again calculate the possibility of suc-
cess in its puny efforts at rebellion, upon the re-
currence of a similar occasion, and will again and
again struggle with the authority of the parent.
Whatever therefore is directed must be complied
with by the child, because it is so directed ;
and
parents have only to be careful that their re-
quests be not unreasonable; and that although
the reason for them, may not be capable of being
perceived by their offspring, they should never
be contrary or opposed to reason ;
for it is
scarcely possible to calculate how soon the mind
is capable of detecting any flaw in the parental
character; or to estimate how serious an injury
is thus inflicted upon parental authority and es-
teem, as well as on filial obedience and affection.
If obedience be ever dispensed with, the child
discovers a measure of vacillation and uncertainty
in the parents, and experiences a proportionate
diminution of interest, in receiving and attending
to their injunctions. Obedience then must be
undeviatingly required, and when opposition to
command is set up, it must always be overcome ;
one conquest of obstinacy will be enough to ruin
the character, destroy parental authority, under-
mine the principle of obvious duty, and render
the child ungovernable.
Notwithstanding this invariable rule, there
are many occasions, on which it would be impo-
litic and improper to enforce obedience. The
struggle between the authority of the parent and
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 503
obstinate opposition to her wishes and directions,
should always be avoided where this is possible ;
and it will often be the part of parental wisdom
to shun this conflict, to ward off a fit of obsti-
nacy, to escape from the collision of contending
passions, and to be firm and unbending only,
where the sacrifice of principle is endangered.
Since the effort to enforce obedience must always
be obnoxious, and inimical to the feeling of affec-
tion, it is most desirable to obviate its necessity:
but when once a direction has been issued, no-
thing should induce the parent to relax in her
requisition of compliance. This habit of cheerful
obedience, established from the earliest period, is
however as soon as possible to be connected with
the principle from which it should spring ;
and
therefore, when the opening mind will admit
of such explanation, the grounds of filial duty
should be carefully taught. The child should
early learn that it is a command of God, and that
it has certain blessings attached to its perform-
ance; it should be enforced on a principle of af-
fection for those who display so much love towards
them, and who are constantly employed in doing
them good ;
and it should be supported by the
greater knowledge of the parent, and the igno-
rance of the child, this enabling the former to
see and to direct what is right, while the latter
has no means of judging. In this way, while it
learns to obey its parents, it will be taught the
important principles of obedience to the law of
504 MORAL AND KEMGIOUS EDUCATION'.
God, as well as the feebleness of its own under-
standing, and the value of principled affection for
its parents. So true is it, that on no occasion in
education will the pursuit of duty be unavailing,
So true is it, that one victory over evil propensity
is connected with one or more principles of most
extensive operation ; and, that although the im-
mediate occasion for the contest may be compa-
ratively trifling, the exercise of the principles as-
sociated with it is all important.
A principle of'dependence upon the parent should
also be impressed upon the child ;
it should be
taught its own feebleness and helplessness ;
its incapacity to think or act for itself; and
that it owes all its little blessings, the supply of
all its wants, and its
preservation from innume-
rable evils, to the watchful anxiety and care of its
parents ;
it should be early taught the deficiency
of its own intellectual powers, and the conse-
quent necessity for its reliance upon those who
can think and act for it.
And this will lead to the principle of gratitude,
on which we have already seen that filial obedi-
ence mainly rests. But since its exercise is less
easy than that of many other sentiments, and
since it
requires a higher effort of virtuous princi-
ple, it will generally happen that the sources of
action before mentioned, though less directly ope-
rative in the production of filial affection, will at
the same time, indirectly contribute to the for-
mation of a more extensive, as well as of a more
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 505
permanent bias. It is, notwithstanding, desirable
to develop gratitude, as most closely allied to
affection, although it
may be necessary to
strengthen its influence with kindred or associ-
ated principles. And this may be accomplished
in a thousand ways ;
even the very instances of
correction may be rendered instrumental for this
purpose, if the child be treated as a reasonable
being, and taught to feel that these are really
painful to the parent, and are never employed,
but for the purpose of saving it from some fearful
evil. The conviction of its dependence also, will
lead to the development of grateful feeling, for
the supply of its wants, and for its defence from
surrounding danger.
In the accomplishment of this great design, we
must omit no adjuvant motive ;
for a principle of
affection well laid, will be operative through life,
and will afford a basis for the formation of vir-
tuous character, which will no where else be
found. Among these auxiliary motives, respect
for parents will be found not the least important.
Children will not esteem those whom they do not
most deeply respect ; and if these two be wanting,
it will be useless to expect permanent abiding af-
fection ;
there may be the fondness of selfish grati-
fication, but there never can be an effort to controul
or to deny inclination, for the sake of pleasing
those whom it does not respect or esteem. A
deep feeling of respect invests the character of
the parent with a certain degree of sacredness,
which awes the young mind into compliance with
506 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
its wishes. Let it be recollected that the origin
and development of this feeling depends very
much upon parents : their offspring will not re-
vere them, if they do not respect themselves. If
the heads of families be morose in disposition,
irascible, easily put out of temper, tyrannical in
their requisitions, irritable with each other, fre-
quently infringing the principles they inculcate,
forgetful of their own positive duties, and often
guilty of many little deviations from rectitude in
the quiet privacy of the domestic circle ;
children
will daily and hourly lose their respect for such
parents, and the influence of esteem and affection
will be reduced to almost nothing. But if, on
the contrary, they entertain a deeply felt convic-
tion of this sentiment, for their talents, their
worth, their principles, their opinions, and their
conduct, the slightest expression, of their wish
will be invested with the authority of a com-
mand ;
obedience will be easy and delightful, and
will be associated with affectionate expression and
feeling ;
while the hold which may thus be ob-
tained over the young mind is immense, and its
influence incalculable.
There are many other principles connected
with this subject, such as the subjugation of pas-
sion, the abandonment of selfish desire, obedience
to the will of heaven, and others which will pre-
sently come under our notice in a separate and
individual form, and which we shall not here in-
sist upon; since their bearing upon this subject
will then be more distinctly shewn in one con-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 507
nected view, and since we shall thus avoid repeti-
tion, which would be otherwise unavoidable. In
the course now pursued, we have shewn the exten-
sive operation of the principle of relationship, and
of the provision which has been made by it
for the moral education of the young. And
we trust enough has been said to prove the
importance of the subject, and to ensure at-
tention to some other preliminary notices.
508
CHAP. II.
ON THE 'INFLUENCE OF MATERNAL SELF-DEVOTION;
AND ON THE MISCHIEVOUS AGENCY OF EXCESSIVE
AFFECTION OVER THE GREAT BUSINESS OF MORAL
EDUCATION.
THE duty of maternal self-denial, as a general
principle, applicable, and essential to success, in
conducting the work of education, has been al-
ready considered in a former section. And if this
foundation be important in the several branches
"of physical and intellectual training and develop-
ment, a fortiori is it of still higher moment in the
moral management of infancy and childhood ;
ex-
actly in proportion as the latter requires a higher
effort of courage and constancy on the part of the
parent, and is more decidedly opposed to the
will and inclinations of the child ;
and in propor-
tion as the growth of virtuous principle is of more
consequence than the development of the cor-
poreal powers, or even of the intellectual facul-
ties ;
in proportion as the direction of the mental
manifestations requires a higher degree of atten-
tion than the growth of those which, however
valuable, do not necessarily extend beyond the
present life ;
in proportion as the subjugation of
the passions is more to be desired than the mere
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 509
controul of the will ;
in proportion as religion is
more highly valued than the most exalted efforts
of reason ;
as the soul is of more importance than
the body; as the spiritual, immaterial, and im-
mortal principle admits not of a comparative esti-
mate with that which is subjected to perpetual
change, disease, decay, and death; in proportion
as eternity is of infinitely greater moment than
time ;
and as the happiness of that spiritual prin-
ciple, throughout its countless ages, is more to be
estimated than the transient pleasure of an hour,
a day, a week, a month, or at the very best a
small accumulation of those
" few and evil days"
of which the longest human life is composed.
This maternal self-devotion is
necessary, not
only in the constant effort demanded by the com-
munication of those principles which constitute
true wisdom, but also in opposing the perverse-
ness and obstinacy of the will ; the aversion of
the heart from all that is good, and its
corrupt
tendencies ;
since the former are opposed to the
latter, while these again are precisely congenial
to the natural mind ;
and therefore the education
of the one, and the subjection of the other, will,
and must occasion that struggle, which can only
terminate in the triumph of principle, by the un-
wearied fortitude and perseverance of the pa-
rent, and by the hard-fought contest and the
gradual cession of the long disputed, and most
reluctantly yielded territory of pride, and preju-
dice, and passion on the part of the child. This
warfare cannot be maintained, or this victory won,
510 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
without giving pain to all parties ;
a feeling from
which nature instinctively shrinks, when it is
called upon to suffer, but from which it recoils
with abhorrence when it is
obliged to irrflict,
especially on those who are most tenderly loved.
Yet this is the reach to which maternal self-devo-
tion aims, and without which the best directed
efforts wjjl be unavailing.
One of the first objects of the mother will be
to act up to the former of these indications, well
knowing, that in proportion as the mind has been
furnished with good principles and motives, so
will it
produce corresponding fruits ;
so will it be
saved from the domination of vice ;
so will it be
preserved from the turbulence of those passions
which must be subjugated, and whose govern-
ment it is which calls for the frequent exercise of
self-denial. This is
shortly to be attempted by
diligent instruction in the knowledge of that reli-
gion, whose "
ways are ways of pleasantness,
and all her paths are peace ; length of days is in
her right hand, and in her left riches and honour."
No sooner do the feeble rays of reason mark the
progress of intelligence, and the dawning of that
morning, which is the harbinger of a bright and
brilliant day, and whose fervid light should only
give place to the mild radiance of a calm and
cloudless evening, as the mellowed tints of twi-
light tell us that the setting sun is about to illu-
minate another hemisphere, than the pencil of
truth should be brought to impinge upon the
mind, in a degree, and through a medium which
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 511
shall be suited to the capacities of infancy. The
grand, the simple, yet noble object, is to fortify
the mind with good principles ;
to establish the
heart in the right way ; to teach the young and
the inexperienced to struggle against the influence
of temptation, to inform them of the corruption
of their hearts, and of Christ, the friend and
Saviour of sinners, through whom this corrupt
nature may be renewed, and they may be made
holy and happy. The real connexion which sub-
sists between these results, must never be for-
gotten. And while the character of our Saviour
is
displayed as a Redeemer, it must not be for-
gotten to call the attention to the moral precepts
of which he was the author and great exemplar.
It must not be forgotten, that almost at the com-
mencement of his ministry on earth, he pronounced
a blessing upon those whose poverty of spirit
enabled them to receive the humbling truths of
his mission, and upon those who submitted their
judgments and their will to be influenced by his
laws and government ; upon those who hungered
and thirsted after righteousness ;
who manifested a
merciful and forgiving temper ;
who were sincere
in following him ; who desired to live peaceably
with all men ;
and whose steady, uniform pursuit
of truth exposed them to the persecution of a
world that lieth in wickedness : it must not be
forgotten that his disciples are enjoined to let
their light so shine before men, that they seeing
their good works, may glorify their Father which
is in heaven : it must not be forgotten that Christ
512 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION'.
came into the world to fulfil the law, and to en-
force obedience even to its very least command-
ment; and it must ever be remembered that
obedience to its requisitions is constituted not
by simple attention to its letter in the outward
visible action, but by an entire devotion to its
spirit, reaching even to the thoughts and intents
of the heart ;
not in outward formality, or super-
stitious observances, but in spiritual conformity
to its
holy precepts. Again, it must not be for-
gotten that this admirable code of Christian mora-
lity inculcates the necessity of watching over the
very words of the mouth ;
forbids altogether the
law of retaliation, and enjoins the love of our
enemies, that we may be the children of our
Father which is in heaven, who maketh his sun
to rise both on the evil and on the good, and
sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. It
must ever be remembered that this holy law ex-
poses the error of hypocritical, ostentatious, and
self-righteous alms-giving, and explains the prin-
ciple of genuine charity ;
that it enforces the
necessity, and graciously acquaints us with the
real nature and objects of prayer ; urges, by the
highest sanction, the duty of forgiveness ;
beau-
tifully unveils the vanity and folly of earthly-
mindedness, and the necessity of seeking first the
kingdom of God, and of laying up treasures in
heaven ;
shews the utter impossibility of any
compromise between God and the world, and
declares that the latter cannot be conciliated if
the former be obeyed ; explains our entire and
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 513
complete dependence upon God for every bless-
ing we enjoy, and the necessity of reposing our
trust and confidence in Him who arrays the flower
of the field in all its beauty ;
who provideth food
for the fowls of the air ;
and who has promised
that all these things, as far as they may be ne-
cessary, shall be added to those who seek Him
diligently. It must not be forgotten that our
Divine Master and exemplar has enjoined upon
us tenderness and compassion for the errors of
those around us ;
a spirit of candour and benevo-
lence in judging of the conduct of others, and
has enforced it
by the humbling recollection of
our own too frequent obliquities ;
and that well
knowing our weakness and manifold infirmities,
and the impossibility of our obeying the Divine
law, with all its high and holy sanctions, he has
compassionately promised grace and strength to
those who ask for them, as well as every other
good and perfect gift. It must also be kept in
view, that Christ expects his disciples to evince
their sincerity of dependence upon Him for these
great blessings, by doing towards others as they
would wish that men should do unto them ;
that
he has not disguised, but has openly declared the
difficulty of being a Christian, and has enjoined the
duty of striving to enter in at the strait gate ;
and has most convincingly shewn, that as a tree
is known only by its fruits, so it is not they who
have called upon him, and heard his words, and
prophesied in his name, and done many wonder-
ful works in his cause, but they who have exe-
VOL. I. L L
514 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
cuted the will of His Father, which is in heaven,
who will be acknowledged as His children at the
last day, or who are entitled to that attribute of
wisdom which arises from their having built their
hopes upon the Rock of Ages; that wisdom which
is diametrically opposed to the deepest folly of
those who are resting for security, in any thing
short of this pure and holy hope.
But the influence of this self-devotion extends
beyond the cultivation of good principles, even to
the correction of all that is erroneous. The sub-
ject of discipline will fully be considered, at a
subsequent stage of our inquiry : it will here only
be necessary to remark, that reproof'is one of the
most difficult and important duties of the Christian
mother ;
and that while the perversity of the hu-
man heart remains as it is, there must be frequent
occasion for its exercise. Above all, let not little
sins be overlooked, or extenuated :
many a pro-
mising Christian has been ruined by such a plau-
sible excuse for evading this painful duty. But
there is no such thing as a little sin; and as
it is the Christian's duty to enter into uncom-
promising hostility to its influence in his own
heart, so should the same duty be extended
to the education of childhood. The smallest
violation of the divine law ;
the most trifling-
instance of disobedience to the will of God, is an
act of ingratitude towards our Redeemer, and
highest Benefactor, and requires to be pardoned
through the blood of Christ, before the sinner can
be reconciled to the Saviour ;
and shall that be
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 515
termed venial or trifling which forms apart, however
small, of that fearful aggregate, from the power
and punishment of which Christ died to save his
people ? Shall that be thought too little for re-
proof, which demanded such a ransom, and even
now hourly requires the intercession of our as-
cended Lord? Shall that be considered venial,
which forms the foundation for future progress in
error and in evil ? Shall we think lightly of that
little sin, which oppresses and perverts the ac-
tions of the immaterial principle, burdens the
heart, deadens the conscience, diminishes its
sensibility, renders vice less an object of fear and
aversion, and paves the way for increasing devi-
ations from the law of rectitude ? Let the mind
of childhood be early impressed with the evil
nature of sin ;
not simply of those grosser immo-
ralities, which communicate a moral taint that is
visible to man, but of those lesser faults which
exist in the heart, which perhaps may never be
demonstrated in action, and which are known
only to the individual himself, and to Him who
searcheth the heart. It is not the act, but the
principle of sin which is to be opposed ;
and it will
be a most important point gained to convince the
mind, that it is
essentially hateful and disgusting:
and let the parent be exceedingly careful, that
while she is
diligently employed in maturing and
developing hatred to sin, she do not encompass
her own path with thorns, and difficulties, by
manifesting in her temper and spirit, an example
of that very influence which she so strenuously
L L2
516 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
combats in her child. Hence the importance of
entire self-devotion to the work, both in the pain-
ful duty of developing this principle, and in the
unremitting vigilance required for her own conduct.
The evil of sin cannot have been shewn, from
the inestimable ransom it has required, without
at the same time exhibiting the great worth of the
soul : and in the mode of conveying instruction,
as well as in conducting the still more painful
process of correction, it is of the first consequence,
that it should be accomplished with seriousness
and persevering uniformity, in order to evince a
principled sincerity of intention ;
and at the same
time, with affectionate earnestness, and intensity
of benevolent desire, with unmingled kindness,
and a tenderness and delicacy which admits not
of being mistaken. Not only will it be an object
to convince the understanding of error and of
truth ;
and to interest the heart in the pursuit of
virtue ;
but it is also necessary to shew that the
motive for every part of the mother's conduct is
love, and an earnest, deeply felt, and uniform
concern for the immortal interests of her children,
and of that never-dying principle, which will en-
dure for ever ;
which will live to feel, and to have
its feelings inconceivably heightened by reflection
on the past.
But we shall proceed to notice the operation of
a spurious affection, in counteracting this first
principle of maternal solicitude. Affection to-
wards her offspring, is, as we have already seen,
the great motive which gives nourishment and
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 517
life, energy and character to every duty of the
parent ;
affords a determinate object to all her
pursuits ;
and influences and controuls her rea-
son and her inclination. Properly regulated, and
subdued by religion, this will necessarily lead her
to the great fountain of truth, from which will
flow all her views and actions, her feelings and
opinions. But it must be recollected, that she
is an imperfect, a frail, and erring being. Al-
though the heart may have been renewed by di-
vine grace ; although it
may have been influenced
by a living principle of obedience to God, and a
desire to love, and serve, and please Him, yet
in this probationary state, the spirit is so closely
allied and connected, so intimately united with
the animal and intellectual nature, that the ac-
tions of the former are liable to deviation or dis-
tortion from the bias they sustain by the affections
of the latter ;
and while the one is capable of giving
additional vigour to the manifestations of the
other, yet each will be much more frequently
found in mutual opposition ;
a state of hostility
which will enfeeble the energies of the mind,
paralyze its exertions, enervate its vigour, and
deprave its finest qualities. Affection too is a
principle which can never be maintained in a state
of strict neutrality ;
and if it be not actively em-
ployed in the service of God, it will be zealously
engaged by the emissaries of evil. Here there is
no middle or unclaimed position, which may be
safely occupied in quiescent indolence ;
no border
518 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
territory, which will admit of the incursions of
the enemy, without the loss of some of our strong
holds : to cease to be active, is to yield up the
means of defence ;
to slumber at our post, is to
ensure surprise and defeat. Hence the necessity
for watchfulness, that affection may be directed
always to its proper objects ;
that it may be in-
fluenced by, and arise from the love of God, and
again converge to Him as its centre of safety :
maternal affection thus founded, will seek first
the supreme good of those on whom it is placed,
and will therefore necessarily tend to Him who
alone is good.
But excessive affection may produce a feeble and
inefficient performance of duty ; aye more, it
may
even lead the parent to remissness, forgetfulness,
or neglect ;
she may be supine, or she may be
influenced by feeling, or temper, or circumstance,
when she ought to be vigilant, and active, and
principled.
1. This state of mind may be often visible upon
slight occasions. She may be induced to yield
to the gratification of the desires of her child,
although these may be improper, or even unlaw-
ful and mischievous ;
as for instance, in the con-
tinued possession of that, no matter what, which
it
supposes valuable, but which her maturer
judgment determines to be undesirable. It may
perhaps at first be told of the unreasonableness
and impropriety of its request, and expostulated
with on these grounds; the object of desire is not
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 519
then granted; but disappointed in its first
attempt,
the little petitioner has recourse to tears ;
the
firmness of the parent is melted by their sympa-
thetic efficacy ; she hesitates, she vacillates, she
complies ;
and success has crowned the effort of
her child. Thus is it taught, aye, and even en-
couraged to be wilful ;
thus does it learn to esti-
mate the power and eloquence of its tears ;
a
piece of information which it will never fail to em-
ploy to its own supposed advantage, in obtaining
farther concessions ;
never stopping short of the
gratification of every possible caprice : thus also
is it taught, that circumstances and things of real
importance must yield to the fulfilment of all its
wishes ;
a principle, which is
directly subversive
of that invaluable attribute self-denial, which can
alone form the basis of a useful, or a happy cha-
racter.
2. Excessive affection will induce an overween-
ing care to obviate and remove every little thing
which is inconvenient and disagreeable to the
child ; forgetful of the fact, that this is not a
place of rest, or perfect peace ;
but a season of
probation, in which we are to be tried by ad-
versity, and in which we can only be prepared to
sustain greater misfortunes well, by exercising
fortitude under the slighter disturbances of ease,
which have been wisely and graciously provided
for us. Excessive maternal feeling will, on the
contrary, be demonstrated by a practical desire
to foster and humour all the little prejudices of
her child, all its sinister cares about the conve-
520 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
niences of life ;
and thus by a nice, but ill-omened
attention to its whims in the articles of food, or
dress, or other external trifles, to nourish a sickly,
delicate, and vitiated taste, and to cherish un-
thinkingly, a peevish, irritable, and dissatisfied
temper. With right views on this subject, the
parent would be careful to inculcate upon her off-
spring a spirit of contentment with whatever they
may obtain ;
and to engraft upon this principle,
indifference to food, and carelessness about the
little agr&nens, and delicacies or luxuries from
which they may be debarred, but which others
enjoy. In this way alone, can the little ones be
taught rightly to esteem the trifling and insignifi-
cant nature of these appendages to existence ;
in
this way alone will be communicated those more
solid stamina, that firmer texture, and that juster
direction to the mind, which will best prepare it
for accommodation to the ever shifting vicissitudes
of life, which will obviate excessive carefulness
about accidental changes in the scale of its out-
ward comforts, and which will teach it to bear
disappointment with tolerable equanimity.
3. The basis of reward should be the perform-
ance of duty, or the manifest wish to have done so
had opportunity been afforded; while the disci-
pline of punishment should be manifested as well
for the overt act of impropriety, as for the secret
spring of evil disposition, which wanted only the
stimulus of occasion to call it into action. The
child needs encouragement in pursuing the
steepy paths of duty, and there is no greater in-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 521
centive to farther exertion, and to continued per-
severance in well doing, than the approving
voice of the parent. But this approbation must
not be held out as the end of action, or conferred
upon the child as a reward proportioned to a cer-
tain degree of merit, and equivalent to some
fancied scale of desert ;
let the former be found-
ed on religious principle, and let the smile
of approbation flow as the spontaneous conse-
quence of the exercise of right motives in the
child, because these rejoiced the heart of the
parent and were acceptable to God. This smile
should not be equally bestowed on those who
do not, as on those who do deserve to be encou-
raged, lest the young be induced to confound
rectitude with impropriety of action ;
to believe
them equally desirable, and so to become indif-
ferent to the quality of their own actions. The
objects of especial caution then, are to prevent
the child from considering the approbation of the
parent as the end of action, or as the merited re-
ward of its conduct; and to save it from con-
founding the essential distinctions which exist
between rectitude and obliquity, of principle
and action, of thought and feeling. It is not our
present purpose to discuss the subject of rewards
and punishments generally ;
it was only neces-
sary to say thus much in the present place, on a
subject which will hereafter claim our particular
attention, in order to shew the countervailing in-
fluence of a spurious affection, which may lead
the parent to look with an equal smile upon her
522 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
offspring when deserving of reprehension, as
when requiring support ;
a smile, which the little
selfish interpreter of her expressions will assu-
redly construe into approbation of its conduct, or
into an erroneous estimate of its real nature and
tendency.
So also with regard to the distribution of pu-
nishment, as the task is exceedingly painful and
repugnant to maternal feeling, there is a greater
necessity for the exercise of maternal principle.
By the influence of the former she may be induced
to overlook as trivial little faults, such as age, or
knowledge, or chance, or some unknown agency
may correct ;
or according to her varying tone
and temper, she may yield her tacit approbation
to day, to that which in a different state of excited
feeling she may visit with severity to-morrow :
she shrinks now, from the performance of a pain-
ful duty which, perhaps, the very conviction of
her present neglect, leads her to over-do on a
future occasion ;
and thus, on both hands to lose
weight and authority with her children, as well
as to unsettle their minds as to the qualities of
action and the demands of virtue. But in reality
there are no little faults ;
each deviation from
rectitude forms part of a system ;
a single branch
indeed of one degenerate root, but intimately
connected with a thousand others ;
not existing
as a solitary fact, but communicating in the freest
manner, and in every direction, with faults of dif-
ferent forms and magnitude ;
all of which, by the
permission of this one, receive that stimulus which
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 523
alone was wanting to give them their highest de-
gree of vigour and extension. Advance in error
is uniformly progressive ;
trifling at first, it soon
becomes remarkable, and increases according to
the squares of its distance from the first starting
point ;
and with augmented velocity and momen-
tum, it continues to acquire strength and power,
till it carries away with it
every barrier of virtue,
and is no longer within the reach of remedy.
How fatal then must be the error of leaving these
faults to be corrected by some purely supposi-
titious cause.
4. The influence of this spurious affection will be
still further operative ;
as for instance, it will
zealously set its face against some faults in the
main ; it will be alive to the necessity for their
correction ;
it will search after them for this pur-
pose, but it will be contented with doing so in
the general, and will sometimes neglect particular
instances ; yet this will render correction ineffi-
cacious ;
the child will ascribe it to caprice in-
stead of to principle ;
and the fault whose exter-
mination was aimed at, will only in consequence
be more deeply rooted, will acquire a firmer hold
upon the mind, and will establish itself in sys-
tematic action. It will also produce this further
influence, viz. that of teaching the child to be
disingenuous and sly, and will exchange the
feeble wish after reformation, for the deeply
rooted desire of concealment. Uniformity and
simplicity of mild but principled correction, are
the great remedies for all these evils.
524 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
5. But again the commission of a fault may
create parental displeasure, and give rise to cor-
rection, and even to uniformity of correction ;
but the displeasure may be removed, and the
offence forgiven before it has produced repent-
ance ;
before its bitterness has been really felt ;
before the judgment has been thoroughly con-
vinced of its evil nature ;
before the conscience
has been awakened to its enormity ;
before ge-
nuine contrition for the immediate delinquency
itself has been excited, or the consequent aspira-
tion after amendment. This is a very frequent
error. Displeasure is testified ; the child's tears
are manifested, and too generally in consequence
of having its inclination thwarted : the parent
has not the firmness to resist the appeal made to
her by this external symbol of sorrow ; and she
eagerly inquires whether it will do so any more,
to which the little culprit hypocritically enough
answers in the negative; it is kissed, and re-
ceived into favour for its deception ;
its tears are
wiped away, and it is caressed into self-compla-
cency. This evil arises generally from that fond-
ness which prefers present ease to future good ;
and from seeking to testify displeasure as an ab-
stract idea, rather than to give it a tangible and
defined, and rational form, by appealing to the
understanding and the heart of the child, by
endeavouring to convince it of the impropriety of
its conduct, and to cause it to see and/ee/ its errors.
6. This fatal affection may so preoccupy the
parent's mind, as to cause her to be forgetful of
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 525
the commands of the most high God ;
and to
induce her to suffer her child to swerve from
what she has enjoined, and to be remiss in en-
forcing what she has inculcated. Influenced by
this feeling, she perhaps may not descry any thing
in the conduct of her offspring, that is offensive
to God ;
she may even suffer them to do what
she knows to be wrong ;
she will be careless and
indifferent in explaining and enforcing the duties
of religion, and in developing an exclusive atten-
tion to its precepts ; because, these have a ten-
dency to restrain their immediate pleasures ;
pleasures which are not innocent even now, and
which will be destructive to real eventual happi-
ness ;
she will by degrees be less anxious in im-
pressing the mind, and storing the heart with re-
ligious truth ;
and she will become less vigilant
over the conduct of her offspring. This, how-
ever, is a great source of error and of misery.
In the natural world around us, we see that
in order to produce good fruit, the seed must first
be sown, the tender plant must be nourished,
and preserved from every hurtful cause ;
it must
be carefully cultivated, and protected from weeds
which threaten to impede its growth ;
and from
disease which impairs its vitality. In the intel-
lectual world, as the precursor of fruitfulness, the
mind must be imbued with knowledge, and when
it begins to put forth the shoots of its
indepen-
dent action, these must be assiduously pruned
and trained ;
the superfluous branches must be
removed, and a proper direction given to the
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
whole. And shall less activity and care be re-
quired in the spiritual world? Shall we cultivate
the understanding, and neglect the immaterial
principle, which is destined to govern it, as well
as to regulate the heart and affections? Shall
its manifestations be deemed unworthy of the
highest care and diligence ? Shall our assiduities
be confined to that which is
physical and intel-
lectual, and shall we be forgetful of that which
is spiritual and immortal ?
Strange infatuation ! !
Thus for example, the Scriptures of inspiration
teach us not to be " conformed to this world, but
to be transformed by the renewing of our minds"
into an increasing verisimilitude with our great
pattern and exemplar. This principle not only
admits of, but requires practical application, and
how shall we successfully inculcate it hereafter,
or expect it to influence the conduct of youth and
approaching maturity, if it be not early instilled
into the heart, and perpetually enforced in the
life ? Not only is it required of the parent, that
she should not be conformed to the world, in the
education of her offspring ;
but also is it incum-
bent upon her to shield them from this dangerous
accommodation of principle to fashion ;
this at-
tempt to mould that which is unchanging and in-
destructible, into that which has no fixed and
continuous boundary, and which is destined to
crumble away with its immediate votaries, even
should it survive the ever-shifting shadow of
groundless opinion and prejudice.
There is a source of great temptation to the
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 527
mother, in the desire of suffering her child to
mix with the world, to taste such of its pleasures
as are deemed the most innocent, under a mis-
taken impression, that now in this early stage of
life they will do no harm ;
that the present per-
ception of these pleasures will not be powerful
or permanent, that their memory will be evanes-
cent, and that at all events, they will be easily
removed as extraneous and adventitious, adher-
ing only to the surface of the character. But
let her beware of this fallacy !
Long before the
remedy can be applied, the disease will have im-
bued the heart, will have circulated through its
minutest ramifications, and will have thoroughly
pervaded its remotest feeling ;
the spirit of con-
formity will have been infused, and a living prin-
ciple of worldliness will have been excited ;
a
taste for, and a consequent desire after worldly
pleasure will have been developed, together with
its attendant love for that society in which it
chiefly dwells. This principle operates in direct
opposition to divine truth, and is attended by an
incongruous aversion to its dictates ;
and thus the
mother will have been the unconscious instru-
ment of leading her child astray from the only
fountain of substantial happiness. This is the
daily consequence of excessive affection ;
a con-
sequence entailing a weight of misery on the pa-
rent, which oppresses and enfeebles her efforts in
the process of counteracting the very disposition
she has unwittingly called into energetic exer-
cise.
528 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION'.
Yet this is only one instance of the tendency
of the same principle which operates in -a thou-
sand different forms ;
it is the principle there-
fore, and not its illustration which must be com-
bated. The principle will, moreover, be particu-
larly influential in the establishment of good, and
in the correction of bad habits ;
since both are
opposed to inclination, and both require perse-
vering efforts, as well as constant obedience to
the laws on which they rest ;
but especially with
regard to the subjection of evil tendencies, the
mind by a species of flattery, which it is difficult
to define, is
self-persuaded, that these will either
correct themselves, or will hereafter be readily
removed; and yet nothing can be more falla-
cious !
And finally, this principle, or rather this want
of due principle, will be manifested in the toleration
of a trifling disposition, at a time when the mind
ought to be most serious ;
a state, which easily
and almost insensibly passes into levity of the
most equivocal character. A disposition for tri-
fling, should be always checked at its first ap-
pearing, and upon every opportunity of its recur-
rence, especially when the mind ought to be en-
gaged on important subjects. Perhaps it might
be well, in order to prevent the return of this
sickly listlessness of mind, and inenergetic action,
to accustom the pupil to pass at once, at all times,
from serious employment to recreation, and to devote
the whole stock of its little energy, to whatever
may be its present engagement or pursuit, never
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 529
suffering it to follow two objects at the same time,
since there is no possibility of communicating in-
struction, and especially religious instruction,
through the medium of amusement ; the two ideas
should be kept perfectly distinct and separate ;
when engaged in receiving instruction, the whole
mind* should be bent thither, as well as when in
play ;
" whatsoever thine hand findeth to do, do
it with thy might ;
for there is no work, nor de-
vice, nor knowledge, nor wisdom in the grave
whither thou goest."
VOL. I. jyj
530
CHAP. III.
ON THE GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF MORAL INSTRUCTION.
THE mind of man in infancy, is like his body,
complete as to its parts ;
but these parts are re-
quiring health, and strength, and support for
many a helpless year, in order to lead them on
to maturity. It is perfect as to the number of its
operations, and the variety and complexity of its
functions, but many of these are left undeveloped
and obscure ;
others are liable to occasional dis-
tortion and aberration ;
and again, others require
the strong arm of uniform controul. The faculties
must be cultivated and informed ;
the heart must
be impressed, and the feelings enlisted on the side
of virtue ;
while the union of these must be shewn
in their influence upon the life.
Again, the development of these principles
must be guarded from the influence of causes
which might prevent their growth, or occasion
their perversion ; the mind must be supported in
health, and medicined in disease; it must be
protected from the evils and dangers which en-
compass it ;
and it must be strengthened to over-
come, or escape from, its difficulties. To instruct,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 531
to defend, to guide, to warn, to elicit good, and
repress evil dispositions, to remove false impres-
sions, and substitute those which are correct ;
to
eke out principles into consistent practice ;
to
nourish and strengthen virtuous affections ;
and
to repress and punish that which is not only erro-
neous in judgment, but injurious in its tendency :
these are the objects of moral instruction ;
an ex-
tensive field, over which it is easy to range with-
out order, without an object, and almost entirely
without result ;
and which demands a basis of
true and unaffected religion and piety, in order to
ensure those fruits which alone can satisfy the
anxiety of the good parent.
And first, of the period included in earliest in-
fancy ! a period generally considered as of little
consequence, and as giving occasion only for at-
tentions which relate chiefly to animal nature ;
but also one in which perception is
quick, and
the impressions received by the mind are few,
because it is as yet incapable of combining its
ideas ; yet a period in which the impressions so
received are more permanent, and their influence
is more abiding than at any subsequent epoch ;
and that, because the mind has time to rest its
attention on the subjects presented to it, and is
not distracted by the intervention of a great num-
ber of ideas, or blinded by previous prejudice, or
hindered by the secret agency of principles which
prevent the unbiassed operation of the thinking
faculty. This then is an important period, and
one during which the character may be perma-.
M M 2
532 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
nently and efficiently stamped ;
and therefore
every opportunity it
presents should be improved
with niggard care, to the happiness of the child.
One reason why the real value of this season is
so lightly esteemed, is, that the methods com-
monly employed in conveying instruction, would
be fruitless and unavailing ; and therefore the
attempt is abandoned, because the beaten track
of well accustomed routine is not to be quit-
ted for the more arduous ascent of rationality.
And yet it is the employment of means suited to
the end, which can alone deserve, much less en-
sure success ;
and therefore it is absurd to rely
upon the aid of those which are only suitable to
a developed understanding. Moral impressions
can alone be received by an infant, through the
medium of things with which it is conversant, or
with which it
may readily become acquainted :
and since its senses have not yet been exer-
cised to discern good from evil ;
doubt is unknown
to its understanding, which receives at once as
just, all the impressions which have been made
upon it. But this time may be improved, and
the infant may be led forward in the ways of truth
and knowledge. It is then a period which must
not be overlooked, but one during which right
impressions should be communicated, and wrong
ones guarded against and counteracted.
We cannot avoid noticing again, in this place,
the influence of example, that wide field on which
evil ranges, and ensnares its victims. Under
colour of example, improper tempers, and feelings,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 533
and actions are excused, and indulged, even by
those who should be capable of reasoning against
them : but to an infant, example, especially that
of one who testifies such unfeigned regard for its
happiness as its mother, speaks with a force of
eloquence which enthrals the unsuspecting mind.
Hence the parent should be particularly guarded
that her own bosom be preserved free from the
influence of passion ; that it be not swollen by
anger, or agitated by the turbulence of displea-
sure, but that it be actuated by a single desire to
do the will of God. The future character of the
child may certainly be influenced to a great de-
gree, at this time ;
and it is of the last import-
ance, that this influence should be on the side of
virtue ;
and that it should be such as to soften
and correct, not exasperate and confirm. Nor is
it true, that the expression of improper temper,
will not thus early operate upon the heart of the
pupil :
long before it is capable of understanding
the nature of such expression, the mind is cast
into the mould of imitation, and it bears upon its
surface an exact resemblance of the substances
with which it has been surrounded. The great
object of care therefore, should be that this dis-
position to imitate a mother's conduct, should
only add to, and should not detract from the
worth of the child.
The example of servants is also very important.
However desirable it
may be, that children should
as little as possible be committed to their care,
still
they must necessarily be dependent upon
534 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
them for a variety of attentions ; and they will in
consequence breathe the air they breathe, and
hear the words they utter, observe their manners,
and catch the form of their expressions. The
slightest evil which can arise from this intercourse,
is a degree of vulgarity which it will require
painful attention to remove : but too frequently,
the mischief is not confined to the exterior of the
character, but sinks deeply into the heart : the
tainted breath of moral pollution has been first
received from a domestic ;
the youthful mind has
been poisoned from this source, with the first im-
pure idea, long before it could have been accom-
panied with any corresponding emotion ;
there
however it has lurked and rankled, ready to de-
monstrate its power when called into activity by
the provocatives of passion and of society ;
and
the heart has been demoralized at an age when
such a possibility has scarcely been contemplated
by the parent. Yet such has been the case ;
such
may therefore be the case again ;
and it is then of
the first consequence in the choice of servants, to
select those who are not only raised above the low
and vulgar
"
masse," by a suitable moral and in-
tellectual education, but who are influenced by
religious principle. This again, will not be taken
for granted by a cautious mother ;
but she will
embrace the abundant opportunities of ascertain-
ing what is the real character of her domestics.
When treating of the passion of fear particularly,
as well as on some other occasions, we shall yet
have to notice the injudicious conduct of servants.
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 535
But we may not here forget that the example of
other children also demands attention. The nur-
sery affords ample scope for the display of those
consequences which the fall has so strongly im-
pressed upon the children of Adam, that we may
daily trace the influence of depravity in their tem-
pers, and dispositions, and actions. So soon as
they begin to think, and feel, and act, so early
do they begin to sin ;
and their little broils, and
anger, and puny revenge ;
their selfishness, their
jealousy, envy, hatred, and injustice, all demon-
strate the reality of this truth. Here then the
nursery, the very atmosphere in which children
breathe, and grow, and thrive, is tainted with
moral pollution.
Acknowledging this mournful fact, the indica-
tions for the parent, are jirst, to remove away
from an infant, or to prevent its attention being
fixed upon objects, by an imitation of which, evil
actions and desires, thoughts and dispositions
will be excited : and secondly, by proper exam-
ples, to endeavour to produce contrary effects,
and develop opposite affections.
It is right where this can be effected without
the sacrifice of principle, to avoid all causes which
may prove irritant to the mind, and excite im-
proper passions ;
but in doing so, the ease and
quiet of the child is not to be so delicately pre-
served, as to yield to this consideration any cir-
cumstance of moment, but only to avoid unneces-
sary sources of irritation and excitement.
536 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
By degrees the understanding is to be informed,
and the actions of the heart are to be regulated
by it. The mind is early, and most easily capable
of a sinful bias ;
and this principle should be
turned to good account by the parent, in recol-
lecting that long before it is capable of a ratioci-
native process, it may be taught from the objects
which surround it ;
and the mind may be ex-
panded, and stored with truth, by seizing those
unobtrusive and informal opportunities ;
those
" mollia tempora fandi," when the ear, the eye
are open to receive impressions, when the atten-
tion is awakened to perceive them, and the intel-
lectual powers are roused to be influenced by
them. Thus may it be early taught the difference
which exists between good and evil, and their
respective limits : thus may it be informed of the
existence of a Deity ;
thus may be communicated
to it the knowledge of many of His attributes,
His power, goodness, providential care, &c. :
thus may it be instructed into the nature of prayer
as an address to this great God, for the supply of
its wants, and the deprecation of ills to which it
may be exposed ; thus may it be impressed, with
a deeply-felt awe and reverence for His sacred
Majesty as the Author of every blessing, and of
our common existence : thus also may the evil
wanderings of its heart be repressed, and the
proper bias communicated and encouraged.
537
CHAP. IV.
ON RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION.
RELIGION is the only basis for successful moral
education ;
without its aid, there is no hope ;
for
no other system of morals possesses instructions
so simple and so well-defined, motives so pure,
or sanctions so all-important : none other extends
to the thoughts and intents of the heart, and
seeks to purify the source whence action springs ;
and on the contrary, with its holy assistance, there
is
every hope that parental exertion will not be
lost.
This principle, when applied to education, may
be defined to consist in an uniform and paramount
desire for the spiritual welfare of her offspring, on
the part of the parent, and on that of the child,
in obedience to the will of God.
Religious instruction is then a duty, in the ful-
filment of which every hour is well spent, because
it is
employed in the service of God, and with
the view of extending his kingdom on earth, and
of increasing the number of those eventually, who
shall rest not day nor night, but who shall con-
stantly sing the praises of him who sitteth upon
the throne, and of the Lamb who died to redeem
538 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
them from the love and power of sin. Well per-
formed, this duty confers happiness upon the
child, and returns in multiplied blessings upon
the parent ;
but if neglected, or only carelessly
executed, it will prove to both a source of aggra-
vated sorrow.
The object of religious instruction is simple,
and easily understood ; although from this very
singleness and simplicity of design, together with
the universality of its application, it is no easy
task to be accomplished. It is no trifling engage-
ment to be an humble, active, consistent Christian,
much less to be a Christian parent, and still more
difficult to sustain well the character of a Christian
instructor. Yet arduous as is this task, grace and
strength have been promised to those who sin-
cerely seek for them ;
and a large prospect of.
success has been held out as an encouragement
to strive earnestly to perform their duty faith-
fully ;
to rise above difficulties ;
to pursue, how-
ever faintly, the one grand design, and in the
strength of the Almighty to obtain a victory.
In effecting this object, the plain and simple,
yet sublime truths of Christianity, the unsophis-
ticated doctrines of the Bible, must afford the
first, the last, the only ground-work ;
and in
communicating these truths, it will be necessary
for the parent to think as a child. Perhaps this is
the most difficult labour of all ;
to lay aside the
stores of knowledge, and the influence of reason,
and return to the feeble process by which the
first ray of intelligence is elicited, the first idea
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 539
embodied in the human mind ;
for it will be ob-
served, that a child always seizes the prominent
idea before it learns to associate, and begins to
acquire from the simplest, yet most important
elements of thought. To relinquish, in a great
measure, the advantages of conventional lan-
guage, the forms with which we have been ac-
customed to invest ideas, the very words in which
we have so long thought and reasoned, and drawn
our conclusions ;
to divest ourselves of well com-
pacted argument, and to return to the first simple
perceptions of infancy, is no light undertaking,
and perhaps scarcely if ever to be accomplished
but by the indefatigable perseverance of maternal
affection ;
and yet without it the whole task will
be fruitless, for knowledge will be given as in an
unknown tongue, and will be altogether thrown
away.
Children are the gift of God, and when en-
trusted to us, we may hear that
" small still
voice" of Jehovah saying, as in the language of
Pharaoh's daughter,
" Take this child, and bring
it
up for for me." The important principle to be
educed from these words is, that the child should
be educated, not for itself, in all the waywardness
of caprice, the selfishness of natural disposition,
the indulgence of passion, the encouragement of
vicious propensity, the development of literary
talent, the extension of intellectual acquirement,
nor even in the performance of social and relative
virtue : these may be good in themselves, but
they are insufficient unless governed by some
540 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
higher motive, and directed to some more impor-
tant object. It should not be educated for the
parent, for the purposes of contributing to her
amusement, fostering her vanity, or developing
and employing her social virtues, or promoting
her present or future comfort ;
some of these
consequences may be boons granted to the faith-
ful performance of duty, but they are not the
objects, or the end of instruction ;
it should not
be educated for the world around it, to fret away its
little hour of frivolous existence, in all the vanity
and emptiness of unmeaning insincerity ;
to be
earnestly striving after the merest trifles, and
losing sight of the most important pursuits ;
to
be influenced by maxims which originate in cus-
tom, fashion, or circumstance, and admit of being
moulded according to the ever shifting forms of
society and its
opinions ;
to fritter away its all
important hours, in pursuits which are unsatisfy-
ing, irrational, or absurd ;
to be eagerly seeking
after pleasure, and as constantly grasping dis-
appointment ;
to be deluded by vain hopes, or
agitated by unreal fears ;
to have the noble de-
sires of the human mind occupied by present and
degrading pursuits ;
to be absorbed by this world
and its attractions, instead of pursuing the path
to heaven ;
and finally, to live forgetful of God,
and of its infinite obligations to the Majesty of
heaven, with not a wish beyond the passing hour :
neither should it be educated for others, in all the
bustling activity of benevolence, the stirring emo-
tions of charity, the ostentation of public sub-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 541
scription, the fashion of almsgiving, or even in
the personal labours attached to many invaluable
institutions of the present day : these are worthy
objects, but they may not constitute the great
pursuit of existence, and are not the end of edu-
cation, though perfectly compatible with its de-
sign, when held in due subordination to that grand
purpose, viz. that the child should be educated for
God who gave it ;
devoted to him from infancy ;
brought up in his fear ; early instructed in his
laws ;
trained to obey his word ;
to live in his
ways, to be influenced by love to, and a desire to
please Him; to hate evil because it is offensive
in his sight ;
to be actively engaged in his ser-
vice, and desirous of extending the knowledge of
his kingdom ;
to be animated by love to his crea-
tures ;
to be influenced by a sincere desire of
living to his glory, and of shewing the power of
his grace in the fruits of a just, holy, humble, and
consistent life ;
and to be constantly travelling
towards that city which hath foundations, whose
builder and maker is God ! How important,
then, is the principle, how awful the responsibility
involved in the charge of bringing up a child for
God ; embracing the most extensive self-denial
on the part of the parent and her offspring ; sepa-
ration from the world ;
caution to avoid insuffi-
cient, however plausible and valuable pursuits,
and an entire devotedness of the heart, the
thoughts, the feelings, and the conduct to him
from whom no secret is hidden, and who is of
purer eyes than to behold iniquity.
542 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
The grand desire, then, as well as the uniform
design of parents, will be that their children
should not only name the name of God, but that
they should depart from all iniquity, and should
serve the Lord with a perfect and an upright
heart, in sincerity and in truth ;
that they should
be renewed and sanctified by the Holy Spirit ;
that they should manifest, in distinct characters,
every feature and impression of the Divine Image,
though so feebly and faintly pourtrayed, on ac-
count of the imperfections inseparable from mor-
tality ;
that they should hate sin, and struggle
against its influence ;
that they should desire and
endeavour to live to the glory of God ;
that they
should be aware of the evil tendencies of their
natural affections, and that these should be newly
formed, and disposed by the purifying influence
of divine truth ;
that they should be possessed of
a tender conscience, easily impressed by the
word of God, and keenly alive to every deviation
from his will ;
that they should be induced to a
willing obedience to express or implied com-
mands of God their Saviour ;
and that having
been enabled by faith to put on the robe of
Christ's finished righteousness, they may through
the merits of his sacrifice stand accepted before
a.
just and holy God.
These great blessings, however, are not attain-
able even by Christian education, much less by
any thing short of its
important duties :
they are
the gift of God. He originally created man in his
own image, gave him a rational soul capable of
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 543
the highest enjoyments, placed him in a situation
of happiness, and in close communion with him-
self, surrounded him with every blessing, en-
dowed him with the most extensive intellectual
powers, enlarged the boundaries of his know-
ledge, provided for the exercise of his affections,
gave him power to preserve his favour, and pro-
nounced upon him that he was very good. Yet man
fell, by the only act of disobedience which he
could commit, with the full and entire knowledge
of its ingratitude, and of the consequences which
would ensue ;
and now how changed the scene !
He sinned wilfully, and incurred the just, the inevi-
table wrath of God ,*
he fell from his estate of
purity and peace, and became unholy and un-
happy ;
he lost the image of God ;
the powers of
his soul were circumscribed and limited ;
he was
alienated from God, and averse from obedience
to him ; sin and sorrow, disease and death, be-
came the mournful portion of humanity ; his in-
tellectual capacities were shorn of their beams ;
a limited barrier was every where placed to his
inquiries ; passion usurped the sway of mild af-
fection, and haunted him with a thousand wild
impulses and
'
unhallowed desires ; he had no
longer the power to think a good thought, or do a
good action ;
he was no longer good, but prone to
evil, and that continually; possessing only the
wreck of his high original, and destined to banish-
ment for ever, from the presence of his Heavenly
Father. But now in mercy and in love, a plan
544 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
of redemption was devised, by which God might
be just in his hatred and punishment of sin, and
might yet reconcile sinners to himself, through
the atoning sacrifice of their substitute and sure-
ty, Jesus Christ our Lord. He who first created
man in his own image, who gave him that like-
ness which he has lost by transgression, can alone
restore it :
almighty power can alone exchange
the sinfulness and pollution of human nature, for
that humble faith and sincere though imperfect
obedience which is
acceptable to God. Without
this end, instruction however excellent, and every
argument in favour of virtue however strong, will
be unavailing; exhortations to holiness of heart
and life, will be thrown away ;
the most watchful
care, the wisest counsels, the most affectionate
warnings, the most unceasing anxiety, all, all will
be useless.
Yet religious instruction is a duty of unparallel-
ed importance, for,
" if thou seek him, he will
be found of thee ;
but if thou forsake him,
He will cast thee off for ever." Life and death
are still placed within the reach of parental soli-
citude ;
how animating is the promise that God
will be found of those who seek him ;
how un-
speakably awful the threatening, that in his om-
nipotent justice, he will even put away farther
from him, those who do not seek, but forsake his
paths. If motives to this duty were wanting,
they are close at hand ;
and possessed as parents
are, of the same corrupt nature with their chil-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 545
dren, thejr do require every motive to stimulate
their activity and to preserve their constancy in
this arduous duty.
These are to be found in the sinfulness of the
nature of infancy, a predisposition which it has
inherited through the medium of its progenitors :
it is born a child of wrath, to whom nought but
the grace and mercy of God can restore the image
of Christ: they are to be found in the desire of
procuring her own happiness, which, as well as
the principled affection and obedience of her off-
spring, will depend upon religious instruction ;
and in the delight arising from the conviction of
their possessing God for their friend and protector,
their Almighty Father, their support and guide,
their refuge and fortress, their everlasting all. It
is indeed true, that the beneficent Creator and
preserver of mankind constantly showers down
his blessings on all the children of men ; they
share in the common bounties of his providence,
unmindful of the hand which first gave them life,
and which sustains every breath they draw, by
the wonderful continuance of his ever-watchful
care ; they are still depending upon him for un-
numbered hourly mercies; they are constantly
receiving from him fresh benefits, which they
acknowledge only by renewed ingratitude ; their
lives are sustained ; they are preserved from the
ravages of disease : food and raiment are pro-
vided ;
their comforts are abundantly prepared ;
and yet they never lift one aspiration of praise to
him who gives them all they possess ; they never
VOL i. N N
546 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
encourage a feeling of dependence upon him ;
they never raise one heartfelt and sincere prayer
to be preserved from the infinitely greater evil of
forgetfulness of God. In these common mercies
all equally share, but there are peculiar blessings
which are the lot only of the righteous, of those
who look to Christ as their great shepherd, who
are the branches of that living vine, and derive
from him all their beauty and fertility, all their
power to live, all their fruitfulness and value. All
things work together for good to those who love
him, who serve him with an upright heart, and keep
his commandments ;
to such he will be a wall
of fire round about them, and no evil shall hap-
pen to them, except that which is commissioned
by infinite goodness and love ;
so that all the pa-
rent's hope, that God will peculiarly bless her
children, and make them the objects of his es-
pecial care, rests on their being good. How power-
ful an incentive to train them up in that good way,
from which, when they are old, they shall not
depart ;
a promise which distinctly marks the ex-
tensive agency and influence of early principle,
wrought out into regular, and consistent, and
established habits.
Another motive consists in the honour of God,
and in the support of the cause of Christ and of
his kingdom in the world. In that
"
congrega-
tion of faithful men," of which the visible church
is at any time composed, there is required a suc-
cession of pillars in the temple of God, in order
to support the edifice, and to be the means of
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 547
carrying on those works of charity and piety,
which have for their object the extension of the
rays of divine truth. The decease of parents is
constantly occasioning vacancies, which in so far
as this church admits of being enfeebled by ex-
ternal circumstances, diminish its strength, and
therefore require to be repaired by the substi-
tution, in their room, of children who have been
well instructed in the ways of God. And if it
should please the almighty Disposer of all events,
to take to himself any one or more of those chil-
dren whom he has entrusted to us, how great is
the consolation if we can really look back on
having done our utmost "to bring it
up for him"
and if we can anticipate its recall to the bosom of
him who gave, there to spend an eternity of joy
and praise among the happy throng which sur-
round the throne of God ;
how great the delight
of contemplating the redeemed spirit, disen-
thralled from its chain of mortality, awakening as
from the dream of its short-lived existence, es-
caping from all the toils and difficulties of this
probationary state, and entering at once with its
full powers and most expanded capacities, into the
joy of its Lord ; for a longer residence on earth,
however it
may contribute to the development of
the intellectual powers, adds not a single atom to
the completion of that spiritual immaterial prin-
ciple, which is
perfect from the hand of its maker,
and is only obscured, and enfeebled, and per-
verted by its alliance with the body.
And again, this principle will influence the
N N2
548 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
whole spirit and conduct of parents ;
it will teach
them to shun what is sinful, or even wears the
appearance of being so ; it will teach them to se-
parate their children from the contact of known
evil, or of that which too nearly resembles it, to
be indulged with impunity, or to be received into
the bosom with unreserve; it teaches them to
differ from the world in general, in the selection
of objects for their children's pursuit, in their
principles of action, in the direction of their con-
duct and amusements ;
it influences every part
of education ;
it indicates the rocks on which
others have been shipwrecked, and teaches to
avoid them, as well as to know, and to meet with
courage and confidence, the dangers with which it is
encompassed. Christian parents will have to teach
their children many things in common, with those
whose hopes centre in the worldly advantage of
their offspring ;
and whose views and prospects
do not extend beyond the gratification, or at the
very most, the usefulness of the present hour ;
but they will also not teach them much which is
considered as of paramount consequence ;
and
they will find many parts of common education
miserably defective, especially in the article of
principled, moral, and religious instruction. Too
often will it be observed, that those sacred truths,
the knowledge of which has been driven from
the nursery and the study of the higher ranks,
have found an asylum in the lowly cottage, and
in the heart of a Sunday-school pupil ;
too often
will the knowledge, and the principle, the correct
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 549
feeling and conduct of the latter, put to shame
the descendants of those whom Providence has
blessed with rank, talent, and affluence ;
the
children of intellect, of reason, of passion, of ac-
complishments, but not of religion and virtue ;
devoted indeed from earliest infancy to god
the god of their idolatry, the god of this world,
and ignorant of Him who is
every where present,
and who requires the homage of his creatures.
But this must not be with the children of reli-
gious parents ; they must know their real situ-
ation as helpless and dependent beings ; they
must learn that the customs, and maxims, and
habits of the world, will not bear the test of the
revealed will of God ;
and they must be taught
that the Bible is the only source of appeal, and
be accustomed to bend at once'and implicitly to
its decisions.
This important principle will farther be shewn
in the conduct of the parent under various cir-
cumstances, in her watchfulness over the manage-
ment of the little
expenditure of her child, the
mode of economizing its time, the employment
of its talents, the distribution of its charity, the
improvement of its manifold advantages, the go-
vernment of its temper, the regulation of its feel-
ings, affections, and actions ;
all
being tried by
the same standard, and governed by the same
motives and sanctions.
This course of duty requires incessant vigi-
lance, and persevering activity ;
if the Christian's
be a life of warfare, and perpetual struggle,
550 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
much more is the path of the Christian mother
difficult ;
since her success depends on the skil-
fulness with which she accomplishes her retreat
from the array of this world's influence, with-
out yielding a single point to its power, but on
the contrary always gaining by falling back on
her resources, and extending the "materiel" of her
defence. To slumber at her post, will be to be
surprised by the enemy ;
to be indolent, will be
to ensure defeat ;
her only hope of safety con-
sists in undeviating though it
may be in slow pro-
gression.
In conducting this conflict, there is
great en-
couragement to hope, that the Holy Spirit will
bless those sincere and continued exertions; it
is indeed true, that the grace of God is not
limited to the children of Christian parents, nor
to those who are diligent in the performance of
their duties ;
but it
may be hoped for with con-
fidence, by those who are sincere and earnest in
instructing their offspring in the way of holiness
and truth, even as the season of harvest is con-
fidently expected by the agriculturist, when he
manures and ploughs his land, sows his seed,
roots up the weeds, and waits with patience for
the early and the latter rain. And lastly, the
covenant which God has made with his people
and their seed ;
together with the dedication of
children to the service of God in baptism, are
grounds of confidence to the parent, to hope, to
believe, that her offspring may live before him ;
that God would give them a perfect heart, and
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 551
make them entirely and unreservedly his. How
great is the happiness of a mother to witness her
children growing up in the fear and admonition
of the Lord ;
to see them walking in the path of
the just, which shineth brighter and brighter unto
the perfect day ;
to watch their delight in the
law of the Lord ;
and to be assured that they
shall be as trees planted by the rivers of water,
that shall bring forth their fruits in their seasons,
that their leaf also shall not wither, and that
whatsoever ,
they do shall prosper. And if on
the contrary, the young should turn out ill, how
great will be the consolation to reflect, that she
at least has done her duty, and has not to blame
herself for any portion of the misery, which they
entail upon themselves and others. But O ! how
unspeakable the wretchedness of her, who in
these painful circumstances has to charge herself
with wilful, allowed, continued neglect ;
of her,
who upon mature reflection, and an appeal to
conscience, is obliged to confess that she is in
any degree answerable for the misconduct of her
family, who by their wickedness are subjected to
the doom of the ungodly,
" who are like the
chaff which the wind driveth away;" and " who
shall not stand in the judgment"
" for the Lord
knoweth the way of the righteous ;
but the way
of the ungodly shall perish."
552
CHAP. V.
THE SAME SUBJECT CONTINUED ON EARLY RELIGIOUS
EDUCATION.
IN instilling religious principles, it will be the
mother's first care, that such principles be sound
and just; the pure and undefiled religion of the
Bible, unalloyed by party feeling, or deteriorated
by the admixture of human error or superstition ;
the result of her own deliberate conviction, upon
a close and attentive examination of the word of
God, aided by that
"
Spirit of truth," which will
guide the sincere inquirer into all truth ;
unadul-
terated by bigotry, and not the merely unex-
amined prejudices of her own undiscerning child-
hood. Here, the Bible forms her only standard
of truth ;
to it she constantly refers as affording
the ground on which her opinions and conclusions
are built ;
to it she leads her child for doctrine,
for reproof, for correction, for instruction in
righteousness, explaining it as far as possible to
the limited capacity of her pupils, and by and
by, placing this sacred volume in their hands,
that they may examine for themselves, and ascer-
tain the reality, and the force, and the sanction of
her injunctions.
Not only should religious instruction commence
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 553
at an early period ;
not only should the under-
standing be informed and enlightened, but the
thoughts and affections must be taught to rest on,
and to be governed by these great truths ; since
the prepossession of the heart in favour of reli-
gion, by the inculcation of the great and funda-
mental doctrines of Christianity, will in after life
form a barrier to the influence of temptation, and
operate as a preservative from vice, among the
snares, and delusions, and allurements of a world
that lieth in wickedness.
It may however, become a question, at what
period religious instruction should commence ?
This must vary in different individuals ;
but in
general terms, it may be said, that it should com-
mence early. Christ has said,
" Suffer little
children to come unto me, and forbid them not,
for of such is the kingdom of heaven." There
are repeated instances of the impressions of very
young children being recalled many years after-
wards, and being found as reminiscences of for-
mer objects and circumstances, even of such as
could scarcely have been supposed to have
exerted a very powerful influence upon the mind ;
such as any alteration in the furniture of a room
circumstances connected with its former ar-
rangement the form of a military cap, &c. &c.
These instances are particularized because they
have fallen under the author's own cognisance,
and because there could have been no possibility
of reviving the original impression by a fresh
contemplation of the object which first produced
554 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
it. And if such be the case in matters so com-
pletely extrinsic to all the subsequent modes and
habits of thought, may it not be at least equally
so, when that object is calculated to produce a
livelierfirst impression upon the mind, and to be
frequently renewed by every occasion for the
exercise and development of the principle in-
stilled.
The mind cannot be too early imbued with the
spirit of Christianity ;
it cannot be too early ac-
customed to look beyond the grave, and attend
to its immortal interests ;
and since, although the
heart and affections may not at this early period
have been renewed by divine grace, yet the in-
fluence of religious instruction will be felt in the
increased purity of the thoughts, the greater de-
licacy of the feelings, and the higher tone of mo-
rality of the life. Even supposing it to exert
but a feeble power over the conduct in restrain-
ing it from vice ; allowing, moreover, that its im-
pressions, or at least their distinct recollection,
may have been effaced by a long course of sin,
and vicious connexion with the world, and its
falsely called enjoyments ; yet in this most un-
favourable case, the effect may not have been
wholly thrown away ;
the impression once made
will not be entirely lost ;
at some distant period
perhaps the attention will be awakened, con-
science will be alarmed, the stores of memory
will be unlocked, and its long forgotten treasures
will be revived with the force and energy of ori-
ginal impressions ;
the soul may be called by di-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 555
vine grace from the bondage of sin, and the slavery
of Satan ;
it
may be brought out of darkness into
marvellous light, and aroused by that light to a
sense of its situation and of its duties ;
the un-
obliterated, though faint and feeble trains of early
thought and pursuit will be recollected ;
former
knowledge will be recovered, and its princi-
ples rendered much more easily available than
if the individual had now Jirst to begin to learn :
the simple elements of Christianity are again pre-
sented to the mind with an energy of appeal
which is irresistible ;
the decayed and broken
images of religious truth assume shape, and form,
and strength, and colour, and consistency : these
are first principles to which the reason and judg-
ment may refer ;
these dicta are not forgotten ;
neglected ideas and slighted motives will resume
their original power, and these "
dry bones live."
This prospect should stimulate parents to activity
and perseverance under the most discouraging
circumstances, in leading their children in the
way of truth, to the only refuge and hope set
before them in a Saviour's blood : in the morning
let them sow their seed, and in the evening with-
hold not their hand, for they know not which
shall prosper, the early or the latter sown. It is
the command of God ; and the performance of their
duty in this respect will in every event afford
matter for consolation, and give energy to their
designs ;
while a consciousness of neglect will
give rise to cruelly embittered recollections.
When parents witness the example of other
556 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
children who have loved, and feared, and served
God in early life ; when they reflect on the un-
certainty of that shadow which fleeth away and
continueth not ;
when they recollect that man
cometh forth as a flower and is soon cut down,
and consider that the cold hand of death will
sooner or later seize its victim ;
render pale that
cheek which is now crimsoned by health ;
forbid
the expression of that countenance which is now
lighted up by benevolence, or distorted by revenge,
envy, hatred, and other hateful passions, and for
ever preclude the smile of contentment ;
when
they consider that if religious instruction be
delayed, this fatal period may arrive ere the mind
has been brought to dwell with seriousness on its
final destination ;
and when they recollect that
the enemy of mankind is ever vigilant ;
that he
avails himself of the opportunity while men sleep
to sow tares among the wheat, to nurture, to cul-
tivate the seeds of error; that he seizes every
opportunity they slight, and thus renders the
task of instruction more difficult, as well as less
probably successful, from having to oppose an
enemy which has possessed himself of the strong
holds they ought to have pre-occupied ;
and still
further, when they reflect that their own life is
uncertain, and that they may not be spared to
communicate this defined instruction, surely they
will employ the earliest and every moment for this
most important duty.
Parents have not only to combat with indo-
lence, and with habits of procrastination, but
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 557
with false principle a principle which teaches,
that as religion is a matter of personal and indi-
vidual concern, each should be left at liberty to
choose his own views, and ^affix
his own interpre-
tation to the precepts of divine truth ;
and there-
fore, that the child should be suffered to remain
in ignorance until its own inquiries lead it to the
source of truth, and until it is enabled to form an
unprejudiced judgment for itself. Under the sem-
blance of liberality, there here lurks a spirit of
latitudinarianism, a spirit of practical carelessness
to the real boundaries of religion, and of indiffer-
ence to the interests of virtue. It is indeed true,
that religion is a matter of personal concern, and
that to a certain extent each person is at liberty
to choose his own views ;
that is, so far as regards
the external form and circumstance with which
it has been expedient and even necessary to in-
vest her : but it is monstrous to extend this libe-
rality of sentiment to the great doctrines and
precepts of Christianity ;
as if each one were at
liberty to expound these according to his own
caprice, to make them bend to his own pre -con-
ceived views, and square with his own erroneous
principles and inconsistent practice. No ! truth
is immutable ; Christianity is the same in every
climate, and under every form ;
its divine pre-
cepts are indestructible ; they have been given
by him who cannot change, and admit not of
accommodation to the waywardness of human
fancy. The Bible is the standard ;
and with this
558 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
sacred guide in his hand, the humble inquirer
after truth will not fail of discovering it. There
may be, and there are minor differences shades
of opinion, which for the most part, except in
perverse and perverted intellects, admit of recon-
ciliation, generally on the ground of verbal inter-
pretation, or form distinctions which are not really
essential. But in all the grand features of his
character, the Christian every where will be found
the same ;
and it is absurd, therefore, to suppose
that these distinctions ought to be perpetuated
and widened ;
it is absurd to suppose that the
young should be suffered to obtain their religious
character as they might, and exercise a licentious
and unlimited choice on the score of belief in its
doctrines, and obedience to its precepts ;
it is
absurd to suppose, that on a subject so momen-
tous, they should be allowed a capricious prefer-
ence which would not be permitted to them, in
the formation of their manners, and the prepara-
tion necessary for their intercourse with society ;
it is the height of absurdity to imagine that the
revealed will of God admits of a greater variety
of construction than would be granted even to
the ever changing dicta of fashion, or to a mere
maxim of politeness. And as for the high-sound-
ing pretensions of thus permitting the young to
form an unprejudiced judgment, it will be seen at
once that the thing does not exist ;
but on the
contrary, that under the specious mask of free-
dom of choice, there exists the most complete
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 559
thraldom : for are not ignorance, the continuance in
error, and the observance of vice, all prejudices of
the very worst kind ?
Away then with this boasted liberality, this
cruel slavery, which would envelop the mind with
its chain of adamant, and then leave it to burst
its fetters by its own unassisted efforts ;
so true
indeed is it that the tender mercies of the wicked
are cruel ! Let then the prejudices of childhood be
secured in favour of pure and simple Christianity,
before it be exposed to the temptation of irre-
ligion, which, arrayed in every specious garb,
tempts the affections, and distorts the views, and
depraves the judgment, and obtains a sway over
the whole mind, unless it
may have been pre-
viously fortified against its influence. Indifference
to religion is the first step in the progress of
error ;
and terminates in complete assimilation
with the wisdom of this world, which is enmity
against God ;
while on the contrary, the greater
the amount of religious knowledge, the more
deeply will the mind be confirmed in its attach-
ment and adherence, at least to the form of Chris-
tianity, a principle which in itself sufficiently
shews the folly of that licentiousness of opinion
(for it is not liberality) which has been combated.
It is true, that with every care, the parent can
only secure an attention to the form of religion,
and point out the proper motives and principles
on which this attention is to be grounded : she
cannot change the heart, and subject it to the
influence of these pure and holy laws : this lies
560 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
not within her sphere, but it is her province to
prepare that heart for the good seed of divine
grace, that it
may grow and bring forth fruit, and
spring up into eternal life.
Surely that part of the nature of man which is
the most noble, and is destined to endure for ever,
deserves the first attention ;
and if so, the acqui-
sition of religious knowledge is an object of great
moment, and of far higher pursuit than the culti-
vation of merely human learning, perhaps only
ornamental, and at the very best, useful merely for a
time. Far be it from us to depreciate the value
of intellectual acquirement, which in so many ways
may add to the extent of application, and beauty,
and worth of religious knowledge: we shall embrace
a future opportunity of making a comparative
estimate of their real weight : all we here contend
for is, that if one be valuable, the other is inva-
luable ;
if one be important, the other is all im-
portant ;
if one be deserving of attention and
cultivation, the other demands primary attention
and the most unceasing efforts after improvement.
Another principle in the communication of reli-
gious instruction is to begin with the more simple
elements, and that these should be communicated,
not in a slight, superficial, and irregular manner,
but assiduously and systematically, so as to be
interwoven with every part of the character.
Youth affords peculiar facilities for conveying
religious knowledge, while the memory is strong,
and the powers of the mind active, sensible, and
undistracted by commerce with the world ;
and
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 501
it is therefore capable of bringing to this subject,
the full weight of its entire and unsophisticated
energies : the heart and affections are flexible,
easily impressed, and therefore able to receive
those principles which are to mould the character
here, and fix its future hopes. Religious instruc-
tion demands the first, the most earnest, the most
constant attention. While therefore the develop-
ment of the understanding, and the cultivation of
the reason, form the invariable pursuit of every
day in the week, and give rise to a certain degree
of painful effort, both on the part of the parent
and of her pupil, it is
preposterous to imagine
that that knowledge which informs the heart, and
regulates the conduct, and without which all
other information is weak and inefficient, should
be inculcated only in sparing portions of time,
and at distant intervals ;
that it should be left to
the capricious influence of a desultory hour, should
be pursued only on the Sunday, or should be
confined to getting by heart some portion of cate-
chism, some creed, or prayer. Religious instruc-
tion should be combined with that which is
merely
secular, and perhaps some portion of every day
should be particularly devoted to this object, and
by preference, that early part in which the mind
is as yet unfatigued, and the attention is awake,
and easily fixed.
In asserting the principle, that the communi-
cation of religious instruction should be inter-
woven with the business of each day, it is how-
ever necessary to be cautious, that this knowledge
VOL. i. o o
562 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
be not given as a lesson to be learned, and that
the subject be not approached with a degree of
unhallowed familiarity which desecrates its sacred
character. It is not merely for the purpose of
enlarging the understanding, but of chastening the
heart, and of regulating the practice, that religious
instruction is to be communicated : and its sacred
truths are too holy, and their immediate relation
to their divine Author too intimate and insepa-
rable, to admit of familiarity without a certain
degree of irreverence and want of humility, so
disgusting in creatures when adoring their Cre-
ator ;
without losing to a certain extent that awe,
and deep self-abasement which are the only feel-
ings with which the throne of the divine Majesty
should be approached. It is then highly import-
ant to impress the young mind with a deep con-
viction, that this subject should only be entered
upon with corresponding emotions ;
and in so
doing, the tendency to employ the name of the
divine Being in familiar language, so painful to a
mind adequately and delicately impressed with
the power, and wisdom, and goodness, and know-
ledge of that divine and almighty Parent, will be
obviated. If the name of Jehovah be always
connected with the idea of his attributes, and
these again are associated with the wants, and
fears, and hopes, and blessings of infancy, there
will ever be preserved that sense of dependence,
and feebleness, and distance, and sinfulness,
which will save the mind from familiarity, and
serve in after life as an insurmountable barrier to
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 5G3
the wretched propensity to break the third com-
mandment.
The main design in this process is to instil
principles which are to govern the conduct ;
but
then in order to effect this object, such knowledge
must be conveyed, by interesting the heart and
affections, and engaging these in the pursuit, so
that that which would otherwise have been a
task, becomes a delightful employment ; by which
means the attention is chained, and the practical
bearing of all knowledge upon the conduct of the
life is
distinctly marked. Thus for instance, the
daily commission of offences may lead to a know-
ledge of the sinfulness of human nature ;
the an-
ger of God against sin ;
the punishment annexed
to it ; the mode of obtaining forgiveness and re-
conciliation, through the sacrifice of Christ ; the
misery of the impenitent, and the happiness of
those who have been washed, and purified, and
sanctified. The child is thus made to acknow-
ledge its own sinfulness, and learns to watch
against its influence ;
it feels, that notwithstand-
ing this vigilance, it has, and still does, wilfully
sin against God, and incur his displeasure ; it
is convinced that it has justly subjected itself to
the penalty due to transgression ;
it
acknowledges
the necessity for repentance and turning to God ;
it seeks forgiveness from him, and restoration to
his favour ;
and it
prays and strives after obedi-
ence to his will, as the evidence of its sincerity ;
thus combining in one, principle with practice,
and inseparably connecting the two ideas.
o o 2
5G4 MORAL AND RELIGION'S EDUCATION.
In accomplishing this desideratum, it is not
enough that children read a certain portion of the
Scriptures, however judiciously selected ;
or of
any work, in which its doctrines and their influ-
ence, its
precepts and their effects are described.
The daily recurrence of the customary chapter is
listless work ;
it will be languidly resumed as the
morning task, and performed without interest :
nay, it will excite fatigue and disgust, while no
compensating good effect will be produced. And
this results simply from the affections having been
forgotten in the account ;
their influence has been
neglected ; religious knowledge has been pursued
as a matter of science, not of passion ;
as a task,
not a pleasure ;
and has shared as such, the com-
mon lot of that which is
repugnant to our native
indolence and indifference to that which is good,
viz. it has produced aversion. And yet there is
so much beauty in religion, and such a fitness to
the wants and desires, the hopes and fears of an
erring, feeble, helpless, depending creature, that
the mind cannot fail to be enchanted by it if pro-
perly represented, and before it has been blinded
and perverted by passion and prejudice : cold and
lifeless precepts will be unavailing, and the heart
must be warmed by the display of divine mercy,
and goodness, and love, and must be convinced
of its own immediate interest in these attributes.
Colloquial instruction
particularly affords the
means of producing and sustaining this interest.
There is
something at all times insinuating in this
method of teaching ; but especially when the
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 565
mother is engaged in instructing her offspring in
all that relates to God and heaven, the misery of
mankind, and the way of pardon and acceptance.
The impression thus made is deeper and more
abiding ;
the one floats on the surface of the un-
derstanding, and may be swept away by every
zephyr ;
the other sinks deep into the heart, and
becomes a stable principle of action. And when
to this is added the motive which governs and
directs the process, and which gives it life, and
earnestness, and vigour, viz. a mother's love, and
that affection interested for the immortal welfare
of her child, it is indeed an engine of great power.
It is she alone who can adapt her language and
her sentiments to the capacity and character of
her little charge ;
a mother's tenderness will cap-
tivate the child, and rivet its heart on the truths
she wishes to inculcate.
But while the affections are to be thus engaged
upon the issue of moral instruction, it must be
recollected, that it is not a religion of feeling and
passion which is to be produced, not the piety
of excited sensibility, but of a sound judgment.
It must not be forgotten, that the child is a
rational being, or that religion should be also em-
braced by the understanding : the cold and heart-
less system of what has been misnamed rational
Christianity, and the fervours of enthusiasm, are
equally to be avoided. No mode of pursuing
knowledge is so pleasing or so safe, as that which
proceeds by obtaining concessions from the mind
relative to circumstances it is
capable of compre-
566 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
hending ; and then combining, arranging, and uniting
them, so as to arrive at the wished for conclusion.
In this way too may be demonstrated the import-
ant principle of the helplessness of man ;
and at
the same time, the extent of his power.
The child should be questioned on the subjects
with which it has been thus informed, in a way
suited to its capacity; and its feeble efforts of
thought, and recollection, and association, may
be easily amplified if defective, and explained
when erroneous. By repeating this process, it
may be led to discover what it learns, apparently
at least, by the ease, simplicity, and skill, with
which the several parts of instruction are con-
nected ;
each arising as it were necessarily and
spontaneously from that which has preceded ;
the
truths which it thus seems to develop will be
more deeply engraven on the mind ;
and the gra-
tification accruing from success in this pursuit,
will stimulate it to greater efforts, and encourage
to continued perseverance.
But farther, surrounding objects, and practical
examples of the truths to be inculcated, will af-
ford considerable assistance in the prosecution of
this interesting task; and we have the highest
authority for adopting a principle of this kind,
since we do but humbly and feebly imitate our
Saviour's method of instruction, the instruction
of Him who knew what was in man, and was
best acquainted with the methods by which his
stubborn nature might be made to bend to the
force of truth. The flowers of the field, the pro-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 567
cesses of vegetation, the habits of animals, atmos-
pherical phenomena, the simplest events of life,
were all rendered applicable to the grand design
of stealing upon the heart with the impressiveness
of nature, those truths, which as matters of reve-
lation, or oral and merely ethical instruction,
might have excited aversion. There is a danger
of making the appearance of religion dull and un-
inviting ;
there is a danger lest that which can
alone make us happy should seem to the young
mind to deprive it of innocent pleasure ;
lest its
yoke which is easy, and its service perfect free-
dom, should appear heavy and operose. This ef-
fect is in part accounted for by the tendency of
the human heart to aversion from all that is good;
but success or failure will depend very much on
the manner with which instruction is communi-
cated. This principle is exemplified every hour,
since we well know that the same truths will be
either palatable or disagreeable, according to the
manner in which we are told of them ;
and if this
will operate on the common intercourse of life,
how much more on that which is unseen and
eternal.
There can, however, be no just reason why re-
ligious instruction should not be rendered plea-
sing ; why the most powerful efforts of the under-
standing, as well as the highest affections of the
soul, should not be consecrated to the service of
God. Thus, for instance, the attention may be fixed
on the most interesting truths to which it can be
directed; perception may be awakened by the sub-
508 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
limest novelties ;
reason may be engaged on
objects of the most fearful moment, reflection
obtains the widest scope for its exercise, even alt
that concerns the past, the present, or the inter-
minable future ; memory is stored with ample
images of delight, possessing too, this peculiar
property, that the more frequently they are me-
ditated upon, the more vivid is their impression,
and the greater beauty does there appear to sur-
round them ;
the conscience is supplied by a
thousand motives and sanctions, which immensely
widen the sphere of its influence and operation ;
the imagination, while it finds abundant causes to
restrain its wanderings, is furnished from sources
capable of satisfying, and even of exhausting its
most unlimited conceptions ;
the will is ennobled,
rendered free, and guided to the most beneficial
results ;
and the highest examples of virtue and
goodness, and happiness and truth, are proposed
for our imitation, while the assistance of the Holy
Spirit is
promised to enable us to copy the excel-
lence of Him who knew no sin, neither was guile
found in his mouth. Thus too, there is abundant
room for the exercise of the passions and affec-
tions, in the love and the fear of God ; delight in
his service ; gratitude for unnumbered blessings ;
the controul of selfish disposition; and the ex-
ercise of self-denial, in the ennobling objects of
desire which are embraced by the Christian's
hope ;
in the courage, and constancy, and forti-
tude, with which he is called upon to oppose the
influence of vice and error, and to persevere in
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 569
the paths of virtue ;
in the daily exercise of hu-
mility, caution, and prudence ;
in the perform-
ance of justice towards his fellow-creatures; in
tenderness and compassion to those more imme-
diately around him ;
in seeking to do them good ;
in the multiplied instances of charity and bene-
volence ; in the relief of the temporal and moral
necessities of the poor; in the cultivation of es-
teem for the just, and pity towards those who
are in error, and sunk in vice and misery ;
in the
enthusiastic pursuit of every virtue ;
in the for-
giveness of injuries ;
in hourly forbearance and
retiring modesty; in the subjugation of vanity;
in the cultivation and improvement of sincerity,
veracity, activity, temperance, and many other
objects of the purest pleasure.
But again, religion is not to be taught as a
matter of abstraction, but as a subject of great
and individual interest ; thus involving the impor-
tant principle of self-love, and giving it that bias
which will disarm it of its power to injure, and
communicate that tendency which will render its
fruits not only innocent, but useful. The doc-
trines, and precepts, and opinions of divine truth,
are not speculative notions, exhibited for inope-
rative belief. It is not a science for abstracted rea-
son to examine, and determine upon its force and
influence, and propriety ;
it is not a subject for
demonstration ;
it is not a doctrine on which we
are permitted to doubt ;
it is revealed to us from
heaven, and requires the assent of the heart;
neither may we ask why it is so, any more than
570 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
we would inquire why the ear does not perform
the function of the eye, or the heart that of the
brain. Were it not so, religious instruction
would be most difficult, because the effort must
be made in a manner quite uncongenial with its
nature, and opposed to its spirit.
In this life, when judging of events and their
results, we do not separate circumstances, and
opinions, and feelings, and actions from the
persons who have elaborated them, who have
thought, and willed, and acted : we usually con-
nect them together ;
and when we exclusively
wish to act from, and to be influenced by our
judgment rather than our feelings, we find it
necessary to abstract the mind from the person,
and fix it on the subject. In communicating re-
ligious instruction, however, the very reverse will
be found to be the case ;
for although the under-
standing and the judgment may be and are neces-
sary to the acquisition of religious knowledge, yet
these must be influenced primarily by the heart
and affections. Religion is a matter of belief, not
a question of debate and speculation. It is impor-
tant to keep in view this essential distinction. To
arrive at the cool determinations of judgment, it
is
necessary to abstract the person from the sub-
ject : but on the contrary, one great means of
engaging the affections in the service of the re-
ligious instructor, is
by assiduously connecting the
person with the subject, and making the child
fed that it
possesses an individual interest in what
it learns ;
that religion is not an abstract truth,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 571
or a piece of general information, or a cluster of
vague opinions ;
but the business of the life, that
in which it is
individually and immediately con-
cerned, that in which its usefulness here, as
well as its present, future, and eternal happiness
are implicated.
The Christian cannot read his Bible, without
finding an exquisite charm in the affecting sim-
plicity, and glowing beauties it
displays :
upon
this model the parent frames her instructions;
and guided by infinite wisdom, she will not
greatly err. Moreover, the lessons she commu-
nicates will not be drawn simply from the Bible ;
but that blessed book itself will be put into the
hands of her offspring : it is however desirable
that it should not be employed as a lesson book.
It is of the first importance, that children should
grow up to esteem and love the Bible, to feel
reverence for its truths, and a decided interest in
all its communications. The danger offamiliarity
on subjects so high and sacred, has been already
pointed out ; and such is the love of indolence in
the human mind, and its aversion from instruction,
that it
very commonly contracts in early life, a
rooted dislike to the medium through which it is
conveyed, because it is a source of disturbance to
its own luxurious inaction : and this principle
operating upon the Bible when employed as a task
book, will create a distaste for it, and diminish
the respect due to its sacred character. Let then
the secularilies of instruction be elsewhere found ;
and let the heart be attracted towards the Bible
572 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
by a selection of its interesting narratives; by
rendering the relation of these a reward for good
conduct ;
and by throwing that degree of interest
upon its pages, which a constant appeal to its
principles will ensure.
The Bible is not fitted for the learned and the
wise only, since Almighty God delights to perfect
his praises out of the mouths of babes and suck-
lings. The aspirations of the infant heart; the
sacrifice of a lamb without blemish that is, be-
fore it has been polluted by the commission of
actual and wilful sin, is an acceptable offering to
Him who died to save mankind from its penalty.
The truths of the Bible are appropriate to the
meanest capacity ;
and will convey to the mind
even of a simple child distinct views of God and
of Christ, of the soul, of its lost condition, of the
mode of redemption, of pardon and acceptance,
of justification and sanctification ;
for although it
may not be able at once to comprehend the terms,
and affix to these definite, and appropriate, and
distinct significations, yet it is able to embrace a
knowledge of the things thus signified. An un-
prejudiced heart, and an unperverted will, are the
qualifications best suited for understanding and
receiving the Scriptures.
These Scriptures, however, (in which are some
things hard to be understood) are to be explained ;
their difficulties are to be removed, and reflection
on their contents is to be developed, while their
truths are to be simplified by a living commentary
upon their practical influence in producing holi-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 573
ness of life. It is desirable that the Bible should
be perused in childhood, in its simple form, in
contradistinction to any commentary, however ex-
cellent from the pen of human learning; these
are generally inefficient, and sometimes injurious.
For not only is it injudicious to raise doubts in the
youthful mind, for the purpose of removing them ;
to detail cavils, with the view of refuting them,
and to explain the varying shades of opinion which
good men have taken of the same subject, under
different circumstances ; not only is it desirable
to produce implicit confidence in its obvious
meaning; to appeal constantly to its decisions
as final and satisfactory, and to inculcate its plain
and heartfelt truths : but the simplicity and
beauty of its language ;
the brevity and force,
the purity and energy and eloquence with which
its doctrines are exhibited, are admirably calcu-
lated to affect the heart, to fill and enlarge the
mind, and to take a deeply rooted hold on the
memory. Again, the very words of Scripture are
the form chosen by the Holy Spirit for commu-
nion with men ;
words which human commenta-
ries at best dilate, and so dilute the force of the
original. The Bible is the best expositor of its
own truths ;
and however commentaries may
improve the understanding, and deepen the judg-
ment, and enlarge the views in after life; however
they may illustrate the force of particular pas-
sages by criticism,, or by the detail of local cus-
toms, or by the events of history, and by the
present and past situation of the kingdoms or
574 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
cities of the world ; yet now they will only pro-
duce the effect of overloading the memory, dis-
tracting the attention, and preventing its clear
perception of simple truth ; which, however, it
must never be forgotten, none but the Spirit of
God can really enlighten the mind thoroughly to
understand. And yet this exception against
commentaries in general does not at all invalidate
the usefulness of that oral explanation of its
truths, that living exposition of its
principles and
practice, which has been before recommended.
"
Open thou mine eyes, that I
may discern
wondrous things out of thy law," should be the
prayer of infancy ;
and the means appointed for
the fulfilment of this petition will be found in
that apostolical teaching, which consisted in the
energetic detail of the simple elements of Chris-
tianity. By this mode of instruction the mind is
led to form reflections upon what it has perused,
partly from its own efforts, guided and assisted
by maternal solicitude, so that it
appears to think
for itself, and to work out its own conclusions
from the problem before it.
The constancy, the frequency, and the regularity
with which religious instruction should be com-
municated, may be argued from the pen of in-
spiration :
" And these words which I command
thee this day shall be in thy heart ;
and thou
shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and
shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine
house, and when thou walkest by the way, and
when thou sittest down, and when thou risest
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 575
up." No opportunity is to be lost ;
on the con-
trary, every event, every circumstance of life,
every change of situation, every external acci-
dent is to be made subservient to this great de-
sign ;
the influence of which should be habitual
and universal, pervading every part of the con-
duct. All possible means should be devised and
employed for the advancement of this influence ;
and all the varied changes of this checquered
scene should be made the means of supporting it.
Nothing can be more full, more comprehensive,
or more descriptive of this duty ; nothing can
lead to more correct views of the engagement ;
and to add, or rather to wish to add to its sublime
force and energy, would be, in fact, to detract
from its impressiveness.
576
CHAP. VI.
THE SAME SUBJECT CONTINUED PARTICULAR FUNDA-
MENTAL PRINCIPLES TO BE INCULCATED.
I. IN engaging the attention of the child to reli-
gious truth, the importance of self-knowledge should
not be overlooked.
True indeed it is that this knowledge is not to
be attained, except as the mind is renewed, and
enlarged, and strengthened by divine grace ;
for
man prefers the exercise of his intellectual powers
on any subject, rather than himself; he possesses
a natural, an instinctive aversion from communing
with his own heart ;
he shuns the estimate of
his own powers and talents ;
he dreads an exa-
mination into the mode of their application ;
he
shrinks from the scrutiny of his motives ;
he fears
to try all his actions by the test of principle ;
he
flies from a comparison between what he is, and
what he ought to be ;
and endeavours to shield
himself from the result under the prominence of
some specious virtue, forgetting that even this is
too generally cultivated as a cloak for some secret
sin, to which he naturally clings the more closely,
in proportion as the tempest of vice howls around,
and as he really is more subjected to its storms :
and yet the agency of this inquiry upon human
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 577
action, and especially upon the young, is of great
value, since it checks the heedlessness of preci-
pitation, and induces them to pause occasionally,
and most emphatically to ask,
" Is it well ?"
By teaching children to scrutinize their motives
for action, and by detecting and separating those
motives from the mass of intellectual and moral
principles with which they are combined, and by
explaining their real nature, they may be taught
to feel that these, as well as the thoughts and
intents of their heart, are only evil, and that con-
tinually. Combining this confession with the
instruction daily communicated, a degree of energy
and force before unknown is given to the truth,
that all mankind are by nature sinful; and by a
particular application of this general principle, is
formed the important conclusion, the groundwork
of Christianity, the basis of all genuine piety, that
the child itself is a sinner, and in an utterly
hopeless condition, so far as regards its own power
of obeying the pure and holy law of God. With
the aid of common observation, and with the full
impression of the insincerity, the hypocrisy, the
injustice, the ingratitude of the world around, and
with an entire view of the agency of passion,
anger, malice, hatred, and puny revenge, even in
the first months of childhood, it is difficult not
to assent, in general terms, to the doctrine of
human depravity ;
but it is
equally and still more
difficult to the pride, and obstinacy, and perver-
sity of the human heart, to make a distinct per-
sonal application of this knowledge ;
to feel that
VOL. i. p p
578 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
this same principle of corruption envelops every
individual in an atmosphere of vice, infests every
thought and feeling, and in a greater or less de-
gree taints every action with the attributes of
transgression. Reason may assent to the former
general position; but to feel that we ourselves
are sinners, and as individuals, deserving the
righteous anger of a just and holy God, requires
more than reason ;
and here an acquaintance with
self may be useful in awakening conscience to
the melancholy fact of the corruption of the
thoughts and actions for
" there is none that
doeth good."
II. Where this fundamental principle is known
and acknowledged, it follows much more easily
to enforce the necessity for a renewal of this cor-
rupt heart for an entire change of this nature,
before we can be made like God, or become his
children. And now the mind is
prepared to re-
ceive the doctrine of justification through the
sacrifice of a Redeemer the key-stone of Chris-
tian faith and practice, upon which alone can be
successfully upheld the glory of Christ and the
safety of man. Once more from this self-know-
ledge, the child may be taught to feel its entire
helplessness, its inability to do any thing aright,
the mortifying insufficiency of its own strength,
and its entire incapacity to perform the will of
God. Something more is
requisite to supply its
weakness ;
and from this consideration of its ne-
cessities, it
may be led on to the doctrine of the
influences of the Holy Spirit, and of divine sup-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 579
port and assistance: for it is only through his
Almighty aid, enlightening the views, strengthen-
ing the resolution, and teaching how to will and
to do, that we can obey his laws, or walk ac-
ceptably in his sight : hence the vast importance
of this principle.
III. Again, the parent will employ every means
in her power diligently to preserve the heart of her
offspring from the influence of sin. If this, the
centre and source of feeling and of action, can
be preserved from the pollution of actual vice and
error ;
and if, with the aid of divine grace so
liberally promised to those who seek for it, it can
be retained to a prevailing choice of that which
is right, and defended from a constant tendency
to that which is evil ;
if it can be brought to
choose the service of God, (" as for me and my
house, we will serve the Lord,") the influence of
corruption withers and dies ;
but if through neg-
ligence sin should enter at this avenue, if it should
gain access to the thoughts, and should subse-
quently appear openly in the conduct, it does not
then so readily admit of restraint, although before
its actual assumption of permanent and despotic
authority, it might have been retained in subjec-
tion. It is then an object of real moment, to pre-
serve the young from the influence of corrupt
society and conversation, and from the active
propensity to open iniquity.
IV. In pursuing this system of religious in-
struction, it is necessary to impress upon the
mind of the young that this is not an end, in the
p p 2
580 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
accomplishment of which it may securely rest ;
but that it is only the means to be employed, and
which can alone be rendered efficacious by the
blessing of the Spirit of God. There is consider-
able danger lest in after life the recollections of
a religious education should prove a source of
delusion ;
lest the uneasy stirrings of conscience
should be lulled into repose by this opiate ;
lest
the mind should derive comfort from it, and fancy
that the inoperative notions it conveyed might
stand in the place of sorrow for sin, and real con-
version of the heart to serve the living God : there
is danger lest the great enemy of mankind should
avail himself of this ready sedative, in order to
lull the mind into a fatal slumber of false secu-
rity; lest it should speak
"
Peace, peace, when
there is no peace;" lest its wounds should be
slightly healed ;
and lest its sleep should be
deepened, and its
insensibility more entire, as it
approaches the very edge of destruction, the
shadowy verge which separates eternity from time.
Surely this fatal error will be studiously avoided,
if it be considered at how fearful a risk the peace
of the present moment is obtained ;
even by an
increase of the cause for fear and disquietude,
and by a daily diminished power of restoration.
Educated in the externals of a religious pro-
fession ; attending, from habit, to the daily or
weekly recurrence of its common duties, and ordi-
nances, and exercises, if conscience should whis-
per all is not right within, this regular discharge
of duty will be adduced as an argument for in-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 581
action, and as an evidence of safety ; while during
this process the soul is fast bound by the chain
of iniquity, even by the choice of sin, and the
deliberate preference of that which is offensive to
the purity of the Most High. The great wea-
pon employed in the conquests of our Redeemer,
the word of God is rendered shaftless ;
because
the mind rests itself upon the consideration of a
present ideal perfection, a state which does not
require the costly sacrifice of a mediator, or that
rich display of infinite mercy and love which the
Father has bestowed in the blessings of salvation.
This error is to be avoided by addressing religious
instruction to the heart, rather than to the intel-
lect ;
and by shewing that it is a master principle,
which must actuate the life, and govern the con-
duct, the thoughts, the passions, and affections.
If the child be early taught to look for the influ-
ence of real religion, in holiness of life and con-
duct, in devotedness of the heart to God, and in
the abandonment of temporal comforts and ad-
vantages, when they come in competition with
the kingdom of Christ, and the honour of his
name ;
if it be taught that the evidence and fruit
of religious instruction is to be sought in walking
uprightly, and working righteousness, and speak-
ing the truth in the heart; in most scrupulously
abstaining from thinking evil of, or doing inj ustice
to its neighbour, or readily believing a calumny
against him, or easily taking offence at his con-
duct ;
in hatred of the wicked for their wicked-
ness, but in the deepest compassion for their
582 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
wretched state of alienation from God ;
and in
the esteem of those who fear the Lord, in so far
as they do fear, and love, and serve Him, and
bear his image ;
in immovably adhering to a con-
viction of right, although this may be sustained
with great personal loss and inconvenience; in
abstaining from covetousness, hasting to be rich,
and every unjust mode of aggrandizement ;
and
in delighting to support and uphold the character
of the innocent, and the feeble, and the unpro-
tected ;
and that " he that doeth these things"
shall never be moved ;
if it be taught to look
beyond an outward attendance upon the duties
of religion, and to feel that this is only acceptable
to God, in so far as the heart is actively engaged
in his service, and as the influence of these means
of grace are exhibited in an exemplary conduct
and conversation : if it be taught these things, it
will be saved from the error of placing its confi-
dence in a religious education ;
in the merely ex-
ternal profession of piety ;
in the performance of
that, which without the heart can only be the
drudgery of an exterior attention to the forms of
religion, without any of its intrinsic or solid plea-
sures, since these exclusively arise from its en-
nobling influence upon the mind, and from
placing this in communion with the God of its
life.
V. The necessity for continual progress will not
be forgotten ;
a principle which may be exem-
plified in all the works of nature with which we
are acquainted. From the period of the first
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 583
development of vitality, to its hour of maturity
and perfection, there is in all things perpetual
growth. So also must be the advance of the
Christian, whose light shineth brighter and
brighter unto the perfect day : the only difference
consists in this, that whereas the productions of
nature are perfected, and then decay, the Chris-
tian's progress is continuous, is never subjected
to interruption, and when it has reached its state
of maturity here, it is not arrested, but ex-
changed for the perfection of a world of spirits.
He must never rest satisfied with any present
attainments, assured that these are short of what
he may acquire ; feeling at every stage of his pro-
gress, an increased and increasing necessity for
watchfulness and diligence, in order that he may
escape from frailties and imperfections, of which
before he scarcely even suspected the existence ;
and well knowing that every step in advance, is
an augmentation of power for future progress, he
must be ever pressing forward towards the mark
of the prize of his high calling in Christ Jesus.
Much will depend on the mode of communi-
cating religious instruction. If it shall have been
taught in a dry, repulsive, and superficial man-
ner ;
if the reason and the judgment shall have
alone been exercised upon truths which require
also the assent of the heart, a distaste will have
been produced for the paths of peace and truth ;
and that religion, which is capable of affording
the sublimest pleasure, will have become bur-
densome in action ;
its duties and its privileges,
584 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION".
since these are intimately combined, and insepa-
rably connected, will be equally disliked, and a
resolution will be silently formed, to experience
as little as possible of their influence ;
the child
will long for the termination of its engagements,
and will hate, instead of admiring and loving the
beauty of holiness. But if on the contrary, the
affections shall have been engaged in the service
of piety ;
if the heart shall have been interested
in, and shall have derived pleasure from, its duties
and appointments, then will such pleasure be en-
hanced by continuing to study this knowledge,
embracing it as a practical principle, and regu-
lating the conduct by its dictates. The effect of
these varying modes of education, will be felt in
after life, though in a somewhat different way. A
supinecontentedness in present possessions maybe
traced to its agency ;
a want of activity, and life,
and energy in the pursuit of holiness, may here
frequently find its origin. Hence the importance
of engaging the heart in the performance of duty ;
and of teaching the child to perfect his love to
God in the increasing knowledge of Him ;
and of
enforcing the necessity that the bounds of our
acquisitions should be enlarged, our prejudices
be subdued, our hands be strengthened to do
good, the influence of remaining corruption be
constantly and vigilantly opposed ;
that amiable
dispositions be cultivated, and their opposite vices
be carefully eradicated ; that right principles be
confirmed ;
that our usefulness be extended ;
and
that our sources of pleasure be multiplied and
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 585
augmented by living to the glory of God. Then
will the real tendencies of the character be con-
spicuously shewn ;
then will it not be difficult to
say, to which of the two grand divisions of man-
kind it
essentially belongs ;
then will it become a
burning and a shining light to those around ;
not
placed under a bushel, but on a candlestick, that
all who come in may see that light, and discern
by it the way of everlasting truth.
VI. In the conduct of religious education, the
Christian parent will not overlook the faculty of
the imagination, that busy, ever-active power,
which if suffered to lead the mind, would be con-
tinually carrying it into perpetual peril, but which,
when subdued, governed, and influenced by reli-
gious principle, is capable of adding to the use-
fulness and happiness of man. For although in
matters of religion, it has too frequently been
productive of error, and has proved the fruitful
parent of idolatry, superstition, many a varied
form of scepticism, and many an unjust or inju-
rious view of the relation of the Supreme Being
to his creatures :
although almost all the errors
in doctrine may be traced to the wildness of un-
governed fancy, refusing to be guided by the sim-
ple, obvious meaning of the word of God, and
choosing rather to define for itself views and prin-
ciples, which are the offspring of its own way-
wardness :
although every false religion must be
based upon this crumbling foundation :
although
it
may have selected the cloister for its favourite
residence, and may have been nurtured in the
586 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
gloomy bosom of the ascetic :
although it
may
have found its cherished abode in the imposing
rites of Roman Catholicism ;
and lingered long
in the hearts of those, who though opposed to the
political influence of popery, have not been them-
selves free from its spirit of formality, and its
quiet confidence in ceremonies and professions :
and although it may have occasionally betrayed
the good and the humble, though the weak, into
some of the wildnesses of enthusiastic fervour :
yet the consideration of its power to lead into
error, will shew that if
justly regulated and duly
employed, it is also capable of furnishing the
mind with more exalted views of an almighty
Parent ;
with deepening convictions of our own
sinfulness ;
more extended conceptions of the
love and mercy of our Saviour Christ; firmer
hopes in the salvation he has accomplished for
us ;
more ardent desires after conformity to his
image ; enlarged anticipations of the blessedness
of heaven ;
and more passionate aspirations after
that freedom from sin and temptation, that per-
fect love, and delight, and holiness, which cha-
racterize its inhabitants. These are the invisible
realities of that unseen world, which can alone be
present to the eye of faith : and the principle of
faith, so far as it is
depending for its manifestation
upon intellectual agency, must mainly rely upon
this faculty for its exercise ;
for however it
may
be the gift of God, yet its active exertions, when
implanted in the heart, must derive their present
and embodied energy, from the intellectual faculty,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 587
which is peculiarly adapted to shadow forth its
spiritual strivings after immortality, and to give
intensity of feeling to the Christian hope, as well
as energy of desire to virtuous action.
While the imagination serves to expand the
mind, and to render it more alive to benevolent
feeling and action, it will also contribute to en-
large that fear of the Lord, which is the begin-
ning of wisdom ;
to multiply occasions for the
exercise of love towards him, and lead his feeble
creatures to realize more completely the idea of
his ever watchful care over them, of his constant
presence with them; and will fill their minds
with awe and reverence, as derived from a view
of His omnipotent power and boundless love.
The sacred writers, above all, the evangelical
prophet, and our blessed Lord himself, call in the aid
of this faculty, to give energy to the subject imme-
diately before them ;
to cherish the fervour of devo-
tional feeling ;
to elevate the mind in the contem-
plation of the sublime truths of revelation, to the
glowing prospects of the extension of the Redeem-
er's kingdom, when the desert shall blossom as the
rose, and the fruitful field shall become a forest ;
and to the glorious realities of that invisible world,
where the sun shall no more go down, where the
Lord shall be our everlasting light, and where the
days of our mourning shall be ended. Where
then such powers have been given to the imagi-
nation ;
where they so readily admit of perversion ;
but where guided by piety, and chastened by
solid judgment, they may render this faculty
588 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
a source of pleasure to ourselves, of ornament to
religion, and. of usefulness to others, and to the
cause of Christ in the world, the parent will not
be unmindful of its influence ; but she will be cau-
tious to conduct its agency into the right channel ;
to correct its wanderings by the sobriety of rea-
son, and the modesty and simplicity of divine
truth ;
and to preserve it alike from the narrow-
ness of bigotry and superstition, as from the
boundlessness of unhallowed conjecture, unde-
fined contemplation, and the unrestricted enthu-
siasm of merely animal passion. It is an engine
of extensive power, and of fearful interest and
importance ;
and its
application will require
great caution and deliberation ;
but for that very
reason, it is the more sedulously to be employed,,
for if not engaged in the service of truth, it will
be enlisted by the great enemy on the side of
error: since it is an unerring principle, that indo-
lence and inaction of any one faculty, throw it
into the power of the enemy, and render it a
rallying point of falsehood, from which the influ-
ence of corruption may be irradiated at his
pleasure.
VII. Again, it is
necessary to be cautious, lest
that attention to the duties and ordinances of reli-
gion, which is
constantly inculcated, should itself
be rested in ;
lest the mind should be satisfied
with certain observances ;
lest it should be prin-
cipally fixed on the recurrence of these privileges ;
and lest therefore religion should come to wear
the appearance of being something occasional, not
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION, 589
uniform in its consequences, and in its influence ;
but operating on the mind only at particular sea-
sons, and under peculiar circumstances. Yet
" to be good, and to do good," is the principal
business of life ; equally active in every variety
of situation, and constantly operative upon the
conduct in its minutest ramifications, and in its
most hidden motives and principles. It does not
commence and terminate with a certain round of
duties, but is universally and unceasingly opera-
tive, transforming the character into the likeness
of the Saviour. It is not to influence the con-
duct on particular and stated occasions ;
or to
occupy the attention during one day of the week
only ;
but it is a living principle of action to
govern the mind, and to be carried throughout
every hour of every day. It does not consist in
an attendance on the temple of God :
" Who
hath required this of your hands, to tread my
courts, saith the Lord ? bring no more vain obla-
tion, &c. ;" nor in any single branch of duty :
it is not a detached thing, which can be practised
separately, and possess its distinct periods and
modes of operation : but it is transfused through
the spirit, and temper, and conduct, and is an
ever-living watchful principle, discernible at every
point of contact of man with his fellow man, and
pervading every action. It does not consist in
the performance of any single act, or in any num-
ber of individual manifestations, constituting a
series, or group of actions : there must Jirst, be
a sacrifice of the heart, and in consequence of
590 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
this, all the common dirties of life will become
acts of religion, by the new and abiding principle
on which they are performed, and the spirit by
which they are characterized. Christianity pro-
duces practical piety, diffused throughout the
whole mental system, animating every senti-
ment, and invigorating every action. It is not to
be practised to-day, and laid aside to-morrow ;
it is not to be listened to in retirement, and aban-
doned in the world ;
it is not to be honoured in
society, and disregarded at home ;
it is not to be
sometimes assumed, and at others negligently
thrown aside and forgotten ;
but it is to be an in-
dwelling principle, an inwrought habit, a per-
vading spirit, from which every act derives its
life, and energy, and beauty.
VIII. Once more, it is important to impress
upon the young mind, clear and distinct views of
the discriminating difference between practical
piety, and that species of morality which passes
current among people of the world, and all those
who are truly regardless of the religion of the
heart. Good qualities cannot be genuine, or pos-
sess a sterling value, unless they flow from the
agency of good motives ; and again, unless these
spring from the influence of the Christian religion.
Many of these actions may at first sight wear a
similar appearance, and the young mind may be
taken up by the attraction of that which is shi-
ning and ostentatious, but which wants the in-
trinsic value and purity which proceeds from love
to God, and his creatures. Let it then be early
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 591
impressed with this important conclusion ;
that it
is the motive from which action springs, rather
than the apparent form with which it is endued,
that alone characterizes the conduct.
IX. Lastly, it should not be concealed, but
on the contrary, it should be conspicuously
shewn, that there are difficulties in the Christian's
life. While the superior consolations of religion
are displayed ;
and while the sum of happiness
which is "the consequence of its influence upon
the heart is exhibited, it is not right that its dif-
ficulties and trials should be extenuated or con-
cealed. The opposition which must be encoun-
tered from the world, and its snares, and
temptations, should be explained, or the mind
will not be prepared to resist and oppose them,
while it will be deceived with regard to the
nature of that worship of God, whose ways,
though ways of pleasantness, and whose paths
though peaceful and perfectly free, are not ex-
empted from the common calamities incident to
man, or from the peculiar trials of the Christian.
His is a life of self-denial ;
its rewards are not
promised during the present stage of his ex-
istence, but in that which is to come. While,
therefore, he lives upon the hope of futurity, pre-
sent happiness and earthly peace may be super-
seded; but the comforts of religion are of a
higher order, and remain indestructible, un-
changed by circumstances, unattainted by the
hand of time, but ever augmented by increasing
purity of mind, and byct, nearer approach to that
592 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
happy period, when the anticipations of faith
shall be exchanged for the realities of fruition.
There are indeed, even now, the beauty of holi-
ness, and the happiness arising from its influence ;
but this will only be derived from a steady and
uniform pursuit of truth practically, and that in
opposition to all the incursions of evil. The
world, and the temptations connected with a
residence within its pale are continually at vari-
ance with the prosperity of religion ;
and if,
amidst these scenes, the Christian should slumber
at his ease, he will inevitably be surprised and led
into error : if in the blindness of self-confidence,
he should assert, and believe with Peter, that he
is ready to die with his Saviour, he will like him,
cease to watch, and will very soon be tempted to
deny his master, to forget his cause, and break
his commandments. Although a life of happi-
ness, it is not one of ease or indolence ;
its
plea-
sures are derived from constant pursuit, the pur-
suit of holiness and virtue ;
and the essential
distinction between the two should be repeatedly
and strongly impressed upon the young mind :
" Woe to those who are at ease in Zion, who call
good evil, and evil good." The Christian and the
man of the world are alike exposed to the com-
mon calamities of life, and equally share its
common mercies : he maketh his sun to shine
upon the just and upon the unjust ;
he provideth
food and raiment for all ;
his providential bless-
ings are equally distributed ;
he preserveth the
life, and surroundeth the path of both with dis-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 593
tinguished mercy ;
both too are equally exposed
to the painful vicissitudes of external circum-
stances ;
to losses and privations ;
to the separation
of friends ;
the distribution of families ;
the
inroads of misfortune ;
the attacks of disease ;
and even to death itself. But in addition to these
common sources of disquietude, are the exertions,
activity, anxieties, and care, implied in the duty
of opposition to the maxims of short-sighted
policy, and worldly expediency, and in a con-
stant warfare with sin. If this caution should not
be given, and the young should enter upon life
with the expectation of unvarying happiness in the
paths of religion, where so many causes for soli-
citude really exist, they may be thrown off their
guard against the influence of temptation, and
may be induced to doubt the reality of that
peace which passeth all understanding ;
a peace
which can only result, however, from a steady
performance of active duty, and uniform opposi-
tion to evil principles and propensities. It is
necessary to exhibit the sacrifices and painful
watchfulness required by religion, as well as its
pleasures,which are riot, or at least, ought not to be
those of speculation, but of active exertion, un-
compromising duty, and energetic enterprize.
It is a life of continual warfare, and in order to
its being successfully conducted, and perse
veringly carried on, the Christian must be ac-
quainted with the extent, the power, the subtilty,
the influence, the plan of operations, and mode
of attack of his enemies ;
and that he be also
VOL. I. Q Q,
594 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
furnished with the weapons of the gospel. Ig-
norance of these things is to him a source of per-
petual danger ;
and nothing will more certainly
contribute to his defeat than a light and imperfect,
or erroneous estimate of the difficulties with which
he is surrounded . It is the part of wisdom and
the path of safety, first of all to become acquainted
with the nature of the country through which he
has to pass, and with the opportunities it may
afford to the wicked and the hostile to surprise
him ;
and he will then learn to avoid even those
magic skirts of evil, on which he might otherwise
be induced to linger, to imitate the example of
our first parents, to be tempted by the beauty of
its fruits, and finally to devour its poisonous pro-
ductions.. But this will not do ;
the Christian
may not loiter, he must continue his unwearied
progress, and he must constantly maintain his
opposition to iniquity, till he shall join the mul-
titude of those which came " out of great tribu-
lation, and have washed their robes and made them
white in the blood of the Lamb." The Christian has
no continuing city here, and his happiness will re-
sult from seeking another and a better inheritance ;
a city which hath foundations, whose builder and
maker is God ;
where sorrow and sighing shall flee
away ;
where the accents of trouble shall be no
more heard ;
where the language of prayer shall
be exchanged for the halleluias of praise ;
where
the tear of the mourner shall be for ever wiped
away ;
where there shall be no longer any victim
of disease or pain ; where, after the short night
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 595
of dissolution the sincere believer shall be raised
up in the image of his Redeemer ;
and clad in
his finished righteousness shall appear without
spot, and enter into that rest, which is
prepared
for those who love, and fear, and serve him ;
where " He that sitteth on the throne shall dwell
among them;" "where they shall hunger no
more, neither thirst any more, neither shall the
sun light on them, nor any heat ;
for the Lamb,
which is in the midst of the throne shall feed
them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of
waters ;
and God shall wipe away all tears from
their eyes."
An important inference from all these circum-
stances, is, that the good are not rewarded, and
are not to look for recompense in this life ;
their
conduct must be governed by higher and purer
motives here ; but they shall be recompensed at
the resurrection of the just, and shall reap
abundant peace, when they enter into the joy of
their Lord ;
therefore they should so live, as
never to lose sight of their heavenly inheritance,
but be earnestly striving to work out their sal-
vation with fear and trembling ! Unless these
views be distinctly and characteristically marked
during the course of education, the child may
attempt to accommodate itself to the life of the
world, and vainly endeavour to reconcile that
difference, which infinite wisdom has pronounced
irreconcileable. To preserve the esteem of those
who are careless about religion, and to maintain
the character of a disciple of Christ, is a very
596 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
common temptation ;
but there is nothing more
impossible ;
for the great business of the Chris-
tian, is to love and serve God, obey his com-
mandments, and imitate the example of the Sa-
viour ;
while as respects the world, God is not
in all their thoughts ;
self is their idol, and to it
the adoration of their worship is constantly paid.
This deceitful hope, is, however, the fruitful
source of inconsistency, and often blasts the
energy and ardour of the character.
A substitute for real religion is also fre-
quently found in the activity of benevolent offices.
The present is the peculiar epoch for charitable
exertion ;
but although a spirit of genuine Chris-
tianity will not exist in the heart, without
prompting the relief of the temporal and spi-
ritual wants of those around us ; yet this charity
is not to be mistaken for religion itself, and so
placed in the room of that principle from which
alone it ought to spring. This subject will yet be
noticed at a subsequent page.
X. It is a melancholy fact, but it is not the
less true, that there are those who set out in the
spring-tide of life with the most promising ap-
pearances ;
their youth is. graced by intellectual
energy, and by the prospect of continued ac-
quisition ; they are preserved from the contact of
evil ; they reap all the advantages of Christian
education ;
the seeds of good principle are care-
fully sown ;
the tender plants of virtuous action
are nurtured into health, and strength, and es-
tablished by habitual progress ; they blossom
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 597
fruitfully, and bid fair to be abundant in their
produce ; they put forth leaves and branches, and
appear to be strong and vigorous ;
but it is only
in the sunshine of prosperity ; and since, most
happily for man, his days of joy are few, the
stability of these early hopes is soon tried ;
his
path, like the days of our changeful spring, is
checquered with many a wintry blast ;
the dark
and cold night of affliction ensues, and when the
sun again rises, it no longer shines upon him in
his progress towards maturity ;
his blossoms
have been swept away by the chilling air, and
the precocity and instability of his former ex-
ertions, are now only more strongly marked by
the contrast arising from the withered, drooping,
falling leaves, till the evidences of vitality have
been lost. Still, however, if minutely examined,
the sap may yet be found languidly circulating ;
a principle has been implanted which cannot be
destroyed ;
but its power is so far impaired, that
there is no longer sufficient strength to exhibit
the traces of life, as evidenced by action. Let
then the difficulties of Christianity be fairly
stated, that the mind may not shrink, when they
are discovered as from an unequal and unexpected
contest. The triumph of faith is only to be ob-
tained by a life of holiness ; the victory will be
given
" to him that overcometh," and perseveres
unto the end ;
and the reward, a crown of glory,
will devolve on such victor. Upon the principles
of faith in Christ, and holiness and purity as its
fruit and evidence, the Christian will obtain his
598 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
object : no change of circumstances can defeat
his hopes ;
for his Redeemer is faithful to his
promises, and ever liveth and reigneth, and
maketh intercession for his people. In His
strength, no trials can be too great ;
for the hope
and confidence of the tried are placed on Him
who subdues all enemies under his feet who
goeth forth conquering, and to conquer.
XI. There is, however, one other principle
which should be clearly understood, and syste-
matically enforced upon the young a principle
which we shall yet have occasion to notice, when
treating on the passions, but which, to have en-
tirely omitted in this place, would have rendered
the section incomplete. The Christian's is not
only a life of continued struggling with evil, a
perpetual warfare with iniquity, but it is also a
life of privation :
present ease, present good, and
present gratification are systematically sacrificed
to future prospects of eternal peace, unceasing
joy, and unfading happiness.
"
Deny thyself,"
is the command of one who was infinitely wise
and good, and in whom humility and obedience
shone most conspicuously. This life of Christian
self-denial and self-devotion is to be prepared for
in education, by teaching the child habitually to
practise little acts of self-denial, and the aban-
donment of inclination, and the subjugation of
desire, and the preference of principle in many of
the common circumstances of life. This is ne-
cessary to its present temporal happiness, and to
secure the early exercise of the principle on nu-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 599
inerous occasions in the busy scenes of life : but
the Christian mother looks farther, and antici-
pates from this preparation that her offspring will
more readily deny itself, on the principles of un-
erring rectitude, those pleasures and gratifications
which are not conducive to its immortal welfare,
and to the honour of God ;
and hopes that it will
more readily take up the cross, account its bur-
den light, and form a more exemplary and faith-
ful character. The principles and motives, and
practice of self-denial will be enforced by argu-
ments drawn from revelation, from reason, and
from her own example a most powerful, if not
the most powerful instrument of carrying convic-
tion to the heart. She will also explain the ne-
cessity for abandoning many of the pleasures ac-
counted lawful by the world ;
and the duty of the
continual mortification of sin, and of the corrupt
passions, inclinations, and desires. There is,
however, a danger of trusting to these effects, not
so much as the procuring cause of salvation (for
this error can scarcely exist in the well- instructed
child of the Christian parent) as the evidence of
having been renewed by divine grace, and of the
heart being under its influence. This is
by no
means an impossible or even an improbable con-
sequence, where a religious education has been
communicated, and a theoretical knowledge of
truth has been acquired. Add to this, that the
child has been actively, practically, and habitually
taught to deny itself in the common circumstances
of life, as well as instructed into the necessity
600 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
for Christian self-denial : let this principle be
continued by habit ;
let it be rendered easy by
custom ;
let it be extended, as it
may without
difficulty, to some of the pleasures and gratifica-
tions of the world, which are obviously unlawful,
and it will be readily foreseen how easily the
mind may rest contented and secure in a religious
education ;
how easily these acts of self-denial
may be relied upon as the evidence of being in a
safe state ;
and how necessary it is, therefore, to
obviate their influence, when communicating reli-
gious instruction. The act must be separated
from the principle ;
and it must be shewn, that
there is
nothing personally meritorious in the
possession of the one, or in the exertion of the
other; nothing from which any solid inference
may be drawn ;
since philosophy, or indifference,
or some other absorbing pursuit, or a natural re-
pugnance to such particular pleasures, or acquired
and habitual disinclination towards them, may
be so combined with our nature, as to induce us
apparently to deny ourselves that enjoyment, the
sacrifice of which really costs us nothing. It is
not, however, the mere act of self-denial to which
as such any. peculiar value can be attached; but
it is the disposition of the heart to watch against
the influence of evil, which the parent will be
most anxious to cultivate. It is not her design
to produce the simple exertion of the principle on
any given occasion, or in any series of similar
occasions : but it is the subdued desire, the re-
sisted temptation, the conquered corruption, and
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 601
the obedient will, with a humble and contrite
spirit,
which are of great price. It is not a single
act, but the disposition which produces it ;
it is
not an isolated view, but the general spirit, and
temper, and conduct of the heart, the affections,
and the thoughts. Even here, however, there is
room for the operation of a self-righteous prin-
ciple, that subtile essence, which, like the air we
breathe, permeates all bodies ;
which we in vain
endeavour to exclude ;
which will find access to
the natural mind ;
and which none but the Spirit
of God can enable us to supersede, by exchanging
it for a new heart and a right spirit, a spirit of
humble dependence upon Christ. Such, however,
are the Protean forms of self-righteousness ;
and
so easily does it find materials for its support,
that it will indulge a secret gratulation, and build
up the fabric of self-confidence, even from the
effort to deny itself, and from the influence of
this motive upon the spirit and temper, the
thoughts, the actions, and the passions. But
this will not do ; sincerity, and intensity of desire
to resemble Christ, must be the fountain of self-
denial, and must give its character to the waters
which spring from it, and are intended to fertilize
the soil over which they are distributed : it is the
purity of the motive only which can give life and
energy, and worth and beauty to the least action ;
wanting this, every act is as nothing ;
it is worse
than nothing ;
it is pernicious in its consequences,
both immediate and remote ;
it is the body dis-
possessed of the soul ;
it consists of organs and
602 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
their functions ;
its physical faculties may be
automatically stimulated by peculiar agents ;
but
the presiding power to direct such actions is gone ;
volition is at an end ;
exertion is lifeless with-
out motive, without design, without end. Divine
grace alone can renew the heart ;
and the most
splendid talents, exerted in the most virtuous and
beneficial manner, if
they want the influence of
this purifying principle, however they may claim
the attention of auditors, or throw their charm
upon partial listening friends ;
or excite the es-
teem, the admiration, and the envy of compeers
and competitors, are yet insignificant and unim-
portant in the eyes of Him who seeth the recesses
of the mind ;
who searcheth the heart, and trieth
the reins, and from whose presence we cannot
escape if we would, and the Christian would not,
if he could.
603
CHAP. VII.
THE SAME SUBJECT CONTINUED SOME ERRORS IN
RELIGION TO BE AVOIDED EMPLOYMENT OF CATE-
CHETICAL INSTRUCTION.
THERE are some material errors of miscalled
religion, to which this prominent Christian in-
struction may have a tendency, unless the bias
be anticipated, and counteracted ;
for since it is
not to be expected that the Spirit of God will
invariably render education the means of convert-
ing the heart, so may its effect be occasionally to
produce mistakes of the first consequence ;
as
for instance, the religion of education itself may
be substituted for genuine, principled, practical
piety. An adherence to the received dogmas of
a particular sect ;
a blind attachment to the
forms of that church which possesses their earliest
associations ;
a bigotted devotion to her ceremo-
nies ;
a regular attendance upon her ordinances ;
a constant desire to propagate her creeds, and an
ever active wish to bring others within the pale
of her external ecclesiastical polity ;
a superci-
lious contempt of those who think differently from
themselves, and an uncharitable disregard of views
and circumstances and feelings which have pro-
duced a difference of spirit; a proud preference
604 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
of their own determinations, their own superior
knowledge or advantages, and a trifling estimation
of the prejudices of others ;
the desire of spiritual
domination, the love of power and influence, and
the wish that their own party may prevail ;
these
are opinions and motives which exist equally
among the advocates of party, whether they may
be found marshalled under the imposing array of
episcopacy, in the less splendid but not more
humble ranks of sectarianism, or even in the
hyper-simplicity and affected abnegation of pro-
selytism of
" the friends :" and these outward
circumstances and attachments are too often sub-
stituted for the religion of the heart ;
while the
mind is insensibly led into prejudices of this na-
ture, by its earliest associations, and by the very
natural predilection for that which is our own, or
has been our father's and our friends, or has been
consecrated by time, and mellowed by age, and
handed down from remote antiquity, and lived in
the affections of our progenitors, and has been a
great engine of good for centuries, and has pre-
served vital religion within the bosom of her for-
mularies, and even in her darkest hours has pos-
sessed the power of resuscitation ; and has lived
and flourished, and is destined still to live and
flourish, and to extend far and wide the know-
ledge of the Redeemer's kingdom ;
and which,
with all her faults, (and what human institution
is devoid of blemishes,) is still a spiritual church,
against which the gates of hell shall not prevail.
Attachment to her sacred institutions is a prin-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 605
ciple to be cultivated ;
but it is not to be mis-
taken for, or placed in the room of heartfelt devo-
tion to those principles of sound doctrine, which
alone can give worth to that temporal building
which has been raised for their protection.
Another grievous mistake on this important
subject, is when a profession of religion is substi-
tuted for the pure and holy influence of the prin-
ciple ;
when the heart is untouched, and the
conduct uninfluenced by its precepts ;
when the
great aim appears to be to secure the applause
of man rather than the favour of God, and the
testimony of a good conscience ;
when every work
of piety and labour of love is done for to be seen
of men ;
where there is an ostentatious display of
charitable feeling, or liberal donation, or bene-
volent purpose, or catholic toleration ;
or an at-
tendance on the house of prayer, or on the great
festivals of religion ;
or a controversial defence of
its truths, or a contribution towards its external
prosperity, or a certain separation from the world
and its
pleasures, under particular circumstances ;
or a frequent habit of talking about religion, or
courting the notice and society of those who seem
to be pillars in the temple of God ;
or assuming
the manners of the people of God, and seeming
to be filled with devotedness to his service, al-
though the heart is far from him ;
and subjugated
by all the secularities of worldly prosperity, and
all the formalities of an uncongenial servitude ;
and all the obliquities of passion, prejudice, and
even interest, forced into unwilling submission to
606 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
a principle whose influence is unfelt, and whose
authority is unacknowledged. But what says the
Scripture of such? "they have their reward;"
awful words ! their reward now the praise of
men for a moment to be presently exchanged
for the wrath ,of God, which endureth for ever;
where the despair occasioned by the destitution
of hope will be heightened by the fearful recollec-
tion that far other blessings were once within
their reach, and were deliberately thrown away
for a few, and a very few vibrations of that at-
mosphere which bloweth where it listeth, but of
which we cannot even tell whence it cometh, or
whither it
goeth.
But again, the character of the humble, con-
sistent, active Christian is
frequently exchanged
for that of the zealot. Zeal, even when exerted
in defence and for the furtherance of Christianity,
is not Christianity itself; and however it may
serve to amuse and occupy the mind, and to call
it off from serious, devoted attention to the in-
fluence of religious principle upon the individual
himself, will be certain of abandoning him in the
hour of sorrow, or when the physical powers of
the body are unequal to the longer continuance
of that stirring activity which is essential to its
existence ;
or when sickness has interfered with
our usual pursuits ;
or worse than all, when the
near approach of death removes from our eyes
the veil which we have willingly drawn over
them, and shews that the hope of the hypocrite
is as the dream of the hungry and the thirsty,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. G07
delightful for its moment of ecstacy, but serving
only to heighten the subsequent waking convic-
tion of the starving and the famishing. It is well
to be zealously affected in a good cause : true
and genuine zeal cannot be too steadily and uni-
formly cultivated ;
but this principle loves retire-
ment ;
it courts not publicity, and is rather un-
willingly dragged into notice, when it does not
shrink from bearing its testimony before men. A
parade of piety ;
a manifesto of its feelings, and
of its great interest in the cause of Christ, is the
farthest possible from any resemblance to genuine
zeal, which does not proclaim before it,
" Come
and see my zeal for the Lord," but which secretly
hopes and seeks to extend the knowledge of the
Redeemer to earth's remotest bound ;
and above
all, to imitate his sacred character, and emulate
those holy saints and martyrs, and good men,
who being dead yet speak, and have left behind
them a shining track, that we may follow their
footsteps. The genuine principle will be remark-
able for embracing the whole of religion; for a
desire to circulate the Bible, not for the defence
or furtherance of its own views, or of the views
of its
party, or of the articles of its church, but
as the word of God ; while the factitious or coun-
terfeit zeal will engage in the same duty, with a
view of extending its own peculiar influence, or
of propagating the tenets it has embraced. True
zeal, in the spirit of the Bible, will be only
anxious to be led by the Spirit of God into the
way of all truth ; while that of the hypocrite will
608 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
be expended upon some favourite doctrine, the
reception or rejection of which will be constituted
its test of Christianity ;
and all those who think
differently of its importance, will be left to the
uncoven anted mercies of God. Forgetful of the
holy tendency of every truth divinely revealed,
its spirit, and temper, and conduct will be inimi-
cal to that sacred influence, for which a fervid
and exclusive devotion to some favourite point, or
some disputed position, or some uninfluential
dogma will be substituted ; and thus, at the very
best, the mere outskirts of Christianity, and per-
haps only some human addition to its truths, will
be placed in the room of piety to God, and good
will towards man.
Farther, a censorious disposition is often sub-
stituted for the love of God, and holiness, and of
his creatures ;
not indeed under its proper appel-
lation, but under the spurious garb of lamentation
over the corruption of human nature, and depre-
cation of the failings and infirmities even of those
who are real Christians, and compassion for the
state of those who are living without God in the
world, and pity for those who have fallen into
temptation, and self-gratulation at having with-
stood its allurements, and at maintaining before
men, that character which enables the proud,
conceited heart, to rank among the people of God.
A keen and watchful eye over the wanderings of
others, not with the view of preventing or restor-
ing them, but for the purpose of ministering to
our own self-indulgence, by shewing how much
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 609
we are better than they ;
an unbending and per-
tinacious severity in the judgment we form of the
conduct of others, with considerable latitude as
to our own principles and actions, and very little
examination of the motives by which we are ac-
tuated ;
a rigid scrutiny of the words, and even
of the supposed thoughts and feelings of our
neighbours, and a general laxity and carelessness
of our own, with the entire absence of personal
watchfulness : these are the characteristics which
mark the influence of that fearful mistake, which
induces man to substitute a prying inquiry into
the actions of others, in the room of that religion
which teaches the humble and sincere Christian
to examine himself; to take heed to his steps ;
to
be compassionate towards the faults of his neigh-
bours ;
to pray for them rather than to dwell on
their inconsistencies ;
to be charitable to his fel-
low men, but uncompromising in the detection of
evil in himself; to lay aside all self-dependence,
and to live the life of religion in the heart, by
humble confidence in the Saviour and the friend
of sinners.
Another error on this all-important subject, is
when too high a degree of consequence is at-
tached to the peculiar form in which Christianity
is embodied ;
or when the mind is
subjected to
perpetual vacillation in its
opinions, and thus is
ever floating on the tide of that most changeful
element, thought, or finally settles down into a
state of lukewarmness and indifference, that
dead calm, that fearful absence of all expression
VOL. I. 11 R
610 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
of vitality, that stillness of desolation, that des-
titution of action, which impresses with fear, the
heart of him who is alive to this awful quiescence,
and terrifies him with all the painful phenomena
of dissolution, without any of its accompanying
hopes and delightful prospects ! There can be
no question, that true and genuine piety admits
of being invested with a very varying exterior, as
well as that the same man admits of a very dif-
ferent appearance from the garb in which he may
be dressed, without in any degree changing his
real nature. The misfortune is, that where this
external transformation has been effected by any
individual possessing sufficient influence to give
it
currency, and to render it fashionable ;
the
mode is adopted by others, who destitute of the
simple piety in which it originated, assume only
the form, contend earnestly and vehemently for
its peculiarities, constitute them at once the very
life-blood of Christianity, anathematize those who
differ from them, and altogether lose sight of the
pursuit of piety, in the angry contentions to
which their uncharitableness has given rise. So
extensive is this agency over the mind, and so
frequently is it substituted for the living influence
of the Bible, that we shall sometimes find persons
changing their views, never arriving at any set-
tled opinions, but ranging themselves at different
periods of their life, under the banner of some
new or more attractive leader, as if the principle
of Christianity could allow of change, as if the
foundations of truth were not immutable, or their
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 611
Author omniscient. All this however arises from
undervaluing the revealed will of heaven, and
affixing too high an estimate to the versatility of
human invention : and too frequently, after vi-
brating backward and forward, under the influ-
ence of this capricious predilection, the mind
settles down into that lukewarmness of spirit,
which consists in occasional activity in defence of
the exterior of Christianity, with long periods of
absolute quiescence, and an entire carelessness as
to the practical influence of its truths ;
a state in
which there is too much knowledge to admit of
a wilful decision in favour of the world, too little
love for Christ to induce the reception of his self-
denying doctrines ;
a state in which the individual
is neither cold nor hot, but in which the continu-
ance of his indifference will assuredly terminate
in the rejection of truth, in the increasing influ-
ence of those pursuits which alienate from God
and holiness, and which divert others, by exam-
ple, from the paths of rectitude ;
a state in which
there may be the semblance of piety, but no real
earnestness about its concerns; and finally, a state
which has been most strongly marked as offensive
to the majesty of heaven ;
and which therefore
demands the most serious care, and awakening
attention to escape from, aye, even to avoid the
possibility of its approach.
But again, the path of simple truth has been
forsaken, when religion is made to bend to the
views, and feelings, and interests of the day ;
R R2
612 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
when it
possesses no peculiar and distinctive
traits, but exhibits every changeful hue, accord-
ing to the peculiar temper of the individual,
according to the society in which he may be
thrown, according to the prevailing fashion of the
hour, and to its association with his own relative
connexions, or temporal prospects or advantages.
There is here no stable principle to govern the
conduct, which is accommodated, to every change
of feeling, and every variety of incident or situ-
ation. With such individuals, religion is a prin-
ciple, which may be taken up to-day, and laid
aside to-morrow ;
its profession will consist with
a love of the world, and an adherence to its max-
ims, and an enjoyment of its pleasures, and the
countenance of its follies, and the participation of
its vices. It will consist with an habitual breach
of the law of God ;
with a carelessness and indif-
ference to the duties of the sabbath ;
with the
irreverent use of the name of the most High ;
with a failure in the relative duties ;
with the
absence of charity ;
with the indulgence of pride,
covetousness, anger, malice, and other hateful
passions. It will consist with neglected oppor-
tunities of bearing testimony to the truth of Chris-
tianity, when it
may interfere with our present
interests ;
and lending our sanction to many an
unholy feeling, or principle, or act, because we
are not sufficiently imbued with the majesty of
unbending truth to sacrifice every thing to its
commands. It will consist with an entire world-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 613
liness of disposition, with the absence of every
distinctive resemblance to the great pattern pro-
posed for our imitation ;
and with real indif-
ference as to the fulfilment of those imperative
duties, for the advancement of piety, which man
is called upon to perform. And yet with all this,
there is an acknowledgment, if not a conviction, of
the truth of Christianity, and of its aptitude to the
necessities of fallen man ;
there is in certain soci-
eties, the expression of this truth, the profession
of a belief in divine revelation as the only founda-
tion of solid peace and happiness ;
there is an
officious display of religious feeling, a bustling
activity in communicating this feeling to others,
a leading in matters of conduct and conversation
to the generalities of Christianity, so that here
also, the individual passes as one who is influ-
enced by Christian principle ;
whereas a selfish
motive, present interest, future advantage, the
desire of securing the approbation and applause
of all men, the wish to keep in with those of
every complexion of sentiment, to enjoy the
pleasures of the world, without losing the esti-
mation of the better part of mankind, and to reap
the benefits of religious profession, without in-
curring its reproach : these are the real views
and feelings which dictate that compromise, which
the Spirit of God has pronounced to be irre-
concileable.
And lastly, another error is that of making a
false estimate of truth ;
a forgetfulness or omission
of those things which are of vital importance, and
614 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
an inordinate regard to that which is
compara-
tively unimportant. From the earliest ages of
Christianity, there have been those who placed
their hopes of heaven, on certain unmeaning ob-
servances, while they neglected principles of the
first importance; there have been those, who
tithed mint, and anise, and cummin, but who
neglected the weightier matters of the law, judg-
ment, mercy, and truth ;
there have been those,
who strained at gnats and swallowed camels ;
there have been those, who would sacrifice the
body of Christianity, so they might but retain some
invention of their own ;
there have been those,
who would abandon principle, and yield all their
fairest hopes and prospects, to the support of
some prejudice, some secular agency, some hope
of present power, some adventitious dogma,
which has been grafted on genuine religion, and
maintains its parasitic existence, by the care,
which it receives from its admirers. But wo to
those who add to, or take from the pure and
simple word of God as it has been revealed to
man ; wo to those, who abandon the substance
of divine truth, and grasp only the shadow which
has been produced by placing some opaque body,
some clouded prejudice between it, and the rays
of the Sun of righteousness so as to intercept his
clear and steady light, and to give an undefined
and uncertain form to its
peculiarities, a promi-
nence to those which rest merely upon its surface,
and a total indistinctness to those which are
placed in the inner man, and which animate the
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 615
heart ;
wo to those, who while they defend some
most unimportant adjunct, do not earnestly con-
tend for the faith once delivered to the saints ;
wo to those, who while they profess a devoted
attachment to the Bible, are unmindful of its
precepts, and live as if
they had no real interest
in its truths ;
wo to those, who know enough of
religion to make them unhappy, but who do not
possess enough to induce them to choose that
good part, which shall not be taken from them,
and who endeavour to find a substitute for this
devotion of the heart to God, in some excessive
attachment to a mere appendage to Christi-
anity.
But if such be the mistakes to which fallen
man is particularly prone, how necessary is it, in
conveying religious instruction to avoid these
errors, and frequently to examine the mind of
the pupil, in order to ascertain, what has been
the influence of the knowledge communicated;
whether the notions it has imbibed, are those,
and only those, of the pure and undefiled reli-
gion of Christ Jesus ;
whether it has clear and
accurate, and well defined views of divine truth ;
whether it may not have embraced a defective
system of Christianity, and omitted some most
important bulwark of the common faith, some
part that is essential to its unity and harmony,
as well as to the peace and comfort of its dis-
ciples ;
and whether Christ, the Saviour and Re-
deemer of lost and ruined man, shall have formed
the basis of all its views the first, the last, the
616 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION-.
only foundation for its hopes, the only ground of
its belief, the only rule of its conduct, the only
measure of its feelings, the one grand design and
termination of its anticipated pleasures. This
process will inform the parent of the real attain-
ments of the child, and of the impression these
have made upon the heart, while it affords an
opportunity of discovering what is defective or
erroneous, of supplying the former, and correct-
ing the latter, administering to omissions, and
removing any oblique views which may have
arisen ;
as well as of enlarging at the same time,
the boundaries of its knowledge.
The affectionate language of the mother, and
the unbiassed mental actions of the child, form
together an unequalled method of conveying in-
struction, and especially of instilling religious
knowledge. In order to secure the full advan-
tage of these circumstances, the catechetical form
will be the most eligible, viz. that method by
which the parent breaks down the truths to be
communicated into their simple elements, and by
judicious questions, leads the young mind into
an acquaintance with the separate ideas of which
knowledge is composed, and gradually accustoms
it to their recomposition, so that it shall be en-
abled by degrees, to embrace a complex propo-
sition without confusion. The questions, thus
framed by the parent, and adapted to the capa-
city of the child, so as to bring forth answers of
its own elaboration (so far at least as leading
questions can do so) will impress the mind much
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 617
more deeply, as well as be more extensively ap-
plicable, than any form of question and answer,
however simple ; although these indeed may
present a good ground work for the simplifying
exertions of the parent. The mode of instruc-
tion here recommended, will not supersede cate-
chisms in general ;
but it will banish a spirit
of indolent contentment, with a merely parrot-like
acquaintance with the truths they are intended
to convey. Catechisms should be rendered more
truly simple and catechetical by the process just
now recommended. It is difficult, in the short
space allotted to these formulae, to give such a
view of Christian doctrine, as to be intelligible
to the young; and perhaps the great defect of
the beautiful summary provided by our church,
is its want of simplicity, which constitutes its
acquisition rather a mechanical effort of memory,
than a process, by which Christian principle may
be instilled into the heart, and the understanding-
be informed, and the judgment convinced, and
the attention fixed on its truths, and the per-
ception awakened to their force, and reason
and reflection marshal their powers to give full
effect to these principles, and the conscience be
enlightened, and the will subdued, and the fa-
culty of imitation roused to that energy of desire,
which seeks to appropriate these precepts, and
amalgamate them with the character. Another
fault of catechisms, is that from their constant
aim at brevity and conciseness, they become ob-
scure, and their application is necessarily limited
618 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
to the principal feature or outline of a subject ;
while on the contrary, the mode of parental in-
struction suggested above, may be addressed to
the heart, and affections, and may be extended
to every conceivable part of the subject. It is
required of a catechism that it be simple, easily
to be comprehended, not difficult of retention,
not loaded with long and complicated answers ;
not clouded by obscure views of abstruse points,
but suited to the simple wants of fallen and help-
less man, and as far as possible, in the very Ian*
guage, and general spirit of the Bible. But after
all, the simplest will lack simplicity, and will
require the parental process of child-like thought,
by which alone ideas will be conveyed, or per-
manent principles be imbibed. And when it is
considered, how great is the importance in all
instruction to engage the heart in the pursuit,
more particularly in that of religious knowledge,
since there must be the chief seat of its influence ;
it will at once be seen, how imperative is this
branch of duty, how indispensable to success.
The collateral benefits, arising from developing
the intellectual faculties, and enlarging the boun-
daries of information, and communicating a habit
of distinguishing truth from error, are highly
valuable, (though we cannot minutely enter upon
them,) and should prove a sufficient stimulus to
parents, to direct their whole energies to this
most important theme.
619
CHAP. VIII.
THE SAME SUBJECT CONTINUED ON THE DUTY OP
KEEPING HOLY THE SABBATH DAY ON RELIGIOUS
WORSHIP ON PRAYER.
THE subject of religious instruction would be
incomplete, unless a distinct chapter were allot-
ted to the duty of prayer, and other religious ob-
servances.
It is of the very first importance, that children
should be taught to keep holy the sabbath day.
The testimony of all ages abundantly shews, that
the greatest crimes have originated in a breach of
the observances of public worship, and a disre-
gard for the Sunday. This more frequently than
any other has been the first step in the progress
of vice, the first deviation from the path of recti-
tude, which has terminated only in the deepest
criminality, and in the abandonment of every
good principle, of every virtuous hope, of every
moral aspiration. Where such fearful conse-
quences do constantly ensue from the neglect of
this sacred day, can parents be too cautious in en-
forcing its observance from earliest infancy. Even
long before children can appreciate the reason for
such a difference, they may be taught to make a
620 MORAL ANH RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
distinction between this day and other days ;
and
the sound of the church-going bell should be con-
nected with their earliest associations, and should
dissociate them from their usual amusements and
playthings. They should be accustomed to pause
on the Sunday morning, and to notice by the re-
moval of their toys, that a peculiar something
attaches to this frequently recurring day, a pecu-
liarity with which they will soon be enabled to
connect the ideas of sacredness and reverence.
The absence of their daily lessons will also teach
them, that even useful and proper objects of valu-
able pursuit and research, are to be intermitted
during this day, in order to make way for its pecu-
liar duties, the worship of God, and the knowledge
of his ways. How different is the general ob-
servance of the Sunday in the nursery ;
a day
which is
principally marked by decking out its
little inhabitants in their best clothes, by the
happy freedom from all kind of instruction, and
by permission to enjoy a greater license of amuse-
ment than on any other day of the week ;
thus
associating with the recurrence of the Christian
sabbath, a love of dress, indifference to the pur-
suit of wisdom and knowledge, and unbounded
amusement; thus making it a day peculiarly
their own, instead of being, as it is, specifically the
Lord's day. Of what avail will it be to teach the
young, that they should remember the sabbath
day to keep it
holy ; that on the six preceding
days they should do all their work, but that the
seventh should be peculiarly devoted to the ser-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 621
vice of God, set apart from the common business
of life, and consecrated particularly to his wor-
ship, and to works of necessity and mercy; if
they be also taught to desecrate its hallowed
hours by total carelessness of its duties ;
and if
their associations of awe, and stillness, and reve-
rence, and calm, and piety, be exchanged for the
infinitely more common ideas of a day of joyous
festivity and idleness, maintained unhappily by
the unwillingness of parents to give up the lux-
ury of a hot dinner on this day, and the selfish
pleasure of treating their offspring after it with
fruit and wine, while they amuse themselves
with their society. Not that this holy day should
be one of gloomy abstraction; it should be filled
up with pursuits of interest and delight, but they
should be such as may be calculated to awaken
devotional feeling, and communicate religious in-
struction, rather than to sow the seeds of evil,
and develop erroneous principles, and foster the
prejudices of vice, and cloud and contract the
mind by false impressions of its sacred charac-
ter. Not that we would make the worship of
God to consist apparently in a season of privation,
or that we would connect the idea of approaching
God, and of forsaking not his ordinances, with a
sacrifice of solid pleasure ;
not that we would
make it "a day for a man to afflict his soul, to
bow down his head as a bulrush, and to spread
sackcloth and ashes under him, and call this an
acceptable day to the Lord ;" but on the contrary,
one on which, in imitation of our Saviour, we
622 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
would " loose the bands of wickedness, undo the
heavy burdens, let the oppressed go free, break
every yoke, deal out our bread to the hungry,"
protect the houseless, clothe the naked, heal the
sick, succour the destitute, cheer the sorrowing,
instruct the ignorant, reclaim the vicious, and cor-
rect the wandering : a day on which we " would
turn away the feet from doing our own pleasure
on this holy day, and call the sabbath a delight,
the holy of the Lord, honourable ;
a day on which
we would honour him, not doing our own ways,
nor finding our own pleasure, nor speaking our
own words, but drawing out our soul to the hun-
gry, and satisfying the afflicted soul ;
that our
light may arise in obscurity, and our darkness
be as the noon-day, that the Lord may guide us
continually, and satisfy our soul in drought ;
and that we may be like a watered garden, and
like a spring of water whose waters fail not."
With evil so great and irreparable on the one
hand, and promises so large and comprehensive
on the other, parents cannot surely fail to be awa-
kened to greater diligence and attention to this
important duty.
Our plan will only admit of mentioning the ge-
neral principle ;
but we would here just observe,
that it is desirable as early as possible, that the
Sunday should be marked by attendance on the
public worship of God ;
and thus will be formed
an early habit of duty and restraint, the influence
of which will be very difficultly lost in after life,
and which will probably be increasingly operative.
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 623
This too should always be made an object of
desire, and be held out as a reward, not com-
pelled as an unwilling service. It is astonishing,
how important is the principle of enlisting the
will and the affections on the side of religious
duty ;
and in this case it will become a burden or
a pleasure, according to the idea which may be
impressed on the youthful mind. Suffer not the
period of early education to pass by before this
is
attempted ; let the Jirst prepossessions of the
child be in favour of Christian duty, and let not the
early prime of life be abandoned to the agency of
the destroyer, and afterwards seek to combat his
influence. It is far better to prevent than it is to
cure disease ;
it is far easier to preserve the
mind from evil, than to eradicate its seeds or ar-
rest their growth.
So also with regard to the domestic worship of
God ;
at a very early age, children should join
the circle of family prayer, and lift their infant
hands to Him from whom they derive every bless-
ing; thus receiving the impression of the indis-
pensable importance of this duty ;
a duty to which
the first part of the day should be devoted ;
and
with the undeviating performance of which, no-
thing should be suffered to interfere. Then may
parents hope with confidence, that they shall
have the happiness of seeing their children pre-
served from the evil of the world, and made pre-
sumptive heirs of heaven, with the peace of God
in their hearts ;
the self-denying duties of religion
becoming their prevailing desire; the power of
624 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
temptation gradually weakened, while the effort
to resist it becomes easier ; prayer forming the
language of the heart, the expression of its real
wants and hopes, desires and fears ;
and that heart
preoccupied with works of piety and benevolence ;
thus gradually ripening for that eternity, on the
confines of which the elder are just lingering, and
anticipating the short night of separation from all
they hold most dear on earth, to be followed by
the unspeakable happiness of re-union around the
throne of God, to unite for ever in ascriptions of
praise to Him who loved them, and gave himself
for them.
We have mentioned works of piety, and charity,
and benevolence as being, in a great measure,
permitted objects of pursuit on this holy day ;
we could wish, however, that such objects should
be divested, except in particular instances, of the
secularity of subscription, in order to mark the
decided preference of the purely spiritual, to the
temporal wants of our fellow men. Not that the
latter may not with propriety be administered to,
but the former are appropriate to the character
of the day, and do not in any way divert the
thoughts from the principal duties of the Chris-
tian sabbath. And in the present age, when
young people are so much employed as collectors
and subordinate agents, in carrying on the great
works of charity, for many a highly interesting
and active society, it is most desirable that they
should obtain just views of the highest objects of
the principle ; and also, that they should avoid the
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 625
baneful error of resting in these ostentatious
works of benevolence as the means of safety, rather
than as simply flowing from a principle of love to
God, and a humble desire of living to his glory.
The subject si prayer will now more immedi-
ately come before us.
What then is
prayer ? It is the language of
the needy suppliant for the supply of his wants, to
Him who is
infinitely able and willing to com-
municate ;
it is the application of a sinful being
feeling his necessity, to Him who alone can pardon
iniquity ;
it is the voice of the weak, the humble,
and the helpless, to Him who alone can impart
strength and ability to vanquish every enemy,
and surmount every difficulty.
Destitute, as is man, of all that is acceptable to
God, he can only bring forth the fruits of holi-
ness by obtaining a renewed heart, and by that
heart being filled with the love of God, and pre-
served in close dependence upon him : this is
alone to be effected through faith in his goodness,
power, mercy, and love ;
and this faith is the
gift of God, as well as the will and the capacity
for action, strength to support such action, and
fortitude to overcome difficulties, and trials, and
temptations. We are poor and destitute, our help
is in God ;
but for all these things he will be in-
quired of, and prayer is the medium of applica-
tion. We have need to confess our sins and
manifold infirmities, and to plead his promises, his
faithfulness, and his unchanging benignity. The
mind is weigh ed down with a consciousness of its ig-
VOL r. s s
626 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
norance and proneness to error, and it comes to
God with a lively sense of his perfections, his
readiness to hear, his power to help, his willing-
ness to save. All this, however, implies a deep
feeling of the extent of our wants ;
and hence,
self-knowledge, arising out of self-examination,
is necessary to an acquaintance with our infirmi-
ties : and a consequence accruing from this scru-
tiny is a tenderness of conscience, to guard against
those sins which possess the greatest power over
us, and to produce earnestness and vigilance in
opposing their influence when thus detected.
Prayer is also the medium and source of com-
munion with the God and Father of our spirits,
and by it the mind is led to contemplate and
adore the divine perfections ;
it feels the purifying
influence of this sacred employment, and finds by
it, a blessing communicated to every circumstance
of life. In the daily trials and vexations which
form the sum of our probationary existence, it is
a powerful means of resisting sin, and of ad-
vancing in holiness ;
without it the mind is pee-
vish, and fretful, and irritable, because it wants
that peace which is
consequent upon breathing
for a time, the atmosphere of heaven, in commu-
nion with God, and holding intercourse with that
friend which loveth at all times, and sticketh
closer than a brother. And again, while prayer
is a part of our obedience to the will of the most
High; while we are enjoined to pray without
ceasing; and while directions respecting this
duty have been graciously vouchsafed to his dis-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 627
ciples by our adorable Redeemer, who has recorded
a comprehensive form of prayer for their use and
guidance : it is also a privilege which descends
in copious showers of blessing; enables us to
bear up under the pressure of misfortune, and to
preserve placidity of mind. This, then, is a gene-
ral sketch of the necessity and advantage of
prayer, as it is connected with religious instruc-
tion, since it
proves the medium through which
our wants are supplied, our blessings are re-
ceived, our comforts are enhanced, our sorrows
are lessened, our difficulties are removed, our sins
are forgiven, and we obtain grace and strength to
go on our way rejoicing even in distress, and
striving to obtain a better, that is, an heavenly
inheritance.
The Christian parent, then, will teach her off-
spring to pray ; but as the infant cannot present
petitions of its own framing, cannot be sensible
of its wants, or conscious of the adoration it should
pay to the Supreme Being ;
or grateful for bless-
ings received, and mercies supplied ;
or impressed
with the duty of intercession for others, it must
be furnished with a few and simple words, em-
bodying, as its understanding and memory are
enlarged, these scriptural ideas. But as soon as
possible it should be impressed with the ideas
themselves; it should be taught the omnipresence,
power, and knowledge of God ;
and its depend-
ence upon Him for every daily common mercy ;
for food and raiment ;
for health ;
for every breath
it draws ;
for friends and relatives : it should be
s s 2
628 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
taught its own sinfulness and departure from the
ways of this just and holy Being, together with
its need of forgiveness for unnumbered trans-
gressions ;
it should be taught the pure and spi-
ritual worship of God, arising out of this relation,
and the adoring gratitude which should spring
from its contemplation; it should be instructed
to pray for a blessing upon its nearest and dearest
relatives ;
and when it has been enabled thoroughly
to embrace these ideas, it should be encouraged to
clothe them in language of its own, that prayer
may cease to be a mere effort of memory, re-
curring automatically, and almost mechanically,
at certain regular intervals ;
nad that it
may be-
come a state of the heart, the simple and often un-
expressed petition, rather than the laboured form.
The image of God has been lost by transgression,
and the affections have been alienated from Him ;
hence prayer is an employment to which the
heart is
naturally averse, and it must therefore be
inculcated as an act of duty. Every best bless-
ing of which the feeble, helpless, uninformed and
sinful child stands in need, is promised only to
those who ask, who seek for it. To those who
do seek, the Almighty is engaged to be found,
and prayer is the important method of asking,
and seeking, and waiting for a blessing.
The first step to be advanced in inducing a
spirit, and forming a habit of prayer, is to ac-
quaint the child with its situation, and to explain
to it the nature of its wants ;
and this must be
accomplished in ideas, as well as in words, which
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 629
are comprehensible to the limited capacity of the
pupil ;
or prayer will be performed without even
engaging the attention ;
without being perceived
by the mind ;
much more, therefore, without
awakening the conscience, and interesting the
heart. Too much is not to be at once attempted :
a child cannot directly embrace even the funda-
mental truths of Christian doctrine, many of which
are far beyond its comprehension, and which at
its early age must become matters of belief.
Hence .the child's petition should convey an ex-
pression of those wants which it is
capable of
appreciating, so that it may always attach the
ideas of need and helplessness on its own part,
with those of fulness of blessing, and of willing-
ness to impart it, to the name of that mighty
God to whom the petition is addressed. It is
quite right that children should be early taught
what is revealed to man concerning the creation,
the fall of Adam, and the consequent pollution of
his family ;
but this knowledge must be commu-
nicated as matter of history, and will not form a
fit
subject for prayer. A reference to the actions
of every day will be sufficient to shew the sinful-
ness of the little being; and upon this conviction
may be grafted the need of forgiveness, and of
prayer for pardon.
Again, the doctrine of Providence is one which
the mind of a child cannot wholly embrace, and
its entire reliance for every thought, word, and
act, on the will and goodness of God : but its
present and temporal wants are sufficiently ob-
630 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
vious, and may be rendered available for the pro-
duction of the ideas of dependence, and of grati-
tude for safety, and unnumbered blessings. Each
month of expanding intelligence will enable it to
embrace a more complicated system, always
taking care that it should understand the nature
of its petition, as well as that it should have some
idea of the Being to whom it is addressed ;
or it
will not acquire an adequate and permanent sense
of the importance which should be attached to
the spirit and temper in which the petition is
conveyed .
The language of Scripture should be selected
as the foundation for prayer, where this is pos-
sible (and where is it not possible, or what need-
ful petition may not be found in its comprehensive
pages ?) that the child may be brought acquainted
with this best of books ;
and that it
may also be
led to associate an idea of the knowledge thus ob-
tained with that of the expression of its neces-
sities, and consequently of the foundation of its
prayers and of its
hopes. Prayer, and the study
of the Holy Scriptures, mutually act and re-act
upon each other, and reciprocally reproduce their
like :
thus, none can pray with singleness of
heart, simplicity of object, and intensity of desire,
but that he is
insensibly led to the Bible for
guidance, instruction, and strength ; while, on
the contrary, none can read that Holy volume
with the design of benefiting from its pages,
without being driven by its representation of the
sinfulness of man, of his liability to error, of the
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 631
wrath of God, and his hatred to sin ;
of his jus-
tice, mercy, and love ;
of pardon and access to
Him through a Mediator Christ Jesus ;
and by the
affecting details of his life and ministry, his suffer-
ings and death, to a conviction of the necessity
for purity of motive and holiness of life and con-
duct, and for coming to God in prayer for par-
don, wisdom, righteousness, and strength ;
for
an interest in his love, and in the atoning sacri-
fice of Christ ; for grace and power to imitate
him, and to be increasingly conformed to his
image. None can peruse its candid narrative of
human frailties, and of the awful influence of
temptation, without a fervent desire to be pre-
served from them ;
none can witness the dreadful
extremities to which sin has hurried its victims,
without adoring gratitude to that Infinite Mercy
which may have preserved us from such evils, or
convinced us of the dangerous course we were
pursuing ere it was too late : none can peruse the
beautiful prophecies of the extension of the Re-
deemer's kingdom, without praying for his entire
reign, especially in their own hearts ;
none can
read their complete dependence upon His provi-
dence, without seeking a renewal of His daily
mercies; and none can enter into its glowing
description of a future state of bliss, without long-
ing to reach that heavenly home, without desiring
after conformity to the will of God, in order to
be rendered meet for its pure and happy society !
Thus, then, the mind should be imbued with the
spirit of the Bible; its truths will become the
632 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
subject of prayer ;
the practical application of its
doctrines will be made the object of petition ;
while it will be considered as the unerring guide,
to acquaint man with the rectitude or obliquity
of his actions and thoughts, and feelings and
motives.
While, however, the language of Scripture will
form a basis for prayer, it will often happen that
this will be simplified by maternal solicitude, in
order to render the idea more readily attainable
to the grasp of the infant mind. By degrees, the
nature of prayer, of the Great Being addressed,
and the necessity for seriousness and solemnity
in approaching his throne, should be impressed
upon the mind, and enforced by that earnestness
of manner, with which alone devotional subjects
should be treated ; by a separation of the thoughts
from common objects, to this one Jirst object of
pursuit ; by an abstraction of the mind from inferior
engagements to this one of paramount interest
and importance ; by an absorption of the feelings
and passions and affections from this world's vain
pageant, and their concentration upon eternity.
Not that we would encourage a mystic reverence
for the mere act of prayer, or foster an enthu-
siastic fervor of animal spirits ;
but that we would
develop a deeply felt attention to the spirit of
prayer, and convey the mind into the presence of
its God and Saviour, and induce those feelings
which must originate from this near converse with
Him in whom we live, and move, and have our
being. All this is
probably not to be accom-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 633
plished by the parent in every, nor indeed in the
majority of instances ;
but much may certainly be
done ;
and if she cannot command success, she
may deserve it, so far at least as it is promised to
diligence and perseverance in the performance of
duty.
Prayer may likewise be made the means of
communicating knowledge to the child. Thus,
the nature of the blessing sought after, as well as
the necessity which gives it value ;
and its direct
and remote influence upon principle and practice,
upon the feelings of the heart, the conduct of the
life, the expression of the lips, aye more, the
form of the countenance, should be explained, so
as to enlist the understanding in the wT
ork ;
and in
proportion as this is informed, to encourage it to
invest its own thoughts in its own words.
But although this plan will be steadily kept in
view by the parent, she will feel how very slow
must be the gradation by which it can be accom-
plished ;
she will feel that every step in advance
will require time, and that any point gained will
be scarcely perceptible at the moment. Yet she
will not be discouraged : she will recollect that
the almost inconceivable rapidity of this earth's
diurnal revolution upon its axis, is not perceptible
to its inhabitants ;
and she will not vainly expect
that her very minute progress will be attended by
more cognisable phenomena; or that the still
small voice of the Spirit of God which moveth in
secret, must be rendered apparent in every stage
634 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
of its influence, at the bidding of puny mortality,
or from the wish of short-sighted affection. Dur-
ing this long period of steady, though concealed
progress, the constant duty and habit of prayer
are to be preserved inviolate : the infant's morn-
ing and evening sacrifice must be offered, and a
form will be required, at first most simple, con-
taining an acknowledgment of the presence of
the deity, a confession of sinfulness, prayer for
pardon, and thanksgiving for renewed mercies ;
and this may be gradually enlarged according to
the years and capacity of the child. It will how-
ever be most desirable to inculcate the early use
of the Lord's prayer, as an addition to this more
simple form ;
for although the child may not be
able to embrace exactly the beauty and compre-
hensiveness of its petitions ; and although these
may not in consequence so thoroughly enlist the
understanding and the heart in their train, yet
they will form a basis for prayer in after life ;
they will associate the earliest recollections of
devotional act and feeling with these perpetually
recurring petitions, the memory of which, all the
vanities of time, all the tempests of vice, all the
forgetfulness of indifference, will not be able to
obliterate : it will be found after many days, and
will return with the force and energy of inspira-
tion upon the heart, in some hour of trouble and
distress, when it will lift that heart to God, and
perhaps may be made the means of producing a
permanent seeking after Him.
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 635
Although the plan of teaching a child to pray
in its own words, be most desirable, yet the utility
of a form must not be underrated ;
for without
this aid, the duty would often be altogether neg-
lected ;
and it is better that it should be coldly
and languidly performed than entirely omitted.
The only valid objection to a form is, that it does
not admit of variety ; but where the wants, and
hopes, and fears, are so nearly similar, prayer
must in fact acquire a sameness, which will al-
most lead it into identity with a form. The latter
then is most useful, and to it
may be readily add-
ed, any petition suited to the immediate object
of necessity. It is
certainly a mistaken idea,
that the energy of the mind cannot be called forth
by a frequently recurring petition :
during those
periods when the mind is in a cold and listless
state, its prayers will be formal, though not clothed
in a prescribed arrangement of words ;
and when
the spirit of prayer rests upon the heart, the fer-
vour of devotion will be communicated to the
most frequently recited form. Witness the effect
of the beautiful liturgy of the church of England ;
how often is it
passed over by the careless, with-
out one emotion of prayer; but to the sincere
and humble Christian, how full is it of all that
he requires, how constantly does he discover in
its petitions fresh beauty and impressiveness,
its increasing power over his heart, its augmented
influence in leading him to the Fountain of life.
But since no means of interesting the child
should be overlooked, it
may be accustomed to
636 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
diversify the words in which its petitions are pre-
sented, and thus may it be taught to lift its little
tongue in feeble accents of its own, to Him who
called it into being, and who can alone redeem
it. Its daily wants, and hourly mercies, and
perpetual supply of blessing, may be explained
and 'detailed ;
it
may be furnished with a
scheme of prayer, giving a certain number of
sentiments under different heads, which it
should be gradually led to embody in their ap-
propriate language ;
to simplify, and vary the
mode of their expression. And yet it will be seen
how nearly this borders on a written address ;
how nearly the same results will be obtained by
the employment of a form, and by teaching the
child to analyse its contents. And this is pre-
cisely true : it is the very point to which we would
arrive ;
it is a reduction of the proposition to the
very conclusion we have been aiming at, viz. that
this important duty may be accomplished by an
analytic, as well as a synthetic method, and that
in an object of such primary importance, neither
should be forgotten, but both employed. In ei-
ther case, the language should be simple and con-
cise, as well as short ;
for to aim at a sustained
exertion, will be to render prayer a wearisome
duty, during the performance of which, the atten-
tion will flag, the thoughts wander, the affections
be diverted, and positively engaged in counter-
acting the spirit of humble dependence and sim-
plicity, without which prayer will be deprived of
its spiritual influence.
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 637
In both instances, whether a form be or be not
employed, the nature of each petition should be
given ; the several parts of prayer, with their
mutual connexion and relation, should be pointed
out with simplicity and perspicuity, as well as
the great Being to whom they are addressed, and
in whose name they should be pleaded, in order
that the little suppliant may form an exact and
rational idea of the object and the design of its
worship. Prayer is no charm, the influence and
operation of which would depend greatly upon
an entire ignorance of its nature ; for its beneficial
agency can only be hoped for, in proportion as it
is understood and felt : it possesses nothing in
common with the senseless juggle of oracular
communications ;
or with the repetition of prayers
in an unknown tongue ;
or with the heartless
devotion of the cloistered and arithmetical devotee,
whose merit rests upon the number of his repe-
titions ;
or with the unmeaning words of the
hypocrite, and the formalist, who draw nigh unto
God with their lips, while their heart is far from
him : but it is the simple expression of child-like
humble desire, to the all-bountiful Parent of
good, the submission of the understanding to his
will, and the engagement of the heart in his
service.
Neither is prayer an effort of memory, a barren
exercise of the intellectual faculties ;
but the de-
votion of the spiritual immaterial principle to its
God and Saviour, manifested through the medium
of the intelligent function, subjected to its influ-
G38 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
ence ;
an agency from which the latter is
naturally
averse, even the influence of love to God. For
although the parent cannot by her utmost efforts,
give rise to that active, fervent piety, which
springs alone from devotedness of the "
body,
soul, and spirit," to God, and which is the fruit
of the genuine influence of the Holy Spirit ; yet
she will infuse that knowledge, which capaci-
tates the mind for the reception of divine truth,
and prepares it for that life-giving operation,
which will preserve it from the cruel reflection
hereafter, that
" the harvest is passed, the sum-
mer is ended, and we are not saved :" and which
shall exchange this fearful truth for the realisation
of that promise, that even this heart of stone shall
be softened, and that " instead of the thorn shall
come up the fir-tree, and instead of the briar
shall come up the myrtle-tree ;
and it shall be to
the Lord for a name, for an everlasting sign that
shall not be cut off."
In all this process, the child knowing his per-
sonal relation to the great Being to whom his
petitions are presented, will be taught to adore
Him, to obey his commands, and to dedicate
itself and its talents to his will. It cannot live in
daily intercourse with a God of infinite know-
ledge, purity, and holiness, who sees the inmost
recesses of the heart ;
it cannot approach the
sacred majesty of heaven with a sense of his
power, and of its own feebleness ;
of his know-
ledge, and its own ignorance; of his goodness,
and its own unworthiness ;
of his justice, and its
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 639
own sinfulness ;
of his mercy, and its need of
pardon : it cannot daily pray, that God would
" search and know its heart and its thoughts, and
see if there be any wicked way in it, and lead it
in the way everlasting ;" it cannot thus contem-
plate its own destitution, and the fulness that is
in Christ Jesus* and not be led to think on its
state, to consider its ways, and to seek after the
paths of truth.
The child will also learn the nature and extent
of its wants, and the necessity for seeking their
supply ;
it will learn that exertion is indispen-
sable to obtain this boon ; the whole tenor of
Scripture, and the very words of our adorable
Lord, teach us that men ought always to pray "and
not to faint ;" that they should wait with impor-
tunity at a throne of grace ;
for if this continual
waiting operate in overcoming the reluctance of
this world's friendship, how much more shall He
who waiteth to be gracious, give good gifts to
those who ask him !
Farther, the exercise of
prayer, will serve to impress upon the child, a
sense of its own helplessness, and its need of
strength ;
its sinfulness and need of pardon ;
its hourly imperfections, and disposition to wan-
der from the living God, and turn aside to
crooked paths ;
and the necessity of asking for
divine grace and imparted power, to enable it to
preserve the right way, the way which leadeth
unto peace.
Arising out of this conviction of guilt, and of
the hope of pardon through the atoning sacrifice
640 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
of Christ, to those who truly repent them of
their sins, who humble themselves before God,
and seek his face as reconciled to them in the
person of his Son, will be a basis for confession,
another most important constituent of prayer.
Confession should not only be general, but par-
ticular ; it should consist, not only in an universal
acknowledgment of having forgotten God in in-
numerable instances, of having wandered from
his ways, omitted to obey his commandments,
acted contrary to his will, indulged rebellious
thoughts against his divine Majesty, and enter-
tained feelings most hostile to the reign of his
authority in the heart ;
but it should be founded
on the knowledge of sin : hence if anger, or pas-
sion, or disobedience, or falsehood, or pride, or
ingratitude, or injustice, shall have marked the
conduct of the day, these will form particular
objects of confession ;
and thus the young will
be taught the importance of prayer for the par-
don of every fault ;
of the purifying influence of
the Spirit, to cleanse them even from secret ob-
liquities ;
and they will feel, what they never felt
before, the real heinousness of sin, its entire de-
formity, and the magnitude of its power over the
heart ; they will really feel that it is only in the
multitude of the tender mercies of the Most
High, that these transgressions can be blotted
out ; they will acknowledge that it is
"
against
thee, thee only have I sinned, and done this evil
in thy sight ;
that thou mightest be justified when
thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest;"
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 641
they will learn, that the " sacrifices of God are
a broken spirit," and that the Majesty of heaven
will not despise
" a broken and a contrite heart;"
and they will be taught the infinite importance
of sincerity, before that Lord who " will not
hear" him that "
regardeth iniquity in his heart."
Gratitude and thanksgiving, another branch of
prayer, may be readily grounded on the unnum-
bered mercies daily received from God :
" Bless
the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his be-
nefits ;
who forgiveth all thine iniquities ;
who
healeth all thy diseases ;
who redeemeth thy life
from destruction ;
who crowneth thee with loving-
kindness, and tender mercies; who satisfieth thy
mouth with good things, so that thy youth is re-
newed like the eagle's." Thus does the royal
Psalmist lead to the contemplation of abundant
sources of praise in the common mercies of life ;
for although the forgiveness of sins stands first
and prominent in the mind of every redeemed
sinner, yet the blessings of Providence, recovery
from sickness, the preservation of health, and the
tender mercies with which every step of our pro-
gress is surrounded, form so many sources of
gratitude, which we are too disposed to overlook,
and to forget, for the very reason which consti-
tutes their chief value, even their invariable suc-
cession. How admirably are the goodness, and
mercy, and loving kindness of our Lord, shewn
in the preservation of the laws which govern our
being, and regulate the order of the universe.
Were these laws removed, the whole creation
VOL. i. T T
642 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
would fall into disorder; the absence of light,
the contamination of the air we breathe, whose
perpetual renewal is so beautifully provided for ;
aye, even any material difference in the atmos-
pherical pressure would be sufficient to destroy
our comfort ;
and yet, we reap the blessings of
the sun, we inhale the invigorating breeze ;
and
the actions of our bodies are sustained by the
pressure of that medium in which we live ;
and
we never lift an aspiration of praise to Him who
alone maintans these unchanging comforts. Thus
then may the child be made to comprehend the
several parts of prayer, and the nature of the
supplications it
presents.
Though prayer be not an effort of memory
simply, it will nevertheless be seen, how impor-
tant is the agency and assistance of that faculty,
in the performance of this duty. Thus for instance,
the child may be exercised in obtaining a know-
ledge of those parts of scripture, which parti-
cularly relate to the objects of prayer, and then
introducing into its petitions by degrees, those
texts, or words founded upon them.
But again, while a deep sense of the sinful-
ness of our nature, of the deserved wrath of God,
of his hatred of all sin, of our worthlessness,
and inability to do any thing of ourselves, which
can be pleasing to him, who is of purer eyes
than to behold iniquity, and who chargeth his
angels with comparative folly, should be con-
stantly kept in vew : and while they will form
the only basis for humbleness of mind, for that
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 643
simplicity of design, and fear of God, under the
influence of which we can alone walk safely or
happily ; yet this must not form the exclusive nor
even the principal subject of Christian instruc-
tion; but the love of God the Father, who
willeth not the death of a sinner, but rather that
he should turn unto him and live ;
t(
Turn ye,
turn ye, why will ye die, O house of Israel ;"
his mercy displayed in the gift of his only be-
gotten Son to die for our sins ;
his accomplished
sacrifice ;
his earnest invitation to sinners ;
his
promise of the Holy Spirit, to convince the world
of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment, and to
lead us into all truth ;
the incarnation, sufferings,
and death of Christ; salvation by faith in this
Redeemer; and the attributes of Jehovah as
harmoniously combined in the redemption of fal-
len man ;
these are topics of the highest interest
and attraction, and will not fail to become leading-
points of every well ordered system of religious
instruction. By a view of its sinfulness and de-
pravity alone, or even almost exclusively, the mind
may be terrified, the conscience affrighted, and
exertion paralysed ;
since it will not fly for re-
fuge to the hope set before it in the gospel ;
but the heart which has resisted all these pene-
trating appeals, will often yield to a display of
the love, and mercy, and goodness, and long-
suffering, and daily blessing of God, notwith-
standing continued fprgetfulness of his com-
mands. The stubborn will, which refuses to bow
to the authority of its king, and confess his bro-
v T T 2
644 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
ken laws, will often yield to the mild influence
of the friend of sinners ;
and that heart over
which the terrors of the law have ceased to exert
their power will be melted by the tenderness and
compassion and love of the incarnate Saviour ;
the proud and selfish, will bend before the per-
fections of the divinity, and will exclaim, Woe is
me for I am undone, I am a sinful man, O Lord !
In conclusion, we have only to remark further,
that in acknowledging the daily providence of
God, this divine agency should be observed, as
well in circumstances which appear to us ad-
verse and untoward, as in those which contribute
to our immediate comfort ;
for we are placed in
a state of trial and probation ;
and if the days of
prosperity alone shine upon us, we shall forget
God, cease our dependence upon him, and wander
from his fold. The night of sorrow, the pang of
adversity, the infliction of disease, the loss of
comfort, even the common perplexities of life,
are necessary to wean us from too great attach-
ment to this world and its snares ;
to try our love
to God and obedience to him ;
to perfect that
which concemeth us ;
and to lead us to the only
source of perfect happiness. Adversity is the
greatest boon to fallen man, the only source of
that knowledge which teaches him to value his
privileges and his blessings : and the immediate
connexion of these privations, with the directing
hand of our heavenly Parent, should be con-
stantly kept in view. Prayer for the removal of
these sorrows, or for the communication of tern-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. t>45
poral blessings, should be always conditional.
"
Thy will be done," must ever be the frame of
mind in which we approach God ;
and the re-
moval of temporal calamity, or conferring tem-
poral blessings must be solicited in submission to
his will, that comprehensive devotion of all we
have, and are, and hold most dear, to his all-wise
direction and government ; but the solicitation
for spiritual blessings may be unbounded,
" Ask
and ye shall have ;" these should be the principal
objects of pursuit ; and He giveth liberally, and
not only communicates these blessings, but also
the desire to obtain them.
END OF VOL. I.
LONDON:
IBBOTSON AND PALMER, PRINTERS, SAVOY STREET, STRAND.
THE
PRINCIPLES
OF
PH Y SIC A L , INTELLECTUAL, MORAL, AND
RELIGIOUS
EDUCATI ON.
BY
W. NEWNHAM, Esq.
AUTHOR OF A TRIBUTE OF SYMPATHY, & C. &C.
u Take this child, and nurse it for me, and I vrill Rive th.*e
thy wa<9.Exodus ii. 9.
 II ny a rien de petit dans IVducation des enfans"GardI'V
IN TW O VOLUMES.
VOL. II.
LONDON:
J. HATCHARD AND SON, 187, PICCADILLY.
MDCCCXXVd.
LONDON t
IBOTSOV AND PALMER, PRINTERS, SAVOY STREET, ST
R
A
N
D
,
CONTENTS OF VOL. II.
PART III.
(Gontioned.)
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
Chap. 9. On attention to the natural temper and disposition
o f children : .  . . 1
C hap. 10. The same subject continued On pride and self-
conceit . .  . . 2 9
C hap. 11. The same subject continued On disobedience to
parents On the love o f pleasure On carelessness o f reli
gion . . 5 6
Ciiap. 12. On discipline . . . 7 6
C hap. 13. The same subject continued . 94
Ciiap. 14. On theformation o f habits. . 151
C hap. 15. O f the passions . . . 123
Sec. 1. O f selfishness . . 123
Sec. 2. O f anger o f hatred o f resentment  o f ven
geance . . . . 136
Sec. 3. O f avarice o f ambition . .1 5 7
Sec. 4. O f emulation o f envy . . .1 7 6
Sec. 5. O f benevolence . . 197
Sec. 6. O fjealousy . . . . 214
Sec. 7. O fpity . . .2 1 8
Sec. 8. O ffe a t . . . . 238
Sec. 9. O f courage . . . . 258
Sec. 10. O f ennui . . . . 274
C O N T E X T S .
Sec. 11. O f admiration o f enthusiasm . 284
Sec. 12. O f esteem o f respect o f consideration 290
Sec. 13. O f contempt . .  318
Sec. 14. O f patriotism . . 328
C h a p . 16. O f the virtues and vices . . 333
Sec. 1. On veracity and sincerity onfalsehood . 333
Sec. 2. On vanity on modesty . 346
Sec. 3. On idleness . , 363
Sec. 4. On prudence . . . 373
Sec. 5. On gratitude on ingratitude ^ . . 394
Sec. 6. On patieiiceimpatience meekness . 409
Sec.^ 7. Onjustice . . . . 422
Sec. 8. On ridicule . . . . 435
Sec. 9. On intemperance . . 446
Sec. 10. On honour, or the love o f reputation 455
C h a p . 17. On the process o f mental instruction . 463
C h a p . 18. On rewards and punishments . .4 8 1
C h a p . 19. The same subject continued On punishment 501
C h a p . 20. On society . . . . 508
C h a p . 21. The same subject continued . . 524
C h a p . 22. On reading, and on the choice o f books . 540
C h a p . 23. The same subject continued . 564
C h a p . 24. The same subject continued .  580
C h a p . 25. On amusements  597
C h a p . 26. On accomplishments 605
PART III.
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
( c o n t i n u e d .)
VOL. If. B
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
CHAP. IX.
ON ATTENTION TO THE NATURAL TEMPER AND DISPO
SITION OP CHILDREN.
T em per is the expression of the agency upon
the mental manifestation!, of that physical tem
perament, which has been already considered in
a former part of this w ork; disposition, on the
contrary, is the sum, and general result of those
mental attributes, which are constituted by the
intellectual faculties and the passions. As such,
both are subjected to the influence of education,
the government of principle, the subjection or
excitation of passion, the regulation of religion,
the controul of habit, the morbid agency of vice,
and the cultivation of virtue; hence do they be
come the peculiar objects of moral instruction.
The first object of education, therefore, will be
to encourage what is useful, to repress what is
injurious; and the utmost vigilance, attention,
and perseverance will be required to remove from
the child, whatever may be prejudicial to its
b 2
4 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS E D UC ATION. '
peace, or detract from its worth; and this prin
ciple will be especially applied to the faults which
are so prominent in children, the correction, and
amelioration of which, will constitute the greater
part of the duty of forming the temper and dis
position.
Man is conceived in sin; he inherits a sinful
nature ; he brings into the world a heart tainted
by corruption, subjected to the malign influence
of the great enemy of mankind, alienated from
God, and averse from holiness; out of it proceed
evil thoughts and actions; the will and the
affections, the sentiments and the conduct are
influenced by this fountain of evil: the natural
bent of his intellectual faculties, is continually
towards a perversion of their high and original
design; sin is his congenial element, perhaps
even his delight, and therefore his prevailing ten
dencies will be towards that which is wrong,
offensive to God, and injurious to man. While
then the parent is.anxious for the removal of the
cause, an evil heart of unbelief in departing from
the living God, and for the renewal and conver
sion of that heart by the Spirit of grace ; it will
yet be her duty to watch over the operation of
this evil principle in detail, and to combat its in
fluence wherever it may be exhibited.
No sooner do children begin to act at all, but
we discover how universally sin has pervaded all
the sources of intelligence: the first glimmerings
of reason are obscured by that lurid hue, which
is portentous of the coming storm ; the attention
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 5
is fixed with difficulty upon that which is good,
and it is easily attracted by all that is trashy and
useless; the perception of evil is infinitely quicker
than that of virtue; the sentiments of religion
quickly pass from the memory, while the recol
lection is loaded with the expressions of vice,
and even tormented with their involuntary sugges
tion in after life, at a period too when the powers
of the soul have been marshalled against their
influence. There is a greater pleasure in reflect
ing on the images of crime, than on the character
of piety: the conscience is enfeebled and op
pressed ; its voice stifled, and its actions per
verted : the imagination delights, to revel over
scenes of iniquity, and is difficultly carried for
ward to anticipations of future happiness, and
glory, and praise: the will is enslaved by selfish
ness ; the imitation of all that is wrong is most
easyof all that is right most onerous; the
judgment is prone to perpetual error; the evil
passions grow and flourish, while the good are
educated with difficulty; anger and hatred, and
puny revenge often characterize the phenomena
of every day; and the exercise of the affections is
perverted continually.
It is indeed true that for many of these early
actions and expressions, children are not account
able; for we shall not believe that ajust and holy
God will be strict to mark iniquity in his crea
tures, before they have had their senses exer
cised to discern good from evil; but the exist
ence of the sinful propensity is not on this ac-
6 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
count the less easily demonstrable, nor is the
duty of parents less obvious. Shall neglect
the disposition of their children, because a merci
ful God will not require a strict judgment of their
earliest exercise ? Will they think lightly of those
sins for which Christ died, because their children
may be exempted from the punishment annexed
to every breach of the divine law, through the
merits of his atoning sacrifice ? Shall they suffer
the uninterrupted growth, the wild luxuriance of
unchecked evil disposition, to accumulate upon
their offspring till the period of its accountability
has arrived, and then send it into the world to
buffet with temptation in a thousand forms, with
a few barren principles to guide its darkling way
through life, and yet expect, or even hope that
thus ignorant of the nature of evil; thus destitute
of self-government; thus loaded with the pru
rient growth of evil disposition; thus misguided
by unsubdued passion ; thus hurried away by
uncontrouled, and undefined desire, it shall not
make shipwreck of faith and a good conscience ?
Shall that be termed affection which allows of a
proposition in morals, which would be illogical
and inconsequential in reasoning, and absurd in
mathematics? Shall we then defer the com
mencement of this regulation of the temper and
disposition till this unknown period of accounta
bility has arrived ? Shall we defer the prepara
tion for death until the period of dissolution, sim
ply because we know not when it may occur?
Rather, should we not be wise to-day; and not
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 7
knowing, nor seeking to define, when the actions
of a child become accountable, should we not act
as if that period were early, were immediate;
and should not the intervening hours, or days, or
months, or years be all devoted to that prepara
tion which will give it a knowledge of its duty,
and power to perform it, as far as that power is
within the reach of education.
It may indeed be said, that by the communi
cation of this knowledge, and by preparing the
child for its trials and difficulties, you hasten the
period when it will know good from evil; when
it will have power to choose the one, and eschew
the other, and when it will consequently have to
give an account of its actions; and that it is
thus placed in a worse situation than if it had
remained in ignorance! Miserable sophism in
deed ! proceeding upon an entire forgetfulness of
the principle just now laid down, that i f this
period ever may a
rrive, it must be cruelty to suffer
that future to become present, before the work of
preparation for its difficulties should commence;
and as if the situation of man were rendered
worse by the revelation of the will of God, and
by a knowledge of the way in which he may find
pardon and acceptance with Him. It is readily
granted that the guilt of those who remain ob
stinately and finally impenitent, as well as of
those, who in despite of religious knowledge and
education, go on and increase in sin, is immea
surably enhanced ; but shall the remedy be with
held from a
l
l, because there are some who will
8 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUC ATION.
not embrace it ? Shall the traveller through life
be deprived of the compass of observation, of the
remarks and cautions of former travellers, and of
all the maps and charts which may assist his pro
gress through an unknown country, because there
are those who reject these advantages; and that
precisely because their errors are the less pardon
able, if they do err with such guides and such
extensive information, and such preparation to
overcome difficulties, resist danger, and conquer
every enemy ? Such reasoning were absurd : be
it therefore the design, the uniform object of
parents, to become acquainted with that combi
nation of physical and moral agency, which forms
original predisposition in child, and which,
according to its permitted or counteracted influ
ence, will constitute character in the adult. We
have seen that this predisposition is towards that
which is evil; yet all are by no means equally
disposed to the same expression of depravity;
although the spring may be corrupt, yet the action*
of the heart may be widely different in indivi
duals ; in one case more amiable and benevolent,
in another stained with a darker shade of malig
nity. Such is the result of peculiarities of natural
temper and disposition, of the physical and moral
constitution, of relative situation favourable or
unfavourable to their development; of the pecu
liar temptations to which different ages of life are
exposed ; of the heedlessness and inconsideration
of youth, and of many other external causes:
hence the necessity of attending to the original
M ORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 9
or acquired bias, as manifested in the earliest
notices of intellect and feeling; and of so mould
ing and managing this tendency, as that it shall
advance, and not retard the childs happiness and
usefulness.
The parents earliest object will be to discover
what influence is exerted by the natural disposi
tion on the first actions, aye more, on the first
attempts towards action of her offspring; and
according to the judicious or injudicious employ
ment of the knowledge thus acquired, will be the
value of the future character. Here there can be
no such thing as the application of systematic
laws, and for the best possible reason, even be
cause they can have no existence. There is no
summary gauge of the human mind which can
shew its powers and properties: all that can be
said is, that there is an indefinite variety in the
dispositions of children, and that the individuality
of each can only be ascertained by examining the
germ of reason; by tracing its ramifications in
thought, and its expansion in intellect; by watch
ing over the earliest glow of affection, and the
feeblest scintillation of passion. These mani
festations and attributes of mental constitution,
though much altered, and governed, fostered, and
repressed by education, are not its offspring: the
predisposition exists, and is called into action by
instruction; the great object is therefore to ascer
tain early the nature of this predisposition, and to
awaken or repress it accordingly; or to diminish
10 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
he intensity of its influence, by some counter
vailing principle.
There are two great classes which may be se
parately defined, as possessing good or bad dis
positions : among the former, we may reckon the
mild, amiable, kind, generous, docile, affectionate,
compassionate, easily susceptible of the finer
and more delicate emotions, readily wrought upon
by an appeal to their feelings, and without dif
ficulty, biassed towards that which is right:
among the latter, may be distinguished as more
frequently observable, the obstinate, unamiable,
self-willed, ungovernable, proud, haughty, re
vengeful, and malicious. Any one of these cha
racters may predominate as a quality of the
mental manifestations, and give its prevailing hue
to all the rest. From this principal tinge, as ex
hibited in action, the parent judges of the influ
ence of the master passion of the heart, and of
its effect upon the character, when wrought up
and associated, when blended and amalgamated
with every thought and feeling; and from this
judgment forms her indications for the particular
plan of treatment. This predominating charac
ter has a tendency to prejudice the mind, to cause
it to see through its own medium, and to repre
sent things which are not as though they w ere;
and things which are, under distorted or imagina
tive forms; thus directly leading to error of
opinion, and obliquity of conduct.
In forming this estimate of the prevailing and
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS E D UC A TIO N . 11
influential motive and spring of action, care must
be taken by the parent, lest her attention be ri-
vetted by some prominent but superficial attri
bute, to the neglect of the deeper workings of
the soul; those hidden influences, which are only
the more powerful from their profundity; which
escape the notice of every common observer;
but which by and bye astonish by their explosion,
and then give some colour to the idea that the
character has been changed, whereas it has only
been misunderstood. It is not a limited observation
which will suffice for this purpose, or the parent
will be varying her views with the occurrences
of every day; it is not for a single symptom she
is called upon to prescribe, but for that aggregate
of phenomena and their general influence, which
constitute the indications of health or disease.
Perhaps nothing can exert a more injurious in
fluence upon the young, than that ever-changing
system of instruction, which will arise from this
partial, and hasty, and superficial estimate of
character; for not only will the remedy em
ployed, be generally ill-suited to the existing
condition of the mental system; but also, very
frequently, the real source of the apparent dis
position will be entirely overlooked and mistaken.
It is then, the general direction and bent of all
the actions of the soul which must be considered,'
as well as the influence exerted over them by
tem per; it is the prevailing features which shadow
out the character, as a thinking, acting, sentient
being; it is the correspondence, or the want of
12 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
affinity between professed motives,and independent
actions, which are the consequence of real motives;
it is the inquiry into the chief objects of desire,
the pursuit of which involves the largest share of
interest and devotion; and the nature and pros
pective bearing of those objects; it is to ascertain
what habits and customs appear to be prevalent
in the little enclosure and retreat of infantile ex
istence ; what seem to be the characteristic
wishes and amusements of the mind; what is the
particular mode of its feeble judging powers, in
things not placed beyond the reach of its capa
city ; it is to judge of its method of observation,
and aptitude for reasoning; it is to ascertain how
the economy of its little expenditure is guided;
and in fact, to watch over every thing which can
give an acquaintance with the actions of mind,
and their motives; to accumulate the results of
these several inquiries, to estimate their relative
importance, and having given to all their due
weight and measure, both as separate principles,
and in their collective influence, to determine
what is that prevailing mould which we term
disposition, and from which the character will by
and bye stand out in distinct and undeniable line
aments.
We shall elucidate the importance and the ap
plication of this principle by illustrating its em
ployment upon two very different characters,
which may be variously termed according to the
mood of the inquirer, the amiable, the yielding,
the docile, the vacillating, and the unstable;
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 13
and the unamiable, the firm, the persevering, the
unbending, and the obstinate. It may be here
remarked, enpassant, that if the same character
will admit ofsuch different appellations, according
to the view taken by the parental inquirer, how
important it is that she should be divested of pre
judice ; and that she should bring to the investi
gation, a mind anxious only for the real good of
her children, unwarped by feeling, not blinded
by excessive affection, sincerely desirous of ascer
taining the whole truth, undaunted by difficulty,
uninfluenced by -partiality; with a correct judg
ment, inflexible to ill, and obstinately just.
The yielding disposition is not uncommon; it
is attended with peculiar danger, and requires
incessant care and watchfulness. The first im
pression of this character is pleasing, and as
such, it often obtains credit for more than it de
serves, and procures for itself a larger share of
esteem than it is justly entitled to. For upon di
ligent inquiry, it will be found, that this gentle
yielding, this tenderness for the opinion of others,
this docility of judgment, arises often from vacil
lation and unsteadiness of principle, rather than
a freedom from prejudice, opeiiness to conviction,
the formation of deliberate views, and subsequent
government of the conduct by these determina
tions. Feeling influences the judgment more than
principle, and the stimulus of occasion usurps
the sway over the cooler dictates of reason. But
even here, there is to be observed a degree of ca
price, the absence of constancy and uniformity of
14 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
result, which is in truth rather to be ascribed to
a want of energy, and positive feebleness of pur
pose, than to the influence of benevolence or good
nature. Though favourable to the reception of
truth, it is equally assailable by error, and is rea
dily drawn aside into perversity, folly, indiscre
tion, and vice. It is easily persuaded and sub
jected to the dominion of prejudice; it wants
firmness to resist temptation, and where this is
presented to the judgment , or to it through the
medium of the affections, it is more particularly
operative upon this state of mind; the character
is deflected from the right way; its whole course
is marked with debility; it stumbles and falls.
Errors of opinion; a frequent change of views;
a fondness for doubt on the one hand, or of un
compromising belief on the other; scepticism in
matters of religion, or superstition, credulity, and
enthusiasm, particularly characterize opposite
conditions of this yielding disposition, and make
its possessor an easy prey to the designing and the
crafty. In matters of conduct too, this flexibility
of temper will often induce a criminal compliance
with the habits and maxims of those around us,
rather than a steady uniform adherence to fixed
and immutable principles. Much may be accom
plished by the aid of education, and by the ju
dicious employment of sound data, on which to
ground rational and consistent thought and action;
the disposition to yield is to be discouraged, and
a counter operation is to be excited, by calling
into action principles of a more solid aspect; or.
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 16
in other words, by cultivating that firmness which
we have before mentioned as forming another
great characteristic of mind.
This latter (firmness) is marked by steady per*
severance in pursuit, by ardour and unvarying
constancy of affection, and by a degree of inflex
ibility which may be mistaken for obstinacy and
mechanical opposition, and which give an
unamiable impression to the character. But it is
not so generally: and under proper limitations,
it is this which will lead to decision of purpose.
Determined obstinacy is more frequently the re
sult of early mismanagement than of natural dis
position : it does however frequently exist in the
latter form: it is then only to be recollected,
that it arises from a good principle in excess, viz.
firmness of purpose, perverted by that melan
choly tendendy to evil, which so prominently
distinguishes the children of Adam; and which
is always to be overcome by the parent, by a
steady adherence to principle on her part, and by
never suffering a single triumph of self-will on the
part of her offspring. The mothers authority
must always be paramount: she must always be
victorious, and wo to the little being whose in- I
structor is not possessed of firmness sufficient to \
accomplish this success.
'While obstinacy sometimes marks the mani
festations of mind in the firm , itidifference more
rarely, but occasionally, places a barrier in the
way of successful education: there is a want of
feeling, an impassiveness of impression, which
16 MORAL' AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
forbids its subject to be roused by the high and
holy prospect of virtue, or by the ugliness and
deformity of vice ; it passes through life unheed
ing and uncared for ; it is not remarkable for any
great, good, or bad qualities; does not possess de
termined principles ; is little careful as to what
shall actuate its conduct; and subjected as it is
to the common infirmities of man, without a de
sire to oppose them, it is too commonly found on
the side of all that is hurtful in society, or erro
neous in opinion. If care be taken to avoid these
dangers,rocks on which many a would-be de
cided character has made shipwreck, the firm
disposition will deserve to be cherished and en
couraged. While the former of these is too rea
dily influenced by the opinion of others, the un
yielding is perhaps too careless concerning it.
The golden mean will be the surest guide: the
opinions of others, asmatters o f fa ith , or grounds
f o r conduct, are not to be received; but the shades
of character which these designate are entitled to
their due weight, to throw light upon the philo
sophy of action ; to be estimated in the balances
of reason and religion ; to command respect and
attention, so far as they are consistent with truth;
to be treated with candour and kindness, where
they are opposed to this rule; and to be allowed
their full meed of concession, on every point
which is not at variance with principle. We may
not become the slaves of opinion; neither should
we expect or wish to tyrannize over it ; a defer
ence to its dicta, and obedience to the conviction
MOItAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 17
arising from its coincidence with the unchangeable
nature of truth,these are the great yet defined
limits to its influence.
Having arrived at an acquaintance with the
natural disposition of the child, its direction and
amelioration will form the grand objects of the pa
rent : very much may be accomplished in educing,
and carefully guarding the application of that
which is good ; and much also in governing, sub
duing, and neutralising the influence of that
which is bad. It will be always the part of edu
cation, to encourage the growth of the former,
and to repress the influence of the latter. But
these objects involve a variety of considerations,
by an attention to which alone, can they be suc
cessfully promoted. As a principle applicable to
every case, it may be asserted that great delicacy
of tact is required in the moral management of
these indications, and that without it', success is
scarcely to be hoped for, or expected.
The disposition, though naturally good, may
have been soured by neglect, or it may fail of
producing its legitimate fruits, in consequence of
not being supported in its feeble purposes, or di
rected to its proper objects, or guided and in
structed in the mode of its exercise. Thus, for
instance, a good natural disposition, apart from
this presupposed care, may form a  mighty good
sort o f m an but nothing farther; that is, a harm
less and inoffensive, but not auseful and beneficent
being. But is it possible, that one who fa ils in
the performance of duty can be harmless and in-
VOL. II. c
18 MORAL AND IIEI-IGIOOS EDUCATION.
offensive ? Is it possible, that negative goodness,
the absence of gross evil, can be placed in the
room of that activity of practical piety, which
alone can give value to the character. Society
can never be improved by such of its members :
they will act as a dead weight upon its interests,
which will be retarded rather than advanced by
their influence and example. It is then not only
necessary to stifle evil tempers, but to educe and
cultivate those which are amiable, to guard them
from evil, and to guide them to a proper exercise;
since if reduced to action without judgment, they
will not be accompanied by the expected results;
and when most relied upon, will occasion disap*
pointment, by rendering that inert and valueless,
which if judiciously employed, would have been
inestimable. The proper circumstances under
which the principle, or class of principles, of
which disposition forms the expression, and upon
which it ought, and can alone be securely
grounded, must be distinctly pointed out: obsta
cles to its exercise must be removed ; it must be
supported in difficulty, instructed in doubt, and
strengthened by retaining the principle, and the
active disposition in intimate, constant, and uni
form apposition, so as to fix and concentrate the
conduct, by giving it an indestructible basis, and
a worthy object.
While the good disposition is cultivated, and
opportunities for its exercise and development
are studiously afforded, the heart must be pre
pared to combat with circumstances, which in
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 19
their uncontrolled influence would give rise to
evil and opposing tempers, and their inevitable
result when indulged, viz. bad disposition.
The anxious parent will also seek to ameliorate
what she cannot wholly subdue, and to supply
what is defective. A naturally violent disposition,
unrestrained, and 
permitted its full agency over
the mind, will soon increase its demands; it will
be more and more imperious in its dictates; it
will obtain complete possession of the heart, and
sway the mental actions into obedience to its im
pulse, so that all the manifestations of mind, will
be tinged and deteriorated by it. This occurs in
aggravated instances; but in all cases, a single
connivance of evil disposition, leads to repeated
indulgence, and this again to habitual gratifica
tion ; hence the vast importance of improving
that which cannot be entirely superseded. This
object is to be effected, by shewing the child,
the mischievous tendency of the temper or dispo
sition in question, and the danger of its supre
macy ; by teaching the necessity for its continual
repression; by assisting in the regular perform
ance of this difficult and painful duty; and by
drawing out into action, and stimulating into
prominence, other dispositions, which when esta
blished, will in some measure abolish the neces
sity, for constantly struggling to oppose and to
remove that which is banefully operative.
The suppression of evil temper and disposition
must not however be taught as consisting in me
chanical opposition to their influence ; but it must
c 2
2 0 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUC ATION.
be inculcated on the principles of divine truth;
since these are the only motives, which by the
grace of God, will be rendered permanently in
fluential upon the conduct, or which can be at all
relied upon in the hour of difficulty and of trial.
f If the temper be unsubdued, the sacrifices of
principle it requires, will continually increase ;
if it be uniformly governed, its influence will be
more easily opposed and subdued ; and in both
cases, exactly in proportion to the number, and
I the importance of the occasions on which the
I victory has been gained, or defeat has been expe-
\ rienced. But the parents work is not yet done,
since there remains to be supplied whatever is
defective. Where there is one dominant temper,
it will very generally happen, that that to which
it stands opposed is imperfect, or the latter would
have regulated the former, and the equilibrium
of their mutual influence would have been sus
tained. Establish this natural counteragent, and
render the mind less susceptible of the morbid
operation of that to which it stands in the rela
tion of intimate sympathy, and a great point will
be gained.
In correcting evil temper and disposition, and
in obviating the tendency of the individual to be
acted upon by their influence, it is of the first
consequence to be thoroughly acquainted with its
nature, its changeful form, its variety of appear
ance, its modifications of power under different
circumstances, together with all its associated
connexions. The knowledge of a disease is more
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 21
than half its cure, and without it, there can be
no chance for the just application of remedial
measures. Parents, and even subordinate agents,
should be exceedingly cautious, that they do not
so act towards a child, as wantonly to irritate and
teaze it, to sour the temper, and occasion a lurk
ing discontent, and fretfulness, and peevish irri
tability, which too frequently lead to the solicita
tion, and easy victory of some powerful evil
passion. Totally to eradicate the natural, predis
position is perhaps impossible; and if possible,
would not be desirable, since it would destroy
the identity of the character: but the tendency
of this original bias, may be regulated and con-
trouled; its influence may be over-ruled; its ope
rations may be governed ; and its agency may be
repressed.
In accomplishing these great objects, the mo
ther will not only estimate the intellectual capa
city of her child, encourage and developits growth,
and support its power when feeble : she will not
only teach its tender shoots to cling around her
for the strength they do not possess in them
selves ; defend them from the injurious agency of
passion; correct their obliquities; repress their
too luxuriant action, which threatens to reduce
the mind to that irritable state, in which it may
become incapable of receiving or retaining solid
instruction,and when from its want of uniform
reference to principle, it is liable to act, and to
be acted upon by feeling only: but she will con
sider bfer work as only half done, if while she
2 2 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS ED UC A TIO N .
gently leads the timid and the weak, and encou
rages them to slowly augmented efforts, and
fatigues by exertion, and by conscious failure,
the strong, the lively, and the active, she do not
also carry her views beyond the purely intellec
tual or recipient faculty, and perceive that her
efforts may be efficiently directed to a higher ob
ject ; and that education may be made the means
of correcting, confirming, or reforming the mould
of the temper and disposition. She will anxiously
trace the earliest dawn of action, as designative
of the influence these possess ; and she will seek
to foster what is right in conduct, and bringit into
prominence ; to correct what is likely to become
a snare; to strengthen what is feeble, and call
into active being that which lurks in the retire
ment of the heart.
The child is not merely an intellectual being,
but is possessed of, and influenced by, passions
and affections, all of which will materially
act upon the character, as well as detract from,
or minister to the vigour of the mental manifesta
tions. There is no possibility of separating these
considerations. In the complex creature man,
as seen by a superficial observer, he appears a
mass of contradictions and inconsistencies; but
a close and intimate acquaintance with his nature,
will shew that this want of order is only apparent,
and arising from our ignorance of the laws, which
though unseen and unknown, do certainly operate
in binding up these seeming circumstances into a
beautiful and harmonious system of united and
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUC ATION. 2 3
independent action, of which we trace the effects,
although we cannot follow any step of -the pro
cess. So it is with light and heat, the laws of
gravitation, the chemical agency of electricity and
galvanism, the influence of magnetism, the efforts
of simple volition, the application of human reason
to any given object: we trace their history from
their effects; we reason upon them, and learn
many of the phenomena which constitute invari
able rules of their action; but there are many
others which we cannot fathom, and we remain
as ignorant as ever of their real nature. Yet we
reason upon what we doknow, and what w
not explain of their effects, we most naturally
ascribe to that ignorance, which we allow, ob
scures from our notice, their primary laws.
Without wasting our time in any curious inquiry
into what constitutes the aptitude for particular
disposition, we may further assert, that in addition
to this predisposition, these mental phenomena
are attached to natural constitution by early ac
tion, by education, by indulgence, by continued
habit, and by youthful prejudices, which root
deeply in the mental soil, and acquire a vast ac
cession of strength by time, and above all, by that
which is miscalled experience, but which as ap
plied to prejudice, is nothing less than a succes
sion of errors, perpetuated by the recurrence of
the original error, laden with the accumulated
weight of years of mismanagement, sophisticated
thought, perverted judgment, and misgoverned
passion.
2 4 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
Again, those mental manifestations which are
not naturally active, should be early exercised,
or by the inordinate growth of other more com
manding features, the development of the former
will be impeded, and their strength impaired :
they will remain puny and inefficient, while their
power will be quickly impugned by their more
hardy or overbearing associates. But if stimu
lated into importance, they will, on the contrary,
form a truly valuable barrier against dispositions,
which may have been repressed by principle ; but
which require the constant exercise of the original
counter-agent, as well as the sleepless supervision
of the parent, to hinder them' from again assert
ing their claims to be heard.
We have already seen, that there is a great dif
ference in original disposition ; that some children
are naturally gentle, docile, easily led, and weak;
that others are stubborn, wilful, obstinate, and
morose; while others again are characterized by
the predominance of envy or malice, selfishness
or peevishness, discontent, or pride, or excessive
volatility; we have already seen how these dif
ferent states may be influenced by religious in
struction : but it becomes a question how the
( mind may be strengthened and guarded against
\ their influence, so as to be less liable to be sur-
'
prised by their sinister agency, upon its unpre-
. pared and defenceless manifestations. We have
moreover seen, that the former character is too
I plastic, too easily moulded by circumstances, too
J capable of being acted upon by impressions which
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 2 5
it ought to resist; that its native mildness will be
a snare; that it will be decided only, while all
things are smooth around it; and that it will yield
before the rude blast of opposition, the sigh of
the wintry storm of 'adversity, the turbulence of
conflicting passion, or worse than all, the sun
shine of this worlds approbation. The indication
here is obvious, viz. to enforce the entire depend
ence of action upon principle, of principle upon
the word of God ; and the absolute necessity of
a constant reference to both, in order to render
conduct either free from danger, or from imper
fection. A moments reflection must convince,
how difficult it is, to make the mild and open,
ingenuous character, really conscious that others
will be actuated by designing errors, or evil in
any of its hydra forms : nature has formed it un
suspecting, and it is easily betrayed. The parent
will often find a secure (though an indirect) re
medy in intellectual, rather than in moral instruc
tion ; for if the tone of the mind can be raised in
this way to a certain extent, and attention can be
fixed; ifit canbe taught to deduce effects fromtheir
causes; if it can be induced to reason out conse
quences from the collection and mutual relation
of a certain number of acknowledged principles,
and to receive that only as established which it
is capable of appreciating, though it cannot de
monstrate, it will assume the mould of reason,
and will carry its impression into active life, an
impression which will prove a most important
2 6 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
defence, and which will induce the individual to
ask, before he acts, before even he admits of the
validity of a conclusion, is it consistent with rea-
son ? Conviction arising out of deliberate judg
ment is the object sought after; and in morals is
analogous, and of equal fo rc e with the dem onstra
tions of mathematicians.
This observation perhaps requires some further
explanation; or it may be thought that too great
power has been allowed to , too little to
the moral tact of conscience. But let it be re
membered, that by the proposition, it is sup
posed that reason is exerted upon the dictates of
revelation; and that conscience results from an
interior judgment formed upon the same basis.
No fears need be entertained from teaching a
child to reason, where this is subordinated to reve
lation, and where the difference is rightly under
stood, between those things which are beyond
reason, and those which a re opposed to it. Of the
former class, there are many facts, and maxims,
and opinions which are adopted without hesita
tion, because they are recorded by the pen of in
spiration, which as in fin itely superior to reason, are
not fit subjects for the exercise of this principle,
and which then stand in the place of reason,
only with the additional authority of conscience,
and the weight of omniscience : but of the latter,
or those which are co n tra ry to reason, man does
not adopt them, or bow to their influence, because
they are opposed to his own judgment and con-
M O R A L . A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 2 7
viction, to the voice of conscience, and to the
authority of revelation. The fear then of placing
reason in the room of obedience to the will of
God is quite chimerical; since it is a talent,
which if duly exercised can only add to the
glory of God, and secure the performance of
what he e
njoins. Here it is therefore, that the
study of E uclid will be eminently beneficial; at
tention to his demonstrations will not render the
mind less impressible by truth, but will preserve
it from yielding to the impulse of error, will en
able it to detect inconsequential reasoning, and
will fortify it against the dogmas of designing pro
fligacy. This study will however, only form one
great feature o f a system which will be pursued
from the earliest indication of mental power, and
which by accustoming the mind to reason, will
diminish its tendency to be acted upon byfeeling.
In the completion of this system, the demonstra
tion of fixed science must not be very early re
sorted to; for it may then be capable of impair
ing the mental vigour, by creating too large a de
mand upon its exertions, and thereby depressing
and enfeebling the power which is necessary to
sustain them. The criterion for the utility of
this study, is not to employ it as a remedy, until
the demonstrations of reason can be relished.
The hand of the instructress, may in like man
ner counteract, or encourage any other form of
natural disposition, by some of the means which
nature and art, reason and religion, science and
2 8 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
revelation, have placed within her power, but
which we cannot now particularize ; the above is
merely the exemplification of a principle, which
must be left for its application to the immediate
judgment of the parent. We shall, therefore,
now proceed to notice some of the more frequent
characteristics of childhood, as pride and self-
conceitdisobedience to parentsthe love of
pleasure, and carelessness of religion.
29
CHAP. X.
T H E S A M E S U B J E C T C O N T I N U E D  O N P R I D E A N D S E L F -
C O N C E I T .
T h e s e principles are thrown together for united
consideration, because of their mutual affinity,
and from their interchange of motive: since the
former commonly arises from the opinion we may
have formed of the great and good qualities we
possess, or think wepossess ; since it enlarg
diameter of our self-importance ; since it borrows
not support from the opinion of others; and
since it places the circle of individual enjoyment
in self alone! Hence the common observation,
that such an one is  bloated out with pride the
views of his own estimation are extended beyond
their just measure ; and although when amalga
mated with the complex character of man, it
may not be always easy to unravel the per
plexities and interlacings of thought and action ,
yet it may not perhaps be unfair to state, the
gradations of this principle, as consisting in igno
rance, leading to an erroneous judgment of self,
a conceited view of our own good qualities, and
the fully formed state of the mind, which we de
nominate pride.
Thus originating in evil, much good cannot be
3 0 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
expected to result from its influence ; but it will
be shewn hereafter, that this pride, so natural to
the human heart, m aybe rendered availa
some good purpose; and it is highly desirable, if
the last traces of a principle of wrong which can
not be wholly eradicated, m ay be converted into
the agent of some useful consequence.
Pride influences the children of men, almost
from the cradle to the grave; it is one of the
first developed dispositions ; it cleaves to the
individual through all the mortifications of colli
sion with an envious and detracting world, and
is perhaps scarcely ever completely subdued, till
mortality shall have been swallowed up of life ;
till we shall have been transformed into the
image of H im who was meek and lowlywho
was despised and rejected of men, who was op
pressed and afflicted, yet opened not his mouth ;
who was brought as a lamb to the slaughter, who
made his grave with the wicked, and humbled
himself to the death of the cross for our trans
gressionswho when he was reviled, reviled not
again, and who with all the consciousness of his
divine mission, and of his infinite power, wisdom,
and knowledge, yet gave an undeviating example
of that humbleness of thought, and feeling, and
conduct, in which consists the true greatness
of Christianity, and the influence of which raises
its possessor more and more nearly to an assimi
lation with the spirits of the just made perfect in
heaven. Pride is so incorporated with the men
tal manifestations, as to form an active, constant
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 31
principle; and its natural and uncontrouled ten
dency, as being directly opposed to the character
of Christ, must be towards evil. Its effects are
not so visible in after life, either from a lesson of
humility having been obtained by the deeply-felt
mortifications of experience ; or perhaps more
frequently in consequence of wearing an artificial
web of manner, that we may be enabled to dis
guise it more artfully from the notice of others,
and thus avoid the aggravation of our mortifica
tion, which arises from the triumphant sneer of a
more successful competitor.
Thus then the influence of pride is extensive
and baneful, since it is hostile to the reception
of the humbling truths of Christianity, which
teach its disciples to be patient towards all men,
meek, lowly, distrustful of self, and to esteem
others better than themselves. It produces and
fosters a self-righteous principle; and prevents
the heart from acknowledging its own sinfulness
and need of a Saviour, because it cannot enter
tain a deep feeling of its unworthiness; while it
is induced to rely on the efficacy of its exertions,
and is blinded to the fearful evil and awful danger
of sin, thus retaining the mind under cover of
the night of ignorance, and in the gloomy secu
rity of arrested progress. Yet with all this tor-
pifying influence, such is its extensive power,
that under different circumstances pride becomes
a restless principle, continually producing un
easiness: we cannot pass through life without its
being perpetually wounded, and this wound is
3 2 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
deeply felt, difficultly borne, and not easily
healed. It is also frequently the parent of pre
judice, and as such leads to unjust and injurious
views of men and things, and occasions personal,
domestic and social unhappiness: so that in its
common acceptation it is evil in itself; opposed
to the law of God, and the character of Christ;
it conducts to error ; militates against our happi
ness, and impedes our usefulness, and therefore
the parent has the most powerful motives to sub
due a principle, which can only be effectually
extinguished or superseded by the power of divine
grace, producing holiness of heart and life; yet
which, as an active and influential motive, may
be in a great degree kept under by habit and
attentive correction.
This natural product of the heart of fallen man
 nay more, this principle which produ ced that
very fall, and which is so directly at variance
with the Christian religion, that it is even now the
greatest obstacle to its reception, will require
continued watchfulness. Hum ility is the promi
nent characteristic of the disciples of H im who
impressed the necessity for the entire influence
of this disposition on his follow ers: and it has
attached to its exercise the highest promise of
good, for  theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
It is remarkable, too, that this is the very first of
the beatitudes, as if of primary importance ; as if
it formed a basis for the Christian character, and
as if its impression should be invariably and
deeply marked on every other mental manifesta-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 3 3
tion. N ot only is the principle of pride hostile
to the reception of the humbling doctrines of
Christianity; but their profession and belief does
sometimes give occasion to the development of
spiritual pride, and its consequence the security
and inaction of palsied exertion, arising from a
review of religious attainment; so greedily does
this principle convert even that which is good
into that which must of necessity become the
minister of ill. How all-important, then, is the
inculcation of the counter principle of dependence
on the author of all our blessings; a principle of
humility, which the teaching and example of
Christ have shewli to be one of universal opera
tion ; which should increase from every fresh ac
quisition of knowledge, and which should be most
carefully engrafted on every newly developed
thought and feeling. So completely is this the
appropriate grace of Christianity, that it cannot
exist, as a dominant principle, in a heart that has
not been softened by religion, and then it will
grow and increase with the augmented influence
of the latter; and in proportion as the Christian
likeness is more completely transfused into the
soul, so will humility be more uniformly opera
tive, and communicate its prevailing tinge to the
conduct; since apparent piety, which can be
founded on any other principle than the morality
of the gospel, must inevitably proceed from false
views, be resolvable into pride and self-love, and
be inimical to the Christian character. Having
then established this principle for the guidance
VOL. II. n
3 4 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
of parental conduct, we shall be enabled to trace
the operation of pride upon several varieties of
disposition, produced from this one great source
of evil.
1. Pride is manifested in very early infancy,
and perhaps first with regard to dress! And
does not the sound of this term drop upon the ear
of parents with recollections of remorse ? Does
it not awaken the monitions of conscience, and
excite the slumbering inquiry may not this
beneficial principle have been developed and fos
tered by their ignorance, or carelessness, or the
want of due consideration ? It is not necessary
to ask, neither if it were, would it be easily deter
mined, whether the principle of pride being found
in the bosom of infancy, it would not, under all
circumstances, have been forced into action : but
certain it is, that children are taught to admire
dress; and they soon become proud of that to
which they have been instructed to affix con
siderable value, especially if it may have been
carefully instilled into their minds that one
article of dress is superior to another, or superior
to that which is worn by others. A pitiful source
of pride truly! as if man should convert the
necessities of his own feebleness, that in which he
is so much less defended by nature than the beasts
around him, into the cause of arousing a spirit
which assimilates him with the subjects of the
evil one. Where parents themselves may be
guiltless of encouraging this fault, they will often
suffer the principle to be developed in the nur-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 3 5
sery ; and servants too frequently teach children
to attach an undefined value to certain articles,
because they are new, or vep retty, or
than oth ers; thus encouraging a fondness for no
velty, and forming a false estimate of real worth,
by attaching to it some external qualities, rather
than its useful intrinsic properties. There can
be no objection to children being neatly, simply,
elegantly dressed; nay, when this is commonly
the case, it occurs so completely as a matter of
course and of secondary consequence, that it does
not inculcate any supposed pre-eminence. But j
where a contrary course has been pursued; where {
the attention has been fixed on any little piece
of finery, (and let parents beware how they suffer )
their own vanity to induce them to decorate the
persons of their offspring,) the consequence of <
this indiscretion will be the development of pride,
and its progress towards envy, a taste for dress,
a spirit of rivalry, a fondness for display, the love
of dissipated society in order to afford opportu
nities for this foible, excessive attention to the
person, anxiety to render it acceptable to others,
and to attract their notice; and w hither now is not
this principle hastening us ? where can we feel
assured that its progress may be arrested ? and
that it will not terminate in the loss of all that is
held most dear, in the whirlpool of vice, and the
tear of penitence, if not in the anguish of re
morse, and the cruel recollections of the finally
impenitent, the gloomy despair of those who are
left without hope ?
d 2
3 6 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
On the contrary, where this exciting cause of
the evil principle pride has been avoided, the
mind is less in danger of submitting to its influ
ence ; while the temptation to dress is subordi
nated to juster views and motives, viz. that
clothing is intended for the purposes of cleanli
ness, and warmth, and protection from the influ
ence of weather; not as an ornament to the
person, or as affording a groundof distinction and
pre-eminence. In order fully to accomplish these
views, it is only necessary that in the article of
dress, simplicity and neatness, the avoidance of
singularity, the considerations of warmth, conve
nience, and propriety, should be consulted; and
that the system of apparel should be the same on
every day. It may be well for parents to con
sider, whether this principle be not infringed by
making any marked difference in the dress on
Sunday. It is a poor distinction for that sacred
day, to make it consist in the display of gay
clothing, rather than in the confessions of hu
mility ; in the idolatry of self, rather than in the
worship of the Most H igh; and with the quick
sensibility and uninformed judgment of infancy, a
much more powerful impression will be made by
a splendid colour, or a choiceness and fastidious
ness of attire, than by all the precepts of divine
truth, or by an attendance on a place of worship,
or even by the loud strains of the organ.
To err on the subject of dress, however, it is
not necessary to decorate the child with a profu
sion of ornament on particular occasions : a pre-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 3 7
cisely similar effect may be produced by the want
ofgeneralcleanliness in its exterior, and by observing
only under especial circumstances, and extraor
dinary days, th at neatness which should be the uni
versal and unbroken rule. Again, the object in 
view is to be effected, not by dressing children |
vulgarly, for this would be to make them careless
of sustaining their situation in society, or proud
of their affected sin gu larity; but the varying
mode should be adopted according to their station, /
and should be characterized by cleanliness, sim- j
plicity, and a regard to propriety, which will not
excite remark. And not to be too rigid, there '
can be no objection to ornament of a simple kind,
provided children are taught to esteem it as
triflin g, and not to consider it as valuable, or as
an object upon which to place their little hearts,
to admire, and be proud o f; since this principle,
once developed, will tyrannize over the will, and
enslave its power. The evil then, does not con
sist so much in the thing itself, as in the circum
stances with which it stands connected; not in
the sim ple w earing of an unmeaning bauble, but in
its exhibition, and in the inordinate value with
which it is invested.
2. Another form in which we trace the influence
ofpride, is in the esteem o f personal beauty. Strange
indeed is it, that parents should be so little alive
to the importance of early association; so little
sensible to the noxious influence of apparently
trifling causes, that they heedlessly encourage
that, which in a moment of cool thought, they
3 8 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION'.
must be most anxious to repress, or rather to
stifle ere it can be said to possess existence. Per
sonal beauty is a dangerous possession; it need
never be coveted or desired ; it will rather be de
precated by the prudent, and at all events should
be kept from the knowledge of the child : its un
conscious innocence should not be marred by the
communication of intelligence which can only
produce an injurious effect. Unfortunately this
disposition Originates too frequently with servants.
The child is taught to think itself handsome; the
preservation of this personal beauty is employed
as a motive to good tem per; it is instructed not
to spoil its pretty face by crying or ill humour, as
if it were of more consequence to preserve the
form of the countenance, than to obey the com
mand of God. Thus first acquainted with the
fact that it possesses personal beauty, a fact
which it never should know as a child, it is next
taught to estimate this possession as valuable, and
to throw the scorn of its pity upon those who are
less abundantly favoured by nature; and then are
developed the love and enjoyment offlattery, fos
tered and nourished with all its consecutive temp
tations, and supported by all the frailties and
imperfections of our nature; since that which is
painful in the retrospect, is most gladly con
signed to oblivion by the soothing accents of some
deceitful tongue. B y degrees, as the under
standing expands, the child soon attaches personal
influence to personal charms, and expects that all
will yield to its pre-eminent importance ; it be-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 3 9
lieves in the omnipotence of beauty, and in the
same proportion undervalues other objects of pur
suit; and forgetful that at his very best, man
coraeth forth as a flower, and is soon cut dow n;
that the grass withereth, the flower fadeth, and
the grace of the fashion of it passeth away, it still
rests on this empty gift; and pride, ignorance,
and conceit, are interwoven to form the character
of silly prettiness, and beautiful insignificance.
To counteract this tendency, a better principle
must be instilled ; the young must be taught that
the beauty of virtue, not personal form; to be
good and to do good, constitute the worth of
character: personal beauty is evanescent, and at
most lasts but for a few days, while disease may
destroy it at a much earlier hour: it is deeply in
teresting only to the wicked or the foolish, to
those whom it is disgraceful to attract, or by
whom it is contemptible to be noticed! and when
beauty has fled, where are they who have rested
in its continuance, who have placed their hopes
on this crown of pride, and are now left to endure
the cruel pang of neglect, and to feel the wretch
edness and misery of life, if there be not an in
trinsic value attached to the character, by the
great objects of every days action; by the infi
nite interest of its hopes and fears, its present
conduct, its anticipations of futurity. These
arguments must be constantly impressed upon the
minds of children, and must be practically en
forced ; while at the same time, the cautious
parent, well knowing the proneness of the heart
40 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
to be led astray by this passion, will keep the
possession out of sight, and will guard against ex
citing an idea, which when entertained and cul
tivated, is too frequently fatal to the worth, the
purity, and prosperity of its possessor. The more
dangerous the gift, the greater will be the cau
tion required to neutralize its influence, and to
preserve its subject from the snares with which
it is so closely environed.
3. The pride of intellect and acquisition, will
claim the parents attention ; and as it is a principle
very extensively operative, as well with the child of
genius as with the dull, the occasions for its ex
ercise will be so frequent, as to demand the
greatest vigilance. It is the mothers delight, as
well as her duty, to cultivate the mind of her off
spring ; but in so doing, she must be careful that
she do not make intellectual pursuits, the great
good, the first aim and end of existence. Such is
the tendency of the human heart, that no sooner
does the understanding obtain a little knowledge,
than it fancies itself wise;
and if this e
fered to grow, and to maintain its influence, it
will soon absorb the mental powers, and oppress
them with the withering mildew of perverted
talent. The immediate remedy for this state, is the
acquisition of more knowledge; for thus it is that
the child may possibly acquaint itself with its own
ignorance, and learn first of all, the principle
which is the basis of all true science, and the off
spring of that modesty and diffidence, with which
it should ever be accompanied ; viz. that the hu-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 41
man mind is, and ever must remain, grossly
ignorant of many things which it might acquire,
and ought to know ; and that even if it possessed
all accessible information, there is yet a bound
less field of inquiry on which it never has entered,
and cannot hope to explore. But the infusion of
this extensive knowledge does not invariably cre
ate the distrust which can alone render safe its
possession; for there are minds so constituted,
that they cannot, or will not feel the poverty of
their highest attainment, and will perversely com-
-pare their step in advance, not with what it might
have been, if their talents had been improved to
the utmost, or with the immensity of the field of
investigation ; but with o t h e r s whose powers of
industry have been less than theirs: and conclude
by drawing from the comparison a flattering esti
mate of their own possession. Or there are indi
viduals, the development of whose judgment has
not kept pace with their literary hoarding, and
who become, by a similar process, conceited and
pedantic, while both characters transfer the wor
ship of their hearts to the idol intellect, and yield
their whole soul to its enthralling influence. The '
pride of learning is the most obstinate, self-willed,
and uncontroulable, as well as the most difficult
of cure. This difficulty consists in the constant ;
attempt to discourage pride, at the same time that a
thirst /orknowledge is fostered; that true knowledge
which is valuable in itself, and which also forms ]
a powerful means of subduing pride. The sub
jugation of this principle is however to be at-
4 2 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
tempted by shewing the child much it is
ignorant of, that others are acquainted with ; by
detailing how comparatively small a quantity of
knowledge is or can be acquired even by those
more highly gifted individuals, the bounds of
whose ignorance are so much more circumscribed
than its own ; by proving the littleness of the
human intellect from its incapacity to comprehend
even natural events, the common phenomena of
every day and every hour; and the positive fee
bleness of its highest aspirations, in consequence
of finding every where a barrier placed to its
researches. It is to be attempted farther by
shewing, that this incapacity is the consequence
of sin, and of that perverting change which has
passed upon all men since the fall, by which man
has lost the image of his high original, and the
powers of his mind have been stunted and mis
applied by their alliance with gross, feeble, ex
piring materiality. It is again to be attempted,
by shewing the superiority of Christian knowledge
to that which is merely intellectual, the infinite
value of the humility of the gospel, and the real
worthlessness of the pride of learning, a posses
sion which the slightest cold will deprive of its
power to please, which the fever of a day may
obscure perhaps for months, and which a more
powerful bodily impression may eclipse for ever:
for it should always be kept in view, that genius and
insanity are most nearly allied, and that there is
but a step, a single step between the highest ex
citation of intellectual health, and the first
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 4 3
tionof diseasea disease too, before which the
accumulations of studious years, of midnight
studies, of late and feverish rest, will all crumble
into the disjointed hallucinations of the maniac!
A similar result is moreover to be attempted, by
shewing that the power of obtaining knowledge
of every kind, is thegift of God; he co
talent, and man is bound to use it to his glory ;
and surely there is nothing to be proud of in a
boon, however splendid, which we receive as
needy suppliants and dependants! And lastly,
this is to be attempted by inculcating the supe
riority of religious knowledge, and by proving
that every pursuit should be subordinated, to this
first and most sublime object of interest; so that
a just estimate of the value of human knowledge,
circumscribed, poor, and perishing as it is, may
be formed, and may preclude the indulgence of a
principle of pride, where in fact there is no plau
sible room for its exercise!
How careful then should parents be that they
do not encourage this principle in their children,
by exhibiting their attainments, and by teaching
them to think too highly of their powers and pro
gress. Pride, when uncontrouled, is active and
imperious in its agency; it grows with our growth;
it is fostered by every days acquisition ; it is
nourished by the breath of praise; its influence
is extended by the incense of adulation from infe
riors and dependants ; it is supported by the indo
lence or the ignorance of less highly-gifted indivi
duals ; it is strengthened by the recollections of
4 4 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
the former want of knowledge; it is stimulated
by the hope and anticipation of fresh acquisition;
and it requires every day a larger sacrifice of
principle for its support! But pride goeth before
a fall, and a haughty spirit before destruction ;
while humility and sincerity will triumph over
every opposition. The means of checking this
disposition must be greatly varied, according to
the nature of the exciting cause which may have
called it into action; but in every case, one promi
nent feature of instruction will always be, to in
form the heart, and to teach the child a know
ledge of its sinfulness and deceitfulness ; and that
this is the offspring of a depraved will, alienated
from the living God, and which can only be re
stored by an interest in Christ, who is made unto
us wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification, and
redemption.
But we have often heard of a ju s t and proper
pride ; a respect for ourselves; an equitable esti
mate of character; a stimulus to good action, and
great and noble daring; a principle of fortitude;
a sentiment of honour; a seeking after the high
est degree of attainable perfection; a preserva
tion from low and grovelling vice; the support of
consistent good; a motive to dignity and purity
of conduct and inclination; the emulation of all
that is valuable; the fear of all that is evil, and
of other good qualities, as referred for their origin
to a principle of pride. It surely cannot be that
the disposition we have been contemplating can
be ever in itse lf good; and it surely cannot be that
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 4 5
the accumulated observation of ages can be en
tirely fa lse I What then is the principle to which
these manifestations ought to be referred ? what
is the nature of that principle which sin has con
stituted p
r
i
d
e
, but which, anterior to its polluting
influence, existed as a principle o f good, implanted
by the omniscient power of H im who created man
in his own image, and who pronounced upon him
that he was very good ?
That we may arrive at a satisfactory solution of
this problem, we must consider a little more in
detail the bearing of those circumstances to which
we have alluded. Man was created after the
image and likeness of G od; not surely as regards
his corporeal substance, which was formed from
the dust of the earth, but with respect to his
 incomprehensible and eternal s o u l t h a t spiri
tual principle, which was infused into his body,
and whose powers and capacities were capable of
assimilation, though at an infinite distance, with
the attributes of divinity. These powers, though
limited, even in a state of innocence by the ma
terial organ through which their manifestations
were to be conducted, were originally much
greater and more perfect than they now are.
This we infer from the record which has been left
us of the knowledge of the first man Adam, unto
whom God brought every beast of the field, and
every fowl of the air, to see what he would call
them :  And Adam gave names to all cattle, and
to the fowls of the air, and to every beast of the
field; and whatsoever Adam called every living
46 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
creature, that was the name thereof. W e have
abundant reason to believe that these names were
not an arbitrary collocation of sounds; but that
they were signs of ideas, and designative of the
nature or habits of particular animals: and as the
minute acquaintance with nature's laws, and ope
rations, and instincts implied by the supposition,
could nothave been the result of experience, it
follows that the knowledge of the first man must
have been of a much higher order than that of
any one of his most highly-gifted posterity. And
even supposing that this knowledge could have
arisen from extended experience, we shall still arrive
at the same result, and shall be forced to adopt
an identical conclusion, since where now, or at
any antecedent period of this worlds polluted
history, could be found the gigantic mind which
would embrace such diversified objects of inquiry,
such repeated and extensive experience? If such
be the case with the knowledge of the first man,
so also with regard to those attributes of mind
upon which this acquisitionwould befounded, as the
faculties of attention, perception, reason, imagi
nation, judgment, will, & c.: so also with those
which would be influenced and acted upon by
the possession of superior acquirements, as the
faculties of reflection and imitation, memory,
conscience, habits, affections, passions, &c.
From this state of riches man fell by trans
gression, lost the image of God, and the love of
holiness; his knowledge was contracted and de
based ; the powers of his soul were perverted;
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 4 7
be was alienated from God, and became the ser
vant o f sin; he lost his original righteousness
and excellence; every faculty was debased, and
the thoughts of his heart were only evil! This
change of his nature, effected by his fall, and
which was the consequence of his transgression,
has consisted not in the communication of
facu lties, the addition of new principles, or the
creation of fresh affections, for this would have
required the creating power of Omnipotence;
but only that the faculties of the mind have been
distorted and beclouded, curtailed in their influ
ence, and rendered propense to evil. Satan was
permitted thus to mar the noblest work of the
Alm ighty; and that which was  very good, lost
every characteristic of goodness, and became
feeble, erring, sinful. And if this be granted, we
shall find every principle of evil which we now
deplore, to be the absence or perversion of some
originally good quality conferred upon man by
his M aker; but which he has entirely superseded,
by having lost the power, the desire, the will to
exercise it, and by having fostered and cherished
that awful change which sin has impressed upon
it. The m anifestations o f evil, as they exist in the
human mind, are not new principles, but the ruined
and perverted state of that which was originally
perfect, beautiful, and glorious, pure and imma
culate from the creating hand of the Almighty.
So then with regard to the disposition we are
now considering, pride is not a new principle, but
the cru el perversion o f some good; and so com-
4 8 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
plete has been this destructive change, that we
do not even possess a name for its original, but
which we may believe to have consisted in a de
sire of excelling, and therefore of employing all the
powers and faculties to the glory of God. Can
any view of this subject, more deeply crimson
the countenance with the glow of shame, than
this truly painful consideration ? And if such
be the case, we shall probably find some traces
of the original held out for our imitation, in that
glorious scheme of redemption which was in
tended for the restoration of fallen man.
Thus, while we are exhorted to strive to enter
in at  the strait gate by the considerations of
the difficulties of the way, the fewness of those
who do enter upon that path, and the value of
pursuing with energy, the way which leadeth
unto life, and of avoiding that broad and easy
road which conducts the multitude to destruction;
we are encouraged in this pursuit by having the
character of our Saviour set before us for imita
tion, that high and sacred pattern of purity and
holiness, which it is our duty, by the assistance
of the Holy Spirit, to copy, and to em ulate; to
seek after conformity to his image ; to resemble
in his devotion to his Fathers w ill; to be elevated
from the lower considerations of mortality; to
yield ourselves to his service, and to be animated
with the hope of being kings and priests unto
God, even the Father. The imitable perfections
of our Saviours character, are placed before us,
and addressed to that renewed principle, restored
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 4 9
by divine grace, the desire to resemble him, the
wish to live to his glory, the love of virtue, the
anxiety to excel, to grow in grace, and in increas
ing conformity to his will.
Every man in his moments of cool abstraction
from the w orld; in the seasons of retirement
from the stimulus of society; and in the secret
communings of his heart with itself, forms a
tolerable estimate of his own character; he sees
the motives which actuate him, and knows his
own real w eight; and however much the world
may give him credit for talent, or piety, or any
other good, which he does not possess ; however
anxiously he may wish to maintain the good opi
nion of his compeers, though unjustly formed,
yet he knows him self; he is aware of the weak
points of his character; and if he thinks justly,
is not only animated by this consideration to act
up to the opinion which others have formed of
him, but is also stimulated to deserve i t ; and is
actuated, in so far as he is influenced by divine
grace, by the principle of seeking the restoration
of that excellence which he has lost by sin.
In this review of himself, and in this desire to
excel, the Christian is supported by looking to
the character of Christ. At the commencement
of his career, and before entering on his ministry,
we find him subordinating some of the apparently
common duties of life to the paramount desire of
fulfilling his divine mission.  How is it that ye
sought me ? he exclaims ;  wist ye not that I
must be about my Fathers business ? Luke ii. ,
VOL. II. E
50 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
49: the triumphant reply which may be made by
the disciple of Christ, who seeks to come o,ut
from the world, when he is accused by it of being
actuated by pride, in seeking that separation from
it, which our Saviour has enjoined.
Pursuing the course of our incarnate R e
deemer, we find him appealing to his own divine
character as an answer to the temptation of
Satan;  Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy
Qod. Get thee hence Satan, for it is written,
 Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him
only shalt thou serve. ftjatthew iv. 7, 10. The
weapon with which the tempter is overcome, is
the paramount desire to fulfil all righteousness,
to. sustain the character of tbat God-man, who
hnew no sin, neither was guile found in his
mouth, who was tempted in all points like as we
are, leading us an example to follow his steps,
to honour him even as he honoured the Father,
to be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his
might, that we may be made like him, may sup
port the Christian character, and become more
than conquerors through him who hath loved, us.
- As we proceed, we notice our Saviours de
fence of his divine mission, against the asper
sions of those who said,  This fellow doth not
cast out devils, but by Beelzebub, the prince of
the devils. And Jesus knew their thoughts, and
said unto them, Every kingdom, divided against
itself is brought to desolation, and every city or
house divided against itself shall not stand. And
if Satan, cast out Satan, be is divided against him-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 51
self; how then shall his kingdom stand. And if
I by Beelzebub, cast out devils, by whom do
your children cast them ou t; therefore shall they
be your judges. But if I cast out devils by the
Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God is come
unto you. Matthew xii. 23, &c. And so if his
followers strenuously desire to be like him, to
pluck out the right eye, or cut off the right arm
of some darling sin, in order that they may re
semble his character, and may be made meet for
his kingdom, they may reply to the calumnies of
the world, by appealing to the fruits of the Holy
Spirit, and to the influence of that principle,
which God has implanted for this purpose.
Other instances might be adduced in the ex
ample of our adorable Redeemer, of his appeal
ing to bis own character for the ground of his
conduct; as when he healed the sick with the
palsy,  That ye may know that the Son of man
hath power on earth to forgive sins, he said unto
the sick of the palsy, I say unto thee, arise, and
take up thy couch, and go unto thine house.
Luke v ,2 4 . Again, after declaring to the woman
of Samaria, that God is a Spirit, and that they
that worship him, must worship him in spirit and
in truth; and after the confession of her know
ledge, that  Messias cometh, which is called
Christ; when he is come, he will tell us all
things; he asserts his claim to this character,
 Jesus saith unto her, 1 that speak unto thee am
he. John iv. 2 4,25, 26. And when, after wash-
e 2
52 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
ing his disciples feet, he exclaims, *
* Know ye
what I have done to you ? Ye call me Master
and Lord ; and ye say w e ll; for so I am. If I
then your Lord and Master have washed your
feet, ye also ought to wash one anothers feet.
For I have given you an example, that ye should
do, as I have done to y o u ; if ye know these
things, happy are ye, if ye do them. John xiii.
12, 13, 14, 15, 17. Thus at once giving an ex
ample, and a lesson of humility, and referring
this to the principle of desiring to excel, which in
its miserable pollution, has perversely engendered
that pride, which is so abominable in the sight of
God. And again, towards the close of his mis
sion, and shortly before the consummation of his
finished sacrifice, he appeals to the past events of
his life, and pleads them in that beautiful prayer
which has been recorded by the evangelist John,
 I have glorified thee on earth, I have finished
the work which thou gavest me to do. And now,
O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self,
with the glory, which I had with thee, before the
world was. John xvii. 4, 5. And lastly, during
his agony in the garden of Gethsemane, he prays,
 O my Father, if it be possible let this cup pass
from me ; nevertheless not as I will, but as thou
w ilt. Matthew xxvi. 39. Thus plainly indicating
that the grand aim of his eventful life, was to
do the will of God, to fulfil his character as the
Saviour of sinners; and that this hope, this de
votion, this desire, sustained him, when soul
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 5 3
was exceeding sorrowful, even unto death; when
hesuffered the intolerable agony of the desertion
of his heavenly Father; when the chastisement
of our peace was upon him , and when by his
stripes we were healed.
If then the desire after excellence be a principle
of the Christian religion; if it actuated our Sa
viour through life ; if it form a groundwork for
action, and a motive for the continuance of ex
ertion, and a stimulus to higher attainment, it is
surely one which ought to be cultivated. But
this is that which has been so completely marred
by sin, as to exist no longer in the human mind,
as such, and to be found only in its debased,
perverted and perverting, fallen disposition,
pride.
P rid e as pride can never be encouraged : it is
in every point of view ev il; but the original prin
ciple, the desire to excel may be cultivated ; and
when implanted by the Spirit of grace, it will
subdue pride, and shew its legitimate tendency,
to produce humility, by teaching man to form a -
just estimate of his character, and by shewing
him how immeasurably he falls short of what he
ought to be, and what he m ight be. These two ob
jects will not be lost sight of by the parent; the
aspiration after excellence will be diligently cul
tivated ; and it will be developed in action with
the prayer, that the Spirit of God, may bless the
exertion, and communicate that life-giving energy,
which can alone command success. With this
5 4 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
view, she will most carefully follow out the prin
ciple into conduct; and will shew, that it leads
to entertaining a proper respect for our own cha
racter, provided that it is based upon the good
motive we have supposed; provided it do. not
contravene the institutions of society; and pro
vided, above all, that it be coincident with the
laws of God. With these restrictions, it may
assist us in forming a just view of our own worth,
and worthlessness, and may sometimes save us
from conduct which is degrading to a rational,
humiliating to an intellectual, and sinful to an
immortal being. If it may assist us in maintain
ing the path of virtue, save us from the pollution
of vice, and enhance the traits of consistent cha
racter ; if it be directed by a principle of doing
towards others, as we would wish them to do to
ourselves; if it be pointed towards the attain
ment of the highest degree of perfection, of
which our intellectual and spiritual nature is sus
ceptible ; it may then become to a certain ex
tent, the safeguard of manners, a preservative
from base conduct, a stimulus to good action ; it
may secure from entire destruction, some portion
of that dignity, which was originally conferred
upon m an; it may preserve from servility and ab
jectness, while it will purify the inclinations, en
noble the views, and instruct to emulate that
which is good. But the Christian parent, recol
lecting the hold, which pride possesses over the
human heart, will feel the importance of watching
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 5 5
over its influence, lest it should pervert all that is
good into itself; for although this is impossible,
where the heart is renewed by divine grace, yet
it is hers to act, long before this renewal may have
taken placeto sow the seed, to water it abun
dantly, to wait for a blessing* for that early and
latter rain which has been promised, and which
will produce a harvest of good.
5 6
CHAP. XI.
THE SAME SUBJECT CONTINUED ON DISOBEDIENCE TO
PARENTS ON THE LOVE OF PLEASURE ON CARE
LESSNESS OF RELIGION.
D i s o b e d i e n c e to parents is often the result of
pride and self-conceit, but it will also frequently
be found to have existed long anterior to their
possible influence. It is a disposition which is
manifested with the earliest knowledge of the
nature of a command; and the state of mind
which produces it, the recoil from parental sub
mission and filial duty will be perceptible, even
before that mind has been sufficiently instructed
to know, as a matter of reason, the nature of obe
dience, and the necessity for its exercise.
The influence of this principle is extensive, and
gives a permanent tinge to the mental manifesta
tions. Thus, the parent is the appointed guide,
the guardian, the support, the counsellor and
director of the child; but if her instructions be
despised and contemned; if her guidance and pro
tection be wilfully rejected; if her advice and
her counsel be lightly esteemed and neglected,
what m ust be the consequence? Left to the
natural waywardness of its own heart, it must
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 5 7
wander in ignorance; having forsaken the guide
of its youth, it will pursue a devious course of
vice and follyto its legitimate termination, dis
appointment, misery and w o e: left to its own
feebleness, it will yield to the rude blast of temp
tation ; unsupported by parental knowledge and
advice, it will become an easy prey to the sins of
youth, and fall a victim to the specious fallacies
of the designing scep tic; all hesitating, indeed,
when the object of belief is present and eternal
good; all credulous, however, when the voice of
conscience, the declarations of Scripture, the ex
amples of good men, aye, even the dictates of
reason and natural religion, the power and au
thority of virtue, immediate usefulness, or the
possession of present peace, and the good hopes
of futurity are together sacrificed to an adherence
to some speculative dogmas. The child is con
stantly receiving benefits from its parents, and
therefore disobedience is the practical exertion of
a principle of ingratitude. At this inlet to vice
and error, it easily escapes from the path of rec
titude, which has been hedged about by maternal
solicitude, and defended by maternal affection;
and having leaped the barrier of restraint, it is ,
exposed to the influence of the world, and its
snares and temptations, defenceless and unpre
pared. B y the existence of active ingratitude,
sin has gained a firm hold upon the mind, by
which it not only maintains, but extends its em
pire over the heart; and where will its authority
be arrested? how will its government be re.
5 8 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
strained, of its influence curtailed ? The natural
barrier is removed, and a change of principles,
the renewal of the heart by the Spirit of Grace,
Can alone enable the young to cleanse their way,
by taking heed thereto according to the words of
divine truth.
The child should be the parents comfort and
Support; and it will become so, when it seconds
her efforts for its good; when it repays her
anxieties, by following the way of truth, and is
mindful of her wishes, to whom it owes so much,
and whose constant efforts are perseveringly di
rected to its happiness; but if her designs be
Constantly frustrated by disobedience, sorrow rests
as an insupportable yet unsurmountable weight
upon her heart; disorder and misrule are intro
duced into the domestic government; anarchy
and confusion mark the progress of democratic
sw a y ; the good of the individual, the peace of
the family circle, the worth of its little subjects,
the good order of society, the growth of virtuous
feeling, the expansion of the benevolent affec
tions, the designs of nature, the appointments of
omniscience, the development of principle, the
institutions of man, the laws of Godall, all are
Crumbled away before the slowly, but uniformly
overwhelming action of the tide of this evil dis
position. Disobedience hardens the heart, ren
ders it less susceptible of the finer feelings; the
admonitions of conscience become less frequent
and decided, their impression less vivid and ex
tensive, and the whole conduct is tinged with
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 5 9
impropriety. In its continued influence upon the
mind, it presents an obstacle to the infusion of
religious principle, to the reception of the word
of God, and of the lessons of parental wisdom and
experience, because it provokes a state of mind
precisely opposed to that in which it would be
possible to  honour thy father and mother, to
 hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake
not the law of thy m o t h e r b e c a u s e it chooses
the way of frowardness and selfishness, and will
not allow the entrance of that wisdom into the
heart, or perceive the pleasantness of that know
ledge which are necessary, before  discretion
shall preserve thee, or understanding shall keep
thee; and because it claims the right of private
freedom of judgment and action; it is wise in its
own e y e s; it does not fear the Lord, or depart
from ev il; it does not trust in Him with all its
heart, and lean not unto its own understanding;
it does not in all its ways acknowledge him, or
solicit the direction of his laws.
In this state of disposition, when the govern
ment of the mind is no longer vested in the parent,
nor in the commands of God, it is scarcely pos
sible to calculate the ravages of this fatal dis
order ; the equilibrium of moral action is destroyed;
and the tide of its harmony is overborne by the
fierce and desolating blasts of all that is monstrous
in nature, or hateful in the sight of God child
warring against its parent! As obedience is the
strongest barrier to the influence of youthful temp
tation, so disobedience precipitates its victim along
6 0 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
the magic paths, which point the broadest road
to sin and sorrow, and destruction. It is a de
vouring principle, which greedily Bwallows up
every trace of virtuous action and religious fear;
which overspreads the whole soul, and subjugates
the affections to its tyrant sway. Strange indeed
is it, that the power and influence of this enemy
should be so undervalued, so erroneously esti
mated, or so despised! Strange that it should
be nurtured by the parents blind and selfish affec
tion, rather than uncompromisingly destroyed!
Strange that slight instances of disobedience
should be allowed to pass unnoticed, while the
laws which these infringe are the natural barriers
to a thousand evils. The desert of sin which
these bound is an extensive plain, with nothing
to oppose the wayward progress of the traveller ;
the boundary line is easily overstepped, and once
passed, it is impossible to find a secure resting
place, short of the consummation of the greatest
crimes. On either side of this boundary, sit filial
affection and parental care; sufficient, when
united, to preserve the young wanderer in the
untried way of life ; but if the one grow cold, and
the other lose its vigilance, what is to prevent the
most fearful consequences, ruin to the one, and
bitter upbraidings of conscience to the other?
How great then should be the care to preserve
this boundary inviolate; and this can only be
effectually accomplished by marking the declivity
which leads towards it; by jealously watching
that neutral territory, in which both being un-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 61
guarded, may forget the principle of ever watch
ing ; and by abstracting the feet from a path so
dangerous as that in which it may be thought
allowable to permit the fire of .filial love to burn
dim ly; to see it oppressed with the ashes of dis
taste, dissatisfaction, and indifference ; to watch
its feeble smouldering, without seeking to fan it
into a flam e; and to suffer the lamp of parental
vigilance to go untrimmed, unsupplied with fresh
oil, and to give only a flickering, uncertain and
expiring light, which never can fulfil a mothex s
duty, in teaching her child to avoid the dangers
of youth; to preserve it from temptation; to cau
tion it against the evils of forgetting the laws of
nature, reason, and revelation; and to illumine
and cheer its returning path to that happier state,
in which the influence of obedience may be sus
tained, and its power indefinitely enlarged.
TheLove o f P leasure.
What is the nature of this disposition ? It is
that, so natural to the human heart, which sub
stitutes the love of amusement for that of good,
the pursuit of trifles for that which is all-important
and everlasting : it is that which places pleasure
in the room of instruction, which barters enjoy
ment for peace, the folly of a fleeting hour for
substantial and enduring wisdom, riot and dissi
pation for the feast of reason and the flow of soul.
It is that which seeks the gilded hours of selfish
6 2 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
joy, and will not listen to the accents of w o : it
is that which prefers the theatre, the concert, the
ball-room, the splendid mansion to the miserable
cottage of the poor, and the indigent, the sorrow
ing, the sick, and the dying: it is that which
prefers shutting out from the mind the distress of
others, in the joyous tale of its own luxuries;
and which passes heedlessly through this vale of
tears, without an eye to see, or an ear to hear
the miseries of those around ; without a heart to
pity, or a hand to save the ignorant, the wretched,
and the helpless: nay more, it is that which con
stitutes the trifling character,one who makes
the great business of life to consist in a series of
littlenesses, which to a well-ordered mind, ap
pear as the accidents of existence ; as the finest
dust which rests upon the surface of our globe,
compared with its immensity, and with its m y
riads of living and immortal inhabitants.
The trifler is ever engaged in the pursuit of
some unmeaning bauble, though with little energy
of perseverance; he is contending, if indeed he
can give himself the trouble to contend for some
unimportant shade of sentiment, or some merely
secondary form ; or he is framing for himself un
easiness from circumstances which do not really
deserve a moments consideration. To live here
so as to shew forth the glory of God, and advance
the happiness of his creatures, seems to form no
part of his views : this would occupy too com
prehensive a field of reason and exertion, while
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 63
the great object of his desire is to pass through
life, with as little exhibition as possible of bodily
or mental vigour; with as little thought, and as
little design, as can consist with the mere exterior
of man; and having only one cherished hope,
viz. that of traversing over each successive day,
with the most crowded hours of eyer-varying
trifles, and with the slightest possible attention
to all which constitutes man a rational, an intel
lectual, a moral, and religious being.
The germ of this trifling disposition is discern->
ible in early life, and the first traces of a principle,
which we have followed to its consummation,
should be most carefully w atched; for the love
of pleasure is natural to the human heart, and
unless it be curbed by reason and reflection, it will:
become predominant and absorbing. It is there
fore to be moderated, because the desire after un
meaning trifles, and their eager pursuit, is in itself
unsatisfying, and injurious to an immortal mind ;
because a very large majority of the objects of
pleasure in its general acceptation, are in them
selves unlawful, contrary to the law of God, and
opposed to the Christian temper; and because
many others become so from being ,
and in consequence only of abstracting the mind
from the love and service of God and his Christ.
Pleasure may be allied to our animal, social, or
intellectual nature; it is the two former which
are now the principal objects of attention, because
they are to be found more frequently: but the
intellectual trifler is not a rare character; one.
64 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
who devours books for amusement, or for the
mere stimulus produced by the excitement of the
intellectual organ, and the pleasure which results
from i t ; one who likes to have his attention rivet
ed, and his fancy charmed, and his reason con
vinced, and his sensibilities roused; but who
quits the present for some new object of pursuit,
unimproved, uninfluenced in his conduct, unde-
sirous of becoming more extensively useful.
To these several forms of the same disposition,
principle will afford the very best means of suc
cessful opposition, and every temptation towards
them is to be most carefully avoided. The dan
ger arising from seeking after objects of pleasure,
which are lawful in themselves, consists in the
tendency to estimate them too highly, to become
too deeply attached to them, and to make them
the chief design of our pursuit. It is then pecu
liarly desirable, that children should be preserved
from tasting this enchanting, but poisoned cha
lice ; and when contact with the world obliges
them to breathe its polluted atmosphere, they
should have been steeled against its attractions,
and enabled to resist its influence, by the support
of good principles.
Cheerfulness ever adorns the best regulated
m ind; but when it degenerates into levity; when
it assumes the form of noisy, ill-defined, obstre
perous mirth ; when dissipation is its object;
when it is based on wit, and supported by ridi
cule ; when it seeks its own amusement, not
anothers good; then does it become sinful, an
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 65
object of aversion, and demands the most strenu
ous opposition. On this fruitful stock, are too
frequently engrafted satire, with its ugly brood of
calumny, insincerity, cold-heartedness, and all
the narrow, petty policy of the cynic. Innocent
recreation is well suited to a period of life, before
the mind has been harassed by cares, or soured
by disappointment, or distorted by fixed obliquity
of principle and conduct; and there are appro
priate seasons and subjects for amusement in this
spring-tide of life ; though even here let instruc
tion be blended with amusement; let the danger
of loving these objects inordinately be obviated;
let them not be considered as of primary import
ance ; let the mind be unbent from the pursuit of
more serious studies; but suffer it not to be dis
tracted, violently agitated, or eagerly and in
tensely occupied; let them never stand in the
place of business, or usurp the power, and inter
fere with the authority, or with an attention to the
duties of religion; let them not absorb too much
time, or engage the heart, or take the chief place
in the thoughts; let them never interfere with
the duties of kindness or benevolence to others,
or with the commands of G od; and finally, let
them not unfit the mind for the performance of
religious worship, or even border on any unlaw
fulness of desire.
There will then be two objects for parental at
tention, in regard to this disposition: first, to
detach the mind from the love of sinful pleasure,
or trifling pursuit; and secondly, to moderate its
VOL II. F
0 6 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATIO N.
attachments to things lawful in themselves, so
that they may be enjoyed without the danger
arising from excessive desire, and that they may
allow the mind freedom to be engaged zealously
in its all-important duties. In this, as in
every similar case, it is far wiser to prevent
the contraction of the morbid bias, than it is easy
to moderate its inclinations afterwards.
The means of fulfilling these indications, are to
impress the young with the value and importance
o f their season of life, and with the great objects
to which its energies should be devoted ; and con
sequently the folly as well as wickedness of
spending its hallowed hours in the giddy pursuit
of unsatisfying pleasures, or unmeaning trifles.
So does the gay and thoughtless butterfly spend
its summer day of existence; it is warmed into
life, and cherished into activity by the grand lu
minary ; it unfolds its gaudy colours in its beams,
flutters its wings, and in all the energy of newly
created vitality, it sports in the noon-tide ray,
flits rapidly from object to object, careless of
expiring day; and ere the shadows of evening
have enveloped the objects of nature with her
sable mantle, the circle of its joys has been run,
it has lived to live, and if the brief term of its
hours has been completed without accident, it
sinks, and its memory is dissolved even with the
passing day. So does the votary of pleasure; it
speeds its careless hours in ceaseless activity, in
the pursuit of that which not, for even in its
happiest mood, the heart is sad, and the object
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 67
of pursuit has evaded its grasp. YetJ the same
round of busy idleness is renewed with every
morning's sun: the blessings and the gifts of
Providence, the talents, the advantages of society,
all are carelessly and thanklessly sipped; its
mental and bodily energies are slowly exhausted,
and it sinks unregretted, when the winter of life
has contracted the day to its shortest span ; when
the evil day has come that there is  no pleasure
in it, and when the almond tree shall flourish,
and the grasshopper be a burden, and desire
shall fail, because man goeth to his long home,
and the mourners go about the streets. There
is this only difference, that whereas the thought
less insect, has in its glittering hour of pleasure,
fulfilled the design for which it was called into
existence, man has reached the termination of
his days, with the accumulated load of rnispent
hours, and now reaps the bitter consciousness,
that he has lived to himself, that he has not ful
filled the designs of his creation, that he has lived
to live, but that he has not lived to die, and that to
all his fearful amount of neglected opportunities,
he has to add an aggravated sum of wilful alien
ation from G od: and again, instead of now ter
minating his career at the sunset of life, though
the dust return to the earth as it was, the spirit
shall return to God who gave it, to receive ac
cording to the deeds done in the body.  Then
I commended mirth, because a man hath no bet
ter thing under the sun than to eat, and to drink,
and to be merry; for that shall abide with him ofhis
f 2
6 8 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
labour, the days of his life, which God giveth
him under the sun. (Eccles. viii. 15.) Bitter
irony ! And when that sun shall be withdrawn
from him for ever, where will be then his hope 1
Would God that he had never been born. Would
God that he had commenced and terminated his
existence with the giddy insect of his thoughtless
admiration. Would God that he had not been
a more unprofitable servant: that he had tasted
the vanity and vexation of pleasure, that he had
considered his ways and been wise.  Let us
hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear
God and keep his commandments, for this is the
whole duty of man. For God shall bring every
work into judgment, with every secret thing,
whether it be good, or whether it be evil.
(Eccles. xii. 13, 14.)
How important is it therefore for the young,
that they should justly estimate the objects of
attachment; that they should improve each hour
of opening life ; that they should imitate the in
dustry, activity, usefulness, and energy of the
b e e ; that they should taste the sweets of life,
only to accumulate for themselves stores for future
emergencies, materials for reflection, for sus
taining the immortal mind with its appropriate
food, and preparing for that change which awaits
it hereafter. Then will the objects of present
pursuit be not unseasonably beloved, when the
superlative value of the soul, the excellence of
heavenly pleasures, and the pure joys which re
sult from the influence of religion, are really be-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 6 9
lieved and sought after; when the disposition to
a fondness for immediate pleasure is repressed by
parental caution, advice, and exam ple: when the
pleasures of sense, the dissipations of the world,
and the joyous festivities of vice, are supplanted
by a relish for intellectual pursuits; and when
the delights of intellect are held in subordination
to the coming prospects of eternity, and to the
religious duties of to-day; when they are not suf
fered to become exclusive objects of pursuit; when
they are sought after with the deeply felt con
viction, that however splendid may be the extent
and value of literary acquirements, these alone
can never satisfy the spiritual principle; and
when the distinguishing mark of their being re
tained in their proper place is constantly kept in
view, viz. whether they are considered as the
end of life, (for if they be, in its best sense,
eternal life will end with them,) or as subservient
only to its grand design, and useful in proportion
as they give to the character of the Christian,
greater weight and influence, greater aptitude for
comprehending the grand truths of his religion;
greater energy and perseverance to perform them,
and more abundant opportunities of usefulness.
Carelessness of Religion.
This disposition of mind, is so essentially in
terwoven with that which has been just considered,
that it can scarcely be separated from i t ; and all
that has been said on the former is applicable to the
present subject. Yet, though the love and the
7 0 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
pursuit of pleasure will lead to wasting the energy
of the mind upon unmeaning trifles, and will
always involve a recklessness as to the interests
of futurity; still, where there is not this promi
nent thirst after the stimulus of amusement;
where there is not this incessant busy trifling,
there may exist a carelessness, an apathy, a want
of feeling and interest on this great subject; this
first and greatest object of desire, ever proposed
for the consideration of an immortal mind. And
since, therefore, the foregoing observations may
not reach the simply careless; and since such is
the deceitfulness of the heart, that it will shelter
itself under an escape from the evils connected
with the love and pursuit of pleasure, we can
scarcely close the present section without a few
words on this indifference and distaste towards
religious precepts, and their associated duties.
Although of the first importance to future hap
piness and present comfort, yet a careless neglect
of religion, an abandonment of its self-denying
virtues, and a dislike towards any thing serious,
is commonly manifested by the young; and
strange to add, except by the converting influ
ence of the Spirit of grace, this carelessness,
unless repressed in early life, will cleave to the
individual, even to its very wane, and memory
will be pained, and hope affrighted by the fearful
sight of the careless septuagenarian tottering on
the brink of the grave, without one thought of
what exists beyond it, and even now making light
of the invitations of the Saviour; procrastinating
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 71
serious thoughts, aye, even treating them with
levity, until perhaps without a single moment for
reflection, the fatal messenger arrives, and with
the last words of ridicule upon his fallen lips, his
soul is hurried into the presence of its long-suffer
ing and merciful, but just and upright Judge,
who has long borne with his indifference; who
has renewed the despised offers of his grace; who
has striven with the iniquity of his heart; who
has sought to awaken the blind and slumbering
by the events of his Providence; and who to the
last has not relinquished his repeated solicitations,
that the careless would be wise, and would lay
hold of the hope set before them ; but upon whom
the door of mercy is for ever closed; the hope of
pardon is for ever gon e;  there is no peace,
saith my God, to the wicked.  I have called,
and ye refused; I have stretched out my hand,
and no man regarded; but ye have set at nought
all my counsel, and would none of my reproof.
I also will laugh at your calam ity; 1 will mock
when your fear cometh when your fear cometh
as a desolation, and your destruction cometh as
a whirlwind; when distress and anguish cometh
upon you. Proverbs i. 24, 25, 26, 27. It was
of those who made light of the iuvitations of the
king to the marriage supper; that went their
ways, one to his farm, another to his merchandise,
that it was said they were not worthy, and that
none should taste of the good things which had
been prepared.  Therefore shall they cat of the
72 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
fruit of their own way, and be filled with their
own devices. Prov. i. 31.
Yet this carelessness of religion, this substitu
tion of present for eternal things, this preference
of ourselves to the service of the Most High, this
subordination of duty to inclination, marks the
character of man from the earliest traces of rea
son and passion. The first feeble glimmerings of
thought are characterized by their oblique ten
dency to earth instead of their upward inclination
to their native skies; but while the mind is
docile and pliant, it may be moulded by educa
tion and habit into customary attention to the
outward duties of religion ; for beyond this as a
matter of duty, we cannot g o : the religion of the
heart it is not in our power to produce; yet, if
we trainup a child in the way in which he should
go, we have the promise of a blessing upon our
sincere and undeviating exertion.
It will be the aim of Christian education to
overcome the natural repugnance to all that is
good ; and as it has been already shewn, much is
to be accomplished by the mode of communica
ting religious instruction, in order that the mind
may be prepared and disposed to lend its atten
tion to the concerns which demand its notice
beyond the grave; to those spiritual realities
which eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither
hath it entered into the heart of man to conceive.
This carelessness and indifference is, however, a
principle which must be constantly struggled
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 73
w ith ; for it exists also with those who are farther
advanced in life, as well as in such as are sub
jected to the giddy tourderie of youth; whose
minds are enlarged to comprehend the full extent
of their situation; aye, even, whose judgment is
convinced of the necessity of embracing the hope
set before them in the sacrifice of Christ, but
whose hearts remain uninfluenced by their con
victions ; who rest satisfied in their speculative
and historical belief, and are contented with a
religious education instead of devotedness of the
heart to G od; who will not estimate the uncer
tainty of life, and who therefore cannot realize
preparation for death as a duty of present and
immediate, and indispensable importance; who
will not practically believe in the omnipresence
of the Deity ; who act and think as though God
saw them not, and knew not their thoughts; and
who suppose, that to be religious, is to be grave,
serious, morose, stern at the infirmities of others,
and severe in our judgments of their conduct. A
great evil arises here from the want of cheerfulness
in some religious persons; and yet religion never
was designed to make our pleasures less, but to
produce that calm serenity, that sunshine of the
soul, which should occasion peace, the smile of
benignity, the activity of benevolence, the tear
of pity, the glow of compassion, joy in the Sa
viour, delight in G od; the love of Christ for those
who are encompassed with infirmities, and fears,
and cares and sorrows; and that tender construc
tion of their conduct, which leads us not to judge,
74 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
but to hope; not to censure, but to forgive ; not
to seek the redress of injuries, but to pray for
those who despitefully use us and persecute us.
A lovely portrait! to be found only under the
influence of real religion; that religion which
does not detract from the pleasures of youth, but
improves the comforts of those who love and
serve God, in keeping whose commandments
there is great reward; that religion which is the
great work of life, and carelessness of which is a
lamentable iniquity and folly.
Carelessness of religion is not superseded by
the transient trembling of Felix, who deferred to
a future more convenient season, the considera
tion of righteousness, temperance, and judgment
to come. Religion is not the distant procrastina
tion of serious thought; it is not the promise of
a future pursuit of a distant good ; it is not the
lukewarmness of the  almost thou persuadest
me to be a Christian, but the unreserved dedi
cation of the whole man to God and his Christ
now to-morrow this weekthis month this
yearand for ever. Parents then should dili
gently watch over the constitution of the minds
o f their offspring, and the prejudices which may
be thrown in their way, in order that they may
ascertain the causes which obstruct the influence
of divine truth; in order that their sources may
be removed, that their futility may be shewn, that
the real state of the heart may be discovered, and
its perversities be simply and affectionately de
tected, and its indifference exposed, and its care-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 75
lessness confessed, its aversion to God. proved,
and the only way of salvation exhibited. And
when once awakened from the slumber of in
difference ; when aroused from the uneasy dream
of carelessness, and self-dependence : when ener
gized to preserve the way of truth, it will be then
the parents duty to caution the young against
resting securely in any measure of religious at
tainment ; to instruct the ignorant; advise the
uninformed ; guide the feeble and the helpless;
preserve them from the contact of evil, and ob
viate the difficulties which may be thrown in their
way by the love of the world, the attractions of
pleasure, the invitations of science, the sweets of
intellectual pursuit, and the inconsistencies of
professing Christians.
76
CH AP. X II.
ON DISCIPLINE.
On the basis of filial obedience rests the power
which is possessed by the mother of moulding
the minds of her offspring; for if this be wanting,
in vain will she inculcate knowledge; in vain
will she strive to correct the temper, or ameliorate
the disposition, or give a proper bias to the affec
tions. This obedience however, in order to be
come thus influential on the character, must be
founded, not on terror resulting from a fear of
punishment, the consequence of parental dis
pleasure : but upon affection, on a fear of of
fending and grieving the parent, as well as of
infringing the laws of God. This then is the great
object of discipline.
The absence of this principle, is one of the
first active symptoms of that depravity of nature,
which is inherited by a ll; and it is complicated
and odious in its tendency, which involves in it,
ingratitude to man, and contempt of the divine
command. It hardens the heart, and paves the
way for the commission of other sins, since obe
dience is a barrier placed by a gracious God, in
order to oppose the tide of youthful iniquities ;
and when it is once overstepped, sin obtains such
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 77
an advantage over the mind, that it is easily en
slaved, and led to the perpetration even of great
crimes.
If we suppose for a moment, that the human
mind is so constituted, that the powers of good
and evil over its inclinations are nicely balanced ;
that its fondness for virtue is accurately adjusted
to the allurements of vice; that the voice of judg
ment is always heard, and always listened to,
even in the tempest of passion, and that it rides
triumphantly over the wild howlings of unhal
lowed desire; if we suppose that the sentiment
of religion and the power of conscience are fully
equal to the influence of temptation, and the dis
position to imitation; if we suppose that the
human mind delights equally to lend its
attention to the fruits of holiness, as to the
frivolities of fashion; and that it perceives as
quickly, and retains as forcibly, and recalls as
vividly, and reasons as disinterestedly and as
justly, and reflects as willingly on that wisdom
of which  the merchandise is better than the
merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than
fine gold, which is more precious than rubies,
and  all the things thou canst desire are not to be
compared unto her ; (Prov.iii. 14,15.) as it doth
on mirth, and pleasure, and laughter, and wine,
and folly, and great possessions, and silver, and
gold, and learning, and honour, and reputation,
and connexions, and increasing prosperity, all of
which have been declared to lead to vexation of
7 8 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
spirit (Ecclcs. passim); if we suppose the ima
gination as easily excited, and as readily engaged,
and as completely satisfied, with the sacred m ys
teries of our holy religion, as it is by the antici
pation of some fancied good, or even by a glowing
portraiture of fictitious circumstances: and if we
allow the will to be entirely under our controul,
and as easily directed in the pursuit of good ;
as firm to holy purpose; as unyielding to the in
fluence of passion or prejudice, the attractions of
vice, and the privations of that religion whose
divine Author had neither form nor comeliness,
that we should desire him : if we suppose that
it is opposed to the agency of temptation, and
constantly employed in counteracting the dispo
sition to forget God : if we suppose all these
things, and believe therefore that the young na
turally possess an equal share of desire, and
power to love God, and to do his w ill; as to be
influenced by e v il; even then we shall find, that
in passing through life, so much more frequently
will theevil dispositions be lighted up than the
good ; so much more constant will be the present
attractions of vice than the future rewards of vir
tue ; so much more frequently will the tendency
to ill be incorporated into action, and associated
with every feeling, and confirmed by repetition,
and ripened into habit, and deepened into prin
ciple, and augmented by age, and reconciled by
time, and extended by custom, and fortified by
society, and backed by opportunity, and multi-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 7 9
plied by occasion, and invigorated by all the cir
cumstances of a world that lieth in wickedness,
that even under this most favourable supposition,
we shall find the equilibrium of health destroyed,
and disorder and confusion will ensue. And when
once the balance has been lost, when once evil
predominates over good, every fresh indulgence
of passion not only adds to the weight in the scale
of the former, but also takes away from the
power of resisting evil, the antagonist and coun
tervailing good principle; so that the weight of
evil not only sinks the mind constantly lower in
sin and misery, but also detracts from its power
of regaining the supposed equilibrium from which
it has fallen. And this process is continued with
a fearful increase of accumulated evil, and a di
minished weight of solid worth, until one scale
kicks the beam, and until the other has been so
completely borne down with its progressive load
of iniquity, from the first youthful delinquency,
to the aggravated period, when the greatest crimes
may be added to the heap, without producing any
sensible effect upon the moral balance, and until
the character stands confessed as openly profligate
and abandoned.
Such is the progress of vice, even under the
supposition of an original balance of power in
choosing good, and refusing ev il: but if to this
view of the subject be added , that the
power to love and serve God has been already
lost that man is born in sin, prepense to evil,
averse from good, easily assailable by tempta-
6 0 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
tion, deaf to the voice of judgment, tossed from
his centre at the bidding of passion, agitated by
unholy desire, hating the doctrines of the pure
and holy gospel, refusing attention to the moni
tions of conscience, delighting in sin, wasting his
precious hours over the folly of a day, rejoicing
to imitate the weak and the wicked, but indulging
a secret distaste for the example of the wise and
good; with all his powers contracted, and limited,
and debased; preferring deliberately that which
satisfieth not, and spending his money upon that
which is not bread; with the imagination delight
ing to revel upon that which is gross and sensual,
earthly, devilish; and that when he would do
good, evil is present with him ; then do we form
a just estimate of human life ; then do we truly
see, that nothing less than a new creating power
can restore this lost balance; then, and only
then, do we form an accurate idea of the vast
importance of discipline, and of that obediencewhich
is its basis, the object of which must be an un
compromising hostility to vice, from its first germ
of obliquity, to its malignant consummation in
crime of deepest dye ; and an uniform cultivation
of religious principle.
The fear of disobeying a parent, is an imme
diately operative motive, which guards the mind
from the suggestions of evil, and produces con
formity to the laws of discipline; and therefore
since disobedience is in itself a great sin, and pre
vents the agency of parental watchfulness and
solicitude; and since it exposes the soul to the
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS E D U C A T I O N . 81
operation of all that is evil, so should it be ever
guarded against, ever noticed when present, and
its recurrence averted where possible, not by any
harshness and severity, but by the invariable at
tributes of good discipline, firmness, principle,
reason, and the extensive and irresistible influ
ence of affection.
The agency of this principle will be seen, by
considering the relation which the parent bears
to her children. And first, she sustains the office \
7 }
of their instructor, and as such, possesses the in
heritance of many anxious hours, many sleepless
nights, and many an aching heart: the fervent
prayer, the heartfelb sigh, characterize the deep
interest she takes in this pursuit; and mark the
direction which she seeks from Him who alone
can 'support her; as well as her ceaseless solici
tude to discover the best method of securing the
happiness and the welfare of her offspring. These,
in every situation, and under all circumstances,
are the animating principles, the life, the soul of
maternal action: and what is more painful than
to witness all her efforts rendered unavailing and
fruitless, by a mistaken laxity of discipline; all
her designs counteracted by the influence of the
principle of disobedience, which shuts up the
avenues to the youthful mind, renders silent the
lips of instruction, seals the ears to the voice of
knowledge, and especially that knowledge which
relates to the conduct of the understanding and
the heart, as well as the direction of the affections
to moral and religious objects.
voi.. ir. o
82 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
Again, the mother is the guide of her offspring ;
she guards them from the dangers and snares
with which they are environed ; she directs their
footsteps, points out the path in which they
should walk, and shews what dangers are to be
avoided, what difficulties to be overcome, what
enemies to be opposed, what temptations to be
resisted or escaped from, as well as the mode in
which the plain.path of truth is to be preserved ;
while she cautions against the flowery aspect of
vice, and supports under the rude blasts of trial.
Besides this preservation from evil, she guides
the application of the mental resources, educes
the slumbering, and develops the nascent facul
ties, and gives to each its due preponderance.
But if her efforts be not sustained by regular dis
cipline ; if they be not seconded by willing obe
dience, and above all, if they be opposed and
frustrated by filial disobedience, the influence of
this attribute of the maternal character will be
lost, or at the best, will be exceedingly limited ;
maternal solicitude will be rendered fruitless,
and disappointment and sorrow will attend her
path.
Further, the mother should be the friend and
directrix of her children; she should hear and
enter into all their difficulties, and endeavour to
remove them ; she should become the sacred de
positary of all their little secrets and troubles;
she should be their confessor, and be accustomed
to receive an acknowledgment of all their faults
and errors ; she should become their only coun-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 83
sellor, and in order to obtain the full advantage
of her experience, the utmost confidence towards
her, both in kind and in degree, should be encou
raged ; nothing should be kept back from her,
whose friendship will be found more durable than
the transient partialities of youth, and whose
fondness will be governed by the maturity of age
and reflection, and by disinterested judgment.
All this is only to be effected by the maintenance
of a wise discipline, that prudent subordination of
the child to the parent, which consists in adopting
the first principle of good government, viz. the
surrender of the individual right and freedom of
the governed on the one hand; the participation .
of parental wisdom, the support of her authority,
the confidence of her affection, and the advantage
of her knowledge on the other. This compact
implies that active obedience which essentially
links together the affection of parent and child,
and without which every proposed boon of dis
cipline-crumbles into disjointed atoms, and be
comes as the sybil leaves, which however wise,
and valuable, and oracular when gathered up and
associated in their order, are of no avail when
scattered abroad by the wild and lawless tem
pest. The want of systematic discipline is the
gnawing canker, which at first unseen, preys
upon the very heart of the lovely structure of
paternal government, till it has destroyed its vita
lity ; till its unity and beauty vanish; and till
even its existence may soon -come to be ques-
g 2
8 4 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
tioned, when its laws and their influence are no
longer discernible.
But once more, the mother is the protector of
her children; her tenderness shines peculiarly in
shielding them from the dangers which encom
pass their inexperience; leading them through
the untried paths of early life; shewing them
the right way ; sustaining their feeble efforts to
walk in it, and pointing out the mode of preser
vation : she descries the first approach of danger,
and her vigilance is excited to escape from it;
her whole heart is employed to avert the threat
ened evil, and where this is impossible, to carry
. them safely through it. But that eye, which
from experience and knowledge of the world, and
that heart, which by religion is rendered alive to
the impression of danger, as well as furnished
with the means of avoiding it, or of triumphing
over it, will be rendered useless, and incapable
of affording assistance, except through a regular
system of d
i
s
c
i
p
l
i
n
e
, and of obedience to its laws.
Such then being the extensive influence of this
parental government, and of a refusal to yield the
subjection of loyalty, let its laws be early im
pressed upon the mind, and constantly enforced,
and let the principle of disloyalty be fairly met
and combated; let it be earnestly discovered,
and averted in its incipient stage. And if to the
evils already detailed, as resulting from a forget
fulness of discipline, be added its certain and ne
cessary influence in embittering the days of the
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 85
mother; depriving her of the pleasure she is pri
vileged to derive from her offspring; destroying
her peace and happiness, and clouding her years
with sorrow, can any thing more be wanted to
impress the mind with a sense of its danger, and
of the necessity for avoiding it ?
Insubordination is, however, a monster with a
hundred heads; it demonstrates its agency in a
thousand w ays: when opposed at one point, and
successfully opposed too, it exerts its power over
another; from the destruction of one of its fruit
ful progeny, new species, modes, and forms are
seen to arise, as if created by the very power
which had destroyed the first; and it requires
persevering energy and strength, the constancy
of virtue, the courage of principle, the fortitude
of good motive, the hopes and fears and duties of
religion, the highest sanctions of Christianity, so
to continue unwearied opposition to evil, and
the unbroken advance of good, as to come off
finally conqueror. A man does not all at once
become a traitor to his king, and conspire the
subversion of his government; he first infringes
the laws of his country in some trifling instances;
perhaps he does so with impunity, but the con
cealment and contrivance necessary to shelter
him from the visitations of the law are irksome;
he becomes discontented with that which imposes
a restraint upon his inclinations, and with the
wearisome vigilance necessary to escape detec
tion and punishment; from this discontent he is
rendered an easy victim to the harangue of those
8 6 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
political demagogues whose constant aim is to
foment discord, and to alienate the affections of
the people from their civil and religious institu
tions, of which he is taught to disbelieve and to
despise the weight and the authority; and now
having cast off the weightier motives to obedience,
he becomes a ready prey to some subtle spirits,
who have energy and wickedness enough to in
fluence the mind to embrace their view s; and he
is employed as the basest, and the lowest, and
the most degraded tool of faction ; to be enlisted
under the most cruel and unprincipled despotism,
to become the paltry slave of treason. So is it
with the parricidal treason of withdrawing alle
giance from parental authority; so is it only to
be successfully opposed, in what are often termed
trifling instances of almost undefined insubordi
nation. It is by neglecting these slighter occa
sions for the exercise of discipline, that the evil
of questioning its authority first obtains a footing,
and advances to such amazing power, unless it be
constantly opposed, watched over from its first
dawn, and seriously repressed with affectionate
earnestness, and unbending tenderness. Thus,
by uniform care, it may be kept under; but if
suffered to pass unnoticed on lesser occasions, it
will soon pervade the conduct, enslave the facul
ties, alienate the heart, and influence all the mani
festations of mind.
So natural to the human bosom is this aversion
from regular discipline, this spirit of insubordina
tion, that perhaps it is scarcely possible wholly
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 87
to eradicate the predisposition ; but it is possible,
it is readily practicable to subdue, to keep under,
and finally to repress this restless, selfish, proud,
ambitious spirit. It must however be recollected,
that this can only be predicated as at a cer
tain and an early period of the disorder; and it
may have existed so long, and formed such inti
mate associations, and obtained such extensive
hold of the mental system, that it run its
course, and that no remedy can overtake its pro
gress. The correction of this vicious propensity
must commence betimes, and is not to be pre
vented by maternal fondness, which presents a
temptation to defer opposition, until it be too late
to hope for success. The longer the principle is
suffered to remain unchecked, to strike deep into
the mental soil, and to throw out its branches in
every conceivable direction, the more difficult will
it be to controul, the more painful will be the
process of counteraction.
A powerful incentive to this early discipline, is,
that it is essential to the happiness of the child
now, whose real peace will consist in the paucity
of its desires, and in their willing subjection to the
influence of reason and religion; and that pro
crastination will add to the pain which it must
eventually feel, from curbing the wild and law
less influence of its unrestrained passions; or that
it will be delivered over to the cruel agency of
these tyrant principles, in proportion to whose
power and activity the heart will be hardened
and alienated from the word of God, and the reli-
88 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
gion of Christ. It will not do to allege as an
excuse for insubordination, that it arises from the
infatuation of ignorance, and will be cured by the
diffusion of knowledge; this might indeed be true
in minds which had no bias towards evil, but not
with those so constituted, as they are, with which
we have to do.
Disaffection must be opposed in its every form;
in its principle and its practice, and must give
way before a system of mild but persevering
uniformly affectionate but invariablelenient but
just wise and principled discipline. Insubordi
nation is a principle of such amazing power, that
it will not do to slumber on the road, while tumult
bursts his prison door; it will not do to meet it
with occasional opposition only, which will do more
mischief than good; will fan the flame of dis
content ; will agitate, without restraining the pas
sions ; will inspire a hope, or at least a specula
tion, on the chances of impunity, and will attach
contempt to the wayward exertion of parental
authority. Just and principled laws; mild, but
certain in their punishments; and uniformity and
steadiness in enforcing them, will constitute the
great basis of good discipline ; and by its exer
tions, the licentious will, will be controuled; the
riotmgs of unhallowed temper will be restrained;
'the influence of disaffection will become feeble;
while the power of the maternal executive will be
increased, and the evil will be finally subjugated.
On all occasions, when the rules of just discipline
have been infringed, affectionate sorrow and dis-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 89
pleasure should be manifested : so will the boun
daries of virtue and vice be kept defined and
distinct; the path'of duty both to parent and
child will be rendered easy, and exertion will be
crowned by success ; at least, the most powerful
obstacles to success will be removed. Let the
heart be kept with all diligence; let not the risings
of this evil principle be neglected till they are
expressed in action; let the secret thought, the
first impatient feeling, the angry look be ex
pounded ; for this germ of evil principle will be
by and by developed in action; it will increase
by neglect; and may acquire such extensive
power, that the effort to remove it will become
fruitless. Dreadful anticipation! Disobedience
established ; insubordination heightened; laws
contem ned; piety disregarded; discipline un
availing; every effort to instruct, to guide, to
counsel, to advise, to support, and to protect;
every exertion for the happiness of the young
rendered nugatory and abortive. Once it might
not have been thus ; but the day of hope, and of
success has passed; and to this miserable result
is added the recollection of antecedent negligence,
the mildew of withered hopes, the pang of blasted
expectation, and the anguish of disappointed
affection.
In the practical application of the laws of dis
cipline, severity is perfectly unnecessary, and
would produce mischief; it would prove a never-
failing source of error, and of passions even more
hideous in their aspect than the principles whose
90 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
influence it is intended to subdue; while the
latter too, under such circumstances, always re
main with undiminished force. Human laws are
intended for the criminal, and their excellence
consists not in the sanguinary nature of their
penalties, but in the nice adaptation of punish
ment, to the varying shades of crim e; and in the
uniform infliction of that punishment, when a
conviction of criminality has been established:
hence it follows, that the milder the code can be
framed, consistently with the great interests of
society, the more completely will it be calculated
to obviate crime. There is however this grand
difference between political laws, and parental
discipline, that whereas the former do not con
template rewards for good conduct, but consider
such conduct, and the esteem which it ensures,
as in itself a sufficient reward: domestic disci
pline has for its object the recompense of virtuous
action, the formation of the character, the produc
tion of good habits, the development of amiable
feelings, the substitution of correct motives, the
consideration of intention and design, and the
education of the several faculties of mind. And
if mercy should temper justice in dealing with
virtual crime, afortiori, should pity, compassion,
tenderness and forgiveness form the basis of good
discipline. Severity then is entirely out of place ;
and while one instance of insubordination should
never pass unnoticed, such notice should have for
its object the reformation, rather than the punish
ment of the offender ; the correction and the sub-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 0 )
jugation of the evil tendency, and the growth and
development of a principle of affection, to ope
rate as a counter-agent to the evil, and to establish
itself in its room.
How are these combined objects to be obtained
without a sacrifice of either? Parental sorrow
and displeasure should be observed as the conse
quence of every instance of filial insubordination;
not always with the view of fixing the mind upon
the crime or its punishment, but with the inten
tion of producing repentance, and of shewing
forgiveness ofdisposition; thus rivetting infallibly
the affection of the child, and obviating the recur
rence of disobedience, by the fear of grieving so
kind a parent. Mere terror will be an inoperative
principle, except in so far as it hardens the heart
and leads to duplicity and concealment; but the
fear of giving pain to a friend so dear, will exert
an extensive influence over the mind; the hap
piness of the child will be increased, while its
affection is kindled, rendered stronger, and more
permanent.
In the arrangements of discipline, parents must
avoid au sterity; they are not to become unap-
f
t
proachable, inexorable judges, but should seek
by all means the confidence of their offspring.
The necessary influence of austerity, is to drive
the meek and gentle spirit to the deepening shades
of artifice; while the obstinate and the perti
nacious throw off all kind of restraint, and openly
contemn the maternal authority, or shelter them
selves within the confines of despair, and a cer-
92 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
tain recklessness of feeling, which boots not what
may be the consequence of its actions. Deceit
and cunning on the one hand, and on the other
perversity of continuance in evil, are the conse
quences ofthis most ill-judged m anifestation o f au 
th o rity; forthis is the common ground on which it
is maintained, and on which unsubdued tem per is
too frequently allowed to dominate. Thus the
evil is increased instead of being diminished;
and the timid and the weak may be led to con
ceal impropriety of conduct, and to hide spe
ciously the existence of bad disposition; while
neither the one nor the other will be corrected or
subdued. That which alienates the child from
the confidence of its parent, which inspires it
with a dread of her scrutiny, instead of with the
uniform desire of openness, may indeed drive it
to seek the shelter of impunity, but will never
lead it to repentance and reformation; while the
feeble display of authority and its symbols, but in
reality the strong arm o f affectionate sorrow , and the
manifestation of a readiness to forgive, and an
anxiety for reconciliation and restoration to
favour, will scarcely fail to melt the stoutest
heart, (and this is the only basis on which we
can expect, or ought to hope for success) and allow
it to take the form of that mould, which parental
solicitude has prepared. Forgiveness will merit
confidence, and the child will be thus led to con
fess willingly and candidly, faults which other
wise perhaps, would have lurked unseen: and
thus it will serve to enlarge the sphere of mater-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 9 3
nal knowledge, and her consequent power of ex
erting successful discipline.
Is it possible that this advantage can be over
looked, or not duly appreciated ? It is possible,
and not only possible, but actually is frequently,
knowingly, and willingly thrown away, under
the mistaken apprehension, that it derogates from
the dignity of parental authority to encourage
freedom of access, and filial confidence. And
yet there is not one fault the more because each
one is confessed, although more may be dis
covered, and the means of prevention may be
devised; but in the one case, from being known,
an opportunity is afforded for their correction;
while in the other, they prey upon, undermine, or
destroy the mental system.
94
CHAP. XIII.
TH E SAM E SUBJECT C O N T IN U E D .
In regulating the exercise of discipline, it is of
the first consequence to ascertain not only the
general character of the child, but also the weight
and proportion of each individual trait, as com
pared with the specific influence, which it ought
to exert in a well regulated mind, and as con
trasted with other features of the character.
The same kind and degree of discipline will not
be suitable to the harsh natured individual, the
form of whose mental manifestations is diver
sified by many inequalities, and even asperities,
and obscured by much that is useless and inju
rious ; the quality ofwhose mental soil renders it
vigorous in its productions, although those pro
ductions are not always of sterling value; whose
prominent characteristic it is to be possessed of
strong passions, and to be mutually influenced by
them, however much such influence may have
been softened and disarmed of its frightful ten
dency, by the counterpoise of many amiable dis
positions : it cannot be that the same species o f disci
p lin e is required for the character in which obsti
nacy prevails, . in whom the unyielding soil
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 95
refuses the impression of the gentler hand of cul
tivation, where every valuable property is con
cealed beneath a covering of perversity which
must be broken up before its hidden treasures can
be manifested; and, on the other hand, for amental
soil which is soft and yielding, easily susceptible
of impression, readily assuming the mould of
education, but not possessing sufficient stability
to enable it to preserve that form; this constituting
the versatile individual, accommodating itself to
every change of circumstance, readily adopting
the form with which the interest, or the prejudice,
orthe design of its companions may surround it;
a greedy and unconscious imitator, with a great
degree of carelessness as to the qualities of the
object presented for imitation ; too volatile to be
tenacious of evil purpose; too subjected to
change to be relied upon for the perseverance of
good action, and the steady influence of good
principle; intemperately excited] by slight causes,
and acting so much on the impulse of the moment
and on the spur of occasion, as not to give time
for tiie deliberation of judgment; too feeble to
become a great, too liable to surprise from sud
den emotion, to form a consistent character; too
readily swayed from its purpose to be benevolent;
too easily guided and governed by the example
or the authority of others to be ju s t, in a world
in which this latter attribute can never exist, ex
cept in combination with a certain fearlessness of
consequences, which is only to .be found in those
who can steadily and deliberately .prefer the pur
suit of- virtue to that of interest.
9 6 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
The success of the parent will then mainly de
pend on the nice adaptation and influence of a
well regulated discipline! We should smile at
the narrow policy of the practical agriculturist,
who should apply the same mode of culture to
every variety of soil; and who, despising the
evidence of experience, and making light of the
knowledge to be obtained by chemical analysis,
should torture every variety of earthly structure
into submission to his own stupid system ; a sys
tem for which he.has not an excuse to plead; and
for which, there is only this to be said in pallia
tion, that it m ay perchance be r ig h t; and that if
wrong, of which there exists the very highest
probability, he will injure none but himself, and
will reap the punishment due to his wilfulness
and folly. But the prudent cultivator, before he
adopts a system of management, will first survey
every allotment of the ground on which his future
energies are to be employed; he will ascertain
the kind of grain to which it is best adapted, and
the variety of manure which it may require,, to--
gether with all the little circumstances of exten
sion and improvement, so manifestly connected
with the diversified appearance of the surface of
our globe. So also the practical botanist, ac
cording to the given nature of the soil, knows the
particular plants he may expect to meet with,
because experience has taught him the wise ordi
nation of nature, that certain of her productions
should flourish only in a peculiar mould.
If such be the convictions of the agriculturist
and the botanist, shall the mental cultivator
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 97
shall the parent act less judiciously? Shall she
not survey the ground on which she has to operate?
Shall she not estimate its peculiarities, become ac-
quaintedwith its natural productions, and thus form
a judgment of those fruits which will flourish best,
as w ell as of the mode of culture best calculated
to ensure a plentiful return of the most diversified,
and most valued productions ? For, with regard
to intellectual chemistry, it is certain that similar,
or at least analogous states will be found, with
those natural changes which have been just al
luded to ; and it is preposterous to suppose, that
the same methods will answer equally well in the
discipline required by the several diversities of
character comprehended under the general dis
tinctions enumerated above : it must be suited to
the change of temper and disposition; for as the
fertility of a soil depends upon the due admixture
and properties of the particular earths of which it
is composed ; so does the value of the mind re
sult from its peculiar manifestations: while the
office of discipline is to encourage or counteract
them as may be necessary, to cherish the feeble,
afford the appropriate food for those which need
to be nourished and supported, and counteract
those which should be repressed.
And since a similar observation is applicable to
every possible variety of human character, disci
pline, though agreeing in its general 'form, should
be suited in its particular application to the spe
cific attributes of each. Hence the necessity of
becoming acquainted, not only with the general
VOL. II. H
98 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
form of eacli mental soil, but also with an analysis
of its interior structure ; not only of attending to
its broad and defined outlines, those which con
stitute its generic properties, but to the specific
operation of every individual principle and pas
sion upon these ; not of directing the inquiry to
one predominant or striking feature, but to each
secret motive which may influence the conduct;
not to be satisfied with the common appearance,
the outward semblance of action, when every
thing occurs which is pleasing, in the halcyon
days of prosperity, when perfect peace surrounds,
when no adverse gale disturbs the summer even
ings calm, but a
l
s
o,when it is agitated by c
flicting passions, which invade its repose before
it is aware of such agency. Hence also the ne
cessity for attending to the temper and its various
modifications; to the disposition under every
variety of combination, to the agency of the pas
sions, the dominion of affection, the power of
habit, the effect of association, and the immediate
and remote consequences of some favourite pur
suit, as well as of the laws of society, and all
else, which may change or modify the manifesta
tions of mind. It is impossible here to act by
rule, for although without this process, discipline
will be unavailing to the individual, because inap
propriate ; yet having founded a system on gene
ral conclusions, its application will still depend
on contingent circumstances; and indeed the
treatment of each child will require a system of
its own, and often of a very opposite character in
the same little circle; for as in the human coun-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 99
tenance, however strong may be the family like
ness, there are always distinctive peculiarities;
so with regard to the mental lineaments, however
they may agree in general resemblance, there are
still most important points of well-marked dif
ference ; and the disciplinemost accurately adapted
to one, will be most prejudicial to another, and
perfectly thrown away and inert upon a third.
Thus for example, to recur to the illustration we
have already employed, the discipline required by
the strong and the obstinate, must be relaxed to
wards the meek and the feeble, whom it would
infallibly destroy: the former requires the con
centrated energy of the most powerful means;
while the latter demands the gentler hand of
parental encouragement, compassionate tender
ness for its wanderings, assistance in its little dif
ficulties, the cheering smile of approbation, the
delicate affection of her whose love is only equal
led and surpassed by Him who was God as well
as man. For the former, the accents of displea
sure w ill often be required, and still more fre
quently, the painful toil to convince, and to im
press, to soften the stubborn heart, md to sub
mit its proud risings to the authority of reason,
parental duty, and Christian precept.
Here then is to be avoided the danger of ex
pending a greater share of attention upon the soft
and amiable child, than upon another who is pos
sessed of less pleasing qualities, and who does
not offer a promise of repaying quickly the labour
of cultivation. But this is unjust; since none
h 2
100 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION'.
can say, that under natures most rugged forms,
she does not conceal a mine of inexhaustible
worth, and which requires only the labour of
working to make it productive of abundant re
turns ; the diamond is not discovered till after
the operation of washing it out from the refuse
materials, with which it stands connected, and
until it has received the polish of the lapidary.
And thus all,even the most unlikely, will repay
the toil of discipline; and all must be equally
attended to. And as an additional stimulus and
incentive to this impartiality of conduct, it should
be recollected, that the yielding and impressible
character, though it may promise a present re
ward for exertion, and that without much trouble,
may yet conceal a shallowness and poverty, in
which the fruits of our labour are liable to be de
stroyed by want of perseverance, or by the irrup
tion of passion, or by the more insidious influence
of temptation; and that from its extreme ductility
it is liable to be drawn out into other forms, be
sides that which parental exertion would impress.
There is also constant danger lest the goodly
products whichflourish under our unremitting care,
should, when deprived of this support, wither
and decay, because the soil does not retain the
means of nourishing its own productions in their
independent existence; and moreover, there is
great reason to fear the prevalence of an univer
sally accommodating spirit, which would become
all things to all men, not in the spirit of the
apostle, that he might by all means save som e;
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. lOi
but in order to conciliate the good opinion of all,
and escape the obloquy of daring to be singular in
virtue, in the midst of surrounding vice and folly; as
well as to avoid the odium which attaches to the
simple followers of Him who was despised and
rejected of men, whom the world hated, and
whose disciples it will always hate, because their
obedience to his laws must be a constant censure
upon its motives and its practice. And on the
contrary, if sufficient pains be taken with the
less promising .character, it will often be found
to conceal great fertility and strength; steady
sterling worth may be educed, and although its
unyielding obstinacy may be considerable, yet
even this may arise, not so much from a pugna
cious disposition, as from a degree of pertinacity,
which is really the expression of principled adhe
rence of purpose, and which only requires to be
led to its proper object in order to produce lux
uriant fertility.
In furtherance of the views of discipline, the
influence of a religious education will be particu
larly remarkable, since religion does not so much
communicate faculties and affections, as give a new
direction to those which are already possessed;
moderating and directing their manifestations,
and impressing on all its peculiar image. That
which was false and factitious; the appearance
of benevolence, and purity of action, which before
proceeded from sordid and unworthy motives, is
now real, extensive in its application, and ener
getic in its purpose ; while those passions which
102 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
tvei'e acting in hostility to the influence of divine
truth are now converted into its firmest but
tresses, and that because they have themselves
received a new object; and being trained to its
pursuit, are become unwittingly, but necessarily
and decidedly hostile to those objects for the
attainment of which, they have before sacrificed
so much liberty of action, freedom of choice
peace of mind, purity of motive, a quiet con
science, the happiness of time, the hope of hea
ven, all that is great, tmd good, and valuable.
Discipline is not to be relaxed for the sake of
avoiding every disturbance of the childs enjoy
ment. Man, in his progress through life, must
meet with trials and difficulties, arising out of his
situation in society, and from his being placed
here in a state of probation ; and the sooner he
is assailed by the beginnings of these difficulties,
the better will he be prepared to meet them, the
more advanced will he be in his onward journey
through life, ere he is called upon for the
mightier efforts of fortitude, and strength, and
submission, and self-denial,and acquiescence. But
it may be said, if such be the case, and it is rea
dily allowed that man isborn to tro
sparks fly upwards, why prematurely disturb the
unruffled days of infancy, now that its tender
mind is so little capable of supporting its dimi
nutive cares and uneasiness, and when therefore,
the parent should do all in her power, to render
the period of childhood happy, instead of accu
mulating its anxieties ? The voice of natural
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 103
affection, and of weak-mindedness, may claim
this as a correct line of conduct, but what is the
report of cool and sober reason, what is the
award of unbiassedjudgment what say the pre
cepts of our pure and holy religion? Where then
are these peaceful hours of unruffled calm?
Where is the nursery-undisturbed by the tempest
of passion ? Where is this freedom from unhal
lowed desire, from selfishness, and avarice?
Where is the sacred spot into which anger, and
hatred, malice and envy, ambition and injustice,
impatience and jealousy do not enter ? And if
there be no such hallowed regions, where then is
to be found the peace, which discipline will de
stroy ? So far from it, that it will really increase
the present happiness of the child, because it
circumscribes its wants, and regulates its desires
within those moderate bounds, which constitute
the very essence of present felicity;  Give me
neither poverty nor riches; feed me with food
convenient for m e; lest I be full and deny thee,
and say. Who is the Lord ? or lest I be poor and
steal, and take the name of my God in vain.
Proverbs xxx. 8, 9.
Suppose discipline, which implies a moderate
but unrelaxing restraint upon the passions, and
temper and conduct be neglected; suppose that
the whims of infancy be uncontrouled and all its
waywardness indulged ; suppose that its desires be
not contradicted, nor its faults corrected; suppose
that its humours and its caprice be not only to
lerated but uniformly gratified; or suppose that
104 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
they experience only occasional and uncertain
opposition, which is at all times worse than use
less, what must positively be the consequence,
the inevitable result ? The number of supposed
wants is increased; new and capricious desires
are daily created and encouraged; pleasure itself
is rendered insipid by its uniformity; listlessness
and dissatisfaction cloud the brow ; selfishness
contracts the forehead, and shrivels the germ of
benevolence; and the little subjects of this un
disciplined, undiscriminating indulgence are ac
tually more unhappy than those who are exposed
to the influence of a want of affection, and posi
tive unkindness from their parents ; fortiori,
how wretched must they t>e, compared with those
who live under a system of ordered discipline,
founded on intense affection, and guided by the
purest motives 1 While the former are always
preserved from contradiction, their wishes always
gratified, every want however ridiculous supplied
and even anticipated, how will they be prepared
for their struggle through life; how will they be
fitted to support the contradiction, the opposi
tion, the disappointments, the vexations, the con
flicting elements of society, the cold neglect of
friends or patrons, the jealousy and unfairness of
competitors, the ingratitude of inferiors, and all
the various  whips and scorns of tim e, which
they must experience in their commerce with the
world ?
Thus far, reason and policy. But what says
religion, and what will be the effect of this un-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 105
discriminating affection on the future happiness
of our offspring, not only here, where it will be
decidedly injurious, but also It will
unfit the mind for religious instruction; render it
averse from its truths, and place it in continual
opposition to the parent, when she wishes to re
duce the principles of the Bible to consistent
practice in the daily conduct of life ; and thus
will it form an important obstacle to the influence
of the Spirit, in producing that change of heart,
without which virtue is a phantom, and religion
but a nam e! Let these effects be traced upon
the mind, from the pen of an inspired writer.
 W hoso loveth instruction, loveth knowledge;
but he that hateth reproof, is brutish. Prov. xii. 1.
 Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth
instruction; but he that regardeth reproof, shall
be honoured. Prov. xiii. 18.  Correction is
grievous unto him that forsaketh the w ay; and
he that, hateth reproof shall die. Ibid, xv. 10.
 He that refuseth instruction, despiseth his own
soul; but he that heareth reproof, getteth under
standing. Ibid, xv. 32.  A reproof entereth
more into a wise man, than a hundred stripes into
a fool. Ibid, xvii. 10.  Chasten thy son while
there is hope. Ibid, xix. 18.  Even a child
is known by hisdoings, whether his work be pur
and whether it be right. Ibid, xx. 11.  Fool
ishness is bound up in the heart of a child ; but
the rod of correction shall drive it far from him.
Ibid, xxii. 15.  He that hath no rule over his
own spirit, is like a city that is broken down, and
106 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
without walls. Ibid, xxv. 28.  The rod and
reproof give wisdom ; but a child left to himself,
bringeth his mother to shame. Ibid, xxix. 15.
 Correct- thy son, and he shall give thee rest;
yea, he shall give delight unto thy soul. Ibid,
xxix. 17. If, then, the acquisition of knowledge
be dependent upon discipline, and the absence of
correction debase and brutify; if poverty, shame,
and contempt await the froward and undisciplined,
but honour attend the path of him who regardeth
reproof; if discipline be painful only to him who
is in error, and its absence lead to moral disease
and death; if inattention to its rules be a proof
of the light estimation of the immortal soul, while
on the contrary true wisdom result from obedience
to them ; if discipline consist rather in reproof
than in stripes ; if it be to be adopted early while
there is hope; if the character of childhood be
fixed by its.actions, and it be of importance that
these be pure and right; if folly be the natural
product of the human heart, and discipline be the
appointed method of removing i t ; if the want of
discipline conduct to lawlessness of desire, and
he that hath no rule over his spirit is absolutely
defenceless and destitute; if it lead to the ab
sence of piety, and tend towards shame, a shame
which recoils upon maternal neglect; and if, on
the contrary, well ordered, mild, but firm disci
pline will ensure maternal peace, yea more, will
give delight unto her soul; why then surely the
voice of religion does but reverberate with ten
fold energy the echo of reason and policy; and
MORAL A N D RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 107
we conclude that those parents who undervalue
discipline, must be too weak to estimate its im
portance, or too wicked to act up to their convic
tions, or too weak and wicked to be convinced.
Discipline embraces farther an early and habi
tual, mild but not severe, judicious and uniform
restraint on the passions; and when it is recol
lected how fearfully their disturbing agency ac
tuates and controuls the man, and hurries him
into all manner of evil, it will be seen how im
portant is its agency in the formation of the future
character; securing its happiness, and establish
ing its principles. While governed by affection,
and guarded by religion, discipline can neither be
adopted tooearly, nor persisted in with a too great
constancy and energy of perseverance; at the
same time it must be remarked, that it should be
suited in its kind and degree to the age and ad
vantages, talents and acquirements of the infant.
In all cases, however, the child should be early
accustomed to regulate its own actions by certain
fixed principles; to moderate and repress its de
sires ; to submit to privations; to curb its incli
nations ; to yield its w ish es; to practise self-
denial,' and to govern its conduct by the unerring
light of divine truth.
Under all circumstances, discipline should in
struct the young into a distrust oftheir oumjudg
ment, and this will be accomplished by shewing
their weakness and inefficiency, their proneness
to error,- and the necessity for constant circum
spection, lest they should be influenced by un-
108 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
sound motives, or unworthy principles. This
lesson is of great importance in a world of sorrow
and contradiction, in order that we may learn not
to murmur at, or to be angry with those who
question our opinion, distrust our judgment, im
pugn our motives, or calumniate our designs; or
who differ from, and expostulate with u s : and
that we may be early accustomed to bear oppo
sition to our views, and feelings, and wishes, and
favourite schemes. This is a lesson which must
eventually be rendered familiar by intercourse
with the world; and therefore one which it is de
sirable to possess before we are called upon to
buffet with the waves of adversity, or placed in
contact with those whose superior intelligence
makes us feel our inferiority; that we may not
have to learn a lesson of diffidence from dearly
bought and humiliating experience.
Again, discipline may be so employed as to
educe a spirit of forbearance, so essential, so indis
pensable to present comfort. Where thisis wanting
there will be a perpetual struggle between pride
and mortification: life will consist in an uninter
rupted series of captious efforts; there will be a
constant endeavour to pursue one favourite plan,
without regard to the feelings of others, without
yielding to the consideration of their wishes, or
throwing the veil of benevolence over their frail
ties. Without a spirit of yielding #nd forbear
ance, there will be no improvement, or delight in
the blessings of life; there will be no prudent,
consistent, Christian conduct under its trials;
MORAL A N D RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 109
there will be no possibility of evincing the lowli
ness of real religion, or of coining to Christ with
all our weariness, and all our burdens, and all our
sins and infirmities, that may give us rest, the
rest of reconciliation with God, the peace of ac
quiescence in his will, of doing and suffering
cheerfully all that he has appointed.
There is indeed great difficulty in bearing to be
thought wrong, when conscious of being right;
and to be anxiously and uniformly aspiring to do
well, although we may not always obtain the
praise of sincere design; although our well-doing
may be evil spoken o f; although we may be mis
understood, and misrepresented, and even calum
niated.
B y means of discipline, an opportunity is af
forded of attending not so much to the action
itself as to the motive which gave it rise, and
the general spirit with which it is most intimately
blended. The act may have been influenced by
a thousand contingencies; it is the heart which
requires examination, as the seat and source of
motive and feeling, principle and conduct.
Neither should the event of actions be suf
fered to influence the judgment either of the parent
or of the young. Too frequently in the ma
nagement of discipline, the former will act under
the impulse of some unfortunate consequence,
the effect of accident, and yet act as if it were
the result of evil will. Principle, design, and in
tention, should be the great objects for parental
discipline, as they are for the child, and indeed
110 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
for both, the only sure grounds of right practice;
and the mind should be carefully guarded against
the indulgence of solicitude after the praise of
others, a praise which attaches itself more to ap
pearance than realities, to success rather than de-
sert. With the world, success is the criterion of
m erit; a most erroneous idea, and one which
the parent will most carefully oppose. Were it
once indulged, it would soon develop pride in
those talents which are the instruments of suc
cess : whereas it should be most uniformly proved,
that these talents are the gift of God, committed
to their care as stewards, and that so far from
any merit attaching to their exertion or its con
sequences, it is a bare act ofduty, which involves
a higher responsibility on our parts; that we shall
be one day called to give an account of our stew
ardship, and then it will be found that at the very
best we have been unprofitable servants.
B y means of discipline also, may be taught a
spirit of gentleness, meekness, and patience un
der the trials of life. Thus does it present a wide
field for the exertions of the parent: all her hopes
may not be fulfilled: she may even be disap
pointed in her prospect of success; but so far
from being discouraged by the failure of to-day,
she must be excited to renewed efforts for to
morrow ; and thus obtain energy even from dis
appointment, for although  hope deferred mak-
eth the heart sick, yet,  when the desire
cometh it is a tree of life. Want of success
must afford no motive for a relaxation of d u ty ;
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. I l l
but it doesgive substantial ground, for redoubling
her assiduity, for questioning the accuracy of her
proceedings, for examining the validity of her
plans; for inquiring into her own heart, and as
certaining if no secret bias may have taken away
her dependence on almighty aid, and if she may
not have been trusting to herself; and it does
give substantial ground for testing the practice by
which her principles may have been followed,
and for determining if these do not admit of im
provement ; for distrusting their correctness, and
anxiously seeking that her own heart should be
right with God.
Some parents do too much, and make their
children hypocrites: the majority do too little, be
cause they are not deeply and thoroughly con
vinced of the importance of discipline, and because
they rest in the exertion of their own strength.
But in dependence upon divine aid, let the mo
ther continue her own assisted efforts, and much,
very much will be accomplished ; though as has
been before stated, the renewal of the heart is
not the work of education, and can alone be ef
fected by the operation of the Spirit of divine
grace.
There are, however, one or two cautions on the
subject of discipline which we cannot altogether
pass over, and with which the present chapter
will be closed. The necessity for its undeviating
uniformity has been pleaded for in the foregoing
pages, and it is by no means here intended to
relax this direction : but it must be recollected.
112 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
that the characteristics of good discipline are
that it be mild and principled. If it should as-
sume the form of severity ; above all, if it should
be capricious, or attach itself to little apparent
details or points of action, rather than to the spi
rit of the act, then is it most frequently unjust;
it exerts a teazing influence upon the m ind; it
attaches blame where no fault really exists, and
where the design was excellent: this miscon
struction produces irritability, irritability treads
closely on the heels of anger, and is followed by
a loss of confidence and affection towards the
parent, and an indisposedness to listen to her
advice. Ye  fathers provoke not your children
to a
n
g
e
r
, lest they be discouraged, (Colossians,
iii. 21,) are the important words of an inspired
writer, and should form a land-mark for the ex
ertion of discipline. It must subdue, not irritate;
its demands and its exertions must be neither
frivolous nor vexatious; its views must be en
larged ; itself must rise above the littlenesses of
feeling; and then it will seldom err in carrying
its all pervading agency, throughout the entire
system of parental conduct: ubiquity must be
its unfailing property, and yet it must operate
unseen; it must be as the nervous influence to
the body, indispensable to the performance of
every one of its functions, and to the health of the
whole, but impossible to be detected. The re
maining clause of the above cited passage, viz.
 bring them up in the nurture and admonition
of the Lord, will shew what are the real objects
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 113
o f discipline, and what is the true meaning of the
antithesis, by which the wrath of childhood is
placed in opposition with the  nurture and ad
monition of the Lord.
But lastly, it may become a question, whether
it is, or is not desirable to keep the faults of child
ren constantly before their eyes ; or whether by
doing thus, they will not become so habituated
to that which is wrong, as almost to cease to ac
count it such, and to confound the distinctions
between good and evil. This question does not
admit of a simple negative or affirmative reply,
because a distinction must be made between
errors, faults, and vices.
The just and holy God is of purer eyes than to
behold iniquity, and the maternal conduct is here
defined by that of our heavenly Father. A wilful
act of criminality must be never passed unnoticed;
nor even that, which though not in itself criminal,
leads immediately to the commission and indul
gence of crime. But with regard to the more
venial faults and errors, the evils of thoughtless
ness and inconsideration, and many of the little
daily and hourly proofs of imperfection, of which
the frequency of their recurrence would neces
sitate the almost constant ostensible operation of
discipline; and when the parent would be thus
pitted against the child many times in every hour
of the d a y ; here indeed, without relaxing the
system of discipline, it is not to be made a promi
nent feature of action, since the frequency of
rebuke will diminish the intensity of its impres-
VOL. II. I
1
114 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
sion ; the child will become reckless of its influ
ence, and ceasing both to love and to fear its
parent, it will give up the effort to please; its
little heart will be hardened ; and he that being
often reproved, hardeneth his heart, is in the
worst possible situation for future improvement.
It is a mistaken idea, that discipline consists only
in rebuke and correction: as in the instance we
are now considering, its plain and obvious duty is
not to familiarize the mind with reproof, as the
punishment of error, and which the child- will
soon come to consider in the light of an atone
ment for i t ; but perceiving the weak points of the
character, to educate, to foster, to encourage, to
develop, and strengthen the counter principles,
which by their preponderance will slowly and
ultimately subdue the morbid tendency. The
consequence of very frequent rebuke is to cause
the young lightly to esteem the expression of
parental discipline, as well as the fault which
may have called it forth; evils which it is self-
evident, lead at once, to the subversion of the
great barriers to impropriety, as well as of the
basis on which correct views and practice are
established ; while by the indirect, but more cer
tain operation of bringing out into prominence, a
counter-principle, the mind is strengthened in the
pursuit of good, and its tendency to error, is gra
dually subverted.
115
CH AP. XIV.
ON THE FORMATION OF HABITS.
T he power and influence of habit, as a physi
cal agent, have .been already considered; (see
vol. I. chap. i. p. .10,).but its operation on morals
requires in this place some little development.
 Train up a child in the w ay in which he
should g o ; and when he is old, he will not de
part from it, are the words of infinite wisdom,
and demonstrate the power of habit over the
human m in d ; and declare, that good principles
wrought out into habitual action, will not lose
their influence ; but that they will maintain and
exert their power of perpetual recurrence, not
withstanding all the follies of youth, the vanities
of the world, the temptations of sense, the errors
of mature life, the crimes of society, the alien
ation from God, the substitution of this or that
idol, the power of an accumulated series of de
viations from the path of rectitude every effort
to silence conscience, to stifle remorse, to weave
still closer the web of iniquity, to consummate
the departure from true wisdom by the entire
forgetfulness of God, to shut the eyes against the
repeated warnings of providence, to close the ear
i 2
116 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
against the renewed invitations of grace, aye,
even in spite of the barrier to truth opposed by
age, by a long course of iniquity, declining
strength, enfeebled mind, advancing decrepitude,
approaching dissolution ; in spite of all these cir
cumstances, the power of early habit, will still
recall the mind to the religious principle, upon
which it was first formed; will still form a cen
tre ol hope, from which even at the last hour,
may originate the cry of mercy to the only Sa
viour, the heartfelt dying prayer,  Lord, re
member me, when thou comest into thy king
dom, and to which may reach the animating
assurance,  To-day shalt thou be with me in
paradise. And if this be true of the extreme
case we have supposed; if even one may be saved
at the very last hour, surely none need cast away
hope; surely itwould be sufficient induce
to implant the principle, and educe the habit,
with the hope, the chance, the bare possibility,
that this might only in one case prove the means
of salvation.
But the argument is stronger; for if in this
case there be hope ; and if (as is really the fact)
the power of good habit be enfeebled, and ren
dered almost nothing by the constant iteration of
bad conduct, the eternal vibrations of evil prin
ciple ; we shall see that the hope of good in
creases in proportion as we trace back our way
from extreme old age to middle life, and even to
youth; and that that which is possible in decre
pitude with all its accumulated load of departure
MORAL AND KELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 117
from God, becomes more and more probable in
earlier life, till it lias assumed the shape, and
claimed to itself the attributes of a distinct and
tangible expectation. Hence the importance of
this subject, and the claim .which it presents to
practical attention.
Habitual moral action is grounded on ,
and that theory is based on the knowledge of
certain and sufficient facts, together with their
principles and consequences ; and the accordance
of the latter with the inspired truths of revela
tion. It must be obvious however, that habitual
moral action may be founded on reason, theory,
principle, and consequences, irrespective of re
vealed religion ; and that the latter will be found
to influence principally and wholly, the minds of
those who are taught by the Spirit of God. We
are then by no means to reject every habit, which
does not own the Word of God for its rule and
its guid e; but as parents, anxious for the best
interests of children, our aim must always be to
engraft habit on the exertion of principle, prin
ciple on sound reason, and reason on the Word of
God.
W hen the individual is not thus influenced by
divine grace; and when any principle, or as
sumed principle, has been acted upon, without
producing immediately bad consequences, how
ever injurious may be its real tendency; yet the
mind is too apt to look no further, but the quesT
tionable action will establish itself as a rule, will
become the criterion of future conduct, and by
1 1 8 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
repeated association, will be invested with the
power and properties of habit. Hence, the pri
mary importance of considering action, as the ex
pression of a certain state of mind, which itself
will serve to establish and confirm. And since
the mere light of human reason is insufficient to
conduct the man into the paths of rectitude,
preserve him under the influence of virtue, and
save him from the contagion of v ice; so does it
become the Christian mother to seek a higher
source of last and definite appeal, to draw her
motives from the Word of God, and to instil the
principles of the Gospel in their unsullied purity,
as the only proper basis for future exertion.
The resources of an infants mind are as yet
undeveloped ; it is a stock, which in future years
will produce fruit according to the scion which
may be engrafted on it. It is simply the foun
dation of a noble edifice ; and the object of the
parent is to erect upon it, not a castle of indo
lence, not a mansion of luxury, not a lazar-house
for the reception of all the infirmities and dis
eases of our moral nature; not a temporary
building however splendid, for the transaction of
commercial business,no, nor even a magnificent
intellectual storehouse : but a temple of the living
God;  for ye are bought with a price; therefore
glorify God in your body, and in your spirit
which are Gods. 1 Corinthians vi. 20. Around
this foundation lay a vast number of materials
fitted for the several compartments of the in
tended edifice ; these are at present disconnected
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 119
with it, and have been thrown into disorder and
confusion, by some disturbing agent, whose
power has even gone so far as to destroy the
original cohesion of some of its most polished
corner stones; and all have now been thrown
together, not only without order and method and
arrangement, but in studied, and as it should
seem at first sight, in inextricable perplexity.
Some of these abundant materials are yet well
suited for their intended purpose ; while others
would not only detract from the beauty of the
building, but would endanger its safety and per
manence ; hence the great importance of not em
ploying indiscriminately the materials placed
within our reach, nor even of choosing at ran
dom ; but of selecting from the heap, according
to some fixed principle, those only, which will
communicate beauty and stability; and of reject
ing those which would impair either the one or
the other. The ruleto guide this choice, is t
Word of God, and  let every man take heed
how he buildeth thereupon. For other founda
tion can no man lay than that is laid, which is
Christ Jesus. Now if any man build upon this
foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood,
hay, stubble: every mans work shall be made
manifest, for the day shall declare it. 1 Corin
thians iii. 10, 11, 12, 13. Hence the infinite
moment of the formation of early habits, founded
on Christian principles; and of their association
into character.
Having established on this subject the grounds
120 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
of parental duty, we are now prepared to remark
that the grand indications for maternal exertion,
are, to form habits which will be useful and
proper; and to restrain or correct those which
are questionable or improper. To prevent the
formation of evil habits, it is of the first conse
quence to obviate the sfrequent
improper -action, as that it should assume the
form, and be invested with the power of custom.
When any line of conduct has become habitual, it
is very difficult to establish a dissimilar train of
thought, and reasoning, and action, since it re
quires the affections to be interested in this pur
suit, and these are already enlisted under the
banner of the enem y; but before this period has
arrived, the formation of the .habit may be pre
vented, by attending closely to the first rudi
ments and springs of action, correcting these,
and preventing their being improperly biassed.
And here it must be remembered, that the influ
ence of conduct, extends far beyond its apparent
origin and termination; for as the human mind
is constituted, neither action nor passion can re
main in an insulated form, but stand connected
with a train of consequences of a similar com
plexion ; so that the indulgence of one habitual
error, will lead to the development of many
more, and will conduct its infatuated votary into
all the intricacies of midnight atheism, from
which the sun of the Christians heaven has been
blotted out, and there remains not one cheering
ray of hope and of deliverance.
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 121
The principal means of fulfilling these indica
tions are to encourage and cultivate those ideas,
principles, affections, and passions, which are
conducive to the support of that action which it
is wished to render habitual; to lead the mind to
practise it constantly ; above all to fix its atten
tion upon the grounds of its own action; and to
shew that these are derived from the revealed
will of God, and are exerted in obedience to his
commands. The mode of conveying this instruc
tion, is, not so much by a direct and exclusive
appeal to the understanding, as by interesting
the heart, in the great motives of Christianity ;
and the power of these being once established,
the aid of intellectual support will necessarily
follow in their train. There is a frequent source
of error, and of failure, in considering children
merely as intelligent, and not also as sentient
beings; and thus the parent may be too much
occupied with the understanding, and address
herself too exclusively to the reasoning principle,
to the neglect of the imagination and the pas
sions, the hopes, the fears, the anticipations of
hereafter.
This view of the subject should influence the
parents choice of m
o
t
i
v
e
s
rfor action ; thus, for in
stance, the duty of making the divine will, the
rule of our conduct, will be more effectually
taught, by shewing the goodness, mercy, and love
of God, towards sinful, ruined, lost, and helpless
man, than it can be by any arguments of moral
philosophy, or propriety, or aught else which is
122 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
the mere production of reason. In conclusion,
let the parent be ever on the watch, to establish
and fixas a governing principle, any one action,
which proceeds from right motives, however these
may have been occasional, and excited only by
the peculiar circumstances of situation ; for by
taking advantage of these golden opportunities,
it will often happen, that that action, which has
originated under the impulse of correct feeling,
may become a pervading habit of the mind, and
may be rendered the instrument of much good.
Apparent accident has been the frequent source of
useful discovery; but in education, there should
be nothing left to accident; yet unexpected events,
if diligently embraced, will often conduct the pa
rental instructress to the confirmation of good,
and the subversion of bad habits.
123
CHAP. XV.
OF THE PASSIONS.
S e c t i o n I. Of Selfishness.
S e l f i s h n e s s consists in the preference of per
sonal and individual interest, and in the abandon
ment of attention to the wants and feelings of
others. Its first influence is to confine the views
within the narrow limits of self-gratificationthat
reigning principle of action in all the different
ages of life, from the cradle to the grave. Its
agency is prominently marked so soon as desire
can be developed; it is the natural effort of the
human heart, till controuled by other principles ;
and although it may be more effectually con
cealed during the mid-day of existence, by a re
finement of self-interest, assuming the form of
dissimulation, and stimulated by the fear and the
shame of being thought selfish; yet even here,
the finer shades of this character may be traced
by an unprejudiced observer; and towards the
evening of life, it will again stalk abroad in
lengthened outline, and will hover, with aug
mented power, around the twilight of decrepi
tude, and cling fondly to the last wasting rem
nants of vitality, until  man goeth to his long
home.
124 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
Selfishness is an absorbing passion; it never
rests satisfied with any preceding advantage:
before it, policy, expediency, principle, virtue,
motive, religion, the love and the fear of God,
and the desire of obedience to his will, all yield
their peculiar prerogatives, and bow to its exten
sive sw a y ; the kindlier affections are kept in
check, and exclusive inclination, egoistic passion,
and narrow disposition, reign uncontrouled, dis
seminating unhappiness, and obliterating all traces
of benevolence.
The passions will generally be found virtues or
vices, according to the use which may be made
of them. Thus selfishness is a virtue within just
bounds, and originates in the principle of self
conservation; that which was given us for the
purpose of preserving the individual, of ensuring
a proper attention to the health, and enforcing
the desire after the continuance of life; a desire,
which however it may be subordinated to the will
of God, ought never to be superseded ; for though
to die were infinite gain, yet to live to the glory
of God, and for the good of others, should be the
Christians hope. This passion has however been
depraved by the fall; it is no longer marked as a
principle of self-preservation; but assumes the
distinct form of a desire to accumulate as much
gratification as possible around the individual,
without regard to the feelings and good of others:
it seeks the extension of life, only because it
affords the means of augmented and reiterated
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 125
enjoyment; it lives within itself; it seeks not the
happiness of others; it recks not obedience to
the will of heaven; it is unjust and anti-social
in all its tendencies, and renders manrational,
intelligent man man who was created in the
image of God the debased slave of his organiza
tion and appetites. Melancholy portrait! Yet
such is a faithful representation of the natural
heart of man; he lives to him self; he acts, and
thinks, and speaks, and feels for him self; and,
awful thought! with no better principle than
this, he dieth to himself, and will then live through
all eternity, a prey, and a misery to himself!!
If we examine the first actions, and mental
workings of infancy, we shall find that the child
pursues selfish gratification without any other con
sideration ; and no sooner is an effort made to
oppose this unvarying pursuit, than anger and
other hateful passions are excited ; all demon
strating, if such demonstration were thus neces
sary, that some devastating change has passed
upon the fairest work of Omnipotence; and shew
ing the tendency to evil, as well as proving that
there is none that doeth good. But since self-
denial, and forbearance towards others, are the
only basis on which the happiness of society can
be constituted, it is of consequence that the child
be taught to exercise these principles; a lesson
which must be commenced early, before the evil
principle has gained strength by exercise, and
has ripened into habit; and the acquisition of
which, though necessarily painful, will not only
126 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
add greatly to the value and influence of the cha
racter, but will also be a comfort through life,
and lead the individual to place its best hopes on
futurity. ,
The subjection of selfishness, the government
of self, includes the suppression of improper pas
sions, the submission of our wishes and desires to
secure the comfort of others, the sacrifice of pre
sent pleasure to promote anothers welfare, the
subjection of improper motives to action, and the
encouragement of those which are just, and which
will lead us with pleasing reflections through the
most difficult circumstances of life. There are
certain and defined limits placed to the gratifica
tion of our wishes; and the young should be early
taught to act upon them : as for instance, are
they lawful in kind and in degree? Are they
openly sanctioned by, and in strict conformity
with the will of God ? Are they reasonable, and
in accordance with the wants, and hopes, and
fears of an intelligent being ? Are they expedient,
or suited to the circumstances and situation of
social,'relative man ? Are they worthy of an as
pirant after immortality, one whose transient
period of earthly existence is but as the vestibule
which marks his entrance upon eternity; the
mere line, which it requires scarcely a second of
time, or the slightest effort to pass, and which
once passed, is subject to no possibility of retro-
gradation ? And finally, are they worthy of such
a Beingdestined to live for ever, and whose
eternity of reward or punishment, will be fixed
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 127
according to the deeds done in the body, accord
ing to his reception of the offers of mercy, or his
blind preference of selfish enjoyment, and wilful,
obstinate rejection of the invitations of grace, and
the admonitions of the Spirit ?
In order to govern the heart, it must be known;
the intricacies of its minuter shades of preference
must be unravelled; the mind must have been
accustomed to an analysis of its actions and mo
tives ; and to trace them through all their dif
ferent gradations from the first germ of inclination,
to the fully formed wish, the developed motive,
the great desire, the vehement passion, the head
long and almost irresistible impulse, when the
easily controuled inclination has been suffered to
obtain such a degree of importance, by passing
through the successive stages of selfish agency.
Besides this minute inquiry into the principles of
action, the government of self, presupposes a
reference to some certain and fixed principle of
action, some unerring standard, some immutable
laws proceeding from the source of wisdom and of
truth; and adapted to the feebleness and the ne
cessity of man, who is prone to inconsistency
and folly : and these laws are to be sought, and
to be found only in the revealed will of heaven.
These principles, however, are possessed by a
child in so slight a degree, that its government
of itself must be in some measure empirical; that
is, it must be taught to exert the consummation
of the principle in self-controul, before it can
fully appreciate all the intermediate chain of
128 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
causes and effects, which constitute the mature
and well-regulated character. But under pa
rental guidance, it will learn to a certain extent,
to subdue and avert the risings of selfishness,
without exactly being conscious of the grounds of
such action. The parent, as the guide of her off
spring, instils the principle, develops the act, and
reiterates the motive and the duty, till by de
grees they come to be intimately associated, and
form essential points of uniform character.
Self-government is often required through life ;
not a day, not an hour, scarcely even a single
instant, can pass away in the busy scenes of
social intercourse, in the seclusion of domestic
privacy, aye, and even in the solitude of complete
abstraction, without the necessity for recurring to
this principle. It is of the first consequence to sus
tain equanimity;but to sacrifice our own wishes to
the views of others; to bear an insult unprovoked;
to suffer the contumely of the wicked, and the
neglect of the good; to be exposed to losses and
afflictions; and to support the derision, the
haughty scorn; the frown, and worse than all,
the smiles and favour of the world, requires the
controul of selfish inclination, the subduction of
natural passion, and the exertion of superinduced
principle.
The government of self, however, relates not
only to the mode in which we receive, and are in
fluenced by the actions of others, but to the man
ner in which our own actions are regulated ; and
farther still, to the choice and indulgence of mo-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 129
tive in which these originate. Motives are influ
enced by the agency of depraved feelings and
affections, as well as of distorted and perverted
judgment: under the operation of passion, we
are thrown off our guard, and are induced to
speak unadvisedly, to think harshly, to act has
tily, and often erroneously; selfish inclination
governs the will, influences the affections, and
chains the mind to one narrow lim it; excluding the
principles of benevolence, and forgetting those of
the gospel; enslaving the man, and destroying his
freeness and rectitude of action. By means of this
subtle principle, prejudice, and intolerance
assail mankind; for each one of these may be
directly traced to a preference of selfish inclina
tion, superseding a benevolent tenderness and
respect to the views and feelings of others; in
fact, every want of liberality and kindness to
those who entertain different opinions from our
own, may be traced to a want of self-government,
and to the concealed influence of selfish feeling
and passion.
The agency of this principle is of the greatest
importance in after life: and this depends mainly
upon its due and regular exercise in infancy; or
when self-controul is attempted, and the struggle
is to be maintained with the combined power of
the principle, and the habit, the chance of victory
will be proportionally small. The parent there
fore should curb and moderate the unruly pas
sions and desires of the child; instruct it into
what ought to be its motives to action, and en-
VOL. II. K
130 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
force them steadily and uniformly. Not only
are selfish inclinations to be restrained, but actual
self-denial is to be practised. If instead of the
exercise of this pure principle, self-gratification
be esteemed the great criterion of action, an un-
amiable character is produced; its conduct is
wholly tinged with a melancholy stain that betrays
the sad change which has been wrought upon the
mind, so that individual interest becomes the
groundwork of motive, instead of that willing
cession of personal comfort to the good of others,
which should form the basis of principled conduct.
Without this self-denial, where would be the
peace and harmony of domestic life: there the
abnegation of self forms the basis of happiness,
of which the indulgence of a contrary motive saps
the foundation: each one must prefer the comfort
of others to his own, before he can exercise that
forbearance, that tenderness and delicacy towards
their feelings which are so essential, and without
which, respect, esteem, affection, all will crum
ble away before the tyranny of that cruel monster,
self. '
Another inode of subduing selfishness, is by
the exercise of that practical self-denial, which
should form the basis of Christian charity, that
pure and holy principle, which consists not in the
indulgence of ineffective good wishes, and in the
enjoyment of the luxury of pity, or in the bustling
activity of public subscription, or in the osten
tatious bestowment of superfluities; but in the
mite of the widow, the offering of self-denying
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 131
benevolence, the hardly-earned and difficultly
spared contribution, which necessitates the aban
donment of some promised pleasure, some favou
rite luxury, or even some supposed necessary, for
the pure delight of securing the happiness or the
good of others, cheering the bed of sickness,
soothing the pillow of anguish, and administering
to the necessities of the poor and the indigent,
the sorrowing and the dying. That charity
which will not seek the means for its support in
self-denial maybe very useful to those on whom it
is expended, but it is utterly without a blessing
to those who communicate; the disease of selfish
ness has destroyed its native character, and it is
no longer twice blessed. The parent will always
find the means of establishing this principle and
practice, by producing occasions for charity,
founded invariably on the basis of self-denial;
and thus will be developed the principle and the
habit of self-controul, while the power of bene
volence will be heightened, and a more extensive
sphere of usefulness will be obtained.
The principle of self-government may be still
farther promoted, by abstaining from every good
thing which cannot be procured without some de
gree of injustice, howeyer slight, to others; or
some shadow or semblance of impropriety. In
either case, it will be an object of great impor
tance to form moderate desires, such as will be
easily and simply gratified, and which will not
require any wasteful expenditure of sensorial
energy, any relinquishment of duty, any aban-
k 2
132 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
donment of the good of others, any sacrifice of
principle for its support.
Again, the practice of self-denial must be ex
tended to things which are perfectly lawful, but
which are not now expedient, from the circum
stances in which we are placed with regard to
others, or ourselves: interfering with the comfort
of the former, or with our more important pur
suits, or a just economy of time, or the regulation
of personal expenditure. Thus, for instance,
self-denial is required, as it may refer to the pos
session of some object good in itself, and affording
the means of doing good, and being more exten
sively useful, if, in order to obtain it, we must
withhold comfort from those to whom we could
otherwise afford i t ; if it would render us unjust
towards those to whom we are under pecuniary
obligations; if it would induce us to steal time
from other duties, in order to devote it to a fresh
object of enjoyment; and more than all, if it
should tempt us to sacrifice religious, moral, and
intellectual advantage at the shrine of animal
luxury.
Such is however the strength and intensity of
the selfish principle, and such the power of its
early and habitual exercise, that oral and pre
ceptive instruction is not a sufficient antidote to
its influence : argument alone is unavailing ; the
voice of reason is stifled by the impetus of pas
sion ; the sober apothegms of philosophy are for
gotten ; the sublimest system of ethics is neg
lected ; the admonitions of conscience are op-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 133
posed or perverted; the dictates of our holy
religion are disregarded; the plain directions of
the Bible, and the example of Christ are lightly
esteemed, or avowedly set at nought; and the
adoration of self is substituted for the worship of
the Most High. But if such be the influence of
uncontrouled passion, it is necessary to seek the
means of applying constantly the antidote prin
ciple, as one for common, and constant, and daily,
and hourly use; not as an object of belief, but of
practice, that the foundations of self-denial and
self-government may be deeply and securely laid,
and may be formed into integral parts of the men
tal system ; so that by their uniform and succes
sive application, they may exist as so many points
of reference hereafter, in all cases of emergency
and difficulty.
This object is to be effected generally in every
little act of kindness, and affection, and benevo
lence of children to each other; and in every
labour of charity for the poor, the sick, and the
destitute; but particularly may it be obtained by
means of food, and dress, and medicine. These
objects are probably very little attended to, be
cause they appear trifling; but let it be remem
bered, that the ideas of children can only be
formed and corrected by a review and comparison
of circumstances, and events, and opportunities,
with which they are surrounded, and which are
familiar to their capacities : and hence it is that
those things which strike the eye in common life.
1 3 4 MORAL AN1> RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
appeal to the heart, and influence the understand
ing. Thus with regard to medicine, nothing can
render its exhibition palatable ; and it is absurd
to endeavour to conquer the repugnance, the in
stinctive aversion of children from it, by cheating
them into the belief that it is nice, an as
sertion which they immediately learn to be false;
and unfortunately learn more, viz. that that false
hood has been uttered by their parent, whom they
consequently begin to disesteem, and to distrust
an evil of such incalculable magnitude, that it is
only a matter of surprise, how any thinking pa
rent can risk its occurrence. When medicine
necessary, let it be taken as an act of duty and of
self-denial, for the purpose of restoring health;
and let these principles be inculcated as the basis
of the duty ; so shall it teach the government and
controul of selfish inclination. The nature and
quantity of food, and the modeof dress, will also
furnish useful methods of fulfilling this indication.
If the child be permitted to reject plain and sim
ple food, for that which is more piquant, and
highly seasoned, or rendered stimulating by any
other means, it is effectually taught self-indulgence
and self-preference, however the precepts of mode
ration and self-controul may have been inculcated;
whereas, if the opposite system be invariably
adopted, it will learn to subordinate its wishes
and appetites to the simple object before it, viz.
that of conveying nourishment to the system.
So also, if the child be systematically taught to
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 135
dispense with some ornamental article of dress,
or even, though not ornamental, superfluous, or
one which would admit of a cheaper substitute,
without forgetting the proprieties of station; for
the purpose of procuring some lasting and more
valuable possession, and, afortiori. With the view
of relieving the ignorance, or the vice, or the dis
tresses of others, it will learn a lesson of self-
government, which will exercise the principle,
and diffuse its influence through the remainder of
life; so true is it, that  there is that maketh
himself poor; yet hath great riches. Proverbs
xiii. 7.  Wo unto him that buildeth his house
by unrighteousness and his chambers by w rong;
that useth his neighbours service without wages,
and giveth him not for his work; that saith, I
will build me a wide house, and large chambers,
and cutteth him out w indow s; and it is ceiled
with cedar, and painted with Vermillion. Shalt
thou reign, because thou closest thyself in cedar ?
Did not thy father eat and drink, and do justice
and judgment, and then it was well with him?
He judged the cause of the poor and n eed y; then
it was well with him ; was not this to know me,
saith the Lord ? But thine eyes and thine heart
are not but for thy covetousness, and for to shed
innocent blood, and for oppression, and for vio
lence to do it. Jeremiah xxii. 13 17.
136 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
S e c t i o n II. Of Angerof Hatredof Resent
mentof Vengeance.
a. Of Anger.
A n g e r is a restless passion :  Wrath is cruel,
and anger is outrageous. Proverbs xxvii. 4. It
disturbs the equilibrium of the bodily functions,
produces violent commotion in the digestive sys
tem, disorders the intellectual faculties, agitates
the mind, and drives it from its centre of peace
and hope; its turbulent waves break over the
soul, overwhelm its recollection, subdue, and
cause it to be carried away by its im pulse; the
government of self is entirely lo st; the conduct it
occasions is unjust; it is founded on , and
that, sinfulfeeling, instead of on reason, and that
reason guided by revelation. If then its immediate
influence upon the body, be to produce disease, to
excite irritation of the brain, and unfit that organ
for its peculiar and appropriate function, the ma
nifestations of mind, and the acquisition and en
largement of intelligence : if it subvert the influ
ence of good principle, and destroy the rest and
peace of the Christian bosom ; if he be driven by
it from his dependence upon his faithful Protector;
and if he suffer his confidence to be tossed on the
surface of this stormy passion, and even to be lost
in its mighty billow s; if he lose the possession of
himself, and be provoked to act towards others,
as he would not wish to be acted by ; and if for-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 137
getful of the laws of God, he should allow him
self to be guided by the blind impetus of wounded
self-love, surely, can he be angry and sin not?
can he be too soon, or too sedulously employed
in counteracting this baneful tendency ?
Anger is extensive in its influence, and mis
chievous in its consequences; it requires to be
opposed in every form and degree, and demands
unceasing watchfulness. It soon betrays its ex
istence in the bosom of infancy, and concentrates
upon itself much maternal management.  The
discretion of a man deferreth his anger : and it is
his glory to pass over a transgression. Proverbs
xix. 11.  He that is slow to anger is better than
the m ighty. Proverbs xvi. 32. But the discretion
of infancy is a principle in embryo ; and although
its development will form a part of Christian edu
cation, yet it is not to be relied upon as a barrier
to wrath, and the irascibility of the young is one
of their earliest mental manifestations. Their an
ger is not deferred; neither is it slowly produced ;
for no sooner is the occasion presented, than this
passion is excited, and then,  behold how great
a matter a little fire kindleth; affection and
principle yield before the impetuous torrent, and
during its continuance, the individual can no
longer be considered as of sound mind, but as
subjected to a paroxysm so nearly bordering on
insanity, that it should excite in our minds, all
the horror of that fearful malady, yet without an
equal degree of commiseration for its victim s;
the difference consisting in this, that while the
138 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS. EDUCATION.
one is a visitation of Providence, the other is a
voluntary infliction. It must be recollected, how
ever, that some children are much more prone to
anger than others; and that this, so far as it con
sists in original predisposition, is the expression
of peculiarity of physical temperament. But
this is the case, there is the greater need for that
discretion which defers anger, and for that slow
ness to passion, which is an engine of so great
power, in calming the irritated waves of a stormy
ocean.
The predispositions to evil, form a source of our
trial and temptationof our victory or defeat:
they are many of them dependent upon constitu
tional tendency, and they are pretty evenly dis
tributed ; so that individuals are generally charac
terized by their influence, and commonly possess
an equal share of principles (though constantly
varying in their complexion) which require encou
ragement, or demand opposition. None therefore
need complain ; and none need excuse themselves
on the ground of original bias; for this forms a
part of that system of probation in which we live;
and man has been furnished with the power of
choosing good, and opposing evil; and has re
ceived principles, which if he will but exercise
them, will enable him to subdue the predispo
sition towards evil. And in addition to this, the
word of unerring truth has been given him as a
sure and certain guide to rectitude of principle,
and uprightness of conduct; together with a pro
mise that the grace of God shall be sufficient for
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 139
every emergency. And with such a provision of
strength, and such kind assurances of support,
there can be no ground for supineness in resisting
anger, no excuse for readily admitting its incursions.
Anger usually arises in consequence of some
supposed positive injury, or negatively from the
consciousness, or even the suspicion, of a want
of sufficient attention to our wishes and desires,
or even our self-created necessities. It is very
generally unjust; and depends on our own im
proper ideas of the magnitude of our wants, and
of the right to expect immediate compliance with
them. It is also associated with a group of ma
lignant passions ; and unless wrestled with, and
successfully opposed, it will increase in its de
mands, it will come to be excited on the most
trivial occasions, and it will disturb the social
peace of all around, disorder the constitutional
health, destroy the harmony of the paternal go
vernment, unfit the mind for serious study, sap
the foundation of relative and kindred interest,
blast the growth of the kindlier affections, break
the laws of God, and assimilate man by his fero
city to the beasts which perish.
The returns of anger are to be prevented by
shewing the injustice, impropriety, sinfulness,
and evil consequences of the passion; by teach
ing the necessity of bearing with slight or sup
posed injuries; by enforcing the duty of fre
quently sacrificing our own ideal comfort to the
real interests of others; by inculcating the ad
vantage of considering the causes and grounds
140 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
of our anger, and inquiring do well to be
a n g r y ;by exhibiting the attributes of that pure
and holy Being, before whom we are angry; and
finally by tracing the immediate and remote
consequences of such displeasure. If the child
can be taught to pause and consider, before it
yields to the incursions of anger; if it can be
made to look well to its ways, to weigh the
causes of its passion against their consequences
as a breach of social duty, and as an offence
against G od; if it can be taught to inquire first,
if it has been really injured, or if it be only
wounded pride, which prompts the feeling,
whether the injury were adequate to the imme
diate disturbance of its own peace, and if it were
not better to bear it with meekness and patience,
than to add sin to suffering; if the importance of
self-denial and the advantages of self-government
be duly appreciated ; if it can be taught to esti
mate its own feelings by the balance of reason,
and gauge them by the Word of G od ; and to
ascertain if it be reasonable, or prudent, or wise,
or moral, or Christian like, to deliver over the
whole rational, intellectual, spiritual man to the
ungoverned impulse of blind fury; if it can be
taught to consider that the eye of Omniscience is
upon its path, that it may in a moment (and not
unfrequently in a moment of anger) be sum
moned before its judge, and to feel that it would
not choose thus to appear before him, with all
the faculties agitated by passion ; if it can be
made to acknowledge how offensive anger must
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 141
needs be to him who is all benevolence and love,
and mercy, slow to anger, plenteous in mercy,
forgiving iniquity, transgression, and sin; and
finally, if it can be taught the disorder which
anger introduces into the spiritual manifestations
 how it unfits the mind for sacred duty, disso
ciates it from the Saviour Christ, places it at the
greatest possible distance from a resemblance to
him who  answered nothing, and who directs
his followers to turn the other cheek to him who
smiteth on the o n e; then will a barrier be raised
against anger, which will not easily be over
borne.
Thus then do we find that humility, the for
giveness of injuries, patience, and submission
are all antidotes to anger; and all these will be
enforced by the consideration of the depraved
condition of human nature, as the common cause
of that state of mind and feeling, which gives
origin, and force, and energy to the provocatives
of anger; but this state of mind should claim
our pity rather than our reprobation; so that we
should be endeavouring to compassionate the
wanderings of others, which would enable us to
palliate and excuse rather than to resent their
conduct, and not to return evil for evil, or railing
for railing, but contrariwise blessing. And as
soon as the young can appreciate the motive, it
should be taught the danger of anger, its heinous
ness and offensiveness in the sight of God, its
tendency to enslave the heart, to call up passions
which are decidedly opposed to obedience of that
142 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
law which requires that we should love God with
all the heart, and with all the mind, and with all
the soul, and with all the strength, and thy
neighbour as thyself; and that it leads directly
to an infringement of that commandment which
includes allevil will, under the simple terms,
 thou shalt not kill.
b. Hatred.
Hatred results from the frequent employment
of anger. It is impossible to be often angry
with an individual, without feeling a diminution
of benevolent disposition towards him. Though
perhaps in the first place we' may excuee, and
fancy we forgive the fault which has occasioned
anger, yet it will be too generally found, that
there rankles in the mind, the germ of evil dis
position ; that we are less inclined to place a
charitable construction, upon all the acts, and
deeds, and feelings, and opinions of him who
has offended u s ; that we are more disposed to be
suspicious of his conduct, .captious upon trifling
occasions, and prone to the excitement of angry
emotion upon slight causes. In proportion as
anger is more frequently produced, these feelings
predominate to a greater exten t; and that which
originates in the absence of benevolent agency,
degenerates into positive coldness; all interest in
the character is destroyed; coldness condenses
into aversion, and finally expands into palpable
hatred, an active principle, which now promi-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 143
nently marks the feeling, is visible on the sur
face of the character, and prompts to much that
is evil in thought, and unjust and erroneous in
action.
Hatred is partly involuntary; it will be found
to arise from the circumstances just mentioned,
spontaneously; at least without any apparent
effort, or any agency of the will upon it. It is
also depending partly, upon physical tempera
ment, and perhaps in so far as it is an involuntary
principle. It will be found to be more readily
excited, and more difficultly removed in the cho
leric disposition, whose aversions are easily
formed, and are usually exceedingly permanent;
a circumstance which will put the parent upon
her guard in the management of such a mental
constitution, to avoid the production of hatred,
to fortify the mind against it by good principle,
and to turn it towards its proper objects. More
frequently however, hatred arises from evil dis
position, and usually as such, requires watchful
ness. It is then commonly unjust, arising from
very insufficient causes, is seldom satisfied with
the bare indulgence of dislike, but rather seeks
to compass the punishment, aye, even the destruc
tion of those who are its object.
Disgust is a form of aversion which more fre
quently attaches itself to things than to persons;
and when, as is too frequently the case, it is
placed on objects of an indifferent nature, it
should be conquered by the intervention of cus
tom, -which is in fact another term for the repetition
144 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
of that effort of reason, by which we persuade
ourselves to look without horror, to hear without
dismay, to taste without nausea, to touch without
fear, objects of sight, hearing, taste, or touch,
which on their first impression, may have pro
duced an instinctive recoil. The occasions for
repressing disgust are almost innumerable; they
are commonly produced by trivial events, and
require only energy of perseverance in order to
be subdued.
Hatred is a powerfully operative passion: where
its influence can be seen uncontrouled as in sa
vage life, it will be found implacable, pursuing its
victim with relentless consistency from father to
son, from tribe to tribe, from generation to gene
ration, until it be satisfied by the retribution it
has inflicted. It will prompt to deeds of outrage
and sins of the darkest d ie; the first blood which
crimsoned this miserable world, the blood of a
younger brother, was shed in consequence of
the indulgence of this passion; the cruelty and
injustice of Josephs brethren, resulted from this
principle; the immediate cause of the crucifixion
of our adorable Redeemer originated here, for
 they hated him without a cause. It is also
the fruitful source of domestic disquietude ; an
ger, jealousy, hatred sow the seeds of discord,
and foster them into m aturity; the dream of
domestic peace becomes only the waking fancy
of a good man, who, in the reverie of enthusiasm,
forgets the agency of sin in disturbing all his cal
culations, forgets for a moment his personal
m o r a l a n d r e l i g i o u s e d u c a t i o n . 145
proximity to v ice; finds the soft music of celes
tial harmony stealing upon his senses, and fondly
fancies that he can transplant this peace to the
cold and clouded clime of which he is really an
inhabitant, yet a houseless wanderer; a weary,
way-worn pilgrim, marching through Immanuels
land to mansions in the skies.
If any thing farther were necessary to prove
the evil tendency of hatred, we shall find that it
has been classed among the works of the flesh by
the apostle, of which he predicates, that  they
which do such things shall not inherit the king
dom of God. (Galatians v. 21.) Its influence
too has been ably sketched by the pen of the wise
man, for  Hatred stirreth up strifes: he that
hideth hatred with lying lips, and he that uttereth
slander is a fool.  Hatred is covered by de
ceit. (Proverbs x. 12. 18. xxvi. 26.) The his
tory of every a g e ; the annals of the world; the
records of nations; the experience of families,
and the commentary of every unprejudiced ob
server, will tend to shew the truth of these re
marks. The principle of hatred is the source of
quarrelling and contention; it is a passion which
is commonly concealed, and even its overt acts
are attempted to be glossed over with falsehood;
slander is the very element in which it lives and
luxuriates; and artfulness and deceit become
necessary to give even the colouring of justice
and expediency to its actions; and yet for all
this, man is pronounced a fool; deficient in under
standing; wanting not only the wisdom of the
V O L . I I . L
146 MORAL AND. RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
just, but the usual manifestations of sound intel
lect ; afool, that thing from which all instinctively
recoil, and feel sorely wounded if they are es
teemed such by their fellow, m en; a fool in the
eyes of Omniscience; one who is too weak to
consider his ways and be w ise; one who is too
weak to seek direction from on high; too weak
to govern his own conduct, or to acknowledge his
errors, or to seek support from Him, in whom
alone it is to be found; too weak to subordinate
his own passions to the welfare of himself, the
good of society, or the honour of G od; and more
over, one who is too wicked, as well as weak, to
confess his wanderings, to acknowledge his errors,
to repent him truly of his sins, and to seek for
giveness in the atoning sacrifice of Him who is
made unto us wisdom, and righteousness, and
strength.
Such is the common operation of hatred in the
present scenes: but it might be a conservative
principle, if it were directed towards its proper
object; and it may be worthy of approbation,
when well founded, and legitimate in its applica
tion. The only proper object of this passion is
sin: all that is hateful in the sight of God, may
be justly hated by his children. Hatred, then,
can only be legitimately employed, not as an
active, but as a defensive principle, exerted both
for ourselves and others; and when it is directed
against vice and iniquity, and not against the-person,
even in whom these are found to exist.  Do
not I hate them, O Lord, that hate thee ? and am
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 147
n ot 1 grieved with those that rise up against thee?
I hate them with perfect hatred, I count them
mine enemies. (Psalm cxxxix. 21, 22.) A
superficial glance may induce the observer for a
moment to suspect that the Psalmists exclama
tion was at variance with the limits above de
fined for just hatred; but a little consideration
will shew that if is not the persons, but their attri
butes, which are the objects of his hatred: thus
he hates those that hate God, and is grieved with
those that rise up against him, in so far as they
do s o ; in so far as these qualities predominate in
their actions; thus does he esteem them his ene
mies, in so far as they are the ebemies of his
Lord; in so far as they are traitors to his govern
ment, and rebels to his authority; in so far as
they have thrown off their allegiance to Him, and
avowed their hostility to his law s; in fact, in so
far as they are sinful and depraved, and to every
good work reprobate. Thus, though by a figure of
speech the person is substituted for the quality,
it is yet evident that hatred is directed towards the
tmful character, and not against the person; since
the only designation of the Lords enemies is by
the manifestations of their minds. It is necessary
most carefully to separate the man from his
actions; and while we hold up certain traits of
character as objects of hatred, most sedulously to
inculcate pity towards the individuals, desire for
their real good, anxiety to promote their best
interests, and prayer to God for them, when we
do not possess the means of otherwise doing them
148 MORAL ANI) RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
good. It will be a great object in education to
give its legitimate bias to this passion early,, and
to exercise it upon that which is essentially evil.:
so shall we find less difficulty in controuling its
erroneous tendencies, and preserving it from be
coming the source of greater alienation from God.
c. Resentment. *
Hatred assumes the name of resentment, when
it is nurtured in the soul, in consequence of an
injury received, or a misfortune caused by him
who is its object, and when it is associated with
the desire of retaliation. Resentment may rankle
in the bosom for a long time, and in consequence,
emotions of the most anti-social kind may be
harboured ; such as we would blush to acknow
ledge to the world; which we should hesitate to
confess even to ourselves, and which we dare not
avow before Him who searcheth the heart 1 What
a proof is this of the perversity of the human
mind, and of the extensive influence of natural
corruption, that we should so frequently indulge
a passion which our own reason, the voice of con-,
science, the judgment of our fellow men, and the
laws of God, all declare to be unworthy of rational
immortal creatures, destructive of the social com
pact, and unjustand injurious towards God. Re
sentment is a principle of active hatred, which is
subversive of our peace of m ind: even with all
our sinfulness about us, in the midst of unhal
lowed passion and desire, wefeel that resentment
should have no congenial residence in the bosom .;
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 149
since during its existence there, an uneasiness,
an irritation, a want of comfort is produced, which
strongly characterizes the absence of that regu
larity of action, by which alone the harmony of
the mental manifestations can be secured. Thus
to a certain extent does its indulgence bring with
it its own punishment, and thus on this selfish
principle should it be stifled and subdued ; and
when to this we add, that it is an offence against
God, and will deservedly incur his wrath, and
merit future punishment, while it destroys his
image, and impugns the equity of his government,
surely there is abundant cause why the germ of
this principle should be destroyed.
It is the attribute of a little mind to indulge a
feeling of resentment, and to seek its gratification
by inflicting pain upon its object; it is a proof of
a great mind to pass over injuries as though they
had not been, and to act towards those from
whom they have been received with that gene
rosity and magnanimity which claim our admira
tion, and ensure our esteem. But what says the
law o f G od, and what is the extent of the Christian
principle of the forgiveness of injuries, and of the
subjugation of selfish desire ?  Ye have heard
that it hath been said an eye for an eye, and a
tooth for a tooth; but I say unto you, that ye
resist not evil. And again,  Ye have heard
that it hath been said, thou shalt love thy neigh
bour and hate thine enemy; but I say unto you,
love your enemies, bless them which curse you,
do good to them that hate you, and pray for them
150 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
which despitefully use you and persecute you,
that ye may be the children of your Father which
is in heaven; for he maketh his sun to rise on the
evil, and on the good, and sendeth rain on the
just and on the unjust!  How then can we
daily pray that our sins may be forgiven, as we
ourselves forgive the trespasses of others against
us, if the passion of resentment be indulged in
stead of being repressed; if we do not compas
sionate our enemies; if we be not in perfect love
and charity with all mankind ; if we seek to do
them evil rather than good ; and if we be not
actuated by the simple desire to promote their
present and eternal welfare. This, then, is the
principle to be developed in opposition to a feel
ing of natural resentment; so that when we receive
injury we may strive to return good, to conciliate
where we cannot change the heart, and to disarm
hostile feeling where we cannot remove the pre
judice in which it has originated.
d. Vengeance.
Revenge is the consummation of hatred and
resentment, commonly augmented by cool and
determined malice. There is a relative connec
tion between the three, in estimating which it
may be said, that hatred more frequently ex
hausts itself in words; resentment usually occu
pies the heart, or is exhibited in little acts of
pettish retaliation; while vengeance manifests
its mighty power in action ; bears down before it
all restraint; overwhelms every moral principle;
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . . 151
destroys every benevolent feeling, and with the
fulness of pernicious purpose seeks to satiate its
malignity in the completeness of its retribution.
It is in the boldness of its relief, and in the
strength of its colouring, the master passion of
savage life; there an injury inflicted upon an in
dividual, or bis family, or his tribe, is to be
atoned for, not by submission on the one hand, or
forgiveness on the other, (virtues unknown to the
natural heart of man in the state of its corruption,)
but by punishment equally if not more sanguinary
and severe. Thus it is the glory of the savage
warrior never to pardon an offence, but to follow
his enemy in a spirit of revenge; to trace his
footsteps; to watch his opportunity; to haunt
his path; to suffer his desire of vengeance to be
abated by no length of time, no act of kindness,
no feeling of remorse; to-steal upon him in his
unprotected state, in his hour, of repose, and to
quench his thirst for retaliation in the blood of
his victim, and of his unoffending, inoffensive
family; or to exhaust his ingenuity in inventing
protracted torments to his prisoner, before the
last merciful blow should put an end at once to
this convincing proof, that savage life is not a
state of innocence, and finally close this display
of cruelty on the one hand, and of heroic fortitude
on the other, exhibited for the purpose of pre
venting the triumphant foe from enjoying the full
luxury of revenge, which would wait only for any
extorted symbol of weakness from the dying
sufferer, in order to be complete.
152 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
Such is the passion of revenge, when uncon-
trouled by education, social institution, human
laws, or religious principle. And although we
may not find such extremity of malice and wick
edness in our own happy isle, protected as it is
by mild paternal laws, and blessed with the uni
versal diffusion of Christianity; yet the germ of
this passion is equally to be found in the bosom
of infancy, and unless controuled by education,
and superseded by religious principle and motive,
it will go as far as it dare go ; it will murder the
reputation, where fear will preserve the life of
its object; and even here, will sometimes be
found to lead to the commission of the last and
deepest crimes. Nor is the puny revenge of the
infant to be lightly esteemed, because it is a
Vtelum imbelle sine ictu let it be recollected
that age, and malice, and knowledge, and cri
minal intention will give it power, will plunge
the poisoned shaft into the cauldron of unsubdued
passion, and will communicate force to wield,
and sagacity and cunning to direct the envenomed
arrow with unerring certainty to the destruction
of its victim. The watchful solicitude of mater
nal duty must be aimed against the origin of this
evil propensity, or it will never succeed in arrest
ing its after manifestations.
Revenge originates in that feeling of soreness
which is consequent upon the impression of real
or fancied injury, and from adesire of visiting the
infliction of such injury with summary retribution.
Thus it is generally dependent upon the feeble-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 153
ness of man, upon the consciousness of his weak
ness, and upon the inability to repair the breach
which has been made upon his property or peace;
it is dependent upon the wound which has been
occasioned to his self-love, and the offence which
has been consequently excited. And this passion
is as visible in the nursery, and as readily pro
duced by the fracture of a play thing, or by one
of the first efforts of maternal correction, as it too
frequently is in after life, by any of the more im
portant events of time. And if the mind be not
disciplined to bear these slighter evils, and to
subdue the earliest workings of corrupt passion,'
how shall it afterwards sustain the weightier con
tentions of existence, and resist the more opera
tive demands ofevil will ? And if the frontier of the
mental territory be not defended from invasion,
what safety can be anticipated for the citadel,
what but the downfal of its fairest hopes, when
the rain descends, and the floods come, and the
winds blow, and beat upon it.
Nor is it enough to combat the agency of this
passion, by any thing short of the influence of
Christian principle; for although a great mind
may overlook and despise injury, yet this is not
the state of feeling required by Christianity,
which enjoins forgiven ess: it is in fact only the
revenge of one who contemplates his foe as too
mean, too feeble, too powerless, to be worthy of
his indignation ; and therefore his vengeance con
sists in the mortification produced by taking no
notice of the injury he has sustained. Let parents
154 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
beware, how they speciously encourage this re
finement of passion, which will only by and by'
explode with redoubled force, upon the first occa
sion, that the sense of injury inflicted, shall be
great enough to destroy this feeble barrier, this
exquisite consciousness of self-love, and self-
importance.
Malice and revenge are expressly forbidden by
the divine law: Thou shalt not hate thy brother
in thy heart; thou shalt not revenge, nor bear
any grudge against the children of thy people,
but thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself; I
am the Lord. Leviticus xix. 17, 18. And al
though the law of retaliation might serve for a
moment to countenance the idea of revenge; yet
it is manifest that this was peculiarly applicable
to a state of society anterior to the Christian dis
pensation, and before the revelation of the fulness
of the gospel of Christ, which, while it has mag
nified the law, and made it honourable, has also
given it a more spiritual meaning, and has trans
planted that which was ceremonial, or relating
principally to action, to that which is moral, spi
ritual, and reaching even to the thoughts and in
tents of the heart. Besides even here, it has
been well remarked, that the very law in question
was not for the purpose of encouraging, but of
placing a defined limit to revenge, that it might
not under the influence of passion overstep a cer
tain boundary, which had been thus prescribed by
Omniscience, in order to limit punishment and
stop the progress and consequences of anger.
M O R A L A N D R E X . I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 1 5 5
Vengeance in itself is a legitimate retribution
T
or injuries voluntarily inflicted, with evil design;
but in mans fallen estate, this cannot be delivered
over unto the will and passions of the sufferer:
hence it becomes the object of human laws, of
earthly justice, and a temporal judge : but chiefly
should it be consigned to the laws of God, the
great lawgiver, to Him who ruleth in the hea
vens ;  for he will revenge the blood of his ser
vants, and will render vengeance to his adver
saries. Deuteronomy xxxii. 43. It is indeed
most true, that revenge, as it comprehends a
feeling of injury received, and a desire of punish
ment, cannot belong to H im who is all righteous
ness, whose peace cannot be disturbed by the
evil passions of his erring creatures, and who
cannot feel resentment. But our God is just, as
well as holy and merciful, and he will vindicate
the offences committed against his laws, his ma
jesty, his government; he will visit the sins of his
people, and the injuries which have been occa
sioned to the order which he has established in
the world, yet without any emotion of gratification
arising from such punishment. On the contrary,
while he punishes the guilty contemners of his
laws, and revenges the injuries done to his ser
vants, because he is just; and because he is the
Protector of those who fear, and love, and dili
gently seek him ; and because truth and justice,
order and virtue must be preserved: yet he hath
no pleasure therein ; but striveth with man, that
156 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
he would return unto Him, repent, believe, and
be saved.
The grand object of Christian education there
fore, is to subdue this passion, and to leave the
punishment of injury to the omniscient Judge,
 because the Lord is the avenger of all such.
1 Thess. iv. 6. - A Christian heart, enlightened by
the spirit of grace, and animated by faith in its
Redeemer, will leave the judgment and revenge
of all injuries to that God, who declareth, that to
H im  belongeth vengeance and recompense
 their foot shall slide in due time, for the day of
their calamity is at hand, and the things that
come upon them make haste. Deut. xxxii. 35.
The forgiveness of injuries, and confidence in God
that he will vindicate the cause of the oppressed;
these form the basis upon which this passion is to
be educated; for,  there was in a city a judge
which feared not God, nor regarded man. And
there was a widow in that city; and she came
unto him, saying. Avenge me of mine adversary.
And he would not for a while, but afterwards, he
said within himself. Though I fear not God, nor
regard man; yet because this widow troubleth
me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual
coming she weary me. And the Lord said. Hear
what the unjust judge saith. And shall not God
avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto
him, though he bear long with them. I tell you
thathewill avenge themspeedily.'Luke xviii.28.
And to sum up all, let us hear the conclusion:
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 157
 Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but
rather give place unto wrath. For it is written,
vengeance is mine; I will repay saith the Lord.
Therefore, if thine enemy hunger,, feed him;
if he thirst, give him drink; for in so doing, thou
shalt heap coals of fire upon his head. Be not
overcome ofevil, but overcome evil with good.
Romans xii. 1921.
S e c t i o n III. O f Avarice o f Ambition.
T he love of earthly good, and the desire of
earthly distinction, are two principles which
largely actuate the mind, and constitute the pas
sions o f avarice and ambition. These impel the
man to evil, contract the heart, wither every be
nevolent emotion, and prove most serious ob
stacles to the growth of virtue, and the reception
o f religious tru th; hence their first rudiments
should be opposed, and every opportunity for
their exercise should be obviated.
a. Avarice.
This passion consists in the excess of prudence
and foresight, and care ; and in its desires being
placed upon those riches which make to them
selves wings and flee away, rather than upon
durable riches and righteousness. This state of
mind also is generally connected with the fe a r of
poverty ; and, as will be presently shewn, the
158 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
influence of fear possesses a very extensive liold
upon the manifestations of mind: this is
made the prominent motive for hoarding, and the
excuse forindulging that passionate love of money,
which the avaricious designate as economy, and
as the resultof that principle which should induce
every one  to lay by him in store as the Lord
hath prospered him, always taking pains to for
get that this accumulation was solely for the pur
pose of charitable distribution.
Avarice is not often found to exist in early
infancy to excess; nor in those who are of a san
guine temperament, in whom hope and a careless
ness of to-morrow largely predominate, and who
are consequently more prone to ambition than to
avarice. But its influence is often manifested in
the melancholic, in those whose views and anti
cipations of futurity assume a gloomy tinge ;
and is frequently produced, or at least readily de
veloped in those who suffer from bodily infirmity,
whom sickness has rendered selfish and careful
about many things. But it will be found to exist
where these exciting causes have not preceded its
development: it will be sometimes met with as
an independent passion, and will then consist in
the mere love of accumulation, whatever may be
the specious pretext, under which such a desire
and its consequent pursuits are attempted to be
cloaked.
Avarice is particularly prominent towards the
close of life; it seems to gather strength, in pro
portion as the feebleness of the body, and the
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 169
dwindling days of old age forbid the enjoyment
of the goods of fortune; and is extinguishable
but with life itself.
Yet this is a sightless propensity; it is blind
even to present interest and comfort; for the re
sult of this excessive care, is, that the miser oc
casions to himself pain; that he enjoys nothing;
that he becomes the slave of his own possessions;
that he endures hardships and privations in the
midst of abundance ; that he enlarges constantly
the circle of his wants by the growing desire of
accumulation, a desire which is always augmented
by satisfaction,) for itself renders us incapable of
supplying our necessities,) and which lingers on
to the very last thread of existence, when the
frail web which connects him to his wealth is
snapped asunder, and he leaves his riches to
those who come after him, to be dissipated per
haps by he knows not whom ; so true is it, that
 he that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with
silver, nor he that loveth abundance with in
crease. Prov. v. 10. The care of riches, and
the desire of adding to them, produce anxiety,
and subject the mind to an endurance of the
misery which it most dreads, viz. poverty with
all its horrors; for avarice lives in the constant
dread and anticipation of this fearful evil, an
anticipation which, it is well known, is far more
insupportable than the reality.  When goods
increase, they are increased that eat them; and
what good is there to the owners thereof, saving
the beholding of them with their eyes ? The sleep
160 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
of a labouring man is sweet, whether he eat little
or much, but the abundance of the rich will not
suffer him to sleep; (Eccles. v. 11, 12.) so that
he endures all the misery of poverty without its
consolation, and wants even that sweet oblivion
of his cares, which places the poorest peasant, on
a level, nay on a pinnacle of advantage, far above
the mightiest monarch of the world.  There is
an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is
common among men: a man to whom God hath
given riches, wealth, and honour, so that he
wanteth nothing for his soul of all that he de-
sireth, yet God giveth him not power to eat
thereof, but a stranger eateth it; this is vanity,
and it is an evil disease. Eccles. vi. 1, 2.
Farther, the indulgence of avarice leads to
vice, for  he that maketh haste to be rich shall
not be innocent." Prov. xxviii. 20. The ava
ricious is not very scrupulous about the mode of
his accumulations, provided only that he can ac
cumulate : the predominant passion of his bosom
is to add to his hoard, and though he may
wish to do so with as little injustice to others as pos
sible; yet where truth and justice, honour and
virtue, principle and religion, his duty to others
as well as to his God, come in competition with
his favourite passion, they are accounted only as
the small dust of the balance. The same influ
ence is visible in his expenditure, he is unjust
towards his creditors; the cry of distress, the
tear of sorrow, the wretchedness of poverty, the
anguish of disease, the night of dissolution, have
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 161
no claim upon his exertions; he has no ear to
hear, no eye to see, no heart to pity, no power
to save; the fatherless and the widow present no
sufficient demand upon his benevolence; the
houseless and the friendless pass unnoticed and
unheeded; his heart is hardened :  there is that
maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing; there is
that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches
Proverbs xiii. 7; so true is it, that our life con-
sisteth not in the abundance of the things that we
possess.
But the influence of avarice is still more bane-
fully exerted in opposing the agency of religion
upon the heart, which is so contracted that it
cannot receive its principles, and so increasingly
narrowed, that even the good seed of divine truth
is ejected from it;  the cares of this world, and
the deceitfulnessof riches, choke the word and it
becometh unfruitful. Matthew xiii. 22. Riches
are indeed deceitful, especially as they afford the
means of diffusive alms-giving, and thus cheat
their possessors, into a belief of their benevo
lence, while in fact their splendid donations are
only considered in the light of a tax imposed upon
wealth, and due to influence, and altogether want
those properties, which constitute the mite of the
widow, and not the munificent offering of the
rich, the product of real charity. Besides, the
avaricious trust in their riches, instead of in the
living God, and it has been declared by the
highest authority, that such shall enter into the
kingdom of heaven with difficulty. Thus then,
V O L I I . M
162 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
injustice, hardness of heart, a concentration of
feeling upon himself, carelessness of religious
duty, and a high degree of unconcern for the great
design of laying up treasures in heaven, mark the
fell agency of avarice. There is however a dis
tinction between this passion and selfishness,
which deserves to be noticed; the former is a
much more subtle and deeply seated passion
than the latter; it pursues its object with more
unrelenting assiduity, while selfishness is often
the creature of circumstance, the immediate im
pulse of momentary feeling, and' again giving way
to some kindlier emotion. Selfishness refers to
present, and immediate gratification, the posses
sion of some supposed instantaneous advantage;
while avarice is placed upon a distant, and con
tingent good, and sacrifices every comfort now,
virtue, principle, religious hope, for a distant, un
defined, and uncertain creation of money; not
for the comforts it may procure, but itself.
Selfishness prefers  le moi  to every thing, and
subordinates every pursuit, motive, and principle
to selfish pleasure ; while avarice refuses to listeh
to the voice of present gratificationnay, even
denies itself the comforts, and almost the very
necessaries of existence, submits to privations,
and stoops to meannesses, and condescends to
evasions, and subjects itself to perpetual dis
quietude, the canker of the soul, and the con
tempt of others, for the one resistless and over
whelming passion of Accumulation.
The great corrective of this passion is the un-
MORAL AND RELIGI0U8 EDUCATION. 163
certainty of human life, the brevity of its largest
span, and the-, little prospect there.is of any one
individual reaching to its common term, much
leas of creeping on beyond it, and the utter user
lesspess of<riches in the grave.  As he came
forth of hi8> mothers womb, naked shall he re
turn to go as. he came, and shall take nothing.of
his labour, which he may carry away in his hand.
And this also is a sore evil, that in all points as
he came, so shall he go; and what profit hath he
that hath laboured for the wind. Ecclesiastes v.
15, 16. Even supposing that there existed a pos
sibility of satisfying the desires of avarice, ad
mitting that it may be called prudence and fore
sight, thatit. really consisted in laying by provi
sion for old age, and that when, the rich mans
ground had brought forth plentifully, when he
had accumulated abundant stores, when he had
no farther room to bestow bis fruits, and his goods,
when he contemplated enlarging his means pf
adding heap to heap, and when he,had reached
that impossible period of satisfaction, in which
he could truly say,  Soul, thou hast much goods
laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat,
drink, and be merry; supposing that such a
period should ever arrive in the history of avarice,
w h at then ? what saith the scripture of. truth, but
that God said unto him,  Thou fool, this night,
thy soul shall be required of thee; then whose
shall these things be winch thou hast provided.
So js he that layeth up treasure for himself, and
is not rich towards God. l<uke xii.,19, 20.
m 2
164 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
While then the uncertainty of life forms the
great corrective of avarice; it is to be superseded
by employing the principle from which it springs,
viz. prudence, in the pursuit of durable riches
and righteousness ; for  the blessing of the Lord,
it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow with it.'
Proverbs x. 22.  Happy is the man that findeth
wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding.
For the merchandise of it is better than the mer
chandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine
gold. She is more precious than rubies; and all
the things thou canst desire, are not to be com
pared unto her. Length of days is in her right
hand, and in her left hand riches and honour;
her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her
paths are peace. She is a tree of life to them
that lay hold upon her, and happy is every one
that retaineth her. Proverbs iii. 1318.
Such then are the objects of Christian educa
tion, with the view of superseding the senseless
desire of accumulation, and to supplant it by the
only analogous pursuit, worthy of an immortal
mind, the desire and the search after that wis
dom which will shed, its blessing on the present
moment, will grow up into approaching maturity
with augmented years and experience, and will
be consummated in eternity. But it is not
enough, that these principles be generally kept
in view; the Christian parent must be uniform in
her plans; and it is of great consequence, that
she do not by her own conduct, inadvertently
excite those feelings which will lead to the de-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 165
velopment of this passion. With this view, it
would perhaps be better to avoid giving money a*
such, for the reward of particular exertion or
good behaviour, lest it should seem to attach to
this commodity, a degree of value which it ought
not to possess, and which may readily produce a
fondness for it, either as a good to hoard, or to be
expended in selfish gratification. Of the two
evils, the latter is certainly the least. The ob
jection to rewards in money, will in a great mea
sure be obviated by holding out encouragement
to good behaviour, in the form of tickets, pos
sessing an imaginary value, and a certain number
of which will entitle their possessor to a certain
small stipend, a plan which fixes the mind on the
ticket rather than the coin, and by rendering it
more a matter of purchase, does not leave the
same degree of room for covetous emotion, as in
the more casual and uncertain system of imme
diate pecuniary recompense. But perhaps it
might be advisable to reward in a different way
altogether, unless the direction of the expendi
ture of the small sums thus obtained, be that of
relieving ignorance, or distress, or sickness, or in
digence ; in which case, the subserviency of money
to the necessities of others, and its w ant of value
except as thus applied, are ideas which come to
be associated with its possession; and which ef
fectually exclude covetousness, and lead the mind
to the practice of self-denial, benevolence, pity,
charity; all principles so inconsistent with ava
rice, that if they can be established, there will be
166 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
no danger from the love of money. The child
must be taught not to hoard its little treasures;
nor to expend them upon hurtful trifles, but to
submit their disposal to parental care and guid
ance ; and let the mothers fir s t object be to de
velop the principle and the act of charity; and
her second, that the purchase^ article be some
thing useful as well as pleasing; not simply a
medium for amusement,! but one which will be
either wholly instructive, or which will at the
least combine instruction with amusement, and
lead the mind to the acquisition of some substan
tial good.
We cannot quite dismiss the passion of avarice,
without noticing the rights of private property.
These are often invaded in the nursery; one child
covets the possession of another; and it becomes
a question, whether the rightful but unwilling
owner should be made to yield his right, in
order to avoid that squabbling which is so painful
among children; or whether the little covetous
and fraudulent possessor should be compelled to
abandon its ill-gotten plaything, at the expense
of the passion and evil will which will be pro
duced ? Some mischief is probably likely to
ensue in any case, among these contending inte
rests ; but it should be laid down as a principle,
that the rights of private property should be held
sacred and entire; for if children should grow
up with vague and undefined notions on this sub
ject, consequences the most painful might ensue,
and which might eventually lead through the
MORAL AMD RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 167
gradual diminution of principle to the formation
of habits o f th e ft., This right, then, is at all events
to be preserved inviolate: it is, however, of great
importance'to prevent the exercise of the passion
of avarice, even with regard to the accumulation
of playthings; and children should be encouraged,
exhorted, and systematically taught to rejoice in
giving pleasure to each other by a participation of
their means of amusement, and by freely lending
to each other the separate articles of their indi
vidual stores. And where the supposed case of
the collision of interests has taken place, every
argument should be employed to induce the one
benevolently to waive his rig h t for the temporary
enjoyment of the other, and to lead the little
unjust possessor to abandon his fraudulently ac
quired property; but where argument and induce
ment fail, bribery must not be had recourse to, for
no perm anent good will ever result from the em
ployment of evil; and therefore the original right
of property m ust be respected, and the assumed
but unjust right of possession m ifst be yielded.
This appeal to justice should be held quite as a
dernier resort, and is never to be employed until
other lawful means fail, nor until it becomes a
question between sacrificing peace or principle,
and then the latter must be uncompromisingly
upheld.
b. Am bition.
Ambition consists in the immoderate desire of
overtaking or surpassing those who pursue the
168 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
same career with ourselves; not so much for any
real advantages possessed by them, as for the
external splendour and pre-eminence with which
they are invested. As such, it is important that
parents do not, in their system of discipline, con
stitute great and galling distinctions for those
who do w ell, lest the young be tempted to pursue
the honour, rather than to grapple with the dili
gent acquisition which confers it: for while emu
lation m ay be encouraged, the heart should be
most sedulously guarded from the influence of
am bition.
The grand distinctions between these asso
ciated passions will be found by a reference to
the principles on which they are founded, and to
the emotions to which they give birth. D istin c 
tion of an y kind is the object of pursuit with the
ambitious; the distinction of being good, and
doing well, is the legitimate aim of emulation.
A m bition sighs over the possessions and honours
of another, which are, to its greatest efforts, quite
unattainable; em ulation encourages itself in the
pursuit of some solid good, and rejoices in the
hope of still greater acquisition ; am bition derives
pain from the success and advancement of a
competitor; em ulation is delighted with the hap
piness of others, and strives to reach that ground
of moral and intellectual attainment, on which it
appears to grow and flourish; am bition will sacri
fice every principle to its one grand object; em u
lation pursues only that path which strengthens
principle, and purifies motive, and enlarges the
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 169
views, and simplifies desire; ambition is malignant
in its influence, for it would strip from the brow
of others the laurels which'adorn them, and it
would compass its designs, reckless of any amount
of suffering it might occasionally inflict; emulation
is benevolent, and while it strives to overtake:
others in the same career of virtue, yet can assist
their endeavours, and earnestly pray for success
upon their exertions; am bition is the characteristic
of the fallen angels; emulation that of the inha
bitants of a heavenly world, who rest not day nor
night singing the praises of Him who has re
deemed them by his blood, and made them kings
and priests unto God, even the Father. Pride,
selfishness, hatred, malevolence, envy, and a spirit
of detraction are the foster principles, or the im*.
mediate progeny of am bition; while emulation is
humble, disinterested, seeks the love and esteem
of others; is sincere, modest, unpretending, dili
gent, just towards competitors, patient and per
severing in adversity, meek, diffident, retiring, and
thinks and speaks well of its rivals.
Ambition is preserved in its power and influ
ence by the restlessness of indefatigable pursuit;
it is a passion so widely operative, that nothing
can satisfy its demands; its highest reach only
serves to enlarge, the desires; and the subjection
of the w orld to its will, would produce only the
wish that there was another world for conquest.
Disappointed to-day, it is more anxious for the
success of to-morrow; it is bolder iu its intrigues;
170 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION*
it.multiplies the windings of its crooked policy;
it is more servile and abject; it makes larger
concessionsto expediency; it yields more of prin
ciple and virtue to the guilty of success; it
becomes meaner that it may appear more honour
able ; it accommodates its views and feelings to
every change; it shapes its'course so as to catch
every favouring breeze; it meanders with the
stream till it finally floats on the ocean of magni
ficent design; attains the summit of practicable
pursuit, and is unhappy ; or is lost on that deceit
ful element, whose placid surface may shortly be
agitated by mountainous billows, and which con
tains beneath it rocks, and sands, and whirlpools,
and currents enough to lead the ambitious to the
most miserable termination of their career.
Ambition is surrounded by anxiety during its
most active hours; disquietude broods over its
pillow, and scares its victim with dreams of
blighted prospects, or of the frightful sacrifices
which must be made to ensure success; haggard
disappointment awaits its waking hour; life is
passed in this fever of the soul; the chill of fear
ful suspicion, the reaction of continued pursuit,
and thecollapse of exhausted energy, disappointed
hope, and that state of feebleness which prepares
the way, by augmented duplicity, for a renewal
of the same morbid statea state, which must
assemble unavailing regret about the scenes of
closing existence, and deeply-felt remorse for the
torments inflicted on itself and others, in the
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 171
empty hope of reaching >
its consummation, with
a certain degree ofM a t above that which attaches
to common place characters.
The ambitious man.never knowsthe sweet
season of;rest; even- with the stimulus of pro
spective success, he< is always breathless with,
anxiety and eager desire; he is chained to the
everroryirig rook of the favour and patronage of
the'great. While the vulture care preys upon his
heart-; the atmosphere-of political intrigue is that
in which he lives, though he can never breathe in
it with freedom;; sleep forsakes his pillow; he
enjoys no social pleasure, for his pursuits are ex
clusive and antisocial; nature and all her won
ders possess no charm for him, for they cannot
stimulate sufficiently a mind already goaded to
its highest degree of excitation; there can beno
appetite forintellectual objects; there is no plea
sure, but this one unsatisfying shadow, which has
cast its veil over all that is usually attractive to
literary, or interesting to social man. Even hope
does not expand his bosom, but agitates it with
painful palpitation; he is mocked by fear, and
tormented by impatience, and agonized by pro
crastination ; he is -the victim of insanity, a deli
rium which knows no termination but in death,
andwhich scarcely leaves a hope for hereafter;
for what happiness can there be in heaven for
one, who to bis last painful hour has never known
a moments peaceful respite from uninterrupted
pursuit after the baubles of existence, by all
means, and at all hazards; in whose heart love
172 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
to man baB no abiding residence; whose rever
ence for the Deity, and respect to his laws, has
always yielded to every renewed prospect of suc
cess ; whose bosom has been the cherished seat
of envy, and the favourite. abode of malignant
passion; whose brain has been irritated by the
constant stimulationofincessantaction and fatigue,
and weariness without repose; and who now in
the agony of disappointment, without resource,
becomes the victim of ennui, and reaches the
miserable close of a wretched, hopeless existence,
through the gloomy, cheerless portal of slowly
consuming, burdensome, helpless paralysis; or
the not less frightful, because more sudden ter
mination of hopein apoplexy; for when the ex
piring taper of life has been fanned to its last
flickering ray by such passions, what hope can
there be beyond the grave, in that world where
sin cannot enter ?
The following description of the ambitious is so
truly graphic, and so little accessible to general
readers, as to atone for its length, and its foreign
dress : S&ever, ramper, senorgueillir, shu-
milier, mnacer, flatter, esp6rer, se dcourager,
troubler sa vie par mille craintes, la desslcher par
dinutiles d6sirs, perdre le temps en vaines pour-
suites, s^puiser en efforts, louer les hommes en
face, les calomnier dans lombre, prostituer son
p6e, vendre sa conscience, se prosterner devant
la bassesse, boire kl
ongs traits lignomin
morfondre k la porte des grands, saccomoder k
tous les caprices, tourner k tous les vents, adopter
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 173
successivement toutes les maximes, se glisser dans
toutes les avenues, prendre la vertu pour masque
et le crime pour Echelon, allumer les haines,
semer les soup^ons, faire naitre des defiances,
ourdir des trames, tendre des embftches, voilk les
r61es, voilk les metamorphoses de lambition.
Alibert Physiologie des Passions, tom. ii. p. 339.
And if such be a true picture of this passion,
when left to its own uncontrouled agency; and
if to this we may add the experience of past ages,
and even the history of our own times  if we look
to the miserable, and often shameful end of the
ambitious favourite of despotic power, or the still
less enviable finale of the popular idol; if we re
collect the history especially of great military
conquerors; if we follow their career from con
quest to conquest, and to the consummation of
their hopes, and the fulness of political power;
if we trace their secret plans, and jealousies, and
suspicions; if we look to the changing tide of
events, and observe him who has stretched his
sway over the nations, who has conquered where
he came, who has intimidated where he has not
conquered, and who has tormented where he
could not intimidate; before whom nations and
individuals have crouched in abject servility, and
who has scarcely experienced a repulse; if we
now contemplate the latter days of his life, and
see the setting sun, shorn of its splendor, a cap
tive exile, depending for his existence upon the
bounty of others, and pining away the last term
of existence under the mortifications of chagrin
174 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
and sorrow; or if we recollect the frequency, with
which the ambitious has reached the narrow goal
of life, by a violent death from the public execu
tioner ; or torn by passion, has rushed unbidden
into the presence of his Maker, and has thrown
away the last remnant of hope, the only chance
for better thoughts and better principles; surely
we shall be anxious to oppose this passion steadily
and jfirmly, to subdue its first feeble workings,
and to destroy in the germ, that, which if it
vegetate will flourish, and if.it flourish will produce
the baneful fruitswe have contemplated.
It is not enough to oppose the influence of the
passion wherever it exists; it is. not enough to
shew the unsatisfactory nature of Success, or the
cruel disappointment of failurethe crimes which
stand in the way of the former, or the neglect
and misery which attend the latter; all these are
too feeble to resist the impulse of ambition, which
must therefore be employed on some worthy ob
ject. Let th isobject be the pursuit of wisdom,
the wisdom of the Bible.  I, wisdom,, dwell
with prudence, and find Out knowledge of witty
inventions. The fear of the Lord is to hate evil;
pride, and arrogancy, and the evil way, and the
froward mouth do I hate. Counsel is mine, and
sound wisdom: I am understanding: I have
strength. By me kings reign, and princes decree
justice. By me princes rule, and nobles, even
all the judges of the earth. 1 love them that love
me, and they that seek me early shall find me.
Riches and honour are with me; yea, durable
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 175
riches and righteousness. Proverbs viii. 1218.
Thus, honour, the very object of ambition, is
placed at the goal of the pursuit of Wisdom: but
it is an honour which satisfies, and which stands
in antithetical apposition with rig h teto u n w . But
 the fear of the Lord.is the beginning o f w isdom ;
and before honour is humilityProverbs xv. 33.
So that to live, and act, and think; .and feel, as
ip the fear of the Lord, results from that wisdom
whose capital leads to the truest honour, but
whose base rests on humility, that last acquisition
of trtie knowledge, and wanting which, nothing
has yet been learned as it ought to be learned :
yea,  blessed [are the meek, for they shall inherit
the earth. Matthew v. 5.
Such then are theobjects of.moral education ;
humility, wisdom, righteousness, honour; these
are the several links in the chain of association,
which will detach the. mind from the sordid pur
suits of a vain and fleeting passion, and employ it
on substantial good. We have heard of a noble
ambition, and there does exist such a thing, al
though not in its usual acceptation. Naturally,
there is no nobleness or generosity, in the mani
festations of this passion: on the contrary, it is
essentially and radically mean and selfish; but
that ambition is noble, which consists in the sub
jection of sin, and in the removal of its influence
froni the heart and life; in the cultivation of faith,
hope, and charity, and in the practice of their
associated yirtues.  It is an honour for a man
to cease from strife. Proverbs xx. 3. And  he
176 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
that is slow to anger, is better than the mighty;
and he that ruleth his spirit, than he that taketh
a city. Prov. xvi. 32. Here indeed is an ob
ject worthy of ambitions highest reach; one
which may be pursued without injury to others,
without compromising one principle, with an ap
proving, instead of an upbraiding conscience,
with a certainty of success if persevered in with
sincerity, and with the equally certain escape
from disappointment here; and the reward of
humble, consistent, though frail, feeble, and fre
quently erring exertion in the cause of God. It
will be also found, that the higher the attain
ments in virtue, the greater will fre the desire
after its pursuit, the more ample the means of
attaining it; so that in contradistinction to the
usual course of ambition, here, the higher it
reaches, the greater is its capacity for exertion;
the more does it enjoy of conformity to the will of
God, and the more earnestly does it aim to be
made like him, and to be transformed into his
image.
S e c t i o n IV. O f Em ulation o f E nvy.,
a. Em ulation.
The immediate and legitimate influence of this
passion is, that it leads to imitation, in order to
equal or surpass the good actions of those who
are pursuing the same career with ourselves, in
sof a r as those actions are good and praise-worthy,
MORAI/AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 177
as they originate in unquestioned motives, as they
are based upon good principle, and as they are
supported by purity of thought, and virtuous de
sign. Or farther, it will induce us to copy the
example of some high and holy being, set forth
as a pattern of good works, to whom as  won
derful in counsel, and excellent in working,
though we cannot hope to resemble fully, yet we
will humbly approach, emulating his untainted
life, and desiring, seeking, striving, contending,
and struggling after conformity to his will. Or
in a much lower sense, it may stimulate the man
to act up to himself, to his advantages, to his
situation, to hisform er self; to remember whence
he has fallen, to repent, and do the first works;
that he may finally overcome, and eat of the tree
of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of
God. Even when the views have not been sanc
tified, and purified, and ennobled by religion,
emulation may still act as a beneficial stimulus,-
in preserving man from sinking lower in the scale
of society; in teaching him to act up to his talents
and acquirements, to the respect which he has
inspired, the consideration with which he is in
vested, the opinion of his prudence and wisdom,
his character for uprightness, and fidelity to his
promises, and unshaken probity, and other social
virtues ; in fact, to the imitation of himself in his
best moments, or even to the estimate which may
have been formed of him, however erroneously,
by others.
In all these respects, emulation is in simple
V O L . I I . N
1 7 8 M O R A I. A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
truth, the faculty of imitation roused to action;
it raises and multiplies the powers of the soul by
increasing its resources, and by proposing for its
pursuit a higher standard than its present level;
by setting before it examples worthy of resem
blance ; by elevating the man to his model; in
ducing him to forego all that is low, and selfish,
and grovelling, and sordid ; and placing him un
der the influence of noble, and generous, and
pure, and holy motives. Thus then emulation is a
grand principle of improvement, and of continued
progress towards that perfection after which we
should aim ,although we know that our highest
efforts will fall infinitely short of what ought to
be; and that it is only in the strength of the Most
High, that we can maintain our present standing,
much less advance in the way of holiness, and the
path to heaven. Nevertheless, it is ours so to
act, to think, to speak, to strive with our utmost
effort, as if success depended upon that effort
alone, although we fully know that exertion will be
unavailing, unless blessed by divine grace. But
that power has been promised to those who seek,
and earnestly contend for the faith once delivered
to the saints; who do sincerely desire to resemble
Christ, and to be transformed into his image.
All that is great, and good, and beautiful, and
holy, owes its origin to this principle, is kept
alive by it, and advances to maturity through its
influence; the principle of divine grace is excited
nto action, yea, blossoms into fruit.
Under a variety of circumstances, the power of
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 179
emulation is seen to exert its agency over the
conduct of animals: and since it is not pos
sible that envy can exist, we may be allowed to
conclude that the two are not coincident princi
ples; that o rig in a lly they possessed nothing in
common ; and consequently that emulation is not
a dim in u tive o f en vy. It is readily granted, that
the former passion unguardedly employed, may,
in the present depraved state of the human mind,
readily develop envy, but we argue not against
its use from its abuse. E m ulation is noble and
delicate in its influence upon the mind, while
envy degrades: the one aims at a high standard of
good, the other only envies the prosperity and
reputation attendant upon such aim, while its
very existence proves a decided aversion from all
that is good : em ulation is a stimulus to the indo
lent, and proves a bonus upon industry, while
envy confirms the slothful in his habits, and
withers the active principle of good; em ulation is
never satisfied with the attainment of to-day, but
seeks a still higher reach to-morrow; while envy
has not even a languid wish, much less a fervent
desire for improvement, but is only anxious to
obtain the praise, for what it does not possess, or
even wish for: em ulation is the lot of great, while
the cherished abode of envy will be found in weak
minds: em ulation is a passion which exists in the
bosom of the good man, while envy lurks in the
heart of the wicked, and prompts to evil: em u
lation is a desire to exert or to imitate excellence,
w 2
ISO MORAL AXD RELIGIOUS EDUCATIOX.
even so ye, forasmoch as ye are zealous of
spiritual gifts, seek that ye may erne/ to the edi
fying of the c h u r c h 1Corinthians xiv. 12.) while
envy is the misery of the sonl. arising from the
contemplation of excellence which it has no wish
to participate for its own worth; emulation is uni
versally operative wherever good example, or
good precept may be found, but emry is confined
to the little daily occasions which develop its in
fluence : emulation is constantly looking forward,
it has respect to futurity, and its highest hopes
are fixed on the best future, while envy is bound
down to time and circumstance; it is absorbed
by the present; it seeks not, wishes not, desires
not to contemplate the future, which is only an
increasing torment to its present consciousness;
and lastly, while emulation rejoices in the good of
others, esteems them the more the better they
are, and while it seeks to imitate their example,
loses the sense of the person and their many in
firmities, in the one great desire of emulating
their good qualities; envy recks not for the value
of the character, and attaches itself only to the
praise and honour which it possesses, but which
it is conscious of not deserving, and which it has
no intention of seeking to deserve.
. The power of emulation, so far as it depends
upon the example of contemporaries, is lost in so
litude ; it is then a social virtue; but in edu
cating the passion, it will generally be safer to
instruct the young to emulate the actions
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 181
of those who have preceded them, because these
are more readily separable from the person : but
above all, to lead them to the first and highest
example proposed for our imitation; since here,
there can be no fear of awakening evil principles,
and since here is the most perfect model.
The influence of example is often allowed and
descanted upon, where the principles upon which
it rests are forgotten: it is, however, only by a
reference to these, that we can know how to en
courage the faculty of imitation as it exhibits itself
in the passion of emulation.
First, general precepts form abstract ideas of
virtue, which are always difficultly embraced by
the human mind, and are very generally consi
dered as unreal forms, and images of things which
do not and cannot exist; but in example, the
very virtue itself is made visible in all its circum
stances ; its principle is inculcated; and its prac
tical detail is enforced.
Secondly, precepts instruct and admonish us,
wherein consists our duty, shew us the evils to
be abandoned, and the good to be sought after
and accomplished. But we might almost be dis
posed to think both the one and the other unat
tainable, when we commune with our own hearts,
and feel their little disposition to good, and their
great propensity to evil. Examples assure us,
that the practice of these holy precepts is possi
ble : and where others have done good, and re
sisted evil, have commanded their passions and
overcome temptations, have obeyed God, and
182 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
escaped the corruptions which are in the world,
we too are encouraged to hope, that by the same
assistance, we may come off more than con
querors.
Thirdly, the view of good examples excites us
to imitation; conscience reproaches us with our
defects, and we are urged on to a display of the
same zeal and fervent piety, which has been tri
umphant in others.
The same principle will equally operate on
objects of lesser importance: and in proportion as
the example proposed for emulation is more per*
feet, and clashes least with any of our real or
supposed present interests, so will it more cer
tainly insure our pursuit and imitation. Hence,
the example of Christ, our pure and spotless Re
deemer, the Lamb without blemish, is the Chris
tians first and last object and model for emulation,
since H ealone isp e rfe c t: but we are not to und
value the example of holy men of old, of prophets
and apostles, early saints and martyrs, primitive
Christians, and those who in every age have fol
lowed Christ: but then we emulate these only as
they imitated the Saviour; and as his first ex
ample and will are embodied to us in creatures of
our own mould, and divested of that dazzling
brightness, which surrounds the lustre of Incar
nate Deity, and of unveiled Omnipotence. Thus,
our Lord himself, towards the close of his minis
try on earth, says For I have given you an ex
ample, that ye should do as I have done unto
you. John xiii. 15. Thus also the apostle
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 183
exhorts us, Be ye followers of me, even as I
also am of Christ. 1 Corinthians xi. 1.  For
even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also
suffered for us, leaving us an example, that ye
should follow his steps. 1 Peter ii. 21. But
the Scripture abounds with exhortations to emu
late the conduct of holy men, in so far as they
may have imitated Christ : thus for instance, the
apostle exclaims, Not as though I had already
attained, either were already perfect; but I
follow after, if that I may apprehend that for
which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus.
Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended,
but this one thing I do; forgetting those things
which are behind, and reaching forth unto those
things which are before, I press toward the mark
for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ
Jesus(Philippians iii. 12, 13, 14,) a remark
able passage, in which a parallel is drawn be
tween the emulation of competitors in an earthly
race for a temporal prize, a corruptible crown;
and the struggling of the Christian in his course
towards heaven, lightly esteeming all his past
attainments, considering the present state as im
perfect, dissatisfied with all that is behind, and
emulating all that is before him, in the bright
example of Christ; earnestly striving to obtain
the prize of victory, the incorruptible crown
>vhich fadeth not away. 
Again, the apostle declares that he speaks to
you Gentiles,  if by any means I may provoke
to emulation them which are my flesh, and might
184 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
save some of them. Romans xi. 14.  Brethren,
be followers together of me, and mark them,
which walk so, as ye have us for an ensample.
Philippians iii. 17.  For yourselves know how
ye ought to follow us. For we behaved not our
selves disorderly among you, neither did we eat
any mans bread for nought; but wrought with
labour and travail night and day, that we might
not be chargeable to any of you ; not because we
have not power, but to make ourselves an en
sample unto you to follow us. 2 Thessalonians
iii. 7, 8,9.  Neither as being lords over Gods
heritage, but being ensamples to the flock.
1 Peter v. 3.  Take, my brethren, the prophets,
who have spoken in the name of the Lord, for
an example of suffering affliction and of pa
tience. James v. 10. And lastly,  now these
things were our examples to the intent we should
not lust after evil things as they also lusted.
Neither be ye idolaters as were some of them;
as it is written, the people sat down to eat and to
drink, and rose up to play. Neither let us com
mit fornication as some of them committed, and
fell in one day three and twenty thousand. Nei
ther let us tempt Christ as some of them also
tempted, and were destroyed of serpents. Nei
ther murmur ye as some of them also murmured,
and were destroyed of the destroyer. Now all
these things happened unto them for ensam
ples ; and they are written for our admoni
tion, upon whom the ends of the world are come.
Wherefore, let him that thinketh he standeth.
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 185
take heed lest he fall. 1 Corinthians x. 6
12.
If then the legitimate tendency of emulation,
be, to elevate man higher in the scale of moral
being; if it be a principle of improvement im
planted in the human bosom, to give it the power
of imitating the high and holy example set before
it in the person of the Saviour; if it be found
attached even to the existence of animals, and
augmented in its influence, and ennobled in its
design in immortal man; if it' possess charac
teristic features totally dissimilar from those of
envy ; if excellence be its stimulus, and the fa
vour of God its highest aim; if it rejoice to emu
late good example, and is constantly pressing
onwards to futurity; if virtue in action be the
object of its imitation, the Word of God its rule,
and the example of Christ and his followers its
guide ; if the adorable Redeemer has held up his
own example for our emulation, has encouraged
the principle, and given fixedness to its aim ; if
this has been re-echoed by apostles and prophets,
saints and martyrs, holy men of old, who spake
as they were moved by the Holy Ghost; if it be
constituted a Christian motive to energy and per
severance ; if it be appealed to as a means of
salvation ; if the example of the elder Christians
be recorded for our imitation ; if the apostle de
clares, that he declined a course of conduct he
might ju s tly have pursued, that he might excite
his followers to emulate his example ; if the same
principle be rendered available as a matter of
186 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
caution, that we, upon whom the ends of the
world are come, might deprecate and avoid the
errors and sins of unbelievers; and if, in the
words of a celebrated writer, (Jer. Taylor, Ser
mons, vol. i. p. 243.)  the Christian must con
tend earnestly for the faith by the most prevailing
arguments, by the arguments of holy living and
ready dying, by zeal and patience, by conformity
and humility, by reducing words to actions, fair
discourses to perfect persuasions; by loving the
article, and increasing in the knowledge and love
of God, and of his Son Jesus Christ; and then
his faith is not negligent, deceitful, artificial, and
improper; but true, and holy, and reasonable,
and useful, zealous, and sufficientwhy surely
then, there is abundant ground to conclude, that
we are not called to frown upon this passion, but
to employ it to the glory of God.
The object of Christian education, is not to
destroy, but to direct. This will require cau
tion ; for asfo o d is the appointed means of nutri
tion to the body, yet if it be taken under impro
per circumstances, in excessive quantity, or of a
noxious quality, it will lose its power of invigo
rating, it will produce or augment disease, will
irritate the languid, or oppress the enfeebled
powers, or by conveying deleterious qualities to
the blood, will disorder the whole frame; so emu
lation, if injudiciously employed, or if it be made
too prominent a feature in education; or if it be
unwisely mixed up with other feelings, and pas
sions, and motives of a doubtful complexion, and
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 187
even more than suspicious character, it will then
develop the morbid actions impressed upon the
mind by sin, and will lead to a mishapen group
of associated passions; or it will stimulate too
highly, and thus impair the solidity and strength
ofcharacter; or will arouse into activity, feelings
and motives which have nothing in common with
itself, or with Christian hope, and Christian prin
ciple.
The objects of the Christian parent are then
most clearly defined ; viz. to employ the faculty
of emulation as a stimulus to good action, spar
ingly but firmly ; to constitute the imitation of
rectitude of conduct the aim of its constant de
sire ; to fix its views as much as possible, upon
examples which have preceded the present time,
or upon contemporaries, which are far removed
from the possibility of a collision of interest; to
be careful how it is employed in the family circle,
lest anger, jealousy, and envy should be excited;
not however to refuse to call in its aid even here,
for if carefully detached from the person, and
fixed upon the exertion of good conduct, it will
form a valuable means of encouraging the dili
gent, and stimulating the indolent; to make the
young constantly feel that the knowledge and the
worth of yesterday, are not sufficient for the re
quirements of to-day; most clearly to shew, that
the influence of emulation however valuable, is
limited in comparison with the unbounded field
of futurity; that it is sinful, if the desire of vir
tue be not its object, and the love of excellence
188 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
its motive ; that it is an uniform principle of ac
tion, not to be taken up or laid aside at pleasure,
or only occasionally employed ; but that it must
form part of a system of growing conformity to
the highest and holiest example; that it soars
above the metamorphoses of time, and is con
tented only as it can make the future present
and the present effort conducive to future pro
gress, joy, and peace ; and that it must rejoice
in the success and the praises of others, be de
lighted to promote their advancement, to contri
bute its mite of assistance to procure it, and to
feel an honest glow in honouring, admiring, and
loving that superiority which it humbly strives to
imitate, aye, even to excel.
b. E n vy.
Superficial or prejudiced observation has often
confounded envy with the passion just considered,
although a nearer investigation will shew that
they are really dissimilar. It is however probable
that emulation was the original faculty upon which
envy was grafted, when sin entered into the world;
but that lamentable influence has so changed its
pristine bias, that it possesses not a single feature
in common with its archetype, and is strongly
characterized by its unmingled malignity.
Envy is a shameful passion, which we dare not
acknowledge to others, and which we seek to
conceal even from ourselves, because it degrades
and humbles us in our own eyes; aud when
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 189
most actuated by its influence, we are far too
proud to acknowledge its agency, because we are
aware that it is a proof of a 'little mind; that
however it may be palliated in the ignorant and
the uninformed, it is contemptible in those who
pretend to information, and assume to be raised
by science, or by social and literary acquirements
to a sphere in which the mind is expanded, and
taught to take enlarged views of men and things;
but it is inconsistent with, it is inimical to, it is
altogether destructive of the Christian tem per; for
while this should be constantly seeking after im
provement, and thirsting after righteousness, and
striving after conformity to the will of God, and
to his image as pourtrayed in the example of his
Incarnate Son, and in those who have chosen
that better part which consists in sitting at his
feet, hearing his instructions, and obeying his com
mands, envyis the silent, the unacknowledged,
the denied, and even the reprobated reaction of
our self-love, against a superiority of which we
are conscious, but which we do not hope, and
have no serious intention of endeavouring to emu
late. Thus envy is the sad inheritance of little
minds, and none may pride themselves on their
enlarged views, and feelings, and designs in whom
this passion lurks. It is an evil affection of the
heart, which results from chagrin at the posses
sions, or prosperity, or reputation of others.  But
as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps
had well nigh slipped, for I was envious at the
foolish, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
190 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
So foolish was 1 and ignorant; I was as a beast
before thee. Psalm lxxiii. 2, 3, 22. Such is
the extensive influence of this evil principle, that
it is not wholly extinguished in the righteous,
but operates banefully upon them, when they see
the prosperity of those who seek not God, for
getting that  a little that a righteous man hath,
is better than the riches of many wicked. Psalm
xxxvii. 16.
Envy will stoop to any little meanness, in order
to disparage qualities which it dares not hope to
possess; it will extinguish every spark of bene
volence in the bosom of man; it will be rendered
miserable by the happiness of others, and will
secretly rejoice in their calamity; it retires from
public observation, and courts the obscurity of
inuendo, insinuation, and all the covert attacks of
calumny and slander; it prowls abroad during
the night of unsuspicious repose, and steals upon
the slumbering security of its prey, in order that
it may deprive it of the possession of its envied
pleasures and advantages, or blunt their enjoy
ment ; it dares not look its victim in the face, but
attacks him under cover of darkness, and gra
duates his unseen hostile approach by repeated
parallels, the final object of which is unperceived;
or it slowly undermines the reputation by methods
the most indirect and unlikely; it abstracts the
mind from trusting in God, and doing his will,
and produces a fretfulness and impatience, an
angry feeling which develops malice, excites evil
will towards its objects, and alienates man from
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 191
the nature and the life of God, for is good, and
rejoiceth to be doing good. How beautiful is the
expostulation of the Psalmist with the envious
character, and how exquisitely does he point out
the means of superseding this evil passion.  Fret
not thyself because of evil doers, neither be thou
envious against the workers of iniquity. For they
shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither
as the green herb. T rust in the Lord, and do
good; so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily
thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the
Lord; and he shall give thee the desires of thine
heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord; trust
also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. And
 he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the
light, and thy judgment as the noon-day. R est
in the Lord, and w ait patiently for him; fret not
thyself because of him who prospereth in his
way, because of the man who bringeth wicked
devices to pass. Cease from anger, and forsake
wrath; fret not thyself in anywise to do evil, for
evil doers shall be cut off; but those that wait on
the Lord, they shall inherit the earth. Psalm
xxxvii. 19.
Envy never derives any degree of enjoyment
from the contemplation of anothers good; it sick
ens at his praises, and saddens at his worth.
Envy has been often characterized as pale, and
such is the expression of the envious countenance;
for it is a depressing passion, and so completely
does it overturn the balance of the animal system,
that the blood is called back fromits usual course.
192 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
and the vigour of its circulation is impaired ; the
minuter subdivisions of the arterial system remain
pale and bloodless, while the interior organs, but
especially the heart, the brain, and the nutritive
system, are loaded and oppressed with an exces
sive quantity of that fluid; the functions of these
several organs are disturbed ; a chilliness creeps
over the surface; the heart sighs to relieve its
oppression, and largely strives to palpitate away
its load; the uneasy head leads to feverish
dreams, and restless nights; and indigestion is
the result. Were there no other consequences
arising from the indulgence of envy, these would
be sufficient to demonstrate its nefarious origin;
for a passion, the indulgence of which mars the
finest work of creation, and develops disease
which would have been unknown but for the ex
istence of sin, is sufficiently marked as evil by
its immediate effects.
But it is also opposed to natural conscience,
which upbraids the envious for their malignity,
and produces in the mind a feeling of uneasiness,
the very opposite to peacea worm which slowly
preys upon the root of our happiness, and saps
the foundation of our moral worth. B ut further,
this state is not simply the negation of peace;
the envious man knows not so happy a moment
as that which is merely marked by the absence
of pleasure, the tasteless insipidity ofunconscious
ness : envy brings with it its own punishment;
it slowly consumes itself with a combustion not
the less certainly destructive, because it is not
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 193
demonstrated by light and heat; the pangs of the
envious are intolerable, and that principally be
cause their torment is unceasing, and they suffer
without hope from them selves; with a deeply-
felt conviction in their own minds, that they are
objects for the universal contempt and dislike
of their fellow-men ; and that they incur the
wrath of a great and holy G od:  for wrath
killeth the foolish man, and envy slayeth the silly
one. Job v. 2.  A sound heart is the life of
the flesh, but envy the rottenness of the bones.
Proverbs xiv. 30.  Wrath is cruel, and anger
is outrageous; but who is able to stand before
envy? Proverbs xxvii. 4.
Did we require a farther confirmation of the
malignity of envy, and of the dreadful conse
quences to which it leads, than that which is
constantly before us in the w orld; were it not
sufficient to cast abroad our eyes into the imme
diate circle of our friends to perceive its hateful
influence; did not almost every day. occasion
some degree of suffering from this passion, as
when we become the objects of envy to others,
or when we commune with our own hearts, and
find that we are also more or less the subjects
of this evil passion ; did not the history of man
kind in every age exhibit the fell influence of this
fiend-like motive; did not reason and religion
equally proclaim their aversion from its power;
we should still find it powerfully drawn in the
history of the  patriarchs who moved with envy,
sold Joseph into Egypt, where the passion m ay
VOL. II. o
194 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
V.
be traced from its first excitement to its consum
mation in the highest crim es: or still further, w e
may follow its development in the life, and trial,
and passion of our blessed Lord himself, the vic
tim of concurrent hatred and envy, for  he knew
that for envy they had delivered him (Matthew
xxvii. 18.) so thoroughly has this malignant prin
ciple shewn its evil disposition from the earliest
periods down to the present hour;  for where
envying and strife is, there is confusion, and every
evil work. James iii. 16.
Yet strange to say, in spite of all these warn
ings, of the consciousness of evil, and of its atten
dant misery,  the spirit that dwelleth in us lust-
eth to envy: (James iv. 6.) it is a perennial
fountain from which flow the bitter waters of sin
and sorrow, remorse and w o ; and yet they con
tinue to flow onward ; wave succeeds wave, and
day follows day in the same unwearied course of
sinfulness and wretchedness; every good resolu
tion formed in our own strength is overwhelmed,
and the spirit that dwelleth in us still lusteth to
en vy; until the love of God, and of his creatures,
supplant the love of the world, and the desire
after its riches, and honours, and pleasures, praise,
and vanities! So that from the earliest to the
latest hour of existence, it requires constant vigi
lance to detect, firmness to resist, and grace to
oppose i t ; for by the communication of this latter
influence alone, can we hope to be successful in
subduing its constantly baneful agency.
Envy and hatred are so nearly allied, that in
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 195
all probability the former will scarcely ever be
found to exist, except in combination with the
latter : there is, however, this difference, that
envy is always unjust and malignant, because it
is levelled .against..merit and virtue, or rather
against the respect and consideration which at
taches to their exercise; while hatred be
directed against wickedness, and against the
workers of iniquity: the one may perchance be
usefully applied, the other never can; the one
may partake of some good, the other is unmixedly
evil. There is also in envy some kind of affinity
with ambition; but even here too, under the in
fluence of divine teaching, ambition admits of
being employed in the pursuit of some good, in
the fervent desire after heavenly wisdom; but
envy scarcely ever wishes for the possession of the
good qualities of its object, and certainly never
for their own sake ; it is a feeble, it is an impo
tent imitation; it is a base counterfeit, without
even the pretension of accuracy in the copy, or of
cunning in the design of its deception.
Such, then, is en vy! What are the duties of
the Christian parent with regard to it? Not only
to repress it with her utmost care, but to stifle its
birth, and arrest its first and feeblest tendencies;
and above all, to encourage principles which will
animate the heart with other impulses, and fortify
it against its secret insinuations. How, then, are
these objects to be accomplished ?
First, by inculcating and educing moderate and
suitable desires, since where these only exist
o 2
1 9 6 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
there will be a state of contentment and thank
fulness for present good; and a quiet trust in
God, for all which may be necessary and really
beneficial for u s; which will supersede the ten
dency to no apparent boons which are not
vouchsafed to u s ; and which will teach us, that
he alone is the happy man whose wants are few,
whose desires are circumscribed, whose wishes
are exhausted by what it has pleased his heavenly
Father to bestow, and who does not covet the
fancied goods of others.
Secondly, by teaching the wisdom and justice
of God, and the equity of his government, and
the equalized diffusion of happiness and misery
throughout the domain of his rational creatures,
though that equality may not be always visible
to us, because we see only the exterior, and it
is the heart alone which knoweth its own bitter
ness.
Thirdly, by actively fulfilling the duties of the
station which has been assigned to us by Provi
dence; filling up the measure of our days, by
doing what God enjoins, and suffering what
appoints; and so actively devoting ourselves to
his work, and to the immediate calls upon our
own exertions, that there will be no room to envy
others.
Fourthly, by developing the passion of emula
tion, and by studying to imitate the virtues of
those high and holy characters, which have been
left us as examples of resignation under suffering,
fortitude in adversity, modesty and humility in
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 197
prosperity, meekness in contumely, and patience
in misfortune, since each one of these will prove
antidotes to envy, and be the surest safeguards
against that state of listlessness and lukewarm
ness, which exposes us to the incursion of the
temptations to this passion : and
Lastly, by avoiding the stimulus of praise, ho
nour, glory, and reputation as motives to action;
motives of a more than doubtful character; mo
tives which impugn the love of virtue for itself;
and which teach the young heart to palpitate after
distinction rather than worth, the praise of men
rather than the approbation and favour of the
Most High, the honour of contemporaries rather
than the glory of God.
S e c t i o n V. Of Benevolence.
After contemplating the painful passion to which
the attention has been so recently directed, it is
quite a relief to turn the eye to one of the very
few verdant spots, which still remain in the track
less desert of our fallen nature; and although
upon a closer inspection, we may find, that even
this hallowed space has not escaped the desolating
blast of sin, but that the seeds of evil propensity
grow and flourish, and exhibit their power and
influence; yet the traveller through life, will de
light to rest there, and will rejoice that such a
scene of comparative fertility can be presented to
his view.
198 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION*
The exercise of benevolence is necessary to the
existence and support of the social com pact: it .is
the essential bond of union, which links man
with his fellow-man ; which teaches him to. look
beyond his own wants Und desires, and not only
to consider the views, and wishes, and feelings of
others ; but also to weigh well, how the former
may operate upon the latter, and always to yield
the one in favour of the other, where the joint
existence of the two is incompatible.
The first principle on which benevolence rests
is disinterestedness. It is not selfish, or why does
it select as its favoured objects, individuals who
are feeble and without support, from whom no
return except that of gratitude can be expected;
the poor, the sick, the sorrowful, and the dying;
individuals who have no other claim to notice than
their poverty and misery-nay, even those who
are very generally characterized, by attributes
which are repugnant to our feelings and preju
dices ; rather than those whose situation in so
ciety gives them an opportunity of exercising a
reciprocity of kind offices, or repaying kindness
by kindness, attention by attention, charity by
charity ? Why, but because sordid interest has
not, or at least ought not to have any influence
upon this principle; why, but because it is in
tended to counterbalance selfishness, to form a
safeguard for mans mutual existence, to prepare
an antidote to his sorrows, to preserve a source of
supply for his necessities, to alleviate his cares,
to form a solace for his distresses, a means of re-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 199-
paration for bis losses, and a balm for all the
misery and wo, which are in the world through
sin. Lamentable indeed is the consideration, that
this principle is so seldom to be met with, that it
is so frequently perverted, so often misapplied,
obscured by prejudice and passion, chilled by the
baneful influence of selfish feeling, repressed by
ingratitude, stifled by the usages of society, and
stunted by disappointment.
Y et in educating this passion, it should be
clearly laid down as a principle, that its cherished
abode will ever be the hut of the destitute and
the miserable; its chief objects the widow and
the orphan, the friendless outcast from society,
the houseless wanderer, the indigent in every
aggravated form of destitution; and that its ex
ercise should be principled, independent of any
hope of reward, except that which arises from
the consciousness of doing good: that it is to be
cherished for its own sake, and that of others,
and not for the good which it may devolve on
its agent: and that it is to pursue its object
steadily, undaunted by difficulty, unsubdued by
indifference, unattainted by neglect, unenfeebled
by ingratitude; but rather stimulated to its high
est exertion by this very circumstance, from the
deeply-felt conviction, how much the exertion of
the principle is needed, and especially in the
form of its dearest object, the instruction of the
ignorant, reclaiming the vicious, and leading the
unprincipled to consider their ways and be wise.
It is of great importance, that the passion pf
200 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
benevolence, should be grounded on the prin
cipled desire of doing good to others; not that it
should be carelessly left to circumstances to de
velop as a matter of feeling; it can never be
relied upon, for it would lose its attribute of dis
interestedness, and become selfish; the mere
gratification of an impulse, produced by the con
templation of others suffering, and lasting only
so long as the object is before us. But benevo
lence marches out for its objects, and does not
trust to chance to produce them. Neither does
it confine itself to the relief of sorrow: there are
daily and hourly occasions for its exercise, in
sparing the feelings of those around us, contri
buting to their happiness and comfort, and saving
them from pain and uneasiness. Without these
unostentatious pursuits it will be little w orth; it
will degenerate into the mere excitement of sym
pathy and charity, the policy of weak and little
minds, and will be employed rather as the means
of administering to our own comfort, than to that
of others. But we need not look abroad for ob
jects of benevolent purpose; they are to be found
at home, and in the family circle. It is a fa
vourite adage, and most true, that charity should
* begin at home, but then it should not endth e m
it is a diffusive principle, which is not only to be
extended to parents, children, relatives, and
friends, but to the whole human race : for it is
to be assumed as another principle of benevo
lence, that it can only be perfect as it is entire,
diffusive, universal; and that it can only be entire
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 201
as it is complete in all its parts: the general
passion must be composed of the several
exertions it has made, and of every occasion for
its exercise.
Again, benevolence must bejust and equitable;
individual happiness can only be safely procured
or enjoyed, as it may be compatible with the
general welfare of families, societies, and of man
kind at large: this must never be sacrificed for
any temporary object, or for any limited number
of suffering individuals. Genuine benevolence
considers the good of all around, and does not
seek its own gratification, or that of its peculiar
objects, until it has considered, if this can be
obtained, without involving a sacrifice of happi
ness or comfort from some larger section of the
family of man, and when this is the case, it
ceases to be based on its only solid support,
good-will to man, not as an individual, but as a
species.
Notwithstanding all these circumstances, be
nevolence is not entirely devoid of selfishness;
for there is some kind of expectation of return,
either in reciprocal good offices, or in the thanks
of the obliged, or in the gratitude of the relieved;
it is only our almighty Parent who is susceptible
of a benevolence towards his creatures, which at
the same time knows no bounds, and from which
there is no hope of return.
One of the finest attributes of benevolence, is
to be tender and compassionate towards the er-
202 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
rors, and forgiving to the faults of those with
whom we stand associated. Firm to its own
principles, it is liberal to the views and feelings of
others; and while it cherishes a devoted attach
ment to the convictions of its own judgment, it
is anxious to leave the opinions of its neighbour
unbiassed, not to claim for itself, the exclusive
privilege of judging correctly, but to allow that it
map err ; and although it conscientiously believes
that it does not, yet it willingly allows that it may
be wrong, and cherishes at all events a prevalent
feeling of the right of private judgment in others.
And it does m o r e :for while it exercises liber
it forgives the want of the exercise of this prin
ciple towards its own views and feelings; it de
lights to pass over that which is wrong: **hatred
stirreth up strife, but love covereth sin. Pro
verbs x. 12.  He that covereth a transgression
seeketh love. Proverbs xvii. 19. But while it
rejoices to overlook that which is wrong, and to
conceal it with a veil of charity, benevolence is
not unmindful of the real interests of its objects;
it does not forget that error cannot be innocuous,
and that it should be corrected where it is pos
sible; but in its efforts to accomplish this, it is
influenced by a meek, gentle, unobtrusive spirit,
which is grieved to wound, and rejoices at the
same instant to apply a healing balm ; and in imi
tation of its great exemplar, not to  break the
bruised reed, or  quench the smoking flax.
In conducting the steps of this process, unity and
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 203
simplicity of design, and singleness of heart cha
racterize its progress ; and then it will be found,
that open rebuke is better than  secret love.
 Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the
kisses of .an enemy are deceitful. Proverbs
xxvii. 5, 6.  Rebuke a wise man, and he will
love thee. Proverbs ix. 8.
Again, the influence of benevolence leads to
contentment and hospitality; contentment with our
own simple fare, and the desire to share it with
those who need, or others who are connected with
us in the bonds of friendship or society.  Better
is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled
ox, and hatred therewith. Proverbs xv. 17. So
just is it that the offering of benevolence which
springs from the heart, will find its way to the
heart; and while it diffuses the glow of serenity
over its origin, will descend in copious blessings
upon the life.
But benevolence is a still higher principle:
it is the accomplishment of duty ; heaven-born;
and however marred by its association with hu
manity, has not lost its upward tendency, and
still seeks the throne of God, whence it originated.
Thus,  to love the Lord thy God with all the
heart, and with all the understanding, and with
all the soul, and with all the strength, and to
love his neighbour as himself, is more than all
whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. Mark
xii. 33.  Love worketh no ill to. his neighbour, .
therefore love is the fulfilling of the law. Ro-
204 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
mans xiii. 10.  Thou shalt love thy neighbour
as thyself. Leviticus xix. 18.  See that ye love
one another with a pure heart. 1. Peter i. 22.
 If any man say I love God, and hateth his
brother, he is a liar. 1 
John 4, 20. Thus,
clearly defined are the limits of Christian bene
volence; thus is it constituted a duty of the
highest order; thus does it teach us to watch
over, and guard, and consult, and cherish the in
terests, and the feelings of others; thus does it
place them on a level with , and it is well
known there is no lack of selfishness in the world;
thus does it enjoin us to employ all the powers
of the mind and body in the love and service of
God, a part of which, is to be constantly doing
good to others: and thus does it enforce sincerity
and purity of heart, and motive, and design, in
cultivating the principle into earnest desire, and
the desire into passion.
The exterior of benevolence is prepossessing:
the contentment and charity, the wish to do
good to others, to think well of them, and to put
a favourable construction upon their actions and
motives, diffuse a peace over the heart which is
visible in the countenance, whose expression is
therefore characterized by mildness and ani
mation : witness the unruffled features, lighted
up by the glow of hope, the unwrinkled brow,
the expanded forehead, the sympathetic eye of
the philanthropist,all expressing the joy and se
renity of the soul, the joy of anticipated useful-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 205
ness, the serenity of reflection on the success of
past efforts, or at least in the sincerity of their
design for ameliorating, instructing, or comfort
ing the wretched, the ignorant, and the sor
rowing. But alas! a smile is not always the
infallible indication of benevolence; and there is
abundant room for the operation of the apostolic
injunction,  let love be without dissimulation ; 
(Romans xii. 9.) for the exterior symbols of cha
rity may result only from studied complaisance,
and may be merely the offspring of a factitious
principle, the base of which rests on hypocrisy;
they may be the effect of habit, superinduced forthe
very purpose of concealing evil dispositions, and
of giving their possessor a character in society,
to which he has really no substantial claim. And
on the contrary, a grave and serious counte
nance, rendered so perhaps by the many sad cir
cumstances of life, which however in a well-regu
lated mind, all tend to soften the heart, and to
render it susceptible of sympathy for others;
partly also influenced by the physical tempera
ment; partly by early habits of thought and
action, and by certain undefinable associations,
which it is not always easy to appreciate, but
which produce important changes on the general
cast of thought and feeling, and therefore on the
expression of the countenance; such an expres
sion is by no means incompatible with the most
expansive charity, a charity which warms the
heart to energy, and engages all the powers of
the man, both body and soul, in seeking the good
206 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
of others. There is perhaps this difference;
there may exist in the one case, more of simple
feeling, prompting to the exercise of virtue; and
in the other, more of genuine principle, enlisting
in its train such a measure of feeling, as may be
necessary to support and insure the continuance
of seeking to do good. As the basis of the social
virtues, it is of great consequence to cultivate this
passion in childhood, and to give it a foundation
of principles, as well as to fix its attention on
the only proper objects of its care. ,
But a question here presents itself as to the
nature of p
o
l
i
t
e
n
e
s
s, and its connexion with the
principle of benevolence. The exterior expres
sions of the former, are undoubtedly such as arise
from the existence of a supposed interest in the
parties; and the unalloyed principle should con
sist in the wish to. confer happiness on all around,
to make them to be at peace and at ease with
themselves and others: and hence it is essentially
depending upon benevolence. Politeness then is
the mode of expressing the agency of this pas
sion, and the desire we possess of securing the
happiness of its .objects. It is the result of civili
zation, and should form the bond of union for
society. But, unfortunately, it is too frequently
the indication of a sentiment which does not
exist, the imitation of a principle which is not
felt, a moral counterfeit, which is only the more
baneful because there is a tacit agreement among
mankind, hot to detect and expose the spurious
metal, but rather to give it currency, and to coun-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 207
tenance its circulation by resolving to receive and
pay it in the room of, if not as an equivalent for,
the sterling coin. The insincerity of the world
is a matter of notoriety; and yet with this con
viction upon our mind, we are flattered and ca
joled by its attentions; we are blinded, if not
duped by its fair speeches; and we are lulled into
the quiet calm of listless indolence by the appa
rentinterest it takes in all our concerns, forgetting
that that interest will be blown aside by the first
sigh of the spirit of self-denial; or by the most
distant murmuring of the storm of passion, or
the tempest of conflicting interest. Politeness, as
an object of education, is to be cultivated on the
principle of benevolence; while the civilities of
the world are to be received with caution: for
painfiil as it is to a generous mind to indulge a
fear of insincerity, yet it is not the less necessary
to secure it from reposing its confidence where it
will be abused, and to teach it the importance of
hesitating untried acquaintance, and of forming
judicious friendships.
There is a possibility of too much openness, a
species of false candour, the absence of all re
serve, which exposes the incautious though way
faring traveller through life, to innumerable mor
tifications, in consequence of others availing
themselves of this openness to convert it to their
own base purposes, and as an engine to be em 
ployed against the individuals peace. This un
reserve is not to be met by the development of
its opposite, but by the employment of that steady
208 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
caution, which while it pursues the right course,
is still wary of committing itself to others, and
thus forms the retiring character, remarkable for
its solidity, but not deficient in energy when
roused to action. It is painful to the benevolent
mind, to be compelled to suspect the possibility
of evil intention in the soft intercourse of polite
ness; but it is the only means of escapiug the
misery of being betrayed, and of avoiding the
ingratitude of false friends. Such is the fondness
of the human heart for calumny, and so easy is
it to misrepresent and to distort the feelings and
motives of the man, when they have been pre
sented without particular attention and preceding
consideration, that care should be taken not to
trust those whom we have not previously tried,
and who may not have proved themselves trust
worthy. But we must pity where we cannot
confide, and diligently seek the improvement and
the good of those, whose sense of right will very
generally yield to the attraction of compliment,
that unmeaning expression which is often used as
an artifice to conceal some base design; to call
off its object from itself; to fill its attention with
absurd and unmeaning follies, and then to take
advantage of the silly vanity it has produced, in
order to accomplish its own interested pur
poses. Children should be particularly guarded
against this empty and irrational habit, which
really detracts from the value of the gen
tleman, is beneath the dignity of man, sets
most awkwardly upon the rational and the edu-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 209
cation, but is most unseemly for the Christian,
offensive to God, and opposed to the high prin
ciples which ought to constitute the rule of our
conduct.
W hile however we are assailed on the one
hand by a counterfeit benevolence, we are often
placed in contact with those who do not assume
even the mask of politeness, and who repay the
exercise of charity with ingratitude; not only
with those who really want the principle of love
to their fellow men, as well as its shadowy form
under which many have taken shelter, but who
are positively malevolent, and indulge will
against such as are liberal and good; they cannot
brook a feeling of obligation for kindness re
ceived, or the idea that they are necessitous, es
pecially if the benevolent principle shall have
assumed the form of instruction, particularly re
ligious instruction, warning or advice; and for all
this the young should be prepared, that they
may watch over their own hearts, and not be
lightly moved away from the firmness of bene
volent purpose by these lighter oppositions; by
having their good evil spoken o f; or by finding
that they do not obtain the applause due to their
conduct. Merit,
notpraise, must be their object;
to do the will of God, not to obtain the approba
tion of man ; to fill the station of an heir of im
mortality, not to be satisfied with the fleeting
gratifications of the present world.  Take heed
that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen
of th em ; otherwise ye have no reward of your
VOL. II. p
210 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
Father which is in heaven. Therefore when thou
doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before
thee, as the hypocrites do, in the synagogues,
and in the streets, that they may have glory of
men. Verily I say unto you, have their re
ward. But when thou doest alms, let not thy
left hand know what thy right hand doeth ; that
thine alms may be in secret; and thy Father
which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee
openly. Matthew vi. 14.
They in whom the principle of benevolence is
wanting, are either diseased or defective; they
are minus in the full development of their intel
lectual pow ers; or they have been rendered
selfish by the long continued irritation of bodily
infirmity; or they are the victims of a far more
fearful malady, even the disease of sin, which has
crept into every corner of the heart, and per
verted all the manifestations of m ind;  the
whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint;
from the sole of the foot, even unto the head,
there is no soundness in it. Isaiah i. 5 ,6 . And
this is the real explanation, why so much male
volence in every hateful form is to be found in
the w orld; why slander, detraction, and ca
lumny are so frequently met w ith ; why envy
and jealousy rankle in the bosom ; why harsh
ness, and unkindness, and contempt so often as
sail us; why the eye does not look on the
wretched to compassionate them, and the heart
is not moved to p ity ; why duplicity and insin
cerity, and selfish interest so commonly intercept
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 211
our progress; why the shaft of ridicule is so fre
quently aimed against the just; and injustice
and ingratitude possess their day of power, and
almost forget that there is a to-morrow, a day of
reckoning and retribution, a day, when all hearts
will be laid open, and all will be judged accord
ing to the deeds done in the body.
But there is an unfortunate result attendant
upon the frequency with which these fatal evils
await us, and it is this; the heart which is ex
panded with early love to others, which beats
with large desire to do good, and to diffuse happi
ness, and to think well of its neighbours, and to
esteem them highly, and to place confidence in
their uprightness, and just intention, and to think
and to believe ill of no m an; yet commerce with
the world nips this youthful ardour, chills the
effort of benevolence by repeated disappointment
contracts the heart by contact with the cold
and heartless selfishness of othersinduces dis
trust by the suffering experienced from having
been deceived, and by witnessing the incon
sistencies even of the good, and by observing that
in any others unimpeachable uprightness is the
waking dream of unsuspecting rectitude of inten
tion. The effect of all this is to develop a degree
of caution, which hesitates to take for granted
the worth of its fellow men, and waits to prove
their character, and to try their principles before
it trusts its own welfare in their hands. Painful,
though the consideration may be, this caution is
necessary in the present state of society. But
p 2
2 1 2 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
then unfortunately it does not rest here; that
which might have been advantageously employed
as a measure of precaution only, is adopted as a
principle of action; the mind broods over the mi
serable condition of society; it becomes aware of
the little dependence that can be placed on the
help of man ; it suffers from injustice; it finds
its confidence betrayed, its interests sacrificed to
any selfish consideration, its friendships mis
placed, its estimate of character falsified, its es
teem engaged by unworthy objects, and by them
thrown away as worthless; it becomes melan
choly from such a detail of practical misery, and
falls into hypochondriasis, or misanthropy, ac
cording to the prevailing physical temperament,
and the principal characteristic of its preceding
modes and habits of thought and feeling; suspi
cion and distrust exert their baneful influence
over the mind, and by degrees, friendship and
love, purity of motive, rectitude of action, es
teem, respect, and consideration are all treated
as mere illusions, from the deceitful influence of
which they have escaped; an escape on which
they congratulate themselves.
The truths of religion are the only sure anti
dote to this state of mind ; by them it will be
led to the cause of all this misery ; by them it
will learn its own proneness to evil, and that it
is only preserved by the influence of divine
grace; by them it will be taught to pity instead
of resenting, and to forgive instead of seeking to
return evil for evil, or even punishment for ev il;
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 2]3
and thus again will it be brought round to the
exercise of the principle of benevolencethat
charity which can find no substitute in literary
acquisition, and philosophical knowledge, or bib
lical learning, or devotional lore; that charity
which must be a fruit of faith, and without which
true faith can have no existence; that charity
which consists not in simply feeding the hungry,
or relieving the distressed, clothing the poor,
administering to the wretched, healing the sick, or
succouring the destitute ; a principle which never
fails under the most unpropitious circumstances,
but remains as a ground of action,  which suf-
fereth long and is kind; which envieth n o t;
which vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, doth
not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own,
is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth
not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; beareth
all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things,
endureth all things. 1 Corinthians xiii. 4 7.
From this parent stock of benevolence, flow
many of the blessings of society, the sweets of
friendship, the delights of love, the endearments
of relationship. We have already sketched, as
far as our present design will permit, the influ
ence of conjugal, parental, and filial affection;
and in a future stage of our inquiry, the subjects
of friendship and society will pass under review,
so that we shall now direct our attention very
shortly, to the nearest associated passion, viz.
jealousy.
214 MORAL ANI) RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
S e c t i o n VI. Of Jealousy.
It has been supposed, that the passion of jea
lousy arose from, and was an evidence of intense
affection; and as such, it has been often pal
liated, excused, and almost vindicated. But this
is a most mistaken notion; trace the operation of
the principle, and watch its origin, and it will be
found incompatible with the existence of perfect
love.
The influence of jealousy is very early dis
cernible in the young mind ; and even the nur
sery is not exempted from its inroads. It con
sists in this feeling; a fear lest others should
possess a greater share in the returns of affection,
than we ourselves ; or lest these returns should
be unequal to the love we bear and manifest to
wards others. In either of these cases, it must
be seen that want of confidence, distrust, and a
consequent loss of respect, and esteem, are the
sources from which these exhibitions of jealousy
must flow. But it has been before shewn, that
confidence, ingenuousness, respect, and esteem,
are necessary to the production, and continuance
of love; and if these be indispensable ingredients
in the formation of affection, it follows, that their
opposite principles cannot be received as evidence
of the intensity, the highest, and most perfect
state of the passion. The conclusion is absurd :
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 215
and let no one palliate to himself the existence of
jealousy, or rather encourage its development on
this ground; or he will harbour in his bosom a
serpent, whose sting will never be extracted,
whose poison will circulate through every part of
the character, and will influence every act and
thought, will be brought into activity by the
slightest circumstance, and will descend to those
 trifles light as air, which to the jealous, are
invested with a sacredness and certainty, that no
argument can dissipate ; and which are confirmed
by time, and deepened by opposition, and aug
mented by suspicion, and magnified by distrust,
and realized by passion.
The first influence of jealousy may be traced
in children; and in their minds, is most intimately
associated with envy, a principle with which it is
at all times very nearly allied. Thus it will often
arise from one infant possessing a toy, or any
other mark of favour, which the other has not;
it will first feel the passion of envy for the valu
able good, whatever it may be, and this will
eventually lead to jealousy of the individual, who
has vouchsafed the boon! This feeling which in
its early stage, is only occasionally excited, will
by frequent repetition become habitual; and
habit will ripen into passion. The child in whom
jealousy has been once powerfully excited, will
be ever on the watch for food, to nourish its ma
lignant principle: and occasions for its exercise
will not long be wanting, since it is at once un-
* generous and unjust, and therefore frames to
216 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
itself a source of suspicion in the very good qua
lities and good conduct of its compeers. This
passion having taken deep root in the mind, the
child suffers a marked diminution of affection for
its associates, who have become the objects of
jealousy; love to its parents is supplanted by a
sense of injury, a doubt of their affection, a dis
trust in the equity of their decisions, and a care
lessness of compliance with their w ish es; the
bond of relationship is severed; the unity of the
social compact is destroyed ; every evil passion
is fostered ; the influence of paternal government
is lost; the hopes of education are blasted ; the
growth of the moral virtues is repressed; the in
fluence of religion over the conduct is sup
planted ; the heart is occupied by a demon before
whose sway reason and intellect, judgment and
reflection, duty and conscience are laid'prostrate
and enslaved; and it has become the miserable
victim of a passion which knows no bounds;
under whose influence, truth and justice, pru
dence, reputation, gratitude, the hope of worldly
success, the motives of benevolence, the love of
esteem, the claims of pity, and the laws of God,
all, all, are yielded to falsehood and artifice, the
most cruel injustice, the imprudence of infatu
ation, the love of revenge, the basest ingratitude,
the gratification of a blind passion, the dictates
of selfishness, the luxury of malice, the whisper
of hatred, the unpitying demands of that passion,
which is cruel, and which in the full tide of its
headlong course, is arrested by no barrier human
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 217
or divine, but seeks to confound all it knows and
once loved, in one common ruin here and here
after. There is no peace to the bosom of the
jealous m an; he is tormented by a fire that is
not quenched, by the worm that never d ieth ;
his bosom burns by its own combustion; and he
carries about with him feelings of inexpressible
agony, which none can thoroughly appreciate.
For  jealously is cruel as the grave; the coals
thereof are coals of fire, which hath a most vehe
ment, flame. Solomon's Song, viii. 6.  Jea
lousy is the rage of a m an; therefore he will not
spare in the day of vengeance. Proverbs vi. 34.
 And who is able to stand before jealousy.
Proverbs xxvii. 4.
So vehement is this passion, that the integrity
of the brain often suffers as its consequence, and
insanity is the result; a form of maniacal halluci
nation not very uncommon, and which has often
led to the most desperate catastrophe. Would
that we could consider all these results as ma
niacal : the mind would indeed rest on a little
sphere of hope, which would throw a gleam of
sunshine over futurity, and dispel the thick gloom
which awaits the closing up of the earthly career
of such wretched beings. But what must that
passion be, which at its height involves the sacri
fice of temporal and eternal good, present charac
ter, the ties of blood, the institutions of society,
the appointments of heaven, the injunctions of the
Most H igh; and in whose train are to be seen
anger, hatred, malice, revenge, insanity, murder,
2 1 8 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
suicide ? What must that passion be, which de
grades the man, destroys the Christians hope,
annihilates the Christian temper, and consigns the
individual to the gloomy precincts of a lunatic
asylum here; to the still narrower, and more
chilly separation of a cheerless grave, or to the
darkness which may be felt of a hopeless eter
nity ? How important is it to avoid exciting this
passion in the young, to check it in embryo, to
develop principle as its antidote, and to fortify
the mind against its encroachments by educating
Christian hopes, and Christian precepts, and Chris
tian consolation, and Christian anticipations, as
those objects alone which are to be sought, to be
obeyed, to be enjoyed, to be struggled for with
vehement intense desire!
S e c tio n VII. Of Pity.
P ity is a sympathetic affection of the heart, di
rected with more or less of energy towards all
those who are suffering or unfortunate : it is the
counterpoise of selfishness, the parent of com
passion, the associate of feeling, the handmaid of
charity; it is natures appointed channel, through
which the pang of suffering is to be relieved, and
the cry of the destitute is to be heard, and the
tear of the mourner is to be wiped away.
Pity is not the result of reason and reflection,
but an instinctive love for our fellow-creatures;
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 219
a natural recoil from suffering of every kind; a
desire to alleviate the sorrows, and augment the
joys of our fellow-men. It is a spontaneous
movement of the sou l; and where reason has
been sophisticated, and the memory of personal
sorrows has been obliterated, and the sobriety of
reflection has never existed, and habit has ob
scured the perception of suffering, even here pity
occupies the heart, and renders man compassion
ate in spite of himself: the suffering of an animal,
the idea of its death, the termination of its cir
cumscribed pleasures, the manner of its dissolu
tion, will excite that painful feeling which prompts
to alleviate its distress, and to save it from de
struction : how much more, then, ought the prin
ciple to be aroused by a taofwoe an
by the contemplationof suffering humanity; by the
sight of real distress; by the cottage of indigence,
undefended from the rude blast of winter; by the
miserable pallet of sickness occupied by a wretched
being; ignorant as wretched; rapidly hastening
to the goal of life, through a lengthened series of
pain, almost realizing the pang of dissolution;
but with this aggravation, that to him death is
not the termination of being, but the mere change
which conducts the child of mortality to that
world where his eternal destiny is irrevocably
fixed. Sorrow, suffering, disease, pain, poverty,
indigence, wretchedness, ignorance, and sin ; the
misery of to-day, and the uncertainty of to
morrows hope; the sufferings of sickness, and
the slow extinction of life, the blindness of the
220 MORAL. AND RELIGIOUS E D UC A TIO N .
understanding, the aversion of the affections from
God, the hardness of the heart, the gloom of
obstinacy, the hopeless anticipation of an asylum
in the grave, without a rational prospect of peace
and happiness beyond i t ; these are motives to
p ity ! And yet this feeling does not result, as it
has been supposed by some philosophers, from a
law of association, by which the individual is en
abled to place himself in the circumstances of the
sufferer, who excites his compassion, or in any
imaginary situation of distress. This dogma is
an offset from that sweeping conclusion which
would resolve every social feeling and passion
into an effort of self-love : but the truth is, that
the all-bountiful Creator has not formed man in
such a simple m ould; he is not a Polype, the
first step of animal existence one simple struc
ture of a similar kind, but like his animal frame,
complicated by a great variety of organs, suited
to their several functions, and each in its own
order, forming a grand harmony of created per
fection ; so are the manifestations of his mind
multiplied and associated, and each adapted to
the exigencies of his situation, his relations here,
his hopes hereafter.
Of these manifestations, pity forms an inde
pendent passion ; and he who has attended to the
operation of his own mind, or to that of children,
will have traced its development without the in
tervention of any ratiocinative or imaginative pro
cess, upon the simple application of its appro
priate stimulus, viz. misfortune, the sight of which
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION*. 221
has as instantaneously developed the feeling of
pity, and the desire to relieve the sufferer, as the
sight of food has stimulated the appetite of hun
ger, and aroused the desire to appease its crav
ings. The processes are similar; but the one is
purely animal, the other purely m ental; and
under the shield of this tutelary passion, nature
has placed all the unfortunate of the earth. The
most illustrious instances of pity are to be found
in the character of our Saviour, in whom it would
be absurd to suppose the operation of the asso
ciated principle above mentioned ; yet Jesus wept
over the grave of Lazarus; and whatever might
have been the immediate cause of those tears, it
was divine compassion filled his bosom, and gave
rise to the miracle he then wrought, without the
possibility of being, or of supposing himself to
be, in a similar situation.
In its exercise, pity is not always just, or pro
portioned to the degree of misfortune which ex
cites i t : a thousand causes operate to disturb
the attention; a thousand prejudices distort the
reason; selfish motives prevent its agency, be
cloud the understanding, and obstruct the w ill;
one object possesses a greater number of amiable
traits, and is therefore more attractive than ano
ther equally distressed, and equally deserving,
whose exterior may be forbidding, whose manner
may be repulsive, or with whom there may be a
scantier excitement of sympathy. Pity will some
times be exhausted upon the most trilling sorrows,
while the weighter evils that surround shall pass
222 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
unheeded, unnoticed, unrelieved. It may exist
as a mere sentiment, and will prompt the
relief of its object; hence the importance of edu
cating the principle, developing the passion,
placing it on proper objects, leading it to its legi
timate consequences, and divesting it of the ope
ration of those causes which would impede its
action, or impair its simplicity and integrity.
For the relief of suffering, nature has not cal
culated on the voice of reason, which she has
deemed insufficient, and which would have been
but seldom heard; she has not calculated on the
simple desire to do good, to fulfil the royal law,
to do the will of God, to imitate the Saviour;
motives, which in their operation are all equally
precarious, and therefore she has most wisely
implanted pity in the bosom of man, and has con
stituted it a passion from whose real exercise
pleasure is to be constantly derived. So manifest
and so powerful is this connexion between the
object of distress, the tear of pity, and the out
stretched arm of compassion, that its artificial
excitement has become a positive object of lite
rature, and too frequently a substitute for the
charities of home, of kindred, and of society, for
all the sympathies of real sorrow, and vulgar dis
tress, and every day misfortune, the misery of the
hovel, and the sinfulness of man. Thus the tears
of pity shall be poured forth in profusion, for the
counterfeit calamities of the drama: we may
weep over the feigned distress of the heroine of a
novel; and the poor, and the sick, and the dying
MORAL AND RELIGIOU8 EDUCATION. 223
of our immediate neighbourhood, shall pass with
out atear, without relief, or with only a customary
offering, doled out without feeling by a niggard
hand, and distributed through the agency of a
menial. And shall this ever be? or shall we
return to the influence of common sense, reason
and religion, preserve our tears for those who
really need them, abstract our minds from coun
terfeit distress, dismiss these inenergetic good
wishes and heartless offerings, and exercise the
genuine principle of pity, by seeking out distress,
carrying ourselves the balm of consolation where
most needed, witnessing its application, and giv
ing it efficacy by that kindness, which can only
be exercised by those who feel, and by those who
feel not for the mere enjoyment of feeling, but as
a motive to action, action of the highest and the
purest character. Here then is an important
object in education, to avoid the excitement of
unreal sympathy and ineffective pity, and to de
velop the passion on the principled basis of seek
ing to alleviate the sorrowof others, not to minister
to our own gratification.
As in the employment of real pity, a high de
gree of pleasure will be produced, first, from the
excitation of feeling, and next from the conscious
ness of doing good, and alleviating sorrow; so
pain arises from refusing to listen to its prompt
ings ; the mind suffers from self-reproach; and
the conviction of having turned away from the
complaint of poverty, the tear of distress, or the
accents of mourning, will occasion an uneasyfeel-
224 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
ing, which upon reflection will be discovered to
consist in the upbraidings of stifled pity, aggra
vated by the monitions of conscience, which in
form us, that reason and religion, as well as pas
sion, have been resisted, and that we have
forgotten one of the highest privileges of our
nature, as well as forsaken one of its most im
portant duties ; an obvious ground for educating
this principle in earliest infancy, calling it into
action upon every just occasion, and invariably
associating the attempt to relieve suffering of
every kind, wherever presented, and under all
circumstances, with the actions and the pleasures
of every day.
This principle should be carried into the con
duct of children with regard to the brute creation;
the attribute of mercy must be stamped upon their
character, and cruelty must be abhorred: they
must not be suffered to torment domestic animals,
but taught to treat them kindly; they must not
be permitted to sport with the life and sufferings
of flies, or other insects, and above all to take
pleasure in their distress: they should not be
suffered to witness even the necessary and most
merciful infliction of death, lest their sympathy
with pain should be diminished, and the edge of
their compassion blunted by contact with cruelty.
It will be absurd to expect merciful, and just, and
tender-hearted, and pitiful men and women, from
children, whose earliest associations are on the
side of inhumanity, and who are permitted to
form their very pleasures from the sufferings of
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 225
the creatures over which they have power. For-
a similar reason, they must be. taught to respect
the feelings, and to be thankful for the services
of their attendants, to pity their servitude, to be
grateful for theirown privileges, and to avoidgiving
pain or unnecessary trouble to those around them.
Pity is not only excited by the language of
complaint, but also simply by the sight of tears,
even although the occasion for their production
has been a tale of fictitious distress ; it is less
easily aroused by bodily pain, than mental suf
fering ; it is more active in youth, more operative
in manhood, and loses its energy in declining
years, in proportion as the selfishness of old age
accumulates; and as the feelings become less
active, and the bodily powers are exhausted,
and man draweth towards the close of his career:
it is likewise more easily excited, more perma
nently influential, of a firmer character, less
easily perverted from its purpose, and more stea
dily pursuing its settled objects in females than
in males. The benevolence o f man may be inope
rative ; it may be chilled by selfishness; it may
be perverted by prejudice; it may be arrested by
avarice; it may be distorted by falsehood; it may
be impaired by fear; it may be supplanted by
business ; it may be superseded by anger ; it
may be destroyed by idleness; it may be drowned
in intemperance; it may be wasted by ridicule;
it may be defeated by ingratitude; it may be
obscured by impatience; or perverted by injust-
VOL II. Q
226 MORAL AND RELIC IOUS EDUCATION.
ice: but the pityo f woman, when based on prin
ciple, is indestructible; it survives every effort
to repress it; it lives through the storm of pas
sion ; and is still seen after many days, buffeting
with the waves of opposition, and pursuing its
undaunted voyage to the haven of successful
charity.
Pity however is not a blind and headlong pas
sion, which bears away before it, the influence of
reason: and although it may not be always pro
portioned to the degree of misfortune which excites
it, yet it is generally distributed according to a
certain measure of ideal justice. Thus, for in
stance, it is more readily excited in favour of
worthy objects, on account of the unfortunate ra
ther than the wicked; towards those who are
suffering from the hand of Providence, rather
than those who are bearing the punishment of
their sins. This however is not invariably the
case; for there are some good men, who are
equally moved by the sight of misery, in whatever
shape it may be presented; and there are others
who wish to be stimulated by themost aggravated
forms of wretchedness, that they may enjoy the
intellectual luxury of pity, without much discri
mination as to the cause which exciteait, or much
solicitude for its removal.
In the education of this passion, there is here
some degree of difficulty to encourage the active
exertions of pity, without confounding the essen
tial distinctions between vice and virtue: to sym-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 227
pathize with the misery entailed by the former,
without feeling a diminished horror for its cause;
to seek to relieve the enslaved, without acquiring a
familiarity with their chain, which may render us
less reluctant to yield to its ensnaring influence.
Yet the difficulty is easily obviated, and may be
made an instrument of good, if while the passion
be directed towards the miserable, the young are
instructed, into the fearful consequences of that
sin which has introduced sorrow into the world,
and without which it would have had no exist
ence. It is not contended that no distinction
should be made between the wretched from mis
fortune, and the destitute from vice: we pity and
seek to relieve both; but we only sympathize with
the former. It is not for us to judge : this is the
attribute of omniscience ; but it is for us to shew
pity, which is an attribute of mercy, and tempers
even justice with its mild radiance. Our adorable
Redeemer lost not a particle of his dignity by
healing those whose diseases were the conse
quences of vice, by becoming the guest of sin
ners, by forgiving sins, or by receiving the re
turns of affection and gratitude from those who
loved much, because they had been much for
given.
The sacred character of Christ will be a better
guide, than our shortsighted judgment, as to the
proper limits of pity; and the revelation of his
will, will be a more suitable last appeal, in every
ease of doubt, than any notions of expediency or
Q 2
228 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
propriety, with which our own selfish and deceit
ful hearts may seek to clog the exercise, and
defeat the purposes of heaven-born pity. For
 he hath not dealt with us according to our sins,
nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. For as
the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his
mercy towards them that fear him. As far as
the east is from the west, so far hath he removed
our transgressions from us. Like as a father
pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that
fear him. For he knoweth our frame; he remem-
bereth that we are dust. Psalm ciii. 1014.
There is a fine rebuke to those who would draw
closely the limits of pity ; who would place it on
a basis of feeling, and selfish feeling, rather than
on the greatness of the calamity, and the fearful
consequences attendant upon i t ; who would
be more affected by a personal or relative loss,
than by the degradation and awful prospects of
those who lie in the bond of iniquity, contained
in the history of Jonah, who is thus reproved by
the voice of the Most High:  Thou hast had
pity on the gourd, for the which thou hast not
laboured, neither madest it grow; which came
up in a night, and perished in a night: And
should not I spare Nineveh, that great city,
wherein are more than six score thousand per
sons, that cannot discern between their right hand
and their left hand, and also much cattle (Jonah
iv. 10, 11): a plain proof that ignorance and
wickedness are not barriers to the mercy of God;
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 229
and that even the cattle are not overlooked, when
he turneth away his fierce anger, that his crea
tures perish not.
Again, what is the character of the Most High
God, but that  being f u ll o f , he for
gave their iniquity, and destroyed them not; yea,
many a time turned he his anger away, and did
not stir up all his wrath. For he remembered
that they were but flesh; a wind that passeth
away and cometh not again. Psalm lxxviii. 38.
 Thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion
and gracious; long-suffering, and plenteous in
mercy and truth. Psalm Ixxxvi. 15.  The
Lord is gracious, and full of compassion. Psalm
cxi. 4.  He is gracious, and full of compassion,
and righteous. Psalm cxii. 4.  The Lord is
gracious and full of compassion, slow to anger,
and of great mercy. The Lord is good to all,
and his tender mercies are over all his works.
Psalm cxlv. 8, 9.
What were the characteristics of our Saviours
ministry on earth, but that  when he saw the
multitudes, he was moved with compassion on
them, because they fainted, and were scattered
abroad, as sheep having no shepherd. Matthew
ix. 36.  And Jesus went forth, and saw a great
multitude, and was moved with compassion to
wards them, and he healed their sick. Matthew
xiv. 14.  And Jesus moved with compassion
towards him, put forth his hand, and touched
him, and saith unto him, 1 will, be thou clean.
Mark i. 41.  And Jesus, when he came out.
230 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
saw much people, and was moved with com
passion towards them, because they were as
sheep not having a shepherd, and he began to
teach them many things. Mark vi. 34.
What were our Saviours directions with respect
to the exercise of pity ?  O thou wicked ser
vant, I forgave thee all that debt because thou de-
siredst m e; shouldest not thou also have had
compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had
pity on thee? Matthew xviii. 32, 33.
Once more, what were the objects of his com
passion ? even temporal wants, (Matthew XV. 32.)
the forgiveness of offences, (Ibid, xviii. 33.) the
healing of sickness and infirmities, (Ibid. xx. 34.)
the deliverance from evil spirits, (Mark ix. 22.)
recovery from death, (Luke vii. 13.) healing the
wounded and giving sight to the blind, (Ibid,
x. 33.) the restoration of the repentant prodigal,
(Ibid. xv. 20.) the having  compassion on the ig
norant, and on them that are out of the way; for
we have not an high priest which cannot be
touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but
was in all points tempted like as we are, yet
without sin. Let us therefore come boldly unto
the throne of Grace that we may obtain mercy,
and find grace to help in every time of need.
Hebrews iv. 15, 16.  Seeing then, that it is of
the Lords mercies we are not consumed, and be
cause his compassions fail not; (Lamentations
iii. 22.) may we be  all of one mind, having com-
pasion one of another ; love as brethren, be piti
ful, be courteous;  (1 Peter iii, 8.) for  whoso
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 23i
hath this worlds good, and seeth his brother have
need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion
from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him ?
My little children, let us not love in word, neither
in tongue, but in deed and in truth. 1 John,
iii. 17,18.
A commentary on the foregoing train of argu
ment, which simply pleads for itself, would be
useless; but there are many excuses for evading
the active influence of this passion, and ofceasing
to be governed by it; of these we can only men
tion one or two. P ity may be enfeebled byin
gratitude, and its generous activity blasted by
repeated disappointment; hence the importance
of educating the passion upon principle. So long
as it is a passion only, it may be acted upon, per
verted, destroyed by counter passion; but when
it is exercised as a principle and a duty, it is no
longer contemplated as a meritorious act, and de
serving of reward; we look not for repayment;
our object should be to relieve the distressed, not
to be gratified by the incense of obligation; we
should not expect gratitude; when we meet with
it we should rejoice, not on the ground of self-
gratulation, but from the hope that it may origi
nate from a principle of good in the hearts of the
obliged; and when we are assailed by ingratitude,
we should feel no diminution, but an increase o f
our p ity , for how deplorable is their state, whose
heart is not softened by the visit of mercy, or the
consolations of pity. May we look into our own
hearts, and see if there be no ingratitude there.
232 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
towards Him who hath pitied us, and is daily and
hourly doing us good; and then let us not plead
the existence of this vice, as a ground for with
holding our aid, or as an excuse for indolence in
its administration. And besides all this, there is
a promise of eventual good to the compassionate,
for  He that hath pity upon the poor, lendeth
unto the Lord; and that which he hath given
will hepay him again; (Prov. xix. 17.) not pro
bably in the same measure of relief, but in the
good he will derive from the exercise of Christian
virtue ; and in those heavenly consolations, with
which the darkest hour of distress will be irra
diated ; and in that presence of the Most High,
which is of infinite value to the helpless and sin
cere inquirer after eternal happiness.
But again, the ardour of pity may be damped
by deception. To this, it may be shortly said,
that the good are not to want, because we maj
have been deceived by the bad ; and that is bad
taste, bad feeling, bad principle, which woulc
withhold relief from the virtuous, because it hat
been abused by the unprincipled. It is better ti
be many times deceived, than to refuse the pe
tition of one real sufferer. At the same time, i
is to be remarked, that this deception is generally
met with only where charity has been indiscri
minately bestowed; where it has been lavishet
on the sturdy impudent mendicant ; and where
therefore, the individual exercising pity, hai
thrown himself in the way of fraud. The arti
fices practised by street beggars are innumerable
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 233
and that is not pity and charity which consists in
their relief, but selfishness, or ostentation, or in
dolence, or a desire to be relieved from impor
tunity, or motives of a mixed character, but
pity. Here indeed, caution should be impressed
upon the young mind, that its passions be not ex
cited by this obtrusive display of feigned disease,
or produced and productive misery; and lest it
should be induced to substitute this lazy pity,
this indolent charity, in the room of genuine
benevolence. Let it also be recollected, that
there are abundant objects of this passion in'our
own neighbourhood; and that we diminish our
power of administering to their necessities, by
pampering the vices of the worthless, while we
are too apt to feel satisfied with ourselves, and
with our claims to philanthropy, on this most in
secure and untenable ground.
In conclusion, let it be remarked, that pity is *
a principle of mental succour, and that the real
basis for its exercise will consistin self-denial; and
let it be ever borne in mind, that we are only the
guardians and stewards of our property; and the
almoners of the wretched and the indigent.
What God has given us, let it be consecrated to
his glory; and every tear which has been wiped
away from the furrowed cheek of the wretched,
shall be another gem in the crown of Immanuel;
of him who had pity on us sinners, and died to
redeem us unto himself a peculiar people, zealous
of good works.
Before we pass to the consideration of another
234 MOHAX. A N D B E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
passion, we must just add a few words on the in
fluence of grief, not as an object of compassion*
which has been already considered, but as de
manding the vigilance of education from its effect
upon the animal machine, and mental mani
festations. Grief is occasioned by regret for the
past, and generally consists in the deeply felt
sense of loss, either by our own folly, or careless?
ness, or wickedness, or by the appointments of
providence. Thus it will be occasioned by the
loss of temporal good, of reputation in the sight
of mankind, a conscious falling off from the
steady consistency of character we may have yet
maintained, or the removal of friends or relatives.
The age of childhood is not exempt from its in
fluence; for the destruction of a plaything through
its own heedlessness or thoughtlessness, the loss
of some boon promised to good conduct, and for
feited by the forgetfulness or wilful omission of
duty; the withdrawment of parental approbation,
the loss of time, and a thousand other sources of
regret, give rise to this painful feeling. It is
much more* prominent in the character of some
children than of others: there are those whose
buoyant spirits suffer them not to dwell long
enough on their little sorrows, to experience
grief; there is a momentary pang, and it is super
seded by some new object of pleasure or pursuit;
but there are others, with whom grief is de
veloped by the most trifling occasions, md it re
mains as an abiding principle; and it is exercised
by many circumstances of every day, and the cha-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 235
racter comes to be stamped with its impress; it
borders on irritable melancholy; tears and sorrow
in every multiplied form are its sad inheritance;
pleasure is almost an alien from its bosom; and
its life is passed between daily little trials, and
augmented regret. It is also Occasioned by the
contemplation of some desired good, which it
hopes not to obtain in consequence of its unwil
lingness to submit to the measure of privation and
exertion necessary to secure it. This regret for
the past, does not commonly lead to repentance
and amendment: it is not usually a sorrow which
softens the heart, and induces it to consider its
ways, to ponder the paths of its feet, and to re
turn unto the God of its life : but it absorbs the
whole soul into itself, hardens the heart, and
alienates it from reflection on the sources of its
uneasiness : while it also acts as a load upon the
soul, which prevents its laying hold of the hope
set before it; a hope which consists in doing and
suffering all the appointments of Jehovah; a
state of mind which is well exemplified by the
conduct of that inquirer after eternal life, who
when he was enjoined to sell what he had, and
distribute to the poor, that he might have trea
sure in heaven, and come, and take up his cross,
and follow Christ, was  sad at that saying, and
went awr
ay grieved; for he had great possessions.'
-Mark x. 22. Grief is often produced by the want
of fondly desired ohjects, which a kind providence
has thought fit to deny, or which an affectionate
parent sees it necessary to withhold.  Wo is
236 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
me now! for the Lord hath added grief to my sor
row ; I fainted in my sighing; and I find no rest.
But what saith that gracious God ? doth he not
rebuke the spirit which produced the grief, rathei
than promise to remove it; as,  seekest thou great
things for thyself? Seek them not ? Jeremiah
xlv. 36. Thus, then, it is a passion to be re
pressed, when we reason on its origin and ten
dency ; still more so, when we trace its effect;
for says the Psalmist,  Mine eye is consumed
because of grief. Psalm vi. 7. And most true
is it, that the animal machine is slowly wasted
by sorrow; destructive, not by the suddenness
and intensity of its attack, but enfeebling and
undermining the powers of the system by its con*-
tinuance; and the hollow, sunken, languid, in
expressive eye, is but an indication of the ravages
which have been committed, first and chiefly upon
the digestive functions. The process of nutrition
is interfered with; hence the rapid emaciation
and diminished strength; and this disorder of
function, when it is prolonged, too commonly
terminates in incurable disease of structure.
The combined operation of grief upon the ani
mal and intellectual system, gives rise to thajt
atrophy of the mental manifestations, which is
first shewn in disinclination for employment, in
capacity of fixing the attention, loss of memory,
insurmountable abstraction, uncontrouled wan
dering of the imagination, profound reverie, dis
turbed and agitated slumbers, unrefreshing nights,
augmenting timidity of character, the desire after
MORA 1. AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 237
solitude, and a fondness for taciturnity ; all these
slowly preying upon the mental vigour, and lead
ing to that consumption of brainular energy, which
leaves man but the wreck of what he once was;
a monument of what it is to want the Christians
hope, and the consequent consolation, which for
bids the indulgence of grief, and assuages that
sorrow which worketh death.
On many occasions grief is not attended by this
catalogue of woes; but its tendency is always the
same, and it is desirable that the full length portrait
should be before the parents eye, or she will not
be so thoroughly aware ofthe importance of check
ing its agency on those slighter occasions, which
appear, and indeed are, trifling in themselves, but
which become important by their su m ; and still
more by their forming the germ of future action
and passion, the nucleus around which time and
circumstances accumulate opportunity and occa
sion ; these ripening into habit, and habit deve
loping and confirming the operation of principle
and passion. Where grief has implanted itself
powerfully in the human heart, it is not easy to
steer between the mischiefs which result from its
indulgence to the full extent of unsubdued incli
nation, and that too great restraint which doubly
loads the bursting heart, and which links in that
viscus with the associated morbid actions of the
digestive function. A wise parent will allow a
moderate course to grief, when the loss which
occasions it has been real, and will only then
seek to repress its excess: but where its exciting
238 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
cause has been the waywardness of passion, the
anger of disappointment, the controul of some
favourite inclination, the loss of some present
object of pursuit, she will struggle against it with
all her power, in every form, and under all cir
cumstances. There is no occasion which perhaps
more frequently produces grief in children, than
the losso f some ill-starred fa v o u rite ; and it is an
observation of the truest experience, that favour
ites are generally unfortunate. It may therefore
be worth while to remark, that it will be judicious
to avoid the possession of such objects, and then
regret for their loss will be superseded. There
is one other motive for the line of conduct now
recommended, viz. that grief destroys that cheer
fulness of character which it is so essential to
maintain, as recommendatory to the feelings and
principles of the Christian.
S ection VIII. O f Fear.
F ear stands opposed to courage, and consists in
the apprehension of real or supposed danger, and
in a want of the exercise of power to seek an ac
quaintance with the precise nature of the object
which inspires terror; to supersede its influence
when unreal, and oppose it when just, by means
calculated to obviate its baneful tendency. It is
a depressing passion, and is more frequently met
with in the feeble from disease, the young, the
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 239
old, the solitary, and the destitute, than it is with
the healthy and robust, in the vigour of maturity,
in the prime of manhood, in society, and while
enjoying the opportunity of calling in the assist
ance of others. One and the same cause ope
rates in all these cases, viz. the consciousness of
not possessing power to resist the approach of
danger, and therefore an increasing apprehension
of its invasion. A similar reason will account
for the greater prevalence of fear during the night,
because we possess not the means of calculating
the pow er or the agency of its objects; and while
we invest them with a more.extensive influence
than they deserve, we feel that we are incapable
of appropriating our means of defence, and there
fore we are consciously feeble. It must not how
ever be supposed, that fear is the invariable con
sequence of feeble organization; on the contrary,
it wilt be observed in many instances, that this
passion is a stranger to the weak; and examples
of heroism have occurred in females, which are
not to be paralleled by the stronger sex. Still
these are extraordinary cases, and as a general
principle, the consciousness of wanting power to
resist danger, operates as a predisposition to fear,
which may be then easily excited.
Another great source of dread is ignorance
ignorance of the nature and qualities of events
and circumstances, and of their probable influence
over our safety and comfort. It is this which
gives to darkness its fear-creating power: uncer
tainty attaches itself to every object which sur-
240 MORA I. AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
rounds us; each is invested with a capacity to
harm; we remain uninformed by our senses of
the nature of occurrences which attend every
stage of our progress; each step in advance
be towards some object of real terror, and the
probability of danger is sufficient to awaken fear.
In the absence of real knowledge, apprehension
is augmented, and prolonged, and even produced
by the aid of imagination; and by dwelling in
tently upon its creations, the simplest impression
of want of safety may be converted into absolute
terror, which is only the highest degree of this
passion, when it has swept away before its de
vastating agency, reason, and courage, and for
titude, and perseverance, and hope, and confi
dence.
The influence of this principle as arising from
ignorance, and as connected with the imagination,
is early seen in children ; as, for instance, in their
instinctive apprehension from darkness, or from
any other cause to which they do not affix certain
and defined, and comprehensive ideas. Take, for
example, a piece of paper, and present it to a
child ; it will play with it; amuse itself with it;
fold it into fifty forms, and derive pleasure from
it : but invest it with some imaginary character
call it a robber, a lion, a wolf, or any thing else
which conveys the impression of an unknown and
undefined form of mischief, and fear is imme
diately produced; a fear, which by a prolonged
operation upon the system, may be readily con
verted into terror. The rolling of a carriage, when
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 241
heard from a distance, and indistinctly, if it be
taken for what it really is, produces no particular
emotion; but if it be mistaken for distant thun
der, it occasions a sensation of fear: and during
that sublime display of natures power, a thunder
storm, a great degree of anxiety and even terror
is developed in some individuals; and very few
are entirely exempt from that awe, which is in
fact fe a r, subdued by reason, and governed by
Feligion. In this case the passion is produced
probably by three causes; first, from the imme
diate influence upon the nervous system, of the
peculiar atmospherical state; in some instances,
from ignorance of the rationale of the natural
phenomena which we witness; and in others,
fromthe amazing power with which we see nature
clothed, the magnificent display of her resources,
and the consciousness that there is a probability
of danger to some objects or persons, and the
possibility that we may form one of those objects;
in all these states, ignorance forms the principal
source of their widely extended agency.
Again, this principle is shewn by the influence
of ghost-stories upon the mind, of fairy tales, and
of such like unreal creations ofa perverted fancy:
we may all recollect the intense interest with
which we have listened to these puling follies,
until we have longed, yet dreaded to become
acquainted with the result, and until we have
trembled to be alone, and have fancied that every
spot was inhabited by some genius of evil. Igno
rance of the perfect falsehood of all these rela-
VOL. II. a
242 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
tions, and a want of acquaintance with their real
nature, are the great sources of this terror. And
the misfortune is, that when once developed, the
passion of fear is most quickly re-excited, and
obtains such a hold upon the person, that it is not
easily removed, but often clings to the individual
for a great portion of his life. It is then of the
first importance to banish and prohibit these tales
from the nursery, which can have no beneficial
influence upon the young mind, and which only
serve to fill it with images of terror. Fear is
often produced by the sound of cannon, or the
display of many physical experiments; aye, even
by the simple wonders of the microscope, because
we are really unacquainted with the nature of
these things, and with the extent of their power
to harm us.
The passion of fear is a portion of the conser
vative principle, and it has been given us as a
means of avoiding danger: its immediate object
is f lig h t;but like every other boon, it has been
abused and misplaced: it exists often where there
is no danger; and is frequently converted into
that degree of terror, which renders flight impos
sible, rivets the individual to the spot, and para
lyses all kind of exertion. Hence it requires
precaution to obviate its development, wisdom to
direct its influence, and care to prevent its morbid
agency.
The operation of this passion is most extensive,
both on the corporeal and intellectual system.
In the slighter forms of fear, we are agitated by
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 243
doubt and suspense ; an uneasy sensation is pro
duced about the heart, and a fulness of the throat,
and this may very quickly'subside upon the re
moval of the disturbing cause. But should that
be continued, and should there be an undefined
amount of danger, with an ignorance of its nature
and extent, this morbid action is prolonged and
augmented: we listen with intense anxiety to the
sighing of the wind, as it murmurs through the
trees, and agitates their foliage; we know not
but that it may be accompanied by some situation
of danger; we hesitate to proceed ; we endeavour
to collect fresh notices of the noise which has
alarmed us; we direct the attention in breathless
solicitude to the spot whence has proceeded the
sound in question ; the blood recoils to its citadel
the heart, and refuses to seek the extremities of
its circulation; it is.accumulated in the interior;
a creeping chilliness shudders over the whole
surface of the body; the legs tremble, and the
muscles are feeble; the skin becomes pale from
thq.retreat of the blood, or of a murky red, from
its sluggish and impeded circulation; the features
of the countenance are fixed! with intense asto
nishment, the eyes are prominent, the ears erect,
the hair bristled; the function of respiration is
oppressed; the action of the heart is arrested, or
rendered irregular; the tongue refuses to give
utterance to articulate sounds, or only stammers
out incoherent expressions; the brain suffers from
congestion, and the stomach, from sympathy
with it, experiences nausea and vomiting; a large

n 2
244 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
and sudden secretion of bile is a frequent conse
quence; and in subjects so predisposed, apoplexy
is not an uncommon result. Fear, too, has a
great influence upon the manifestations of mind:
by its agency it paralyses perception, annihilates
memory, cuts off the supply of exterior notices
from the senses; its subjects look without seeing,
and hear without comprehending; the principle
of fear has entirely lost its original character; its
effect is no longer conservative, but rather leads
to danger than seeks to avoid it, and at all events
isolates its subjects without allowing the power
of making any effort to escape.
Fear pursues us even in sleep : and the terrific.
visions of uneasy slumber, the almost countless
forms of nightmare, are some of the most trouble
some companions of valetudinarian existence, and
haunt the pillow with such images of terror, as to
inspire the returning hour of retirement with a
positive dread, rather than invest it with that
delightful calm, with which  tired natures sweet
restorer, balmy sleep, is generally attended,
when successfully wooed.
When existing in a moderate degree, fear may
become a source of pleasure, provided it can be
entertained independently of the idea, that our
own personal safety is immediately implicated in
the cause which produces it. It is certainly an
ingredient in the full production of the sublime;
and the most magnificent display of natures
power and wonders,the cataracts of the Nile,
a midnignt eruption of Vesuvius, the perpetual
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 2 4 5
snows of Mont Blanc, the geysers of Iceland,
the avalanche of the Alps, a burning forest, the
sight of a distant conflagration, a sudden flash of
lightning, and the sullen majesty of the succeed
ing, though distant thunder, inspire us with
awe, the result of the sublime, with which some
portion of fear is certainly intermingled, yet not
in so great a degree, but that the general impres
sion upon the mind is pleasing. Pleasure is also
to be derived from the fearful interest we take in
the dangers, or supposed dangers of others, as in
dramatic exhibitions, the details of tragedy, the
creations of the pen of a Radcliffe, or the pencil
of a Fuseli, or in the intense solicitude which has
heretofore attended the combats of gladiators, and
which even now attaches itself to the arena of the
bull-fight.
Some individuals are much more fearful than
others; and this characteristic timidity is partly
original and constitutional; but it is also partly
acquired. In the one case it is natural: in the
other, it is produced by neglected or mistaken
education : in all, it is involuntary, and therefore
not criminal, although when unduly excited, it
sometimes leads to a pusillanimity, which perhaps
does not deserve a much milder term. Occasion
ally, a great degree of fearlessness is to be found
in children, so that they are not sufficiently care
ful of themselves; this is however an evil, which
generally cures itself, and the result of experience
of the ills attendant upon heedlessness of danger.
246 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
affords a sufficient lesson to the young, to develop
the passion of fear, so far as it may be considered
a conservative principle, and induce caution.
But by far the more common cast of character is
that of timidity. And since its influence on edu
cation is not beneficial, it is not to be encouraged :
uncontrouled fear may operate a slave, but will
not form the man of worth and principle. In
general, fear should be avoided as a stimulus to
activity: we have seen that its agency upon the
brain is to impair and to pervert the intellectual
manifestations, and to enfeeble the power of their
organ; while its moral influence is not less bane
ful. However necessary therefore may be punish
ment and privation, as a counter-agent to delin
quency, it should not be held out as a motive to
exertion: and those parents must be more than
infatuated who will avail themselves of a dark
room as a mode of punishment for their children,
inspiring them at once with a terror of darkness,
which perhaps will never be superseded; and
constituting fear a motive to good conduct, which
it ought not to b e; since it is not a principle upon
which we are to a c t: its operation should be only
conservative, and therefore the simple way in
which it can be useful in education, is by in
spiring afe a r o f doing wrong, f o r its own sake, and
not on account o f the punishment which may be an
nexed to it. Then indeed, fear is directed to
wards its proper object, and may become most
useful in securing a flight from evil of every kind;
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 247
for it is only by flight that we can be certain of
escaping from moral danger: he who parleys
with temptation, and loiters on the confines of
sin, will generally end by incurring guilt and
misery.
Fear is often a source of torment; and man,
conscious of his own feebleness, and feeling that
his happiness and comfort were materially im
paired by the influence of this passion, when
dwelling in isolated situations, has constituted it
a principle which has led to the formation of so
ciety; to the re-union of many in towns and
villages ; to the institution of the social compact,
and of the unwritten laws by which it is held to
gether ; as well as to the frame of civil govern
ment, and to that code of written law, which is
for the punishment of evil doers. But the bosom
of man is agitated by an undefined apprehension
of future evil; he anticipates with dread he knows
not what, and invests futurity with a gloom,
which deprives the present even of its cheerful
ness, and occasions life to be passed, between
the fitful gleam of hope, and the prolonged ob
scurity of doubt and uncertainty. It is an exten
sion of this principle, which constitutes the fear
of death ; which consists perhaps in some degree
of uncertainty as to the nature of that change,
which leads to a disruption of the connexion be
tween the soul and the body ; but which relates
more particularly to the state of that never-dying
principle beyond the grave: and it is only the
light of Christianity which can dissipate this ap-
248 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS ED UC A TIO N .
prehensive gloom. Its beams will penetrate the
grave, and shed the ray of immortality over the
extinction of animal life. It will be presently
seen, how fear itself may be employed for the
removal of this undefined terror of the future un
known ; for after all, it is ignorance which invests
hereafter with its power of exciting dread or
alarm.
So also in the production and augmentation of
malady, fear operates banefully: it is a depress
ing passion, and places the constitution in that
state of preparation for disease, that it becomes
the soil, in which the seeds of morbid action
rapidly germinate: and when once produced, its
influence on the termination of sickness is de
cidedly unfavourable: many a patient has been
destroyed by fear, who would have floated through
a severe struggle by the assistance of hope. Under
some circumstances, it is much more easily deve
loped than in others, as in the hypochondriacal,
whose fears assume every fantastic and unreal
shape, but are just as tormenting to their victims,
as if most true. And again, fear is often conta
gious, and is easily propagated, merely by the
influence of the countenance, by that physiog
nomy, which is the faithful revealer of the
thoughts of the heart, and the best interpreter of
its desires; and is thus communicated from person
to person, and forms that panic which has been so
frequently productive of besotted conduct, and of
painfulconsequences. Inall thesecases, knowledge
and principle, especially religious principle, form
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 249
the best antidote to the influence of terror. In
struct then the young into the nature of fearful
objects, and fix the principle on real and proper
subjects as vice and immorality.
Since the grand sources of fear are a conscious
ness of feebleness; the want of power to resist
the operation of injurious causes; and ignorance
of the nature of those causes, an acquaintance
with which would either dissipate apprehension,
or furnish us with the means of obviating their
influence ; the principal management of this de
pressing passion, must consist in removing or op
posing the agency of all these causes. The
former, or a sense of our own feebleness, is to be
supplanted by confidence in the providential care
of the Most High; by humble trust in the pro
tection of Him, whose tender mercies are over all
his works, who superintends all the operations of
his hands, governs and directs every event;
without whose permission, not even a sparrow
falls to the ground; whose eye is ever upon the
good, and whose faithfulness is pledged for their
preservation. Distrust in the ever watchful care
and goodness of Him in whom we live, and move,
and have our being, will necessarily occasion
fear of those natural ills to which we are every
day exposed, and from which alone we are pro
tected by the beneficent laws of that kind Pro
vidence, which rides on the whirlwind, and
manages the storm; while a principle of hope in
God, of affiance in Christ, of faith in his promises,
of sure trust and confidence, in that wisdom, and
250 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
goodness, and mercy, and love, which operate
securely, though unseen, and by means with which
we are unacquainted,will obviate apprehension,and
enable us to wait patiently for deliverance, until
the appointed time is-come. O ur feebleness is
supplanted by the power of Omnipotence; our
worthlessness and inability, by the fulness of his
goodness and love; our fears, by the promise of
his support; our doubts, by his faithfulness ; our
insufficiency, by his righteousness and strength;
our difficulties, by a sincere desire to love and
serve h
i
m
; our distrust in ourselves, by hope in
him, by the expectation of present aid, but far
more by the confidence of futurity.  Why art
thou cast down, O my soul, and why art thou
disquieted within me ? hope thou in God, for I
shall yet praise him, who is the health of my
countenance and my God. Psalm xlii. 11.
 Yea, though I walk through the valley of the
shadow of death, I will fear no evil; for thou art
with me ; thy rod and thy staff they comfort
me. Psalm xxiii. 4.
A second important method of obviating fear
consists in the inculcation of knowledge; in an
acquaintance with the nature and properties of its
objects ; this is too often forgotten: and we con
duct ourselves more rationally in the education
of our animals, than we do in that of our children.
With the form er, fear is attempted to be super
seded by encouragement, and by repeated ac
quaintance with its exciting cause ; but with the
latter, this passion is suffered to be dismissed as
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 251
it mayperhaps treated as a subject of scorn or
ridicule; or constituted in itself a source ofpunish
ment : or the child is punished for its exhibition;
all which may form a careless, a retired, a feeble,
a hypocritical, or a reckless character, but will
never produce courage or confidence, or constancy
and tenacity of purpose. These are to be ob
tained only by an acquaintance with the nature
and extent of causes, which produce fearfulness,
terror, and dismay. Thus, for instance, the ap
prehension which results from darkness, or from
the sublime spectacle of a thunder-storm, or other
natural phenomenon, is to be obviated by in
struction into the nature of causes which pro
duce it, and thus is it deprived of at least one-half
of its terrific influence. And if we cannot explain
all the circumstances, we can at least refer to
those which are known, and reason from analogy,
to those which are unknown; that there are also
definite laws governing their agency, and that these
result from a combination of natural causes, all of
which are under the superintendance of the
Creator and Governor of the Universe, and re
ceive their constitution and their power from his
wisdom and omnipotence. Thus, the mind may
be led to rest upon the simplicity and beauty, the
grandeur and utility of events, which heretofore
have excited an indescribable apprehension; and
it will become difficult to any thing to which
we can ascribe these attributes.
But a third and still more important means
of obviating the influence of this passion, is by
252 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUC A TIO N .
developing itselfas a moral principle, directing
to its proper objects, and constituting it a motive
to action. This will appear from the considera
tion, that as excessive fear produces terror, and
annihilates the animal and intellectual powers of
reaction ; so also in morals, does it banish hope,
and leave the soul to the misery of despair; a state
from which it has no longer the power to escape,
or the will to fly; in which it casts away the an
chor of peace, and is lost on the billows of futurity,
since its joys and its hopes have expired with to
day. This too, is a principle which largely con
stitutes the misery of another world : viz. the ab
sence of all hopethe anguish of despair; and if
so, surely it is important to restore fear to its in
tended purpose as a principle of conservation, to
save from destruction, and to conduct in the nar
row path of life.
A similar conclusion will be drawn from the
origin of superstition and idolatry. Man has
feared the grand display of natures power, because
he has been ignorant of her processes; natural
religion has taught him the existence of a Supreme
Being, of superior power and understanding to
himself; he has obviously referred all that he did
not know, to the intervention of this unseen and
mysterious agent; and when he has witnessed the
devastating effect of storms, and has remained
unconscious of their more extensive benefits, he
has easily referred them to the anger of the Deity,
and has imagined rites in order to appease that
anger, and propitiate hisfavour. Hence
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 253-
of superstitious fear, and idolatrous worship; for
man in his ignorance, has soon imagined a bodily
form for that power, whose immensity he has ob
served, and which he now constitutes an object
of worship, and  prayeth unto it, and saith de
liver me, for thou art my God. And none con
sidered in his heart, neither is there knowledge
nor understanding to say I have burnt part of it in
the fire; yea also I have baked bread upon the
coals thereof; I have roasted flesh and eaten it,
and shall I make the residue thereof an abomina
tion? shall I fall down to the stock of a tree?
He feedeth of ashes; a deceived heart hath turned,
him aside, that he cannot deliver his soul, nor say,
is there not a lie in my right hand. Isaiah xliv.
19, 20. But'if such be the consequences of un
taught, uncontrouled, misdirected, unsubdued fear,
how necessary is it that the principle be educated
aright, and that man be saved from all these
evils!
The proper object of fear is God, and this
fear will be a preservative principle in the midst
of temptation; since it will produce a steady
and determined flight from evil, hatred to sin,
anxiety to avoid the paths which lead towards it,
and an earnest desire to obey the commands of
Heaven without exception, however difficult, how
ever repugnant to the natural disposition.  The
fear of the Lord is to hate evil. Proverbs viii.
13.  Also I said, it is not good that ye do,
ought ye not to walk in the fear of our God, be
cause of the reproach of the heathen our ene-
254 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS ED UC A TIO N .
mies. But so did not I, because of the fear of
God. Jeremiah v. 9, 15. This fear is repre
sented as the highest reach of the Christian cha
racter ;  for I will be a father unto you, and ye
shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord
Almighty. Having therefore these promises, let
us cleanse ourselves from filthiness of the
flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the f e a r of
God." 2 Corinthians vi. 18, and vii. 1. The fear
of God must be carefully distinguished from that
 fear of man which bringeth a snare ; for whoso
putteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. Pro
verbs xxix. 25. The fear of man will often lead
us to palliate error, and to tolerate vice, and to
lend our countenance to that which God abhors;
and it is placed in direct opposition to that trust
in G od, which forms an essential ingredient in
his fear.
This principle is also opposed to that appre
hension which is the consequence of guilt, and
which constitutes indeed a part of its annexed
punishment. It is an impression of the offended
Majesty of heaven, an alarm within, which often
disturbs the rest of the sinner, a monition of na
tural conscience, an involuntary testimony to the
equity of the laws of the righteous Governor;
an acknowledgment of his justice, of his right to
demand obedience, and of our liability to punish
ment, when we refuse to hear his voice, and
listen to his commands. Even this fear is how
ever sometimes, and perhaps often times  the be
ginning of wisdom how much better then is it,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 255
 if iniquity be in thine band, to put it far away,
and let not wickedness dwell in thy tabernacles;
for thou shalt then lift up thy face without spot;
yea, thou shalt be stedfast, and shalt not fear.
Job xi. 14, 15.
But again, that fear of God, which consists in
a dread of offending him, and in the desire of
obeying his commands is the very basis of the
Christian character.  The fear of the Lord is
the beginning of knowledge; but fools despise
wisdom and instruction. Proverbs i. 7.  The
fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom ; and
the knowledge of the holy is understanding.
Ibid ix. 10.  The fear of the Lord is the be
ginning of wisdom; a good understanding have
all they that do his commandments. Psalm cxi.
10. The want of faith, to realize the presence
of God, in every situation of life ; the prosperity
of those who fear not God; the calamities of
the righteous, the impunity of the wicked; of
those who have no bands in their death; and the
absence of apparent and immediate reward to
those who love and serve h im ; are so many causes
operating against the growth and influence of
this fear of the Most High; and it is therefore
necessary to shew, that  because sentence
against an evil work is not executed speedily,
therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set
in them to do evil. Though a sinner do evil an
hundred times, and his days be prolonged, yet
surely I know that it shall be well with them that
fear God, which fear before Him; but it shall not
256 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUC ATION.
be well with the wicked, neither shall he prolong
his days, which are as a shadow, because he fear-
eth not before God. Ecclesiastes viii. 1113.
 And fear not them which kill the body, but are
not able to kill the soul; but rather fear him
which is able to destroy both body and soul in
hell. Matthew x. 28. Well, indeed, may the
Christian who has made the Lord his trust, ex
claim, *
*The Lord is my light and my salvation,
whom shall 1 fear; the Lord is the strength of
my life, of whom shall I be afraid? Psalm
xxvii. 1.  Fear thou not, for I am with thee;
be not dismayed, for I am thy God; I will
strengthen thee; yea I will help thee; yea I will
uphold thee with the right hand of my righteous
ness. Fear not thou worm Jacob, and ye men
of Israel; I will help thee, saith the Lord and
thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. Isaiah
xli. 1014.  But now thus saith the Lord that
created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee,
O Israel; Fear not, for I have redeemed thee;
when thou passest through the waters, I will be
with thee; and when through the rivers, they
shall not overflow thee; when thou walkest
through the fire, thou shalt not be burnt, neither
shall the flame kindle upon thee. For I am the
Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Sa
viour. Ibid, xliii. 13.  Fear not, O Jacob
my servant, for I will pour water upon him that
is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground; I will
pour my spirit upon thy 'head, and my blessing
upon thine offspring (Ibid. xliv. 2.) so effectually
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 257
is the Christian protected from the necessity for
fearfulness.
On the contrary, great advantages result from
the humble, simple, unaffected fear of the Lord ;
as for instance,  the fear of the Lord prolongeth
d a y s; but the years of the wicked shall be short
ened. Proverbs x. 27.  In the fear of the
Lord is strong confidence; and his children shall
have a place of refuge. Ibid. xiv. 26.  The
fear of the Lord is a fountain of life, to depart
from the snares of death. Ibid. xiv. 27.  The
fear of the Lord tendeth to life ; and he that hath
it shall abide satisfied: he shall not be visited
with evil. Ibid. xix. 23.  B y humility, and
the fear of the Lord, are riches, and honour, and
life. Ibid. xxii. 4. But a very great variety of
blessings are promised to those who fear G od;
as,  the secret of the Lord is with them that
fear him. Psalm xxv. 14.  The eye of the
Lord is upon them that fear him, upon them that
hope in his mercy. Ibid, xxxiii. 18.  The
angel of the Lord encampeth round about them
that fear him, and delivereth them. Ibid.'xxxiv.
7. O fear the Lord, ye his saints; for there is
no want to them that fear him. Ibid, xxxiv. 9.
 Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear*
him. Ibid, lxxxv. 9.  As the heaven is high
above the earth, so great is his mercy towards
them that fear him. I b id .c iii.il.  Like as a
father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth
them that fear him. Ibid. ciii. 13.  He will
fulfil the desire of them that fear h im ; he also
V O L . I I . s
will hear their cry, and will save them . Ibid,
cxlv. 19.  And the Lord taketh pleasure in them
that fear him. Ib id .c x lv ii.il.
And since such are the evils resulting from the
principle of fear unduly excited, such its advan
tages when fixed on its proper object, and such
the blessings promised to its exercise, let it be
the design of education to develop, to controul, .
and to direct this passion: and to conclude the
whole,  Ye that fear the Lord praise h i m a n d
 ye that fear the Lord, trust in the L ord; he is
their help and their shield. Psalm cxv. 11.
S e c t i o n IX. O f Courage. .
The basis of courage rests on the desire after
superiority to others, and of evincing that supe
riority by a higher reach of noble daring, or by a
firmer and more unbending fortitude; in fact, in
a greater capacity for doing and suffering under
the difficulties and trials of life. It consists in
encountering danger from which fear would in
duce us to shrink; in employing the means of
resistance or escape with promptitude and effect;
and in maintaining our ground with unyielding
patience, where we cannot make a successful
advance, and under difficulties which we cannot
hope to overcome, as well as in dangers from
which we cannot fly; and all this without a loss
of that self*possession which is usually termed
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 259
presence of mind. Courage is then the power of
conquering fear, and arises from confidence in
our own prowess and constancy. Where however
it is the mere result of passion, it is not always to
be relied upon; for it will suddenly fail in the
hour of greatest danger, and its influence will be
superseded by unforeseen terror; the brave man
shall become a coward, and shall act so as he
would blush to acknowledge to any but himself.
They do not always possess the greatest share of
courage, who make the most obtrusive display of
its exercise; and that will be often found to be
deficient in sustainedexertion, which was the most
dazzling, and brilliant, and shewy at the first ap
pearance of difficulty. As a mere passion, it is
liable to the excitement of animal feeling; but
very quickly subsides again, as soon as that feel
ing which gave it birth may have evaporated: it
is also readily superseded by a revulsion of sen
sibility of an opposite character, or by the occa
sion of any new and unexpected situation for
which the mind was not prepared. Before, there
fore, it can be rendered available, as a moral
principle, it must be educated as such; and while
it retains all the fervour of passion, and the in
tensity of desire, it must be invested with all the
firmness of decision; and all the constancy of
unquestioned motive, sustained by that powerful
will, which is the result of deliberate judgment
and conviction; and it must be supported by all
the arguments of reason, and assisted by the dic-
s 2
260 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
tates of conscience, and governed by the laws of
religion.
There is a great difference as to the degree of
courage evinced by different individuals: one
child shall be fearless of danger, another shall
tremble at his own shadow; yet it can by no
means be predicated from this circumstance which
will form the most courageous character; for
place, in after life, the former in a situation where
he will need the energetic support, and the pro
longed aid of moral motive, and the latter under
circumstances of danger, in which he will have
had an opportunity of forming an acquaintance
with the nature of that danger, and of thus ob
viating the ignorance which has made him a
coward from his own shadow; and it will be
found, that the passion of the man will yield to
the principle of the intellectual being, and a for
tiori, to the fortitude of the Christian.
Courage is to be carefully distinguished from a
certain degree of fearlessness, which may be found
in combination with it, but which is oftener met
with as the result of peculiar physical tempera
ment. It consists not in an unconsciousness, or
disregard of danger, or in a disbelief of its exist
ence, or in the absence of fear, but in overcoming
its agency, in forming an exact estimate of dan
ger, and in selecting and employing the means of
obviating its influence.
Although we have stated that fearlessness is in
a great measure depending upon peculiar animal
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 261
temperament, yet neither this nor courage are to
be found in any proportion corresponding to the
amount of physical pow er: witness the unbroken
constancy, the undaunted perseverance, the heroic
devotion of the female, contrasted with the waver
ing honour, the changeful principle, the selfish
poltroonery of the mere man of muscle and nerve,
and bone and fibre. Strength of body may in
deed add to the self-confidence which is neces
sary for the exercise of courage; but firmness of
mind will live through difficulties under which
the former sinks, and will conduct to efforts which
would have been thought almost incredible. A
great mind united to a feeble body, will do more,
and sustain more, than gigantic animal power with
more puny mental manifestations; exactly in pro
portion as principle is of more value than passion,
moral virtue than feeling, habit than occasion,
and above all the steady hope of religion than the
support of inferior motive.
Solitude is the sphere for the truest exercise of
courage: it is when the individual stands alone,
that he is called upon for the highest efforts of
this principle; for the idea of being sustained by
numbers, gives energy to fortitude, while it dimi
nishes the impression of danger, and therefore the
most difficult situation for its display is, where
there is no exterior support, and where those
around us are seeking to weaken our strength;
and the effort of bravery consists in steadily op-
. posing their sinister influence. The operation of
numbers upon this passion is particularly visible
262 MORAL AND RELIOIOUS EDUCATION.
in the instance of military valour, a species of cou
rage which is often mistaken for the latter more
universal principle and passion, and placed as its
substitute; a mistake of the very first importance
in education. The exposure'uf the person, amidst
all the pomp and circumstance of war, surrounded
by thousands of thoughtless companions, and
urged on by a boundless fatalism, may perfectly
consist without courage as a principle; and there
are probably very few who have not experienced
the difference between the calm preceding an
action, and the hurry and confusion of the suc
ceeding battle. It is well known, too, how much
more military valour is dependent upon physical
circumstances, and especially early animal habits,
than it is upon the exertion of courage as a moral
and intellectual principle. Many a soldier who
has played the hero in the field, who has marched
up to the guns of his enemy, who has scaled the
ramparts, ascended the breach, or mounted a for
lorn hope, has exhibited the pusillanimity of a
little child upon the dressing of a wound, and a
degree of irritability of which the very feeblest
would be ashamed. That may valour, but it
is not courage, which requires the stimulus of
present occasion for its development, and which
is irrespective of futurity for its support. True
courage can alone be sustained in danger and
difficulty, by the prospect of that recompense of
reward which awaits those who fight the good
fight of faith. Valour may prompt to a
ness of life, but courage alone can produce its
m o r a l a n d r e l i g i o u s e d u c a t i o n . 263
sustained devotion to a good cause. Valour may
produce deeds of heroic achievement, when aided
by the love of glory, to which the world may
award its meed of applause; but that man is the
most courageous who dares to resist evil, who is
not valorous enough to commit sin :  how shall
I do this great wickedness, and sin against
G od?
The principle by which courage appears to be
sustained from the presence of others, may be
employed advantageously in moral education, by
constantly keeping in view that the eye of Omni
science is upon the path of his creatures; that
every act, and thought, and feeling is framed in
the presence of Him whose power far exceeds the
accumulated strength of all mankind; whose
knowledge extends to the inmost recesses of the
heart; in whose favour is life, and whose judg
ment of our actions will abide long after the
feeble remains of mortality of our fellow-men
shall have mouldered into dust, and buried in
forgetfulness, their opinion of our conduct; and
above all, that it will be found as a lasting me
morial at that day when the secrets of all hearts
shall be revealed, and when the books shall be
opened, and irreversible judgment shall be passed
according to the deeds done in the body, and
endless joy or sorrow shall be the result.
Courage is sustained by hope, exactly in pro
portion as it is paralysed by fear; and the influ
ence of hope is peculiarly operative when it is
placed upon those unseen, and eternal joys which
264 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
await the Christian conqueror; who is victorious
through the blood of the Saviour, and the pro
mised aid of the Holy Spirit.  Hope deferred
maketh the heart sick; but when the desire
cometh, it is a tree of life. Proverbs xviii. 12.
Courage therefore may be animated by the ex
pectation of present success, of immediate good
to ourselves, of lasting benefit to others; but
above all, of doing the will of God, of being ac
cepted of him through the sacrifice of Christ, and
of one day entering into that joy of his Lord,
which is reserved for the good and faithful ser
vant, who  has been faithful over a few things.
However modified by circumstances, courage
still forms a principle of conservation, by whose
influence the body is preserved in danger, from
the intrepidity with which it is encountered, and
in difficulty by the fortitude with which it is sus
tained. B y its agency, the operation of fear is
limited, and even banished from the mind, while
hope is animated by the most cheering prospects
of safety and enjoyment. However the operation
of this passion may be primitively personal, it does
not centre in self, but extends its views to others.
This is particularly remarkable in the influence of
compassion, and in the promptings .of its self-
devotion to rescue others from imminent danger;
incurring the hazard of self-destruction, in the
hope of saving some fellow-creature from death;
whose only claim upon our notice is, that he is
unfortunate, that he is made of the same mate
rials with ourselves, and that he has a soul to be
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 2 6 5
saved; a circumstance, which will give point and
efficiency, and a noble object to the truest ,
which in addition to the present risk of animal
life, will go further, will contemplate the danger
of the immortal principle, enslaved by sin, and
drowning in iniquity ; will fearlessly bear its tes
timony against every appearance of evil; will
submit to the obloquy of the world for this pur
pose, and will steadily and uniformly strive, espe
cially by example, to inculcate the courage of
perpetual hostility to vice, and the preference of
obedience to the will of God over the approbation
of our erring fellow-creatures.
It is then, as a moral principle, that the influ
ence of courage is to be developed by education.
And first, it is to be exercised in resisting vice,
and in avoiding its hidden snares: its existence
is not to be tolerated in our presence ; its allure
ments must be withstood, and its crooked policy
steadily opposed; we dare not parley with its
blandishments, or enter into any compromise of
principle for the sake of not openly protesting
against its tyranny and its pleasures. But in so
doing we incur the hatred of those who are lovers
of pleasure more than lovers of God. It is not
for us to judge them ; but it is our duty to set
our face as a rock against sin, and iniquity, and
every kind of ev il; and this is not a duty which
may be lost in generalities, or which may be left
to those whose peculiar office it is to teach man
the wisdom that is from above; but it is the pri
vilege of every individual.  Arise, for this matter
266 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
belongeth untothee; we also will be with thee:
be of good courage, and do it.
A second mode of exhibiting courage, is in so
far daring to be singular, as to avow a dissent
from the maxims of the world, to deviate from
its customs, to avoid its habits, to separate from
its amusements, to escape from its follies, not to
be enamoured of its vanities and good things ; to
be disentangled from the flattery of its smile, and
to rise superior to its frown. This is often a.dif
ficult pursuit: steadily to acknowledge none
other guide than the pure and holy law of G od ;
to turn neither to the right hand, nor to the left,
but to pursue an undeviating course of rectitude
a rectitude which reaches to the thoughts, and
feelings, and emotions of the heart; which ac
knowledges no basis for action, but the revealed
will of God, and no influence of custom, except
such as is conformable to the character of Christ;
which allows no power of habit, but that which
results from the reiterated practice of the precepts
of the gosp el; and which seeks not to imitate a
feeling, or emulate an emotion, which is not in
union with the strict and holy law of God.  Take
courage, and d o ; and the Lord shall be with the
good. 2 Chronicles xix. 11.  Be strong, and
of good courage : and the Lord, he it is, that
doth go before th ee; he will be with th ee; he
will not fail thee, neither forsake th ee: fear not,
neither be dismayed. Deuteronomy xxxi. 7, 8.
 Only be thou strong, and very courageous,
that thou mayest learn to do, according to all the
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 267
law which Moses my servant commanded thee :
turn not from it to the right hand or to the left,
that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou
goest. Joshua i. 7.  Then shalt thou prosper,
if thou takest heed to fulfil the statutes and judg
ments, which the Lord charged Moses with, con
cerning Israel. Be strong and of good courage ;
dread not, nor be dismayed. 1 Chronicles
xxii. 13.
But there is yet a higher reach of courage,
which consists in suffering misfortune, in bearing
pain, in forgiving injuries, and in rising above
the ruins of time. It is far easier to do, than to
suffer: the bustling activity of the former, the en
ergetic pursuit, the employment of diversified
means, the calling up all the powers of the mind
to resist evil, the ever changing objects of desire,
are so many points on which the energies of the
immaterial principle may rest, and whence it may
produce an extensive influence upon the conduct.
But for the broken-hearted to sit down quietly
under suffering and privation; to submit to the
pain of disease, and the languor of convalescence
without a murmur; to acquiesce in the appoint
ment of Providence; to preserve equanimity, and
to praise God for the removal of his blessings; to
be subjected to the scorn, and derision, and
haughty contempt of our more prosperous fellow-
creatures, and only to imitate Christ, who wept
over, and prayed for his persecutors; and finally,
to watch the crumbling down of the tower of our
268 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
prosperity; to see part after part falling into
ruins ; to observe the shaft of our anticipations
broken from its pedestal; to linger over the gra
dual decay, and slow extinction of our hopes,
is an effort of moral courage, which we can' only
hope to attain, by the aid of the Spirit of grace.
Not the wisdom of Socrates, nor the highest
efforts of that philosophy, which would teach us,
that there is no real evil in the world; or which
makes all its good things to consist in the grati
fication of the sen ses; no consideration of the
beauty of moral virtue; not even the radiance
which surrounds the path of the good m an; not
the love of praise, or the desire of being highly
esteemed by our fellow-creatures, will enable us
to bear the rude blast of adversity in retirement,
when no eye is upon us, with unruffled serenity,
and to bless the hand which smites our dearest
comforts, and to feel our hearts more closely
united to that Saviour, which would purify us in
the furnace of affliction, and invigorate every
Christian virtue, by that discipline which will
detect the spurious feeling, and from which the
genuine principle, will come out, not only unin
jured, but improved. It is then the courage of
the Christian, sustained by present aid, by the
aid of Him, whose  form is like the Son of God,
and under whose protection,  the fire had no
power, nor was an hair of their head singed, nei
ther were their coats changed, nor the smell of
fire had passed on them (Daniel iii. 27;) and
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 269
supported by future hopes, by a hope full of im
mortality, which will alone sustain us, in our
conflict with the world, the flesh, and the devil,
and will enable us to triumph over the last ene
my ; and which has supported the Christian mar
tyr at the stake, and has enabled him by his
principles to rise superior to bodily pain.
It must be recollected here, that all men are
not martyrs, though all must die ; they who died
as witnesses of the truth of Christs religion, were
no doubt supportedjn an extraordinary manner, by
the comforting and strengthening aid of the Holy
Sp irit; they died as witnesses to the efficacy of
their principles, and it was necessary that these
should enable them to triumph over the malice of
their enem ies; and that they should form a part
of that  cloud of witnesses, which should induce
us  to lay aside every weight, and the sin which
doth so easily beset us, and to run with patience
the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus,
the author and finisher of our faith; who for the
joy that was set before him, endured the cross,
despising the shame, and is set down at the right
hand of the throne of God. Hebrews xii. 1, 2.
It is to be recollected also, that died for the
most part with the full tide of their energies about
them, with unbroken health of body, and under
the influence of that intellectual, and mental or
spiritual vigour, which is its consequence, and
which enabled them, under the excitation of be
ing found faithful unto death, and of inheriting the
crown, as well as the pang of martyrdom, to
270 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
praise him from whom all blessings flow, and with
their last breath of agony, to pray for their per
secutors.
But the fires of persecution have been extin
guished, and Christians are not now called upon
to such trials of their faith and patience; and
when they meet the last enemy, it is commonly
under circumstances very different; when the
body has been worn down by disease, and is
crumbling into dissolution; when one after an
other of the energies of life have been daily
loosened; when the attention has been distracted
by pain; when perception has been rendered ob
tuse by the gradual failure of the integrity of the
brain; when the power of memory, reason, and
intelligence are enfeebled; when reflection is al
most impossible, and the agency of the will over
the thoughts is suspended; when in fact, this
feeble tabernacle, which with all its beauty and
utility, has served but as a material prison for the
immaterial and immortal principle, is fast giving
way, and sinking under the influence of disease;
and refusing much longer to remain the servant of
that spiritual essence; it is not then that the lan
guage of triumph is to be expected; expiring na
ture refuses to give utterance to such intellectual
manifestations; and the peace of hope, the quiet
and serene confidence of faith, are more consonant
with its state than the song of exultation and of
joy. And even these, faith and hope, may be
obscured by disease, and enfeebled by decays
and however gratifying it may be to surrounding
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 271
friends, to witness a triumphant death-bed; still
it must be recollected that the little incidents of
the last hour so greedily treasured up by memory,
are more frequently the evidence of an exhausted,
or excited, or irritated brain, than proofs of the
actual feelings of the immaterial principle, when
contemplating its separation from the body; and
that the song of victory is more appropriate to the
disembodied spirit, than when undergoing that
pang of dissolution which is to it, the last conse
quence of sin. Besides they who have witnessed
the fast closing hours of numbers, will have per
ceived that there is no relation between them,
and the years of conduct which have preceded
and which have formed the character. These have
been the days of struggle, the appropriate field for
the display of Christian heroism; for combating
with sin, subjugating passion, weeding out every
idol from the heart, and fighting the good fight of
faith; these are the bright spots, on which me
mory should delight to dwell, on the days of
those who like Asa,  took courage, and put away
the abominable idols out of all the land of Judah
and Benjamin, and renewed the altar of the Lord;
whose heart was perfect all his days, although
the high places were not taken away out of Israel.
2 Chronicles, xv. 8, 17.
Courage is to be distinguished from fanaticism;
the one appeals to principle as its basis, the other
rests on feeling; the object of the one is the exten
sion of obedience to the will of Heaven, that of
272 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S EDUCATION.
the other proselytism; the means by which these
objects are to be accomplished are respectively
persecution, and the exhibition of a holy and con
sistent life. The fanatic may be stimulated to
deeds of intrepidity from which the humble and
diffident Christian shrinks; the fanatic rests more
on the tone of his organization, the Christian on
the rectitude of his principles; the one acts from
the fervour of emotion, the other from the con
sistency of d u ty; the one is stimulated by the
prospect of some fancied joy, the other by the
desire of obedience to the will, and imitation of
the character of Christ. Fanaticism will not be
very scrupulous about the means of accomplishing
its purpose; the only weapon of Christianity is
the example of the incarnate Saviour, in his life,
and ministry, and sufferings. The Christians
courage is an abiding principle, while that of fana
ticism is evanescent, and will wear itself out if
not contradicted and opposed. Fanaticism ear
nestly contends for, and holds most dear, some
points which are contrary to reason, while the
Christians courage is exerted only in the defence
of that which is rational. The course of the fana
tic may be marked by a more brilliant glare, but
it will be a lurid and deceitful light, and w ill dif
fuse less warmth than the clear and steady shining
of the Christian, uniformly pursuing his unwearied
track, and by its genial warmth calling into life
many excellent virtues.
Finally, the courage of the Christian is evinced
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 273
by 
patience under the many difficulties and vexa
tions of life, those minor ills, which scarcely call
for exertion to fight against, and which, from their
very minuteness and diminutive power, are too
often overlooked, as not requiring the exercise of
Christian principle; and thus frequently prove a
snare, from the want of watchfulness. There are
many occasions of life too trifling to demand- a
serious struggle, in which the mind is disturbed
and rendered uneasy and irritable, and on which
courage, if duly exercised, wonld produce that
intrepid resignation, that imperturbable calm, that
victory over passion, that effort of self-denial, that
abandonment of our own will, that ready sacrifice
o f earthly good, and present opinion, and wounded
pride, and disappointed hope, which would pre
serve the mind quietly resting on that sure and
steady centre of peace, and patience, and confi
dence, which will save it from becoming the sport
o f every wave of passion, or feeling, or prejudice;
and will lead it to wait until the providence of
God shall see fit to deliver it from these circum
stances of trial:  wait on the Lord; be of good
courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart ;
wait, I say, on the Lord. Psalm xxvii. 14.
 Trust ye not in a friend, put ye not confidence
in a guide; keep the doors of thy mouth from
her that lieth in thy bosom: a mans enemies are
the men of his own house, therefore I will look
unto the Lord, I will wait for the God of my sal
vation; my God will hear me. Micah vii. 5 ,6 ,7 .
Such then are the principles upon which Christian
T
V O L . I I .
274 MORAL AND'ltELTGIOUS EDUCATION.
courage ia to be educated, and led forward from
victory to victory, tlnto the measure of the stature
of the perfect man in Christ Jesus.
S ection X. O f Ennui.
E n n o j is the sad prerogative of civilized life,
and of that absence-from energetic pursuit, which
is so essential to the happiness of man. It will
generally be found in inverse proportion to the
manifestation of intellectual and bodily vigour;
and it haunts particularly the footsteps of the rich
and the luxurious, whose situation would be im
proved, could they exchange the gloomy shadows
with which it surrounds the evening of life, for
the real sorrows, the toil and care of those who
are struggling with adversity, and who have no
hope of obtaining the bread of their daily meal,
but by daily exertion. Ennui too commonly
fastens upon the retirement of him who has la*
boured for years to obtain freedom from business;
whose mind has been harassed by incessant ap
plication, and who has sighed from day to day
after the leisure of the country. But now, having
realized the object of his desires, and having ob
tained for himself all that will be necessary to
exhaust his wishes, he sits down in his rural villa,
and finds too late, that enjoyment has fled with
the recurrence of daily pursuit. He is amused,
indeed, while the charm and freshness of novelty
M
ORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 275
last, with the decoration of his grounds; but in
proportion as he is intimately acquainted with
every tree, and every scite, and every prospect;
these all become insipid; he loses his relish for
simple pleasures; from his habits of business he
has probably few intellectual resources; dissatis
faction broods upon his forehead, disturbs his
slumbers with images of happiness which are lost
to him for ever; he wakens with a sigh ; the very
play of his life is an oppression; without a single
cause for uneasiness, trouble gnaws his bosom ;
every object is viewed through a distorted me
dium ; nothing gives him pleasure; even the
beauty and activity of spring fall as a blast upon
his prospects, for he compares its jocund hours
with the misery w ithin; from every circumstance
around him he extracts bitterness; his health
fails; his nerves are rendered irritable; his tem
per, soured by disappointment, becomes gloomy
and m orose; and he lives a monument of the
feebleness and impotence of man, and of the im
possibility of finding happiness in this worlds
goods; or he dies unregretted, with the cloud of
uncertainty upon his future prospects. Then it is
generally that he would give wealth to prolong
that life which has been so burdensome, and
which the wearisomeness of continuance has pro
bably hastened to a close. >
But ennui is not confined to the retirement of
the merchant; it will be seen in close attendance
upon the man of letters upon him who has spent
the best years of his life in colleges, or in solitude,
t 2
276 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
that he might secure competence and comforts to
his old a g e b u t who, having obtained the object
of his hopes and his privations, finds that he has
lost the relish for their enjoym ent; even his books
fail to afford their accustomed resource; the little
vexations which surround him become intolerable
burdens: in the midst of affluence he anticipates
want, and feels all the misery of indigence, with
out any of its alleviations; he would give much to
be re-instated in his former situation, and the
consciousness of having thrown away his real en
joyments, and the shame of possessing a wish
for the possibility of their return, and the taste
lessness of unbroken pleasure, the insipidity of
his occupations, the absence of positive care, all
aggravate his regret, and convert him into the
peevish, irritable, fretful, melancholic child of un-
controuled sensibility; he feels at every point
when he ought not to feel, while he is deaf and
blind to the proper objects of pleasure; his senses
are perverted; his intellectual faculties jaded by
perpetual irritation without an object; his imagi
nation tortured by images of horror; and his will
so completely deprived of its stability, that the
waywardness of infancy, and the imbecility of
extreme old age, alike combine to render him a
source of misery to himself, and a burden to
others.
In these several states, it is clear that there is
a forgetfulness of the Providence of God, as well
as of the gratitude due to the author of our bless
ings ; and of the duties with which these should
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 277
stand inseparably connected. The truly good
man can never feel ennui, except as the conse
quence of disease; for he cannot constantly and
habitually be discontented with that very life,
which he is taught and commanded to cherish as
a boon, and to employ in the service of the Most
High.
The influence of this passion may be traced in
childhood ; and to its agency is to be ascribed the
perpetually recurring question of the ill-educated,
 what shall I do V
*  how shall 1 be amused?
the constant desire after new playthings, and the
absolute loathing of their sight, when the charm'
o f novelty has passed aw ay; the irritability of
indolence; the listlessness and fatigue of a holi
day ; the fretfulness and ill-temper of the spoiled
child. The characteristic features of this passion
are the same, however modified by circumstance;
there is a family likeness, which forbids the pos
sibility of m istake; and all owe their origin to
one and the same cause, viz. the desire of chang
ing the present for some other situation, the na
ture of which is not well understood, and perhaps
may not be very material, so it be but change;
and in the anxiety of substituting causeless soli
citude for some real object of hope or fear; and
of discovering some more stirring sensations,
which may be placed in the room of the dull mo
notony of life, and which may be supplanted by
emotions which are less feeble, and more stimu
lating.
What then is the real nature of ennui ? It con-
278 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . .
sists in a peculiar condition of the brainular
system, occasionally produced by causes ope
rating primarily on the body, disturbing some
one or other of its important functions, and
thus acting as an irritant to the brain; but
more frequently depending upon a state of
morbid excitability of that viscus, induced by
the agency of causes exerting their influence
through the medium of the mind. It is in its
phenomena of mental manifestation, most nearly
allied, to those produced by paralysis, upon the
system of voluntary m uscles: there is an inter
ception of their power of action in obedience to
volition, a paralysis of mind, together with a high
degree of involuntary irritability, without object;
an enfeebling disquietude, which contributes
rather to extend, than to controul the deadening
influence of the m alady: there is an undefinable
languor in the exercise of all the intellectual
functions; a torpor of right feeling; a perfect im
potence of reflection and action, while grounded
upon just principles; a disgust towards all that is
good and pleasant in existence; aye, even a dif
ficulty of living, and an impossibility of enjoying
the goods of fortune and of Providence. But su-
peradded to all this, is the tormenting conscious
ness, that the mental powers should be far other
wise em ployed; that they might have been
devoted to higher, nobler, and never failing ob
jects of pursuit; and that this state of dissatis
faction cannot exist without ingratitude to the
Almighty Parent of good. This reflection fills
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 279
the cup of misery to the brim, and life becomes a
real burden.
B ut the victims of this fearful malady are not
beyond the. reach of hope ; neither is their situa
tion, whatever may have been its origin, other
wise than one demanding our compassion; it is
most truly pitiable, and deserves, our highest
efforts to assuage and to remove. In the attempt
to administer relief, it will always be necessary
to recollect, that ennui claims a variety of sources y
and that the first object should be, to cleanse the
fountain, from which it springs, This is either
bodily, mental, habitual, o r ,circumstantial, in
proportion as disturbance of bodily function, or
mental solicitude, or erroneous habits, or parnful
and untoward circumstances, may have served to
develop the peculiar irritability, which constitutes
ita essen ce.. But when once folly formed, what
ever may have been its source, its operation is
very analogous in all cases, and is rapidly ex
tended, so as to become an almost universal agent.
It is a most mistaken notion, that dissipation will
operate as a curative measure. .It often happens,
that this form of society is recommended to the
unfortunate subject of ennui by the heedless and
misjudging, who carry not their views beyond the
surface, and who think only of dispelling the
dark cloud of melancholy. , But it will be una
vailing ; for if the vapo.ur be for a little while
driven away by the agitations of society, it will
only, be to render the succeeding gloom still
darker, while the power of exertion is diminished
280 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
by every fresh effort, and the mind is enfeebled,
and its irritability is increased, by every renewed
attempt to exorcise the phantom, by any unhal
lowed rites. Society is the food of ennui; and
it is not in its crowded haunts of folly, that both
bane and antidote meet together. It is indeed
true, that a certain degree of variety is necessary
in order to form exercise for the m ind; but this
must be moderate, of an unstimulating nature,
and judiciously applied; or it will produce ex
citement without power to sustain the consequent
action, and will therefore terminate in deepening
shades of this gloomy passion.
It should be recollected, that man is so con
stituted, as to be pleased by change; that even
in his best state, pleasure will become painful by
the constancy of its iteration ; and that the dulness
of monotony is always fatiguing and uncomfort
able : but that when the mental system is under
the morbid influence of ennui, these peculiarities
also assume its unnatural character; and that
from the abuse of preceding enjoyment, there is
now an absolute incapacity for relishing moderate
pleasures, and a very greatly augmented fastidi
ousness as to their recurrence. Hence the great
importance of selecting with delicacy those pur
suits which will engage without exciting, and
which will form a simple variety in the occupa
tions of the day. This loss of appetite for enjoy
ment, does not arise from debility, but from irri
tation of the intellectual organ, and is to be re
moved by soothing and strengthening, not by
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 281
stimulating the brain. And since there exists in
some persons a greater degree of predisposition to
ennui than in others; and since perhaps this will
be found, or at least will be more readily visible
in females, and in children, than in males and
adults, it will be always right to weigh well the
peculiarities of the mental and bodily constitution,
and to be guided by them in the employment of
remedies.
In the removal of ennui, the great indications
are to obviate the immediately exciting cause of
the passion, on whatever system it may first have
exerted its influence ; gradually to raise the tone
of the enfeebled mental manifestations, by suc
cessive, persevering, but indirect efforts; gently
to insinuate a greater power of the will, over some
slight and remote actions, and by slow degrees
to employ it upon larger, and still larger exer
tions; to fix the attention upon a change and
- succession of objects, but never to suffer it to be
come exhausted by their continuance; to soothe
the irritability of the mind, by engaging it upon
pursuits, which will employ without fatigue, and
interest without excitement; to calm the fears,
and restlessness, afid disquietude, rather by oc
cupation than by argument, and by gradually
winding up the tone of the mental system, to a
higher reach of moral action; to extend the in- t
fluence of returning healthy function, by diver
sifying the mental manifestations, particularly
called into prominence; by gently rousing cor
rect feeling and principle, developing the smile of
2 8 2 MORAL A N D . R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N ,
benevolence, the tear of. sympathy, the compear
donate effort; and by recalling the patient, to a
sense of duty, of gratitude to God* and of.& re
turn of love and obedience for his unnumbered,
and undeserved blessings.
But it is far better to prevent than it is to cure;
and how is the influence of ennui to be guarded
against in the education of children?. The .great
secret of prevention consists in the due employr
ment and improvement of tim e! When this.has
been diligently accomplished, there will be very
little to fear from the agency of this passion, ex*
cept as arising in a few instances from. bodily
causes, for there iviU be no roomfor its development.
To the young, there should be no idle tim e; the
day should be employed between a supply of the
wants of nature, study, recreation, and exercise;
there should be no intervals of cessation from.pur*!
suit. It is a most important law, that no time is
to be w asted; every minute must be employed.;
and then children will grow up with that dispo;
sition to improve each passing 'hour, that they
will not bear to lose the numerous periods of tri
fling, which are made up from the want of doing
any thing, during the few minutes which elapse^
between the cessation of one duty, and the ex?
citement of the attention to the next coming occu
pation. If we duly estimate the importance of
time, the slender portion at best, allotted to man,
and the brevity of the longest life when contrasted
with eternity; and if we recollect, that during
this short period man's eternal destiny is fixed.
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 293
and that he will be happy or miserable for ever,
according to the use he has made of this talent,
surely we cannot want another motive to induce
us to  redeem the time, because the days are
evil. Ephesians v. 16. Time can only be said
to be properly redeemed, when we have not a single
unemployed interval; and when we carefully em
brace and improve all the means placed within
our reach for the development of our talents, as
also for their improvement; and when we seize
every occasion and opportunity presented to us
by Providence, in order to consecrate them to the
glory of God, and the good of others; not suffer
ing these seasons to be stolen from us by qeglect
or indifference; or to be lost by cares, and
anxieties, and solicitudes about present unim
portant scen es; or to be absorbed by any con
sideration of amusement, or to be suspended by
any secondary object: and if we have been in
the habit of losing time, and frittering away our
days, and degrading our existence, and forgetting
the object of our high calling, and resting satis
fied in strenuous indolence, or amusement, let the
diligence of such be doubled, and may we do the
more good in time to com e;  for the day of the
Lord so cometh as a thief in the night; therefore
let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch and
be sober. 1 Thessalonians v. 1, 2, 6.
284 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
S e c t i o n XI. O fAdmiration. O f Enthu
a.Admiration.
A d m ir a tio n is a certain movement of the soul,
produced by the contemplation of some great
perfection; particularly the sublime and beautiful
in nature, the wonderful and ingenious in art, the
strong and capacious in intellect, the just and
virtuous in morals, and the pure and holy in
religion. It is just in proportion to our inti
mate acquaintance with the object which has
produced i t : but such is the perversity of human
nature, that it is usually most intense when it
results from considering phenomena which we
do not thoroughly understand, or cannot satis
factorily explain. As a passion, it consists there
fore for the most part in an unexplained new sensa
tion, and diminishes in proportion as w e become
familiar with its impression, and as time and cir
cumstance shall have thrown the light of know
ledge over causes and effects which were before
concealed, by that veil of undefined form, and
uncertain influence, which gave to the one a de
gree of power, and to the other a measure of
grandeur and magnitude, which neither the for
mer nor the latter intrinsically deserved. So fre
quently have we been led to admire from asso
ciation the remains of departed grandeur, though
now fast mouldering into a heap of undistin
guished ruin, and intrinsically possessing no
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 285
claims to our attention; and so have we been
often induced to entertain the same sentiment
for conduct which has appeared grand and mag
nificent at a distance, but which upon close in
spection we find to be marked with all the little
ness of selfish m otive; around it twines the pic
turesque, but useless ivy of display; the storm
of envy beats upon its disjointed associations;
and the slow, but uniform and constant operation
o f unsound, anti-social, and irreligious principle
is crumbling into ruin, that fabric of moral action
which can alone be securely built on love to God,
and charity to man.
It will be remarked too, that admiration is
more generally excited by circumstances and
events, which bear some kind of analogy with
our present situation, our wants, and the capacity
for their immediate supply. The passion of
is more readily excited by the idea of power and
grandeur of which we cannot calculate the extent,
or to which we attach the idea of supernatural
agen cy; that of admiration, on the contrary, by
the exertion of useful power and ability of which
w e do not fear the influence, and feel that we
m ay hope to emulate. Thus the savage, the un
civilized, and the ignorant are dismayed by an
eclipse of the sun, which they imagine to be por
tentous of evil; while they admire the display of
physical energy, and the capacity for action or
suffering: their great man is the individual who
scalps his enemy; who is successful in the chase;
who can endure hunger, and thirst, and privation.
286 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N S
and pain without a murmur; and who can ex
hibit the greatest amount of courage in encoun
tering the last physical evil, and the ingenious
torture which often precedes it, without an ex
pression of suffering. - But with the cultivated
mind, that which has excited fear in the ignorant,
now produces admiration; and the display of
physical energy which with them has developed
the latter passion, is valued in its place, but
ceases to excite admiration, which is reserved by
preference for the claims of intellect, the perfec
tion of genius, or the refined sensibilities of moral
beauty.
This general principle admits of a much more
limited application; thus*we admire particularly
the highest efforts of reason, or application, or
virtue, as adapted to any favourite pursuit, or as
displayed by our own friends and relatives, or
even by those with whom we are only more dis
tantly connected. But the first object proposed
for our admiration is the Great God; the magni*
ficent, unknown architect of this world, and all
its w onders; the Author and Giver of that
unseen principle, which is known to us only by
its effects. Our admiration o f the Supreme Being
is produced not only by the spectacle of the uni
verse, the wonders of his creating hand, the asto
nishing resources of nature, the minute yet omni
scient and ever-watchful cares of his Providence;
his moral government; the endless wisdom dis
played in the history of his creature m an; his
holiness as pourtrayed in his hatred of sin ; his
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 28?
justice in punishing it; his mercy and love in
finding out a way of redemption from i t ; his
constant compassion in preserving his wandering
creatures, calling into life good desires, and giving
them strength to be developed in good actions;
his fidelity1
in ensuring their safety through trials
and difficulties, and carrying them on to final vic
tory ; his perfect equity in apportioning the re
ward and punishment attached to keeping his
iaw s, or to rebellion against him ; and the com
munications of his grace to those who ask and
seek for it, though they have no claim to his
favour but the sum of their own sinfulness, their
need of a Saviour, and their belief in the efficacy
of Christs atoning sacrifice; these are especially
the objects which should engage and fix our ad
miration here, and which will certainly fill the
happy spirit with wonder and amazement, and
love, throughout the ages of eternity.
The great design of education, therefore, is to
give a proper direction to this passion; and to
divert it from splendid, but less worthy objects;
so true is it, 'that religious'principle is the only
Safeguard to the young from the numerous errors
and temptations with which they are surrounded.
It will frequently happen, that the necessity for
the exercise of this principle will appear in con-
trouling the influence of admiration; for we shall
be too frequently disposed to invest great and
prosperous wickedness with a halo of success,
which claims the homage of this passion, and
which blinds us to the real state of its subject.
28$ M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
which has nopeace now, and whose prospect of
futurity resembles that of the mao, who in the
full possession of life, and health, apd blessing,
would leap without thought into a sightless,
fathomless cavern, from which he has no chance
of return, upon the slender, baseless hope that it
may lead him to a world of undefined pleasure,
and unmingled enjoyment, to which he has pre
cisely no other claim than that of never haying
sought an acquaintance with it, or prepared him
self for it. Such is the state of those who live
on in prosperous iniquity, relying upon the mercy
of God, without a thought, or a hope of prepara
tion how to meet him, or how to satisfy the
demands of his justice.
Thus, the good and the great alone should be
permitted to excite our admiration; and the young
should be most carefully guarded from fixing it
upon the polish of fashion, or upon a fascinating
manner, or an insinuating address, or upon any
thing short of real and substantial worth. It is
not the exterior which should claim our attention,
but the sterling attributes of character, and those
only which we can venture to imitate without
doing violence to the convictions of our conscience.
With these limitations it becomes a social senti
ment, in which we desire that others should par
ticipate ; not only for their sakes, that the sphere
of their pleasures may be enlarged, but also for
our own; and the intensity and imperiousness of
the passion may be heightened and enlarged, that
our conceptions may be augmented, and our aq
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 289
quaintance with moral and intellectual existence
may be extended; and thus, that the desire after
good, the appetite for novelty, the love of virtue,
the wants of the immortal spirit may be filled and
satisfied with truth.
There is only one caution more on this head :
admiration may be cultivated a passion too ex 
clusively, and may not be sufficiently guarded by
religious active principle; and in this case, with
individuals of very acute sensibility, it will some
times be in danger of degenerating into ecstacy,
a pleasing state of inactive, and ineffective ex
citation, in which the mind indulges the luxury
of its own creative contemplations; is abstracted
from the realities of life, and the duties of action;
soars above the world, in a mystic region of its
own, deaf to the monitions of reason, and the
voice of practical p iety ; and rests contented
with the review of its own narrow but absorbing
pleasures. This state borders so closely on the
influence of superstition, and of the groundless
and unreal joys of the fanatic, that it requires to
be most carefully guarded against, and v ig o r 
ously opposed; but if the passion be zealously
cultivated, and developed upon principle, and
that principle have for its object the great and
the good; and if these two attributes be defined
by scriptural views of their nature and impor
tance ; and if they be detached from the persons
we admire, and be fixed exclusively upon their
moral virtues; and if admiration of these qua
lities produce the desire and endeavour to emu-
V O L I I . u
290. MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
late them, then will it serve as a beacon to direct,
to cheer, to comfort and support in the parauit
after holiness, and in the endeternallife.
b. Enthusiasm.
B y the term enthusiasm ,we intend not that
state which consists in the fervor of excited feel
ing, and which betrays itself in inordinate, ex
cessive, and erroneous attention to some merely
secondary object; or in exclusive attachment
and indiscriminating obedience, to some blind im
pulse, operative in proportion to our ignorance
of its nature and effects; and reckless of the
consequences which may result from its indul
gence : but in that exaltation of the soul which
consists in embracing with ardour, and cherishing
with transport, and being influenced in action by
the idea we form: of the value of an object placed
before us for pursuit, and towards the attainment
of which we are constantly and powerfully di
rected. The degree of this enthusiastic energy
should ever be proportioned to the real value of
the boon placed before us as an object of desire;
but this is not always the case, since it some
times happens, that matters of very inferior mo
ment, develop a high degree of enthusiasm in
their pursuit; a failing which arises commonly in
weak, or ill-educated minds, from permitting
passion to govern principle; and from forgetting
the noble object of enthusiastic daring, even the
subjection of the feelings to the judgment.
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 291
Zealis the principle on which the pursuit of
good should be grounded, and this principle when
cultivated into passion will form enthusiasm. It
is true, that zeal may be either true or false;
just, or unjust; noble and generous, or ignoble
and selfish; its energies may be expended on
trifles, and wasted on follies; it may become the
undistinguishing slave of party; the patron of
abuse because it is ancient; as if antiquity of ill
had invested it with a sacredness which had de
prived it of its primary character; it may be em
ployed on objects of general good, and universal
benevolence, or it may characterize the partizan
of little, narrow, confined, and selfish views
and feelings, emotions which extend not beyond
the small circle in which accident, or circum
stance, or birth, or connexion, or even locality,
and a thousand similar contingencies may have
placed him. But these are only proofs, that the
original good principle has been acted upon by
some debasing cause, and that all the good of
mans perverted, corrupt, fallen nature is onlyevil.
It will be therefore the object of the parent to
give a right bias to enthusiasm ; to cultivate zeal
for worthy objects; to pursue them with intense
desire, but to avoid most carefully this waste of
mental energy upon low, or sordid, or unworthy
designs.
Enthusiasm as applied to religion, is too gene
rally a term of reproach, equivalent perhaps with
that of methodist, or evangelical, and applied to
those who are really in earnest, in the pursuit of
u 2
292 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
that which has been declared by the highest au
thority to be the great business of life; by those
who are too weakto comprehend what can
meant by energy in pursuit of moral virtue, and
piety, and obedience to the will of Heaven, and
active benevolence to their fellow-creatures; and
too wicked, practically to allow the awful, and
heart-stirring sanctions of the Bible, the goodand
evil, which it sets before them, as the result of
certain lines of conduct. It is a term which very
generally results from the upbraidings of an evil
conscience, the sad inheritance of those who
know enough to be aware, and to feel that they
themselves are not right, and to be conscious that
the objects of their ridicule, if sincere, are really
to be envied for their personal peace, the happi
ness of their enjoyments, and the solidity of their
prospects ; but they are too much under the in
fluence of evil passion and prejudice to allow
this conviction to others; and the convenient
term of enthusiast, serves to throw a veil of hypo
thetical discredit, over opinions, and doctrines,
and practice grafted upon them, which they can
not impugn by argument, and dare not controvert
by a comparison of their effects. It is good, to
be zealously affected in a good cause; therefore
the enthusiastic pursuit of religious objects is to
be cultivated, to be desired, to be encouraged, to
be strengthened, to be perfected.
: But every good thing is liable to abuse ; every
sterling virtue has its counterfeit; and there is
such a thing as enthusiasm in religion, which
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 293
may be identified with the desire of the hypo
crite. But true aud false passion are easily dis
tinguished ; the one earnestly contends for the
faith once delivered to the saints, and zealously
strives to live a godly life as its product; the
other is very little careful about effects; it will
influence its subjects so that they will contend
with v
e
h
e
m
e
n
c
e
, and frequently with ill-temper, for
exclusive views of doctrine, in so far as these
form a manifesto of the party under whose ban
ner they have enlisted ; they will support with
powerful casuistry, and too generally with very
little deference to the feelings of others, their
own peculiar views of faith and practice, or
rather the views of their se c t; but they will be
very little anxious, about the display of vital re
ligion in their own hearts and lives; they will
attach more importance to the manner of per
forming a religious ceremony, than to the rite
itself; they will rest in the exterior observance,
rather than in the grace which is concealed be
neath i t ; they will stickle for some mode which
has been sanctified by custom, and which is a
mere excrescence upon Christianity; they will
most earnestly contend for religion as a political
agent, as a state engine, and they will support its
political influence, but they will entirely forget,
that its only safety, and its only worth, consists
in its influence upon the temper and conduct of
num bers; they will place the ban of irreligion
upon all those who do not think precisely with
them selves; they will strain at gnats and swallow
294 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
cam els; and these enthusiasts are every where to
be found, but fully as much in the cloister and
the cathedral, as in the poor and ignorant, and
because ignorant, less culpable sectary. With
the latter, enthusiasm often assumes a grotesque
appearance, and places peculiarity of manner
and phraseology, and expression, in the room of
that principle of true religion, which in the for
mer has been supplanted by the decorations
and outworks of a more imposing and powerful
hierarchy! So true is it, that there is a zeal of
God,  but not according to knowledge; for they
being ignorant of Gods righteousness, and going
about to establish their own righteousness, have
not submitted themselves unto the righteousness
of God. Romans x. 2, 3.
Besides there is an eagerness in pursuing good
things, when neither the real end to be accom
plished, nor the manner of attempting it are good;
there may be a spirited defence of the outworks
of Christianity, with very little Christian spirit;
the truths of our Holy Religion may be warmly
vindicated from the aspersions of speculative in
fidelity, with the unhallowed fire of practical
atheism; the spirit of proselytism may actuate the
heart, which remains untouched by the spirit of
grace; a crusade against error and false doctrine
may be zealously undertaken, when the great end
of exertion is the exaltation of self, or the acqui
sition of a reputation for sanctity. Such was the
zeal of Jehu, when he exclaimed,  Come with
me, and see my zeal for the Lord. 2 Kings x. 16.
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 295
But in all these cases, it will be seen that the
heart is not right with G od; that there is a dispo
sition to engraft ostentation upon enthusiasm, to
exalt self, and to acquire power and influence
for their own sake. It is far easier to obtain a
character for piety by such a show of ,
than it is by the humble and self-denying duties
of the Christian; by striving to mortify evil pro
pensity ; by seeking after greater conformity to
C hrist; by earnestly struggling after a crown of
immortality; by well-founded enthusiasm in the
service of the Most H igh!
In general, the influence of this passion is con
tagious; it often operates upon many, almost as
an epidemic ; it spreads from individual to indivi
dual, from house to house, from hamlet to hamlet,
from village to village, from town to town, from
city to city, from province to province, till it has
filled a nation with one enthusiastic emotion; that
which originated in an individual has been caught
by a neighbour, and propagated to a coterie, and
extended in still widening circles, till all hearts
beat in unison to the influence of the same agi
tating thought; till large masses of men think
with the same thought, and feel with the same
bosom, and act with the same energy; till the
mighty spell of slavery is dissolved; till the
chains of ignorance and servility have been burst
asunder, and the tyrant is disenchanted of his
dream of universal power; till, the phantom of
abject submission to despotic sway has been
chased away by the day-star of liberty, and the
296 liOHAL AMD RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
reasonable, cheerful obedience of the subject to
just laws, and mild, and equitable, paternal, li
mited monarchy; till the nation is redeemed from
the misery of nothingness, and restored to the
dignity of man, and the enjoyment of all the rights
and privileges, which are consistent with the ge
neral good, and compatible with that surrender of
individual right, which we all make as free ser
vants to the master, or above all as children to
the parent; the submission of feebleness and
ignorance to the wise and powerful, in order to
obtain that general protection from violence and
injustice, which is impossible to man in his indi
vidual state.
But if such be the power of enthusiasm; and if
it be capable of producing a degree of febrile re
action of the soul, it must be carefully guarded;
for under the influence of crafty and designing de
magogues, it may be converted to the basest of
purposes, when the rude rabbles watchword is
 destroy," and when there is danger lest the
noblest institutions of political power and religious
instruction, should be crumbled away before the
fancied regenerators of democratical licentiousness.
It is only necessary to be careful, that the prin
ciple be enlisted on the side of good , and
then no fear need be entertained for the result.
The passion of admiration frequently leads to
that of enthusiasm; and it is the means by which
we most readily develop the latter principle. If
we wish to cultivate an enthusiastic ardour after
any particular object of pursuit or study, wc must
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 297
first teach the pupil to take an interest in such
object, to admire it, to count it worthy of striving
after, and then the labour itself will become a
pleasure; the toilsome hours of drudgery will be
passed over with alacrity, they will seem but as a
few moments, and the fervour of intelligence will
be displayed in the enthusiasm of acquisition; an
incomprehensible energy will be communicated to
the will, which makes the aspirant for knowledge
undertake and accomplish that which might have
been considered as beyond his power; surmount
difficulties which would have appeared insur
mountable to the coldness of common, customary,
necessary pursuit, and incite to efforts almost in
credible to himself. Enthusiasm is the attribute
o f great and powerful and privileged m inds; it
communicates to the soul a higher degree of intel
ligence, to take in larger, and juster, and more
general views of men and things; it increases the
capacity for action and exertion; it raises the
tone of the human mind above the common level
o f every day thought; it gives a higher degree of
eloquence to passion, and more tenderness to
feeling; it enlists success under its banner; it
gives point to ltenevolence and energy to action ;
it is that powerful principle which enables the
mind to overcome its repugnance to the disagree- .
able circumstances which accompany every pur
suit of importance, and enables it to lose sight of
difficulty, in the hope, the confidence of success;
and forms a groundwork for retrospective plea
sure, in reviewing the impediments which have
298 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
been surmounted, and the dangers from which we
have escaped, and the listless inanity from which
we have been aroused; it exists even in old age,
in the bosom of him  who shoulders his crutch,
and shews how fields were won, or of him who
justly attributes his present attainments and plea
sures to the enthusiasm of his younger days,
which enabled him to accomplish in a short pe
riod, that for which mere reason and argument
would have required an undefined portion of time,
and would have left unfinished at the last ; it is
the genius of poetry, and the soul of m usic; the
hidden mystery by which the power of song
claims its pre-eminent influence; the genial ra
diance, which warms without scorching, and vivi
fies without exhausting, all which it environs.
Such is enthusiasm; and such are the principles
by which its agency is to be promoted and its ex
uberance repressed. W e now turn to a class of
social passions, more particularly arising out of
the opinion which we form of the character of
others, and of the feeling we consequently enter
tain towards them.
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 290
Section XII. O f Esteemof Respectof Con
sideration.
a. Esteem.
E steem , when justly founded, and divested of
the morbid influence of prejudice and self-love, is
a tribute of moral approbation offered to an as
semblage of qualities and virtues, which are cal
culated to widen and confirm the connecting links
of social relation; it is offered to the man who
makes a good use of his understanding and distin
guished talents; to him whose character is re
markable for uprightness of intention; whose in
flexible justice is superior to the influence of pre
judice, and beyond the reach of suspicion; whose
beneficence is widely extended, and knows no
other limit than that of the actual misery which
surrounds him, and of his power to relieve i t ;
whose compassion is ever ready to be extended to
the sick, and the poor, and the miserable; the
measure of whose generosity is that alone of his abi
lity to support it ; whose sincerity is unquestioned;
whose veracity is unimpeached; whose fidelity
to his promises is vouched for by years of punctual
performance of his engagements; whose modesty
in success, and contentment under disappoint
ment give him a claim to the attention and imita
tion of his com peers; who is active in doing good,
prudent in difficulties, fervent in desire, grateful for
assistance, patient in adversity, meekly suffering
the obloquy of the world, energetic in the pursuit of
B M  r J .S 3 U U t i& I O U C C IT IO X .
su it, a d ini^Tflie to die t t b r a u s of evil.
bat tber do ace d v s n n c e n a k . ter it is often in*
equitably distributed, an4 ra ised to w ndeit and
a d m a t a l se n t, wbdE it is bestowed upon firivo-
lu u , bat brifiM f a a x B . T  attorn should be
appcetteoed to eer ti, a id success sfeaeid be w cri-
Untm y d i a d
3<xhing can be su re injurious to tbe cause of
virtue asd leiiga&o, cr a x e anjast to individuals,
than the habit of judging of their title to atom
from their prvsptrtp. A w nr littleobservation
will co&vince the unprejudiced, that success
attaches rather to manner than to desert; and
that it will be more readily secured by the yield
ing individual whose habits, and opinions, and
principles, are of that unsettled and ill-defined
nature, that they admit of being construed, or
misconstrued, as occasion may serve, into the
habits, and o
p
i
n
i
o
n
s,and priacipUs of every shade
of character, with which he may stand asso
ciated; whose feelings catch the inspiration of
the moment, and learn to court the favouring
breeze of custom, the trade wind of fashion; or
whose mental manifestations are cast into that
plastic mould, that they will readily assume
every shape and form, be expanded to the widest
stretch of ultra-liberality, or contracted to the
narrowest sphere of vision of the most confirmed
bigotry. These are they who are most certain of
success, aud for this plain reason, that a selfish
world loves to be courted by the seeming appro-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 301
bation of its views and plans, or flattered into
self-complacency, or indulged with the imitation
of others; and that it trill give its good things to
those who will thus approve, and flatter, and in
dulge ; who will smile upon its obliquities, soften
and extenuate its palpable wanderings, soothe
and decorate its passions with some soft, delusive
term, and confirm it in its good opinion of itself,
by the weight of their influence. They who will
be all things to all men; who possess the power
and the will of accommodation; who will smile,
and bow, and cringe; who will throw the veil of
indifference over their principles; and will ob
scure their perceptions by the filmof interest: they
on whose countenances the sleek smile of per
petual favour rests, and whose brow is never
wrinkled by the pain of offended virtue: these are
they on whose footsteps treads hastily the fiend of
success; but these are not they who are deserving
of esteem. It is indeed true, that substantial
merit will very generally work its way into no
tice, and even to success, if it be of a rare and
extraordinary quality; but it will still form an
exception to that general rule, which confers
prosperity on those who will assimilate most rea
dily with the unsound maxims of the world, and
who will least disturb its peace, by the tacit cen
sure of their own example, of their adherence to
principle, of their love of virtue, of their devotion
to piety. It is also true, that in the former in
stance, success is really dependent upon esteem
the esteem of the world; but then, that opinion
302 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
is formed by comparing the character, with their
own convenient standard o f applause or reproba
tion, and not with the unchanging law of- God,
and the unbending forms of principle deduced
from its requirements. It is very necessary that
children should entertain just notions on this sub
ject, or they will soon learn to act, so as to se
cure the favour of others,  rather than the testi
mony of conscience, that in simplicity and godly
sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, buts by the
grace of God, they have had their conversation in
the world. 2 Corinthians i. 12.
But again, the principle of esteem is not to be
awarded to external advantages. The rich, the
noble, the learned, the prosperous, are not,
such, objects of this passion ! It is only in pro
portion as they make a good use of the gifts of
fortune; it is only as these are employed in re
lieving the sum of human misery, and in increas
ing the amount of present happiness, diminishing
ignorance, and extending the knowledge of G od:
it is only in proportion as the adventitious circum
stances of birth, or station, or patronage are
employed to augment the worth of society; to
encourage the humble, the diffident, and the de*
serving; to sanction the efforts of virtue, and
repress the luxuriance of vice, the prominence of
pride, the pertness of envy, the pretensions of
emptiness, and the clamours of vain-glorious
selfishness : it is only as talent and learning are
devoted to the good of others, and to the glory
of G od; as they minister to the extension of
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 303
moral worth, and become the hand-maids of reli
gion ; it is only as prosperity contributes to ren
der its possessors more humble, and teachable,
and child-like; more dependent upon G od;
more anxious to be consecrated to his service;
more strictly conformed to his w ill; more desi
rous of avoiding every suspicious or doubtful
com pliance; more inflexible to i l l : and it is only
as these substantial traits of character are at
tached to the exterior advantages of literature,
that even such are deserving of esteem ; for what
saith the Scripture?  Will he esteem thy
riches? No, not gold, nor all the forces of
strength. Proverbs xxxvi. 10. And if these be
lightly thought of by Omniscience, how can they
be held in esteem by those who desire to be like
God?
Esteem, then, should be the result of a species
o f moral value, the estimate of virtue, the specific
gravity of certain possessions, in relation to a
knowledge of the will of the Most High, and of
obedience to his commands. It is highly neces
sary that this estimate should be made in refer
ence to some fixed and unchanging standard; or
self-love will often erect its own views and feelings
into the test of worth, and purity, and excellence;
yet let  nothing be done through strife or vain
glory, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem
other better than themselves. Philippians ii. 3.
Thus, a just and humble estimate of self, is the
first step in the process of forming correct opi
nions of the moral worth of others; and this is
304 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
the clue which will guide the young to a proper
use of this passion, and save them from the sor
rows of selfishness, or the misery of disappointed
expectation.
Esteem is less vivid in its impression than
friendship; the one results rather from the deli
berate estimate of the amount of good in the cha
racter, the other depends more upon that form of
benevolent influence which expends its energies
upon social regard and affection, irrespective of
the ties of blood, or of conventional relationship.
Thus esteem may exist independently of love or
friendship; but it is the first link in the moral
chain which terminates in the latter, and neither
friendship nor love can exist without i t : we may
esteem those we do not love, but we cannot love
those whom we do not esteem; and indeed so en
tirely necessary is this association, that the dis
tinction of esteem is the subversion of friendship;
and by it the purest love is changed into com
passion only. How important, then, is this prin
ciple in passing through life, to love nothing which
cannot be esteemed, to form no friendship with
him whose character bears not the impress of
moral value, and to esteem nothing but for itself,
its intrinsic worth, its useful application here, its
relation to eternal happiness hereafter. But there
are causes which impede the just estimate of
worth and character. Self-love induces us fre
quently to choose a low standard of comparison,
and to substitute the ever varying hues of natural
disposition for the dictates of eternal truth, thus
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 305
assuming, as the maximum of moral excellence,
a state which may be influenced by circumstances,
or modified by feeling, or perverted by disease,
or rendered erroneous by defect of judgment, or
changed by time, or exhausted by fatigue; a
state, indeed, which admits not of fixedness, or
of those just and solid, and immutable prescrip
tions which can alone confer a title to be received
as a standard of comparison, and which can only
flow from Himwho is truth, and justice, and
mercy.
Again, passion, prejudice, our own opinion, and
that of others whom weknow and wish
and the factitious wants of an artificial state of
society, all tend to the perversion of this prin
ciple. Thus anger, occasioned by some trifling
collision of interest, inseparable from the existing
order of our social institutions; ambition which
disparages its rivals; the fear, that others will
secure to themselves a reputation for which we
sig h ; the hope of success to which the good and
great qualities of competitors may be an obstacle;
envy, when we contemplate the high considera
tion of their virtues; the enthusiastic admiration
of some splendid talent, or some advantageous
situation ; jealousy over the just claims of those
who run in the same race; all these, and other
circumstances, present so many obstacles to jus
tice and impartiality in forming our judgment.
The influence of preconceived opinion and ground
less prejudice, also operate unfavourably: they
teach us to be insincere in our wish to arrive at
V O L . I I . x
306 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
truth; lead to self-deception; allow the pervert
ing influence of vanity; foster the distorted views
of pride; tempt us to ridicule what we hope not
to emulate, and dare not attempt to impugn;
destroy the balance of justice, and teach us to be
impatient of inquiry; fond of flattering ourselves,
and of withholding the due meed of praise from
others. And to all this may be added, the veil
which is drawn over ourselves and society in
general, by the institutions of an artificial polite
ness, which invests follies, and even sometimes
vices, with the seeming garb of approbation, and
eventually leads us to be doubtful of, and even
careless as to the real limits of virtue. These
are some of the difficulties in the way of our
forming a just judgment of our equals, and which
make us ungenerous in the distribution of our
esteem ; a principle, which is only valuable as it
is the fruit of profound and enlightened convic
tion ; a passion which can alone be exercised with
advantage, in proportion as moral education shall
have placed it upon thisonly basis;
taught it the errors to which its unassisted efforts
are liable, and shall have preserved it from the
influence of those deviations from rectitude, which
are the result of hasty opinion, injurious feeling,
or inconsiderate judgment.
b. Respect.
Respect is the expressed or tacit avowal of
our consciousness of the high standing o f the in-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 307
dividual to whom it is offered, and generally of
his pre-eminence over ourselves. When it pro
ceeds upon a just principle, and with correct
views, it should originate in esteem, and conse
quently moral worth should be its peculiar object;
and then it would ever be, as it ought to be, a
species of homage rendered to the superiority of
virtue, and required by the dignity of the good
man, however poor, however cruelly the sport of
fortune, however deprived of social or political
power.
Such, however, is the state of society, that
respect has greatly ceased to be paid to sterling
worth, and has been offered to the influence
exerted by riches, birth, rank, connexions, patro
nage, and other circumstances, which give to man
considerable power over the feelings, emotions,
and interests of his fellow-m en; however worth
less may be the private character, however little
entitled to consideration. Perhaps this morbid
tendency is felt more particularly in a commercial
nation, where riches always give importance, and
where they oftener fall to the lot of little minds,
uncultivated, yet highly esteeming themselves on
account of their wealth, and of the honour it ac
cumulates upon them. Respect, notwithstand
ing, is justly paid to the advantages of rank and
situation ; for we are commanded to  honour
the king, to render honour to whom honour is due,
to submit to all in authority under him, to render
due respect to the powers that be. And this
we should do without scrupulously inquiring into
x 2
308 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O N S E D U C A T I O N .
their private character. Respect is claimed by
their public station, though it will be found upon
inquiry that this very feeling proceeds upon the
supposition of their worth; and hence the very
guarded provision of our laws, that the supreme
of the executive government, the king can do no
wrong; his influence with his people is the in
fluence of worth; and this principle must be pre
served inviolate in a free country, where he reigns
for the good and the happiness of his subjects.
Again, respect is paid to the majesty of intel
lectual acquisition; to the power of a strong mind;
to those who have united to originally great and
well cultivated talents, a habit of acute observa
tion, and who have treasured up and arranged the
results of their many notices of men and things,
and have digested them into a system of experi
ence: it is offered to those who have proved
themselves wise in counsel, and prudent in ad
vice, and indefatigable in action; it is involun
tarily yielded to the silvery locks of old age, and
is not withheld from the feebleness of decrepi
tude, and the decay of what once was mental
pow er; and especially, if to the reverential awe
of age be added the dignity of the parental cha
racter, and the sage maxims of parental solici
tude ; it is extorted by the contemplation of illus
trious personages, who by a reverse of fortune
have fallen from the pinnacle of power, and in
fluence, and greatness, their opportunities of com
manding respect, and the daily increase of flatter
ers and dependents; and are now experiencing
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 309
the wretchedness of poverty, the cruelty of mis
fortune, the neglect of abandoned favourites, the
contumely of former friends, the cruel scorn of
more successful votaries of the one god of their
idolatrous worship. Ambition; and it is given to
individuals who have been ruined by misfortune,
who from having been surrounded by affluence
and splendour, have been suddenly reduced to
indigence, and have drained the cup of misery to
its last dregs. Yet in all these instances, it will
be seen, however it may be concealed by circum
stances, that one uniform character pervades every
situation; and that it is the possession, or at least
the supposition of moral worth which excites the
feeling of respect; a connexion which must never
be lost sight of in education.
There is, however, an error in this matter, and
particularly in the application of the epithet re
spectable, and its corresponding emotion; for while
respect is often expressed as the phraseology of
politeness, without any corresponding emotion of
truth, it is sometimes withheld from those who
though poor in this worlds goods, are rich in
faith, and heirs of the kingdom of heaven. It is
offered to the powerful and prosperous, and re
fused to the disciples of Him who was hungry,
and thirsty, and a stranger, and naked, and sick,
and in prison. Its essence is made to consist in
the exterior symbols of attention to those in
power, instead of in giving meat to the hungry,
and drink to the thirsty, and protection to the
houseless, and clothing to the naked, and visiting
310 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
the 6ick, and administering to the prisoner. And
this may very generally be traced to the early
misapplication of the term respectable; for error
in language will almost surely lead to fallacious
opinion, unjust judgment, and obliquity of con
duct. Children are too frequently taught to con
sider those persons only as respectable, who are
placed in a certain situation of society, and sur
rounded with specific.external advantages, instead
of affixing the epithet only to the attributes of
moral character and conduct. It is for parents
to watch most carefully over this germ of erro
neous and unjust conclusion. God  had respect
unto Abel and to his offering; but unto Cain
and to his offering he had not respect. And
wherefore? Not surely because the Lord dis
approved of the sacrifice of fruits and flowers,
and accepted only the firstling of the flock ; not
surely because of any exterior difference in the
situation of the two brothers, but because the one
was an offering of sincerity and truth, while the
other was a merely external form of service,
wanting the sanction of the heart; for  if thou
doest well, shalt thou not be accepted ? and if
thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door 1 Gen.
iv. 4, 6, 7. God is no respecter of persons;  for
the Lord your God is God of gods, and Lord of
lords, a great God, a mighty, and a terrible,
which regardeth not persons, nor taketh reward.
Deuteronomy x. 17. And again, we are enjoined
not to have respect to persons, and are taught
that those who do thus, do not fulfil the royal law
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 311
of loving their neighbour as themselves, but that
 they commit sin, and are convinced of the law
as transgressors. James ii. 9. And where such
a consequence is to be apprehended, surely the
parent will require no other stimulus to exertion,
no argument to prove its necessity!
c. Consideration.
B y the term consideration we intend the weight
o f character, which an individual obtains from
the exercise of virtuous principles and feelings ;
and the situation in which he is placed in society,
by that integrity of c
o
n
d
u
c
t
, which excites our e
teem, commands our respect, and inspires us
with other honourable sentiments towards him
self, theaggregateof which forms the manifestation
o f the present passion. It constitutes an imme
diate reward to the exercise of virtue: for it is
afforded to real worth, and is that faculty by
which we place the man in a certain prominence
of observation, and propose his example for our
imitation : we consider his ways, and copy his exT
ample ; we are influenced b^ his opinions ; we are
biassed by his judgment; we sympathize with his
feelings; we make common cause with his view s;
and are governed by his practice. The good man
aims to obtain it, not indeed as the reward of
conduct; but he strives that his actions may de
serve it, and cherishes it as a stimulus to future
exertion; a motive which is deepened by a com
parison of the consideration in which he is held
by others, with the certainty of the knowledge of
312 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
his own heart, of how little he is entitled to the
approbation of his fellow men, and how much less
of Him,who knows every thought; a review by
which he is humbled, and aroused to fresh energy
in the way of following his commandments.
Consideration may be misapplied, and it fre
quently is so, though not so often as respect;
since it attaches itself more to solid worth, and
less to the small dust of the balance of exterior
circumstances. It is perhaps the passion above
all others, which is most dependent upon reason;
for it rests mainly on the exercise of principle,
and has inherent in its nature, so little of heart
stirring emotion, that it might be almost termed
a virtue: and yet upon investigation, it will ap
pear to be compounded of passion, and to be
acted upon by other passions, in such a manner as
to demonstrate their affinities. The great object
of education is to regulate its application by just
v iew s; and above all, to prepare the young mind
to receive its influence with modesty and diffi
dence, and to know and to feel, that it deserves
not the consideration in which it is held by its
fellow-m en; and consequently, that it may ac
knowledge its own sinfulness, and need of repent
ance ; its own worthlessness, and need of a
Saviour; its own helplessness and impotence,
without the assistance of the Spirit of grace.
The possession of consideration does not excite
envy, because it is enjoyed without pride, and
would be quickly lost, if its possessor yielded to
the ostentatious influence of self-esteem. The
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 3<3
proud, the envious, the selfish, the passionate,
the avaricious, the ambitious, the unprincipled,
the timid, the irresolute, the undecided and
wavering, the vacillating and unstable, the male
volent and revengeful, the insincere and menda
cious, the vain, the ignorant, the intemperate,
the indolent, the unjust, the ungrateful, the im
patient, the irritable, the frivolous, the unmean
ing, the dissipated, and the thoughtless, are not,
or at least, ought not to become objects of con
sideration, which in its genuine application, is
afforded only to worth!!
That deserved reputation therefore which en
titles man to receive the meed of this passion, is
the first fortune of the individual; it is dearer to
him than life itself, which ceases to be valuable,
when it is no longer worthy of consideration : it
is of more consequence than riches and honour,
since these can confer no lasting benefit; since
they may be lost in an instant, and leave their
former possessors without a claim to notice, or even
the means of subsistence ; while on the contrary,
the man of reputation possesses an exhaustless
mine which survives misfortune; he never can be
destitute; his character commands respect; his
wants ensure attention ; and his misfortunes in
spire commiseration; while in the last moments
of extreme exigence, he still retains a boon which
he devolves upon his offspring, and which to
them will be better than silver or gold.
It is necessary to make a distinction between
slowly obtained consideration, the result of princi-
314 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
pled, and long tried reputation, and that ramon
which is frequently produced by adventitious cir
cumstances, and is often awarded to the. empiri
cism of impudent success: the former is. the clear
and steady light of day ; the latter is the brilliant
meteor which dazzles for a moment, and is-soon
lost in the obscurity of night. However condu
cive to his immediate interests, it will be found,
that he who challenges renown, will become the
favourite of a circle, only to share the fate of all
favourites, to lose his power, and to sink lower
into nothingness than his real station. Renown
may be acquired without a single virtue, or a
good quality of any kind: celebrity which ap
proaches nearer to consideration, may be the re
ward of talent and of intellectual attainment,
without any regard to the quality of its pursuits,
or to the utility of their application; it may be
most undeservedly conferred by the favouring
gale of patronage; but consideration is yielded
to merit only to often proved and solid worth ;
it is obtained less by the gifts of genius and the
attributes of mind, than by the sterling qualities
of the heart; it is afforded to the consistently
good man, however humble his situation, how
ever unassuming his pretensions, while it is
withheld from the man of learning, and science,
and distinction, whose conduct is not irreproach
able ; it is yielded to piety in the shade of retire
ment, and even in the night of adversity; while
it is denied to the wicked in prosperity, to him
who forgets God, and is unmindful of his fel-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 315
lows. And since the individuals who deserve it
are comparatively few ; and since the first emo
tions of the passion are so quickly extinguished
by so many qualities which are not only tolerated
in the present state of society, but even pass cur
rent as the common materials of every day inter
course, and are fostered, and encouraged by the
daily occasions of life, so are the opportunities
for its exercise unfrequent; the virtues which
produce it are r
a
r
e, and in proportion to their
scarcity, so are they highly esteemed, and the
consideration which results from their exercise is
the more deeply valued.
Consideration is inapplicable to youth; the cha
racter in early life has not been sufficiently tried
as that it may be relied upon for steadiness of
principle; and in extreme old age, the torpor of
selfishness insensibly steals over the activity of
duty, entwines itself around the trunk of utility,
and well nigh strangles its last efforts, so that it
loses, in a measure, its title to that consideration
which is, for the most part, awarded to middle
life ; to the maturity of the judgm ent; to the go
vernment of the passions ; to the fulness of intel
lectual ability; to the intensity and correctness
of feeling; to the activity of benevolent enter-
prize ; and, above all, to the unwearied and use
ful consistency of good principle, and that prin
ciple employed to the glory of God, and the good
of his creatures.
There is another reason for this result; in early
life, man is not so sensible of the worth of reputa-
316 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
tion, as to give himself much trouble in seeking
to obtain it ; his principal aim is to render himself
agreeable, and if he succeed in doing this to the
world at large, it will be by a sacrifice of the con
sideration of its better part. But when the vanity
of an attractive exterior has subsided; and the
desire to please has given way to the earnest hope,
the constant aim and struggle to be useful; when
the fondness for gratifying others has been super
seded by the wish of improving them ; when the
ostentation of display, and the desire of exhibit
ing talents and acquirements have been supplanted
by the principled intention of occasioning those
around us, to reap the benefits of our maturity,
to gather the fruits of our knowledge, and to de
rive the advantage of our long stored, and well-
arranged observations upon men and things: in
fact, when man seeks to be known and distin
guished by reasonable ideas, just views, prudent
feelings, subdued passions, and virtuous, noble,
honourable, and pious principles; and moreover,
when he is anxious that the influence of these
feelings and principles should be operative upon
his social circle; then it is that he is entitled to
consideration; a passion which he should delight to
exercise towards others, as well as be delighted to
receive from them, and seek constantly to deserve.
It is indeed true, that this is sometimes errone
ously bestowed; it is usurped by those who are
entitled to the semblance of virtues, whose actual
exercise should alone confer it, or who possess
the faculty of dissembling their incapacity, and
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 317
want of desert,,together with their destitution of
all title to this perfection of esteem. Hence the
necessity of teaching the young to form a just es
timate of the value of opinion!
Man should neither be a slave to the judgment
of others, nor utterly regardless of their views.
Many causes operate to render the result of opi
nion uncertain and unjust. Passion, prejudice,
fashion, example, all tend to shew the want of re
liance upon its conclusions. At the same time,
it must be allowed, that opinion, if left to itself,
w ill in the main be right, and in the long run will
come round to the side of common sense, and truth,
and justice, and reason. However, distorted for a
time, it will at length generally assume that rec
titude ofview, which gives it value and importance.
Opinion, when it contravenes any portion of the
revealed will of God, or is inconsistent with the
spirit of Christs religion is plainly not to be
valued, nor admitted as worthy of consideration.
But within this limit, the settled judgment of our
fellows is valuable and desirable. It is not to be
assumed as a motive to action, but it may be use
ful as a guide and directrix, provided always, that
it be not inconsistent with any known and esta
blished principles. To be careless of public opi
nion implies a recklessness of feeling, which is not
the result of a just appreciation of the judgment of
others, and of an appeal to the great Searcher of
hearts; but rather a consciousness of the incor
rectness of our own character, and a low estimation
of the attributes of mind generally; to be con-
318 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
stantly changing our views according to those with
whom we are surrounded, is to show that w e pos
sess no steady principle; but to defer to the opi
nion of large masses of mankind, to deliberate,
to weigh, to estimate before we act, is to shew a
just sense of the degree of value to be attached to
public opinion, and an anxiety to escape from
singularity; at the same time, declaring a reso
lute adherence to principle, and a determination
not to sacrifice moral duty to obtain its suffrage;
nor to comply with the prejudices of others, nor
to countenance their follies, nor to dissemble our
own views, nor to blink a result arising from these
premises ; to value opinion only as it is consistent
with truth; to rise above it when its influence
is prejudicial; to seek its improvement, and
change its character, where it seems to have
taken too low a standard of comparison.
S e c tio n X III. Of Contempt.
C ontempt is applied for the most part to the in
dividual who derogates from the dignity of man,
as a rational, intellectual, and moral creature;
who debases or perverts his reason; prostitutes
his intellect, and turns aside from the uprightness
of propriety into the devious paths of chicanery,
intrigue, and the interested substitution of pre
sent or political expediency, for that sense of
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 319
justice, that principle of integrity which would
sacrifice every personal feeling, every selfish
emotion, every temporary advantage, rather
than yield one atom of unbending truth. Con*
tempt is poured upon the head of him who violates
the laws of honour, whose word is not to be trusted;
who has broken his promise, escaped from his en
gagements, forfeited his title to sincerity, or fla
grantly failed' in the performance of the duties
enjoined by the social compact. It is also visited
upon those who have been degraded by open and
shameless vice; it is accumulated upon the idle,
the itttemperdte, the ungrateful, the faithless, and
the unprincipled. This passion isolates the indi
vidual who is its object; separates him from his
compeers, and leaves him in hopeless obscurity;
or associates him with a group of others, who are
all hasting to the gloomy night of infamy. It is
practically a solitary punishment, for contempt
will hardly drag into notice the individual whom
it scorns ; it scarcely considers him as deserving
so much notice, and rather fixes upon him the in
delible brand, which will pursue him through life,
and which will leave a blot upon his memory that
will be handed down to his posterity.
Contempt is employed in punishing the avari
cious and ungrateful, the impostor and the hypo
crite, the: selfish, the traitor to society, the be
trayer of friendship, the violator of confidence,
the calumniator of the innocent, the insidious
disturber of the peace and good order of the re
lative compact. It is supplementary to human
320 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
laws, and extends its jurisdiction where they
cannot'reach. The object of legislative enact
ments, is the punishment of the more flagrant
evil-doer; of him who by overt acts threatens
the life or property of others; but the agency of
contempt is poured upon the exertion of a simi
lar principle, in little acts of moral larceny, which
escape the vigilance of human jurisdiction. It
operates immediately upon the principle of self-
love, and hence its influence is severely felt; they
whose hearts are not hardened by the destitution
of feeling, despise themselves, and sink into the
obscurity of the dark night of shame, from which
they never find a way of escape, through the
shades which they have drawn around them;
others may struggle against its w eight; they
may affect to be above its reach; they may as
sume to act, and think, and feel, as though they
were not the subjects of this passion; but con
tempt is not thus to be evaded; it sits im
movably upon the character; no opposition can
dislodge i t ; it is a perpetual source of sorrow,
a dead weight, whose constant operation will be
to sink the man in his own esteem, as well as in
the judgment of others; he is not
he is shunned therefore as the deadly viper, lest
his sting may be implanted in some unconscious
m om ent; he loses the conviction of his fair re
putation in society; and with fearful upbraidings,
and bitter retrospects, and cruel anticipations;
neglected by all, tormented by passion, and tom
by conscience, he approaches his last hour, and
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 321
sinks unregretted, without a hand to smooth his
pillow of sickness, or to close the eye of ap
proaching insensibility. It is a dreadful punish
ment, a fearful retribution, and the exercise of
the passion in Christian education, demands
much caution.
If it were possible, to feel contempt only for
the positive baseness, and not towards the base,
it would be w e ll; but the fact is precisely the
contrary, for the object of this passion is rather
the person than the thing; at least the feeling of
the mind, however excited by the quality of
action is certainly directed towards the indivi
dual. And this is a very questionable state; for
first, we become the judges of conduct, and pro
ceed to inflict punishment for delinquency; and
this is not in the spirit of that religion which
forbids us to judge others ; which relies upon the
justice and judgment of its divine Author; and
which confidently reposes the punishment of
guilt, with him who is of purer eyes than to be
hold iniquity, and who has declared his hatred of
sin, and has promised the fury of his wrath
against transgressors.
Christianity enjoins us to be forgiving, com
passionate, tender-hearted, pitiful, long-suffering,
and merciful, states of feeling and of principle,
to which the passion of contempt is .
Our blessed Lord himself, as he drew near to
the close of his ministry, after having experienced
the contumely of the Jews ; after having wit
nessed their ignorance, blindness, hardness of
V O L . I I . Y
322 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
heart, and determined rejection of himself; after
having suffered from their scoffing, their cruel
injustice, and their bitter and unfounded calum
nies ; and well knowing that the measure of their
crimes was not yet full, and that it would be
shortly augmented by the destruction of him self;
yet ventured not an expression of contempt, for
that impotent rage, above which he soared the God
triumphant;  but when he was come near, he
beheld the city, and wept over it, saying. If thou
hadst known, even thou, at least in this thy day,
the things, which belong unto thy peace! but
now they are hid from thine e y e s! For the
days shall come upon thee, that thine enemies
shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee
round, and keep thee in, on every side, and shall
lay thee even with the ground, and thy children
within th ee; and they shall not leave in thee one
stone upon another, because thou knewest not the
time of thy visitation. Luke xix. 41 44.
And since here is the distinct punishment of
sin, of criminality beyond the reach of human
laws, of that base ingratitude and hypocrisy, that
selfishness, that treason to the friend of sinners,
that violation of confidence, that calumny, that
faithlessness and unprincipled conduct, and that
obstinate rejection of proffered mercy, which are
the peculiar objects of this passion, and yet with
out a single expression of contempt, but merely
the reluctant award of inflexible justice, attended
by the tear of compassion ; we have the highest
sanction both of precept and example, for assert-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 323
ing, that the development of this passion in
Christian education requires the most scrupulous
and nice attention. Far be it from us to relax in
any measure, the hatred of sin, the recoil from
all that is base and dishonourable; but we would
cut out the canker from the rose, and leave the
healthy flower untouched; we would fastidiously
strip the strangling ivy from the oak, but we
would preserve inviolate the integrity of the ma
jestic stem around which it tw in es; we would
separate the evil from the individual; we would
not spare the former, but we would compassionate
the latter.
Dangerous as is the uncontrouled agency of
this passion, its original destination was mani
festly to raise the tone of the mind, above the
love, or even the toleration of that which is base,
to save it from coinciding with folly, or from rest
ing contented with the inanity of ignorance.
And while its common agency is to be most care
fully watched, good may arise from directing its
operations into their intended channel, and from
witnessing its efforts on the world around us.
However contempt may be sometimes poured
upon the good, because they are poor and igno
rant, by those who think they  are rich and in
creased with goods, and have need of nothing;
and know not that they are wretched, and mise
rable, and poor, and blind, and naked, (Revela
tions iii. 17;) however it may be fastened upon
peculiarity of manner, in order to discredit the
influence of good principles; yet in general, its
v 2
324 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
distribution is more justly porportioned to the
amount of baseness of character, and as such its
award is commonly lasting, and extends even be
yond the present generation. It is indeed true
that prejudice has much to do, with the application
of the principle to families and posterity. But so
it is, that the influence of this unwritten judg
ment of others actions, is felt by immediate rela
tives, and even by remote connexions. W e re
ceive into our families and confidence, with great
doubt and suspicion, those, whose nearest rela
tives have been branded by the mark of con
tempt ; a whole family suffers for the misconduct
of an individual; children for their parents;
brothers and sisters for each other; and even
friends and acquaintance for the delinquencies of
those with whom they have been associated.
Before forming a new acquaintance, it is na
tural to inquire the connexions of the party; and
if we trace these to an individual, who has in
curred the contempt of infamy, we hesitate,
we more than hesitate; we retire within our
selves ; we exercise the strictest caution; we
close the door of our hearts; and at all events,
suspend intimacy, until we have tried the charac
ter, and found it sterling. This taint is heredi
tary, and is operative to many generations from
that in which it has taken place ; the bend sinis
ter is not to be removed ; the value of good
ancestors can scarcely be sufficiently appreciated;
while the stigma of mfamy is with difficulty even
veiled, for it will live far longer than the memory
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 325
of that which is honourable and upright. The
same feeling meets the eye in the idea of organic
predisposition; nothing is more common than the
belief that certain vices occur more frequently
in particular families; and hence the conviction,
that the descendants of an attainted individual,
may have a peculiar tendency to a similar form of
degraded propensity. Whether this feeling be
just or unjust; whether it be founded on expe
rience, or whether it rest merely as an opinion of
prejudice, its existence is undeniable, and its
operation should be a stimulus to upright con
duct, and a guarantee for correct example, even
when the influence of higher and better principles
may not be prominent. And while personal and
family consideration are really objects of worthy
pursuit; and personal and family dishonour are
to be dreaded and deprecated, the agency of con
tempt upon ourselves and our children, may be
rendered available as an additional motive and
incentive to noble, generous, upright action.
W hile then the operation of contempt upon our
own hearts, and upon our conduct towards others,
is to be avoided and counteracted, we should
equally strive not to become its subjects, pot to
give to others occasion to speak reproachfully:
for if we do well, and suffer for it, we are happy ;
but if we are branded for evil-doing, we must not
only bear our own burden, but it will be devolved
for us, upon our innocent posterity.
The principle of scorn is very analogous to that
of contem pt; it is however rather a diminutive of
326 M O K A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
this passion, and is applicable more to conduct
than to persons; so an individual may scorn to
commit a base action, without feeling contempt
for him, whom by so doing, he would resemble.
But there is a sense, in which the term scorn
does not admit of this favourable construction;
and in which it forms the evidence of an awful
state of alienation from G od; a thoughtlessness
of futurity, a hardness of heart, from which the
long-resisted spirit seems to have departed. The
scorner is one who disbelieves, or affects to dis
believe, the revelation of the will of G od ; one
who scorns to be thought in earnest about re
ligion; one who mocks at the punishment of
sin, and the threatenings and judgments de
nounced against it by the infinitely holy law of
God ; one who derides reproof,  a scorner
heareth not rebuke ; (Proverbs xiii. 1.) one who
foolishly trusts to his own powers and knowledge,
and refuses the instruction of the Most H igh; one
who rests in the acquisitions of intellect, and de
spises the foolishness of the gospel of Christ;
 who seeketh wisdom, and findeth it n o t;"
(Proverbs xiv. 6.) one who liateth him that re-
proveth him,  a scorner loveth not one that
reproveth him ; neither will he go unto the w ise;
(Proverbs xvi. 12.) one who scoffs at the princi
ples of religion, and contemns the restraint of
moral obligation, as connected with a principle of
purity and love to G od; one who rejects the
word of God, and if he do not openly profess a
disbelief in its truth, yet avowedly refuses to be
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 327
guided and governed by its influence; one who
is even an abomination among men, and who,
having cast off the fear of God, and obtained the
highest degree of daring, has become a monster
o f iniquity, without a single restraint to preserve
him from the fell influence of that demoniacal
possession, under which he appears to brave the
danger of hereafter, and deliberately to prefer
the pleasures of the moment, while he sneers at
the idea of a future day of punishment.  Surely
he scorneth the scorners; but he giveth grace
unto the lowly. The wise shall inherit glory,
but shame shall be the promotion of fools.  If
thou be wise, thou shalt be wise for thyself; but
if thou scornest, thou alone shalt bear it. Judg
ments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for
the back of fools. Proverbs iii. 34, 35. ix. 12.
xix. 29. So constantly is scorn placed in appo
sition with the folly of the Scriptures, which is
intended for the absence of that wisdom which is
from above, and for the influence of that which is
from below, and which is earthly, sensual, devil
ish. Parents have to guard against the first
risings of this evil principle, and then will they
be saved from witnessing the misery of its deve
lopment : their line of duty is obvious, and needs
no comment to explain, no argument to enforce
its observance.
328 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
S e c t i o n X IV . Of Patriotism.
I n the present age of insubordination, and when
the love of country is so frequently supplanted
by the dislike of constraint, and the impulse of
lawless desire on the one hand, or when it is
contracted into a doating fondness for the merely
exterior apparatus of civil government, it is highly
necessary to cultivate and educate this passion
upon just principles, and with consistent views.
The existence of civil government of a provision
for the maintenance of individual right, and safety,
and comfort; and the arrangements which have
been made for religious instruction, must be con
templated as a great boon, in exchange for which
we are called upon to sacrifice some portion of
selfish inclination, as well as some pecuniary
contributions towards its support.
Patriotism does not consist in the love of coun
try, because it is our ow n ; but in a well founded
attachment to those laws, and those civil and
religious institutions, which are congenial with
the better spirit of the people, and calculated to
make them happy, and wise, and good. Different
countries possess varying advantages; their forms
of government; their moral and religious institu
tions differ; and it is not for us to say, ours is
the very best, or that it is not so good as another;
that will be-found to be the best which is best
suited to the genius of the people, and which will
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 329
secure to them the largest portion of advantage
with the smallest possible privation ; provided
only that it be consistent with their individual
habits of thought, and feeling, and action; and
compatible with their happiness and welfare.
Patriotism does not consist in being blind to
the faults, and errors, and corruptions which are
inseparable from long-established governments;
nor in the defence of the most flagrant abuses,
merely because they have been engrafted upon
that which is good, and have been sanctified by
time and custom ; but it does consist in acknow
ledging the principle of obedience, and of love
too, in spite of blemishes which it discovers ten
derly, which it cannot cherish, and which it dares
not remove with a rude unskilful hand; and it
does consist in recollecting that national errors
are made up of individual conduct, and in setting
a good example of uprightness and fidelity, and
disinterestedness. A government should be pa
ternal; and the love and obedience of subjects
should be analogous to that of children for their
parents. Now we know, that although children
will be influenced by the example of their pa
rents, yet the situation of the former implies a
deference to the authority of the latter; submis
sion to superior judgment, confidence in their in
tegrity, and the ready yielding of a wish to be
acquainted with the reason of every part of their
conduct. And so it is with a paternal govern
ment ; we cannot see the reason and ground for
330 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
every minute arrangement; but we are not thence
to infer, that it is unreasonable or corrupt; on the
contrary, we are to assume that it is righ t, be
cause such is the general character of its conduct.
Again, patriotism does not consist in turgid de
clamation on the advantages of our own govern
ment, accompanied, as it frequently is, by the
studied desire to evade its imposts in every pos
sible w a y : but it does consist in a steady support
of its principles, and in an adherence to its laws,
and to those pecuniary sacrifices which it asks for
its support. Selfishness too commonly exists as
the motive to action, and is only thinly veiled by
empty professions. Neither does the love of our
country consist in finding out all her corruptions,
all her symptoms of decay, all the fungi which
have grown upon her surface, as the marks and
evidence of a venerable old a g e ; all the tangible
points on which she might be improved; but it
does consist in loving her still, notwithstanding
all her faults, and in affording the best possible
support to her institutions.
That is not patriotism, but bigotry, which in
vests our own country with every excellence, and
allows of none to any other form of government;
but it is right to esteem our own country more
highly, because its institutions are better suited
to the genius of the people than any other.
Patriotism consists farther in doing all we can
to promote the interests, and welfare, and hap
piness of our country and its inhabitants; in
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 331
diffusing that righteousness which exalteth a
nation, and in opposing that sin which is the
reproach of any people; in augmenting the moral
value of the nation at large; in diffusing know
ledge as the best antidote of irreligion, and in
fidelity, and that disaffection which has assailed
us at every point, from the mistaken senator, the
popular orator, the pulpit, and the press; and in
every form from the goodly quarto to the small,
but not inoperative ballad or penny book. The
patriot has the work of a life before him : every
day will bring its duty ; for every day he should
be himself better; he should be trying to make
others s o ; and in so doing, he will be promoting
the welfare, honour, respectability, and real worth
of his country.  Happy is that people that is
in such a case; yea, happy is that people whose
God is the Lord. Psalm cxliv. 15. A prin
cipled attachment, not a blind impulse, is genuine
patriotism; neither is it a vehement passion,
though it may be sometimes found to exist as
su ch ; and the evils attendant upon this sightless
impetus, are to be traced in its ungoverned in
fluence, producing that form of insanity termed
Nostalgia, particularly prevalent among the Sw iss;
during the paroxysms of which they have been
known to leap from their vessels into the sea,
under the impression that they were plunging into
the green fields of their native vallies. A moral
nostalgia may be frequently observed; an uncon
querable desire for the realization of utopian plans
332 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
which are impossible, and which hurries onward
its victims to the destruction of themselves, and
of the fabric of society which surrounds them.
But strengthen the reason, and fix the passion on
the firm basis of principle, and the pupil will
become a patriot, and a philanthropist, and will
steer equally clear of besotted admiration on the
one hand, and of cold, miscalculating, selfish
faction on the other.
333
CHAP. XVI.
V I R T U E S A N D V I C E S .
S e c t i o n I. OnVeracity and Sincerityon
Falsehood.
The essential properties of truth and falsehood
lie at the very basis of all character; and accord
ing to the prevalence of the one or the other, con
stitute the good or the bad man; for they are
diametrically opposed and their most perfect ex
amples are to be found in Him who was the ,
and in him who was, and is, the father of lies.
The man of truth is sincere, candid, ingenuous,
upright, he  that sweareth to his own hurt and
changeth not; while the hypocrite and the flat
terer, are unjust, disingenuous, deceivers, faith
less, dissemblers, untrue. We love and admire
the one, while we fear, distrust, and doubt the
other; we fully confide in the former, but we
cautiously and jealously watch over the latter: a
virtue and a vice, so influential in themselves, so
fraught with important consequences, cannot be
overlooked in Christian education. A character
334 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
which is disingenuous and insincere, one which is
not upright in his motives and principles of action,
one which does not fear to tell a lie or to de
ceive whenever such an abandonment of truth
will promote his present happiness, or immediate
interest, or add to his apparent influence and respec
tability, or reputation and comfort; a character
which is principally governed by a concern for his
own ease, without really consulting the good of
others, is one which is injurious to society, one on
whom no dependence can be placed; one on
whose principles no reliance may be h a d ; one
which is positively unamiable; from the contem
plation of which the mind recoils with instinctive
horror, and which should be avoided with the
greatest diligence.
Very early in life, there is manifested a propen
sity to conceal the truth, or to fabricate a false
hood, in order to hide it: or to act with insin
cerity, as if to obtain credit for being guided by
principles and motives which do not really actuate
the m ind; a mournful fact, which of itself would
be quite sufficient to demonstrate the natural pro
pensity to that which is e v il; and it is the merest
drivelling to attempt framing adistinction between
the corruption of human nature, and the predispo
sition towards it; as if the predisposition, were
not in itself an evidence of its corruption, the cor
ruption of that which was originally good, and is,
therefore, now changed from some perverting
cause; but by what cause the Scriptures of truth
alone can tell, while they unfold and explain the
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 335
history of that miserable fall by which man is very
far gone from original  righteousness, and has
become  the bond-slave of h e l l a state from
which he can alone be rescued by the righ
teousness of another, even of the Saviour Christ,
the Lamb without blemish, who gave himself a
ransom for many.
This tendency to falsehood must be narrowly
w atched; it must not be passed over in silence,
and forgotten as a thing of no consequence; for it
is not only in every instance sinful, but it will
lead to the habitual disregard of truth, and this to
unnumbered forms of evil. So frequently does this
vice cross the path of the Christian instructor,
that it is necessary to be thoroughly acquainted
with all its varieties; since it is not only the pal
pable falsehood which demands restraint, but a
thousand other specious appearances, under which
a deviation from truth is attempted to be cloaked.
Probably the first acquaintance of infancy with
falsehood, consists in the concealment of some
fact or circumstance, in order to hide a conscious
fault; and let it be recollected, that as this very
generally originates in the of punishment, so
parents should beware, lest by their austerity,
they may serve to develop the germ of this evil
principle, the growth of which might have been
repressed by cultivating the confidence of their
children, and by rejoicing to show mercy and for
giveness upon confession and contrition.
But this forms a very small part of the fruit of
falsehood, the last stage of which, the unblushing
336 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
deviation from truth is only to be met with, in the
hardened, and well practised victim of lying.
The principle of falsehood meets the eye in every
form of insincerity; in the wish to obtain credit for
motives and feelings which are not really expe
rienced; in the disingenuous permission of erro
neous good construction placed upon any part of
our conduct, which we are conscious of not de
serving; in the skilful evasion of inquiry which
would lead to the detection of that which we
are anxious to conceal; in the employment of the
double entendre, that double meaning which admits
of our receiving unmerited applause, or of escaping
under shelter of its veil of obscurity, from that
which we would hesitate to acknowledge; it as
sails us in every attempt to deceive others into a
better opinion of ourselves than is just, or to de
coy them into a line of conduct which leads else
where than to the goal which we have speciously
assigned; it forms an essential ingredient in every
species of temptation which points the broadest
road; in every effort of intrigue; in every design
of accomplishing by an under-plot, that which we
fear might be impracticable by open and legiti
mate means; in every effort of dissimulation by
which we endeavour to conceal our real judgment
and opinion, and indirectly to lead others to sup
pose that the bearing of our mind is very different
from that which it really is, or that we are quite
undecided, when our resolution has been firmly
taken ; and upon all occasions in which we deli
berately prefer a doubtful motive to that which is
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 337
candid, upright, and undeniable; we inhale its
tainted breath in every accent of and we
greedily devour the factitious incense, which
arises from this insinuating and sublimated, but
most deadly poison; it meets us in every breach
of promise, though it may never have been ex
pressed, but only implied, as an honourable en
gagement ; in every form of hypocrisy, by which
we profess more than we really feel; in every
want of coincidence between the expression of
the lips, and the actions of the man, and the feel
ings of the heart; in every instance of the ab
senceofintegrity, and of simple, honest, undeviating
principle; and lastly, in every form of designed
exaggeration; we say of designedexaggeration, for
the human mind is so astonishingly prone to en
large and embellish circumstances and feelings
in which it has figured, and has been interested,
and yet so frequently without any intention to
deceive, or even to deviate in any degree from
strict truth, that we should hesitate to denounce
all exaggeration as exhibiting a positive want of
veracity. It would perhaps be difficult to assign
a sufficient cause for this very frequent propen
sity. The fact of its existence is, however, suffi
ciently established ; and that which may possibly
have originated in the love of the marvellous, or
in vanity, or in a desire of exciting attention
to ourselves and our narratives or exploits; that
which is called into action, only to afford the silly
gratification of becoming an object of wonder to
V O L . I I . z
338 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
others, leads, if indulged, to all the evils attendant
upon falsehood, and to all the miseries which
await him who maketh and uttereth a The
habit of exaggeration is then sinful, for there can
be no deviation from the simple, unadorned ma
jesty and purity of truth which is not so, and
therefore its application, even to trifling occur
rences should be discouraged ; since it is in these
very trifles, in these white lies, in these incorrect
histories, in these colourings of expediency, in
these negative acts of falsehood, that the insidious
commencement of the greatest crimes may be
traced. Man does not become an accomplished
villain in a day ; neither does he at once acquire
the full development of impudent falsehood:
hence it is not only the lie direct which requires
parental attention, but every possible mode of
swerving from the truth, in every measure, and in
every form of insincerity; because these spring
equally from the same source, and are followed
by consequences similar in their nature, though
differing in degree. Now it is theprinciple which
is hateful to God, and every form in which that
principle is reduced to action;  none calleth for
justice, nor any pleadeth for truth ; they trust in
vanity and speak lie s ; there is no judgment in
their goings: they have made them crooked
paths: whosoever goeth therein shall not know
peace. Therefore is judgment far from us, nei
ther doth justice overtake us; we wait for light,
but behold obscurity ; we look for judgment, but
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 339
there is none; for salvation, but it is far from us ;
for truth is fallen in the street, and equity cannot
enter; yea, truth faileth ; and the Lord saw it,
and it displeased him, that there was no judg
ment. Isaiah lix. 4, 8, 9, 11, 14, 15.
 Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord
Proverbs xii. 22. hehas declared his hatred a
abhorrence of this sin, by inflicting the punish
ment of sudden death, in a case, not of aggra
vated falsehood, but of dissimulation. Ananias
sold the land for so much; doubtless true; but
the mental reservation of having sold it for so
much more, was esteemed a lie in the sight of
infinite purity, and as such was punished. Every
similar case therefore must be observed by the
Christian instructor; its heinousness must be
exposed, and particularly its exciting the dis
pleasure of God, whom the child has been taught
to love and fear, must be insisted upon, together
with the dreadful consequences of every such
unrepented sin ; since into the city of the new
Jerusalem, of which the Lord God Almighty and
the Lamb, are the temple, and the glory of God
doth lighten it, and the Lamb is the light
thereof, and the kings of the earth do bring their
glory and honour unto it,  there shall in no wise
enter any thing that defileth, neither whatso
ever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie; (R e
velations xxi. 27.) for without are dogs, and
sorcerers, and whore-mongers, and murderers,
and idolaters, and whatsoever loveth and maketh
. z 2
340 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
a lie: (Revelations xxii. 15.) thus not only class
ing the liar with the murderer, but even making
it the last link in the climax of iniquity, as the
grand sourceof all sin.
Besides, falsehood leads to hatred and male
volence, towards those who have been injured by
its calum nies; and eventually compasses retri
butive justice upon itself;  a lying tongue hateth
those that are afflicted by i t ; and a flattering
mouth worketh ruin. Proverbs xxvi. 28. If then,
from any selfish feeling, the parent should be
disposed to pass by and overlook such offences
as th ese; if she defer their correction to a more
convenient season from excessive fondness to her
child, then is she not only doing it an injury, but
she is honouring her offspring, more than she
honours God, and is obeying her own inclinations,
rather than the expressed will of her heavenly
Father. Surely, it is only necessary to consider
this influence of the want of veracity .over the
mind, and its agency in detracting from the hap
piness and worth of the individual, both in the
present and in a future world, in order that the
necessity for its correction, m^y be felt; and that
the torrent of iniquity may be stemmed by the
barrier of principle, and that its course may be
diverted into the newly formed channel of sim
plicity and sincerity, by inducing a habit of truth
and candour, which are of the greatest impor
tance, and necessary in their practical influence,
to form a just and upright man ; since in the lat-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 341
ter term, is comprehended a constant desire to
regulate the conduct by th e Word of God, and in
obedience to his will.
What then are that sincerity and truth, which
are ingredients in the formation of the upright
character, and what are the peculiar advantages
attendant upon the steps of a good man ? Sin
cerity implies a singleness of design, a unity of
motive, a genuineness of principle, and an up
rightness of action, which are not to be appalled
by difficulties, or concealed by ridicule, or cajoled
by flattery, or perverted by deceit, or distorted
by passion, or betrayed by circumstance; it sup
poses a state which is opposed to all double
mindedness and dissimulation, in which the lan
guage of the lips, and the emotions of the heart
are in constant unison, while they are as uni
formly averse from every species of intrigue;
a state which is inimical to all malice and wicked
ness, and in which there exists or should exist,
a purity of motive without alloy, that is a suf
ficient guarantee, for that walking in the fear of
the Lord, which can alone preserve the heart
right with God ; and without which sincerity will
crumble away before the gust of passion, or the
storm of interest, or the tempest of vice.
Sincerity is not however to be mistaken for
bluntness of manner, or a still more doubtful
principle of affectedly doing justice to others.
Genuine sincerity always seeks to spare the feel
ings of its object, and to avoid wounding where
it cannot heal. There are those who prijie them-
342 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
selves upon being sincere, when they are merely
indulging an offensiveness of manner, and an as
perity of character, which do not form compo
nent parts of this virtue, and which are alien
from the gifts of charity; and there are others,
who under the same mask, gratify wounded pride,
or anger, or revenge, and fancy that the real
motive is concealed from others, as much as it is
perhaps hidden to themselves. But genuine sin
cerity must be characterized by truth of ,
as well as by adherence to principle ; it is mild,
and forgiving, and extenuating to offenders, while
it is uncompromising to the offence; it remem
bers that we may be tempted, and that we daily
and hourly need the intervention of our great ad
vocate ; aye, more, it begins at home, and if sin
cere to itself, it must be mild and tender hearted
towards others; and if just to its own motives
and feelings, it will be careful not to make this
virtue a mask for inflicting punishment upon its
neighbour; and will most carefully avoid all that
which will bear the stamp of harshness of manner
if not of cruelty of design.
Again, truth is opposed to falsehood and deceit
in everyform, even to that in which positive facts
and just conclusions, are so stated to others, as
to produce in them, an impression differing from
the simplicity of their real nature; it is opposed
to concealment, or evasion, and every species of
prevarication ; it consists in candour, honesty,
and ingenuousness; it avoids the embellishment
of what is true, for truth is lovely enough in its
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 343
own nature, and requires not the aid of orna
ment, which is generally the evidence of its
having fallen from its high standard of integrity;
it implies fidelity and punctuality in the perform
ance of promises, these being estimated not by
ourownwords at the moment of giving the pledge;
nor by the manner in which they were under
stood by the party receiving it; nor by our secret
intention ; nor by any perverted construction we
may choose to place upon our expressions; but
by their plain and obvious unsophisticated mean
ing, when deprived of the perverting influence of
prejudice, or passion, or fraudulent intention;
and further, truth implies reality, and stands op
posed to every species of hypocrisy and dissimu
lation, to the arguments of the sophist, to the
subterfuges of the detected, to the labyrinths of
expediency, to the endless windings of a crooked
policy, to the finesse of intrigue: it stands alone
in its unadorned majesty, for  the lip of truth
shall be established for ever; but a lying tongue
is but for a moment. Proverbs xii. 19. Of so
great, such paramount importance is the main
tenance of truth, that it is to be preserved invio
late at the sacrifice of present interest; and it is
a possession of such unspeakable value, that it is
not to be parted with from any consideration of
present or contingent advantage;  buy the truth
and sell it not. Proverbs xxiii. 23. Such then
are the characteristics of that sincerity, which
enters into the composition of the upright cha
racter.
344 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
And if such be its trials and difficulties, such
the sacrifices it demands, such the strenuous ex
ertions it requires, what are its peculiar advan
tages ? It will ensure, in the first place, the
confidence and respect of our fellow men ; how
ever they may be disposed to deride it as parti
cular and sanctimonious, and as being righteous
over much ; it will always carry with it a weight
of character, which will ultimately secure a large
portion of esteem, and will compel the homage of
respect from those who dislike the upright, be
cause their strictness is a tacit censure upon the
laxity of the careless :  unto the upright there
ariseth light in the d a r k n e s s (P s a lm cxii. 4.)
not only the extorted confidence of compeers,
dimly shining through the darkness of this world
of prejudice and error, but the far brighter ray of
immortality, which dispels the gloom of present
obloquy, and converts the night of neglect into
the clearer day of heavenly peace.
But we go farther: the sacrifices of the up
right are made in the sight of a just and holy
God,  for his countenance doth behold the up
right (Psalm xi. 7.) and  the way of the just
is uprightness : thou most upright dost weigh the
paths of the ju st; (Isaiah xxvi. 7.) he estimates
the feeblest effort if sincere, and though the world
may hesitate approbation, he confers the light of
his countenance upon the path, however obscure,
however difficult. Moreover he will support the
weak, and give strength to the feeble, by the
comforts of his Spirit, and by the agency of their
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 345
own exertions in his cause; for the way of the
Lord  is strength to the upright; (Proverbs
x. 29.) God will defend them from the aspersions
of those who seek to injure them ; for  is a
buckler to them that walk u p rig h tly (P ro v erb s
ii. 7.) he will reward them with abundant bless
ings, for he who is truth, who is a sun and shield,
has promised that he will give grace and glory;
and that  no good thing will be withhold from
them that walk uprightly. Psalm lxxxiv. 11.
 The upright in their way are d e lig h t ( P r o 
verbs xi. 20.) he will afford them support through
life, strengthen them in difficulty, sustain and
cheer them in sorrow, and carry them in peace
through the last trial: for while the great power
of the wicked is but for a m om ent; while his in
fluence has passed away, and lo ! he is n o t; and
while, when he has yielded to the stroke of
death, his hopes and his joys are gone for ever;
 yea, I sought him, but he could not be found.
 Mark the perfect man, and behold the upright;
for the end of that man is p e a c e ( P s a lm xxxvii.
37.) peace in death, and happiness beyond the
grave; for surely,  the righteous shall give
thanks unto thy nam e; the upright shall dwell
in thy presence. Psalm cxl. 13. And as if all
these contingent advantages were not enough,
from Him, who giveth liberally, and upbraideth
not the weaknesses and frailties of his creatures,
a large accession of present comfort has been
provided for them ; for by it, they are preserved
346 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
from temptation, from sinful compliances, from
unjust thoughts of the government of the Most
High, for the  highway of the upright is to de
part from ev il; he that keepeth his way pre
served his s o u l(P r o v e r b s xvi. 17.) their princi
ples will be a safeguard in the hour of trial; a
beacon to direct them in difficulties ; and a con
stant friend to afford the right arm of support
through the snares which environ them ; for the
 integrity of the upright shall guide them :
(Proverbs iii.)  yea, the righteousness of the
upright shall deliver th e m (P r o v e r b s xi. 6.)
and lastly, they shall be surrounded with tem
poral blessings, as far as shall be needful, and
good for them, since while  the house of the
wicked shall be overthrown, the tabernacle of
the upright shall flourish. Proverbs xiv. 11.
And now, the good and evil being placed before
them, surely parents will be inexcusable, if they
do not cultivate the one, and repress the other,
with their utmost assiduity.
S e c tio n II. On Vanityon .
a. Vanity.
V a n ity is one of the earliest principles which
we see developed in the human breast; it dawns
in the first ray of intellect; it clings to the indi-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 347
vidual through life; and it sheds its evening
beams on the dim twilight of age : it is perhaps
particularly active in childhood and youth, less
cognizable in maturity, and again more readily
distinguishable in decrepitude. It is not to be
confounded with pride, than which it is generally
more factitious. Pride rests its claim on the ac
tual possession of some good or great quality;
vanity assumes the pre-eminence of some paltry
distinction. Pride involves in its influence the
desire of excelling: vanity that only of being no
ticed. Pride seeks for enjoyment in its own .bo
som : vanity is entirely depending for its gratifi
cations on the incense of others. Pride is
wounded by receiving approbation, which it is
conscious of not meriting: vanity seeks for ad
miration, and is careless of desert. Pride is
frequently based on a certain degree of respect
for ourselves, and for our standing in society:
vanity is always engaged upon some little attribute,
some supposed distinction not worth possessing,
and which we would almost blush to acknowledge
as the object of pursuit to a rational and intel
lectual being. Pride may be directed by a prin
ciple of honour, to which vanity acknowledges no
allegiance. Pride serves to raise the character,
while vanity contracts its powers, and fixes it
upon some low and mean standard. Vanity then
is the pride of the ignorant and the feeble-minded,
the attribute of little minds. But in proportion
as ignorance and narrow-mindedness are more
commonly to be found than knowledge and en-
348 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
larged view s; in proportion as little minds prevail
in number over those which have been expanded
and extended by study and reflection, and above
all, by Christian m otive; so is vanity more exten
sively operative than pride. A similar reason
will explain its greater prevalence over the young
and the old than upon the middle-aged: it reigns
and revels most in the periods of development
and decay, before the mental powers have been
thoroughly expanded, and when they have begun
to wither, and are advancing towards their period
of decadence. Neither need we go farther for an
explanation of the phenomenon, why vanity is
supposed to be more generally operative upon
females: it is not that they do not possess an
equal degree of mental vigour, but that never
having been called into action, it is not exhibit
ed ; it is as if it were not, and had no existence:
besides that they possess more of exterior deco
ration about them, which they are early taught
to be fond of, while their whole system of edu
cation fixes their attention, rather on accomplish
ments, than on solid possessions, and teaches
them to set a value on that which will give effect,
rather than on that which will produce solid and
lasting esteem.
Vanity is exhibited even in savage life, in the
decoration of the person, in a fondness for dis
play, and in a relish for gaudy ornament: and it
is perhaps equally prevalent, in a state of refined
society, advancing towards too great a degree of
luxury: only that here, it is more carefully con-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 349
cealed, more perfected by art, than in the simpli
city of the uninstructed.
Vanity rests upon the surface of thought: the
veriest emptinesses afford the means of its nutri
tion ; it will live upon air, aye more, it will
exist without i t : for when deprived of the ap
plause of others, it will retire within itself, and
feed upon its own resources, and be vain even of
suffering injustice from the want of a due appre
ciation of the little and contemptible peculiarities,
which have afforded the pubulum for its existence.
Numerous almost beyond calculation are the ave
nues by which it gains access to the heart. One
individual is vain of personal beauty; another' of
rank; a third of ancestry, and of the multiplied
quarterings upon the family escutcheon; and
another of his country : one is vain of his wealth,
his dress, his equipage, and every absurd trifle
in the appointment of his domestic arrangements:
another is vain of the vanity of his immediate
predecessors, and thus inherits it as an heir-loom
to be handed down to his posterity. But this
evil principle will sometimes assume a still lower
standard : one man will become vain in the pro
ficiency of his imitation of those below him ; he
will be vain of identifying himself with the lowest
vulgarities of the coachman and the groom; he
will degrade himself to become acquainted with
the arcana of pugilism, with the levelling society
of the cock-pit, nay, even with the art and mys
tery of cock-feeding; and will be vain of these
most m
a
n
l
y, most gentlemanlike, most rational.
3 5 0 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATI ON.
most intellectual, most noble, most moral pur
suits, most admirably suited to the wants and
desires of an immortal so u l; most excellently
calculated to fulfil the great end of his existence
here, to promote his own worth, and the w ell
being of others; so degrading is folly, so base
the attempt to reduce man to a mere automaton
of vulgar slang; the pure offspring, of the purest
association, with the lowest scoundrels of the
turf, the cock-pit, and the ring!
But vanity will stoop a grade lower, and there
are some who will be vain of their vices; who will
glory in the success of their intrigues, to smite the
innocent, or dupe the unwary: there are those
who will be vain of their mighty strength to drink
w in e; of their disregard of every social and reli
gious institution; of their contempt of laws human
and divine; of their disbelief in the Scriptures
of truth; of their escape from the thraldom of
priestcraft, that is, from the sanction of reason;
the dictates of judgment; the results of reflec
tion ; the monitions of conscience; the strivings
of the Spirit of the Most High God, with mortal
man on the brink of the grave, and with the gulf
of eternity before him.
Vanity will generally be found ostentatiously
displayed ; for individuals are commonly vain of
its possession, and anxious to proclaim it to their
neighbours; but it is sometimes concealed, espe
cially when it has been unsuccessful in attracting
attention and applause; and when this is the
case, it produces a very marked and deleterious
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATI ON. 351
m
agency ugon the peace of the individual who con
sumes in secret the humiliation to which he is
subjected; who writhes under the affronts he is
called to suffer, and yet does not acknowledge by
a word or a sign that he feels at a ll; and who
endures all the consequent punishment of dis
turbed peace and irritated mind, and yet dares
not for a moment allow that he is unhappy or
unsuccessful. And on the contrary, the vanity
which is fed by the incense of adulation, and
which grows and thrives upon the attention and
flattery of others, conducts its possessor to the
intoxication of success; drowns him in the in
sensibility of the giddy height to which it has
attained, and leaves its victim to the wretched
insecurity of self-dependence, or suddenly plunges
him into the gloomy abandonment of friends and
patrons, the neglect of acquaintance, and the
contempt of the world at large. Yet in either
case, during the unclouded hours of self-gratula-
tion, or in the obscurity of desertion and self-
reproach, the principle of vanity remains unextin
guished, and inextinguishable; it survives the
wreck of fortune, the loss of opportunity, and
even the gratification of desire; and is still found
floating on the surface of life, even when its slen
der thread is well nigh snapped asunder by the
invisible, intangible, inappreciable zephyr of
time 1
Such is vanity 1 a vice for which the present
age of the world is perhaps peculiarly remarkable;
and yet what does it possess to render it desir-
352 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS E DUCATI ON.
able? It is fixed upon objects which are unprofit
able, and without real enjoym ent; its hopes and
its confidence are vain and em pty; for it will
deceive and disappoint its votary at the last, at
that awful crisis when he will most stand in need
of consolation and support; at that great day,
when the thoughts of the heart shall be made
manifest, and the most secret vices shall be ex
posed. Let not him that is deceived, trust in
vanity; for vanity shall be his recompense.
Job xv. 31. It is indeed true that  childhood
and youth are vanity; yet know thou, O young
man, that if thou  walk in the ways of thine
heart, and in the light of thine eyes, that for all
these things God will bring thee into judgment.
Ecclesiastes ix. 10. All present objects, all tem
porary pursuits, even the very best of them, the
desire after, and the acquisition of literary stores,
are absolutely vain, and insufficient to produce
satisfaction, or to procure lasting happiness.
 Vain man would be wise, though he be born
like a wild asss c o lt; -man that is weak, igno
rant, helpless, blind, the creature of a day, ex
isting now in the flower of beauty, and gone
before to-morrow's sun shall have dawned upon
his closing moments; and what has he to be vain
of, even in the highest application of his intellec
tual powers ? that foolish creature, who since the
fall of his first parent is void of all true wisdom,
and solid knowledge; whose attention is caught
by the vanity of his compatriots applause; whose
perception of good is well nigh extinguished by
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 353
the power and the love of ev il; whose memory
faithfully retains all the homage of success, and
as faithlessly forgets all the toils by which it has
been obtained, the sacrifices and mortifications
which it has endured, and the breach of the laws
of God -which it has effected; whose reason is
carried away before the attractions of some silly
vanity, if not before the influence of some vicious
propensity; whose reflection is haunted by the
constant,, restless anxiety for the past, and fear of
the future; whose conscience if informed is un
easy, and if unenlightened is useless, or whose
admonitions have been stifled by the constant
recurrence of the empty impertinences of this
worlds attraction ; and whose every intellectual
power is depraved, debased, or rendered feeble
and ineffective. And such is vain man! man,
who in this very subjection to vanity has betrayed
the weakness and incapacity of that fond boast of
his reason, the feebleness and perversity of his
judgment.
And if this be vanity, it is a vice to be re
pressed in Christian education : yet if it cannot
be destroyedif its germ will still occupy the
will, and pervert the imagination, and stimulate
the faculty of imitation, let it be employed upon
some worthy object; not upon the infatuation of
some senseless pursuit; not upon the affectation
of some disgraceful or degraded character; not
upon the imitation of some impertinent singula
rity, or the copying some contemptible model,
but as a stimulus to exertion and success; as a
V O L . I I . A A
354 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
barrier to the idleness and carelessness which
too surely creep upon man, unless he be goaded
into activity and energy of desire; as a stimulus
to the pursuit of knowledge, and literary acquire
ment, and as an adjuvant to great and noble
enterprise! and even then, though if unextin
guished, and it must be employed, it had better
be thusengaged ; yet it will require the greatest
caution : for what is evil will ever remain so, and
will have a tendency to pervert, and to destroy
the good.
b. Modesty.
True modesty consists in a prompt and delicate
feeling of propriety, accompanied with that degree
of commanding self-possession, which together,
form the protecting aegis of the feeble from the
impertinence of the unprincipled. It is the result
of that susceptibility which induces its possessor
to seek shelter from the rude gaze of others. It
is partly automatic in its influence, and instinc
tively shrinks from the contact of ev il; but it is
more particularly dependent upon principle, and
does not fail to bear its testimony against that
approach towards vice, which can scarcely be
suffered without contamination. So powerful and
extensive are its associations, so majestic the true
simplicity of its presence, that the voice of licen
tiousness is awed into silence; the breath of pro
fligacy does not invade its asylum; and the career
of the vicious, who mock at the laws of God, and
are not restrained, by the whisper of conscience.
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 365
is arrested by the power of virtue, by that trans
parent veil which conceals not a lineament of
beauty, but effectually preserves it from the hostile
approach of those noxious insects by which this
worlds atmosphere is infested.
Modesty does not consist in the suspicion of
evil, in that irritability of morbid feeling, which
is ever upon the watch after the possibility of
offence ; in that silly susceptibility which fancies
the approach of injury, where no injury is in
tended : conscious of its own purity of feeling, it
suspects not the want of a similar principle in
others; aware of its self-possession, it is not con
tinually making a manifesto, of its quickness of
resentm ent; alive to the first deviation from pro
priety, and certain that its strength consists in the
avoidance of temptation, it does not yet seek occa
sions for offence, nor find it necessary to be fre
quently exhibiting that ultra-susceptibility which
is the inheritance of weak minds, or of those whose
real feelings of modesty and propriety, have been
perverted by an acquaintance with forms of vice,
which should never have sullied the mind of virgin
purity. This is a confession of weakness; it is pre
cisely opposed to the confidence of rectitude; it is
alien from the modesty of the accomplished female,
who hears even the double entendre of vice without
suspecting evil, because she is conscious of her own
dignity, and is really unacquainted with the perni
cious meaning of profligate inuendo, and knows
full well, that her innocence is a protection, even
to the purity of her m ind; while it too frequently
a a 2
356 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
arises from that contamination of thought and
feeling, which has been produced by a precocious
knowledge of the wickedness of the licentious,
occasioning a loss of that mental innocence which
it vainly fancies may be supplied, or at least con
cealed by a display of irritability, which the good
and the wise will ever consider as morbid feeling,
and arising from some morbific cause. Genuine
modesty will teach as matters of scientific research,
or inquiry, objects which cannot be approached by
this excessive feeling, without associating with
them ideas which should never possess an acknow
ledged existence, and which are an offence to in
nocence.  To the pure all things are p u r e t h e s e
can join in conversation without fear of danger;
while the irritable are always on the qui vive for
that which is wrong, as if conscious of their weak
ness, or suspicious of their principles. It is prin
cipled pi'opriety,and not feeling, which form sthe
essence of true modesty, and affords that safe
guard from vice, which renders it inaccessible.
The veil of modesty may be blown aside by
the flutter of silly agitation, but it will only be
drawn closer by the quiet self-possession of virtue.
It is of great consequence, in the education of
this virtue, to preserve the mind free from a know
ledge of the details of vice, to develop it upon the
basis of principle, to guard its application, to
foster the quiet tact of propriety, and encourage
that easy self-confidence, which is not to be
shaken by any fancied collision with impurity;
a collision which too generally exists only in that
M o r a l a n d r e l i g i o u s e d u c a t i o n . 357
revulsion of feeling, which is excited in a bosom
where conflicting elements are at war, and which
almost surely leaves a speck, a spot, a wrinkle of
pollution behind.
The principle of modesty operates, much more
extensively than in the narrow application, we
have just contemplated. In the first place, it is
opposed to pride and vanity; for although it has
been sometimes employed as an artificial veil for
the concealment of self-love, yet the genuine vir
tue supposes that diffidence which is incompatible
with being proud of our mental standing, or even
contented with present attainments. As pride
arises from ignorance, and from the want of an
acquaintance with the nature and extent of this
destitution of knowledge; so modesty originated
in a conscious sense of that very ignorance, and
of our general unworthiness and sinfulness, our
impotence and misery, the circumscribed nature
of our talents and faculties, our proneness to error,
the entire loss of our primitive righteousness, and
the great difficulty we feel in choosing the good,
and eschewing evil, nay more, in forming our
judgment only of what isgood and
resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the
humble. 1 Peter v, 5. Christ himself took upon
him the form of a servant, in order to instruct us
to be meek and low ly:  Take my yoke upon
you, and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in
heart; and ye shall find rest for your sou l; for
my yoke is easy, and my burden light. Matthew
xi. 29, 30. And this too was pronounced by him
358 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
who cannot err, and who has previously declared
that although  foxes have holes and the birds of
the air have nests, yet the son of man hath not
where to lay his head.
Genuine modesty perfectly consists with a pro
per estimate of ourselves, our powers and capa
cities ; for this will lead to a consciousness of the
weakness of our own understanding, and teaches
us to consider seriously and deliberately, and
even to hesitate before we act or believe; and
stops all curious inquiries into things unsearch
able. Modesty and diffidence are indeed be
coming to a being, whose capacities are at once
so limited, that he cannot comprehend the rationale
of the simplest natural phenomena, yet so bound
less as to be employed in loving and praising God
throughout the ages of eternity. And if a being
of such high destiny be so chained down to a little
narrow sphere of knowledge, by the material ve
hicle through which the operations of mind are
conducted, shall he not be modest in his preten
sions; shall he not be humble in his views?
What is man that thou art mindful of him, or the
son of man that thou visitest him? W hen man
deviates from this appropriate modesty, and seeks
to dive into researches which are hidden from his
view, he becomes an object of pity, from the vain
expenditure of his time and talents; when he at
tempts to explain mysteries which are beyond
the reach of his understanding he betrays his
folly and wickedness; but when he ventures to
prescribe laws to omniscience be becomes impious
and profane.
M O M A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 359
Modesty does not claim for itself the meed of
superiority; though commonly the attribute of
exalted minds, it readily believes, and easily ad
mits others to be superior; it is conscious of its
ignorance and insufficiency; and aware of the
many sources of fallacy to human judgment, it is
slow in forming its opinions, and cautious and
reserved in declaring them, till by repeated trials
of reason and experience, it has tested their va
lidity in every possible w a y ; and even then, it is
cautious in pronouncing positively on a subject, on
which it is impossible to be placed in possession
of all the circumstances which might influence
opinion.
So amiable is this virtue, so prepossessing in
its influence, that it is often assumed as a cloak
for intolerable pride! There is a lowliness, and
humility, and self-abasement, very far distant
from the hesitation of the diffident* and which
consists rather in profession than in act. The in
dividual seeks for information, solicits opinion,
professes distrust in his own judgment, not with
the view of receiving guidance and conviction,
but to obtain materials upon which to institute a
comparison favourable to his own view s; to try
the sentiments of others by his own prejudices;
and thus minister to the intolerance of his own
narrow assumptions.
Again, there is a species of ultra-modesty,
which professes the complete abandonment of its
opinions as utterly worthless and unprofitable!
Such individuals will not think a thought, of put
forth an idea, or venture a sentiment, much less
360 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
form a judgment of their ow n: they w ill adopt
the views of others; they will embrace the opi
nions of the m any; they will leave the labour of
thought, and yield their understandings to take
any mould or impression of persons, and circum
stances, and opinions, and care very little as to
the consequences. This is idleness, or indif
ference, or time-serving, but it is not m odesty!
There are others, who with all these professions,
will yet be imbued with strong prejudices ; they
will be very humble, so long as no favourite
dogma, the veriest trifle of the first stratum of
opinion shall be impugned; but touch them on
this single point, and their humility will be dis
enchanted, and will stand forward in its genuine
colours of bigotry, and selfishness, and sectarian
narrow-mindedness.
Modesty must be ingenuous and sincere, or it
is worthless; it will rejoice to obtain instruction,
even from a child; and with the conviction of its
imperfections, it will be the grand object o f pur
suit, to accumulate the truest wisdom,the wis
dom that is from above.  Except ye be con
verted, and become as little children, the de
claration of our Lord himself, will form the basis
of its exertions; it will desire to be taught of
God ; it will feel its ignorance, and will seek for
the instruction of w isdom ; it will confess its
helplessness, and will solicit strength from Him
who can impart i t ; it will acknowledge its feeble
ness and need of support, its proneness to error,
and the necessity for constant preservation; its
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 361
present paucity of attainment, and need of growth
and advancement to maturity; and it will implore
the aid of the Spirit of grace, through whose
presence and assistance it can alone stand, much
less advance in the way of truth, which leadeth
unto life.
Modesty is to be distinguished from reserve, or
retirement of character: it does not indeed court
observation, or make an ostentatious display of
its feelings ; but it does not shrink from difficulty;
it is not appalled by trial; it is not ashamed of
bearing its firm testimony in favour of truth; it
disclaims the passive inertness of him who liveth
for him self; it does not hesitate on the verge of
duty, and withdraw from its performance; it does
not draw around it the shades of inaction, or
blink its duties, as a rational being in society,
and as a Christian; as a citizen of the world,
and as a denizen of that brighter, better world, to
which it is modestly hoping, striving not as un
certainly, contending not as one that beateth the
air, but  keeping under the body, and bringing
it into subjection, that it may so run as to
obtain not a corruptible, but an incorruptible
crown.
Thus while reserve diminishes the attraction,
and retirement the usefulness of a character;
true modesty invests it with influence; it gives
weight to actions, and credit to words; it creates
a prejudice favourable to the individual possessor,
from the general observation of mankind, that the
362 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
unpretending, diffident, but simple and principled
character, is more to be relied upon, than the
boastful, empty, and careless arrogant professor,
who fails in the hour of greatest n eed ; and per
haps also from the excitement of the imagination,
occasioned by the character being viewed through
a veil, which prevents its several points from
standing out to naked observation, and therefore
gives room for investing it with a greater degree
of power and influence than it really deserves.
But again, the possession of this virtue pre
serves the individual from the blast of envy, which
superciliously overlooks the modest as too lowly
and insignificant for its envenomed shaft; and by
allaying the selfishness of temper, and Controul-
ing the pride of intellect, and teaching the weight
o f attention due to the views and opinions o f con
temporaries, and inculcating a distrust of our own
judgment, and a high estimation of that of others;
and teaching us not to make a display o f out
feelings, which cannot possibly be generally inte
resting ; and instructing us to be kind towards alt
men, and lenient to their prejudices; and shew
ing us the value of the quiet self-possession of
principle, it renders our intercourse with society,
far more useful and agreeable.
And finally, modesty exerts no trifling power,
in strengthening our good resolutions, and in re
straining at the same time our evil inclinations
adding to the growth of virtue, and repressing the
dominion of vice, extending the agency of good
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 363
principle, and diminishing the power of tempta
tion ; ensuring the conformity of the good man to
his great pattern and exemplar, and placing a
barrier to the downward road of the wicked.
S e c tio n III. On Idleness.
T h e man of business sighs for leisure; for that
intermission of action, which is the fondly anti
cipated termination of fatigue; the daily labourer,
exhausted under the fervid ray of a meridian
sun, watches with anxiety its western journey,
and hails with delight its lengthened ray as an
nouncing the cessation of his to il; and on the
last day of the week, looks forward with solid
pleasure to his sabbath of rest; the man who has
lived much in the world, and has grown tired of
its pleasures, and has been disgusted with its sel
fishness, who is wearied with the incessant de
mands upon bis attention and exertion, who has
been worn by the injustice and ingratitude of
mankind, disappointed by the hypocrisy of friends,'
and worried by the thousand occasions, on which
his interests and feelings have been sacrificed for
any trifling whim, or caprice, or inadequate mo
tive, by those to whom it was entrusted, earnestly
longs to be enabled to exchange the present con
tentions and irritation of his mind, for that re
treat from the world, in which all its duplicity
and falsehood, all its low intrigues and petty in-
364 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
terests, all its flattering and fawning smiles, all
its. paltry acts of disingenuous concealment, all
its disgraceful evasions of duty, all its bigotry
and intolerance, all its frowns and sarcasms and
ridicule, all its calumny and scandal, all its im
patience, and ready wilful misconstruction of
action and motive, all its restless ambition and
its sordid avarice, all its intolerable pride, all its
envy and jealousy, all its hatred and resentment,
all its contempt and scorn, all its splendid
fooleries, and its lightly esteemed wisdom, all its
discountenanced virtues, and its fostered vices,
all its wild amusements and dissipation, all its
narrow doctrines, its changing opinions, and its
delusive m axim s; allshall be exclud
notice, or if not entirely shut out from his senses,
shall be mellowed by distance, and will be seen
and heard through such a medium as shall enable
him to contemplate with interest, yet to review
without passion. In all these instances, leisure
is desired and desirable; but here also there
must not be idleness, or there will not be happi
ness ; there must be action, and motive, or there
will be misery. Thus the man of business, when
he flies from the toils of his counting-house, must
have pursuit, or he will sigh for his books and his
papers; the Sunday of the labourer will be
a weariness to him, the hardest labour of the
week, unless it may bring with it, its appropriate
em ploym ent; and his yawning and exhausted
system will betray the suffering it has undergone
from the absence of his customary toil, and from
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 365
the want of an adequate substitute, as pleasure
and duty combined, which will bear its impress
upon the mind, during the week, and create a
goht for its periodically returning pleasures. The
man who retires from the world will soon grow
weary of his solitude, unless his hours be en
livened by literary or benevolent, or some inferior
pursuit; he will find that unparticipated pleasure
is but half enjoyed; and he will feel, that in the
monotony of his own reflections, he possesses a
far greater evil, a far worse oppression, and more
intolerable burden than would be all the turmoils
of the world.
It has been said that nature abhors a vacuum;
she acknowledges not an empty sp ace; all is
created for use, to do, or to suffer, to employ, or
to be employed. And so does intellect abhor
the absence of exertion; that vacuity of thought,
and feeling, and action, which is its grand aver
sion ; it knows not of one useless attribute; every
manifestation has its object, every object its pe
culiar utility, and each the specific labour neces
sary to obtain it, the labour of desire, the stimu
lus of hope, the reward of enjoym ent; since that
which is obtained with difficulty is valued, while
that which is procured without effort is very little
esteemed. A state of indolence is then a morbid
state, a condition of disease, as if the heart could
cease to act from mere fatigue, without the
greatest danger; there may be lessened, there
may be varied action: there may be considerable
exertion now,and a slighter effort presently; a
366 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
comparative degree of quiescence, and then
again succeeded by a mighty striving after some
important good; but there must be action, or
there will be misery; and there must be good ac
tion, or there will be vice/ How comes it then,
that we trace so much indolence, such a strange
propensity to inertness in the world ? How is it
that we see .the evil spirit of idleness, subju
gating the industrious principle, and bearing
down before it every motive to exertion, as in the
luxurious and feeble inhabitant of an Indian or
African soil, or in the hardy, but scarcely less in
dolent Aborigines of the North American conti
nent ? A similar cause will be found operative
upon both, viz. the dearth of sufficient motive to
exertion, the absence of social stimulus, the want
of education, the paucity of intellectual acquire
ment, and the neglect of moral and religious
sanction. Both are only anxious to supply the
immediate necessities of to-day, and are thought
less of to-morrow; while their wants are almost
entirely limited to the cravings of appetite; in
one case, the fertile soil brings forth in such
abundance, that a supply for these necessities is
easily obtained; and in the other, the success
ful hunter feasts to-day, and retires to his natural
indolence till again roused by the stimulus of
hunger; both esteem themselves too free to la
bour, and will not continue their exertions, what
ever may be the prize set before th em ; both feel
that to eat and sleep form the great aim of exist
ence ; they will accomplish the former, till they
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 3 6 7
have induced the- latter; and they will enjoy
this state, until exertion becomes indispensable.
Both also want the stimulus of society ; their
females are in a state of the lowest degradation,
not their companions, but their slavesnot their
friends for whose support and protection, every
muscle and nerve should be energized to exertion,
and every sacrifice should be made, but who be
come rather the objects of their brutalities, the
butt of their haughty scorn, the ministers to their
wants, the sufferers from their indolence. The
ties of kindred have very little influence upon
them ; and oftentimes the aged, aye, even the
aged parent when too feeble for exertion, or in
capable of obtaining support by hunting, shall
be left to perish from want, or shall fall by the
ruthless hand of the indolent parricide. In both
cases too, there is a want of intellectual acquire
ment; the manifestations of mind are few and
feeble; and the light of that noble principle is
almost entirely quenched in the darkness of ig
norance, in that night of reason which ,
and Christian education can alone dispel by the
brightening beams of the day-star of righteous
ness : in both cases, there is m ore; there is not
only the absence of intellectual acquisition, but
the entire want of any desire to obtain it, and a
preference of the state of quiescence; appetite,
and the cravings of want can alone stimulate to
exertion ; and alas! here there is so complete an
intellectual torpor and destitution, that there is
no appetite for literary or moral food; no desire
368 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
for information. To all this may be superadded
the want of Christian motive and principle, that
which teaches the devotion of every talent and
faculty to the glory of God ; that which teaches
man to aspire after conformity to his M aker; that
which shews him his lost condition, and the ne
cessity for striving to regain that state in which
it was said of him, that he was  good;"
that which indicates the way of return to holiness
and happiness, and sets before him the necessity
for exertion; that which teaches, that his safety
consists in energy and watchfulness ; that which
inculcates activity in business, solicitude for fa
milies, and the exercise of benevolence to man
kind. Religion will transform even the savage,
from the idle to the industrious, or it will do
nothing for him ; it will teach him to  do good
and to distribute, to turn not away his face from
the poor, to cherish the sick, prolong the life of
the aged, to be merciful after his power, and
even, if he have little, to do his diligence to give
gladly of that little. And if such be a genuine
picture of indolence, and such the tendency of
uneducated man towards its indulgence, how im
portant is it, that this natural bias should be
counteracted, and supplanted by the spirit of
exertion.
The power of indolence has a disposition to
increase, and a degree of quietude which would
satisfy it to-day, would be in a short time abso
lutely fatiguing exertion: a principle of augmen
tation, which the parent will do well to keep in
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 369
view, in order that she may avoid, as far as pos
sible, those unfortunate days termed  holydays
days generally the most wearisome to infancy, the
most productive of little vexations and sorrows,
and ever followed by a loss of the energy of in
dustry. There must be action, or there cannot
be peace: let then the holyday be a day of
change ofactive duty, of more interesting employ
ment and pursuit, but let it still be a day of
action.
The spirit of idleness is encouraged, particu
larly in eastern countries, by the doctrine of
fatalism ; a doctrine upon which industry cannot
be engrafted; exertion withers, and fruitfulness
is impossible. There are also those who have
perverted the doctrine of Providence, and the
promises of the Most High to his faithful follow
ers, so as to make them careless of the future;.
But this is a perversion of the truth ; and a reli
ance upon Providence is feeble and groundless, if
it be employed as a motive to indolence; or as
an excuse for the want of perseverance; or as a
reason for the diminution of exertion; for how
ever delightful it may be to repose with confi
dence upon the unchanging goodness of Jehovah,
it will be of no avail beyond the mere sensitive
enjoyment, to him who does not strive and con
tend for the goods of nature, of intellect* and of
grace, as if they might be procured by his own
utmost exertions; for  if any would not work,
neither should he e a t (2 Thessalonians iii. 10;)
the boons of Providence are not designed for the
V O L I I . B B
370 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
idle, and the ban of starvation is placed upon
him.
Idleness leads to a criminal waste of tim e; of
that invaluable talent, which we shall never duly
estim ate; but of which we shall regret every
mispent hour, as we approach the close of life ;
and for one single moment of which we would
hereafter give worlds of pleasurable enjoyment,
should we then occupy the place of torment of
the luxurious rich man.  Go to the ant, thou
sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise; which
having no guide, overseer, or ruler, provideth her
meat in the summer, and gathereth her food in
the harvest.
Idleness is the fatal atmosphere in which in
tellect cannot breathe; it withers, becomes feeble,
sinks and dies ; the immortal soul is imprisoned
by the merest wants of the anim al; it grasps after
futurity, and it is attempted to be satisfied with
the more than emptiness of sensual desire, the
entire exhaustion of that principle which should
support its vitality, and the consequent over
powering weight of the medium which surrounds
it.  I went by the field of the slothful, and by
the vineyard of the man void of understanding;
and lo ! it was all grown over with thorns, and
nettles had covered the face thereof, and the
stone-wall thereof was broken down. Then I saw
and considered it w e ll: I looked upon it, and
received instruction. Proverbs xxiv. 30, 31, 32.
So true is it, that by indolence the image of the
Most High is exhibited in man, as overgrown
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 371
with vices and follies, and his understanding is
crumbled away from the want of employment.
But again, idleness is opposed to happiness and
su ccess; for as pursuit is the great secret of
peace, and the only road to acquisition and con
sideration is by industry; and the best means of
obtaining influence is by persevering energy of
character; and the only mode of fulfilling the
great design of living, is by doing the will of G od:
so,  the idle soul shall suffer h u n g e r a n d  he
becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand
while  the hand of the diligent maketh rich
and  the soul of the diligent shall be made fat.
Proverbs xix. 15, x. 4, xiii. 4.
The encouragement of this vice leads to depend
ence upon others, and renders man a slave to his
passions, and the needy vassal of those who will
contribute to their indulgence. A miserable pe
nalty, the due meed of those who will deliberately
prefer the most degraded villeinage; the meat
and drink of worse than feudal power, to the
freedom of conscious usefulness, to the activity of
intellect, to the subjugation of desire, to the ex
pansion of the heart, the enlargement of the feel
ings, the independence of industry, the conscious
majesty of mind.  The hand of the diligent
shall bear rule; but the slothful shall be under
tribute. Proverbs xii. 24.
Indolence concentrates the views of the indi
vidual upon him self; he is too feeble, and too
contracted - to supply his own w ants; and of
course, has no heart to think of the necessities of
b b 2
372 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
others; and thus is he left a monument of use
lessness, and a misery to him self; for  the soul
of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing. Pro
verbs xiii. 4.
Again, idleness leads to the indulgence of un
real fears, and produces an attention to little in
conveniences, which should only serve as a stimu
lus to surmount difficulty, and to pass over the
lesser trials of life; aye, the veriest trifles are
magnified into momentous obstacles; the web of
the gossamer will serve to deflect the indolent
from his course; and the chirping of the grass
hopper will be enough to destroy his firmness of
purpose, to dissipate his resolution, and leave
him a prey to idle fears, and pusillanimous in
action.  The sluggard will not plough by rea
son of the cold ; therefore shall he beg in harvest,
and have nothing.  The slothful man saitb,
there is a lion in the w a y ; a lion is in the streets.
Proverbs xx. 4, xxvi. 13.
The spirit of indolence leads to the indulgence
of sleep ; is an enemy to early rising; produces
hebetude of the faculties; destroys the chance of
improvement, and leaves the mind a waste, whose
exclusive quality is, that it continually extends,
and encroaches farther and farther upon the yet
remaining resources of its border territory.  Yet
a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of
the hands to sleep ; so shall thy poverty come as
one that travelleth, and thy want as an armed
man. Proverbs xxiv. 33, 34.  Love not sleep,
lest thou come to poverty; open thine eyes, and
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 373
thou shalt be satisfied with bread. Ibid. xx. 13.
 As the door turneth upon his hinges, so doth
the slothful upon his bed. The slothful hideth
his hand in his bosom ; it grieveth him to bring it
again to his mouth.
Lastly, indolence degrades the man in his own
eyes, or it ministers to his conceit; for in the
latter case,  the sluggard is wiser in his own
conceit than seven men that can render a reason;
(Proverbs xxvi. 16;) while in the former, the
curse and the consciousness of unprofitableness
rest upon him, and the conviction of uselessness
leads him to disesteem him self; vilifies the m ind;
conducts him to deceit, and leaves him to the
absence of candour, and frankness, and rectitude
of conduct. To all these evils, we have only to
observe in conclusion, that every thing around us
is constant action; not a pause is allowed; no
thing stands still; nothing is happy without exer
tion ; and surely with such lessons before their
eyes, parents will studiously eradicate this de
structive vice.
Section IV. On Prudence.
P rudence is the faculty of foreseeing by the
aid of reason, of moral tact, or of enlightened
conscience, what is or is not favourable to our
personal safety, or future hopes; and it is predo-
374 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
minant in the individual according to the deve
lopment of his intellectual capacities, his moral
feelings, his spiritual desires; and in proportion
as these are regulated and governed by principle,
enlightened by the Spirit of God, and submitted
to the law of G od:  a prudent man foreseeth
the evil, and hideth him self; but the simple pass
on, and are punished. Proverbs xxii. 3.
Prudence is not only a conservative virtue,
which enables its possessor to avoid danger; but
it is likewise that wisdom and discretion which
endow him with the power of distinguishing what
is the line of conduct to be adopted in circum
stances of difficulty; whether of joy or sorrow,
of hope or fear, of excitation or depression, ac
cording to the time, and place, and object in
question, as well as according to the persons
with whom we may stand connected, and
thoughts and feelings, together with their modes
and habits of action; always yielding, where it
is possible, things which are not important, dis
arming prejudice, conciliating feeling, yet remain
ing firm and unbending to the plain and positive
requisitions of the holy law of God. It is know
ledge which directs what is to be done, and what
is to be avoided, and this forms the basis for
action; but it is prudence which acquaints us how
this knowledge is to be applied with the best
effect, and instructs how to perform that which is
before us duly and conveniently; how to choose
a proper time for its accomplishment; and espe
cially how to abstain from doing altogether, at an
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 375
unfortunate or unpropitious period. Much mis
chief often results from the display of zeal in a
goodcause, which is not subjugated and tempered
by prudence. Thus, then, wisdom must form the
ground-work of the prudent character:  be ye
wise as serpents, and harmless as doves. It is
w ell known that the serpent was considered as
emblematical of prudence, and of that wisdom
which assumes its name and attributes, when it
becomes an active faculty. This is that  under
standing heart, the great object of the wise
man's prayer, in order that he might  judge
the people, and discern between good and evil.
1 Kings iii. 9. This is  that wisdom  which
 excelleth folly as far as light excelleth dark
ness and of which it is said, that  the wise
mans eyes are in his head; but the fool walketh
in darkness. Ecclesiastes ii. 13, 14. The pru
dent man walketh in the lig h t; his eyes are ever
cast around him to discern the track upon which
the rays of knowledge have shone; while thick
darkness, the night of ignorance, the clouds of
error, the mists of prejudice, the dim twilight of
unassisted reason, the uncertain coruscations of
wild enthusiasm, the storms of passion, and the
alternating seasons of feeling, all serve still farther
to bewilder the thoughtless wanderer who has left
the path of wisdom, and who haB forgotten to
take oil with his lamp.
Prudence is not an innate faculty; witness the
heedlessness of infancy; its proverbial want of
376 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
foresight; its quiet unconscious peace, in the
midst of surrounding danger; its preference for
the gratified wish of the moment to a future con*
tingent good, however valuable; witness the con
stant evils to which it is exposed from careless
ness, and the reiterated unfortunate trials which
are necessary to teach wisdom, and enforce the
value of prudence.. It is seldom that a boon of
any magnitude, as connected with this virtue, can
be obtained, except by dearly bought experience;
and parents should not therefore be anxious to
preserve their children from the mischievous con
sequences of their heedlessness, since these are
really the appointed means of leading them to
think of wisdom, and to practise that foresight
and care which are frequently not developed until
irreparable injury may have resulted from their
absence.  I wisdom dwell with prudence, and
find out knowledge of witty inventions. Proverbs
viii. 12. The want of this faculty is destructive
to life and comfort; not a day, and hardly an
hour can be passed without its influence. Scarcely
could we be preserved from the many calamities
which threaten us on every side, but for the
means of defence suggested by prudence. A
thousand instances might be mentioned in which
this virtue forms the appointed means of safety
from imminent danger; and it is by the exercise
of the faculty that man may be prompted to flee
from the wrath to com e; to escape from the do
minion of sin, and be translated into the liberty
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 377
of the children of God.  O that men were wise,
that they understood this, that they would con
sider their latter end.
It would be impossible to enumerate the many
occasions for the exercise of prudence ip passing
through life ; a few only may be specified. Thus,
for instance, the principle is exemplified by
placing that restraint upon the tongue, which will
preserve it from mischief. How frequently does
it happen that an inadvertent or unguarded ex
pression shall be perverted by prejudice, or dis
torted by passion, or coloured by feeling, or re
peated with an unintentional shade of difference,
or magnified by crafty design, or altered by ma
levolent purpose; and then so completely is it
changed in its complexion as to be scarcely recog
nized ; it is met by angry and injudicious feeling,
and followed by recrimination and rejoinder, and
then,  behold 1 how great a matter a little fire
kindleth!
Again, the confidence of a friend may be un
wittingly betrayed, and what has been told us in
the simplicity of perfect openness and sincerity,
when retailed by others, and dressed up by in
terest, and exaggerated by private hopes and
fears and designs, has so lost its original charac
ter, as to be often injurious to the first innocent
promulgator, and to be productive of the most se
rious evil:  a tale-bearer separateth very friends.
Again, great caution is required in delivering
an opinion upon conduct; and in ascribing mo
tives where it is not possible that we can be
378 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N ,
thoroughly acquainted with all the circumstances
of individual situation; yet nothing is more com
mon, than for man to judge of his fellow man in
this way; to imagine motives for a particular
group of actions, and then to detail them, as if
they had actually existed, and this usually leads
to passing judgment upon the individual according
to the nature of these supposititious m otives; and
to all these cases prudence supplies an antidote;
 O that ye would altogether hold your peace;
and it should be for your wisdom. Job xiii. 8.
In circumstances of difficulty and in situations
of trial and delicacy, when the pathway is ob
structed by inclination, or is hedged in by the
feelings of others, and when perseverance in rec
titude is only to be obtained by strenuous exer
tions ; and when large sacrifices of personal com
fort and relative feeliug are necessary; and when
firmness of purpose, and the utmost softness and
conciliation of manner are to be reconciled ; then
it is, that prudence will become a guide through
the intricacies of the labyrinth, and will give
strength to overcome its difficulties. '* Wisdom
strengtheneth the wise, more than the mighty
men which are in the c ity : for there is not a just
man upon earth that doeth good and sinneth uot:
also take no heed unto all words that are spoken,
lest thou hear thy servant curse thee. Ecclesi
astes vii. 1921.
Prudence is again called for in repressing emo
tion. In allowing the first burst of feeling to find
utterance inexpression, we give occasion for the
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 3 7 9
triumph of enemies, and for the blushes of those
who love and esteem us with the firmest friend
ship. It is very seldom that the passions can be
listened to with impunity, when they prompt to
action, evenin our own breast; but when we give
them a tangible form, and embody them in words,
and allow them a substantial existence, we show
our own weakness, we betray our inconsistencies,
and the many points of moral stain and imperfection
which cleave to us ; especially when we are eager
to take offence, quick in resenting a supposed
slight, ready to exhibit the influence of wounded
pride, revengeful, implacable, unforgiving; then
do we betray our feebleness, our need of pru
dence, for the  Discretion of a man deferreth his
anger, and it is his glory to pass over a trans
gression. Proverbs xix. 11.
Again, prudence forms a shield from the
attacks of our enem ies; disarms malevolence;
blunts the shaft of slander; unravels the m yste
rious doublings of calumny; is the best protection
against those who  hint a fault, and hesitate dis
like ; enables us to repel false accusation by the
mild consistency of uniform character; preserves
us from yielding to the temptation of the w icked;
gives an antidote to plausible error; affords a
warning against entering the neutral ground which
environs the dark territory of those who forget God,
and who are deprived of the light of his counte
nance ; teaches us to avoid the society of such as
do evil, and  whose ways are crooked; and
enables us to pursue the good way, the narrow
380 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
path that Ieadeth unto life; so true is it that
 Discretion shall preserve thee, understanding
shall keep thee. Proverbs ii. 2.
To a certain extent, concealment is an attribute
of prudence. To relate all we know w ill be to
involve ourselves and others in misery, and often
times in ruin; but it will be the truest discretion
to conceal that which may do much evil, though
it may also do some g
o
o
d
, and &
fortiori that
must occasion much evil, and can only by possi
bility do a little good. It is often wise to conceal
our knowledge of events, though we are certain
that they must eventually transpire; it is better
that they should be generally circulated by others,
especially if our acquaintance with them may
have arisen from confidential circumstances. It
is far more desirable that events of a painful
nature, that little blots of character, should be
wrapped around with a veil of kindness, than be
held up to the notice of the world, and pointed
at by the finger of scorn, or that they should
raise the curled lip of derision,  A prudent
man covereth sham e;   a prudent man con-
cealeth knowledge, but the heart of fools pro
claimed! foolishness. Proverbs xii. 16 ,2 3 . So
extensive is the influence of this principle upon
the social com pact; so necessary is it to preserve
the peace and good order of society, the comfort
and reputation of ourselves; the esteem and re
spect, the benevolent feelings and friendship of
others towards us.
Prudence is a deliberative faculty; its chief
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 381
support is knowledge, it holds counsel with truth;
it weighs the past, the present, and the future; it
estimates contingencies ; it considers present ad
vantage against rectitude of action and future
good; it draws its maxims from experience; it
listens to the wisdom of others, it avails itself of
every means of information; it decides slowly,
but it acts firm ly; it is not hasty in its resolves,
but it is inflexible in its pursuit of that which it
judges to be right.  Counsel is mine, and sound
wisdom ; I have understanding, I have strength.
 The wisdom of the prudent is to understand his
way, but the folly of fools is deceit. Proverbs viii.
14, xiv. 8. It is cautious in giving credence to
human testimony, for it knows the liability to
error, mistake, and even wilful misrepresentation;
it is tardy in yielding its assent to truth, except
upon conviction; it is doubtful even of the evi
dence afforded by its senses; and it requires a
frequent arrival at the same conclusion, both by
the methods of synthesis and analysis, and by
different routes, before it can make up its mind to
action;  the simple believeth every word; but
the prudent man looketh well to his going.
Proverbs xiv. 15.
The utmost prudence is required in giving as
well as in receiving advice ; both perhaps the most
difficult situations of social life; for it is not easy
to place ourselves in the exact circumstances of
him whom we presume to advise; and the cool
results of unimpassioned opinion, are not always
the most correct; for the all-bountiful Creator
382 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
has given us feelings and passions to influence our
conduct, uponwhich the understanding must sit in
judgment; so that  wisdom is profitable to di
rect, (Ecclesiastes x. 10,) and without prudence,
we shall but excite a painful recoil and collision,
and defeat every purpose of good. Again, in re
ceiving the advice of sincerity and friendship,
though it may not be palatable, though it may be
formed upon narrow views, and be influenced by
prejudiced feelings, and conveyed in an injudicious
manner, and may be calculated to irritate; and
though it may have been based upon false data;
yet should it be received with kindness and can
dour, and weighed with sincerity, and estimated
with reflection, and allowed its due amount of in
fluence, and ever be repaid by its meed of grati
tude ; for  only by pride cometh contention;
but with the well advised is wisdom. -Proverbs
xiii. 10.
But the highest effort of prudence, is when it
deliberates on eternity; when its views are no
longer bounded by tim e; when it escapes from
the snares and the fetters of m ortality; when it
is encircled by the radiance of its high original;
when  the light of the w
o
r
l
d
 becomes its
when it ceases to grope its darkling way, through
the midnight gloom of this worlds meridian
splendour; when it refuses its dependence upon
the fitful gleam of intellect, and trembles before
the alternate cloud and sunshine of passion ; when
it sits at the helm of action, and becomes the
pilot of the so u l; when it keeps its stedfast and
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 383
uplifted eye upon its great Exemplar, and stre
nuously endeavours to follow his footsteps ; when
it is actively and perseveringly directed against
every irregular movement; and when it assigns
just limits to moral character and conduct, and
acknowledges no definition of morality, which
does not include religion ; and knows of no prin
ciple under this imposing term, but the religion
of the Bible: then it is, that  happy is the man
that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth
un d erstan d in g(P roverb s iii. 13 ;) for  wisdom
is the principal thing ; therefore get wisdom, and
with all thy getting, get understanding; for a
crown of glory shall she deliver to thee. Pro
verbs iv. 7, 9.  The wise in heart shall be
called prudent. Proverbs xvi. 21.  And wisdom
and knowledge shall be the stability of thy times,
and the strength of thy salvation ; the fear of the
Lord is his treasure. Isaiah xxxiii. 6.
This wisdom is humble : this prudence is diffi
dent ; it is precisely opposed to that vain-glorious
spirit, which makes self its centre, which ceases
to be a conservative principle, and which leads
its votary to the brink of destruction. Prudence
is the gift of God, and as such, possesses nothing
in common with the conceited feeling, which
prompts the thought, if not the words,  by the
strength of myhand I have done it, and by
wisdom, for /a m prudent. Isaiah x. 13. W hen
the mind has arrived at this state, it has cast
away fear, and has bidden adieu to all true wis
dom and prudence. But what saith the Almighty*
384 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
to this spirit?  Therefore shall the Lord, the
Lord of hosts, send among his fat ones leanness;
and under his glory, he shall kindle a burning
like the burning of a fire. And the light of Israel
shall be for a fire, and his Holy One for a flam e;
and it shall burn, and devour his thorns and his
briars in one d ay; and shall consume the glory
of his forest and of his fruitful field, both soul and
body; and they shall be as when a standard-
bearer fainteth. And the rest of the trees of
his forest shall be few, that a child may write
them.
Once more, the exercise of prudence teaches
us to avoid the follies and dissipations of the
world around ; it instructs us to be disconformed
to its maxims, its habits, its customs, its sayings,
its conduct, its society, its spirit; it teaches us
not to yield, even in things which are really in
different, but which might wear the appearance of
evil; or which might at least endanger still farther
compliances, till the grand marks of distinction
between the Christian and the man of the world,
were lost in one deplorable amalgamation. And
since  folly is joy only to him who is destitute of
wisdom ; and since  a man of understanding
walketh uprightly; (Proverbs xv. 21;) so shall
we find that the way of happiness is the pathway
of w isdom ; and that prudence is characterized by
rectitude of conduct; by observing the straight
road of Christian propriety; and never deviating
from it for any sinister purpose. But while such
is the plain duty of the Christian pilgrim, it
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 385
equally becomes him not to suffer his good to be
evil spoken o f; he must be prudent towards those
who think differently from him self; he must re>
collect, that he is living the world, though he
aims to live above its spirit; and he is not called
upon to jostle and oppose every traveller whom
he meets or overtakes on the high road; or to
run a muck with those whose opinions and views
are opposed to his own ; above all, is he not qua
lified, or even permitted to quarrel with a  friend
or brother, who may be pursuing the same ob
jects, but by a somewhat different road ; or at a
greater or less rapid pace; or who may wear a
different costume from his ow n ; or whose dia
lect varies; whose feelings may be less excited ;
whose judgment may be less informed; whose
views may be lim ited; whose opportunities have
been less extensive, and who cannot take broad
views of the land before him, but whose opinions
are chained down to the immediate wants of the
day, and to the sentiments of the few around
him. Prudence forbids our interference with
all these peculiarities. Our object in passing
through the world, should not be the encourager
ment, or repression of its details, but the avoid
ance of its spirit; not the exhibition of a secta
rian, but of a Christian tem per; not the indul
gence of party feeling, or intolerant views, but
of a catholic and universal charity; not a desire
to chide or censure those who differ from us, but
an earnest'wish more and more closely to imitate
the Saviour; not to betray a hostile feeling which
V O L . ii. c c
386 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
may be construed into churlish misanthropy
against the usages of society, but rather to win
over others to our more simple, more cheerful,
more satisfying plans and pursuits. It is not
seclusion from the world, which prudence re
quires, but separation from its follies and its
vices, which constitute its madness, and evince its
idolatry to him who is the god of this world.
Then does it form the means by which the kind
est designs of Providence may be carried into
effect; thus may be accomplished, that which
should be its grand object, the safety of ourselves,
and the paramount good of others. These objects
are compatible; but they will fail unless supported
by wisdom.
Prudence is susceptible of cultivation; and it
should be an object of Christian education to
develop its influence, and perfect its agency, by
leading the young mind to an acquaintance with
those objects, which are its great desire ; by ap
plying the maxims of wisdom to all the daily
circumstances and events of life ; and by shew
ing that it is only through the instrumentality of
circumspection, that the most painful errors, as
well as the most fatal dangers can be avoided.
The habit of circumspection arises from the prin
ciple of prudence, and consists in looking forward,
and in taking enlarged views of men and things;
discovering difficulties and dangers; searching
out and choosing the safest and the nearest path;
and obtaining such an acquaintance with the
country through which we are travelling, that we
M O K A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 387
may advance firmly, without fear, and without
offence. Even animals are taught by instinct,
the necessity for circumspection; and the prin
ciple is exhibited at every turn of natures wide
domain. What a reproach upon the heedless
ness of m an! that he, with all his superadded
reason, should not be circumspect, but oftentimes
destitute of common prudence; and how guilty
must he be, if while the beasts which perish are
characterized by this principle, he alone refuses
to listen to the voice of wisdom, and goes on
still in his folly, and in his wickedness! how
weak must he be, if indiscretion mark his efforts
to do good ; and how weak as well as wicked,
when he continues to riot in the maddening re
velry of those who know not God, who despise
his commandments, and are daily working out
their own ruin.
The efforts of prudence are assisted by ample
mental resources, by all that extends the
knowledge, enlarges the boundary of reason,
strengthens the powers of the understanding, de
velops the habit of attention, enlivens the faculty
of perception, augments the power of memory,
encourages reflection, and gives energy to con
science ; it is aided by trials and difficulties
surmounted; by observation on the conduct of
others; by the influence and association of the
past, with the present and the future; it avails
itself of the experience of remote ages; it imi
tates the conduct of the w ise ; and above all, the
holy example of him who was without fault; it
c c 2
388 M O K A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
refuses to listen to the feelings, and seeks to sub
jugate the passions, and give to the judgment, its
legitimate sway over conduct; it is assisted by
ta ste; by developing that delicacy of tact, a pro
perty of imagination, which consists in seizing at
a glance, the minute and distant relations of
things ; and above all, by a constant and uniform
reference of events and contingencies to the so
lidity and accuracy of that moral judgment,
which is the result of conscience enlightened by
the word, and influenced by the holy Spirit of
God.
Prudence may exist in excess ; as for instance,
when it conducts its possessor to reserve, arising
from uncontrouled distrust of those with whom
we are placed in contact in society; he is fearful
of exposing his character to the gaze of his fel
low men, and therefore retires within himself,
thinks, feels, lives for him self; trembles at the
display of his sentim ents; and anxious to avoid
notoriety, as well as to escape from the pinnacle
of observation, he shrinks back within the gloomy
and inaccessible keep of reserve.
Prudence in excess may also lead to a want of
candour and openness, to that concealment of
fault, and that sophistical defence of error, which
are inconsistent with simple uprightness and in
tegrity. It is one of the last acquired lessons of
wisdom, that nothing is really lost by the con
fession of having thought or acted wrong; the
pride of the human bosom is such, that it cannot
brook the idea of being lightly esteemed by
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 389
others; and although it be aware, that it will
truly deserve less consideration for the attempt
to conceal the first fault; yet the hope of main
taining an unblemished character with their fel
lows, and the fear of losing the weight which has
hitherto attached to them, will often lead men
into delinquencies of principle in order to hide an
error of judgment or of feeling. But, to his own
master he standeth or falleth; the great object
is to convince the young of the importance of
rectitude of conduct and m otive; and to make
them feel that God is every where present, and
knoweth all things, and that we need not be
ashamed to confess in society, what we are not
afraid to think or to do, in the privacy of ab
straction. from the worlds censure or approba
tion.
Taciturnity and a fondness for solitude, may
also be the product of a similar principle ; both
are phenomena of the same cast, and consist in a
refusal to employ the talent of conversation; and
in the determination to avoid society altogether,
and to court seclusion, rather than be compelled
to bring a proper quota of information to the
common stock; or to incur the risk of being dis
covered to be em pty; or the odium of being
thought proud and inaccessible, or haughty, sel
fish, and morose. A similar effect will some
times be unfortunately produced on an individual,
who may have been so placed in society, as not
to meet with others of congenial minds, whose
views and sentiments could assimilate; whose
390 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
pursuits were of the same generic character; who
could agree in most important particulars, and
couldagree to differ, in the lesser shades of pre
judice, or passion, or habit, or opinion; but who
had on the contrary, associated only with those
of opposite feelings and sentiments, who had ren
dered prominent their own peculiar views, and
had constantly sought to bring them into contact
with those of others, and even to place them in
disadvantageous contrast; who had taken plea
sure in wounding the mind, who had heedlessly
wielded the shafts of wit and ridicule, and who
had seized every occasion to stir up strife and
argument, and make the worse appear the better
part. Placed under such circumstances, the
conscientious individual, resting on his integrity,
but perhaps not able to cope with the more bril
liant acquirements of his less principled adver
sary, feels the prudence of retiring into silence,
lest by a feeble defence, and perhaps defeat, he
should really be doing injury to the truth. There
may possibly be prudence in this measure; but it
will so generally wear the appearance of contu
macy, that it will be better to seek for more ac
curate information, which added to rectitude of
motive, will generally enable, even mediocrity of
talent, to put to silence the sophistries of wicked
men.
The excessive influence of prudence may also
lead to a degree of hesitation in action, almost
amounting to indecision, which may frequently be
productive of inconvenience, and perhaps even
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 391
o f still greater evils, by allowing the opportunity
for action to pass by unimproved, till the period
o f successful exertion, has been in a great mea-
sure lo st; and sometimes till the golden hour of
energy has been wasted upon fruitless specula
tion, and has passed over never to be regained.
This arises generally in circumstances of doubt,
and danger, and difficulty; and from repeated
calculation, and balancing the evil against the
good, and adjusting all the proprieties of action,
the time, the mode, the persons, the places, &c.
The mind endeavours to take an enlarged view
of all the circumstances, and contingencies of
the case, and arrivestby so doing, at a certain
conclusion; but in the excess of its prudence,
determines on reconsidering the whole question
before it acts ; this leads to procrastination ; to
morrow arrives; each argument is again scruti
nized with hypercritical severity; doubt ensues,
and at the conclusion of this day, there is found
to be less firmness of purpose than before ; there
are some points on which the opinion of a friend
must be taken, and this contributes to greater
uncertainty, till wearied and perplexed by con
flicting arguments, and by deepening shades of
indecision, prudence calculates, and reviews,
and calculates again, until it is incapable of con
tinuing the process with accuracy and effect: it
can no longer follow out a conclusion to its re
sults, and it does not act at all, till exertion is
either impossible or fruitless. This habit must
be counteracted, or notwithstanding the very best
392 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
intentions, the character will become irritable;
wavering, not to be -depended upon, and vacil
lating. It is to be obviated by accustoming the
individual always to actupon the be
information it can obtain; to decide upon the
evidence before it, and to follow up its decisions
by cautious, but firm, unhesitating conduct. The
unstable cannot ex cel; they will be guilty of great
injustice, and will produce unhappiness to them
selves ; for the state of suspense previous to
decision is one of great anxiety, and most inju
rious to the health of the body, the peace o f mind,
and the well-being of the general system.
Once more, prudence will sometimes lead to
excessive scrupulousness in action; the fear of
doing wrong will induce it not only to be careful
as to the character of conduct, but also to doubt,
where no room for doubt exists; to be suspicious;
to reject not only every equivocal line of action,
but also to avoid that which is really good and
praiseworthy. Where this feeling operates, it not
only renders the person ridiculous, but also does
injury to the cause with which he may be asso
ciated; since it commonly fastens upon really
trifling objections, magnifies them into all the
gigantic form, the frightful mien, the threatening
expression, the imposing attitude, and the fearful
menace of some monster of iniquity, capable of
bearing down before it all the barriers which may
have been successfully reared against the inroads
of vice. Far be it from us to weaken the strong
holds of virtue, or to diminish the length and
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 393
breadth of that line of demarcation which must
for ever separate them from the mock majesty of
v ice; far be it from us to diminish the just horror
of that which is wrong, or to blunt the keenness
of conscience; far be it from us to obscure the
form and lineaments of rectitude of motive and
conduct, or to soften the native deformity and
ugliness of wickedness; but we do that the
objections of the good should be wisely formed,
and that they should stand out in tangible and
undeniable being; we do wish that the monitions
of conscience should be based on enlightened
judgment, not on the prejudices of the ignorant
and the w eak; we do wish that the evils to be
avoided should not be the phantoms of an unreal
existence, or the creatures of folly and credulity;
and we do wish that the scruples of the good
should be also the scruples of the wise; that they
should be supported by reason, strengthened by
reflection, and built on the laws of God.
Lastly, excessive prudence leads to the antici
pation of evil. The mind is desirous of observ
ing circumspection; hence it becomes reserved,
from the fear of those with whom it is associated ;
it falls into the error of concealment from the
dread of confessing its faults; it becomes taci
turn, lest it should incur the obloquy or ridicule
of impertinent compeers; it hesitates and is un
decided from the apprehension of doing wrong;
it is vacillating from the fear of miscalculating
the grounds of its conduct; it indulges a variety
of scruples, lest it should occasion offence to the
3 9 4 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
weak consciences of others; and thus, b y the
constant expectation of evil, it is really led to the
uniform dread of its approach; and life is passed
between the danger of doing wrong, and the fear
lest it should not do right, or of doing right, at
an unfavourable period. But knowledge is pow
er; and with the aid of modesty and diffidence it
will supersede all these unreal terrors, and lead to
firm and dignified continuance in well-doing.
S e c t io n V. On Gratitudeon Ingratitude,
a. Gratitude.
G r a t i t u d e is the return of a sensitive and justly
balanced mind, accorded to a benefactor, either
in action, or at least in the wishes of the heart,
for benefits previously conferred. It is the dew
of blessing upon the thirsty land, which is re
turned in fruitfulness, breathed out in a purified
atmosphere, exhaled in fragrance, and exhibited
in the freshness of life, and in varied tints of in
imitable beauty. It is the humble offering of the
feeble for protection ; of the needy for support;
of the weak for strength; of the houseless and
friendless, for countenance and defence; of the
sorrowing for consolation ; of the widow, and the
orphan, and the destitute, for that compassionate
care which their situation demands. It is the
offspring of religion; it lives within its circle ; is
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 395
governed by its motives; is cherished by the
Spirit of Grace ; thrives in its beam s; withers in
their absence; is fostered by the ray of principle,
and chilled when deprived of its influence; it is
rendered delicate and noble by feeling, while it
is annihilated by selfishness. Too frequently does
this principle degenerate into a mere form of
polite words without meaning, or any correspond
ing mental emotion, when exercised towards man :
too frequently does it become the merely cus
tomary thanksgiving, the dissociated expression
of unheeded gratitude towards God, whose un
wearied kindness is hourly exhibited in the events
of his providence, and in the designs of his
grace; the emotion of the heart has changed
sides with the customary expression of automatic
thankfulness; and that which should be the re
membrance of kindness and obligation, accom
panied by the desire of requiting it, has become
a mere form of words, pronounced by the thought
less lip, and uttered by the thankless heart; the
impression of mercies received has been dissi
pated by the frivolities of the d a y ; too often has
it been supplanted by acts of hostility and re
bellion ; the recollection of obligation has.become
irksome, and has even sometimes led to a dislike
o f the person by whom favours have been ac
corded, and to alienation from him. Thus has
it been with mans wicked heart towards his
highest benefactor; his constant care and un
numbered blessings seem only to have aroused a
spirit of forgetfulness of his claims to gratitude
396 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N ' .
and love. Man lives in the atmosphere which
surrounds him, and cannot exist without it, yet
he employs his breath in blaspheming the name
of his Creator and Preserver; he rejoices in the
light of the sun, yet employs its beams for every
purpose except that of doing the will o f God, and
of living to hisglory; he hails with delight t
removal of its glorious ray, and courts the return
ing season of repose, yet again devotes it to the
perpetration of deeds of darkness with greater
impunity; he is gratified by the revolving sea
sons, and yet each spring and autumn, summer
and winter, find his heart more hardened, more
distant from doing the will of the Supreme, the
righteous Governor of the universe; he is in
debted to Providence for health, and the con
tinued play of his bodily organs, together with all
the comforts connected with them, and yet yields
that body as the servant of sin ; he is disobedient,
unthankful, unholy.
While then gratitude may be pronounced to be
the memory of the heart, it can only be received
with this limitation ; it is so in a state of innocence
alone, or as it may have regained some portion of
its high original, by the renewing influence of
divine grace; as the desert may have again blos
somed, and burst into fruitfulness ; as the winter
of distance from God may have been exchanged
for the invigorating beams of the sun of righteous
ness. In every work of God, however, the traces
of justice as well as of mercy are discernible;
and as gratitude ought to flow from a recollection
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 397
of the feeling of past kindness, and to prove a
centre of happiness in-the retrospect; so is that
very memory a source of punishment to the un
grateful : the broken images of unrequited bene
volence haunt their days, fill them with im
pressions of remorse, and disturb their sleep with
dreams of horror; the consciousness of deserving
ill from those around him, makes a coward of the
m an; he trembles in darkness, finds an enemy in
every undefined form, and nourishes the plant
of anguish in his bosom, even from the very
complacency of those whom he has injured, and
from whom he might have expected a very differ
ent return.
Genuine gratitude does not consist in profession;
it does not exhaust itself in mere words; the
assurances of feeling are very little worth, unless
they are attended by practical consequences;
deeds, not words, are the test of the existence of
this principle, as well as of its m easure; for
however a grateful individual may want the power
or the opportunity of showing his thankfulness, yet
the feeling will be prevalent, and will avail itself
of every means of exhibiting its tendency. It will
not find excuses for indolence in its peculiar situa
tion, but will invent occasions for showing what is
the real bias of the heart.
The influence of gratitude should be permanent,
not the transient feeling of momentary excite
ment, but the high and principled emotion of the
heart. This unfortunately is not its usual course,
for however deeply it may be felt upon the im-
398 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
mediate spur of the occasion which has developed
its exercise, it is commonly less and less vivid, in
proportion to the real amount of the obligation
conferred; and as the present period of time is
more and more distant from the reception of the
benefit. The former of these causes arises from
the indulgence of that silly pride and vanity,
which recoils from the feeling of having received
an obligation, and the consciousness of having
needed i t ; and the second from that law of na
ture, by which all impressions which are not
studiously encouraged, become fainter in their
colours, fade, and are almost completely effaced,
by the mere inertness of memory; a law, which
in the present instance, is commonly more than
usually operative, from the studious desire with
which man remembers to forget the kindnesses he
has received; and from that awkward feeling of
dependence, which arises as its consequence,
and which his haughty spirit cannot brook!
It is then a noble and elevated sentim ent; it is
to be perfected by education, and by just views
of the misery, and helplessness, and feebleness of
man, his need of support, his constant require
ment of mercy, his entire dependence for every
blessing he enjoys on him who dispenses the'
largess of his bounty to his creatures; and the
absolute duty of evincing gratitude, and seeking
to please H
i
m,
by doing his will and living to his
glory. Gratitude to our fellow-man will neces
sarily flow from a heart which is filled with thank
fulness to its God and Saviour, the great design
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 399
of education, therefore, will be to develop the ex
ercise of this virtue towards the Supreme; and
toftenthe heart has been brought to feel its natural
destitution of all that is good; when it has been
taught to know the importance of its common
mercies, and not to overlook them because of their
multiplicity, and invariable continuance; when it
has been led to ascribe its preservation from evil
and danger, its health and comfort, to the pro
tecting and munificent agency of Gods providence;
when it has been deeply imbued with the con
viction that it cannot think a good thought or
do that which is acceptable to God, except
through the aid of the Holy Spirit; when it feels
that its proud and stubborn, or vain and volatile
heart, cannot be thankful unless it receive the
power and disposition from on high; when it
it really acknowledges the numberless occasions
for gratitude, and is at the same time aware that
the excitement of this feeling is one of the highest
causes for its devotion to Him whose spirit has
awakened it,  for all things come of thee, and of
thine own have we given t h e e (1 Chronicle
xxix. 14.) when it is taught to ascribe all its wis
dom and knowledge, all its intellectual capacity,
and power of acquisition; every talent, every
good desire, every moral principle, every virtuous
sentiment, every benevolent action, to who
convinces the world of sin, of righteousness, and
of judgment, and who leads and guides his
people into the way of all truth; when the heart
rejoices in the righteous government of God,
400 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
and rests assured that the seeming unequal
distribution of good will, by and by, be rendered
perfectly clear, and that what he knows not now,
he shall know hereafter; when he is gladdened
by every fresh accession of strength to the cause
of truth, and by every degree of extension given
to the Redeemers kingdom on earth; when he
feels his hourly dependence for preservation from
danger, but above all from the influence of sin ;
and when he acknowledges his own sinfulness,
and need of a Saviour, and can humbly hope that
he has been enabled to place his reliance, his en
tire confidence on that friend of sinners, then it is
that the great enemies to gratitude, selfishness,
and pride, and forgetfulness, and vanity will be
vanquished; and that a deep feeling of thank
fulness to bis fellow-men, will arise out of this
humbling, yet encouraging view of the causes of
gratitude to his maker, and his God.
b. I
n
g
r
a
t
i
t
u.
Ingratitude is not merely a negative of gratitude;
it consists not only in the absence of a thankful
heart, and benevolent expression of that em otion;
it is not merely a thanklessness of disposition, but
consists in a positive act of vice, in that emotion
which really prompts to do an injury to those from
whom we may have received kindness. It is
very generally the result of vanity, which cannot
tolerate the idea of that species of tacit supremacy,
which the benefactor exercises upon the indiyi-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 401
dual whom he obliges; it is sometimes the conse
quence of a positive destitution of principle, the
absence of all correct feeling, the presence of all
that is opposed to just views, the reckless dispo
sition of one who receives blessing only to return
cursing, and the measure of whose enmity is alone
equalled by the extent of his obligations: it is
sometimes the result of carelessness, that thought
less and forgetful disposition, upon which present
sensation has very little future influence; and from
which the impression of benefit conferred is soon
obliterated; the emotion of gratitude is so tran
sient, that it is lost as an abiding principle; and
except in the mere feeling of the moment, and
action perhaps grounded on that feeling, and
therefore sincere at the time, leaves not a trace
behind: it arises sometimes in the bosom which
has been chilled by drinking deeply into the
spirit of the world, and influenced by its hollow,
specious insincerity, and corrupted by its cool
and calculating selfishness, and is then satisfied
with exchanging ineffective profession for genuine
principle: at other times it originates in pride,
that feeling which lost heaven to the arch
apostate; that disposition of the heart, which is
averse from receiving an obligation at all, and
which, in union with self-conceit, produces in the
obliged, the state of mind, in which he thinks, or
imagines that he has not been recompensed ac
cording to his merits, of the extent of which he
conceives a very high idea; while on the con
trary, the benefactor not only thinks he has done.
V O L . I I . d n
4 0 $ M O R A L AN D ft I L t o TOC $ E D U C A T I O N .
too much., but does not hesitate to show that be
thinks so, and thus to excite that painful feeling
of dependence, which in the human mind, consti
tuted as it now isT and modified by society, opi
nion, and prejudice, almost always excites a de
sire to be emancipated from the galling bond of
obligation, and to walk in the freedom o f that
liberty which allows of his acting without control)!,
so long at least as he is governed by the rules of
right; and exempts him from considering the
caprices of his patron. Ambition is a frequent
source of ingratitude, since in the march of its
unamiable career, it knows no feeling and acknow
ledges no principle which may interfere with the
object of its pursuit; it considers no interest but
its own, and avails itself of the assistance of
others, only so far as it may be conducive to its
ends. This vice is also found in frequent conjunc
tion with envy; and wherever the latter passion is
developed towards him, who has it in his power to
become a benefactor, then the sentiment o f grati
tude is extinguished, because when envy is expe
rienced for the sumof our friends good thi
there will be entirely superseded a feeling of gra-
tude for that portion of them which he may have
been disposed to impart. Again, avarice is not
an unfrequent source of ingratitude; the love of
money is the root of all e v il; and so it will be
sometimes seen, that an individual upon some
frivolous pretext, refuses to pay the debts he has
justly contracted; and this principle extends not
merely to pecuniary claims, but to every kind and
M O R A L A N D R E L I O I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 403
degree of moral obligation, from whatever source
it may have originated. It must, however, be
recollected, that he who feels the full value of the
benefit he confers, should also be sensible of the
weight of the gratitude of the persons obliged ; or
he himself participates in the ingratitude, and is
in fact ungrateful for the blessing of gratitude
which he receives. And lastly, ingratitude is
often a negative state, at least to a certain extent;
there is an apathy of feeling destructive to that
quick sensibility, in which the very essence of the
emotion of gratitude consists; there is a feeble
ness and infirmity of the heart, by which it seems
to be rendered incapable of that genuine action,
so necessary to the active exercise of this virtue,
and without which its employment will degenerate
into the mere emotion of passion, without aim or
object.
Such are the sources of this fatal vice, which
sullies wherever it approaches; which alienates
the heart from God; which strangles the first
rising of virtuous em otion; which fills the bosom
with many hateful feelings ; which haunts it with
the perverted images of fancy, invented as ex
cuses or palliations, for the omission of an obvious
duty of gratitude; and which, instead of raising
the heart to the Author and Giver of all good,
debases it to the consideration of selfish and se?
condary causes, as if by their own prudence and
strength, they had obtained all the good they
p ossess; as if  the greatness, and the power,
and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty,
d d 2
404 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
were not the Lords ; as if it were not in hands
only to  make great, and to give strength to
a ll; as if it were not true, that  our days on the
earth are as a shadow, and there is none abiding;
as if it were not true, that all the good w e possess
 cometh of thine hand, and is all thine own;
and, as if we practically disbelieved that God
 tries the heart, and has pleasure in upright
ness. 1 Chronicles, xxix. &c. &c. Strange is
it that the highest reach of ingratitude, the forget
fulness of the goodness of God, and a studied rejec
tion of the offers of his mercy, should pass un
noticed ; or at the very most, that they should
excite no feelings of astonishment; while the ex
istence of ingratitude to man produces an exten
sive sympathy for those who suffer from its bane
ful influence; where it is discovered, it is punished
by the indignation excited in the breast of fellow-
men ; a feeling which is deepened into passion by
the contemplation of the victims ofthis vice, and of
the painful consequences which have now resulted
from its agency. And yet, we pass unnoticed,
continued hostility and the basest ingratitude to
God; we pass over as a tale that is told, the
horrors which have been produced by sin ; we
have no sympathy for the misery, which has re
sulted from it, and we scarcely ever think that we
ourselves have been in spii'it participators in the
tragic scenes which the ingratitude of man has
accomplished towards his Saviour and Redeemer.
A most deplorable evidence of the blindness of
the human mind, and of the alienation of the
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 405
heart from good, as well as of its perversion
towards all that is evil.
This very indignation which is felt towards the
ungrateful, is in itself an expression of the evil
nature of this vice; which is farther shewn by the
award of conscience, and by the impossibility of
scrutinizing the heart, without giving rise to a
deep feeling of remorse ; by the cruel, though un
availing regrets, which sooner or later, attend the
pathway of the ungrateful, and prepare for the
bed of sickness, the sleepless night of sorrow, and
the deepening shades of old age and infirmity,
a pillow of thorns, which will render uneasy the
softest couch, and throw a darkening cloud of
anguish upon every situation of pain. This deep
feeling of the mind is also exhibited by the con
scious blush of shame, and by the desire of avoid
ing a benefactor, towards whom ingratitude has
been observed; both circumstances however,
which shew that the mind is not quite destitute
of feeling; that it is not yet so hardened by this
unfeeling vice, as to have completely extinguished
the voiee of conscience, so powerfully exerted, as
to make a coward of the man ; to make him turn
his back, not upon his enemy, but his friend, to
 make him flee, not before the power of hostile
invasion, but from the tacit rebuke contained in
the presence of a good and injured m an; to sub
ject him to an automatic influence, from which he
cannot escape, an influence which constitutes
him a monument of vice, confessed to all man
kind, and whose amazing power is capable of
406 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
producing a crimson glow upon the sutface, by
one impetuous and instantaneous rush of blood to
the extreme vessels, particularly those o f the face
and neck, and which in a succeeding moment
recoils back to its citadel the heart, and leaves
the surface pale and bloodless, heightened by the
contrast with the preceding excitement. Nothing
can more distinctly shew the evil nature o f this
vice, than the occurrence just detailed, in spite of
every effort to prevent it; nothing can more
clearly prove, that man was originally good, and
that he has only ceased to be so, under the
agency of some perverting cause, when w e find
him so constituted, as to possess a purely auto
matic monitor, a natural and instinctive judgment,
an immediate and necessary punishment, so insepa
rably connected with the commission of evil, that
until the sense of iniquity has been quenched in
.the darkness of desertion, it exists, and exerts an
influence which will beheard, whic
discomfort to the individual, and holds him up to
the indignation of his fellow. True it is, that the
blush is not always an evidence of feeling; that it
is not always to be expounded as the product of
shame, or conscious guilt; it will sometimes be
excited by some indirect and scarcely definable
em otion; it may be produced simply by the idea,
of becoming the object of attention to others;
and it will often be occasioned by the apprehen
sion, that our manners, or habits, or opinions, or
sentiments, or words, or looks may be miscon
strued : but it will be seen at once, that all these
M O U A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 407
are perversions of the feeling arising out of our
social eccentricities, and only prove from its
abuse, that the association was originally intended
to pass sentence upon conduct, to warn of danger,
and to punish the disobedient.
Lastly, the evil of ingratitude is shewn by the
incapacity for enjoying the goods thus obtained by
the kindness of others, by their unrequited confi
dence, by their cruelly abused benevolence. But
so it is : the stern eye of justice is fixed upon the
ungrateful, and the curse of unhappiness rests
upon them ; their very blessings are embittered,
and prove sources of m isery; the idea of their
ill-gotten comforts haunts them in the busiest, or
the most dissipated scenes of life; they fly in vain
from the inflictions of care; the illusion of peace
vanishes from their bosom ; and it does so, because
the image of ingratitude is frequently presented,
and casts its gloomy shadow over the recollection
of the past, the enjoyment of the present, and the
anticipations of futurity.
So perverted may be the heart, that on many
occasions these consequences do not follow ; but
when they do not, it is because the effect has
been dissociated from the primary cause, by some
secondary and corrupting agency, powerful enough
to arrest the original movements, and to develop
others of a painful and injurious nature. Such
then is ingratitude! a vice too prevalent in the
world, and against which, the young cannot be
too carefully guarded. Not only should they be
4 0 8 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
instructed, to avoid it in themselves, but also not
to be surprised, when they meet with it in others.
As gratitude from others is not to become a motive
to action; so ingratitude is not to be employed
as an excuse for inaction, for slumbering at onr
post, for ceasing those energetic exertions, which
are a duty we owe to those around us. The
young must not be taught to expect gratitude;
but they must be cautioned not to be disappointed
when they experience its opposite vice. This is
important as a principle of action; for it happens
too frequently, that where benevolent conduct
has been founded principally on feeling and edu
cation, it will be blasted by the adverse gale of
ingratitude,a gale which only shews the greater
need of the exercise of charity for those around
us, and which should induce us to cling more
earnestly to the wreck of our hopes, and never to
abandon it, while there remains a chance of doing
good to ourselves or others; much less, while we
can do our duty to God, though we cannot be
useful to man.
Ingratitude is to be most sedulously corrected
by education, and more especially by the removal
of its exciting causes; by teaching the young,
that the only worthy object of pursuit is superi
ority of goodness, and that principle, not feeling,
is to be their guide through life; by shewing
them, that he who forgets a kindness, is degraded
below the irrational brute, who repays his bene
factor with some shew of requital, while reasonable
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 409
m
a
n
, too frequently seeks to do him harm; by
teaching them, that the spirit of the world is at
enmity with God, and that pure and undefiled
religion consists in keeping themselves unspotted
with its vices, in forgetting the selfishness of mo
mentary gratification, and in the sincere desire of
doing the whole will of God towards his crea
tures ; by sapping the foundation of pride, and by
shewing the necessity for humility ; by exem-
- plifying the truth, that the only real liberty con
sists in obedience to the commands of God,
according to their spirit; by obviating the influ
ence of avarice and ambition ; by moderating the
pretensions of envy; by calling into action, that
delicate sensibility of feeling, which prompts its
possessor to receive a benefit with modest plea
sure, and to repay it with unmingled delight;
and by enforcing the evil nature of this vice, and
the miseries to which its indulgence inevitably
leads.
S e c t i o n V I.On Patience Impatience Meek
ness.
a. Patience.
P a t i e n c e is a virtue, the exercise of which en
ables us to bear afflictions and calumnies, with
constancy and calmness of mind, and with a
ready submission to the will of G od; it teaches
410 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
us to yield to the higher privations of life, without
a murmur; gives cheerfulness and equanimity
when the will is crossed, when our hopes are
blasted, or intentions defeated, and our designs
contravened; it fortifies us to support disappoint
ment without vexation, and to bear the coa-
tumely of the world, the calumnies of acquaint
ance, and the unkindness of friends without an
angry feeling; it preserves us from envying the
lot of those who appear more fortunate in this
worlds goods; it enables us to exercise that
charity which beareth all things; defends us from
restlessness in sickness, from irritability in pain,
from excessive anxiety in sorrow, from the tor
ment of selfishness under narrow circumstances,
from the blast of penury, the storms of adversity,
and the winter of destitution; it supplants anger,
places a tight rein upon ambition, reconciles
conflicting passions, dissipates the vapours of
ennui, and leaves no room for the exercise of the
gloomier forms of disgust, hatred, resentment,
and vengeance. Patience should be exercised
on the lesser, as well as on the more important
occasions of life ; on those lighter instances of
every day occurrence which provoke irritability
and fretfulness, without being of sufficient im
portance to develop a more powerful passion.
The employment of this virtue is essentially con
nected with peace of m ind; for  tribulation
worketh patience, and patience experience, and
experience hope. Romans v. 3, 4.
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 411
Patience is universal in its application, and
energetic in its influence;  be patient towards
all men, (1 Thessalonians v. 14,) rendering to
all their due, and taking care that it should have
its perfect work. Patience moderates the de
sires, and leads us to look forward though they
be not immediately gratified; and to pursue those
which are lawful with unwearied energy, and
undaunted perseverance; and still to hope for
their accomplishment. Lo, the husbandman
 waiteth for the precious fruits of the earth, and
hath long patience for it, until he receive the
early and the latter rain. James v. 7. In the
night of distress, even in the deepest affliction ;
when the hand of Providence has removed our
greatest comforts; when unexpected accident or
disease has snatched from us our nearest rela
tives ; when the hedge about ourselves, and our
houses, and all that we have appears to have been
broken down; when our oxen, and our asses,
and our sheep, and our camels, and our servants
have been destroyed, or we have been deprived
in some way or other of all that we have; then
it is that we should bless the name of the Lord;
then it is that we should  take the prophets,
who have spoken in' the name of the Lord, for
an example of suffering affliction, and of pa
tience ; then it is that we should  count them
happy which e n d u r e t h e n it is, that having
heard  of the patience of Job, and  having
seen the end of the Lord ; that the Lord is verv
7 V
 pitiful, and of tender mercy, (James v. 10, li , )
412 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
we too should be inspirited to persevere in well
doing; then it is, that we should hope for deli
verance, and  wait with patience for i t ( R o 
mans viii. 25 ;) then should  patience have her
perfect work, that we may be perfect and entire,
wanting n o t h i n g ( J a m e s i. 4;) and that we
 through patience and comfort of the Scriptures
might have hope. Romans xv. 4.
Again, patience forbids the employment o f un
lawful means to extricate ourselves from difficul
ties, pecuniary straights, or embarrassments, and
untoward circumstances of every kind : all for
bidden methods of obtaining money, every spe
cies of gambling, aqd game of hazard, every
appeal to chance, every kind of lottery ; every
sinister agency; the employment of the wicked
to compass our plans; in fact, every deviation
from the strict law of rectitude, is expressly pro
scribed, for  I will wait upon the Lord that
hideth his face from the house of Jacob, and I
will look for him. And when they shall say
unto you, seek unto them which h%ve familiar
spirits, and unto wizards that peep, and that
mutter; should not a people seek unto their
God ? for the living to the dead ? To the law
and to the testimony ; if they speak not accord
ing to this word, it is because there is no light in
them. And they shall pass through it hardly be
stead and hungry: and it shall come to pass,
that when they shall be hungry, they shall fret
themselves, and curse their king and their God,
and look upward. And they shall look unto the
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 413
earth, and behold trouble and darkness, dimness
of anguish, and they shall be driven to darkness.
Isaiah viii. 17, 19 22.
One of the greatest trials of patience, consists
in the calumny of those around us, and in their
suspicion of our actions, but above all in the mis
construction of our motives, even by the good ;
and yet under these circumstances we should
 rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him
we should not be impatient, because of  man
who prospereth in his way,  because of the
man who bringeth wicked devices to pass,
(Psalm xxxvii. 7,) but we should wait  patiently
for the Lord who has inclined to us, and will
hear our c r y ( P s a l m lx. 1;) we should acqui
esce in his dispensations, who will bring forth
 our righteousness as the light, and our judg
ment as the noon-day and in all circumstances
of trial, and difficulty, and temptation; when
our wishes, and inclinations, aind present ease,
and worldly prosperity, and advantageous con
nexion, and the good opinion of the many, and
the advancement of ourselves, and our friends,
must all be sacrificed to a sense of d u ty ; and
when we must pursue a long course of conduct
most adverse to our feelings, and therefore pain
ful ; and  when the youths shall faint, and be
weary, and the young men shall utterly fall:
they that wait upon the Lord, shall renew their
strength; they shall mount up with wings as
eagles; they shall run and not be weary, and they
shall walk and not faint.
414 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
Again, when disease assails us, and decre
pitude advances, and pain and restlessness are
our constant attendants, and the last enem y ap
proaches, and the final struggle is at hand,
and strength fails, and the energies o f the body
are exhausted, and the manifestations o f mind
are feeble and failing, and the judgment is in
secure, and the reason tottering, and reflec
tion well nigh extinguished, then it is, that ** He
will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord
God, shall wipe away tears from off all faces;
and it shall be said, Lo, this is our God ; w e have
waited for him, and he will save u s; this is the
Lord; we have waited for him, we will be glad,
and rejoice in his salvation. Isaiah xxv. 9, &c.
And in the immediate prospect of dissolution, and
of that change which then passes upon all men,
for that all have sinned, we shall exclaim with
Job,  If a man die, shall he live again? all the
days of my appointed time, will I wait till my
change come.
Once more, patience is a principle which leads
us to bear with injury and transgression, and to
seek rather the reformation than the punishment
of the offender; for  though oppression maketh
a wise man mad, yet  the patient in spirit is
better than the proud in spirit; and anger
resteth in the bosom of fools. Ecclesiastes vii.
7, 8, 9.
Lastly, patience is sometimes required in yield
ing willingly to privations which we endure, as
public taxes, and imposts of different kinds ; yet
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 415
here also the line is clear, for we are expressly
enjoined,  submit yourselves to every ordinance
of man for the Lords sake ; for so is the will of
God, that with well-doing, ye may put to silence
the ignorance of foolish men ; as free, and not
using your liberty for a cloak of maliciousness,
but as the servants of God. 1 Peter ii. 13 16.
 Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about
with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside
every weight, and the sin which doth so easily be
set us, and let us run with patience the race that
is set before us ; looking unto Jesus, the author
and finisher of our faith, who endured such con
tradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be
wearied, and faint in your minds. Hebrews
xii. 13.
Such is patience! such the frequent occasions
for its exercise, such its vast importance, such
its beneficial influence, such its paramount duty,
such its transcendant reward, such its power of
transforming its subject into the image of Christ.
And shall the Christian parent consider this virtue
as of secondary importance ? It is true indeed,
that the principal occasions for its exercise, do not
occur in infancy; but unless the principle be
early developed, unless the virtue be constantly
exercised, and its opposite vice be uniformly op
posed, its action will become every hour more
difficult: and eagerness of desire in the infant,
will become impetuosity in the child, passion in
the youth, and settled impatience and fretfulness
in the adu lt: neglect of early discipline will have
416 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
injured the future character, or will have fastened
upon it a load which will impede its progress,
sow its path through life with nettles and thorns,
oppose it with constant difficulty, water its couch
with tears, embitter the relish for the goods of
providence, destroy thankfulness of heart, and
constitute the fretful, irritable, wayward child of
undisciplined inclination, encompassed with pain
and sorrow of his own creation, and very little
fitted for the duties, or the pleasures o f Chris
tianity !
b. Meekness.
The term meekness is employed to describe a
temper of mind, which is not easily provoked;
which leads to the endurance of injuries, without
exciting the desire of revenge ; and comprehends
the idea of quiet submission to the will of God!
It is for the most part a passive virtue, the exer
cise of which is a peculiar embellishment to the
Christian. There is however a condition of the
young mind termed meekness, which it is neces
sary to distinguish from the principle just charac
terized ; since in the latter, the hand of severe
discipline is not borne w ell; it appears to crush,
rather than to direct, and to moulder away, in
stead of supporting the edifice of moral conduct.
The very slightest reprimand will often produce
a flood of tears, and leave a permanent impression
of sorrow, far more extensive than could have
been imagined, or ever was intended by the pa
rental instructor. It is difficult to manage a
M
ORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 417
child, who is heart-broken upon the smallest re
proof, or even upon the exertion of the mildest
form of coercive authority. It is not easy to
reconcile the discipline of government, and to lead
the mind into the right way, without producing
an effect, which might destroy the energy, and
freedom of action; and to keep up a sufficient
surveillance upon the conduct, without leading its
subject to the very verge of hypocrisy. It is of
great consequence not to daunt the meek, or to
extinguish the germ of independent action : it is
of equal consequence to educate a spirit of meek
ness,a temper of mind most favourable to cor
rectness of Christian conduct, most ornamental to
the character, when supported by freedom of
choice, by the enlarged decisions of judgment,
and by the ultimate ground of appeal in every
case, viz. the revealed will of G od: but most
readily conducive to error from mere feebleness,
rendering its possessor easily assailable by temp
tation, opinion, prejudice, and passion; leading
him to uncertainty and vacillation in judgm ent;
to unjust compliances with the views of others;
and finally, to disguise, deceit, and prevarication.
The management of this character, is not by
severity or neglect: both would prove equally fatal;
the former by inducing duplicity; and the latter,
lawlessness of taste and feeling, of opinion and
conduct. The great object is to lead with* a
gentle, yet firm, devoted, and unyielding hand
and at the same time, by constant exertion, to
VOL. II. EE
416 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
strengthen the understanding, to enlarge the
views, confirm the judgment, and subdue too
great susceptibility; to avoid punishm ent; to
conduct the mind to reason and reflection, rather
than to feeling; to accustom it to review its own
actions, and to arrive at its own moral decisions;
and thus to save it from the shock which it would
experience by the violence of its grief, and which
if frequently and fully repeated, would form that
feeble erring being, which would consist in too
much action; which would be perpetually ex
hausting its energies in the exercise of principles,
where no such exercise would be required ; and
which from the fear of doing wrong, would be
constantly endeavouring to do right in the wrong
p lace: feebleness and excitability would be its
prominent characteristics; while firmness, and
strength, and uniformity of principle, would be
its grand wants.
To return, this pseudo-meekness will be best
eradicated, by cultivating the genuine principle,
by fostering that spirit of acquiescence in the
disposal of Infinite wisdom, which will secure the
calm unruffled sunshine of the soul,-the peace
which passes understanding, which is not dis
turbed by the collision of injury, and whose im
mediate offspring are, the forgiveness of enemies,
pity and compassion for those from whom we
have suffered, the subjugation of resentment, and
its substitution for the desire to do good to those
who have despitefully used us. This may be a
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 419
hard lesson; but it is the duty, and the privilege
of the Christian. It ishis duty, for
mand of G od;  take my yoke upon you, and
learn of me ; for I am meek, and lowly in heart;
and ye shall find rest unto your souls. Matthew
xi. 29.  Whose adorning, let it be the hidden
man of the heart, in that which is not corruptible,
even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit,
which is in the sight of God, of great price.
1 Peter iii. 4. Again, meekness is a fruit of that
wisdom, which in the Holy Scriptures, is placed
for the love of God, and obedience to his will and
commandments; for,  who is a wise man, and
endued with knowledge amongst you ? Let him
shew out of a good conversation, his works with
meekness of wisdom. James iii. 13.
But it is also the Christians privilege, since
 blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the
earth;  so powerful is this principle, that victory
and conquest are promised to i t ; so true is it,
that the weapons of the gospel are om nipotent;
and that while anger would frequently lead to
injustice, and passion would be always sinful, and
always accompanied with a loss of self-possession,
and of influence, and valour would be useless,
and courage would be thrown away, and hatred
would be a source of constant torment, and the
gratification of revenge would be more than equi
poised by the misery of remorse; and while the
exercise of every one of these passions would be
accompanied by a corresponding loss of respecta
bility, of moral dignity, of real worth, of peace of
E E2
420 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
mind, and of intellectual influence: genuine,
humble, modest, god-like meekness  shall in
herit the e a r t h f o r the race is not to the swift,
nor the battle to the strong, but to him who lives
to the glory of God.
In the present world, surrounded by difficulty
and danger, with our knowledge circumscribed,
and our way rendered dark and obscure by sin,
and ignorance, and prejudice, and passion, the
greatest boons which we require are to be led
into the way of truth, to be preserved from error,
and to have the means of our information enlarged.
These blessings are promised to the m eek;  the
meek will he guide in judgment, and the meek
will he teach his way, (Psalm xxv. 9.) and  the
Lord lifteth up the m eek; but casteth the wicked
down to the ground. Psalm cxlvii. 6.
Again, as sinful creatures we need a Saviour;
as convinced of our wretchedness, we require
deliverance; a prey to the guilt and torment of
sin, we seek for peace; enslaved by passion, we
require the freedom of those who are ransomed
of Christ; obstructed in our path by the mate
rial cloud which invests us, we require the aid of
the Sun of Righteousness to dissipate that cloud;
and so it is the office of Christ  to preach good
tidings unto the meek, to bind up the broken
hearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and
the opening of the prison to them that are bound.
Isaiah lxi. 1.
And lastly, it is our privilege as well as our
duty to imitate the character of Him, who  when
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 421
he was reviled, reviled not again; when he suffered
he threatened not, but committed himself to Him
that judgeth righteously; (1 Peter ii. 23.) of
whom it has been said, that  He was oppressed,
and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth;
he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as
a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he open-
eth not his mouth. Isaiah liii. 7.
With such high authority for the exercise of
this virtue, surely meekness will not be stigma
tized as want of spirit, eveby those w
to see in the character of Christ only an example
for imitation; but in those who do not thus rob
the Saviour of his glory, who are really rational
Christians, and who rejoice to lay hold of the
hope set before them in the gospel, it cannot be
that they should neglect to cultivate this spirit, or
lightly esteem its influence; it cannot be that
they should be laughed or frowned out of their
religion; it cannot be that they should be follow
ers of Christ, and yet be imbued with the love of
retaliation, the manly temper of resentment, the
noble passion of revenge, the benevolent principle
of vengeance, the Christian spirit of murder; it
cannot be that they should be influenced at the
same time by the dispositions of the demon, and
by the love of God ; it cannot be that they should
be slaves of Satan, and heirs of the kingdom of
heaven!
4 2 2 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
S e c tio n VII. On Justice.
J u s tic e consists in the unbiassed appreciation of
conduct, and in the meed of applause, or disap
probation which results, from the judgment thus
formed of human action, and motive, and prin
ciple. It is the even-handed award of truth,
based on religious principle, uninfluenced by si
nister or selfish motives, supported by duty, and
proposing no other object for its end, than the
punishment of the evil-doer, and the reward of
virtuous conduct. But as  there is not a just
man upon earth thatdoeth good and sinneth not;
(Ecclesiastes vii. 20.) so neither is there a per
fect example of justice to be found except in the
character of Jehovah; and God alone is essen
tially righteous and ju st; also is the foun
tain of justice, both in his nature, which is of
purer eyes than to behold iniquity, and in all his
proceedings with his creatures; for  justice and
judgment are the habitation of thy throne; mercy
and truth shall go before thy face. Psalm
lxxxix. 14.
It is then an attribute of justice to be tem
pered by m ercy; but mercy does not supersede
justice. To forgive, to blot out the transgressions
of his people, to remember them no more against
them, to cast them into the depths of the sea ;
aye, more, even to spare the wicked for the sake
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 423
of the good, and to suspend his judgments upon
the former, to give them farther space for repent
ance ; to be changed from his fierce anger by the
tear of godly sorrow, and to be reconciled to
sinners by their turning to God, and faith in the
sacrifice of C hrist; these are his delight. Thus,
in the memorable instance of patriarchal plead
ing with God,  shall not the Judge of all the
earth do right ? Genesis xviii. 25. Jehovah pro
mises to spare the cities of Sodom, if there were
found in them ten righteous persons, for their
sokes. But while the attribute of mercy shines
most conspicuously, it is also true, that justice
demands the ultimate execution of his wrath
upon the finally impenitent; for as God is ,
he must hate sin, and must punish the wilfully
obstinate, in order to magnify his law and make
it honourable; and  he shall not judge after the
light of his eyes, neither reprove after the hear
ing of his ears; but with righteousness shall he
judge the poor, and reprove with equity for the
meek of the earth; and he shall smite the earth
with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath
o f his lips shall he slay the wicked. And right
eousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and
faithfulness shall be the girdle of his reins.
Isaiah xi. 3, 4, 5. This is a most important prin
ciple of justice; and it is one on which mistakes
are so frequently made, that it cannot be too
distinctly marked, or too sedulously inculcated
as an early bias of education. There is no
cruelty in justice; when a man deliberately pre-
424 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
fers evil to good, and with a knowledge o f con
sequences, chooses the former for its immediate
attractions, there can be no cruelty in reaping
the misery with which it stands connected : if he
voluntarily subject himself to the contagion of
the plague: if he contract the disease, and be
destroyed by it, we may pity the individual, but
there is no injustice done except by himself.
In the present world, there is a deplorable
want of justice:  judgment is turned away
backward, and justice standeth afar o ff; for truth
is fallen in the street, and equity cannot enter.
Isaiah lix. 14. On whichever side we cast our
eyes, we shall often find the just and the upright
among the poor, and the defenceless, w hile in
justice shall be rendered sacred by wealth and
power. The selfish, the ignorant, the conceited,
are often preferred, to the disinterested, the well-
informed, and the humble. Impudence, and im
perturbable self-possession, frequently bear rule
over humble worth, and diffident integrity; pas
sion and prejudice often stifle the voice of prin
ciple ; the monitions of conscience are silenced
by the influence of interest; judgment and opi
nion bend before the shrine of fashion; reason
and reflection yield their sway to the agency of
custom and hab it; the maxims of a narrow po
licy, and present expediency are exchanged for
the immutable truths of the Christian religion;
vice is rendered triumphant, and is invested with
a fictitious garb of virtue, that it may give cur
rency to its dicta, and potency to its influence;
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 425
that which is evil, is called good, and that which
is really good is shunned as evil, or perverted by
some epithet which renders it opprobrious; an
ger, avarice, and ambition are fostered, while the
forgiveness of injuries, universal benevolence,
and a humble desire to fill the station appointed
by Providence, are stigmatized as evidences of
being righteous over much ; pride, envy, hatred,
and intrigue are cherished, while the humble, the
charitable, and the sincere are sneered at, as
wanting a knowledge of the world; virtue and
vice constantly change places, and are perversely,
attired with their reciprocal claims to attention;
real merit is forgotten, and splendid worthless
ness is frequently successful, so that in this
world,  truth is fallen in the street, and equity
cannot enter; a simple, yet sufficient reason,
why, in reference to the character of him who
is pre-eminently just, there must be a day of re
tribution, when all these seeming inequalities of
condition will be reconciled and adjusted. But
the young mind, must be prepared for this in
justice of the worlds estimate, and must be
taught,not to be lightly moved away from its
principles by this apparent discountenance of
virtue ; it must be fortified against injustice, mis
representation, and obloquy; and must be
strengthened to sustain the steady helm of vir
tue, amidst the conflicting elements of this
worlds jargon, this intellectual Babel, by which
man vainly thinks to rear an edifice of safety for
himself, that he may reach his groveling heaven,
without the intervention of Almighty aid.
426 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
But on the contrary, there is a placid dignity
in justice, which gives to its possessor, however
humble, an influence which is denied to wealth,
or talent, or splendour, or rank, or power, when
dissociated from it, and alone; for deprive even
majesty of its externals, and what is it but a mere
jest? But integrity of action, and justice of
judgment and opinion, throw a clear and steady
light around the pathway of the just, for  the
path of the just, is as the shining light, that
shineth more and more unto the perfect day
it is as the sun which dispels the gloomy night
of ignorance, chases away the morning clouds of
indistinct perception and inadequate reason, dis
sipates the mists of prejudice and error; extin
guishes by its superior light, the dim twinkling
of the night of moral philosophy; unveils the
wide world of maxim and opinion, and slumber
ing motive, and secret design; and continues
until it has filled the earth with the rays of its
meridian splendour, and lighted up the reason of
every man who cometh into it, with the beams of
religious principle. It is this alone on which
justice can be based; and it is to this, that the
young must be constantly directed; here they
will learn that the prosperity of the wicked,
is of short duration, for a man shall not
 be established by wickedness ; but the root of
the righteous shall not be moved ; (Proverbs
xii. 3.) here they will observe that while the
unjust shall be snared by  the transgression of his
lips,  the just shall come out of trouble, (Pro-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 427
verbs xii. 13.) shall be carried harmless through the
difficulties and trials of life, and shall become a
safeguard to himself, and a blessing to others;
they will learn, that the just are the peculiar
objects of Gods watchful providence, and that
they shall be finally recompensed in their inte
grity, for  the lip of truth shall be established
for ever; and there shall no evil happen to the
ju st: (Prov. xii. 19, 21.) they will learn that
justice is a defence to the good man, and that it
gives him a sacredness of character, which is not
only a munition to himself, but descends in bless
ings upon his fam ily; for  the just man walketh
in his integrity : his children are blessed after
h i m ( P r o v e r b s xx. 7.) they will learn that a
principle of justice is a means of recovery from
error, or injudicious conduct, and that however a
mans judgment may have been perverted by
feeling, however his conduct may have deviated
from rectitude, under the influence of surprise, or
inconsideration, or emotion, or passion ; however
he may have formed hasty opinions, and may
have been betrayed into indiscreet observations;
yet that with the simple desire of doingjustly,
he possesses the means of returning to the path
o f sincerity,  for a just man falleth seven times,
and riseth up again; (Proverbs xxiv. 16.) and
lastly, they will learn that the influence of the
just is great, not only over relatives, and friends,
and connexions, and neighbours, but upon society
at large; not only upon individuals and upon mo
tives, but upon large masses of mankind, and
428 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
upon their actions; not only immediate, but
remote and contingent; not only present, but
abiding, even long after the example has ceased
to exist, since the memory of the just is blessed.
Proverbs x. 7.
A most important principle of justice is, that it
be impartial; that it do not form its judgment
from hearing only one side of a question, but that
it should ever listen to the version of the several
individuals concerned, whose views, however in
tended to be marked by truth, will commonly take
the form of selfish, or prejudiced feeling, and
will be insensibly biassed by a thousand emotions
which are hostile to the judgment of simple truth.
 He that is first in his own cause seemeth just;
but his neighbour cometh and searcheth him.
Proverbs xviii. 17.
But farther, justice is a social or political vir
tue, which renders to every man his due, and
which in the domestic sphere, or larger circle of
government, distributes equally its awards. As
a relative virtue, it moderates affectionate feeling,
modifies it by that principle which forms its last
appeal, and equally distributes rewards to the
well intentioned, encouragement to the diffident,
strength to the feeble and sincere; as well as
punishment to the wicked, restraint to the impe
tuous, and admonition and guidance to the insin
cere. As an attribute of the executive govern
ment, it regards the equal supply of the wants of
all, the uniform care of all interests, the pre
servation of the several links of which society is
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 429
composed, the nice adjustment of complicated
claims, the punishment of evil-doers, and the
praise of them that do well, although the latter is
scarcely to be met by adequate provisions of the
civil magistrate. In all these cases, it is based
on the one principle of seeking the common weal
in the former, or relative institution, it is stated
of Abraham, that the Lord knew him,  that he
will command his children and his household
after him, and they shall keep the way of the
Lord to do justice and judgm ent: and in the
latter, whatever may be the form of civil govern
ment, it should have but one object, the happi
ness and the virtue of the people, so that it might
be always said of the executive,  When the ear
heard me, then it blessed me ; and when the eye
saw me, it gave witness to m e ; because I de
livered the poor that cried, and the fatherless,
and him that had none to help him. The blessing
of him that was ready to perish came upon me,
and I caused the widows heart to sing for joy.
I put on righteousness and it clothed m e: my
judgment was as a robe and a diadem. I was
eyes to the blind, and feet was I to the lame. I
was a father to the poor; and the cause which I
knew not, I searched out. And I brake the jaws
of the wicked, and plucked the spoil out of his
teeth. J o b x x i x . i l  17. Thus, its simplicity,
utility, and necessity, are the principal recom
mendations of relative and political justice : and
its exercise will be required on every day, for
430 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
every day will produce some new act o f violence
and injustice.
There are they, who fancy that justice may be
left to individual feeling, or to the opinions of
private bodies, or to the decision of larger sec
tions of society, or to the judgment o f mankind
in general; and who vainly think the parade of
executive government altogether unnecessary,
since they plead for their virtue, as if it existed
already in the bosom of man, as defined by com
mon sense, directed by moral principle, and go
verned by conscience, not intending by this term
reason enlightened by revelation, and sanctioned by
religion, but a kind of half judgment of right and
wrong, according to some fancied standard of
accommodating purity. But the grand source of
error in all this reasoning, consists in a forgetful
ness of the real state of man, and in assuming the
untenable position, that he is perfectly innocent;
that even here, happiness is within his own reach;
that his bosom is not agitated by conflicting pas
sions; that he has no tendency to evil; that
wisdom and piety, sincerity and truth, benevo
lence and compassion alone actuate him ; that he
is free from the influence of temptation; that he
has clean escaped from the power of ignorance
and vice, duplicity and falsehood, envy and self-
conceit ; and that his heart is governed by motives
the most disinterested; thus assuming an ima
ginary state of perfection for man, and avowing a
practical disbelief of the scriptural account of his
MORAL AM
D RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 431
really lost and ruined condition: and when once
the casuist has lost sight of this, the great com
pass of his thoughts, he has abandoned the only
guide of his ratiocination, and is lost in unsatis
factory conjecture. The simple, but melancholy
truth is, that man cannot confide in his fellow-
man ; that he is taught by experience to be sus
picious of his motives and conduct; and that the
apparatus of justice is interposed as a barrier to
his vicious and anti-social conduct, under the in
fluence of selfish passions, exhibited in the form
of despotic power on the one hand, where a suf
ficient quantity can be accumulated in the hands
of one, or of a few individuals ; or of licentious
freedom on the other, where the lawless will of
the many is placed in the room of that single un
limited sway, which has been just noticed. The
natural tendency of both these forms of power, is
towards injustice, towards a sacrifice of the inte
rests of many, and especially of the feeble, for
the gratification of the few, and particularly for
the aggrandiezment of the strong. But justice
interposes; and since it is perfectly equal in its
decisions, it admits of no claims of pre-eminence
of the great over the little: all is equal, and the
views and feelings of the highest personage, de
mand, or at least obtain, no greater attention,
than those of the peasant. Memorable instances
of the truth of this position, are to be found in
our own code of laws, and in the mode of their
upright and independent administration.
In spite of the perversion of human opinion.
432 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
and feeling, and judgment, some traces will yet
be found in man, descriptive of his high original,
some feeble glimmerings, which still faintly indi
cate what he once was,and what he m i
been. So in the present instance, a sense of
justice may be found inherent in the human
mind, although so lamentably distorted and ob
scured ; aye, even its vestiges are to be marked
in the retributive visitations of savage life, which
though influenced by passion, and stimulated by
the love of revenge, do yet proceeduponthe assump
tion of appeasing the angry spirits of their relatives
and friends, by visiting the injustice done to
others, through the medium of calamities of an
equally, or more fearful nature. So again, with
regard to the power of conscience, which though
defined by the amount of moral principle in action,
and by the influence of religious motive, does yet
always to a certain extent, approve the just, and
condemn the unjust. But though there may be
a foundation for this virtue, it is confessedly
feeble, and becomes the immediate object of edu
cation to develop, to strengthen, to inform, to
enforce, and practically to apply; and this is to
be accomplished by moral and religious instruc
tion.
The principles of justice and morality are alike;
and moral duty is uniform in its character; since
it flows from one source only, viz. the revelation of
the will of God which he has vouchsafed to man.
Thus justice is founded on immutable truth; and
it is implanted in the human heart in the form of
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 433
an authentic communication from the Most High
God to his feeble erring creatures; it is the off
spring of infinite mind, is applied by infinite
wisdom, and leads to infinite good. Thus it is
perfectly independent of the varying opinions of
man, and of all the nicer distinctions of philoso
phical morality; it is the judgment of God, not
the caprice or prejudice of m an; it is the law of
heaven, and not simply the institutions of reason;
it is not the result of opinion, since it rests in
religion, in that counterpart of infinite mind, _
which existed anterior to the formation of all
possible opinion; it is the indestructible attribute
o f Jehovah, and is to be found in man only as it
may have been vouchsafed to him : although fre
quently clothed in language, it is altogether inde
pendent of words ; it requires no logical support,
and cannot be enforced by argument, for it is the
science of duty, and consists in a prompt feeling
of right, and in obedient action, not in reasoning
and discussion, speculation and hypothesis. Jus
tice is to the social compact what medicine is to
the b od y; it should remove every uneasiness,
repress every excessive action, stimulate every
languid function, restore and preserve the balance
o f the several organs of which the body is com
posed, sustain its wasting energies, husband its
resources, and secure, as far as possible, all the
highest perfection of healthy action. So the ob
ject of justice is to cure and to correct the dis
orders to which the will of man is prone; to ob
viate the effects of injury, to repress vice, to
VOL. I I. F F
4 3 4 M o r a l a n d r e l i g i o u s e d u c a t i o n .
encourage virtue, to restore and to preserve the
influence of religious principle, to support the
feeble with its all-important sanctions, views and
hopes, to be niggard of displaying its resources
except upon the substantial ground of benevolent
action, and to continue increasing in truth and righ
teousness, in good-will to man and conformity to
God. Man is blind to his real interests; he goes
on frowardly in the way of his own heart; he is
infatuated by his sen ses; deaf to the admonitions
of conscience; torn by conflicting em otions;
driven hither and thither by passion ; agitated by
ardent desires, and by extravagant and unjusti
fiable pretensions; arrogant in his designs ; pre
sumptuous in his w ishes; avaricious in his schemes
for futurity; ambitious in his views ; the prey of
malevolent intention ; enslaved by his fears; in
human and ferocious in the exercise of courage;
enfeebled by envy; stimulated by jealousy and
suspicion ; deceitful and vain ; and the design of
justice is to remedy these evils : with these views,
also, it is to be educated, and to form a daily and
hourly principle of the young minds conduct
And while it is inculcated in action, it must also
be exhibited towards them, and kept up as an
uniform and last appeal in all their little differ
ences, and is never to be commuted for any in
ferior consideration; fiat Justitia, ruat .
MORAL AND RELI GI OUS EDUCATI ON. 4 3 5
S e c t i o n VIII. Ridicule-.
R i d i c u l e can seldom if ever be employed, with
out giving pain to the individual who is its object,
and it is not often engaged on the side of real,
valuable truth; since this possesses so many solid
claims to attention, and is entitled to support on
such substantial grounds, that it requires not the
aid of this weapon for its support. It is much
more frequently retained against all that is just
in sentiment, or valuable in feeling, or excellent
in conduct; for by the assistance of wit, that may
be rendered ridiculous, or at least may be made
to appear such, against which there is no other
practicable mode of attack; a sarcasm may be
accepted instead of an argument; a grotesque, or
awkward exhibition of truth, may serve to render
it unpalatable; an extreme display of feeling, the
exhibition of the most feeble reasoning, an ex
cessive severity of conduct upon the merest trifles,
may serve to discredit genuine tenderness of con
science, or the influence of correct principle and
real circumspectionall valuable qualities, which
cannot be otherwise impugned. But so it is, that
man cannot bear to be laughed a t; and that he
who has risen above the frowns of his compa
nions, and has been proof against the temptation
of their smiles, and has satisfactorily refuted their
sophisms, and has shewn himself superior to the
coldness of their neglect, and has steadily held
f f 2
436 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS ED UC A TI ON .
on his way in spite of every obstacle, and not
withstanding the persecution of his compeers,
will yet yield his fairest convictions, his present
peace, and future hopes, to the feeble but en
venomed shaft of ridicule.
Ridicule takes its origin in the pride and ma
lignity of man; it is the assumption of fancied
superiority by one who dares to affix absurdity to
the thoughts or conduct of another; and it is the
offspring of that malevolence which is pleased
with making others feel a real or fancied infe
riority, heightened by the display of an assumed
pre-eminence in an authoritative manner; a mea
sure well calculated not only for effect, but for
painful effect. It is then the result of that cruel
pleasure which we experience at the knowledge
of any thing which may derogate from the cha
racter, or bring disgrace upon our equals. Thus
therefore it is the weapon of the feeble and the
vicious, used against the strong and the virtuous;
it is a dernier resort of the vanquished in argu
ment, or the ashamed in feeling, or the convinced
in duty; of those who can no longer stand up
against the force of reasoning, and against whose
conduct and feeling,marching in the simple majesty
of truth and virtue, is a perpetual reproach. So
true is this general rule, that ridicule is found
attached to the very lowest scale of mental mani
festation : the weak may laugh, though they can
not reason; aye, even the idiot, and the miserable
victim of Alpine disease, are capable of evincing
the sneer of ridicule; and these too, it may be
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATI ON. 437
remarked, are proverbially mischievous and mali
cious. Malice indeed is the usual parent of ridi
cule, and this alone should shew its nefarious
tendency. There may, however, be some follies
which are not to be met by serious argument, but
which ridicule may reach; the occasions for its
exercise must, notwithstanding, be very rare;
and when it is employed, it can only be admis
sible where the design is good, and the motive
simply benevolent. Love to God, and that Which
is good; and love to man, and compassion for his
wanderings can alone render it safe to employ
this weapon even for the subversion of folly.
That it may be thus applied, we have the highest
authority for asserting, for  He that sitteth in
the heavens shall laugh: the Lord shall have
them in derision. Psalm ii. 4.  I also will
laugh at your calam ity; I will mock when your
fear cometh. Proverbs i. 26. But who is suffi
cient for these things ? Who can possess that in
finite love, that fulness of benevolence, which is
necessary before he can feel the influence of ridi
cule, without entertaining some kind of malevo
lent emotion ?
There are several forms in which we meet with
this vice, and which especially require the jealous
attention of the Christian instructor. The first
of these is satire, a species of literary compo
sition, whose utility may be more than ques
tioned, and the general effect of which is to ex
cite the recoil of angry feeling in the bosom of
those for whom it is intended; while it gives cur-
438 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATI ON.
rency to folly, and invests it with a form, and
reality, and tangibility, which it did not before
possess; it is talked of by thousands who were
not previously aware of its existence: are
stimulated to imitation, and it may well be doubted
if any are dissociated by it from their pursuits;
while all writers and readers they who ridicule,
and they who are ridiculed, and a host of servile
and paltry imitators on both sides are filled with
angry and malignant passions; passions which
alienate the heart from virtue, and lead it astray
from the straight gate and narrow way which
leadeth unto life. But a satirical disposition is
frequently to be found afloat in society, and espe
cially claims the attention of the parent. It is at
all times unamiable; its grand design is ever to
trace some little flaw in the character of others,
by which they may be rendered ridiculous; and
in the prosecution of this design, none are spared;
the nearest connexions, the dearest friends, the
most intimate companions even relatives, the
aged as well as the young, the dignified and the
good, all are involved in the influence of this
devouring principle, which spares none, but makes
each in their turn the object of satirical allusion
to others. Perhaps females, from the spright
liness of their wit, lively fancy and rapid associa
tion, are more liable to this failing than males,
who are accustomed to think more deeply, and
moreover are restrained by the usages of society
from that freedom of speech which is allowed to
the weaker sex. But neither are exempted from
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATI ON. 439
its influence, and in all this agency is injurious.
On the part of the satirist, it represses the growth
of benevolent feeling; and it produces pain, want
of confidence, suspicion, and angry feeling in
those who are its object. A satirical disposition
is therefore to be checked, and the formation of
the habit most sedulously opposed.
So also with regard to the operation of comedy,
in which there exists a greater shew of benevo
lence than in pure satire; since the one aims
simply to raise a laugh, while the other wounds
more deeply. Still it must be recollected, that
the object of this laugh is generally some silly
peculiarity of manner, or phraseology, or style of
expression, which however absurd in itself, is
usually associated with some properties of sterling
value ; and that the effect of laughing at the
exterior form is almost always to detract from the
value of the thing itself. While the garb with
which truth is invested is held up as an object
for ridicule, it commonly happens that no atten
tion whatever is paid to its intrinsic worth, but
that it is involved in one undistinguishing con
clusion of disesteem. It is a favourite weapon
with the enemies of religion; they rejoice to seize
upon some peculiarity of its votaries, and to hold
it up to ridicule, because they know full well,
that by so doing they diminish the operation of
the truth itself. Besides, it is generally some
ultra display of folly, against which the shaft of
comedy is pointed, and each votary of this folly
remains confirmed in his pursuits, because the
440 M
ORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
barb of ridicule does not touch him ; it goes be
yond him, and he looks around for some other en
thusiastic individual to whom it may be more
appropriate. The natural tendency of the human
mind is to contract its aberrations to the smallest
possible ideal space ; and therefore it feels quite
secure, when it perceives these follies to be ex
panded over a surface which it is conscious of not
wholly occupying.
Another form of ridicule is what is commonly
termed ajoke; that is, sporting with the feelings
of others, raising their hopes or fears, filling them
with extravagant anticipations of good or evil,
employing them upon some silly errand, or pro
curing in various ways, the pang of disappoint
ment, and all this, merely for the purpose of
raising a laugh, and enjoying the joke. B ut this
is no joke to those who suffer, whose feelings are
wounded, and who at all events are made to look
and to feel little; a painful state, which none can
endure with equanimity, and which none can re
flect upon with complacency, for a fellow-creature
has been pained, however slight the degree; and
 even in laughter the heart is sorrowful, and the
end of that mirth is heaviness. Proverbs xiv. 13.
Wit, or the lively association of two very dissi
milar objects, in order to raise a laugh, is another
most dangerous possession. It is the attribute
of lively fancy, and depends on a great degree of
rapidity in seizing the tangible points of an argu
ment or an action, and grouping them into such
fanciful combinations, as shall dazzle by their bril-
M
ORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 441
liance, and amuse by their singularity. Still it
must be recollected that au essential property of
wit as it is found in the world, is that it  may
cutas well as shine;" and if it cut, it must wound;
and if it wilfully wound, it does injury to itself,
by destroying the fineness of its moral perception,
and to its neighbour, by wandering from that
active love to man, which forms a prominent basis
for the Christian character, and one of thosefruits,
wanting which there can be no obedience to
Christ, consequently no faith in him, and there
fore no true religion. Far be it from us to dis
courage the lively sallies of fancy provided they
be innocent; but in order to be innocent, they
must be benevolent, and if they have not charity,
they are worse than nothing.
Among the same class of mental attributes may
be mentioned raillery, which is also admissible, if
it be pure, but which can rarely be indulged with
out giving pain, and which must, therefore, be
most sparingly em ployed; since intellectual bril
liance must yield to Christian virtue.
And lastly, another dangerous license of the
same principle is the repartee, the equivocal -
der which is commonly made to some sally of wit,
to some taunt of ridicule, to some point of raillery,
and occasionally to some serious admonition.
There are individuals, who possess this faculty,
in a degree so pre-eminent, that it requires great
energy and perseverance, to pass over the daily
opportunities which present themselves for its ex
ercise, and to subdue the inclination towards a
442 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUC ATI ON.
sneer. There are very few circumstances in
which it can be considered as entitled to tolera
tion ; and generally speaking, it will be found the
prelude to angry contention, and to every feeling
which the Christian and the philanthropist should
seek to discourage ; it paves the way for length
ened disputes, terminating commonly in accusa
tion, angry feeling, and the loss of Christian love.
Humour is a low species of vulgar wit, which is
only just noticed because it is too glaringly offen
sive and disagreeable to require detail, or to en
force the necessity for its opposition. In all
these instances, it will be seen that the tendency
of ridicule is to make an enemy of the individual
laughed at, because he is rendered uncomfortable
by signalising his weak side ; and to minister to
the pride and vanity of the individual, by osten
tatiously claiming exemption from these defects,
and invidiously placing strength in pointed
contrast with their feebleness; and thus shewing
our want of benevolent feeling, the absence of
which, though it may be sometimes only a nega
tive state, will certainly produce a principle of
hostility, on the part of those who are ridiculed.
In the exercise of this however, it is
seldom that the mental manifestations will be
found in a state of negation ; there is commonly,
not only the want of benevolence, but the exist
ence of selfishness, and the decided absence of
charity; and if so, the corresponding passions
will only be more surely developed.
For the full effect of ridicule, it is not necessary
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 443
that the intended impression should be clothed in
w ords; it may be expressed indeed by marked
silence, by manner only, by the form of the
countenance, by a simple inflection of the tones
of the voice, sometimes by an unmeaning epi
thet which acquires point from the mode of its
application; and it may be produced by feigning
absurd consequences, which by no means naturally
belong to the prem ises; or by the employment
of doubtful phraseology, which will admit a dis
paraging explanation. The wound is only more
effectually given by the hand of the midnight as
sassin, who strikes unseen, and deliberately at
tacks his victim in the most vital part, when un
suspicious of danger, and incapable of repelling
the attack. Thus then, the operation of this
mental state can scarcely ever be beneficial; for
the good mancompassionates the errors, grieves
over the follies, and weeps and trembles at the
vices of others; the bad , the weak and the
wicked can laugh at that which is evil, and which
occasions misery in some form or other; the tear
of pity and the sigh of repentance, are an accept
able offering to a compassionate Saviour; but the
raised lip of ridicule, and the selfish agitation of
the bosom which is involved in the comparative
disesteem of others, are not emotions which we
would wish to cherish while repeating the daily
petition to be preserved from temptation, or when
employing the comprehensive confession of our
church, or when drawing towards the close of our
earthly existence, we begin to realize the cer-
444 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS ED UC A TI ON .
tainty of future judgm ent, where every atom of
conduct towards our fellow man, will be estim ated
as if actually done to Christ himself. It is at this
serious hour of reflection on the past, that we
shall feel how unworthy of a powerful m ind has
been devotedness to this v ic e ; it is then w e shall
perceive the fearful inroads it has made upon the
dignity of virtuous action, and upon the respect to
which it alone can entitle u s ; it is then w e shall
fully know its fatal agency in annihilating the
sacred and commanding influence o f morality
upon the life, in leading us to forget the great law
of Christian ethics, and of doing to others as we
would they should do unto u s ; it is then alone
we shall fully and fearfully own its desecrating
operation upon the deepest and most serious re
cesses of the heart, and perceive how extensively
it has stifled the voice of religion, blunted the
feelings of charity, obscured the perception of
right, destroyed the sympathy of affection, and
blighted the fruits o f the Christian tem per. It
must be confessed, however, that ridicule does
often result from mere ignorance and carelessness:
the individuals who thus offend, laugh at and de
ride circumstances, and feelings, and doctrines,
which they cannot comprehend; a failing which
perhaps may be palliated by its and yet it
is a poor excuse to alledge, that the em pty and
the senseless may laugh at their own deficiency.
There is yet one form of ridicule, which has
been purposely reserved for detached notice in
this place, viz. i
r
o
n
y
.This,* in common with
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATI ON. 445
every manifestation of the principle from it which
it arises, is a dangerous weapon, especially when
used in common conversation. It is next to
impossible to divest it of odious personality, and
therefore an ironical tendency should always be
discouraged in the young. When it can be em
ployed without personal allusion, upon serious sub
jects, and with a decidedly good intention, it may
perhaps sometimes make an impression upon a
mind which has resisted argument, and has been
deaf to reasoning, and has remained proof against
every common appeal; there may be cases in
which its striking and sententious dicta may
find access to the heart, and effect a lodgment
there from which it will not be readily detached,
and which may arrest the attention, and be the
first link in the chain of conviction. Thus per
haps the folly of idolatry was never more conspi
cuously shewn in words than in the language of
Elijah, to the prophets of Baal, when they called
on his name, but there was no voice nor a n that
answered,  cry aloud, for he is a god; either he
is talking, or he is pursuing, or he is on a jour
ney, or peradventure he sleepeth, and must be
awaked; (1 Kings xviii. 27.) or in the memo
rable expostulation of the evangelical prophet
 He planteth an ash, and the rain doth nourish
it. Then shall it be for a man to burn, for he
will take thereof and warm him self; yea, he
kindleth it, and baketh bread ; yea, he maketh a
god and worshippeth it, he maketh it a graven
image, and falleth down thereto. He bumeth
446 MOBAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
part thereof in the fire; with part thereof he
eateth flesh; he roasteth roast and is satisfied;
yea, he warmeth himself and saith. Aha, I am
warm, I have seen the fire. And the residue
thereof he maketh a god, even his graven im age;
he falleth down unto it, and worshippeth it, and
prayeth unto it, and saith, Deliver me, for thou
art my god. Isaiah xliv. 14 17.
S e c tio n IX. On Intemperance.
Intemperance consists in the enjoyment of
some one or more of the good things of this pre
sent life in an inordinate degree ; a degree which
engrosses the thoughts and attention, or disorders
the functions of the body; a degree which con
stitutes immediate pleasure the great object of
existence, and before which reason and religion
too generally shrink away, their voice stifled, their
dictates unheeded and unheard. It is of great
importance therefore, very early in childhood, to
instil the principle, and educate the habit, that
we eat anddrink to live. Not perhaps that the in
fantile excesses are of themselves very important,
but if they lead to the indulgence of eating or
drinking for the sake of the gratification they
afford, not for the satisfaction of hunger primarily,a
principle of evil has been implanted in the youth
ful bosom, which will by aud by, be exhibited in
the most disgraceful forms of intemperance, should
M O H A I, A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 447
the opportunity be afforded, and if the individual
be not restrained by Divine Grace.
This care, this thoughtfulness about the supply
of the wants of the table is derogatory from the
dignity of human nature, and degrading to the
character of rational man, the child of instruction,
the creature of intellect, the pupil of reflection,
the servant of conscience, yet the free agent;
since it involves in a greater or less degree, the
loss of reason, the profligate waste of time, the
abuse of talent, the destruction of reflection, the
stifling of conscience, the slavery of sin ; the in
dividual rests embruted, and has no higher hopes
and desires than the beasts which perish.  Be
not thou amongst wine-bibbers, amongst riotous
eaters of flesh. For the drunkard and the glutton
shall come to poverty; and drowsiness shall
clothe a man with rags. Proverbs xxiii. 20, 21.
The scenes of misery and debauchery to which in
temperance will lead, cannot be better pourtrayed
than by the words of Solomon :  Who hath woe?
who hath sorrow? who hath contentions? who
hath babbling ? who hath wounds without cause ?
who hath redness of eyes ? They that tarry long
at the wine, they that go to seek mixed wine.
Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when
it giveth his colour in the cup, when it moveth
itself aright. At the last it biteth like a serpent,
and stingeth like an adder. Thine eyes shall be
hold strange women, and thine heart shall utter
perverse things. Yea, thou shalt be as he that
lieth down in the midst of the sea, or as he that
448 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
lieth on the top of a mast. They have stricken
me, shalt thou say, and I was not sick ; they
have beaten me, and I felt it n o t; when shall I
awake? I will seek it again. Proverbs xxiii.
29 35.
 Obsta principiis, is the important lesson of
wisdom, and it is never more exemplified than in
the subject before u s; if the enormous appetite of
infancy be indulged, it will very generally termi
nate in the intemperance of the adult, and in the
miserable and often premature decrepitude of the
aged. Not one of the least effects of gourmandisc,
is the excitement of a degree of irritation of the
stomach, which may be borne to a certain ex
tent without producing morbid symptoms, but
which thengives rise to a variety of sensations
usually termed nervous; these serving to em
bitter existence : and then farewell to happiness;
farewell to the real pleasure arising from the mo
derate satisfaction of healthy appetite; farewell
to bodily comfort, to peace of mind, to intellectual
energy, and to literary pursuit; for the curse of
unprofitableness rests upon the m em ory; the
clouds of distress hover over reflection on the
p a st; farewell to firmness of purpose and even
ness of temper, and welcome all the glooms of
hypochondriasis, and all the fancies of the valetu
dinarian; farewell to the pleasing anticipations of
hope, and welcome the darkest forebodings of
despair; farewell to usefulness, to principle, to
character, and welcome all the infirmities of the
feeble and the helpless; farewell to the tranquil-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 449
lity of an evening fireside, and the peaceful con
solations of sleep, and welcome all the fretful
irritability of the miserable victim of habit and
disease.
But we must follow this character farther: ex
hausted nature can scarcely endure these suffer
ings without a struggle to relieve them ; and with
the spell of infatuation upon her resources, she flies
for assistance to more powerful stimulants, and
seeks to obviate the secondarymorbid effects, pro
duced by primaryirritation of the stomach, through
the instrumentality of wine, or some other alco
holic fluid, opium, or tobacco. All these may be
classed together, and what is the result? The
immediate relief of those sensations, and the sub
stitution of pleasurable feelings, upon which such
is the attendant charm, that the wretched victims
o f inebriety remain spell-bound by its influence;
and if ever a momentary doubt of the propriety of
their conduct should cross their mind, it is only a
motive for a renewed or increased dose of their
apparently kind friend, but in reality their most
deadlyfoe.
W e must justify these sweeping assertions: let
it be recollected then that the practice is invariably
a growing evil; the stimulation of to-day will be
required to be augmented this day month, for the
purpose of producing equal comfort, and so on
ward in a constantly increasing ratio, till enor
mous quantities are demanded; till apoplexy and
palsy in all their frightful forms invade the patient;
and till death close the scene; or till by one sus-
V O L . I I . o Or
450 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
tained and magnanimous effort, the victims of this
painful habit rid themselves of the miserable
chains which have been forged around th em ; and
once more emancipated from the m ost cruel
bondage, they regain the full possession o f their
unrestrained and unincumbered faculties. The
effect upon the brain, of this pernicious practice,
is perhaps the most frightful. For, as w e have
seen delineated in the admirable description of
the wise man, the first effect of all these narcotics
is to produce fulness of the vessels of that viscus}'
but upon the subsidence of this preternatural dis
tension, they do not at once regain their original
tone and contraction; hence arises a degree of
nervous irritability, which is a fresh motive for
another dose of morbid happiness; a similar pro
cess is repeated in larger quantities, and at less
distant intervals; the patient is never comfortable
but when under this unnatural state of excite*
ment; the brain suffers from constant irritation;
a kind of heavy stupor supervenes upon the short
brightening of the faculties, which is the imme*
diate effect of every renewed d ose; and if this be
worn off before another supply be taken, it is suc
ceeded by unconquerable restlessness, a peevish,
captious irritability of temper, and a variety of
miserable feelings, which are only superseded by
fresh libations, and renewed irritation of this most
valuable organ, which cannot, however,: always
be subjected with impunity to such reiterated ex
citement, but sooner or later has its integrity im
paired ; and then a frightful train of morbid actions
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 4 5 1
invades the patient, and subjects him to a listless
inaptitude for all exertion, to the diminution of
his muscular power, the wasting of his animal
frame, to loss of appetite, to disturbed and
dreaming slumbers, to disposition to drowsiness
during the day, to giddiness, head-ache, faintings,
depression of spirits; and to that fearful hour,
which will surely come, when a dreadful retribu
tion of immediate suffering, will be the conse
quence ; when the powers of the constitution will
be irretrievably lost, and when the wretched in
valid will become a burden to himself, and his
attendants, with this aggravating consideration,
that his sorrows are the result of a habit of in
temperance, thoughtlessly acquired perhaps, but
pertinaciously pursued; and this period may ar
rive suddenly, aye, instantaneously, and perhaps
at this very hour!
Miserable too, is the mental state of these un
happy sufferers, never knowing peace and hap
piness, except when under the influence of arti
ficial excitement; convinced of their error, yet
without sufficient energy to abandon i t ; always
subjected to irritability of temper, which invests
every object around them, with the gloom of dis
satisfaction ; unfitted for the enjoyment of life;
gradually enfeebled and destroyed by the slow,
yet certain operation of this destructive poison ;
a prey to unavailing regret from reflection on the
past, yet the remorseless victim of the power of
hab it; advancing on the future, with the cheer
less prospect of a useless and miserable old age ;
o g2
245 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
assailed by loathsome disease; and y et death
almost seeming to be too tardy in putting a pe
riod to their sufferings. And if this be a just
view of the ultimate consequences of a habit of
intemperance, how important is it, that the vice
should be checked in earliest infancy; aye, more,
that it should not be encouraged iu the nursery,
by goading the appetite, and stimulating the
stomach, and loading it to repletion; how all-
important, that the principles and the habit of
temperance should be daily and hourly watched and
developed.
The great art of living, consists in abstemious
ness, since by this means, the sense of taste will
be preserved in a natural and susceptible state;
it will always be in a certain relation with the
wants of hunger, and the desire of appetite; the
stomach will require no stimulants to coax it into
good digestion; it will be found the willing ser
vant of the animal economy, though the rebel
lious slave of vitiated inclination; the tone of
the general system will be maintained, and it will
be apt for all the corporeal functions of its situ
ation in life; and the individual will possess a
clear head, and a light heart, capable of intel
lectual pursuits with energy, and freed from the
vapours of ennui, and the dark clouds of melan
choly: the temper will not be soured by the
irritation of an oppressed stom ach; and fits of
the spleen, and all the fancies of hypochondriasis
will be known only as matters of curiosity, or
rather of superstition, like the genii,. and the
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 463
fairies, and the spirits, and the bogles, with which
our ancestors of romantic memory have peopled
every glen, and mountain pass, and have amused
the strong, and affrighted the feeble with tales of
their good or bad offices. Let it be recollected,
that happiness does not consist in complete satis
faction, but that on the contrary, it is destroyed
by it. Moderate enjoyment adds to comfort;
but the extinction of desire results from excess,
which also palls the sense of pleasure ; so true it
is, that a natural curse attaches itself to luxurious
indulgence. Again, the attempt at complete sa
tisfaction is not only inseparably connected with
satiety, but occasions an irritable state of the
senses, in consequence of which their impres
sions are perverted; that which was intended as
an instrument of enjoyment becomes the source
of m isery; and dissatisfaction, and disgust, are
in close alliance with the entire extinction of
want.
But this is not a ll; not only are the functions
of the body disturbed, by rendering it wholly
subservient to the inclinations of depraved appe
tite ; not only is its comfort subverted, its means
of enjoyment opposed, and its taste rendered
m orbid; not only are appetite, hunger, and good
digestion unknown, and supplanted by the mise
rable feelings of the pampered slave of sense;
not only are the physical strength, and health,
and vigour impaired, and the intellectual mani
festations stunted in their growth, or blighted in
their maturity; not only is the man subjected to
4 5 4 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
disease, and vain and unreal fears; not only is
his stomach converted into a great culinary la
boratory, and his mind into that of the irritable
menial who presides over its preparations and dis
guises ; but his heart is rendered impassive, and
inaccessible; he is alive only to selfish em otion;
the accents of woe break upon his ear without
sym pathy; the tear of sorrow, the language of
compassion, fail to awaken his sensibilities; the
business of charity is not business; his all
important engagements are the arduous pursuits
of gastric satisfaction; and though every indi
vidual around him may perish, he is deaf to the
solicitations of benevolence, if its boon be
obtained only by a sacrifice of the stimulation of
his palate, and by a loss of the enjoyment at
tached to the gradual exhaustion of his stomach,
the feebleness of his intellect, the decay of his
senses, appetites, and passions, the subservience
of his will to animal desire, the premature decre
pitude of his mind, and the monstrous perversion
of the qualities of his heart!
The grand object of good education then, will
be the limitation of the animal desires, and, the
creation of few wants; the indulgence of moderate
wishes, and the temperate gratification o f appe
tite. This object is to be accomplished b y sim
plicity of diet, by taking care that it should be
sparing in quantity; by producing thankfulness
for whatever may be provided, by teaching
children to take all that is set before them, with
out curious inquiry into its properties; by avoid-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 465
ing the creation of artificial wants and desires;
by the cultivation of moderate w ishes; and by
teaching them to provide for the necessities of
others, out of some little privations of their ow n :
so shall they pass through life usefully and hap
pily ; so shall they live while they live, and eat and
drink, not because to-morrow may put an end to
the capacity of eating and drinking, but because
to-morrow will call them to give an account of all
that they have said, or done, or thought; may
allJind mercy in that day !
S e c tio n X . On Honour, or the lone Repu
tation.
T he love of distinction, the desire of being
handed down to posterity with honour, the wish
to be lifted out of the little narrow sphere we
now occupy, and to be placed in relation with the
universe to exist in every quarter of the globe,
to be spoken of, and to be had in reputation
by distant ages and nations, by those who know
us not, except from the attributes of our cha
racter ; to transmit a name to unknown people,
and scarcely descried futurity, not only unsullied
by the taint of vice, but honourable for the exer
tion of virtue, distinguished for talent, living in
the pleased recollection of others, and being re
membered with regret, and yet with delight, and
466 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N S
held up as an example for the imitation of the
young and the unstahle; such are some of the
privileges man desires and seeks after} such
are the palm promised to the productions of ge
nius, and the consistency of virtue.
This principle may be useful as a stimulus to
activity; but is insufficient and injurious, should
it ever become a motive to action. W e may de
sire the approbation of the good, and we may
earnestly pursue that path of duty which will
ensure i t ; but if we constitute this the basis of
our conduct, and place it in the room of a simple
desire to do the will of God, then we substitute
an inferior, an unworthy, an antichristian motive,
for the principle of faith, and of obedience which
arises from i t ; for our trust and confidence are
in m en; it is to them we desire to be pleasing;
it is their praise we seek, and their approbation
we pursue; we rest satisfied with that which is
only valuable in proportion as it is consistent
with religion, and coincident with the approba
tion of the Most H igh! It is this alone which
can give value to the praise of man; for if it be
at variance with the truths of religion, and if it
do not directly lead to God, it is the offspring of
Satan, and is intended to deceive us, to tempt
our hearts aside from the pursuit of heaven, and
to fill them with the profitless advantages of
the kingdoms of this world, and  the glory of
them.
Man wishes to appear great, and pursues with
ardour that renown, which results from the un-
1 1 0 R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 457
conscious consent of his contemporaries, and of
his posterity. To be had in honour is the great
object of his w ish es; and for the most part, he
rests satisfied with the meed of approbation of
his fellows. But his great desire should be,
to begood, to obtain the favour of God, and to
ask for the praise of man, only as it may be at
tached to those exertions of the mind, or those
qualities of the heart, which may have been
consecrated, by the influence of divine grace, to
the service of God, and the good of man. If
this limit were not placed to the desire of repu
tation we should soon learn to sacrifice principle
for momentary eclat; that which would be pleas
ing to those around us, would be our standard of
truth, our highest aim ; and in order to secure
this, we should accommodate our views to theirs,
and lower our estimate of motive and conduct,
to the maxims and agency of others, rather than
elevate it towards the pure and holy model which
has been proposed for our imitation.
The love of honour is developed in early life ;
it is manifested in the desire to excel of the
schoolboy; it is exhibited in the conduct and
productions of maturity; it exists even in ex
treme old age, and on the very confines of the
grave; it blossoms in childhood, ripens in the
middle period of life, and is preserved with the
greater care, even as the links of connexion with
existence, are daily fewer, and as the opportuni
ties for the acquisition of fair fame, must of ne
cessity be lessened, and perhaps almost reduced
458 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
to nought. It is one of the most desirable goods
of life, if fixed upon a proper basis, th e basis of
truth; it is of more value than rich es; and it is
better to bequeath it to immediate posterity, than
the most splendid legacy of ill-gotten wealth.
If it be pursued with due limitations, it is usefol
as a constant memento to rectitude of conduct;
it affords a staff upon which to lean in the feeble
ness of declining years ; in the near prospect of
dissolution; and in the deepening tw ilight o f in
firmity, leading onward to the extinction o f life,
and the long night of the grave, it w ill be con
solatory to hope that being dead we m ay yet
speak; that the testimony we may have borne
in favour of the truth, shall be seen after many
d ays; that the consistency of our conduct, will
prove a light to others; that our opinions may
serve as a guide to posterity ; that our example
will be useful to those who come after; and that
they may follow us, even as we have followed and
imitated Christ.
The award of honour or reputation, is, or at
least should be given to every kind of pre-emi
nence; whether it be to the mere exterior of
pleasing manner; or to considerable literary ac
quisition ; or to every conquest of reason over
passion; or to the discoveries of genius, the re
searches of industry, or the performance o f vir
tuous action in difficult circumstances; to the
consistent discharge of relative duties, or the un-
Wearied pursuits of private charity; as well as
to public and more diffusive benevolence, ope-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 459
rating not so much upon the individual and his
immediate connexions, as upon the happineiss of
others; it is also conceded frequently to success,
rightly, when that success is merited, and is the
result of peculiar good qualities, but erroneously,
where it is the mere consequence of possessing a
greater share of effrontery than a more talented
competitor.
Since this reputation is founded upon opinion;
and since that opinion is often erroneous from
being formed on a wrong basis, and variable, ac
cording to the ever changing caprices of fortune
and circumstance, and folly and fashion, so is it
often unjust; it is offered to prejudice, and with
held from virtue; it is given to softness of man
ner, and refused to real benevolence; it is
yielded to those who make an ostentatious dis
play of religious feeling, or conduct, and denied
to the humble, retiring Christian; it is ascribed
to the semblance o f piety, the spirit of party, to
the narrow-minded bigot, and the ultra-sectarian
defender of particular and exclusive doctrines,
while it is refused to the temper of vital Chris
tianity, the spirit of Christian love, the charity of
the Bible, the catholic principle which would
embrace in one family, all who love the Lord
Jesus Christ in sincerity and truth, whatever
may have been their several peculiarities o f opi
nion.
Reputation is often yielded to the shewy indi
vidual of conversational powers, or to the super
ficial review-reader, who appropriates only for
460 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
effect; and is more sparingly doled out to the
retiring, and perhaps taciturn colossus of litera
ture; it is abundantly given to such as talk of
their feelings, and most cautiously withheld from
those who reason; it is afforded to those who have
impertinence enough to push themselves into no
tice, while it is practically denied to modest
merit. In all these, and in numberless other in
stances, it is fallacious in its decisions : be it then
the parent's aim to instruct the young as to what
should be the proper objects of honour, as well as
to prepare them for suffering the injustice of a
misjudging and prejudiced world.
When reputation has been obtained, it does not
always add to our happiness, since it places its
possessor in a situation of trial and tem ptation;
and it requires the greatest caution on his part to
be preserved from a selfish, vain-glorious, and
conceited spirit, as well as from pride and vanity,
and a brood of hideous and injurious passions. It
is difficult to preserve fresh in the recollection, that
whatever we possess is not our own, that it is the
gift of God, and that we have nothing which we
did not derive from him, and for which we ought
not to be humbly thankful; and yet this con
viction alone can preserve us, when the world
ball speak well of us. When it does so, it
generally over-acts its part, and extols the little
good we may possess; so that if we believe its
assertions, we shall be quite lost in the high
opinion w e shall form of the value of our own
character. Let us take heed, lest we fall.
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S ~ E D U C A T I O N . 461
m
W e must not omit in this place some mention
of the laws of honour, that mistaken code which
does not take for its basis the laws of the most
high God, but is a direct violation of. them, and
which seeks to repair a wounded reputation by
inflicting a physical wound upon the calumniator;
or in other words, which seeks to substitute the
deep criminality of murder, for the trifling asper
sion contained in the heated expression of an un
guarded moment. And such is the duellist; he
aims to conceal the imputation of some venial and
unfounded flaw, by the deep and indelible moral
stain of revenge, carried on to its last savage con
summation in the destruction of life!!
Another cause why reputation does not always,
or indeed often add to our happiness, is, that it is
generally obtained, not without some collision
with the world, and is often awarded, in the
midst of dangers from avowed friends and secret
foes, in spite of many contrarieties of opinion,
and not without much violence done to the private
feeling of others; a violence which almost always
causes our well merited renown to be closely
attended by the blast of envy, and the whisper of
detraction ; causes enough surely to produce un
happiness in the midst of success, and to make
us feel, that if the cup of this worlds blessing be
filled with honour, it is yet a draught of primeval
bitterness, and possesses nothing which is satis
factory ; it is the first impression of the deadliest
poison, (arsenic,) sweet to the taste, but very
quickly destructive to all the energies of life. In
462 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
such circumstances, the glory of Christianity, is
all that is worthy of being sought after; even the
confession of unworthiness; the striving after obe
dience to the law of God, and conformity to the
image of his S o n ; the anxiety after our future
happiness; the desire to make our calling and
election sure; the constant pursuit of those secrets
of futurity, which eye hath not seen, nor ear
heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of
man to conceive; the anxious wish to obtain a
foretaste of immortality, of that tranquil, peaceful
state, in which the competition of intellect, the
jarring of passions, the jostling of interests, the
collision of feeling, the errors of opinion, the fal
lacies of judgment, the injustice of man, shall all
be exchanged for the one delightful employment
of vying with each other to praise Him most, who
has saved us from evil, washed us in his blood,
and presented us without spot, before the throne
of God.
463
CH AP. X V II.
O N THE PROCESS OF MENTA L INSTRUCTION.
T h e process of mental instruction has been al
ready so fully considered in the preceding chap
ters, that to return to it in the present, must
appear like marching over the same ground, and
must be in fact, a recapitulation of similar truths.
And be it s o : we can seldom travel through the
same country, without descrying beauties, which
had before escaped our notice ; and identical
truths need to be repeated again and again, in
order to revive their slumbering impression, and
to place them perhaps in a novel point of view, or
at all events, to recall their pristine form, and
strength, and depth of colouring. Thus, for in
stance, here, as well as in moulding the temper,
and educating habits, it is necessary to consult
the original bias of the mental manifestations.
W ant of attention to this principle, is a frequent
source of failure in the process of instruction;
because its cares have been lavished upon a per
verse and bizarre pursuit, even that of training
the productions of mind, and forcing the young
idea into a direction uncongenial to that bias, and
464 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
frequently incompatible with it. Hence the form
ation of distorted characters; of those whose
fruits are immature, or which bear no fruit at all;
of those whose attention is distracted b y every
new object, without being commanded into a
steady train of thought; whose perceptions are
quick, but often prejudiced and erroneous ; whose
memory is so treacherous, that the perception of
their impressions not being sufficiently attended
to, they are almost immediately forgotten, or
recollected only as the frusta of thought, broken
and disjointed images of disconnected ruins:
hence also, the origin of those who reason little
or incorrectly; who associate wildly; who reflect
not at a ll; whose imagination is too fantastic to
admit of controul; whose judgment is fallacious;
whose acts, and whose opinions of those acts,
and whose conscience of good and evil are perpe
tually at variance; whose will is acted upon by a
thousand caprices; and whose faculty of imitation
resembles rather the mimicry of the monkey,
than the rational acquisition of good from the
study of good models.
It is impossible to educate by a charm, or a
nostrum, or by an undeviating system ; the indi
vidual mind must be studied, and a system for
each must be evolved. That indeed is the worst
kind of empiricism, which would apply the same
remedies to support health, and to cure disease,
under every possible variety of circXiinstance and
situation, in every change of climate, and in every
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 465
constitution, however dissimilar. A mode of treat
ment, beneficial in a few instances, would, if uni
versally applied, become injurious to the majo
rity, and absolutely destructive to very many.
There is no such thing in education as that which
is indifferent; that which is not useful must be
mischievous ; that which does not minister to the
increase of strength, must impair i t ; that which
does not contribute to the mental growth, takes
away from its vigour; that which does not act as
a medicine, will prove a poison ; and even the
former, however well intended, may be converted
into the latter by injudicious, or ill-timed admi
nistration.
Education is not omnipotent; it cannot super
sede the conformation which nature has im
pressed ; and its powers extend no farther than
to educe, modify, regulate and apply the faculties
she may have conferred. If nature have cast the
character into a certain mould, of which it may
have received the impression ; and if education,
with the idle expectation of finding it still soft
and plastic, and susceptible of any other forma
tion, according to the will of the instructor, should
seek to produce this change, and to divert the
mental shoots into another direction, it will as
suredly find that the former will be perpetually
endeavouring to assert its power, and to regain
ite original character; and that that which might
have been well-defined, and strongly marked, and
vigorously pronounced, and prominent, energetic
and valuable, if suffered to develop itself accord-
V O L I f . H H
466 M O H A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
ing to natures formula, will become distorted,
confused, jumbled together without order or ar
rangement, and will be rendered an object of
pity, for its manifold inconsistencies and weak
nesses. So may the tree to which nature has
given the law of its growth in an upward direc
tion, be bent according to the will o f the gar
dener : but to no purpose; nature will constantly
display her resources, and exhibit her power of
contravening art, by throwing out fresh shoots,
which invariably continue to seek their original
destination, and to maintain inviolate the charac
ter first impressed upon i t ; the beauty and use
fulness of the plant may be destroyed, but not
the immediate agency, and ultimate tendency of
its growth. So also the attempt to alter the pri
mitive form of the character will be useless, and
mischievous: it cannot be accom plished; much
time will be lost in the trial, and the temper will
be irrecoverably injured, while a degree o f irrita
bility will be called forth, which will form a serious
hindrance to the only rational means of counter
acting that which is injurious, viz. to give promi
nence, and activity, and importance to other facul
ties best calculated to supersede and keep under
the restlessness of morbid idiosyncracy.
This observation only shews that the primitive
form of the character must be consulted, iu order
to determine advantageously on the means neces
sary to successful instruction: but although edu
cation and cultivation cannot set aside the designs
of nature, yet it is equally demonstrable that the
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 4 6 7
twoare mutual re-agents; and that the influence
of natural character cannot entirely defeat the
purposes of education, when judiciously unfolded,
temperately yet firmly persisted in, and rationally
applied. The conclusion is, that nature and
education ought never to be at variance; but
that the one should always coincide with, and
assist the other, in order that they may be ren*-
dered mutually effective. Natures impress should
be seized by the hand of education, and should
be so modelled and governed as to become an
instrument of usefulness. The attempt to coun
teract her intentions may indeed be fruitless; but
it is of infinite importance to watch the develop
ment of those designs, and to infuse into them a
living character of substantial worth; so that the
original bias which might otherwise countervail
and frustrate our wishes, may be converted into an
engine of forwarding our fairest hopes.
Thus, where nature may have given a too
fervid imagination, it is impossible to destroy its
influence; but if education will stoop to employ
it, even this may be found the means of fixing the
attention to all that is valuable, and worthy of
pursuit. There may exist a feeble and sickly
manifestation of mental attributes; yet such may
be rendered useful; not by directing the mind
immediately to objects which require great exer
tion of thought, but by making this very feeble
ness, and the consciousness of its existence, the
instrument of its own cure. Thus the sensitive,
fervid, and imaginative character may be taught
u ii 2
4 6 8 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
not to waste its vigour on ideal phantoms, but to
direct its energies to objects of im portance: the
reasoning and reflecting, the cold and persever
ing, may be gradually led to a greater display of
feeling, under the influence of the principles it
has imbibed, and the culture these may have re
ceived: the feeble may be taught to aspire by
degrees; conscious of their own inadequacy, they
may become really humble, and from the influ
ence of this humility may acquire an indelible
value. Thus the seeds of genuine character will
be developed ; and when the soil shall have been
prepared by judicious management, and chastened
by exposure to the genial rains and dews of
knowledge, to the rays of brightening science,
and above all to the light of Christianity, and the
beams of religion and virtue, true light from
whose reflection alone it is that any object can
appear lucid; the natural richness and fertility
of the soil will have been increased, and it will
have become capable of bearing other fruits, and
maturing other principles, which if attempted to
have been implanted at first, must necessarily
have perished. Gradual amelioration, not rapid
conversion, is the principle; the latter, in the in
tellectual world, is chimerical, the former is prac
ticable.
Another principle which will be found useful
to the instructor, is the unwearied attempt to con
vert to her own use all which may appear unpro
mising or unpleasing. As yet, the mind is free
frojn the impression of false or erroneous princi-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 469
pies, so that it is not so much against these we
are called upon to combat, but against the influ
ence of natural temper and disposition, against
the agency of passion, against the operation of
early prejudice, and against every peculiar bias
resulting from these several states. Above all,
let the Christian parent be careful to secure the
prejudices of her offspring on her own side ; for
prejudice is not error, but the action of a principle,
which forms a judgment before it is fully capable
of understanding and appreciating all the circum
stances which influence its observation. Educa
tion should be particularly operative in the im
pression of a certain number of these prejudices.
There may be something abhorrent in the idea of
prejudice, in consequence of the general employ
ment of the terra; but there is really nothing in
the thing itself which should excite our aversion,
or prevent its frequent application to the process
of mental instruction. Even a belief in the doc
trines of Revelation must be accounted a preju
dice, although it be one of the highest moment,
and greatest advantage; for we believe (and act
on that belief) what we cannot fully comprehend.
Hence prejudice should be secured on the side
of truth; and this tendency of the human mind
should be rendered available for the purpose of
implanting principles which will exert a benefi
cial, a moral, a religious influence; which shall
exclude the prejudices of sophistry and error, and
practical scepticism; prejudices which result from
470 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
the absence of knowledge, instead of being made
the means of conveying important information.
The exercise of the passions also m ay be ren
dered useful; and it is of the greatest importance
to engage these powerful auxiliaries on the side
of instruction, since they can render it both agree
able and easy, partly from their direct influence,
but more especially from the conversion o f their
excessive, or uncontrouled, or distorted tendency,
towards the side of truth and virtue. It is par
ticularly with this view that the lurking agency
of evil emotion should be most scrupulously de
tected, in order that whatever is offensive or in
jurious; whatever is calculated to retard the in
tellectual manifestations; whatever is baneful to
the growth of talent; whatever detracts from the
influence of moral action, and religious motive, and
scriptural principle, should be converted in favour
of the views of education. Much may be effected
with this view, by giving a certain degree of con
sequence to that which it is wished to destroy, or
at the least to diminish its pow er; by appearing
to foster and encourage it, but really by so em
ploying it as to subject it to the secret, constant,
uniform operation of such counter-agents; and
then its nature and tendency will be gradually
and completely, though silently and unobtrusively
altered; and the disposition which is unpromising
may be rendered capable of maturing the most
valuable fruits.
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 471
Genius.
It is necessary in this place to consider the
degree of attention which should be paid to what
is usually termed genius; a something, which
when deprived of the air of mysticism which has
been thrown around it, and when reduced to its
real weight, and legitimate properties, may be
defined to consist in a peculiar aptitude for the
reception of particular ideas; a quickness of per
ception, as applied to specific objects; a fervour
of intellect, which catches at a glance the im
pression intended to be conveyed by certain ideas;
and which almost anticipates the pains bestowed
on its cultivation. This form of predisposition,
resolvable after all into a certain unknown condi
tion of the brainular organ, which allows it to be
more readily excited by some stimuli than by
others, is by no means uncommon, or extraordi
nary, and is no more remarkable than the pecu
liarities which attend individuals with respect to
the excitement of their senses agreeably or dis
agreeably, by particular objects of taste, by pecu
liar odours, by the distinctive characters of sound,
by varying pencils of light, or by the different
qualities of tangible bodies. Wherever it exists,
however, it requires great care; since there is
danger lest genius should rest satisfied with su
perficial acquirement; lest, acquainted with its
power of appropriation, it should cease to employ
that power from very indolence; and lest it
should finally rest satisfied with the exercise of
4 7 2 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
its peculiar forte, instead of aiming to compass
the greatest possible extension to the domain of
mind ; lest it should be contented with the exer
tion of qualities which possess more splendor than
worth, more brilliance than depth, more polish
than weight, more tinsel than precious m etal.
Far then from anxiously wishing for the display
of genius, the parent will observe its active stir
rings with anxiety and solicitude; since it often
argues a preternatural irritability of the mental
system, in consequence of which, it may be easily
aroused into excessive action by common causes;
causes which should only operate as a usual, and
simple, and natural incentive to the understanding
and the judgm ent; while again, in the sensitive
child of genius, perception is so vivid, and the
imagination frequently so restless, that there is
great danger lest the excitement should become
morbid, and should lead to feverish, rather than
to healthy action. In this case, there would often
be a great want of solidity, and stability o f cha
racter ; there may be found, the dazzling polish
of wit and vivacity; but the more sober faculties
of reason, reflection, and judgment will be in
danger of existing most sadly minus. The pos
sessor of great original powers is to be noticed
with fear, lest the mind should become super
ficially acquainted with much, but learn nothing
thoroughly; for the beneficial influence o f educa
tion is commonly felt, as its different parts are
combined, and wrought into an integral system,
individually calculated, for the possessions and
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 473
the wants of each. In the child of great parts,
the mind is often not sufficiently retentive of its
knowledge, to be enabled to combine i t ; hence
the effusions of natural genius should be restrained
or directed; they should be employed in the
pursuit of objects, which require slow and patient
investigation; the mind should be early trained to
diligence, unfatigued perseverance, unremitting la
bour : to order and precision in the performance
of its duties; to regularity in the distribution,
and economy in the management and expenditure
of its tim e: and then the possession of this pecu
liar aptitude may be made the means of much
good, and should serve as a beacon to point the
way in which the talents may be most beneficially
employed.
Parents often admire this brilliant gift, whereas
if left to its natural influence, it is essentially a
misfortune, a dangerous pre-eminence; giving ex
tensive views, but liable to the grossest perver
sion ; its excursive flights will be restrained with
difficulty; and it will greatly increase the labour
of education, while its possessor, except under
extreme caution, will generally make a far less
valuable character, than one who with half the
natural talent, is obliged to exert that power in
the acquisition of substantial stores of mind. It
may be established as a principle, that knowledge
easily acquired seldom lasts long; for in the first
place, that which is obtained without difficulty and
labour, is not often valued; and when the effort
474 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U 8 E D U C A T I O N .
of pursuit is slight, the enjoyment of possession
is transient; the impression made by both is su
perficial in its effect, and transitory in its dura
tion ; it is blown away by some new object of
desire; change, and fickleness, and the lore of
sensation, form the principal attributes of m ind;
and to this morbid appetite for stimulation, the
wholesome desire for plain food is sacrificed.
This natural tendency is sometimes augmented
by the injudicious conduct of parents, who will
not only admire that aptitude to learn, which
leaves the child destitute of exertion, industry,
energy, and solidity; but who will also, in the
plenitude of their vanity, make a parade of this
talent, even in the very ears of the party con
cerned, whom they will hold up, as possessing
abilities capable of carrying the world before it,
and will soon render vain, and self-confident, and
silly, and disagreeable; while the event will
prove, that the (perhaps) neglected, the timid,
retiring, modest, but persevering character will
be more highly respected, more valuable, and
happier, than the idle and conceited, though in
finitely more talented child of genius.
The excessive action of genius is usually com
bined with a deficiency of power to maintain i t ;
and therefore the indications for the parent, are to
suppressaction, andtosupportorinfusepower. Thus
for instance, the extreme vividness of perception
is to be restrained, while the faculty of attention
is to be developed; the susceptibility to impres-
M O R A L A N D R E L t O I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 475
sion should be blunted, while the memory should
be strengthened; feeling should be regulated,
while the influence of reason is augmented; the
mere power of acquisition should be discouraged,
while the habit of reflection should be fostered;
the eager desire after sensation should give place
to the sobriety of thought; the waywardness of
uncontrouled desire must yield to the dictates of
principle and conscience; the imagination must
be preserved within due bounds, while a prepon
derance should be given to the just laws of defined
imitation. A similar rule is applicable to the at
tributes of the moral, as to the qualities of the
intellectual being. Mistake or mis-management
may be fatal to both; for the ever-varying im
pulse of evanescent impression will produce only
a momentary excitement of intellect, and will
finally terminate in the ignis fatuus, the brilliant
meteor, which has only served to deceive the un
wary, in the gloom of grossest ignorance, making
darkness still more dark, by the preceding corus
cation.
Again, this possession endangers the moral
welfare, since it leads for ever to the verge of the
magic circle of temptation; and at all events,
proves a snare to the young, and to those whose
principles are not fully formed. For, independ
ently of the thousand occasions in society, which
attract the youth of brilliant parts, from the nar
row path of rectitude, there is one most serious
e v il; viz. supposing the most favourable case.
476 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
that the attainments of genius are solid, and its
resources great; still its possession paves the way
for a too high estimation of human know ledge;
and this idea once excited, becomes a prejudice
against other kinds of information, operates as a
veil upon the mind, renders its perceptions con
fused and undefined, introduces doubt, exalts its
own powers of thought, and thus leads on to a
disparagement of revelation, and to the w ily laby
rinths of scepticism, terminating in the endless
mazes of infidelity, that highest, last, and greatest
effort,that most perfect example of the most
astonishing credulity ; a credulity which believes
the most monstrous propositions^ rather than sub
mit the pride of intellect to be taught of God. Far
then from giving the child, who is a possessor
of great genius, an idea, that this gift is the indi
cation of a superior Understanding, convince it,
that you dread the possession; that it is dan
gerous in the extrem e; that it indicates rather
deficiency, than the fulness of mental manifesta
tion, rather feebleness than strength : teach it to
be modest and distrustful; fearful of its peculiar
tendencies, and diffident in the display of its re
sources : instruct it into the necessity of becoming
ingenuous, and instil into its mind this principle,
that if the persevering industry of the humble be
added to the possession of powerful talent, it
then by proper management, arrive at a degree of
excellence and information, which mere quick
ness of perception can never hope to attain.
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 477
It must also be remarked iu this place, that
wherever there exists this facility of acquisition,
care is required, that the attention should not be
called to a multiplicity of objects iu rapid suc
cession ; or it will become distracted with variety,
and never gain a complete acquaintance with any:
it should not then be divided, but
especially .at first. Thus, the division of time,
into a great number of very minute portions, each
occupied by separate and dissimilar engagements,
prevents entirely the full effect of every and
thus with all the bustling activity of constant oc
cupation, much time is virtually lo st; a habit of
earnest trifling is produced,the strenua inertia of
busy nothingness; and undisturbed attention to
subjects of primary importance is rendered im
possible. Another evil of no secondary import
ance, arising from the fitfulness of incessantly
altered pursuit, is, that by it, the mind may be
led to seek amusement in a variety of ever-chang
ing duties ; and so passing through life in a whirl
of perpetual motion, to leave no time for the study
of the heart, and the future eternal relations of
the immaterial spirit: " serious things to-morrow,
as cried the wretched voluptuary, within an hour
of his assassination, to the messenger who brought
him the intelligence of the conspiracy formed
against his life : ** serious things to-morrow,
practically exclaims the thoughtless child of in-,
cessant occupation;  I have notimenowto attend
to you, and that perhaps within an hour of being
478 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
called to his last audit. This idea be fanciful:
but assuredly, much of the moral constitution,
may be traced to the remote influence o f some
physical or intellectual cause; a cause, for the in
fluence of which notwithstanding, we are every
way accountable as free agents ; and w hich per
haps itself forms an ingredient in that system of
probation, which is the defined characteristic of
our temporary situation in this world.
To conclude, the parent must be careful, that
the imagination be early subdued under the power
of reason, and the influence of religion. This
faculty may be deficient; but it is more frequently
redundant. In the former case, it may be gently
and cautiously stimulated by some of the purest
works of fiction, by the study of our best poets,
and by the perusal of the most unexceptionable
dramatic pieces. But its effects are principally
to be feared in the latter instance : a little tame
ness of fancy; a little want of sprightly associ
ation, may exist without injury to the individual;
but the exuberant imagination requires to be
carefully disciplined. Religion is its only truest
gu id e; this forms a perfect safeguard from its
erratic influence; and under its protection, it may
become the source of much happiness to its pos
sessor, and of usefulness to those with whom he
stands associated. Here however it is still sub
jected to reason; for religion enjoins nothing,
asks nothing, possesses nothing, which is not in
strict conformity with reason, though we may not
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 479
be able fully to comprehend all its bearings and
relations : and if its influence should ever be su
perseded, the mind is left to wander without a
guide, in the fairy wilds, the ideal images of en
thusiasm, the baseless creations of ungoverned
fancy.
The agency of imagination over taste, and
thought, and feeling, and action, must never be
lost sight of, or left to itself, lest an erroneous
tendency should be imbibed, and serious evils
should follow in its train. Nor must it ever be
forgotten, that a superficial method of instruction
will greatly promote luxuriance of fancy, and will
even almost give it a degree of prurience ; while
it will be repressed by all those plans which are
more solid and stable. The sketchy pursuit of
knowledge, together with light reading, will much
more readily occasion a corresponding effect upon
the imagination, than will be the consequence of
patient study on the judgm ent; and that because
the imagination is more easily acted upon, and
the feelings are more powerful agents than mere
reason and reflection; and thus, both the one
and the other, are liable to become active, long
before the understanding can be opened, or the
judgment developed.
Finally, if the efforts of imagination be not
guarded by the sobered results of instruction, and
founded on the solid basis of judgment, and built
up on the imperishable superstructure of religion,
it will be worthless and vapid, in proportion as it
480 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
is artificial and premature; in proportion as it is
attracted by the light and airy nothings of the
day, and as it floats through the atmosphere of
life, placed far above the simple realities of the
world, and infinitely farther below the pure and
holy regions of the b lest; that middle state, which
renders the individual unfit for a residence on
this nether world, and ever keeps him from truly
aspiring after the unseen joys of futurity!
481
CH AP. X V III.
O
N REW
ARDS AND PUNISHM
BNTS.
A s y s t e m of reward for good conduct, and of
punishment for its converse, forms an essential
part of the maternal police. Futile and inefficient
indeed is the domestic economy in which reward
is the only feature, and in which the exclusive
form of punishment is the absence of reward.
Equally absurd is that system of government,
which consists in a series of graduated punish
ments for impropriety; and in which there exists
no peculiar reward for opposite conduct, but the
only mark of approbation is the negation of punish
ment. It is indeed true, that the civil magistrate
is only the dispenser of justice to the innocent,
and of punishment to the guilty, in so far as the
comfort, and property, and life, or reputation
dearer than life, of the former have been invaded
by any overt act of the latter; and that his power
does not directly extend so far as to reward the
persevering in virtuous action; but the analogy
by no means holds perfectly in the supposed
cases, since the object of the civil magistrate is
only action, however the quality of that action may
be modified by circumstances or by motives, which
VOL. II. I I
482 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
palliate its magnitude on the one hand, or in
crease its enormity on the other: w hile, on the
contrary, the object of peculiar interest to the
parent, is not so much the action itself, as its secret
springs, the various conflicting emotions and pas
sions of the infant bosom ; and the peculiar design
with which action has been contemplated.
And again, with regard to the civil magistrate,
it is presumed that virtue will meet with a suffi
ciency of reward; and that although it may be
neglected here, it will by and by be abundantly
recompensed. But in early infancy, although
long after the period of discipline should have
commenced, the parent does not possess the
means of referring to this futurity of reward, as
an encouragement to rectitude of action ; and if
she did, there are those who would deny the pro
priety of employing this principle as ah incentive
to virtue; and if in the more favourable supposi
tion, the understanding of the child should be
sufficiently developed for this purpose, is there
not a manifest inconsistency in directing its feeble
glance beyond the grave, in affirming that you are
looking forward, to this place of rest, and peace,
and happiness, where you will be able to praise
and adore, and love God, with undivided, and
with pure affection, and yet that you would not
bestow the meed of approbation on that which is
good, in so far as it is humbly designed inobedience
to his will ? Is there not a palpable incongruity,
in asserting that you are travelling towards heaven,
and yet that you do not admire, and esteem,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 483
and love (should you meet them on your road)
any of its productions, notwithstanding their
growth may have been stunted or their beauty
impaired, by their association with matter, and
by their residence on this earth, which is not their
native clim e: but this testimony of this
admiration and esteem, if they exist, are in fact, of
the peculiar nature of a recompense; for they
form a certain valuable consideration, attached to
certain modes of conduct, and as such are, in plain
unsophisticatedlanguage, rewards.
Since, however, there are some excellent,
though we think mistaken parents, who object
altogether to the system of rewards, and even to
the slightest testimony of approbation, as in the
employmentofthe termgood, it will be necessary to
consider this subject more at large. And we
shall do so, first, by shewing that a system of
rewards is founded in nature, and therefore results
from those laws by which the Supreme Governor
o f the universe has directed the course of nature:
and next, that it is expressly sanctioned by
religion.
With regard to this stumbling-stone, this un
fortunate term good; it is confessed on all hands,
that man is corrupt, that there is none that doeth
good, that he is inclined only to evil continually;
and yet there is a sense in which the term is
applicable even to the imperfect actions of this
sinful, helpless creature. For God is pleased to
accept, and graciously condescends to be honoured
by, those who with the light of the knowledge of
i i 2
4 8 4 M
ORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
his will, and in dependence upon the assistance
of the Spirit of Grace, and with a sincere desire
of living to his glory, do earnestly strive w ith pure
hearts, to keep his commandments, and to pre
serve the narrow way of eternal life. B ut a wise
and holy 6rod, cannot be pleased to accept, cannot
be honouredby that which is not therefore
that which he does accept, and by w hich he is
honoured, must be good; and his creatures need
not be afraid of employing the term in this sense.
If there be nothing good, there is nothing for the
Christian to aspire after; there can be no growth
in grace, no increasing conformity to the will of
God, no ripening for heaven; this world is not a
period of probation, in which there is a choice of
good and ev il; and the essential distinction be
tween the righteous and the wicked, is reduced
to that which is ideal and unsubstantial, while
it is dissociated from the obedience of faith, and
disconnected with the fruits of righteousness,
thefirst, the last, the only evidence of the distin
guishing love of God to the Christian.
I. To return from this digression, a system of
rewards is founded in nature, and therefore may
be clearly traced in the agency of Providence.
1. Nothing can be more clear than that our
future interest is dependent upon our present con
duct ; an axiom, to the truth of which, the testi
mony of the experience of all mankind uniformly
leads. The man of pleasure, the man of busi
ness, and the literary character, all know that
success in their respective pursuits is only to be
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 485
obtained by energy and diligence, and that it is a
reward of industry and perseverance. It is true,
that there are circumstances connected with the
moral government of God over his creatures, and
with our situation in the world, as a scene of
difficulty and trial, which do sometimes defeat the
best concerted plans of success, though most in
dustriously pursued: but as a general rule, the
law of nature is, that success attends the diligent,
or in other words, that it is the reward ofvirtue.
2. In the present state, pleasure and pain are the
consequences of our own actions ; they are greatly
in our own power, because we foresee the results;
reason calls our attention, and reflection dictates,
and conscience admonishes, and the influence of
good example is before u s; and all combined pro
mise real good, as the reward of obedience: while
painas necessarily haunts the footsteps of those who
will not attend to the voice of truth, who will not
be governed by reason, who proudly abjure the
influence of reflection, who are deaf to the moni
tions of conscience, who sullenly refuse to imitate
the good, whose stubborn wills yield not to reve
lation, but who go on in the frowardness of their
own hearts, who listen to the suggestions of pas
sion, and are unmindful of the still small voice of
truth. And yet, accordingly as men act reason
ably or unreasonably, virtuously or viciously,
there will ever be on the one hand, the reward
arising from a consciousness of doing the will of
God, and of fulfilling the great end of our existence
here, the pleasure of reflecting on the improve-
486 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
ment of time, the glow of benevolence, th e confi
dence of hope, the delight of sharing th e esteem
of others, the sympathy of friends, the approbation
of the good and sincere, and the admiration ofthe
just; while, on the other hand, there m ust be
placed the punishment accruing from th e con
viction of selfishness, the indulgence o f angry,
avaricious, or ambitious passions, the fear of dis
covery, the ghosts of mispent hours, the envy of
competitors, the neglect of friends, the disesteem
of the good, and the isolation of feeling, arising
from a voluntary separation from those who seek
to do well, and from the involuntarysecession from
our support of all whose prejudices, view s, and
interests, interfere with our pursuits; there is
then, in the laws of action, a system , whatever
that may be, of reward to the good, and o f punish
ment to the wicked.
3. So also, with regard to many of our bless
ings, as for instance, the preservation oflife. This
is mainly in our own power; the days o f our
years are all known to Omniscience; but it is
through the medium of our individual agency,
they are either shortened or prolonged; by pru
dence, by care, by temperance, we procure health
and escape disease; by medicines we are raised
again from the bed of sickness; while by want
of prudence, by consulting appetite only, by fol
lowing the guidance of passion, and listening to
the temptations of desire, and yielding to intem
perance, the firmest health is thrown away, the
strongest constitution is ruined, and premature
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 487
old age, and early dissolution are the conse
quence, although perhaps the tardy consequence,
resting only at the close of a long series of de
crepitude, the failure of intellect, and the second
childhood of mental manifestations. Here, health
and enjoyment, are the award of temperance;
disease, decrepitude, the burden of self-existence,
and the exhausted patience of relatives, the pu
nishment of the opposite vice. There is nothing
good to be obtained without exertion ; and in all
cases prudence and temerity, industry and care
lessness, meet with appropriate results.
4. On passing in review the character and con
duct of man, we shall find that a certain degree
of enjoyment is attached to specific actions, and
a corresponding portion of suffering to others.
Thus, the pleasure arising from the subjugation
of the passions,, and the remorse resulting from
the indulgence of selfish desire; the comfort of
forbearance, and the real misery of anger; the
pleasure of forgiveness, and the cruelty of re
venge ; the delights of benevolence, and the fears
of avarice; the peace of the humble, the irrita
bility of gratified, and the remorse of disap
pointed ambition; the happiness of the liberal'
and the charitable, and the wretchedness of the
churlish, the inhospitable, and the penurious;
the cheerfulness of active duty, and the burden
of indolence, and the pains aud penalties of
ennui; the confidence of sincerity, and the sus
picion of falsehood; the emptiness of vanity, and
the perpetual dissatisfaction of pride; the weight
488 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
of modesty, and the equanimity of patience and
meekness; the clear head, the cool judgment,
the intellectual energy, the corporeal health of the
temperate, and the muddy conceptions, disor
dered fancy, erroneous judgment, painful reflec
tion, mental feebleness, and feverish irritability
of the intemperate; the common admiration of
gratitude, and the universal detestation o f the
ungrateful; are all instances in proof, that there
is in the constitution of nature, a system of di
vine approbation or punishment; or in other
words, that God annexes delight to some actions,
and uneasiness to others; with the apparent de
sign to induce us so to act, as to ensure the reward
of the one, and escape the punishment attached
to the other.
5. But in the constitution of nature, w e ob
serve farther traces of the same principle. Man
constantly acts, with the view of avoiding evil,
or of obtaininggood; the fear of the former, and
the desire of the latter, alternately agitate his
bosom with suspense or hope; and attract him
towards the right employment of principle on the
one hand, and the avoidance of passion on the
other. It is true, that he often selects the evil,
and refuses the good; he makes an erroneous
judgment, or deliberately prefers that which is
wrong; but this is only a proof of that disturbing
change, which has so fearfully operated to mar
the designs of the Creator, and to give the pre
ponderance to vice. It is also true, that there
are exceptions to the pleasures and satisfactions
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 489
of virtue; the forgiveness of injuries is not
always followed by gratitude ; sincerity and ve
racity may not be duly appreciated; the good
are not always justly esteem ed; envy, calumny,
and detraction, sometimes await even the firm,
the consistent, the ingenuous, the mild and the
benevolent; ridicule is often heaped upon the
over-much Christian: but these again, are clearly
deviations from natural consequences, and proofs
of the miserable agency of some perverting
cau se; of that sin, which, but for the astonish
ing love of God, and the infinite sacrifice of
Christ, would have left this world a blank, aye,
more than a blank, the wretched abode of those
unhappy spirits whose chief delight consists in
cursing God.
6. Again, the great Governor of the universe,
is not a God of simple absolute benevolence; he
is just as well as good; and as such, he not only
rewards the good, but apportions the measure of
his approbation to the conduct of his creatures.
Thus, health of body, tranquillity of mind, the
satisfaction arising from the wish to do right, the
comfortable reflection on the past, and a variety
of external advantages, are the consequence of
careful, prudent management, and are appor
tioned to the degree, in which that prudence has
been exerted; they are within our reach; they
form a stimulus to action; and as we obey that
stimulus, in whole, in part, or not at all, do we
obtain, or lose the reward with which it stands
associated. This natural course of things, in the
490 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
conduct of the supreme Governor o f th e uni
verse, may always be traced in the effects of his
government, although it may be carried on by the
instrumentality of m an; and although his stub
born heart, and sinful propensities do often inter
fere with its full and uninterrupted completion.
Yet we do not thence infer, because virtue is
cast into the shade, and vice is triumphant, that
the author of nature is indifferent to the peculiar
properties of th ese; far from i t ; the very suc
cess of iniquity is commonly the first link in the
chain of the most fearful punishment; and the
obloquy poured upon the righteous, is very fre
quently a portion of that trial which w ill make
them more completely confiding in God, more
active in obedience to him ; consequently, more
fitted for the enjoyment of the sure reward o f di
vine approbation.
7. Once more, the different effect o f virtue
and vice upon the mental manifestations, is
another proof of this system of rewards. Ex
cept where the voice of conscience has been
stifled, we shall find, as the consequence of vir
tuous action, a peace of mind, a calm of the soul,
an evenness of temper, an aptitude for intel
lectual pursuit, a clear memory, a power of just
selection, and regular association, and the will
subjected to the other powers of the m ind; while
on the contrary, man is vexed with him self for
his deviations from rectitude, he becomes peevish
and irritable; and regret for his folly, is added
to his other painful feelings; he sullenly broods
MORAL AND RELIGIOU8 EDUCATION. 491
over the past, and ifreflection do not lea
to repentance, remorse completes the catalogue of
his m iseries; his temper is soured; he retains
not the power of commanding his attention ; his
perceptions are indistinct, his memory treacher
ous, and his powers of judgment so obtuse, that
he stands a monument, of the natural punish
ment inflicted upon vice, and of the reward of
fered to virtue.
II. A system of rewards, is expressly sanc
tioned by revealed religion; its traces are to be
found in considering the constitution of nature;
but its full manifestation, is only to be distinctly
characterized in revelation.
Here, we shall find a free and unmerited re
compense afforded to the righteous, by the good
ness, bounty, and mercy of God, by which he is
willing to accept our imperfect, though sincere
services, a consequence which has been promised
to all obedient and true believers; for  their
Father which seeth in secret, shall reward them
openly. Matthew vi. 6. It is indeed true, that
this is entirely a reward of grace; man has no
claim to i t ; and it is attached, not to the per
formance of the act, but to the spirit in which it
is accomplished; it is withheld from the sad
countenance of the hypocrite, but is liberally
given to those who appear not unto men to fast,
but unto their heavenly Father. And shall not
the Christian parent imitate this fundamental
law of the providence of God, and reward her
obedient children, not as an act of right, but of
492 M O R A L A N D RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
favour; not as the payment of a claim for duty
performed, but as an incentive to a higher reach
of integrity, to a more intense striving after that
which is good.
But reward is intimately associated w ith keep
ing the commands of the Most H ig h ;  for in
keeping of them there is great reward. Psalm
xix. 11.  Love ye your enemies, and do good,
and lend, hoping for nothing again; and your
reward shall be great, and ye shall be the
children of the Highest. Luke vi. 35. Again,
reward L
is promised to the righteous;  Light is
sown for the righteous, and gladness for the up
right in h e a r t(P s a lm xcvii. 11.) for  verily,
there is a reward for the righteous. The wicked
worketh a deceitful work; but to him that
soweth righteousness, shall be a sure reward.
Proverbs xi. 18. This reward is also of a dis
tinguishing nature;  for the Lord preserveth
the faithful, and plentifully rewardeth the proud
doer. Psalm xxxi. 23. W ell  knowing, that
whatsoever good thing any man doeth, the same
shall he receive of the Lord. Ephesians vi. 8.
 For the Lord God is a sun and shield; the
Lord will give grace and glory; no good thing
will he withhold from them that walk uprightly.
Psalm lxxxiv. 11. Even the smallest acts of
charity, when done from Christian motives, are
included in this system of rewards; for  who
soever shall give to drink unto one of these little
ones, a cup of cold water only, in the name of a
disciple, verily, I say unto you, he shall in no
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 493
wise lose his reward. Matthew x. 42. Once
more, the presence of the Lord is promised to
the just and upright, to those who deal coura
geously in his cause, for  the Lord shall be with
the good. 2 Chronicles xix. 11. Again, there is
a reward for the righteous in the approbation of
conscience ;  for our rejoicing is this, the testi
mony of our conscience, that in simplicity and
godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by
the grace of God, we have had our conversation
in the world. 2 Corinthians i. 12. But the
Christian is referred to a still higher tribunal
than the judgment of conscience;  when thou
makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the
lame, the blind: and thou shalt be blessed; for
they cannot recompense th ee; for thou shalt be
recompensed at the resurrection of the just.
Luke xiv. 14.  Evil pursueth sinners; but to
the righteous, good shall be repaid. Proverbs
xiii. 21. And lastly,  withhold not good from
them to whom it is due, when it is in the power
o f thine hand to do it. Proverbs iii. 27.  For
this is thankworthy, if a man for conscience to
wards God, endure grief, suffering wrongfully.
For what glory is it, if when ye be buffeted for
your faults, ye shall take it patiently; but if,
when ye do well, and suffer for it, ye take it pa
tiently, this is acceptable with God. 1 Peter ii.
19, 20.
If then the traces of a system of rewards be to
be found in nature; if success attend the d ili
gent; if happiness be in a great measure the
494 m o r a l a n d r e l i g i o u s e d u c a t i o n .
*
result of virtuous action; if peace o f m ind be de
pendent upon the just employment o f its powers,
and the subjection of its passions; if our blessings
be often placed within our own grasp, though
promised, and given only to sincere exertion ; if
there be a present satisfaction attached to the
Christian employment of mental em otions and
desires, and to the active exercise of social, rela
tive, and Christian virtue; if there be, in the opi
nion of man, a preference of that w hich is just,
and upright, and sincere; if man, however erro
neous his judgment, however perverted by sin, do
yet strive to preserve that which he esteem s good,
and seeks to avoid that which he deem s e v il; if
the justice of the moral Governor of the Universe
may be traced in the measure of his approbation,
though shewn by the instrumentality o f his crea
tures ; if the effect of virtuous action be to main
tain the integrity of the intellectual manifesta
tions, to augment their power, and increase their
susceptibility ; if a system of rewards be clearly
sanctioned by the Christian Revelation; if recom
pense be promised to those who keep the com
mandments of G od; if rewards be attached to
the righteous, and if these be proportioned to
the degree of uprightness, and the sincerity of
the heart; if the Great God will withhold no
good thing from those who seek, and love, and
serve h
i
m
; if he be not even unmindful o f a cup
of cold water given to a disciple; if he have pro
mised his presence and blessing to the good ; if
he have given them the testimony of their own
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 495
conscience; if amongst the injustice of man, and
the doubts and fears arising from the frailties and
imperfections of the best Christians, he teach his
children to look forward for an adjustment of this
disturbance of the order of his moral government,
to the resurrection of the just; if good be di
rected to be repaid, and not to be withheld from
the righteous, or from them to whom it is d u e;
if patience under calumny be thankworthy, and
acceptable to God; and if the converse of all
these propositions be undeniably true, how is it
possible that the Christian parent can with any
propriety banish rewards from her system of dis
cipline ; how is it possible that she can be so led
away by the sophistication of over-refinement, as
to lose this important stimulus to good action ?
The parent, then, should be actively sensible
to merit, and should neither be slow, nor sparing
in bestowing the marks of her approbation: more-
' over, she should be equally alive to the presence
o f an active disposition to do right, wanting the
occasion for its exercise, as to the act itself, and
perhaps even more so ; for the former will remain
as a principle of action, while the latter may be
only a transient state, and may pass away with
the circumstance which gave it birth. For this
purpose the design of conduct should be narrowly
watched, and that which proceeds from good dis
position should be carefully nurtured, especially
when it leads to any action which is contrary to
the natural bias of the human heart. When cor
rect conduct proceeds from a principle of obe-
496 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
dience to parents, (although it may originate in
the prejudice of receiving upon trust the propriety
of such action, in consequence o f a belief that
the judgment of the parent is superior) it should
be suitably fostered and encouraged, and praised,
and if need be, rewarded in any other proper
manner. In this, as in other cases, it will be
necessary to keep in view the distinction between
the action itself, and the motivewhence it proceeds:
for a little consideration will shew, that the ap
pearance of obedience, however in itse lf good,
may proceed from wrong m otives: even a child
is capable of deception, (mournful testim ony to
the untaught depravity of human nature,) and its
actions may be framed with the view o f obtaining
the praise of the parent, a reward w hich it is
conscious of not deserving; and while at th e same
time if its conduct could be abstracted from her
knowledge, it would be entirely and w illingly for
getful of the principle of obedience; it would act
according to the frowardness of its own heart,
and would become the sport of its passions, and
perverse inclinations.
This state must be checked with a firm and
persevering propriety; since it is not a useless
parade of ostensible conformity to the parental
will, but the silent, unobtrusive, modest perform
ance of its requests, and acquiescence with its
desires, which constitute pure and genuine obe
dience; it is not the hollow compliance of one
who exclaimed,  I go. Sir, and went not, but
the humble sincerity of him  who repented and
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 497
went. If the childs motive be not attended to,
reward may serve to ruin, instead of to im
prove, and to mould the character upon the best
models.
Care must be taken that reward should only
be justly given, and that it should not be equally
and indiscriminately lavished on the deserving and
the undeserving, or it will soon lose its effect;
for if it do not lead to confounding the distinctions
between virtue and vice, it will yet cease to be a
stimulus to exertion, if it be equally attainable
by the indolent and careless, as by the prudent
and active. Parents often commit a mistake on
this subject; anxious not to excite a feeling of
disappointment in the bosom of their offspring;
perhaps also dreading the self-denial necessary
to withhold a promised boon; or fearful lest they
may excite envy apd jealousy in the mind of the
unsuccessful, they are too frequently disposed to
overlook the want of desert; and while they con
fer rewaird on the industrious, not to withhold it
from the idle, in the hope they will be better next
time. A most ungrounded for indolence is
natural to m an; and if he can be filled with good
without exertion, he will never strive after suc
cess. Besides, the feeling of disappointment
should be produced, or how will the child reflect on
its own voluntary loss ? And neither envy nor
jealousy will be excited, if it be clearly shewn
that the one is rewarded for merit, and that the
other suffers by 'an act of its own choice. If,
however, this principle be not invariably acted
K K
V O L . I I .
498- MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
upon, but if, on the contrary, capricious devia
tions be made from i t ; then indeed there will be
room for anger and jealousy, and envy and hatred;
but this is the fault of the parent, and not of the
system.
Again, the reward itself should consist o f some
little testimony of parental approbation, enough
to gladden the heart of infancy, while at the same
time it should not be any abiding, and promi
nent, or galling mark of distinction, w hich may
by its obtrusive perpetuity excite the envy of
others; and then the effect of reward is alto
gether lost, and indolence is supplanted b y a baser
passion. The object with children, should be to
make an adequate impression upon their hearts;
but not permanently to wound their feelin g s; to
kindle the glow of exertion, but not to fan the
flame of passion, or to feed th feverish irritability
of vice.
Reward should als6 be accessible to all upon
their industriously seeking i t ; it should not be
promised so much to a certain degree of success,
as to the sincere effort to obtain i t ; for the powers
of children are so dissimilar, that their success
would be a very unsafe criterion of their m erit;
since while emulation is a powerful incentive to
action, envy is the bane of the young m ind; and
it must ever be recollected, that in the simple
unprepared heart of the child, the highest degree
of emulation (though in its nature perfectly dis
tinct) is very nearly allied to the lowest grade of
envy, and will be easily converted into that ma-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 499
lignant passion by the consciousness of having
been outstripped by a more powerful competitor,
and of not reaping the reward which was really
due to the intensity and sincerity of its exertion.
And since it is necessary to keep the two prin
ciples perfectly distinct, and to avoid all that may
excite envious feeling in that bosom which should
be keenly alive to the impression of the mildest be
nevolence, the more trifling the reward is, the
better, so that it be just sufficient to become an
object of desire. This too will be right on ano
ther principle, viz. that in dispensing rewards, it
w ill be necessary to separate immeasurably the
ideas of action, and of a natural, consequent, and
adequate recompense; since the child may erro
neously connect them, and the expectation of this
connexion may become a principle of action very
difficult to eradicate, and embarrassing to the
parent when attempting to lay the foundation of
religious instruction. This is to be accomplished
by not holding out to the young a certain reward
as the necessary consequence of particular ob
servances. When some valuable consideration of
a defined nature may have been held up as the
result of, and as a reward for specific actions, the
amount of effort will be governed by this stimulus,
and the two ideas will be inseparably linked to
gether : but if action be first established on proper
principles, then indeed it may be rewarded with
advantage, and the idea of merit attached to it
will be preserved entirely distinct; for there is
none good but one, that is God. And lastly, the
k k 2
500 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATrON.
mark of approbation should be conferred on con
duct, not because it is pleasing to the parent,
which is far too low a standard of right, but be
cause the action is consistent with the commands
of G od; not because the parent is gratified, but
the law of God obeyed; not because the feelings
are interested, but the judgment approves; not
because the passions are excited, but reason
assents, and reflection confirms, and conscience
dictates, and the word of God commands, and
the Spirit of God reveals the truth, and teaches
all things, and leads the sincere Christian in the
narrow way, which conducts to eternal life.
501
CH AP. XIX .
T H E S A M E S U B J E C T C O N T I N U E D - - - O N P U N I S H M E N T .
In apportioning punishment to misdemeanour
and crime, it must be recollected that the child
is not a mere domestic animal, to which the ex
pression of displeasure may be conveyed by
external signs; but the mind should be addressed,
and the spirit softened, and the heart led to con
trition, or very little will be gained towards rea
lizing the object of all punishment, viz. reforma
tion. Some expression of displeasure, some mark
of dissatisfaction may be required, but much less
frequently than is generally believed. In com
mon, the child may be made really sorry for its
fault by reasoning with it, and by explaining its
nature and tendency, its offensiveness to God,
its origin iri disaffection to parental authority and
legislation. This method of reasoning will make
a lasting impression upon the mind, because prin
ciples of action will be incorporated with it;
while another mode of direct punishment will
perpetuate its influence only so long as the mark
of disgrace caused by its infliction attaches to
the character: and it should not attach long, or
the subject of it learns to undervalue and despise
502 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
itself, from the low estimate it is compelled to
form, in consequence of the brand of infamy ad
hering to its little newly-fledged flutter o f repu
tation, and confining it to the ground; a state of
mind most unfavourable to the future develop
ment, and even to the present well-being of the
mental manifestations.
This subject has been already anticipated in the
chapter on discipline ; we shall therefore confine
our present observations within very narrow limits.
It may be necessary to recapitulate, that corporeal
punishment can be scarcely ever necessary, if the
child be properly managed from the beginning;
and the majority of instances in which it becomes
indispensable, may be traced to maternal neglect
and indecision, and want of firmness; and it may
well become a question, how far it can be con
sistent with justice, to visit these parental faults
and follies on the children who have been injured
by them : while if the little delinquents had been
rationally treated; if their understandings and
their hearts had been appealed to with uniformity
of plan, and steadiness of execution; and if the
object of punishment had been to produce re
pentance and reformation, the necessity for cor
poreal infliction would have almost invariably
vanished.
An axiom in conducting this process, is, that
the parent should be inflexibly rigid in not over
looking faults; while she should be always ready
to forgive, especially in those instances of dis
obedience which may seem to involve personal
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 5 0 3
feelin g , and excite personal irritability. It does
not follow from this dictum, that it will be always
necessary to treat every commission of a fault
with the same degree of seriousness; but when
observed, it should be invariably noticed, or there
will be excited in the bosom of the young, the
hope of escaping detectionfirst, and the expecta
tion that the parent may not be in the mood for
noticing its errors ; both evils of great conse
quence, inducing a state of mind, in which the
chance of impunity, not the nature of the fault is
considered; and in which, the evil of crime is
augmented by the deeper obliquity of chicanery
and intrigue.
Again, the anger of a parent should be kept
perfectly distinct, from that feeling which; prompts
to the correction of faults ; whatever she does in
anger, will be badly done;  be ye angry and
sin n ot; let not the sun go down; upon your
w r a t h l e t the emotions of anger have, first sub
sided ; and then the mind will be brought into a
fit state for bearing the rod of justice; irritated
feeling should have no influence on her conduct;
her sole guide should be the Word of God ; her
only motives the command of God, and subdued
affection for her child. These, and these alone,
will inspire her with such constancy of.design,
such tenderness of affectionate reproof, that the
youthful mind will be preserved easily susceptible
of sorrow for its faults; and thus the design of
punishment will be obtained; that design being
not to render its subject unhappy but better; and
504 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
to excite contrition, that penitential sorrow, which
worketh repentance; for  behold this self
same thing, that ye sorrowed after a godly sort,
what carefulness it wrought in you, yea, what
clearing of yourselves, yea, what , yea,
what fear, yea, what vehement desire, yea, what
zeal, yea, what revenge." 2 Corinthians vii. 11.
B y the carefulness, the examination, the hatred
and the fear of evil, the great desire to avoid it,
the zeal of imitating good models, and the wish
to be revenged upon former delinquencies by
future good conduct, the child will be preserved
from the influence of similar dangers. U ntil this
contrition has been produced, it will be wrong to
forgive, or the end of punishment w ill be de
feated, and a most fatal obstinacy w ill be fos
tered ; but when the desired effect has been pro
duced, restoration to favour should be the con
sequence, lest the continuance of punishment
and disgrace, should harden the heart, and alien
ate the affections, and induce a suspicion of the
wdnt of parental tenderness and com passion; a
want of resemblance to him whose great work it
is to forgive, to blot out transgression, and to re
member it no more, when his children turn unto
him and repent.
Again, the correction of a fault in one child,
may be easily made a lesson to others, not by
annexing to the former some open mark o f dis
approbation, which might point the finger of
scorn, and probably excite exultation, and con
tempt on the one hand, and a malicious feeling
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 505
on the other; but by patient instruction, by
opening the understanding to the nature of the
wrong, and the ground of punishment; by shew
ing the influence of uncorrected error, and undis
ciplined passion, as far as it can be compre
hended, and explaining the immediate act of
impropriety: thus preparing a lesson of instruc
tion for all, as well as of correction for the indi
vidual.
It has been said, that faults should*be no
ticed; but this general rule requires a specific
lim itation; they should be noticed only when
they are observed by the parent, not when related
by one child of another. For besides the un
certainty of human, and selfish, and prejudiced,
and impassioned testimony, which would render
it impossible to detect the simplicity of truth;
the practice itself should be most sedulously dis
couraged, and most carefully checked, whenever
it occurs. A system of infantile espionage, will
be destructive of family peace, and harmony, and
comfort; and therefore, the mother must never
listen to the relations of the tale-bearer; or at
v
least, must not appear to listen, though she may
avail herself of information thus conveyed, so far
as to awaken her own attention, and quicken her
observation in any particular direction; but she
will always avail herself of the opportunities
thus afforded, to enforce the duties of love, and
forbearance, and mutual forgiveness, on that best
of grounds, even our own need of forgiveness from
man, of pardonfrom God!
506 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
Punishment should also 'be carefully guarded,
from exciting the idea of its being a species of
expiation for a fault. This is not its object; in
deed it is impossible, for man can do nothing
good to atone for evil; and it is to prevent this
most erroneous opinion of practical Rom an Ca
tholicism that the attention must be d irected ; or
the child will soon flatter itself into a belief, that
the evil of its guilt, is washed away by the mea
sure of its tears, or by the little privation to
which it may be subjected as a punishment. This
secret influence is really of great importance,
since it is by the impression of trifles that great
results are ultimately obtained.
Warmth of temper on the part of the parent
must be very narrowly w atched; for a hasty ex
pression of irritability does not the slightest
good, but on the contrary, excites an unfavour
able recoil, which is peculiarly destructive to the
good effect of reproof; while a permanent, and
an influential bias may be given to the mind, by
pursuing the plans above recommended.
Lastly, punishment of one fault, may fre
quently be made the vehicle of instruction, with
regard to other circumstances and things; it may
be constituted the foundation of general prin
ciples of conduct; it may be employed to warn
of danger, to develop moral feeling; to arouse
the springs of action and of judgm ent; to con
firm the habits of sound thought, and just con
duct ; to enlarge the understanding; to fix the
attention on the paths of the youthful .fe e t; to
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 507
quicken their perception of impropriety, and of
the moral tact of good and evil; to deepen their
recollections of sin and suffering; to fix their
minds on the reasonable grounds of this action,
and to induce them to reflect upon i t ; to give an
increased tenderness to conscience, and to sub
due the w ill; all important objects, which should,
if possible, be accomplished.
508
CHAP. XX.
ON SOCIETY.
I t has been pronounced by Infinite Wisdom, that
it is not good that man should be alone ; true it
is, that, such is the constitution of his nature, he
cannot live alone. He may indeed exist; he
may vegetate in seclusion ; but for the full de
velopment of his mental manifestations, and phy
sical powers; for the maturity o f his reason, for
the fruits of his intelligence, for the harvest of
his affections, for the growth of his sentiments,
for the enlargement of his views, and the cor
rection of his opinions, he requires the aid of so
ciety.
In the retirement of the monastery, and in
the seclusion of ascetic life, man may be selfish,
ambitious, envious, malicious, enthusiastic, insin
cere, hypocritical, vain, idle, intemperate, irri
table, and unjust; these also may be the attri
butes of his social character; but then, it is only
in society, that he can become master of him
self ; that he can subdue his passions to prin
ciple, and govern them by religion ; it is only in
society, that he can command his anger, conquer
selfishness, controul the risings of ambition, and
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 509
the temptations of avarice; it is only in society
that he can subordinate his desire of revenge to
the forgiveness of the B ib le; that his hopes and
fears can be duly exercised, and fixed on their
proper objects; or that he can be stimulated to
the due employment of talent, and the improvement
of tim e; it is only as a social being that envy can
be subdued and jealousy destroyed, and the prin
ciples of benevolence, esteem, love, pity, and ad
miration substituted in their room; it is only in
society that his sincerity and love of truth can be
tested, and that candour and ingenuousness can
be developed; it is only thus that vanity can be
successfully opposed, and modesty obtain its due
weight and influence; it is only in society, that
gratitude, and justice, and patience, meekness, and
forbearance, can find the due field for their display,
and the exercise necessary to preserve them frofn
decay and disease: finally, it is only in society
that man can undergo that discipline which will
alone fit him for usefulness on earth, and prepare
him for the happiness of futurity.
But this is not a ll; for it is in the contentions,
and collision, and conflicting elements of society
that the character is to be moulded, not to solitary
independent action, but in conformity with its rela
tion to others in the social compact, or the more
intimate bonds of affeation. The social passions
must be regulated, and duly exercised, lest they
be influenced by self-interest or selfish gratifica
tion on the one hand, or lest they should lead us
into concessions which will render the boundary
510 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
line between right and wrong less strongly
marked, less perfectly defined, less prominently
characterized. The narrow-mindedness of preju
dice and bigotry, the ultra-liberalism o f those who
reck not for principle, and only seek to please the
dominant many, are equally to be avoided. It is
most true, that the means of mans happiness are
to be developed in society, and that pleasure un
participated is but half enjoyed; but it is equally
true, that the social affections, though th e source
of some of our purest, greatest pleasures, are
dangerous to our real happiness, unless they be
properly regulated and directed to their just ob
jects, and subdued within the bounds o f reason
and religion, and subordinated to the hopes and
fears, and present enjoyments, and future antici
pations of Christianity. Hence, the object of
maternal solicitude will be two fo ld fir s t, to ex
pand their powers and cherish their growth, in
the earliest stages of infancy: and then, to correct
every improper bias, and so to watch over and
direct their influence and exercise, that they shall
assume their purest form, and exist in their
most perfect state of health and strength. At a
more advanced period of life, she will watch with
jealousy and suspicion over the attractions o f so
cial feeling; she will carefully guard its indis
criminate exercise, and protect her offspring from
that fondness for mere society, which may lead
them into conformity with the views, and maxims,
and opinions of the w orld!
It has been already shewn, that from the feeble-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 5 1 1
ness and helplessness of solitary man, from his social
-wants and fears, from the necessity of preserving
his possessions, and of resisting individual vio
lence and oppression, have arisen political institu
tions, whose strength or feebleness, depend upon
their conformity with the manners and habits of
the people, and upon their capacity for securing
to them the greatest measure of happiness and
liberty, consistent with that individual surrender
o f selfish right, and individual feeling, emotion
and passion, which is necessary to secure the ends
o f justice, and to preserve social order, and do
mestic peace. It has been remarked too, of how
little avail, are the best digested political arrange
ments, unless they proceed upon the principle of
moral and religious obligation; unless they involve
a higher sanction than the wisdom of man, even
in his collective capacity, can give; unless they
assume the revealed will of the Most High as
their basis; and unless they provide for the reli
gious and moral necessity of the people.
Strange, aye passing strange, is it, that in a
country, where these principles are so well under
stood, and so judiciously practised; that in Bri
tain, that land of liberty, so free, that slavery
cannot breathe her atmosphere, so characterized
by lief benevolent, and religious institutions, so
ever ready to the calls of charity, so ever willing
with pecuniary sacrifices in order to secure the
happiness of the miserable, or the freedom of the
oppressed; strange, that in Britains empire,
there should exist a nucleus of slavery; strange.
5 1 2 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
that the blood of our fellow-creatures should be
an object of merchandize; strange, th at any poli
tical considerations should uphold a system in
which the unrecompensed toil of the many is
employed for the aggrandizement o f the few;
strange, that there should be cherished in any
corner of our empire, an unhallowed spot, where
the sacred ties of marriage and relationship were
disregarded, or where the voice of truth could not
be heard, if it proceeded from the lip of one whose
greatest fault consisted in the complexion of his
skin, and whose blackest crimes were produced
by the moral degradation occasioned, fostered, en
couraged, and augmented, by the cruelty and in
justice which first made him a slave, and then
bade his mind remain in a state of bondage to sin
and ignorance, even more cruel than the cruelties
of the trader; but passing strange, that there
should exist in Britain those who will turn a deaf
ear to the voice of suffering humanity; or who
will exhaust their tenderness on their signature
to an anti-slavery petition, or on their subscrip
tion to an anti-slavery society, but who will not
sacrifice the relish of their palates to the great in
terests of freedom and religion; who will not at
one and the same time say to the unfortunate
proprietor of slaves,  we will no longer consume
the produce of their toil, and we are willing to
give you our share of compensation for the loss
you may sustain. Man is born to love, and to
be loved; and the existence of slavery is a sole
cism against the constitution of society, and an
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 513
offence to the God of heaven, the God of the
liberties of the Christian, the God of love! Let
then parents set an example to their children, and
bring them up in the love of principled freedom,
and in the hatred of slavery; grateful for their
own peculiar privileges, and anxious that all who
live under our empire should participate its
largest benefits, and should know the value of
themselves, and oftheir property; live in the safety
of their own castle, and feel that while  England
expects every man to do his duty, her expecta
tion is founded upon the principled basis of having
herself done her duty by the remotest, and the
poorest, and the weakest, and the most helpless,
and the least gifted of her subjects.
To descend from the imposing magnitude of
political institutions, to the privacy of the smaller
cAterie, in which the wants and jealousies, the
hopes and fears of individuals are more peculiarly
operative, we shall observe that many of the most
valuable properties of man arise from his love to,
and from the influence of, society. It is well
known that great strength is always to be obtained
in nature by the union and combination and co
operation of many little individual powers, triflingin
themselves, but almost omnipotent when combined.
It has been remarked, that even plants grow best
in numbers, and there can be no question but
that animals thrive better in society than when
alone; it is an universal principle of natures,
from the influence of which, man is not only
an exception, but is, on the contrary, remark-
V O L . I I . L L
51 4 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
able for the most striking elucidation o f its in
fluence.
Grievous indeed is it that this principle of union
is so defaced by passion, that its existence may
even almost well he questioned; and that it is so
destroyed by ambition, that man meets his fellow
man by hundreds of thousands, to conquer and to
die, to dissociate himself from the great end of his
life, to agitate the social compact to its centre,
and to throw away the love of his species with
the same arm that draws the sword of the tyrant,
or unfurls the banner of aggressive warfare; and
all for the sake of some trifling stake, som e point
of honour, some national claim not worth con
tending for, some nook of land whose fee simple
would not be adequate to the price of a single
battle, much less to the misery and wretchedness,
the loss of life, and the horrors, worse than death,
of a campaign. Grievous indeed is it, that this
same spirit infests society to its core; and that in its
smallest associations there will be found a spirit
of discord, and calumny, and detraction, which
will go far towards breaking down and destroying
the principles of union in which alone consists
safety. Yet this is the result of some perverting
agencythe agency of evil passion, the conse
quence of that miserable change, which has made
man the  bond-slave of h e l l a n d which can
alone be remedied by that conversion, so frequently
scoffed at by the ignorant and the impious; and
which consists in a change of heart, and views,
and feelings, effected by the spirit of God, and in
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 515
devotedness to the active love and service of
Christ our king.
In the better parts of society, even such as it
now is,we shall find much that is valuable, much
that is worthy of preservation with niggard care;
we shall find in it, not only the wish to participate
our pleasures, but also the desire of sharing our
sorrows, as well as of receiving consolation from
the sympathy of others; we shall find in it a
ground for the exchange of reciprocal sentiments,
a provision for the agency and influence of mutual
counsel; we shall find a source of individual in
struction for the conduct of life; we shall observe
a manner of affording mutual aid in all the diffi
culties, and of direction in all the dangers of life;
w e shall notice an arena for the exchange of
moral impressions, and a stimulus to moral ex
ertion, to that athletic action which is nerved by
the observation of our fellow men, and which is
braced by the duty of obedience, and energized by
the prospect of the incorruptible crown, which
awaits the conqueror; and we shall find abundant
opportunities for that interchange of thought, and
inter-community of ideas, which have been ac
quired by study and meditation, not for the grati
fication of the accumulator, but for the food of
the common-weal. Where there is so much good,
the principle of evil will also be found active;
that malevolent counter-agent will do all in his
power to stifle good, and to develop evil; mean
envy saddens at its neighbours happiness; selfish
ness refuses its tear of sympathy, and the out-
l l 2
5 1 6 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
stretched hand of benevolence; confidence is
abused, excessive caution is required, and even
jealousy and suspicion are developed; advice be
comes a medium for promoting the view s of the
interested; passion perplexes, and perverts the
simplicity of obvious d u ty; the desire o f ag
grandizement interferes with the support of the
views and wishes of others ; too frequently does
it become a field for the perfection of vice, and
for giving countenance to unhallowed desire ; too
frequently does it offer a bonus to moral indolence,
and encourage the individual by the association of
numbers, in his aberrations from virtue; too often
does it make him forgetful of the warfare o f Christ
ianity in which he is engaged, the contending
earnestly for the truth; and too commonly does it
debase the communion of society into the frivolity
of emptiness, the frippery of polished fashion, the
absence of idea, the folly of the hour, the passing
events of the day, the varieties of the season, al
most every thing but that which is worthy of the
immortal mind, even if it do not become the pander
to vicious design, and secret or open abomination.
In this picture of society as it really is, w e find
the easeof simple truth exchanged for the hollow
observances of politeness, which has ceased to be
what it always ought to be, the polished graceful
expression of candid and benevolent feeling, and
has been characterized by insincerity of intention,
and by dissimulation in action; the tongue gives
utterance to interest, feeling, and emotion, which
the heart utterly disavows; while these expres-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 517
sions are received on the other hand with an ap
pearance of confidence and good-will, most distant
from the real suspicion and doubt with which
they are entertained. Thus, a system of mutual
deception is maintained by the instrumentality of
pleasing falsehood; occasionally giving rise to
real error in judgm ent; but more frequently
leading each party to contemn the littleness which
can stoop to such base subterfuges, in order to
conduct its sinister purposes.
But it will be necessary to notice more parti
cularly the modes in which the social affections
may be traced; and first, in the family circle,
that small, but most perfect sphere for their ex
ercise. H ere.they will grow and flourish unob
served,, and will obtain that deep tinge of useful
ness and worth, which should ever characterize
their exercise. Even here, however, there is al
ways an adverse principle, continually acting in
opposition to these affections: selfishness inter
poses, and seeks its own gratification; and if we
would strengthen the social tie, this must be
repressed and mortified. The traces of its influ
ence may be descried, even almost as soon as the
ray of knowledge has betrayed the vitality of the
mental manifestations. This principle demands
the most strenuous opposition, not only as it
forms a barrier to the present interchange of social
and benevolent affection, but as it is the channel
through which the influence of society proves
ultimately ensnaring to the mind. It is a selfish
518 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
principle, which prompts man to seek for that
society, which he knows to be injurious, and to
be forbidden; and therefore in proportion as it is
subdued, so not only are the charities o f home,
and of kindred, and of relationship developed;
but the danger arising from intercourse w ith the
world is lessened, and a state more favourable to
the expansion of philanthropic sentiments is pro
duced.
The young should be taught to form an exalted
estimate of the influence of social affection : they
should not suppose that this consists in the fac
titious ornaments or observances of civil so ciety :
these are very good in their place, but they
should be contemplated as merely external for
malities, which may be assumed, by politeness,
and which, though assuredly the companions of
the exercise of social affection, do not necessarily
spring from it. Even civility sometimes usurps
the character, and attaches to itself the conse
quence, annexed to the genuine principle of which
it is the shadow; while in fact, it is only the
transparent medium through which the solid pro
ducts of benevolence are descried; and it is con
fessed, that the social bond should originate in a
deep regard for those with whom we stand con
nected, an esteem for their good qualities, a con
viction of their worth, and a desire for their hap
piness ; a desire, from the exercise of which on
such objects, we may derive the purest satisfac
tion, and may act in our several social relations
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 519
with propriety and feeling, rather than from the
influence of, or a regard to the decencies of com*
mon behaviour. .
The privileges of society originate in an active
principle of justice and beneficence, not in any
series of negative duties ; a principle, which leads
us to employ our whole energy in pursuit of the
good and the comfort of others, and even to sacri
fice our own convenience and gratification to
secure their continuance. An opportunity for the
exercise of the social virtues, and for the develop
ment of this their most important basis, upon
which the fabric of society has been reared, and
can alone be sustained, is afforded towards those
with whom the young stand more closely con
nected in the ties of paternal affection; a lasting
foundation, on which the mothers intentions may
be fulfilled, and the active virtues may be brought
to the test of experience ; while their practice is
enforced by daily precept and uniform example,
and encouraged by the stimulus of approbation
and the result of peace. Here too, some of the
most important lessons of future practical wisdom
may be learned ; as for instance, the necessity of
being influenced by a regard to the feelings, the
comforts, the welfare, and the prejudices of
others; yielding our wishes to their reasonable
desires; and considering the happiness of those
around us, as the indispensable basis of our own.
These are truths, which we must practise in
order to be happy ; and they may perhaps be all
referred to one great and original principle, -
520 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
denial, so influencing all our conduct, as that it
should be variously modified by the forms of
feeling and of action in which it originates.
As a common consequence of our fallen nature,
the social affections are liable to interruption from
the sinister agency of improper disposition, not
only of selfishness, that prolific parent o f a large
progeny of evils, but of passion, anger, malice,
pride, revenge, and other varied forms of depraved
propensity. While then the parent inculcates,
and exemplifies the principle of social affection,
and its influence upon the character, throughout
every stage in the journey of life, in all its several
combinations and modifications, she w ill also be
careful to repress all dissocial feelings and actions,
not only as they disturb the present harmony and
joy of her children, but as they will prove a
fertile source of sin and sorrow.
The mode of their conduct towards inferiors,
will not here be forgotten; since these duties are
of equal importance with those, which interest
the feelings more particularly. It behoves us to
seek their happiness, to be mindful of their sor
rows, to alleviate their cares, and to lighten their
burdens, as far as possible. These objects are
not to be obtained so much by actual sympathy
and participation, as by shewing, that we are not
indifferent to their comfort; that their happiness
is an object we keep constantly in view ; that we
scrupulously avoid adding to their cares; that we
take pains to diminish the evils of servitude: and
that when we have occasion to demand their at-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 521
tentions, we do it, in a way which shall not make
the yoke of inferiority galling. There should be
on the one hand, the benevolence of asking with
out solicitation; and on the other, the readiness
of complying obedience, without the abjectness
of servility. More may be accomplished by a
kind, and what is usually termed condescending
behaviour to inferiors, in adding to their happi
ness, and securing their zealous services, than
we have it in our power to do, towards those with
whom we can more equally sympathize; but who,
for that very reason, are less easily comforted.
It is all very well to talk of condescension to infe
riors, as a valuable trait in the benevolent cha
racter ; b u t.in point of fact, there can be no
condescension, where there is not an apparent loss
of dignity; where there is no danger of a sup
posed amalgamation of character, between the
condescending and the obliged: consequently, there
is no roomfor its exercise, where the difference in
situation and circumstances is great; there is no
roomfor its exercise, in visiting the cottage of the
poor, or in conduct towards servants: it is only
when the characters more nearly meet, and when
the individual steps from a higher, to a little lower
grade in society, that this principle can be exer
cised. Let not then the observance of proper be
haviour towards domestics be ennobled as a virtu
ous exertion of benevolence; let it take its proper
sphere, and be inculcated as an act of duty, as a
portion of that talent entrusted to us, for the good
of ourselves and others, and for the glory of God.
522 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
Besides, it is surely a most valuable object, to
relieve the wants of those who are the m ost help
less ; who cannot so relieve us in return; but who
render us their services, and exert them selves for
our comfort. There is throughout society, a
chain of mutual dependence ; and a single link of
this chain cannot be severed without introducing
confusion and disorder; nay more, a single link
cannot be misplaced, without occasioning anar
chy, distrust, and that loss of peculiarity, and
distinctness, which would threaten the entire sub
version of the structure of society; that goodly
edifice, which may be preserved by order, but
which must crumble into ruins, where servants
hear rule, and princes are governed, and the pro
prieties of station are not well defined and ob
served. In this chain we shall find, that the
highest link is resting for its integrity upon the
lowest, and upon every intermediate one, and so
on in inverseproportion. Thus the master depends
upon his servants for many comforts, for obedi
ence, for the supply of his daily wants, and for
his domestic peace; while on the contrary, the
servant waits upon his master for regular food,
for constant protection, for adequate remunera
tion, for kindness of behaviour, for succour in
sickness and distress, and for support in old age
and infirmity. It is only by keeping in view these
relative duties, that the peace and good order of
society can be preserved: be it then the duty of
the superior to be zealous in doing his part; and
then may he be inflexible in requiring the full
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 5 2 3
and willing service of inferiors: be it also the
duty of the parent to instruct the young in these
offices of justice and good feeling; and while she
requires on the part of domestics, rigid attention
to the wants of her offspring, let her be equally
immovable in enforcing their kind conduct to ser
vants, and equally just in suppressing the first
indications of tyrannical propensity. Where this
principle is wanting, and where no attention is
paid to the wants, comfort, and feelings of at
tendants, because they are inferiors, and because
they may not possess an equal share of cultiva
tion and refinement, a similar conduct will, in
process of time, influence our intercourse with
others, who may chance to differ from ourselves,
or to be deficient in some of our supposed valuable
qualities. Hence it must be carefully inculcated,
that a certain order of social feeling, should be
exercised towards those who are not placed by
Providence in the same situation with ourselves;
and that we should be even moreattentive to their
necessities. Example also, will be here of the
first consequence. If the heads of families be
kind towards their servants, so will be in all pro
bability, their children; but if they be austere,
capricious, morose, often unjust, tyrannical, vin
dictive, and careless of their feelings ; the same
principles will actuate the bosom of their offspring,
and will convert the puny arm of infancy, into
the cruel sceptre of despotic power.
524
CHAP. X X I.
T H E S A M E S U B J E C T C O N T I N U E D .
T he time will necessarily arrive, when the child,
hitherto confined to the society of its own family,
will long to taste the enjoyment of that of others:
indeed this measure is necessary to the complete
formation of the character. But the greatest
care is required in the application of this neces
sity ; since the impressions now received are
abiding ; and remain to influence the conduct, to
direct the judgment, and to guide the heart.
The child which is confined to its own nursery,
will frame for itself, the notion of a microcosm,
wherein all its ideas and social feelings, will be
confined to the narrow sphere of its nearest rela
tions ; and it will not there have learned to ex
tend its pity, its compassion, its benevolence, its
sense of duty, its active exertions, to all those
with whom it may stand connected; it w ill not
have been taught to expand the self-denying vir
tues to all m
e
n
; it will not have been taught, that
it should go about doing good; but even this little
world of action of its own creation, peopled by
its dearest relatives, and animated by its peculiar
feelings and passions, will be narrowed by the
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 525
.cheerless gloom of selfishness, and circumscribed
by the thick darkness of anti-social feeling. The
principle of benevolence will be sparingly em
ployed, and will be bounded by the narrow limit
of relative connexion, instead of animating, (though
in very different degrees,) as it should animate,
and vivifying, as it should vivify, every thought
and action, however extensively, however re
motely these may be connected with society. In
simple truth, every act ought to be influenced in
some measure by the consideration of others.
In order that the principle may be thus applied,
the individual must be carried out of himself, and
his relations, into exterior society, where alone
it can reach its perfect maturity. But this path
is beset with snares and dangers: happy is that
child who has a parent for its guide: for while it
is called upon to proceed along a narrow and a
slippery road, with flowery, but precipitous banks
on either side, and while one false step may prove
ruinous to its immortal welfare: when the facul
ties of imitation and curiosity are so busily en
gaged; when the influence of companions is so
great, and requires to be so deliberately and wisely
estimated : when the attractions from the centre
of virtue are so numerous and so'powerful; when
conformity with the world is to be avoided,
shunned, and deprecated as one of the greatest
evils; and when to be imbued with its maxims,
to catch its manners, and to imbibe its habits of
thinking, and feeling, and acting, would be most
seriously prejudicial to the character: it becomes
626 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
a most important duty, and a primary effort of
maternal solicitude, to communicate a knowledge
of its dangers, to watch its influence upon the
mind, to be cautious in the administration of its
stimuli, to be circumspect in her choice o f com
panions, to be diligent in detecting the snares
which attend the footsteps of the heedless and
the unwary, and to guide their feet into the way
of truth. The light of divine revelation, o f the
 wondrous things which are contained in the law
of God, and in the knowledge of his w ill, can
alone direct and guide us through the labyrinths
of society, and counteract the imitative tendency
which man possesses, to acquire the manners, to
assume the habits, to exercise the dispositions, to
be influenced by the same spirit, to believe the
same doctrines, to think the same thoughts, to
form the same opinions, to be guided by the same
maxims, to be governed by similar motives, and
in general to be amalgamated with those around
him, and to be made like them.
Hence the very great importance of the parents
selecting good companions for her children. In
deed so powerful is the influence of those, with
whom the young are associated, that she must be
on her guard against intercourse with that society,
contact with which is not likely to inform the
understanding, or improve the heart; her object
will be to select as companions for her family,
those who fear God, and love and serve him in
sincerity. But this object is not to be obtained
invariably, even by the most rigid ch oice: yet.
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 527
there cannot be an entire seclusion from the so
ciety of others; and if this possible, it would
scarcely be desirable, for those who are to live in
the world, and yet to live above its influence ; to
be courteous towards all men, and yet not to be
imbued with their spirit. The grand thing, is to
be always mindful, that the spirit of the world is
at enmity with God; and that it is frequently
erroneous in its judgment, hasty and unjust in its
decisions, inadequate in its conceptions, preju
diced in its ideas as to the real nature of right and
wrong; that its views are often the result of
adopting a false standard of right; that its system
is too frequently a mass of contradictions; that
its opinions are very generally the hasty results of
passion, and prejudice, and circumstance, and
occasion; and that its maxims are often the
spontaneous consequence of the operation of a
system of expediency. Here, the important les
son of wisdom, is to recollect, that there can be
no contradiction in truth; and that the only pure
source of doctrine is the revealed word of G od;
that this is the sole test of opinion, removed far
above the influence of every inferior consideration -
r
and that this alone contains the maxims of the
truest wisdom, to be at variance with which,
aye more, to do less than which, is to be found
wanting, to be declared unprofitable, and to be
wandering from the narrow way which leads to
life. The Bible is the religion of the ju st; and
to it alone must be referred every part of thought,
and feeling, and action: all that is consistent
528 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
with it may be safely indulged: all that contra
venes its spirit, must be studiously, invariably
opposed.
This will be the only sure guide in the choice
of companions; and intimacy, but above all,
friendship will be shunned with those who do not
acknowledge, though they may not feel, the influ
ence of vital Christianity, as an active principle
of faith and obedience. Companions should be
carefully, aye, even fastidiously selected from
among the children of those whose views of di
vine truth, and of its obligation on the heart and
life, are congenial with our ow n; who are pro
foundly impressed with similar caution and
anxiety, on the great subjects of physical and in
tellectual, moral and religious education; who
are particularly influenced in practice, by the
deeply founded belief of their opinions; and who
are equally concerned for the eternal welfare of
their offspring. In such society, our efforts may
be strengthened ; at all events they will not be
counteracted. Let it be ever recollected, that
this selection must be rigidly made, not from
among those who profess largely, but from those
who actually and practically do attend to the
moral education of their children; not from
among those who make a parade of their devo
tion, but from the pupils of the simple, humble,
unobtrusive, sincere instructor, whose object is to
do, not to be talked of; whose design is to pro
duce an effect upon the heart, not to make a
shew of religious acquirement, or of that inope-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 529
rative knowledge, which floats on the surface of
the understanding, but never sinks deep into the
heart.
And even then, caution is demanded, lest the
child should acquire that degree of relish for
mixed society, which will produce an undue at
tachment towards it, or make it indispensable for
its amusement. Children should be brought up
with few wants and desires; and this is one,
which they should be taught to do without;
and to find in their own minds those ample
resources, which will stand in the place of  a
kingdom of companions, and yet will fit them
for profitable society whenever they may be
thrown into it.
The intercourse of children, should have an
instructive tendency; not that they are to be
constituted a tribe of little sages, and philo
sophers ; not that their natural bias to hilarity,
and cheerfulness, and buoyancy of spirits, the
gambol of health, and the festivities of a mind
at ease, delighting in every thing around it, and
without a single anxiety for to-morrow, to be
opposed; but only that the great end of assembling
together in society, should not be forgotten, viz.
to enlarge the understanding by the collision of
varied talent and intellect; to develop the affec
tions of the heart; and to afford opportunities
for the exercise of those sentiments and passions,
which will constitute the society of children, an
epitome in miniature of human life. Hence, the
importance of always having a prudent and in-
V O L . I I . M M
530 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
terested adult, to enter into the amusements of
youth, to regulate their conduct, to repress evil
passion, and to give them an opportunity of be
coming wiser and better, from that intercourse,
which was  divinely bestowed upon m an, and
without which the love of society, w ill degenerate
into a mere taste for visiting, and dress, and tri
fling, and dissipation.
Before we proceed to some concluding obser
vations on society in general, it will be right to
notice shortly, that form of connexion which is
termed friendthip;a liaison founded on the prin
ciple of sympathy, of that mysterious affinity
between individuals, which leads to union, and
which is daily and hourly cemented, by the de
sire of participating in all the painful and agree
able sensations, which in their turn, agitate, or
calm and soothe the bosom of each. The olgcct
of friendship, is an analogous individual, or at
least one in whom there exists a fancied resem
blance, so considerable, that it may be placed in
the room of the real principle. .This, analogy,
like every other, is frequently formed in sensitive
and imaginative minds, upon the slightest and
the most incongruous grounds; a heated fancy
discovers resemblances, where none really exist;
and imagines affinities in the most discordant
elem ents; and hence it is, that the w eb of
friendship, woven by these airy nothings, is de
stroyed like the film of the gossamer, by the
passing gale of the slighest opposition, by the au
tumnal sigh of the coming storm of adversity;
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 531
or even by the transient cloud of absence. Yet
such is only fancied friendship, not the genuine
principle, which is founded in esteem, in recipro
city of kind actions, i n .congeniality of taste,, in
identity of pursuit, in similar views, feelings, and
conduct.; which is cemented by time, deepened
by affliction, is unimpaired by absence, and
stands a monument of principle, amidst the ruin
o f this worlds goods, in despite of change of
circumstances, and notwithstanding all the buffet-
ings and contentions of life.
Friendship is a noble, pure, and amiable prin
ciple ; and it has this peculiar excellence above
all the ties of immediate relationship, that it is
valued for itself, and is not depending upon per
sonal interest. Selfishness forms no part of its
history ; and the recollection of past services is
only instrumental, in stimulating the desire for
more extensive usefulness to its object. That it
is a disinterested principle, is strongly proven, by
the kind of individuals it selects for its. agency;
not the rich or the powerful; not those possessed
o f large patronage, and who may probably have
it in their power, to aggrandize their favourites ;
but perhaps the poor and the indigent; at least
the choice is made irrespective of the more fa
vourable circumstances, and is often charac
terized by a thoughtlessness of generosity, which
prudence forbids; for there is a degree of devo
tion in friendship, which would induce it to
forego present and contingent advantages of an
m m 2
632 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
important nature, in order to secure som e slight
good for its object.
Friendship is principally operative upon the
young; early life is the season for that jocund
confidence, that mutual interchange o f heart and
feeling, which forms the very essence o f its in
fluence, and which from the nature o f things,
ceases in a great measure to exert its power in
old age. The confidence of friendship, is how
ever to be carefully distinguished from that inter
communion of folly, which consists in retailing
every silly thought and feeling, and in making
the intercourse of friendship to consist in listen
ing to an interminable series of impertinences,
arising from the excited influence o f feeling,
operating upon a stimulated imagination. This
absurd laying open of the heart, is the proof of
a very weak, or wicked mind ; the imaginations
of mans heart, will not bear his own inspection
without a blu sh; and should only be open to
himself, and to him who seeth and knoweth all
things; only evil can arise from exposing all its
littlenesses, and foibles, and failings ; and, itfor
tiori, its more painful deviations from rectitude,
its frequent obliquities, its secret faults, its pre
sumptuous sin s!
Friendship is not a sudden fan cy; and the
young must be carefully warned against the dan
gerous temptation to confide in all those who
profess largely, and appear deeply interested, and
are willing, and even anxious, to cultivate inti-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 533
mate acquaintance upon slight knowledge : they
must be taught that any thing deserving the
. name, or -possessing the attributes of friendship,
is only to be obtained by slow growth, by culti
vating a knowledge of the individual, testing his
sincerity, estimating his principles, watching his
conduct, and inquiring into his m otives; and
then, if all these be found worthy of confidence,
reposing in him the trust of unshaken esteem, de
fending his character, turning a deaf ear to de
traction, and believing not the insinuations of the
tale-bearer. Friendship is a very rare produc
tion ; and if the young will fancy, that every new
acquaintance may be dignified with the title and
attributes of friend, they will also find too late,
their hopes blasted, their confidence abused, and
their disappointment rendered more bitter by
reflection on their own short-sighted conduct. If
the mere acquaintance be treated as the true
friend, the result will be, as if a man should
carry a serpent in his bosom, should foster and
cherish its languid actions into the intenseness
of its maturity, in order the more surely to re
ceive the bite from its most cruelly envenomed
fang. They know not the world, and its cold,
unfeeling selfishness, and they must be prepared,
and preserved if possible from the punishment
annexed to misplaced confidence. The -friend
ship of the young too, requires great caution;
for it will become the engine of much good or
e v il; it will strengthen the bond of virtue or it
will weaken every moral tie, accordingly as the
5 3 4 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N ,
good or the bad shall become its object. The
parent will therefore watch over this connexion
with jealous care, and will beware of too great
intimacy, even with the good, which seldom ter
minates to the satisfaction of any party, and is
generally of briefduration. Repeated disappoint
ment is commonly the lot of the sanguine; and
then is developed that reserve which is the pro
duct of experience, and the influence of w hich is
extended over the life, so as to render the choice
of friends more prudent; and to place it rather
under the direction of the understanding, than of
the heart and imagination. It is painful to con
fess that another, and an unfortunate result, is the
consequence of this experience, viz. that friend
ship becomes less disinterested, less characterized
by the glow of affection, less actuated by emotion,
more calculating, and even occasionally partaking
a degree of selfishness to which its original nature
is adverse.
Genuine friendship is stimulated by the existence
of obstacles to its development, because it is prin
cipled, and is not to be appalled or shaken from
its firm and steady purpose by difficulties; the
storms and troubles of life do but agitate its leaves
in order that it may deepen its roots; it is not
affrighted by danger, but animated to succour its
object; and is more closely cemented when the
danger is m utual; its recollections are cherished
In absence, and the defence of its object is a
sacred deposit, which it loses no opportunity of
em ploying; it remains and even flourishes best in
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 635
poverty and misfortune, when the world frowns*
and acquaintances neglect us, and our former
companions drop away and know us no m ore; it
is found when they who courted our society in
prosperity, refuse to participate the evil fortune
which awaits u s : these, these are its cherished
moments for activity and vigilance; these are the
periods in which its greatest energies are put
forth; these are the peculiar seasons in which its
genuine devotion is manifested; these are the si*
tuations which evince the intrepid and unshaken
zeal which no difficulties can arrest, and which
perhaps are more energetically displayed in a
state of society preceding the height of civilization;
a boon which is sadly diminished by its attendant
luxury, and refinement, and heartlessness; by
the ultra-polished feeling it induces, and which
serves to reflect, rather than to receive and appro
priate, and be influenced by, reciprocal tender
ness; these are the circumstances which no
change of fortune will supersede, and which will
shew the genuine friend to be always ardent in
defending; and ingenious, and persevering, and
immovable in administering consolation. Con
stancy and durability are the attributes of friend
ship, and constitute a wide and prominent differ
ence between itself, and that flimsy veil which
often assumes its name, for the purposes of self-
interest, if not for a hypocritical, and a sinister*
and a base agency: for there are those who cul
tivate confidence, only die more securely to de-
5 3 6 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
stroy their victim, and who make the sacred
name of friendship, a mask for unprincipled de
sign, or heartless passion; and there are those
whose friendship is subjected to the cooling pro*
cess of indifference.
A few remarks on intercourse with the world,
will conclude the present subject. In arranging
the visits of children, it is desirable to avoid, at
all times, large, but above all mixed parties. It is
incalculable the amount. of mischief w hich may
be thrown into the mind on these occasions ; the
seed which will vegetate and produce evil fruit.
If the party be a large one, there cannot be that
perfect superintending agency which is necessary
to render it useful, and recourse must be had to
some means of amusement, at least doubtful in its
primary influence, and too frequently decidedly
pernicious. Among these methods of wasting
time, we must stigmatize balls, cards, and other
games of hazard; and generally, all those dissi
pating employments which will tend to raise a
blush, or to destroy the quick susceptibility of
modesty; but which will be more particularly de
tailed in a subsequent chapter.
While visiting should be allowed to a child so
frequently, as that it may not resemble a bird
escaped from its cage, it must not be repeated so
often as to unhinge the mind, to unfit it for the
duties of education, and to produce a desire after
indiscriminate society. Early intercourse with
the world at large is to be dreaded; the air it
M O R A L A N D ~ R E L I G ! O U 8 E D U C A T I O N . 537
breathes is tainted with the infection of sin ; and
this appearing in the fashionable garb of social
virtue is almost irresistibly attractive to the young
and the unestablished, and rapidly leads to the
vortex of equivocation, to maxims of policy, to
motives of expediency, to the confines of the
theatre, to the brilliance of the ball-room, to the
destitution of the gaming-table, to the agony of
unrepented crime, to the misery of remorse, and
to the gates of death!
From this polluted atmosphere the child should
be saved; yet after a certain time it will be un
avoidably led to mix more or less with the society
o f the world at large ; and then the guardian care
o f the parent is necessary to preserve the untried
stranger from its evils, to warn of its dangers, to
save from its snares, and to strengthen a decided
opposition to its measures and its spirit, so often
as these shall be found opposed to the measure of
the law of God, and the spirit of Christ. Safety
can alone be found for the humble inquirer, in
constant vigilance, and does not any where exist
for the proud, conceited wanderer. Society is the
wide field for the display of our tempers, as they
may or may not be influenced by a divine prin
ciple ; it is above all others, the situation in which
the disposition is most tried; in which there is
the greatest need to search the heart, to form an
acquaintance with its most secret motives, and to
watch over the lips.
In all cases, utility should be the grand object
536 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
of social meeting', and we should be aw are of the
dangers to which it exposes us, in order that we
may be prepared to avoid them when practicable,
and to surmount them when they cannot be
evaded. The means of accomplishing th is most
desirable object, are to call forth into active ex
ercise the social virtues, and the sound principles
of moral action; while we guard them from the
dangers which environ, and which threaten the
destruction of their vitality. grand principle,
will be found the master key to all that is just
and valuable, viz. a principle of practical benevo
lence; not simply the active, busy, bustling
charity, which is ever on the alert to relieve the
wants and miseries of m an; this indeed performs
a most important part in the theatre of the world,
but must yield in consequence, to the less obvious,
but more extensively operative principle of love>
which is seen not so much in active, as in passive
du ty; not so much in the relief of others wo, as
in the government of self ; not so much in zeal
and enthusiasm for a paticular form of opinion or
action, as in the restraint of anger, and the subju
gation of pride, and envy, and ambition, and hatred,
and malice, and revenge; not so much in the
offices of sympathy, as in the cultivation of
esteem ; not so much in the hollow professions of
polite flattery, as in the simple uprightness of
candour and sincerity; not so much in the
ostentation of modesty, as in the exercise of
patience under injuries, and the .forgiveness of
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 539
enem ies; not so much in the exhibition of talent,
as in the suppression of ridicule, and in the
adherence to justice; not so much in seeking
after honour, and the reputation of sooiety, as in
striving to do the will of God, and to confer
honour upon others; always esteeming others better
than ourselves.
540
CH AP. X X II.
ON READIN G, AND ON TH E CHOICE O F B O O K S.
R eading is the prolific source of knowledge,
instruction, delight and usefulness; it is the great
basis, on which the character of valuable must be
finally and remotely fixed; it is a friendly guide
through the mazes of opinion, and the intricacies
of life; it is a companion whose society never
fatigues : it is a pleasure which never cloys : and
it affords an impregnable refuge from the storms
of adversity; the cares and anxieties, and sor
rows of the day; the toils of business; the vex
ations of this worlds contumely; the imperti
nences of society; the buffetings and contentions
of this active scene, on which so many are striv
ing for the mastery; the disappointment of hope;
the neglect of talent and merit; the privations
of misfortune; the clouds of sickness, and the
night of death; it affords the means of satisfac
tory reflection on the past, and of cheerful anti
cipation for futurity; it promises to those who
will seek it, the wisdom which will compensate
for the folly that is past, and for the suffering
which it has entailed ; it will enlighten our path
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 541
with the reflected and accumulated knowledge of
past generations of the good and w ise ; it will
furnish principles of action for all the varying
circumstances of life ; it will afford food for the
mind to feast upon, and to enlarge, and develop,
and strengthen and mature its manifestations; it
will stand in the breach of temptation, and enable
us to keep the citadel of the heart, when the out
works of attention have been gained, and when
the feet had well nigh slipped, the steps were
almost gone.
Such effects, however, can result only from the
proper, influence of reading; and in this imperfect
state, it cannot be supposed that where there is
so extensive a sphere of good, there will not also
be a large admixture of evil, so that  this foun
tain, at which drink the good and w ise, may
become an  ever bubbling spring of endless
l i e s s o that it may be converted into the gross
darkness which invests the mind with error worse
than ignorance, and closes it against the access
o f truth; it may become the means of stimulating
the passions instead of enlarging the understand
ing; it may fill the heart with images of evil,
instead of storing it with the beauties of virtue;
it may pre-occupy the attention with the shadows
o f scepticism, the unreal visions of doubt, the
fantastic images of mans vain and limited con
ceptions, the creatures of superstition, or the
material follies of those whose views are bounded
by what they see, and hear, and taste, and touch
and fe e l; it may endeavour to satisfy the cravings
542 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
of an immortal spirit with the. em pty basks of
fiction; and it may so far succeed in depraving
theinental appetite, that it shall accept these in
stead of substantial nourishment ; it m ay place
the gratification of sense .in the room o f the cul
tivation of intellect; and which is even more de
plorable, it may substitute the latter for the infi
nitely momentous pursuit of religion; it may
become the means of tempting us astray from the
paths of virtue, and of bewildering us in the ever-
shifting scenes of oblique opinion; it m ay be the
companion which constantly allures to that which
is wrongthe arch minister of vice, w hich saps
the foundation of virtue in the heart, and leaves
the edifice of morality to crumble around it, op
pressed with its own unassisted Weight, and sink
ing under the influence of its fruitless and im
possible efforts. Knowledge and ignorance, virtue
and vice, religion and infidelity; the exclusive
reign of the understanding on the passions; the
'depravation of the moral and intellectual faculties,
or their gradual progress towards perfection, are
all within the range of this powerful agent. By
it the attention will be fixed on valuable objects,
or lowered to the basest villainy; the perception
of good will be rendered accurate and. sensitive,
or it will become blind to virtue, and alive only
to vice; the memory will be furnished with prin
ciples of action, or itw ill. be loaded with the
images of folly and impurity ; reason will be en
nobled by truth, or perverted by its alliance with
the worst, because the most fatal errors; reflec-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 543
tion will delight to dwell on the stores of know
ledge, and the strength of moral energies, or it
w ill be amused with the merest trifles, if it be
not occupied with the vanities, and follies, and
wickedness of m an; conscience will be enlarged
and purified, or contracted and debased, its stan
dard lowered, and its object grovelling; and the
imagination will be worthily fixed on things which
are not seen as yet, or it will be employed on
images of fancy, the most equivocal in their na
ture, and the most doubtful in. their influence:
hence the parental duty of guiding, improving by
cultivation, and directing a taste for reading, a
thirst for pure and substantial knowledge.
Even the communion of intelligent friends, and
their kindred sympathy, become insipid and on-
interesting, unless their minds have been pre
viously stored with knowledge which may in
struct and augment the happiness of all by its
communication. But the pleasures ofsocial inter
course are not always to be enjoyed; and.there
are many periods when an hour can be redeemed
from business, or the immediate demands of a
profession, or the duties of domestic life; and if
these be spent in listless inactivity, they are passed
unhappily. A book is a resource of unceasing, and
constantly augmenting pleasure; it affords occu
pation without exhaustion, pursuit without dis
traction, the enjoyment of labour without the
weariness of satiety or the incapacity of fatigue;
and that society may be rendered either pleasant
544 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
or profitable, such intervals of solitary study must
have preceded.
But again, there are periods when the mind
feels society to be irksome; when it becomes
disgusted with its emptiness, or has acquired a
distaste or disrelish for its pleasures; when it
can no longer derive satisfaction from them , but
longs to retire within itself, and to ruminate on
its own stores: and to provide for theseoccasions,
there must be a taste for study. And in order to
secure the full effect of this reflection; that we
may be independent of the world for amusement,
and that we may escape the domination o f that
most capricious of tyrants, and be enabled to
g ive the law to its influence, there must be ade
quate resources within the m ind; these must be
gradually accumulated, and hoarded with a misers
care; not however with the same Selfish views,
or from the mere love of adding heap to heap,
but for the sake of feeding upon them ourselves,
and, dispensing of our stores to the hungry, and
the thirsty, and the poor, the ignorant and the
indigent, the feeble and the helpless, the widow
and the orphan, the sick, the sorrowing and the
dying, with every other form of want and desti
tution. With the solicitude of the miser, however,
a frequent survey of our knowledge should be
taken, lest any portion of it be lo st; and it should
be classed and arranged (not indeed according to
any system of artificial, or technical, or philoso
phical memory, but according to the memory of
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 545
real life, the memory of principle, the memory of
circumstance, and action, and occasion,) and so
regularly disposed that we can go at once to our
casket of selected valuables, and take from it the
very gem we are in quest of. Thus, memory is a
vital action, and as such possesses this peculiar
property, that it is not merely an accumulation of
materials, but a process of digestion, a conversion
o f the primitive elements of thought into newly-
combined and associated forms. So the flower
which charms by its beauty, and its fragrance,
could never be produced by a chemical mixture
o f its component elements, and the agency of the
grand orb of day upon them ; these would still
require the vital action of nature, the assimilation
of those first principles, and their successive ela
boration ; the combined influence of the root, the
stem, the vessels which convey and act upon the
absorbed fluids, so that they may be converted
into the different parts of the flower. So also
the artist copies from nature, disposes his colours,
touches and retouches, and the picture becomes
a copy: but however correct the resemblance,
there is still something w anting: we cannot see
the flower expand as beneath our e y e ; we are
not regaled by its fragrance; we see and know
that it is the work of a painter, the labour of art,
the humble imitation of man, not the perfect pro
duction of an almighty Architect: in fact, it
wants vitality, that life which God alone can
give it; that mysterious attribute, which does
not result from the mere elective attraction of
VOL II. N N
546 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
homogeneous atoms, but from a principle super-
added to them. Precisely thus is it with that
mind which has gradually acquired knowledge,
but which has not assimilated its stores by the
digestion of reason and reflection; which has not
systematized its acquisitions into principles^ nor
classified and combined them by the power of
genius.
There is in man a natural love of freedom, and
an instinctive aversion to dependence, w hile the
idea of independence is peculiarly grateful, and
may prove useful as a stimulus in the pursuit
after knowledge; since knowledge is power, that
power which can alone secure to us the posses
sion of this boon, as well as teach the method
for its employment; and it is only by the combina
tion of these two, action and knowledge, that
independence can be obtained.
If another motive to industry were wanting, it
might be found in the very little that w e can
acquire, by the most patient and persevering ex
ertion. Man is a strange anomaly, with mental
powers so limited, yet so capacious! an anomaly
which admits not of explication by any effort of
reasoning, or any minuteness of research; an
anomaly which can only be accounted for by
imagining the existence of some change some
debasing influence, which has rendered the mate
rial organ unfit for that boundless manifestation
of intellectual energy, which once constituted
him verygood, in the sight of Infinite Wisdom and
Infinite Goodness. A humiliating truth, which
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 547
is explained by the Revelation of the High,
against the force of which even the pride of human
learning must bow ; and which animates us to
the only means of regaining the semblance of our
high original, by the eager pursuit of this truest
and most valuable knowledge.
Again, conversation becotnes insipid, or suffers
a most awkward interruption, or experiences a
change in its direction worse than either, for
want of ideas to furnish materials for its continu
ance, and because the minds of those who are
engaged in it are not sufficiently stored with an
adequate share of information: or they do not
possess the faculty of communicating; a state,
which commonly arises from the want of union
and assimilation between the several parts of
knowledge, so that they exist in confused and
heterogeneous masses, and cannot be rendered
available for the purposes of their possessors; for
if this were not the case, the influence of science
diffused through the different ramifications of mind
must of necessity appear in conversation, thought,
and action. From the want of copious informa
tion, the malicious, or at the very best the un
guarded observation on the conduct of others,
usurps the place of sober truth: too often the
profession of a devoted attachment to virtue is
made at once the vehicle and the cloak, for con
cealing a deformity of mind which (itself ill-
stored) delights to feed and prey on the defi
ciencies of others; and too commonly studied
ill-nature skulks its hateful form under the ap-
n n 2
548 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
pearance of w it; and then, conversation becomes
the field, not for intellectual improvement, not
for the exercise of the purest affections, but for
the gratification of ambition, envy, m alice, re*
venge, and other hateful passions. If then the
mind were more cultivated, there would be less
tendency to, less necessity for, the frivolity of
common intercourse, while materials w ould be
furnished for the profitable interchange o f idea.
Again, there is in the human mind, a natural
aversion to become acquainted with itself; it
shudders at the thought of such scrutiny; it
shrinks from it with fear; it trembles to revolve
its own actions, to trace their motives, and to re
view the secret springs which guide them. If it
may have been previously unaccustomed to the
task ; when its importance does come to be more
particularly felt and acknowledged; and when
the mind strives to be governed by the principles
of divine truth, it discovers its inability from want
of use, to detect its own motives, to unravel
their obliquities, to follow effects to their causes,
and to separate truth from error, as the result of
such investigation. There are under these cir
cumstances, several sources of erroneous judg
ment, with which it is well to be acquainted: as
for instance, in the want of an enlarged mind, to
take liberal and comprehensive views, uninflu
enced by feeling, unclouded by passion, undis
torted by prejudice; and in the habit of drawing
sweeping inferences from a small number of pre
mises, without sufficiently maturing the data upon
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 549
which they are grounded, and without adequate
consideration of the conclusions to which they
lead. Here then, more enlarged information is
required, that it may be known how to seek this
acquaintance with self, instead of flying from
such an examination; and in order that genuine
sincerity of desire may be met by corresponding
opportunities of purpose.
Notwithstanding the confirmed dislike of this
scrutiny in general, there under certain cir
cumstances, a tendency in the human mind to
*become acquainted with itself, so that if its peace
be undisturbed, and its quietude unbroken, and
its abstraction from the world be complete, and
its pursuit be uninterrupted, it will in despite of
itself, revolve its own interior operations, aye,
even more, it will commonly form a tolerably
just judgment of their tendency. But still, with
unequalled perversity, it flies from solitude; it
seeks the haunts of society, and frequents the
herds of the gay and the giddy, the dissipated and
the thoughtless, in order that it may avoid and
escape from this uneasy propensity.
may here be rendered beneficial, by precluding
the necessity for trifling company; by leading
the mind to retirement and meditation; by in
ducing a habit of serious thought and contem
plation, as well as of reviewing the stores it may
have acquired, and the possibility of their appli
cation to all the contingencies of life; a process
which naturally leads to an inquiry into the prin
ciples, motives, and actions; and which will at
650 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
all events, render it capable of the required ana
lysis ; an analysis of such indispensable import
ance to the man who aims at rectitude o f conduct,
from no higher motive than a sense o f honour and
gentlemanlike feeling: how much more to the
Christian, who is convinced of his manifold errors,
and failings, and infirmities; whose grand desire
is to do the will of H eaven; and who, after all,
is the only true gentleman, the only one whose
suavity of manner, and delicacy of tact, and uni
formity and simplicity of benevolent design, and
constant anxiety to secure the happiness o f others,
is founded on the just principle of the charity of
the Bible.
Society is too frequently sought, not with the
view of instructing and pleasing others; nor with
-the design of being pleased and instructed, bat
merely for the sake of amusement, and in order
to obtain the capacity of frittering away time.
Yet can any thing be more false in principle,
more injurious in its consequences ? And woutd
not this evil habit be corrected, in part at least,
by the mind being more generally informed, and
by its possessing larger depots from which to im
part knowledge, in exchange for some other valu
able consideration, some other portion of instruc
tion? Where amusement only is sought after,
chagrin and disappointment will be the result;
ntid dissatisfaction is the consequence of that in
tercourse, which might have been exchanged for
pleasure and improvement, if the resources of the
mind had been cultivated. This, and this alone,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 551
will preclude the emptiness of common conversa
tion, and the necessity of applying to mixed so
ciety for relaxation. Even among the good, so
ciety is too often the signal for ceasing to be vigi
lant ; it is the sphere in which the mind is said
to unbend; but in reality, that in which it is most
off its guard, in which it loses the tone and ten
sion of health, is enfeebled, and easily ensnared
and overcome. Improve then the understanding,
and it will no longer be capable of resting satisfied
with follies, with the topics of the day, or with
other unmeaning trifles; it must direct its powers
to those great truths, which instruct and enlarge
its capacities, warm the heart, and develop the
principles of thought and action.
But again, how many are there, who in theft
solitary hours become a prey to ennui! There are
periods when solitude cannot be escaped from ;
and then the uninformed mind wanders, in its
dreary inanity from place to place; all in its si
lent, still domain possesses the same uniform
want of character, the stillness of an uninhabited
island, with the only prospect of the ocean's useless
immensity. After traversing without purpose,
and without effort, this cheerless, gloomy, and
unpeopled region, the mind becomes painfully
impressed with the idea of its own destitution;
the undefined shadow of itself produces trembling;
its every action increases fear, and it remains
fixed in uneasy silence, until relieved by the oc
currence of some unsatisfying pleasure. During
such a period of abstraction, the individual re-
552 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
sembles one who finds himself bewildered in an
unknown track; he is conscious of the inability
to extricate himself, and although just within the
reach of safety, is yet unable to grasp i t ; he is
startled by the sound of his own fo o tstep s; he
ejaculates, and his voice is re-echoed by the
gloom ; fear surrounds him with objects o f terror;
he listens with intense solicitude, and breathless
anxiety, to every sound; and with a palpitating
heart, he sits down paralysed by terror, and un
conscious which way to m ove: the energies of
his intelligence are lost, and he is actually un
happy. But with the well-stored mind, this
would not be the ca se; for its intellectual re
sources would never fail to supply an abundant suc
cession of innocent gratification; resources, which
solitude cannot exhaust, but may augm ent; re
sources, which may be applied to the best purposes,
and which may invigorate the*faculties, and render
them capable of renewed and increased exertion.
Pleasure, if enjoyed without the necessity for
labour to procure it, soon ceases to delight and
interest; it may dazzle for a m om ent; it may
stimulate the senses; it may excite the passions;
and yet its recurrence becomes irksome and un
pleasing ; and the sated appetite loathes the very
food it had so anxiously desired. But in intel
lectual pleasure, progress, the fruit of our exertion,
is delightful; and it is so, from the novelty and
variety with which it is accompanied, as well as
from the consciousness of improvement; while
reflection may be employed to enhance, and in-
MORAL AND RELIGlQg|i EDUCATION. 553
crease the value of successful pursuit, more espe
cially, if the object of desire be worthy of the
solicitude aad efforts of a rational and immortal
being. Such an individual may look on the
past, without shame or remorse, though with in
finite regret, at the smallness of bis progress,
and the slowness of his advance, comparedwith
the immensity of the field before him, and the
reach of the talents with which he has been en
trusted : while he will ever be looking forward
with fresh interest; and will be anticipating the
renewal of his opportunities of accumulating
know ledge; not only with the consciousness of
their innocence, but with the certainty of their
being practically beneficial, and of their affording
the means of storing the mind with information
which will be useful as an active principle in the
government of the conduct; as a safeguard against
the influence of temptation; as a source of solid
pleasure in domestic intercourse ; forming in it
self a pursuit of enjoyment, and fitting the mind
for conversation and action.
The pleasure and advantage of reading are
greatly enhanced by the several individuals of a
family, uniting their powers upon one subject,
and seeking after the attainment of information in
one common track; for the abilities of each are
energized by emulation and desire; the lamp of
the understanding is lighted at the shrine of
family union; the wing of imagination is plumed
for its most active flight; and there is no satis
faction more solid or more endearing, none which
554 MORAL AND mtGIOUS EDUCATION.
impresses a greater value on the hours as they
pass, none which more thoroughly maintains the
integrity of the domestic circle, or w hich fiir-
nishes more abundant materials for grateful re
flection, than a community of intellectual pursuit
Reading may, by the judicious instructor, and
by her careful selection, according to her parti
cular views, be rendered useful in stimulating
any one faculty of the mind, which may appear
to be deficient in strength; or in repressing or
correcting that which may be redundant or er
roneous. Thus the attention may be awakened,
and the tendency of abstraction superseded, or
it may be directed to worthy objects: the per
ception may be stimulated, or its* too great sus
ceptibility may be blunted, or its fallacious im
pressions may be corrected; the memory may
be strengthened when feeble, or varied when ex
clusive ; the reason may be rendered firm when
vacillating, or it may be taught caution, when
too confident, or its just powers may be define^,
where the mist of doubt and scepticism hovers
over i t ; reflection may be educed ; the giddiness
and 6tourderie of the young may be moderated,
and brooding melancholy may be avoided; the
power of conscience may be developed, while
excessive scrupulousness and timidity may be
superseded by the light of reason and revelation;
and above all may be avoided, that irritability at
trifles, which is so commonly joined with the
deadening torpor, and insensibility to greater oc
casions ; imagination may be stimulated, or re-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUB EDUCATION. 555
pressed, or recalled from its wanderings to juster
y iew s; the will may be strengthened in support
o f that which is ju st; or subjugated when exist
ing in the form of obstinacy; or subdued, when
based on fallacious data; and the faculty of imi
tation, may be led in the way of good example,
or enfeebled when it approaches buffoonery, or
corrected by sound principle; thus furnishing the
most extensive means of influence upon the un
derstanding and the heart.
This source of instruction may be polluted.
As an engine of mischief, it does not escape the
notice of the arch-enemy of mankind, and it has
been seized and employed to forward his views,
and to ensure the destruction of his subjects.
B y the press, error in opinion is disseminated
far and w ide; all that is false in religion, all
that is injurious in morals has been defended;
while, all that is dear to social and immortal man,
has been scoffed at, and derided, and reviled:
the means of information have become a vehicle
for untruth; the poisoned chalice, delicious to
the palate, and never awakening attention, until
its effects are perceived, and the destruction of
the individual happiness effected, has been
eagerly quaffed at this source; reason and argu
ment have been perverted into a support of the
insurmountable difficulties of infidelity; vice has
been defended, and invested with the specious
garb of virtue; the nascent passions have been
stimulated into precocious maturity; principle
has been undermined; the necessity for reading
556 M O R A L AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
the Bible, and for other acts of religious wor
ship has been denied; the influence o f good
example has been depreciated; the freedom of
mans . agency has been impugned, and his ac
countability deprecated,- by the m aterialist, and
the spiritualist; by him who asserts th at matter
thinks, reasons, reflects, and consequently go
verns ; as well as by him, who declares that man
is the blind creature of a certain influence,
which he has no power to controul or contravene;
virtue has been treated as a phantom, as a mere
term of accommodation, or as intended to ex
press a system of conventional expediency, which
interest or any other powerful and selfish motive
might supersede; a scheme of present trial and
probation, and of a future eternity of rewards
and punishments, has been treated as puerile,
and as fitted only to influence the w eak; and the
power of mans wayward habits and vicious in
clinations, has been defended as the simple re
sult of that nature and organization, with which
he has been supplied by infinite wisdom and
goodness; thus blasphemously charging his
errors and corruption on Him who is o f purer
eyes than to behold iniquity! And since wis
dom and folly, vice and virtue, truth and error,
religion and irreligion, reason and passion, prin
ciple and prejudice, all own the same source, the
greatest jealousy is required over the productions
of the press, and a most careful selection from
the tainted mass, of such as shall have escaped
pollution; of such works of science and know-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 557
ledge as may be required for the purposes of ge
neral information; and which may be more par
ticularly calculated to advance the great end of
existence Christian morality! The influence of
reading upon the mind, must also be narrowly
watched; but since these, subjects will again
claim our attention in the next chapter, we shall
Conclude the present by remarking, that all know
ledge must be subordinated to religion, that it must
be its handmaid, and that by it, it must be go
verned and regulated.
There exists on this subject considerable pre
judice by those who undervalue human learning,
as well as by those who think it too exclusively
deserving of attention and regard. The influence
of religion shines most conspicuously in the well-
stored m ind; it appears with a brighter lustre;
it is more extensively useful, and its pleasures are
augmented. But on the contrary, there is a
danger of over-valuing intellectual attainments,
and therefore an inordinate attachment to pursuits
of an exclusively literary character should be re
pressed ; their proper place in the heart should
be carefully guarded, and the mind should be
principally directed towards objects-of a brighter
nature. It is, however, a most mistaken idea#
that scientific pursuits do necessarily secularise
the heart, absorb the attention, and call off the
understanding from the pearl of great price, the
hidden treasure, for which the wise man selleth
all that he hath, in order that he may become its
possessor. N o ! the faculty of obtaining know-
558 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
ledge, is a talent of the highest order, and it must
be improved; it is that splendid gift, which if
properly employed, will produce talents more
and will place its possessor in the situation of
being accounted a faithful servant, and of receiving
a still greater accession of influence; or it is that
humbler possession, which if it be not improved
to the utmost, but -suffered to be hidden in the
earth, to lay concealed and unemployed, will sub
ject  the slothful and nicked servant, because
unprofitable, to the doom of outer darkness,
where  shall be weeping and gnashing of
teeth. The rule of conduct is simple, but it
is narrow; and to preserve the footsteps on its
pathway requires attention and watchfulness.
Human learning should be pursued in subordina
tion to religion; it should be auxiliary to the in
fluence of divine truth upon the heart, and with
the view of its more extensive diffusion; for since
all knowledge is power, so especially is its in
fluence exerted over others; and so is it required
that this agency should be employed on the side
of all that is valuable to man.
Thus then, the steady pursuit of piety, the
longing after immortality, the uniform seeking
after heaven, the striving after conformity to the
will and the character of the Most High, the de
sire to be obedient to his laws, and to be in
fluenced by his precepts, are by no means incom
patible with the acquisition of human learning;
on the contrary, the very nature of the former is a
reason for seeking after the operation of the latter,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 559
because it opens a wide and almost boundless
field for-the useful and moral application of this
knowledge. The precepts of our holy religion do,
however, most clearly forbid the heart should
be set on any thing short of God himself; and
the Scriptures do most clearly enjoin, that it
should be supremely engaged in his service, and
that all its undertakings should be characterized
by submission to his will, and by a desire of living
to his glory, and of extending the boundaries of
his kingdom.
Human learning then is good, as it enlarges the
mind, refines the feelings, extends the opportuni
ties for usefulness, and stimulates the mind to
embrace them. The knowledge of character, the
extension of idea, the command qf language, and
the clear systematic views which study enables
us to obtain, are all of great importance to the
active Christian, who wishes to extend the know
ledge of his Master and Redeemer; and will all
tend to make him humble, because it will show him
how limited is his wisdom, how inadequate his
capacity, how poor his most expressive language,
how obscure and ill-defined, his best perceptions,
in fact, how little he is prepared for the great
work which is before him. True indeed it is,
that the pride of earthly wisdom, of that know
ledge which centres in self, and whose beginning
and end are in the little circle which it describes,
is in direct hostility to religion; hence learning
must be engrafted on its humbling truths, and
then it will be beneficial to the mind now, and will
560 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
return in copious showers of blessing at a distant
period. But if, on the contrary, the wisdom of
science be constituted the chief concern, and reli-
gion be made the secondary consideration; then
the vanity which is consequent upon such acqui
sitions, will prove to the mere votary of intellect,
an obstacle to the reception of the truths of the
gospel; a deceived heart will have turned him
aside, and he will have greedily devoured the
empty husks of literature, from which the pure
juice of the grape has been expressed, by some
more cautious traveller.
In conducting the process of education, let pa
rents beware that the flowers of rhetoric be made
subsidiary to the fruits of piety. Let the truths
of religion be first inculcated; and let all other
knowledge be considered as inferior to it, as the
atmosphere which is necessary to diffuse the light
and heat of the sun of righteousness; and valuable
only in so far as it tends to make its possessor
more actively and more extensively useful. In
this way, intellect will hold its proper p lace; for it
would be dearly purchased, if obtained by the sacri
fice of religious hope, and joy, and d u ty ; it would
be dearly purchased, if the reputation for mind
here had been received in exchange for a futurity
of peace and happiness ; for  what is a man pro
fited if he gain the whole world, and lose his own
soul, or what shall a man give in exchange for
his soul ? The anxious parent will take care to
provide religious reading for her child; such as
will mould its principles, and store its understand-
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 561
ing, and soften its heart, and lead it to Jesus the
kind shepherd, who carries the lambs in his arms;
she will also shew the continual dependence of
every part of conduct upon the precepts of the
gospel, and of every good, and wise, and holy
thought, upon the teaching of the Spirit of G od:
and she will follow up this impression by all the
means in her power, particularly by writing from
recollection the sermon which it may have heard,
or by committing to paper its own views of dif
ferent texts, which she will select according to
the capacity and the peculiar wants of the.child;
thus shewing that the arts of human learning lead
to the improvement of time, to works of benevo
lence here, and to a preparation for heaven. -
Still there will be danger that intellectual at
tainments may be over-valued, and that the heart
may be engrossed by amassing these treasures,
these corruptible riches, of which at best, the rust
of old age will destroy the value, if it may not
have been previously devoured by the moth of
disease; it will therefore always be necessary to
keep steadily in view, the insufficiency of human
learning, however valuable, to confer happiness, to
supply strength and consolation in difficulties and
trials, or even soto guide us in prosperity
that we may be enabled to keep the straight
path of everlasting truth; it will be necessary to
shew its dangerous tendency in alienating the
heart from God and its best interests; together
with the absurdity, as well as wickedness of con
stituting this the god of our idolatry, and of placing
VOL. ir. o o
562 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
on its altar the sacrifice of our peace, in the hope
or vain expectation, that it would be consumed by
the fire of the spirit: it will be necessary to explain
the narrow boundary within which, all our inquiries
are confined, and the ultimate limit which is
placed every where tq our researches; it w ill be
right to preserve a lasting and lively impression
of the comparatively small portion we can acquire,
even of that which is already known; it w ill be re
quisite to estimate properly the very minute sphere
of our actual scientific knowledge, compared with
the imperfect distant glimpses which w e occasion
ally catch of that which is hidden from our sight in
the immensity of the universe; it will be desirable
to enforce the insignificance of this transient
knowledge on the bed of death, when the soul is
fast bidding adieu to every earthly association, and
entering upon those untried scenes of joy or sor
row which exist beyond it ; and how contemptible
it will then appear, when contrasted with ardent
thirsting after God, seeking to do his will, con
templating his mercy and love, and ascertaining
our own interest in these, or at least proving our
belief in them by the fruits of constant obedience.
How trifling are the stores of wisdom and learn
ing, and the highest acquisitions of literary fame,
compared with the depths, yet the, simplicity and
beauty of the scheme of Christianity; to compre
hend which, men become fools in themselves, that
they may be wise in Christ, that they may be
wise to eternity, and find the way to heaven.
The worldmay celebrate its heroes; it may load
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 5 6 3
its statesmen with honours; it may accumulate
wealth, and power, and influence, around its
merchants; it may confer the boon of reputation
upon its philosophers, and it may canonize the
recollection of its literati; but church of God
dwells on the memory of the just, of those who
walked with G od; of those who being dead yet
speak, and who were, and are witnesses of the re
deeming love of the most High God; the angels of
God, rejoice over one sinner that repenteth, and
findeth m ercy; and Christhimselfdelights to dwell
in the humble and the contrite heart; in the bosom
of him who, with child-like simplicity, seeks for
wisdom from on high, and cultivates present know
ledge as subsidiary to that which is more im
portant. These are the only truly honourable,
and learned, and wise, and powerful; these are
they which have washed their robes in the blood
of the Lamb, and are brought out of much tribu
lation, to a crown of glory, who possess the palm
of victory, and are entitled to that acceptable in
heritance, which is incorruptible, undefiled, and
which fadeth not away.
o o 2
5 6 4
CHAP. X X III.
THB SA
M
E SU
BJECT CONTINUED.
H a v in g fostered, and encouraged and developed
a taste for reading, the parent must now instruct
that taste, and guide its operation according to her
peculiar design and the necessities of her little
pupil; and this principle immediately involves
the selection of literary pursuit, as well as the
choice of books, which are to forward its ac
quisition.
The nursery library is abundantly stored with
works suited to the capacity of children of differ
ent ages, and among these there will be found an
excellent variety; but the very profusion with
which they abound may throw the parent off her
guard, and lead her to permit to her offspring an
indiscriminate access to these little books which
are to form the mind and influence the character.
Y et in this abundance there are many which
should be cautiously withheld, and therefore the
instructor should first become acquainted with
the nature o f the work she places in the hands of
her child, and should exercise a rigid criticism,
and a sound discretion in her choice.
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 565
Some of these works aim simply at the infor
mation of the understanding; and here there is
less danger; the chief consideration being, whether
that object is accomplished in the simplest and
the most attractive form. Others are intended
only for amusement, and as such possess a more
doubtful character, lest the effort to please should
have been made at the expense of some import
ant principle of action. But there are those which
assume the guidance of the heart, and pretend to
influence the conduct; to subdue the passions;
to regulate the tem per; to arouse good, and to
subdue evil dispositions; to lead the young into
the path of Christian morality; the path which
should lead to Christ himself, faith in his finished
sacrifice, and obedience to his perfect will.
This, however, is the great field for mistake
and error. In many of these productions the ex
ercise of good dispositions is represented as na
tural; is inculcated becauseit is pleasing to others;
is rewarded with their esteem and admiration, and
is crowned with invariable success. The prac
tice of virtue is recommended as a matter of
policy; and the little heroes and heroines, placed
often ia impossible circumstances of danger and
difficulty, are extricated from them by a rigid
adherence to some prominent principle, founded
on this basis. And again, when the correction
of evil temper and disposition is the object, these
are represented as unamiable, as rendering the
character less estimable in the eyes of surround
ing friends; and as meeting with their natural
566 M
ORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
punishment, and adequate atonement in the unhap
piness and suffering consequent upon their exer
cise.
Thus then unwarily, there may be two palpable
errors impressed upon the tender and too sus
ceptible mind of infancy, viz. the practice of vir
tue on a false principle, and the representation of
virtue and vice as meeting with their appropriate
reward in this life. Fallacious motives for action
are thus early developed; and these subsequently
act as prejudices against the reception of the doc
trines of divine truth, and their influence upon
the heart and conduct: the former inculcate vir
tue for itself and its secular advantages, the latter
as being obedience to the will of G od; the one
points to present comfort as the consequence of
good action, while the other looks forward to that
sure recompense of reward which consists in the
testimony of a good conscience, and in the manr
sious of peace which have been prepared for the
just.
Again, the practice of virtue is represented as
originating in innate goodness of heart; and as
consisting in the performance of duties towards
others, to which the mind is naturally inclined,
and upon the principle of obtaining their esteem.
Yet how defective is this system! how injurious
its tendency! For while the Scripture teaches
the corruption of the heart, these speak of it as
pure and spotless: the mind is prepossessed with
the idea of its innate goodness, instead of its uni
versal depravity, worthlessness, and inability to
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 567
do or to think any onegood thing. Piet
sented as consisting, not in a change of heart,
and in conformity to the Saviours image, and in
obedience to his will, and delighting in his laws,
and living in his precepts, and rejoicing in his
statutes,; but in a regulation of the external con
duct, according to some imperfect standard of
right, and originating from an innate love of vir
tue, a natural tendency .to that which is good!
Christian Revelation is forgotten; and a false,
delusive, and destructive system is substituted in
its place. Here, too, the esteem of others is
taught as the ground and motive to action, and
the principal object of pursuit; and the exercise
o f virtuous principle is inculcated, not because it
is .the will of God, and an act of duty, and the
appropriate homage of feeble, erring, helpless
man, towards Him who is strength, and wisdom^
and righteousness; but because it is pleasing -to
man, and will obtain his praise. And since.proc-
tical piety, and glaring vice are represented a s -
meeting their appropriate reward and punishment
here, the young mind is taught not to look beyond
the present life for the exaltation of the one and
the degradation of the other: yet it cannot be
long before an opportunity is afforded of observ
ing, that virtue is not always rewarded, nor vice
always punished in this w orld; but that on the
contrary, the one is frequently triumphant, while
the other is neglected. Disappointment is the
consequence of this observation; and oftentimes
there will result a secret murmur,at th& apparent
568 MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
incongruity in the dispensations of a B eing of
infinite wisdom, and purity, and justice.
Not only is this false view produced, (and one
error in opinion is bad enough,) but it is associated
with others; for by the supposition, an opportu
nity is lost for shewing that virtue must not always
look for its reward here; indeed that it is not to
be stimulated at all by the prospect o f recom
pense; but that as God is infinitely good and
just as he hates sin, and loves righteousness, so
there must be a state of future rewards and pu
nishments ; and that it is there only that upright
conduct and conversation will be duly appre
ciated : while dependence upon God, and a constant
looking to the equalization of all difficulties at the
final audit, are the best means of supporting the
oppressed heart in adversity. Thus, then, the
varying modifications of this defective system of
morality will prove a beacon to guide the parental
censor; which will lead her to select those works
on which the impress of Christian morality is de
cidedly prominent, or in which she will at least
obtain an opportunity of shewing the basis upon
which this should always rest.
I. Works of Fiction.
The press daily teems with little tales of fancy;
the creations of a moderate imagination after din
ner ; when the powers of the brain were accu
mulated upon some distant bodily function, and
when therefore the manifestations of mind would
be less active, less energetic, partaking more of
its material cloud than of its pristine and etherial
M
ORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 569
nature. It may be remarked with regard to tales
of acknowledged fiction, from which instruction
is intended to be derived, that they uniformly
constitute a badmedium for conveying mental im
pressions ; while it will often happen, that
the impressions themselves thus received are
very far from being correct. Thus, for in
stance, these works of imagination appeal chiefly
to that faculty; the appeal is either quickly
evanescent, or it communicates an erroneous ex
citement to this busy power. It is indeed true,
that without the aid and influence of imagination,
action loses much of its present character; but
then it is also true, that the latter should originate
in reason and the understanding, however much
it may be secondarily modified by the fancy. In
early infancy, the great effort should be to in
form the judgment, and to convey just impres
sions of things as they really' are; and therefore,
works of acknowledged fiction should be sparingly
supplied.
There are other books for children, to which
not only is the air of probability and vraisemblance
communicated, but the colouring of actual reality
is given to scenes which never had, and never
can have an existence a local habitation and a
name. The tendency of such works is for the
most part injurious ; for although attention may
be aroused, and surprise be excitedand al
though the mind may wonder at the monstrous
combinations it beholds; and although the ima
gination may be filled with stories of the marvel-
670 M
ORAL AND RELIG10U8 EDUCATION.
lous and the impossible, the present inquiry is,
will it be benefited and instructed ? It never
can ; but on the contrary, so soon as it is capable
of reflection, it perceives the want o f sincerity
and veracity in the person whose fictitious cha
racter it contemplates; and disgusted w ith the
attempt at imposition, it disbelieves all that was
intended to have been inculcated, and a recoil is
excited against wisdom in general. T he human
mind is so constituted, that it cannot be cheated
into knowledge; and when once it perceives a
want of truth in the monitor, there is no chance
that his influence can be any longer exerted bene
ficially. Rousseau was of opinion, that birds and
beasts should not be made to speak; and without
any predilection in favour of that apostle of expe
diency, there is perhaps much truth in the obser
vation. So decidedly averse will be the reflect
ing parent to the use of fiction in conveying in
struction, and especially religious knowledge,
that she will be very cautious how she employs
it as an engine, since it cannot be thoroughly
divested of an air of improbability, which entirely
destroys its effect; and which effect, even if it
could be fully experienced, would at all events be
insufficient, frequently injudicious, and sometimes
even positively baneful.
II. Abridgements, &c. &c.
The juvenile library swarms with excerpt pro
ductions ; with abridgements of one, extracts from
another, beauties of a third, souvenirs of a fourth,
a pocket encyclopaedia of all, and other equally
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 571
compendious methods of obtaining slight and
superficial knowledge, or of forming a kind of
hortussiccus of the flowers of literature, in which
the miserable, dried and lifeless specimens may
,be acquired without the effort, or the industry of
study, and independently of the energies of re
search ; q
u
a
l
i
t
i
e
s,without which it is impossible to
form a full, substantial, and valuable character.
In the dried specimen we may trace a number of
leaves naturally disposed; we may ascertain the
stem, the bud, the flower, the various colours; we
may acknowledge the beauty of the preservation
but we can never be induced to believe it a living
flow er; for we know that this should possess
other characteristics besides those just enume
rated : its beauty may attract the eye, but its
fragrance should charm the senses, and we should
be delighted with its growth, and the perfection
of its enjoyment; but here the flower wants vita
lity. And so, however correct may be the re
presentation of the different parts of a character
thus formed principally from abridgements, still
it will want vitality, the living energy of a living
whole. It may indeed be sprightly; it may be
able occasionally to afford one of its pilfered re
marks, ' but will never shew itself possessed of
sterling worth, by patient investigation, or by
the pursuit of a subject beyond the first glare of
impression.
Abridgements, abstracts, epitomes, are excel
lent when they are the result of the intellectual
labour of the individual, the digest of his own
572 M
ORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.
mind ; but when they are presented as already
digest ed, it w ill at once be seen how mischiev
ously they must operate, by cutting off the pro
cess of assimilation, without which there can be
no nutrition; hence, then, they are to be avoided
in general as useless and injurious; calculated to
fill the mind with detached shreds of knowledge,
but not to lay the basis of solid information. It
is possible that they may be occasionally useful to
stimulate an individual who may be torpid and
'lethargic, devoid of ardour, wanting in a thirst
for knowledge, and deficient in the energy neces
sary for the pursuit of literary acquisition: here,
they may allure to action and perseverance, but
in no other case will they be adm issible; and
even in this solitary exception, they must be em
ployed with extreme caution; for if they stimulate
the indolent, they will also give that smattering of
information with which they will be abundantly
contented; so that they will not be at the trouble
of tracing the streamlet to its source, and of rest
ing satisfiedonly with full draughts from the foun
tain head.
The tendency of this entire class of works is
essentially debilitating; and although they may
furnish ready materials for conversation, and stand
in the room of effective knowledge; and even in
some measure supply a lack of the powers of ac
quisition, yet their operation upon a sound and
healthy mind is ever to enfeeble, and to produce
morbid action. This is particularly shewn by the
sickly tastewhich they develop; a mawkish desire
M
ORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 573
after insipidity; a preference of various little
nesses, which betray the fastidiousness of the
epicure, without his power of discrimination. The
understanding loses nothing by grasping after
high and large attainments; while when it ceases
to aspire, it droops, it even crouches itself into
the narrow limits it has prescribed; until, from
habitual stooping, it has acquired the contracted
posture; rests contented with its downward look;
is no longer able to expand its wings, and take
its flight to higher regions, but daily loses the
power which it should derive as the fruit of con
stant exertion.
Neither is this contracting influence exerted
upon the understanding only ; it extends to the
heart, and the sphere of the affective faculties
is limited and controuled. The operation of this
combined agency upon the understanding apd
the heart is exhibited in action, which becomes
feeble but impulsive ; blazing for a moment, but
soon dying away to be known no more for ever;
there will not be a steady, uniform, and deli
berate pursuit, but an indolent longing, which
will crumble away under the first breath of op
position; the whole moral system is affected,
and feebleness and irritability are its prevalent
characteristics. However easy then may be this
method of conveying instruction, however little
trouble it may occasion to the instructor, and
still less to the informed ; yet at the very best,
it will be scanty knowledge without power to
574 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N ;
employ it; a knowledge which tarnishes from
disuse, and which, is of no practical utility.
III. Since the mother is the appointed guar
dian of her ch ild ; and since she has early de
veloped a taste for reading, so must this guar
dianship extend to a period farther advanced in
life, when it now reads for its own delight, and
eagerly seeks the knowledge to be m et with in
authors; when this reading is no longer under
her immediate eye, so that she might at once
correct a wrong impression, or explain the fal
lacy of an erroneous opinion, or shew its unjust,
anti-social, or irreligious tendency. And when
the sentiments thus conveyed to the unalarmed,
unsuspecting understanding, are suffered to make
their quiet unobtrusive impression upon the
heart; thenit is, that she will be doubly vigilan
as.to the direction of this talent; and that she
will be cautious, aye, almost fastidious, as to the
nature of the works, to which the young, may
have permitted access. The parent will not
forget, that at this most impressible period, be
fore the principles have been fully established,
and under the powerful influence of the imitative
faculty, not yet sufficiently controuled by judg
ment and experience, the mind is equally ca
pable of receiving a bad as a good impression;
and that as it is prone to evil, so is it by an in
evitable consequence, easily assailable by specious
error.
There are in the present day, many works.
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O N S E D U C A T I O N . 575
avowedly engaged in disseminating opinions,
which are fatal to purity of motive, and holiness
of life; which are inimical to the interests of re
ligion; which contravene the influence of its
truths; and which though they may not entirely
pervert the heart, yet obtain such a hold upon the
mind, as to enfeeble its action, and paralyse its
exertions: and these may be so disguised, espe
cially under the mask of candour, and philoso
phical inquiry, as to be both specious and dan
gerous. But besides avowed infidelity, there
are other books, written particularly within the
last few years, for the purpose of disseminating
practical Socimanism;and these from theirpleas
ing style, and from the support they derive, from
the ostentatious character and conduct of its pro
fessed disciples generally, are calculated to fasci
nate the young, to captivate those with whom
manner is almost omnipotent, and to make a
deep impression upon the unwary. Hence they
are greatly to be dreaded, since Socinianism, with
all its rationality, must be considered, hoth syn
thetically and analytically as positively anti-chris-
tian, inasmuch as it blots out the glory of Christ
as the Saviour of sinners, and substitutes the
narrow motives of expediency and influence, for
the pure desire of being made like unto the Son
of God, by the agency of the Holy Spirit.
In committing therefore into the hands of her
child, any work which has a relation to religion,
or morality, or the conduct of the life, the mo-
576 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
ther will be anxious, that the former m ay be the
pure and undefiled religion of Jesus Christ, the
religion of the Bible, the religion of the primi
tive Christians, the religion of our evangelical
Church, and of that immense body of holy men,
who agree with her, in all her important doc
trinal views, though they may differ in som e un
important particulars, and though they may give
too great a preponderance to their peculiar views
of church government: and she will also take
care that the morality inculcated, shall be founded
only on the broad basis of truth, which this reli
gion affords.
But beside these, there are other books of high
character, and importance to general knowledge,
or to the interests of literature; works, to which
in the department of history particularly, and of
natural philosophy, there may perhaps be scarcely
any, if anyparallel, yet so interlarded with error,
so intermixed with irreligion, that the young
mind, ere it can be aware of danger, may have
drank deeply of a poison, which will pervade the
principles, and influence the conduct, and alienate
the affections, from the simplicity of piety;
while it will constantly oppose itself to the pro
gress of the light of divine truth. All other
works may be made the means of diffusing
error; and are therefore objects of jealous and
wakeful attention. With regard to those, to
which particular allusion has been m ade,-they
should not be entrusted to the hands of one
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 577
whose principles are not thoroughly established;
and even then, the slightest wound inflicted by
the envenomed arrow of the sceptic, will often
prove dangerous, and the more fatal, because it
operates unseen, and lulls the nervous system
to the slumber of death !
From these dangers, the young should be care
fully guarded, and that even although it may in
consequence be necessary to have recourse to an
author, whose language is less pure, less beau
tiful, less attractive, whose abilities are inferior,
and whose opportunities of knowledge may have
been less abundant. It will not be sufficient to
commit these works into the hands of children,
and to trust to the influence of the good prin
ciples they may have been taught; or to rest in
the power possessed by the parent, of opposing
and correcting the morbid infusion which may have
been received; there cannot be two more fatal
errors, than trusting to the security of untried
principle, the very situation of greatest danger;
or of resting in the opportunity of correcting a
wrong bias, a consequence which it is not in the
power of man to ensure. It is indeed allowed,
that truth may be circulated; and that left to its
own nature, power, and influence, it will sup
plant error; but in this case, truth and error do
not meet on equal term s; since in the support of
the latter, there is the depravity of human na
ture to contend with, and this adds greatly to
the fatal prerogative of error; for although these
VOL. I I . p p
578 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
opposing principles, may be enforced w ith equal
ability and sincerity; yet the latter w ill possess
a greater number of affinities with the human
heart, will seize on its strong holds, will make
sure of its influence, will run its course, and per*
vade the mind, and prejudice the conduct, long
before it can be overtaken by the former; and
therefore, the mother will most carefully pre
serve her offspring from this polluted source. It
will not be sufficient that this vigilance may be
exerted towards a Hume, or a Gibbon, a Rees,
or a Morgan; the literature of our French and
German neighbours, is above all, to be most
carefully watched, and most rigidly tested. How
often has it happened, that the mind has been
ruined from this source, which had been most
carefully preserved from the evils of  home and
of kindred. This too frequently arises from
thoughtlessness; and sometimes perhaps, from
the inability of parents to consult the foreign
original. But let them never put into the hands
of their children, a foreign book which they have
not previously read; it is there, the serpent
lurks unseen, among the sweetest flowers, and
inflicts it deadliest sting; it is there, that the
magic of talent, lulls suspicion and disarms vigi
lance, and the charmed victim is unable to es
cape, and remains fascinated, till its best hopes
have been withered, and its fairest prospects have
been clouded, and its firmest principles have been
shaken, and its integrity has been lost, and its
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 579
peace of mind has been exchanged for sorrow of
heart. It is by no means intended to include
allunder this ban; indeed good education is im
possible without foreign literature, which in many
instances, contains the very best treatises; but
it is a path which requires the utmost care, and
is beset with the highest danger.
p p 2
580
CH AP. XXIV.
THE SAME SUBJECT CONTINUED.
IV. N o v e ls.
Although this head of inquiry has been in part
anticipated, when treating of imagination; yet
a few additional remarks are necessary for the
completion of the present design. It is to be
recollected, that the generic characters of these
productions arcu.those of being unreal creations;
a light and fascinating species of reading, dressed
in an airy and fantastic garb; treating for the
most part of the great, and uniformly interesting
passion of love; their heroes and heroines are
made so amiable, that the mind is irresistibly
led to sympathize with them, and to participate
more or less the feelings by which they are actu
ated ; as well as insensibly to imbibe their spirit,
and admire their actions; a spirit which is
grievously defective in itself, and actions which
are supposed to arise from very improper mo
tives. Yet these works of error, are so pleasing
as to be eagerly desired; and they are so in
jurious both to the moral and intellectual vigour,
that their use should be most cautiously and
sparingly permitted.
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 581
Novels have destroyed their thousands and ten
thousands; at this pernicious source are awakened
passions which agitate the bosom, and hurry us
along at their bidding, since we readily follow
those in whom we feel an interest; we imitate
their vices before we are aware of it ; and purity
of principle is sacrificed at the shrine of refine*
ment, false taste, and fashionable morality. The
alluring garb in which these productions are at
tired ; the trickery of scene and of circumstance;
the interest of situation; the subjects treated o f;
the commanding qualities of their favourites; aye,
and even their defective morality, all form so
many points of attraction to the young; a con
fession which shews at once the real tendency of
this speciejs of composition. It is indeed true,
that the last few years have developed a better
taste than has formerly existed on the subject of
these productions; and that there are many whose
graphic description of manners, whose scenic
truth, and whose historical details have greatly
removed them from the condemnation of the pre
ceding paragraph; but in the very best, even in
the comparatively harmless works of Richardson,
and W est, and Edgeworth, and Brunton, and
Scott, there is much which parents should not
wish their children to hear, and why then to
How much more, then, in the writings of Fielding
and Smollet; but above all, in the general stock
of miserable trash in which vice is masked, and
which have not, like the former, the redeeming
good qualities of being true to nature, though in
682 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
her worst forms. It is not contended that novels
are to be altogether excluded from education;
on the contrary, a knowledge of our literature
requires an acquaintance with the ; but the
selection should be very rigid; they should not
be placed in the hands of the young and un
formed ; and when perused by the elder pupils,
it should always be under the immediate atten
tion of the mother.
After all, how much more important will it be
for the parent to select for her child such works
es may be suited to its prevailing character, tem
per, and disposition; to any particular object she
may have in view, or for the purpose of conveying
the deepest practical lessons of wisdom. Read
ing is an engine of amazing power; and there is
not one desire of her heart, not one wish prompted
by fond affei tion for her offspring, which may not
be realized by means of the books chosen for their
study or amusement. And when this choice has
been made, her duty is but half accomplished,
unless she narrowly watch, with earnest solici
tude, the influence of her plans; unless she take
care of their operation; unless she guard the ten
der mind from any improper bias; and unless she
lead it to form a right, and correct, and principled
judgmentguided by reason, and governed by reli
gion.
V. Poetry.
If the whole class of novels require the greatest
caution in being entrusted to the young and un
disciplined mind, a fortiori, must that caution be
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 6 8 3
increased, when the parent's vigilance is directed
to the same species of composition, empowered
with all the aid of poetic diction, and poetic
license. If it be unwise to stimulate the imagi
nation with the unreal creations of the novelist,
a fortiori, is it folly to increase that stimulation
by all the pomp and circumstance of verse; and
to impress it upon the memory, by the facility
afforded to recollection, through its peculiar struc
ture. If it be one of the evils of novel-reading to
arouse the passions, d fortiori, is this evil ren
dered more certain, more fatally, more extensively
operative, when couched under the attractive guise
of poetry!! The young, the imaginative, the sus
ceptible, the feeling, the accomplished, and espe
cially the female mind, will dwell for days to
gether over a new poem ; will be enraptured with
its song; will be fascinated by its sentiment;
will be enchanted by its imagery; and in propor
tion to the fervour of its feelings, so will be the
diminished influence of its reason; and thus will
it be prepared for any sinister agency which the
author may choose to communicate; and a poets
authority has not always been exerted on the side
of religion and virtue. True, indeed, there are
some Christian poets; but in the very best of our
standard and most classical authors, there will be
found much to reprehend, much that had better
never meet the eye of the young; for the only
way in which we can expect virtuous action, is
by the inculcation of good principle, and by pre
serving the heart free from vicious passion. All
684 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
therefore which has been said on the subject of
novels in general, is more than applicable to
novels in verse.
It is nevertheless true, that poetry has its be
neficial influence in enlarging the mind, refining
the fancy, adjusting the sensibilities, and storing
the intellect with pure diction and fruitful
im ages; it is useful in engaging the attention,
quickening the percipient faculty, stimulating
imitation, improving the taste, and laying the
foundation of just principles of criticism, and of
a discrimination of the sublime and beautiful: but
what are these advantages, compared with the
demoralization of the heart, and the pollution of
the fancy, and the enthusiasm of emotion, and
the admiration of those who are driven to the
commission of iniquity by headstrong passion,
uncontrouled by reflection, unregulated by morals,
unsubdued by religion. The parent then will
exercise her duty of censor most rigidly, and un
sparingly; and while she seeks to obtain these
secondary goods, she will not do so at the ex
pense of primary evil; she will not prefer a lively
imagination to a sound judgment; she will not
elevate literary taste above enlightened con
science ; she will not give the palm to feeling rather
than to discretion.
In fulfilling this indication, she will only have
to make a very cautious choice, and to read with
her children; she is not to throw aside indiscri
minately every volume of poetry, because is
poetry; nor is she to select every poem which has
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 585
been written by anauthor professedly C
she will find some of the finest specimens of poe
tical imagery in the sacred Scriptures; among
the writers of our own country she will notice a
Milton, a Spenser, a Campbell, a Cowper, a
Southey, a Scott, and others: perhaps even she
may tolerate the puling imbecility of the second
babyhood of poetry, for the sake of its harmless
ness; if even childishness can be harmless in grown
persons: but she will pause, she will more than
pause, when she approaches the pages of Him
whose splendid talents were cradled in satire;
whose early maturity was marked by the gloomy
pilgrimage of the misanthropic  Childe, which
sought for peace, but found it n ot; whose alarm
ing influence was long exerted for the fiend-like
purpose of weakening the tone of virtuous feeling,
and demoralizing the purity of the female m ind;
and the early evening of whose life was closed in
the doubts of scepticism, surrounded by the pu
trid, and putrifying and polluting exhalations
arising from the marshes of   licentious
ness, and breathing, aye more, luxuriating in the
malaria of the most finished profligacy: these
having been embodied in the character of one,
whom to name is to disgrace the literature of our
country, and whose adventures to have read, no
modest female can acknowledge without feeling
that she is degraded.
Pity is it indeed, that the pages of ourgreat
bard, should be so deformed by faults, which were
in a principal measure the consequence of the
586 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
age in which he wrote, as to render them unfit
for indiscriminate perusal by the young: unfortu
nately too, these blemishes are so intimately con
nected with beauties, and with that exquisite
knowledge of man, which constitutes their great
value, as that the former cannot be removed without
destroying the latter. Reading these works there
fore must be left to the adult, rather than the
adolescent age. An exception may perhaps be
made in favour of some of his tragedies, of which
composition however, the finest specimens are to
be found in the pages of Racine.
One other remark only: the greatest danger is
not always to be dreaded from the avowedly pro
fligate ; those authors which weaken the tone of
the reason, and introduce a certain languor of
feeling, an undefined state of luxurious listless
ness, and foster a degree of morbid sensibility,
and develop^ sickly taste, are the most injurious;
since they insidiously prepare the mind, that it
may become the soil for vice: open licentiousness
is disgusting, and produces a recoil; while by the
more covert method of undermining principle, the
mischief is effected before the sufferer or the
parent is aware; on the whole, the greatest
caution, and a sound judgment, and vigilant dis
cretion are necessary to render this pursuit inno
cent and useful.
VI. Periodical Literature.
The press is so inundated with periodical pub
lications of every shape and quality, that it is ne
cessary to say a few words on the subject. We
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N , 587
might at once refer this species of composition to
the general principles mentioned in treating of
abstracts and abridgements. There are indeed
some excellent periodicals; but in general, this is
a source of instruction which we do not admire
for the young. For, independently of the base
character of some, and of the false opinions which
are circulated by others, and the partial and un
just views which are given of authors, according
to the prejudices of the writer, or of the defective
notions of morality and religion which are as
sumed by m any; independently of all these, and
of many other errors and obliquities, one grand
objection is, that a review-reader will never make
a good and substantial character; he becomes
contented with a smattering of knowledge; he
reads rather for the daily necessities of conversa
tion than for real information; he rests satisfied
with the opinions of others, and is contented to
form his own conclusions from the judgment of
prejudiced, and often hireling writers, rather than
his ow n ; and thus indolence is fostered, and bad
taste is produced, and the supply of knowledge is
cut off; and the character is impaired; its
strength and solidity are destroyed; irritability
takes the place of energy; and a shew of ac
quaintance with books occupies the room of ge
nuine information.
There is, however, one portion of our periodical
literature which requires a higher degree of ani
madversion, viz. Newspapers. Setting aside the
588 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
erroneous political views which these are too fre
quently found to inculcate, the party feeling by
which they are characterized, and their general
hatred of real and practical Christianity, and
evangelical piety, notwithstanding their frequent
unhallowed warfare in defence of its secularities;
it is particularly against their moral influence
that we would lift a warning voce. L et parents
beware, how they permit access for their children,
to this source of moral pollution by which they
can only be familiarized to crim e; the aspect of 
vice will become less abhorrent; they w ill he
initiated into details with which they should never
have been acquainted; the mind will be brought
to rest on circumstances of depravity which at
first may excite a blush from the conscious loss of
innocence; but which finding in the human bosom
a latent spark of evil, will soon kindle unholy
passions, which will not only be tolerated, but
cherished into vigour, and luxuriated over in
action. There must inevitably be a loss of men
tal purity; and what wise man would risk this
loss for his children, with a conviction of the
misery to which it must lead, and without a single
countervailing advantage; for no knowledge is to
be found in newspapers which may not be better
obtained from some other purer source. Enough
can scarcely be said on this sad subject; for the
practice stigmatized is unfortunately one of every
day occurrence; and we have known children re
cord the annals of theft, and murder, and pugi-
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 589
lism, and adultery, and many other crimes which
are an offence even to be named, who were very
deficient in their stores of common informa
tion.
V II. Conclusion.
The choice of books affords an opportunity for
conveying religious instruction, for guiding the
heart, regulating the affections, and directing
them supremely to that Being, who is infinitely
worthy of our love, and who demands the whole
heart. The accomplishment of this design of
leading the child to the fountain of peace and
truth, and of teaching it to accompany its streams
in their minute subdivisions, will form a prominent
object with the Christian parent, when she is
directing the literary application of its intellectual
resources. Let it be observed, that just opinions
and rectitude of conduct are to be explained, not
as simple acts, but as principles, valuable only in
proportion as they are employed, and as they
assist us in the dangers and perplexities of life;
and that the observance of these motives of action,
is good, only as they are characterized by the
spirit and temper under the influence of which
they are rendered prominent. The operation of
principle is universal; for Christianity is not only
to guide us to happiness, and to influence our
conduct on great and particular occasions, but in
the hour of sorrow, and distress, and desertion;
an<J in every circumstance, and at every moment
of existence. Hence the great importance that
590 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
the choice of books should be such as w ill essen
tially tend to promote its grand design; hence
the extent and purity of the commands of the
gospel, together with the richness of its promises;
hence the necessity for explaining and exem plify
ing the grounds for the happiness of its disciples,
as well as for noticing the agency of that invisible
hand, (which if we forget, we grow careless,)
which regulates all the lesser events o f life, and
for preserving the heart free from the destructive
influence of lukewarmness, a state w hich very
quickly terminates in insensibility to those greater
occasions on which the vigour of the Christian
should be called into action.
What then are, shortly, the principles which a
feeble, erring, but sincere being, in quest of truth,
is anxious to produce or to obtain ? Are they not
that the love of God, should influence us cheer
fully to give up every thing which is incompatible
with obedience to his will, and to do that
would be pleasing to Him ? Are they not, that
religion should characterize every aotion, subdue
every temper, regulate every pursuit, govern every
effort, and change and purify every corrupt dispo
sition ? Are they not, that there must be a per
petual warfare against sin, and that in this war
fare consists the practice of piety ? Are they not,
that this struggle must be exhibited every day,
on our tempers, and habits, and dispositions
circumstances which are most obvious and open
to the observation of others, and the prevailing
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 591
character of which will be assumed, and as
sumedtoo, as congenial with the principles upon
which our conduct is founded ? Are they not,
that the greatest vigilance is required in the com
mon intercourse of life, and that the greatest
danger is to be apprehended from not considering
this world as a field for the exercise of Christian vir
tue, in which our hearts must be guarded, in which
our tempers will be tried and our dispositions and
affections will be assailed in a thousand w ays;
but rather as a situation in which the scrutiny of
self may be laid aside, activity may be lulled into
quiescence, and vigilance may be disarmed ? Are
they not such, that their transient forgetfulness is
the cause why so little of the Christian is seen,
in the daily spirit, and temper, and conduct of the
m an; why he is so easily assailed by temptation,
and falls under its influence; why dulness and
torpor seize and obscure his character; why it
shines with a pale lustre; why its variety and
beauty are obscured, and its glimmering light;
instead of being active, burning and shining, de
monstrating the true nature of Christianity and
the way to heaven, is seen only through a dense,
and an unequal medium, in which its rays are
so split and divided, and refracted, as no longer
to converge to their proper focus; and to afford
only in consequence an obscure radiance which is
more likely to deceive than to guide the traveller ?
May not a similar reason be alleged a the cause
w hy so much darkness and uncertainty frequently
592 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
hang over the character, becloud the views, and
in some measure alter their very nature, by their
being compelled to pass through this dense me
dium of besotted materiality, to the heart ? Is
it not necessary to lay aside every weight, and to
run with patience, the course set before us in the
gospel? Is it not incumbent upon us, to ac
knowledge our helplessness, and to seek the aid
of the Holy Spirit of grace ? Is it not of im
portance, that we should exert a vigilant atten
tion to the practical influence of holiness, in all
the lesser circumstances of life, as well as on all
its greater occasions, since this tends to produce
that vigour of divine grace in the soul, and to
lessen that feebleness of human nature, on which
the power of resisting sin on the one hand, as
welljas the influence of temptation on the other
manifestly depend? Is it not necessary to re
collect that there is no trifling occasion for action,
but that every such season affords an opportunity
for displaying the agency of Christianity; and
that cannot be trifling, or of small moment,
which religion ought to characterize; since that
cannot be secondary, whose attributes are of
primary consideration? Are we not bound to
recollect that the perception of conscience is kept
tenderly alive by listening to its minutest admo
nitions ; and that thus, we shall the more cer
tainly be led to reject what is wrong, and to
seize on what is right, and hold it fast, before we
have had time for a detailed examination of the
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 6 9 3
reasons why we do so ? Are we not instructed
by observation, by the aid of reason, and by the
light of revelation, that the lesser duties of life,
are in fact, the connecting links in the great
scheme of human action; and that if this bond
of union be severed, the unity and congruity of
the character are destroyed, as well as that the
practical, and universal application of religious
principle, is endangered? Are we not hourly
taught, if we will but learn, that the minuter
occasions for practising the commands of religion,
become important from their number im
proved, and fatally accumulate the tale of ta
lents misapplied and perverted, where they may
have been neglected? Do we not then infer
from these considerations, the necessity for great
circumspection, the extreme importance which
must be given to divine truth, and the circum
stances which will furnish a guide, to the reli
gious reading of the young; which should always
be of such a description, as to inculcate the con
clusion, that piety does not consist in any assent
to certain doctrines, but in their influence on the
heart, and through it upon the life, displayed in all
the lesser shades of action, and passion, andfeeling,
and sentimentof hatred to vice, and of the love
and practice of virtue, when we lie down, and
when we rise up, abroad and at home, when w e
walk by the way, and when we are excluded from
every eye but that of omnipotence ?
To conclude, it is not only necessary that
q Q
VOL. II.
594 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
these circumstances should influence the parent
in her choice of books; but it is also required
of her, to combine with this method o f teaching,
close observation on the conduct of her offspring,
as well as diligent inquiry into their opening in
telligence, in order that she may ascertain the
nature of the impressions theymay have received;
their progress in religious knowledge, the amount
of all they have retained, and its immediate and
prospective influence upon their character and
conduct. This principle is also applicable to
every species of knowledge, which may be ac
quired from books; though its favourite subject
be that of religious instruction, because it, above
every other kind of information, too frequently
falls unheeded, upon the uninterested eye too
frequently floats on the surface of character, and
is rapidly borne by the unimpressed tide of
events, to the ocean of forgetfulness. Children
too often read, especially on subjects demanding
seriousness and attention, without applying their
little volatile hearts to the tendency of what they
read, and without even retaining the id eas; they
chase the sentiment from page to page ; they are
pleased with detecting the origin and influence
of opinion; they may follow a train of consecu
tive reasoning, and closely sustained argument, and
though they may be delighted with the form of the
ratiocination, they will not know a syllable which
they have perused. The habit of inquiry, on
the part of the parent obliges them to attend,
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 695
and to form that kind of digest of their acqui
sitions, which impresses them upon their me
mory, and which will be useful in after life, from
the power and the habit of regular thinking,
which it induces. But this scrutiny must extend
far beyond a mere effort of the understanding;
it must proceed to the nature of the impressions
which may have been received; for the unin
formed mind may possibly, and even probablyhave
obtained oblique or distorted views of a given
subject, especially of one which is confessedly
too great for finite reason to grasp; and the in
fluence of error is always prejudicial, at a nearer
or a more remote period; since where clear and
adequate ideas may not have been formed, mis
takes and misconceptions, will too often have
arisen; and therefore, the mothers anxious in
quiry will be directed to ascertain, whether the
impressions received have been coincident with
the impressing cause. And lastly, there is one
step further; the parent will search into the
practical influence of each impression, upon the
particular character of the individual ch ild ; and
according to this influence, will encourage, or
modify, or give it its proper tendency; thus as
certaining the nature, the extent, and the proba
ble influence of the knowledge obtained from
reading.  Finally, brethren, whatsoever things
are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatso
ever things are just, whatsoever things are pure,
whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things
59G M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
are of good report, if there be any virtue, and if
there be any praise, think on these things.
Those things which ye have both learned, and
received, and heard, and seen in me, d o ; and the
God of peace shall be with you. Philippians iv.
8, 9.
597
CHAP. XX V .
ON AMUSEMENTS.
T he mind, but especially, the youthful miud,
stands in need of amusement. If it be not pro
vided with relaxation, it acquires insensibly, a
tone of severity, and austere reserve, which ren
ders its intercourse with society less pleasing,
as w ell as less instructive ; while by being kept
constantly stretched in one direction it loses
power and ela sticity ; it receives a peculiar set
form, and is no longer capable of extending its
inquiries wherever intellect may roam, and reli
gion guide. The tone and tension of health re
quire for their preservation, alternate contraction
and relaxation, and are disturbed by the violent
efforts of excessive action, as w ell as by the per
fect stillness of indolence.
Amusement should relax; but it should not be
such, either in its nature, or its degree, as to
dissipate; it should recreate, not unhinge; in
the one case it will refresh, while in the other it
must debilitate. Recreation again, is not idle
ness, than which, nothing can be more tedious
and insipid, or more destructive to activity and
energy of mind. There is nothing to which it is
598 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
naturally more repugnant, or which exerts a
more fatal influence on its faculties, than to have
nothing to d o ; for although the love of ease,
may be predominant in the human bosom ; yet it
is averse from a state of indolence, because in
action is not only not ease: it is positively painful,
to avoid which, as well as the curse of self-
reproach, it will be occupied, and apparently in
terested by the pursuit of the merest trifles;
for, engaged it mutt be, or at the least, it must
seem to be so. Exertion is necessary to its
peace; and this tendency will form a prominent
indication for regulating the amusements o f child
hood. Thus, long intervals of listless inactivity,
are not to be permitted; much less are they to
be held up as a bonus for present activity and
exertion; this would be to encourage idleness,
and to give it such a hold upon the mind, as
that it will never again readily quit; it would
be sustaining indolence as the reward of activity,
an inconsequence, which cannot but be preju
dicial; and it would be teaching the child to
esteem that as a great good, which it ought to
dread and deprecate as a paramount evil. A
period of idleness, is one of security, of danger,
and of liability to the influence of temptation;
it is pne in which evil dispositions and affections
are likely to be called into action; it is an inter
val of employment, a pause of animation, which
suspends mental industry, enervates intellectual
power, and renders future instruction, a task
much more difficult and arduous. The mind
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 599
must be unbent but not enfeebled; it must in its
moments of completest relaxation, preserve such
a degree of tonicity, as shall enable it whenever
called upon, to resume instantaneously all its
plans, to call about it all its energies, and to put
forth all the vigour of its strength. A spirit of
idleness once produced, is not easily removed;
it is the deadly nightshade of the sou l; its poi
son lurks concealed under a beautiful berry; and
the unsuspicious and unwary, greedily swallow
the destructive fruit; the calm of the narcotic
steals upon them, and while they suffer from its
influence, they flatter themselves all is well,
and are unsuspectingly amusing themselves with
gaudy trifles, on the very verge of destruction,
surrounded by dangers imperceptible to their
palsied eye, and increasing in intensity, exactly
in direct proportion to the fatal security of the
victim. It may sometimes happen, that instruc
tion may be blended with amusement; the former
however must be of a light kind; neither will
its impression be durable; but it may be useful
from being obvious, and from the frequency of its
recurrence.
After all, the power of amusement to convey
instruction is not of an extensive nature: there
can be no such thing as amusing, the mind into
knowledge, the acquisition of which requires
labour, earnestness, and diligence. However the
natural difficulties of the way may be smoothed
by a judicious instructor, still it will always re
main a steep ascent, and will ever demand effort.
600 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
This exertion will not be made by the young
mind under the idea of amusement; for so soon
as the pursuit of knowledge necessitates labour,
it ceases to amuse; hence its sphere of active
good will be circumscribed, and its utility will be
trifling.
But amusement maydo harm; and
under any circumstances it may not be produc
tive of lasting benefit, yet it is above all desir
able that its object should be that which is pure,
and which will engage the mind actively, though
it do not interest it excessively: it should be such
as to employ the intellectual powers, to demon
strate the evils arising from want of occupation,
and to prevent those which are the consequence
of the unemployed vis inertia. One grand object
of amusement should be to promote the health,
and the development of the animal powers, par
ticularly of the muscular system, and of the
organs of sense.
The grand basis of amusement having been
pointed out, no harm can result from entering
into the several games which are suited to the
different ages of infancy, and adolescence; pro
vided always that these be innocent in their imme
diate consequences, in their remote associations,
in their obvious tendency, and in their ultimate
results. This principle may be safely admitted,
and suffered to take its course, only that its
operation must be watched ; that which is harm
less in itself, must be guarded from ex cess; and
that which is unobjectionable in its season and in
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 1 0 6
its place, must be saved from improper applica
tion. It does not do, however, to becloud the
hour of amusement with an atmosphere of re
straint; the cheerfulness and vivacity of youth
must be indulged; within due bounds it must be
permitted its native sportiveness; the sedateness
of maturity is not desirable in the young; only
the buoyancy of their spirits must be repressed
when it becomes boisterous, and the violence of
their mirth must be preserved within the limits
of decorum. If the natural hilarity and gaiety of
this spring-tide of life, the time of the  singing
of birds be morosely checked, such a mistake
will terminate in the production of a character
unamiably reserved; or of one which, from a
proud feeling of dependence and restraint, runs
into the opposite extreme, and delights to revel in
every untried scene of riot and dissipation.
The desire for. amusement cannot be wholly
extinguished, neither is it desirable, if it were
possible, but only that it should be kept within
just bounds; that it should not be permitted to
engross too much time or attention; that it do
not distract the mind and unfit it for study; that
it be not offensive to the will of God, or opposed
to his commands, or injurious in its influence,
directly or indirectly, to the moral character.
There is also considerable danger of not ob
serving a proper balance between business and
recreation ; the mind stands in need of both these
states, and muciv-of its energy will depend upon
their nice and accurate adjustment to its pow er;
602 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
on the principle before pointed out of the varied
periods of repose and activity for every organ of
the body. Too much amusement, especially that
which is prolonged, and above all, that which
amounts simply to the indolent consumption of
time, must be studiously avoided, lest the mind
should fall into a state in which it does not ear
nestly apply itself to any one em ploym ent; but
remains listless in circumstances which demand
activity, while it is energetic over trifles, at the
bidding of the merest caprice. Whatever is done
should be habitually done with earnestness; in
every pursuit, exertion should be em ployed; work
hard and play hard; always recollecting that
quiescence, the stillness of inactivity is destructive
to the mental welfare, and approaches very nearly
to the winter of the faculties, the torpor of an
hybernating animal, the unprotected state of sleep,
or the complete cessation of life.
And finally, amusements should not partake of
the spirit by which the world is actuated. There
are many little sources of recreation perfectly
innocent, which all may enjoy in common; but
there are others which subvert some law of God,
or which impair the vigour and activity of our
love to m an; and which can only be tolerated by
forgetting our Bibles, and laying aside our religion,
and assuming for our rule the principles, the spirit,
and the maxims of a world which lieth in wicked
ness. Though perhaps not strictly criminal, yet
the agency of these will be baneful, if they lead
the young mind to admit the principles, and think
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 603
better of the disposition in which they originated.
N ot that we would encourage a spirit of separa
tion, which would look like a supercilious excla
mation of  stand by, for I am holier than thou
of such it has been said that they  are a smoke in
my nose, a fire that burneth all the day; but we
would never lose sight of the Christian principle,
 be ye not conformed to this world, but be ye
transformed by the renewing o f your mind, that
ye may know what is good and acceptable in the
sight of God.
This disconformity to the world, must be ob
served in all those amusements which may excite
evil passions or affections; or which may give oc
casion for their exercise in any obvious degree; or
which may lead the young into the way of tempta
tion ; and this rule will assuredly exclude the ball
room, and thetheatre, theturf and particu
larly will it place its uncompromisingveto upon any
occupation which will lead directly or indirectly
to a spirit of gambling, that coldest selfishness, in
whose atmosphere, not even the virtues possessed
of the lowest degree of vitality can long ex ist;
and the indulgence of which will assuredly prove
fatal to the character, no matter how trifling the
stake! A piece of paper, if it can be an object of
desire', is enough to develop the feeling; and fu
ture occasions will give it importance; and by
and by, it will stand confessed in all its length
and breadth, and depth, and magnitude of desola
tion; in all the lowest turpitude of unpalliated
crime. These are objects of terror to the mother.
604 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
and the subject of her unceasing anxiety; the germ
of evil will demand her solicitude in early infancy,
and when the child is further advanced in life,
and the development of its powers is characterized
by reason, and its social attributes; unre
mitting care and watchfulness over its amuse
ments will still be necessary; and the application
of the same principle will be required, with this
difference only, that a thirst for knowledge early
fostered will now frequently constitute its pursuit
an amusement, and will thus often supersede the
attractions of the world; while this principle, cul
tivated into passion, may be applied to the thirst
after true knowledge, the wisdom that is from
above. The researches of science, in any of its
subordinate branches, especially in those included
under the general term of Experimental Philo
sophy, will frequently take the place of more
questionable engagements, and will preserve the
mind indifferent towards the influence of those
gay and fashionable compliances, against which it
requires to be continually guarded.
605
CH AP. X X V I.
O N ACCOMPLISHM ENTS.
A c c o m p l i s h m e n t s may be sought after with pro
priety, so long as they may be considered the
perfection of some one or more of the faculties or
attributes with which nature has endowed u s; so
long as their immediate tendency be pure, and
provided that they do not open a wide field to the
influence of temptation, or give rise to such an
amount of evil as cannot be counterbalanced by
the good they may be supposed to produce;
and provided also, that they do not occupy the
place of more important pursuits, and abstract
the attention from objects which demand primary
consideration. That accomplishments should
promote the designs of the Creator, and the hap
piness and the good of his creatures; that they
should be moral in their influence, free from
danger in their pursuit, innocent in their conse
quences upon the understanding, the affections,
and the conduct; that they do not occupy too
much time, and pre-engage the attention; these
are the tests by which they must be tried, and if
they will not bear the scrutiny, better would it be
606 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
in this instance, that the mind be blessed with
ignorance, than cursed with the knowledge, and
love, and admiration of sin.
The relative value of accomplishments should
always be kept in view; and they should be
sought after in subordination to objects which
have a higher claim to notice, and which convey
substantial knowledge. There are, however,
many seasons in the period of youth, when, with
these limitations, ornamental acquisitions will prove
a useful pursuit; and when their influence may
be salutary in refining the taste, softening the
manner, and embellishing life. To a certain ex
tent, the acquaintance with different languages
may be deemed an accomplishment; but it is not
one of those occupations that are included in the
general meaning of a term that is applied to all
those attainments which are ornamental without
possessing a proportionate amount of intrinsic
worth, or even affording an adequate and compen
sating good for all the labour bestowed upon
them ; and these are dancing, drawing, and music.
W e shall not include in the general enumera
tion, because we consider them unworthy a dis
tinct notice, those lesser arts of bijouterie, which
so strongly mark the taste of female education
of the present day. We rejoice that we have
escaped from that epoch in which the height of
ambition for female instruction, was to make its
subjects accomplished cooks, and sempstresses,
and to initiate them into the art and mystery of
confectionary and embroidery : but we know not
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 607
that we have gained much by the exchange, if
these pursuits have been replaced by the confec
tion of the thousand knick-knack follies of the pre
sent fashion. It is degrading that the rational
and immaterial soul should be chained down daily
for hours' to the limits of a rice-basket, a paper
vase, a card rack, or some equally frivolous orna
ment, without one redeeming good property about
it. W e pretend not to say that the knowledge of
these little arts may not be very well in their
place; but the portion of time they should be
permitted to occupy, should be very small in
deed. Let the employment be tested by prin
ciple, and see if it possess any but a negative
good, viz. that it be not positively injurious; and
then say, if it be more harmless, or so useful as
the days of good housewifery, from which we
congratulate ourselves on our escape. W e are
aware it will be said, these little matters are now
frequently disposed of in aid of some charitable
design: we think not the better of them; the
end will not sanctify the m eans; neither is that
Christian charity which neglects the cultivation of
the talents entrusted to our care; which mis-
pends tim e; which is deaf to the voice of the
poor, and the sick, and the ignorant, and the
miserable, and the destitute, and the irreligious
at home; while it is absorbed by the trifling, un
impressive, useless pursuit of a manufacture,
whose proceeds may be for the purpose of aiding
the good work of charity . Neither shall
we notice the bas bleu propensity, since we are
608 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
persuaded thisevil, if it be evil, will cure itse
and that it never can become general; because
the labour of mind, and the reach of intellect,
and the perseverance which it requires, are such
as will not be commonly met with, and as will
not be often lavished upon the pursuit of learning
as a mere accomplishment, for the exclusive pur
pose of dictation and display.
Dancing has been already noticed in the chap
ter on Exercise, (see vol. i. part. i. chap. 10.) and
we shall only here recur to it, for the purpose of
again cautioning Christian parents on the tendency
of this accomplishment. Gan it be said of dancing
that it is the perfectionof any of the faculties of the
body or mind ? Can it be said that its immediate
tendency is pure ? that it does not lead the young
into the snare of temptation ? or that it does not
give rise to a variety of evil passions, without any
adequategoodnay more, without any good which
may not be as well obtained without it ? or can
it be said, that it does not occupy the place of
more important pursuits; employ time which
might be better engaged; distract the attention,
and engross the thoughts; and that too, when
the longest life is only long enough to bring us
acquainted with our ignorance, and not half long
enough for the great objects of pursuit which are
before us ? Can it be said that the endofdancing
is for the glory of God, and the good of his crea
tures : or that either the one or the other of these
purposes is promoted by the midnight revel, and
the fiend-like passions which it broods over with
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 609
its sable, but illuminated wing, and brings to new
born life ? Can it be said that the application of
this accomplishment is moral in*, its nature and
influence; that it is free from danger, or innocent
in its consequences ? Or finally, can it be said
that it does not occupy too much time and atten
tion ; that it does not agitate the bosom with
the flutter of expectation, and the tumultuous
heaving of passion; that it admits of a pleasing
retrospect; and that it does not incapacitate the
mind for the great work which is before it ? And
if all these be necessarily answered in the nega
tive, where is the Christian parent, who in sin
cerity of purpose can doom her child to fc risk so
fearful, for a mere ideal vanity ?
With regard to drawing, perhaps it is the most
innocent, and the least dangerous accomplish
ment, so that there can be little hesitation about
its permission. Painting does not necessarily ex
pose its possessor to any peculiar danger; it is
at all times an agreeable recreation; and it forms
a resource against many a solitary hour, which,
when the mind is distracted with anxiety, would
have been otherwise spent in a wearisome, and
unceasing review of its cares; or when it is so
occupied and fatigued, or so weakened by exer
tion, or enfeebled by disease, as to be incapable
of pursuing its customary duties with the same
degree of pleasure. Thus, it is a source of satis
faction and enjoyment, which will soothe the
mind, engage the attention, and tranquillize the
heart. Let it however be always recollected,
V O L I I . R R
610 M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
that even this accomplishment must not be per*
mitted to engross the thoughts, or occupy the
tim e; at least, .that it must not make hostile in
roads upon hours which should be devoted to the
real labours of life, to the pursuit of knowledge,
or the practice of virtue; and that the taste for
paintings, which it develops, should be purely
cultivated; and that it be not so employed as to
excite and stimulate passions, and emotions and
feelings, which the wise and the good w ill ever
be at pains to subdue. Landscape, and particu
larly flower-painting, from its connexion with the
garden, and the country, and from fixing the
attention upon this small, but beautiful portion of
the fringe of natures drapery, may be rendered
useful in developing a taste for natural know
ledge, and natural history; for all that lives and
breathes, and grows and thrives, and shews forth
the wonders of his creating power, the depths
of his wisdom, and the glories of his grace, who
is the Author and Giver of life.
But the question of music admits of a far greater
variety of opinion. Upon most minds its influence
is considerable ; and in its application to sacred
subjects, its power of kindling devotional feelings
is certainly extensive, but it is of a questionable
nature: its agency is exerted principally on the
passions, and the heart remains untouched, and
the conscience unaffected, and the judgment
unconvinced; and the individual, with all his
emotions, is but as sounding brass, or a tink
ling cymbal, and depends for all his fervor ,upon
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 611
the little accident of atmospherical vibration. It
is confessed that the general influence of music
on the passions, and affections, is unquestionably
great; but it may be equally exerted before as
after, that the mind has been imbued with a
spirit of Christianity; before the passions have
been subdued by the mild sway of religion, or
the affections regulated by the holy law of G od:
and will the influence of music then be useful or
injurious? If then its agency in awakening the
fervour of devotional feeling, rather than the
steady light of Christian duty be considerable;
and its more general influence be, to stimulate
ungoverned desires, and wayward fancies, surely
it will require caution in its application, and great
reserve in the choice of its compositions.
Again, it is a fascinating accomplishment, and
may engage more time and attention than is pro
per. And since, in order to become a proficient,
it is necessary to devote many hours each day to
its practical pursuit; as many probably, as may
be given to all the other occupations of d u t y ;
the subordination to more important acquisitions, so
necessary to the innocence of this, is entirely
lost, and it becomes the almost exclusive object
of desire. In order then to preserve from evil,
the influence of this accomplishment, it must
not be suffered to infringe on other duties; and
that it may remain innocent, this principle must
be clearly laid down, and systematically en
forced.
k u 2
6 1 2 J W O R A L A M O R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N .
Music again, may lead the mind, to the peru*
sal and love of a species of composition, whose
moral tendency is more than questionable, nay,
decidedly injurious; since it preoccupies the
mind with unworthy ideas, and excludes those
which are valuable, if it do not even worse, and
pander to vice, and stimulate the passions, and
the animal propensities with which these stand
connected. This indeed, is not so much the
fault of the music as of the words, by which it is
accompanied; exclude these, and the notes may
again become harmless, except in so far as they
are associated in the mind with equivocal recol
lections.
And lastly, while music mqyamuse, and soothe,
and interest, it will also prove a snare through
life; it may become a dangerous possession; it
may fascinate the mind, and absorb the atten
tion ; it may attract the heart, and concentrate
the affections, and in all these cases, it may
prove most injurious. These evils, however, it
must be confessed, arise rather from want of
proper management in its instruction; for if it
be moderately followed, and preserved in its su
bordinate situation r
if it be not suffered
cupy too much time, or to interfere with more
important duties; and if a rigid selection of
pieces, be carefully m ade; then may it some
times soothe the troubled spirit, and become a
pleasing possession ; cheer the mind without sti
mulating or exhausting; and diffuse over the
M O R A L A N D R E L I G I O U S E D U C A T I O N . 613
heart, a genial glow, which may animate it in
the pursuit of virtue, rather than retard its pro
gress.
And after all that can be said, the greatest
accomplishment for the female mind, is practical
charity; the art of doing good to others per
sonally ; searching out for the sick and the desti
tute; instructing the ignorant; healing the sick,
clothing the naked, reclaiming the wandering,
and leading them to the fountain of blessedness,
the source of divine truth i
T H E E N D .
/
LONDON:
1B0T50N AND PALMF.lt, PRINTERS, SAVOY STREET, STRAND.
B Y TH E SAM E
A T R I B U T E O F S Y M P A T H Y ,
A D D R E S S E D
TO MOURNERS.
Fourth Edition. 12mo. 5s. boards.
