{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 7851","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n69_apr_1890.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N69 April 1890","mylang":"de"}
No. LXIX.-Vor•. IY. APRIL, 1890.
,JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
New Members and Associates
Meetings of the Council
. CONTENTS.
General Meeting .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
Meeting of the American Branch . . . . . . . . . .
Cases Received by the Literary Committee ., .. ..
Correspondence: ArE' Apparitions Objective or Subjective?
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
CAVE, CHARLES J. P., 13, Lowndes-square, London, S.W.
ELDER, MRS., Campden House, Kensington, London, W.
KINGSTON, H. D. R., M.B., Stormont Lodge, Willesden, N.W.
ASSOCIATES.
BLACKIE, MISS J. L., 10, Stratford-place, London, W.
BUCKLER, W. H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
DAINTREY, CHARLES J., Petworth, Sussex.
DICKINSON, MRS., Bramblebury, Wandsworth Common, S.W.
DUNN, EDMUND A., 92, Regent-street, London, W.
ELLISON, REV. JOHN H., 4, Warwick-square, London, S.'V.
FEILDING, HON. EVERARD, Newnham Paddox, Lutterworth.
HILLS, MRS., Corby Castle, Carlisle.
MACLAGAN, MISS M. M., 4, West Cromwell-road, London, S.W.
MORISON, Mus. MILLER, Morison House, Hetland, Ruthwell, N.B.
PONSONBY, HON. MRS., 9, Chapel-street, Grosvenor-place, W.
REYNOLDS, MRS., Millington House, Thelwall, near Warrington.
ROUSE, ROLLA E., M.D., 2, Tisbury-road, West Brighton.
SHILTON, ALFRED J., F.C.S., 36, Castle-street, Reading.
SOLOVOY, MICHAEL, 9, Mokovaia, St. Petersburg.
PAGE
.. 233
.. 234
., 237
.. 239
.. 239
.. 243
VILLAMARlNA, THE MARCHESA IH, Palazza Reale, Quirinale, Rome.
WARTER, Mus. TATHAM, 10, Upper Phillimore-gardens, Kensington, W.
WEMYSS, MISS A., Washwell House, Painswick, G1oucestershire.
WIGAN, W. L., Larkfield, near Maidstone.
,\VINGFIELD, MRS. EDWARD, 40, Albion-street, Hyde Park, 'V.
HONORARY ASSOCIATE.
SHIELD, Mus., Bowers Gifford Rectory, Essex.
234 Jou1"'nal of Society f01' Psychical Research. [April, 11190.
ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
ARNOLD, J. N., 19, College-street, Providence, Rhode Island, U.S.A.
BIGELOW, HOUACE P., Waterville, Oneida Co., New York, U.S.A.
CASE, MISS M. R., 120, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.,U.S.A.
CIIANDLEU, MRS. H. P., Forest Hill-street, Jamaica Plain, Mass., U.S.A.
CHANDLER, MISS, Forest Hill-street, Jamaica Plain, Mass., U.S.A.
CHAPIN, IRVING, Puritan Club, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
DALL, N. HASKELL, Hedgec/1.ll, Glen-road, Jamaica Plain, Mass., U.S.A.
DALLAS, GEORGE M., 263, South 4th-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
DUCEY, WILLIAJlI L., Muskegon, Michigan, U.S.A.
DUNHAM, MISS E. L., 137, East 36th-street, New York, U.S.A.
ESTY, PROFESSOR W. C., Amherst College, Amherst, Mass., U.S.A.
FROTHINGHAM, P. R., 8th-street, New Bedford, Mass., U.S.A.
GAGE, LYMAN J., The First National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, U.S.A.
GARDINER, PROF. H. N., 23, Craft.s-avenue, Northampton, Mass., U.S.A.
GOODING, MISS MARY, Concord, Mass., U.S.A.
GRAHAM, PROFESSOR A.~DREW J., 744, Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
HARRIS, REV. J. ANDREWS, D.D., Cheshunt Hill, Pennsylvania,U.S.A.
MCVICKER, J. H., McVicker's Theatre, Chicago, U.S.A.
NEWCOMB, C. A., 1145, Woodward-avenue, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
NIMS, F. A., Muskegon, Michigan, U.S.A.
OSBORN, PROF. F. W., 491, Classon-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
PECKHAM, ORVILLE, The First National Bank of Chicago,Chicago,U.S.A.
PRATT, J. H.,Spring Hill, Kansas, U.S.A.
REES, MRS. JANET RUNTZ, Wayside, Scarsdale, New York, U.S.A.
STRAUSS, ALBERT, 344, -West 55th-street, New York, U.S.A.
THAYER, DR. D., Hotel Lafayette, 200, Columbus-avenue, Boston, Mass.
WESTBROOK, DR. R. B., 1707, Oxford-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met on the 7th and 28th of March. Colonel Hartley
was in the chair on the first occasion, and the President on the second.
The following Members were also present at one or both of the Meet-
ings :-Dr. A. T. Myers, and Messrs. T. Barkworth, W. Crookes, W.
Leaf, F. 'V. H. Myers, F. Podmore, H. Arthur Smith, R. Pearsall
Smith, and H. E. Wingfield.
The following were elected, under Rule 17, as Co-opted Members of
the Council for the current year :-Gerald W. Balfour, Esq., M.A.,
M.P., William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., Rev. A. T. Fryer, and Hugh E.
Wingfield, Esq., M.A.
On the proposition of Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mrs. Shield, of Bowers
Gifford Rectory, Essex, was elected an Honorary Associate for the
current year.
April, 1890.] Journal oj Society J01' Psychical Resea?'ch. 235
At the two Meetings of the Council three new Members and
twenty new Associates, whose names and addresses are given on a
preceding page, were elected. The election of twenty-seven new Asso-
ciates of the American Branch was also recorded.
At the request of Mr. J. Russell, his name was transferred from
the list of Members to that of Associates.
It was agreed that the names of eight persons who from various
causes had virtually ceased to be Members of the Society should be
struck off the List.
The Lists of Corresponding Members and of Honorary Associates
were read over and the following were re-elected for the current year:-
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
PROFESSOR A. ALEXANDER, Caixa, 906, Rio Janeiro.
PROFESSOR H. BEAUNIS, 29, Rue des Ecuries d'Artois, Paris.
PROFESSOR BERNDEIM, Htlpital Civil, Nancy.
PROFESSOR H. P. BOWDITCH, M.D., Han"arci Medical School, Boston,
U.S.A.
PROFESSOR NICHOLAS M. BUTLER, Columbia College, New York, U.S.A.
DR. MAX DESSOIR, 27, Kothener Strasse, Berlin, 'V.
DR. FERE, 37. Boulevard St. Michel, Paris.
PROFESSOR STANLEY HALL, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Du. EDUARD VON HARTlIANN, Gross-LichterfeIde, Germany.
PROFESSOR PIERRE JANET, Bourg-la-Reine, France.
llAUADEVA VISIINU KANE, B.A., Dharwar, Bombay.
PROFESSOR KOVALEVSKY, The University, Kharkoff, Russia.
DR. A. A. LIEDEAULT, Nancy.
PROFF.8S0R J. LntGEOIS, Nancy.
PROFESSOR C. LOMBROSO, 43, Corso Oporto, Turin, Italy.
HANS NATGE, Berlin-Tempelhof, Berlin.
PROFESSOR E. C. PICKERING, The Observatory, Cambridge,Mass.,U.8.A.
DR. F. FREIDERR GOELER VON RAVENSDURG, 4, Nettelbeckstrasse,
Berlin, W.
PROFESSOR TIl. RIBOT, Office of the Revue Pltilosopltique, Paris.
PROFF.8S0n CIIARLES RICIIET, 15, Rue de l'Universite, Paris.
BARON A. VON ScnRENK-NoTZING, Klenze-Strasse, 64, Munich.
H. TAINE, Menthon St. Bernard, Haute Savoie, France.
PROFESSOR N. WAGNER, Imperial University, St. Petersburg.
HONORARY ASSOCIATES.
CURTIS, MISS MARY, Laugharne, St. Clears, South Wales.
FRYER, REV. A. T., 4, Upper Vernon-street, Bloomsbury, London,W.C.
GRUBD, EDWARD, M.A., Rye Croft, Fulford-road, Scarborough.
J AMES, CAPTAIN, 68, Hereford-road, Bayswater, London, ,Yo
JENKINS, E. VAUGIIAN, Energlyn, 31, St. l'Iargoret's·road, Oxford.
236 JOtl,1''THtl oj Society JO)' Psychical Research. [April. l89O.
KEULEMANS, J. G.• 4, St. Mark's-crescent, Regent's Park, London,N.W.
KLEIBER, JOSEPH, St. Petersburg.
MACDONALD, REV. J. A., 43, Hill Side-road, Stamford Hill, London, N.
NISBET, E. T., 51, Eldon-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
ROBERTSON, MISS N., 11, Kilburn-square. London, N.W.
SAXBY, MRS., Mount Elton, Clevedon.
ScUDAMORE, Mas., 36, Albion-road, Stoke Newingt'}D, London, N.
SHIELD, MRS., Bowers Gifford Rectory, Essex.
SUDGEN, REV. E. H., B.A., B.Sc., Bradford, Yorkshire.
WALWYN, MRS., 9, Sion Hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Thanks were voteel to the donors for two or three small presents to
the Library.
The Finance Committee presented a l'eport at the Meeting on the
7th which received careful attention. It was agreed as fal' as
possible to carry out the recommendations contained in it.
Some other matters of routine business having been attended to,
the Council agreed to meet on Friday, the 9th of May, at 3 p.m., at
the Westminster Town Hall, previous to the General Meeting arranged
for 4 o'clock on that afternoon.
The following is a brief statement of the arrangements that have
been agreed to in rt'gard to the American Branch of the Society for
Psychical Research. A proposal from the American Society for Psychi-
cal Research having been laid before the Council on November 1st
last, the effect of which would be to convert it into a branch of the
Society for Psychical Research, its Members having certain privileges
as" American Associates," it was, after discussion, unanimously agreed
that the proposal be accepted for a yeal"s trial. It was subsequently
agreed that Professor W. James and Mr. S. P. Langley should
constitute an Advisory Committee, with power to obtain any report.s
they may require from Mr. R. Hodgson, as Secretary and Treasurer
of the American Branch, and in conjunction with him to elect Associates
of the American Branch This Committee is to be called together
at the request of either of its Members and to report to the
Council if desirable. The names of Associates of the American Branch
so elected are to be transmitted by Mr. Hodgson to the Council. The
annual subscription of Associates of the American Branch is to be three
dollars; and those who wish may,with lcnve of the Council, become full
Members of the Society by the annual payment of ten dollars.
Associates of the American Branch shall be entitled to receh'e the Pro-
ceeding, and Journal free by post as issued. The cost of the Proceed-
ing, and Journals supplied to the American Branch, whether for dis-
tribution among the Associates or for sale by the Secretary, and the
Digitized by Google
April, 1890.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 237
cost of postage and of despatching the same, will be paid to the
Treasurer of the Society for Psychical Research in England from the
funds of the Branch By the cost of a copy of the Proceedings or
Jom·nal is here meant the total cost of printing divided by the whole
number of copies printed. The balance of the amount of subscriptions
is to be expended in the promotion of psychical research in America.
So far as relates to publications, this arrangement commences with
P1·oceedinys Part XV. and with the Jou1·nal for January, 1890.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting was held at the Westminster Town Hall, on
Friday, March 28th, at 8.30, the President, Professor Sidgwick, in
the chair.
COLONEL TAYLOR read a short paper, in which he described the
result of 20 experiments, which he said might be regarded as experi-
ments in thought-transference by diagram, with the element of the
transference of thought eliminated. They were conducted by getting
50 diagrams drawn on each of 40 forms previously marked Agent 1,
Percipient 1, &c., and then comparing the agent papers with the per-
cipient pa.pers of the same number.
The object of the experiments was to ascertain what chance alone
would do in producing correspondences in the diagrams, and the result
went to show that this had been sufficiently allowed for in the Society's
work. Of the 1,000 trials registered only 20 could, in his opiuion, be
caJled successes, whereas, on looking over the diagrams figured in Vols.
I. and II. of our Proceedings, he had only to count 42 trials to find 20
correspondences between agent and percipient so nearly alike that had
they been found in his collection he would have noted them.
Professor Minot, in Vol. I. Part IV. of the Proceedings of the
American Society for Psychical Research, speaks of a tendency people
have to draw certain diagrams, and when they do so to draw them early
in a series, and considcrs it premature to accept our proofs of thought-
transference so long as his "law of relative frequency" is disregarded.
Colonel Taylor, treating his collection as 2,000 separate diagrams,
explained that, tabulating them much as Professor liinot had his 5,000,
he also found a tendency to draw certain diagrams,but not the same dia-
grams as in the American experiment. He found no tendency, however
to draw the most frequently repeated diagram early in a series. Finally,
Colonel Taylor pointed out that if Mr. Minot's law operates the
number of apparent "successes" should be more numerous at the
beginning of a series of experiments in thought-transference than at
the end, but this did not appear to be the case.
The PRBSIDBNTsaid that experiments suoh as Colonel Taylor's were
Digitized by Google
238 Jotwnal oJ Society for Psychical Research. [April,1890.
valuable, and, indeed, almost indispensable for an exact estimate of the
evidence of thought-transference obtained by the drawing of diagrams.
His accidental successes, moreover, gave a striking illustration of the
degree of correspondence that might be obtained by mere chance, and
would bring home to the most unmathematical mind how entirely the
proof of thought-transference must depend on the proportion of
successes to failures.
PROFESSOR ALEXANDER, of Rio de Janeiro, then read an account of
some observations made by himself and a friend in Rio on some
apparently abnormal phenomena occurring in the presence of two little
daughters of the latter, aged respectively 12! and 91 years. The phe-
nomena consisted, among other things, of raps, movements of heavy
objects, and writing on slates apparently not executed by human
hands, and they frequently occurred under circumstances which Mr.
Alexander thought precluded the possibility of trickery, even had the
children been inclined to it, which he did not believe. This account
will form part of the evidence to be reported on shortly by the
" Physical Phenomena" Committee.
Mu. GILBERT ELLIOT observed that he had seen similar phenomena
in India, and also spoke of a seance with the Davenport Brothers,
which greatly impressed him.
Du. MYERS asked Mr. Alexander whether
made to measure the physical force exhibited.
in the negative.
any attempt had been
Mr. Alexander replied
MRS. SIDGWICK asked whether the "direct writing" obtained ever
gave definite answers to questions asked at the time, so that it could
not have been prepared beforehand. Mr. Alexander answered that it
sometimes did.
MR. BARKWORTU inquired whether information unknown to any
of the sitters was ever given at the seances. From Mr. Alexander's
reply this seemed very doubtful.
A GE~rLEMAN asked whether Mr. Alexander had ever met with an
instance of such occurrences as he had described, which at the time
seemed genuine, and afterwards proved not to be so.
MR. ALEXANDER said he had not, but mentioned a case in which he
had caught another young medium tricking, though she afterwards
exhibited what he considered to be genuine phenomena at the same
seance.
MR. MORELL l'UEOBALD alluded to raps occurring in his own
family 20 years ago, resembling those described by Mr. Alexander.
The PRESIDENT said that the phenomena reported by Professor
Alexander were exactly of the class to which, when the Society was
founded eight years ago, he had expressed the hope that the attention
Digitized by Google
April, 1890.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 239
of investigators into the physical phenomena of Spiritualism would be
mainly directed. Their importance, in his view, lay chiefly in the fact
that they were produced without the presence of a professional medium.
He hoped that the Physical Phenomena Committee might have oppor-
tunities of making investigations of this kind. Of course, in all
investigations with private, no less than professional mediums, it was
the investigator's duty to take adequate precautions against the possi-
bility of trickery; otherwise the investigator's testimony added com-
paratively little to that of the medium.
MEETING OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH OF THE SOCIETY
FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH,
AT ROOMS OF THE BOSTON SOCIETY OF NATURAL HISTORY.
Tuesday, Marcil, 4tl" 1890, at 8 p.m.
About 200 persons present. Professor Wm. James in the chair.
The Secretary read the records of the previous Meeting, which were
approved.
The Chairman drew the attention of the Members to the circular
recently issued on behalf of the International Congress of Experimental
Psychology, and invited the assistance of persons willing to collect
answers to the inquiry concerning hallucinations.
The Secretary read an abridgment of the discussion between Mr.
F. W. H. Myers and Mr. Frank Podmore concerning Phantasms o/the
Dead.
The Meeting then adjourned.
R. HODGSON.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 837 Ad pn Visual.
From Miss Berta Burly, 'Waterbeach Vicarage, Cambridge.
FebrtUtl'Y, 1890.
In the spring and Bummer of 1886 I often visited a poor woman called
Evans, who lived in our parish, Caynham. She was very ill with a painful
disease, and it was, as she said, a great pleasure when I went to see her; and
I frequently sat with her and read to her. Towards the middle of Ootober
she was evidently growing weaker but there seemed 110 immediate danger.
I had not called on her for several days, aud one evening I was standingin the
dining-room after dinner with the rest of the family,when I saw the figure of
a woman dre88ed like Mrs. Evans, in large apron and muslin cap, pass I\Or08S
the room from one door to the other, where she disappeared. I said, "Who
is that 1" My mother said, "What do you mean 1" and I said, " That woman
who has just come in and walked over to the other door." '1'hey all laughed
Digitized by Google
240 Joul'nal 01 Soc'iety 101' Psychical Besea;)'ch. April, 1890.
at me, and said I was dreaming, but I felt sure it was Mrs. Evans. and next
morning we heard she was dead.
BEB.TA HURLY.
Miss Hurly's mother writes :-
On referring to my diary for the month of October, 1886, I find the
following entry: "19th. Berta startled us aU after dinner, about 8.30 last
evoning, by saying she SllW the figure of a woman pass across the dining-room
and that it was Mrs. Evans. Thill morning we hear the poor woman isdead."
On inquiring at the cottage we found she had become wandering in her min<1,
and at times unconscious, about the time she appeared to Berta, and died
towards the morning.
AN1US Ro&!.
Feb"narll 25th, 1890.
We have received the following narrative from the Rev. H. Kendall,
of Darlington, who informs us that the percipient, Alderman Fowler,
of Durham, is much esteemed thet'e, and 11&8 been five or six times
Mayor. Though the date of the experience is remote, it was so simple
and definite that there seenll:l little room for error to creep in.
L. 838 Ad pn Visual.
Manor House, Durham. [1889.]
I WIU! assistant at 1\ shop in Durham, near my present place of busine58,
when a singular circumstance happened to me, which seemed to imply that
the spirits of the departed have, at least at the time of their dePl\rture, the
power to manifest themselves to survivors. I had a brother whom I famili-
arly called Mat, who was a sailor, and had gone on a voyage to the Baltic.
One Saturday afternoon I was attending to a customer, reckoning up the
amount to be paid after serving the articles, when I happened to look towards
the window, and was surprised to see my brother Mat outside. Our oyes met.
I smiled and nodded to him, and said, "I'll be with you presently," or some-
thing of that sort. I told my master that my brother Mat had como and was
standing outside. I was immediately released from my engagement with the
customer and told that I might go to my brother and also bring him to sleep
with me that night. When I went out into the street, expecting to find my
brother Mat waiting for me, he was nowhere to be seen. I spent all the
evening seeking for him at places where I supposed he might have called, but
without success. I was 80 disturbed at this that I went off home to Shinly
Row next monling to see if they knew aught, but he had not been there, nor
had they heard any news of him. But this WILl the astounding coincidence
which I learned afterwards. Mat died ill the hospital at the Elsinore about
the timo when I saw him standing in the street at Durham.
[The date was October 21st. 1837.] J AMEij FOWLER.
Alderman Fowler adds :-
I have never had any similar experience. The lIeW8 of death did not
reach the family till the return of the ve88el from the Elsinore, but the stir
caused by my going the next morning to my home, lOme eight or nine miles
Digitized by Google
April, 1890.] Joumal of Society for Psychicctl Resem'ch. 241
distant, to inquire for my brother, believing him to have gone there j my
positive assertion of having seen him the day before and surprise at nut
finding Mm at home, caused the family to know the date of my vision and of
the death to be the same.
The following three dreams belong to the group printec:1 in the last
number of the .Tournal, but were left out for want of space.
P. 643. Dream. Cf. Phanul8m8 of th~ Lit'i1If/, Case (79).
From the Rev. E. D. Banister, Whitechapel Vicarage, Preston
Lancashire.
[Norembel" 12th, 1885.]
My father, whilst a schoolboy (probably from 1808-1815), had a dream
relating to his future, which I and my sister have often heard him relate.
In the dream he saw a tnblet in tIle" parish church of his native place, un
which was inscribed his name in full, the dnte of his birth, nnd the day and
month, but not the year, of his death. But there aeemed to him to be
IOmetbing uncertain about the month in the date of his death. The date as
inscribed on the tablet was Jun. 9. But as June is aeldom, if ever, abbre-
listed as Jun., he was somewlmt inclined to think that it might be Jan. I).
Many years elapstld. after the dream, and llothing occurred to recall the
circumstance until on June 9th, 1830, my eldest brother died at the age of
two years and ten months. }fy father at the time was very deeply affected
by the 1088 of the child. The dnte of the child's dellth called to his mind
the dnte 011 the tablet, and though in his dream he distinctly saw his own
name, he ever afterwards favoured the iden that the dnte he had seen was
.Jun.9. .
On January 9th, 1883, my father died.
Mr. Banister's sister confirms 8...'1 follows :-
I have aeen my brother's letter respecting the dream of which I have
heard my father speak, nnd can only say that the facts are as my brother
has stated. AGNEIi BANISTER.
P. 644. Dream.
From a lady, whom we will call Miss Dickens, as we are not allowec:1
to give real names or initials.
In the January of 1888, I was in Boston, Mass., U.S.A., and intended
returning to my home in London about Easter. I resided with some
connections of my married brother. I sailed for England earlier than I
intended, and had no idea when I left America that a letter from my home
was on the way, telling me tIlat my home had been given up. I tell you
this to show that, on landing in Liverpool, I had not the slightest idea I
should go and live with my aunt, where 1 accidentally JIlet Mr. C.
Befure I left Boston I had a remarknble droom. I told it at the time
to a Miss R., my intimate friend, and she will be a witness to it.
I dreamt my aunt handed me two feet. They looked like falae ones, but
I waa Dot lure about it. I had to bathe them and take care of them. It;
Digitized by Google
242 JO'l.M'nal of Society for Psychical R.esea1'clt. [April, 1890.
distressed me to think I might not be able to tell them apart, when I thought,
Oh ! they will be left and right! I looked. They were both right feet.
On arriving at my aunt's I thought of this dream the first thing, and she
turned to the servant who was in the room, and said, .. Mr. C." .. What
about Mr. C. 1" said 1. ,. He has lost his right foot," she answered, "and I
told Mrs. S. you would very likely become interested in each other," &c.
I met the gentleman shortly after, and he immediately began telling me
of his sad accident. Our acquaintance increased, and he got two false feet
during our intimacy. I became his right hand in everything, and the last
thing we talked about before his sudden death was my helping him to get a
third American foot.
Miss Dickens adds in a subsequent letter:-
Before going to America in 1886, I met Mr. C. once for a few minutes.
But I never gave him a second thought, did not remember his name, and I
do not remember that he was lame. • • • You will understand Mr. C.
did not get a false foot till after our acquaintance.
M.iss R. writes in confirmation :-
I remember Miss Dickens telling me she dreamed of her aunt handing
her two feet to take care of. This was after she had arranged for returning,
just before sailing. I had urged her to defer returning a month or two.
She said she was leaving Boston earlier than she had intended, as her friends
wroto they were going into a smaller house if she was returning to them, and
she wished to go into the new house with them as soon as pOBBible.
P. 130. Dream.
The following dream is communicated by the Rev. R. Jamblin,
Rector of Wilmington, to Mr. Fryer, who remarks :-
It may be mere coincidence, or the thieves may have attempted his
house on the night of his dream and been disturbed.
It will be observed that it was a neighbouring house,-not his
own,-that actually was robbed. When the account was first given to
Mr. Fryer viva voce he understood that dream and burglary had
occurred on the same night, but on further inquiry Mr. Jamblin finds
that this was not the case. He informs us that such a dream is an
unusual oocurrence with him, and, in answer to our inquiry whether
he had at any other time noted a dream in his diary, says :-
I can find no record nor have I any recollection of ever having had a.
dream of a partiCUlar event before the present one.
He was in Belgium when this dream occurred.
Wilmington. Novembe1' 30th, 1889
I enclose the date of the robbery over the village policeman'" signature,
between 23rd and 24th August.
My diary says :-
"A1tgllst 2211d, Thursday.
"Horrid dream, 2 a.m., that our house had been burglR.red."
This note was made at 2 a.m. by lIly watch. But I ought to say that it was
Digitized by Google
April,1800.] Jotwnal 0/ Society /01' Psychical .Resea1·clt. 243
intended at the time to be a rough note only, a sort of shorthand note to be
expanded afterwards. The substa..'loe of the dream was that a burglary had
been or was being oommitted, and that the persons oonoemed in it were, to
my oertain knowledge, in some fields at the back of the house where the real
burglary oocurred, and that the alarm bell was ringing at the Hall, the
adjoining house.
Then my thoughts (distinguishing dream from conscious thought) went
naturally to my uwn home, and I thol£ght (still sleepy) that the dream was
intended to be and was a presentiment of mischief to my home.
That was why I wroto what I did, and that is the interpretation thereof.
You will see that my dream was 48 hours in advance of the real event.
RoBERT JAMBLIN.
The following is the enclosure referred to by Mr. Jamblin:-
3, Broad-lane, Wilmington. NO'OOmbe,' 27th, 1889.
A burglary was committed at Clayton Croft, Dartford Heath,
Wilmington, the residence of Mr. C. J. Morgan, between the hours of 11
p.m., 23rd, and 6 a m. 24th August, 1889.
MOSES G. KITNEY, Police Constable.
The following is an extract from a letter from Mr. J amblin to his
wife, which was posted at Courtrai on August 23rd :-
.August 22nd, 11.30 p.m.
I do hope you will be careful with regard to the house. 'Ihis moming at
two I awoke in a dream. I had a frightful idea that the vicarage was being
broken into. I thought I was at the Losiers and heard the alarm bell ring.
I almost determined to write home at once and ask you to have H. Mitchell
to sleep in the house. Had it been possible I should have started for home
at once, so fixed was the idea of danger in my mind.
CORRESPONDENCE.
ARE APPARITIONS OBJECTIVE OR SUBJECTIVE 1
To the Editor oj the JOURNAL OJ' THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCmCAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-Will you kindly allow me 1\ few words apropos of the theories of
MeBBrs. Myers and Podmore on apparitions 1 It seems to me that their
explanations are exceedingly fa,' fetohed-teZepathic ones naturally would
be; and, more t.han that, they by no means cover many well-authenticated
ghost stories. Their theory of the percipient being affeoted by mental
influenoes from friends of the dead, or by deferred latent impressions on his
own mind, is not only an exoeedingly oomplioated one, but, to my mind,
utterly inadequate as any explanation (save in a very few instances) of the
reoorded phenomena. The whole subject is wrapped in 0. cloud of high-
BOunding words suffioiently puzzling to the uninitiated, and I expeot, for that
matter, to many of the savants themselves I
Their theories as to the apparitions being altcays pureZu Il1tbjer,tive (for I
presume they mean that 1), I dissent from in toto. I firmly believe that all
bondfide apparitions of the dead are disembodied Bouls-lUade of a finer
Digitized by Google
244 Journal of Society for Psychical Resea1'clt. [April, 1890.
element than any gas known to science, but still material to spirit sense,
though not always so to our. ; that they occupy space and move from spot to
spot; can touoh us sometimes, and we are sensible of their touoh ; can (being
atomio) paBIthrottgh molecular obstructions 1\8 easily 88 we can pass through
the air; can displaoe furniture and produoe real noises; that, in fine, they
are exteTl£(U realities, and not merely impreBBions. Of oourse, I am talking
of genuine ghosts, and not of halluoinations or mental images made 011
diseased or excited brains.
I feel as sure of life after death as I do of my present existenoe ; but were
it not so, the fact of our loved ones returning would be proof cmwl"s;ve.-
Yours, &c.,
F. B. DOVETON.
P.S.-I consider the re·appearancCl of the dead as fully proved as, say,
the Binomial The:>rem. There are countless well-authenticated ghost stories
in which any transference of impressions quite out of the question, in my
o pUllon. The peroipients are wholly unprepared and in perfect health, and,
so, reliable witnesses. The room or locality is haunted.-F. B. D.
To the Ediiol' of the .JOURNAL OF THE SOVlETY FOR PIIYCHICAL RKIIEARCH.
Mr. Doveton's letter, printed in this number of the JOIWlwl, suggests the
need of lIome discussion as to the propriety of applying to apparitions and
cognate phenomena such terms (on tho one hand) 1\8 .. subjective," "im-
material," "ideal," or (on the other hand) the contrasted terms "objective,"
"material," "real." These questions are not easy to handle; and Mr.
Doveton's very definite view may furnish us with a convenient starting-
point. But first I must notice one sentence in his postsoript which should
not, I think, be printed in this J0t!1'Iud without protest. "There are," he
says,"count/Cls tooU-authe1bticated ghost-stories in which any transferenoe of im-
pressions is quite out of the question, in my opinion." :Now if, as persons
of ordinary caution will admit, it is needful that a story should at least be
told at first-hand before it can be called" well-authenticated," this statement
is surely much in excess of the truth. How many first-hand narratives from
.. reliable witnesses," including any circumstance to distinguish the post-
mortem apparition from a mere" spectral illusion," can Mr. Doveton adduce,
outside of those,-fewerthan 100, I think-which we have ourselves printed1
Do his .. oountless " cases amount to 100 1 or to 50 1 Inasmuch as I am en-
deavouring to collect as many sucll cases as possible for a forthcoming work
on Phantasms of the Dead, I am anxious to get hold of all that are worth
considering. But I feel sure that there is Mt this indefinite store of " well-
authenticated ghost-stories" which Mr. Doveton &Ssumes to exist; and I
wish that those who share Mr. Doveton's more sanguine view would first take
the trouble to collect and tabulate the evidence to whioh they so confidently
appeal.
To pass on to the theoretio problem, "I believe," says Mr. Dovetoll,
.. that all bondfide apparitions of the dead are disembodied sO'IJls • • • that
they occupy space, and move from spot to spot • can touch us some-
times • • • can displace furniture and produce real noises," &0.
Digitized by Google
.April, 1890.] JO'U1'nal Of Society for Psychical Resea1·ch. 245
Now, let me point out that verid·ical d"eams are a frequent form of "bone'!
.fide apparition." A man asleep, or between sleeping and waking, sees the
form (say) of a friend dripping with water, and learns afterwards that that
friend was drowned at or about the time of the vision.
It is clear that Mr. Doveton does not insist on distinctions between what
we have classed as Phantasms of the Living or of the Dead; and obviously
in such a discussion the whole range of phantasmal appearances must be taken
together.
Well, then, is the dream-figure a disembodied soul1 Does it occupy
space 1 Can it displace furniture 1 And if, as sometimes happens, it persists
for a short tinle into waking moments, does it thereby acquire substanti-
ality 1
Or take an apparition of a man undoubtedly deac;i, seen by a man
undoubtedly awake; say General Barter's vision of Lieutenant B. held on to
his pony by two syees. Were the pony and the syces disembodied souls 1
And, if so, how did the disembodied soul of Lieutenant B. secure their
attendance1
The familiar objection as to the ghosts of clothes-powerless as against a
theory which regards the ghost as a picture- is fatal to the view that theghost
is necessarily "atomic" and " material to spirit sense." Is the matter of his
ghostly clothes extracted (as some advocates of the objective reality of ghosts
suggest) from his real clothes 1 And, if so, what happens to hinl when his real
clothes have perished on the dust-heap 1 Has the Cavalier ghost leept his
best rumes and jackboots safe somewhere in Linlbo 1 Or to turn to a case
where we can trace the actua facts more closely, when Mr. S. H. B., lying
asleep in bed, apPe&1'ed phantasmally in evening dress to the Miss V.'s,
did his disembodied soul extract the necessary rudiments of attire from the
white tie and tail-coat reposing in his wardrobe 1
If now we try to look at the questions involved a little more closely, we
shall find it no easy matter to place our phantasms under even the widestand
most general of recognised categories. Our standard claases of real 01' sup-
posed entities have been framed under the influence of preconceptiolls which
this new evidence deeply disturbs.
Let us take the distinction between "objective" and "subjective," as
defined (for instance) by Sir William Hamilton. "Objective," he says,
" means that which belongs to or proceeds from the object known, and not
from the subject knowing; what exists in nature, in contrast to what exists
merely in the thought. of the individual."
Now take a case where MissX. sees in a reflecting surface a:picture repre-
senting Mrs. N. in a bath-chair. Miss X. considers it very improbable that
Mrs. N. should have employed that vehirle; but it turns out that at or
shortly before the time of the vision Mrs. N. was in fact in a bath-chair. This
is an actual instance of a kind of telepathic or clairvoyant vision of which we
have printed a good many examples. Now, are we to call this crystal picture
an objective or a subjective thing 1
Let us start from the cas e of ordinary vision. The thing directly
recognised is an impression on the retina, and the object perceived is an in-
terpretation of sense-indications. The image does not" exist in nature"
Digitized by Google
246 Journal of Society f01' Psychical Research. [April, 1890.
except on the retina of the observer. Now consider the perception of an
image in a mirror; here agaiu there ill 110 real object where: the image
ill seen, only rays of light reflected on the retina in the same way as in
direct vision. Now turn to the hallucinatory image ; say the image of an
imaginary dog, whose presence is suggested by the hypnotiseI'. Does this
image correspond to any physical effect upon the retina 1 We cannot answer
this question decisively; but at I\ny rate it is not due to rays of light reflected
from any external object similar to the image.
Now let us take a crystal picture, representing (as some of Miss X.'s
have seemed to represent) an actual scene going on elsewhere at the time.
Is there here any impression on the retina 1 If so, how was it produced
there 1 Has the fact any optical cause, or is it the pure effect of self-
suggestion t Oil the one hand, though some of these crylltal-visions ha"e
been apparently magnified by the interposition of a lens, their appearance
in the crystal is not deducible from optical laws. On tho other hand,
where they are veridical they cannot be called merely subjective. The
agency which has caused their presence is unknown; but if that agency
should some day become familiar, we may come to consider the hnage pro-
duced by crystal-vision as on the Ilame level of objectivity with an ordinary
visual image. It may be objective without being optical.
It may be said that the crystal-vision is unshared, and therefore subjective.
Butwe do not know for certain that it is alwaysunshared. And there are plenty
of sensoryimpressions which are unshared in the sense that only one species
of animals can receive them. If we had only one bloodhound his impressions
of scent would be unshared, but they would be objective neverthelesa. A
captive female moth will be perceptible to males of her own species for an
in:lefinite distance, but to no other known organisms. And whether crystal-
visions be ever common to two persons or no, we have, at any rate, cases of
phantasms which seyeral persons together see or hear. A sight or sound of
this kind is difficult to clasaify as either subjectivo or objective in the
common sense of those terms. The ordinary contrast between subjective
and objective, in short, fails when wo are dealing with a communication of
knowledge without the agency of the recognised organs of sense. That is
an unknown proceBS which we cannot as yet insert into our old-fashioned
predicaments.
We certainly have no right to call the phantasmal figure material simply
because it is seen by several persons. This mere fact of colloctive vision
cannot assuro us that the figure possoBSes inertia, or a constant weight, or
that it extrudos air or anything olse, from the place of its apparent presence.
The figure, no doubt, sometimes appears to produce effects on the material
world which would require the exertion of force, if not the presence of
matter. But before discusaing these real or apparent effects, we must con-
sider one perplexing characteristic which (I believe,) is frequently found in
every claBS of phantasmal vision.
Veridical visions are not always-not even generally-correct transcripts
of any fact which is passing elsewhere. They signify such facts, but they do
not usually reprodu.ce them. Nor is their deflection from reality comparable
with any kind of optical distortion,-as though they had to make their way
through some refracting medium. It is a symbolical deflection; it consists
Digitized by Google
April,l890.] Journal of Society for Psychical Resea1'Ch. 247
in the introduction of features which, while not in themselves acourate
transcripts of faot, do yet produce an impression of the purport Or meaning
of actual facts. I see my drowned friend (suppose) dripping with water.
But he is not in fact dripping, for he is immersed in the sea.
It is plain that such a modification of the actual reality as this must have
a psychical and not an optical cause. It resembles the familiar symbolism
of dreams,-as for instance when a displacement of the bedclothes makes us
dream that we are at an evening party in insullicient costume. Pictures thus
modified have plainly passed through some milwi j their deflections from
literal fact aTe in some sense intelligent, even if not intentional. By 'What
mind they are modified we cannot here discuss j we may merely admit that
a symbolical figure seen by several observers may be objective, but is not
opticaZ. Similarly a symbolical noise-and few of our auditory phantasms
reproduce a sound being uttered elsewhere-heard by several observers, may
be in BOme sense objective, but is not acoustic.
Keeping this in mind, let us cOl1sider the cases where a phantasmal figure
appears to exert BOme influence, not permanently registrable, on the material
world,-as for instance to open a door and shut it again. Mr. Gurney used
to remark that in all our first-hand nal'l'atives, whenever a ghost opened a
door he did shut it again :-meaning, of course, that such apparent physical
effects of the phantom's presence were in all cases merely phantasmal, as
much a part of the dream-imagery as was the water dripping from the
phantom of tho drowning man. Once or twice, indeed, it has happened that
Buch movements have been almost demonstrably unreal j as where a handle
has been seen to move which could not move j-which was so jammed that
to Ilhake it was impossible. In such a case the apparent movement seems
analogous to those phantasmal sounds which simulate the noise caused by
some specific movement, (as the rattling of windows,) which is visibly not
taking place.
Before our ghost can claim materiality, he ought to show a registrable
optical presence by affecting the sensitised plate, or a registrable acoustic
presence by affecting the phonograph, or a constant weight or inertia by
affecting the balance or other mechanical contrivances. Nor is this last kind
of test an easy one j since the balance may be affected (as in Mr. Crookes'
experiments with D. D. Home) by some unknown exertion of force, not by
the presence of gravitating particles. But, on the other hand, it is of
courso possible that the categories "material" and "immaterial," with the
best definitions which we can at present give to them, may be quite inade-
quate to describe what our ghost really is. The mode of his existence may
transcend our mathematical fornlUlre as completely as it transcends our
senBOry experience. The impenetrability of matter, which seems our ulti-
mate sensory fact, may be as relative and contingent a property as colour
itself. There is nothing to show that all consciousness existing in the
universe can recognise a ruby as impenetrable any more than all conscious-
ness existing on earth can recognise it as red. Our mathematics speak of
matter as possibly a modification of the ether j but the ether itself, which to
us at present seems primary and universal, may be a complex, contingent,
limited manifestation of a system of laws wholly beyond our cognisance.
Digitized by Google
248 Jotwnal oj Society JO't' Psychical Resea1'clt. [April, 1890.
In the case, therefore, of a phantasmal sight or sound perceived by more
than one person, we cannot 8I\fely 8I\y more than simply that an action is
going on which is of a nature to affect more than one organism. The action-
vibration or whatever else it may be-may pOBBibly require the molecular
world for its propagation 01' transmission. Or this pbantasmogenetic activity
may involve modifications of the ether, independent of the molecular world.
Or it may be absolutely independent of ether and of molecules-of everything
which our mathematics can hope to grasp.
What we have to do, in fact, is not to refer these new phenomena to our
existing formulm, but ta try to build up in time truer formulm from the
observation of thsse new phenomena themselves. It should never be for-
gotten that the most trifling of our telepathic experiments if the conditions
are satisfactory probably implies a profoundly different employment of
natural forces from that in any class of experiment hitherto known to science.
There is yet another perplexity which affects 1\11 claBBes of phantasms-
namely: their relation to time. It is pretty clear that even when these
phantasms represent a person or scene accurately they are sometimes after
the evellt,-an added difficulty, of course, in the way of the supposition that
they have anything like a material existence. And there is even some evi-
dence that the phantasm may present itself befQ1'e tJte event, in which case our
previous experience would be transcended indeed !
But, in fact, the upshot of all these considerations is that our existing cate-
gories afford us little or no help in classifyingthese phantasmal phenomena. We
cannot ticket any given phantasm as material, objective, or the like, and then
infer from that general term that the phantasm possesses any specific quali-
ties-as impenetrability, spatial location, or the like-which are commonly
connoted by the wider term. We must simply for the present take each
veridical phantasm on its own merits, and ask a number of separate questions
about it,-moat of which we shall usually have to leave unanswered. Docs
it exert force 7 Does it possess inertia 1 Has it a constant weight 1 Does
it to any extent obey optical or acoustic laws? Is it perceptible individually7
or electively1(i.~., by some and not all of the persons present), or collectively
by all persons within reach 1 Is it a symbolical or an accurate transcript of
fact 7 and is the fact which it repres:mts past, present, or future 7
Until we can answer these questions rather better than at present, it will
be 8I\fer to choose our designation for these phantasms with reference to the
negative quality which we know to be theirs,-namely, that they are not that
which at the first blush they appear to our senses to be. This fact, and
nothing more, we affirm when we call them haUucinatiml.9. And if we style
them 'Veridical or falsidical, Mcording as they help us to truth or delude us
with falsehood, we shall still be describing them purely in terms of our own
experience, without pretending to a theory of their true nature. This frank
confession of ignorance will at least leave us unfettered,-ready to adopt any
truer classification of our phenomena to which further observation may point.
In the meantime something is gained if, having startedwith the preconception
that "all which is not A is B," we have come to the conclusion that our own
8ubject-matter is neither A nor B, but X.
F.W.H.M.
Digitized by Google
