{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1828__master_mason___free_masonry_its_pretensions_exposed.pdf","mytitle":"Free Masonry Its Pretensions Exposed","mylang":"de"}
t '
.'
FREE MASONRY.
ITS PRBTDIIONI EXPOIJED IN FAITBFVL EXTIU.CTI
OF ITS 8TAND.&.RD A11TIIOR8; WITH
AaJIVUIWOP
TOWN'S SPECULA.TIVE MA.SONRY:
ITI LIABILITY TO PS&V&&T TBE DOCTali'EI OP ai:VJC•LJ:D aELIOIOl'f,
, DISCOVJ:ai:D lit TBII: IPiai'J OF ITS DOCTai.IUtS, AltD
llf TB& •PPLICATI01'f OP ITS EMBLEMS:
wa aa.••JULova ns.-:D..cnr •za••&aD
IN Erl'&ACTB PJlOJrf .
PROFESSOR ROBISON; ,.
AND PU&THER ILLUSTRATED IN ITS BASE SERVICE
TO'l'U
BY A MASTER MASON.
"Allll wlleQ llloG ut opoilecl, what wilt thou do 1 Thoqb thou clolheot tbyoelf with
ert-, lhoU~h thou deckeot thee with oroameoqofgold, thoU~h thou nddeot lhy face with
pUatlalc, iD niD ahllt thou make tltJN)C fair; thy loYera will deopioe thee ; they wiD Melt
Clay tiCe."-,.,....iM.
NEW-YORK:
1828.
..
......... - 't
S..~Mn Dutriu of .11r-..Ym, ••·
BE IT REMEMBEBED, that oa the twetr-eiahth d&y ol A~,
A· b. 18118, io doe Sfty-
(L.S. .eoad year ofthe..........,_ ofthel1m1ecl SW.. of · Dwicbt F~1 et
) doe oaid clillriet, bu depoolteol'ia tble otftee 1M title ofa boot, oe npt w -he
elailluo u proprietor1 1n the wonlo followi..,,to wit:
11 Free 11-ry. 1.. Pnleilei- upoeecl iofaithfulutrae..of1
..otalldud Authon ; with
a BeYiew of Towo'o 8peealali"" ........, : i.. liability to pe"ert tlte doetri- of lle-
•oaleoi Jlelifioa, cli8co•ere4 Ia the ~irit of i.. ~. and ia tbe oppne.&ioa of i..
Bmw- : ita d...,.,rolllteadea~ odaibitecl iD ub-aeto ,_, tile Abbe llarruel&lld Prof-
Robiooa; 81111 farther iUu.tratecl •• 111 --.-ice to tba llhlmiD&Ii. ~~~~- M.-.
11 1 Alld whea !boa art opoiled, wbat wilt tllou do 1 Tbolllh tlloa e tllyoelf with
e.'- tllo"''l thoa dec:koot thee witb orD&DlOII.. of cold, tlioqh tboa nddeot Illy ~ce
with:=.....:;, Ia •aia abalt thoa make thyoelf ~ir; thy lo•- wlll d•piae thee; they wUI
.t~UA;:\-J........"
Io coaformity to the Aet of eo,_ol tile Ualtecl 8tatea, ealitled, 11 AD Ad for the
--.-ot of t.&miDc, by aeeari"' tbot eopieo of Mapo, Cbarta, aad Boab, to the
authon &aol proprieton of ouch coplea, dllriarthe li- thenbi meationed." ADd alae to aa.
Aet, ealitleol, 11 AD Aet,111ppl-14ry to aa Aet, eotitled, aa Ad for the tDCOarapmeat eL
~DI the oopiea of Vapa, Charta, 81111 Boob, to the authon aad proprieten
of _., da.rlac the thaeo thereio meotioaeol, IUid exteadlnf the ......... thereofto the
aflt of 1 lllf'&'rilltt ud etebiDrUtorieaJ 81111 ather pria'-."
FRED. J. BETTS,
Cltfoi ~ lk BntMrll DUtrieC of NtttrTorl:.
oi9,tized by Coogle
...._ -
TO FREE MASONS.
/
•••••
BUTHI\EN,
HAviNG devoted much study to the subject of Free
Masonry, I am.thoroughly convinced that the ancient land-
mark• arP removed, that our old crutOJM· are irreparably
infringed, and the utabliihed wage• of the Art are in ut-
ter confusion, bringing great discredit upon the Fraternity
ofFree and Accepted Muons, e.nd concealed daggers of
infidelity to the hearts of the brethren.
It becomes my bounden duty, as a faithful brother, to
make an effort, in the words of the Muter's charge, "to
correct the irregularities of the less i.Dformed brethren ; to
fortify their minds with resolution against the insidious foe,
and to guard them against every allurement to vicious
practices."-See Preston'• IlltUtrationa ofMt~~onry, p. 78.
and the Free Mt~~on'a Monitor, p. 76.
Fearless of her whose name is Mystery, and whose light
is Egyptian darkness, it is done affectionately, brethren,
with respect to yoU. It will present you strange and wi-
expected facts, with approved Masonic authorities for them,
in every case faithfully and amply quoted. Accept the
work ; ponder it ; and may Immanuel, God with us, ever
be with those, who with simplicity of heart receive truth in
the love ofit.
THE AUTHOR.
o191tized by Coogle
• •
It . ' •
•
- --"":"W·-. ..
-.-
.
..
r.:
•.-.
•
.. . .
i '
.
'
I ·
D1g1tized by Coogle
- •
A LIST OF MA.SOIIIC AUTHORS
QUO'I'J:D llf '1'818 WOf.Et
TO ILLUSTRATE THE CHARACTER OF FREE MASONRY,
Witl& tlae page fumu'll.ing.tlaeir maaonic reputation.
AlfD let it be ob~ened, that though they have not all the same nlue
with the fraternity, not one of them is considered apocryphal;
and but in a single instance do I recollecl of one evil spoken of
by another. Lawrie and Dalcho bo1h give c1 gibe at Ali- &-
'Zlm ; and why ? Because he maintains the mechanic origin of
the fraternhy, and the party of the Ancitnt•; while Lawrie brings
FreeMuonry from the tinks of antiquity, and Dalcho from hea-
ven, and both are atout aupportera of the late party of Muona
called Modmu.
1. Free Maaona' Monitor, by Col. Thomas Smith Webb. New-
York edition, 180!. Its sanction found in this volume, p. SO.
!. MIJ60ftic Clart, by Jeremiah L. Croas. Sd ed. New-Hnen,
1814. Sanction, chapter x. p. ~~-
S. Book of Coutitutiou of Ma.aacAwett.. 4to. Sanction, p. 544.
4. Pre.IM&'a IUuatrotiOM of Mcuonry. J!mo. Richards' edition.
Portsmouth, N. H. 1804. From Strahan's lOth London edition.
Mr. Preston was master of the Lodge of Antiquity, London,
"aetin& by immemorial custom." His work, dedic~ated to Lord Pe-
tre, P. G. M. of England, is the most complete manual and history
of English Masonry, and the moat appr011ed. 1t has the authority
of a Book of Contti..tlons in England, and forms the basi• of the
Free Mason's Moniter, and of Dalcho's Ahiman Rezon, and contri-
butes largely to enry manual of Masonry publi5hed in America.
The only sanction I can quote for this book, is the favour it bas
eujoyed, and still enjoys, with the Masonic public, best proved by the
aumber of editions through which it passed in London-ten, in lUI
CAaR llirCy yeara.
5. Hutc'll.iuon'1 Spirit of Ma.onry. lllmo. Reprinted at New-
York, A. D. 180!. Sanctioned by the Gr. Lodge of England. p. Jso.
1. Alitnaft ReZOII, by Lawrence Dermott, Secretary of the An-
cient Muons. ho. p. !84. London, 17114. Noticed, p. l!S.
1. SrMIIt'1 Uu and .Abwe of Free MdMinry. A large octavo, dedi-
oated to Frederick of Prussia. London, A. D. J78-.
8. Cokoffa Dilquirilionl upon Free Matonry. avo. Iteprinted at
Boston, A. D. 177-.
Digitized by Google
VI MASONIC AUTHORS.
t. Tanntl&ill'1 Manual. A handsome octavo. Tennessee. Dedica·
ted to the Moat Worshipful Andrew Jackson. This is one of the
best historical and practical lodge books I have seen.
10. Hardu'• NetD Fru Maaon's Monitor. Sd edition. New-York.
1Jmo. Recommended by twelve presiding officers in the lodges of
New-York.
11. Toum's Spetulati~ Ma~Ot&ry. limo. Sanction, p. 171.
11. Dalcho't OratiOfts. Charleston, South Carolina. This is an
important work. Dr. Dalcho is a Sor~treign lMputor OertmJl of
Fm Ma~Ot&ry; and his orations are publiahed by the request of the
Grand Lodge, and of the Sublime Gr~&nd Lodge of South CaroliDa.
IS. I..atorie's Hiltoryof Fru Maaonry~ Edinburgh, 1804. Bvo.
This work discovers more learning and good sense together, than
any ot~er masonic treatise 1 have perused. The mt'st valuable part
of it may be seen in the Encyclopedia Britannica, Art. Masonry.
It is far from satisfactory. .
14. Gmnlwf's Bmf Inquiry. Portland, JSSO. avo. A band-
some volume of 100 pages The views are with Lawrie: both make
Free Masonry origin:~te m the ancient heathen mysteries ; but the
proof is deficient ; not so much barren as inconsistent.
15. Ttmplar'• Chart, by J ..L. Cross. New-Haven, 1811. tamo.
111• .Etprit du Dogme de Ia F. lVas·onntrie. Brussels, 1aJ5. Bvo.
Its character may be seen in extracts, page !40 of this vol~e,
using the emblems and pretentled traditions, to dispute and pervert
the sacred writings. It is the la5t masonic author I have read, and
could not possibly have coloured these pages before it enters them.
p.!U9. ' .
17. DakAo't Al&iman Re'Uift, which is the Book of Constitutions
of South Carolina. Chuleston, 1a01. avo.
1a. Free Ma~Ot&'t LiltTary, by Samuel Cole. Baltimore, 1818.
Jd edition. Bvo. pp. 400
This is tbe Book of Constitutions of Maryland. Sanction, p. 50.
These treatise• have all been carefully, some of them, studiou11ly,
examined ; and if from tlum the character of the institution cannot
be fairly learned, I despair of obtaining it.
It may interest the inquirer to know, that the entire body of the
irat 158 pages of this volume was written, except chapter• 15 and
It&, before the author suffered bimself to peruse a siDgle anti-maso-
nic author but Stearns' Inquiry. He sought· to deal honourably
with Free Masonrr ; and to judge of it solely by the testimony of
its frie!lds : haTing done that, he felt free to examine the opinions
of others.
o191tized by Coogle
PREFACE.
Ts& first Free Mason Lodge in North America was es-
tablished in New-Jersey, A. D. 1730, by warrant from .the
mother of lodges, the Grand Lodge of England, under the
band of the Duke of Norfolk, Grand Master. (Presion.)
The revolutionll.Q' struggle caused Free Masonry, for a
season, to flourish ; then it languished ; and it was almost
breathless at the time the first grand chapter was.formed;
and the first edition of Webb's Free Mason's Monitor was
published, A. D. 1797. Then it revived, and though checked
by the works of theAbbe B.arruel, and Professor Robison,
it bore them down at length with the multiplicity of its as-
sertions, and went on increasing until A. D. 1816; the offi-
cial retuins of lodges in the United States was estimated at
850 nearly. (Hardie.) ·
The Free Mason's Library, Baltimore, 1826, furnishes a
list of the principal lodges in the United States, " collated
from, and compared with, copies of the original records of
the several grand lodges." ·
This list nombers, to
Maine,
New-Hampshire,
Massachusetts,
Rhode Island,
Connecticut,
Vermont,
New-York, .
46
40
90
13
62
34
157
New-Jersey,
Pennsylvania,
Delaware,
Maryland, .
Virginia,
North-Carolin'a,
South Carolina,
46
187
16
80
100
81
54
o191tized by Coogle
viii
Georgia,
Missouri,
Ohio, . .
Tennessee,
PREFACE.
30 Louisiana,
8 Mississippi, •
72 Kentucky,
55 lllin~is, .
24
8
79
11
1293
The names and places of 1182 of th~ lodges are
given; but the list must be quite deficient, for New-York,
which, in the list, is allowed but 157, had, in 1825, accord·
ing to the indisputable authority of Governor Clinton,
"nearly 500 lodges, and more than 100·chapters." (See
Ne.D- York Statesman, 7th October, 1825, and this same
F. M. Library, p. 344.) Besides, the entire states of In-
diana and Alabama, having, in 1820, a population of
291,000 souls, and rapidly increasing, are not returned in
the list.
Allow them 25 each, • . . • . •
New-York500-157 =343, .•.
And for the deficiency of all other, .
Add to this the actual returns, with names
50
. 343
• 343
736
and places, • . • . . . . • 1182
1918
Allow for increase since A. D. 1825, • • . 82
2000
A fearful number, having .enrolled thirty or forty names
each, on their lists of members; say, the very lowest esti-
mate, 30 X 2000 = 60,000. Sixty thousand Free Masons
in the lodges of the United States, besides members of
·councih, of encampment•, and of royal arch chapters.
The names which appear coupled with the offices of the
craft, are often among thos.
e distinguished in the state, and
in the an11y, and in the ministry.
Be Free Masonry what it may, it evidently has extensive
inftuenee, a powelful sway in .this republic; strictly com·
o191tized by Coogle
PR£.FA(.,E,
bining a great body of active members of the community
.in one secret fraternity, teaching them its own highly va-
lued lessons, and enabling them to act without the respon-
.sibilities attached to the independent yeomanry of our
country.
It also has a great revenue. If every lodge make three
Masons annually, at twenty dollars each, lodges 2000 X
3 = 6000 new members, each $20 X 6000 = $120,00()
per annu,n, the revenue of the lodge1.
I say nothing of ckapten and others.
Such a combination of activity, mystery, talents, and
money, accompanied with magnificent titles, and splendid
professions, and ornaments captivating to youth, is not un·
worthy of the attention both of statesmen and moralists.•
For a history, it has none tolerably satisfactory; Lawrie's
may be found in our public libraries. (Ency. Brit. art. Ma-
sonry.)
Its learning is scattered in many volumes, and its doc-
trines are so covered with ceremonies, and the fog of mys-
tery, that few, even of its highest adepts, are thoroughly
instructed in its claims and character.
The writer has, therefore, sought with all diligence to
compile a mass of information, drawn from purely masonic
sources, which should throw a ray of light upon Free Ma-
sonry visible to aU ; and if, in the execution of this task, the
feelings excited by the subject have not always been re-
strained, pardon me ; gravely to contemplate inconsisten-
cies, is neither natural nor safe ; it is necessary sometimes to
laugh at folly, aR an antidote to infection ; and sometimes
to repel falsehood with indignation, lest it fasten upon the
simple.
Names do not affect the value of arguments. Where par-
' .
"' What it can do politically il - in Mexico at thil moment, where the
n&tienal parties are fearfully violent, and take the names of Eeout:n~, and
York, from dift'erent rituals of Free Muonry.
, B
o191tized by Coogle
X PJ\&J'ACB,
ties eut they often hurt: for the reader's attention will be
turned from the argument to the orator, from truth immu·
table and eternal, to the frail and peccable mortal utteringit.
And this is an evil, whether in friends or foes; for the undivi-
ded attention necessary to discern and appreciate truth, is
distracted with prejudice, or partiality towards the speaker.
The opinions of the writer cannot be mistaken ; but they
have no value that you do not give them ; and if they are
not justified by a perusal of the copious authorities within
the two covers of this book, neither his nor any other name
wiD justifY them. He asks no credit for facts, or for 888er-
tions : these are made and furnished by Webb, Town,
C1'088, Preston, HutchinJJOn, Cole, Lawrie, Dermott, Smith,
Greenleaf, Dalcho, Tannehill, Hardie, and the various
grand officers and grand lodges, who have sanctioned their
laboUI'B. The writer is a compiler from their pages, with
only the remarks suitable for refreshment ; and, if Free
Masonry i8 condemned, it must be from just quotations of
her own commentators, the title and page in every instance
accompanying the qootation.
The whole merit of the question lies between faithful
extracts of masonic authors here given, and the truth. The
attorney collects, arranges, and illustrates facts ; the reader
is to decide the case ; the reader is the judge ; and if your
attorney appear before you in a respectful manner, address
you in plain English, and argue his case diligently, not tra-
veUing out of the record, I trust you will give him a patient
hearing ; and, believe, if his name could be valuable
to you, it should be forthcoming with the promptness
of truth, and without fear of the mystery whose doctrine is
VaNoEANcx,and whose daring defies both the laws of God
and of man.
" Yet all are not satisfied."
AU cannot be satisfied. Having carefully sought to
know. what is duty, the writer is satisfied, any name beneath
the starry heavens would be a detriment attached to-ibis
volume. Suppose for a moment, reader, it were Truthteell.
o191tized by Coogle
P.JEFACE. xi.
She who run down the Abbe Barruel's and Proteseor Robi-
son's Free .M~, would also run down TruthweU's. It
would be vanity in the 1Vriter to suppose otherwise. ·But
she may run against " Free Masonry" ·until out of wind,
and it will hold way with her. She willescape from it, when
the horse escapes &om his shadow. Every assault upon
" Free Masonry" wiD surely be well directed; she hasliber-
ty ; let no name parry her blows.
' Again, what can any name ~d to the author's view of
this subject1 Suppose the name were Jefferson ; she woukl
array against it, in a single paragraph, Washington, Fcank-
lin, Warren, La Fayette, George the King, the Dukes of
York, and ofSussex, &c. and what could be·do 1 With one
flourish of her magical wand, she would Dl8,nlbal againat it
the Patriarchs, the Kings of Israel, and the Prophets; with
another, aU the heathen philosophers of Greece and of
Rome ; what could the. supposed Jefferson say ! Only
that truth will stand in its owri nllQ}e against the assembled
universe. . So let it stand ; and the foe may array all the
names of glory upon the page of history, against "Free
MaiSODry ;" far be it from the author to interfere.
- - .-.
Were the author's name here, she would scorn to notice
hia book ; she woukl make the war personal ; llhe would
turn the attention of her dupes upon him ; and wi~h her ten
thousand tongues, she would force honest people, by the
irresistible torrent of her malice, ·to sneer at the name of
aay man's Free Masonry: while she is free to abuse, or to
feed upon" Free Masonry;" that will make her tiUnt aqd
sick, when an honest name to devour, would strengthen her
heart.
So persuaded is he of the propriety of this course, that
the author will sooner submit to the mortification of seeing
his labour come before the public without even the honest
name of the printer, than, by placing another on the title-
page, shield Free Masonry from her own arrows : and were
be, by solemn act of Providence, removed this night from
his earthly labours, he would leavP it in char~re. th•t no
o191tized by Google
I
'
xii PkEF.~C£,
name of the author should appear inthe work; not that it
would shame the reader; but his work is truth, which is ir-
resistible, while the author is a mortal that can be barked
down.
He received the secret of the lodges in due form, under
able masters ; laboured at the lectures with the resolution
of a hale man taking patent medicines ; others found them
so beneficial, lte would not fail of their benefit for the want
of a fair trial, All the language of the locfg·~s, and the te-
dious details of the lectures, he learned by dint of persc,·c-
rance, and could once rehearse equal to his satisfaction:
still the charm refused to operate, the talismanic influence
failed to exert itself; and, like-one fairly innoculated with
genuine matter, he, to the disappointment of the doctor,
.yet took the disease the natural way.
With great simplicity he sought the meaning of this, mo-
destly inquiring of the Royal Arch and gr~at Masons; but
a sure hint at the master's entire ignorance of the subject,
was always sufficient, when coming from men four, seven,
and ten degrees above him, completely to shut his mouth.
He could not presume to doubt what they, from their ele-
vation, saw clearly; and having no disposition further to
climb the eminence, nor relish for the twilight of the lodges,
he withdrew from the connexion; travelling, but neither
giving nor receiving lion's paws, due guards, or grips; nei-
ther knowing a man, nor being known, as a Free Mason.
From this state of tranquillity he was disturbed by an
event, which, unworthy as it might seem to its agents, dis-
turbed every Mason, and shook every lodge, in the Union;
agitated, and does yet greatly agitate, the public mind; sever- .
ing friendships, dividing families, rending churches.
A citizen of New-York, it may be a most ooworthy man,
yet an American citizen, in the autumn of 1826, was mali-
ciously taken with the form of legal process, from his fire-
side and family at Batavia, New-York, by Free Masons,
was transported sixty miles to Candaigua for trial. At ·once
(l;scharged by th(} law. he was again arrested for debt to
o191tized by Coogle
I'RJ.:fACE. XIll
the amount of two dollars ; and, far removed from his
friends, he was immured in a prison for that petty sum, .
while they could mature their plans."" This accomplished,
they paid the debt to release him from prison, nine o'clock,
P. M., and contrived, by strong drink, or drugs, or both, to
take and to transport him, by night and by day, in the pub-
lic, and in primte conveyances, from Canandaigua to Lew-
iston, through a populous part of this free country, one
hundred miles ; tl;cnce to a deserted fort on the lonely
point where _Niagara enters Ontario lake, and kept him
thre~ days, seeking with anxiety to rid the country of him
without his blood. Here the veil drops; the victim can be
traced no further, except in the reports of his merciless
death, which are not a little strengthened by the flight,
and continued absence in foreign parts, or in distant terri-
tories, of three active masonic conspirators.
Proclamation, with reward, was repeatedly issued by the
lamented Clinton;-suits were instituted, and several Free
Masons have suffered, or are now suffering, in prison, the
penalty of the law, for tfle forcible abduction of a fellow
citizen ;t while, in other cases, the course of justice has
. * Being &t Canand&igno., be borrowed linen for cleanllneu ; and, h&viog
re&cbedJtome, was arrested for petit larceny. When discharged from cri-
minal process, he was seized in &n action on account for the ~~ame shirt &nd
cr&vat, v&lued at two dollars.
t Trial at Can&ndaigua, first week in J&nuary, 1827. Judge Throop
proceeded to 11entence the defendants iu the following terms : .. You h&Ve
been convicted of a daring, wicked, and presumptuoUll crime; such an one
as we did hope, would not, in our day, have polluted this land. You have
robbed the >!tate of a citizen, &citizen pf his liberty, a wife of her bWlband,
and a family of helpleu children of the e~de&rments &nd protecting care of
&p&rent ; and, whether the unfortunate victim of your r&!r8 bu been im-
molated, or is.,in the l&nd of the living, we &re ignorant, and even you do
not pretend to know. ·
" It is admitted iu this cue, &nd atsnda proved, that Morgan was, by a.
hypocritical pretence of f,iendahip and charity, and that, too, in the impo-
sing ah&pe of pecuniary relief to a diat.r881ld and poverty-bound prisoner,
beguiled· to intrust himeelf to one of your niUDber, who ~~eized him aa soon
Digitized by Google
xit- P&IU'&G.Jo:,
been impeded by the macbina,tiou of Free Muonry, im·
periOUJly demuding of the Executive of New-York, the
foilowing message to the Senate :
"G&NTLU&N-A large.portion of theiohabitaataof the
state, baa been, for more than a year, highly excited by the
alleged forcible ud cland~tine removal of a citizen, and
by the uncertainty of his fate. It is believed by many that
he hu been murdered, and it is certain that, if alive, he is
in captivity. This outrage upon our laws has justly alarm·
ed our fellow citizeqs in that part of the state, and has pro·
dueed exertions such as might have been expected from
freemen, conscious of their rights, and determined to main·
tain them, to develope the mysterious transaction, ud to
bring the offenders to'justiee.
· " }d yet their efforts have failed, The rewards ud in-
ducements heretofore oft"ered for a'discovery, have been un·
availing. rhe trials and convictions that have taken place
have rather increased the myst~ry of the traDsaction. The
efforts o( individual citizens, stimulated by a patriotic zeal,
have not always been guided by discretion, ud there is rea-
son to fear, that they have -sometimes tended rather t1> pre-
vent, than promote, a judicious developement of the truth.
It is publicly stated, that a witness, while on his way to at-
tend the trial of some of the persons charged with a piuti.
cipation in the original outrage, has suddenly and unac-
countably disappeared, ud advertisements offering rewards
for hit diecovery, have been extensively circulated.
"Ifthere be.uy foundation for this suggestion, it affords
a strong reason for the adoption of proper measures to
quiet the alarms of our fellow citizens."
And he recommends " that a law be passed, authorizing
the appointment of a competent person, for the purposeof
u a conteclerate uri•ed to hia aid, a1mcNit at hia prillon door, and in the
ni,tattime hurried him into a carriace.lfc.."-New-Yoii' C~ Adtw·
tiler, I«<ffll tif l\6nwy, 18!'7.
o191tized by Coogle
PU:J'ACE. XV
mYestiptms the alleged ,criminal transaetioaa in relation
to the removal of William Morgan, and all the incidents
connected therewith-with power to perfOrm all aCI8 and
duties neceaary to a full and fair judicial investigation aftd
determiJl&.tion of the.al~ offences.
"'NATHANIEL PITCHER, Lieut. Goo.
"Albany, 18th March, 1828."
This proof that the excitement is real and not afleeted,
is put beyond doubt by the Yote of the Senate upon the
bill authorizing such appointment, which bill was passed
24 to 3 ; and by the House, where a determined opposition
was made, OA tM groond of iu conf~ .,.e.t:tllllf1W
power1, with a view to foster a political excitement, hostile
to one of the candidates in the national election next pend-
ing, was passed 66 to 44.
All this trouble is made by Free Masonry; this daring
assault upon private rights, this obstinate resistance to
the course of public justice ; this successful and penevering
attempt to restrain the arm ofthe legal authorities ;--all this
multiplied evil is produced by Free Masonry.
" What is she 1" Every one inquires, " what is Free
Masonry?"
The very question this volume will help the reader to an-
swer. What is the foundation of Free Masonry, its super-
structure, its aim 1 What is its origin 1 What. are its pre-
tensions, its peculiar principles, its operations in other coun-
tries1 The reader will find in these pages genuine maso-
nic documents, with references to their source, to _
aid his
understanding upon each of these interesting questions :
for the autl.or has not attempted to give " a system of Free
Masonry;" but to give the incontestible documents which
will enable every reader himself to form a sy1tem.
Having seen the title-page, one says, " the writer is trying
to destroy Free Masonry."
But it is not so ; he is trying to learn ita cl,taracter ; its
secret he has already. If Free Masonry is destroyed by
aerely 1earching ill cllaraeter, that is another thing: and of
that every searcher or its character will judge for himeel£
o191tized by Coogle
I
•
xvi I'REJ'ACE.
· Another says, "It is an old institution; its foundation is
deep ; it is spread all over the world ; you cannot shake it."
Now, again, there is no wish to shake it ; but if looking
at its foundation shake it, that cannot be helped. We
would know what the fabric stands on ; and if that be no-
thiltg, let it stand; who will care? only there are many
who would like to know it.'
"It is a religious and moral institution ; carries the Bible
with the square and compasses in front; you do wrong to
oppose it."
Carry them in tDelcome; but I persist in knowing why ;
And for that purpose take up Col. Webb's Monitor.
o191tized by Coogle
PRETENSIONS OF FREE MASONRY.
-e••
CHAPTER I.
• When fil'llt the golden Mom aloft.,
.. With golden b.-- whiiJMiriJIIIOft.
·• Spnlllg &om the F..ut.with 'lfW1 wiDg.
"To kiu the heavenly lirat-bom Sprizll;
" Jehovah, then, from hallowed earth,
.. Gan Masonry immortal birth."
P~tMt LMtbA Ed. 1'791, p. 388.
Free MtUon'a Monitor, Parl I. Book I. Chap. I. Origin
of Mcuonry. ·
.. Fao11 the commencement of the world, we may trace
the foundation of Masonry. Ever since symmetry began
and harmony displayed her charms, our order has had a
being." Preston, chap. i. sec. 3, states this pretension in
the same words. So the Book of Constitutions of SouO!
Carolina, p. 2.
Masonry, our order, has had a being ever since symme-
try began and harmony displayed her charms! Theee are
the first words of the first chapter of a book, professing,
" although chiefly intended for the use of the ancient and
honourable society of free and accepted Masons," to be
" also calculated to explain the n~ure and design of the
Masonic Institution to those who may be desirous of be-
coming acquainted with its principles."
" Ever since symmetry began," &c. This period was,
probably, much earlier than the creation of man. Yet, in
1
o191tized by Coogle
'
PB.ETENStONS OF P&EE IIASONRY.
charity, we must suppose the Masonic Reformer• did not
intend to date the commencement of our order before the
creation of the human species ; and (all the words will not
bear an interpretation at all suited to any period since the·
creation of man) I am willing to suppose that the creation
of man was the time, when, according to the Monitor,sym-
metry and the Ma.Sonic order had their being ; as it is also
written, " From the commencement of the world, we may
trace the foundation of Masonry."t ·
This view of ~e subject is confirmed by the fact that the
best authorities place the era of man's creation 4000 years
before the Christian era; and Free Masonry, reckoning like
the self-styled eternal city,.ah urbe condita, makes the year
1828, of the Christian era, to be the year 5828 of its era;
that is, the year of light, the amw luci8 of Free MtUonry,
agrees exactly with the year of creation.
In strict accord with this view, the poet sings in lines ap·
pr~d by the CODBtituted authorities of Free Masonry ;
"When earth'• foundation firat wulaid
By tho Almicbty Artist"bud,
'Twu then our perfect ~WI were made,
F.lltabliebed by hilltrict comma.nd."
It is plainly, then, one of the pretensions of Free Ma-
sonry, that the order of Muonry was established at the pe-
riod of creation. That (as is asserted in the lines above
*The author of the Free Muon'• Monitor, Col. Thos. 8. Webb, whole
memory lives in the hearts of many or the fraternity, intrOduced changes
110 aumeiouaand important ipto the 1'lllel,and babits ofwork, inthe Lodp
or .Americt., th~ he ~ay with propn.ty be reprcled u .. pat modem
Reformer of M&JODry. Be wu deceived; but hil obj~ wu prailewor·
thy; hill aim wu public good-wu extenaive J>enevolence. He lived to
publilh many editiona of the Monitor, and aucceeded ~ b~ the work
110 aearly to wit the wants of the Fraternity, that it hu the authority of
a ~ valatd tm6o& ·
t ..The firat atage of M&IIOIIlJ took its ri• in the earliellt lima, wu
orilifla\ell in the mJt~4 of 4dapn, dt~CeDded pure through the antedilman
"J!s•"&c. &c. H11frhi1110n'• Spirit of Ma~~m,.,, p. 119.
o191tized by Coogle
PI\KTBNSIONS OJ' I'REE MASONR.l(. 3
quoted) iU laws were established by the Almighty, is a sen-
timent belonging to the brain ofthe poet ; a selllbnentwhich
must baYe escaped him in an irreverent moment, and which
ought not haatily to be charged a8 oneof the preteasiOns
of the Order.
The int ~tctioa haviDf been io the ainlliecf era of
Free Maonry, to the pretension it makes tO' have iii be~
,;nniDg with the beginnmg of time-1 come Jiaw to a se-
eon.l P"'telllion, aLto weD worth considering.
If iU truth eali be established ; indeed, if a very muz1l
part of it' be true, Free Masonry deserves a religious vene-
ration. We ought to pay profound respect to an institution
• hoao'lired of GOO ; so adorned by his prophets ; so won-
derfully, eo n\iraculously preserved, amidst the convulsions
ol the deluge.
That I make aot a mistake, and·charge pretensions to
J!orett Mtuorwy whieh belong o:aly to a few extravagant 6t
cti8orderlf brethren, I will pay no regard·to the·idle words of
any man ; but wiD extract fully fiooiri a standiud work of
Free Masonry·; from a treatiSe, approved by .the cmmituttd
6rltlwiliU of Fru M(U(IIwy, and by them r~ntltil to
tJu, attentiolt ad 1huly of all the member~ oftlaefratemuy.
This is a fair course for Free Masonry ; and·it is the only
sat8 eoa'Ne for the' writer. The conelllsions to which it
leads·must &e sat.iaf'actory to·all.
I wish to say nothing hanhly elf the following, or of allY
other of the pretensions of Free Masonry. r would state
them fairly iom the approved books of the Craft; I would
throw them out upon the broad expanie of p'Q&Iic opinion;
and leave them wholly to their oWil weight ; premiiint,
however, my own coil'Viction, that it will happen to thepre-
teolions, as it did to the suspected witches·of old : if one
floated on the deep, she was bUI'Jled fur n witeh ; and ifone
sunk, ~e was inevitably drowned.
o,g,,i~ed by Coogle
iI
I
t
4
Jt'ree Mt~~pn's Monitor, Par(II. Boolt I. C/aapter X.
"The most potent grand master, representing Solomon,
in the east, seated in a chJl.ir of state under a rich canopy,
with a croWn on his head, and a sceptre in his hand."
We will not tarry for the description of the royal vest-
ments, but proceed to the history &Dd charge of this cJe.:
gree--(Knights of the Arch.) "My wortlay Brotlter. It
is my intention at this time, to give you a clearer account
than you have yet been acquainted with, of Masonry, of
which at present you barely know the elements." [Hear,
hear.]
" Enoch, being inspired by the Most ffigb, and in com-
memoration .of a wonderful vision, built a temple under
ground, and dedicated the same to God. Met.husaleh, the
son of·Enoch, constructed the building without being ac-
quainted with his father's motives." (This is the Enoch
who waa" the first translated ;"and the Methusaleh whowaa
" the oldest man.") " Epoch caused a triangular plate of
gold to be made, each side of which waa a cubit long; be
ooriched it with the most precious stones,and encrusted the
plate upon a stone of·agate of the same form. · He then
engraved upon it the ineffable characters, and placed it on
a triangular pedestal of. white marble, which .he deposited
in the deepest arch.-And none but Enoch knew of the
treasure which the arches contained."
· " And behQid the wickedness of mankind increased more4
and became grievous in the sight of the Lord ; and.God
threatenedtodeatroy thewholeworld. Enoch,perceivingthat
the knowledge of the arts was likely to be lost in the ge-
neral destruction, and being desirous of preserving the
principles of the sciences, for the posterity of those whom
God should be pleased to spare, built two great pillars on
the top of the highest mountain ; the OJ)e of brass to with-
stand water; the other of marble to withstand fire. And
be engraved on the marble hieroglyphics, signifying that
there WM a most preciOUS treasure conccnled in the arches
o191tized by Coogle
J>a&T&JIIJ;JOIIS OJ' 1'&1:¥ M.lSON&\'.
under groWld, which he had dedicated to God; and he en-
graved on the pillar of brass the principles of the liberal
arts, particularly of Masonry."
Not a word ofso interesting a tale ought to be lost; but
not to occupy too much time, I omit a page, still retaining
the thread of the story.
"The flood took place in the year of the world 1656, and
destroyed most ofthe superb monuments ofantiquity. The
. marble pillar ofEnoch, fell iii the general desolation ; but
by divine permission, the pillar ofbrass withstood the water,
by which means the ancient state of the liberal arts, and
particularly masonry, has been handed down to us."
Now were I to condemn this pretension in toto, some
might think it sprung from a hostility to the " ancient and
honourable ,institution;" I will, therefore, abstain from all
censure ; I will leave the suspected thing to sink or swim,
a~rding to the specific gravity ofthe medium in which it
may happen to be immersed. But there are minds,in which
it waits not the fagot .and the stake. That Enoch was
"inspired by the Most High," is allowed on the authority of
the Holy Scriptures. But that he was inspired to btilld a.
temple and arches and pillara, for the preservation of Free
Masonry, or of any thing belonging to Free Masonry, is, as
far as my knowledge extends, a presumptuous assertion ;-
and, notwithstanding the R. A. K., and the R. A. S, and the.
R. A. T., and the two R. A. C's. of a Grand Royal Arch
Chapter, have certified, that, "The Free Masons' Moni~or,
is replete with useful masonic information, and is fully en-
titled to the sanction of the Grand Chapter." I cannot be-
lieve one word of its antediluvian pretensions.
D1g1tized by Coogle
6
CHAPTER. U.
" T!aere ue IOIIle foo1ilb people reject a.,
.. ror which they ue highly ta bluDe;
"They CUDOC llaow aay objeotioa,
" Or ftiUOD for dom, the IIUJie;
" The Art'• a diviDe iDIIpiration,
"AI all bcnul.t mm will declare:
.J. So here'• ~ all true hearted Brothen,
.. Tllat iYe withia,...,.... aacllfUIIU.
"Fa,Ja,la,k"
Twopretensions ofmasonry ha~ been brought intovieW'
without argcunent. Ia matterll 80 extravagant it is enough
to dltUbt. It JDi«ht seem to be in eeuon to show the fal-
lacy of80 ~traordinary claims, when somethiilg besides as-
terQon is brought to their support. But lest I should seem
not IAdlieiently to respect the pretensions of" the most an-
eient institution ;" pretensions familiar to the standard
work&, to the ephemeral publications, and to the.more noisy
aupporters of Free M880nry; I wiH give a few of the best
reasons fOr supposing these to be wholly unworthy ofcredit.
The first pretension, it will be reeoUected, is, that " our
ortkr M8 Aad tJ being ~mer Iince .ymmetry began.,· The
proof is tradition-the same as is used to prove·that after
Deuealion's flood, Deuealion and Pyrrha repeopled the de-
solate earth, by throwing stones behind their baeb-those
which Deucalion threw becoming men, and those which
Pynha, his wife, threw becoming maidens.
" QW. hoc credat, nW lit pro te.te vetultu !"
exclaims the poet ; who could believe thU, were not tradition
the witnu1! This veritable witness must have left part of
the masonic story untold ; for if " our order" be as old as
· o,9,tizedbyGoogle
U.C, it will be diftieult to ~e wlao were the tint Pltl·
sou.. Mortals of age to conatit..te a I~ did not ~
until8011le yean after the begioaing of tiine. Wbo w...,
the first,muons then1 A singular lodge it must have been,
in wbich Adam was both most wonhiptul llfaawr and
Tyler,-and Eve, the only "cowen and eaves dropper" un·
der the sun.•
"No;" it is replied, "we do not mean so. We do not
mean there were ~before there were men to coMtitute
them. We QD}y JP88Il that the prillciple1 q( tbe ortler are
as old as the world."
Very well; then, "~IJI' order" bas not had a being ever
since symmetry began ; but only thepn..oiplel ofthe onler.
Exactly so. Let us examine the subject in this ita best light.
· Firat; can the principles peeuli._,.. to an institution
be older thUl the institution i~1 Ce~y not. If the
principles existed before the institution, the m.titution b~
no peculiar claim to them ; it must lur.veadoptedorborro,Jed
them. And if an iQatitution be as old as the principles am
which it J»orrowa and tdopta, why then a cbari~ iaatitu..
tion is coeval with the principle of love I And masonry
might better date its origin, not from the beginning oftime,
but some ages before I .And so an author bas it: "Ifli'om
our m~al principles we date the orip. of Masonry, we
must fix its era coexistent with the Almighty." Totem'•
Speculative Free Mo.~onry, p. 94.
What has Free Masonry to do with the era of creation1I
do not see. lts lodges must be younger,-some of its
adopted principles certainly are older. If we !lSBume th~
• " CenaiDly the art itlelf ill CGel"al with _..., the peat object of it.
Nay, it may well be 8tyled eoen.1 with Clle&tion; when theJSovereip Ar·
chitect railed on muonic princ_ipl• the beauteou.1lobe."-8nrilh'• V1e and
.1btue I(FreeJll'cu. p. !8. .bd tbe RJDe worda rvpeatecl. p. 108.
"Our&nt father, Adam, deny it who can,
"A m&IIOD was made u IOOD u a -.,
.44itRm ~ p. 114.
Digitized by Google
l'RETENIIIONB OF I'IU!:E •ASONRY.
origin ofthe·principles for the d-.te ofthe inatitution, mason·
ry is more than 5828 years old ; and if the organization of
the·fint lodge be, u it truly should be, taken as the day of
its date, masonry is not so old u time. It is very evident,
then, that Free Masonry lies under a flat contradiction on
the first pretension.
Theprinciple ofliberty is u old u the creation, or u any
ofthe principles ofmuonry. But how absurd it would be
to date the independence of these United States from the
beginning of t.ime I And not less absurd is it, to date ma-
sonry from that early period, because some of the principles
it hu chosen to adopt are, indeed, much older. So con-
elusive is this argument to my mind, that I take my leave of
the first pretension with a strong hope, that an effort will be
speedily made to rectify the era of Free Masonry to some
possible date; and, a8 one ofthe brethren, I cheerfully offer
my services to aid in the work.
A lame attempt is made to r~t the second pretension
on the authority of Josephus;. but as the relation of that
author differs essentially from the masonic tradition, if it ·
proves any thing in the premises, it is unfavourable to the
pretensions of Free Masonry.
' I will set the pretension from the Monitor by the side of
Josephus' relation, that the reader may compare for him-
self.
Monitor.
" Enoch being inspired by
the Most High, built two
great pillars on the top of
the highest mountain, the
one of brus, to withstand
water, the other of marble,
to withstand fire. He en-
graved on the pillar of brass
the principles of the liJ>eral
arts. particularly of Masonry.
Joaepluu, Boolc 1, Chap. 2.
Speaking of the descend-
ants of Seth : " They also
were the inventors of that
peculiar sort of wisdom
which is concerned with the
heavenly bodies and their
order. And that their in-
ventions might not be lost
before they were sufficiently
known, upon Adam's pre-
o,9,tized by Coogle
PR£Tii\Ncn&Nd OP PI\Ji!O MASONBY. 9: "-'·:
..
The riUJI"ble pillar of Enoch
fell in the general destruc-·
tion ; but by divine permis-
sion the pillar ofbrass with-
stood the water, by which
means the ancient state of
the liberal arts,.and particu-
larly Masonry, has been
banded down to us.,,.
"' The poet wu Uliltai:eu who ainp:
.. Sober old &1.\ DellliDOUIIt. 00 the .....
"In-....... but ill.-r:J..,.;
11 Be boiltup two pillan, they ,... tall aDil
thick,
" Olio ........S.of -.\lieolherof~~rick.
.. Deny ....... -.c...
AAI'-11 Rnn, P· 148-
diction that the world was
to be destroyed at one time
by the force of fire, and at
another time by the violence
and quantity of water, they
made two pillars, the one of
brick, the other of stone ;
they inscribed their disco·
veries on them both, that in
case the pillar ofbrick should
be destroyed by the flood,
the pillar of stone might re-
main, and exhibit those dis-
coveries to mankind; and
alsO inform them that there
was another pillar of briclc
erected by thein. Now this
remains in the land of Siriad
to this day."
The two aceounts are as much alike as parent and child;
but two important discrepances may be noticed. Jose·
phus makes no acoount of any science preserved except
astronomy; and Masonry hu no mor:e concem with astro-
nomy, than it has with the cotton gin, a machine 40 years
old nearly. Josephus supposes the stone pillar to remain
in the land of Siriad to his day ; but masonic tradition says,
.. the marble pillar fell in the general destruction of the
deluge."
Not to waste time on these matters, I have three princi-
pal objections to allege against the reasonablen~ of this
secbnd pretension. Sec. I. Masonry conta.Uis no principle
peculiar to itself, no truth not common to the world, which a
wise man need be anxious to preserve ; therefore, it is in-
credible that any man," inspired by the Most High," should
have erected pillars for itspreservation. Sec. 2. Granting t9at·
any the least thingpeculiar to masonry, is, or ever~rth
2
o191tized by Coogle
10
an anxious thought for its preservation ; it is very extraordi-
nary that Enoch, who was cotemporary with Adam, and
who remained on the earth only fifty-three years after the
decease ofAdam, should have performed the work imputed
to him. Had the erection of the pillars been the work of
the last years of his life, they must have been 569 years old
at the deluge ; and, if there were not some Old Mortalityof
the antediluvian world, to clink his hammer and chisel over
the hieroglyphics anew' from century to century' the builder
of the monuments might reasonably fear that the corroding
hand of time would utterly destroy the inscriptions before
they could be read " by the posterity of those wlwm ~od
should be pleaaed to spare." Sec. 3. Granting both; that
masonry has peculiarities worth preserving, and that Enocl•
,erected two pillars, with a view to the preservation ofa know-
ledge of the liberal arts, " particularly of masonry;" yet I
suppose his attempt was a total failure, as it respects us;
that not a scrip or a scrawl of those principles inscribed on
the pillars, has come down to the present generation I
Neither the records, nor the traditions of masonry, to my
knowledge, furnish us with any intimation of the form of
the characters, nor of the things signified by the hierogly-
phics on the pretended pillftl'R. Not a. dot, not a.n RDgle, not
a sign, not a word, not a custom, not a principle, which is
peculiar to masonry, which is not common to all mankind,
has come down to us from that monument ; so that were a
fac simile of the aforesaid monument presented to our
lodges, the plain hieroglyphics would be no better to the.
Free Masons of the present day, than a Babylonian brick!
What a preservation of the knowle(jge of the liberal arts
was that, " particularly of masonry !"
o191tized by Coogle
PRETENSIONS 01' FREE MASONRt'.
CHAPTER III.
" Let malicious people CeJIBUle,
"They're not worth a ma.on's answer,
"Whlle we drink and ling."
11
Ahinum Ruon, p. 126.
IT may not be improper in the present state of the discus·
sion, to declare, that I owe no Free M~n, alive or dead,
any thing but love; that no company or lodge of Masons
has ever dealt with the writer except on terms of personal
respect. I bring no charge against individuals ; none against
lodges; and I have it in my heart to bring none. The whole
weight of my objections made, or to be made, lies solely
against the institution itsel£ The character of the institu-
tion I wiAh calmly and freely to discuss, without the slight-
est offence to any individual.
" But what is your object, my calm brother1 What is the
end·you propose to attain 1" It is this ; to iluilte the con.Ji·
dence of rnen in " the most ancient institution."
Were Masonry the important system itclaims to be, men
might well rely upon it ; and matrons, too, might grieve at
the fate which for ever closes against them its mysteriou15
learning and its improving light.
"Tho'women from lodges are alw-.vs debarred.
" Dear Fair ones,repent not, nor oensure too hard,"kc.
A. &.on, p. 192.
But if, as I suppose, its highest pretensions are idle preten-
sions, its distinguishing principles are inferior to the best
principles, and its excellent tendency much overrated, the
system itself may not deserve high praise; it may not be
worthy of the liberal countenance it receives; it may not
be worthy of a woman's concern ; not merely because its
o191tized by Coogle
lv l'R!!TENSJONS OJ' FR!!! MASONRY.
mysteries are, by the laws of Free Masonry, forbidden to
her, but because they are negatively invaluable.
And here, while some grave men and Masons shake their
heads in disapprobation, the ladies wave their chaplets with
smiles of encouragement, and thus supported I shall pro-
ceed. If the lodges are a little vexed, it is not so with the
social circles ; and, as a lover of all that is lovely, I freely
confess, that the interest of the ladies is worth incompara-
bly more to my single self, than the interest of Free Mason-
ry ; that one glance of encouragement from their eyes,
whom it is man's high privilege to love, to cherish, and to
admire, would enable the humble writer to withstand the
frowns of the lodges through time. '
I desire to say this with some spirit, my reader, knowing
as I do that there are those who knit their brows, and make
use of swelling words against an honest attempt to investi·
gate an ancient institution, and who regard, as nearly allied
to sacrilege, any attempt to remove the rubbialt of the dark
ages from the inside, and toput the true colour upon the out-
side ofthe fabric of Free Masonry. I warn all such gentle-
men of the compassion of their mothe111, and of the pity of
their wives and siste111 upon this their indiscriminate attach-
ment to the follies and to the charms of Masonry ; and also
of thejust indignation of every anti-mason in the communi-
ty, npon any meditated attempt to awe this peaceable effort
into silence. I caution them to keep cool, to reverence the
truth, although it make against their prejudices, and to read
these pages_in the spirit in which they are written. Where
they can answer, no doubt they will do it with good tem-
per; and where they cannot, let them submit with grace.
Any wincing of theirs will be attributed to weakness; any
affected indifference, to want or consideration ; and any
fretting or frowning, to want ofgood sense. Do they count
upon the strength of their influence 1 Let me assist them
to consider, that the .more influential half of the human
family are by nature shut out from our high claiming insti-
tution, and will investigate its pretensions with a keen re-
o191tized by Coogle
•
PRETENSIONS OF FREE MASONRY. 13
lisb ; and that of the remaining half, but a minority are
tempted to clothe themselves with that "peculiar ensign,"
the tolaite apron, notwithstanding it claims to be a badge
"more ancient than tAe Golden Fleece or Roman Eagle;
more honourable than the Star and Garter, or any otlaer
Order that~ be conferred by king, prince, or potentate,
except he be a Mason! !"-Free Mason's Library, p. 152.
Any disposition, therefore, to cheek inquiry upon this sub-
ject, will not be well received by an intelligent community ;
and any attempt to put down the investigation, except by
meeting it fairly, will necesearily recoil upon the beads of
the adventurers.
After this refreshing excursion; I return to the Free Ma·
son's Monitor, New-York edition, 1802, and find among the
more important, obnoxious, and fully detailed pretensions
of the institution, the following, respecting the miraculous
commitment, from time to time, of the true name of the
Deity, to the keeping of the fraternity I Fifteen pages of
that edition of the Monitor, from the 245th to the 260th,
are principally devoted to the detail, of this wonderful trust ;
faithful extracts of these details I will now lay before the
reader.
Part 2. Chap. 1.-" Enoch, the son of Jared, was the
sixth son in descent from Adam, and lived in the fear and
love of God his father. God appeared to him in a viSion,
and thus deigned to speak to him. As thou art desirous to
know my name, attend, and it shall be revealed . nto thee.
Upon this a mountain seemed to rise to the heavens, and
Enoch was trat:tsferred to the top thereof, where be beheld
a triangulo.r plate of gold most brilliantly enlightened, and
upon which were some characters, which he received a strict
·injunction never to pronounce. Presently he seemed to
be lowered perpendicularly into the bowels of the earth,
through nine arches; in the ninth or deepest o( which, he
saw the same brilliant plate which was shown to him in the
mountain."
" Enoch being inepired by the Most High, and in com·
o191tized by Coogle
•
14 PllETENSIONS OJ' J'REE MASONRY.
memoration of this wonderful vision, built a temple under
ground, in the same spot where it was shown to him-
which, like that, consisted of nine arches, one above ano-
ther, and dedicated th~ same to God. This happened in
that part of the world which was afterwards called the land
of Canaan, since known by the name of the Holy Land.
" Enoch, in imitation of what he had seen, caused a tri·
angular plate of gold to be made, each side of which was
a cubit long ; he enriched it with the most precious stones,
and incrusted the plate upon a stone of agate of the same
form. He then engraved upon it the same ineffable cha-
racters which God had shown to him, and pla~ed it on a
triangular pedestal of white marble, which he deposited in
the ninth or deepest arch.
" When Enoch's temple was completed, he received the
following command, viz. ' Make a door of stone, and let
there be a ring of iron therein, by which it may be occa-
sionally raised, and let it be placed over the opening of the
first arch, that the sacred matters enclosed therein may be
presened from the uni~ersal destruction now impending.'
And he did so ; and none but Enoch knew of the precious
treasure which the arches contained, nor knew the right
pronunciation of the great and sacred name."
The Monitor next gives an account of Enoch's two pil-
lars, and the wonderful preservation of the knowledge ofthe
liberal arts, "particularly of Masonry," during the univer-
sal deluge; which topic has been already noticed. I take
up the account of the Monitor relating to this ineffable
name after the deluge, in the following words : " We learn
from Holy Writ, the history of succeeding times, till the
Israelites became slaves to the Egyptians ; from which
bondage they were freed under the conduct ofMoses. The
same sacred book informs us that Moses was beloved of
God, and that the Most High spoke to him on Mount
Sinai. To Moses God communicated 'his divine law writ-
ten on tables of stone, with many promises of a renewed
alliance. He also gave him the true pronunciation of his
o191tized by Coogle
I'RJ:TJI:NSIONS OF I"REE •A!IONaY. 15
sacred name, which he told him ihould be found by some of
1m descendants, engraved upon a plate of goM; and God
gave a strict commond unto Mosel t/ua no one should pro-
R()10'1Ce hi8 sacred name; so that, in process of time, the
true pronunciation was lost.,
Thus the true word was lost, Free Masons having only
the promise of God left, that it should be found " engraved
upon a plate of gold." The particulars of the wonderful
discovery of Enoch's triangular plate of gold, will be food
for admiration.
CHAPTER IV.
Containing au account of wonderful adYenturw, to which the poet pro-
bably alluded when be 111mg:
" Unite, unite,your voicea rai8e,
" Loud, loudly Bing Free Muon'•praise;
" Spread far and wide their ipOtl-flune,
" And glory in the acred name:
" Howjust,how jlllt are all their ways,
" Superior far to mortal praiBe!
" Their worth, d.cription far exceeda,
" Formatchl- are Free Muona' deeds."
Pruton. · Ltmdota «<ilitln. A. D. 179!, p. 379.
TaE preceding chapter gives ample details from the Free
Mason's Monitor, of the pretended revelation of the true
name of the Most High to Enoch and Moses, for the be-
nefitofthe masonic fraternity I With the reader's patience,
I shall continue that subject; but observe that I extract
from the New-York edition, 1802, as some later editions of
the Monitor fail of giving all the particulars here quoted,
o;9,t~zed byGoogle
.......
16 PRETENSIONS 01' FI\EI!O MA!)U.NI\Y,
though the principal facts are alluded to with_undoubting
confidence ; for convenience I number the sections ex-
tracted.
I. "-Solomon, being the wisest of princes, had fully in
remembrance the promise of God to Moses, that some of
his descendants, in fulness of time, should discover his holy
name ;* and his wisdom inspired liim to believe, that this
could not be accomplished until he had erected and con·
secrated a temple to the living God, in which he might
deposit the precious treasure."
2. "Accordingly, Solomon began to build, in the fourth
year of his reign, agreeably to a plan given him by his fa-
ther David, upon the ark of the alliance."
By a careful reading of sections I and 2, it appears, that
King Solomon, under the impression that the holy name
of the Deity could not be discovered until he had erected
and consecrated a temple to the living God, " accordingly
began to build;" that is, Solomon built the temple chiefly to
recover the lost word, the ineffable word, the shibboleth of
Free Masonry I And, reader, do you not believe it? The
impottant fact perfectly accounts for the craft's having ever
since so much to do with that holy edifice ; and the next
edition of the Bible ought to be corrected; l Kings, v. 5,
where Solomon says, " And, behold, I purpose to build a
house unto the name of the Lord my God;" that it may
read, I purpose to build a house to discover the l08t name,
&c.
3. " He chose a spot for this purpose, the most beautiful
and healthy in all Jerusalem. In digging for a foundation,
they discovered the ruins of an ancient edifice, amongst
which they found a very considerable quantity of treasure,
such as vases ofgold and silver, urns, marble, tapestry,
.ia.sper and agate columns, with a number of precious
stones."
···-
-----
-----------------
* Seep. 15 of thie volume.
_~ _
Q
;gctizedbyGoogle
n m
PRETENSIOXS OF FREE NASOl'OilY. 17
What were the materials of the tapestry which lay bu~
ried in ruins from the time of the deluge, and was tapestry
yet after a lapse of 140() years?
4. "All the treasures"-but I must abridge; the rela-
tion is long, and so particular as to be wholly incredible.
Solomon, the king, supposing something idolatrous in these
ruins, " declined building in that spot, lest the worship of
the Deity should be profaned by the place."
Under the temple (which was erected in another place)
he built a vault, having a long narrow descent through.nine
arches, where he used to retire in company with Hiram of
'fyre and Hiram of Abiff, when they had occasion to enter
upon things of a secret and important nature.
5. ·" There ·were then none else living qualified to enter
the sacred vault. One of their number being removed
from them, disordered their system for a time ; and, as
they were consulting in what manner to supply his absence, .
application was made to them by some · intendants of the
building, illustrious knights, and grapd master architects,
who well knew there was a secret place under the temple,
in which the king, &c. used to meet, soliciting the honour
of being admitted there ; to whom Solomon replied with
an open air, my brethren, it cannot now be granted."
How wonderfully exact is Masonic tradition ! even the
" open air" with which the king put off his inquisitive
princes is not forgotten.
6. " Some days after this circumstance, Solomon sent
for the three grand master architects, Joabert, Stockin, and ·
G., and directed them to go and search once more amongst.
the ancient ruins, where 110 much treasure had been already
found, in hopes of finding more. They accordingly de-
parted, and one of them, viz. G., in working with the pick-
axe amongstthe rubbish, came to the large iron ring ;-they
found it fixed in a large stone perfectly square. With much
difficulty they raised it, when the mouth of a deep and dis-
mal cavern appeared."
This is thfl identical iron ring which Enoch plaeed there
3
o191tized by Coogle
18 PRETENSIONS OF FltEE MA!iONRL
2000 years before ! That was good iron. This" deep and dis-
mal cavern" is thefirst arc}, of the very temple which Enoch
built under ground, and " dedicated to God." Those walls
were pointed with choice mortar, else a cavern so deep
would have had five or six feet ofwater at the bottom. But
this was dry as a garret quite to the bottom of the ninth
arch, where G. arrived much fatigued ; having been twice
discouraged in his descent, and compelled to return ; giving
a signal to his companions to draw him up.
7. "When (on the third trial) he had descended into the
ninth arch, a parcel of stone and mortar suddenly fell in
and extinguished his light ; and he was immediately 1truck
with the sight of a triangular plaJe of gold, richly adorned
with precious stones ; the brilliancy of ~hich struck him
with astonishment, Again he gave the signal, and was as-
sisted in reascending."
[Observe ; he saw not the triangle until his extinguished
lightJeft him in total darkness. 0, Free Masonry, what a
wonder!]
8. G., who it appears is no other than the promised de-
scendant of Moses, who was in due time to find the sacred
name, " engraved on a plate of gold," told his compariions,
Joabert and Stockin, the wonders he had seen; and, by
means of a rope ladder, they all descended to the bottom
together. They examined the gold plate, and observed cer·
tain characters engraved thereon, of the meaning of which
they were then ignorant ; they therefore determined to car·
ry the treasure to Solomon, and solicit the honour of being
admitted to the knowledge of this sublime mystery."
9. They found Solomon and the king of Tyre toge·
ther. " To them they presented the pre~ious treasure.
When the two kings beheld it, they were struck with
amazement. Being recovered, they then examined the
sacred characters with attention, but would not explain
them to the three grand master architects. Solomon told
them that God harl bestowed upon them a particular fa-
Digitized by Google
•
PR&TUSlONS or I'RBE MA:IO.NRL lU
voor, in baviog permitted them to discover the most pre-
cious jewels of Masonry."
10. In consideration of this, Solomon conferred upon
them " the most sublime and mysterious degree of rqyal
arch Masonry,• and explained to them, how the promise of
God, made to Noah, Moses, and his father David, wu now
accomplished. That promise which assured them that in
fulness of time his name should be discovered, engraved
upon a plate of gold; that they were bound to defend the
sacred characters, and that they were not at liberty to pro-
nounce the sacred name."
11. " The kings' informed the three knights, that until
that time, they knew nothing ofthat word but by traditio,&;
and that in the course of its being handed down through a
succession of ages, it had been much corrupted. [As it
was inif'alile, inquire by what kind of tradition the word ·
was handed down through a succession of ages 1] From
the corruption of the said name, sprung the Juba of the
Moors, the Jupiter of the Romans, and many others of a
like nature.
"The true name is said to have been visible in the tem-
ple at the time St. Jerome flourished, written in the an-
cient Samaritan characters, and is stiH preserved in the
hearts of sincere masons."
Now, reader, let us pause awhile, and look back. Enoch's
wonderful vision, and the temple built under ground in com-
memoration of that extraordinary event, cannot be believ-
ed without better evidence of the fact, than.a tradition
nearly five thousand years old can affi>rd. The fable of
Atlas' sustaining the heavens upon his shoulders, is a bolder
story, and probably an older story ; he who can, may credit
both. .
That God gave the law to Moses on Mount Sinai we be-
lieve, not on the faith of masonic tradition ; nor is masonic
* Bellchap. UpoD. R. A. MaiiOillj.
o191tized by Coogle
v
'II •
l'RE'f..:!'ISIO~S 0)' i'REE MASONI\t,
tradition by any means sufficient to satisfy us that God ga'fe
to,Moses a strict injunction, "that no one should pronounce
his sacred name." The Jews, in reading the scripturesJ
avoid the pronunciation of J E u E, always calling it Ado-
nai. Revelation does not authorize this perversion, nor can
Jewish or masonic tradition. It seems impossible that a
sober man can persuade himself of a fa.ct so absurd and
extravagant, as that Masonry, through Enoch and Moses,
is by the divine favour alone made acquainted with the true
name of the Deity ; yet foolish Masons, pillars of the
lodges, have challenged professing Christians to give the
true name of God, and on failure to give the Shibboleth of
Masonry, have replied with evident self-complaisance-
" you do not know thetrue name of God :" the God of the
holy scriptures !
Masons, seeing this pretension set out by itself, will, I
hope, be universally shocked at it ; but the admirers of the
institution, reading it as it is set forth in the Monitor, do
naturally pass it without consideration ; and flatter them-
selves that such particular tokens of divine favour are sure
proof of the antiquity, grandeur, and divinity of this self-
privileged system.
A- few circumstances in this pretension, remain to be
pointed out.
Sec. No. 11. "From the corruption of the said name,
sprung the Juba of the Moors, the Jupiter of the Romans,
and many others of a like nature." Reader, what think
you, is one of the many other corrupti011$ of this sacred
name ofFree Masonry 1 What name ofthe supreme divinity
ofany people sounds somewhat like Juba and Jupiter? It
is not Woden por Thor; it is not Brahm nor Vishnu. Is 'it
possible it can be the God of Christians?-can it indeed be
so? According to the masonic traditions, the Juba of the
Moors, the Jupiter of the Romans, and the Jehovah of
Christians, must alikehe corruptions ofthe same true name of
the Most High, committed with awful solemnity to Enoch
and Moses, for the benefit of the fraternity ; and still pre-
..
o191tized by Coogle
•
PRETENSIONS OF FREE MASONRY. 21
served, and only preserved pure, in the hearts of sincere
Masons! If this pretension mean any thing, it is no les!l
than impious ; but as in the hearts of intelligent Masons, it
means nothing, let us away with it ; let it be blotted out of
the books for ever, that it no longer prove a snare to the un-
wary.
One notable circumstance (sec. 11.) is: "The true name
is said to have been visible in the temple at the time St. Je-
rome flourished, written in the ancient Samaritan charac-
ters." This is the way with masonic tradition, so exact, as
even to remember the Samaritan characters ! but what
temple was that 1 Enoch's subterraneous temple fell in,
after the erection of Solomon1s; S~lomon's was destroyed
by Nebu~hadnezzar; and the foundations of the second
temple were ploughed up by Titus, A. D. 70..
Free Masonry pretends, that the troc and imffable nam(~
was deposited in each of these three temples; but what ma-
sonic temple was there in the time of St. Jerome? St. Je-
rome is well known to have been among the most learned
of the ancient fathers, the mortal enemy of the Origenists,
the cotemporary of Theodosius the Great, and of Alaric,
king of the Goths ; and to have died A. D. 420, 350 years
after the total subversion of the last temple by Titus. Yet
in St. Jerome's time, if we can believe masonic tradition,
the true name was visible in the temple, written in the an-
cient Samaritan characters !
, This is the same witness who testifies that king Solomon
built the temple, not unto the name of the Most High ; and
that thewisest man (O,Free Masonry, how much your debtor
for this information,) did not know the troe pronunciation
of the name which his father David had sweetlysung: " Bless
the Lord, 0 mysoul ;all that iswithinme bless his holyname:"
"0, give thanks unto the Lord ; call upon his name : sing
unto him, sing psalms unto him : talk ye of all his wondrous
works ; glory ye in his holy name :" but he learned it from
the golden triangle~ which no sooner than his light expired,
the man saw!
o191tized by Coogle
PRETENSIONS OF FREE MASONRY.
CHAPTER V.
"Great kings, dukes, and lords,
"Have laid by their swords,
" Our mystery to put a good grace on ;
" And thought themselves famed,
"To have themselves n:~.med
"With a Free and an Accepted Muon."
•
IT is my purpose in this chapter, to give an account of the
destructionofthe pretended S\lbterraneous temple ofEnoch,
as it is set forth at large in that edition of the Monitor, pre·
viously quoted in these pages. The story is very curious ;
it is equal in particularity and truth, with Ovid's relation of
Narcissus's falling in love with himself, while bending over
a pure fountain to slake his thirst.
Se cupit imprudeu; et, qui probat, ipee probatur,
Irrit& f&.llaci quoties dedit oacula fonti !*
As the reader will gather from the following extract, }'rec
Masons' Monitor, New-York edition, 1802, page 257.,
It will be necessary to observe, that after Joabert, and
Stockin, and G., had discovered the golden triangle, as
related in the last chapter, "Solomon told them, that God
had bestowed upon them a particular favour, in having per-
mitted them to discover the most precious jewels of Ma-
sonry ; by which he seemed to intimate their election ; and
as a reward for their zeal, constancy, and fidelity, he elected
them knights of the ninth arch, afterwards called the royal
arch."t S~n after, twenty-two others, for various services,
* He foolishly loves himself; and ho who admire!!, is himself admirt'd.
How ol\en did the boy vainly ltia the deceitful fountain.
t See chap. Royal Arch, ofthis work.
o191tized by Coogle
PRETENSIONS OF FREE MASONRY.
'• were admitted to the sublime degree of perfection;" or,
as Hardie's edition explains it, to" the Holy Royal Arch;''""
[p. 163.] making the number of masters initiated twenty-
five.
" There were living at that time 3568 other ancient mas-
ters who had wrought in constructing the temple. Theae
began to be extremely jealous ofthe pre-eminence shown to
the twenty-five brethren. They deputed, therefore, a cer-
tain number ' to wait on King Solomon, with their corrapli-
tnent.,' to request that similar honours might be conferred
on them. The king heard them with the most benign air
imaginable, gave them for answer, that the twenty-jive
masters were justly entitled," &c. ; and bade them " Go
in pence. God may one day permit that you may be re-
warded according to your deserts."
The deputieS replied with an unbecomiug degree of
warmth, and departed by no means satisfied ; the king
mildly charging them, " Go in fear, wait with patience,
and aspire to perfection by good works."
" The deputies returned and.made report to the masters,
who were assembled to hear it. These masters, hasty and
impatient in their dispositions, and, of consequence, vexed
at the refusal, determined, one and all, to go to the ancient
ruins, and search under ground, with a view of arrogating
the merit so necessary for attaining their desires.''
" Accordingly they departed next morning, and presen~
ly after their arrival discovered the iron, (ring,) by means of
which they raised the square stone, and found the entrance
into the arches. They immediately prepared a ladder of
ropes, and descended with lighted flambeaux ; but no
sooner had the kut de1cended, than the nine arches feU in
upon them, and they were no more heard of."
" Solomon soon heard of this dreadful accident, and sent
Joabert, Stockin, and G., to inform themselves more particu·
*Al110, Ahiman Rezon, p. 36 of the pre&CO!.
o191tized by Coogle
PRETENSIONS OF FREE MASONRY,
larly of the matter. They accordingly departed at break
of day, and upon their arrival were perfectly astonished at
the strange appearance of the place. There were no re-
mains of the arches to be seen, nor could they learn that
one single person, of all those who had descended, escaped
the destruction."
Three things, among others, are particularly noticeable in
this story.
1st. The impression calculated to l!e made by the fol-
lowing words : " Solomon told them that God had bestow-
ed upon them a particular favour, in having permitted them
to discover the most precious jewels of Masonry ; by which
he seemed to intimate their election," &c. And again;
" God may one day permit that you may be rewarded." &t·.
This is magnifying most artfully :
" Viz illam famuli Phegeus Sapriaque ferebant
"Multiplicem* conni.xi humeria; indutusat olim
"Demoleus, cunu palantes Tro&ll agebat."
Demoleus, wearing a coat of mail a burden for two ser·
vants, drove whole squadrons of Trojans before him ; and a
gallant exploit it must have been to slay this same Demoleus.
The God of Heaven, by his providence, intimates the elec-
tion of men into the Royal Arch as a particularfavour !
How magnificent an institution, then, is Free Masonry !
Can it be possible that a common man of this generation
may purchase this particular favour for about fifty dollars!
admission into the Holy Royal Arch !
2d. The Holy Scriptures, and masonic tradition, inform
us, that in the building of Solomon's temple, 3600 overseers,
or masters, were employed. It is not a little remarkable,
that, according to this story, 3568 out of that number, all
"' ancient masters," selected by King Solomon to oversee
* A coat of mail, which bravo Domoleus bore, ·
More brave ..£noas from hie shoulders tore,
In sinjrlo combat nn tho Trojan shore.-Drytdm.
o191tized by Coogle
P8&TJ:N810NS 01' F&BE IU.SON&Y. ~
the work, and approved in the final labours of the .temple,
should have been rash, hasty, and arrogant men; that they
should have aimed, "one and all," to obtain the special
favour of God and the king, by presumption and disobe-
dience. But let it be so, as masonic tradition givea it. They
came to a moet unceremonious death ; not one of them
could receive a masonic fiule1al ; " but no sooner had the
last de~Cended, than the W. wehes fell in upon them,
and they were never heard of more !"
Masonry being a very serious thing in the estimation of
many whom I delight to honour, and am bound to love, I
would treat it seriously for their sakes.
These pretensions, so intimately united with the " most
ancient institution," that death alone can part them, I am
thankful fOr an opportunity of stating, without jesting at
their odd fe~tures, or their strange complexion. I willingly
leave it to my masonic mends, whether to maintain, or to
ridicule them. Deny their genuineness none can. They
are drawn from the pure fountains of masonic truth ; from
the authorized publieationa of the fraternity.
3d. Such was the end of the pretended subterraneous
temple, built by pretended inspiration, to preserve, as is
pretended, the true name of the Most High for the benefit
of the masonic fraternity I It stood water-tight nineteen
centariell capacious enough to hold 3568 ancient master
masons, it no sooner received them within its dark vaults,
than, without the intervention of any means, it devoured
them in a moment; not one escaped the destrllction.
At first view this might &eell;l miraculOUJ ; but it is only
monstrous. True miracles are always wrought by the in·
tervention of means.
When God would punish PhiiMitia, and three thousand of
her lords perish~ beneath Dagon's proud roof, SampeoR
stood by the two pillars which supported the temple ~
-"&lid•trajnineall his uerv.er. he bo'lted ;
" As with the force of winds and watea pont,
"Wilen ~r~oantaiftll tremble; tbo.e two ma811 pillarr,
4 .
o191tized by Coogle
..
PRETENSIONS OF FREE MASOiiltY,
" With horrible OCIImllaioa, to and &o,
" He tuaect-be mooJr....:..till down they came, &Dd dmlr
u The whole roof after them, with bunt of thUDder,
" Upon the heads af all who -.t beneath."
I
This was a miracle; but the masonic event was a moR-
ster, ill-formed, hideous, and mercile8s; destroying not the
enemies of Israel, not the assassins of Tyre, but the ge-
nuine ancienl master masons of king Solomon's temple•
CHAPTER VI.
·• Come are you prepared ?
"Your-t'olds well reared :
' 1 BriDf mortar, and temper it purely;
" 'Tia aU l&fe I hope,
"Well braced with each rope,
"Yourledgel'l and putlock..ecurely."
Ahimtln.Ru.n, p. 1!0..
Cl Empires and mp have pa.ed away
"Into oblivion's mine;
• And towering dome~ have felt decay,
• SiDoe auld lang IIJile."
"But Muonry, the rtorious art,
• With wUclom'a ray divine;
"'l'w..ever 110, .-e Hebrew cries,
" Since auld 1a11J1)'111."
Cr1111'1 ChtJrt.
. .
. '
JT is impoasible, in an age, to meet all the pretensions of
JI:Mobty singly. Tio&e would fa.il me to speak of "Noah
Digitized by Google
PJUCTKNSJONS 01' I'U:Jt IU.SONJLY.
and his three sons, all true masons;,,. of the Patriarch Jo-
•ph, "gand master of the fiaternity in Egypt;" of ''the
walls of Babylon, the temple of Belus, together with many
«her stately edifices, built under the direction of Nebu-
ehadnezzar, grand muter ;"t of" Julius C&lSal',grand mas-
ter ofthe Roman empire, who patronizedmasonry in Great
Britain aftel' be bad landed in that country;" of" king He-
rod.J an excellent grand master, who, with his own ma-
IIOns built a splendid Grecian temple at Jerusalem;"§ of
the wonderful presenration of the Pentateuch in the time
of the Babylooish captivity; and of the many remarkable
pretensions relating to the building of king Solomon'a tem-
ple. No limit can be assigned to this division of the BUb-
ject.
I bGld in my hand nearly one hundred such, collected
into one table, and published by James Hardie, A.M. un-
•" In the deluge, wheremortals lost their livet, -~
.. God Aved roar worthy Maaollll and their wivw ;"
.f'"-a .nc.o..,p. 1'7!.
See,allo, Htl.t'tlU'• Monittw, p. !90.
There wa ci.Wcrepuce in the tr&ditiona ~ Ham. Mr. Hutchin-
IIOn iay.: "the first stage of Masonry was originated in the mind ofAdam,
cle8cended pure through the antecllktvian agee, was aftenrudtl taupt..
Ham,and &om him flowed, IUipOllated and unatailllld with idolatry, tD
~- tm.," k-¥" tf .MIIMifli'Y, p.l19.
Whereas Ahiman Relon, p. 13 of the preface, •Y• : " Certain it·~
there were but four maaona in the world, when the deluge happened; that
oue of the four, even the second aon of Noah, was not master of the art."
Tbe Muonic Minatrel maintains the IaUer fonn of the tradition; vi:..
thatHam was DOt a master Masou.-M.I•.MiA. p.m.
t The tradition here enablea us to correct the celebrated Rollin, whc.
depending on historical records, enoneoua!J a888rl8 that the temple of &
Ius was the lower of Babel, (built 1648 yelll'll before the time of Nebuchad·-
neaar,) and that it was dedicated by Ninua to hi. father N"IIIUOCI, "11M.
first IUD< deified by the people for hi. great actiona :" and that Semiramis,
tbe widow of Ni.oua, built the U!Gl/1 of Babylon. RoUin'• An~. HU. clulp. •
1, of llu A~.
1This wthat Herod who " slew all the children in Bet~ and .1o
all the coasts thereof, from two years old and tmdf!r." '
0Town's speculative Free Maaonry.
o191tized by Coogle
28 PJU:TENSIONS OF P&E£ MASONRY.
der the sanction of twelve presiding officers of lodge& io
New-York I and these are but the thousandth part of those
scattered through the various treatises of Masonry.
I was aware, before venturing objections to the preten·
siom o( Masonry, that the materials to frame them were
not scarce; but so much more numerous are they, than I
had expected, that the topics on which it was my purpose
dlietly to dweU, have not even been touched. I can give
no new view of this part of the subject by farther pursuing
it ; andalthough the pretensions connected with the build-
ing of Solomon's temple, have a common importance at·
taehed to them, entitled to peculiar attention, I pass them
by for the present, confident that the sample of ancient
pretensions which has been presented and amply examin-
ed, is a f'air specimen of the whole lot. It would be wrong
to weaty the reader's patience with this branch of the sub-
ject, when others more interesting are pushing into view.
But before I take leave of the ancient pretensions of
Masonry, I will throw together those already considered, in
the way o( a review, stamp them genuine, and lay them up
for future use. They are as foUows.
lat. That masonry is coeval with time. The charters, cer-
tificates, diplomaa, &c. ofour lodges and grand lodges, &c.
are almost uniformly dated Anno Lucis.· Even our com-
mon masonic celebrations, for the greater mysticism, are
often dated, not in the year of our Lord, but in the year of
Masonry, i. e. in the year of creation.
~. The two pillars of Enoch, erected to preeene the
knowledge of the liberal arts, and "particularly of Ma.
sonry," through two· calamitous periods of the earth ;-
from which neither hieroglyphic, nor letter, nor word, has
been derived to modem art, particularly to Masonry.
3d. Enoch's wonderful vision, and subterraneous temple,
inwhich was preserved the golden ·triangle with the ineffa-
ble name ; and beneath whose deep arches the ancient mas-
tell were swallowed up.
4th. The divine c01amunieRtion of this ineffable name.
o191tized by Coogle
.PUTBNSI01118 OF I'REE IIASOliiRV.
mt to En~ afterwards with the ten commandmeDta to
M0101 on Mount Sinai, with a strictinjwaction that it abould
never be prOIUJfliiCed; which is the true name of the Most
Hi@h, handed down through succeuive ages by tradition,
fiom which many corruptions have spread among tiM) na·
tions, as the Jupiter of the Romans, the Juba of the Moon.
&.e. and which true name of the Deity is the word now lost
to master Masoos, but foWld by thoee who enter the ninth
arch.
5th. The wonderful discovery of this ineffable name,
agreeably to the prophecies o( Moees and of David, en·
pved on a triangular plate of gold, with the admiration
of king~ Solomon and Hiram, at sight of the ioeffable
types ; and the still more wonderful fact that it wu " .n.ible
in tlte Nntpk, at tile titRe St. Jenme JlourUhed, ttJritt• in
tlte acient Stllllat'itan ciUJracttJr-a."
6th. The annihilation of the subterraneous temple, aad
the instantaneous destruction of the master Masons of
king Solomon's temple, flesh and bone, 10 that not a .relic
of them was left to soothe a friend, or to receive funeral
honours.
These pretensions seem to be made in contempt of com-
mon sense, and there are those who will be ready to think
they are made in contemptof Free Maeonry; to think that
these are not the genuine and unqualified pretensions ofthe
masonic institution ; and that, if in any degree connected
with the fraternity, it must be through weak brethren, aad
extravagant Masons; men who do not·give, and ought not
to pe, a character to the institution. HeaveoJy charity
must have hitherto thrown this veil over their weakness.
It is my unpleasant duty to remove that veil, and to abow
them in all their deformity ; to show that they are the so-
lemn and certified pretensions of the Masonic fraternity,
published by its ablest advocate, and sanctioned by its high:
est authorities.
"A great .Mason," it will appear in the sequel, is an im-
potl8ible thing; but if ever man <:ould deserve that appella-
o191tized by Coogle
30 PRETENSIONS OP l'aEE JU.SONRY.
tion, it was Col. Webb. Ofamiable inannersand a virtuout
life, he devoted his time to Masonry ; he introduced greater
order into the lectures, and uniformity into the lodges ; he
published.many editions of his Monitor, the latter editions
being among the most valuable treatises upon Masonry ex-
tant.
He came with the highest masonic claims, to the second
post of honour in the masonic temple of the United States,
when De Witt Clinton attained the first, being made Deputy
General Grand High Priest of the Grand Royal Arch
Chapter of North America, when that eminent politician
was made General Grand High Priest. The other posts of
Jesser honour which feU to his lot, were some of them as
follows: Grand King and Grand Scribe of the Grand Royal
Arch Chapter of the Northern Stares; Past Master of
Temple Lodge, Albany ; High Priest of the Providence
Royal Arch Chapter, &c. &c.
This is the Mason who has published these pretensioos
to theworld ; from his book I copy them ; a book prefaced
asfoUows:
·' Grand Royal Arch Chapter of the state of R. 1., Provi-
dence, July 7, A. L. 5802.
" The aub1criber11 having been appointed a corramittee to
e.mmine a publication by Companion Tlaoma8 S. Webb,
entitled, " The Free Ma~on's Monitor," beg leave tore-
port, that lumiAg attended to the subject of their appoint-
ment, they are of opinion, that the said publication ure-
plete with tuejul masonic information, and u fuUy entitled
to the 1anction of this Grand Clurpter. [I omit the names
in r.A>mmiserntion.]
"' 11 R. A. K.
11 "' R. A. S.
"' "' R. A. T.
* * R. A. C.
• * R. A. C.
" Whereupon, resolved unanimowly, that ti&U Grand
Chapter recommend the oforesrriil u•ork to the attention and
o191tized by Coogle
PRETENSIONS OF I'R&E MASONal·. 31
audy ofall the member• ofthe fraternity to wlum& the Mane
may come. Eztractfrom the records.
• • Grand Sec'y."
What further proof Can be desired 1 And theee preten·
sions are not only genuine, 88 coming from under the hand
of one whose reputation 88 a Mason is higher than that of
any other man in America, (the most puissant sovereigns of
S.C. not excepted,) whether before or after him, and 88
being officially sanctioned by one of the highest, purest,
and·.most intelligent masonic associations in the United
States ; but also 88 being comnionly received, and, in their
indistinct character, believed among Masons. Some intel-
ligent Masons take no ple88ure in contemplating them, and
give them no place in their memory ; butsurely these claims
have p888ed hitherto little disputed by any ofthe fraternity.
Masons .do not generally hesitate to 88cribe the origin of
the institution to the period when their greatest men; their
official pc&pers, and their ·approved treatises, assert its be-
ginning. <fhey do not scruple to teach the novice, that
Enoch built two pillars, by which the knowledge of Ma-
sonry was preserved to the descendants of Noah; to teach
that Moses had the true word of the master Mason mira-
culously revealed to him, which word W88 singularly lost
and found in the days of King Solomon, when there hap-
pened events important to be known, which are only known
to the Free and Accepted Mason.
Why should not such tales pass current upon the lips of
ordinary .Masons, when they are certified by the authorities
of .Masonry1.
Another highly approved M88onic work (88 an edition
of 12,000 copies 888ures us) contains the fOllowing : " Cer-
tain it is, that Free Masonry h88 been from the creation ;
(though not ·under that name;} that it W88 a divine gift
from God ; that there were but four Masons in the world
when the deluge happened;. that one of the four, even the
-- _ .... .. .
•
32 PRI:T&NSIONS Ol' I'REI: llASo.NaY.
second son of Noah, was not master of the art," &c.-Ma·
sonic Mr.n~trel, p. 337.
Free Masonry a divine gift from God I I have seen this
assertion in more Masonic workS than one. It may be a
duty solemnly to charge the institution with this presump-
tuous claim, but not now; and I return to say what so great
extravagance called me from saying, that while such claims
are boldly thrown out by the authorized publications of the
fraternity, it can be no wonder that the same things are re·
peated and magnified by the herd of tongues. Hardie's
Monitor (p. ~•) mentions it as an important fact in maso-
nic chronology, that " during the forty years peregrination
of the HebreWB in the wilderness, it pleased the Dmne
Architect to inspire with wisdom certain persons, who erect·
ed the glorious tabernacle in which the Sheckhinah (or Di-
vine Glory) resided ;" and why should not a Free Mason say,
as Free Masons do say, that the tabernacle of M011e8 was
built by masonic art; meaning such art as was then, and is
now, peculiar to Free Masonry 1 Such pretensions are mon-
strous ; I present them, not for any pleasure they a6ord,
but only to show that the proof of the genuineness of the
kind of pretensions already offered to the reader, is pain-
fully abundant ; is not confined to slanderous lips, but is
uniformly found in the records and papers of the Masonic
fraternity.
Individual Masons, were they charged with framing or
maintaining these pretensions, might clear themeelves.
They are not charged, but the institution ; and who can
clear the institution 1 Its pages abound in these preteD·
sions ; its rites depend on them ; its superstructure il raised
on them ; its whole mystery is involved in them. Free .Ma·
sonry, and its pretensions, _alceady named, with its unrea·
sooable on.:. yet to be named, cannot be separated ; take
them from it, and it becomes a social club, at best a ebarita-
ble aSBociation ; it is Free Mcuonry no longer. ·Its mys·
tery has Sed, its glory departed, its spirit sunk for eYer.
o191tized by Coogle
PRKTENSIONS 0)' FlU!:£ MASONIU.. 33
Take it with its pretensions, and it is certainly liable to great
objection; which is the very thing I set out to prove.
N. B. Thus far this work has been publicly read by
many of the fraternity, without a whisper of objection to
its accuracy. Yet some of th,e brethren, men of inquisitive
mind and good information, treated the effort with little re-
spect ; and, by significant signs, required the writer to
utter proverbs upon fitter subjects. It is to be feared that,
in imitation of the 3568 ancient Masons, they have, in
their vexation, done that which will hasten the downfal of
the modem mystical temple; but our masters will fare
better, I hope, than those ancients, and be seen and heard
of long after the total annihilation of the visionary fabric
of Free Masonry. Indeed, they have this to comfort them,
that its walls, not like those of Enoch's, are wholly built
of airy imaginations ; tJesh and blood ha.<J nothing to fear
from their faJI.
o191tized by Coogle
34
•
PRETENSIO~S OF FREE M.\SONRY.
CHAPTER Vll.
"We know thee by thy apron white
" An u.rchitect to bo ;
"We know thee by thy trowel bright
"Wc11 skilled in Masonry.''
THE ancient pretensions of this institution have been sui~
ticiently diScussed, to show that Free Masonry is not im-
pervious to objections. Its armour of wonder has been
severely struck, and the reverberation is emptiness. The
hand that gave the blow is not palsied ; and why should
the spirit faint? How many spears are sharpened for the
fight, cannot now be known ; but truly the pretensions of
Masonry have been hitherto as eggs that are left; and al-
though gathered in the open day, and in the face of the
sun, "there was none that moved the wing, or opened the
mouth, or peeped." .
Extraordinary pretensions excite suspicion ; solid merit
and real excellence confide in their own powers of recom-
mendation, and avoid splendid professions. The magnifi-
cent pretensions of Masonry, like a11 braggarts, are cowards:
met boldly, they faint away; there is no more spirit in them.
The world is full of falsehood, which ever conceals its
own name. Its tendency is not on that account the less
·pernicious. Men may most innocently imbibe and main-
tain wrong views ; yet not with impunity : wrong opinions
tend to wrong conduct, and error, like poison, is poison still,
though taken by the unsuspecting.•
The subject of FreeMasonry has distressed me. Its pre-
"' " Whether we are hurt by a mad, or a blind mau, the pu.in is still the
1&108."
.0'9'tized by Coogle
•.& -
PRETENSIONS OF FREE MASONRY.
tensions are so hollow,,and its friends are so hearty; its
mysteries are so senseless, and its inmates are so discreet ;
its form is so mis-shapen,-and its supporters are so confi-
dent, that I have been at a loss what to say ofit ; and now
find it impossible to do justice to my own views of the insti-
tution, without endangering the better sensibilities of our
nature. Masonry may perish, and I will not moum,lor it
is an error which lies near to the heartS of thousands; yet
the respect which I cannot find it in my heart to pay thl'
institution for its own sake, I will cheerfully pay for th('
sake of those who reverence it. Many think it a very se-
rious and importantconcern, and I will not trifle with their ,
optmon. I will fearlessly avow my own convictions, as a
lover or truth ought to do, without indulging in mirth and
jest, and lightness of remark.
I will be serious. The objections I have to make, with
the reasons of them, shall be given plainly, candidly, and
kindly. I have to beg of my intelligent brethren to read
them in the same spirit, and to d~cide as those who believe
that error is destructive of the best interests of society; and
that truth is the sole.security both of our enjoyments and
our hopes. I entreat those into whose hands these sheets
may come, to form an opinion upon the subject, indepen-
. dent ofthe prejudices and the fears.o(this generation. There
is ·a responsibility to conscience, a responsibility to the
world1 and to posterity, and to a tribunal at which both
Masons and Christians must answer. We owe it to our-
selves, and to ot,~r final Judge, to maintain the truth for the
truth's sake, confident that truth must finally prevail, and
desiring that it may the more speedily triumph through our
instrumentality.
I know that it is a new thing for a master Mason to ob-
,ject, in any great degree, to·the character of the masonic
institution; that Washington blessed the fraternity, and
W nrren presided over the lodges ; that it is made to bestow
mercy upon the widow, ,humanity upon the selfish, and.
civility upon the rude. Neverthelel'ls, the institution is
Digitized by 00gle
founded ou error, and maintained by delusion; and who,
believing so, would be its debtor 1 Who would not stand
lf.loof 6-om it 1 Nay, who would not feel in duty bound to
lay hold of its timbers, and prostrate it to the ground1
Reared by past ages, supported by the various interests
cmd prejudices of men, moulded into their language, and
manners, and habits of social intercourse, spread over the
nations of the earth, and serving as a common bond of
union amongstrangers and foreigners, it cannot be brought
down by a feeble, or by an injudicious effort; and its fall,
with all possible care to prevent it, will produce a violent
·concussion in the community, and may make a temporary
desolation around in its overthrow.
Free Masonry in America is like a bad system of govern-
ment in the hands of a virtuous administration ; its faults
are rendered nearly harmless by the purity of its magis-
trates, and its advantages are heightened by the integrity
of its supporters. " Why disturb its operations, then ?"
Because the good it seems to do iJ not its own, and will
not disappear with the loss of Free Masonry ; because it
aims at too much, quite misleading some, and darkening
the truth in many; because itoffers itself in the way, of a
higher, nobler, brighter, honer, happier institution ; beeause
pretending to have descended from the skies, to be the
daughter of Heaven, " The gift of God to the first Ma-
sons ;,., it does find a way, with its very emptiness, to serve,
in many minds, as a substitute for that glorious institution,
which alone is heavenly and divine. Free Masonry never
opposes Christianity, or Mahomedanism, or idolatry, or any
such thing. It merely offers itself in the place of either
of them, as a clever thing to suit every body, and of-
fend none ; a.<~ a law which secures to the faithful peace
on earth, and bliss in Hen\·en, of whatever name or nature,
religion or superstition.
* Book of Const. p. 19. Hutchinson, p. 6. of the Appendix. Caleott'~
Disquisitions, p. 90. Preston. p. 10!1. All in tho same wordP.
o,9,t,zed by Gooole
....... 0
I'AETENSIONIS OF FREE JIA:>OJiiRY.
•• Christiul., and Jews, uaTurb, and Pagaulltand,
" One blended throng, one UDdistinguiahedband."
a;
I shall not press this point now, but in due time. Men in
this Christian land are not made better by their attendance
upon the institutions of Free Masonry ; and half the time,
devoted in the lodges and in the lectures to senseless forms
and ceremonies, if once devoted to the lectures, to the em-
blems, and to the heaven-born doctrines of Christianity,
would leave them but little relish for the table which the
lodges spread ; and so, also, the time spent in the lodges,
and in the vain repetitions of the order, neither fit the
mind, nor leave it room or relish for the simple and una-
domed truths of the Gospel.
Nay, more. Men, taught by the books of Masonry that
this and that wonder were wrought by Heaven for Free
Masonry ; and that the Most High did interest himself up-
on seveml occasions, personally, and often by his acknow-
ledged servants, the patriarchs, the prophets, and the apos-
tles, to ordain, preserve, and enlarge the Masonic institu-
tion ; and finding Free Masonry itself to be emptiness and
vanity, are foJCed to regard all religious truth with less res-
pect and confidence. In this light I cannot but consider
the great pretensions of the institution, as a contempt upon
the Most High, and upon his chosen servants; for, if the
choicest men of the antediluvian world, Adam, and Enoch,
and Noah; and the holiest, the wisest, and the greatest
men since the ftood, Moses, and Solomon, and John Bap-
tist, together with the most beloved Evangelist, were inte-
fested in empty Free Masonry as the institution represents
them, they must fail to be regarded in their teachings in the
holy scriptures, with that entire· respect and reverenc<>
which is their due.
I have it in my mind, that there are in the lodges clergy-
men ofevery denomination,and ofpure character;• this may
* No exception unleu in favour of tbe Quakers, \Vho, refusing an oath.
arc refused by the laws of Frea MaAonry.
o;9,t~zed byGoogle
•
r
38 PRETENSIONS OF FREE MASONRL
' be proof to all of the apparent harmlessness of the in-
stitution. But gentlemen Masons of all professions, will
find something new in this volume. Their avocations al-
low them no leisure for the researches necessary to form
any other than the common estimate of Masonry. What
is good in the order they adorn, and what is bad they over-
look, and it is forgotten. They think and act as their fa-
thers have done in respect to Masonry, and push their in-
quiries after new truth in a more grateful direction. To
them I cheerfully commend my labour, with full confidence
of a good degree of harmony in the entire abandonment
of the institution. They are capable of examining, and
deciding rightly upon the subject: with them I leave it,
nothing doubting. But in large societies there must be
great varieties, and some will be found ready to adhere to
the institution after it is proved to be a fraud ; will adhere
to it perhaps the more closely for its being a friend in need ;
a fraud detected, belonging to that class ofmen" whoma!:e it
a point of honour not to be disabused, and who had rather
fall into a hundred errors than confess one." But Free
Masonry has no more than a fair proportion of such men.
Its supporters are generally wise to discern, and candid to
acknowledge. To the consideration of its chosen ones, I
commend my labours, saying, beforehand, that my confi-
dence in preparing these views for the public, is largely
founded upon the intelligence of the fraternity ; and that
if, in the end, their high estimate of the order remain un-
shaken ; that if, in years to come, they will continue to
robe themselves in white aprons, with scarlet scarfs and
girdles, to date their papers Ahno Lucis, and to teach mo-
rality by the trowel, the plumb-line, and the mallet; that if
they continue to present to the public taste, gorgeous pomp
on occasions of humiliation, and to parade the uncouth
habits of grand high priest, and liing, and scribe, be-
fore the faces of mourning relatives ; if these things, and
many more, continue to be countenanced by the wise, ho-
noured by the learned, and hallowed by the pious, then, be
~· oi9,tized by Coogle
l'RETENSIONS OJ' FREE MASONRY'.
it known, that the humble writer of these pages is unequal
to the task of weighing Free Masonry in the balance of his
mind, and mistakes egregiously in his estimate of the un·
derstandings of men, and of the value of things.
CHAPTER VIII.
" Good, my lord,-
" But when we in our own viciousness grow hard,
" (0, miaery on't!) the wiee Gods eeal our eyee ;
" In our own filth drop our clear judgment.; make u~
" Adore our erron; laugh at u.s, whilo we strut
"'To our confusion."-Siuzklpeare.
FREE MASONRY is what it will appear to be. Masonry,
or any other craft, may invent its own signs and distinctive
badges, and teach them too, without just cause of offence ;
but ifit can do no more than this, while it gravely claims a di-
vine original ;• professes to have infinite stores ofknowledge,
- - -- - ----- ----- ---- - . ---- - -- - -------·-
* The reader will aak for authoritree; and I give them plentcoualy, oach
in hie own wotda :
1. Muonry claims a divine ori~tin.
"Which art (Masonry) the first Masons reccivod from God." Book ef
CoD.It.itutiona, Mau. p. 19. Richards' Preston, p. 109. Greenleaf's Sbict
Inquiry, p. 88. Free Muon's Library, or Book of Conat. of Maryland, p.
10. Hutchimlon'a Spirit of Masonry, p. 6. of the Appendix. Calcott's
Di8quiaitiona, p. 90. All in the aame words.
"Certain it il that Free Masonry wu a divine gift from God." Ahiman
Reson, p; 13. of the Preface. And Masonic Minstrel, p. 337, in the same
wotda.
"ltil no secret that Masonry is of divine origin." Town's Speculative
Free Mas. pp. 37. 175.
•
D1g1tized by Coogle.
•
40 PRETENSIONS 01' I'REE IIA:>ONRY.
open to the gifted mind ; profesaes to carry one through
almost every branch of polite learning,• discovering new
truths, and beautifully embellishing those already known,t
when, in fact, it barely names the sciences, as a lure to
catch the gaze of the simple, and has no more to do with
science, as science, than with the Mohawk alphabet which
never had existenc~it honestly deserves not the counte-
nance it receives ; it ought to be abandoned by upright
men.
Masonry is used to denunciations, but not from its own
members. It has somehow held the minds, or at least the
tongues and pens ofits members, under that restraint which
has permitted hardly a groan of disappointment to reach
the public ear. How it is possible so long and so effectually
to have imposed upon its own members, is' difficult to be
conceived.
I shall not, at this stage of the work, do more than point
out the difficulty, that the reader may know I aee it. In
the conclusion, both the writer and the reader will be better
able to meet this difficulty, and to answer the question, Ma-
sonry being a bag of ill wind, bow have sensible men en-
dured it so long 1
And here let me, with all carefulness and sincerity, sepa-
rate-Masons from Masonry; the members of the fraternity
from the institution itself, while I present Masonry within
" This supreme and divino knowledge being derived from the Ahnight~·
Creator to Adam, its principles ever since have been, and atill are, moet B&•
<:redly preserved, and inviolubly ooncealed." Smith's Use and Abuse of
Free Masonry, p. 27. •
" Hail, mighty art! Hail, gracious gift of Heaven!
"To aid mankind by our Creator given."-Hvdie'•Mon. p. 70.
* Monitor, chap. 10. and Richards' Preston, p. 54. and 59. Book of
Constitutiona of S. C. p. 6!. Free Mason's Library, or Book of Conat. of
Marylt.nd, p. 165.
t Book of Const. of Man. p. 121.
o191tized by Coogle
J'R.II:T.II:NlHOliiS Oi' FREII: :UASO.N.RY. 41
the lodges, ia its true light. Masons I honour ; far be it&om.
me to apeak in reproachful terms of the gentlemen who
compose our lodges. I owe them nothing but kindness. I
hear them witness, so fiLr as I have had opportunity to as-
sociate with them, that they are candid and just men, inca-
pable of being concerned in any known imposition ; men
liberal, social, charitable; many of them eminent in the
state, bold in the battle-field, pious in the ministry ; men
amiable in private life, benefactors of their kind, my seniors
in age and in understanding. If I could not charge Ma-
somy without deeply implicatiDg either their judgment, or
integrity, or understanding, I would be the last man to
speak evil of it. If my pret~ent views of Masonry were
not consistent with a high regard for the brethren, I would
not pen them, I would not for a moment indulge them. I
would 1100ner distrust my cleuest convictions of the shal-
lowness of Masonry, than doubt the sincerity, the pority,
and honesty of Masons. Indeed, they generally believe it
what it preteads to be ;• they, making allowance for all
earthly imperfections, honestly believe in the great excel-
lency of the institution.
They as honestly believe it as the Papist does the infalli-
bility of the Pope, or the Musselman the Koran ; and, not-
withstanding my settled conviction of the infirmity of the
Pope, and the falsehood of Mahomet, I can entertain thf'
highest regard fi>r the judgment, amiableness, and integrit~·
of Catholics and Musselmen.
Reader, can we not--do we not find it consistent with
the most enlightened understanding, and the highest order
of' virtue and of talent, for individuals in dark ages, or un-
der the despotic power of government, education, or habit,
to live under strong delusion of faith, without semible los11
of virtue or of light1 I confess it would be vastly more
• A friend b8ll marked lhia wi&h a doubt: thenthe writer il fiahtiag the
air? For the honour of lawnan nature, I could wish that it were ao.
6
PRETENSIONS O:r .FREE KASONa\·.
becoming in the writer, to suppose his own mind is under a
delusion, than to suppose the great Masonic body is hood-
winked. This consideration has not been wholly out of
sight, neither sha11 it be. We cannot change the com-
plexion na~ure has given ; neither can I change, nor alto-
gether conceal, those opinions which have strengthened
with time, and enlarged with opportunity, to.the distrust of
Free Masonry.
It is not a little embarrassing to one who would serve his
generation in peace, to enter upon a work, which, if it
could fail, would coverhim with confusion, and expose him
through life to contumely ; and which, if it succeed, must
triumph over an organized body of shrewd men, closely
connected throughout the country, and able to concert and
act together without all the responsibilities which attach to
individuals. Some of the highest and ablest names in the
country, some most esteemed in the circle of private
friends, are to be gained to this enterprise, or long habits of
implicit belief in masonic testimony, will lead them to
denounce the work altogether. Enemies rise up ; but
truth, in the hands of the upright, is a spear which will find
the joints of their armour, and lay open to view the entire
anatomy of those who feed on error, and strengthen them-
selves with delusion.
While I proceed to examine the consistency of Mason-
ry, as exhibited in the authoriZed books of the order, with
the actual state of the art, as it exists in the lodges ; if at
any time I speak lightly of the empty trappings, of the
senseless ceremonies, and the vain-glorious pretensions of
Masonry ; I hope to be acquitted of all intended disrespect
to." the general grand kings, thrice illustrious knights, and
sublime and perfect Masons," who wear, who observe, and
who believe them. No offence is meant. The Quaker
may respect the soldier, while he laughs at his tinsel and
finery ; the citizen must admire the manly proportions,
l,lld liltately air of the fierce Sioux, while he ridicules his
~kling bells, and pamted skin, and pelican re~thers.
\
-~.
o191tized by Coogle
PRETENSIONS OJ' FREE MASONRY. 43
I am to speak of Masonry as it is known in the lodges,
and not as it exists in the chapters, councils, encampments,
&c. If the foundations are vanity, all that is built upon
them must be also vanity, equally light, or the building
would fall.
The three first degrees lie at the foundation of the whole.
These I have never ceased to observe, to weigh, .and to
distrust, during six years of favourable opportunity ; until
these views of the institution have, like ripened fruit, been
fully matured, and now naturally drop for the refreshment
of others.
This I say without the fear ofman, that within the lodges,
fOr all its pretensions to be a science, or an art, of which
pretensions it makes many ; for all its pretensions to teach
the sciences, of which pretensions it makes many ; for all
its pretensions to be a mystery of intrinsic value, of which
pretensions it makes many ; for all its pretenl!ions to a di-
vine original, of which pretensions it makes many : the
Masonic institution is no better than wiJJ appear in the
sequel.
I con now to consider the claims of Free Masonry,set
iOrth in a work entitled as follows :
"AND GoD SAID, LET THERE BE LIGHT, AND TilDE
WAS 0, AND THE LIGHT SHI:N"ETH IN DARKNESS.
·~ Constitutions of the ancient and honourable fraternity
of Free and Accepted Masons,·collected and digested &om
their old records, faithful traditions, and lodge books. For
the use of the lodges. Together with the history and ge-
neral regulations of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts,
"Compiled by the Rev. -
. --, A. M. Member of the
Mass, His. Soc. and Chaplain to the Grand Lodge of
Mass.
Digitized by Google
. ·.H .llASONRl-.
" ' Brethren, submit yourllelves unto such, and to every
one that helpeth with us and laboureth.'-St. Patil.
" Second edition ; revised and corrected, with large addi-
tions. Published under the sanction of the Grand LocJr.
"Printed at Worcester, Mass., by Brother-, in the
Christian era, 1798; in the year of Light, 5798."
" To the Grimd Lodge of MtUsachruetts.
" Your committee having deliberately examined the Book
of Constitutions presented by the Grand Chaplain, agreea-
bly to your appointment, do approve of the said Book of
Constitutions in all its parts, and do recommend it for your
approbation. [Five signatures, and among them Docton:
of Divinity and of Laws.]
"Boston,25th June, 5798."
ll!'.illo~·~~uon. l "SANCTION.
·" To all the fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons, the
Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, and Grand Wardens
for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, sendeth Greeting.
" Whereas the Grand Lodge, in ample form assembled,
on the 17th day of January, 5.798, did appoint our Rev.
Brother ---, Grand Chaplain, to revise and prepare a
new edition of the Book of Constitutions ; and the com-
mittee who were empowered for that purpose, have exa-
mifled and reported their approbation of the foUowing
work ; we, therefore, authorized by a vote of the Grand
Lodge, do, in their behalf, direct the same to be used in all
the Lodges within our jurisdiction, and we recommend it to
aU other Brethren. Given under our hands, and the seal
of the Grand Lodge, at Boston, June 25th, 5798." [Sign-
ed by aU the grand officers. I spare their names.]
This is a quarto volume of 288 pages, of which 21 are
devoted to antiquities, printed in the ancient blaclt letter,
fbl' no good reason, thl\t I can conceive, unleAs it be with a.
o191tized by Coogle
BOOK OF CONSTITUTIOl'fS OF MASSACHUSE'fTS. 45
view to a worthy maxim of the dark agee, "Omne igno-
twn est pro magnifico." Every secret is a wonder.
The antiquitiea are copies of eight pretended ancient
manuscripts ; the most important one I give a1 full length.
It is
No. "VI." (page 15.)
"A manuscript copy of an examination of some of the
brotherhood, taken before king Henry VI. was found by
the learned John Locke, in the Bodleian library. This dia-
logue poeeeases a double claim to our regard ; first, for its
-antiquity, and next, for the ingenious notes and conjectures
of Mr. Locke upon it; 10me of which we baTe retained.
The approbation of a pbiloeopher of as great merit and
penetration as the British nation ever produced, added to
the real value of the piece itself, must give it a 88.0Ction,
and render it deserving a serious and candid examination."
The "•anction" it has, is the seal of the grand lodge.
Its •• real value" we will examine," seriously," if we can.
It is written in the blaclL letter,.and antique style, which
style I will follow through the caption, and afterwards aim
chiefly at the sense. Many of the words are obsolete, but
a glossary at the end explains them.
"Certayne questyons, with answeres to the same, con-
cemynge the mystery of Maconrye, writtenne by the hande
of kynge Henrye the Sixthe of the name, and faythtWlye
copyed by me Johan Leylande, Antiquarius, by the com-
mand of his Highnesse.
"They be as followeth :
" Ques. What mote ytt be 1
" Ana. It beet/a the siill of nature, the understanding of
the uaight tltat i8 themn, and its sundry worlcings, particu-
larly the skill of nwmbers, of weight•, and metm~res, and
the true manner of forming all things for man's use, chiefly
dwenings, and buildings of all kinds, and all other things
that make good to man.
"Quee. Wber dyd ytt beginne 1
" Ans. Jt did begin with the first men in the East. which
o191tized by Coogle
46 liUSONB.Y.
were before the first men in the West, and coming westly
it halh brought herewith all comforts to the wild and com·
fortlus.
" Ques. Who dyd brynge it westlye1
" Ans. The Venetians,• who being great merchants, com·
ed first from the East in Venetia, f'or the commodity of
merchandizing both East and West by the Red and Mid-
dleland seas.
" Ques. How corned ytt yn Englande 1
"Ans. Peter Gower,t a Grecian, journied for cunning in
Egypt, and in Syria, and in every land where the Venetians
had planted Masonry ; and winning entrance into all
lodges of Masons, he learned much, and returned and dwelt ,
in Grecia Magna; watching and becoming a mighty wise-
acre, and greatly renowned, and here he framed a great
lodge at Groton, (Crotona. Mr. Locke,) and maked many
Masons ; wherefrom, in pr~ess of time, the art passed into
England.
" Ques. Do the Maconnes descour their arts unto others_?
" Ans. (Is at some length, in the negative.]
" Ques. What artes haveth the Maconnes techedde man-
kynde1
" Ans. The arts, Agricultura, Architectura, Astronomia,
Geometria, Numeres, Musica, Poesia, ·Kymistria, Govern-
ment, and Relygyonne.
•• Ques. How come the Maconnes more teachers than
odher menne?
"Ans. They, them8elves only, have the art offinding out
new arts, which art the first McuonB receivedfrom God;
by tohich they find whal arts they please, and the true
way o) teaching the same. What otker men dofind out is
only by clumce, and therefore but little, I trow.
*A note, imputed'to Mr. Locke, auppoees thia should read Phtnieillru.
t Anothernote, imputed to .Mr. Loeke,auppoee~~ this Peter Gower wu no
other than Pythagoru. -
o191tized by Coogle
BOOK or CONSTITUTIONS Or IU.SSACHUSETTS. 47
[As this answer is one thing " ofreal value" inthe piece,
and is so monstrous a pretension aa to defy credulity itself,I
will give itin the genuine text, excepting only the blacklet-
- ter.] " Ans. They hemselfe haveth allien the arte of fynd-
ynge newe arts, whyche art the fynt Maconnes receaved
&om Godde ; by whyche they fyndeth whatte arts hem pie-
seth, and the trew way of techynge the same. What
odher menne doeth tfynde out ys onelyche by chance, and
herefore but itel I tro." [Allien and onelyche are defined
in the gl08881')' accompanying the antiquity. But to pro- "
ceed.]
" Ques. What dothe the Maconnes conceale and hyde1
" Ans. They conceal the art offinding out new arl8, and
that il for their otDn profit and honour. They conceal the
art of keeping secrets, that so the world may concealMtlt-
ing from them. They conceal the art of wonder-worlring,
and offoresaying things to come, that so the same arts may
not be used of the wicked to an evil end. They also con-
ceal the art of tranmwtation of metals, the way of win-
ning the faculty of magic, the skill of becoming good
andperfect without the helping• offear and hape ;• and
the universal language of Maconnes." .
This is enough, "I trow." No wonder Mr. Locke, in
admirati~n of the old paper, determined to join the fioater-
nity immediately. Masonic tradition does not inform us
whether he lived to execut~. his generous purpose.
Four short and unimportant answers remain.
This story of Peter Gower is sufficiently monstrous to
make a candid .reader doubt, whether the grand officers of
a grand lodge, with the grand chaplain for their guide,
could have set their seals to its authority ; but they have;
and now let Free Masonry answer iL Let the art of fore·
* "A Deity believed, will nought avail;
" Rewards, and punillhmente make God adored ;
" .And hopes, and fean, give colllcience.U her power."
Drgrtized by Coogle
48 MASON&\.
nying things, tOre&ee the peril of ita situation ; let the art
of finding ()Ut new artt, find out a way of eeeape iom the
overwhelming weight o( its 9W1l pretensi01l8 ; Jet the art
which was given to the first MUOM by SOI'Ile God, prepare
to return to its God ; its mortal career must be drawing toa
close. No institution in this age can tru1tain claima to
monstrous, though made in black letter.
The Book of Constitutions does not say this story was
published to impose on the weak ; does not say that the
men who copied and published it in that solemn aDd official
manner, did not believe one word of its wonders; does not
say that it is an abomination to the truth, a scandal upon
common sense, a fOul blot attempted to be fixed on the
eseuteheon ofFree .Masonry ; no such thing ; but the Book
of CoMtitutiou ~lates it with perfect gravity, with a re·
COIBDleDdatory preface, and with explanatory notes!
The same is published in the F. M. Library, with the
4iaDetion of the Grand Lodge of Maryland.-1". M. L.
p. 10.
Then theeommon Mason may, the multitude of Masons
Jft118t, believe that Free Masons do, indeed, have pos&eSiion
of the keys of knowledge, of the art of arts, an~ they only
want time and capacity to investigate the mysteries, to
search through the dark nults of the masonic temple, and
accumulate treasures of wisdom above aU other men.
How often have I heard them indhidually sorrow for time
to study these things that they might understand them bet-
ter! 0, that they knew as much of the mystery, as this
man and that, whose superior education and studious lei-
sure permit him to become acquainted with the whole se-
cret, and exalt him in common fame to the elevation of " a
great Mason !" Poor fellows ; how can it be otherwise?
'fhese pretensions appear as unreasonable to the common
mason, as to the reader; they are, however, sealed with the
great seals of the grand lodges, and sanctioned by the offi-
cial signatures of gyeat men and M88008, and must be re-
ceived by the less informed lvrth due submission to those
o191tized by Coogle
BOOK OJ' CONSTITUTIONS 0~' MASSA<.;HUSETTS. 49
who are set over them in the work of the lodges. " Bre-
thren, submit yourselves unto such," &c.
But' this story is not locked up in the lodge room with the
Book of Constitutions, nor in the breasts of •• great Ma-
sons ;" if it were so, its harm would be·incalculable, though
much less than when it is published in -a popular form, and
finds access to the very mind. It is published, with slight
variations, in one of the fn08t popular masonic works of
the age, Hardie's Monitor, in a plain type, with every sane~
tion and circumstance calculated to impress the reader
with the belief both of the genuineness of the manuscript,
and of Mr. Locke's notes; and, what is more, of the fair-
ness of the conclusion of that great philosopher and good
man, that Masonry was a wonder worthy of his eager in-
vestigation.
It is published, also, with particular zeal by Mr. Hutchin-
son, under the sanction of the Grand Lodge of England.
and by Calcott, and by the renowned Master of the Lodge
of Antiquity, Mr. William Preston.
I wipe my hands of this, as well as the other erroneous
pretensions of Masonry. Humble as an individual brother
may be, I cannot consent for a day to have my name quoted
as one that belongs to a society, under its public seal up-
holding pretensions so abhorrent to truth and to piety, as
are contained in this authenticated manuscript.
Conscience directs, and the world will uphold, this cause.
Masons themselves will follow it, when once they have
coolly examined, and find that all these things are word for
word, without gloss or redeeming comment, in the Book of
Constitutions.•
* The Free Mason's Library, from p. 8. to 14, contains this same dis-
graceful paper, word for word, as given in the Book of Constitutions of
Maaacb1110tts, a paper which tho great Clinton, in his unfortunate attach-
ment to Masonry, condescends to name without a word of disapprobation :
" The celebrated philosopher, John Locke, was m11ch struck with a manu-
7
o191tized by Coogle
MASONilf.
THE FREE MASON'S LIBRARY.
" Sanction of the Grand Lodge of Maryland.
" Whereas, by a resolution of the Grand Lodge of Ma-
ryland, brothers [five. I pity the names] were appointed a
committee to superintend the publication of a new edition
of the Ahiman Rezon, proposed to be published by bro-
ther Samuel--, under the title of the Free Mason's Libra-
ry, and to give the same tlie sanction of the Grand Lodge :
" Be it known, that said committee, ltaving examined
said work, do find it in every respect worthy of the sanction
of the Grand Lodge, and, consequently, recommend it to all
Masons as a faithful guide.
Beript of Henry VI. King of England, deposited in the Bodleian Library.
It is in the form of Questions and Answers," &c.-Clinton'• FartwtU /ld-
drul to tM Grand Lodgt of New-York. A. D. 1825.
0, bow little does a great mw become, by becoming a weat Mason.
DOOK 0.' CO'\STIT~TIOX!I OF MASSACHUSETTS. 51
- CHAPTER IX.
" To promise is moet courtly and fa.ahionable; performance iB a kind o£'
will or testament, which argues a great sickneee in hie judgment tbat makes
it."-sJullclp«JTt.
Now, let it be understood, that the book from which I
quote is one within my degree. No grand lodge has any
thing to do with Masonry above the master's degree.
The grand lodge is a convention of delegates from the
lodges of Master Masons, and these lodges are never open-
ed on any degree higher than the third.• A Royal Arch
Mason may be in the lodge, and also represent the lodge in
the grand lodge, but never can do either in any other capa-
city than as a Master Mason ; therefore the Grand Lodge
of Massachusetts, in its Book of Con~titutions, addresses
men and masters from its own stair, the third degree, and
thus it speak!ot :-p. 33.
" Before we enter upon the duties of the operative mason,
in the various offices to which he may be called in the lodge,
it is proper to give some account of what is absolutely re-
quisite in all who aspire to partake of the sublime honours
of those who are duly initiated into the mysteries, and in-
structed in the art of ancient Masonry."
Thereby insinuating that Masonry has "sublime ho-
nours," and valuable mysteries within the gift of the Grand
Lodge ; we shall see.
It proceeds : " Whosoever from love of knowledge, in-
terest~ or curiosity, desires to be a mason," &c., intimating
that a Jove of lmowledge may properly lead one to the door
• Vide F. M. L. p. !SJ.
o191tized by Coogle
.-,~ .'\1 .\,.:11:1/Jl \".
of the lodge. In accordance with this, the candidate, pre-
vious to his introduction into the lodge, must subscribe a
declaration, from which the following extract is taken :
(page 4.)
"I, A. B., do seriously declare, upon my honour, that I
voluntarily offer myself a candidate for the mysteries of
Free Masonry; that I am solely prompted by a favourable
opinion conceived of the institution, a desire of lmC1Wledge,
and a sincere wish to be serviceable to my fellow creatures."
We shall see the knowledge he acquires, of which he is
made beforehand to confess his expectation.
Page 43. Describing the constituent parts of a lodge, and
the numbers necessary to constitute a lodge, it is written :
•• more than forty or fifty arc found inconvenient for work-
ing to advantage;" that is, as if masons had some profitable
and instructive labour to perform, when they meet in lodges:
we shall sec what working means.
Again, pages 44 and 45. One of the master's duties is to
·• take care that no apprentice, or fellow craft, be taken into
his house, or lodge, unless he has sufficient employment for
him, and finds him duly qualified for learning and under-
standing the sublime mysteries of the art. Thus shall ap-
prentices be admitted upon farther improvement, as fellow
crafts ; and in due time be raised to the sublime degree of
::\laster Mason." Sublime mysteries of the sublime degree
of Master Mason! We shall see.
Page 53-" Of working."_:" All masons should work
'faithfully and honestly. All the working hours appointed
by law, or confirmed by custom, are to be strictly ob-
served." Working again ! Think you what working
means? Building temples! Perhaps an idea of it can be
given without impropriety, but not now. Page 75 is the
form of a warrant from the Grand Lodge, authorizing a
subordinate to work, with power " to receive and enter
apprentices, pass fellow crafts, and raise Ma.ster Masons ;
also, to make choice of a master, wardens, and other
offic,. bearers. annually, or otherwise. as they shall l!ec
o191tized by Coogle
lluvK 0.' CONSTITUTIONS 01' MASSACHUSE'l rs. 5;l
eause ; to rflceive and collect funds for the relief of poor
and distressed brethren, .their widows or children ; and, in
general, to transact aU matters relating to Masonry, which
may to them appear to be for the good of the craft, accord-
ing to the ancient usages and customs of Masons." I give
this, because it embraces in the words of authority, the
whole business'of our lodges.
Page 83. Subject, Installation ofofficers. "Grand Mas-
ter asks' the Dep. Grand Master, Have you examined the
master nominated in the warrant, and do you find him well
skilled in the science ofMasonry 1" The science of Mason-
ry ! that is the thing not to be forgotten.
The following chapter is transcribed entire, for the hc-
nourable testimony it bears to the masonic character of a
Jl:[aster· Mnson; and the conviction carried through .the
whole chapter, that a master may speak as one that knO\vs,
and teach as one that understands, what Free Masonry is.
Page l:tl. "The Government ofthe Fraternity explained.
The mode of government observed by the Frllternity, will
best explain the importance ofMasonry, and give a true idea
ofits nature and design.
" Three classes are generally admitted, under different
appellations.
" The privileges of each class are distinct and particular;
means are adopted to preserve those privileges to the just
und meritorious. Honour and probity are recommenda-
tions to the first class, in which the practice of virtue is en-
forced, and the duties of morality are inculcated, while the
mind is prepared for social converse, and a regular progress
in the principles of knowledge and philosophy.
" Diligence, assiduity; and application, are qualifications
for the second class ; in which an accurate elucidation of
science, both in theory and practice, is given ; human reasotz
is cultivated by a due exertion of our rational powers and
faculties, nice and difficult theorie1 are explained, new dis-
coverie• produced. and those already known beaut!fitlly em-
bellishPd.
..
o191tized by Coogle
·I
~·
~;
I
~
ij
' '.
\
\~
.-~ :.JASOKRL
"The third class (Master Masons) is confined to a select-
ed few, whom truth and fidelity have distinguished, whom
years and experience have improved, and whom merit and
abilities have entitled to preferment. With whom the an-
cient landmarks of the order are preserved, andfrom whom
we learn and practice those necessary and imtructive les-
sons, which at once d~o-nify tlte art, and qualify its Jtume-
rous professors to iUustrate and explain its excellence and
utility. · ·
" This is the established mode of our government, when
we act in conformity to our rules. By this judicious ~
rangement, true friendship is cultivated among different
ranks and degrees of men, while hospitality is promoted,
industry rewarded, and ingenuity encouraged."
While copying, I exclaim, is it possible that I am a Mas-
ter Mason ! that I have been made even a fellow craft, to
receive "an accurate elucidation of science both in theory .
and praetice ?" have I received the erplanation of the nice
and di.ffictdt theories; also, the new discoveries and the beau-
tiful embeUishments of those truths already discovered, all
which things, it seems, are conferred in the second degree!
And what a wonder that they are now entirely forgotten !
It is some comfort, under the loss, to know that I am re-
ceived among that selectedfew, who, having been presented
with all that the second degree has to give, and being dis-
tinguished for truth and fidelity, enjoy the preferment, to
which they are by their merit and abilities entitled, WHO
ARE QUALIFIED TO ILLUSTRATE AND EXJ'LAlN THE EXCEL•
LENCE OF THE ORDER, AND ITS UTILITY.
I attempt only in my way; and if a master can do this,
as the Grand Lodge here certify, the writer may; and this
is his view of " the order :" that excellence and utility are
to.be named in conncxion with the gentlemen of the order
only; that the institution itself is a whited sepulchre, full
of loathsome decay and dead men's bones.
o191tized by Coogle
_Al_____ ...-...,---------· .....j
\:Ross's JIASOSIC CHART.
CHAPTER X.
"The painting is almost the natural man ;
"For since dishonour trafficb with man's nature,
"He is but outside : theee pencilled figure• are
"Even eucb u they give out."
55
Timon of .tltlttm.
IN further illustrating the pretension~! of Masonry, with a
character for ability certified by the Grand Lodge, and the
Book of Constitutions of Massachusetts, I take up " the true
Masonic Chart, or Hieroglyphic Monitor, containing all the
emblems explained in the degrees ofan Entered App,
rentice,
Fellow Craft, Master Mason, Mark Master, Past Master,
Most Excellent Master, Royal Arch, Royal Master, and
Select Master. Designed and duly arranged, agreeable to
the Lectures, by R. W. Jeremy L. Cross, G. L.' To which
nrc added, Illustrations, Charges, Songs, &c. Third edi-
tion, with additions and emendations. F. G..Woodward&.
Co. New-Haven. 1824."
This work is dedicated " to the officers of the General
Grand Chapter of the United States of America," and is
furnished with the following print :
Adam crowns the temple, holding a ring, the emblem of
· eternity, in his hand. This would seem to signify that Ma·
sonry began with Adam, and that my labour is vain.
Enoch stands on the right hand, alittle below, with the
golden triangle in his hand, on which he inscribed the in-
effable characters, the NAilE of Masonry, " still vi8ible in the
temple in St. Jerome's time, written in the ancient Samaritan
cluJracters;" and this triangle he deposited in the bot-
tom of the ninth arch of his subterraneous temple.•
'
• Now-York edition of \\ebb's Monitor, p. 245 to !!60.
o191tized by Coogle
~\
\
l!:.MBLKMS OF )'RKK .llAttONRY.
On the left of Adam, opposite to Enoch, is Noah, with a
square in·his hand, with which he, as a Mat~on, built the
ark ; whereby the race of man was preserved upon the
earth.
"Holiness to the Lord," is inscribed upon the Masons'
arms, at the feet of Adam.
Within the prostyle stand, on the right, Hiram of Tyre,
Solomon, and Hiram Abiff, the three grand masters of an-
cient Masonry; and on the left stand Zerubbabel, Joshua,
and Haggai, builders of the second temple, whose connex-
ion with Masonry is in the Royal Arch.
Below these, outside of the Prostyle, on the right hand,
is Shem, Ham, and Japhet, all Masons by tradition, and
the fathers of the present family of man. But Ham,
does not deservedly occupy so exalted a place in the tem-
ple of Masonry ; for, ' ' certain it is, that the second son
of Noah was not master of the art." [Mas. Min. 337.
Ahiman Rezon, p. 13. of Preface.] Herod's name might
be proposed as a substitute, " an excellent grand master."
[Hardie's Monitor, p. 294.] Opposite to Shem, Ham, and
Japhet, are placed Moses, Aholiab, and Bezaleel.
Now, this comesofoneofthemost monstrous pretensions
ofFree Masonry. Moses, by particular direction, built a ta-
bernacle to the Lord, GQd himselfdirecting in the minutest
parts, the sockets, the taches, and the curtains. " And
Moses said unto the children of Israel, (Ex. xxxv. 30.) see,
the Lord hath called by nam~ Bezaleel, the son of Uri, the
son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah; and hath filled him with
the spirit of God, in wisdom, in understanding, and in
knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship, and to de-
vise curious works; to work in gold, and in silver, and in
brass, and in the cutting of stones to set them, and in the
carving of wood to make any manner of cunning work.
And he hath put in his heart that he may teach, both ht>
and Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.
Them hath he filled with wisdom of heart to work all man-
ner of work of the engraver, and of the cunning work of
o191tized by Coogle
..
;a·
CROSS'S MASONIC CHART. 57
man, and of theembroiderer.,., And all this we are led to
believe is Free Masonry ! Even that the Mo~t High gave
them a knowledge of cunning work, which hM been re-
tained among the fraternity to the present day I It is not
convenient for me to express the feeling which so great
presu ption inspires. The claim to any of the fathers of
the human race, or of these fathers in Israel, and to all
knowledge derived from them, is wicked and unfounded,
and not to be endured.
The names of the General Grand Officers of the Gene·
raJ Grand Chapter of the United States, in cribed upon the
nine stairs of the Prostyle, are all true and worthy, and are
here found in excellent company.
Next follows the recommendations of the chart.
" To the fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons
throughout the United States of North America, Greeting:
"Know ye, that we, the undersigned, having duly ex-
amined our worthy companion, Jeremy L. Cross, do find
him well skilled, and correct in the lectures and mode of
working in the three first degrees of ancient Free Mason-
ry, as received, sanctioned, and directecl to bP. taught by the
several Grand T.orlges of New-Hnmpshire, Massachwsetts,
Rhode Island, Connecticut, Vermont, New-York and New-
Jersey.-We do, therefore, cheerfully recommend him as
fully competent to teach the same. Witness our hands.
M. E. and Hon. (I pity the name.) G. G. H. P. ofthe Gen.
Grand Royal Arch Chapter of the United States of Ame-
rica, also Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of New-
York."
It would amuse the reader to speculate upon the grand
deputies and their oppressive titles ; the grand kings, and
grand masters, and grand wardens, which, to the number
of eighteen, from eight different states, follow in column
* F. M. Library, p. 247. a. pa.rt of this passage is quoted, to be re~d i.p
the ceremonial of the R. A. degree.
8
o191tized by Coogle
•
58 J:JU!LEMS OF l'llEE .MA:>UNII.l.
after their most excellent, honourable and grand file-leader,
The names ud the titles in capitals, occupy a page, not·
withstanding all the abbreviations; e. g. M. E. John Snowf
G. G. King of the G. G. R. A. C. of the U. S. A.; also, G,
H. Priest of the Grand Chapter of Ohio. Truly, they are
"stuck o'er with titles" to such a degree, that their ~orthy
names are quite overwhelmed with the burden of honours..
Again. " We, the undersigned, officers of the General
Grand Royal Arch Chapter of the United States of Ame-
rica, DO APPROVE AND R.ECOJUlEND • The True M~UU>nic
Chart' as entitled to the use and attention of the craft."
Here follow their most excellent names, and general
grand honours, eight in number.
Again. " Extract from the proceedings of the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of Connecticut, May, A. L.
5820.
"REsoLVED, that this Grand Lodge approve of the Maso-
nic Chart published by Brother Jeremy L. Cross, and re-
commend it to be used as a masonic text book in all the
lodges working under this jurisdiction.
" A true copy from the minutes.
" Attest, • " G. Sec."
[The reader will see the name in the Chart.]
Still another is given in the original, but enough is here
to show the authenticity of the work as a masonic record.
· We will see what it testifies.
The first twenty-four pages are filled with the emblems
of Masonry on the three first degrees, all which I have the
honour to understand, and can witness to their general
harmlessness and moral tendency. Example. A carpenter's
square in the chart, is thus explained in the Monitor : "It en-
ables the artist to form and fashion his works, and teaches us
symbolically to form and fashion our lives. It is an emblem
of morality, and instructs us in that most important moral
obligation, to do aa we would be done unto, and to Jiye
upon ~1e square with aU mankind." This is all very weD,
- .. ~ o,9,tizedbyGoogle
CROSS'S MASONIC CHART. 69
ifo it did not pretend to be divine ; very well for those who
uke it; for myself, I am glad to have been reminded of the
golden rule by all means ; and, if some find a carpenter's
square e good means to call it up to their mind, let them
paper their walls with squares, and " act honestly upi:in the
square," without pretending any mystery in it, any Free
Masonry in 1t. In that lies the fault. The emblems are
most of them well enough, considered mP.rely as em·
blems; and, although thPy fai1 of affecting deeply the con-
science, those who find them good are welcome to them,
claiming them only as emblems, and not as the mysterious
characters and dark hieroglyphics of a divine and •• mys-
terious science,"-an art •• which the first Masons re·
ceived from God." I say most o( them are well enough,
for I do not think they all are ; for instance, the explanation
of the lamb skin, or white leather apron: it is given thus
in Hardie's Monitor, p. 140.
"The lamb has been in all ages considered 88 an emblem
of innocence and of peace. .The Lamb of God who talteth
atDa!J the sins ofthe world, will grant to those whoput their
tnut in him, his peace. He, therefore, who wears the lamb
· skin as a badge of Masonry, is thereby reminded of that pu-
rity of life and conversation, which it is absolutely necessary
tOr them to observe, who expect to be admitted into the
Grand Lodge above ; where, under the precedency of the
Grand Master of heaven and earth, they will for ever enjoy
those pleasures which eye hath not seen, nor ear heard," &c.
· •• This lamb skin, or white apron, the person initiated is
told, is more ancient than the golden fleece, or Roman
eagle, more honourable than the star and garter, or any
other order which could be. conferred upon him, then, or at
any time thereafter, by king, prince, potentate, or any other
person, except bebe. a Mason ; and which every one ought
to wear with equal honour to himself, and to'the fraternity."
-Hardie's Mon. chap. 17. p. 141.
o191tized by Coogle
EKBLEJIS OF FREE KASOKilY.
A white apron is a very innocent thing in itself, and ifone
can learn purity of life from it, let him wear it by night and
by day.
But this disposition to draw in the Lamb that taketh away
sin, to the support of Masonry ; and to call Heaven's Ma-
jesty by the heathenish names of a secret society ; and to
Jet the .pleasures which God has prepared for those that
love him, before cold moralists in damas~ aprons, deserves
reproof; I cannot away with it. The bragging which fol·
lows, that this white apron is more honourable than any
thing in the gift of kings, or princes, or people, is too child-
ish to move indignation.
"Let coxcombs 1¢11, t.nd eriticuoeer,
" While wo are blithe and jolly;
"LetCops deqille the badge we weu,
"We laup at all their folly:"
Pruton, Lon. ed. 1792. p. 396.
The moral attached to these emblems, is not often re-
hearsed in the lodge; very seldom. How impressively,
when it is done, let Masons decide. It is a vain attempt
to feed the immortal mind with chaff for bread ; to incul-
cate a never dying hope on the sandy foundation of self.
righteousness ; to prepare men for the retributions of eter-
nity, by the morality of a temporal law, and thus to plant
itselfin the way of the true faith, and to tum men aside
fiom the sure hope, the bright realities, and the searching
doctrines ofthe gospel.
o191tized by Coogle
- - ..
CROSS'S MASONIC CHART.
CHAPTER XI.
" Mark you thlJ, :oa-nio,
"The ci8Yil can quote aaripture for Ida purpo~e.
"An e'ri110ul, producingholy witn-,
" h like a villain with a IIIDiling cb.ek ;
" A goodly apple, rotten at the heart. .
" 0, what a goodly outside faJ.ebood bath!"
•
61
Nerd&. tf J'mi«.
I con next to sixteen pages of hieroglyphics in Royal
Arch Masonry. These it belongs not to a Master Mason to
explain ; but their extraordinary character will not suffer
me to pass them unnoticed. The tabernacle of the Lord
built by Moses, and its utensils ; the ark of the covenant and
its contents ; the pot of manna, Aaron's rod that budded,
and the two tables of the law; the cherubim over the
mercy seat; the table of show bread, the altar, the golden
candlestick, the pot of incense, and the pontifical garments,
consecrated by the Most High to his own peculiar service
in the family of Aaron ; constitute three fifths of the em·
blems in Royal Arch Masonry ! ·
While Masonry confines itself, as it does for the most
part in the three first degrees, to compasses, plumb lines,
setting malls, scythes, bee hives, &c. &c. no fault ·can be
found with the emblems, but .only with the explanations of
them ; if such simple tools will preach morality to rational
creatures, it is harmless at least ; but when men take the
things of the Most High, dedicated to his service, and use
them as emblems of a mystical science, put they what ex-
planation upon the emblems they may, the mind revolts
from the sacrilege.
Free Masonry is welcome to a trowel and a twenty-four
inch gauge, or two foot rule ; but not to the holy bible, not
o191tized by Coogle
•
62 &MBLEilS OF ROYAL ARCH MASOl\RY.
H
to the tabernacle and to the mercy seat, in which the glory
of the Highest dwelt, not to the tables of the covenant, not
to the altar and golden candlestick, not to the consecrated
garments ofthe Levitidtl priesthood, all which she assumes.
Masonry has, properly, nothing to do with these things ;
she cannot use them without sacrilege. Masonry may with
equal justice take for her emblems, the awful representa-
tions of the Apocalypse ; the seven trumpets, the seven
vials, the river of water oflife, and the new Jerusalem, and
the throne of God !
Masonry has, properly, nothing to do with any of these
things ; and to represent it otherwise, is fearful. When
Mr. Cross, the grand lecturer, gives Moses with his flocks,
covering his eyes on the holy ground before the Lord in the
bush which burned and consumed not ; and when this em-
blem is sanctioned by the most excellent names of the fra-
ternity, the impression conveyed, and intended to be con-
veyed, is, that Free Masonry has some interesting conne.x-
ion, to say the least, with that portentous event.• It does
not become a master to speak as though he knew the se-
crets of the Royal Arch ; but it is proper for him to speak
as one who knows the art of which'he has by proper au-
thorities been entitled a master; and as a lawfully consti-
tuted master of the art of Free Masonry, I declare my tho-
rough conviction, that Free Masonry has no more legitimate
connexion with Moses and the burning bush, than it has
with the seven trumpets of the Apocalypse; that it has no
more rightful claim to the tabernacle and its utensils, than
to the Christian sacraments for emblems. The use of
common utensils for emblems is harmless, if the thing sig-
nified be innocent; the use of things holy in the same way,
is an abuse of them not justifiable on any conceivable ex-
planation.t
Therefore it is, that I am indignant to see the Holy of
*Tho F. M. Library quote& tho account from Ex. iii. 1--6, to be read in
tho ceremonial of tbia degree. p. !41.
t POflflibly tho higher degrees spare not tho sacraments : ·the following
o191tized by Coogle
<.:ROSS1S MASONIC CHART.
Holies in the ancient dispensation of the Church, set tbrtb
in dumb show among the common implements of a me-
chanic art, as the emblems of a mystical science. Those
solemn .remembrancers of God's visible preseilee, and of
the displays of his righteous judgments and pardoning·mer·
cies, tc? the chosen but rebellions sons of Jacob, are gravely
trifled with, when made to serve in the workshop of a Free
Mason, use them as he may. I cannot endure it, that an in-
stitution, which, as far as I have known it, is a perfect TE·
KEL, should endeavour to compensate for its emptiness, by
wresting the characters of the patriarchs to its support ;
that an institution which, to the end of the degree it calls
~Jublime, is, in my sober judgment, very ridiculous, both in
its rights and ceremonies, should, for the greater sanctity,
draw into its use in the higher degrees, the most solemn
events and sacred furniture of the ancient church.
When Masonry answers i~, it will be with her life.
The destruction· of Jerusalem, the plan of Babylon, and
the maps of those ancient countries, are all free to the fra-
ternity. If it can draw wisdom from such emblems, it is
well : there is nothing in the sight of a burning city, and
captive train, &c. &e. that may not' be turned to a good
account ; so these the Royal Arch may have, together with
its claw hammer, key, and barn shovel. But that triangle
of Enoch's, so often presented to view, giving a splendid
light in the darkness of · the deep arches the moment
is extenaively circulated, and may be genuine Christianity to the exalted
Muon; but to the humble muter, it is limple blasphemy. Describin( his
ascent in the higher degrees, one says of the latter he had taken: "I be-
came a pilgrim, travelled to the awful dome of the K. T. and sued for
admittance. 1 gained it, trod the paths of my Redeemer, drank the bitter
cup, wu crucified with him, and triumphed over death and bell" This is
admitted into the preface of the Free Mason's Library, p. 7, with m&rked
approbation.
See Webb'• account of the InefFable Degrees, for the MUODic form of
the Sacrament of the Supper. Presenting the bread and the wine to the
candidate, the Molt Perftd nys : " Eat of thi.l bread with me, and drink
,,c thenme cup," kc.-Fru/IIUfm'l Monitor, NetD-York, 180!, 1'· !&
•
o191tized by Coogle
:
-...
64 EMBLEMS 01' ROYAL ARCH MASONRY.
the taper was extinguished, and claiming to have a name
known only to those to whom it i.e masonically given ;
and that name, too, the only true name of Heaven's Su·
preme,• visible in the temple in St. Jerome's time, writ~en
in the ancient Samaritan characters ; that triangle, innocent
enough in itself, is a very monster in its pretensions. I do
not make t,Jte. Royal Areh welcome to any thing but the
triangle. I protest with my might against its having the
ine.ffahle name, "handed down through successive ages by
tradition." (p. 19,of this vol.]
"On it may be found what exalt. hifh oar fame,
"Ifrightly decipbet:ed, a myltical name."
Here I take my leave of the emblems, and open the vo-
lume at the first step of Masonry, or" Entered Apprentice's
Degree."
What first would catch the attention of a common read-
er, is: "A prayer used at the initiation of a candidate."
"Vouchsafe thine aid, Almighty Father of the universe,
to this our present convention, and grant that this candi-
date for Masonry fllay dedicate and devote his life to thy
service, and become a true and faithful brother among us !
Endue him with a competency of thy divine wisdom,t tllat
!Jy the secrets of our art, he may be better enabled to dis-
play the beauties of holiness, to the honour of thy holy
name! So mote it be. Amen."-Cross's Chart, sec. I.
Then follows a passage of scripture, to be rehearsed in
the ears of the still hoodwinked candidate.
I believe prayer is a solemn reality, and God a living Spi-
* See p. 18,of tbia volume.
f Ha.rdie's Monitor, p. !18,givee it thus: " Endue him with a compet.n·
cy of thy divine wisdom, that be may with the eecretl of Flee Muonry,
be able to unfold the m11teriee of Godlin818." The book of CODititutiOIIIJ
of ~usettl,givetthe same prayer, p. 149, in the following wont.:
"EDchle him with a competency of thy divine wisdom, that he may, with
the eecretll ofFlee Muonry, be able to unfold the mysteriee of Gedliness."
The Ame prayer ia found iD Preston, p. 50, in Ahlman Rezon, p. 45, Free
:\fuon'sLibrary, p. Jt9,F. r.l. M.p. 37, Part Jet, chap. 8.
o191tized by Coogle
l
PRAYER FOR THE NOVICE.
rit, that will not be mocked. Prayer is not an empty form ;
is not a service operating only upon the heart of the peti-
tioner ; but it ascends to one who .hears, and will in won-
derful condescension answer. And how can he who looks
daily to God for his Spirit, lift up his voice or his supplica-
tion, that the great God would endue a youth "with a com-
petency ofdivine wisdom, to enable him, lly the secrets ofa
mystic m-t, the better to display the beautiu of holiness!"
How incongruous the ideas ! that the God .of all Grace
should be entreated to do a secret service for the benefit of
Free Mas~nry ! For the honour of His holy name, the
words of the prayer say ; but, indeed, it does not mean any
such thing. He that wrote, and whoever uses the prayer,
must know in his own heart, that the mighty God is not one
covertly to honour his own name. Only Free Masonry does
that. What says Jehovah to David, his offending servant r
" Tlwu didlst it secretly; but I will do tltis thing before all
Israel, and before the sun : saith the Lord." It is mon-
strous presumption to entreat God·to honour his own holy
name by the greater display of the beauties of holiness
through the secrets of a mystical science ! Indeed, the
prayer does not mean so 1 but the spirit of it·is-honour
Masonry, our secret art~ that it may appear in his eyes hal-
lowed by prayer and allied to heaven, who kneels now
blindfolded, expecting something, and who will soon open
his eyes upon viulity and disappointment.~
The propriety of this explanation will appear the more
striking, when we learn more particularly what the secret
art is. I pass over the notice of the working tools of an en-
tered apprentice ; of the ornaments, lights, and jewels of a
lodge ; brotherly love, relief, and truth ; together with the
*Prayer at the making of a Mason. Book of Cons. of Mass. p. 151.-
" Great Architect in heaven! Maker and R•der of worlds unnumbered!
Deign from th7 celestial temple to look down on us, the work of thy
hands : u we are now about to enlighten a fellow mortal in Masonry, wilt
thou enlighten us in a knowledge of divine truth," &e.
9
•
o191tized by Coogle
APPII.ENTICE'S DEGREE.
'
four cardinal virtues ; and take up the charge·of initiation
into the first degree, (20 p. of Mas. Chart.)
An extract from the Charge :
"No iutitution wa~ ever raised on a better principle, or
more Bolid foundation; nor were ever more excellent rules
and useful maxims laid down, than are inculcated in the
several masonic lectures. · The greateBt ·and best of men,in
all ages, have been encouragers and proiQoters of the art ;
and have never deemed it derogatory to their dignity, to
level themselves with the fraternity, extend their privileges,
and patronize their assemblies."
While Free Masonry thus exalts herself above all the
forms of government and religion ; above all systems of
truth, and maxims of duty ; and freely takes to herselftAe
greatest and bert of men of all ages, the reader may be
exercising his imagination to conceive what kind of a re-
veiation, or heavenly wonder this secret art must be ; but it a
master may explain the. above, this is its meaning: the
newly entered apprentice is in the greatest danger of sick-
ening with disgust at the disappointment he bas suffered.
The promises of the boob, at least, had led him to expect,
that Masonry was more than an outside show, and that,
coming inside, he would, at the first degree, catch Bome
glimpse• of those charms which promise to ravish the hearts
of the faithful in the sublime degree of a Master Mason ;
and, having take; the first degree, he is in the greatest dan-
ger of fainting, and of forsaking the lodge, and Free Ma-
sonry, for ever.
I have known those who did it. To prevent such a cala-
* "In the first degree,I perceived that inappreciable bleeainga were before
me, aolemn and extremely important principlea ofdivine truth were incul-
cated." This ia the same, who in the K. T. degree, wu crucified with the
Lord, and " triumphed over death and hell."-See Free MfUfYIU' Library,
preface, p. 6. And let the Gr. Lodge o(.Maryland look to it. Aleo, Free
Ma-•a Library, p. 15.~.
o191tized by Coogle
PRAYER :roa THE NOVl(;£. 67
mity and reproaeh11pon the institution, the master of cere-
monies is furnished with this part of the charge, to cheer
the heart of the newly made brother, to sustain him with a
solemn assurance that tho.t which seems to_
his young eyes
to bejust nothing~ is, indeed, the most ancient,and honour-
able, and stable, and pure, and excellent; and useful institu-
tion that ever was formed ; and with the recollection that
Washington, and Franklin, and Warren, were members of
the fraternity. ·
These things are, to the young brother,like hartshorn to
a fainting soul, necessary and usefUl. He is revived, and
goes on, in due time, to the fellow craft's degree, which
holds out something splendid, and in which he hopes, with
muchconfidence, to find new and peculiar beauties, as pro-
mised. Let us accompany him.
CHAPTER XII.
Containing CUI account of the sciences taugltt by }'ree Ma-
sonry..
" Thma.like au idiot pziagon the brook,
"Weleapahtan,aodfuteniD themud."-Young.
Ta& Mo!nToa of Col. Webb introduces this degree in the
most formal manner. I copy from his work as follows :
F. M. M. p. 49. chap. 10.-Remark.s on the second de-
gree.
" Masonry is a progressive science, and is divided into
classes or degrees, for the more regular advancement in the
knowledge of its mysteries. According to the progress we
Digitized by Coogle
n:LLOW 'cRAFT'S DECREE.
make, we limit or extend our inquiries ; and, in proportion
to our capacity, we attain to a greater or less degree of
perfection.
• " Masonry includes within its circle almost every branch
of polite learning ; under the veil of its mysteries is com-
prehended a regular system of science. Many of its illus·
trations, to the confined genius, may appear unimportant;
but the man of more enlarged faculties, will perceive them
to be in the highest degree useful and interesting. To
please the accompliRhed scholar and ingenious artist, Ma-
sonry is wisely planned; and in the investigation ofits latent
doctrines, the philosopher .and mathematician may e:tpe·
rience equal delight and satisfaction."
An apprentice who would stop with such a bright pros-
pect before him, must be exceedingly faithless, especially
when on the same page it is added : " To exhaust the va-
rious subjects of which it treats, would transcend the pow-
ers of the brightest genius; still, however, nearer approach-
es to perfection may be made, and the man of wisdom will
not check the progress of his abilities, though the task he
attempts may at first seem insurmountable ;"t and more, a
plenty ; but this is enough to lead an apprentice on to the
degree of fellow craft, and to lead the uninitiated to think
there is some singular mystery in Free Masonry; and as
that is what such statements are intended for, we will pro-
ceed next to the matter of the degree of fellow crafts, to
which this is an introduction.
Here the Monitor, the Manual, the Chart, Preston, the
Book of Constitutions of S. C., and the F. M. Library,
walk pari pa8su in the grandeur o( their pretensions. But
I extract from the Chart.
After naming a variety of things previously to be explain-
ed, one of which is, that •• in six days God created the hea-
• This ill taken from Preston, b. 2. s. 4. and is copied verbatim in the
Free Ma10n'• Library, p. 165.
t Webb'• Monitor,chap.lO. p. 50. F. M. Library, pp. 165, 166.
o191tized by Google
FREE MASONRY A SCI&NC£,
\lens and the earth, and rested upon the seventh day' th~
seventh, therefore, our ancient bretlwen consecrated as a
day of rest from their labours;"* (by which we learn whom
we have to thank for the consecration of the Sabbath day;)
the Chart proceeds, page 24, to say : " The next is the doc- -
trine of the spheres, in the ~cieuce of ILIItronomy.
"OF THE GLOBES,
" The globes are two artificial spherica1 bodies, on the
convex surface of which are represented the countries,
seas, and various parts of the earth, the face of the hea-
vens, the planetary revolutions, and other particulars." Ju-
dicious observations foUow, explaining the use ofthe globes.
" AB the five orders of architecture are explained in this
section, (of the fellow craft's degree,) a brief description of
them may not be improper. ·
" OF ORDER IN ARCHITECTURE.
" By order in architecture is meant a system of all the
members, proportions, and ornaments of columns and
pilasters ; or it is a regular arrangement of the projecting
parts of a building, which, united with thi>se of a column,
form a beautiful, perfect, and complete whole."
Then follow _learned views of the origin of bases, and
capitals of pillars in architecture.
" The five orders are thus classed :
" The Tuscan, the Doric, Ionic, Corinthian, and Compo·
site.'' Here foUows a neat and faithful description of each
of the several orders, giving an account of their origin and
peculiar characteristics, introducing the terms triglyph,
frieze, volute,.&c. in their proper places, as might be ex·
pected in a_scientific work.
• Mu. Manual, p. 170. U8N the same words. See Hardie's Mon. p. 111 .
The same in Webb'• Mon. p. 45. Allo F. M. Library, p. 168.
o191tized by Coogle
70 :FELLOW CRAFT'S DEGREJ,:.
~
The fiye senses are next mtroduced. Hearing, seeing1
feeling, smelling, and tasting. They are each treated in a
neat and scholar-like manner, with a handsome definition.
At the conclusion of the notice of feeling, it is added, in a
different type, " The1e three ltm~ea, hearing, 1eeing, Ott
feeling, are mo8t revered by Ma~om." Add ta.ting.
Without ceremony, the Chart, like the Monitor, the Ma-
nual, Preston, and Book of Constitutions of South Caro-
lina, &c. passes from the five senses to treat-
" Of the seven liberal· arts and sciences ; which are
grammar, rhetoric, logic, arithmetic, geometry, music and
astronomy."
This enumeration shows the antiquity of Masonry; for,
having always a desire for the best things, as well as the best
men, of all ages, it undoubtedly chose the seven most-libe-
ral and honourable of the arts and sciences of the age in
which the selection was made ; and some years have now
elapsed since, in the estimate of the learned world, natural
philosophy and chemistry would have found a place among
the liberal arts and sciences.
This is honourable to the antiquity of the institution,
without reproach to its discernment ; and vie are not to in-
fer hence, that the study of natural philosophy and chemis-
try is neglected by the fraternity ; or J>ecause these sciences
have no place of honour in the books of the craft, that,
therefore, they are omitted in the instructions of the lodge
room.
Each of these seven liberal arta and sciences has a sec-
tion devoted to it. " Geometry, the first and noblest of
sciences, the basis on which the superstructure of Masonry
is erected,, receives that portion of attention to which its
superior masonic importance entitles it.
"GEOMETRY. (Mas. Chart, p. 31.)
"Geometry treats of the powers and properties of magni-
tudes in general, where length, breadth, and thickness, are
considered, from a point to a line, from a line to a superfi-
o191tized by Coogle
FREE JIASONI\ Y A SCIEYCE. 71
cies, and from a superficiesto a solid." This is followed by
a mathematical definition of a point, a line, a superficies, ·
and a solid; and by remarks, first, on the advantages of
geometry, and, again, on the moral advantages of geo-
metry.
I shall conclude this notice of the Chart on the fellow
craft's degree, by an extract from the charge. 04 The study
of the liberal arts, that valuable branch of education which
tends so effectually to polish and adorn the mind, is ear-
nestly recommended to your consideration ; especially the
science of geometry, which is established as the basis of
our art. Geometry or Mtuonry, originally 'Ynonymous
temas, being of a divine and moral nature, is enriched toith
the most useful lmou;ledge ; w'hile it proves tke wonderful
properties of nature, it den&orutrates the more important
truths of morality.,,..
Our professors of mathematics, and of moral philosophy,
would seem to be equally interested to know " the divine
and moral nature of geometry," which, while it proves the
toonderjul properties of nature, demonstrates the more im-
portant truths of morality !
,1,This must be one of the mysteries of " the art of finding
out new arts;" one of the secrets of intrinsic value be-
longing to " the art of wunder:wurking, the wey of winning
the facultie of Abrac."t To demonstrate moral truth by
geometrical proble~, most wonderful science ! This
in11pired the poet when he sung :
" Hail, mysterious, glorious acicnce!
u Which to diecord bida defiance !
"Harmony alone reigna here."
• F. M. M. p. !!. Hardie's Mon. p. 89. Tannehill's Mon. p. 189.
Preston, p. 61. F. M. L p. 179.
t Book of Colllt. of Mu.. p. 19. Preston, b. 3. sec. 1.
D•g•tized by Coogle
72 FELLOW CRAPT'S DEGREE.
This is a mystery worth the purchase of fearful oaths of
secrecy, and nights of anguish to lonely companions. No
wonder masons know more than other.men.• Well may
Mr. Hardie "briefly say, tlw Mtuonry is the key-stone to
aU· other arts and sciences." (p. 189.) And now we are
prepared to believe, that, " of all the societies which have
contributed to the propagation of knowledge, the society
of Free Masons has been, and ever will be, the most con-
spicuous.''t The raptures of poetry are suitable to the
theme:
" Aria, and eound tby trumpet, Fame ;
" Free Muonry aloud proclaim,
" To realms and worlds unknown :
"Tell tbem 'twu thil great David's son,
" The wise, tbe matchlea Solomon,
"Pri•ttlfar~ :hil throne."
" Many persons are deluded by their vague supposition
that our mysteries and the practices established among us
are merely nominal, and that our ceremonies might be
adopted, or waived at pleasure."-[Free M. Mon. p. 19.
Preston, b. I. sec. 4.] 'l'hey must be deluded, indeed,
who suppose so, having once meditated upon the wonder-
ful stores of knowledge unfolded in the fellow craft's de-
gree ; and, above all, this art of arts, the finding out of
moral troth by geometrical problems! Assuredly," Ma-
sonry is an art equally useful and extensive. Without an
assiduous application to ·the various subjects of which it
treats, no person can be sufficiently acquainted with its
true value.":-[F. M. Mon. p. 21. Preston, b. 2. sec. 1.]
In this second degree of Masonry," practice and theory
join in qualifying the industrious craftsman to share the
pleasures which an advancement in the art must necessa-
.....
• Book of CoD& of Mue. p. 19. Pre.ton, b. 3. s. t.
t Hardie'& Monitor, p. 118, and Ahiman Rezon.
o191tized by Coogle
...
FREE MASONRY A SCIENCE. 73
·rily at1ord. He gradually familiarizes his mind to useful.
instruction, and is soon enabled to investigate truths of the
utmost concern." [F. M. Mon. p. 51. Pre1ton, b. 2. s. 4.]
Add to this, that " the creation of the world is described to
him, and many particulars recit~d, all of which have been
carefully preserved among Masons, and transmitted from
one age to another by oral tradition." [F. M. Mon. p. 53.
•' The very enemies of Masonry must own, that it is the
most ·renowned· sciciety that .ever was, is now, or perhaps
ever will be, in the world;" [Hardie, p. 79. Ahiman Re-
zon, p. ll.] and assent to the justice of the following po·
etic description of the art :
"Hail, mighty art! bail, gracious gift of ~I
" To aid lll&Dkiud, by .our Creator given." .: .
Hardie, p. 79.-..illo, .f!WIIa &.n, pp. 11, H .
The remainder of.the lines, to the number of 80 or 100,
are in the same spirit, and can be spared without loss; or
they are suc;cinctly expressed in the following extract from
Hardie, p. 339.
" Thy trumpet, Fame, yet louder blow,
"And Jet the di8t&ot regioDJI know,
" Free Muonry is this :
".Almighty Wildom gave il birth,
"Whik tDitdlnnjiztd il hffe on earth,
"..i type offuttwe bli11.,..
That the world do not see how Free Ma8onry is a type
of future bliss, ought to be no wonder ; it is enough if the
initiated can do that.
Now, kind reader, with such a tedious array of learningju
the manuals of Free Masonry, authorized by the highest
*" Q'ui Bavium non odit, amet tua cannin& MeYi:
" Atque idem junpt vulpee, et mulgeat bircoe."-Y~
"The nme good 881188 would join
"Dog-foxes in the yoke; would ehear the s'frine."-..Dryrlu~o
10
:6, ......
o191tized by Coogle
74 FELJ.OW CllAF'l''s DEGll£E,
namf!s in the fraternity ; with such a parade of ordenof
architect~, of the globes, of the five senses, and o( the
seven liberal arts and sciences ; together with the claim that
the science of Masonry is the science of nature, the under·
standing of ·the mysteries thereof, &e. [Boolc.of Com. of
Mau. p. 16. Prestua, b. 3. s. I. and Hardie. p. 203.]
would you not expect on entering a lodge, to find a school
of science and of the arts1 Would you not expect to see
some of the apparatus, by which new tnalu are dircovered
and efllbeUi&hment• qre oJJed·to the old? (Boolc of CC1118.
of Mau. p. 121.] Would you not expect to receive lec-
tures upon these subjects, perhaps,in the univerMJllanguage
of MMom, [F. M. Library, p. IL Bookof Cons. ofMms.
p. 20. PreBtcm, b. 3. s. I.] which should discover to you
the glories of science, and give you the clearest under-
standing of the operations of nature1 If you should, (and
I see not how you can help it,) that is just what is
wanted.
These scientific appearances are set out, on purpose to
make men believe that Free Masonry has actual fellowship
with the sciences. But the sciences are never mentioned
within the walls of a lodge. I neither have seen nor heard
in all my acquaintance with the lodges, the explanation or
illustration of any the least principle ofscience. It cannot
be ; lodges are for Free Masonry ; and schools and colle-
ges are for the sciences.
Free Masonry does not, and cannot meddle with them :
the foJJy lies in pretending to do it ; which pretence is car-
ried to a prodigious extent, in order that men may think
it has some spark of reality.
" Tali• prima Dare~~ caput altum in proella tollit,
" Ost.enditque humero• latos, alternaque jactat,
"Bnchia prot.endeu,et verberat ictibua aur&~~."-Yif!i/.
Ol Hill brawnyback and ample brea.t he llhows,
. " Hi• lifted arm &l'OUnd hie head he throws,
A,nd deals in whialinr air hia ea~pty blows."-Drydrn.
D1g1tized by Google
J'&U IIASONllY A SCIENCE.
Such are the solemn and certified pretensions of the se-
cond degree of Masonry. That they are ludicrous is
plainly their own fault. They stand here in the original
and authorized colours of the 6-atemity.•
.,. * See aay Manual ofFree Muonry, under the head Fellow Craft'• De-
gree. TIUUl4lhill'a, Webb'a, Croa's, and Hardie'a, MaDDall! Conatitutiou
of South Carolina; Free Muon'• Library; Pl'ellton'a (Grand Muter of
the Loqe of Antiquity, London) lliuatrationa of Free Maaonry, are each
ud &11 reapouible, with their commanclen, for the Tiewa here given of tb.e
88COild degree of FreeMuonry.
" What ! &11 thi8 parade of learning hollow and falae ?" Hollow u the
pave, dear reader; a dream ia aolemn reality compared to it.
" And grave and leamed men attend the lodgea ?" Ay, that is a fact.
They l(ive them.lvea no trouble about the claima ofMuonry iu counwoa
with the IICieacea,for they know them to be fa.lse; they pay no atlention to
them; they forget that •uch claima are iudeed made. But the more igno-
:ant do not ·-.., tbe claima to be IUie, and eeeing them aolemnly pubu.bed
with the bi«heat muonic auctions, do and mOlt believe them to be true;
and they do 11Uppoae, that ifthey p-d tho loamiug of the leamed, they
mould know the claima to be 1me; whereu, they would know tho rovel'lll!,
that DO fabric of the imagiuation iamore visionary•
.. .r.it poiBible ?"
1ilo far ia the filllow craft'• degree from ~ the learned iutereat at-
Viblded to it iu the boob, that it ia univeraallylmown and aclmpwledJBd
&mCIIIf the craft to be tbe dullllt and drieat of the three degreea; and the
novice ia llDifonnly 1118taibed under ita entire emptineaa, with the bright
proapect of the IIUblime mysteriea ofthe muter.. degree, '!"hich ia next btt-
forelUm.
Reader, uk any Muon which ia the IDOIIt iutereatiDg of the three de-
Jreel? and ifhe IUipectl no deaign in you., he will reply~ the third. Which
i• the (very iutereating, 110 doubt, but) ktlll iuterellting of the three? Surely
he will ~ply, the 1100ond, or fellow craft'•·
Digitized by Google
'i6 FREE MASOXRY A PIOL'S FRA'l"O.
CHAPTER XIII.
Free Masonry's Pleafor the Practice of Dissimulation.
" Je no puis mo re10udro a mentir; je no suis pu.s Cyprian ; et je ne se.u-
re.isdinl que je lo suis."*-Telcmaquc, liv. 3.
HAVING exhibited the preceding pages to the careful in-
spection of Masons distinguished for talent, for knowledge,
for love of truth, and for their attachment to Masonry,
they individually return it, wit/tout an objection to its accu-
racy andfidelity to the trutli.
To one I make grateful acknowledgments for suggesting
the erasure of a few expressions unnecessarily condemna-
tory, and hope, ori a second perusal of the work, that he
will fil}d not a word justly offensive to the man who hates
every fa1se way. Others noticed certain points, which, at
first, might seem to admit of correction in the facts or infe-
rences ; but they did not insist upon one after hearing a
word of explanation, or suffering the latter pages to illus-
trate the former.
And yet, these gentlemen, though asunder, coincide in
expressing a doubt, whether so extensive, and honourable,
and useful a society, may not better be amended than dis-
carded. "It has a prodigious influence," they say," which,
properly directed by virtuous men, will be, as it has been,
productive of much good ; when, if abandoned by the
......
* I cannot determine to lir; I am not a Cyprian; and I know not how
to ~ay that I am.
- ~-
oi9,tized by Coogle
FREE MASONRY A PIOUS FRAUD.
,.,..
''
wise, it will become an instrument of much evil in the
hands of the unjust."-A<
· In reply, I beg pardon of the friends of Masonry for
doubting whether an institution truly described in the pre-
ceding pages, can fairly be said to be productive of much
good. The good seeming to flow from it, is not its own,
and will not perish with Free Masonry. In the hands of
good men it is made useful ; in the hands of bad men it is
mischievous. 'fhe good would do more good without it,
and the bad will not be strengthened by the retiring of the
virtuous.
But, to make the argument short, every reason which
occurs, or has been offered, for the continued 11upport of an
institution justly described in the preceding pages, is equally
applicable to prove that we may do evil, if good will come ;
and this all good men will pronounce to be heresy in a fear-
fulsense.
Masonry is that boasting thing already described, and on
all the ground over which we have passed, it cannot be de-
nied, th!lt its great boasting is empty and vain ; it is not
supported by the truth, neither can it be. This is an evil ;
the most inveterate must allow that this is an evil which has
only one palliation, viz. that it makes men reverence a use-
ful institution ; it is allowed and practised very commonly ·
with this apology alone, " that it'helps to uphold an insti-
tution inculcating divine maxims, and leading to righteous-
ness and peace;" a little evil done to effect a great goOd.
So our deceived parent Eve :
" Here grows the cure of all ; this fruit divine,
" Fair to tbe eye, inviting to the taste,
" Of virtue to mako wise.''
* " Men have grown so bad, that we cannot make them come to us, but
we must go to them ; otherwise they will forn.ke 1111, they will grow woree,
they will become entirely eorrupted."-Pcuchczfl Juuil.
o191tized by Coogle
•
78 I'UE MASONRY A PIOtJS I'&AV.D.
She sought for an increase of knowledge. To this good
end she could attain by one act of disobedience. It was
argued:
- - - Wdl God in081188 hit ire
" For such a petty trespua: and not praise
" Ratheryour daunt!- virtue, whom the pain
" Of death denounced, (whatever thin&' death be,)
" Detenoed nqt &om achieving what might lead
"To happier lif-?"
•
This plea prevailed then, and furnishes now the onJy
mode of reasoning by which the astonishing pretensions of
Free Masonry can be enduted for a moment. All the in·
telligent gentlemen, members of the society, know in their
hearts, that the claims of Masonry are enormous, and
without good foundation ; unworthy to be upheld for the
truth's sake, and deserving instant desertion and exposure,
were.it not for the benefit they procure to this ancient and
honourable society. They reason as Narbal does with Te-
Jemachus. "Ce mensonge, Telemaque, ri'a rien que ne
soit innocent: Jes Dieux memes ne peuvent le condamner :
il ne fait aucune mal apersonne. Vous poussez trop Join
l'amour de Ia vertue, et la crainte de blesser Ia religion."*-
Telemaque, liv. 3. .
If I may be pardoned, this is precisely the strain of reason-
ing pursued by the friends of Free Masonry. And in the
words of the same excellent author, I reply, " II soffit que le
mensonge soit mensonge pour ne pas etre digne d'un homme
qui parle en presence des Dieux, et qui doit tout aIa verite.
Celui qui blesse Ia verite offense les Dieu.t, et se blesse
* Thia falaehood, TelemachlJII, ia quite innocent ; the Gods thellllelves
cannot CODdemu it; it injure. no man ; you carry too far \he Jove ofvirtul!J
and the fear of wounding religion.
·~.
o,9 ~zed by Googl
FaKE JlASONl\Y A PIOUS t'RAUD. 79
soimeme, car il parle contre sa conscience.""'-Telemaque,
liv. 3.
ThiS subject is easy in itself, but exceedingly difficult in
tile opposition it meets. Having been induced to join the
fraternity, by the solemn and reiterated claims ofFree Ma-
sonry to peculiar excellence~ and a most ancient origin, I
am compelled either to countenance its claims by silence,
while others proclaim them ; or to reply with reason. To
countenance them, is to take a part ofthe responsibility for
their truth, and to reply is singular. For their truth, I can
be in no degree responsible ; and have no way left but to be
singular. Telemachus refused "sauver sa vie par un men-
songe,"t and many generations have applauded the Arch-
bishop Fenelon for this stern integrity of his hero. I will
not consent to uphold Free Masonry by means which an
honourable man scorns for the saving of his life. Truth is
worth every thing besides ; why sacrifice it upon the shrine
of Free Masonry 1 That Free Masonry requires the sacri-
fice, is proofenough that it is unworthy ofthe countenance
it receives.
While in the midst ofthese reflections, a Mason, ofsome
twenty degrees elevation, gathering from report the tenor
of the writer's Views of the Most Ancient Institution, lays
upon the table the "American Masonic Record. Albany,
Oct. 13, 1827 :" .the first page covered with " Extracts ofan
Oration, delivered before the Grand Lodge of the State of
Rhode Island, at Pawtucket, at the celebratioh of the na-
tivity of St. John the Baptist, June 25, 1827. By" [I pity the
name.] The object of my exalted brother, was to correct
mistaken impressions of the dignity and usefulness of Free
Masonry ; saying, as he handed it, " I really wi8h youwould
• It isenough that a lie is a lie, to make it unworthy of a mao who
speaks in the presence ofGod, and who owes every t.hing to the truth. He
who wounds the truth, offends God, aod wounds himself; for he lp8&ks
against his coii.ICience.
t To B&ve bis life by a lie.
o191tized by Coogle
so FREE MASONRY A PIOUS FRAUD.
read that ' How little calculated that was for his thlthtw
PurPOSe, the reader may judge from the following extract,
taken from the first -column of the paper.
" Within our own time, mysterious inscriptions and cha-
racters have been found among the rubbish ofeastern cities,
over whose nuns more than forty centuries have rolled, which
called forth the wonder of the curious, and puzzled the most
learned and scrutinizing antiquary, and which none have yet
been found competent to decipher, save tlwse who are
versed in the higher orders of Masonry.
" On these mO'lllO.ering ruins and relics ofancientgrandeur,
the ·Mason gazes with awful veneration, and hokls converse
with the spirit of other ages, while he reads on .every mossy
stone, anddilapidate.d wall,those mystic chronicles, long since
forgotten in tradition, and lost in history."
" Pisciwn et summa genus haeeit ulmo."
Hor.Ode2.
The fiehes were tangled in the tops of the trees !
This matter must rest on the authority of the orator,• as
it belongs to the higher degrees, with which I claim only a
kindred acquaintance; but to put its bare face in the light, let
us observe, that " ruins over which more than forty centu-
ries have rolled," are within fifty years of the building of
Babel, according toLe Sage. "Chronicles" of that period,
are rare ; and if they contained but the name of the archi-
tect, or of the reigning prince, or the date of the structure,
they would be invaluable. It would not endanger the mys-
teries ofthe fraternity, to lend a few minor eircumstan'ces of
this sort to the learned world, and to furnish the curious
with the names of the founders of the pyramids, and with
* "Cui Pudor, et Justitie I!Ol'or
... Incorrupt& Fides, nudaque veritas,
f• Quando ullum invenient parem."
Hor.Otie!H.
o191tized by Coogle
....
FREE JUSOYRY A PIOUS FRAUD. . 8l
an account of the particular structure of the labyrinth, &c.
&c. would redound to the amazing honour of Free Masonry.
But the mole will have the eyes ofthe lynx before Free Ma-
somy enables her pupil" to hold converse with the Bpirit of
other agu, while he reads on every moiS!J 1tone, mystic.
chronicluf?'.l£c. No; I greatly fear that she, who in the
three first ·(legrees, boldly contradicts the truth for her own
praise, ill, through Mr. S., making, in the higher degrees, a
vigorous effort, by deceit and falsehood, to sustain her repu-
tation.
I can neither hear nor read such claims advanced in a
public assembly before the highest dignitaries of Free Ma-
sonry, andpublished in the official records of the fraterni-
ty, without revolting from all participation in the deed;
I will be no accessary either before or after the act.
" Why ?-what hurt do they do 1"
It is possible, because it is true, that enlightened .and good
men seriously put and sometimes urge this question. I
answer, as to a friend, that these pretensions are edge t~ls,
with which it ill d8.08erous to play; fables which, though
they deceiye not the learned, do miserably impose on the
mtdtitude ; at best, white lies, which the judicious Paley de-
clares ar.
e apt to lead to th011e of a darker hue.
But they do the hurt that poSitive and reiterated asser·
tions. of the weightiest import ever do, when entirely
groundless, or sustained only by some concealed catch, or
double entendre. They destroy•confidence. Though they
may not openly defY the truth, they attempt to elude it.
" Free Masonry is as old as the creation," being wulerBtood to
mean, that the peculiar features of the institution are so old ;
but only meaning, that charity and goodfeUows!Up are of
that age. " Noah, and Moses, and SolomGn, were Masons;"
meaning that they were good and scientific men, who su·
periatenJed the erection offCIW&OUI structures; but verily
understood to mean, that these men belonged to the Ma·
sonie craft. "John the Baptist and John the Evangelist
.were Masons ;" being understood as the &l>ove, but meari·
11
D1g1tized by Googl
)"Rl:t: .MASOJI."RY .'\ l'IOUS I'R.HilJ,
ing a little different ; that, as distinguished builders in the
ehurch, they were architects of a nobler nature, and are call-
ed Mmons, by a figure of speech, as statesmen are called
Pillars; Pillars of State. So Noah and John were build-
ers, the one of the ark, the other, in the gospel; and are
f•alled Masons, and Free Mmons, on this ground alone.
Truth is of a eharacter too sacred to be trifled with after
this manner. Such pretensions do harm; they are an ex-
ample of prevarication, which, followed in youth, lends to
baser falsehood in old age. They corrupt the confiding
temper of the young ; they harden the vicious heart ; they
tempt the tyro in deception; "men do these things," ex-
elaims his passion, "and yet nrc good and great." The~·
defile the land.
When I look around, and behold the political lies told for
the salvation of the country, which is depending on the
ele~tion of a favourite candidate ; the lies of bargain and
!la)e, told for the accumulation of what is necessary to put
ev~ry man his family above the reach of want; the lies of
se;mdal greedily caught up and circulated, that no ariato-
cracy of virtue may be allowed to establish itself in this
republican community ; and know that the Lodges per-
vade the land, and that Masonry is warranted and justified
in doing what is severely condemned in the others mention-
ed, I cannot doubt that her example goes far to encourage
in men this disposition to glorifY a false God for the attain~
ment of their several purposes, and for the gratification of
their ardent desires.
What privilege has Masonry to trifle with the truth, that
Is not common to all? What the brother, to trifle for the
benefit of virtue and Masonry, which will not warrant him
in the like for virtue and his country 1 for virtue and him-
self-for his pelf, for his party ? If, to advance virtue and
Masonry, one may say, that "Masonry the first Masons re-
ceived from God," [Book of Cons. p. 19.] then may one
for the support of his own purse and family, cry in the
market, "this is a good hors~." whif~h is hliml of hoth
o,9,tizedbyGoogle ·
)'1\E~ MASONRY A PIOuS HtAUIJ.
eyes: ··this is a sound horse,'' which has the heu,·es. And
such a merchant may support himself, as Free .Masonry
supports herself, thus : " the sound horse is sound.in limL,
~hough not in wind ; and the blind horse is good'-for ne-
thing."
I ain ashamed to present, with a serious air, equivo-
cations so ~ntemptible ; but no other course is left. Ifthe
pretensions of Masonry are other than equivocations, they
are of a darker hue, and must be met by flat contradiction ;
but as brethren with whom I have the honour to converse,
choose to maintain them on the ground of white lies, harm-
less deceit, pious frauds, I meet them .on that ground ;
meet them seriously, and urge, that if a Mason may say.
" Masonry includes within its circle almost every branch of
polite learning ; under the veil of its mysteries is compre-
hended a regular system of science;" [.J'Ion. chap. 10. p.
50; aho, Preston, book 2, sec. 4, and Free Mason's Li-
branj, p. 165, the same words.] then may any man say,
"Benedict Arnold is a pattern of patriotism;"wovidedonly,
that if an honest man say it, he has some honourable pur-
pose to attain. This is. a terrible mistake in morals; mak-
ing a good end justify unholy means; making virtU'e ad-
vance by -the help of vice; the majesty of heaven honour-
ed by disobedience to the command, " thou shalt not· bear
false witness ;" the truth of God advanced by ·our false-
hood. The good gained under this system of discipline,_
will surely be ever like that acquired by its first wretched
disciple, who in her shame replied : " The serpent beguiled
me, and I did eat." '
We are short-sighted creatures, and may not presume to
do wrong in the assurance of its glorifYing the Mighty One
of Jacob; and what is Free Masonry that we should do it
for her ! "The happiness of the world is the concern of
him who is the ·Lord and the Proprietor of it:~nor do we
know -what we are'about when we endeavour to promote
the good of mankind in any ways, but those which he has
rlirected, that is, in all ways not contrar!f to veracity and
o191tized by Coogle
•
l)4: ' Flll:E IU~OIIR Y A PIOUS FRAUD.
jJUtice."*' And what is Free Masonry, that teaches men
to promote the good of mankind in ways contrary to
\·eraeity 1
I will not fear to show her CIJtcl&u, to expose her trea·
cherous memory, to point out her discrepancies, to
set her prevarications in the light, to burden her with her
own tales, and to overwhelm her with the multitude of
her own splendid decorations and ludicrous pretensiom.
What is she, that she should be feared 1 Her followers
are men, and she herself is less; them I will love, but not
Free Masonry. Masonry is to the truth, what Mahomet is
to the Messiah; and though it may be dangerous to say it
in a mosque, and surrounded by turbaned Turks, it is ne-
vertheless true, that the Arabian prophet was an impostor.
Observe 1Hna a momenL
•• His system was accommodated to the condition of a
mingled population, composed of Pagans, Jews, and nomi-
nal Christians. By complimenting Abraham and Moses,
he beguiled the Jew ; by conceding to the Saviour the rank
of a prophet, he seduced the degenerate Christian," and by
a sensual paradise, he secured the Pagan. ·
"So the first love" of a Mason is· here, "the handmaid
and assistant" of the Christian religion, the infallible wit-
ness of the fall of man, the deluge, the resurreCtion and
the Trinity ; in Asia she gives her heart and her hand alike
to Mahomet, and ·to Fo, and to Vishnu; she courts the
Mandarin, the Cadi, and the Brahmin, with the same flat-
tery ofthe Koran and the Shaster, which she lavishes upon
·the Bible in Christendom : she claims Moses and the Is-
raelites, the Evangelist John and Christiall8, Zoroaster and
the worshippere of fire, Plato and the worshippera of the
Satumian dynasty, Zopholet and the worshippers of cats,
calves, and crocodiles, the Druids of Britain and Gaul, ·
the Turb and the Savages ; and.promises them ~ and
*BWhop Buder.
o191tized by Coogle
•
FREE JIASONRY A PIOUS FRAUD. . 85
all, Jl8 good men and Masons, a welcome admittance into
the Grand Lodge above, with the hope of a blessed immor-
tality.
"We hope with good COIIIcieDce to heaven to cliJQb,
"And give Peter thepM~-wonl, the grip, &nd the l'ign."
.Ahiman &.on.
If Mahomet published any imposture more fatal ,than
this, I am ignorant of it ; if any thing in nature is more in·
consistent than this, I am ignorant of it ; and if this is not
Free Masonry, I il.m ignorant of Free Masonry.
CHAPTER XIV.
Giving some un:uuut oftile soieJml Ceremonies, ami ~ublime
Word of a ~[WJter ~las011.
" To one then I did straight apply
" Who wae a Maeon Freo,
" And told him plain, ' I wieb to pin
" ' The art of 1\Iaaonry.'"-Song.
" Hail, secret art, by Heaven designed
" To cultivate and cheer the mind;
" Thy secrets are to aU unlmowu,
" But :\lasons jusl and true alone."
I HAvE not done with Free Masonry ; nor can I promise,
in further discussing the subject, to lay the manuscript be-
fore impartial brethren. Hitherto its veracity hJlS been ap-
proved by them after sufficient time for il careful perusal.
... ... Digitized by GoogIe
...
.FREE .IIASONI\\".
Having established a character for fidelity to truth, which
escapes a mistake in point of fact, I have confidence in the
public to present the manuscript to my countrymen. Let
them judge.
The writer grows bold with Free Masonry, now he uu
derstan<ls it. At first, thinking it might have in itself re ·
deeming qualities unknown to the Master Mason, he fore-
bore to censure much that was doubted. But having deep-
ly investigated its history, its character, its claims, and its
services,.he fears not to offend the less informed by frank
declarations of truth, unqualified with a single doubt of
Free Masonry's containing a valuable mystery ; any thing
not revealed to all mankind.
He has not gathered, neither will he gather, reproaches
against the institution from the foes of F~:ee Ma8onry. His
quotations have been, ·and shall be, from approved maso-
nic writers ; &om treatises sanctioned by the masonic repu-
tation of their authors, and by the seal and recommenda-
tio~ of the grand lodges and grand chapters, and by the
signatures of most illustrious Free Masons.
He does not select extravagant masonic writers; he quotes
none unless they are sanctioned by the highest authorities of
Free Masonry. No, no; the24thof Juneorations, though
published by the request of the lodges, are not of·his choice
touched ; neither the endless variety of vain-glorious pre-
tensions which float in vulgar breath throughout the land.
The standard treatises of the craft, its · books of constitu-
tions, its universal manuals, its renowned essays and histo-
ries, are his chief authorities. Title and page is given, that
all may see to their satisfaction. And, what is singular,
every such work coming to hand is quoted here, and the
render may know that Free Masonry furnishes no treatise
without inimitable impressions of her own folly stamped
upon its whimsical pages ; no, not one.
New Free Mason's Monitor, p. 157.-" Of the Mastet·
Mason's Order."
·• Of the three first ori!er!l Q( Mac:Qnry. viz. the Enter£>(1
o191tized by Coogle
...._- - ~
o;l!BLIMl: DEGR.;E OF MASTER MASO;s. folj
Apprentice, the Fellow Craft, and the Master Mason, the
latter is by far the most sacred and solemn.
" By the apprentice's order is implied the first know-
ledge of the God of nature in the earliest age of man. By
the craftsman's order, reference is had to the Mosaic lega-
tion, ~d Solomon's temple at Jerusalem ; as also to the
light which men received for the discovery ofthe divine wis-
dom by geometrical solutiom; but the order of Master Ma-
sons is analogous to a dispensation which is by far more
perfect and sublime."*' (See~ also, Smith's -~asonry, p. 3.1.
and Hutrhint~on, pp. 7.ll. and 13.)
.. Three principal steps in our ladder there be,
"A mystery to all but toth0110 thdare Fru."
Ahiman Reon, p. IZJ.
'fhe three degrees of Masonry are figurative, then, of
three gracious dispensations; the one, that before the flood;-
another, the Mosaic ; and a third, the Christian dispensa-
tioo! ·
This " light which men received for the discovery of the
divine wisdom by GEOMETRICAL SOLUTIONS," is a great se-
cret! Truly, " Masonry is the key-stone to all other arts
;md sciences." (New ]Jfon. 189.)
" The initiation into the two first orders is attended with
rites of great solemnity ; but those attached to the third
degree are calculated to leave a far more lasting impres·
sion on the mind, than those which belong to either of the
precedrng. During the performance of these last ceremo-
nies, of which none but those admitted to the degree of
Master Mason can haYe any conception, the soul is struck
* " The knowledge of tbe God of Nature forms the first estate of our
profession; the worship of the Deity under the iewisb law is described in
.. tbe second stage ofMasonry; and the Christian dispensation is distinguished
in the last and highut nnl'r.''-Httfclti113on'• Sp. .Mn1. p. 17.
D1g1tized by Coogle
• ·re · 'b +c
I'REE MASON!\Y.
with reverence, and all the spiritual faculties are caUed
forth to worship and adoration.
"This order is, therefQ'f'e, a positive contradiction of those
who know not God, and gives the most irrefragable proof
of the resurrection of the body;"*' even by main strength
raising upon his feet one who makes believe dead ! 0,
illustrious proof! worthy of the art; •• whyche beeth the
skylle of nature, the understandynge of the myghte that is
therein, and its sondrye workynges." (Book of Cons. p.
16. Pruton, b. 3. sec. 1. F. M. L. p.10.)
Those ceremonies, of which the stranger "can have no
conception, and which call JQ'f'th the spiritual facultiea to
OOQ'f'ation and praiae," relate to an exhibition as nearly al-
lied to tragedy, as the mock heroic is to epic poetry. Both
the Monitor and the Chart give the following account of
1his matter: " this section recites the historical traditions of
the order, and presents to view a finished picture of the
utmost consequence to the fraternity. It exemplifies an
instance of virtue, fortitude, and integrity, unparalleled
in the history of man." (Chart, p. 36. F. M. L. p. 184.
F. M. M. part 1, chap. 9.)
What is this unparalleled instance of virtue, fortitude, and
integrity 1 No more than is represented by the Candi-
date's dying in tragedia, .rather than give up the Master's
word ; which word, 0 Free Masonry ! has not yet been
intrusted to him, and which, when he gets it, proves not to
be the word he died to save, but a aubstitute.
This wouldbe a very ridiculous affair, were it not solem-
nized by funereal extracts from the Holy Scriptures, (Eccles.
xii. 1-7,) always read on this occasion.
" Remember thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while
the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou
shalt say, I have no plea,sure in them.
* New F. M. Monitor, p. 153.
o191tized by Coogle
,l;BLIME DEGREE OF IIIASTER MASO.'I . 89
" While the sun, or the. light, or the moon, or the stars,
be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain ~
"In the day when the keepers of the house shall trem-
ble, and the fitrong men shall bow themselves, and the
grinders shall cease because they are few, and those that
look out of the windows be darkened,
" And the doors shall be shut in the streets, when the
sound of the grinding is low ; and he shall rise up at the
voice of the bird, and all the daughters of music shall be
brought low : Also when they shall be afraid. of that which
is high, and fears shall be in the way, and the almond tree
shall flourish, and the grasshopper be a burthen, and desire
shall fail ; because man goeth to his long home, and the
mourners go about the streets : .
" Or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl
be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or the
wheel broken at the cistern : then shall the dust return to
the earth as it was, and the spirit unto God who gave it."
Then is said the following prayer, found alike in the Mo-
nitor, (p.·74.) and in the Chart, (p. 36.) (Manual, p. 144.
F. M. L. p. S'l.) and given in most Masonic works, as used
in making a Master Mason.
" Thou, 0 God I knowest our down sitting and up rising,
and understandest our thought afar oft Shield and defend
us from the evil attempts of our enemies, and support us
under the trials and afflictions we are destined to endure,
while travelling through this vale of tears. Man that is
born of a woman is of few days and full of tr<mble. He
cometh forth as a flower and is cut down, he fleeth also as
a shadow and contmueth not. Seeing his days are deter-
mined, the number of his months is with thee, thou hast
·appointed his bounds that he cannot 'pass ; turn from him
that he may rest, till he shall accomplish his day. For
there is hope of a tree if it be cut down, that it will sprout
again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease.
But man dieth and wasteth away ; yea, man giveth up the
ghost. and where is he 1 As the watel'll fail. and the flood
~~
o,9,tized by Coogle
I
' ·'
.l..
FREE MASOXRY.
decayeth and drieth up, so man lieth down, and riseth not
up till the heavens shall be no more. Yet, 0 Lord ! have
compassion on the children of thy creation, administer
them comfort in time of trouble, and save them with an
everlasting salvation.
" So mote it be. Amen."
Considering that he who is to act the part of martyr, is
made to kneel and hear this prayer without the possibility
of knowing what is on either hand, or what is next to fol-
low, one cannot help believing that the ghostly complexion
ofthis solemn invocation, together with the extracts, " then
shall the dust return to the dust," &c. is intended to make
the candidate expect true horrors ; to prepare his mind to
meet the grim messenger in person. And there lies the
fraud. Say to him: "the Scripture and the prayer are only
a part of the solemn farce;" and he would not be imposed
upon; but to pray over him seriously, and to kill him farci-
cally, is so mixing things dissimilar, that the novice is con-
founded and imposed upon; he knows not what to make oftt.
" Dum trepidat., animus hue illuc impellitur."
But not so with Him who is solemnly invoked as " under-
standing our tlumgltt afar off." God is a spirit not to be
mocked with impunity. His holy word is made to take
a part in this ridiculous fnr<;e ; his holy name is profaned in
the hypocritical service ; is repeatedly taken in vain.
The" representation," following the prayer, is called" a
recitation of the historical tradition of the order;" a true
account of events which happened ai the building of Solo-
mon's temple, important to be known, and known only to
the Master Mason. I have some objections to its truth,
drawn from its own inconsistency.
* "Thirty-six hundred ancient Masters were employed
in building the temple;" how were these Masters without
* See p. !4, of this volume.
o191tized by Coogle
SUBLIME DEGaEE OF MASTER MASON. 91
the Master's word? (I speak to the initiated;) and if they
had the Master's word, why did the ruffians assault the
Grand iVtuter, to obtain what they would more likely, and
with less hazard, wring from any of the 3,600, than from
the widow's son.
This is an important argument to 11how the falsity of
the tradition. All the Manuals of Free Masonry, in illus-
trating the mark master's. degree, say, ''that men of this
degree at the erection of Solomon's temple, were enabled,
without difficulty, to ascertain who was the faulty workman,
in case any defect appeared in the work."
Masons are never mark masters until after being made
masters. And if there were masters and mark masters at
the building o( the temple, and superintending the work,
what was their sign, token, grip and word ? And what be-
comes of the reiterated declaration, that Solomon and the
Hirams were at that time the only Masters in the world ?
We have3,600 masters, and an unknown number of mark
masters ;-and none but the three possessed of the master's
word, &c. ! As the Inspector General declares :
" Nil fuit unquam
"Sic impar .Wi."
Never was any thing so contradictory.
Suppose there were 3,600 ancient masters besides mark
masters, as masonic tradition informs; and that the ruf-
fians passed by them to assault the Grand Master ; the first
ruffian struck him with the working tool of an entered ap-
prentice, on the sign of the apprentice's obligation;· these-
cond, with the working tool of a fellow craft, gave his blow
on the sign of the fellow craft's obligation ; and the third
gave his blow with the master's mall, and neither struck •
twice, though death ensued. Add to this, that masonic
tradition informs us, that these transactions happened at the
East door, the South, and the West door of the temple;
and that there was no door at the North, for a given reason.
With respect to the doors, " The Sovereign Grand In-
o191tized by Coogle
FRE£ MA80NllY.
spector General," (it is a mortal's name,) "Sublime Grand
Master of the degree of Perfection," in Soutb Carolina, Dr.
Frederic Dalcho, deigns to enlighten us ofthe blue degrees,
with the following significant assurapees : " In the histori·
cal part of the -- • degree, it is generally said, that the
[•.•]t • • • • • , . • • •
• • [•,..] placed themselves at the east, west, and
south gates of the temple, and that there was no door on
the north, for reasons which are given." • • •
• • • • • • • • •
• • • • • • • "This, my
brethren, is another error ; there was a gate on the north
side of the temple,t but none on the west, because the S.
S. was built there."§
Now, I would not betray the secret; but these blanks of
the sublime master's leaving are chiefly for show. Those
not filled in the margin are false blanks and stars, inserted
for the better effect.
"The present lJ}nster's word of the ancient Masons, is
to be found in no language that ever was used. It is, in
fact, not a word, but merely a jumble of letters forming a
sound without meaning. The manner in which the pris·
tine word was lost, and the particular situation in which
another was substituted, is too well known to you all for me
to repeat. The 'first expressions of the fellow crafts, ac-
cording to the sy11tem of the ancient Masons, were two
Hebrew words, highly significant, and appropriate to the
melancholy occasion. From the corruption of these the
present word is formed.
" The word of the Free and Accepted Masons is nearly
in the same situation. Like the ancient Mason's, it is a
word without meaning. It is the initials or acrostic of a
Hebrew sentence, which is elegantly illustrative of the dis-
* Master's. t Three fellow craJ\8.
*See Ezekiel, chap. ,·iii. ?Dalcho's Orations, p. '26.
o191tized by Coogle
DR. DALCHO'S OPINION OJ' THE IIASTEB1S DEGREE. 93
covery which was made by ·the fellow crafts." (.Dalclr.o,
p. 23.)
~uch is the famous secret word of a Master Mason in its
emptiness ofmeaning, in its being a mere jumble ofsounds,
as every master knows ; that it is such as Dr. Dalcho de-
scribes, in its Hebrew original, and is a corruption of words
·which do mean something, I am no Hebrew to confirm or
deny.
CHAPTER XV.
The Rujflans, or Fellow Crafts; and Dr.·Dalcho'1 Opiniou
of the ~alter's Degree.
" To all who Masonry despise
.. Tbia coUJIIIel I belttow :
" Dlill't ridicule,ifyon,aro wiac,
"A aecretyondon'tlnlow."-AhimanRuoo.
SuowrNo the inconsistencies of this tradition, I take up
the circumstance leading to the adoption of a substitute
for the lost word, and the facts "which give irrefragable
proof of the resurrection of the body."*-New Free Mas.
Mon. p.l58.
The resurrection of the deceased candidate is represent-
ed with some variations, but when it is made with three dif-
ferent grips, these are the grips of the three blue degrees,
following each other in their ord~r ; and, first, the skin fails,
• " The Muter Muon represeata a man under the Chriltian doctrine
aved from tho gran of iniquity, and railed to the faith of nlvation."-
H'IIkhWon, p. 114.
Digitized by Coogle
THE RUJ'FIANS.
and, afterwards, the tlesh, and then the lion'a paw (I speak
to the initiated,) brings about a most singular embrace of
the corrupted corpse fourteen or fifteen days buried, " brei}.St
to breast, hand to back, and mouth to ear," with him giv-
ing the raising grip ; when these circumstances, so ab-
horrent to truth, and to each other, are represented to have
actually occurred in the case of the Grand Master Solo-
mon, credulity revolts, our indignation rises at the mock
gravity of the idle tale ; a tale which, if true, were worth-
less, and deserves no comment here, except as a thing self-
exposed, to the credit of Free Masonry.
The circumstances of finding the ruffians, or fellow
crafts, are artificial. The pursuers, only twelve in number,
depart in triplets, east, west, north, and south, and return
without success; threatened with death iftheyfail,theyalone
depart in triplets as before. The ruffians in a cavern are
overheard with horrid imprecations, " Oh ! that my throat
bad been cut across !" " Oh I that my heart had been
tom from my naked left breyt !" " Oh ! that my body
had been severed in two !" And " the wise, the matchless
Solomon," awarded to each his own imprecated destruction,
with horrible circumstances known to the fraternity !
It is cruel, unnatural, and, I may add, false. No men,
hardened in crime, were ever found together in a gloomy
cavern repenting aloud over their transgressions, and re-
proaching themnlvea in set terms for their folly. "Grief
seeks to be alone, and to vent its feelings in secret." They
,would separate, ~epenting; or, if together, they would be
found reproaching, not each himself, as masonic tradition
says they were, but each the other, of the guilt. But ifthey
were together in a gloomy cavern, repenting, as represent-
ed, it is wholly incredible that they should have been so
particular in their imprecation~, and yet so variOUI; that
each should have preferred a claim to death under circum-
stances much more horrid and minute than I have repented.
without having the manner of one, similar to that of the
other, in any one material point!
DR. DALCHO'S OPINION OF THE MASTER'S DEGREE. 95
I am interested in this part of the subject, because it is
this part which is said to give sublimity to the master's
dearee ; because this is the boasted history of events taking
place at the building of the temple, which is important to
be known, which the scriptures do not record, and which
is carefully treasured in the faithful breasts of Free Masons.
But it ~ not history ; it is a contrivance of the imagination,
no better calculated to gain credit in the reflecting mind,
than the fable of Cadmus and the dragon.
" Longo caput extulit antro
" Caeruleus eerpeiiii, horrendaque siblla miait."-o.nd.
The dragon slain, his teeth sown, armed men sprout up
with sword and spear.
I am happy to find in the Sublime Master of the degree
of Perfection, and Sovereign Inspector General; Dr. Dal-
cho, an able supporter of my views. He, from his high
throne in the East, pronounces the words " ridiculous" and
"false," inconnexion with the traditions and ceremonies of
this degree, in a way worth noticing.
"In the Master's degree, there is another inconsistency.
The candidate is told that he represents Hiram Abiff, a
man of the greatest masonic knowledge, and from whom
no secret of the craft was hid. Yet a word is demanded
ofhim, of which he has no knowledge. The person whom
he represents, had the mystic word, but how can the candi-
date give what he never had ? [A second Daniel come to
judgment!] It certainly is an insult -to his feelings, as it
makes him appear ridiculous ; for it ·sometimes happens,
that he blunders upon one which excites laughter, and the
solemnity of the occasion is thereby destroyed."*
" In the Master's degree, the cer~monies of initiation are
designed to represent the circumstances which took place
,..
*Dalcho's Oration, p. ZJ.
o191tized by Coogle
Uti 'J'H.: RU.t'HA~~.
in the temple, when our much respected Master
* • • * *
" (The paragraph which is here omitted, related to a ri·
diculous, and highly improper ceremony, univenaUy ob-
served at the initiation o( a Blue Master, and for which the
most trifling reasons are given.") Bravo I go on, Dr. ; go
on. (p. 27.) " Another circumstance, my brethren, I beg
leave to recaU to your recollection. It is the sprig of cas-
sia, as it is generally termed in our lodges, where we speak
of its strong scent, &c. Cassia, my brethren, did not
grow about Jerusalem."
"From these and many other errors which have unfor·
tunately crept into the Blue degrees - . " (p. 29.)
" In short, aU the errors which have unfortunately crept·
into the Blue degrees--." (p. 31.)
The two last paragraphs are quoted to show that this
great Ma~on, to whom even the Royal Arch are only as
grasshoppers, speaks familiarly and repeatedly of the "ma·
ny errors which have unfortunately crept into the Blue de-
grees." What follows is still more to my purpose.
[Dalcho's Orations, p. 43.] "I have delivered to you
such reflections as have occurred to me on the principles
of the Masonic degrees. I have called in question the va-
lidity of a number of circumstances, which I could 'notes-
tablish satisfactorily to my own mind. That a story has
been related, in one way, for a hundred years past, is not
alone sufficient to stamp it with truth ; it must carry on the
face of it, the appearance of probability ; and if it is a sub-
ject which can be tried by evidence of authentic history,
and by just reasoning from establisl.cd data, it will never be
received by an enlightened mind on the ipse dixit of any one.
" I candidly confess, my respectable brethren, that I feel
a very great degree of embarrassment, while I am relating
to a minister of God's Holy Word, or to any other gentle-
man of science, a story founded on the groBSest errors of
accumulated ages; errors, which they can prove to me to be
Rttclt, from tlu': •acred pages of Holy Writ, and from pro·
b - 1 __g,g,tiz~d by Coogle
DR. DALCHO'S OrlNlON 0.' 'fHE KAS'f£R'S DEGRBE, 97
Jatu lristory, umlt61a by men of intepy mul ~plene.; aNl
tlutJ, too, in a,fftinute after I lulve 1olemnly prOOOUI'CIJd them
to 1¥ utuleni4bk tnttlu, even by that very Bible on whid& I
lume recei~ their obligalion."
The author informs us in a note, that at the time of de·
livering this oration, he was Master ofSymbolic Lodge, No.
8, South Carolina. He, as Master of the lodge, was calJ.
ed at every initiation of a brother, to repeat to him this tra·
clition of the third degree, so much accounted of by the
Monitor and Chart, and ordinary Ma8ons ; and he candid-
ly confesses : ~· I feel a v.ery great degree of embarrass-
ment, while I am relating to a minister of God's Holy
Word, or to any other gentleman of science, a story found-
ed on the grossest errors of accumulated ages ; errors
which they can prove to me to be such in a mimae after I
have 1olemnly pronounced them to be undeniable trutlu,
even by that very Bible on which l have received their obli-
gation." ·
·~A second Daniel COD)e tojud@ment I )i(~, Jew!"
It is my purpose largely to introduce the Orations
of ~. Dalcho, Sovereign Inspector General, at a more ad-
vanced stage of the work ; when it will appear that his Ma-
sonic knowledge, consequeqce, and authority, is sufficient
to eclipse that of the Monitor, Chart, and, perhaps, the
Book of Constitutions, put together. He is too honest to
solemmy pronounce, without embarramnent, as undoubted-
ly true, what an int~Jiigent gentleman can in one minute af-
ter prove to be false I All our Masters of lodges do not
know so much as Dr. Dalcho, and so assert" the grossest
errors" from the enlightened East, with unshaken confi-
dence in their truth. Dr. Dalcho loves Masonry, and I
make one more e~tract here for the benefit of the conclu-
ding period.
" Masonry is a subject for which I feel the highest ven~­
ration. I have bestowed on it much time and attention,
and from the correct information which I have obtained
'fi'om the sublime degrees, my labours have been amply re-
13
o191tized by Coogle
..
98 DR. DAC.CHO'S OPINIO!f or THE JfASTBll'S DEOlll:l:.
'Warded. As weU migla we believe thai the srm traNI.
romul tile ecrth, instead of tlr~ earth romul the wn, a~ to
believein all tAe incongruities, which lamle been ttJUgillo
Masons in the Symbolic Degrees (the Lodgu.)"
" •Nil tbit unquam
" • Tam~ eibi.'-:-Hor."* ,
DolehJ)'' Orationl,p. 44•
I disclaim all sympathy with Mr. Dalcho in his veneration
for Masonry. What correct information the sublime de-
grees may afford to satisfY for " the gross errors and in-
congruities" of Masonry within the lodges, I leave it for the
exalted to say ; but that we might as well believe the sun
travels round the earth, as to believe the incongruities
taught .in the blue degrees, ia perfectly within the sphere of
my acquaintance, and is entitled to full credit.t
"ln~lhavebeen,
" And all their signshave -n;
~ Bat what they are I now WOD't tell,
" They ~afely in my breut ahal1 dwell.''~ Raon.
.
• The Dr.'• Horace reada, Tam diapar; that in my banda, .Sic imp&r.
The ineongruily ia not equal to that of the blue degreee.
t It ia fai~ to hear both aides. " The third degree afForded a rich trea-
lllfll of theoretical akad praotioa1 morality, enabling the candidate torepia
the im&ae of the divine • ..fleim,' nrmount every ddficalty, and .-18 tJae
mount of God." The Grand Lodp of Maryland, by the Free M~'•
-.,ibrat'7, PW'ace, p. 6.
o191tized by Coogle
LODGE WORK.
CHAPTER XVI. ·
Lodge-work Imitated.
"'Tieaoti~
•• Blat ODet the wickedeBteaitilf00·tbe lfi'OIIDd.
" lllay-m aa llhy, u pave, u jut.u ·abmlute,
.. AI. ADaeJ.o; even 110 mayAn,elo
" In all hia d....mg, cbaraclll,titlel, foi'JIII, '
" Be all ardl viUaia ; beline it,royal priDae,
..q'""""·Ae ui'IIIIAirtg:-but beiamore,
"Had l .more name for badnea."-Mereh.<!fYenict.
'fa~: degree of Masonry now under consideration, de-
serves all the·attention we can afford it, as the utmost limit
of *OOient Masonry, as the highest step of all British Ma-
sonry, and as the summit of the system Within the lodges.
Nolle of the 2000 lodges- of our land, no fraternity of Bri·
tish Masons ever do, orcan,open On a higher than the third.
degree. If theRe degreea be empty of all truth, then are
the lodges empty ; I attempt to prove no more.
Four fifths of the masonic bodies of our country IU'e
lodges ; and fOur fifths of our Masons never pass the mas-
ter's degree; in some places more, in others less. Besides,
none reach the ~degrees without passing through the
barren waste of the lodges; and they of the chapters and
encampments are no more delighted with their.secrets,
and diacoveries, and mysteries, than y9ur masters are with
theirs.
Boththe blue and IUhlime masters seem, to their .inferiors,
to belong to th't sort of men :
"Who.en..,..
" Do cr.m &lid mantle like alt&ncliDr pocll,
" ADd do a wntbl..une.•tert&in,
.. AI. who llhoulclay,c-Sir Orwde,
" AMwAc,& I 11p1 "'1 lfpl lei,.odlr6.rk,fll
o191tized by Goog le
,. "'-'
'a'
}Qo SUBLIME DEGREE 01' JUSTER MAllON.
Their very silence is a wonderfultnystery to the simple ;
and knowing the full weight of this importance in the Mu-
ter Mason,the writer eaDJlOt attach any increased value to it
in the higher degree&. But his peculiar business is with the
lodges; of them he is-competent to speak ; with them be
rears not to engage ; reared by a pretended Solomon, they
may be destined to fall before a true man without a name.
Let them threaten, in the words ofa great master: " The
~ of 8eCret locietie1 h not a common vengemu:e;
it u tle lUdden fire of wrath :, shall truth give back 1
' " The vengeance of secret Societies uan if:reccmcilable ven-
g«mee, and 1carcely et1er tlou it cetue the pursuit of its
victims until it It& ~een them immolated."
The writer has been educated in a school teaching the
fear of Goo, and not the fear of secret societies. It is too
late to int.itpjdate with high sounding words, or with dark
insinuations, or with the effective operations of committees
of safeiy. The public are awake upon this subject, and
they will eee it thoroughly sifted. Before boasting of their
" victims," the invincibles may be taught the Jesson in hard
battle learned :
"Whon Satan first knew paiD,
" And wrilhcd him l.o and fro convolved;"
'fhat no weapon can prevail against truth ~ no covering of
fraud can resist the attack of truth :
" But the nord
" orMichael from \he armory of God '
"wu given him, tempered so, that neither keen
" Nouolid might resist that edge." ·
Solomon is the reputed author of the present organiza·
tion of Masonry in the lodges, and of Masonry in the
chapters too; but since this latter is above me in degree,
and still above me in comprehension, (for the difficulty of
conceiving how an order,founded on the destruction and
rebuilding of the temple, could have been organized in any
o191tized by Coogle
LUDGB WORK. 101
shape four hundred years and upwarda, befpre that destruc-
tion was achieved:) I confine my remarks to the former, to
Maaonry in the lodges, and will draw from the incongruities
of the system itself, fiuother arguments to prove that King
Solomon knew no more of Free Muomy than did his fa-
ther, ·King David.
I preeent the leading thoU@hts whicll follow, for the consi-
deratioo ofthe inviacibles ofFreeMuoory, the s~t hearted
supporten of her greatness, the men made dimeighted by
the splendour of her gloriee, hoping that even they will see,
and feel, and confess the force of truth, and the abeurdity of
attempting to support a fabric so th9roughly rotten in all its
timbers.
What is the tradition 1 That Solomon and the two Hi-
rams often retired to the secret vault of the temple for the
study of Masonry. ·
How could this be ? The King of Tyre had a great go-
vernment at home to manage; he could not spend his
months at Jerusalem, probably not less thanl30 miles dis-
tant ; and post coaches did not run on the roads of Galilee
in that day; nor ·have kings been in the habit of visiting
foreign parts without a retinue, which forbids rapidity of
motion : he could not go up, then, to lodge meetings at Je-
rusalem, ifthey had been most worthy of hi8 attendance.
How this affair is to be accommodated I know not ; let
the reader decide.
Suppose it to be granted, however, that by the help of
some wishing cap, belonging td " the art of foresaying
things,"• King Hiram was often present at the meetings in
the _
secret vault. Suppose the three in lodge, King Hiram
in the north, King Solomon in the west, and the thirrl in the
north east.
"Begin."
'' You begin."
* F. M. Library, p. 11. Book of Constitutions, p. 19. Preston, b. 3.
s. ].
Digitized by Google
100 SUBLIME DEGREE OF JUSTER MASON,
" What ought a Mason most to guard against1'"
" Cowens."
" You will do your duty."
(Hereupon Hiram of Tyre is absent a -season.)
" Most worshipful, the lodge is duly tyled."
" In what manner 1"
" By a good lock on the outer door, key on the inside."
(As there were no Master Masons in the world but these
three,• .we will not feign any names for other usual parts
in the ceremonies of modem lodges.)
" Where is the place of the youngest man in the lod&e ?''
" In the northeast, worshipful."
" What are you there for, brother?"
".The better to watch the morning dawn,to call the men
up early, and set them at work, that the king may be
pleased with the progress of Masonry."
·" Your brother's place here?"
" In the north, most worshipful.''
" Your duty in the north, brother 1"
" As the Aurora borealis shines out of the north, to tell
of the night which overshadows the earth, so stand lin the
uo~h to be close by my brother in the northeast."
" Has the.king a fixed place in the lodge ?"
" He has."t
•• Please tell me where ?"
" In the west, brother."
" What is his office in the we11t 1"
" As my brother stands in the northeast to observe the
morning dawn, so stands the king in the west to watch the
departure of twilight, to put the men to bed as they come
from work, having given them their suppers."
* Such i.l the prevailing form of the tr&dition.
t " Behold, as the lUll in the east doth ari.le,
" The muter the workmen and hireJinremploys,
" Tbe west and the south their Uli.ltance impart,
" T'embellish the fabric, and ltreJiithen the art."
o191tized by Coogle
LODGE WORK.
"Glorious craft, whichfiree tbe mind,
" Sweet with harmony aDd love,
" Suroly thou wert first deeigned
" A foretaste of the joynbove."
103
The Ma99n will say, "Pshaw! pshaw! all this was con-
trived by Solomon, for the benefit of after generations, and
not for his own use. They had no regular lodge of the
modem kind until after the decease of one of the trio; then
others were admitted, and these ceremonies were adopted."
Here observe the injustice of imputing to the wisest man
the erection of the senseless fabric of Free Masonry. Its .
insignificant frivolity is unworthy of the meanest talents ;
and to cover its entire emptiness, or deep depravity, it takes '
Solomon for its author ; thus (whether senseless or de-
praved) putting contempt upon the character of Solomon,
and upon the holy records in which his writings are found.
I am far from saying these kings occupied the time pre-
ciselyin the manner above mentioned; but I do say,that with-
out occupying it in some such way, I know not, as Master
Masons, what they were about. They had too much real
business on their hands to come often together, and bandy
words to and fro ; and, except this, they could do nothing
peculiar to Free Masonry ; therefore masonic tradition errs
in saying they often retired to the secret vault, &c.
But soon death interrupted their sweet intercourse, and
deranged their pl8llll. For the particulars of this melan-
choly event, we are solely indebted to the perfect recollec-
-tions of Free Masons for one hundred successive genera-
tions ; the extreme difficulty of the thing only enhance~
our high estimate of its value.
o191tized by Coogle
104 '>l1liLUU.: IJJWREI!: 01' MASTER MASON.
CHAPTER.XVU.
1'he Inglorious Death of our Grand Master, Hiram Abijf.
.. 0 Deedemoaa ! Delclemona ! Dead?
" Dead f--Qh! Oh! Oh !"-OINllil.
lT is well known, that at the time we speak of, only
three Master Masons blessed the earth; (the 3600 ancient
masten and mark masters, being but a part of the ric im-
par ft"bi, are not wanted now ;) to these three alone the .
master's word was known. I think there were 80,000 fel-
low crafts employed upon the temple; my brethren will
correct me if I am wrong. Certain of these took the bold
resolution of extorting from the third man under the whole
heavens, a man of piety, mercy, and integrity, whaf did not
belong to them ; and these daring ones were stimYiated to
the nefarious deed by the fear of not regularly receiving
the pay and emoluments of masters after leaving Jerusalem
to travel in foreign parts.
Their leading motive at first appears singular ; they eould
not find means to be contented with a pay inferior to that
of princes! And how did they propose to secure that pay?
Being about to travel in foreign parts, they thought to
make sure of master's pay, could they but obtain the mas·
ter's word; that ineffable word t1uzt had been handed dowu
through mccessive ages by tradition, and was still vmble ;,
the temple in the time St. Jeromeflourished; the Shibboleth
of Free Masonry, that blazed.out upon the triangle in the
dark vault, so soon as the man's lamp was extinguished. A
wonderful name, known only to Solomon and the two Hi·
rams ; and yet it would help the fellow crafts travelling into
foreign parts, to obtain master's wages ! This is truly Free
Drgrtized by Coogle
DF.ATH 0.' THE GRANO :"U.5TER. 10;)
Masonry; the:art of finding new arts, and the way of win-
ning the faculty of Abrae."
With what think men excited by so high an aim, and
bent on the dangerous enterprise of violently extorting
from the grand master this precious word, would arm them-
selves? Surely with a two foot rule! and a carpenter's
square! and a common mallet I
They probably knew not how to use weapons of war;
and, it being a premeditated assassination, time might have
been lost in learning their use ! swords and dirks are not
mentioned among the utensils of that. age ; so, as David
met the champion of Gath with his shepherd's sling, they,
with the implements of their art, hit the grand master,
after shaking him heartily, over the back,or breast, or head,
as it suited them, one blow each, and he died ;-verily, as the
fool dies, so died our grand master !
Without striking a blow, without making a struggle, with-
out lifting a hand, without raising the least outcry, at noon
day, (thy tradition is faithful, 0, Free Masonry!) in the
midst of king Solomon's temple, our Grand Master fell be-
neath the single and deadly stroke of a rule, a square, and
a mallet, laid on by three of his menials !"' What a won-
der ! The Master of" the art of foresaying things," did not
foresee his danger ; the master of " the art of wonder-work-
ing," did not even draw a magic circle; the master of" the
way of winning the faculty of Abrac," did not utter a sylla-
ble of magic, did not spit one mouthful offire, did not make
the slightest attempt to conjure a spirit to his rescue : but,
alas ! forgetful of all his masonic defences, he died ; he
basely died !
Why did not this man of authority rebuke with authori-
ty the folly of the fellow crafts 1 Morgan could say, in his
last moments, " If you talte my life, it will be more injury
to you than all I can write or say ;" and there was the force
• Reader, this i.e faithful to the tradition, however the tradition may be
to the truth.
14
o191tized by Coogle
-.ail
)()(j St:BLI.ME DEGREE OF ~USTER ~USOX.
of truth in that appeal ; but the Grand Master had better
been inurn, than answer as he did in the weakness ofhis fear.
Yet this answer, (not lawful for me to repeat,) which is
too simple for a fellow craft to have given under reversed
circumstances, which is only an humble entreaty to the ruf·
fians, begging them to wait a time with patience, and M·
pire to perfection by good works, the Grand Master gave•
(no doubt the Masonic accowll is correct,) three times
8Ucceuivel!f, without variation.
"Sic, sic juvat ire aub umbras."
So, even so, it pleased him to die.
Why did he not utter one groan in "the universal lan-
guage of Masons 1"
Surely that would have restored their senses, and their
reverence for the Most Excellent Grand Master. A short
speech in that tongue might have calmed their fierce spi·
rits. He was very much to blame for neglecting all his
means of defence. Ah, why not try " the facultie ofl·
Abrac," "the art of wonder-working," "and exhibit the
power of the masonic word." Why did not he take up
some implement of masonry, and parry a blow, if he could
not strike one1
The ruffians set upon him, not in a company, but singly,
and gave him ample time to bethink himself between their
several assaults; but he, not having in mind "the art of
foresaying things to come,"* was surprised, "as if a mwt
did flee from a lion and a bear met him," and flying under
the stroke ofthe carpenter's square, he attempted to es-
cape by the Krest,t where no door was, and fell under the
blow of the mallet: when, at the North, there was a door,
wtd no rllffian on that side of the temple! How faithful
'*Book or Constitutions,p. UJ. F. M. L. p. 11.
i I wiah to be very preciae in the statement or facta ; and as there is a di-
veraity in the traditions with respect to the door at which Hiram Abifffell,
it may be proper to state, that "Jachin and Boaz" re&etohe<l the writer's
memory on this topic., ·
o191tized by Coogle
-·- -
-- -·
DEATH OF TJIE GRAKD MASTER. lOi
are thy traditions, 0 Free Masonry! And dtis is the exhi-
bition of " an instance of virtue, fortitude, and integrity,
unparalleled in the history of man." (.~Iasonic Chart.)
" An instance of virtue, fortitude, and integrity, seldom
equalled, and never excelled, in the history of man !" (Mas.
Monitur.)
.. H&il, mytterioual hail, glorious Maaonry !
"That makes us ever great and free."-F•.M. L. p. 3iit.
The manner of first receiving the master's grip, and the
accompanying five points offellowship, is easily recollected
by every master mason ; and when it is considered that the
first performers of this singular ceremony, were no less
persons than Solomon, king of Israel, and the corpse of a
man now 14 or 15 days dead, a corpse sofar changed tl1at
the fellow crafts who opened the grave were compelled, 011
.first coming to the body, to give a significant sign ofits mor-
tified state, the most credulous must see that the tradition
smells of falsehood, and is utterly shocking to common
sense.
".1\Jortua quin etiam jlllliebat corpora vivis,
.. Componens m11nibusque manus, atque oribus ora
" Complexu in miaero.".......£n. vili.436.
·• The living and the dead, at his command,
"Were coupled face to face, and hand to hand."-Drgi.m.
Yet it has been repeated for years, and will be repeated
for years to come, by men of understanding, to curious
novices, with perfect gravity, and with solemn and reitera-
ted "assurances of its undeniable truth!""' It may, how-
ever, be hoped there will in future be some choking, when
they give to the candidate the lion's paw .and the five
points offellotoship.
Such are the" incongruities" of the historical tradition
belonging to the sublime degree of mtUter mason ; enough,
it must be confessed, tojustify the "embarrassment" of our
*Dalcho, p. 44.
o191tized by Coogle
~~ SUBLIME DEOREE OJo' MASTER MASON.
"Sovereign Inspector General;" while he, as master
ef a lodge, might be relating it " to a minister of the
holy word, or to any other gentleman of science;" enough
to justify his honest exclamation, " As well might we be-
lieve that the sun travels round the earth, instead of the
earth around the sun, as to believe in all the incongruities
which have been (and are) taught to masons in the symbo-
lic degrees."
--"Nil fuit unquam
.. Sic impu sibi."
Never was any thing so contradictory. (Dalcho's Ora-
tions, p. 55.)
Thus I have treated of different topics in the most im-
portant, and only important tradition of masonry within
the lodges, in the order they have occurred, and not in the
order of their relation or accidence ; for I would not seem
unnecessarily to t~ay any thing, by which the empty tales
and pretended mysteries of the order should be, in propria
persona, exhibited to view ; and this, not for the sake of
vain masonry, but for the sake of those obligations, which,
blindfold, were taken, and ought to be kept with the eyes
open. Masons who recollect the story, will, with little
labour, understand these comments, and easily yield to
their accuracy and fidelity.
But suppose every idle word of this " story, founded on
the grossest errors of accumulated ages,"* were history,
what would the whole be worth, brother1 · The sitting up
of nights to learn 1 the monthly assembling to repeat? the
laughable simplicity to admire 1 Children have a play per-
formed by the repetition of fearful words with the eyes
shut in a lonely room, which has an effect a thousand times
more impressive than, not to say this tradition, but than all
the jargon of the sublime degree put together.
• Bov. !011. Gen. Dr. Dalcbo,&c.
o191tized by Coogle
MASONIC DEGRII:ES.
Old grandfather grey-beard,
Without tooth or tongue, &c.
100
But suppose the tale, entire, or in one of its parts, were
as true as that the earth revolves round the sun, what is it
worth 1 We have seen its total want of ingenuity in the
contrivance, and of wit in the result; it is no better calcu-
lated to excite deep emotions, than the palsy to animate the
dying frame ; its efforts to be solemn are too shallow to
affect the heart of a child; and, altogether, it is like to the
ancient master's word, which, in the language of our Sovc-
~eign Grand Inspector General, " is, in fact, not a word, but
merely a jumble of letters forming a sound without mean-
ing." (Dalcho's Ora. p. 22.)
CHAPTER XVIII.
" Pray, where are your tools,
"Your line and plumb rules?
" Each man to his work let him stand, boye ;
"Work solid and sure,
"Upright and aecure,
" And your building be sure will bo atrong, boys.,.
H.-.vtNG completed an examination ofthe several degrees
of Masonry within ·the lodges, in relation to their preten-
sions individually, I propose now to review them collec-
tively.
The threedegrees are emblematic of three divine dispen-
sations of grace, the Antediluvian, the Mosaic, and the
Christian. (New Mon. Smith, cj-Hutchinso11.)
"The first degree inculcates the religion of naturf\ thP.
o191tized by Coogle
110 MAIIO~H; l>£UREES.
existence of a God, and our duty to him, and to our fellow
men." Its moral lessons are generally excellent in their
selection, and plain in their application. All their excel-
lence, however, is as free of Masonry a11 the cloak is free of
the back it covers ; it forms no part of the man, nor does
the character of the wearer affect the value of the cloak.
Masonry has adopted many perfect rules of conduct ; but
they will live when she is dead ; they will feel no pang when
she expires. .
The mockery of truth and Heaven, by the prayer found
in the Book of Constitutions, and Monitor, and Chart, as
already quoted; which is found also in Calcott's Disquisi-
tions, p. 199. " Endue him with divine wisdom, that he
may, with the secrets of Masonry, be able to unfold the
mysteries of Godliness and Christianity;" found also in the
Masonic Manual, p. 137., is a presumptuous and deceitful
supplication, as every novice does seriously fear by the end
of the first lodge night.
But, bid on all hands to smother his fears, and to advance
to the sublime degree of a Mmter MtUon,"' before he in-
dulges his disappointment, the candidate becomes a fellow
craft.
, This is the degree which treats of the five senses, the five
orders of architecture, and the seven liberal arts and sci-
~nces, if we can believe the testimony of the Chart, Moni-
tors of all descriptions, Manual of Masonry from p. 169. to
189., and Preston 62. to '72., and Book ofCons. S. C. p. 62.
to 85., and F. M. Library, 165. to 180. ; and contains espe-
cially, that singular art of discovering divine truth by geo-
metrical solutions. (New Mon. p. 157.)
Summing up the particulars taught in this degree, Mr.
Preston gravely adds : " Besides a complete theory of phi-
losophy and physics, this lecture contains a regular system
* Thia ia the com_
mon term among masonic authol'l for the third clepe.
o191tized by Coogle
MASOXIC DEGREE~. 111
of science, demonstrated on the clearest principles, and etl-
tablished on the firmest foundation.,.,
Morals in the first degree, physics, and all the arts and
sciences, in the second, or fellow craft's degree, history
alone is left for the master's degree; and Masonry, being
"wisely planned to please the accomplished scholar,"
(Mon., Preston <$- Co.) in this degree, "recites the tradi-
tions of the order, and presents to view a finished picture
of the utmost consequence to the fraternity;" viz. that" in-
. stance of virtue, fortitude and integrity" exhibited in the
death of Hiram Abiff.
All this is done in the three first degrees, it would seem,
by the words of these masonic authors ; what is left for the
remaining degrees to teach? We have the mark master's
next; suppose that teaches " the universal language which
sunived the confusion of Shinar, (i.e. Babel,) and, to our
great consolation, has been handed down to posterity."t
(Hutchinson's Sp. of Masonry, p. 6. and 131.)
The alphabet of this strange tongue would be enough,
perhaps, for the mark degree ; and as even that is not
taught in the lodges, it would seem inexcusable to post-
pone it longer.
The past master's degree may teach the grammar of the
same tongue. The most excellent masters will translate a
little, the royal arch will pursue the same study for aught
I see, in the want of something else to do, and the royal
* Book of Const. B. C. p. 85. F. M. Library, p. 178. same words.
t " Tradition wo•lld deliver down the doctrines of our lint parents with
the utmost truth and certainty, whilst the Antediluvians enjoyed the lon-
gevityof which the books of M0888 give evidence; bot when men came to .
multiply on the earth, and were dispersed to the distant regions of the
globe, then the inestimable leaomrof EIIOWL&DOI!! and TaVTB taught by the
first men, fell into confusion ud corruption, and were retained pore, and
in perfectioa, but by fe'IJ'. Those few, to our great consolation, havehuad-
ed them down to afterages; they also retained the universal language,un-
corrupted with the confusion of the plains of Shinar, and preserved it to
postority."-Hutchimon'• Sp. Ma1.
Digitized by Coogle
112 MASONIC DEGREES.
master's and the select master's degrees are yet to come;
and a whole lot of sublime and ineffable degrees.
Perfect Master.
Intimate Secretary.
Provost and Judge.
Intendant of the Buildings.
Elected Knights of 9.
Illustrious Elected of 15.
Sublime Knight Elected.
Grand Master Architect.
Perfection.
One would suppose it were time to stop at this degree,
but it is numbered in the list of the Sov. Ins. General only
14; and 19 degrees lie beyond perfection ! This is genuine
Free Masonry, that began before time, and reaches-perfec·
tion before it is half finished !
Knight of the East.
Prince of Jerusalem.
Prince of Mercy.
Knight of the Sun, &c. &c. to the
33d Degree, entitled, Sovereign Grand Inspector
General.
But even this is not enough. " Besides those degrees
which are in regular succession, most of the inspectors are
in possession of a number of detached degrees, given in
different parts of the world ; and which they generally com-
miJilicate free of expense to those brethren who are advan-
ced enough to understand them ; such as select Masons of
27, and the royal arch, as given under the constitution of
Dublin; six degrees of Ma~onrie d'Adoption, Compagnon
Ecossais, Le Maitre Ecossais, et le Grand Maitre Ecos-
sais, &c. &c. making in the aggregate 53 degrees." (Dal-
cho'& Oration&, p. 80.)
Shall we laugh, or shall we weep 1 Ridicule loses its
edge when in contact with a matter 19 degrees above per-
fection, besides twenty collateral degrees. I have no
D1g1tized by Coogle
MASUNI(; lJI!:GREES, ua
heart to laugh. Well said the psalmist in his haste,
" All men are liars." Yea, and
"What man, eeeing this,
"And having human feelings, does not bluah
"And hang hia head, to think himself a man.''
Yet to weep over human folly is of little use ; our sym-
pathy is misplaced, and the evil rarely corrected. Better
laugh it down where we can. No subject was ever fitter
for this kind of treatment than Free Masonry. The ge-
nius of Cervantes and of Butler would find in it ample scope
for exercise.
" In all tho fabric
" You llhall- not onntone, nor a brick,
" But all of wood, by powerful epell
" Of magic. made impregnable :
"There's neither iron bar nor gate,
" Portcullis, eh&iu, nor bolt, norgrate,
"And yet men durance tbero abide,
"In dungeons scarce l.\Jree inches wide;
" In circle magical confined,
" With walls of subtle air and wind."*
What can Masons be employed in learning on these
higher degrees ? What, above the third degree? They
have mastered natural religion and moral philosophy, in
the first ; all the liberal arts and sciences in the se-
cond ; and are furnished with an ample specimen of
the faithfulness of masonic tradition in the third. Now
what should they go higher for 1 What can they learn
when exalted 1 They must be out of matter and mind be.
fore they reach the 7th degree, were each degree as im-
portant as the first and second. What can they be doing
in the sublime degrees? Not reviewing the studies of the·
lower degrees, surely, for it is impossible to review what
"' Hudibras' Enchanted Castle.
15
o191tized by Coogle
.......,
114 MASONIC DIOB&£:i,
lias never been examined. It is difficult to conceive what
they are doing, unless they are helping the lodges, as
Harry and Dick were helping John to do nothing.
It must strike every one as mysterious, that all the liberal
art1 and 8cience1 should be huddled into one degree of Ma-
sonry, and that the 1econd. With proper economy they might
have been distributed among the 33 or 53 degrees of the
order, and have served a valuable purpose as preteRBions;
but, crowded together where they are, they choke our cre-
dulity with their prodigious bulk, and leave the superior de-
grees destitute of the semblance of an art or science to
support life and character. This shows that the higher de-
grees are illegitimate children, having a shelter under the
paternal roof, but not a cent of the inheritance.
And now, reader, we have traveDed through the lodges~
with a ·short flight to the sublime degrees, carefully inspect-
ing the pretensions of Free Masonry, and exposing her va-
nity and emptiness.
And where is the knowledge given, the desire of which
the candidate for Masonry is made to say, prompts him to
seek admission to the lodge ?-(Book of Cons. of Ma~s.
p. 4.)
"Masonry is a progressive science." (Preston. Webb's
Monitor, chap. 10. F. M. Library, p. 165, &c. &c.) The
thing we have examined together, dear reader, a science!
Who would have thought it, had not the books repeatedly
assured us of the fact? " It beeth the skylle of nature,
the understoneying of the myghte that is hereinne, and its
sondrye workynge8 ;" " the arte of fyndynge new artes,
which arte the first Masonnes receaved fromme Godde, by
which they findeth whatte artes hem plesetbe, and the trew
waye of tecbynge the same." (Book of C(JIU. of MtUs.
pp. 15. and 19. F. M. Library, pp. 9. and II., Prest(m,
b. 3. sec. 1.)
Ma~onry includes within its circle almost eN~ry branch of
polite learning; under the veil of its 'nysteries is compre·
hmdecl CJ rep~ B!JMem of scienfe. Thi!l is not falsely
o191tized by Coogle
MASONIC DEGREES. 115
mocking Free Masonry, but these are her own words, firtt
published in the Illustrations of Masonry, book 2. sec. 4.
copied by Webb, with the sanction of the Grand Chapter
of R.I. (Webb's Monitor, chap. 10. p. 50.) and inserted in
the Free MtUon's Library, p. 165. with the sanction of
the Grand Lodge of Maryland.
Nor does Free Masonry leave to blind conjecture the cir-
cle of polite learning included within her lectures. She
kindly enumerates in her official records, "the artes agri-
cuhura, archit.ectura, ast.ronomia, geometria, numeres, mu.
sica, poesie, kymistrie, government, and religionne." (Free
.;.ltason's Library, p. 10. Book cif Const. ofMass. p. 16. or
17.) Also," grammar, rhetoric, and logic." (Hardie's Mon.
Webb's Mon. Tapnehill's Manual. Cross's Chart, &c.
and the F. M. Library, p. 174.)
Neither does her amiable condescension forsake us here.
What man, without her kind aid, could guess ~he nature of
that.regular system of science comprehended-finder t-/le veil
of Iter "'!Jderies? Her circle ofpolite learning mighJ have
been, in some part, within the scope of human calculation;
musjca and poesie, not to mention agricultura and rely-
gyonne; but only the art of.finding netD art11 could tc!l Ull
the ay11tem of science which follows, viz. " The arte ofwun·
derwurkinge, and of foresaying things to come, the way of
winninge ~e facuhie of Abrac, (magi<?,) the skill of be-
coming gude and parfyghte witbouten the holpynges of
fere and hope, the uniyellJalle ~~~age of Ma&4.>pnes."
We J;Qust believe all this, since she ~rself sQJemnJy de-
clares it in tile /Jook of Com. cif Mass. p. J9. .f. ¥. J.i-
iw'f.ltY, p. 11.; Hordie's Mo,~#or; Calcott's ./)irquisit~;
llutCAi1J6on's Spirit cif Masonry; Preston'slUustratitnuof
Ma~onry. b. 3. s. 1., and in Gr~enleaf's Brief l11l[UWy, p. 8fl.
o191tized by Coogle
llH Fl\F.E JIB~6:\"RT.
CHAPTER XIX.
" Come then, brethren, lead along
" Social rites and my&tic song !
" Tho' nor Madam, Mia, nor Be!ll!.
" Could our myst'ries ever guess;
" Nor could ever learned divine
" Sacred Masonry define ;
" Round our order close we bind,
" Laws of Jove to all mankind;
" Thus like elves in mystic ring,
" Merry Masons drink and sing:•
" A LODGE is a place where .Masons assemble and work;
hence that assembly, or duly organized society of Masons,
is called a lodge,• and every brother ought to belong to ~me,
and be subject to its by-laws anrl general regulations.
" A lodge ought to assemble for work at least once in
every calendar munth, anrl must consist of one master, two
wardens, (senior and junior,) one !4ecrP-tary, one treasurer,
two deacons, one or more stewards, a tyler, and as many
members as the master and the majority of the lodge shall 1
think proper; although more than forty or fifty are gene-
rally found inconvenient for workmg to advantage ; and,
therefore, when a lodge comes to be numerous, some of
the ablest master workmen, and others under their direc-
tion, will obtain leave to separate, and apply to the grand
lodge for a warrant to work by themselves, in order to the
advancement of the craft.
" Every member of a working lodge should be a Master
Mason."-Book of Cons. pp. 42, 43.
• " l!lo, the word church is expre.ive both of the congregation and the
place of wonhip."-Book of Cm~. p. 42.
Digitized by Coogle
A LODGE. ll7
The duty of the several officers, chosen annually, is next
defined at length.
" The master has it in special charge, to see that all the
by-laws of his lodge, as well as the general regulations
from the grand lodge, be duly observed, that his wardens
discharge their office faithfully," &c. &c.-Book of Cons.
p.44.
He has the generaf authority of president of a society.
" or THE WARDENS Or A LODGE.
·• None but Master Masons can be wardens of a lodge.
.. The senior warden succeeds to all the duties of the mas-
ter, and fills the chair, when he is absent."
" The business of the wardens in the lodge is, ·generally
. to assist the master in conducting the business, and mana-
ging the craft, in due form and order, when the master is
present."-Book of Cons. pp. 46, 47.
The secretary and treasurer perform the duties usually
implied in their offices.
" OF THE DEACONS OF A LODGE.
" The deacons are to assist the wardens in the execution
of their duty, to examine and welcome visiting brethren, to
prepare candidates, and to perform such othtlr serv1ces aro
are assigned them.
" STEWARD.
" The stewards are to provide refreshment, and make a
reg\Ilar report of the expense to the treasurer, and. to see
that the regalia (furniture) of the lodge are in good order.
and always ready for use.
" OF THE TYLER OF A LODGE.
" In order that due decorum be observed, while the lodge
is engaged in what is serious and solemn, and for the pre-
servation of secresy and good harmony, a brother who is
skilled in the tt~Q~Ur's part, shall be appointed and paid for
Digitized by Google
• • • •• 1
FREE MASONRl',
tyling the lodge door during the time of communication."
Book of Cons. pp. 49, 50.
Such are the materials of a Lodge of Master Masons,
for each of the three fint degrees constitutes a lodge by it·
seU: The apprentices' lodge is .free to fellows and mas·
ters; the fellow crafts' lod"ge is frt*l to masters, while ap-
prentices are excluded; and the masters' lodge excludes
both apprentices and fellows, until they are raised, accord-
ing to the ancient usages, to the sublime degree of a mastet·
mason. Members ofchapters, encampments, councils, &c.
&e., must of necessity have reached the upper degrees by
passing regularly through the lower ; and as all above have
a right in the degrees below, they may visit in, and be
members of lodges of master masons. But observe, that
none can open a mast~>r's lodge on a degree above the
third degree in Masonry.
The degrees above are a late invention, and belong to
the chapters, &c.; with them I have nothing to do :-let
them live ; the three first degrees, which are embodied
in lodges, and governed by the officers here explained, arc
alone under consideration.
The lodges thus constituted, nncl required " to assemble
for work at least once in every calendar month," (Cons. p.
42.) do nothing unknown to the public except during com-
munication. The season of communication opens and clo-
ses with ceremonies, improper for a Mason to discoYer, be-
cause he has' bound himself by oath not to discm'er them
except to a brother Mason. But no doubt I may copy
from the Free Mason's Monitor.
"To conduct (these ceremonies) with propriety ought to
be the peculiar study of every Mason, especially of those
who have the honour to rule in our assemblies.
" From a share in (them) no Mason can be exempted. It
is a general concern in which all must assisl This'(cere·
mony of opening the lodge) is the first request of the mas·
t<•r, nnd the prelude to all businCE~s. No soonerhas it been
o191tized by Coogle
A LODGE. 119
signitied, than every officer repairs to his station, and the
brethren rank according to their degrees, (1st, 2d, 3d deg.)
" The intent of the meeting be_comes the sole·object of
attention, and the mind is insensibly drawn.from those indis-
criminate subjects of conversation which are apt to intrude
on our Je8s·serious moments." (F. M. Mon. part 1. ch. 5·
Pruton, b. 2. sec. 3.) ·
We have noticed in Lancasterian, and Monitorial, and in
infants' schools, at a stroke of the master's bell, the whole
school rise, and at a word extend the right arm smartly, and
then the left: with a finger touch the right ear, then the
left cheek: then clap their hands merrily. Thia was the
prelude to some business, and served the purpose of gain-
ing the attention of the children. Its striking similarity,
both in manner and design, to the masooic ceremonies of
opening and closing the lodges of the different degrees,
would induce one to think it must have been adopted from
the lodges into the schools ; but in the schools it has an im-
provement in respect to simplicity, nnd in being a prelude
to business of importance.
A lodge of masters does never regularly open on the third
degree, until after having ceremoniously opened and closed
the two preceding. In this way apprentices lltld fellow
crafta are regularly paid their wages and dismissed, leaving
the masters to themselves. But any business properly be-
longing to a particular degree, is done while the lodge is
open on that degree, that all interested may have qn op-
portunity to act.
What can the lodges be doing one night in a month ?
Every soeiety, whether of agriculturists, mechanics, or
philanthropists, will find something to entertain and engage
them when they meet in conclave. They have by-laws to
make and repeal, and enforce and waive ; and so have the
lodges. They have each peculiar interests to look after.
Masonry has hers, and takes this opportunity to drill her
votaries on the manual exercises of the craft, by which one
is f'nablcd to prove. and to pro\'e himself, a brother; em-
o191tized by Coogle
......
·.... fit
. .. .
~-
120 FR&J,! IIASONRL
bracing the pass-words, signs, tokens, words, grips, due
guards, &c. ; also, to instruct her sons in her catechism,
and heremblems, (iftime permits,) and in her tradition.•
She deals in this kind of lore, which is in some of its
parts good ; but as a whole, is empty ; is no better, as one
!lays, than teaching to put away folly and sin by the emblem
of a pair of snuffers, which (in the style of the Monitor)
are used by operative Masons for the purpose of topping a
light to increase its brilliancy : " but we, cu speculative Ma-
80118, use them for the more noble and glorious purpo1e" of
topping our vanity, that the light of our honest example
may the more brilliantly shine to the glory of the craft,
which knows how to derive the mblimut morah from the
trowel and the hammer, the plumb-line and the hand-saw.
These things would not keep men together long even-
ings once in a month, nor bring them together, only as they
serve another tum. In the lodge the politician gains in-
fluence, the tradesman makes friends and customers, the
mechanic secures employers, and various minds in various
callings meet and communicate upon various interests, with
a good degree of freedom, and confidence, and social plea-
sure. They pay no more respect to vain Masonry than this r
she brings them together, and helps them each to gain his
own ends, only demanding from him in return, that atten-
tion to her forms and ceremonies which is necessary to her
existence, and that they give. It is a school of discipline
to the ambitious ; an apology for an entertainment to the
convivial ; and a distinguished opportunity for the selfish, as
well as a season of recreation to the labourer.
To initiate, pass, and raise candidates for the different de-
grees, takes up no small part of the time of twelve e~ening~;
in a year. For then·all the ceremonies and emblems, &c.
att.ached to the degree must properly be repeated and exhi-
bited to the novice ; and these ceremonies are so long as
- - - -·--------- -
- ----- --------- -------
<A view of the catcchi~m and tradition are eecn in c third degrct•.
o191tized by Coogle
-' LO.DG.F.. 121
to be quite tedious, were it not for the interestfelt in observ-
ing t.IJeir effect on the candidate : as a jockey will, some·
times, when purchasing a strange hor~e. suddenly bray boo
in his face to test his courage.
" In lodges I have been,
" And all their rites have seen," &:c.
It will not seem strange to the reader, that the time should
be fully taken up with these things one evening in a month,
when he recollects, that Masonry intrusts nothing to wri-
ting which relates to her numerous signs,- tokens, &c. and
to her varied catechisms and lectures, and to her tradition.
It must all be learned by dictation, and that is no small
affair, especially when it is considered how much more diffi-
cult to commit a senseless thing is, than any matter of com-
mon sense, and of impressive import.
Few men, havingon hand the usual cares oflife, can afford
time for the tedious operation ; but young minds, aspiring
to the official stations of the lodge, and to be distinguished
in the crowd on some public occasion, as great .Masons,
apply themselves to the task, day by day, and night after
night, and make suitable proficiency.
This is called lecturing, because the advanced Mason dic-
tates while the others learn.
I hope it is no breacl1 of trust in me, no contempt of my
masonic obligations, to say, that the rehearsal of tl1e1e
tl1ings, accompanied by the exercise of tlte manual, consti-
tutes that business in modern lodges signified by the word
work-work over which the m~ter presides, and in which
all the br~thren assi:tt. The term makes an important figure
in the treatises on Masonry ; and while every one may
know, from the stillness of the lodge room, that the temple
of the lodges, like that of our ancient grand master, is
erected without the sound of a hammer; and from the state
of the room after the lodge have retired, that no rubbish is
there sufficient to conceal the baseness of any improperly
Hi
Digitized by GoogIe
,
FREE JIUS()NRV.
aspiring ftUow crafts of this generation ; and so, that the
term work, as used by modem artists, must have a significa-
tion different from its common acceptation ; yet one would
scarcely suspect it had an application so very humble, as to
11ignify the dictation or repetition of the masonic catechism,
and the rehearsal of all those senseless peculiarities by
which Masonry entwines her votaries of ·every country in
one mystic band ; but it does mean neither more nor less.
I have pleasure, for the sake of my friends in the lodges,
of stating one other employment which much better occu-
pies a portion of their time. It is the exercise of that
grace which cover.s a multitude of sins. The fees of ad-
mission are not uniform throughout the country, but they
every where amount to a large sum, a part of which goes
to erect and to furnish the hall, to purchase the regalia,
&c., and another part to support and comfort poor widows
and orphans of Masons. This is a charity confined to it.~
circle, and useful there ; and though limited in its opera-
tions, and sometimes perverted from its course, it does go
far to engage friends of a pure purpose to the support of
the'institution, go far to cover the nakedness of the lodges,
and may serve as an open door for any to escape whole
from the tottering edifice who will ; but as true charity is
not dependent upon any invention of man, it is unneces-
sary, for its sake, to sacrifice immutable truth to Free Ma-
sonry.
[The reader may recollect the anecdote of the charity
fund of the Grand Lodge of England building in part the
splendid Masons' Hall, London: and a1so, the remains of
Col. Webb, brought from Ohio, and buried, at great expense
t~ the lodges.]
o191tized by Coogle
U&JUI8TT'5 AHlMAN 1\EZctN. 123
CHAPTER XX.
A. R. 26. 193. Brick and Mortar origin of tl1e " Divipe
Craft."
" flail Masonry ! thou craf\ divine !
" Glory ofearth, from heaven revealed !
"Which doth with jewet. precioua shine,
.. From all but Masons' eyes concealed."
Cakott'• DilfuUitim.~, p. !31.
1T is important to the truth, that clear proof be furnished.
of the brick and mortar origin of the .. divine craft;" that
~ithin a hundred years, it has assumed its heavenly charac-
ter, has exalted itselfabove all principalities of the earth_,
and now spurns its honest progenitors.
The high claims have come in abtmdance ; now follow
some extracts ofa more humble character. They are taken
from an ancient author, already quoted in these pages, and
again to be quoted, Lawrence Dermott, whose work has
high celebrity among Masons, and is entitled, .. Ahlman
Rezon," tile most truly masonic name ofany author I have
read.• The edition I use, was printed in London, 1764.
The author assures us, in his preface, p. 15. .. In the follow-
ing sheets, I have inserted nothing, but what are undeniable
truths." He is not so desperate a foe to truth as some. He
sides with the ancient, in distinction from the modern Ma-
sons, and has not all the extravagance ofthe .. young archi-
* From this, t.be Book of Censtituiions ofSouth Carolin11 is ealled "Ahl-
man Rezon ;" and the second tille ofthe F. M. Library, whichis the Book
of Constitutio111 ofMaryland, is"Abiman Rezon ;,. "The F. M. L. and (U.
1\era.l Ahiman Rezon.''
.
-
o191tized by Coogle
ORIGIN OF FBEE .IUSONR1·.
tects," who wished to have dispensed with wearing aprons;
but he is not destitute ofgreat merit as a pretender. I find
the" New Monitor" indebted to him for the.pll88age quoted;
"The very enemies of Free Masonry, must own, that it is
the most renowned society that ever was, is now, or perhaps
ever wiU be, upon earth, as the following true description
.will clearly show :
"Hail mighty ART-gracious gift of heaven,
" To aid mankind by our Creator given :
" 'Twa. you alone which gave the ark ita form,
"Tht.t se.ved the faithful from the impending lltorm," &c.
True as Free Masonry.
The lines are too wretched to be endured, and yet the
.sentiment deserves notice, especially as, in conclusion, he
adds," But methinks I hear some say, if Free Masonry be
.such, the brotherhood are the happiest men Jiving ;" and he
would have us conclude that they are.
" A heavenly uk, to show God eand the lives
"OfMuona foei, likewi.e their happy lrives."
(Noe.b and his family.)
" Such are the bleRings of each time and MasOn,
" Which God hu promised to the maetar Muon.*
At the end of these profal!e lines, he has the following:
"None but strangers to the craft, and ungenerous enemies
to good society, will doubt the veracity of what is here in·
serted concerning Free Masonry." But let not the reader
be out ofconceit of this Ahiman Rezon ; it is one ofthe least
offensive, on the whole, of any masonic treatise I have read,
and gives the following-
* Muonic poeta be.vo followed the opinion ofan ancient Jesuit, who eay1,
Que Ia Sorbone n'a. point de jurildiction sur le Pa.ma-; et que lee erreurs
de ce pt.yl la ne BODt eujettes, ni aux Censures, ni a !'Inquisition. " As if
men ware fqr~idden to be impioDII and bla.ephemoua in prO&e only."-PtU·
char• Lettrt• Prllllincialu, p. 221.
o191tized by Coogle
l>EIUlOTT's AHlMAN BEZON.
•· Charge for the management of the craft in working;"
which will mightily help to discover the true origin of the
order.
' 1 AU Masons ahould work hard and honestly on working
days, that they may live reputably, and appear iD a decent
and becoming manner on holidays," &c. Work means
work in this charge ; but preserved in modern lodges, it
means nothing and less; if it bore some proportion to play,
it were a redeeming quality in the modem masonic appli-
cation of the term; but it is a true minus quantity, difficult
for beginners to understand, and serving the expert Mason
in a pinch, as x serves an algebraist, for any unknown thing.
" A master Mason only must be the surveyor or master
of the work, who shall undertake the lord's work reasona-
bly, shall dispend his goods as if they were his own, and .
shall not give more wages than are just to any fellow or
apprentice." [A. Rezon, p. 28.]
Master Masons were the highest needed in that age.
Men would not then have known at ·what employment to
set a royal arch. It will appear in due season, that masters
in that day alone had charge of the work; and that "the
holy royal arch," and all the sublime degrees, have had
their being since the time, when the landlord's work in
stone masonry began to be pcn:erted for l1er profit and
pr~e, to the Lord's work in Free Atlasonry. "Mark, Jew !"
·: " The mask!r and the masons shall faithfully finish the
lord's work, whether task or journey ; nor shall they take
work at task, which hath been accustomed to journey. (A.
Rezon, p. 28.)
It was evidently the design of these ancient mechanics
to favour a system of rules and prices of work, which they
call journey ·work, in opposition to task work, or work, the
price of which was to be agreed upon without reference to
the fixed rates of the craft.
"None shall show envy at a brother's prosperity, uor sup-
plant him, nor put him out of his work, if capable to finish
it. AU Masons shall meekly receive their wages without
D1g1tized by Goog~~
'
r
J..
126 ORIOIN OJ' J'REE MASONRY.
murmuring, or mutiny; and not desert the master till the
lord's work is finished," &c.; matter enough to prepare the
reader for the proof yet to be given of the very recent ori-
gin of the "Noachidae and ·the science ,_,..,..,: I am in
the midst of heaven.
It is evident that their emblems were derived, with their
ceremonies, and charge, and aprons, from the men who
work in brick and stone and mortar.
This truth beautifully illustrates another which has been
charged to the vanity of the craft, viz. that the lamb skin,
or white leather apron, the badge of Masons,is more ancient
than the goi<Jen fleece or Roman eagle, more honourable
than the star and garter, &c.
" Our leather aprona we compare
" With garters red 1111d blue;
" P~incea and kings our brothcl'll are,
" While they our rules pul'IIUe."-Pruton, p. 396.
We may say with Teresa to her loving spouse, Sancho
Panza,· " What covers, discovers thee." Substitute sheep
skin, for lamb skin apron, (the badge of a stone Mason, no
""Ahiman Rezon, p. !4, eays: " A Muon is obliged by his tenure to ob-
serve tho moral law, as a true Noachida," which he explains in a note,
" Sons of Noah, the first name of Free Muons." And in this he is follow-
ed by the New Monitor, p. 109. I am bold to follow 10 high masonic autho-
rity, notwithstiUiding a trifling dilemma in which it aeema involved; n~t
unlike that of the origin of the royal arch degree. Maeonie history
...erta, that Adam and hu 10n1 teere Free JlltUOft.l; it would eeem 11bsurd,
then, to eay that Noaehida, was the jint name of Free Muoha. But,
donbtlOIIS, that Mesourani&, which unites men of the most oppoeite tenets
in one eacred b1111d, can reconcile this diaerepiUice with perfect harmony.
" 'Tis .Maeonry unites llliUikind ;
" To generous actions forms the eon! ;
" In friendly convel'llll all conjoined,
"Onespirit animates the whole."-Old Song.
o191tized by Coogle
HUTCHINSON'S SPIRIT OF )USONRY. 127
doubt, since rocks were handled by architects,*) and the
vanity of the pretension sinks into the most lowly humility,
and its seeming falsehood is converted into self-evident
truth.
The Roman eagle did not,,like the royal arch, have being
before ,its parents, the Romans, nor until some thousand
years after brick and mortar Masons wore good 11heep skin
aprons.
" The curioUB vulgar could never devise
" Wbat social Free MaeoUB so rapturously prizc,
• No human conjecture, no etudy in echooJ. :
" Such fruitl8811 attempts are the efForts of foot.."
.AAiman&~on.
eHAPTER XXI.
Prevarications of Free Masonry.
" Pray make no mistake,
" But tru~ your joints break,
" And take care that you follow your leaders ;
" Work, rake, back, aud tueth,
" And make your work smooth,
" And be sure that you fill up your headers."
.Ahiman Ruon.
'rHE ceremonies and emblems of Masonry are indicative
of its origin and character. It began with labourers, men
* The newly initiatod brother ill girded with the emblem of innocence,
more anci"nt than tbe tower of Balnl, more honourable than the imperial
dignity.-Smith'• M1110nry, p. 297.
o191tized by Coogle
128 ORIGIN OF FREE MASONR L
who with muscular arm wielded the setting mall, handled
the trowel, and wore their sheep-skin aprons with unaffect-
ed grace. And to operative Masons, who know the use of
plumb lines and squares, shovels and commongavels, rough
ashier, perfect ashier, and t~estle board, the ceremonies
of Masonry may in some parts be delightful and pro-
~table. Such will enjoy the lines placed at the head of this
chapter.
True Masons know the meaning of the lines, and relish
them. But pretended Masons, ignorant of the art, would
understand, "True your joints break," in a literal sense;
and so pretend broken limbs. " Take care that you follow
your leaders," they would separate from all connexion with
operative Masonry, and apply it as a rule to obey the grand
officers.
"Work, rake, back, and tueth :"
that would be to them t!te .<;erret: a mystery inexplicable.
"And be sure that you fill up your headers,"
would be understood in a convivial sense.
A thousand times worse ·perverted is Free Masonry.
Having come into the hands of lords and gentlemen and
tailors, most of whom have not the smallest idea of the pe-
destal, column and entablature; the plinth, the die and the
surbase; and finding the terms of Masonry either vulgar, as
brick and mortar, or obscure, as "ledgers and putlocks,"
they think the very brick and mortar has some hidden mean-
ing, known only to the gifted Mason; and "the ledgers and
putlocks," (pudlogs. Walker,) are terms of the universal
language, which has come down to Masons uncorrupted
from the plains of Shinnr; and which they, poor fellows,
have not had opportunity to learn yet ; nnd so it is that the .
pla4I noun ·Masonry, which every child knows to mean the
art ofbuilding with brick, and stone, and mortar, is made to
come from the ;,Greek, M•nre•,..,; suM in medio (1ocl(;
:\nglice, I nm in the miilst of l1 NIU'TI. ( Hutclli11son '.<; Sp.
Digitized by Google
HUTCHINSON'S SPIRIT OF MASONRY.. 120
ill~as. P·. 15.) or; ~s Smith gives it, p. 35., "The original
names of Masons and Masonry may probably be derived
from M.,Jit"'• ~s arcana, aystery, and M~nr, sacris initiatus,
mysta, those imtiated mto sacred mylteries.,.
The humble origin of Free Masonry does not suit with
the high notions ofits white banded professors ;·and is used
as an argument even to prove the heavenly mystery of the
order. "Were we claimants," says Mr. Hutchinson," only
of the title of mechanics, we might have chosen as ancient,
and a more honourable branch of the arts or scienc~s." p.
159.
No doubt we might, and if itwere to do over again,
should; but it is done, and we must bear it. Mr. H. will
not bear it, however; he asserts, in the face ofall the insig-
nia of the lodge, and the trowels of the chart, and aprons of
the craft together, that "our mysteries are totally abstract·
edfrom the rules ofmechanics; they are not furnished with
any type, symbol, or character, but what appertains to de-
monstrate the seroants and devotees of the greal M·...,~-·"-
Sp. Mas. p. 159. .
" G11t1el, giJtlge, and plumb, and ltlld,
" All a.re quickly brought to uee;
" Th-, with WHI oflim a.nd trotllel,
"Wodut ofmoral worth produce."
But who is this Mr. Hutchinson, that holds the truth so
* "The 1r0rda muon ud miUIOIIfy, a.re but corruptions of other wordl,
IIGvirlg no rdalilm to edftieu. Maaon is, by aome, derived from the Greek
word, IIIGI and ,O:Zn, (qulllro salvum,) I deaire life or 14llllllion, and suppoled
·to allude to the situation of the candidate during some period ofthe ancient
ceremoniea. The term masonry seems but a. alight variation of the Groek
M•nt•-· <-in medio coeli) I am in lhe midn tf ~."~'
Briq lftquiry iMIIhe Origin afltl Prirlciplu t( Free .I'IIIIOJVy, p. 44.
" The name of muon is not to be considered in the contracted ~fa
builder of habitations; but figuratively, one, who by gradual advances in
IIUblime truths, and the varioUII arts and eciences, which Free Muonry in·
eulcates, is raised by regular cow.. to IIUch a degree of}M!rfection, u to be
replete witla ba.ppin- bimeelr, and extensively beneficial t~ othel'll." (Cttf-
cotfl .Dilquilitions, p.·76.)
17
..
o191tized by Coogle
ORIGJN OP PREE AIASONR t·.
lightly 1 Is he some Jachin and Boaz, diSowned by the fra-
ternity 1 Did the Masons kill him for a disgrace to the craft ?
No, no; what Mr. Hutchinson has written, was esteemed
"for her profit and praise," and is prefaced with the follow-
ing-
" SANCTION.
" Whereas brother William Hutchinson has compiled a
work, entitled, ' The Spirit of Masonry ;' and has requested
our sanction for the publication thereof; we, having perused
the suid book, and finding it will be of use to this society,
l'!o recommend the same.
" Petre, G. M.
" Rowland Holt, D. G. M.
· "Thomas Noel, S. G. W.
"John Hatch, J. G. W.
"Rowland Berkely, G. T.
:; James Heseltine, G. Sec."
Lord Petre is well known in tl1e annals of Masonry, as
Grand Master ofEngland, from 1772 to 1777 ; under whose
administration, the corner stone of Free Masons' Hall, Lon-
don, was laid.-Whew! Whew! Ofwhat ust> is reason to
such men; or argument against such folly? "Having
perused the book, do recommend the same." Let Ma-
sonry answer it.
The copy in my hands is an edition published at New-
York in 1800, and here follows a passage which the Lord
Petre and his grand officers must have read, and which
shows with what a determined spirit Mr. Hutdlinson closed
.his eyes to the truth, and hardened his heart in transgres-
sion, while he would prove Masonry to belong to Heaven,
and not to bricks and mortar.
" Our antiquity is in our principles, maxims, language,
learning, and religion; these we derive from Eden, (the
language of Eden in the lodges!) from the patriarchs, and
from the sag~ of the east, all which are made perfect un-
der the Christian dispensation. The light and doctrines
whieh we possess, arc derived from the beginning of time,
o191tized by Coogle
HUTCHINSON'S SPIRIT OF .ASCiiNAV. l31
and have descended through this long succession of ~!I
uncorrupted; but our modes andmanners are deducedfrotA
tlre different ertU of paradise, tile building of the tewtple al
Jerrualem, and the ChriBtian revelation." Three eru, one
for each of the three degrees.
If Mr. Hutchinson was mad, my Lord Petre, and Mr.
Holt, and Mr. Noel, &c. ought not to have recommended
his labour, and Mr. Preston should not have quoted his
work as follows: " Mr. Hutchinson, in his ingeniopa trea-
tise entitled, The Spirit of Ma6onry."• And, if Mr. H.
were in his right mind, he should not have asked the follow-
. ing questions, p. 170. " If our ceremonies mean not the
matter which I have expre88ed ; if they imply not the moral
and religious principles which I have endeavoured to unveil;
I ask you, MAsoNs, what they do imply, import or indi-
cate?"
·(Because they are senseless and ridiculous, he thinks
they must be unearthly, heavenly, divine.) '
•• Can wepresume so many·learned andnoble personages
would,for many successive ages, have been lteady members
of thefraternity, if the mysteries wereunimportant, and the
ceremonies U1lintelligible ? It cantWt be ; take away their
SPIRIT, and they become ridicuJoru."-Hutch. p. 171.
To learn the spirit of these ceremonies, I tum baek, ancl
on p. 170. I find, •• The Divinity looking down with an
eye of commiseration upon the deplorable state of man,
in his mercy and love, sent us a Redeemer and Mediator,"
&~. "In the MASTER's ORDER this whole doctrine is symbo-
* And the Grand Lodge of Maryland. •• The eulighteDed brother
Hutchinlon, in hia elaborate work entitled the Spirit of Muomy," p. 180.
F. M. Library. Again, p. 199., quoting from Mr. Hutchiu100'• Spirit of
Ma.onry, he ..,., " I again introduce the m08t rwpectable authority which
huenr fallan to my lot to pmue." Again, p. t90., "Theerudite pa-of
the author of the Spirito£ Muoory."
132 OlliGJN GF FllEE MASONRY.
lized, and the Christian conduct is by types preserved to
us."
Precisely as wind-mills were giants to the knight of La
Mancha.
Opportunity will offer more of Mr. H.'s views in the pro·
gress of th_is work. All comment upon them fails ; their
absurdity is unspeakable ; yet he has a.spark of sense left :
•• take away their sPIRIT," he says, frOm the ceremonies of
Masonry, " ad.tAey become ridiculoru." .
To save them from utter contempt, he persuades himself
they are symbols ofthe Redeemer's cross I
CHAPTER XXII.
1lltUOnic Ceremonies and'Emblems.
" Adam, well vened iD &118,
" Gave to hia 1001 the plumb and liniJ;
"By MaiOJilY,nge Tubal Cain
. " To the deep organ tan~ the ltr&in."-Wed:l.
IN showing the perversions of Masonry, these lines will
do well to head a chapter. In the mouth of a labouring
Mason they would not very much err from thetruth. Adam
lived to a great age, and it is not impossible that he taught
o191tized by Coogle
OllW!N OF FREE MASOl'iR \. 133
the inhabitants of the earth to rear houses, as well as to
plant gardens ; and this the poet may express without ol:
fence, as he has done.
" Adam, well ftnM in arta,
"Gave lo hia 801111 tbeplumbandlim.''
And, in the same manner, labourers might claim Tubal
Cain as a brother artist, for he was an imtructer of even;
artificer in bras1 and iron ;• but the moment any mystical
meaning is attached to the words, that moment they arc
made to utter falsehood. On the lips of labouring Masons
they have a literal, and natural, and honest meaning; but
with those, like Mr. Hutchinson, who cannot bear to think
ofany.thing beneath the highest display of Heaven's mercy,
in connexion with the paltry ceremonies of a nocturnal so-
ciety, they are made to mean science, and art, and magic,
and religion, indiscriminately, and the folly of one has been
so played off, as to beguile a thousand.
Previous to 1717, Masonry was this honest society of
labourers ; but then a change was introduced, and modern
or ~peculative :Masonry sprung up.
The lodges of operatit·e Masons did study geometry, to
improve them in their art, ns artists 'now study in the Me-
chanics' Institutes; but the new and accepted Masons
" thought expedient to aboliSh the old custom of studying
geometry in the lodge."t
From the operative character of the society-has arisen
an its rnystery to modern and speculative craftsmen.
The ancient regulation concerning qualifications for
membership are mysterious to the moderns, but capable of
an easy explanation in view of their original application.
"No person is capable of becoming a member of the
lodge, but such as are of mature age, upright in body and
* Gen. iv. !2. t Ahimaa Rezoa, p. 30.
I/'
D1g1tized by Gq_ogle
. I . - .__,.
~·-
ORIGIN OF FREE MASONRY,
limbs, free from bondage, have the senses of a man, and
are endowed with an estate, office, trade, or some visible
way of acquiring· an honest livelihood." Why might not
one have a crooked back or distorted arm, for all the pur-
poses of modern or speculative Masonry 1 They might,
they do ; but such would not have strength to labour in the
ancient lodges of operative masons.
These ancient charges are found in most manuals of Ma-
sonry. They are various, but gen~rnlly correspond with
the following,, extracted from" New Monitor," p. 208.
"Thirdly. You must conduct yourselves as men of ho·
nesty and integrity' and serve your master in such manner
as may be most conducive to his honour and profit."
" Sixthly. Wherever you go, you shall be careful to pay
for your board and lodging," &c.
" Some other charges, which equally demand your atten-
tion.
"First. No Mason should take upon him his master's
work, or any other person's, unless he is conscious to him-·
self that he is able to perform it in such manner as will not
injure the craft.
"Second. No master shall take work without a reasona-
ble compensation : n~r shall any master or fellow supplant
another in regard to employment.
" Third. He who shall be made a Mason, shall be free
born, of respectable parents : (llso, perfect and complete in
his limbs as a man ought to be.
"Fifth. No master or fellow shall put away any one's
work to task, which ought to be journey work.
" Sixth. Every master shall give pay to his fellows and
servants, according to their respective deserts.
" Thirteenth. Every master shall courteously receive a
strange brother, who may ha\·e come into the country and
set him at work, if he can.
•• Fourteenth. Every mason shall truly serve his master
for his pay, and the master shall honourably perform his
task work, orjourney, whethersoever it may be."
'--
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN OF FREE MASO!IORY.
It is evident these charges were given to labourers, and
for them served many valuable purposes ; but in modem
and speculative Masonry, they only go to make up the mys-
tery ; few having any just conception of their meaning.
How natural among men of a trade is that charge, "no
master shall take worlc witlwut a reaaonabl~ compensation."
And not less necessary is that which follows it : "nor shall
any master supplant another in regard io employment;" that
is to say, if one brother is undertaking a job, another shall
not rob him by underbidding. This is suitable to the art of
compacting bricks and mortar; but what.it has to do with
the· art r.J&crw~,..,, Sum in medio coeli, I am in the midst of
heaven, is a MYSTERY, of which Mr. Hutchinson, my Lord
Petre, and others, think the explanation either ridiculous, or
glorious: a!' saith the poet,
"Hail, mysterious, hail, gloriotu Masonry.··
The history of the craft will abundantly show the fitness
of its emblems with its origin ; aprons and trowels belong
only to brick and mortar ; and the mystical application of
the terms to the use of a secret society is a perversion,
by which they become,
"High words, that bear
" Semblance of worth, not aubstance."
This is the true key to the mystery of Free Masonry. At
first, a combination of honest labourers, to protect each
other from the oppressions of the feudal barons, and to
command their own price for their labour, they, like ninety
other crafts and trades in London, met in fraternities.
[Rees' Cyclopedia, Art. Company.] These fraternities, in
London, are generaUy governed by a master and two war-
dens, and have a hall and a charity fund, precisely like the
lodges. In their meetings the different trades are suppos-
o191tized by Coogle
t.
136 ORIGIN 01' FREE .IIIASONR\'.
ed to communicate information beneficial to the craft, as
do agricultural societies and mechanics' institutes at this
day.
Previous to 1717, there was (I think it will appear) no
Free Masonry, but only Masonry ; neither lpeculati~ Ma-
Ronry, but only operative Mas011171. But ~hen other trades
and professions were admitted into the lodges, _Masonry
was only speculative to the newly accepted Masons, and
began to be spoken of as both operative and speculative.
Now it became Free M8Bonry, and passing as it has done
entirely out of the hands of operative Masons, into the
hands of speculative Masons, it is to them truly a mystery.
They know nothing about the setting mall, the ashier, and
the level, technical terms of operative Masonry. The
whole subject becomes to them, like the line of the poet :
" Rake, back, aud tueth ;"
a great secret-genuine Free Masonry.
This explanation of the origin of Free Masonry is easy
and natural, and is well supported by facts. If the frater-
nity h!lve great doubts upon the subject, those doubts will
he much diminished by a perusal of the history of Mason·
ry since the bzginning of the 18th century, as given by
Lawrie, and Preston, and Smith, all faithful Masonic writers,
who agree to state, that after 1720, Free Masonry passed
from the Grand Lodge of London to the numerous places
in the four quarters of the earth with which Great Britain
had a colonial or commercial intercourse : the name of tlte
Grand Mastet·, the date of tlte warrani to a year, and the
place where it was sent, are particularly stated by each of
these Masonic historians :~ and the fact goes far to prove
-- ---------------
~ Tbeae facts are aleo etated in the Encyclopedia Britannica, Art. Mason·
ry: an article furnished by Mr. "L&wrie, Grand Secretary of the Grand
Lodgeof Seotl&nd. -
o191tized by Coogle
·-
iliASONIC OATH.
that, though operative Masonry is as old as the first stone
wall, and as universal as the habitations of civilized man,
specvlotive Free Masonry is a modern invention, industri-
ously circulated by designing ~en.
CHAPTER XXIII.
" Bible, comJIIUI, and lf(Q&re,
" lUI our 811111f1W we wear,
.. The bnpt qmbola of .n.domprofound :
"And while tb- are our guide,
" Every myetery beDie,
"Ae a foil to oar art will be found."
Jlottll COM. and MM. ~.
".Alllhall yield to Muonry;
" Bend to thee, blea .Muonry !
" Matehl.e -he who founded thee;
.. ftou,Jib him, immortalebalt be."
/bid.
MAsONBY professes to be a valuable mystery, to possess
an important secret, and claims consequence to herself, be-
cause no member of the fraternity, however abandoned in
principle, or rudely puoiabed by the lodges, bas ever been
base enough to publish the enigma. Believe that Masonry
hu such a secret, and the fact that it has never been ex-
posed, would argue something peculiar in the institutioo.
But why belieYe it1 What proof have we 1 Her word
for it 1 Sheis one not to bebelieved, when shespeweYeD
the truth ; her reputation ia established ; veracity and Ma~
sonry are antipodes.
18
o191tized by Coogle
138 .IIA8051C OATH.
She may swell her voice with hypocritical adoration ;
"To heaven'• hifh.An:laitec:t aU praiae,
"All gratitude be given,
" Who d!!ifned the human 110111 toraillo
"By 1eeret1 8prung from heaven;"
it is all in vain ; the Lord is a God of truth, who deals not
in the hidden things of darkness, but will bring all these to
light. It is far from his characterto dwell in a secrettemple,
shutto the halfofthe humanfamily ;to glorify himself by the
arts of a dark conclave ; to raise the human soul by means
which shunthe light. Free Masonry does that : professing
to be light, her time is the hour of night, her residence a
secret vault, with a tyler at the entrance, having an instru-
·ment of death in his hand ! It fills me with indigna-
tion to know the emptiness of Masonry, and to contem-
plate her pretensions. What secret, good or bad, she may
possess in the sublime degrees, I cannot say ; but within
the 2,000 lodges of this Republic, and all the masonic fra-
ternities of Great Britain, I am competent to say she has,
besides the empty machinery of the craft, NONE-not the
least. The pass-words, signs and tokens, &c. &c. contri-
ved, selected, and framed together, to serve as the anatomy
of the masonic body ;-these are a secret ; and these. are
the only secrets within any legally constituted lodge on the
globe. And is it for these she triumphs, in most of her
standard publications, in the following terms?
" Hail MaliODJY divine,
" Glory ofages llhine,
"Long may'•t thou reign!
" Thy noble ordenare
" Matchl- beyond compare,
"No art with thee C&D ebare;
"Thou art divine."
For the bare paas-words and grips, masonic catechism and
tradition1 She might better congratulate herselfupon her
Digitized by GoogIe
auo:.;1c OATH.
white aprons, red sashes, and tremendous grand titles ; this
would be more honest, and equally seoaible.
ADd then does she say that " bad members have been
-expelled ; but they keep the secrets with which they have
been in1hlsted 1 Neither the power of gold, which bu
often betrayed kings and princes, and sometimes overthrown
states, empires, and kingdoms ; nor the most cruel punish·
ment, which the most malignant tyrants could devise, ever
extorted the secrets ofFree Masonry, even from the weakest
member of the fratemity.''•-New Mon. p. 78.
That is only her word for it; and she can, one day, take
the life ofa· member, for huing exposed her nakedness;
and brag of her divinity the next, of her impenetrable rayi-
tery, of her virgin sanctity. The insinuation conveyed iD
this extract from the Monitor, and the fact assumed by
many orators, for the glory of Masonry, that her mysteries
have never since creation been revealed, except to a law-
fully initia.t~ brother, is a mistake, having seen them before
I took a Mason's oath. Which oath, the novice is assured,
before it is dictated, contains nothing counter to his duty to
~and to his country.
Query; taken under such circnmstances, and being
afterwards found to cover. much which is contrary to
truth,subversive ofsocial confidence,and hostile to the name
·of the Lord Jesus, and thus counter to his duty to God and
to his country; is it obligatory upon the confiding candidate t
Without deciding the question for others, I shall decide,
(though perfectly impressed in the night of the oath, with
the importance of the saving clause,) that it ought, as far as
possible, by me, to be kept. . It runs, " ever conceal, and
never reveal, any part or parts, art or arts, point or points,
of the secret arts and mysteries of ancient Free Masonry,"
• Hondleda in the llt&&e of New-York openly aebowledae the oorreet.-
n-of Moqan'a beok, and very many hue done it under their band inUte
ublic' 'ta.
p _pnn
o191tized by Coogle
/.
..
140 .IUSOI\IC OATH.
&c. ; " not write, print,stamp, stain, hew, cut,carve.,indent,
paint, ~r engrave it,on any tbillg moveable or immoveable,
aDder the wbole canopy of heaven, whereby or whereon
the least Jeuer, figW'e,. character, mar~, stain, shadow, or
re~emblance of the same, may become legible oriateUigible,
t() myself, orauy other person in lhe known world, whereby
the ~eerets of Masonry may be unlawtwly obtained."
'·'Not write, print, stamp-it." what is it?-11 refers to
Ancient Free Masonry: "Not the lcaat letter, figure, cha-
racter," &c. then, of Ancient Free Masonry, may be writ·
ten," whP-reby the secrets ofMasonry may be unlawfully ob-
tained." IT, or Ancient Free Masonry, the object of the ac•
tiona forbidden in the oath, is animpossible thing, and false.
It is contrary to religion to be silent on the subject; con·
trary to the fealty due both to God and to my country, to
represent Free Masonry otherwise than false and impossible:
I suppose the secreU ofFree Masonry, are true; and tnt.e
secrets of the craft it is not my purpose to expose. Our
signs, tokens, &c.are true, from head to heel The questi001
aDd 1Ul8Wers are instead oftruth,to serve aa tokens and sp;
and the events in the tradition are instead oftruth, u ler'f·
iog to show a master Mason, they are false in poiat of fitct.
The signs and tokens, &c. I have not touched with a
finger.
The nature ofthe questions and answers I have •luulowed
forth in the supposed meeting of the three Grand Muten
under the ·temple; and if it be done in a way, showing not
the questions and answers themselves, but only their
character, so that no one not initiated can by them impoee
himself upon the craft as a brother, the·~ is no
, shadowingof the secrets, but only oftheir character, and is
no transgression ; is not a thing " whereby the seeretl of
Masonry may be unlawfully obtained."
With the tradition I have been necessarily more free;
yet have endeavoured, while exposing its absurdities, or
(In the language of the Sovereign Inspector GeReral, .Mu-
tf'r of the Degree of Perff'ction. nnd much morf!, tt8
o191tized by Coogle
.,
JIA.SOHJC OA'lS. 141
error•,~ to leave all its truth, and all its legitimate uae,
true or falle, entirely undisturbed. · It is a f'earful thing to
depart from au obligation, sanctioned by an oath.
But what is itwe are neither to write, print, &c. 1 An·
cient Free Ma&cmry. This never had existence, brother :
I say that ancient Free Magonry never.had existeDce.. To
write,priat, and so expoee .a· thing which never had being,
would require Muncluuuen's. talents, would turpU8 the feat
o( setti~ the North river on fire. I£ ancient Free Ma-
sonry mean any thing, it is an order given of Heaven to the
first Ma.sons; (Book of Com. p. 19.) h011oured by ·E.aoch,
Noah, and the patriarchs; at least organized by Solomon,
and adorned by the apostles, besides a host of heathens.
No such animal, or substance, order, craft, or iustitutioa,
now exists, or has ever existed; and, therefore, inatead of
profuely o&ligating men by a horrid oath not to discover it
lllllmD.fvllg, we may, brethren, more properly challenge and
defY the most scrutinizing miDd to discover it at 1111.
A certain institution which _
sprung into existence in the
era of the.South Sea scheme, and which baa speculated
more freely with men's consciences in every generation,
from A. D. 1720, to this day, than that bubble did with the
estates of its duped adventuren ; an institution dedicated
to patrons of 1800 years, which itself scarce numbers 150
years ; full of all absurdities, and yet accrediting itself from
Above; making the Lord of Heaven chargeable for its
birth aod fonn, for its folly and gift to man ; such an in-
stitution, it may be believed, is not entirely and altogether
within the scope of an oath taken In support of ancient
Free Ma80ff.ry. And if it be not such an institution now
under exposition, be the blame on me ; but if such, let that
institution bear it.
*"Whieh the novice e_&n prove to be such, In a minute af\erI have 10·
lemnly pronounood them to be undeniable truth., even by thatvery Bibleon
wbieh I have ~i""d his obligation.'' (Dnlcho'• OratiiWII, p. 44.)
,,
' .
.
'I
1
..
•
.,
/
'•
..~
142 MASONIC OAT.H.
" Fatber Adam, anated, beheld the l.ifht abiDe,
" He&Yell made him a Muon. and gan him a !lip.
" Ourroyal pnd lleCl8t to him did impart,
" And in paradiBe often he talked of our e.rt."
Yoe. Comp. It Mtu.Rig.
'frue as Free Masonry.
" Are you a royal arch 7 a templar? a grand master ar-
chitect 1 a sovereign inspector general?-You are but a
Master Mason. How do you know, then, of what you
affirm ; that Free Masonry is a sister of the South ·Sea
scheme?"
Now, the inquir~ would have me go up nineteen degrees
above perfection, besides twenty collateral degrees,·(vide
p. 112.) to learn the beginning of Free Masonry ; would
have me mount to the pinnacle of the masonic temple to
find its supports. Let alone, if the three lower stories ofthe
masonic edifice are swept from their sandy foundation, the
upper stories will find it difficult to stand, no doubt. How-
ever, let them stand like the royal arch, without a founda-
tion ; I know not why I should do homage to the queen of
darkn688 for them ; she can give nothing new through
them : with the recklessness of a spendthrift she has con-
ferred all needed favours within the lodges; natural reli-
gion in the first ; all the liberal arts and sciences in the se-
cond, and the doctrine of the resurrection in the third de-
gree. Having all this, to want more would be avarice.
Can any one really wish for more1 Can all that is I~ in
the remaining fifty degrees of Masonry be worth u many
tremendous oaths ; " in token of your assent you will kiss
the book 1" No, no, the axe ·is laid at the root of the
tree. I cannot bow down and fifty times swear fealty, for
any apprehension I have that the branches will survive the
fire into which they must fall with the falling trunk.
" Not the least letter, figure, character, mark, stain
shadow, or resemblance, legible or intelligible to myself or
f)thers."-Free Mmcm'a Oath.
This is a small part of cme oath, three of which, like the
triple headed .Cf>rlx>ms, arc j;fntioned nt the entrance nf
o191tized by Coogle
JIIAIIOliiiC OATH. 143
" this nether empire,, " to prevent the living from enter-
ing theinfernal regions, and the dead from escaping.,
.. Cerberua bee m,_ latrata repa trifauci .
.. Penonat adveno recubana i.mmani8 in antro."
Eneid, vi. 417.
A fit guardian of fit place. Every degree has its oath, and
each concludes with a penalty horrid in the extreme.
A dread of the lighi, ·whatever else, is plainly ihaJowed
forth in this anxioWJ car& to close every avenue to the dark
vault of the lodge. Cacus had not more bolts; and locks,
and !eYers, to his secret mansion, than Masonry has to hers.
I shall not push them back, not turn a key, not slip a bolt ;
there ia a way to her dwelling very like that by which Her-
cules came upon the thief of his heifers ; he overturned the
mountain beneath which the'rogue had his dwelling; and
" The court of CacWIII&anda revealed to eight,
"The cavem rlaree with new admitted lirht.,..-Drpun.
Masonry, covered with a mountain of pretensions, and
having for her dwelling asecret lodge, with only one ave-
nue, guarded by imprecating sprites, of whom harpies and
gorgons are not unsuitable emblems, rejoices in her secu-
rity, and glories in her strength. Though a mortal m83'
evade her wiles, and find an open entrance ; though he
may, fearless of the consequences, give a key to every lock,
and set the door open wide for those who will to enter, she
still sits a queen in the darkness ; her throne is unsha!ten ;
her canopy of pretensions defends her. It is that capopy
which this work is intended to overthrow.
___.Jio Et Caei detect& appuuit m,_
.. Rep, et umbroae penitua pataere e&Yei'Dae."
Eneid, viii.!41.
o191tized by Coogle
....
MASONIC OATH•
.. 'l'Npiclea'4UeimmillolumiDe IIWIIL"
· The tenant trembles at the entermr light.
Volumes of dark smoke she may vomit forth to the ad-
miration of her trembling adherents ; ay, she may quote thP
bricks of ancient Babylon in proof of her antiquity, and.
recite " the mystic chronicles of moes covered walls," in
"the universal language of MUODI," to the delight of her
doubting Collowers; but all ~ no purpose. Her hour has
come ; thesbafta ofridicule ate poiDted at her life ; the bow
i1 drawn by iodjpation at her violence and pride ; tbe Bpear
oftrutla ia raised; and die she must, to pus through another
metempsychOsis. Her spirit will .seek a new form to de-
ceive mankind ; Free Muonry can serve for its covering no
Joaaer.
It can be ao breach of duty to expo~e the empty 8811er-
tioD8 of Masonry by a slight use of the means which her
votaries freely use ~r her praille. Mr. Webb, for the glory
of Masonry, recites fifteen pages of traditions belonging to
the sublime degrees, more extravagant, and not less absurd,
than that of the master's degree. Did he trifle with his
oath f I hope not ; then much len have I. Messrs. Har-
die, Hutchinson, Town, Preston, Dermott, Smith, &c. &c.
have, each and aU,taken greater liberties with the traditions
o( the craft, than the writer; add to dtese the Book of
Constitutio01. Have they mocked their oath 1 or have they
liberty, seeing they use it "for her profit and praise," and
the writer none, seeing he speaks the truth to her shame1
Their transgression shall not be my justification ; I do
not name it as such, but only to silence thecaptious. They
coDBidered, as I do, that the secrets of Masonry are her
.ip, word., and tolcens; these the oath regards, and no
more. The common language of Masons in convenation
upon the subject of Ma.oary, il pcoof that this is the
opinion of the &atem.ity in retpeet· to the application
of the oaths. And, if this interpretation should seem to a
o191tized by Coogle
MA ONIC OATH. 145
single mind partial, I do not solely rely upon it, but upon
the saving clause, that the oath is administered with the
express declaration precedent, that it is not to bind the can-
didate in any thing affecting his religion, or his duty to his
country; both religion and duty to my country constrain
me to use all honourable means for exposing to view the
egregious perversions of Free Masonry.
"Ask you wh&t provocation I hne had ~­
" The strong &ntipa.thy of good to b&d.
'' When truth or virtue a.n affront endures,
" The affront is mine, my friends, a.nd should be yours;
" Mine, as a. foe to every false pretence,
"Who think a. coxcomb's honour like his sense;
" Mine, u.s &friend to every worthy mind,
" And m~e, as m&n who feel for a.ll mankind."
I cannot help it; the commencement of this work is
more respectful to Free Masonry ; then I did not know her
so well; thought possibly she might have body enough to
ca.St a shadow, and treated her according to what she
might be, entitled to some measure of respect ; but further
investigations, prosecuted now to the summit of the lodges,
in company with the reader, warrant a style of expression,
which, at first, might fairly be accounteq declamatory. To
prove her shameless, IJ.nd to treat her with personal respect,
would not suit the integrity of character aimed at in this
treatise.
19
Di9jtized by Googlc
......
146 ··au: .MASONR\'.
CHAPTER XXIV.
Containing a Sketch of the great delusion8 which have pre·
vailed in different ages of tire world; and answering the
question, hQW could Free MWJonry be endured 110 lung?
" He taketh the cypress and the oak ; he bumeth part thereofin the fire;
yea, he wanneth himself. and eaith, Aha! I am warm, I have seen the fire;
and the lelli.due theroof he maketh a God, even hie graven image; he faJl.
eth down unto it and worahippetb it, and prayeth unto it, and eaith, Deli-
ver me,f~r thou tJrt my God."-IraitJh.
ONE difficulty remains to perplex the reader, viz. "If
thi'l is Free Masonry, how has it been endured so long?"
A hard question, which admits of an answer. But suppose
it do not admit of an answer1 Is it, therefore, to ov~rset
a series of well established facts? Because we ean not
tell !tow, the Franklin rod attracts the lightning, shall we
doubt its attractive power ? The fact is established, be the
explanation what it may.
Again, the question may admit of an answer, apd yet
through infirmity, the writer may fail to give it.
The planets cease not to run their several circuits, though
Des Cartes' theory of their motions was never satisfactory,
and is now quite exploded. Should I fail, then, in an attempt
to answer this question, the facts stated with respect to it
remain unabated ; and should the following argument seem
as hypothetical as Des Cartes' theory, the planets are not
more true to the sun, than the facts of this treatise are to
Free Masonry.
" How then has it been endured so long ?"
Men have been ever fond of strange things. A glance
at their follies will show that Free Masonry is not the most
incredible fault of which they have been guilty. Begin-
o191tized by Coogle
!IIENT.~L DEPRAVITY. H7
ning the answer where Masonry is said to have begun, in
the garden of Eden, the first man, Adam, lured by the false
hope of exaltation, tell into disobedience and the snare of
death ; then the old world became entirely corrupted, and
was in consequence destroyed by tlte flood : next, the sons
of Noah, while he yet lived, madly raised the tower of Ba-
bel: afterward, the Egyptians, the wisest people of'their
age, who raised monuments of art, that the puny mOderns,
with their best efforts, have not the means to take down,
became the most superstitious peopie on earth : " they lost
Pelusium, the key of Egypt," by the stratagem of Camby-
ses, "who placed in the front of his army a great number
ofcats, dogs, sheep, and other animals, which were regard-
ed as sacred bythe Egyptians, and then attacked the city
by storm.
" The garrison, not daring either to fling a dart, or shoot
an arrow, for fear of hitting some of these animals, Cam-
byses became master of the place without opposition."
[Rollin, vol. i. p. 365.] · .
If the Egyptians were not so wise and learned ·as the
mod~rns, neither is Free Masonry so contemptible as their
superstition. "It is astonishing t'o see a nation which
boasted its superiority above all others with regard to wis-
dom and learning, thus blindly abandon itself to the most
gross and ridiculous superstition. Indeed, to read of ani-
mals,· and vile insects, honoured with religious worship.
placed in temples, and maintained with great care at an
extravagant expense; to read that those who murdered
them were punished with death, and that these animal.,;
were embalmed, and solemnly deposited in tombs, assigned
them by the public; to learn that this extravagance was
carried to such a pitch, that leeks and onions were acknow-
ledged as deities, were invoked in necessity, and depended
upon for succour and protection ; are absurdities which we,
at this distance of time, can scarcely believe ; and yet they
have the evidence of all antiquity." [RoUin, vol. i. p. 116.]
This superstition is a matter of historical fact : how could
l
, )
..
''"'"'"~Google~
14S FREE .IIASO.SR'i.
it have been endured a moment? Free Masonry, making
every allowance, offen nothing in absurdity equal to it.
The crocodile, the rat, the cat, &c. are found by modem
travellers, embalmed by the side of their deluded worship-
pers.
The children of Abraham, distinguished by the most as-
tonishing miracles, taught by the prophets, and possessed of
the oracles of God, had neither eyes to see, nor hearts to
understand, neither knowledge nor understanding to say of
their idols of wood, •• I have burned part of it in the fire;
yea, also, I have baked bread upon the coals of it ; I have
roasted flesh and eaten it ; and shall I fall down to the
!!!tock of a tree." [Isaiah, ch. 44.]
Making every allowance, Free Masonry furnishes nothing
in absurdity to equal this. How could it have been endur-
ed for a moment 1
Pass to the Greeks, that high-spirited people, that nation
of ·philosophers and heroes, to whom the rest of mankind
were barbarians. They believed in the divinity and the
vices of Jupiter, the oracles of Apollo, the labors of Her-
cules, and the innumerable fables of a ridiculous mytholo-
gy ; Socrates, their highest boast, in his last moments, so-
lemnly reminding his friends of the rooster, due to the dei-
fied Doctor Esculapius. This entirely surpasses the follies
of Free Masonry, and yet it is undeniably true, and the
Sovereign Inspector General might declare it so without
fear of contradiction.
Free Masonry may be challenged to furnish an absurdity
surpassing that exhibited hy the conquerors of the world,
when, in their degradation, they chose a horse to fill the
diGnity.ftrrt honoured by Brotus ; or when in their glory
the armies of Rome refused to engage with their enemies,
if the chickens refused to eat l ·
No people that ever lived upon the earth, possess by na-
ture more cunning than the Egyptian, more intelligence
than the Greek, or more gravity than the Roman. Yet in-
to the11e absurdities they fell. not as individuals, or a!l frnter-
o191tized by Coogle
M.:N'l'.\L l.IEI'R.\Vl'f\'. 149
mues, but as whole nations; not for one half century
aJon~, but during their national existence.
We are, o.nfortunately, independent of antiquity for ex-
amples of this sort. Man is the same inconsistent being
in all ages of the world, in all stages of civili:tation. · Idola-
try, superstition, and imposture, have not ceased from the
earth. Folly is not confined to Free .Mason lodges. One
half of the hwnan race are now the miserable victims of a
faith scarcely superior to the worship of leeks and onions :
one fifth, a .brave, and honest, and intelligent people, are
·the followers of the false prophet-to this day, the dupes of
the Mahommedan imposture ; and when we come to our
own family of men, we find the enlightened and philoso-
phic, the liberal and pious of Christendom, divided into
the worshippers of images and saints, and the rebels from
the authority of the Pope ; each to the other no less
strange, unaccountable, and absurd, than Free Masonry is
to the reader.
An ancient, and yet a modem fact, more hideous and
unnatural than any yet mentioned, but perfectly sure, is:
"Pilate said, whom will ye that I release unto you, Barrab-
bas or Jesus, who is called Christ 1 And they say unto him,
Barrabbas : they cried out all at once, not this man, but
Barrabbas. '
" And he released unto them him that for sedition and
morder W&$ east into prison, whom they had desired : but
he delivered Jesus to their will."
Their preference was meditated; was expressed with loud
clamour ; "away with this man !"
And millions of the people favoured of heaven, children
of faithful Abraham and chosen Israel, have steadily, for
eighteen centuries, maintained the obstinate unbelief of
their fathers, and do yet maintain it.
Comparing her absurdities with the character of this fact,
Free Masonry has a right to be proud :·yet it has been five-
fold longer endured by the sharp-sighted Jews, than the
name ofFree Masonry has been known.
. '
~ 1
·
/''' ' l
Digitized by Goog e
150 t'REE MASONRY.
" What do you infer from all this 1" Plainly, that man
is capable of believing and maintaining tbe inconsistencies
of Free Masonry ;11 that the institution, absurd as the truth
makes it, ought not, on that account, to be thought impos-
sible; and a reviewer, not many months since, was at a
fault; concluding upon Morgan's book, "that if this were
true, the institution would have fallen long ago; would not
have waited the impious hand of an unprincipled assassin,
to strike the deadly blow."
"But the Egyptians, Grecians, Jews,· and Romans, did
not really believe these absurdities." Their actions declare
that they did: and if their leaders were wiser, yet for some
reason, they gave in to the popJ,llar faith; taught, enforced,
and practised it. So with Free Masonry; ifnot believed, it
is practised as ifit.were : if the leaders are wiser, they still
have their reasons for teaching, enforcing, extending, and
maintaining it.
Have we no more sense than the men of Israel? No
understanding to say, a part of it I have burned ; and
shall I make the-residue ther~f an abomination 1 A large
partof it I know to be false; shall I make the residue my
religion? ·
It is evident that the wisest nations, in their best days,
have fallen into greater errors than this of F1·ee Masonry;
and that the men who might be supposed to know better,
have either encouraged, or yielded to the folly. This is
precisely the ground on which our order stands. The mul-
titude are duped by it ; and the knowing ones either yield ,
to, or encourage the folly. This is my answer, generally,
to the question, " how could it be endured so le>ng ?" At
another time, 1 will give particular reasons for the appear-
ance of the names of Washington, Warrcn, George IV.,
Frederick the Great, &c. upon the rolls of the fraternity.
" Sullieit huic diei sua vexatio."
*"Stultorum infinitus eat numerus."
o191tized by Coogle
MEN'l'AL Ul.:l'RAV.ITL 151
And must this great society, this mighty society, which
has waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies,
and has kings for her grand masters, and the princes of the
earth for her priests and ministers ; which saith in her heart,
" I sit as a queen and am no widow, and shall see no sor-
row;" must she be numbered with the superstitions and im-
postUres which have deceived mankind ; must she pass
away and be found no more at all ?i,.
Indeed, I think so ;-let those who will, take up the la-
mentation, (not given for the mourners on this particular
occasion, yet so admirably suited, that may I be pardoned
for introducing it.) " Alas ! Alas ! that great society that was
clothed in fine linen, and purple, and scarlet, and decked
with gold, and precious stones, and pearls !
"For in one hour so great nches is come to nought."
CHAPTER XXV.
"Again !-Aga.in !-120.000 !-Two Quarters oftl1e Highest Prize drawn
here !"-BI'OIJiltDay.
ToE history of Free Masonry alone can fully develope
its character; a true and rational account of its origin,
changes, operations and results. Such a history it is not
within the scope of this work to give; and yet, for the read-
er's satisfaction, I attempt to embody in this chapter, views
of Free Masonry drawn from a satisfactory conception of
its history, and ably supported by tho succeeding chapters
of this treatise.
"' St. John.
Digitized by Google
152 FREE MASONRY.
Paschal, describing the order of Jesuists, portrays with
a master hand the most prominent features of Free Ma·
sonry. With his work before me (lEuvres de Blaile Pa~·
cal. A un Provincial, Lettre cinqmeme.) I fill up the out·
line, and suit the shading to the present subject.
Free ·Masonry, " which the first Masons received from
God," and which teaches " the skyUe of becoming gude
and parfyghte without the help of fear and hope," doth
also rest on " the same co-eternal and unshaken foundation,
contain and inculcate, in substance, the same truth, and
propose the same ultimate end, IUt the doctrine of Chris-
tianity taught by Divine Revelation." (Grand Chapter of
NettJ·York. Town'• Spec. Free Masonry, p. 13. let ed.)
" Speculative Free Masonry," say the grand chapter,
(Town, p. 23.) " evidently embraces, in body and substance,
the whole duty of man as a moral being." Who~ doubt
this 1 Not the proffll'e, surely, for having never entered
the sacred walls of a lodge room, it does not belong to
them to.affirm or to deny what is masonically taught there.
Not the fraternity, for they see with their own eyes, and hear
with their own ears, and sanction by their highest official
documents, the matters quoted here.
Neither can it be doubted, that "ever since symmetry
began, and harmony displayed her charms, our order has
bad a being." The Master of the Lodge of Antiquity
must know, Mr. Preston, "the faithful historian of Mason-
ry;" and he asserts it, supported by the Grand Chapter of
Rhode Island, and Mr. Webb. (Preston, book 1. sec. 3.
Free Mas..il-Ion. part 1. ch. 1.)
Free Masonry is, also, " the key-stone to all other art~
and sCiences." (Hardie's Mon. p. 189.) It consecrated
the Sabbath as a day of rest. (Mas. Manual, p. 170. Har-
die's Mon. p.lll. Webb's Mon. p. 55. and F. M. Libra-
ry, p. 168.) And " includes within its circle almost every
branch of polite learning." (Preston, b. 2. sec. 4. Frer
Mas. Mon. part I. chap. 10. F. M. Library, p. 165.) It
teaches the seven liberal arts and sciences, besides tile black
art, or " the art of wunderwurkyngeo, and of foresaying
o191tized by Coogle
ATTIRED Hi HER. II.ASOMC APROK. 153
things to come;" " the art of chaunges," or trllllsm"'tation
>f metals, by which the al<(hemists abstract pure gold from
>ld brass and rust of iron. Also, •• tbe way of wiDning the
r'IJCUltye of Abrac." -(An abbreviation ofAbracadabra_
; a
nagical word.-Mr. Locke.) And "the universal lao•
guage of Masons." (See Boo4 of Doni. p. 19. F. M.
Libraty, p. 11. Hutcllimon, Oalcott, &c. &c. PresU»t,
b. 3. s. 1.)
All this is not to be doubted ; for Free Masonry declares
it in the most solemn form, and under her highest sanctions,
in the very words quoted here. Will any man, not having
seen her mysteries, presume to contradict her grand lodges~
and her grand chapters, and her grand office bearers, on
both-sides of the Atlantic ? I am persuaded not one.
This is the attire in which Free Masonry an:ays herself;
it is her court dress ; her usual apparel is more simple. In
the common .intercoune of the fraternity in this country,
she does claim, it is true, most effectually to execute what
Christianity was intended to accomplish, the establishment
of fraternal relations among all the sons of Adam ; but this
without the most distant idea of representing herself to be
a very efficient character, and Christianity feeble; no, no;
" the Ut&Wersal principles of the art unite meR of the melt
oppotite lena•, of the •ott distant countries, Gild of the
ftiOit contradictory opinions; in (lfle indissoluble bond of u:f-
fedion ;" (F. M. Mon. part 1. ch. 1. Prest(m, b. 1. sec. 3.)
but yet she is only ••'tire handmaid of religion."
Now, is she not a pattern of humility? Able to do
this ; unite in one iltdusoluble bond of affection, men of the
most·OJ7PO$ite ttmell, and yei- content to be accounted the
handmaid instead of .the mistress? Truly, she wrongs
herself to the praise of her modesty ; taking the lower seat,
when every reflecting mind must be conscious, that the
master of the feast, on entering, will say, "Friend, go up
higher," and she will have honour in the eyes of all men.
0, immaculate art of demonstrating moral truth by geo-
metric!llsolutions I (F. M. L. p. 179. F. M. Manual, p. 189.
20
o191tized by Coogle
......
154 FREE MASONRY,
Pruton'11 IUrutrations of Ma~onry, p. 61. b. 2. s. 4. Har·
die'' Mon. p. 89. F. M . Mon. part 1. ch. 10. The Charge
to the newly admitted Fellow Craft.) 0 renowned" Art of
finding new arts,"· "for her,own profit and praise !" (F.
M. L. p. 11. Book of Cons. p. 19. Pt·csion, b. 3. s. I.)
" How alulll all that paas by, clop their ha:nda at thee, and
BaY, is this the 11ociety that men call theperfection ofbeauty ?
that ill "built on the Rock of Age11?'' (Mr. Town, p. 24.)
the glory and beauty of the whole earth 1 0, how art thou
fallen, Daughter of the night, and of darkness, and there is
none to help thee I " Thine enemie11 lta1Je opened their
mouth; they hill•; they Bay, Certainly thu ·ill the day we
lookedfor; we havefound ; we have seen it.""'
Though our lady always carries some jewels to allure,
and the same immodest spirit to defile, yet her common
garb is of thisaort. ·
She ·is self-complaisant enough to think that it is useful,
and even necessary for the pr~motion of virtue, that her in-
fluence should universally prevail, and that all consciences
should be laid under the restraint of her oaths. And, be-
cause Evangelical truth is much esteemed by some, Free
Masonry, by the hand of Mr. Town, and the Grand Chap-
ter of New-York, (Town's Spec. M. p. 31.) is declared
to " embrace the whole lllbject matter of the divine econo·
·
"'!/ ;" and present "for sublinte contemplation," " the deep
mysteriu of the Divine Word, in whom all the fulness of
the GodheOd dwell bodily." (Idem. p. 24.) Thi& pleases
some Christians.
But as other men are infidels, she presents herselfto them,
in the ceremonial of the craft, publicly offering prayers in
mockery of truth : "As we are now about to enlighten a
felWw fJIOrtal in Free Masonry, wilt thou enlighten ru in a
knowledge ofdivine truth." (Book of Coni. p. 151.) And
from profane lips uttering over the novice, "Endue him
"' Jeremi&b.
___,__.........--.___ -------- ~ ~ · . -
o191tized by Coogle
ATTIRED IN HER .11:.\SONIC APRON, 155
with a competency ofdivine wisdom, that, by the secret1 of
our art, he mq.y be better enabled to display ihe beauty of
holinus." (Found, without material variations, .Hardie's.
Mon. p. 218. Book of Cons. p. 1~. .Ahiman Rezon, p.
45. .F. M. L. p. 129. Pr68ton, b. ~. s. 3. Cro88'1J Chart,·
s. 1. F. M. Mon. part l..cb~ _
8 pp. 36, 37.) At no time
reverently naming ·the only Mediator between .God and
man, but avoiding the name of Jesus c;iur Lord: and this
suita the infidels. .
But.many of the fraternity care for none of thesethings ;
give the~ · the jovial meeting, the exciting cup, the smoking
vian~, and th.e mantle of night. To t~ese she comfl)s with
laughter and sang :
"Let your hearts be blytbo and gay;
" Joy and mirth let all di8pla1 ;
" No doll care
" Shall enter here,
"For this is Muon's holi~ay."
Prtllon, ttL 1788.
And should sober friends doubt the tendency of this noc-
turnal institution, she furnishes her votary with !JUitable de-
fence. ·
"Coxcomical pedants ~y say what they can;
"Abuae us, ill uae.us, and laugh at our plan ;
" We'll temper our rrtln'lu, enliYen our souls, ,
" And join in a chorus o'er fullllowing bowlt.
Choru.-" We always arefree," &e.
Ibid.
This suits the lovers of fun, and ofgood liquor ; and many
are the poor fellows living monuments to its efficacy, but
dead to society ; dead, breathing, moving, yawning, dead
men ; waiting for the monster to close their eyes, ~d to lay
them welcome to their fellow earth, forgotten in the tomb.
By this obliging and accommodating spirit, she extends
her arms to all the world, and holds within her fond embrace
men ofthe most opposite tenets. Does one charge her with
o,9,tized by Coogle
l56 .I'R£E KA50HRV,
licentiousness ? She, in a moment, repeats all the emblems
and morals of the apprentice's degree. Does one charge
her with infidelity, rank deism 1 She quotes Mr. Town and
the Grand Chapter, officially declaring that : " As the Word
in the first verle of St. Jolr.n, constitutes thefo~mdatian, the
subject matter, mul the great ultimate end of IM ChriatillR
eccmomy; so docs the same WORD in all its relations to
man, time, and eternity, constitute the very essence ofspe-
culative Free Masonry." [Spec. MQ.8onry, p. 154., the last
clause ofchap. 13.]
Does any one Sllf, she is senseless and unmeaning1 She
immediately calls up Mr. Preston, Col. Webb, Mr. Cross,
Messrs., and gentlemen by scores, to declare, " Free Ma-
sonry is a progressive science :" " Masonry includes almost
e\·ery branch of polite learning;" "to exhaust the various
subjects ofwhich Masonry treats, would transcend the pow·
ers of the brightest genius."
Does any say she is contemptible ? She replies :
" Thl! gre~test of mooarchs, the wi~e~t of men,
"Fr!lll Masonry, h_onoured again and again:.
14 And nobles have quitted all other delights,
" With joy to preside in ou.r mystical rites."
Washington, Warren, and Franklin, are names often
quoted to the honour of Free Masonry. It does not appear
that the first concerned himself with it. He was taken in,
as many have since been, and said no more about it. But
Washington civilly answered the compliments of the Grand
Lodges, and that is reason enough for Free Masonry to de-
corate herself with his name.
Warren and Franklin were active Free Masons : so has
been George IV. and Frederick the Great. But in 'either
case, was it for her sake, whose Grand Master so pus;Hani-
mously died under the stroke ofthe two foot rule, the square,
and the mallet? Did they court the lodges for the sake of
bantering with strangers : "you are a Mason then, I pre-
sume 1" ·
"I am; try me."
o191tized by Coogle
ATTIRED IN HER lii.ASONIC APRON. }57
For the embrace of the five points of fellowship, and for
the Shibboleth of Free Masonry 1 ·Not they.
What.was their object,..let o~hers say :·sure1y it was not
.for the light or the love of Free Masonry. Franklin and
Warren saw the storm of tJte revolution in the elouds which
precede the rain. They sought the deliverance of their
country from foreign sway.. One who works against the
ruling powers of any form of government, will find Free
Masonry, as Weishau.pt did in working again&t all forms of
government, a good tool. .
Many officers of our revolutionary army, for p~stime,
and a confe4eracy to sustain them und~r their peculiar trials
and dangers, fell into the arms of Free Masonry. They
were regarded as rebels,_withoot being paid like patriots ;
and so it was, for whatever reason, Free Masonry first flou·
rished in our country, through the struggle for our national
independ~nce.
·Why Frederick the Great was engaged in the lodges, will
appear in the sequel. That the present king of Enghind•
while Prince ofWales, presided over the lodges of England,
may be accounted for by the lise then made ofFree Masonry
on the continent ofEurope, to destroy, not only every throne,
but every form of government. He, as heir to a throne,
would take care for it : and how better, than by heading
and thus guiding the most p<)werful engine of attack level·
led against the Bourbons of France ? A prince, having the
wisdom to confer a knighthood for the capture of an Arne- •
rican frigate, would cheerfully have given an earldom to the
subject, who, at that period, had blown Free Masonry fairly
out of water; but parliament, in1799, putting an extin-
guisber upon its vanity, by confining it to the three degrees;
and the royal family condescending to govern it, it is now
in Ettfand as harmless ·and ·respeetable and silly, as a
collrt fool.
· It is harmless only as a political engine ; in its influence
upon the morals, Free Masonry is a curse to any people.
Gentlemen may point out a thousand instances of her ex-
o191tized by Coogle
158 FREE MASONRY,
cellefit moral influence; but she is a deceiver, and c~t
be trusted when she speaks the ·truth. All have heard
of the veracity ofthe thirsty savage, who,.ona winter's day,
received his quart for a deer, which the sbopman "might
find"-but ·did not find. The savage, when afterwards
challenged, replied, " You found Sigamond lake 1" " Yes."
-"·And the great white oak?" · '' Yes."-"lt is we'll if In-
dian tell two truths to one lie." Like ·this veracity is the
moral influence of Free Masonry. She defines geometry
and the sciences, like Playfair ; and tells you, " .these are
~he delight ofthe lodges." You find the lOdge, as certain
as the shopman did the big wl;liteoak by Sigamond lake,
but n? deer is there. She ~iscourses upon religion and mo-
rality, like a saint; and pretends to guide her followers to
a blessed immortality. They find the white oak and the
lake, two truths ; but the main thing is false : Free Ma-
sonry is a blind guide. She pretends that " the WORD intl1e
first verse of St. John, in all its relluions to man, time, ·and
eterr1ity, constit.utes the very spirit and essence of speculative
Free Masonry:" Town's Spec. Free Mas. p. 154.) an as-
sertion, so barefaced, that it beats the effrontery of the In-
dian by two bow shots ; and it is impossible to conceive how
it could be solemnly pronounced, and officially sanctioned,
and, after five years opportunity of reflection, repeated, in
the second edition of Town's S. M. But there it is, p. 144;
let the Grand Chapter look to it ; Free Masonry can an-
•S\fer it only with her life.
0, could this voice reach the ears of the honest fraterni-
ty, how distinctly would it cry : " Free .Masonry is a fiend,
a legion of foul spirits; a wonder, like the smoke coming
up from the bottomless pit, that darkens the sun and the air.
Full of all subtlety and craftiness, she takes the profession
of an angel of light, yet dwells unseen in the daflness.
She plants herself upon the same co-eternal and unshaken
foundation with Christianity, as taught in divine revela~
tio11, thus comparing her midnight face with the church,
o191tized by Coogle
AT'l'IRED I • HER MASONIC APROX. 159
"clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with ban-
ners." She dwells in the midst of deceit, teaching her
children to "bend their tongues like their bows for lies.''
Profe sing to " embrace in body and substance the whole
duty of man as a moral being;" (Gr. Chapter N. York.
Town, p. 23.) professing to be, in the inimitable language
of the scriptures, a fountain of lit'ing waters; she is, in-
deed, hewn out with men's hands, a broken cistern, that
can hold no water."
. '
,t.
CHAPTER XXVI.
~· ,
Royal Arch MG$011ry.
"Attention, Mtuk M11sler, yon're Clllled to apJicllr
"Before our famed workman, the chief overseer;
" Since our labours 11re finished, for w11ges prep11re,
" The Lord of the vineyard will give e11ch his share."
F. M. Lwrary, p. 215.
" There is no more occasion for lev~ or plumb-line,
" For trowel or g11vel,,for compass or square;
"Our works are completed, tlu~Ark safely seated,
" And we sh11ll be greeted cuworkmen mo,l rare."
Ibid. p. .23.2.
CoMMENCING this work with an earnest desjre to do it up
thoroughly, my heart leaped with the hope of takihg the
highest degrees of Free Masonry in a fraternity of Right
Honourables. Lei ure, and wealth, and ambition to carry
.•ght
carry
100 ROYAL ARCH .lfASONR\.
every g<>Qd thing to a high state of perfection, et~able the
gentlemen of England in some points, to surpass the busi-
ness men of our Republic ; and it could not be do11bted
that Free Masonry would receh·e deserved attention in the
metropolis of Europe.
Soberly I resolved upon it: " the hlStitution appears hol-
low and senseless ; yet it is sustained by judicious and sub-
stantial men. I have undertaken to investigate it, and
London will afford a field rich with satisfaction to my
doubts. To London let me go."
While meditating on this matter, and shaping my purpo-
ses in due season to accomplish it, I happened in another
metropolis to meet an excellent grand master of the Grand
Lodge - . -, and challenging him upon.the outrageous
pretensions of our fraternity, he soon put me at rest uphn
the score of obtaining more satisfactory information in Lon-
don.
What I not be able to take a degree of Masonry in all
Great Britain higher..than the third, or sublime degree of
master Mason 1 How must the masonic reader be surpri-
sed to hear it : it is not credible : yet the most excellent
grand master affirmed that it was so.
" How do they manage in t.he master's degree, where
our lodges give a substitut~ for the lost word ?"
" They give the word at once," ·he replied, "and tlte
ewe ends there."
, I have heard that the British have a portion of good
sense, and was inclined to believe this true friend of An-
cient Free Masonry ; but the affair was too important to
rest upon individual testimony. He kindly referred me to
the second article of the union of the Gr11nd Lodge of
England with the Dissenters, headed by the Duke ofAthol,
ratified in London, 27th December, A. D. 1813; copies of
which were sent to ea~h of the Grand Lodges of the Uni-
ted States of America. . I can never obtain that, which de-
clares, according to my grand master, that all a,u;ient Free
clltaonryJ is contain~.d within tlte lodges of Mmter Masons.
o191tized by Coogle
ROYAL ARCH MASONRY. 16}
And here are some good reasons for believing it, until
the article itself is foUlld. -
Preston's IUustrations of Masonry pretend, to give a full
and perfect illustration of all the degrees, public ceremo-
nies, and forms of Free Masonry. He takes no notice of
any degree in Masonry higher than the master's. But in
the historical part of his later editions, he mentions the for-
mation of the Harodim Chapter, A. D. 1787; and, at the
same time, expresses fears for the consequences of some
modem iMOOatimu in Masonry.
Hutchinson's Spirit ofMasonry, published in 1764, treats
liberally of the three degrees, and of the three only.
He speaks of the royal arch; but indistinctly, ru1d does not
account it a fourth degree of Masonry. He was a man
who would not have spared to honour the glorious craft,
Mesourania, with higher·degrees; had they been known
then toEnglish Masons.
Jachin and Boaz professes to give a perfect key to all
the arcana of Free Masonry, without an intimation of a
degtee above the lodges: that was published about 17?0.
Ahlman Rezon, published in London, 1764, treats of the
three degree8, and riames the holy royal t~rcla, as the very
marrow of Free Masonry ; but not as a distinct degree, not
as a separate order of Masonry.
,.. nneprincipal atepe in our ladderthere be,
" A mynery to all but to thOle that are ftee."
.4/WntJn Re.on.
The Book of Constitutions of M&s~~achusetts, ed. I'192,
prohses to give a complete history of Free Muonry, both
in England and Musachusetts, but it makes no mention of
any degree, in either country, above the lodges of muter
M:aaons.
Lawrie's History of Free Masonry professes to give .a
fuJI history of thecraft, and makes no meotion of any body .
of Muons higher than masters ; but in the CODititution of
~1
o191tized by Coogle
162 ROYAL ARCH HASONR\·.
the Grand Lodge of Scotl~d, it is expressly declared,tlurt
all ancient St. John's Masonry is containt,ld within the three
degrees of apprentice, fellow craft,, and master Mason.
(Lawrie'. H istory of MwJCmry, chap. 001l8titution of tlw
Grand Lodge of Scotland.)
Smith's Use and Abuse of Masonry is an elaborate octa-
vo of I!Ome 400 pages, critical and historical, published ia
London, 1784, without noticing a chapter, or the royal,arch
degree, or any degree higher than the master's.
Calcott's Disquisition upon Free Masonry, republished at
Boston, 1770, gives no treatise upon the royal arch degree.
or any degree above the master's.
By act of Parliament, 1799, all secret assemblies what-
over are made penal, except those of the Free Masons'
lodges. Vide Ency. Britt. art. Maso11ry. · ·
Visiting London, then, with a view practically to acquire
a correct knowledge of the higher degrees of Free Mason-
ry, would be labour lost. · · ·
No; we have the information nearer home. Hear the
voice of experiepce, " of a distinguished member of our
fraternity," says the Free Mason's Library. "The brief
analysis which it gives of Masonry cannot be too deeply
impressed upon the minds of all who are, or who would be-
come, Free and Accepted Masons." (F. M. Lib. p. 6 of
the preface.) " In the mark Mason's degree I obtained a
plan 'well ordered in all thmgs,' to avert the evils of any
disOrganizing power, and prevent the calamities of poverty
and want. (Excellent! who would not be a Free Mason?)
As a past master, I learned the true art of governing my·
self, and those over w~om I should be appointed to preside.
In the most excelfent master's degree, I was carried back
to the time when the temple was finished, the capstone
brought forth with shootings .
of ' grace, grace to it,' the
ark safely seated, the most excellent masters prostrate be-
fore the Eternal, praising his goodness and mercy ; and the
fire of heaven ·not only burning on the altar, but in the
l1carts of the worthy ; my heart was touched as with a live
o191tized by Coogle
163
cool from the altar, and I could not but exclaim: ' Glory
toGod in the highest.'" (He is only pr~ctising the Masonic
"'Arte of w110der wurkynge." Vide F. M. L. p. U.) "In
the royal areh MllS()Il's degree, I beheld myself exalted to ·
the top of Pisgah, an extensive scene opened to my view
()f the glory andg9odness of the most excellent high priest
()f our salvation. I dug deep for .· hidden treasures, found
them, and regained the omnific word:" ("visible in the
temple in St.·Jerome's time, written in the ancient Sama-
ritan characters.") The same word which the .6ritish Ma-
sons give in.the third degree, our panting brethren must
chase to the top ofthe sublime degree of master Mason, and
thence to the bottom of the ninth arch. This is a great im-
provement of Free Masonry. It returns the English com-
pliment to Yankee ingenuity in the construction of labour-
saving machines : the hungry manafacturers prefer their
mvn handy-work to a Brewster.
The impiety of this extract from the preface of the Free
Mason's Library, should not have been left unnoticed a mo-
ment. I abominate it ; and copy it here to lhe discredit of
:
Free Masonry, by the hand of her faithful servant, the
Hrand Lodge of Maryland. (Vide their sanction to the
Free Mason's Library, p. 3.)
0, it is laughable what a confusion the masonic degrees
are in. The book of Constitutions of Massachusetts, giv-
ing" a true idea of Masonry," says: "three classes are
generally admitted, under different appellations:" (p. 121.)
which is a plain intimation that less than three are some-
times admitted without falsifying the true.idea of Masonry.
We have already seen in this chapter hmv many authors
tf'eat of Free Masonry as contained wholly within the three
degrees. (Vid. p. 161.)
Cole's Free Mason's Library, with the sanction of the
Grand Lodge of Maryland prefixed, giving a brief sketch
of the respective degrees of ancient Free Masonry, says:
"There are (I am bold to assert) but four degrees in an-
cient Free Masonry. This opinion accords [hear, hear!]
;,,,,,.,~Google .
'lrrrrrr..
i64 flOrAL ARCH IU.SONRl'.
not only with the sentiments of the oldest and best inform·
ed Masons, with whom I hate conversed, but is, also,
agreeable'to written lind printed documents in my pOBSeS-
sion ; 110me of the latter o( which are almost as old as the
art of printing itself. They are as follows :
"1. Entered 4}>prentice. ·
"2. ~ell.ow Craft.
" 3. Master Mason.
" 4. Royal Arch Mason."
Free Mason's Library, p. 318.
This is a capital witness. He mpkes one more degree
than the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, -in their Book of
Constitutions, and the Masons of JJritain admit: -but hear
him.
" The following orders, which have withm a few year6
pa~t been manufactured intQ degrees, ar4\ merely elucidatory
of the second, third, and fourth degrees, viz.
Past Master,
Mark Master,
Select Master,
Most Excellent Master,
Royal Master, and
Ark Master, or Noachite,!'
. (These have been manufac-
tured within a few years past ;
it is not many years, since Mr.
Cole's fourth degree, the Roy-
al Arch, was also manufac-
tured.)
Free Mm. Library, p. 318.
Now, by turning to the Grand Circular of the Most Puil!-
sant Sovereign Inspectors General of Free Masonry, found
in Dalcho's Orations, p. 78, we shall see a list of the names
of the masonic degrees to the number ofthirty-4/&ree: ma-
nufactures flourish. They are •all enumerated in this vo-
lume.
Again ! " List of the various masonic degrees.
"In a late publication, 1816, we find the following list of
masonic degrees, which the author states ate conferred in
the Sublime Grand Lodges? in Charleston, S. C., in the city
o191tized by Coogle
ROYAl, •
.O.RCI-l M.\SOXRL
of New-York, and in Newport, R.I.;" and then follow the
names offorty-tl&ree degrees 1-(FreeMa.. Library, p.317.)
What a beautiful ~tructure is Ancient Free Masonry ! o
consiatent in ita plan ; so harmonious in its parts ; o fini hed
in its execution I Generally, it is three stories high, orne-
times less,oftentimes four, and then seven, seventeen, thir-
ty-three, and forty-three; yet it is always the aame mperb
edifice ; never too narrow on the ground, never too high in
the air ; and never containing more or less than " the wlwle
duty of man a. a moral being; compriaing a ~ of
prilacipla confdmu:lhle to the very nature anti jitne11 C?f
thiogs."-Town'• Spec. Free Maaonry, p. 23.
14 T/yJ wiadom iDSpired the great institution ;
14 Thy atrength shall eupport it, till nature expire ;
" And when the creation shall tall iuto ruin,
"Ita beauty ~all rille tluough the midlt ofthe fire."* ,
Ri tol de rol, to1 de rol, ri to) dt~ rol.
To reason with intoxicated men, is useless ; with ms.dmen,
Is absurd : V(liUl mnt et risu digna : intolerable vanity is a
fair object of ridicule ; it is har~ened against reason ; satire
alone can co~ect it. The writer is not unkind towards
Free Masonry : even charity may laugh at folly, to make
others laugh at it, and avoid it. ·
That the.Royal Arch is a degree.ofancient Free Masonry,
one hundred chapter• in the single state of New-York are
ready to testify, with Webb, Town, Cross,Cole, Dalcho,
and a host of other authors, sanctioned by the highest au-
thorities of Free Masonry.
On the other hand, that it is not a degree of ancient Free
Masonry, is asserted by the Grand Lodges of England and
Scotland, and by all the legally constituted masonic autho-
rities of Great Britain, supported by Preston, Lawrie, and
the Book of Constitutions of Massachusetts.
It dates from its beginning, which date is inecribed by the
• Free Mason's Library, p.m.
o191tized by Coogle
\
166 ROYAL ARCH MASO.\"RL
Grand Lecturer, J. L. Cross, upon the prostyle temple, co•
pied in this vol. p. 55, and sanctioned by the greatest names,
and highest bodies ofMasons in· North America. Naming
the grand office~, he says, " Elected lOth Sept. A. D. 1819.
R. A. M. 2349." Nothing can pe more certain, then, than
that as A. D., the era of our Lord was A; D. 1819 ; so was
R.·A. M., the era ofRoyal Arch Masonry, R. A.M. 2349.
So, Mr. Town, sanctioned by the Grand Chapter of
New-York, and the greatest names of Mcuon8, in alabour-
ed attempt to show, "that ancient Masonry has been the
medium through which the Pentateuch, or five books of
Moses, have been preserved to the world," (Town's Specu-
lative Free Mcuonry, seconded. p. 190.) clearly asserts,
•• We have a tradition deseending from time immemorial,
involving certain facts unknown to the world, that the sa-
cred ark, together with the book of the law, was removed
from the most holy place, under masonic direction, and so
deposited as to escape that overwhelming destruction
which swept the whole land of Judea. From this tradi-
tion we learn where; and under what circumstances, th~
hook of the law was found•. The very name of royal arch
, has a significant allusion, well understood by every brother
of that degree. Tlte t·ery foundation of tlurt degree rests
on this fact."-( Ibid. p. 208.)
This trifling pretension of Free Masonry is .in the mouths
of the disciples of the nocturnal school from Canterbury
Green to .Manlius Square, and is commonly urged upon
Christians as a motive of gratitude to Free Masonry for the
important service and distinguished favour thus conferred
. upon religion. •• What claims of gratitude," cries Mr.
Town and the grand chapter: " What claimB of gratitude
TIQJI ancie11t Ma~tonry on the whole Christian world, cu the
angel of mercy in protecti11g the revelations of Grace !"
" Gratitude!" 0, how mistaken is Mr. Town. Does
not ancient Free Mnsonry confess that she saved ln1t tltr.
PPntntntrh ?
o191tized by Coogle
kOYAL ARCH IIASONR\·.
•• Quoth she, if you suspect rrrt troth,
"I C&lliiOt prove it but by o.th ;
"And ifyou make a question on't,
"I'll pawn my word that I have done't."
167
No doubt; butwhere were the books ofthe prcplaets and of
the Psalms? Did the hussy in her haste leav:e them to
perish 1 Such carelessness was unpardonable ; true, these
were saved, but no thanks to ancient Free Masonry; she
left undone muc~ the larger part of her duty, and is entitled
rather to reproof than "gratitude."
Now 530, the number of years before the Christian era
that the foundations of the second temple were laid at Je-
rusalem, and that the fact occurred on which the royal 8l'ch
is founded, added to A. D. 1819, the ye8l' when the " most
excellent grand .officers" were elected, exactly gives 'the
era of royal arch Masonry, according to Mr. Cross. v
530
A..D. 1819
R. A.M.2349
·• Five luutdred and thirty-jive years before the birth of
OQJ' Saviour, the foundation of the second temple was laid
at Jerusalem ;· at which time tlwae peculiar ~ircumstances
occurred which gave rise to tht royal arch degree." (Tem-
plar'l Chart, p. 10.)
On the other hand, Mr. Webb, second in Masonry to no
other man, supported by the Grand ChaPter of Rhode
Island, giving .the important tradition belonging to the
Knights of the Arch, (Free Mason's Monitor, part 2. book
I. chap. 10. New-York, 1802.1 states that Joabert, Stockin,
and G., having, by the special favour of the Most High,
been " permitted to·discover the most precious jewels of
Masonry," Solomon conferred upon them as a reward," the
mo1t sublime and myateriotu degree of royal arch Mason-
ry."
This royal arch is a "most mysterious degree," all will al-
low. Those only who take it are privileged to descant up-
o191tized by Coogle
•
•
168 ROYAL ARCH JIASON.RY.
on its sublimity. Hear one : "In the royal arch Ma8ort's
degree I beheld myself exalted to the top of Pugah," &c.
We quote here, what the Sublime Master of Perfection so
emphaticallyapplies to the tradition of the sublime degree
of master Mason: ·
"Nil fait uuquam
" Tam di8par aibi."
Never was any thing so contradictory.
Second temple founded A. M. 3466
Solomon's temple finished A. M. 3000
466 years the royal
arch stoOd firm without a foundation ! This would be un-
accountable ~ any art except the " art of wonder working,
and the facultie of Abrac ;" which
"Makes furmer times shake hauds with latter;
"ADd that which was before, 90me after."
Finally, ihe royal arch is, and is not, a degree of ancient
Free Masonry. ·It began 466 years before its beginning ;
beingfounded on a weU known circumstance which occur-
red in building the second temple at Jerusalem; and con-
ferred by king Solomon, as a reward, upon his .grand mas-
ter architects, at the completion of the first temple ; all
which is a mysteiy impenetrable to a master ,Mason, and
worthy of the reader's profound admiration.
o191tized by Coogle
TOWN's SPEC'JLATlVE MASONRY.
CHAPTER XXVII.
Review of Toum'• Speculative Free MMonry.
"What have the Muon's taught mankind!"
"They have taught the arts of agriculture, ,architecture, utronomy,
geometry, arithmetic, m~ poetry, chemistry, government, and religion."
-Boolco(C~m~tituti~m~, Pruton, F. M. Library,Hutt:htmon,and Cakott. ,
PaoT&us had not so many different shapes as Free Ma-
sonry puts on ; nor did he change his form with any more
facility than our modern divinity will hers. His strength
laid not in the might of his power, for though he transfonn-
ed himself into a fierce looking savage, he was tame to the
fearless assailant ; though into a roaring fire, he burned not
the hand that dared to grasp him ; and though into a migh-
ty torrent, he wns easily arrested by a resolute arm. So
with Free Masonry ; all her strength lies in her power of
eluding the grasp of her adversaries.• Those who have
been admitted into her cave, either despise and forsake her,
or use her arts for their own purposes, and are lost in the
* "Fiet enim subito sua horridus, atraque tigris,
"Squamosusque draco,et fulva cervice Ieaena:
" Aut acrem flammae eonitum dabit, atque ita vinclis
"Excidet; aut in aquas tenues dilapsus abibit."-Yirgil.
" The wily god will try to loose bia hold,
" And various forme assume:-
" With foamy tusks will seem a bristly boar,
·~Or imitate the lion'• angry roar;
"Break out in crackling flames to shun thy snare,
"Or hiss a dragon, or a tiger atare ;
"Or, with a wile thy caution to betray,
"Jn flP.eting etreams attempt to •Iitle away."-Dr9fl.en.
~2
o191tized by Coogle
REVIEW OJ'
medley of her pretensions. None grasp her and drag her
to the light ; and if her bones are exposed by some sh.rewd,
or some petjured hand, to the common gaze, the world
finds in them small likeness of her whose name is MVSTERV,
and suffers them to be buried in forgetfulness. And there let
them lie: I meddle not with the works of others: I med-
dle not with any thing properly belonging to the Masonic
craft alone ; the signs by which they know one a.nother. Ma-
sons may yet sing, as now,
"By points of good fellowship we still accord,
"Observing each brother's true sign, grip, and word."
I betray neither ; but the cluuacter of the whole, it is
my duty to proclaim; and that I do procla,im, in the words
of this !.wok: those who can may answer.
The tokens arc nothing to me. What matter if some
determine to know each other, by touching knuckles or el-
bows! The signs of Free Masonry are as genteel as whis-
pering in company, and among men are less offensive; for
some of them would not be observed when a whisper would.
They arc a harmless thing, however, and need .not interrupt
ourengagement with weightier matters.
The antique record from the Book of Constitutions, with
Mr. Locke's notes, contained also in Preston, in Hutchin-
sou's Spirit of Masonry, with the recommendation of the
grand officers of the Grand Lodge of England, in Calcott's
Disquisition on Masonry, and in the Free Masons' Library,
with the recommendation of the Grand Lodge of Mary-
land, accompanied, in every case, with notes calculated to
conceal its falsehoods, utters at a breath the assertion pla-
ced at the head of this chapter. I shall not go about to
disprove it; if it carry not in itself an antidote to its falsity,
I cannot administer one.
Free Masons teach "government and religion:" "what
appears most odd, is, that thl'y reckon religit)n among- tltP-
o191tized by Coogle
TOWN'S l>l'ECULATIVJC M.'\SOl'R\. 171
arts ;" and also among the arts for which mankind are in-
debted to the teachings of Masonry.
And now, reader, I will take some pains to show how
Free Masonry teaches mankind religion. In doing this I
have no tale of private scandal to raise or to circulate; no
secret of the true Noachidm• to tamper with; no depen-
dence to place upon the greatness of' a single name for tho
facts in. the case ; but the ~at society M,...,~.,..,, " I am in
the midst ~f heaven," under the hand of an excellent grand
chaplain,and the public signatures of its most· distinguished
patrons, and great grand officers, has· copiously furnished
the proof to our hand.
"A System of Speculative Masonry."
"RECOMMENDATIONS.
" Grand Chapter of the State of New-York, convened in
the city of Albany, Feb. 7, 5817.
"Resolved unanimously, that thi& Grand Chapter recom-
mend to the public in general, and more especially to all
masonic brethren, •The System of Free Masonry,' about
to be publishedbyCompanionSalemTown,GrandChaplain.
The subject of that work having been exhibited before the
members o.f this Grand Chapter in a series of addresses, we
do recommend it as a most valuable production on Specula-
tive Masonry, and believe it will be ofgreat importance to
the institution in general, and interesting to every friend of
truth, ofsound principles, and benevolent feelings.
--- ---,t
Gr. Sec. ofthe Gr. Chapter."
Here follows another, with nine names appended, and to
*Dermott's and Hutchinlon'e ancient name of Free Muons.
t I hope the reader will pardon the omillllion of names ; they sometimes
belonaw men of high penonal respect; it would be cruel w make their
weakneea our mirth, but Free Masonry herselfis fair game.
o191tized by Coogle
172 REVIEW OF
every name both a grand titular pre-fix and a suf-fix : e. g.
" Most Excellent--- - , Grand High Priest."
A third recommendation, under the hand ofZ. R. S-,
Past Deputy Grand lflgh Priest, says of this work, (which
he entitles, Town's Addresses to the Grand ChapterofNew-
york,) "They develope the origin, principles, and use of
the institution, and redeem the sacred order at once from
the ignorance, spleen, and mistaken dread of a too censo-
rious world."
The chapter of recommendations concludes as follows :
" Recommendation of the Honourable and most Exeellent
Companion DE W. C., General Grand High Priest of
the General Grand Chapter of the United States of Ame-
rica; Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the State of
New-York, &c. &c.
"Having perused some chapters of a manuscript, enti-
tled, • A ,System of Speculative Masonry,' by Companion
Salem Town, of Washington county, highly approving the
general outlines of this work, and being satisfied of its ac-
curate and able illustrations of the benign principles of
Free Masonry, I have no hesitation in recommending it to
the Fraternity. Dated at Albany, 20tl:l March, 5817."-
(Signed by a name that belongs to his country.]
This last is more guarded than the preceding, and yet is
sufficiently broad for animadversion. I sincerely regret
that a gentleman deservedly distinguished should put his
name in the front of this puffing work ; but no name upon
earth will be found sufficient to support the extravagance of
the copious extracts which soon follow.
o191tized by Coogle
T OWN'S SPECULA'l'IVE 1\IA ONRk", 173
€HAPTER XXVIII.
1"t'ltowing how Free A-Iasonry is a Guide to a Blessed Im-
mortality.
" Happy, happy mortals, rise!
"Taste with us immortal joys,
" Blooming on yon sacred tree,
" Planted by the Deity;
" The hallowed fruit is Mlllonr!J.
" Far beyond the pregnant sky,
"Thoro the hopes of Masons lie.
"Masons' happy choice above
" Masons every blessing prove."
Preston.
l\lucH reliance is placed upon Mr. Town's work by the
friends of Masonry. The unanimous recommendation of
the Grand Chapter, who heard it as it was delivered in
lectures, entitles it to a fair and. close examination. No-
thing can be more just to the author and to his commenders,
than to give a large view of the work in its own words ;
therefore the reader may expect, if Mr. Town's work be
condemned, it shall be by the evidence of his own mouth,
and..that no(scantily furnished.
To begin with our author, the title-page is furnished
with this scripture: "To him that overcometh will I give
to eat of the hidden manna, and will give him a white
stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no man
knoweth, saving he that receiveth it."-St. John.
"According to the re\·elation of the mystery, which wa
kept secret ince th world began."- f. Paul.
I •
D1g1tized by Goo
""·
174 REVIEW OJ'
To which I add a line from a heathen poet :
"Accipe nunc Danaum inlidiu, et crimille ab uno di8ce omnea.'""
.Eneid,ii. 65.
In the preface our authorsays : " At the annual meetingof
the Grand Chapter in Feb. 1816, the idea was suggested of
preparing for the press several masonic addresses, which had
· , been exhibited before that honourable body. On mature
deliberation, the measure was thought expedient, and adopt-
ed.' Relying on the better discernment of respectable and
well informed brethren, the work has been submitted. It
is, therefore, presented to the public, not for its elegance
of composition, but for its truth."
Throughout his preface, our author speaks of candour
and kindness; wishing, for the sake of peace and charity,
that all men were Masons, and disclaiming the thought of
deception, he inquires how improbable it is that all Masons
have been deceived ?
" Tum vero ardemusecitari, et quaerere c&UAI,
"Ignari ecelerum tantorum, artieque Pelugae,
"Proeequitur pavitane, et ficto pectore fatur."
These fair words
" Railled expectations iu our longing hearts,
" Unknowing as we were in Groc:ian arts.
" Bilformer trembling once.again renetved,
.Eneid, ii. 105.
"With acted fear, the mortalthus purtUed."-Dryden. •
"PRELIMINARIES.
"The great field of masonic research has for many cen·
,.. "Now hear bow well the Greeks their wilea disguised ;
"Behold a nationin a man comprised."-Df'3'dm.
o191tized by Coogle
TOWN'S SPECULATIVE MASONRY. 175
turies been explored by the most able, ingenious, and fruit-
ful imaginations. The origin o( the institution, its princi-
ples, and design, have occupied many pens in every age.
But notwithstanding those numerous, as well as great exer-
tions, so often and so ably repeated, much still remainS.
The subjeet is not, neither can it be exhausted. The great
and paramount point has never betln clearly and fully pre-
sented to the world.
" That point," says Mr. Town, "is simply this, that the
principles of speculative Free Masonry have the same co-
eternal and unshaken foundation, contain and inculcate in
substance the same truth, and propose the same ultimate
end, as the doctrines of Christianity taught by Divine Re-
velation." (P. 13.) ·
This single point our author labours to establish, being
himself persuaded, that (p. 14.) " if we would add univer-
sal celebrity to our institution, the world must be convinced
that the foundation is laid in evangelical truth." " When
evidence is exhibited to this effect," says Mr. Town, " the
great point is.fully accomplished. The ignorant and super-
stitious will be constrained to behold the LIGHT; the sober
and discreet will rejoice in Masonry as a compendious sys-
tem ofmoral and religious in!jtruction; while the pious and
devout will embrace it as an auxiliary to human happiness,
and a guide to a ble88ed immortality." (P. 15.) 0, the
strait way to be happy here and hereafter ! Pay twenty
dollars and be a Free Mason.
What a pretender is this Free MI1Sonry ! We have seen
it before claim to be the most ancient and honourable in.
stitution descended from Heaven to bless mankind ; but
now, grown more bold, it claims to be founded on the Word
of God, and on evangelical truth ; to inculcate the same
truth, and serve the same purpose, with Christianity, even to
be a guide to a blessed immortality.
The absurdity, the folly, the impiety of these pretensions,
place them beyond the reach of comment.
o191tized by Coogle
176 Rt:VIE\V 0)'
CHAPTER XXIX.
Containin~r the Great Evangelical Outlines of Free Ma-
sonry.
" When Folly'• sons ari1c,
•• M&.onry to deapi10,
" Scorn &11 their spite;
" Laugh at their ignorance,
" Pity their want of eenee,
•• Firmer unite."~.'lfiUOJiic Chart.
Town's Speculative Free Masonry. Clwpter Ist.-" The
great Outlines of Speculative Free j'J'[asonry.'~
"THAT speculative Free Masonry is wisely calculated,"
says Mr. T., "to irradiate the understanding, enlarge the
capacity of the mind, and improve the heart, no man can
doubt who has been correctly taught in its principles. These
are facts capable of as positive proof as the nature of mo-
ral fitness will admit. We are, therefore, bound by that
benevolence and charity we profess, to adopt every lauda-
ble expedient, to remove error, pr~udice, or misconception
from the public mind. On the accomplishment of this de-
sirable object depends much of the celebrity of the institu-
tion, and a great accession to human happiness. .
" That our minds may be refreshed on this subject, let us
turn our thoughts on some of the more prominent features
of the masonic institution." (P. 23.)
" Speculative Free Masonry, as a system," says Mr. T.,
" evidently embraces, in body and substance, the whole
duty of man as ·a moral being, comprising a summary of
principles conformable to the very nature and fitness of
o191tized by Coogle
fOW.K'S PECULATlV£ MAi:>ONRY. . 1?7
things. Here is presented that variety and richness ofscene-
ry which charms the understanding; that beauty, sublimi-
ty, and grandeur of objects, which fitls the contemplative
mind with admiring views."
Now, mark the particulars which follow this promising
introduction. I wiJI number them.
1. " Here-~~' we discover the wisdom of God in the sym-
metry of nature, and the finger of Providence in the go·
vemment of the world. (p. 24.)
2. " The great outlines in the history of creation are also
unfolded. (p. 24.)
3. " The primitive innocence of man, the fall and con
sequent scenes of natural and moral evil.
4. " In a word, the history of nature and grace is most
beautifully prefigured in a lively display of masonic sym-
bols. (p. 24.)
5. " Heret we view the coincidence of principle and de-
sign between the Christian scheme and speculative Free
Masonry, lvith that pleasing admiration which satisfies in-
quiry, and clearly proves our systemt based on the Rock of
eternal Ages. As the subject continues to open, the mind
is presented with an endless variety of sublime contempla-
tions. (p. 24.)
6. " Such are the deep mysteries of the Divine Woan, in
whom all thefulness of the Godhead dwelt bodily. (P. 24.)
7. " Such the terrible majesty of Him that rideth upon
the heavens by his name Jab, who plants his footsteps in
the sea, and manages the storms. (pp. 24 and 25.)
8. " Such the boundless displays of the unsearchable
riches of Divine benevolence.
9. " Such the Grand Council of Eternity which devised
and executed that great plan of man's redemption. (p. 25.)
* That is, in speculative Free Masonry.
t In speculative Free Masonry.
f Speculative Free Masonry.
23
178 ll.t:VIEW O.i'
· 10. " The mind is thereby presented with the eo-equal
and co-eternal existence of the adorable persons in the sa-
cred Trinity. The allusions are direct, and meet the un-
derstanding in a convincinglight." (p. 25.) .'
This is the way to convince the Socinians. 0, how
easy I Make them Free Masons gratis.
ll. "Here• we view the numerous allusions to that es-
sential divinity, which foiled the powers of darkness, and
broughtsalvation to the world.
12. "Here• we are taught in meekness to reverence
the name of Jehovah, and dwell on the infinitude of. his
perfuctions, the eternity of his nature. (p. 25.) ·
13. " Within these consecrated wallst are clearly un-
folded the numerous relations of man, as a being destined
to survive the general destruction of nature herself, and
triumph in immortal existence. (p. 25.)
14. "The wisdom, and mercy, and goodness, andjustice
of the great God, as displayed in the moral world, and his
eontroling, governing power in the natural. (p. 25.]
15. " All the combined, unspeakable excellencies of the
omnipotent Creator. (p. 25.)
16. "Time with all its interesting relations, eternity
with its everlll!lting consequences.
17 "This world as a dreary wilderness, heaven as the
paradise of' God. 'P· 26.) ·
18. ... Mortal existence interwoven with pains, and sor-
rows, and death-a happy immortality, endless fruition
in the regions of bliss.
19. " Vice with her ~orpions to the naked conscience,
virtue witb her sceptre of peace and her crown of' rejoi-
cing. {p. 26.) .
20. " Here•, in short, is a va.st plenitude of moral and
religious instruction. (p. 26.)
\ _
*In Speculative Free Muenry.
t Thel.odp Room.
Digitized by Coogle
-- . ...
TOWN'S SPECUI.ATIVE IIASONR.Y. 179
21. " The admiring views are sometimes turned on that
wisdom which could devise, and that power which could
caJI into being, worlds and systems of worlds by the word
of his power.
22. "To adore that divinity whose goodness and mercy
are so astqnishingly displayed in the salvation of man.
(p. 26.)
23; " Here we are led to trace the streams of human
happiness to the inexhaustible fountain of divine goodness."
"Such are a few of those numerous excellencies, found in
the system of Speculative Free Masonry. On these are in-
delibly impressed the seals of imperishable worth. If such
in very deed were not the facts, no man of sense and inde·
pendence of mind could in any shape become attached to
the institution. If all were a mere specious form, a sha-
dow without a substance, a name without meaning-the
institution would meet with little else than sovereign eon-
tempt.',.
Now;·our author, honest man, is deceived. ~use the
institution is not treated with sovereign contempt, as a sha-
dow without substance . ought to be, he is compelled to
believe that it has substance. But what is its substance ?
Not that which the Monitor, and the Chart, and the Book of
Constitutions, make it: " the art of finding new arts;" a
syltem of sciences, and the " art of foresaying things."
Mr. Town, while enumerating three and twenty of the pro-
minent features of speculative Masonry, does.not mention
the arts and sciences. · Hunting for new and varied fea·
* u Ter conatua ibi collo dare bl'llchia circum;
" Ter fiuatra. comprenea manus eftbgit imago
"Par letlbue ventia, volucrique simillima eomno."--..£n. ii. 7~
- " Thrice about her neck my arms I flung,
" And, thrice deceived, on vain embraces hung ;
"Light as an empty dream at break ofday,
"0rua blast of wind, eheroshed away."-D~.Jrn-.
~ - .
/
f
~~ REVIEW 0)'
tures, as he evidently does, even to repetition, it is wonder·
ful that the seven liberal arts and sciences, the five senses,
and the five noble orders of architecture, did not oecur to
him, with Messrs. Webb, and Cross, and Preston, as promi·
nent features of Free Masonry. Ah I he is a teacher, and
knew that science does not belong to it ; and yet, vainly sup-
poeing it has substance sufficient to attach to itself men of
sense and independence of mind: governors and kings, he
ventures to declare, with the approbation of the grand
chapter and the grand officers, " that it embraces, in body
and substance, the whole duty of man;" creati011, the fall,
redemption, &c. &c. All this is " presented to the public,
not for its elegance of composition, lmt for it1 truth.,,.
And as Dr.-- said, when his landlady brought a pine
torch to the sun-dial, and told the hour of the winter even-
ing, that it was jult eight o'clock-" I do n~t doubt it in the
least."
Mr. Town did not publish, relying on his own judgment,
buton the unanimous vote of the grand chapter who heard
him, and the individual signatures of the most prominent
men and Masons in the·most prominent state in the Union.
I shall treat his work with a de8fee of attention to which it
is not so much of itself entitled, as of its sponsors. It
is the highest justice to him and to them, to continue our
quotations from chapter 1.
"Brethren, the design ef this address was said (to be)
merely to present the outline of Speculative Free Masonry.
But,ifwhat has been exhibited be true, you ·already disco-
ver, through the magnitude of th~ subject, the greatness of
the undertaking. (pp. 30. and 31.)
24. " The characteristic principles are such as embrace
the whole subject matter of the divine economy. (Think
ofthat !) The farther you attempt to investigate the whole
system, the more deep, and solemn, and interesting the
• subject appears.
* Preface to Spec. Free Ma11onry.
Digitized by Google
TOWN'S Sl'ECULATJVE MASONRY. 181 -
''Such, therefore," says Mr. T., "is the nature of Spe·
culative Free Masonry, that the most exalted human intel-
lect can never survey the whole field of improvement. The
attainment of a full and adequate view lies far beyond the
powers of any finite mind." (p. 31.)
" Then Hudibras, with face &nd h&nd,
" Made signs for silence; which obt&ined,
" What means, quoth he1 this de'el's procession
" With men of orthodox profeSBion?
" In all my life, I never till now1
" Saw a more false, a profaner show."
Mr. Town is not uncandid ; and, having prudent fears,
that even the grand chapter would hesitate currently to re·
ceive so bold assertions, he continues to say, " Perhaps my
brethren may consider this description rather too great.
If so, be persuaded to suspend your final decision for one
moment." It is done; and while we are in suspense, let
him speak without interruption if we can.
25. " Where is the beginning, and where is the end of
et~rnity 1 (p. 31.)
26. " What is the length, and breadth, and height, and
depth of eternal truth .? (p. 31.)
27. " Where the finite mind that can look through the
vast machinery of nature 7 (Ibid.)
28. "Where the vain presumer, who dare assert he can
trace unerringly the footsteps of Omnipotence in all his
works 1 (Ibid.)
29. "Where the created being, however exalted in rank,
of ethereal mind, who comprehends the great mystery of
God in the plu of redemption 1 (pp. 31 and 32.)
30. "The wonde'r of angels, the eternal Word mani-
fested in the flesh ? (p. 32.)
31. "Where such profound wisdom, (as) can fathom
that mystery of mysteries, a Trinity in Unity? (Ibid.)
32. " In a word, where is that created being in the uni-
verse of God, who will fully comprehend through a bound-
l~ss etPmity, the great and nm:;ear<'hnble riches of nncrcn-
o191tized by Coogle
l82 REVIEW or
ted divinity ; or the amazing displays of the divine charac-
ter and perfections 1 (Ibid.)
33. "Or who can trace immortal, existence through all
its relations?" (Ibid.)
Stop a minute. Butler bas a question.
" Tell me bnt what'• the natural cause
" Why on a sign no painter draw.
" The fbU moon ~m~r, but the half?
" Ret!olve that with your Jacob-Raft"!
"Orwhy wolves r&Ue a hubbub at her,
"And dogs howl when ahe ehioea in water?
" Then I ahall freely gite my 'f'Ote
" Yon may know 110mething more remote;"
Now let the organ of the Grand Chapter proceed.
"These subjects, collectively considered," says Mr. Town,
"constitute the vital parts of' Speculative Free Masonry.
Say, then, my brethren, who is sufficient for these things 1"
(Sed ad lulec qui8 idoneu~. 2 Cor. 2. 16.) "Who ean
unfold the mysteries of this institution ; or explore the ut-
most.boundaries of the Masonic system 1" (p. 32.)
This must have a shadow of truth to support it, one
\Vould think, else the Grand Chapter and Sponsors would
not have commended it as interesting to the friend8 of
troth. Our author enforces his doctrine in the following
modest manner.
34. " Notwithstanding the moral precepts of our order
may be," says Mr. T. "equally sacred and equally precious
with those of Christianity, yet, unless they become ours by
sentiment, identified with our affections, and ftow from the
heart in every act of duty, how are we benefited 1 Not-
withstanding this solemn and interesting truth, that the
(35.) Divine Being views no moral character in man with
greater complacency, than his, who in heart strictly con-
formS to masonic requirements, yet if these requirements,"
&c. (p.33.)
!l6. "No moral truth presented to the mind." says Mr.
_.......;~
_ o,9,tizedbyGoogle
'!'OWN'S Sl'ECULATlVE MASONRY. 183
T.,' can be greater, more evident, more comprehensive,"
&c. "than that which i taught in the first masonic lesson;
that is, to discharge every incumbent duty to our God, our
neighbour, and ourselves." (p. 34.)
Nothing can be more comprehensive than that which
comprehends every thing.
" As men from brutes distinguished arc,
" A Mason other men excels ;
" For what's in knowledge choice and rare,
"Within his breast securely dwells."
.llhiman Rum, p. 101.
No moral truth greater than that presented by Masonry !
(36.) No moral character regarded by the Divine Being
with greater complacence than that of a Mason ! (35.)
Masonry preach the eternal word manifested in the flesh !
(30.) Masonry embrace the whole subject matter of di-
vine economy ! (24.) Masonry present to the mind the
co-equal and co-eternal existence of the adorable Trinity !
(10.) How astonishing that such things should be said;
should be received ; should be recommended; should be
acknowledged and adopted, by the learned, l>y the pious,
and by the wise ! The moral precepts, also, of our order,
may be equally sacred and equally precious with those of
Christianity !I (34.)
Far be it from me to liken Mr. Town, and the grand offi-
cers, and the grand chapter, to any thing evil; but their de-
sign has been expressed by another :
" Well have yo judged; well ended long debate,
'' Synod of Gods! and like to what ye are,
" Great things resolved, which from the lowest depth~
" Will once more raise us up, in spite of fate,
"Nearerour ancient seat. Perhaps in view
" Ofthose bright confines, whence with neighbouring arms
'' And opportune excursions, we may chance
" Re-enter Heaven."-Paradi.feLoot, b. ii. 390.
" By a full and fair expo ition of our great leading princi-
Digitized by GoogIe
J
•
184 REVIEW Of
pies," says Mr. T., "we betray no masonic secrets; these
are sarely locked up in the heart.of every Muon, and are
NIIVEa to be imparted e:lcept in a constitutional manner;
but our leading tenets are no secrets. (37.) It is iloseeret
that Masonry is of divine origin. (38.) It is no secret that
the system embraces and inculcates evangelical truth.
(39.) It is no secret that there is no duty enjoined, nor a
virtue required in the volume of inspiration, but what .is
found in and taught by Speculative Free Masonry. (40.) It
is no secret that the appropriate name of God has been
preserved in this institution in every country where Mason-
ry existed, while the rest of the world was literally sunk in
heathenilm. (41.) And, above all, it is not, neither can it
be, a secret, that a good Mason is, of neeessity, truly and
emphatieally a Christian."
Herod the Great was " an excellent grand master."-
Vade NtnD M011. Ergo: Herod, of necessity," was truly and
emphatically a Christian." This is the easy way to con-
vert the infidels; make them Free Masons.
Our author is grand chaplain of the grand chapter,
and mUJt know even more than he has told us. The
grari'd chapter hue unanimously recommended his book
_under the hand of their grand secretary, " as a most valua-
ble production," and who can doubt it 1 Grand officers,
and past grand officers, set their own hand to the work in
the moet unqualified terms of approbation, as " calculated
to show the great importance of the institution," and "to
redeem the sacred order at once &om the ignorance,
spleen, and mistaken dread of a too censorious world ;" '
and who will not believe them1 Add to this the words of
the Honourable and Most Excellent General Grand High
Priest, &c. of the United States of America, and the.truly
excellent Governor of New-York: "I have no hesitation
in recommending it.(Town's Speculative Masonry) to the
patronage of the fraternity." Observe, too, the date of
the most excellent general grand high priest's certificate.
" Albany, 20th March, 5817."
o191tized by Coogle
~Wlf'S SPECULATIVE MASONRY. ~~
The concluding sentence of our author's first address to
his hearers is as follows : "FinaUy, my brethren, in view of
this whole subject, we see what a great mystery is involvecl
in Spec~lative Free Masonry."
So, abenighted philosopher, seeing a lantern attached to
a kite tail;
" BIB88 us ! quoth be, what dreadful wonder
" Is that appears in Heaven yonder?
" A comet, and without a beard?
" Or lltar that never before appeared!
" It must lie supernatural."
CHAPTER .XXX.
Containing Free MaJJonry's Parallel between her $zceUent
Self and Divine Revelati<m.
"What are these,
"So withered and so wild in their attire ;
" That look not like the inbabitantll of the earth,
"And yet are on't?".....Jiraebtth.
ToE work of Mr. Town, now under consideration, has
attached to it, besides the names of its sponsors, a list of
subscribers' names, from Canada to Georgia: among them
twelve M. E. Grand Jragh Priests and M. E. Grand Depu·
ties ; ten M. E. Grand Kings; six M. E. Grand Scribes,
&c. ; twenty-five most excellent High Priests; twenty·
three Excellent Kings; and twenty-three Excellent Scribes;
four gentlemen styled Reverend; one hundred and eleven
24
o191tized by Coogle
186 FREI!: MASONRY PARALLEL WITH THE BIBLE.
Most W orsAi.pfol Maners; one hundred and eight Wor-
sAi.pful Senior Wardens, and one hundred and seven Wor·
skipful Junior Wardens. And so popular is the work with
the subscribers, that seventy have set to their nam~s from
10 to 20 copies; 18 from 20 to 30 copies ; and seven
above 40 copies each. And a note at the end of the sub·
scription list informs, that " the whole number of copies
subscribed for, as far as come to hand, is 4353."
This work, so far as I have means of judging, did not
disappoint the subscribers; and now, after having been ten
years before the public, remains in full tredit, a book of ap·
peal from the taunts of enemies ; a triumphant exposition
of the pure ~rinciples ~d tenets of Masonry.• It is a
book for which Free Masonry is justly answerable; recom·
mended by her highest authorities, supported by a nwne·
rous band of her officers, and appealed to by a multitude
of her followers; she cannot separate herself from its com·
mon fate, with the Monitor, the Chart, Preston, and the
Book of Constitutions. These books are much occupied
with the details of ceremonies ; Town's is purely didactic,
and being excellently adapted to the overthrow of the insti-
tution it was intended to build up, I shall continue to give
copious extracts, with concise remarks. It is fit that so fool·
ish a quack as Free Masonry should die of her own drugs.
Town's Speculative Free Masonry. chap. iii. p. 45.-" The
general nature and design of the Masonic Institution.
Summary of Duties. Principles in the abstract.
" The' way is now prepared to speak of the nature and
design of -the Masonic institution. Its real, as well as pro-
fei!IJed object is, to promote the highest possible good of ra-
!hanal intelligences. To inculcate the sound doctrines of
morality ·and virtue, and deeply impress on the heart those
"'In 111!!, a eeeond edition was published in New-York.
Digitized by Google
TOWS. 18';
great and fundamental principles ,which constitute the
beauty and divine excellency of the moral system."
It is worthy of remark, that no claim is made lo scien~, -
or even to teach the sciences. The very orders ofarchitec-
ture are forgotten. Its real object il to i,.culcale &lie 1ound
doctrine• of 11t0ralily and virtue, theprinciplu which con~ti­
tule tlae beauty and divine exc~ of the moral •ystem.
While the Monitor, Chart, and Constitutions,unite to claim
the sciences, Mr. Town honestly says not a word about
them. They call Masonry a progressive science, the art of
finding new arts, &c. &c. Mr. Town's Speculative Ma-
sonry calla it, in body and mbstance, the wlwle duty ofman,
cu a moral being, and in its precepts eqvslly MJCre!l and
equally preciotu wit/& Clwillialtity. An institution
" Supplied with 1pirita&l plOYWlOD,
" And mapzioee of ammllllitioa ;
" Malleta, IMJ.U&reB, plumb-linea, and levels,
" Compullell, pop, trowels, and ebiBel :
" Toolsfor workiDf oat alfttion,
" By mere mecha.nic operation."
Speculative Mcuonry, chap. iv. p. ·i9.-" Coincide11ce of
Mcuonic Principles with Dit·ine Ret•elation.
" After what has been said in relation to some of the
leading principles embraced in the masonic system, it may
not be improper briefly to show their coincidence with Di-
vine Revelation. Masonic faith acknowledges ·the Holy
Bible to be the word ofGod ; that it was written by persons
divinely inspired, and reveals the whole duty ~f man." .
I must interrupt our author. It is well known to be the
pride and the boast of Mcuonry, that it receives all men, of
all countries, creeds, and religions, and binds them in one
iadissoluble bond of·affection. With the Brahmin it be-
lieves the Shaster, with the Musselman it believes the Ko-
ran, with the Jew it believes only the Old Testament, and ·
With the Christian it believes both the Old and the New,
'lot to say, that with the Oeist it believes neither.
oi9,tized by Coogle
188 J'REE MASONRY PARALLEL WITH THE BIBLE.
" Without distinction of nation or country, without pre-
judice to religion or sect, a Mason should view the great
mystic family as united to him by the bonds of affection.''
-(Dolclw'1 Orationa, p. 2.)
Again, p. 17. Dalcho'a Orotion1: "The wandering
Arab, the civilized Chinese, and the native American ; the
rigid observers of the Mosaic law, the followers of Maho-
met, and the professors of Christianity, are all connected by
the mystic union" in one indiBBoluble bond of affection.
" The universal principles ofthe art unite in one indissolu-
ble bond of affection, men of the most opposite tenets, and
of the most contradictory opinions." (Preaton, p. 30. F.
M. M. part I. ch. 1.)
" As Masons, we only pursue the universal religion, or
the religion of nature."-(Ahiman Rezon,35.)
Again : " Masons are generally charged to adhere to
that religion in which all men agree ; that is, to be good
men and true, men of honour and honesty, by whatever
names, religions, or persuasions, they may be distinguish·
ed."-(.Ahiman Rezon, p. 25.)
" Religious disputes are never suffered within the lodge ;
for, as Masons, we only pursue that universal religion which
unites the most different principles in one sacred bond."-
(Boolt of CORBt. p. 128.)
Brethren;are " charged to adhere to the essentials of re-
ligion in which ALL MEN AGREE." Formerly they were
" charged to comply with the religious opinions and usages
of the country where they worked." (Boolt of C011Bt. p.
34.) Nearly in the words of the Boolt of C011Bt. and Ahi-
man Rezon, here quoted, is the language of the New Mo-
nitor upon this subject. (p. 48. and 108. F. M. L. p. 66.)
Now, to say that masonic faith aclmowleJgea the Holy
Bible to be the word of God, as our author and the grand
chapter do here, is contrary to all truth, though according
to many well established precedents. Masonry will be the
most ancient and honourable institution ; will teach all the
most renowned sciences and· art11, with " the art of wun-
o191tized by Coogle
_]
•
TOWN. 189
derwurkin~ ;" will inculcate precepts equally pure, and
equally precious, to say tLe least, with Christianity; will en-
rol the best men of all ages, the most illustrious names of
all countries, in the list of her devoted followers ; and is she
not entitled to the best books too 1 The books of all lan-
guages most revered by their readers, are equally revered
by Free Masonry. Are they precious to the infidel? Then
are they equally precious to Masonry. This is the true
character of the harlot ; she loves every body dearly, and
him with whom she inhabits supremely ; she reveres the
Bible in America, the Koran in Turkey, and the Shaster in
India, as equally worthy of acceptation, and revealiug the
whole duty of man. Becoming, in the basest sense, all
things to all men ; she is every where the same, best gift of
Heaven to man-kind, and possesses the remarkable quality
of being the same thing, and its opposite, to any extent re-
quired!.
"No pryqeye can view 1111 here,
"No fool or knave disturb our cheer;
"Our well formed laweeet mankind Fru,
" And give relief to 1nieery."
Prelttm.
"Let us, therefore," says Mr. T., "candidly compare the
masonic system with that standard oftruth," (the Bible.)-
p. 50.. [I number the parallels.]
I. " That sacred volume clearly reveals the existence of
one Supreme Eternal God. The masonic system is first
opened to the view of every member, by a solemn acknow-
ledgment of this fundamental truth.
2. " The bible exhibits the nature, character:, and per-
fections of God, as essentially and infinitely excellent, and
himself as a being, in whom all our holy affections should
ultimately centre. Masonry, in the strongest and most
impressive language, inculcates the same interesting truths.
3 "The scriptures enjoin supreme love to God, and uni-
versal benevolence to all mankind. These are the first du-
tie!! impre~~sed on the heart of a Mason.
o191tized by Coogle
•
190 FREE MASONRY PARALLEL WITH THE BIBLE.
4. " Inspiration urges the exercise of brotherly love, and
a due regard to the well being ofour neighbour. Masonry
considers the whole human family as brethren, and impe-
riously enjoins mutual and reciprocal acts of friendship and
affection.,.
The parallel has but commenced, and it .is hard to tell,
at this stage, which, in our author's hands, will come out
second best ; the most ancient institution, or the bible. I
would observe in passing, that our author's last parallel is
hardly just to Free Masonry. It should read, as in the
sequel will appear," Inspiration teaches: •love thy neigh-
bour 88 thyself:'" Matt. xix. 19. Masonry considers, that
true charity begin~ at hotne." This reading has poitn, as
well as truth, (or its support.
To return to the parallel.
5. "The holy bible," says Mr. Town, " enforces a strict
adherence to the truth, as a divine attribute. This is a dis-
tinguishing tenet in the masonic institution." Here the
Grand Chaplain is under a great mistake in respect to the
masonic institution. ·
6. " The word ofGod requires a conscientious observance
ofjustice in every relation. Masonry adopts this principle
as a criterion ofmoral rectitude.
7. " The sacred writings enforce a religious attention to
the sabbath as a day of holy rest. Masonry is equally em-
phatic in all her commands and injunctions to keep that
day holy. (Town's Spec. Mas. p. 51.) [Observe; the Jews
may keep Saturday for sabbath; and the Brahmins and
Turks not being Christian Masons, are allowed their own
pleasure in this matter.]
8. " The word of God enjoins submission to the powers
that be, as ordained of God. Masonry lays similar com-
mands on all her members, and enforces them by constant
admonitions. ·
*Town's Spec. Free Masonry, p. 50.
o191tized by Coogle
TOWX. 191
9. " The Scriptures teach us, in geqeral terms, all the
c.luties of charity ; to feed the hungry, and clothe the naked,
to visit the widow and fatherlees, [of every family, and bro-
therhood, and people,] and to keep ourselves unspotted
from the world. Masonry dwells upon these subjects in
every degree, and lays her members under the most solemn
obligations to exercise Christian [or Mahomedan, as the
case may be] charity and benevolence, [toward all the fra-
ternity,] and never to violate tue laws of chastity;" [in
connexion with the near relatives of a Master Mason.]
This supplement is most important to a right knowledge
of the principles of Masonry. The ancient charges, as
published in the sixteenth century, were more precise in
this particular than modern indulgence permits. Not only
the near relatives, but even the domestics of a Master Ma-
son, were then foreclosed by his obligations against the Ma·
son's lust. But, observe, the rest of mankind, the unitiated,
have always been, and are, fair game to those who are not
restrained by more than a masonic oath.
When wolves have unlimited range, the careless shep-
herds are the principal sufferers ; but if they are barred to
one side of the mountain, the inhabitants need to watch. -
10. "The Word of God teaches us to love our enemies,
and render good for evil. Masonry .will feed a brother, e.
ven
at the point of the sword, should his necessities absolutely
require it, and uniformly exhorts to overcome evil with
good.
11. " Inspiration commands us to live peaceably with all
men, and pursue our lawful avocations with diligent appli-
cation. The masonic institution enjoins similar commands
in numerous ways." (p. 52.)
Pur author's parallel runs, like a school-boy's metaphor,
on all fours quite to the end of the course. The jade,how-
ever, flags in the-race, and we will come with her immedi-.
ately to the goal. "The scriptures, in a word, require a
strict obedience to the whole moral law. This law is BUm·
marily intenoooen with every part of the masonic system.
D1g1tized by GO gle
;
•
}Y'.l FREE MASONRY P.~RALLEL WITH THE BIBLE.
[What a seamless garment is that.] Such are some of the
more genernl principles.and duties contained in the scrip-
tures of truth ; the same are fundamental in the system of
Masonry.
"It hence appears," says Mr. Town, "that the same
system offaith, and the same practical duties, taught by
revelation, are contained in and required by the masonic
institution. If, therefore, the former be justly entitled to the
approbation of mankind, from the nature and excellence
of its principles, the latter must be. Ifthe Christian system
displays the glory of the moral Governor of the universe,
and constrains to admire, and love his character, so ALso
, DOES THE MASONIC !"
It is fairly an even heat: Sir Hudibras and his Squire
were not better matched, than our author and Free Ma·
sonry.
"The question then, (to state it first,)
"Ia: which is better, or which worst,
"Synods, or bears? Bears I avow
"To be the worst, and synods·thou.
" But to make good the .-ertion
"Thou aay'st they really are all one.
"If so,not worst; for if th' are idem,
" Why then 14nlundma tlal tanlidun.
" For if they are the same, by course,
"Neither is better, neither worse."
.Free Masonry and the scriptures just balance each other.
If the Bible teaches love to enemies, so does Free Mason-
ry ; if the Bible displays the glory of the moral Governor
of the world, so does Masonry ; exactly so, for she will
not fall behind any thing in her pretensions, and she stick.<~
at nothing in her pretensions :
" There is no faith within the land,
"Nortlaarity at a•; ·
"There is na' hope within the land,
"Where Maeonry'• awa'."
MM. Mir. M&tl M. J. vol. ii. p. 88.
o191tized by Coogle
TOWX. 193
Our author thus concludes the chapter under conaidera·
tion : " These are the genuine principles of Masonry, and
every member is solemnly bound to believe them in his
heart, and practise them in his life." (p. 53.)
· Free Masonry and Revelation are the same thing; but
how has this important fact been so long concealed from
the Missionary Society1 Their labour to evangelize the
world is like the Hebrews' task of making brick without
straw. Free Masonry will do it in less time.
Enemies have risen up to deny revelation. Why should
not its particular friend, Free Masonry, be brought out to
their confusion 1 0, that Paley had been, and that Chal-
mers were, of the fraternity! Then the evidences ofChris-
tianity might, in their works, shine by the light of Free Ma-
sonry, with redoubled lustre. And let it cheer the heart
of the philanthropist, that should Revelation, by any unto-
ward event, be lost, all that is most interesting in it, would
be preserved in the breasts of faithful Masons, and restor-
ed to the world by Free Masonry.
.. SuCCleiB to all accepted M&IOIIII ;
" There ia none can &heir honour puB down;
" For e'er Iince the gloriou creation
" Th- brave men were beld in renown."
C!wnu.
" Then who would not be a Free Muon ;
"So happy and jovial are we?
" To kingw, dukee, and lords, we are brot.hen,
" And in nery loclge we are fiee."
•
o191tized by Coogle
194 'l'O PROVE ANY GllBAT MAN A FREE MASON.
CHAPTER XXXI.
SltmDutg how to prove any great man a Free Mason; mul
!tow the three Degrees are types of the Fall of Man,
the Deluge, and the lalt Day.
"In mathematice he wugreater
" Than Tycbo Brahe or Erra Pater:
" For he by geometric eeale
" Could take the aize of pota of ale ;
" Reeolve by aiuM and tan&enta strait,
" Ifbread and butter wanted weight;
"And wiaely tell wbat hour o'the day
" Tbe cloclt would strike, by Algebra."
TOWA's Specedative Free MtUonry, chap. 5. p. 54.-" An-
ciext Mtuonry, Operative aail Religiotu." Chap. 6. p. 63.
-"Modern Free Ma&onry, Speculative andReligioru."
THAT ancient Masonry was operative, he proves, from the
fact, that the ark, the tabemacle, and the temple, were
each built by the applieation of '·' the science of architec-
ture to operative Masonry." To frame an edifice requires
the application of the principles of geometry or Masonry.
Men applying the principles of operative Masonry, he
makes it clearly to appear, are MtU0718, although they
touch not the rule, or the plumb-line, with their own hands.
Moreover, men taught of God how to build, are, evidently,
when they build, MtU0718 applying the directions of the
Mo1t Hwh to MtUonry. ·
Excellent logic! I have ever entertained great doubts
until now, whether Noah, and Moses, and even Solomon,
were Masons ; and whether Masonry was, indeed, a divine
institution " given by God to the first Masons.,. But
* Book of ConltitutiODI. Antiquitiee, No. 6. p. 15.
' '-•
.,
)..-
'•. o191tized by Coogle
TO PROVE ANY GREAT MAN A FREE MASON. Jl;j ·
now I see it clear as the meridian sun. Noah applied the
principles of architecture, under the divine direction, to the
building of the ark ; and Moses the same of the taberna-
cle, and Solomon the same of the temple, " which was
built after the similitude of the tabernacle." Is ·it not
plain, then, that these builden were Mllloru ? and that Ma-
IOftry, in their hands, was a dtvine gift1 It is very plain ;
I wonder at Masons' having made so much difficulty about
the matter.
Our author says, (p. 58.) " All civilized nations admit,
that Solomon most probably was a Mason ; and the fact is
admitted from the circumstance of his building the temple.
If, therefore, his masonic char~cter rests on this ground, the
conclusion·is irresistible, that his masonic knowledge was.
divinely derived."
How beautiful the truth ! How perfectly plain, that from
the circumstance of building the temple, Solomon was a
Mason ; and being directed of Heaven in the work, that
his masonic knowledge was divinely derived I And,. as our
author adds, " The same inference is equally true of
Moses."
And this unveils another mystery; for, if building the
ark constituted Noah a Mason, the tabernacle, Moses, and
the temple, Solomon, nothing is lacking to prove, that most
of those men claimed by Mr. Town were, in truth, Free Ma-
sons. I could never before guess who had memory enough
tokeep the catalogue of great names in all ages belonging
to the fraternity;* Nebuchadnezzar, Herod the Great, Ju-
lius Caesar, &c.-but now I have it; as the building of the
temple made Solomon, so the building of Babylon made
Nebuchadnezzar; and of many temples made Julius Cae-
sar ; and the building of a splendid Grecian temple at Je-
rusalem made Herod a Mason ; and to know wheJher any
ancient man were a Ma.son,jind whether he applied theprin-
• Itia wellknownMuonry intrustanothinf to recorda. "The blue de.
rreeehave no writtenreeorde."-D4ltho'l Orotion.,p. 11.
•
o191tized by Coogle
•
1'96 TO PROV·E ANY GREAT lilA~ A FREE MASO:>;,
ciples of geometry, which was anciently synonymous with
Masonry, to the erection of some building; and if be did-
call him a Mason; and if he be a great man whose charac-
ter is sought, suppose he applied the principles of geometry
to the building a city, or temple, orfort, and call him a Ma-
son at hazard ; the risk is nothing. In this way the memo-
ry is not burdened, at the same time a good degree of cor-
rectness is secured, and almost all the great men of an-
tiquity will appear to have been Free Masons, to the glory
of the nocturnal society.
Pardon, brethren, and hear Mr. Town, p. 63. "Modern
Masonry is not operative," says Mr. Town, " but speculative
and religious." To learn what is Speculative Free Masonry,
we turn to chap. 7., which is headed " Speculative Free
Masonry unfolds· the outlines of the bistory of several great
and leading events, both in the natural nnd moral world."
p. 67. "The first, both in the order ofnature and of time,
-
was creation, when by the voice of omnipotence, the first
ftood of light burst upon the astonished world. A manifest
allusion to this event, appears in the first degree ofMasonry.
An audible voice is heard by the candidate, which is followed
by scenes new, mysterious, beautiful and sublime. [Four
adjectives to expres8 what is better expressed by one, viz.
ridiculous.] Was it admissible to enumerate the ceremo-
Ries of initiation, every person WC)uld at once discover a
manifest reference to the creation of this material world."
It is truly said," all do not see alike;" and who would
have thought so·sublime an event as creation was repre-
sented by lively symbols at the first stair of Masonry! Can
one believe that a fear of betraying the secret debars our
author from pursuing the detail of the ceremonies of initi-
ation with their wonderful likeness to the events ofcreation 1
Not at all: any thing which tells to the honour of the so-
ciety, is free to be blazoned, and every other thing must be
hid, must be the secret. When be had named that audible
voice, why did be not add the fact which follows it in initi-
ation 1 one just as like to the bursting of the first flood of
light upon the astonuhe-d world, as the removal of a blinder
o191tized by Coogle
THE THREE DEGREES, TYPES OF THE FALL OF MAN. ~~
after a dull game ofblind man's buff on a winter's evening.
And what weakness, to liken the removal ofa bandage from
the eyes, to the creation of light and of the world ! When
" Confusion beard his voice, and wild uproar
" Stood ruled, stood vast infinitude confined;
" Till at his second bidding darkness lled,
"Light shone, and order from disorder 8prung."
Par. Lc. b. iii. 710.
Such is the laughable vanity ofSpeculative Masonry. (p.
68.) "The next great eventin the natural world," says Mr.
T., " was the general deluge. This was a very awful ex-
hibition of the divine displeasure. The whole human race,
with the exception of one family, in astonishment and dis-
may, saw the prelude to their inevitable destruction. De-
serted by a former protecting providence, they gave them-
selves up to hopeless despair. This melancholy event is, in
some circumstantial points, faintly called up to the mind in
the third masonic degree."
lt is well our painter put the name to his drawing; " this
is an ox ;" for no likeness can be discovered, even when the
name is given. As I read, I feared the explanation must
lie one degree beyond any I have taken ; but lo ! it is in the
sublime degree of a MlUter MlUon; and that sublimity,
which never before appeared, begins to shine out. Who
would ha\·e thought it ; that the feeble assassination of an
innocent :man resembles the drowning ofa guilty world?
" Down rushed the rain
" Impetuous, and continued till the oarth
"No more was seen ; the lloating vessel swam
" Uplifted; and secure with beaked prow,
"Rodetiltinat o'er tho waves."
PaTGduelAit, b. xi. 748.
True, it is represented ~but faintly, and in some circu11l·
stantial points; yet there is a resemblance, it seems. and
t .
o191tized by Coogle
•
-·
f98 THE THREE DEOB.I!:ES, TYPES OF THE FALL OF IIAN,
in this, no doubt, the sharp-sighted may find the sublimity
of the master's degree.
"The last great event," says Mr. T., "will be the closing
scene in the grand drama of nature-this final consumma-
tion of all things, is faintly prefigured in the sublime de-
gree of a royal arch Mason." (p. 70.) This the royal
arch must answer for. It is more than the writer can do,
to see the re~emblance of the two first named events in
the ceremonies with which he is perfectly familiar.
(P. 71.) "In the masonic system we are not only taught
something of the history of the material world, but nume-
rous facts pertaining to the moral, which are infinitely more
important. Such is the apostacy of our first parents. (Hear,
hear.) This melancholy event is explicitly brought to view
in so many words ; and so strikingly represented, as seldom
to fail of making deep and lasting impressions on the heart.
The wretched, and destitute, and deplorable situation of
Adam, which was the fruit of his disobedience, are affect-
ingly exhibited by the most lively masonic representations."
This strain is continued through two pages ; and, to the
shame of a master Mason be it spoken, the writer could
have no 'idea in what part of Masonry the fall of Adam is
exhibited by so lively representations, until he read, (chap.
8. p. 75.) "The first degree in Masonry naturally suggests
that state of moral darkness which begloomed our world.
On the apostacy of our first common parent, not a
gleam of light was left to irradiate or cheer his desponding
mind." But there it is, in the first degree of Masonry.
" Such is the very nature of the first degree, that e'\·et-y
observing candidate is led to view his moral blindness and
deplorable state by nature;" and hereby it appears that the
Mason can easily do what our clergy sometimes find diffi-
cult ; lead tlte obsen,ing candidate to see his moral blind-
ness and deplorable state by nature.;
"In addition to these useful lessons," says Mr. T., (p. 71.)
" so often repeated, and religiously enforced within every
o191tized by Coogle
199
rt:gular lodge, the evidence of the Holy Trinity meets our
view on every side. The lodge is emphatically supported
by three grand pillars; tl1e principal officers are tllree,"
and so in eleven other enumerated caaes, besides " in a
great variety of instances, which !}lay not be mentioned,
the number three occurs, and as often reminds us there are
three tlw.t bear record ill heaven, cfc. How· wonderful,"
says Mr. T., "is this system, whence moral and religious
instructions are drawn from every object and every refa-·
tion!"•
If Mr. Town wrote on his own responsibility, the world
would, as a jury is som~times induced to do, bring in a cha-
ritable verdict ofinsanity, and acquit him. But it is in vain
to treat all his sponsors in this charitable manner. They
must be answered ; and let it be done as directed by the
wisest man, according to their folly. I prove the same doc-
trine, then, by much more significant emblems, the three
great oceans, the three principal mountains, the three sides
of a triangle, the three largest rivers, the three deepest
lakes, &c. &c. ; too many emblems to be enumerated.
To be serious a moment; a young man, in this day of
doctrinal distraction, might almost hope, in so flattering au
institution as Masonry, to find some help to come at the
truth. But he that enters a lodge prompted by the desire
of knowledge, will gain it profitably in one point alone, hu-
man inlirmity; the reader may add, human folly.
*"Soour three lights ahow to us the three greatltagea of Masonry, the
knowledge and the worebip of the God of nature in the purity of. Eden-
the aervice under tho MOI&ic law-and the Christian revelation; or, other-
wiae, our lights are typical of tho Holy Trinity."-Hutcllin•on'• Spirit of
JriiUO'IIry, p. 81.
Turks, Araba, Chin-, and Savaees, and possibly, also, the Jews, would
light the lodge difi'erently, so u to correspond with their view• of the Deity.
" Mason• meet as membera of tho same family ; all prejudices, therefore,
oo account of religion, country, &c. are removed."-Pruton, p. 2'71. ,
/'
o191tized by Coogle
~ 'l'OWN':; SPECULATIVE MASONRY.
" Deceived, they fondly thinking to allay
" Their appetite with gust,1nllte&d of fruit,
" Chew bitter -..hee."-Par. Lolt, b. x. 564.
And what would a Mason that is a Jew, or Mahome·
dan, or heathen, say to our author's emblems, and to the
masonic spirit of those who commend the doctrines of the
Bible to the masonic fraternity ? They would laugh at the
one, and scoff at the other. Notwithstanding all this pa-
rade of the emblems of masonry, to show forth the crea-
tion, the apostacy, the deluge, redemption, the Trinity,
&c. &c., Masonry has actually no concern with these sub-
jects, nor with any thing like them. The pretence that she
has, is like that set forth for her by the Monitor, and Chart,
and Constitutions, in relation to the sciences, hollow as the
grave.
CHAPTER XXXII.
Showing the Heavenly Order of the MlUonic Degrees,
which are; and are not Degrees; also, that anCient Free
MtUonry, 'and ancient Christianity, are one; with a con-
cisemethod of proving by Free MlUonry that a Heathen
i.s a Christian.
" Though envious mortals vainly try
" On us to cut absurdity,
" We laugh at aU their spleen."
Ahiman Raon, p. 165.
Oua author, in his eighth chapter, gives a most amusing
tlescription of the " moral improvement derived from the
order and succession of the masonic degrees."
D1g1tized biGoogle
HEAVENLY OB.D.ER 0~ THE .ll<t\!IONIC D&G&E£8, Q
"Not only are the several masonic lectures replete," says
Mr. T., "witb moral and religious instructions, but their
very order ia a aource of imptovemmtt. The first degree in
Masonry naturally suggests the state' of moral darkness
consequent upon the faJI of Adam. The second degree is
emblematical of a state of Improvement and trial. [This
is the degree in which the seven liberal arts and sciences are
taught.] Havingdiligently persevered in theuseofmeans,
the third degree prefigures the life of the good man in his
pilgrimage state. (p• .77.) Advancing to the fourth de-
gree, he is greatly encouraged to persevere in the ways of
well doing even to the end; having a NAIIE [the same that
was on the golden triangle of glorious memory] which no
man knows save him that receives iL (p. 7S.) Hence opens
the fifth degree, where [mirabile dictu !] he dilcovera Ail
election to, and hil glorified atation in, the ltingdom of hil
Father. (p. 79.) Next the sixth degree is conferred, in
which the riches of Divine grace are opened in boundless
prospect (p. 79.) In the seventh degree, the good man [ter
quater que beatus] is truly filled with heartfelt gratitude.
(p. 80.) In the eighth he beholds, that all the heavenly so-
journers will be admitted within the veil of God's presence,
where they will become kings and priests before the throne
ofhis glory for ever. (p.81.) [In lingua Latina,tient reges et
sacerdotes apud solium glorire in.aetemum.] Hence, in ad-
vancing to the ineffable degrees, the pious heart is filled with
joy. Here is viewed the consummation of the great plan
of human redemption, where every aaint will befilled with
the fulneas of God for ever and ever." (pp. 81, 82.)
" 0 fortunati nimiuru, IIIJ& ai bona n6runt,''
Muonel!--! G«wgie. 458.
·• lf such useful instruction," says Mr. T., " may be
drawn from the order of IAe degreu, how great inust it be
from the system itself!"
D1g1tized by Googl~
:~
., .
'I
~2 HOW TO t&OVE BY FllEE KAoONKT
" H•e wiMiom heret&Ddard dilplap,
" Here nobly the ecienoee llhiDe;
" Here the temple's vut coliUDD we r&Ue,
" And finish a work that's divine.
" Illumed from the east with pure light,
" Here arts do their blessings bestow,
" And .Uplf'jeel, all perfect, unfold to the light.
" What nom bul 4 .Mcucmean lmotD.-Pt'Uion.
Chap. 9. ·• Ancient Muonry, AncientCllristianity," p.~
Let our author explain for himself. " When we speak of
Masonry anterior to the building of Solomon's temple, we
wish to be understood as speaking ofprinciples, geometrical,
moral, religious, and sacred. In this view, we shall attempt
to show, that ancient Masonry comprised what may, with
much propriety, be termed ancient Christianity."
Again, having spoken of Noah's ark, built by Masonry,
under the divine superintendence, as a type ofsalvation, he
adds ; " It hence appears, that ancient geometry or Mason-
ry, in relation to.the ark, did involve many religious truths.
Just as far, therefore, as the mind was led, through this
medium, to contemplate the divine plan in the economy of
redemption, just so far Ancient Masonry [or geometry] in-
volved ancient Christianity." [p. 85.]
P. 86. " A knowledge, belief, and due reverence of the
divine Woao,constitutes the veryessence ofall true religion,
whether ancient or modem. StJohn begins his gospels,
by saying> " in the beginningwas theWoao, and the WoaD
was with God, and the Woao was God. This Woao, how-
ever mysterious it may appear to the world, has been un-
derstood and held sacred by the masonic order, from time
immemorial."
This is singularly edifYing to masonic brethren ofJewish
and Turkish families. Each may learn, to his greatsurprise,
that he well understands and regards as sacred, the name
ofour blessed Saviour, without the sacrifice ofone grain of
bia affection for the Mosaic ritual, or the false prophet.
P. 89. "This same WO&D is, that by which Masons in
~,9,tized by Coogle
THAT A HEATHEN IS A CHRISTIAK. 2{)."}
lf!Vf!ry country do now recognise each other, as having been
advanced to the more sublime degrees ; and, as every fun-
damental principle of our holy religion emanates from and
centres in Him, who is the brightness of the Father's glory,·
and express image of his person ; just as anciently as the
reverential use of this name can be traced in our institution,
just sp long it must appear, that ancient Masonry w~ in a
very important sense, ancient Christianity." (p. 90.) · ·
Very clearly proved! And now, in five minutes, w(can
tell whether Nebuchadnezzar, the Babylonio.n, was a Chris-
tian 1 First, he was unquestionably a faptous J(ing, and,
therefore, a Mason.• Secondly. All M1U01U know and
reverence the Logos of SL John's Gospel, and, therefore,
are Christians. Thirdly. Nebuchadnezzar was a Mason,
ond, therefore,~Nebuchadnezzar was a Cltristian. (Vide
Dan. ch. iii.) All which is so plain as to need no further
illustration.
In conclusion of the chapter, (p. 92.,) Mr. Town says, "It
is, therefore, thought, from the hints which have been sug-
gested, every brother may obtain satisfactory evidence in
bis own mind as. to the truth of our first proposition, thllt
ancient Masonry, in this sense of the term, was ancient
Christianity." Then ancient Masonry is ancient Christian-
ity ; that is certain, for Mr. Town is sanctioned by the
grand chapter, and avowedly writes as a lover of truth
solely.
I am glad to meet, in Mr. Town's book, with mat-
ter in relation to Masonry, which bears the marks of
good sense. In chap. 10. p. 94., he says, " that the
•oralizing (moral?) principles of our institution were
"' Ifnot formally initiated, no doubt be applied the principle~ of geome,.
try, or Muomy, to the erection of 10me hoWIII or temple, which t&irly euti-
tl811 him to hia place in the roll of the fraternity.-Yide llilri.w'• Mllnilor:
Claron 7b6U, p. !M.
Digitized by Google
TOWN'S
co-existent with true religion, there can be no donbt ; yet,
with no semblance of propriety, can we hence date 1\fa-
sonry under its systematized form. The materials of an
excellent edifice may all exist, either in a wrought or on-
wrought state, yet with no propriety can we speak of the
existence of that edifice, until·those materials are collected,
and duly put together. Hence, it is evident, if from our
moralizing principles we date the origin of Masonry, we
must fix its era co-existent with the Almighty ; but that the
society existec:Hn 'its organized state previous to the reign
of Solom~~'~.Israel, to me appears highly improba-
ble;" and 11~ we may safely date ancient Masonry,
as a regular institution, from the reign of Solomon, that
" is, the year one thousand and twelve before the birth of
Christ." A. D. 1827, then, is not the year of Masonry
5827 ; but, by this reckoning, 2839 :--3000 years off, makes
a trifting difference, much to Mr. Town's credit.
I
o191tized by Coogle
FREE MASONRY.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
Cont4ining a Lilt of Masonic W orthie1, with a way to
prove any learned man a Free Mason : also, til£ E18en·
t.ioh of Free Masonry.
" Hail ! all hail ! my brethren dear,
" All hail to ye alwa7 ; . ··
"Regard the art while ye have~
"Revere it every day."
AAilriM Reson, p. 165.
IT would be insupportably tedious to follow our author to
the end of his treatise; but while he entertains his readers
with an account of the ancient patrons of Masonry,
" Enoch, whom all Masons believe to have been in a spe·
cial manner acquainted with those principles of geometry,
whence in process of time the masonic institution arose ;"
and" Abraham,who became a distinguitdled instructerofthe
principles of Christianity, and the art of Geometry or Ma-
sonry;" it will be pleasant to collect the great names in a
catalogue, graced with an occasional remark from th~
Grand Chaplain.
Seth,
Enoch,
Noah,
Abraham,
Melchizedeck, "whom Masonry recognises as one
of her most venerable patrons :" and Jo1epla, the son of
Jacob, (p. 123.) "who was skilled in Egyptian scieace, and
eminent as a man of wisdom. No reasonable doubt, there-
fore," says Mr. T., "can be entertained of his masonic
knowledge, according to its primitive acceptation."
It has often been a query, whether Confitcins. the ~eat
.
oi9,tized by Coogle
CONFUCIUS A J'REE MASON.
Chinese philosopher, was a Free Mason, but I am enabled
most satisfactorily to answer it, in the manner recommend·
ed by the grand chaplain and the grand chapter, substitu·
ting Confucius for Joseph, and Chinese in the room of
Egyptian. " Confucius was skilled in Chinese science, and
eminent as a man of wisdom ; no reasonable doubt, there·
fore, can be entertained of his masonic knowledge, accord·
ing to its primitive acceptation." Wonderful ! Who will
refuse to sing :
" Hail, mysterioua ! glorious BCience !
" Which to discord bida defiance," &c.
But to continue the catalogue-" Moses, Joshua, and Da-
vid," which last many considerations induce us to believe,
" was one of our ancient brethren ; a friend and patron of
masonic principles." (p. 126.)
"Jonathan, Solomon, Zerubbabel, (p. 127.) Joshua the
High Priest, Ezra, Haggai, Zoroaster, (p. 133.) Simoni·
des, Socrates, (p. 134.) Anaxagoras, Iamblicus, Xopper,
(p. 137.) Anaxarchus, and" the great heathen king, Zopho-
let," (p. 137.) who, no doubt, was a genuine Christian,
as every Mason ought to be; but it is Free Masonry alone
which can reconcile a Christian to the title bestowed by the
grand chaplain on this king Zopholet, viz. " the great hea-
then."
"Thales, Plato, Eusebius, Aratus, (p. 138,) <>rigen, (p.
139.) Justin Martyr, (p. 144.) and Clemens, (p. 139.) Jew,
Christian, and Pagan, all agreeing in essentials in this mo-
ral and religious institution, as will next be made to appear,
from Mr. Town's Speculative Free Masonry.
We may also give a moment's attention to" the unity of
Masons," and consider how they "all agree in essentials."
"In the churches of the blessed Immanuel, differences,"
says Mr. T., ''unessential in their nature, have crept in, and
by degrees rent asunder those strong cords of union which
should have bound them together, as heirs to the same in·
heritance. As it respects the masonic institution. disunion
..
o191tized ~Y Coogle
ALL MASONS AGREE IN ESSENTIALS; 20'7
is a stranger ; the unity and fellowship of the great body
has never been broken."
Now she assumes the mistress; Christianity is down;
Free Masonry is more than a match for discord.-Had she
ever any settled principles to divide upon1 ever a consis-
tent body to break1 Whether men, her votaries, worship
three millions of gods, with the Hindoos ; or the family of
Saturn, with the Greeks ; or the only living and true God,
with the patriarchs ; is it noi all one to Fr.
ee Masonry1
· What can they divide upon 1
" Where tbere i.e no good
" For whicb to strive, no strife can grow up there
" From faction."-Milo Par. Loll, b. ii.
Jo'ree Masonry is anything to suit her entertainers; a shame-
less harlot, that vaunts, forsooth, her love to Immanuel, in
this Christian land, and, at the same moment, on the shores
of the Mediterranean, is courting the Musselman with false
cries of " Allah illa Allah! Mohammed resoul Allah.,.
She, through her votaries, supplies the wants of the widow-
ed parent in this Christian land, and in Hindostan rears the
funeral pile to consume the living parent with the dead r
Oh what an one is Free Masonry, to boast the unanimity
of her members " in all holy essentials !" The essentials
of Free Masonry! These are, with Symmes' theory of
concentric 8J1heres, in the brain of the believer ; they have
no existence in nature. " Do you fall into the merciless
hands of the Turks?" says Mr. T., "the shackles of slave-
ry are broken from your hands through the interposition of
a brother. Even the bloody flag of a pirate is changed for
the olive branch of peace by the mysterious token of a
Mason." (p. 160.) Pirates with their bloody flags, merci-
less Turks, cruel savages, haughty Jews, and meek Chris-
* The Lord i.e God, Mahomet i.e his prophet.
.l'&E~ MASON&\'.
tians, all agree in the eaeentiala of Free Masonry I A most
lovely institution !
P.l76. "It is asacred truth, and weighty aseternity,that
the present and everlasting well being of mankind is solely
intended ; and, if we may safely infer the future from the
past, a happy masonic millenial period will soon commence,
to the inexpressible joy of all the inhabitants of the earth.
[0, for a nobler speech than English use. " Commo-
rabitur lupus cum agno-et leo aicut bos commedet stra-
men."] Why should such an opinion be conaidered hypo-
thetical? why rejected as altogether improbable 1 The
analogy between Speculative Free Masonry and Christian-
ity, is not partial, but complete. It is not imaginary, but
real."
Our author is in his senaes, and Masons are not enough
in a passion with his shan\eless absurdities. I hope they
will bear the exposure of this extravagance with the same
equanimity. (p. 178.) " It is believed a glorious millenia!
period will soon be experienced in the church, and this
belief is founded on Divine testimony. In view, therefore,
of the foregoing comparisons, [omitted here,] have we
not the same reasons to believe an era similar in some
respects, will soon commence in the masonic world !"
I do not intend to be unjust to Free Masonry ; to quote
to her prejudice the conduct or remarks of single individuals~
however exalted in rank, or ennobled by virtue, or degraded
by vice. But for the treatises published by her ablest advo-
cates, and officially sanctioned by her highest authorities,
Free Masonry is responsible.
Nor am I unjust to Mr. Town and his masonic sponsors,
in the quotations taken from his Speculative Masonry. I
have given his thoughts in the order and words which be
himself has used, and that too with a generous hand. It
has been my wish to place as much as possible ofthe Grand
Chaplain's text before my readers, and to leave every one
to make his own comments. Hear him. (p. 140.}
D1g1tized by Coogle
Af.L MASONS .WREE IN ESi!ENTBI.S. m
"In relation to modem Speculative Free Masonry," says
Mr. T., "it is abundantly evident to the world, that the
great doctrines ofmorality and teligion, [Judaism, Islamism,
Paganism, and Christianity,] are summarily comprised in
the lectures, and taught in the lodges. In travelling back
to the remote ages of antiquity' no period can be found
when masonic customs, ceremonies, and tenets, were not iu
substance the same as at present."
N. B. Free Masonry is a summary of" the great doctrines
of morality and religion;" and its "tenets," or essential
doctrines, have ever been the same. These are said to have
been cordially embraced by men commonly believed to be
of very different tenets ; e. g. Herod the Great and John
the Evangelist, Nebuchadnezzar and Julius Cmsar, "the
great heathen king Zopholet," and the humble follower of
the cross. But hear our author's conclusion. ·
" If, therefore, no characteristic change for many hundred
years can be proved, why may it not be true, that those
fundamental ancl characteristic principles did actually ori·
. ginate in the earliest periods of time ?"
"Then call from ~~ast to West the world;-
" The mystic bannei'B are unfurled ! •
" And, 0, departed Ancients, sec
"From heaven, and bleas our jubilee: ·
" When all the world shall Masons ""·
"And live and love.in jubilee."
}'rom premises enabling our author to inter the early
origin of masonic principles, it may be inferred, that Free
Masonry has nu principles at all ; but she has one, viz. : to
glorify herselfat any expense, enrolling the great and good
men of all ages under her banner, whether they will or not;
and pretending to a most cordial intimacy with Christianity ·
and Judaism, wi1h Mahomet, and Juba, and Jupiter; and to
an influence, too, capable of reconciling these seYeral sys·
terns and characters, and of making them, in her lovely
self, absolutely one, both in tenets and principles !
27
o191tized by Coogle
\.,
:.HO 'THE •.t.SOXIC ,_rO&D.
Verily, the Gnmd Chapter must dJiok
'"The world i8 natunlly a -
.. To aD the tnlth it - or bears,
"But awallowa - • · ami (0! 6e!)
" With cr-li- ami glattoay."
CHAPTER XXXIV.
" 'fbe madne. of Don Qaixotte here_,. to the JUet-t pitch ofe:&lra·
Yapace that can be imapled,aml even by two bow llbot., at leut, tm:eeU
aD ereclit ami conception."
Chap. 13. p. 147. "~ltuonic Word, or Divine Logo1:
1ww trtm~JRitted."
I fear the reader will think too much time has been al-
readydevoted to our author: but remembering howI became
acquainted with this treatise, I cannot lightly pass it by.
A reverend and respected friend, who has taken more de-
grees in Masonry than I can repeat without a prompter,
hearing some objections made to the great institution, in the
first place, advised to advance higher for my own satisfac·
tion ; and when that advice was replied to, he recommended
the perusal of this work, " Town's Speculative·Masonry,"
and kindly put me in a way to procure it. Justice requires
a thorough examination ofthe work; and seeing_
the appro-
bation with which it was first heard by the grand chapter,
and the kind reception with which it has since met from the
multitude of the fraternity, into whose hands it has faJlen,
the reader may be assured, that it has a very high masonic
reputation, and deserves every possible attention.•
• A MICO!ld edition, in 1822, was added to the 4,500 copies subscribed for
In the firet edition.
o191tized by Coogle
IN THE ANCIENT SAMARITAN CHARACTERS. 211
The novelty and importance.of this head of the work,
gravely put forth by the Grand Chaplain, and unanimously
approved by the Grand Chapter, will demand copious ex·
tracts ; and these will, at least, show the genius of Ma·
sonry ; though copied as published, " not for its elegance
of composition, but for truth." (Pref. to TotDn's Spec.
Free Mas.)
" By tracing masonic customs, and comparing certain
ceremonies in the economy of the institution," says Mr. T.,
" there appears to be an existing fact, indicative not only of
the antiquity, but high object of ancient Masonry. From
this fact it appears, that ancient Masons were in possession
of the appropriate name of the promised Messias, termed
in the New Testament, the Looos or WoaD. The know·
ledge of this WoaD was· an object of great moment, and
sought with all diligence by members of the institution.
This divine Woao has, in every age of the world, been
held sacred, and faithfully transmitted from one to another
in ancient form, to the present day." (p.l47.) Doubted.
"Quoth .MGIOnry, it iB no part
"Of prudence, to cry down an art,
"A.od what it may perform, deoy,
14 Beca1111e you uodel"'tand not why." r
Let Mr. Town· proceed with "the arte of wunder-wur-
kynge."
(P. 150.) "Previous to the regular organization of the
masonic institution, a knowledge of this name might have
constituted that mark of distinction amongst our ancient
brethren, by which they did recognise and fellowship each
other. To the world this may appear hypothetical, but to
well informed brethren, who aresufficiently advanced, there
can be scarcely a doubt of its correctness.
"That a knowledge of the divine Looos, or Woan,
should have been the object of so much religious research,
from time immemorial, adds not a little to the honour of
o191tized by Coogle
'fill:: M.\i>Ol\JC WORIJ
Speculative Free Masonry. The same WoaD which breath-
ed the spirit of life into Adam, and which appeared in the
flesh for the salvation of man, has been peculiar to the
masonic institution, since its organization by Solomon, and
probably to the patrons of. masonic principles [or the prin-
ciples of geometry] since the days of Enoch.,. (p. 151.)
(P. 152.) "From the whole masonic economy, it ap-
pears that one great point in that dispensation was, to at-
tain and preserve the true knowledge of the Mvs-TER-IES
of this WoaD. [How like you that, Jew?] The fact now
existing amongst all Masons, however remote in country, is
strong presumptive evidence, that the same hath be~n from
ancient times." His highness at Trinchinipolly, " Omditul
Omrah Bahander, eldest son of the nabob of the Cama-
tlc," is said to be a Mason, and therefore has, or as a Ma·
son might have, a true knowledge of the mysteries of the
Divine Logos! 'fhis is Free Masonry.
(P. 154.) "Adam," says Mr. T., "must be supposed to
(·ommunicate the nnme of his Creator, which St. John
calls the Looos, in some intelligible manner to his posteri-
ty, and they to theirs, down to the time of Noah. Noah
and his sons, who repeopled the earth, would be inclined
to adopt the same course, not only in preserving the name
*This boast is not unpopular with a certain class of the fraternity, and
iR fully set forth in tbo following lines:
'' Before tho Eternal .Mader
" Lot every mortal bow ;
"From hearts his mercies feeling,
"Lot grateful incense flow.
ChfWVI. "Here his holy name wo know;
" And here his holy name wo know ;
"We know,
"Wtknolt',
" And his holy nalne we know."
Ma1..M.ir. and .'lf«h. Jntelligcnur, vol. ii. p. 34.
o191tized by Coogle
IN TilE A!\CIEST SAMARITAN CHAR.~CTERS. 213
itttelf, [from their wives:'] but even the manner of pronoun-
cing it. In this way both might have been transmitted with
little or no variation, through Abraham, Jacob, Moses, and
the Jewish priests, till the days of Solomon. . That lan-
guage may have varied during this period, can be no ob-
jection. Since the time of Solomon, however, we have no
doubt but the very same WoRo, with the manner of pro-
nunciation, has been religiously observed in the masonic
institution in every age and country to the present day."
E~actly so.
" For mystic le&l'lliDg, wondrous able,
" In magic, talismiUl, and cabal ;
" Whose primitive tradition reaches
" Aa far aa Adam'a fint green bi'MChes."
" If, therefore, the above be correct, we may plainly dis-
cover why Speculative Free Masonry involves so many
principles which are fundamental in the Christian system.
As the Woao, in the first verse of St. John, constitutes the
foundation, the subject matter, and the great .ultimate end
of the Christian economy, so dOC!! the same WoaD, in all
its relations to man, time, and eternity, constitute the very
spirft and essence of Speculative Free Masonry." So ends
the chapter.
Now, lest the re!J.dershould suspect that Mr. Town never
delivered this chapter of his work in the presence of the
grand chapter, but put it in his printed work on his own re-
*Thil fact ia introduced by a maaonic poet into the following wretched
linea : lines 1forthy of the Tyler's office on this occasion.
" In the deluge, where morta1s lost their lives,
"God saved four worthy Muons and their wives;
" And in the ark great Noah a lodge did hold,
•· Shem and Japheth his wardens we are told;
" And Ham, aa tyler, ordered to secure
"From all theirwJVE8 theaeeretdoor."-A. Rtwon, p. 17~.
o191tized by Coogle
-·
214 THE MASONIC WORD,
sponsibility, and without the knowledge o( his sponsors,
(which supposition, charitable as it would be to Masonry,
cannot be correct,) I will copy similar sentiments re-
specting the masonic ·word, scattered through different
parts of his volume. (p. 121.} Speaking Of Melchisedeck
and the Jewish order of priesthood, from Aaron to the
Messiah, he says, " All pointed to the eternal priesthood of
the Son of God, who, by his own blood, made atonement
for sin, and consecrated the way to the Holy of Holies.
This constitutes the great and ultimate point of masonic re-
search." '{he zenith and the nadir are not more diverse,
than our author's assertion, and the truth. ·
Again, p. 130., speaking of the wise men who came
from the east to inquire for the babe of Bethlehem, he
says, " One thing is evident, that they were favoured with
Divihe communications, and probably understood the name
of the Logos or WoRo, with its divine essence and offices.
No doubt they received, and embraced in their hearts, the
true LIGHT, and were enabled to walk therein."
(P. 138.) "Plato often used the term Logos, or divine
WORD, in a very significant point of light. [This proof he
adduces to show that Plato wasa Free Mason !J Whether
Plato rightly understood its appropriate meaning, or not, we
cannot certainly determine." (p. 152.)
" The great scheme of redemption began to be published
to our first parents immediately after their apostacy. Early
was the first promise made o( a Saviour, even that divine
WoRD which created all things. Here _was laid that deep
foundation on which the whole superstructure of the gospel
dispensation was erected. The same precious promise is
the great corner stone in the edifice of Speculative Free
Masonry.""' (p. 171.)
* In commemoration of this groat promise to the faithful, we ornament
the entrance into our lodp with three emblematic&) pillara; &om our
knowledge of the completion of thatll&cred Word, in the coming of our Re-
cleemer.-Hutrh. Spirit 1!f Jtfcuonry.
o191tized by Coogle
IX 'fH~ AN~IEXT .S.UURITAN ~HAIUt;n;a;,;. 215
To conclude with a short extract from our author's ad-
dress to lodges and chapters : .
"Brethren and compm•ions, in the foregoing pages you
have seen some of the outlines of the great body of the
masonic system. Search deep into tliose hidden mysteries
to which your profession leads. Raise your admiring views,
and look abroad into the vast fields of masonic research.
You may view the collective excellencies of the whole moral
IY,Stem, summarily comprised in the body of Speculative
Free Ma.~onry." (p. 205.)
Such is modem Free Masonry, according to Mr. Town,
and tbe grand chapter, and the grand officers. Such is the
work certified by the grand chapter to be " a IJlOSt valua-
ble production on Speculative Free Masonry," and which
the grand officers say, "we do most cordially recommend
as a most valuable production, and, in our opinion, calcu-
lated to advance the general interests of the masonic insti-
tution, and open a field for individual improvement in ma-
sonic knowledge, MORE than any wORK which, to,our know-
ledge, has appeared before the public." Excellent ! And
all this under their own sign manual.
The Past Deputy Grand High Priest, the Most Excellent
Z. R. S. of G. goes still farther. "I have examined Com-
panion Salem Tow't's Addresses to the Grand Chapter
of New-York, and for extent of masonic researclt, correct-
ness of masonic principles, and fervency of piety, 1consider
them UNEQUALLED."
·Reader, what think you of Speculative Free Masonry?
-Vox et pretera nihil?-
" In hoc eel hoo.x, cum TEULet pretences,
" Etblindem, boutem, foolemque the folltees,
" Fee! faw! fum !"-&lmagundi.
P. S. To pass, w'thout further notice, thirty pages of
Mr. Town's book, entitled, "Evidences that Masonry has
been the medium through which the Pentateuch, or five
o191tized by Coogle
216 THE MASONIC WORJJ.
books of Mose!!; have been preserved to the world," cannot
proceed from any disposition to neglect Mr. Town, or his
unequalled effort. The fact is, our author has not' been
thoroughly taught in his logic ; does not know hovy to rea-
son closely ; is easily imposed upon ; tells a story about
the land of Canaan, the ark, and the law of Moses, before
he comes to the matter in hand ; and having come to that,
what are his strong arguments? why, one tJingle fa<;t-that,
an assumed fact, and a fact which, if granted, proves no-
thing in the premises; viz. "that they (the five hooks of
Moses) were thoroughly concealed by Josiah, o_r by others,
at some time previous to the destruction of Jerusalem, and
afterwards discovered and brought to light." (p. 222.) He
does afterwards say, the hiding and finding was performed
by Masons, and in proof brings that \'eritable witness, ma-
sonic tradition, who is well known to consider,
" Th&t as best tempered blades are found,
" Before they break,to bend quite round,
" So truest oaths are still moat tough,
" Which, though they bow, are breaking proof."
No judge would allow the testimony of such a witness to
goto the jury in an action of petty trespass.
Our author is truly a man of pure intentions; his errors
are not of the heart, but of education and understand-
ing. Governors and kings have taken an interest in
Free Masonry for the accomplishment of their personal
' schemes; and he, in common with others, has thought
it was for the intrinsic value of the insti.tution! Not find-
ing that expected value in any particular mystery, or in
any new developement of science, or in any other thing;
and still supposing intrinsic value must be there to rugage
tile attention of the pl1ilosopher and pri11ce, he simply sup-
poses it to he in the religious and moral nature of the insti·
tution ; not considering that the institution, which alike em-
braces men of all religions, must itself be totally dest1tutc
of a religious nature, and that, being destitute of ti.ted rcli-
o191tized by Coogle
FR.Eli: MASOXRY ANU N.\TURAL RELIGIOlll. 2}7
gious principles, it has no good foundation for its moral
character-; that as it participates with equal freedom in the
religion of the Hiodoos, Greeks, Jews, and Egyptians, .so
must it in the morals of the Turk, pirate, and Christian. I
take my leave of him withc)ut unkindness, and of his highly
approbated addresses without regret.
CHAPTER XXXY.
Containing a Plan for the great extension of Free Malon-
ry in all Heathen Countries, itt the mimner of the Grand
Chapter.
" Maaonry excludes all di.atincticins ofreligion, u well as ofrank. Th•
Episcopalian, the Presbyterian, the Methodist, the Baptist, the Catholic,
the Hebrew, and the Turk, may here sit together in peace and harmony."
-Net~~.Maniior, p. ttl.
MASONRv, claiming to have taught mankind the arts, and
among them, like Saul among the prophets, religion, we
_have been for some time observing in what manner she has
performed this part of her duty. The grand chaplain and
the grand officers of the grand chapter of New-York,
have, under their own several signatures, held forth in a ve-
ry singular strain : one that outstrips admiration, and de-
fies satire; and is, moreover, utterly hostile to the text at
the head of this chapter, and, also, to the generally receiv-
ed maxims of the order.
Whether the Jewish, Turkish, and Chinese Masons will
28.
o191tized by Google
I.
' .
\ .
218 FREE MASONRY At>D N.\TURAf, RELIGION.
call the grand chaplain and his coadjutors to account for
the scandal the grand chaplain's book has brought upon the
charitable character of the institution, is extremely doubt-
ful; since ten years have elapsed, and no stir has been
made ; and, indeed, they have no right to interfere with the
grand chaplain's religion-that would be a breach of ma-
sonic charity : the only remedy they have, is, each nation
to put out a treatise of its own, proving that Free Masonry
has, through all [Turkey] "the same.co-eternal and unsha-
ken foundation, contains and inculcates, in ·substance, the
same truths, and proposes the same ultimate end, as the
doctrine of [the Koran] taught by divine inspiration."
(Town's Spec. Free Masonry, p. 13.)
N. B. Substitute Shuster for Koran, among the Brah-
mins, and for every other people, its peculiar name for the
Palla-pala; stoutly assert in every copy, that" Free Ma-
sonry embraces, in body and substance, the whole duty of
man as a moral being." (Town, p. 23.) Say, " Here we
view the coincidence of principle and design between the
-*'scheme and speculative Free Masonry, witli that
pleasing admiration which satisfies inquiry, and clearly
proves our system based on the rock of ages. Such are
the deep mysteries of the divine ( ,) in whom all the
fullness of tqe ( ) dwells bodily:" (Town, p. 24.) and
after pursuing'this line of declamation until out of wind, or
to the number of forty distinct points of divine original,
conclude by observing : " Such are a. few of those nume-
rous excellencies found in the system of speculative Free
Masonry. On these are indelibly fixed the seals of impe-
rishable worth. If sucll, indeed, were not thefacts, no ma~t
of sense and independence of mind, could in any· shape
become attached to the institution. If all were a mere
specicnu form, a slladow witl10ut substance, a name with·
*Mr. Town- says, C:h(iJtian : ev~ry people will fill up the blanks with
the name appropriate to tht>ir ow!!.
o191tized by Coogle
FREK ll.\SUNUY A!liH NA'JTUAL lll!:LIUIO.\. :t19
out meaning, the institution would meet with little el.<te
tlu:m sovereign contempt:" (Town, p. 26.) and no doubt
it would take with the people ; the lodges would be greatly
increased in all the earth, and the amiable and accommo-
dating spirit of Free Masonry would be charmingly, clearly
illustrated. ·
And, now, el·ery nation sing to their own divinitie!l, Turk.
Chinese, Brahmin, and Savage:
" From heaven gince such blessings flow,
"Let every Mason, while below,
"Our noble science here improve ;
" 'Twill raise his soul to realms abovP,
" And make hislodee a lodge of love." ·
It would be very appropriate, to issue for the use of the
craft, one edition of such work in the universal language,
suitable for the different religions of the world. The grand
chaplain·and his chapter are of the Christian .persuasion,
since they connect Free Masonry only with Christianity in
their eulogiurns, and show at full length the coincidence of
the craft and divine revelation. I am not acquainted with
Chinese or Arabic, else I would make an effort to find a
parallel in the manner of Mr. Town, between their reli-
gious schemes, and Free Masonry. But every reader can
imagine the charac.ter of such a parallel, from a perusal of
Mr. Town's, and a moment's reflection upon the follow-
ing statement :
" When the lodge is closed, each departs untainted by
the other ; the Jew to his synagogue, the Mahometan to his
mosque, and the Christian to his church, as fully impressed
as ever, with ·the divine origin and rectitude of Iris own
faith, from the principles of which he has never for one
moment deviated, either in thought or deed." (New Moni- ,
tor, p. 110.)
And this must be the reason why masonic prayers are,
not one in six, lifted up in the name of the Lord of Glo-
ry: some foe to Christianity might be present, and he
DIQIIized by cl.gle
" ~
'
• i ·~
I .
, I
'I
l
::!"lt) FREE M.bO.'iRY A:\'D !\.\Tl"RAI. RF.LIGJOX.
wounded in his feelings, or be tainted in his principles.
Besides, " as Masons, we belong to the oldest Catholic re-
ligion:" (Ahiman Re:on, p. 30.) and as this is more an-
cient than the Christian era, there is a natural propriety in
preserving independence. "Ours is the true religion," says
a Mahommedan, " and Abraham was a true believer ; he
was neither Jew, Cl1ristian, nor Idolator. But what ren-
ders our religion more especially holy and admirable, i its
being the only one which makes alms-giving an essential
duty." This is also the boast of Free Masonry.
"The dunce, he imagines tho.tscienoe and art
" Depend on some compact or magical part;
"Thus men are so stupid, to think that the cause
"Ofour constitution's against divine lo.wa.
" Each profe•ion and clase of mankind must agree,
" That Masons are jovial, religious, and free,
"Rdigimu andfrtt."'
.4himan Rnon.
" The Chinese, the Algerine, the Persian, the nati\·e of
Indostan, the.Turk, and the Jew, may, under the masonic
banner, associate in love with their Christian brethren, and
participate of all the benefits of the institution." (Mal.
Mar. and M. I. p. 273.) They cmild not tusociate in love,
if the Lord Jesus were named by any in adoration ; so,
for the sake of peace, this name is altogether omitted.
Truly " mutual toleration in religious opinions, is one
of the most distinguishing and valuable characteristics of
the craft;" (Pre1t011, 29.) and Mr. Town has erred in say-
ing, " ifwe would add universal celebrity to our institution,
the world must be convinced, that the foundation is laid in
evangelical truth." (Town, 14.) That would be the very
way to shut the Turks and Arabs out ; to confine the glo-
rious craft to the narrow limits ofChristian nations.
"I honestly recommend," says Ahiman Rezon, (p. 2"2.)
" regular lodges, as the only seminaries, where men, in the
molt pleasant and clearest manner, may he11r, understand,
o191tized by Coogle
• rREE ltHSO~R\' AI\"U NA'Ct:RAL RJ,;LJGIOl\', 2'Jl
·and learn tlteir duty to God, and also to their ueigltbottr!l,
and where men of all persuasions may uuite."
"\Vh&t churches h&ve such o.ble pasto111,
" And precious, powerful, preaching masters :
" POS&eSIIIld of absolute dominion,
•• From th' enemy ofall religion."
"If all that is good and amiable, if all that is useful to
mankind or society, be deserving a wise man's attention,
Masonry claims it in the highest degree." (Smith, 268.)
"Whatever the great Arcltitect of the world hath dictated
to mankind, as the mode in which he would be served, and
the path in which he is to tread, to obtain his approbation ;
whatever precepts he has administered, and with whatever
laws he hath inspired the sages ofold, the same are faithfully
comprised in the book of constitutions." (Smith, 324.)
Let him who believes it, purchase the book ; but there is no
need ; hear Mr. Smith once more, p. 330. Masons put on
white raiment as a type of innocence. " The Drttids were
nppar~lled in white at the time of their sacrifices. .TILe
Egyptilzn priests of Osiris, wore snow white couon. Tlte
Grecian, and most other priests, wore white garments ; as
~lasons, we regard the pri11ciples ofthose who we~P the.first
worshippers ofthe true God, and imitall' tlteir appar£'1."
Put these extracts of Smith together, and they fairly
prove, that" Glorious Masonry" ~ompriscs all di,ine inspi-
ration in its Book of Constitutions ; and at the same time,
inculcates the pnnciples of the Druids, Egyptians, and
Greeks, with perfect harmony.
" Pray m&ke no mistake,
" But true your joints bre&k," &c.
Or rather:
"Sublime e.re our m&ximll, our planfrom abou,
" As tho cre&tioa antique, e.nd cemented by lore.
"No discord, no faction, our lodge shall divide;
" Here /ruth, love, aad friendship, mlltlt alw&yl abide."
Ahiman Rtatm.
o191tized by Coogle
1RJ::\". MR. STE.\R:(S' l!iQUIRL
CHAPTER XXXVI.
" Amoni the faithiess, faithful only he.-
" Nor number,nor e:rample with him wrought
" To swerve from truth, or change his constant mind,
" Though single."
IN exhibiting the manner in which Masons have taught
religion among tt.e arts to mankind, I have the pleasure
here to introduce to the notice of the reader, "An Inquiry
into the Nature and Tendency of Speculative Free Mason-
ry. By John G. Stearns, Pastor of the First Baptist Church
in Paris, New-York." This little work, published early in
1826, was not sought by the public until after the abduc-
tion in that same year, awakened attention to the claims
of Free Masonry. It fell into my hands under circum-
stances grateful to memory, and at a time when the mind
was agitated and tossed between the manifest disparity of
the promises and the rewards of Masonry ; between its
pretensions and the truth ; its wise and learned supporters,
and its ridiculous tradition and ceremonies.
Mr. Stearns treats only of the retigious pretensions of
Free Masonry, leaving all other claims of the most ancient
and honourable institution to make their own way in the
world ; but his work helped greatty to settle my convic-
tions, to confirm my purposes, to encourage and counte-
nance this effort.
His manner will be seen in the following extract from his
" Inquiry," chap. iv.
" The meekness of Christ does not characterise the rna-
some mstitution. It is not designed for meek-minded men,
but for men of all classes, who are proud, haughty, and am-
bitious, and who love the praise of men more than the
•• Digitized by Google
REy. 1\IR. STE.~RNS' INQUIRY.
praise of God. If a spirit of meekness and gentleness is
found in individualsof the brotherhood, it belongs to Chris-
tianity,and not to Masonry. How can Masonry produce or
nourish this spnit, when it is said to unite men of the most
opposite tenets, and of the most contradictory opinions?
" The spirit of Masonry is the spirit of the world, and
not of Christ. Christianity lays aside every needless orna-
ment, every thing that glitters, and every thing the world
admires, and passes through it like a still small voice ; often
unobserved by the great, except as an object of ridicule
and contempt. Not so with Masonry; its parade is well
known, and is often seen, jn pompous ceremonies, and em-
blems, and splendid attire, which dazzle the eyes of gazing
multitudes. The world has no war with this ; it is perfect-
ly congenial with its spirit But how far, how very far from
the spirit of Christianity. Call a man a high priest of Ma-
sonry; clothe him in all the insignia of his office ; write Ho-
LIHESS TO THE LORD on his front; does he look like an humble
disciple of Jesus?
" Christianity teaches the doctrine and precepts of mo-
rality in plain language, in a plain simple manner; but
Masonry pretends to teach them by a routine'of ceremo-
nies. The former is God's method; the latter is man's.
" Masons may tell us, that certain things in their institu-
tion are designed to teach certain truths, and to be emblems
of certain virtues ; but by whose authority 1 and what in-
struction can they give us from these things 1 Where has
the Lord informed us, in his word, that a chisel, a mallet, a
square, a compass, a trowel, a scythe, and a white leather
apron, are emblems of the virtues of the human heart, and
are designed to inculcate moral truth 1 Mr. Town tells us,
•that a habitual practice of every commendable virtue, is
taught by suitable and appropriate masonic emblems;'
also, ' in a word, the history of nature and grace is most
beautifully prefigured in a lively display of masonic sym-
bols.' (pp. 18--t. 24.)
"Now, the Almi~hty has taught us these things in his
o191tized by Coogle
1\EV. MR. sn;.~RNS' I~QUJRY.
written word, in plain and definite language ; not by chisels,
and mallets, and white leather aprons, and other masonic
symbols. I may say that my_ candle and snuffers before
me, are 'em!>lems of the virtues of the heart, and are de-
signed to teach moral truth ; I should be as noblyemploy-
ed, should I attempt to communicate religious instruction
from these to lost, dying men, as from a chisel, or a mallet.
My authority is as good in one cas~ as in the other."
This is good sense, and it came upon my ear like pure
water upon parched lipa, soothing, refreshing, and strength·
ening. With a view to make Mr. Stearns' effort better
known, 'and at the same time to touch the most ancient in-
stitution on· a point that otherwise might be overlooked,
I continue to extract from the t:ame fourth cll!lptPr of
"Steams' Inquiry:• •.
"There is somt~thing worthy of notice respecting the
dedication ofmasonic lodges and halls. •Our ancient breth-
ren,' says Mr. Bradley, 'dedicated their lodges to king So·
lomon; yet Masons professing Christianity, dedicate theirs
to St. John the Baptist, and St. John the Evangelist, who
were eminent patrons of Masonry.' (p. 59.) Has Mr. B.
any proof that these two men were Masons? If he has,
it would have been important to Ma~onry had he produced
it. No proof is offered, and there is none to offer, unless it
be masonic tradition. This may satisfY Masons, but it ne-
ver will satisfY those who think for themselves. We are at
liberty to reject the proposition, and to believe that those
men were not Masons; (and we take the liberty;) and
when Masons say they were, they say what they cannot
prove. In dedicating their lodges to them, they are guilty of
consummate folly, for evcn if they were Masons, and Ma-
sonry were of God, why dedicate lodges to them ? Strange
if the property of the Almighty must be dedicated in so·
lcmn form lo some of his creatures.
" The method of dedicating a masonic hall is, in its na-
ture, nothing less than blasphemy ; though Masons may in·
tend to perform a religious, and a very solemn ceremony.
o191tized by Coogle
· a-.~. MJl. ST&AilNIJ' 15ClUI&Y.
i
The hall is first dedicated in the name of the great Jeho-
vah, then in the name of the holy St. John, then in thQ
name of the whole fraternity. • In the name of the great
Jehovah, to wJ!om be aU honour and glory, I do solemnlr
dedicate this hall to Masonry.' • In the name of the holy
St. John, I do solemnly dedicate this haU to virtue.' •In
the name of the whole fraternity, [ do solemnly dedicate
this hall tO universal benevolence.' (See Monitor, pp. 130
131.) ~this occasion the great name of God.is taken in
vain, trifled with, and blasphemed."
Mr. Stearns is a Mason, and wen understands of what
he affirms. The manner of dedicating masQnie halls is
correctly described, according to the form given alio in the
Book of Constitutions, (p. 99.)
Here observe one ol the sweet catches of our dark Mis-
tress, ,/.;:
·.· ~
" Wb.a word at any time will pUI,
"Point blank on both aide~ or a cue."
She says : " In the name of the holy St. John, l do ao-
lemnly dedicate this hall to virtue." Very well.
The lecture oD the first degree, ~ceord!' with th~ follow-
ing : "Our ancient brethren dedicated their lodges to Solo-
mon, yet Masons professing Christianity dedicate theirs to
SL John the Baptist, and St. John the Evtmgelilt." (F.
M. L. p. 148.)
But the ceremony of dedication says: " In the name of
the holy St. John," and not St. Johns: which has thia
masonic advantage, that Jews, Turks, and Infidels, will un-
derstand the dedication as made to the Baptist ; for him
they honour ; while Christians will understand the Beloved
disciple. Thus all parties are pleased, and the harmony of
the lodge is preserved ; wliereas, if the dedication were to
the holy St.Johns, the infidels might fly, and discord break
the bonds of affection among the brethren.
In the appendix, Mr. Stearns offers a few remarb UPGO
29 I
o191tized by Coogle
&BV. IlL STBAIUfS' l!l(lUI&i.
Mr. Town's Speculative Free Masonry, which will be ap-
proved by the reader.
"It has been said by some of the fraternity, that .Mr.
Town's book is incorrect, and of little consequence; that it
does not contain the sentiments of Masons, only those of
the author. This is an impeachment ofthe grand body of
Masons in the State of New-York, some of whom are of
high standing in various departments of life. The book
professes, on its title-page, to ~' 'A System of Speculative
Free Masonry;' •exhibited in a course of lectures before
the Grand Chapter of the State of New-York, at their an-
nual meetinp in the city of Albany.' ' It was reduced to
a regular IJBtem by theirspecial request ;' and recommend-
ed by them to the public, a 'A System of Free Masonry:
It is furthet recommended by no less than nine grand offi-
eers, in whose presence the lectures were delivered, by au-
other who had examined them, and by the honourable De
Witt Clinton, General Grand High Priest, &c. At the time.
of its publication, it was patronized by individuals of near-
ly 150 ddferent lodges and chapters through the States,
and more than four thousand copies were subscribed fOr.
All this may be seen by examining the book."
Free Masonry is capable both ofsolemnly recommending,
and solemnlydenouncing Mr. Town's Speculative Masonry,
having regard not to the book itself, but solely to her own
locality and convenience ; as in Britain or Turkey, among
Christians or Hindoos :
· "Her oatba not beiDr bound to bear,
"That literal - tbe worda infer,
" But, bJ her well eat&bliabed uaaae.
"Are to be judged how far th' engage;
.. And uAerc l1ac- by CUlt-··eMdUd,
" .llrefoutt4 flllill, cmcl f( none <ftet.,
~· o191tized by Coogle
F&JIE JUSONRY-:&lt18ll.
CHAPTER XXXVH.
"'Aebamed ofJesus! 800Der fu
.. Let enoiDg bluah \o own a et&r:
.. No; when I blcilh, be thi8 my .Ji&m~
"ThatI ne more revere his name."
227
Grqg.
'Fan MAsONRY,within the two tho:usand lodges ofthis free
~ountry, and within the lodges of all countries, is, in all its
rites and services, deeply died with Deism. This weighty
charge is considerately made, as will appear from the ae·
companying documents.
It is the common boast of the boob, and treatises, and
orators ol Free Masonry, that in a lodge, all the members,
of whatever country or religion, character or sect, meet on
the {evel, and part on the square; that the Arab and Turk;
Chineae andAmerican, Hindoo and European, harmoniously
join in the work and senices pf the lodge, with mutual plea·
swe and edification.
Now, ifany man name the Lord Jesus, except lightly, in
such an assembly, he must otfend the Musselmen to say
something reverential of Mahomet, &e., and the harmony
of the lodge would be sacrificed. If Vishnu were praised,
the Christians present might take alarm at the proselyting
spirit of their Hindoo brethren, and withdraw from the dis-
cordant lodge.' No peculiar views of religion are taught,
but only grand, moral principles; duty to heaven, to self,
and to neighbours ; leaving the Chinese to worship their
emperor, the Hindoos, their three millions, &c. &c.
But every lodge is opened or closed with prayer. Every
master and apprentice is made with pra:yer; aod prayer to
o191tized by Coogle
'"
J'&KE MASONRY.
the Deitg, is a very common thing in the services of Millo
sonry. How can that be managed with harmony among
so diacord1111t believers, so heterodox worshippers ? Simply
by reducing every form of e.'tpression to pure Deism : by
worshipping under the name of the Deitg, the unknown
God of the Greeks, or any other which may be in the heart
ofthe supplicant. Christians, Mahometans, and Jews, unite
in one name, and agree in the lodges to call on that name ;
but that is more in the spirit of personal accommodation,
than in obedience to the true principles of Free Masonry ;
for should a Brahmin or Chinese he present, he would at
once complain of the exclusive spirit, the proselyting spirit
of his masonic brethren, while they addressed prayers to the
God of the Patriarchs and Prophets: and that will never
do; the harmony ofthe lodge is no more, under such circunt·
stances, to boast of, tl:an the union of Christians ; 1111d to ac·
commodate the Chinese, who urc a great people, we must
call on " the Deity," and then they can believe Fo is meant,
or the emperor.
Though three great classes of men do agree in the lodges
to worship a particular name, contrary to the true spirit of
Free Masonry, and at the risk of offending their half civi·
lized and savftBe brethren ; yet, they must, for the sake of
harmony, sink all differences amQng themselves; neither
the Sa\iour of the world, nor the false prophet, may be
uamed, without offence to the Jew, and to either Turk or
Christian. To offer a petition in his name who is our Ad·
vocate- with the Father, to call on his name to whom Ste.
phen committed his departing spirit, and besides 1fhom,
crucified, Paul would know nothing, ~~erving to bonds and
death ; this would interrupt the harmony of the m~onic
system, the concord of the Turk, Jew, and Christian, and,
therefore, must be dispenaed with ; and, sorry to say, it is
dispensed with; the name of the Lord Jesus is banished, as
fiom a system of pure Deism. .
In the forms of two funeral serviees, given at full length
in the Book of Constitutions, and in the Free Muon'a Li-
Digitized by Coogle
D&IS.lll..
brary, and only one in Preston, the name at which e•ery
knee shall bow, is not found; nor uit, tlwugh tlae rUUI"f"«-
tion and the life to them that believe, 10 ·
mucA tu alltukd to
in all the rupotl6el .tmd ceremoniu, or in either of IAe
prayer• in the lodge, or at tl&e grave. And in twelve
prayers collected for other than funeral occasions; besides
two making part of the funeral services, being all the
prayers which are collected in the Book of Constitutions of
Massachusetts,•·not one names the Messiah, not one has
any allusion to his name, not one utters a sentiment incon-
sistent with learned Deism. ·
" Grand Architect! Behold us asp~g towards thee.
Thy works fill us with rapture. Heaven's gates stand open
to welcome thy sons to glory."
This is the first strain of one, found Book of Cons. p.
151. And another on the same page concludes as follows:
" Permitted to join the· all-perfect Lodge in Heaven, there
to receive never ending refreshment in the regions of bliss
ant! immortality. Amen! So mote it be I Arne~!"
"The Saviour taught his disciples," says Mr. StearnE,
'' to pray in his name, and in his name they do·pray. But
llasons, as 11uch, do not approach God in this name, nor
acknowledge it as the medium of communication. I hue
perused about twenty masonic prayers, and found not one
which was offered in the name of Christ. The Holy .Spi-
rit was not once named ; no sine were confessed. But a
solitary instance in which a pardon of sin was prayed for.
What nrc these but the prayers of Deists 1"-Steam•' In-
quiry, p. 37.
If this leaving out of view the blessed name of Jesus,
"' The ~~ame ie true of the funeral rites and osremonies. and the prayers
collected and pnbliehed in the Book of Constitution• of South Carolina.
AJ.o, the F. M. Library ginenrel.a foi'Dll of prayer for the lodgee aDil
cbaptera, in the eame nameleu etylc ; bnt aomo for the tempJarw are Ia
Cbriltian shape.
o191tized by Coogle
.\
F&&E MASONRY.
were an oversight, that were a very different case from the
present. Christian worshippers, that is, men using the
forms of Christianity in their usual services, and bred upto
no other, except as they were taught in the lodges, did not
leave out this glorious name in our worship by an oversight.
No, no; much as I would rejoice to light upon the sligtitest
palliation of this treason against their Lord, in our grand
chaplains, I must believe the omission is not accidental,
is not made by a momentary forgetfulness of the pro-
mise, " Whatsoever ye shaU ask the Father in my name,
he will give it you," (John, xvi. 23.) but in obedience
to the stem Jaws of Free Masonry, which level all dis-
tinctions of religion as weJl as rank, and hail the Arab,
the Mohawk, and the Tartar~ as brethren of the same de-
votional family wjth the Christiil.n and the Jew. The wor-
ship compiled in the Books of Constitutions of Free Ma-
sonry, is modelJed on the principles of Free Masonry, and
not on the doctrines of the cross : it is made subservient to
the Jaws of a mystical society, and contrary to the precepts
of the gospel ; it is published for the honour of the mystery,
and is a reproach upon Him who came down from Heaven,
and now has the government there.
Reader, let not a doubt check the rising of your indig·
nation against this deep scheme of infidelity ; against
this new mode ofattack upon the religion io which we have
been bred. Under the influence of Christianity, our coun-
try has risen from a feeble band to be a mighty nation ; and
the district school and the Christian temple, rise on every
hand, where our fathers have seen the hut of the savage
·and the beast of prey. No lover of his country, no dema-
gogue ofa party, can wish to see the religion ofhis country
and of his fathers trampled upon and despised, however
secretly it may be done, whether in a lodge-room, or in the
vault of the royal arch, or in the masonic tabernacle.
And is it not trampled· upon, when the very name
of its founder, protector, and head, is banished from there-
ligious ceremonies of the lodge-room1 When in the fre•
o191tized by Coogle
J
I
J
D&l81l. 231
quent funeral service, He is not named, who brought life
and immortality to light, taking up the life which he had
both power to lay down and take again, for the redemption
ofsinners 1 Ia it not trampled upon and despised in open
day, when the senseless mummery of mystical Free Mason-
ry, under the most solemn sanctions of the fraternity, is
palmed upon the public, as summarily eomprizing the doe-
trines of the Cl'088 1 " the 1ame .ystem offailh, and the .ame
practical duties taught by revelation?" (Town'• Spec.Mm.
p. 52.)
Indeed, it isdespised by Free Masonry : deny it none can:
men may shut their eyes upon the meridian sun, but the
light of the universe shines still. They may refuse to see
that the worship which strikes out the name of the Lord
Jesus &om its ritual, is hostile to the nam~ ofJesus : but that
is Free Masonry ; and is hostile to the name ofJesus. I say
not this begging, " in consideration of the pious men who
belong to the &atemity ;" "in consideration ofa master's
inferiority to the Sovereign Inspectors General· of Free
Masonry;" but as ~ne who have studied Free Masonry in
her own elementary books, who have obse"ed her in her
varied forms, and who speak the truth in the fear of the
Highest.
Did not Joab put his arm around the neck ofAbner, and
kiss him, while he planted a dagger in his heart1 So does
Free Masonry to the Christian, when she says, " the Word
in thejr1t "erae of&. John, in all ill relatoin11 to man, time,
ondeternity, constitutu the very apirit and e&~ence of Specu-
latitJe FreeMa~~onry ;" (Toum, p.l55.) while, at the instant,
ehe banishes the name of the Lord Jesus &om her ritual,
teaching to approach the throne ofgrace in another way.•
I do not say, that all masters of lodges feel bound so
• I make no exception in fnour of the Knightll Templ&nl and othera~
for it Free MI.IIO!IlJ have a fair claim to th-, I have a 18p&r&&e accouat
.open with her there. ·
oi9,tized by Coogle
1REE IIASONllY.
close by their pledge of obedience to the general regula·
tions of the grand lodge, as never to use any other form of
prayer than is prescribed in their Books ofConstitutions. I
have heard the name by which we of this favoured land are
called, pronounced in the reverential tone of worship in a
lodge of Master Masons. But that master carried his
religion where he had better not have gone himself, and
obeyed his Lord, rather than the Book of Constitutions.
So, in every case, those who, in a masonic lodge, call upon
the name of Jesus, or lift up their voice through the only
Mediator between God ~d man, depart from the true ma-
sonic character, and from the lUUQl masonic manner ; the
cxpreasion sounds unnatural there. It is not admissible in
lodge meeting, or in a Mason any where, to do, or say,
what will offend an Arab, or brother Turk. " As Masons,
we only pursue that universal religion which unites the most
difi'erent principles in one sacred band, and brings together
those who were most distant from one another." (Book of
Oorut. 133.) That is pure Deism. "It is now thought
most expedient, that the brethren in general should only
be charged to adhere to the e11entiaU of religion in which
all men agree." (Book of Coru. p. 34.) 'fhat is pure
Deism, and is taught in the Book of Constitutions of Free
Masonry. (Vide F. M. L. p.66.)
It will be answered by some, that " the Holy Bible is the
true masonic register and guide ; held sacred in aU tho
lodges." But, as a clerical friend, who has taken some
twenty degrees in Masonry, lately said of the antiquity of
the craft, " tAat i1 a catcla ;" the Bible is no more the guide
of Masons,.than is the Koran. In masonic processions in
Christian eountriea, the Bible, with the squar~ and compass,
is carried in the .van, by some white-headed gentleman, by
way ofsanctity, not because the Bible has any thing to do
lvith Flee Masonry. In Turkey, the Koran would be used
by Masons in the same way, for the same purpose,for effect
only. Free Masonry cares not for the Koran, nor fOr· the
Bible, but is willing to use either, or both, or neither, accord-
o191tized by Coogle
DEISM.
ing to circumstances, purely with a view " to her own profit
and praise."
P. S. "Piety-enforced.
- "As a Mason, you are to study the.moral law, as~­
tained in the sacred code.'' (Preston, b. 2. sec. 3.) And a
note, refe.rring to axle, adds : " The Bible ; and, in oo~
tries where that bOok is not known, [and where Mr. Preston'a
book is,] whatever i8 understood to coni~ Ike tDill or lpw o.f
God." ··
CHAPTER XXXVIU.
" So much wroughtstill within them the cleaire
" To found this nether empire, which mipt rise
"By poliey,and long process of time,
"In emulation, opposite to Heaven.''
Mil. b. il. !9b. ·
"THE word Mason," says the Sovereign Inspector Ge·
neral, Dr. Dalcho, (second Oration, p. ll.) is derived from
the Greek, and literally means a member of a religiouR
sect, or one who is professedly devoted to the worship of
the Deity."
I shall not stop to inquire of the Dr.-1 beg pardon-
of .the sovereign in~pector general, what that pretended
Greek word is; nor to take notice of the vanity, which,
reckless of truth, would induce the unlearned reader to be-
lieve, that the plain English word Mason, 0: man of whole-
some brick anti mortar, originally meant, "a member of a
30
D1g1tized by Goog~
•.RI!:E l!ASOXRY.
religious sect, or one who is devoted to the service of J.he
Deity;" but only 'to illustrate, from the orations of this
gowned teacher of Christianity, the Deistical nature of
Free Masonry.
He says, p. 13. of Oration second, " As humanity ever
springs from true religion, every religious ~ct which acknow-
ledges the Supreme Being, is. equa11y respected by the or-
der." What is this but Deism1 ·
He adds, a few lines further, "The Great Book of Na-
tureis revealed to our eyes, and the universal religion ofher
God is what we profess, as Free Masons." This is very
plain. Masonry discards all Revelation, and adheres to
.. the Great Book of Nature ;" Arabs and Chinese,savaget~
and Jews, Mahometans and Christians, •• are all cemented
by the m!lstic union. How valuable is an institution fowul-
ci, ~ sentiments like these ; how infinitely pleasing must it
be to Him who is seated· on the throne of mercy! To that
God who is no respecterofpersons." (Dalclw's second Ora-
tion, p. 17.) Good or bad, this is a system of pure Deism,
a system dishonourable to our Divine Master, and to a
Christian minister ; but it is genuine Free Masonry.•
Here a word may be spoken for the vain boasting of the
harmony of the fraternity. It is found in their books, and
twenty-fhurth of June orations, and in their daily conversa-
tion. " What a lovely institution, which unites the most
discordant m~mbers in one happy fraternity !" It is a great
mistake. The institution does no such thing. It unites
only one class of men; others belong to the institution,
Jews, Christians, &c., but it is vain to say they are united
by it in any sense which annihilates their distinctive charac-
ters. Naturalists and Deists may be cemented by the
• "A great number of eminent writers have made prof-ion of Doiem,
aad the major part ofSOciniana have ranged thollliiCivea under its standard.
Thill eect."now b~me very nomeroua, is aCC1l88d of admitting only the
light of reaeon, nnd rejecting all rev~>lation. It is not po•ible for n ChriR-
o191tized by Google
lJJ::lSll ,
,
mystic union ; or rather may become acquainted with each
other by this union, and strengthen each other, and the
cause of Deism, by the facilities for intercourse afforded by
the secret words and signs of the craft, but they never can
be united with pagans or Christians.
Free Masonry has no inherent good to create factions.
When it is made the servant of a Deistical party, .
as it was
by Voltaire and his crew, before the French Revolution; or
of political factions, as it is. at this time in Mexico; or of
vanity and pompous show, as is common in our own coun-
try; Free Masonry derives some consequence from the use
made of it: but that it has no natural stamina upon which
men may divide; no inherent virtue or benefit fo~ which it
is possible to excite a passionate desire, is manifest from
the clu~apness of her favours, and from the readiness with
which she accommOdates herself to all classes and condi·
tiona of mm, pagans or savages.
None quarrel for the dirt which is trodden under foot ~y
every p~nger ; it is the silver and the gold, the precious
treasures, which excite men to disgraceful bickerings. Frail
man wilJ yet-rudely contend for an unequal portion o( tWe"
ry earthly good ; and no strife of.this·kind being found with-
in the lodges, is a clear demonstration of the fact, that
Free Masonry is ·a senseless thing, incapable of exciting the
natural passions of the soul.
But the history of Free Muonry shows that tlt.e use of
tia~1 to excuse their indocility ; (Yoll4ire) but juatiee obli~U ua to a.clmo•-
ledjp, that this is the onlyeect ofall others, (Deists,) that hu not diaturbed
society by ita dispute. ; and whicla, though erroneous, hu always been clear
offimaticism. It is, indeed, irupouibletbatluch a eechhould beother than
peaceable, since ita followers are united with all mankind in the principle
common to all ap and allcountries; namely, the worahip of one oaly
God ; allowing for the diversity of opinion in others, and .eldom disconr·
ing their own. They ay, that their pure relifioo is as old u the world,"
&c.-Yolloire;JIIGMD"ImldSpititl tf NGtionl, chap. IS~
The Deist is a judge of Deism, and Voltaire, here describing Deism,dora
exactly deeeribe the religious character of Free Masonry.
o191tized by Coogle
F'REE JIIASONR L
her has cau ed divisions among the fraternity. They ha\e
not-quarrelled about her principles ; that were impossible ;
but much have they divided upon the control of her. Wit-
ness the dispute .between the grand lodges of York and of
London, for the supremacy of England : peace made, A.
D. 1792. Witne ·s the clivi ion into ancient and modern,
beginning, A. D. 1717, breaking out 1735 to 1738; and
healed with a heap of ceremonies, A. D. 1813. (Vide Eu-
1·opean Afag. and Lon. Rev. 1814.)
Witness the contest between the royal York of Berlin,
and the grand lodge of Prussia ; witness the schisms among
the Philalethes, and among the Chevaliers Bienjaisants of
France .; and, also, the long and hard struggle which inte-
rested all Germany, between the strict Observantz, and
those of the Rosaic system.
These were cases of violent hostility; and the dispute
was not whether Free Masonry has three degrees of subli-
mity, or four degrees, or fourteen, or forty ; all that is a mat-
ter perfectly immaterial; pot whether Free Masonry should
or should not continue to teach the black art, wonder-work-
ing, and the transmutation of metals; not whether she
should relinquish her claim to a divine original, and be con-
tent with a leather apron, and a trowel bright with mortar
and with use : no, the whole question was, who shall have
the wielding of this black engine of night 1 And bravely
they fought it.
Digitized by Coogle
.\:<ICIJ::l'\'f l"REE .MASONR k' IS DEISll. ~7
CHAPT.ER XXXIX:
ut
What is Deilm .f " '!Mtiuowledging a God, without the nieeption of
revealed reli£ion."-WtrNw:
IT is not a little difficult, satislactorily to pro,·e any thing
in relation to a topic which is som~times operative, so(ne-
times speculative, a mechanic art, or .a flheral scien~ ;
which is sometimes the very essenCe of Christianity, and
sometimes the way of winning the faculty of magic ; a re-
ligion in which all men agree, and the a·rt of foresay,ing
things to come; which, in fine, bows the knee sometimes
in solemn invocation to the Deity, and teaches its pupjls to
beeome good and perfect without the help Of fear or hope.
Such a farrago of absurdities is ancient Free M&$onry;
.and yet, if it have any distinguishing and uniform.charac-
teristic, this is it, viz. it acknowledges a God without the re-
ception of divine revelation.
The quotations already made from standard treatises on
Masopry, establish this trait· in her character. But such is
the importance of the subject, when viewed in connexion
with the two thousand lodges of our country, and with the
glorious and fearful truths of the gospel rejected by Free
Masonry, that I shall not fear to tire the reader's patience
bysummoning before him further witnesses. .
I do not attempt, even Qy the slightest implica~ion, to
prove that the Free Masons of our country are Deists; no
lluch thing; but that our dark mistress teaches them the
o191tized by Coogle
~
\
\
~ ANCIENT i'RKE MASONRY IS DElSM.
necessary lessons, and it is to their praise they do not learu
the doctrine. Free Masonry inculcates pure Deism ; if her
disciples refuse to learn, that is not altogether her fault ;
she is entitled to the credit of a diligent and faithful in-
structress. This will-
more fully appear by what follows.
" Leta man's religion, or mode of it, be what it will, we
do not exclude him from our order, provided he believe!~ in
the·glorious Architect of heaven and earth, and practises
the sacred duties o( morality."-(F. M. Library, p. 160.)
This is part of the charge given to an entered appren-
tice. This is a part of the first -1~, of Free Masonry.
" You worship the universal Lord of naturein the way you
think most pleuing to him ; you practise eveey duty of mo-
rality, and he does not reject you ; and shall we1 no ;
come to us, and find your friends, your brethren."(-Idem.)
Whether it " please" the apprentice to worahip the rini-
verml·Lord as the God Saturn, the God Moloch, the God
Vishnu, the God Fo, the God Jupiter, or the God Reason
witJt the niuminees, is all one to Free M88onry ; she is a
professed teacher of religion, and orily requires him " to
adhere to tie euentiala in which all men'agree."-(Boolt of
C0n1. p. 34. Idem, F. M. Library, p. 66.) But he must
not have a humped back, or a maimed Jimb, or an illegiti-
mate parentage. " The apprentice mtut befree born, and
of limbawlwle,a1 a man ought to be, and no baltard." (F.
M. ~ary,p.l4. Idem, Pruton. London, 1788. p. 102.
The samein otherauthors,under thetitle, Ancient Charges.)
He must be "free born, of a good kindred, tmd have his
rigkt limb1, a1 a man ought to have." (F. M. L . p. 14.)
She is very p&.rticula.t.
Now, that the lodges sometimes admit dismembered
pupils, and even Atheists, I readily grant; but that only
proves, that the lodges depart from their instructions. Free
Masonry teaches and charges her apprentice : Adore the
Being ofall beilag1, oftDhom thy heart isfo.ll; (Free Mas.
Lib. p. 149.) meaning the Deity: but if her perverse pupil
will blindly understand thereby the mistress ofhis affection~,
oi9,tized by Coogle
ANCIENT J'REE MASONRY IS DEISM. ~
woman, wealth, or wine, Free Masonry cannot help that.
An4 should he at length find out, that " Ike.&ing of all
being., of whom his heart is full," i8 no God, but frailty,
dust, or poison, and become an AtheiSt l Free MIUIOill')' can-
not help that either. She does certainlyinculcate upon him
the religion in which all men agree; and can as readily ex-
cuse hUerrors, as those ofher pupils, who fall into the uncha-
ritable faith in divine revelation : " Except a man be bOm
again; he cannot see the kingdom of qod." (John, ill. 3.)
Free~Masonry regards all her children ·with impartiill
fondness ; she weeps over their errors, and does her utmost
to reclaim them, whether they deviate to the right hand or
left, and aims alike. to tam,e the spirit of the fol~
priest, and to tmgage the elteem ofthe moral brother.• Not
destituteofthewisdomwhichis from beneath,shechooses her
measures with deep cunning. Having learned thatthe most
stupid,when he Jl)gards the heavens,must acknowledge that
there is a God ;t she, too, is very forward to acknow~ it.
But millions, blindly worshipping him.in the stock ofa tree,
ora block ofstone,carved with men's hands, she ieblind with
theni, and worships him .so tOO: r.rlillions, sharper sighted,
see and worship him in the river that fertilizes their fields,
and in the corn that renews their strength ; she seea and
worships too, bowing most humbly to the drag antl IM net,
for by these we live.
But it is never to be forgotten, thatslie, herself, inculea1es
the " essentials of religion, in which all men agree, unitiag
men of the most distant countries and mOlt opposite tenets,
in one indissoluble bond ofaffection.'' All men do 1101 agree
in receiving divine revelation ; ther~fore, Free Masonry does
not teach it, the Grand Chapter to the contrary notwith-
standing ; and, stripped of her pious disguise, Free Masonry
• VIdeFru 1tl41•.JI(.n., alao, lllwtralitml qf Jtl-!1• obap. Oripa Gftll
AtMmiGgU qf.MfllliMY.
t Qpia)et tam vecors, qui ctlm su.pexerit in coelum, non 11e11tiat Deom
-?-Cicero.
Digitized by Google
\
240 ANCIENT J'RI!:I:: .lUSONR\- IS DEI:.M.
is solely a teacher ofDeism, in the two thousand lodges of
this country, and whether her De\JS be the Being oftvhom
eat/a itulivitlual's heart is full, or (he stock of a tree; itt no
matter ofconcern to her.
Mark ; it is no matter of co~cern to Iter ; to the seventy
er one hundred thousand'Masons ofour country, it is a mat-
ter of concern; ·and they will prove it so, by forsaking her
assemblies. They are as little consciou11 of her chara.cter,
as wa8 the writer, before being provoked to study it. They
are the judges ofthe proofs and of the authorities he brings ~
and time for reflection will unite them in abhorrence of u
dark scheme, which on the face of it is deism, and in its spi·
rit, is the beiRg of whirm eadt lu'art is .fill~i. (>. no deit~· :
At'Aeism.
Many-writers in the English language have been quoted,
to show that Free Masonry inculcates pure Deism; (what-
ever her pupils may learn;) and the grand chapter have
freely told us, how Masonry arid Christianity are one; and
this, too, in the face of truth, and the day. Now we will
hear what" Esprit du tl(;gme de Ia Franclte .Moronrie" has
to say upon the subject. The work is not· sanctioned by
any grand chapter or grand officers. Whether that (ashion
is unknown upon the Continent of Europe, or whether the
book is too barefaced to require letters of credit, does not
appear. The reader cannot suppose, after what has been
presented in this volume, that Free JJ-fm:onry would hesi-
tate to sanction any thing, for absurdity or impiety.
•• Etrprit du Dogme," was published.at Brussels,. in the
Netherlands, A. D. 1825. 350 pp. 8vo. with many cuts.
It professes to be, " Researches upml the origin and the
different rites of Free Mas011r!l :'~ the very thing we want,
my reader ; but it comes too lntc-to tell us the origi11 of
Free Masonry, and can only help us to understand its doc-
trines: not that we should find it irksome to stop while
Eqwit might tell the origin, if he could; but, having finish-
ed his story, that part of it is only fog, while upon the doc~
trines he is commendably explicit.
'
o191tized by Coogle
ANCIEN'f lRER MASONRY IS DEISM. 21&}
· Sliould we find him maliciously inculcating the same opi•
nions which Mr. Town inculcates honestly, we cannot ques-
tion his masonic right. Mr. T. has given his views ofChris-
tianity, and Mr. EI]Wit may give.his. Free Masonry operi-
ly commends Mr. T.'s labour, while in her heart she loves
Mi. Eqwit'•: and for this good reason; that he aims most
seduloualy to level all distinctions of religion ; to bring men
to unite in the u1ential..in wl!kh tltey all'agree. He is ~
DeiSt, without dispute, as Mr. T .·is a Christil!ll; and we
shall find i'ree Masonry, in his hands, a much more natural
and -efficient weapon than it can be in the hands of any ho-
nest grand chaplain.
One word more. Let no man say, "Mischief ha
been hunted after." Every masonic work that has come
within ~eli, has been made to contribute its mite to this
exposition of Free Masonry : and -E8pf"it I give as the only
French work upon the subject I have yet had opportunity
to read, and it is of necessity the w()rst.
The first words of. the preface are : " Le but de cet ouv-
rage est de d~montrer que Ia Franche-Ma~i:·• est one so-
ciete religieuse, que les F.·. F.·. M.·. M.·. suivent le dog-
me, les doctrines, et mysteres de Jesus."
As the translation will be much more interesting to most
readen, I will hazard giving it ; and yet ·I should be sorry
to have the reader think that any of its gloss is acqUired in
my hands ; like every ot~er translation of pithy thoughts,
it is tapestry seen on the faint side.
"The object of this work is to show that Free Masonry
is a religious &Oeiety ; that Free Masons conform to the te·
nets~ the doctrines, and the mysteries of Jesus."
The grand chapter have sanctioned that; but when he
goes on to show that Masonry arose from the fens of Egypt,
that it derives ita most sublime doctrines from the Coptic
priests, " who taught the existence ofone only and suprem)
Being," I hope every Mason will see where he ·aims, and
t.e ready to revolt from the contempt put upon the scrip-
tures in the declaration which follows : " This IUblime ill.:«
31
o191tized b~Coogle
~ ·~~T l'AM M4ii()Na'f IS _,&lSII.
of lie - qf {ikJl, ewry reliJlioa owu lo the Egwtitt»
~Ay, Qilld noC to JftlllaiM, tu •orat fDJ'iu1r• 6tlpp08e."
(p. 9.) . .
~hi. W. true Masonic coDJistency. On pege 1, he says,
tb, 9)~\ ~( ~ work is to sb~w that .Free Maaons con-
f~ te> ~" d~~es of ~velation ; and on page 9, be
·viz\~y ~- to those doctrines the gr_andtruth, tluJt God
i4~. ,__
.~ ~1 tw, is a specimen of genuine masonic tnufi..
~ tb:at fPle& to the pr.ietts of that peopie, who.from the
eiU'~~l ~tiquity were devoted to the most superstitious
idolatry, worihipping the crocodile, the w: that grazes tie
P'JIItlrt;8,, ~ ecen the vegetalJles of theJielth •• tbe Rtblin)e
~ of the unity of ~ Supreme Being !" The reader
w()u,ld kn.;nv this wa,s Free Masonry in the darkest night.
That Free Alas(;mry rejects revelation, and is De~ the,
r~r wi,ll m~~e distinctly see in the following impious as-
sertion : uJeBtU the flWTe readily mlmiuedthe.tntity of God,
for ~ ~ ap:ording.1o hU 'legend~ in Egypt, wlao8e
~~prap~U~ t4e tDorshipof one only God, tU Lactantius
,., Pliny~~" (Eaprit du Dogme, p. 88.)
Do not doubt this is· Free Masonry. The name, she
ventw~ in A~rica to banish from her ritual, sbt;l ventures
i~J .h,poeeliptic ~gypt to scout. The name whichher Books
of C~tittJ,,;_ops, in Mauacbuset~, in Maryland, and in
So~t!J.c.....~ exclude from their addresses to th(l throne
of G~ace; in the French, she presents as sQmewhat in-
deb~ w~ (::qp~~ priests for the knowl~dge of the Su-
~·~, and_ ~dC)Ctrine of the l!wty.
We shall D<4: beei~e ~ ~ow, that s.be.has, Qlore qnpu~
dip.&~ in dq~e~ Fr.eneh, than in t.hia privile&ed®manu-
niJJ ;_~ul tbe.difter~~.is Qot iiJ the spiri~ of Free MaaoiJ-
lJ.; ~e ,~ i4~~J.~SU1C both. h~e ~d·ther~; ~ tb~
au~Jl~r. '"'vity qf.uwuu';r she assumes amoug ~ ia Qwiug
entirely. ~ th"t ~vawgelical ch~ter which dis~es
1he inttitutiou.ud the charac<ter of:our co~try, ~d.which
it. it her ai~ to remove, or to dettroy..
The nature of a disease which attacks the .constitution
o.9.tized by Coogle
ANCIENT J'UE MA80NllY IS DEISM. ~
is )aa)fcured, when weU defined. Free Muonry is dcfinina
llemelf in a way not to be. mistaken; and if any, lookiat
.t the number of her lodges, fear for the moral healdl of
our country' it is well to be on the alert, using sentle,.
medies, and, by no means, hanh or violent medicine!',
which inevitably weaken the body. Gentle measures will
most eertainly withdraw, in a very few years; all the valua·
ble supporters of Free M.uonry from her ranks in this
eountry ; while abuse for the things of which they are ig-
norant, will only exuperate, and throw · men obstinately
into her citadel She is not to be feared, whose grand
muter, without disparagement, fell under the stroke of a
ttDo foot rule,_a •quare, and a ~t, presenting, 0 Free
Masonry, an example of·" virtue,fortitude, and int~,
Hldoa equalled, and ~ e.xcell«l in the hutory of -."
No, abe is not to be feared ; she is a cowa~d, that seeks
the cover of the night, and the help of faleeh~ to screen
henself from the certain fate to which truth and the light
will one day doom her. Mark her through a few periods :
,, ln this treatise we shall be as circumspect as possible,. ill
order, that if it should fall into the hands of any projlliiiJ
(i.e. uninitiated,) he could use it only to be convinced, that
our s-..mptuous repasts 8.1'e not the object of our asse!Jlb-
but they have an aim useful, lofty, and divine. We are
obliJed to warn our brethren, that in speaking of the tene&s
of the Egyptians, of their mysteries, or of those of Mdllee,
of Zoroaster, of Jesus Christ, it is not at all our porpore to
give our own opinion,-or that of our order. Every brother
knows, that he ought indiscriminately to take to his bosom
every honest citizen, every friend of his country, and of the
laws, of whatever religion he may be, having admitted a
universal toleration in the mode of worship ' ~d we ha1'e
beeri compelled sometimes to enter upon the discU81icm df
these tenets and mysteries,in order to illustrate the ancient
doctrines of our faith."-(Esprit du Dogme, p. 1.>.)
In the first period she gives the' reader a high idea G{ the
useful and divine ast~ociation, an41 in the next, intimatOI
o191tized by Coogle
2(4 ANCIEriT FREE .MASONRY IS .I.IEISM.
what its object is, by levelling every thing sacred to the
standard of the Egyptian mysteries ; in the third period,
she first reminds the brother of the extent of masonic cha-
rity, and, thus justified for the preceding impiety, concludes
with the plea of necessity, in order to explain Free Mason-
ry. This is her obscure cunning, to make the prQj'ane ad-
mire her mystery, to give Revelation a stab in its glorified
Author, and then, next to plead the iUimitable extent of
masonic charity, not as if for the wound just given, but
seemingly for treating of various mysteries I
This is Free Masonry, both in doctrine and in example.
She pleads her law of charity in a most edifying manner:
" Do I couple th.e doctrines of Egypt and Judea1 it .is not
to give an opinion upon them," she says. " Do 1 present.
Zo~oaster imd the Lord in the same point of view 1 Every
brother knows it is his duty to take dana •on •ein, to his bo-
som the honest man, of whatever religion he may be."
This iS liberality not to to be questioned. This is chari-
ty sufficient to·pacifY·the most impious. The Arch Enemy
can ask no more : to revile th.e Lord Jeaw, sincerely and ho-
nutly,inconformity to thetempter's religion. To putthe mys-
teries ofthe Per8ian Zoroaster and ofthe Holy Gospel upon
the ·same level, for the edification of Free Masons; and
in the same breath remind the pupil, that in modes offaith
t:mdforrt18 of worship, honest men may be allowed to differ
without stint of love or charity.
The Father ofLies is.a deceiverstill, whether he come in
the form of an angel of light, or of th_
e daughter of night ;
he is the tempter still, whether he come in the form
of a serpent, or of F.J:ee Masonry. He is the teacheF,
·who, under the sanction of th~ two most valued Books of
Constitutions of these States, learns men to be good and
perfect without thehelp offear or hope ;,. a doctrine which
• Vide Book of Constitutions of Maa&chUilCltts, which i.e received in all
New England, p.19. F. M.l.ibrary. whieh is received ftvlm New-York fo
Nonh ~Dna, p.11.
o191tized by Coogle
ANCIENT .FREE MASONl\Y IS DEISM, 245
alike rejects the joys of Paradise, and the pains of bell;
which excludes the hope of eternal life, and of the immor-
tality of the soul ; and, also, the fear ,of the fire that never
shall be quenched.
This is too much, too much for silly Masonry. She is but
a puppet made to play antic tricks, while a master spirit
moves the wires, and filches the pockets of the gaping
crowd. The whole object of the divine economy, as re-
vealed in the holy ScriptureS, is to nlake men "good and
perfect;" and the method taken by ' heaven's Truth; is, to
invite by lwpu of joy unspeakable, and to penuade by the
fear of terrors inconceivable. . The Enemy's method, or
Free Masonry's, if you please, is exactly the reverse ofthis,
He began his instructions near the time of the masonic
era, teaching Eve, without the l&elp offear, to eat, and be
like God, knowing good and evil. And man being ruined,
the enemy has only to keep him perfect without the l&elp of
h(Jpe,or fear, and his work is done.
Thus we arrive at the spirit of the. doctrines of Free
Masonry, by collecting them from the standard treatises ..of
the fraternity, and showing their relation to the Father of
Lies, and to eternal night and death. I know the relation-
ship wilJ disgust many, and Will offend SOll)e ; offend.them
with the discoverer nearly as much as with the connexion
discovered; But if masonic charity will justify an at-
tack both secret and open upon revealed religion, seeing it
is made honestly, and in conformity to the assassin's mode
of worshippillg the .Detu, she will undoubtedly be able to re-
ceive kindly a rap upon her own head, seeing it i8 honestly
laid on, and, also. in.conformity ~o the assailant'~ mode of
wonhip.
o191tized by Coogle
_.
~ ANCfENT J'RE£ XA80NRY 18 DEIS••
CHAPTER XL.
" ~ That we regard the unhallowed substitution of the profane
org1ee of Free Masonry, for the Christian religion, u Craugbt with more
daa,er to the peace of BOOiety, and the -tra.tba of nrYelation, than open
Deism, Olav.owe4 iDidelity."-W•· WADIWOln'H, Prt••
· I SHALL continue to study Free Masonry with the reader
in Egprit du Dogme. n is revolting to contemplate her,
impiety, and it would be very unjust to suspect the frater·
Iiity in this country of consenting to it. They are ·little
aware of it, and I cannot but hope to deserve their hearty
thanks' for presenting Free Masonry to them, as they once
were presented to her, neither barefoot nor shod, with a
cable tow about the neck; her's was a night scene, when
she laughed in her heart, to see sober men groping after the
light .which her own bandage had shut from their eyes;
ours is an atfiur of the day.
The Deistical character of the institution is abundantly
proved, without meaning, now or at any time, that the fia.
ternity assume that character:~ In pursuing the subject, I
propose only to show the easy way Free Masonry has of
putting a most important construction upon rites senseless
and. unmeaning in themselves. She says, in Esprit .du
Dogme, p. 115., "We have many rites and degrees which
recall to mind our divine Master, Jesus, the supper, the pas·
sion, and his resurrection;" but these must be rites belong·
iog to higher degrees than the master's, and I would only
observe, in relation to t~em, that they more clearly .discover
the anti-religious 11pirit of Free Masonry ; she .does not eel·
ebrate ltle Lord, or his sufferings, with an honest purpose.
however hone11t her followeJ'lll are; not shE',
o191tized by Coogle
•
AWCJINT J'Uii: IIASON&Y 18 DCIS.. ~7
But the following a Master Mason can undentaDd. "In
these days, the allegory of Hir8m, which is used in 8Yety
ritual of Masonry, v.mes iD our mysteries i.nd ceremonies,
and it is applied under s~ch circ~tancea, and used in tbe
same manner, as the ancient werophan&a repre~Entecl.
sometimes, Osim, at olier• Bacclau.J,.Atllmoa, ~ I.U ; antl
tmety otlerfora of the Deily wiom ~ t1ari~ rtJtW'B/aip-
p«J. So we, in the same manner, change in our temples
the legend of Hiram..and of hie three assa~ ueordblg
to Ule ritual to which they belong. Hiram, whom the 1.&-
vites, &om the praotice of his art, and the name of his il·
ther, chose for the a.llegorical being, who repraents the
Grand Ar~hitect of the temple of Solouaon., is the aU~ry
olJeaua Ch,ist iD·Masonry ~;.hed. (Mas;.·. c:ourmuaee.) In
the ritual of ancient and Accepted Scotch ~ns, he .is
~ enWie~ of bc)auty in one oowse, aad in the other, by
oorreaPQI)d;.og le8SC>~, Jesus Christ is calleclHit:am, ·Grt;,J
~' of hu c~IU"Ch."
This legendof Hiram the reader already uaderstanda; a
IIlQl'e eootempt.ible figure the masonic hero made thUa .Sir
Hudibru' squire Ralpho.
" When n-un.,whom be did aot milld,
" Cha,rged him like lifht.Dinf behind;"
Or, than the knight himself, when yielding to the victorious
amazon, he cried :
" The day'• thine own,
" Thou and thyItaI'll have cut me down;
.. I am not now in fortune'apow'r,
" For he that'• downcaa ~ ao lower."
My nader, you are Free Mason eDough to .understand
all thil. " The legend of Hiram is always the same·thing
in Free Masonry; as Bacchus, Ammon, and·hit, were the
same God, woi'ahipped under dift'erent names. (They.were
not.) : .A8 the mode of worshippiBs that- one God of Free
o191tized by Coogle
248 ANCIENT PB&E IIASON&Y 18 DEISM.
Masonry, varied with ·the name, so does she change the
legend of Hiram to 8Uit her cllifererit rituals ; (~he, who, a
few chaptel'll back, admitted lio discord in aU lwly ellen-
tiall, now Bpeab ofherditferent ritual.;) and as the Levites
chole Hiram for the allegOrical being who represents the
Grand.Architeet of Solomon's temple; so, in the choice of
Free Muoory, the Lord of Glory is an allegorical beiDg,
the builder of his church.
It ~uires no stretch of fancy to find the bearing.of this
IJUIIOnic lesson. The legend of Hiram, with its usual ex-
planation, is no more 'interesting than a bare hook thrown
into the water ; but it' it·will catch· the hopes of immortal
soula, it 888Umea quite a new-aspect.
That doctrine which has ~ver been a stumbling block to ·
the self-righteous, and an offence to the conceitedly WISe,
may well be supposed to awaken the contempt of Free
Masonry. No doubt she regards the sacrifice of the cross
with a feeling of inexpressible ridicule; the meekness of
the Lamb that was slain, is in her estimate no better than
the pusillanimity· of Hiram Abitf: that is natural to the pha-
risee.· It is not passing belief that she should mock at the
blood which was shed for the remission of sins; that she
should celebrate the agony of the Passion without sorrow,
and·the ~crament of the supper without love ; that she
should present the grand maste.
r, Hiram Abiff, basely dying
for the masonic word, as a leer upon him who died upon
the crOss to save sinnel'll.
I do not say she does this ; it has been far from me to
suspect her of this; _
indeed a hint of it from any profane,
would have sounded like the echo of distant scandal, or
appeared like the insinuations of jealousy. But when her
foUowel'll come before the public in a handsome volume,
with indisputable evidence that they are initiated into her
mys~es, and declare that Free Masonry does this, it would
be blindneae not to examine the matter; to inquire, at least,
whether Free Masonry is capable of doing this 1 And,
though &om her previous character, my·reader, we must
o191tized by Coogle
ANCIENT FREE KASONRY IS DEISM. 2'!9
enter upon this investigation with dark forebodings to Free.
Masonry, yet we will strive to conduct it without prejudice
or partiality. Let justice decide.
He)' favourite biographers in the English tongue, may be
divided into two classes ; those who make her spring up with
time, or come from the AlQtighty hand at the beginning ;
and those who trace h~r origin in the odious mysteries of
the ancient heathen. Anderson, Preston, and Webb, are
leaders of.the former el~; and Lawrie, Greenleaf, and
Cole, are ofthe latter. Hutchinson ought to be pass!}d by,
for he clearly supports both.
Let us see if her origin forbid the imput~Jtion upon her
character made by Esprit. Heaven is a place of truth ;
and ·the established reputation of Free Masonry for fat.e•
hood, compels us.to believe that, if she came from heaven
to earth, it was because &he was driven out, or had lost aU
power to deceive there ; and, therefore, she would be capa·
ble of the profanity attributed to her by Egprit. If she
sprung up in .the beginning, not comingfrom 1.eaven; then
she would be capable of the blasphemy which ,her pupil,
Esprit, has laid at her door. And her origin, as given ei-
ther way by the former class; will not deliver her from a
righteous condemnation. ,
If she came, with Lawrie and others, from the Eleusi~
nia, the Bacchanalia, and the· degrading rites of heathen
Rome and Greece, Britain and Gaul, then she may..well be
thought capable of the deeds credited to her by her own
son, Esprit du Dogme. And she cannot be rescued, bythe
purity ofher origin, from the reproach.ofmocking the King
of Kings, in the interpretation of the legend of Hira~
We will see if her well established character forbids our be-
lief of the charge ; the known maxims of her life, and ruie
of her conduct.
Her system of morality is founded upon temporal ezpe·
dumcy ; which is no better foundation than that of the
royal arch. Her own example is proof. She is of the
highest cast, and therefore a Brahmin in Asia ; a great
~
o191tized by Coogle
:250 AXCIEXT F.REE :IIM!UXI\\" IS DEISM ,
Cbristinn in New-York. In Turkey, she kneels sC\·en times
a day, in obedience to the faJse,prophet ; and in revolution-
ary France, kicks up her heels without decency, but with
every demonstration of joy, to tbe cry of " Free ! Free!
Free !. Free from every restraint of religi_on, and of law ;
free to follow after reason." This is matter of history ;
the records of the times show it beyond dispute. · H~r faith-
ful pupil, Esprit, declares it ; and,·perhaps, the Mason still
refuses to believe this is the Daughter of night ; as if one
in the intoxication of her cttp6, could not be the 6ame one
who laboured patiently to jill them.
Her system of morality has no dependence upon the law
of the Eternal, and any independent system is, like Free
Masonry, rottenness to the bones. To establish a rule of
conforming religiOtUprinciple8 according to circumnances ;
charging men, as Masonry says she formerly did,"' to wor-
Ship in the mode of the people among whom they reside•
is a scheme, worthy of the darkest complexion of Free Ma-
sonry, and is proof enough, that if it were her interest to
scoff at the sacrifice of the cross, she is capable of the
blasphemy attributed to her by Esprit.
It only remains to examine the point of interest. All
who are guided in their views of interest by bare expe-
diency, are in great danger of mistaking their interest ; but
views of expediency; founded on the law of God, and hav-
ing reference to the day which is after death, are well
fotmded; no doubt, to the short sighted,they may some-
times appear mistaken views, but aU must acknowledge
they have good foundation ; they alone have good founda-
. tion•
.But Free Masonry, it has been shown, governs herself by
a view to bare expediency, independent of the immutable
law of God; bowing here, cringing there, and again,
throwing her cap with the madness of a demon, to.suit
local circumstances; having no respect to consistency of
*Book ofConstitutions of Mallllacbuaetta, p. 34.
o191tized by Coogle
ANCIENT J'REE MASONJ.\Y IS DEISM, 251
character, and to the value of plain truth, but solely to her
own ,advantage; (in the words of her Books of Constitu-
tions,) "to her own projil and prai8e."
Such a moralist, who had contributed · an incalculable
amount of labour to produce the scenes of the r~ of
terror, when the Scriptures of heavenly truth, and of glo-
rious promise, were indignantly rejected before the multi-
tude, denounced by the national convention, and burned in
the public place by the common executioner, while r~uon
mounted tQe tluone of moral. government, and received
the homage of laws abolishing the Sabbath day, and the
religious rite of marriage;might be pardoned for thinking,
in the fulnes~. of her joy, that interest required her to exhi-
bit more completely, the feature& of a fa«<e, which, darkly
seen, drew multitudes of admirers. It is the interest of
vice, when her pupil has become familiar with one shade
of her character, to exhibit a darker.• . Free Muonry
is a perfect illustrJtion.of this truth, whi1e.the fact i• a per:-
fect illustration of the character of Free Masonry. And it
wu for her intereat, in the progress of vice, to scoff at tho
name she had always despised.
Again; Free Masonry has been proved to hav~ a co~...
plexion suited to each of her foUowera ; religious, co.nviviaJ,
and faithless. Itis nothing strange if she has acted a part,
and now acts a part, in suitable places, to the satisfaction of
infidels, asshe has done in New-York, to the great praise of
her Christian character. No place is more suitable, tbiPl
the scene of. Eqwit's labours ; and, in view of the pret.ePd·
~d origin, the vain morality, and the plain int£rest of Free
Masonry, the reader will conclude, that Esprit spoke tluth
in testifying to what he considers the "useful, lofty, and
divine" object of Frtje Masonry, representing lnunanuel
under the allegoryof 'Hiram.
.. Vice is 'a monster or 80 frightful mein
" As to be hated, needs but to bo seen ;
" Yetaeen too oft, familiar with:ber face,
"\Ve first endure, then pity, then embrace."
o191tized by Coogle
~ ·a\!\CIENT i'REE MASONRY IS DEISM.
CHAPTER XLI.
•' When frowning death appears,
'' And jloitiJa his fatal dart,
" What dark forebodirig feara
" Dial.r&ct the llirmor's heart !
.. The dreadful blow
" No arm e&n stay,
" But tom away
"He llinb to wo."-Lu.
EsPRIT du Dogme de .za·Franclre Mafoitnerie teaches,
that Free Masonry, in many of her rites and degrees, caJis
to remembrance what she cannot name without great im-
piety, and that, in the legend of Hiram, she dares to pre-
sent the allegory of man's salvation. We have seen that
her character does not enable Free Masons to contradict'
their own brother, and to say, "Esprit has published- a
seandal upon the Bacred order, more hideous than is set
forth in the calumniating pages of a Barruel or a Robi-
son." We have seen, that her fabled origin, whether hea-
venly or Bacchanalian, that her morality and her manners,
alike contribute to confirm the truth of Esprit'• avowal.
There are some other circumstances which go to the same
point.
We have seen, in the notice of the royal arch emblemS,
thatour lady make8 boldwith the tabernacle, and its con·
secrated utensils, with the burning bush, the heavenly
manna, the tables.of the covenant, &c. ; that she sets them
out in dumb show as a part of her paraphernalia. We
said, without prest1ming to know how she used them, that
they were not honestly in her keeping ; and, use them as
o191tized by Coogle
.-\NCIENT I'REE IIASONaY IS DEISM. :l53
~he might, it could be no better than sacrilege. Now,
whence should we expect aid ~ support of our assertion,
sooner than from the Christian Mason1 Who would ·more
readily contribute to preserve the hallowed -vessels of the
church, than brethren of the church 1 Ah ! they did not
believe it When it was told to them, and perhaps their very
reverence for these things ·has been, no doubt it has been,
one of the chief folds of the bandage to blind them•
. I do not now presume to know-the use our brethren make
of the emblems of the royal arch degree ; but surely they
do not mean to use·them sacrilegiously ; they do not use
them as we shall see Free Masonry uses them. They are
Christians ; ·she is a heathen, or what you please; and yet
we would call her by some amiable name here, for the
kindness of discovering to us the use to which she can put
the holy things of the ancient church.
As a porch to the masonic tabernacle, she ever has much
to say about the Free Mason who built it. You shall find
it so in the Chart, Monitors, Library, &c. It was Moses
upon Mount Sinai, that received the masonic word from
the mouth of the Most High, and handed it down to poste-
rity ; and various passages of the Pentateuch are read in
the ceremonies of the royal archchapters, calculated and
intended to impress the reader or· hearer with the belief,
that they have some indefinite relation to the mysteries of
Free Masonry.
I frank1y confess.that, some time having been confident
they had no honest connexion with the modern invention,
I have not suffered a suspicion to arise of their nifariou•
connelion. They have seemed to stand among the rega-
lia and insignia of the lodge, rather to ennoble base Ma-
sonry, than for any malicious purpose of degrading them;
and probably that is yet the right interpretation of these
emblems in the chapters of North America; but our lady
is a mistress, knows how to tr,ain up children, has a large
school of dullscholars, we may charitably hope; and though
Americans may not learn so fast in this degenerating eli-
o191tized by Coogle
•
~ ANCIENT FREE MASONRY IS DEISM.
mate,• as the more. favoured inhabitants of central and
southern Europe, the very least progress in the science
which follows, is greatly to be deprecated.
" lt ia said that Moses wrote different booksof the Bible :
Genuii, Exodtu, Levitictu, and Numb~. Th~se books
have a great reaemblance to the lesaons of the Egyptian
priests :-nevertheless, it appears, that beridu the- Egyp-
tian boolca, Moses had the Phenician history of the crea-
timt, by Sanchoniathon,who lived before Moses, 937 years,"
ad anntmt. (Esprit du Dope, p. 27.}
This is another specimen of Masonic tradition. She
knows Sanchoniathon'1; history, and where Moacs found
the materials for the PENTAteuch: ay, she knowa rnuch
more than her diffidence permits her to discover : yet abe
would seem not to know, that Moses wrote Deuterono-
my; and that, my reader, was no oversight in her,--enu-
merating four books, to leave the fifth: no; she under-
stands very well that Penta means Jive, and that she has
enumerated butfour ; and she did it of mere wantonness,
to insinuate a falsehood, preparatory- to the positive un-
truth following it ; that Moses gathered his writings from
Egyptian priests. -
Our American Free Masonry is not by many degrees so
far advanced as this ; but perseverance will accomplish
wonders.
" Moses, having learned the institutes of the Egyptian
priests, gave to the Jews, for th~ foundation of their reli-
gion and creed, the worship of the one only God, of the
great Jehovah." (Idem. p. 30.) _
Now FreeMasonry cares not for the name she affects to
be fearful of sacrilege in pronouncing. She ~s pro-
nounce it, with falsehood on her lips. She has ever denied
divine revelation, by setting at nought the name of Jesus ;
and here she is emboldened, aiming at Atheism. She
adores the God of.the holy scriptures, and still denies those
scriptures; she is a fast friend of' the Unity, and still puts
* Vide Baft'on.
o191tized by Coogle
AJSCIJ::l\1' l'l\EJ:; MASONRY IS DEI:SM. 25;)
contempt upon the doctrine, drawing it from the polluted
idolators of Egypt; she magnifies Jehovah, and yet reviles
his servant Moses, and theProphets, and the only begotten
Son of God.
These are fearful thing!!, being true. All the evidence Of
their truth it is not possible to lay ~?efore the rea~er, as it
lies before me ; but enough is here, perhaps too much, and
i• goes to prove what has been little 8Uspected ; viz. that
the gnsnd secret of Free Masonry is Atheism.
Nowwe will have her explanationofthe tabernaclewith its
contents, as used in her workshop ; by no means the maxi-
mum of her impiety, and chiefly interesting to show what
she can have to do with the golden candlestick, and Aaron's
rod that budded. ·
Esprit du Dogmc, i. e. Spirit of the Doctrine, de la
Francke Ma;.·. of Free Masonry, p. 39, says : "Moses, in
his mysteries, and Solomon after him, adopted a great part
of the Egyptian emblems, which from them we havfl pre-
served in our mysteries. Let us see what they teach us. .
" The brazen Bea, among the Egyptians, was used for the
purification of candidates with water ; it was an emblem
of the year, supported by twelve bullocks, which represent-
ed the twelve months, of whi~h three looked east, three
south, three west, and three north; making allusion to the
four seasons.
" Moses ·adopted this emblem ; and in Exodus, 38. 8.
-we see that the women of the tribe of Levi, who passed
the night watching at the door of the tabernacle, presented
to· Moses their mirrors, which were of brass or silver, to
make the brazen sea. Henc·c the lodges o( Adoption."
_It is instructive to see how certainly the doctrines of de-
vils lead to infernaJ practices. Lodges of Adoption are
the only remaining form of Free ,Masonry yet to. be intro-
duced into this country : they are well known on the conti-
nentof Europe, Female Lodges; not own children of Ma-
o191tized by Coogle
256 ANCIENT FREE MASONRY IS DEISM•
.sonry, but o4opted.children; as speculative Free Masons
are accepted Masons: (vide p. 133.) and women become
Adopted Masons, as merchants, lawyers, tailors, become
Accepted Masons, all of both sexes being entitled,Free.
And our modest author would charge the Jewish women
with that which few of his readers could have a Bible at
their side to contr_
adiot ; appe~ing to Exodus xxxviii. 8. for
the origin of_lodges of Adoption. The verse reads, " And
he made the laver of brass, and the {oot of it of brass, of
th~ looking glasses {braien mirrors] of the women assem-
bling, which assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the
congregation."
" THE C.~NDLES.TICK
" Hath seven branches and seven lights, symbols of the
seven sciences, to which the priests ought to apply them-
selves, like the priests of Memphis and of Thebes, to wit:
grammar, rhetoric, logic, arithmetic, geometry, muBk, and
astronomy." We must infer from this, that the studies of
the fellow craft's degree are reviewed in the chapters; which
is a match for the allegory of a scene which never occur-
red, as faithfully represented by Free Masonry, in the tra-
dition of Hiram Abitf.
"THE TAB[,& OF SHEW BREAD
" Was.intended to show the necessity of Ul_lion among
the priests : this allegory instructs us, as it did the Levites."
But concluding th~ command to Moses how to construct
the table, (Ex. xxv. 30.) the Lord said," Anti'thou shalt set
upon the table skew bread before me ulway." Reason is
certain that it is not her part, faithlessly to inquire why it
pleased the Lord to have lil table of shew bread in the cere-
monial of his ancient church ; but only to inquire into the
fact: did it _
please 1 And finding God's own word in sup-
port of the fact, while only her own blindness is counter to
it, she is reason no longer, but a fool, to doubt it, to despise
it, to degrade it among plumb-lines and trowels, in the
mystical ceremonies of a nocturnal society.
o191tized by Coogle
"SPIRIT OJ' THE DOCTRINE OJ' FREE IIASONI\Y." 257
"THE ALTAR OJ' llfCENSEif.
" Showed the Hebrews, as it·docs ut, that our vows ought
always to be addreiiSed to the B.·. A.·. D.·. L.·~ U.·. and that
they ought always to be pure, and above human passions.
The remains of ancient altars that we have seen in the mu-
seums, are in the form of a square, or a triangle, or a circle,
having reference under these forms, to the three truths
taught, or to the four elements, or to the Deity : they were
aU excavated in the upper surface to contain the fire."
Thus artfully does this professed Spirit of the Doctrine of
Free Masonry mingle truth with falsehood ; making the
form of the altars true, even to the excavation for the fire ;
while the doctrine inferred is false, 'that thisform had refe-
rence to certain unknown truths, and to the four elements;·
when the altar must of itself indicate a God, she would
have it indicate the elements, that her pupils may become
naturalists. Who she intends by S.•• A.·. D.•, L.•. U.·. I
know not ; it ·is a figure new t~ me, frequently Used by· •
Esprit; and may be, until · more perfectly explained, sup-
posed to mean, " the Being of Beings, of whom each heart
is full ;" i. e. no God-Atheilm.
" UncharitableI"
Not at all, my friend. If the God of Free Masonrr, to
whom our" vows ought always to be addressed," have no
more name than Free Masonry gives him, S.•. A.·. D.·. L:.
U.·., he is without a name; and she is virtually teaching her
children to address an ideal God. Untii~Jhe gives him a
name, it is no want of charity towards her to suppose him
a -.nere fancy, and having no rea1 existence.
A secret vastly prized, and deeply covered with mystery;
a secret lauded to the skies, ahle to make one wise, bringing
" a11e comfortes to the wylde and eomfortlesse ;"t which
* Our author &ivee plates of all hill emblemt.
t Book of Cou. p. 16. Preeton, b. 3. •· 1. F. M. Library, p. 9. C~­
cott, HutchillBOn, Greenleaf, p. 86.
o191tized by Coogle
258 "SPIRIT or THE DOCTRJSE or •.REE M.\SO.SRY."
resolutely conceals itself; m.ockmg the patient Master :Ma-
wn with a substitute, and lying still beyond the ninth
arch, before it is unveiled to perfection ; and, as if afraid
to uust itself even there, at perfe~tion, mounting away
&om the pursuer to the height of unknown degrees, is, my
reader, no ordinary aecret ; but this is·Free Masonry.
" And what does it pretend to be?"-Even the true name
of the only true God. Such conduct, and such a claim I
Now, brother Jew, lend Die attention; for you are inte-
rested in this part of the argument; ai)d so, al11o, are Ma-
hometans and Deists, without being invited. .
Let Free Masonry's claim be allowed; to teach tl~e right
prosrmciation of tke true name of the 0111~ true God.
Her •aster• are put otr with a: substitute for it ; her most
excellent masters (sixth degree) have it not yet; her pPr-
feet masters (fifteenth degree) have it not perfect yet; her
grandpontiff• (twenty-ninth degree) n:mst still make their sa-
-crifices without knowing precisely to whom; the" prince of
the royal secret, prince of Masons," covering degrees
forty, forty-one, forty-two, has a sovereign inspector general
above, and cannot yet see, eye to eye, the great secret of
Free Masonry.
Is it not to be inferred, that the God of Free Masonry
has no name ; ~d that, in !letting her pupil on a chace iu
pursuit of it to.perfection,andfarbeyond,she is practically
teaching him so 1 Professing to make manifest the true God,
does she not, by a devious path, arid an endless renewal of
disappointment, effectually impress upon the panting bosom
ofherdeluded pupil, there is no God? Say,brotherJew, (for
I waive here all Free Masonry's contempt of the Messiah,)
when, with a blinder over hu eye&,arul a cable tow about his
11eck, she leads her pupil into the realms of darkness, irl
purltlit of light, and into the regions of night in pursuit of
the true name of God, leading him about and about, until
he is giddy, d(>wn deep arches, and up high degrees; if the
. qumbled, degraded, and conf()unded soul shou)d stumble
o191tized by Coogle
" 6PIIUT 01' THE DOCTR.INI 01' I'ILEE IIASONR.T." ~
and fall into the abyss of Atheism, would she·hold fast the
cable tow, brother Jew, or loose it from her hand 1 What
think you, would she gently draw him out, remove the b~d­
age from his eyes, tenderly condole with him for the tre·
rnendous hazard he had run, and advise him to returJJ
home, and to pursue his inquiries after the true God, and
the way to happiness, in the midst of his family, morning
and evening, with the Bible in his hand, at the feet of Im-
manuel? Or would she send after him a pe&l of curses, to
make the horrible abyss rin~ and, if it might be possible,
to sink him two-fold deeper in wo !
Those who believe in a protecting Providence, need not
fear to believe in the reality ·of evil angels ; those who do
not.believe in a protecting Providence, have eYery thing to
fear ; and, if there exists in Christian lands a single speci-
men of the handy work of God's adYersary, and man'P,
Free Masonry has high claims to be that one.
The reader who meets this conclusion, without arriving
at it ·through the argument, may think it uncharitable ; if
so, this cdlhmon sense will meet him : the friends of a doc-
trine which studiously conceals itself, only showing its fea·
tures more boldly, as people become more hardened to
them, have no right to complain, and cry, charity,charity,
upon honest efforts to hasten the monstrous birth, and fully
to learn its character, before the time for easily strangling
it has elapse_
d.
·-
Digitized by Google
I
26() ''' ~UU'l OF THE DOCTRINE OJ' FREI(MA80NRY." ·
CHAPTER XLII.
14 Then aball tho Lord go forth, and fight against those nations, u when
be fought in the day of battle ; and the Lord shall be King over all the
euth; in that day aba1l there be one Lord, and hie name one."
Zethariah, ch. :dv.
IT is not to be demanded of one attempting to ferret out
a treasonable con.spir.aey, that he should be perfect in judg-
ment; he must.s.,ae upon persons whose guilt is quite
doubtful even in his own poor judgment, and bold them
prisoners for the examination of the court and jury. This
is his duty ; and no man who ~ unwilling to run a small
risk of being suspected as aeeessary to the erime,-Jllld as a
~y to the treason, will dare to reprove him for want of
charity in the honest discharge of that duty.
The writer may sometimes build an argument on small
premises, may attach undue importance to minor truths,
.may draw conclusions little satisfactory to the deeper pene-
tration of some, and may extend his inferences beyond the
easy apprehension of others. Upon all these, and similar
points, he is ready to plead to the reader's compassion and
better judgmenL But let not the glorimu doctrine which
conceal~ iuelf, profane the name of clwritg, tpon a re1olute
attempt to dilcover it• bearing• and tendency; that were in·
sufferable.
EBprit du Dogme, p. 41.-" THE POT or INCENSE.
4 ' This reminds us, as it did the Levites, of the fire of vir-
tue which ought to inflame the heart with a masonic zeal.
The censor used by the ancients was in the form of a per·
o191tized by Coogle
" SPIRIT OF 'fH£ DOCTRINE OF FRI:E MASONRY," 261
ti.uning pan, with a perforated lid, whence came the smoke
of the incense. The Greeks called it thymiaterion, and
the ancient and modern Romans, thuribulum." He· exhi-
bits learning to grace his masonic zeal.
'~THE CRUISE OF GOLD, OR POT OF M.\NNA. (p. 41.)
" Moses placed this in the tabernacle to instruct the
priests, that in the proper exercise of their ministry, they
ought to feed on the spiritual manna shut up in the sciences,
which they were explicitly charged to study."
Our expositor quotes neither the priests of the god onion,
nor masonic tradition, in support of this assertion ; it must
rest entirely on his better authority, called by .the, Greeks
anaisquintia,• by the ancient Romans impudentia, 'and, (by
the help of a: dictionary~) impudence, in the vernacular.
"THE MITRE WITH THE INDENTED TOP. (p. 41.)
" The ornament of the priests of Isis and Osiris, was also
adopted by the magi, or priests of Mytra in Persia, and by
the priests of Jupiter at Athens, and at Rome. It after-
wards served for the head dress of the Roman females,
who sold their favours at the foot of the temple of Fortune,
to the parties qf Cicero and Cataline. Thu same mitre,
in time, was adopted by the Christian pontiffs at Rome,
and by those of Mahomet, and by the ancient and modem
templars. Thu mitre had a plate of gold covering the
front, with these words : ' Holiness to the Lord.' "
This is more than a match. To meet the crocQdiles of
Egypt, the Persian magi, the priests of J~piter, Cataline,
Mahomet, and the knights templars, arrayed in support of
Masonry's claim to the mitre, is an overmatch for common
learning. But one thing " the art of demonstrating divine
and moral truth by geometrical solutions" enables me to
do ; which the reader shall see. ·
Drg<tized by Coogle
2&l "SPIIUT OF THE DOCTRINE OJ' FREE llASON&Y."
To make out the Spirit of Masonry, two Masons being
given, in the manner of making a right-angled triangle,
two legs being given.
Suppose the feg M. J., Mahomet the Impostor, and the
leg J. T., Judas the Traitor.
T
/!
· / I
- I
M J
From J. erect a nocturnal and secret society toT., the
Traitor; draw the line M. T., the M"JSer Traitor; and we
have the se!fUh spirit ofthe Masonic impostrwe. Quod erat
inveniendum.
Tothose who are unacquainted with the· higher branches
of Mathematics, this demonstration may appear somewhat
obscure·; but its geometrical accuracy will stand the test of
any professor, at least on this side of the Atlantic.
This is an extraordinary science, and the readet will find
it amusing; the kaleidescope not furnishing more un-
expected variety, than Masonics, or moral geometry, fur-
nishes to the mental eye ; one tum of the instrument throw-
ing out," Herod, a most excellent grand master;" and the
next, perhaps, H Cataline, Sovereign Inspector General.""'
*The author gives notice, that meuures are taken to IICCure his right to
thia application of geometrical solutions to ·the demonstration of mo-
ral trntb, and until the patent ill sealed, it seemed good to give only a epe-
cimen of MasoDiee, showing the value of the science ; otherwille he could
have interested the reader with difficult moral questioD8, euily solved in
Trigonometry, by the rule of proportion, or by natural sines, when the
necessary sides and angles are given.
t o191tized by Coogle
"SPIRIT OF THE DOC:TRIXE OF FREE !IIASOl\RY. " 26.1
"THE JIOOK OF THE TRUE LIGHT.
"(The law and the prophets.) Upon this book we see a
lamb resting, which holds, with one foot advanced, a flag of
triumph, [but on turning to the plate, the figure represents
a lifeless mutton,) the Stekenna, that the Coptie priests re-
garded as the symbol of the resurrection--"
And here I pause, f<:_!iu...,~r of the Lamb, inquiring whe-
ther to give circulation to the words of this blasphemy.
The same emblem, a book with a lifeless lamb .upon it, is
givenin •••.••••• · • among the emblems of
• • •• degree. No doubt it is capable of some
inoffensiv~ explanation, which is common to the Chapters
of this country :.yet it may do them service to see what
can be exhibited by speechless symbols, which God has not
ordained to teach moral or religious truth, in the mysteries
of a nocturnal society. ·
The Spartans, by intoxicating their miserable slaves, and
placing the disgusting creatures before the youth, taught
them to abhor intemperan<'-C and excess. Etprit is intoxi-
cated with hate against" the Lamb of God tllat take1 fi'W(Jy
the sin of the world;" (John,i. 29.) against'' the Lamb 1lain
from the foundation of the world." (Rev. xiii. 8.) Truly
it was prophesied of the ever blessed Lord, " they hated
me without a cause." (John, xv. 25.)
And are men taught by Free Masonry to despise-
" Not in this country : no, no."
But are men taught by Free Masonry any where ;-for
if she can be brought to do it in Europe, she is not made of
80 stubborn stuff that she might not be persuaded to do it
even in America ;-are they taught, that " the CO[Jticprie1ts
regarded this emblem, as a symbol of the re8Urrection,
or regeneration of t/1e Sun, by his victory over the cold,
whic/1 he obtains in the sign of tlle Ram," i. c. the month of
March 1 So says the " Spirit of the Doctrine of Free Ma-
sonry." (p. 42.)
• TbeeditioJIB of 1816 and 1819 are not within reach; and that of 1826.
to the tedit of American Froe J\ta110nry; omit8 thi• emblem.
o191tized by Coogle
•
264 "SPIRIT OF THE DOCTRISE OF FREE MASONRY."
Hear this emblem explained to the end, and remember,
that one who had seen the Lord and heard his voice, said,
"if any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be
anathema, maran-atha ;" (1 Cor. xvi. 2'J.) i.e. accursed in
the day of judgment.
"This book could be read among the Jews only by the
priests, because of the allegories, mysteries, and symbols it
cohtains, the knowledge of which could only be obtained
by the study of the seven. sciences, figured by the seven
seals, which confined them ; and, in particular, by astrono-
my, represented by the triumphant [lifeless] lamb, wbi~h
the book supported. These seven seals, in some rites of
Masonry, have reference to the seven sacraments ofRome;
as also the book of the true light has to the A~alypse,
which is adorned with a triumphant lamb and seven seals."
-(Esprit du Dogme, Spirit of the Doctrine of Free Ma-
sonry, P· 4.3.) -
" This is unqualified wickedness ; Free Masonry is a mo-
ral institution, keeps the Bible open in the lodge, and sup-
plicates the Deity for the increase of charity ; she does not
sanction the impiety of Esprit."
Let the doubter bear in mind, that in presenting these
high claims of Free Masonry to rank as the very taberna-
cle of the tempter upon earth, I arraign her at the public
bar, and present the accounts of her misdemeanor and in-
fernal practice for her conviction, if guilty, and for her en-
tire acquitia,l if not guilty : the public have the decision in
their own hands, and the innocent need not tremble. As
counsel for the commonwealth, I have a right, without
cause of reproach, and it is my duty, at the hazard of be-
ing considered negligent, .to vary the counts of indictment
in such manner, that the prisoner, if guilty, shall not escape
by fault of the pleadings. That she is not unnecessarily ha-
rassed with charges ; that she is not maliciously indicted
without evidence, the witnesses already called are suffi-
cient to testify. But most important ones remain to be in-
trorlnced.
o191tized by Coogle
tt. 8PIIUT OP TBK ,DOCTiliNE OJ' PRltE JIASONBY." 265
CHAPTER XLIII.
" lie that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in bilWI8lf; he
tlaat belieYeth not God, hatJj made him a liar, beeaU!Ie he belieY~th not tbto
reconl tl1at God tan of laia Son."-1 Jo/u&, Y, 10.
W a: have been furnished by the grand chapter with a
specimen of Free Masonry's rea~oning in support of a doc-
trine poaeesing some part of the mighty influence it ought
to possess over those who cordially receive it, viz. the mode
of divine existence expressed by the term Trinity ; the
reader otay nnd instruction in obse"ing how sbe can
also attack that doctrine, and in assisting, punish her
foUy.
She is giving a store of traditional knowledge, all as true
u Free Masonry, with ·respect to ·the foreign trade of. the
Jews in India and Persia, Greece and Arabia, where they
carried their mywteries and their dogmas, receiving in turn
many opinions before unknown in Judea, "whencesprung,"
sbe says, " tile sects of the Sadducee•, t/le Hercxlian6, tAe
learned Plulri8eu, and tlae virtuotu Euenes."
" Under these circumstances, the worship of the great
Jehovah, with its mysteries and allegories, was nigh being
destroyed, and even forgotten, by the introduction of new
ayste1118;and in particular by that of the Trinitarian., which
was introduced froi'Jl Persia. In that country the sages
adopt the belief of one God, with two elements, ligAt and
tlllrlmuB." '
" To strengthen these false principles brought by the
Jews from Persia, there came. from Greece the allegories
and reveries of Plato, by the aid of which that philosopher
34
o191tized by Coogle
'J66 " SPJRIT Ot' 'fHI'l DOCTiliNE 01' I'BEE 11.\:mXRY."
bad figured his opinions, and which had a great analogy to
the Persian innovators' doctrine of the Trinity. Plato
supposed three personalities, or forms of the divinity. The
first constituted the Supreme, the second the LogO$, or
Word, begotten by the 6rst God, the third, the Spirit, or
soul of the world." ·
"The Trinitarians increased ifl Judea, and afterward
added to. this new dogma the sound doctrine of Jesus
Christ, which was the enemy of every religious dispute."-
(Esprit du Dogme de la F. Mafon1teriP, pp. 85, 86.)
She exhibits several pages of her traditionary lore upon
this subject, without making the slightest inference from
any part: " Critics assure us," she says, "that Jesus never
spoke of the doctrine of the Trinity." She would seem
to hide her own modest opinion, and, with a bewitching
timidity, considering the stores of her learning, she only
repeats what.the critics say. It is to her usual credit, that
the name she banishes from her devotions, is here quoted
*er the authority of the critics, for her own purposes, to
vilifY the holy name unto which we are baptized, and ea-
eredly dedicated.
Whether supporting the doctrine by the aid of the grand
chapter, and the argument of the three pillars, and of the
three lights of a lodge, or opposing it by the pretence of its
Persian original, with some Grecian refinement, her ob·
ject is always the same.-to heap up contempt against the
Majesty of heaven ; and although the diftereJiC«:l in the mo-
tives of her instruments is immense, it is difficult to tell
which.serves her best, the profound argument of the pil·
Iars, or the a,ffectedly modest insinuations of Esprit.
These are considerations of awld import,·not suggested
by enemies of Masonry, but by her pupils and friends.
Messrs. Barruel and Robison, whose honourable names
have for thirty years been the standing butt of reproach
and seandal to eke out a masonic oration, never charged
Free Masonry with greater impiety than is clain1ed for Jaer
by .E6prit. We have seen. that her origin. and her moral!!,
o191tized by Coogle
",SPIRIT OF THE IJOC1'RJNK 0)' I'REE JIASONilY." ~'j
and her manners, forbid not his claims, but rather cuneent
to them. 'In continuing to show her blasphemies, let the
doubter bearin mind, that in copying them here, I only W!•
sent to her claim.
" The Emtian priests never believed in tl1e reality of
tile asm~1ination of Osiris, nor that a calf m!d an onion
could be God1 ; t/1ey never believed irt the reality nf devil~,
and of angels, nor in a God who was born, and died, and
roseagain."-(Esprit.du Dogme, p. 32.) ' ·
It is worthy of the reader's notice, that Hutchilison,
with the sanction of the Grand Lodge of England, Smith,
Lawrie, the learned historian of Free Masonry, and many
others, represent Egypt and her priests as largely connect-
ed with Masonry and Esprit, giving the masonic tradition
of what the Egyptian priests did, and did not believe, is
within the record, no brother can call him to order•
. (P. 75.) E.~prit informs us that the legend of Hiram and
his 881!18Ssil1s is a Jewish sub1titute for the Egyptian r~pre­
s.entation of the murder of Osiris; and again, (p. 77.) that
the legend of Hiram is an allegory of the ·Saviour; so that
the representation of the death of Hiram is a middle link,
connecting the death of the Cross to the death of Osiris.
Now we see the use of knowing what the Coptic priests be-
lietJed with retpect to the death of Osiris ; and how artfully
our lady ineinaates a falsehood; that openly asserted would
fail of all impression,from the notorious character of the as-
sertet. ''The Egyptian priests never believed in the reality
ofthe 8.88&l11Jination ofOsiris;" and the legend of Hiram be-
ing an allegory of the death of the cross, and, previously,
the W.legory of the death of Osiris, which is the cillegory of
a f*ehood, the death of the eross becomes no better to
Free Ma&QDty, than the ancient Masons' WoaD, "which,"
says the Sovereign Inspector General, "is not a word, but
a mere jumble of sounds without meaning."
"Neithctr did the Egyptian prie8ts believe, that a cal( or
'81\ onion co'tlld be gods;" she will pawn her word (or it.-
When they bowed down before them in wOJBhip, invoking
o,9,tizedbyGoogle ~
~ "SPIRIT or THJt DOCT&~ OF J'R&E KASOIIKT."
their m~rcy and aid, and offering costly sacrifices, it is plaial
they did believe in the divinity of the calf and of the onion,
or in some Free M(Uonry. ·
" They never believed in the reality of deviU and of •·
gels." Next to the denial of the God of revelation, it is
important to the devil to persuade men of his own non-en.
tity: no devil, no hell, no wicked. This is a d<]Ctrine moet
fearful, all will allow, in the masonic connexion : neither
did they belietJe in the. reality of angeu; no angel, no
heaven, no God I As men may learn wisdom by obeerving
the fools, and doing just the contrary way ; so they may
learn from the doctrines of Free Masonry, what to shun
and what to ~old fast. If ahe make men perfect tDitlwtlt
the help of fear and hope, · then our heavenly guides
wiJJ more confidently ply both fear and hope, in the work of
Christian perfection•.
" Neither did tltey believe in c:t God wko fDtU born, and
die4, and roae again;" saying distinctly in French, what is
only shadowed forth in the English .books of constitutions;
confessing with the lips, in Europe, the infidel ~reed whiell
is,tlie rule of her conduct in America. -.
. Men who reject the dectrine of the incarnation, the be-
lief in the reality of devils and of angels, and who strive to
become perfect without the help of fear or hope, are surely
they, ~ho, in makingthe world, would have made the stur-
dy·oak bear the pumpkin, while the aeom should have
hung on the feeble vine; and would have secured to them-
selves, perhaps,four legs, with a broken head for the falling
fruit.
, Free Masomy pretends to any thing, good or bad; and
is believed to be only Deism. But she has great claims to
be considered, as having taken the next step: it is a won-
dei., if she stops short of Atheism. She pretends to be a
great friend to the Deity, to the Unity, and to the God of
the patriarchs; that is certain. She mocks at the patri-
archs, the servantsof God ; at the revelation, which in the
o191tized by Coogle
"8PlBlT 01' THE OOCTRINE OJ' FREE MASONRY," tl6!J
midst of a world sunk in idolatry, singly sustained the doc·
trine of the Unity.againsteveryfoe; and her priests do not
believe in the God who was born~ and died, and rose again ;
that is certam ; although the devils believe and tremble.
. "Buubis is not American Free Masonry."
Can the objector ·be sure of that? Free Masonry is a
secret: does he know that secret 1 Men clinib to a giddy
height, and yet the thing is beyond them.-Suppose it is
not American; yet it is Free Masonry ; and the day our
lodp are sufficiently trained, to receive the odious impiety
which has gone over France like a flood, that day will make
this infidelity, American Free Masonry. It is right to know
what fruit she has produced in other countries, whether of
doctrine or example, that we may form some reasonable
expectation of the harvest to be reaped· &om her unprece-
dented expansion (I will not say growth) in this country.
And what is the harvest we are to expect &om her in-
structions in the two thousand lodges of"this country, being
once made acquainted with her falsehood, her doctrine of
temporal expediency, her acknowledged Deism, her per·
feeting men without the aid of fear or hope 1 In other
countries she bas trifled with the holiest rites of religion ;
has burlesqued its sublimest mysteries ; has d~pised the
blood which was shed for the remission of sins ; and it is in
the character of this people, and not in the chracter of
Free Masonry, that the same things remain ·to be done
here.
" The Word that was made flesh, and dwelt among us,
(and we behold his glory," says the apostle;• " the glory as
ofthe only begotten ofthe Father, full ofgrace and truth,")
is uniformly rejected·by the Books of Constitutions of our
lodgu. Let none attempt to evade this charge, by calling
up to mind the doctrines of the higher degrees. · I do not
undertake to say what is taught in them, but within the two
* John, I. 14.
o191tized by Coogle
270 " .SPlRI'f OF TH& DOC'fBINE OF FREE MASONII.Y."
thousand lodges ofMuter Matlons in these States, in all the
lodges of Master,Muons in the world, the Boob of Oma-
ltilutiOTU rejecl " Christ, the power of God, and the ~om
of Goo."* .
" The foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the
weakness of God is stronger than men."t But Free Ma-
sonry, which is less than man, puts forth her Coptic pri;:..ts
to instruct pupils not to believe in a God t/aat W(U b(lrn~
presuming to·be wiser than the apostles of Immanuel, than
the teachings of the Holy Spirit. •• When the fuln~ of
the time was come, God ·sent forth his Son, madeof a wo-
man ;"t and "the sign" eight centuries before, promised
of God through Isaiah : " Behold, a virgin shall conceive,
and bear a son, and call his name Immanuel,"§ wu mani-
fested in the coming of " God with us ;"II whose name wu
called lesus, because he should save his people from their
sins.'IT
" Not to believe in a God that died." Nohvithstand-
ing. the inspiration of the Almighty speaks in this wise,
" Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many," hav-
ing appeared in the end of the world, " to put away sin bl
the sacrifice of himself;"u the Lord himself, in glorious
vision, declaring to.hie disciple, that had faUen at his feet
as one bereft of life : " Fear not; I am the ,first and the
lalt: I am he that livetk, and was dead, and am alive for
evermore."tt
And by his death, " Christ is the end of the law for
rjghteousness to every one that believeth ;''tt He who wal'l
glorified with the Father before the world was ;~§ " Who is
the imap of the invisible God, the first bom of every crea-
ture; (for by H~ were all things created, that are in heR-
* 1 Cor. i. !M.
+Idem, i. 25.
t Gal. iv. 4.
? Isaiah, vii. 14.
lk·
II :Mat. i. !3.
'l Mat. i. !1.
** Jleb.ix.26.!8.
tt Rev. i. 17 and 18.
:ij Rom. x. 4.
~~ John, xvii. 5.
D1g1tized by GO gle·
''SPIRIT OJ' THi: JJOC'I'IliNt.: OJ' .rRIU: MASONRY." ~71
ven, and that are ia earth, visible and invisible, whether
they be thronee, or dominions, or principalities, or powers ;
all thin8'J were ereated by him, and .for him, and he is be-
fore all thin8J, and by bim aU things consi.t ;"•) even
"Christ hath redeemed us from the eurae of the law, being
m~e a curie for us ;''t He it ill '' in whom we have re-
demption through his blood, even the forgivenesa of sins,t
He it is by whose agony and death on the cr088, " mercy
and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have
'ki88ed each oth~r."§
This is a ,true mystery ; in view of it we ~ay all prOs·
trate ourselves before lijm who has liven us reason, and its
first dietate, confession to God that .we are blind and sin-
ful. )
Blind because sinful ; and, if reason be in her right mind,
her requirement is, that we submit our will, our all, to Him
who gave us reaaon, and who sees the end from the begin-
ning ; knows how to make wrath praise him, and who
choo1u the foolish things of the world to confound the
wise ; yea, and chooses " things that ore not, to hriftg ttl
noug/tt tlte tldngs that are."
.. To wbom no bigb, no low, no great, no ~mall ;
"Who fills, who bounds, colinects, and IOY8mll .au.•·
.l>oes the cneniy of all truth enlist Free Masonry into the
war with sound doctrine 1 Make her pretended mysteries
real tMChera of infidelity? Introduce her cliums to antiqui-
ty for the purpose of contradicting the inspiration nnd di-
vine origin of the holy scriptures 1 And through her absurd
traditions of the priests of calves and leeks, her pro[Jltets,
, deny the God who died and rose again1
Thill C6nduct puts me in possession of nn argument for
"' Col. i. 15, 16, 17.
t Gal. iii. 13.
i Col. i. 14.
, PlllllmP. luxv. 19.
o191tized by Coogle
'
,.
'J?'J "SPIRIT OJ' THK DOCTRINE 01' I'&&E MASONRY.''
the truth, which it were wrong io overlook. The scandal
of some is highest praise ; and the secret assault of the ad-
versary once fa¥rly detected, proves to a certai.Dty where lie
the foundations of truth and of holiness. Having the pre-
mises, to wit, the existence of a spiritual foe, and this con-
duct of Free Masonry, the conclusion is irresistible, that
the point laboriously attempted to be undermined, is of
high import.
And for the accommodati~n of some, we will in the ~­
gument, refuse with them and with the Egyptian priesta of
Esprit, to believe in the reality of.evil angeh : we will only
believe there are very bad men, aiming, like Esprit, by
falsehood, insirruated and asserted, to corrupt both male and
female ; to break down the barriers of divine revelation for
the enjoyment of the sweet liberty of oManctified reUqn :
the determined assaults of such men, certainly indicate the
citadel of holiness and of truth. In aJI unholy Wart! there
are feints ; but a resolute auack, or a secret mine, are only
made where a principal battery,-or a commanding angle of
the fort, may be the reward of the victors. The argument
is irresistible.
"Not too fast: may they not attack weak points; at-
tempt to enter through a self made breach 1"
The wealc points of religious faith, my friend, are no
points at all : the enemy will never be careful about them.
Self made breaches, to some extent, no doubt there are.
But if this be ~ne,that Immanuel, God with us, died and
ro1e again, it can never be filled up ; the builder of the for-
tress made it so, and we have only to discharge our part
manfully, to faU, if we must fall, in the very breach.
'·' Christ Jesus, being in the·form of God, thought it not
robbery to be equal with God; but made himself of no re·
potation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and
was made in the likeness of men ; and being found in fa-
shion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient
unto death, even the death of the cross." (Phil. ii. 6-ft)
This is a tnte and n wonderful mystery, into w/Uch thP
o191tized by Coogle
''SPIRIT or THE DOCTRINE or 1'1\EE MASO!Io"'RY." 273
agel& de.We to loolt: (1 Pet. i. 12.) a mystery full of im-
port to immortal souls : and Free Muoney dares to insinu-
ate through her pr(ltended Emtian priests, that this mys·
tery ofthe gospelis incredible.
"Go, wondrous Creature ! mount where aaieDCe guides,
" Go, meuure earth, weigh air, and llt&te the tides ;-
" Go, teaeh etemal wiidom bow to rule,
" Then drop intoth~ aDd be a foal !" .
B~t the apostle's exclamation is to the point: "witbout
controversy, great is the mystery of godliness: God w&M
~anifest in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen of angels,
preached to the Gentiles, believed on in the '"orld, received
up into glory." (I Tim. iii. 16.)
'.
CHAPTER XLI\}.
Abbe &~[rue/ and Professor Robison.
" Whom will the Lord permit to dwell
"Near tohia throne of grace:"
11 The men that walk in pioWI ways,
" That work with rifhteous bands;
"That truat.their Maker's promises,
"And follow hil eommanda;
"That ~ the -rung oftheir heart,
"Nor llander with their t.onpe;
11 Will -rce believe an ill report,
'' Or do their neighbour wrong."
This work commenced with the consideration of some
anci~nt pretensions of Free Masonry ; with a view of her
35
o191tized by Coogle
'
\
.\HUE IURRl'EL ASlJ
Book of Constitutions, and her emblems~ It next discus!'!·
ed her scientific claims i~ the fellow craft's degree, and
then the faithfulness of her tradition in her sublime degree
of Master Mason; and gave a summary view of her con·
tradictions, and arts, and absurdities within tfie-lodges, with
the royal arch for the climax.
A claim trumpeted through her chosen works, and by
her numerous orators, to -be the teacher of religion among
the arts~ has attracted our notice, iuid the manner in which
she has performed that part of her duty through·the Grand
Chaplain and the Grand Chapter of New-York, has.been
fully exam~ed. What has followed since that, ,I leave·to
the recollection of the reader.
"Is it, therefore, to be supposed that the Free Masonry
ef our country, our lodges, grand lodges, &c. aim at the
diffusion of infidelity ?" I believe no such thing. This age
and country could not bear it. But if the emptiness ofFree
Masonry has been in other countries, and in other times,
iilled to the brim with all that is hostile to reveiation, and to
sound principles, it will be no recommendation to its gene·
raJ use here ; better throw it away, as a vessel more used to
dishonour, than to honour, whatever it might have been
made for.
Not to multiply words, it .is my object in this .work
to lay before the public, facts and authorities illustra·
tive of the nature of Free Masonry, and its capacity for
abuse. My quotations have been, hitherto, almost con-
fmed to the writers who are admirers of Free Mason-
ry. 1(, from their statements, the reader is ready to be
provoked with its ridiculous vanity, and excessive ostenta-
tion, he may prepare to be further disgusted with the impie·
ty and folly which remains to be discovered. It does not
concern the writer what inferences men draw from the cha-
racter of these documents. It is his duty to put them iu
these pages ; let the readerjudge. If it seem unfriendly to
the great ma-ronic body of our CI)Untry, that is wrong; I
o191tized by Coogle
•
•
l'RUF&SSOil RQBISOX.
am not unfriendly. Having ent~red tqe lodge in p\lrsuit of
light, and finding none, is it unkind to be instrumental of
sending a ray there?
" Perhaps the writer is the blind man, who supposes the
rest!Jf mankiad to·.have lost their vision, while he himself
sees clearly ?"
Once it might have ·been so feared, but times have
changed. Many doubt the excellence of Masonry, who,
not long since, were· partially attached to it, and they will
be glad to see what will settle their doubts.
Messrs. Barruel and Robison wrote at the same era,
without mutual ~sultation, not having the same sources
of information, pne a French clergyman, the other a Scot-
tish professor, and both Free Masons. They came, with
manitest reluctance, both to the same conclusion : that
there then existed a conspiracy against all government and
religion ; that this was mighty through the thlse gui96 it as-
sum~, and that a principal instrument of its operations
was Free Masonry, especially the higher degrees.
Perhap!f these were very foolish men, Messrs. B. and R.,
but surely they were learned men, candid men, lovers·of
their coimtry, who had a reverence for truth and religion,
They give the reasons of their opinions ; they quote their
authorities, naming the author and page, like honest peo-
ple; they both had a wish to rescue British Masonry from
the condemnation.and fellowship of c.ontinental Masonry,
and appear ~o be sincerely actuated with the desire ofdoing
good, by giving their labours to the public.
Nevertheless, for thirty years last past, their honoured
names, through the influence of Free Masonry, have been
made to stand for every thing that is base ; and so far was
even the writer of this article carried away by the flood
of vituperation poured after Barruel and Robison, (it is
with shame, and grief, and indignation, I confess it,) that
their title-pages were fearful to him ; that wishing calmly
and candidly to investigate the character of Free Masonry,
he refused, for months,while in the investigation, to call for
o191tized by Coogle
..
their votumes, lest the purity of truth, in.its sources, migbt
be contamiDated with the streaiD8 of falsehood ; and it was
not until an advanced stage of the inquiry made him bold,
~at be ventured to drink at their fountains ; professor Ro-
bison's work never coming into his hands until December,
1827, and the Abbe Barruel'il, then the tint time- for peru·
sal ; and be was astonished to find they show a manifest
tenderness toward Free MtUonry, levelling their shafts
mainly at her abuses in the higher degrees. Then was re·
membered the proverb of th.e ~. which no respect for
Free Maonry prevents repeating bere. ·
Oh, itshould make one weep to know how the pure mo-
tives of these men have "been blackened ; how the arduous
labours of thes'e patriotic men have been ealum~iated ;
how these honourable names h11.ve been slandered by ho-
nourable men; these learned names have been traduced by
learned men, and these pious names have been depreciated
by pious men ; that the upright have often been Constrained
to number them with the oftBeouring of the earth.
. ·•• And what has persuaded just men to do so foul wicked-
ness 1" ·
My reader, without malice, it is Free Masonry; it is Free
Masonry who has jaundiced the eyes, has dipped the ar-
row• in gall, and sent them in tlights that have darkened
heaven. ·
Rejoice over her, ye righteous! Be glad, Barruel and
Jtobison ! faithful senants of your generation ; let your
hearts exult upon earth ; your pure spirits triu,.Ph, if mar-
tyrs to the truth, ye have ascended to heaven ! Your adver-
sary is brought low ; the sun of Free Masonry declines in
the west, and soon your names shall shine, and shine for
ever, beautiful stars in the firmament of truth I
The readersball have a taste of their style. Intestifying
upon this eubject, the Abbe will begin, and he shall speak
for himael£ One entire ebapter from his work, treating of
the higher degrees of Muomy, will sene to declare his opi·
nion, and to exhibit his interesting manner and amiable
\. o191tized by Coogle
•
BARRUEJ:s MEMOIRS OF JAt:OIWiiS~I.. ~77
sptrlt. He will say some things not relevant to the Mason-
ry of this country ; something which.the wickedness of" the
reign 'Of terror" could better justify; but let him not be in·
terrupted or despised. He is not a man to·declare, as un·
deniably true7 what he knows to be a gross error ;• nor to
mistake Free Masonry for evangelical truth.
CHAPTER XLV.
" Tho world is in p11in
" Our eecreta togain,
" And still let them wonder and g&Ze on;
"They ne'er can divine
" Tho word or the sign,
" Of a .Free and an Accepted Mason ;
" 'Tia thia and 'ti• that,
"They cannot tell what,
" Nor why the great men of the natio11
" S1wuJd aprom pll on,
" And make themselves one
" Witba Free and an Accepted Mason."-Old Song.
Abbe Barruel's .Memoirs of Jacobinism, vol. ii. p. 152.
CHAP. JX.-" During the last twenty years it was difii-
cult, especially in Paris, to meet persons who did not be-
* Sovereign inspector general; trndition of the ruaetcr·~ degree. p. 97.
of this volume.
o191tized by Coogle
•
ABBE BARRUEL
long to the society of Masonry. I was acquainted with
many, and some were my in~mate friends. These, with
all that zeal common to young adepts, frequently pressed
me to become one of their brotherhood. As I constantly
refused, they undertook to enrol me, notwithstanding my
refusal. The plan settled, I was invited to dinner at a
friend's house, and was the onlyprofane in the midst of a
large party of Masons.· Dinner over, and the servants or-
dered to withdraw, it was proposed to form themselves into
a lodge, and to initiate me. l persisted in my refusal, and
particularly refused to take the oath of keeping a secret,
the very object of which was unknown to me. They dis-
pensed with the oath, but I still refused. They became
more pressing, telling me that Masonry was perfectly inno-
cent, and that its morality was unobjectionable; in reply, I
asked whether it was better than the Gospel. They only
answered by forming themselves into a lodge, when began
all those grimaces and childish ceremonies which are de-
scribed in books of Masonry, such as Jachin and Boaz.•
I attempted to make my escape; but in vain; the apart-
ment was very extensive, the house in a retired situation;
the servants in the secret, and all the doors locked.t I am
questioned, and answer most of the questions laughing. I
am received apprentice, and, immediately after, fellow craft.
Having received these two degrees, I was informed that a
third was to be conferred on me. On this I am conducted
into a large room. There the scene changes, and takes a
more serious appearance. And though they dispensed
with my·undergoing all the more toilsome tests, th~y, never-
* Morgau'a is aaid tO be only 11 second edition of this. ·
t " Trusty brother, take care; of eves-droppers beware ;
" 'Tis a just and a 10lemn occasion ;
" Give the word and the blow, that workmen may know,
"There's one aaks to be made a Free Mason."
Book cf Comtilutioru, &c. p. 258.
Digitized by Google
MADE !\:FREE MASO!\'. :l79
th~less, were not sparing in a multitude of tiresome and in-
significant questions.
" On fin'ding myself obliged to go through this farce, I
had taken care to say; that since they had cut off every
means of retreat, I was forced to submit ; but that if I per-
ceived any thing, either against honour or conscience, they
should soon find with whom they had to deal.
" As yet I had only perceived a mere childish play and
burlesque ceremonies, in spite of all the gravity which the
brethren affected : but I had gi~n no offence by any ofmy
answers. At length the• venerable, with the utmost gra-
vity, put the folloWing question: 'Brother, are you disposed
to execute all the orders of the grand master, though you
were to receive contrary orders from a king, an emperor,
or any other sovereign whatever?' My answer was,' No.'
-' What, no,' replies the venerable with surprise! " Are
you only entered among us to betray our secrets! Would
you hesitate between the interests of Masonry, and those
of the profane? You are not aware, then, that .there is
not one of our swords but is ready to pierce the heart of a
traitor.' Notwithstanding the gravity with which this
question was put, and the menaces which accompanied it, I
could not persuade myself that he was in earnest; but I
still continued to answer in the negative, and replied, as
may easily be imagined, ' that it was rather extraordinary
to suppose that I, who had only been brought in by force,
could ever ha,·e come there in order to betray the secrets of
Masonry. You talk of secrets, and you have told me none.
If, in order to be initiated, I must promise to obey a man
that I know not, and if the interests of Masonry can be a
bar to any part of my duty, good day to you, gentlemen.
* Tho m08t worshipful mastor. All this scone shows the licentioumess
of French Masonry; but they used it for its worth; the game of the gay,
and the tool of the selfish.
Digitized by Google
ADIIE BAR~UEL
It is not too late as yet. I know nothing of your mysteries,
nor do I wish to 'know more of them.'
" This answer did not disconcert the venerable in the least,
and he continued to act his part perfectly well; he pre88ed
me more earnestly, and renewed his threats. I certainly
believed the whole to be a farce; but even in joke I would
not promise obedience to their gri!Jld muter, especially on
the supposition that his commands could ever be contrary
to those of the sovereign. I replied onCQ more, ' Gentle-
men, or brethren, I told you before, that if there was any
thing•in your games, either against honour or cooscience,
you should learn whom you had to deal with. We are now
cotire to the point. You may do what you pleaae with me,
but you shall never make me assent to such a proposition ;
and once more I say, no.' Every one kept the moat pro·
found silence, except the venerable, though they were much
amused with the scene.
" ·It at length grew more serious between the· venerable
and me. He would not give up the point ; and, renewing
his question over and over again, he was in hopes, by tiring
my patience, to extort a YEs. At length I found myself
quite wearied out. I was blindfolded. I tore off the ban·
dage, threw it upon the ground, and stamping my foot,
called ou! No, with every sign ofimpatience. Immediate·
ly the whole lodge clap their hands .in sign of applause,
~d the venerable compliments me on my constancy.-
' Such are the men for us, men of resolution and courage.'
-• What,' said I, • men of resolution ! And how ma-
ny do you find who resist your threats! You, your-
selves, gentlemen, have not you all said YES to this ques-
tion; and if you have said it, how is it possible that you
can persuade me that your mysteries contain nothing
against hono~r or conscience 1'
"The toneI assumed had thrown the lodge into confusion.
The brethren surrounded me, telling me I had taken things
too much in earnest, and in too literal a sense : that they
never had pretended to engage in any thing contrary to th('
, .
o191tized by Coogle
MADE A FREE ¥ASO!\. 281
~ties of every true Frenchman, and that in spite of all my
resistance, I should nevertheless be admitted. The vena.
rable soon restored order with a few strokes of his mallet.
He then informed me that I was passed to the degree of
Mcuter, adding, that if the secret was not given to me, it
was only because a more regular lodge, and neld with the
· ordinary ceremonies, was necessary on such an occasion.
• In the mean while he gave. me the signs and the pass-words
for the third degree, as he had done for the other two."
This was sufficient to enable me to be admitted into a re·
gular lodge, and now we were all brethren. As for me, I
bad been metamorphosed into apprentice,feUow-craft, and
fltiUter, in one evening, without ha\'!ng ever dreamt of it in
the morning. ·
" I was too well acquainted with those who had ·received
me, not to believe their ·protestation sincere, when they de·
dared that they had never pretended to engage in any thing
contrary to their duty. And injustice I am bound to de·
clare, that, excepting the venerable, who turned out a vio·
lent Jacobin, they all showed themselves loyal subjects at
the Revolution. I promised to be present at a regular meet·
iag, provided the oath was never mentioned to me. They
promised that it never should be insisted on, and they kept
their word. They only requested that I would inscribe my
Aame on the list, that it might be sent to the Grand Lodge
of the East. I refused again, and asked time to consider
of it ; and when I had sufficiently attended to see what
these lodges were, I retired, without even consenting to in·
scribe my name.
"On my first appearance in a regular lodge, I was quit
for a fine speech on Masonry, of which I knew but little at
*"Here'• word&, and here'• eigne, t.nd here'• proble11111 t.nd line.t,
" ADd here'• room too for deep apeculation ;
"Here virtue and trut.h (! !] are taught to tlae youth,
" When firat he's called up to a Muon."
Boot -1 CmvtilutiMP 1/ MG~~. eeL 179!. p. !58.
36
o191tized by Coogle
ABJIE BAI\RU&L
that time, so dwelt chiefly upon fraternity, and on the plea·
sure of living with brethren.
"They had agreed on that day to receive an apprentice,
who was to have the secret given him with all the ordinary
forms, in order that I might learn it, though only a specta·
· tor. It wouJa be useless to swell this chapter by describing
the ceremonial and the trials on such occa.siOAs. In the
first degrees, they appear to be nothing more than childish
play. I may refer my readers to the Key of Masonry, (La
Clef de ~ons,) or to the Free Masons' Catechism, and
IODle other books of the sort, which are perfectly exact as
to the eeremonial of the three degrees, which I received,
and saw conferred upon others, excepting in some small
points of no consequence.•
~...
"Thegrand object for me was to learn the famous secret
of Masonry. The moment at length comes when the pos-
tulant is ordered to approach nearer to the venerable.
Then the brethren who had been armed with swords for
the occasion, drawing up in two lines, held their swords ele-
vated, leaning the points toward each other, and formed
what, in Masonry, is called the arch of steel. The candi-
date passes under this arch to a sort of altar, elevated on
two steps, at the farthest end of the lodge. The master,
seated in an arm chair, or a sort of throne, behind this altar,
preneunced a long discourse on the inviolability of the ee-
eret which was to be imparted, and on the danger of break-
iDg the oath which the candidate was going to take. He
pointed to the naked swords, which were alwa)'l ready to
• "Hail,my.tic art ! by beano desipecl
"To cultin.te and obeer the miDd ;
"Thy aecreta are to all unknown,
a ButMaeoM juatand true alone.
CMM. "Then let 81 all their praiiM .m,,
" Fellows to peuant,priDce, orm,."
BliM tf Cllftlfihllilml tf Jla#, eel. 1'71lt. p. !'ft.
I
o191tized by Coogle
MAIU: A J'llJi:X IIA.SOJ!O,
pierce the breast of the traitor, and declared to him tbu it
wu impoaible to escape their ve~J8e8Dce. The ewodidate
then swears, "that rather than betray the aeeret, he con-
aenta to have his head cut off, hia heart and entrails tom
out, and his ashes caat before the wind.' Having taken
the oath, the master said the following words to him, which
the reader may easily conceive have not escaped my D;lemo·
ry, as I had expected them with so much impatience, 'My
dear brother, the secret of Masonry consists in these wordl,
Liberty and Equality : all men are free allll equal : all
Men are bretltre~~.' The master did not utter another syUar
ble, and every body embraced the new brother, equal attd
free. The lodge broke up, and we gaily adjourned to a
masonic repast.
" I was so far from suspecting any further meaning in
this famous secret, that I could scarcely refioain from burst·
ing into a fit of laughter on hearing it ; and with the great•
eat simplicity, told those who had introduced me, if that
was all their secret, I had known it a long time.•
" And certainly there was no occasion for being a mll86n,
to learn that man is not born for slavery, but to enjoy a
true liberty, under the empire of the laws; or if they UD·
derstand by equality, that as we are the children of one
common parent, the creatures of the same God, we are to
love and help each other as brethren ; such truths certainly
are better taught in the gospel, than by the childish rites of
Masonry. I must say, that though the lodge was nume-
rously attended, I did not see a single craftsman who gave
any other interpretation to this famous secret. The reader
will see that it was necessary to go through many other de-
grees, before they were initiated into a very different liberty
* The Ab~'• IUlprile and mirth at the 1ecrel are perfectly natural; yet
that adopted by the French wu 10 much added to our Free Muomy.
They deeired to han o _,; ancl Free MUODI'J f'1lmilbing DODe coept
itl..._ tiiOI'U and pou -w, it would MelD that the politioal......,.
11'1 or France uUbiJ,y eeiled Upoll thi• : .. Liberty uul Equlity."
o191tized by Coogle
ABBE BA.KKU£1'.
.and equality; and even that many who rose to higher clo-
grees, were never initiated into the ultimate aenae of their
fiunous secret.
"Let not people be surprised that English Masonryshould
be chiefly composed of good and loyal subjects, whose
main object is mutually to help each other on the princt.
plesofequality, which .with them is nothing more than fra·
ternity. Few English craftsmen are acquainted with more
than ·the three first degrees already mentioned ; and the
reader may rest assured, that with the exception -,f the im-
prudent question"" on obedience to the grand master of the
·order, there is nothing which can render the secret dan-
gerous, were it not for the Jacobin interpretation. The
English good sense has banished such an explanation. I
have even heard of a resolution taken by some of the chief
craftsmen, of rejecting all those who might seek to intro-
duce the revolutionary liberty among them. I have read
most excellent discourses and lectures on the avoiding of
abuses in the history of Masonry. I have there seen the
grand master telling the brethren, that the trne equality of
the craft does not authorize the brother~ when out of the
lodge, to derogate from that respect and deference due to
the rank which any person bears in the world, or their dif.
ferent political degrees and titles. I have also remarked,
in the aecret instructions of the grand master, many excel-
lent lectures, to conciliate the liberty and equality of the
craft with fidelity and submission to the laws, in short, with
all the duties of a loyal subject.
"Hence it arises, that though the English have every thing
in common with the craft of other nations, as far as the de·
gree of master inclusive ; though they have the same se-
cret,t the same word, and the same signs to know each
other by, yet as they generally stop at this degree, they
"' That ma queeti011 not put in the lodges of America.
t Do the lodpt of Englud generally 11811 "Liberty and Equality" for
tlleir aecret? I bad suppoeed thm originated in revolutionary FJ'UICe.
o191tized by Coogle
JIADE A I'&EE JIASON;
never are initiated 'into the grand mysteries, or we shonld,
perhaptJ, be more correct, if we said they had rejected
them. They have found means of purifying Masonry.
We shall soon see how little grand mysteries conld agree
with the chara~ter of a nation which has given so many
proofs of.its wisdom.'"'
CHAPTER XLVI.
Abbe Barruel'1 Memoir1 of Jacobininn, vol. ii. p. 158.-
0J the Grand Mysterie1, or Seeret1 of the Occult
Lodges.
" WE comprehend, under the designation ofoccultlodges,
or the higher degrees of Masonry, all Free Masons in
general, who, after having passed the first three degrees of
apprentice,fellow craft, and mtuter, show sufficient zeal to
be admitted into the higher degrees, where the veil is rent
asunder, where emblematical and allegorical figures are
thrown aside, and where the two-fold principle of liberty
and equality is unequivocally explained by war againlt
"' The Ab~ wrote in London, and felt grateful for Engliah hoepitality
to tum.elf and to hillfellow nile~~.
Digitized by Coogle
[.:
Chri#tai ltU allan,UHII'~I lin§'~ andtieir....! I!*
In damollltrating thatsuch:is the 'r81Ult. of tile grand myato-
riea of the craft, it will not be tlae want, but the multipli-
city of proofi, that will embarn.u ue. Theee alone wOuld
611 a l~e volume; aDd we wish to comprise them in this
chapter. The reader will at leaat diapeue with the emr-
blems, oaths, ceremonies, and trials, which are peculiar to
each of these higher degrees. To show their last object,
and to develope their doctrine, is the essential point, and
what we shall always have iri view. , We shall begin by ge-
neral obse"a~ which will en&hle the reader, to follow
these mysteries more accurately, according as they are ex-
plained.
"Notwithstanding that in the fint degrees of Masonry
every thing appears to partake of puerile inventions, they,
nevertheless, contain many things which the sect have
thrown out, merely to obse"e the impression which they
made on the young adepts, and to judge from thence to
what lengths they may be Jed.
" lst. It declares the grand object it has in view, to be at
one time the railing of templu to Wtue, and the excava-
ting dungeons for vice; at another, to bring the adepts to
light, and deliver them from the darkness with which the
pr~fane are encompassed, and by the profane are under-
stood the remainder of the universe. This promise is con-
tained in the first Catechism of the craft, and none will
deny it. Nevertheless, this promise alone sufficiently indi-
cates that the craft acknowledge a morality, ud teach a
doctrine which brands Christ and his Gospel with error and
darkness.
" 2d. The masonic and Christian era do not coincide.
* The 11118 made of Muonry to diaemiDate the doctrines .whow practi-
erJ renlt.l were mound\illy uhibited in the I'I8IICib 1'8MlutiOG, jullit; this
extraordinary language, u applied, a\ Uaat da7, to tlle leaden of FI'I.BClb
Muonry.
Digitized by Google
01' I'&J:B IIAI105&T.
Tie yew of ligltt dates with thein &om thefinrt days of
the creation. This, again, is what no Maaoo will deny.
But this custom clearly demonstrates that their ~ht1, their·
MOrality, and their religiow doctrines, are anterior to the
Evangelical Revelation, 'Or even to Moses and the pro•
phets; they will, in short, be, whatever incredulity may
please to style the Religion of Nature•
..3d. In the masonic language, aU their lodgea are but one
temple representing the whole universe ; the temple which
e][tends from the east to the west, from the Iouth to the
11ortk. They admit into this temple, with equal indiffe-
rence, the Christian or the Jew, the Turk or the idolator;
in fine, without distinction of sect or religion. All equally
behold the light, all learn the science of virtue, of real hap-
piness, and all may remain members of the craft, and rise
in its degrees up to that where they are taught, that aU
religious tenets are but errors and prejudices. Though
many Masons may view this re-union in no 'other light than
that of universal charity and benevolence, which ought to
extend to all mankind, whether Jew, Gentile, Idolator, or
Christian, it is, nevertheless, much to be feared, that this re-
union of error and falsehood, only tends to infuse an indi(..
ference for all religious tenets into the mind of the adepts,
as a preparatory step to the denial of all, in the higher de-
grees.
"4th. It is always under the most dreadful oaths ofsecre-
cy, that the Free Masons communicate their pretended
lights, or their art of building temples to virtue, and dun-
geons for vice. . When both truth and virtue had every
thing to fear from the reigning tyrants, it may be conceived
that they taught their lessons in private;" but, so far from
exacting an oath of ~SeCrecy, they condemned silence as cri-
minal,when their les110ns could be made public, and com-
manded that what had been learned under the shadow ofthe
night, should be preached openly at noon day. Either the
doctrines of the craft are conformable to the lawt of Chris-
_o191tized ~Y Coogle
ABBB BAJUlUEL'S Vl&WS
tianity, to the peace of states, and conducive to virtue and
bappineas; (and then what has it bad to fear from kings
and pontifiB since Christianity was e$tablished ?) or, their
pretended science is in opposition to the religion and the
lawsof the Christian world, (and then we have OJ~Iyto say,
that the evil-doer seeks to hide himsel£)
"5th. Most certainly the Free Masonsuo not make a se-
cret of what is praiseworthy in their association. It is not
that fraternal affection for their neighbour which they hide,
and which they only have in common with every religious
· obse"er of the gospel. Neither do they make a secret of
the sweets of that convivial equality which accompanies
their meetings, and their fraternal repasts. On the contra-
ry, they are perpetually extolling their benevolence, and
nobody is ignorant of the conviviality of their entertain-
ments. Their secret must, therefore, contain something
widely different from this fraternity, and something less in-
nocent than the mirth of the masonic table.
•• Such language, in general, might have bOOn held to all
masons; such reasonings might have made them suspect that
the higher degrees of their assoeiation contained mysteries,
which it was far more interested in hiding, than their fla-
ternity, their signs, and pass-words.
" That affected secrecy on the first principles of Masonry,
liberty and equality, the oa:th never to reveal that such was
the basis of the doctrines, premised that there existE;d such
an explanation of these words, as the sect was interested in
hiding, both from the state and church. And in reality it
was ·to attain to this explanation of the last mysteries, that
so many trials, oaths, and degrees, were necessary.
"To convince the reader how much these surnJses are
realized in the occult lodges, it is necessary for us to go
back to the degree of master, and relate the allegorical
11tory, of which the successive explanations and interpreta·
tions form the profound mysteries of the higher degrees.
"In this degree of master Mason, the lodge is hung round
o191tized by Coogle
OF FREE MASO!IORY. 28H
· with black. In the middle is a coffin covered with a pall ;
the brethren standing round'it in attitudes denoting sorrow
and revenge.• When the new adept is admitted, the mas-
ter relates to him the foUowing history or fable.
"Adoniramt presided over the payment of the workmen
who were building the temple by Solomon's orders. They
were three thousand workmen. Thet each one might re-
ceive his due, Adoniram divided them into three classes,
apprentices, fellow-crafts, and masters. He intrusted each
classwith a word, signs, and a grip, by which they might be
recognised. Each class was to preserve the greatest se-
crecy as to these signs and words. Three of the fellow-
crafts, wishing to know the word, and by that means
obtain the salary of master, hid themselves in the tem-
ple, and each posted him!Jelf at a different gate. At the
usual time, when Adoniram came to shut the gates of the
temple, the first of the three met him, and demanded the
word of the masters: Adoniram refused to give it, and re-
ceived a violent blow with a stick on his head. He flies to
another gate, is·met, challenged, and treated in a similar
manner by the second: flying to the third door, he is killed
by the fellow-craft posted there, on his ·refusing to betray
the word. His assassin11 buried him under a heap of rub.
bish, and marked the spot with a branch of Acacia.
" Adoniram's absence gave great uneasiness to Solomon
and the masters. He is sought for every where; at length
• Thi• is not the manner of American lodp generally ; but that is no
reuon why it may not haYe been the manner of the French. The whole
lltrength of the degree lie~~ in itulfect on tho mind of the candidate: the
room m-d in molll'Ding would .trengthen that which is weak at the best.
t The huty11pirit may be ready bore to triumph in the orror of the Abbe ;
but he wu a mrewd man, and an ollllervinf Muon. It is not euy to find
him miat.aken in a fAct. The French lodges vary from onn in many par-
ticulan; and the Abbe repr-t. them u u.m, tbia name in common
with that of Hiram, to exemplify the dootrinee of the third degree. So
doe8 Webb in the inelfable degrees•.:...Free Muom' )fonitor, part ii. c. J.
1802.
37
o191tized by Coogle
2!.10 AHBE BARRUEJ.'S Vlt:WS
one of the masters discovers the corpse, and, taking it by
the finger, the finger parted from the hand; he took it by
the wrist, and it parted from the arm ; when the master, in
astonishment, cried out Mac Benac, which the craft inter·
prets by ' tlw flesh partsfrom the ·bones.'
" Lest Adoniram should have revealed the word, the mas·
ters convened and agreed to change it, and to substitute
the words Mac Benac ;• sacred words, that Free Masons
dare not pronounce out of the lodges, and there each only
pronounces one syllable, leaving his neighbour to pronounce
the other.
"The history finished, the adept is informed, that the
object of the degree he has just received· io; to recover the
word lost by the death of Adoniram, and to revenge this
martyr of the masonic secrecy. The generality of Ma·
sons, looking upon this history as no more than a fable, and
the ceremonies as puerile, give themselves very little trou·
ble in searching farther into these mysteries.
"These sports, however, assume a more serious aspect
when we arrive at the degree of elect.t This de-
gree is subdi,·ided into .two parts ; the first has the re-
,·enging of Adoniram for its object, the other, to recover the
word, or rather the sacred doctrine which it expressed, and
which has been lost.
" In this degree of elect, all the brethren appear dressed
in black, wearing a breast-piece on the left side, on which
is embroidered a death's head, a bone, and a poniard, en·
circled by the motto of conquer or die. The sarrie motto
is embroidered on n ribbon which they wear in saltier.
E\·ery thing breathes death and revenge. The candidate
is led into the lodge blind-folded, with bloody gloves on his
hands. An adept, with a poniard in his hand, threatens to
* This is the word o.f .the ancimU.
t Dalcho gives two degrees of elect. One, Elect K.nightsof9, the olher
of 15; and a third, c:tUcd Snblimo Knight Elected.
Digitized by Google
0}' FREE MASONRY.
run him tluough the heart for the crime with which he is
accused. After variousfrights, he obtains his life, on condi-
tion that he will revenge the father of Masonry in the death
ofhis assassin. He is shown to a dark cavern. He is tope-
netrate into ii, and they call to him, strike all that shall op-
pose you; enter, defend yourself, and avenge our master;
at that price you shall receive the degree of elect. A
poniard in his right hand, a lamp in his left, he.proceeds ; a
phantom opposes his passage, he·hears the same voice re-
peat, strike, avenge Hiram, there is his assassin. He strikes,
and the blood flows. Strike off his head, the voice repeats,
and the head of the corpse is lying at his feet. He seizes it
by the hair,• and triumphantly carries it back, as a proofof
his victory ; shows it to each of the Qrethren, and is judged
worthy of a new degree.
" I have questioned divers Masons whether this appren-
ticeship to ferocity and murder had never given them the
idea, that the head to be cut off was that of kings, and they
candidly owned, that the idea had never struck them wttil
the revolution had convinced them of the fact.t
• The reader may euily conceive, that this corpee ie no more than a
matmikin containing bladders full of blood.
t Observations on the degree of elected knighte.-Webb'• .Monitor, NN-
York, A. D. 180!, p. 138. Degree of Daklao, No. 9. Of F. .M. L. No. 19.
on the lilt of degrees.
" The muter repre.nte Solomon -ted in the eaat with a table before
him COIIef'td with bltulc. All the brethren must be drcs8ed in blaek, and their
hate flapped, with a broad black ribbon from tho left llhoulder to the right
hip, on the lower parl of which are nine red roses, four on each aide, and
one at the bottom, to which is euepended a poniard. · The apro11.1 are white,
tfned with black, speckled with blood; on the flap a bloody arm, with a
poniard, and on the·area a bloody arm, holding by tho hair a bloody head."
[Daughter of the night! what is next?]
"Near to the lodge il a email, dark place, reprceeutiug a cavern, in which
is placed a lamp, a place representing a spring with a buin to hold water,
. and a table on which are laid a poniard, and a representation of a bloody
bead, u jWit 118Vered nom the body. Near the table a large stone to sit
on, and below the lamp, in capital letters, VJ:MOE.\:<CE."-Vide .llbductitm
t>f William .Murgan.
o191tized by Coogle
ABBE liARRliEL's VIEWS
" It was tnesame with respect to the religious part of this
degree, where the adept is at once ponti1f.and sacrificer
with the rest of the brethren. Vested·in the ornaments of
the priesthood, they offer bread and wine,• according to the
order of Melchisedec. The secret object of this ceremony
is to re-establish religious equality, and to exhibit all men
equally priests and pontiffs, to recall the brethren to natural
religion, and to persuade them that the religion of Moses,
and of Christ, had violated religious liberty ~d equality by
the distinction of priests and laity. It WBB the revolution
again which opened the eyes o( many of ~e adepts, who
then owned that they had been dupes to this impiety, 88
they had been to the regicide essay in the former part.t
* "The Molt Pnj'tilt then presents the candidate with bread and wine,
ayinr, eat of this bread with me, aad drink of tho ame cup," &e.-F. M.
Monitor, 1302,p. !63.
t "Were we less rigorous as to our proofs, we should treat inthis place of
the degree called the KnighU t( the Sun. But we are only aeque.inted
with it through the medium of the Voile Love, (theveil raised up,) a work
of the Abbe Le Frauo, certainly a man of the greatest virtue and on-
doubted veracity, and one of those Eecleaiastica, who preferred falling
under the butchering poniards of the Septembrizers, to betraying their re-
ligion. But this author has neglected to inform u1 from what BOUJ'C4!jl he
had drawn his document. on the Maeonic degrees. Betide, we can re-
mark, that he was not BUfficiently acquainted with the origin of Maeon..Y,
which ho only traces back to Socinus. His knowledge IL110 of the Scotch
degreee, appears to have been acquired from inaccurate translations, which
our French authora had vitiated, according to their reepec:tive purpo410L
" On the other aide, we know for certain, that this degree of Knight of1M
Sun, [!8th of Dalcho,] is a modern creation. Its author is to be known
by his Teutonic style. If we are to believe what we hav~ been told, it owes
its origin to one of those philosophists of very high life, who was too much
attached to the high rank which he enjoyed, to adopt any other equality,
than that which applied to the Maeonic filaste and their impiety. And
nothing is to be found in this degree, which militatcw against the throne.
It is much too perspicuoua for many Muons, who would have boon dis-
gusted with any thing but emblematiciLI figures, IUSCOptible of various ex-
planations. Nevertheless, we were acquainted with aeveriLI of these
KnighU tf the Sun in France. This derree was only given to such of the
adepts wh0110 impiety wu unequivocal. It was rather a derree of modern
· o191tized by Coogle -
•
01' FREE MASONRY. 293
" These mysteries are not sufficiently explained in the de-
gree of elect for all to comprehend them. The generality
of Masons initiated in this degree, give themselves little
philosophism, than of ancient Masonry. Under tlnl.t point of view it i•
worthy of notice; but we only give the following accoant. u an utract
from the Ab~ Le Franc's werk.
"• When initiated into this higher degree, it wu nolonger poasible ·for the
adept to dillllllmble with himself how incomp~tible the Masonic code was
with the slightest ·remnant of Christianity. Here the muter of the lodge
ia styled ..4dam, whilst the introclueer takes the name of Y erittu, (Truth.)
The following are part of the lectures which brother Yerittu repeats to the
new adept. while recapitulating all the allegories whlch he has -n in the
former parts of M8.80nry.-(See &brll)n'l Proof• of a Ctnllpiraey, pp. 34.
101. 123.] "Learn,in the first place, that the three implements with which
you have beenmade acquainted, the Bible, the CompiUIIee, and the Square,
have a eecret lrignification unknown to you. By the Bible, you are to un-
derstand, that you are to acknowledge no other law than that of Adam,
the law which the Almighty had engraved on hia heart, and tJuU il wh4t il
called the L.t.w ow N.t.TUI.E. The Comp1U18ea recall to your mind that
God is the central point of every thing, fro~icb every thing ie equally
diatant. and to which every thing is equally near. · By the Square we learn,
that ·od baa made erJerY thing equnL The Cubic Stone, that all your ac·
ti0111 are equal1Ditl• ruped to the rovertig?& good. The death .of Hiram, and
the change of the muter'• word, teach you, that it ia difficult to e.:ape tlte
mares of ignorance, but that it is your duty to show the aame courage as
our muter Hiram, who sufFered himself to be musacred, rather than
hearken to the persuasions of his a88&18ins.'
" Tho most -ntial part of this discourse, ia the explanation which bro-
ther Yeriltu gives of the degree of Elect. Amongst others we read the
following linea : ·
"• If you ask me what are the necesaary qualities to enable a Mason to
arrive at the centre ofreal perfection? I shall answer, that in order to attain
it. he must have crushed the bead of the serpent of worldly ignorance, and
have CG~t off those prejudices of youth concerning the mysteries of the pre-
dominant religion of bia native country. ..4ll religioul wor~hip being tmly
imented, in lwpu of acquiring power, and to gain pruedency among men:
and by a lloth 'Which. covet•, under the Jaue pretence '!{piety, ill neighbour'•
mhu; in fine, by gluttony, the daughter of hypocrisy, who, straining eve-
ry nerve to restrain the carnal sense• of those who posse• riches perpe-
tually oft'er to them, on the a.ltar of their hearts, holocausts, which voluptu-
ousness, luxury, and perjury, have procured for them. This, my dear bro-
\l»lr, is what you have to combat, such is the monster you have to crush
Digitized by Google
•
ABBE BARRUEL's VIEW'>
trouble to understand the real signification of them ; and
as long as they have any sentiments of religion, or attach-
ment to their prince, they reject with indignation, all inter·
pretations which militate against either. Many of them are
disgusted with the mukiplicity of trials, and are content to
remain in the inferior degrees, which suffice to give th~m
the title of Masons, admit them to all masonic repasts, and
even entitle them to the alms and benefactions which the
lodges bestow on their indigent brethren. 'fhosc whose
zeal is not cooled by this multiplicity of trials, are generally
admitted from the degree of flllUter, or from that of elect,
to the three Scotch degrees. We shall not seek for the
history and tendency of these three degrees in books which
have been written to discredit the craft. The German
adept who translated them into his. language for the in-
struction of his brethren, is one of the most zealous knights
for the doctrine therein contained. His whole genius is
exerted in their defence, nor could we follow a more unex-
ceptionable author. His object was to infuse light into
his brethren; and we, profane beings, may draw the.fol·
under the emblem of tlae serpent. It u a faithful reprumUitfon t( that
tcMmthe tgnoranl~-ulgaradore unikr the name t( religion.
"• It wae the profane and timid Abiram, who, tranefonned by a fanatic
seal inlo.a tool t( the IIIDft.kiJh and religitnu rilu, struck the first blows on
the breast of our father Hiram ; that is to say, who sapped the foundations
of the celestial temple, which the ETUNAL had him~elf erected upon earth
to sublime virtue.
·" •The first age of the world witnessed what I a88E'rt. The moat aimple
law of nat~ rendered our first fathers the happiest of morto.la. The
moneter Pride appears on ea:th, he bellows, he is heard b7 men, and by the
happy mortals of those days. He promises them happiness in another life,
and persuades them by his mellifluous words, that he taught men to adore
the Eternal Creator of aU tlting1in a more e.rtemive and more tpeeial manner,
than any person had doiiC before on earth. Thu hydra with an hundred heads,
misled and mislea.ds those men who are subject to its ·Iaws, and will conti-
nue its deceptions until the moment when the true Eitel shall appear to
combat and crush itentirely."' (See the dtgrm rif Knight1 of the Sun.)
" Such doctrine needs no comment."
o191tized by Coogle
I
(
I
0}' FREE MASO!I'R\.•
lowing conclusion from .his lectures. (See the Scotch De-
grees, printed at Stockholm~ 1784.)
" Every Mason who wi.shes to be admitted into the Scotch
degr~s, and even into all other degrees of Masonry, is first
taught that, until that period, he has lived in slavery, wtd it
is on that account only, that he is admitted into the pre-
sence of the other brethren· Wlth a rope about his neck,
praying that he may be delivered .from •his bonds. But
when he aspires at the third Scotch degree, or at becoming
a knight of St. Andrew, he must appear in a far more hu-
miliating costume. The candidate is shut up in a dark
cell, a rope with four slip knots is twisted round his neck,
he is stretched out upon the floor; there, by the dull ligh·t
of a twinkling lamp, he is abandoned to himself to medi-
tate on the wretched state of slavery in which he exists, and
to learn I"QQ>erly to estimate the value of liberty. At
length one of the brethren comes and introduces him to
the lodge, leading him by the rope, holding a drawn sword
in his right hand, as if meant to run him through the heart, .
in·case he made any resistance.• After having undergone
a long examination, rutd particularly after having sworn on
the salvation of his soul, never to reveal the secrets with
which he is intrusted, he is declared free. ·1~ would be use-
less to enumerate.all the different oaths ; it is sufficient to
say, that each degree, and subdivision of degree, has its pe·
culiar oath,'and that'they are all frightful; all call the ven-
geance of God and of the brotherhood on the unhappy
man who shall betray their secret. In future, then, we
shall only treat of the doctrine of these secrets. (Vide
Morga11.)
* " Once I was blind and could not eee,
" And all was dark around ;
"Rut Providence did pity me,
" And soon a friend I found ;
" Through seeret paths my f'riend me led;
"Snch paths as babblers never tread."
Bookt( Com. c!f Mau. 1792. p. 278.
Cupitdfrom Ahimtm Ruon.
o191tized by Coogle
ABB£ BAUUEL's VIEWS
" In the first degree ofScotch knighthood the adept ia in-
formed, that he has been elevated to the dignity of high
priut. He receives a sort of benediction ·in the name of
the immortal and invUible Jehovah, and in future it ia under
that title that he is to adore the Deity, because the significa-
tion of J&aov.ut isfar moreexprulive than thoJ of AooNAI.
" In .this first degree he receives the masonic science
only as descending from Solomon and Hiram, and revived
by the Knights ·Tcmplars. But in the second degree he
learns, that it is to be traced to Adam himself, and has been
handed down by Noah, Nimrod, Solomon, Hugo de Paga-
nis, the founder of the Knights Templars, and Jaques de
Molay, their last grand master, who, each in their turns,
had been favourites of Jehovah, and are styled the masonic
sages. At length, in the third degree, it is revealed to him,
that the celebrated word, lost · by the death of Hiram, was
this name of Jehovah. It was found, he is told, by the
Knights Templars, at the time when the Christians were
building a church at Jerusalem. In digging the founda-
tions in that part on which the holy of holies of Solomon's
temple formerly stood, they discovered three stones, which
had·formerly been parts of the foundation. The form and
junction of these three stones drew the attention of tho ·
Templars; and their astonishment was extreme when they
beheld the name of Jehovah engraved on the last. This
was the famous word lost by the death of Adoniram. The
Kn~hts Templars, on their return to Europe, took great
care not to lose so precious a monument. They carried
them into Scotland, taking particular care of that which
bore the name of Jehovah. The Scotch sages, on their
part, were not forgetful of the respect due to such precious
monuments ; they made them the foundation stones of their
.first lodge; and as these first stones were laid on St. An-
drew's day, they took the name of Knights of St. Andrew.
Their successors are intrusted with the secret, and are at
this day the perfect masters of Free Masonry, the high
priests o( Jehovah.
o191tized by Coogle
IH' )'ltJ.:J!: MASONRY.
" If we lay aside the hermetical part of the science, or
the transmQtation of metal!!, such will be, in substance, the
whole doctrine which is revealed to the adept initiated in
the grand mysteries of the Scotch degrees.
" In a sort of catechism, to which he answers, to show
that he has remembered every thing that he has seen, and
aU that has been explained to him in the lodge, or, as it is
then called, in Solomon's temple, the following question is
asked : l1 thaJ, all you haue seen? To which he an1Wer1, I
have 1een many other things, but, like the other Sc()tch ma~­
terl, llceep them secret in my heart. This secret hence-
forth cannot be difficult to understand. It is only to view
the Scotch fiiiJBter in his new character of High Priest of
Jehovah, or of that worship, that pretended Deism, which
we have been told was successively the religionof Adam,
Noah, Nimrod, Solomon, Hugo de Paganis.,'of the Grand
Master Molay, and of the Knights Templars, and which,
at this day, is to constitute the religion of the complete
Master Mason.
"These mysteries might have sufficed for the adepts. All
who ' had obtained the Scotch degrees were declared free
in future, and all were equally priests of Jehovah. This
priesthood ridded them of all the mysteries of the Gospel,
and of all revealed religion. That liberty and happiness,
which the sect declares to consist in the revival of Deism,
sufficiently instils into the mind of the adept what he is to
think of Christianity, and of its divine Author. Neverthe-
less, the grand mysteries are not exhausted. The adepts
still have to discover who was the person that wrested the
Word, the famous name of Jehovah, from their predeces- _
sors ; that is to say, who it was that destroyed their favourite
worship of Deism. It was but too evident, that the whole
fable of Hiram, or Adoniram, and of his assassins, was no
more than an allegory, the explanati9n of which must na-
turally answer the question, who is the real assassin of
Adoniram 1 By whom was the Deistical form of worship
destroyed ? 'Vho wa'! it that wrested the famous word
38
o191tized by Coogle
.o\!JBE BAllll'JEL's VIEWS
from the sect1 He is the person against whom the ven·
geance and the hatred of the sect is directed ; and it was
necessary to instil the same spirit into the minds of its pro·
found adepts. To effectuate this, we ascend to a new de-
gree, called the Knights Rosce Crucis, or the Rosicrucians.*'
. "It is, certainly, a most atrocious blasphemy, to accuse
Christ of having destroyed, by his religion, the doctrine of
the unity of God; when, on the contrary, the most evident
and the most attested of all facts is, that to his religion we
owe the banishment of thousands and thousands of false
gods, which the idolators had made to themselves. The
gospel, in declaring the 9nity of God, teaches us the trinity
of persons; but this mystery, like aU others which we learn
from revelation, humbles the sophisters in their own minds.
Fraught ~th ingratitude against him who has cast the
idola in the dust, they have sworn an eternal hatred against
the eternal Word, because he reveals a God, whom in their
madness they are not able to comprehend. Christ himself,
in their eyes, is the destroyer of the unity of God; he is the
great enemy of Jehovah; and to infuse the hatred of·the
sect into the minds of the new adepts, constitutes the grand
mystery of the new degree, which they have called Rosi-
CfUcian.
" As the adept was seldom initiated into this new degree
before he bad passed through the Scotch degrees, he is al-
ready aware, as the reader must observe, that Jehm:aA is
RO longer the word sought after ; and here we shall sec
every thing rein~ only to the author of Christianity. The ·
ornaments of the lodge appear to be solely intended to
recall to the candidate the solemn mystery of Mount CaJ..
nry. The whole is hung in black, an altar is to be seen
at the bottom, and over the altar is a transparent represen-
tation of the three crosses, the middle one bearing the or·
dinary inscription. The brethren, in sacerdotal vestment!',
* Eighteenth of Dlllcbo.
o191tized by Coogle
OF FREE JUSGNRY.
are sealed on the ground, in the most profound silence,
sorrowful and aftlicted, resting their heads on their arm, to
represent their grie£ It is not the death of the Son of
God, who di~ the victim of our sins, that is the cause of
their aftliction ; the grand object of it is evident b;, the first
answer which is made to the question, with which all
lodges are generally opened.
" The master asks the senior warden, what o'clock is it ?
The answer varies according to the different degrees. Jn
this it is as follows : •It is the first hour of the day, the
time when· the veil of the temple was rent asunder, ~hen
darkness and constem!ltion was spread over the earth, when
the light was darkened, when the imp~• of MMonrg
were broken, when the flaming star disappeared, when the
cubic stone was broken, when the word WaB lost.•
" The adept, who has attended to the progressive disco-
veries he has made in the different degrees, needs no fur·
ther lessons to understand the meaning of this answer.
He thereby learns that the day on which the word J~:aovAH
was lost, is precisely that on which the son of God, dying
on a cross for the salvation of mankind, consummated the
grand mystery of our religion, dest!oying the reign of
every other, whether Judaic, natural, or sophistical. The
more a Mason is attached to the word, that is, to his pre-
tended natural religion, the more inveterate will his hatred
be against the author of revealed religion.
"Neither is this word, which he has already found, any
longer the object of his researches ; his hatred has further
views. He must seek for a new word, which shall per·
·petuate in his own mind and that of his brethren their blas-
phemous hatred for the God of Christianity ; and for this
they adopt the inscription of the cross.t
"Every Christian knows the signification of I. N. R.I.,
* Bee the dqree Rose Crucis.
t See BobiSQn's Proo& of a. Conapiracy, pp. Ui. 1!8.
•
o191tized by Coogle
...
300 ABBE BARRUEL'S VIEWS
JeWB Nazarenu.s Rex Judo!on1m, (Jesus of Nazareth, King
of the Jews.) The Rosicrucian is taught the following in·
terpretation: The Jew of Nazareth, led by Raphael into
Judea; an interpretation which, de\·esting Christ of his di·
vinity, assimilates him to a common man, whom the Jew
Raphael conduct.<J to Jerusalem, there to suffer condign
punishment for his crimes. As soon as the candidate has
proved that he understands the masonic meaning of this
inscription I. N. R. I., the master exclaims, my dear bre·
thren, the Word is found again, and all present appla1,1d
this luminous discovery, that HE whose death was the con-
summation, and the grand mystery of the Christian reli-
gion, was no more than a common Jew, crucified for his
crimes.
"It is thus that the seet have blasphemously adopted the
very word which recal)s to the Christian all that love which
he bears for the Son of God expiring on the cross for the
sal\'ation of mankind, as their watchword ofhatred. They
repeat it to each other when they meet, and I. N. R.I. is to
perpetuate their spite against him who loved them even
unto the death of the cross.
" It is not on the authority of persons strangers to the
craft, that we have disclosed this atrocious mystery of oc·
cult Masonry. Wltat I have already said respecting my
initiation to the first degrees, put me in the way of convers-
ing with those whom I knew to be more advanced, and in
many of these interviews it happened, that notwithst~ding
all their secrecy, some ungoarded expressions escaped the
most zealoutJ adepts, which threw light on . the subject.
Others lent me their books, presuming that their obscure-
ness, and the want of the essential words, or the method
of discovering them, would baffle all my attempts to ·under·
stand them. I nevertheless discovered some of these
words, such as Jehovah, by uniting ·several pages, and only
taking the bottom letter of each. This famous word dis-
covered, I soon got knowledge of that of I. N. R. I. I then
combined all that I had seen, all that I knew of the diffe·
o191tized by Coogle
OF fR&E MASONRY. 301
rent degrees, with what I had collected from divers conver-
sations I had bad with certain Masons, whose philosophism
was otherwise unknown to me.. I afterwards conversed
with the most candid men whom I· knew to be in the same
. degrees. I reprobated particularly those ceremonies so
evidently in derision of religion, and which they had never
beheld but as games without any object. I never met with
one who denied the fact• as I have stated them. They
owned the different reading of the word I. N. R.I. in the'
degree Rosm Crucis, but theydenied the most distant ideaof
the consequences which I had drawn. Some, on reflection,
acknowledged them to be well founded, while others con-
sidered them as vastly exaggerated. '
•• At the time when the revolution took place, I combined
my preceding discoveries, the decrees of the National As-
sembly, and the secret of the first degree, and no longer
doubted that Masonry was but a society formed by me~;~
who, on the first initiation of their adepts, gave them the
words liberty and equality as their secret, leaving to well
meaning and religious Masons, to interpret them according
to their own principles ; yet reserving to themselves to in-
terpret (in their occult degrees) these same words according
to the full extentof the French revolution.•
" One of these brethren, who had long since been ad-
mitted to the degree of Rosm Crucis, but who was, at the
* Perhaps the reader would like to see remarks upon these initials by the
"Spirit of the Doctrineof Free Masonry."
"In a high Degree, and eviUI in different ritual• of Free Ma10nry, there
is a ceremony in which the ministers have a reed in their hand•, and, afll'r
the love feast and ceremonial embrace, they bum tlufour initiallrtters I.
N. R. L, whit:h are 1M lxne of the m!JIIeriu of lhil dtgru; at the anme
time there appears, drawn opon the •ymbolic table, broken col•llllllll, the
veil rent, the cubic •tone overturned, and covered with drops of blood, as
if the deltroyera of the widow's son had poured darkness, ignorance and
diiOrdcr upon the earth, and had caused to disappear, and had destroyed
the 10und doctrine that Jeaus had combined with that of Zoroaster."
[The widow'a10n, is commonly, Hiram Abilf.)-.Eiprit duDogme, p. 139.
D1g1tized by Goo
ABBE BARRUEL1::1 VIEW .~
same time, a very virtuous and religipus man, was much
concerned at seeing me in this opinion. He tried every
means to give nte a better idea of the society in which he
was proud of having filled the most honourable posts. This
was a topic on which we had often conversed ; and he
wished much to make me a convert to Masonry. He was,
indeed, almost affronted with me for saying that he was not
initiated into all the mysteries of Masonry, though a Rosi-
crucian ; or else that this degree had its subdivision~!, and
that he was only partially acquainted with them. Atlength
I convinced him of the fact, by asking the explanation of
some of the masonic /,ieroglyphics; he owned that he had
asked their meaning, but the explanation of them had been
refused him ; yet he had no doubt of their being as inno-
cent emblems as the,square, the compass, the trowel, and
many others. I knew that he had but one degree more to
take, and the veil would be rent asunder. I proposed, or
rather marked out the means by which he might acquire
that degree; and then, I told him, all illusion as to the real
object of the occult Masons would vanish. He was too
eager for being initiated not tp make a trial of the means I
proposed ; but he was convinced that it would prove inef-
fectual, and only furnish him with new arms to combat my
unjust prejudices against Masonry. A few days after, I saw
him enter my room, but in such a state of agitation that his
lips could scarcely utter, ' 0, my dear friend, my dear
friend-you were in the right-Oh, how much you were in
the right !-Where have I been? My God! where have I
been?'
"I easily understood these exclamations ; but the poor
man could scarcely recover himself so as to continue.
He threw himself into a chair, as if he were exhausted, per-
petually repeating, ' Where have I been 1 Oh, how much
you are in the right!' I earnestly desired him to give me
some particulars with which I was acquamted. 'Oh; how
much you were in the right!' he repeated again; 'but that
is all I can tell you.'-' Oh, unhappy man,' I exclaimed,
o191tized by Coogle
ot' FREE M.\SONR L 303
' you have then taken that execrable oath, and I am the
person who has exposed you to that rash deed ; I sincerely
ask your pardon, but I protest, upon my word, that I never
reflected on tlu~t execrable oath, when I suggested the
mea~s by whic~ you might cs:>nvince yourself, and learn to
know those deteste9 beings who have so horribly abused
your credulity. I know lhat it had been better for you to
have been for ever ignorant of that fat.W secret, than that
you should learn it at the expense of so horrid an oath. I
really did not reflect on it, or I should never have exposed
you to it ; no, I could not, in conscience.' · It was really
true, that I had never reflected on this oath. Without ex-
amining whether such wicked oaths are binding, I feared
being indiscreet. But it had been sufficient for me to have
shown this gentleman that I was acquainted, at least in
part, with these occult mysteries. He saw clearly by my
questions, that he had taught me nothing new by an avowal
which alone prm·es the very essence of thcs'e occult de-
grees.
" His fortune had been ruined by the re·rolution ; and he
declared to me, that it would from that moment be retriev-
ed, provided he accepte.d of a proposal which had been
made to him. •If I choose,' said he, •to go to London,
Brusselles, Constantinople, or any other town I please, nei·
ther I, my wife, nor my children, will ever want for any
thing.'-' Yes,' I replied, ' but on condition only that you go
there to preaclt Liberty and Equality ; in short, all the hor·
rors of the Revolution.' 'You are rigllt,' replied he,' but
that is all I can say. Oh, my God, where have I been! I
beg you will not question me any farther.'
"This was sufficient for my present purpose; but I
hoped in·time to learn further particulars. Nor were my
hopes vain. The following is what I have gathered from
various Masons, who, finding me acquainted with the major
part of their secrets, spoke the more openly to me, till at
length, feeling how much they had been duped by this oc·
cult sect, they would willin~ly haYe revealed all its myste·
•
("
D1g1tized by Goog~
J\HBE BARRUEL's VIEWS
ries, could they have done it without exposing themselves
t.
o danger.
" The explanation which was given to an adept of all
that he had befure seen, on his admission to the degree of
Rosa:l'Crucis, depended entirely-on the disposition they ob-
served in him. If they had to do with a man who was
proof against their impiety, they sought to divert him
from the church uuder pretence of regenerating his faith ;
they represented to him, that there existed an infinity of
abuses in Christian.ity at present, with respect 'to the liber-
ty and equality of the children of God. With them the
word to be recovered was, a wish for a revolution which
should revive those times, when every thing was common
among Christians; when the distinctions of rich, of poor,
or of high and mighty lor<1s, were unknown. They were
taught to look forward to the most happy regeneration of
mankind, and almost to a new heaven and a new earth.
(Sec Town's Speculative MtUonry, for the masonic mille-
nium, p. 171.] Credulous and simple minds were caught
by such magnificent promises. They looked upon the re-
volution as that sacred fire which was to purify the earth ;
and these credulous adepts were seen to second the revo
lution with the enthusiastic r;eal of a holy cause. This may
be called mynical Masonry. Such was the craft of all
those fools for whom the occult Masons set up the Prophe-
tess La Brousse, so famous in the beginning of the revolu-
tion. Such, again, was that of the weak minded Varlet,
the Bishop in partilms of Babylon. I never could con-
ceive where he had gathered his religious opinions, when
with the greatest simplicity he complained, that I had com-
bated them. I was informed of it by a guest of his, whose
reputation of great knowledge in Masonry had acquired
l1im a seat at the masonic repasts, which the poor simple
man used to give ; and even at those dinners the difference
was observable in the adepts, though of the same degree,
each having received an explanation of the mysteries coin-
cidin~ with his own disposition. Our simple Bishop viewed
o191tized by Coogle
OF J'llEE MASON&Y.
the whole science of the craft .in no other light, than as
the perfection of the Gospel ; and even in his repasts he
was ever mindful of the precepts of the church, keeping
abstinence on days appointed, &c.
· "The apostate Dom Gerles, on the contrary, was a Ma-
son of a quite different system or explanation. He already
sung those verses which, in a letter since found among Ro,
bespierre's papers,• he declares to have addressed to truth
alone:
" Ni Culte, ni Pretres, ni Roi,
"Car Ia Nouvelle Eve, c'e&t toi.''t
"It was at these repasts that the Doctor La Mothe, a
learned Rosicru~ian, behaved with a modesty which ~eem­
ed to prognosticate that one day he would equally hate both
the craft of Varlet and of Dom Gerles. The latter paid
his revolutionary debt to the guillotine; the other two are
Jiving, and I name them because I am not afraid of being
contradicted, and because these sorts of.anecdotes carry
strong proof with them, and explain how many.persons of
the most pious and charitable dispositions have been mis-
led ; how a Princess, the sister of the Duke of Orleans,
was so blinded as even to pant after the revolution, which
in her eyes was to be nothing less than the regeneration of
the ChriBtian world.
" Such explanations of the Rosicrucian degree were only
for those dupes in whom they remarke4 a certain bias to-
wards mysticity. The generality were abandoned to their
own interpretations ; but when an adept testified a great
desire .of acquiring new lights, and was thought able to un·
dergo'the necessary trials, he was admitted to the degree of
Kadosch, or of the regenerated man, where all ambiguity
ceases.
• Proees Verbal, No. 57.
t NeUber wol'llhip, nor priests, nor king, for thou arL the new Eve.
39
o191tized by Coogle
ABBE BARRUEL's VIEWS
" It was to this degree that the adept o( whom w~ l.ave
before spoken, was admitted. Nor was the exhausted state
in which he found himself, after having undergone those
trials, to be wondered at. Adepts have told me, that no
physical art is spared ; that there is no machinery, spectres,
terrors, &c. &e. which are not employed, to try the con-
stancy of the candidate. We are told by Mr. Montjoye,
that the Duke of Orleans was obliged to ascend, and then
throw himself off a ladder~ If that were all, he was most
.kindly treated. A deep cave, or rather a precipice, whence
a narrow tower rises to the summit of the lodge, having no
avenue to it but by subterraneous passages replete with
horror, is the place where the candidate is abandoned to
himself, tied hand and foot. In.this situation he finds him- .
self raised from the ground by machines making the most
frightful noise. He slowly ascends this dark vault, some-
times for hours together, and then suddenly falls, as if he
were not. ~upported by any thing. Thus mounting ll;lld
falliDg alternately, he must carefully avoid showing any
sign of fear. All this.t however, is a very imperfect ac-
count of the terrors of which men, who had undergone
~ trials, speak. They declare that it was impossible
for them to give an exact description of them ; they lost
their 8enses; they did not know where they were. Draughts
were given them, which,·adding to their corporal strength,
did not restore them to their mental faculties; but rather
increased their strength, only to leave them a prey to fury
and terror.•
" Many circumstances relating to this degree made us be-
lieve, at first sight, that it was connected with Illuminism ;
but, on examination, we find it to be only a further explana-
• The ceremony of admiai.on into the three first degreN, i., in Ame-
rica, of a 1- brutal character than it wae some years ago. But probably
the Revolutioni.te of France have eurpuaed others in the severity oftheir
triala of the candidate, as they certv.inly hllve in the number and atrocity
or their degreeJ.
o191tized by Coogle
OF FREE MASONR\".
tion of the masonic allegory. Here again the candidate is
transformed into an assassin. Here it is no longer the
founder of Masonry, Hiram, who is to be avenged, but it
is Molay, the Grand Master of the Knights Templars, an4
the person who is to fall by the assassin's hand is Philippe
le Bel, King of France, under whose reign the order of
Templars was destroyed.
" When the adept sallies forth from the cavern with the
reeking head, he cries,Neiom. (I have killed him.) After
.this atrocious trial he is admitted to take the oath. I learn-
ed from one of the adepts, that at the time when he wu
about to take the oath, one of the Knights Kadoscb held a
pistol at his breast, making a sign that he would murd~
him if he did not pronounce it. On my askingif he believecl
that he was in earnest, he said that he certainly did believe
so, though he could not be sure. At length the veil is rent
.aunder. The adept is informed, that till now he had only
been partially admitted to the truth ; that liberty and equa-
lity, which had constituted the first secret on his admissioo
into Ma&onry, consisted in recognising no superior on earth,
and in viewing kings and pontiffs in no other light than as
men on a level with their fellow men, having no other rights
to ait on the throne, or to serve at the altar, but what the
people had granted them, and of which they had the power
of depriving them whenever they pleased. Tbey are also
informed, .th11t princes and priests have too long abused the
goodness and simplicity of the people ; that the grand ob-
ject of Masonry in building temples to liberty and equallty,
ia, to rid the earth of this double pest, by destroying eYery
altar which credulity and superstition had erected, and every
throne on which were only to be seen despots tyrannizing
over slaves.
" These documepts concerning the degree of Kadoech,
are not merely taken from the works of Montjoye .and Le
Franc, but from the adepts themselves. Besides,it ia easy
to perceive how exactly this account corresponds with the
avowal of the adept, who was obliged to own that I wu.
o191tized by Coogle
.-\JIBE BARRliEL'S VIEWI!
quite in the right when I told him that this was the final ob-
ject of Free .Masonry.
" Oh how profound the combination of these mysteries I
their progress is slow and tortuous ; but how artfully each
degree tends to the grand object !
" In the two first degrees, that is to say, in those of ap-
prentice and fellow craft, the sect begins by throwing out its
liberty and equality. After that it occupies the attention of
its novices with puerile games of fraternity, or masonic re-
pasts ;·but it already trains its adepts to the profoundest se-
crecy by the most frightful oaths.
" In thatof mas er, it relates to the allegorical history of
Adoniram, who is to be avenged ; and of the word which
is to be recove :•11.
" In the degree of elect, it trains the adepts to vengeance,
without pointing out the p rson on whom it is to faiJ. It
earries them back·to the time · f the patriarchs, when, ac-
cording to them, men knew no religion but that of nahfre,
and when every body was equal:y priest and pootdt: But
it had not as yet declared, that all religion revealed since
the time of the patriarchs was to be thrown aside.
" This last mystery is only developed in the Scotch de-
grees. There the brethren are declared free ; the word so
long sought for is Deism ; •t is the worship of Jehovah;
such as was known to the philosophers of nature. The
true Mason becomes the Pontiff of Jehovah, and such is
the grand mystery by which he is extricated from that dark-
ne~s in which the profane are in'Volved.
" In the degree of Rosre Crucis, he who wrested the word,
who destroyed the worship of Jehovah, is Christ himself,
the author of Christianity ; and it is on the. gospel and on
the Son of Man that the adept is to avenge the brethren,
the Pontiffs of Jehovah.
" At length, on his reception as Kadosch, he learns that
the assassin of Adoniram is the king, who is to be killed to
avenge the grand master Molay, and the order of the Ma-
sons, successors to the Knights Templars. The religion
.. I
< o,9,tizedbyGoogle ~
OF FREE MASON'R'i. 300
which is to be destroyed to recover the word, or the true
doctrine, is the religion of Christ, founded on revelation.
This word, in itS full extent, ·is liberty and equality, to be
established by the total ·overthrow of the altar and the
throne.
" Such are the incipient degrees, the process, and the
whole system of Masonry ; it is thus thJi the sect, by its
gradual explanation of its two-fold principle of liberty and
equality, of its allegory of the founder of Masonry to be
revenged, of the word to be recovered, leading the adepts
from secret to secret, at length initiates them into the whole
Jacobinical code of the revolution.
" We are not to lose sight of the extreme care with
which the adept is questioned on all that he has seen be-
fore, whenever he is initiated to a new degree, lest he should
overlook the intimate·connexion subsisting between each ;
and thus, in the first degrees, liberty and equality are given
to him as ·the secret, while the complete explanation and
application or them form the mysteries of the last.
" The more frightful these hidden mysteries of the lodges
shall appear to the historian, the more strenuously it be·
comes his duty to insist on the numbers of honest Masons,
who never partook of these horrid mysteries: Nothing is
more easy than to be duped in Masonry. Such may have
been the lot of those who only seek to make acquaintance
in the lodges, or to pass their leisure hours with men appa-
rently intimate at first sight. It is true, that this intimacy
seldom extends beyond the wa11s of the lodge ; but the
days of their meeting are often days of festivity. These
repasts are certainly heightened by the temporary equality,
which adds much to the mirth of the. meeting; and all
cares subside for ·he day.
" What has been said or certain assemblies ·where de-
cency was not respected, is most certainly the invention of
calumny. The extreme order and morality of these meet-
ings, has often proved a snare to captivate those who are
to be caught with outward appearances; and Cagliostro's
o191tized by Coogle
310 ABBE BAII.I\UEL's VIEWS
infamous behaviour would have made many desert the
1~. This monstrous Adonis disgusted all Strasburg,
and was betrayed by the cries of the Egyptian sisters. It
was no longer the age when the mysteries of the Adamites
could be approved of. He was driven from that town for
having attempted to introduce them. He would, in like
manner, have ruined the craft, had he continued to cQn·
found his lodges with those of the east. Such wa8 not the
behaviour of our modem Masonry. On the C<~ntrary, it
appeared, that it had neither religion nor government in
view ; and they were seldom mentioned in the generality of
lodges. It was only on the day of initiation, that the re-
Secting adept could surmise that it had any future object ;
but ev.en on those very days, the trials were rather a subjeCt
of diversion than of reflection ; and so far fro~meditating
on the allegorical emLlems, they were rather diverted from
it by the sect, until favourable dispositions had been disco-
vered in them for their farther initiation. The sect well
knew, that a day would come, when a small number of the
Occult Masons would suffice to put all the inferior multi-
tude of adepts in motion. It is thus that it may be easily
explained, how there have existed so many honest Masona,
and how so many are still to be found, who have never
surmised any thing in their games, but the mysteries of an
innocent liberty and equality, no ways alluding either tore-
ligion or to the state.
"In defence of English Masonry, we may add, that they
allow only of the three first degrees. Prudence and wis-
dom have made them reject_
the wish of avenging the death
of Adoniram on his pretended assassin, a wish that we
have seen converted in the occult lodges into a desire of re-
venging the Masons, and their founder, Molay, and then
into a wish of avenging the masonic liberty and equality by
the extinction of all kings. Nothing of this is to be found
in the English Masonry. Nor is that mysterious pursuit of
the 10ord which was lost by Adoniram, to be traced. You
are immediately informed that it is Jehovah. [Vide p. 160.
o191tized by Coogle
O.r FREE MASONRY, 311
of this volume.] He Viho could wish to draw certain infe-
rences fr~m this, would have a long course of re.asoning to
run through, none of which appear to have ever been
thought of by the English Masons. With them, Jehooal& is
no more than the universal God of human nature ; it is, to
be sure, rather extraordinary, that they should pretend to be
the only people who have any knowledge of that God ; but
their cOnclusion is, that all mankind, and particularly the
Free Masons, ought to live with, and succour each other,
like brethren. Nothing appears in their mysteries tenc~ing
towards the hatred of Christianity, or that of kings.
" Their laws and institutes, with respect to religion, are
comprehended in declaring, ' That ·a Mason will never be
a stupid Atheist, nor an irreligious libertine. That though,
in former times every Mason was obliged to profess the re-
ligion of the state or nation he lived in, at present, leaving
every one to enjoy his own private opinions, they. are only
bound to follow the religion in which every body agrees ; a
religion which consists in being good, sincere, modest, and
men of h<•nour.' Certainly such laws do not oblige the
English Mason to be a Deist, but only to be an honest man,
whatever may be his religion.
" With regard to the civil powers, a part of their laws
are expressed as follows : 'A Mason shall be a peaceable
subject, and cheerfully conform to the laws of the country
in which he resides. He shall not be concerned in plots or
conspiracies against government ; and he shall pay proper
respect to the civil magistrate. Should a brother be impli-
cated in rebel1ion against the state, he sh~ll not be support-
ed in his rebeUion.' Such are the laws to be found in Tho-
mas Wolson and William Preston, the one full of eon-
tempt, the other full of zeal for English Masonry ; both,
nevertheless, agree as to the laws of the lodges. We are
not, therefore, to confound English Masonry with the oc-
cult lodges, which they have prudently rejected.
" We perfectly well know, that mBDy English are initiated
in the_
occult mysteries of the Rosicrucians and Scotch de-
o191tized by Coogle
'I
'
312 ABBE BAIUlUEL'S VIEWS
grees; but it is not their occult 1cience which constitutes
them English Masons ; for the first three degrees are all
that are acknowledged in England." [Vide p.l60.]
This is the view the Abbe Barruel takes of the occult
lodges of French Free Masonry. To our ears his language
is occasionally severe ; but then we forget that he lived in
the darkest scenes created, not merely by the irreligious
principles of Brother Frederic, Brother Voltaire, and Bro-
ther Robinet ! but by the active labours ofBrother Oileans
and Egalite, Brother Condorcet, and Brother Mirabeau II*
The lodges were the schoolrooms, these were the teach-
ers, and600,000 men of France were the pupils. It is as-
tonishing to what extent they carried the use of Free Ma-
sonry. Paris alone contained 150lodges. Good men and
bad met there to prosecute the schemes of revolutionary
reform. The result showed what principles predominated
in the schools of the political reformers ; and the Abbe,
who observed the working of the elements, who laboured
to avert the threatened destruction, and who, finally, saw
every Christian altar in France demolished ; the throne
overturned ; and was himself banishedby the factions which
had lJlUtually torn each other, and deluged Paris with blood
-maybe pardoned for the indignation he expresses against
those nocturnal fraternities, in which all this evil was
hatched.
" We live in free America, and not in despotic France.
We live under a constitution securing liberty of conscience,
and not under the terrors of Papacy. Shall we fear. the
machinations of·corrupt politicians? the doctrines of'im-
piety 1 the schemes of selfish reformers 1" No, reader;
.• " On ! On ! my dear brethren, P.
UJ'IIIIo your great lecture,
" And refine on the rules of old Architecture ;
u High honour to Maeo1111, the craft daily hrings,
" To th010 Brotherw of priuees,and Fellows of kings."
Boolc of Com. ed.l792, p. !44.
XC iC
o,9,tize>JbyGoogle ~
OF FREE IIASON&Y. 313
'
for one, 1 say no. We desire to fear God. But there are.
some it is prudent to watch against. And whom more
than one already found very treacher~sf Whom more
than onethat works by night 1 Whom more than one that
professes to be light, and dwells in concealment with a
deadly weapon, and a more fearful oath, to guard the ap·
proach to herdark lodge 1
I am not aiiaid for Christianity ; not for the free inltitutions
of my country ; not for the integrity and purity of brother
Masons. The cause of religion will continue to advance;
the cause of liberty is in a state ofprosperity ; and the intel·
ligence .and morality of this people, and of the world, iS'
daily improving.
And what is Free Masonry, that we should fear it1 A
swelling bubble. Professor Robison was well acquainted
with it; hear him. And do not be surprised, if, under his
hands, it appears more justly contemptible than it has yet
done.
40
o191tized by Coogle
314 PROFESSOR ROBISON'S VI£\~S
CHAPTER XLVII.
ContaitUitg General Views ofFree Masonry, and ofFrench
Masonry.
INTRODUCTION to" Proofs of a Conspiracy against all theRe·
Jigions and Governments of Europe, carried on in the se·
cret meetings of Free Masons, Illuminati, and Reading
Societies ; collected from good authorities, by John
Robison, A. M. Professor of Natural History, and Secre·
tary to the Royal Soeiety of Edinburgh. [New·York,
A. D. 1798.]
" IN my early life I had taken some part in the occt~pa·
tion1 (shall I call them) of Free Masonry; and having
chiefly freq!Jented the lodges on the continent, I had learn·
ed many doctrines, and seen many ceremonials, which have
no place in the simple system of Free Masonry, which ob·
tains in this country. I had also remarked, that the whole
was much more the object of reflection and thought, than
I could remember it. to hnve been among my acquaintances
at home. There I had seen a Mason Lodge considered
merely as a pretext for passing an hour or two in a sort of
decent conviviality, not altogether void of some -rational
occupation. I had sometimes heard of differences of doc-
trines or of ceremonies, but in terms which marked them
as mere frivolities. But, on the continent, I found them
matters of serious concern and debate. Such, too, is the
contagion of example, that I could not liinder myself from
thinking one opinion better founded, or one ritual more ap-
posite and significant, than another ; and I even felt some·
thing like an anxiety for its being adopted, and a zeal for
making it a general practice. I had been initiated in a ve-
o191tized by Coogle
l :..z..,.
OF J'RF.E MASONRY. 315
ry splendid lodge at Liege, of which the Prince Bishop, his
Trefonciers, and the chief noblesse of the state, were mem-
bers. I visited the freoch lodges at Valen~iennes, at Brus-
sels, at Aix-la-Chapelle, at Berlin, and Koningsberg ; and I
had picked up some printed discourses delivered by the
brother orators of the lodges. At SL Petersburgh I con-
nected myself with the English lodge, and occasionally vi-
sited the German and Russian lodges held there. I founrl
myself received with particular respect as a Scotch Mason,
and as an Elev~ of the Lodge de la Parjaite Intelligence
at Liege.• I was importuned by persons of the first rank to
pursue my masonic careerJ.hrough many degrees unknown
in this country. But all the splendour and elegance that I
saw, could not conceal a frivolity in every part. · It appear-
ed a liaseless fabric, and I could not think of engaging in
.an occupation which would consume much time, cost me
a good deai of money, and perhaps excite in me some of
that funaticism" or, at least, enthusiasm, that I saw in
others, and perceived to be void of any rational support. I
*In 17'74, Profe~~~Qr Robison was invited by the magistrates of EdiQ·
burgh to the Profe•orabip of Natural Philosophy, in the University of
Edinburgh. In 1786, he was elected a member of the Phil0110phical So·
ciety in Philadelphia, over which Mr. Jefferson long presided. In 1797, he
was elected a member of the Royal Society of Manchester. In 1799, the
.University of Glasgow, where ho l1ad receind his education, conferred on
him the honorary degree of Doctor of Law11. In 1800, he was unanimona-
ly elected a foreign member (of which they admit bu,t six) of the Imperial
Academy of Sciencea at St. Petersburg, Russia.
"His charaoter in private lifo," says one writing irom Edinburgh, "is so
well established among thoee who know him be~~t, that it would be ridicu-
lou.,here, to call in queetion hu ~~Uacily or abililiu."-E. Smith.
Hiswork,tinlt published in the autumn of 1797, producod a powerful
effect in Britain,and was a principal caUBe of the act of Parliament of1799,
.which to~ped the light of Masonry in Great Britain. '
Few intelligent rentlemon have had the intercourse with the lod(ea of
the v&rioue capitals of Europe, which hu fallen to the lot of ProfeBSOr Ro-
biROn. His Muooiy was his letter of introduction ; and he honoured it.
Shall notsuch a man ltnow ita worth'
Digitized by Goog e
..
;}16 PROFESSOR RODISON"s YIEWS
therefOre remained in the English lodge, contented with
the rank of Scotch Master, which was in a manner forced
on me in a private lodge of French Masons, but is not
given in the English lodge. ·My masonic rank admitted
~e to a very elegant entertainment in the female Loge de
la Fidelite," where every ceremonial was composed in the
highest degree of elegance, and every thing conducted
with the most delicate respect for our fair sisters,.and the
old song of brotherly love was chanted in the most refined
strain of sentiment. I do not suppose that the Parisian
Free Masonry of forty-five degrees could give me more
entertainment."
Ten years had elapsed, and the interest of Professor
Robison in Free Masonry had subsided, when the conti·
nental disputes .of the German Masons, their meetings of
delegates, their mystical doctrines, and open charges of
corruption, copiously furnished in the German papers,
aroused, in 1795, his attention to the subject anew.
" My curiosity was now greatly excited. l got, from a
much respected friend, many Qf the preceding volumes of
I
*"The ladies claim right to come into our light,
" Since tho apron, they say,.is tbdr bearing."
Book of Ctm~. p. 258.
Brethren may start at the mention of a female lodge: we sba11 hear
more of them m~e sequel.
Smith, in his treatise upon Free Masonry, is ardent for the extension of
lnuonic privileges to females : so are others of that period, A. D. 1784.
The ct!lebratcd Dr. Dodd, who was encuted at Tyburn, 1777, for forgery,
had this matter m•1ch at heart.
Whether this has been accomplished in England, is doubtful : bot on the
continent it iR no longer a problem, whether a woman can be a Muon.
l>r.'Dalcho, the Sovereign lnspector General, in a note (p. 29.) to his ora-
tion," !3d Sept. 5801," eaye: "Although in the symbolic lodge, no woman
uladmitted into 0. knowledge of their mysteries,yet in the snperior degrees,
there is a female lodge, handsomely calculated to interest Ute dcliCilcy of a
female mind. In this lodge none but fcmnlea arc admitted, o.nd theit ofli.-
cers are s~lectcd from among themsolves."
•
OF FRl:E MASOXR\'. 317
the Religions Begebenheiten,in hopes of much information
from the patient industry ofGerman erudition. This open-
ed a new and very interesting scene ; I was frequently sent
back to England, from whence, all agreed, that Free Ma-
sonry had been imported into Germany.*" I was frequeDt-
Jy led into France, and into Italy. There, and more re-
markably in France, I found that the lodges had become
the haunts .of many projectors and fanatics, both in sci-
ence, in religion, and in politics, who had availed them-
selves of the secrecy, and tlte freedom of speech maintained
in these meetings, to broach their particular whims, or sus-
picious doctrines, which, if published to the world in the
usual manner, would have exposed tile authors to ridicule,
or to censure. . These projectors had contrived to tag their
peculiar nostrums to the mummery of. Masonry, and were
even allowed to twist the masonic emblems and ceremonies
to their purpose ; so that, in their hands, Free Masonry be-
came a thing totally unlike, and almost in direct opposi-
tion to the system (if it may get such a name) imported
from England; and some lodges had become schools of
irreligion and licentiousness."
Having spoken of the complaisance of the French, and
their ambition to govern the fashions, and to control the
opinions of Europe, he adds :
" I know no subject in which this aim at universal influ-
ence on the opinions of men, by holding themselves forth
* " It is to be particularly remarked, that all our brethren abroad pro-
feas to have received the mystery of Free Masonry from Britain. 1'l1is is
surely a puzzle in the history; and we muat leave it to others to reconcile
this with the repeated assertions in Anderson's Book of Constitutions,
" That the fraternity existed all over the world;" and the numberless ex-
amples whie~ he adduces of il.ll exertions in other countries; nay, with his
repeated assertion~ that it frcqucutly was near f>orishing in Britain, and
that our princes were obliged to send to Franco, and other countries, for
leading men, to restore it to it.t former energy :Lmong u~. We shall find by
and by that this is not a point of mere historical cnrio~ity, but Jhat much
hinges on it.,.-Robi1on, p. 26.
•
Digitized by Google
•
•
318 PROFESSOR. ROBISON'S VIEWS
as the modds of excellence and elegance, is more clearly
seen, than in the care that they have been pleased to take
of Free Masonry. It seems, indeed, peculiarly suited to
the talents and taste of that vain and ardent people. Base-
less and frivolous, it admits of every form that Gallic refine-
ment can invent to recommend it to the yoting, the gay,
the luxurious ; that class of society which alone deserves
their care, because, in one way or another, it leads all other
classes of society.·
" It has accordingly happened, that the homely Free Ma-
sonry imported from England has been totally changed in
every country of Europe, either by the imposing ascendan-
cy of French brethren, who are to be found every where
ready to instruct the world, or by the importation of the
doctrines, and ceremonies, and ornaments of the Parisian
lodges. Even England, the birth-place of Masonry,• has
experienced the French innovations ; and all the repeated
injunctions, admonitions and reproof~ of the lodges, can·
not prevent those in different parts of the kingdom from
admitting the French novelties, full of tinsel, and glitter,
and high sounding titles.t
Were this all, the harm would not be great. But, long
before good opportunities had occurred for spreading the
refinements on the simple Free Masonry of England, the
lodges in France had become places of very serious dis-
cussion, where opinions in morals, in religion, and in poli-
tics, had been promulgated and maintained with a freedom
and a keenness of which we in this favoured land have no
a~equate notion, because we are unacquainted with the rc-
.,-··
~ The proof of this is no leu sa.tiafactory than surprising. It i1 wonder-
ful how men are duped with the pretended origin and antiquity of'Muon-
ry. Fru:n the creation! And framed by Solomon !-There was never any
thing so absurd. But men declare it boldly, and are 1'&0\ eon\radieted; the
Kimple, yea, and the wise, believe there is &ome \ruth in it.
t Puliament,bowever, have found a way to prevent it, by aetatute with
~mple penaltieP.-Gt~~rge Ill. 1799.
Digitized by Google
0( Fa&B MASONRY 319
straints which, in other countries, are laid on ordinary con·
\ versat.ioo. In consequence-of this, the French innovations
in Free Masonry were quickly followed in all parts of Eu-
rope, by the admission of similar discussions, although in
direct opposition to a standing rule, and a declaration made
to every newly received brother, "that JtOthing toucAing
tke religion or government •hall ever be I]Wien of ia the
lodge."
"But the lodges in other countries followed the example
of France, and have frequently become the rendezvous of
innovaton in religion and politics, and other disturben of
the public peace. In short, I have found that the covert of
a Mason lodge had been employed in every country for
venting anc:l propagating sentiments in religion. and politics,
that could not have circulated in public without e~posing
the author to great danger. I foWld that this impunity·had
gradually encouraged men of licentious principles to be-
come more bold, and to teach doctrines subversive of all
our notions of morality-of all our confidenc,e in the mo-
ral government of the universe-of all our hopes of im-
provement in a future state _
of existence-and of all satis-
faction and contentment with our present life, so long as
we live in a state of civil subordination. I have been
able to trace these attempts, made through a course of
fifty years, under· the specious pretext of enlightening the
world by the torch of philosophy, and of dispelling .the
clouds of civil and religious superstition, which keep the
nations of Europe in darkness and slavery. (p. 14.)
"It was in the lodges held at St. Germain's that the de-
gree of Chevalier Ma"'on Ecossais was-added to the three
SYIIBOLIPAL degrees of English Masonry. The constitu-.
'tion, as imported, appeared too coarse for the refined taste
of our neighbours, and they must make Masonry more like
the occupation of a gentleman. Therefore, the English
degrees of apprentice, fellow-craft, and master, were called
symbolical, and the whole fraternity was considered, either
as typical of something more elegant, or as a preparation
D1g1tized by Google
PROFESt~OR ROBISON's V!EWS
for it. The degrees afterwards superadded to this, leave us
in doubt which of these views the French entertain of o\lr
Masonry. But at all events this rank of Scotch Knight
was called thefirst degree of the Ma9on Parfait.
"In 1716, this, and still higher degrees of Masonry, were
much in vogue in the Court of France. The refining ge-
nius of the French, and their love of show, made the hum-
ble denomination of the English brethren disgusting; and
their passion for military rank, the only character that con-
nected them with the court of an absolute monarch, made
them adapt Free Masonry to the same scale of public esti-
mation, and invent ranks of Ma9ons Chevaliers, 'ornament-
ed with titles, and ribbons, and stars. These were highly
relished by that vain people ; and the price of reception,
which was very high, became a rich fund, that was gene-
rously applied to relieve the wants of the banished British
and Irish adherents of the unfortunate family who had ta-
ken refuge among them. [The Stuarts, who carried Ma-
sonry to France, as Mr. Robison supposes.] Three new
degrees of Nooice, Eleve, and Clurealier, were soon added,
and the Parfait Ma9on had now seven receptions to go
through, for each of which a handsome contribution was '
made. Afterwards, when the first beneficent purpose of
this contribution ceased to exist, the finery that now glitter-
ed in all the lodges made a still more craving demand for
reception money, and ingenuity was set to work to invent
new baits for the Parfait Ma9on. More degrees of chi-
valry were added, interspersed with degrees of Philosophe,
Pellerin, Clairvoyant, &c. &c.- till some Parisian lodges
had forty-five ranks of Masonry, having fifteen orders of
chivalry.-lF For a -knighthood, with a ribbon and a star,
was a bonne bouclte, given at every third step~ (p. 29.)
* We are running the qme race in this country. In _
1730, 'free Ma·
sonry was first introduced among us. Noauthority wu then exercised by
any body of 1\lasons above a !\Iuter's Lodge and the Grand Lodge. In
Digitized by Google
UF FREE MASONRL 3:21
~ Thusaccustomed to allegory, to fiction, to finesse, and
to a sort of innocent hypocrisy, by which they cajoled them-
selves into a notion that thi!l child's play had at bottom a
serious and important meaning,· the zealous champions of
Free Masomj found no inclination to check this inventive
.spirit, or circumscribe its flights. There can be no doubt,
that in those hidden assemblies, a, free communication of
sentiment was highly relished, and much indulged, while
the lodges became schools of scepticism ·and infideli~'.
(p. 30.).
" But-it is not a matter of mere probability, thatthe Ma-
son lOdges were the seminaries of libertine instructions.
We have distinct proof of it, even in some ofthe French
degrees. In the degree eaJled the Clrevolier dtl .Soliel;~t- the
whole instruction is aimed against the established religion
of the kingdom. The professed object is the emancipation
from error, and the discovery of truth. The inscriptioniu
the east'is Wudom,that in the north iS Liberty, that in the
1797, the first Grand Chapter was organized; by which sc,·cra.l objects
were attained:
1. Initiation·fees from the noviciates.
2. Prodigiollll high ollicea and sonoro011 titles for the aetiv.e !Jll!mbors
of the new eatabliahment. .
3. Arid an opportunity for lhe wealthy' and an1bitious to step over. tho
heads of the herd of master Masons, and to have a more honourable place,
and a more splendid equipage, on all public occasions.
There were one hundred Chapters ia the state .of New-York alone in
1325. A. D.l797, the first Grand Encampment of Knights Templan: of
Nortb America, was constituted at Philadelphia. Now we ·have many
Grand Encampments, and a Ge1kral Grand Eucnmpment. .
Within the last t'ew years a new Masonic Princedom bas been received
among us. Its name ia Couneil, and, coni$i'c!eri,n&' the friv~J!ity flf.Masonry,
its lpJ;le&d has been like madai!SS. The number of Councila is already
great.
Besides this, wo ha.ve divers new degrees; late inventions. ] hoar them
ca.lled " Beautiful." If gentlemen will be pleased with 'such things, thn
more is the pity.
*!Slh of I>alcho.
41
Digitized by GoogIe
..
)
r
1'1\0F.USOR 8.08180~'8 VIEWS
south is Comtan&y, and in the west is Caution; terms which
are. very significant. The Tres Venerable is. Adam; the
senior warden is TMJth, and all the brethren are cbildren of
'rruth. The procesa of reception is very well contrived :
the whole ritual is decent aJMI ~ircll1D8p00t, and nothing oc-
curs which can alarm the most timid. · Brother Truth is
asked, What is the hour t He informs Father Adam,
that among men it is .the hour of darkness, but tbat it is
mid-day-in the lodge. The candidate is uked, Why he
hli.S knocked at the door, and what is become of the eight
· companions. (He is one of the Elm.) He says, that the
world is in .darkoess, and his coJnpanions and he have lost
each other; that Hesperm, the star of Europe, is obscured
by clouds of incense, offered up by superstition to despots,
who have made themselves gods, and have retired into the
inmost recesses of their palaces, that they may not be re·
cogniBed to be men, while their priests are deceiving the
peopJe, and caUsing them to worship these divinities.
•' This shape given to the plastic:< mysteries of Masonry,
was much relished, and in a very short time this new path
was completely explored, and a new series of degrees was
added to the list, viz. the Novice, and Elect of the Tnah,
and the Sublime Philosopller. In the progr6118through these
degrees, the brethren mustforget that they have formerly
been Chevaliers de l'Orient~ Chet)alien del'Aigle, when ·
the symbols were all explained as typical of the life
and immortality brought to light by.the gospel. Ind~,
they are taught to class this among the other clouds.which
have been dispelled by the sun of reason~ Even in the
Chevalerie de l'Aigle, there is a two-fold explanation given
of the symbols, by which a lively imagination may conceil•e
the whole history, and peculiar doctrines of the New Tea··
.lament, as being typical of the final triumph of reason and
philosophy over error. And perhaps this degree is the very
first step in the p}IU} of lLLUJ(lNATION.
"We are not to suppose that this was carried to extremity
at once. But it is certain, that before 1743, it had become
TEE
GF FREE MASONRY.
universal, and that the lodges of Free Masonry had be-
come the placee,'for making proselytes to every strange,oi>
nosious doctrine, Thittlr~, ColfiWgony, Cabala, and many
wbimaical.and mystical doctrines, which have been grafted
on the distinguishing tenets, and the pure morality of the
Jews and Christians, were snbjeets of frequent discussion
in the lodges. .
" These facts and observations fully aceoubt for the zeal
with which aU·this patch-work addition to 1he simple Free
Masonry of England ·was prosecuted in France. Itsui-
priea us Britons,wlao ~ accwtmaed ro consider the wlwle
tu a malter of tJJmUewtmtfor tu yOURg mer•,who areglad of
atty pretext for indulging in contJiviality. We generally
conmer a man, advaced in life, with lus re~peet, if l•e
•how•any serioulattachmentto 8uch tAings. But, in France,
the civil and religioos restraint on conversation, made these
secret at~~emblies very precious ; and they were much fre-
quented by men of letters, who there found an opportunity
of expressing in safety their dissatisfaction with ·those re-
straints, and with that inferiority of rank and condition to
which they wer~ subjected, and which appeared to. them-
selves 10 inadequate to their own talents and merits.
" The AtlOCals de Parlement, the young rnen of no for-
tune~ the unbeneficed Abbes, and the soi-di.sant p~iloso·
phers, formed a numerous hand, frequented the lodges, and
there discuesed every topic of religion and politics. Spe-
cimens of this occupation appeared; from time to time, in
Collections of Discourses delivered by the brother orator.
I once liad in my posses8ion two volumes of these dis-
courses, whieb I now regret that I left in a lodge on the
continent, when my relish for Free Masonry had forsaken
me. One of these is a discourse by Brother Robinet, de-
livered in the L9getJuc
C!aevaliers Bienfailan.ts dela Sainte
Cite at Lyons, at a visitation by the Grand Master the Dut;
de Chartres, afterwards Orleans, and $galite, In this ·
discourse we have the germ and su~tance of his noted
work, the Systeme de la NnturP., ou l'Homme moral et phy-
o191tized by Coogle
t·aon:s,oa ROBJSOX'-" vn:ws
sique. . In another discourse delivered by Brother Condor·
cet in the Loge des Philalet/u>s, at Strasburg, we have the
outlines of his posthumous work, Le Progru de rE6prit
humain·: and in another, delivered. by Mirabeau, in the
Loge de• ChecaJierg Bienfaisant• at Paris, we have a great
deal of the levelling principles, and COtJmopolitism,• whicli
he thundered from the tribunes of the National Assembly.
But the·mOst remarkable performances of this kind are, the
Archive• MysticO*Hermetiques, and the Du Erreur1, et de
la Verite. The first is eonsidered as an account historical
and dogmaticai, of the procedure and system of the Loge
de• CkevaJier11 Bienfaill~a at Lyons. .This was the most
zealous and systematica~ of all·the cosmopoJiticallodges in
France. It worked long under the patronage of its Grand
!\faster the Due de Chartres, afterwards Orlean~, and at
last, Ph. Egalite. It sent out many affiliated lodges, which
were erected in various ports of the French dominions.
The daughter lodges at Paris, Strasbourg, Litle, Thoulouse,
took the additionaltitle of P!tilalethes. There arose some
schisms, as may be expected, iri ao,association where every
man is encouraged to broach, and to propagate, any the
most singular opinion. These schisms were continued
with some heat, but we~e, in a great measure, repaired in
lodges which took the name of Amis reunis de Ia Verite.
One of this denomination at Paris became very eminent.
The mother lodge at Lyons extended its correspondence
into Germany, and other foreign countries, and sent consti·
tutions or systems by which the lodges conducted the'ir ope-
rations. ·
" The book Des Errcurs et de Ia Verite must, therefore,
be considered as a classical book of these opinions. We
know that it originated in the Loge des Chev. Bienfaisants
at Lyons. We know that this lodge stood, as it were, at
"' Citiunship of the world, from the Grf'ck words f:omros, world, and
Poli•, a city.
o191tized by Coogle
the head of Frenclt Free Masonry, and tllat t/,efictitious
order of ~Masonic Kuiglas Templars was formed in t/WJ
lodge, mul was cousida·ed as tkt! nwdel of all the rest of
this mimic chiwlry."' They proceeded so far in this mum-
mery, as even to have the clerical tonsures. . The .duke of ·
Orleans, his son1 the elector of Bavaria, and some other
German princes, did not scruple at this mummery in their
own persons. In all .the lodges of reception, the brother
orator ne~er failed to deelaim on the topic of superstition,
blind to the exhibition he was then making, or indifferent
as to the vile. hypocrisy of it. We have, in the li~ts of ora-
tors and office-bearers, many names of persons, who have
had an opportunity at last of procl~iming their sentiments
in public. 'fhe Abbe Sieyes was of the lodge of fhilale-
thes :at Paris, and also at Lyons. Lequinio, author of the
most profligate book that ever disgraced a press, the Pre-
juges vaincus par la Raison, wus warden in the lodge
Compacte Sociale. Desprcmenil, Bailly, Fauchet, Maury,
Mounier, were of the same system, though in different
lodges. They were called Martinists, from a St. Martin
who founded a schism in the system of the Chevalia-s Bien-
fmsants, of which we have not _
any very precise account.
Mercier gives some account of it in his Tableau de Paris,
and in his Annee, 1888. The breach alarmed the brethren,
and occasioned great heats. But it was healed; and the
fraternity took the name of JJ-liaa du Renis, which is anana·
gram of des Amis Reunis. The bishop of Autun, Abbe
Perigord, the man so beprnised as the benevolent citizen of
the world, the friend of mankin~ and of good order, was
senior warden ofanother lodge at Pari.s, established in 1786,
* Tbis is the favourite order of kniglrthood with American Muons;
and ita ritual; as published in 1821, claims for it •n origin in Jerusalem,
A. D. 1118; and the order of the Red CI'Ol!l, in the court of Darius, du-
ring the Babylonish captivity !-1mtplar'• Chart, pp. 9 and 28. When
will this contempt of truth and of common eensc receive proper chasti•e-
.ment~ '
o191tized by Coogle
PROFESSOR ROBISON':i \.JEWS
(I think chiefly by Orleans and himself,) which afterwards
~me the Jacobin club. In short,.we may assert with
confidence, that the Mason lodges in France were the hot-
beds, where the seeds were sown and tenderly rear~, of
all the pemiciQus doctrines which soon after choked every
moral and religious cultive.tion, and have ma«<e the eociety
worse than a waste ; have made it a noisome marsh of hu-
man corruption, filled with every rank and poisonous weed.
"These lodges ·were frequented Ly persons of all ranks,
and of every profession. The,idle and the frivolous found
amusement, and glittering things to ti.ckle their satiated fan.
ci~. ·There they became the dupes of the declamations
of the crafty and licentious Abbes, and writers.of every de-
nomination. Mutual encoW"agement in the indulgence of
hazardous thoughts, and opinions which flatter our wishes
or propensities, is a lure which few minds can resist. I be·
Jieve that most men have felt this in some period of their
Jives. . I can find no other way for accounting for.the com-
pany tpat I have seen in a Mason lodge. The lodge de 1a
Parfaite Intelligence, at Liege, contained, in December
1770, the prince bishop and the greatest part of his chap-
ter; and all the office-bearen were dignitaries of the
church; yet a discourse given by the brother orator was as
poignant a satire on superstition and credulity, as if it had
been written by Voltaire. It w~ under the auspices of
this lodge~ that the collection of discourses which I men·
tioned above w~ published ; and there is no fault found
with br.other Robinet, nor brother Condorcet." ..
o191tized by Coogle
I
l
I
OF FREE MASONRY.
CHAPTER XLVIII.
·Gft;ing some account·of Germoa1JftUonry, and.of the em-
OO.sy in pursuitof the MtUonic secret to tl&_e cm>u of Old
· Aberdeen.
(P. 53.) " BuT it is now tir;ne to t~n Qur eyes to the
progress of Free Masonry in Oermanr, and the north of
Europe; there it took a more serious tum. Free Masonry
was imported into Germany somewhat later than into
France. The first German lodge that we have any account
of, is that at Cologne, erected in 1716; but very soon sup·
pressed. Before the year 17~, there were many, both in
Protestant and Catholic Germ11-ny. . Those of Weular,
Frankfort on the Maine, Brunswick,_and Hamburg, are
the oldest, and their priority is doubtful. AI~ of them re-
ceived their institution from England, and had patents from
the mother lodge in London. All seem to have got the
mystery through the same channel, the banished f;iends of
the Stuart family. Many of these were Catholics, and en-
tered into the service of Austria and the Cathe>lic princes.
" The true hospitality, that is no where more co.nspicuous
than in the character of the Germans, made this institution
a most agreeable and useful passport to these gentlemen ;
an.d as many ofthem were in military stations, and in garri-
son, they found it a very easy matter to ~et up lodges in
all parts of Germany. These afforded a very agreeable
pastime to the officers, who had little to occupy them, and
were already accustomed to a subordination which did not
affect their vanity on account of family distinctions. As
o191tized by Coogle
3~ PROFESSOR ROBISON'S VIEWS
the ensign 8Jld the general were equally gentlemen, the
allegory, or play of universal brotherhood, was neither no-
vel nor disgusting. Free Masonry was then of the simplest
form, consisting of the three degrees of apprentice, fellow
craft, and master. It is remarkable, that the Germ&Jls had
been long accustomed to the word, the sign, and the grip
of the Masons, and some otlter handicraft trades. .In many
parts of Germany there was a: distinction of operative Ma-
sons into Wort Maurers and Schrift Maurers. [Word
Masons, and Writ MasoRS.] The Wort Maurers had no
other proof to giv~ of their having been regularly brought
up to the trade of builders Lut by the word and signs ;·.tbe
Schrift Maurers had written indentures to show. ·
" There are extant, and in force, borough laws, enjoining
the masters of Masons to give employment to journeymen
who had the proper word and signs. In particular, it ap·
pears, that some cities had more extensive privileges in this
respect than others. The word given at Wetzlar, the seat
o( the great council of revision for the empire, entitled the
posse!jsor to work over the whole empire. We may infer,
from the processes and decisions in some of those munici-
pal courts, that a master gave a word. and token for each
year's progress ofhis ·apprentice. .He gave the word of
the incorporated imperial city or borough on which be de-
pended, and also a word peculiar to himself, by which all
his own pupils would recognise each other.
" Tlus mode ofrecogniza~ce was probably the only docu-
ment of education in old times, while writing was confined
to a very small part of the community."
(P. 56:) "The Germans have always exhibited a strong
hankering after every thing that is wonderful, or solemn, or
terrible; have a]ways furnished partisans in the foremost
ranks of gross absurditi~s, listening with greedy ears to
the. nonsense and jargon of fanatics and cheats ; and
though they every day sec examples of many ruined, or
rendt~red ridiculous by their credulity, new pretenders to
\ o191tized by Coogle
.Or la&& IIASON&Y. 329
eec~tl find numbers ready to listento them, and to run ov.er
the aame copne.
" Free Masonry, profealing mysteries, instantly rouaed
these ~le, ad tAe ~ ~ co 1M Gdvetaturen
wlao ~ to pro}' by tAe entluuiana, or 1M ~ of
t1teir duper, tAe jUut placu ill tAe tDorld for tAe tame of
dleir operabolu. The Roeicrucians were the first who
availed tbeiDielvee of the opportunity. This waa noL the
society which had appeared formerly under that name,and
wu now extinct ; but a. set of Alchymists, pretenders to
the transmutation of metaJa and the universal medicine,
who, the better to inveigle their vo~es, had mixed with
their o1m tricks, a good deal of the absurd superstitions of
that sect, in order to give a greater air of mystery to the
whole, to. protract the time of instruction, and to atford
more room fw evuions, ·by malPng SQ many difficult con-
diaiODJ neceuary for perfecting the grand work, that ·the
unfortunate gull, who had thrown away his time and his
money, might believe that.the failure wu owi.J)g to~ own
iocapacity or unfitness for being the posseuor of the grand
lrecret." .
· (P. M) "The GermaD Muons, ho.wever, did one sensible
thing ; they sent a deputation to _()Jd Aberdeen, Scotland,
to inquire tier the caves where their venerable mysteriee
were known~ and their treasures were hid. They had, as
they thought, merited some confidence, for they had remit-
ted annual contributions to their unknown superiors, to the
amount of some thousanc:ls ofrix doUars. But, alas I their
ambaaadon found the Free Masone of Old AIMudeen ig-
norant of all this, and equally eager to learn from the am-
bas88don tDMt tDal tAe lrW origira and meanUig of Free
MCIIoary, of wAicT& tMy ineto notAing but tlte limple tale.of
old Hart~&"
(P. 58.) 'Hn 1756,or 1757, a ~mplete r~volution took
place. The French officers, who were prisoners at large
in Bedia, UDdertook, with the usurance peculiar to their
nation, eo inltruct the timple Germans in every thing that
42
o191tized by Coogle
PROJ'ESSOR ROBISON'S VIEWS
embellishes society. They said, that the homespun J.t'ree
Masonry, which had been imported from England, was fit
only for the unpolished minds of the British ; but that in
France it had grown into an elegant system, fit fo! the pro·
fession of gentlemen. Nay, they said, that the E-ngluh
were ignorant of true Masonry, and po11essed nothing but
the introduction to it; and even tku was not understood bg
them. When the ribbons and stars, with which the French
had ornamented the order, were shown to the Germans,
they could not ·resist the enchantment. A Mr. Rosa, a
French commissary, brought from Paris a complete wa·
gon-load of Masonic ornaments, which were all distributed
before it had reached Berlin, and he was obliged to order
another, to furnish the lodges of that city. ' It became for a
while a most profitable business to many French officen
and commissaries dispersed over Germaay, having nothing
elsct to do. Every body gaped for instruction, and these
kind teachers were always ready to bestow it. In half a
year Free Masonry underwent a complete revolu~ion aU
over Germany, and Chevaliers (Knights) multiplied without
numbe.r. The Rosaic system was a gospel to the Masons,
and the poor British system was despised. But the new
lodges of Berlin, as they had been the teachers.of the
whole empire, wanted also to be the governors, and insist-
ed on complete subjection from all others. This startled
the Free Milson& at a distance, and awaked them from their
golden dreams. Now began a struggle for dominioa and
for independency. · This made the old lodges think a little
about the whole affair. The result of this was a counter
revolution.
" Tlwugh no man cou14 pretend that he understood the
true meaning of Free Masoory, its origin, iu history, orits
real aim, all saw that the interpretations of their hiero-
glyphics, and the rituals of the new degrees imported from
France, were quite gratuitous. It appeared, therefore, that
the safest thing for them was an appeal to the birth-place
of Masonry. They sent to'London for instruction. There
o191tized by Coogle
OJ' J'Rf!lt II ASONII.\". a:n
they learned, that nothing was acknowledged for genuine
unsophisticated Masonry, but the three degreu ; and that
the mother lodge of London alone could, by her instruc-
tions, prev~nt the moet dangerous schisms and innovations.
M~y lodges, therefore, applied for patents and inatruc•
tioas. Patents were easily made out, and moat willingly
sent to the zealous brethren, and these were thankfully re-
ceived and paid for. But instruction wasnotao easy a mat-
ter. At that time we had nothing but the Book of Conati·
tutiona, dawn up about 1720, by Anderson and Desaguil-
liera, two persona of little education, and of low manners,
who had aimed at little more than malcing a pretext, not
altogetAer cOIItefllptible,for a convivial meeting. This, how-
ever, was received with reapecL We are apt to smile at
grave men's being satisfied with 11nc.h coar&e and scanty
fare. But it was of use merely because it gave an ostensi-
ble reason for resisting the despotism of the lodges of Ber-
lin. Several respectable lodges, particularly that of Frank-
fort on the Maine, that of Wetzlar, and the Royal York
of Berlin, resolutely adhered to the English system, and
deaied theinselves aU the enjoyments of the French de-
grees,·rather than acknowledge the supremacy of the ~o­
saic lodges of Berlin."
Professor Robison is qualified to speak of Free Masonry.
He was a scholar, had taken its higher degrees, had taken
a part in ita lod~·'s in the various eapitala of Europe, en·
jGyed ita· privileges of introduction to a high degree, and
sometimes speaks of it with a weakness acarce pardona-
ble: "innocent hypocrisy;" "~ pretelt for a convivial
meeting not altogether contemptible;" yet how frivolous
and vain he makes it appear I His passing thrusts, " The
~(shall I call them) of Free MfUOR".I ;" "S!JI·
tena of .Free Maaonrg,(if it may get such a name,)" apeak
a contempt of the thing not to be counterfeited or mis-
taken.
Profe8110r Robison neat traces the history of the German
Jod&ea in theiJ: conversion to. be school& of French philoso·
o191tized by Coogle
PROJ'ENO& &OBUIOM'S VJEWS
phy. The particulars are numerous and intereating~ bot
we must come at once to the conclusion.
(P. 75.) "And thus it appears, that Germany hu el:•
perienced the same gradual progress from religion to Athe•
ism,from decency to dissoluteness, and from loyalty to re-
bellion, which hu had its course in France. And I must now
add, that this progress has been effectedin the same manner,
and by the same means ; and that one ~f &he chief means
of seduction has been the lodges of the Free Masons. The
French, along with their numerous orden of knighthood,
and atara, and ribbons, had brought in the custom of ha·
ranguing in the lodges ; and as human nature has a conai•
derable uniformity every where, the same topics became
favourite subjects of declamation that had tickled the ear
in Fnmee: there wen the ~e conuptiona of sentiments
and mannen among the luxurious or pro.ftigate, and the
same incitements to the utterance of these sentiments,
wherever it could be done with safety; and, I may say,
that the zealots in all these tracts of free-thinking, were
more serious, more grave, and fanatical. Theae are not
188ertions a priori. I can produce proo&. There wu a
Baron Knigge, residing at that time in the neighbourhOod
of Frankfort, of whom I shall afterwazds have occasion
frequently to apeak. This man was an enthuaiast in Ma·
sonry from his youth, ana had run through every possible
degree of it. He was dissatisfied with them all, and par·
ticularly with the frivolity of the French chivalry ; but he
still believed that Mt~~~onry contained intJaltuible recret1 ;
(poor man.) He imagined that he saw a glimpse of them
in the cosmo-political and sceptical dileouraea in their
lodges ; he sat down to meditate on these, and soon col-
lected his thoughts, and found that those French oraton
were rightwithout knowing it ; and tluzt Mtaonry wo1p~~n
natwal reltgiort tmtltmiverlal cititttllllaip, tmd tlurt tlaU .,.,
QUO true Chriltianity."
This is tJ.e eame KaigRe who penona&ed Philo in "at
fratemity where Weiahelspt appeared u Spartacus, and
oi9,tized by Coogle
OF J'UJ: IIASON&Y. 333
Zwack 8IIUIDed the name of Cato. He appears to have
been well fiUed by hia FreeM880DI'J for the hjgheetc:lesreet
of IUwninilm.
Ahd eo, indeed, were a multitude of the fraternity ia
Gei1D8Dy in 1776, when Weiahaupt appeared ·as .t1&e foua-
der of a new school of mystical pbiloeophy.
(P. 81.) " The tpirit ofinnovation had seized all the .,..
thren.. No man could give a tolerable account of the o&
gin, history, or object of the order, and it appeUed u a
loet or forptten mystery.
" Tbe symbols teemed to be equally aueceptible of ewery
iaterpretation, and none t>f these aeemed entitled to any
decided prefereoce, This rendered it a fit instrument fbr
the IllUminees, who coinmenced operations at Munich,
in :O.Yaria, iD the ~ TAeodorc of Good Cotmlel. Of
thissect it will be proper to takeeepet:ial notiee." .
CHAPTER XLIX.
"So !lpUe tbe euemy of mankind, enclOIIIIII
...la.SerpeDt, iDMate bad I aJul IowaN Eft
14 .uar-d hill W&J: DOt with iDcl•tlcl W&ft
"Proae oa the puacl, u lliDoe ; but oa bill rear,
" Circular bue of n.iJ1i folds,that towered
• Fold abcm fold, a WJ11n1mue !" ·
Nat., ttb btok.
"WHY ifttroduce the muminati into a treatise upon Free
Muonry 1 'l'o burden !ttuonry with sins not her own!
•
o191tized by Coogle
•
a3<i I'REE MASONRY THE TOOL OF THE lLLUMlN££S,
The IDuminees were a hateful race of demoralizing philo-
soplaers, who sought the en~ abolition of every form of
government, religion, and civil polity ; who aimed, under the
delusive hope of an Age of Reason, to reduce man to th&
primitive state of lawless simplicity, •when each father
should, like Abraham and 'the Patriarche, become the ·priest
and absolute sovereign of hie own family, and reason be
the only book of laws, the sole, code of man.'-What has
Free Masonry to do with them1"
Not so much, gentle reader, as they had to do with Free
Masonry. They wanted a cloak to cover·their schemes;
"For," say they," in secrecy our strength principally lies.
Onthis account we should always conceal ourselves under
the name of some other association. The infurior lodges
of Free Masonry .are the most convenient cloaks for our
grand object; [why ?J because the world is already fami-
liarized with the idea that nothing of importance, or wor-
thy of attention, can spring from Masonry." Free Mason-
ry was their chosen servant, and this will not recommend
her as an inmate to the mansions of the just.
The chiefs were learned men, practised in the ways of
the world, and possessed infernal cunning beyondcompare.
They chose their measures with much foresight, and pro-
secuted them with singular address. They studied Free
Masonry, what it was.;.they.proved its convenience by a
free use. Their knights swore, among other things, " to
labour at rendering the ancient free Masonry triumphant
ol'er the false systems which have crept into it."-" I will
dedicate my life to the discovery of the true l'eligion and
real doctrines of Free Masonry, and I will impart my dis-
coveries to my superiors." (B. p. 84.) And a part of the
knight's duty was to obtain the control of the masonic
lodges. " In every town of any note situated within their
district, the secret chapters shall establish lodges for the
three ordinary degrees, and shall cause men of sound mo-
rale, of good repute, and of easy cuc~mstances, to ~ re-
ceived into the lodges. Such men are much to be s0fl8At
o191tized by Coogle
•
FREE IIASONRY TB& TOOL or THE ILLUIIINEES. 335·
after~ and are to.be fMI.le Maitnut even though tAey Mould
1t01be of atay ~~ to ~-in ita.ulterior pr,;ecta."
" Spare no pains to gain the ascendancy in· tboee lodges
whicll are established, either to reform, or to·destroy." (B·
vol. iii. p. 91.)
The investigations of such men into the origin of Free
Masonry, and their speculations upon its.character aad de·
sign, will be worth having. If they ·were utterly at a loss to
tell whence it sprung, we shall not he sure it uiaa·1M giftof
God to the firat MIJ8cnu, as both editions of the Book of
Constitutions of M888achusetts, Preston, Calcott, Hutcain·
son, and others, declare ; if they deemed it a medley of
puerilities which the craft themselves do not undeawtand,
we shall doubt whether it teacAea the ~ liberal art1 and
Beiencea, as Webb, and Cross, and Preston, and TanuebiJI,
and Dalcho, and a host, maintain. If they deicribe it, aad
use it, as the fittest of !ill instruments for the acoomp~·
ment of their diabolical purposes against every form of reJi.
gion and every system of civil govemmeut, we shaD doubt,
reader, shall we not, whether it does rest, according to Mr.
Town, and the Grand Chapter of New~York, "on the
Sallie co-eternal and um/ui/um fotmiJation, contain and inctd·
cate, in ltlbltance,the atrnte truths, and JiropoBe the~ ulti·
mate end, IJ8 the doctrinu of Okriatianity taugAt by divine
revelation !"
These impious self-worshippers, to etfect their monstrous
designs, entered into Free Masonry as Satan in Paradise
entered into the serpent.. The ruin they wrought in the
French .revolution, is enough to make every eollliderate
man shudder, and to be jealous of the means by which it
was effected. · Why should we embrace this modem ser·
pent,·court it, honour it 1 Why not rather shun it with ab-
horrence, if not witli dread 1 Say to it as of_ old :
"Becau. thou but done tbil, thou art aoour~ed
"Above all cattle, each beut of the field;
"Upon thy belly grovelling ehalt thou go,
" And duat thou ehalt eat aU the daye of thy life."
J'lillon, lOth book.
o191tized by Coogle
..
338
It il ciifticult to coaceive that mea can be 10 abudooecl
to all aease. o{ virtue and of piety--~ear~Md meo, cu•nial
meo, obeening men, be 10 abaolutely .btilid, and atupid,
and ignorant, as ~ seek the &Ubvenioo ofevery city, and
town, and form ofgovernment, and semblance of religiOUI
worship. But the proof ia indisputable.
I cbar_3e not Free Masonry with this guilt ; nor yet ia ber
character quite untarnished in the work. She was their
willing aud faitbfuJ eervant. (B. p. 158.). " Let the lauglt-
ers laugh, the scofren 100ft"; still the day will come whea
priDeeB andnatioll8shalldisappear &om the face ofthe earth,
ud when each man shall recognitte no other law than his
reuon. ThU •hall be tlas grand work of 1etnt 1ocidiu."
(B. p. lll.) ·Agaia, speaking of the W~ear&~ by which to
gam hill wicked ends, _
the chief, Weiahaupt, says : " theee
meant are t1as 1ecrd ~of philosophy. These schools
hav-e been in all ages the archives of nature and of the
right. of man. Thele schools shall one day retrieve the
fall of human nature, and princes uad nations shall disap-
pear &om the face of the earth, and that without ~y vio-
Jeaee. Haman nature Jhall form ooe great family, aad the
ewtb ebaJl become the habitation of the man of reUOL"
" The inferior lodges of Free M..Omy are the moatcoa-
venieat cloaks for our grand object," &c. And not a
cloak merely. Weishaupt understands how to ~
upon the.meanest implements of handicraft, equal ·to .the
fabled Solomon himsel£ Hear him. (B. p. 125.) " TAe
rnp ltae of Muonry· represents man in the primit.iw
&tUe, aJfJ«Ke, but·.fru : the ~ 8plit, or ~ il the
atate 9f faUen nature, of mankind in a state of ei'til 10-
ciety, no longer united in one family, but divided according
to their states, governments, or religions. The po~
atone represents mllnkind reinstated in it• pritaitfoe dipitJ
and independence." . ·
Hear him address one of his polillu!d 1tmau, (those who
had ascended to the topdegrees ofllluminism.) (B. p.I56.)
" All we have done for you hitherto, was only to prepare
o191tized by Coogle
•
F.REE II:ASONR\".
you to co-operate with us in the annihilation of all magis-
tracy, all governments, all laws, and all civil society; of
every republic, and even of democracy, as weD as ariltoc-
racy and monarchy. Ir you ask how it is poaaible for men
assembled in towns to Jive in fature without laws or magis-
trates, the answer is clear-desert your tOWJ1ll and villages,
and fire your houses. Did men build bouse! in the days of
the patriarchs 1 They were all equal and free : the earth
belonged to them all: .each bad an equal right,, &c.
Weisbaupt is mistaken.
Now, a society which was an excellent cloak for sucb
as these, ought to form no part of the habit of an honest
man. Weishaupt like the devil,
--------... With iupection deep
"Collllidered enry creatllnl, which of all
"Most opportune might eene bi.l wilee, and found''
In Masonry, what Satan in serpent,
" ..i'il f!Uiel,,/iltal imp tf~ in whom
" 7b mter, llftd hU dGri: ~Ugge~liotu hilt
.. From a/u1.rpul "'"'·"
The sin of Muonry was, that it basely received ami
faithfuJty served the destroyer ; for that alone it deserves to
perish, with the reprobation of every honest man.
43
o191tized by Coogle
•
W&ISUAUPT
CHAPTER L.
JVeil.llaupt, Zwack, ~ Knigge: and the Brother lui·
nuator, or Recruiter.
" Now he appears almod divine,
" Like innocence and love ;
"But the old Serpent lurks within,
" When he uauma. the doYe."-Watll.
·IN giving some account of 111uminism, as connected with
Free Masonry, I shall confine myself for the facts, at least,
to the original letters and papers of the fraternity, publish-
ed, with every mark of authenticity, in the works of Barruel
aJid Robison. The writings are generally so plain as to re-
quire little comment, and so extraordinary as to force the
J;etlections of the reader. They wiU serve to show the dan-
ger of abusing reason, while we seem most to use it ; and
the madness ofattempting to reform the world by the over-
throw of religious worship in the fear of God. They will
show the nature and dangerous tendency of all secret·asso-
ciations, and particularly the flexibility and emptiness of
Free Masonry.
I cannot enter upon this subject farther, without express-
ing my high consideration of the Abbe Barruel's treatise
upon the llluminees : to him I am most indebted. His
plan is perspicuous, -his documents are copious, and _every
one authenticated in such manner that no reader can rise
from the perusal of his work without an irresistible convic-
tion, both from the sentiments and from the designs of the
Illuminees, that they are justly entitled a sect, " the most
disastrous in its principles, the most exteneive in its views,
Digitized by Google
AND I'&J:E MASONaY, 339
and the moat atrociously cunning in ita means," that ever
disgraced the earth,
Every member of the fraternity bad a name peculiar to
himself as an Illuminee, in which name he acted on all oc-
casions of the society. Every considerable town, too, had
ita name of Dluminism ; and every kingdom. They wrote
also in cipher, the different degrees having different hiero·
glyphies. Their papers were seized by the ddferent go-
vernments of Germany and published; and their whole
aim was completely detected and exposed by theae, and
by the confessions of the disappointed of their order.
In speaking of the principals, I wiD give both their own
name, and their name ofadoption. It is worthy of remark,
that the names they affected were such as honest men
woald hate. The founder and builder, Adam Weishaupt,
took the name of Spartacus, a gladiator of ancient Rome,
who, in a desperate rebellion of three years, caused scarce·
ly less danger to the commonwealth than Hannibal had
done. It would be odious to place this man before the
reader in the depravity ofhis private life, with the fuU blaze
of proof upon his countenance. And to call him by the
epithets he deserves for his base immorality, would unne-
cessarily disfigure the page. It is enough to say, that he
gave full proof, in his own life,· of the detestable nature of
the false principles which guided him, and which he zea.
lously communicated to others.
Though of mean birth, his talentS and acquirements
were sufficient to gain for him the Professorship of Law• in
the University of Ingolstadt, in Bavaria; his native countrr,
before he bad attained his twenty-eighth year; and befure
he was thirty he had plans in. operation tOr the reformation
of the world, by the deatruction of allreli&'iOUBprinciplu.
Zwack, a German lawyer, who adopted the name of
Cato, without so much as temperance or chastity to entitle
him to·the appellation of that stein and virtuous Roman.
was the second grand officer in this fraternity.
And Knigge, a man offashion, and ofthe world, a fiunoo•
o191tized by Coogle
WEIIHAVPT
Free .Mason, and lover of good cheer, surnamed himself
Plailo,·and by his epistles and services, seems entitled to
the third rank in this brotherhood of smooth-tongued im·
pastors.
Their plan of operations divided the sect into two grand
classes ; these were again divided into many degrees.
The first class was that of preparatiOR, and the three
first degrees of this class. were the three first degrees of
Masonry, unless we -
say, that novices in Illuminism were
always selected from masters in Free Masonry. Then four
degrees brought them to the second class, or mysteries~ of
the mysteries there were five degrees.
·illuminism, proper, had nine degrees, grafted on the
three tint degrees• of Free Masonry : all the remaining
degrees of Masonry were used as occasion required ; and
se"ed the disciples of Weishaupt as the twenty collateral
degrees 1erve the sublime sovereigns : " which· they gene-
rally communicate free of expense to those brethren who
are high enough to understand them."-(Dalcho's Ora-
tions, p. 80.)
Every degree had one member, who was, by the code
itself, entitled, from his official duty, " Brother Insinuator,"
and, sometimes, " Btother Recruiter." The Free Mason
Jodp we~ the pools in ·which the Brother Recruiter an-
gled for novices in Dluminism, and the manner of baiting
abd taking his prey will be best understood from the follow-
ing directions, furnished by the statutes of the order.
(B. p. 30.) "He· must begin by deseantiag on the
a11preme felicity of being versed in sciences which few can
approach ; of w.alking in the paths of light, while the vul-
gar are groping in darkness. He most reotark, that there
* Barruel. who best undel'lltood the plam of the IDumiu-, makes all
Free M~ oDly collateral to IDaminism ; Rohiaon, who was better
~killed in their ~. mak• the three fil'llt dean- of Muonry the
stoc"- aDd ijluminiam the ~eion.
D1g1tized by Goo~..• J
341
uist doctrines solely transmitted by secret traditions, be·
C8U8e they are above the comprehension ofcommon minds.
In proofof his assertions, he will cite the Gymnosophists in
the Indies, the priests of Isis in Egypt, and those of Eleu·
sis, and the Pythagorean school in Gteece."
(P. 32.) "Let your first care be to gain the affection,
the confidence, and the esteem of those persons whom you
are to entice into the order; let your whole conduct be
such, that they.s.hall surmise so~ething more in you than
you wish to show-hint that you belong to some secret and
powerful society-excite little by little, and not at once, a
wish in your candidate to belong to a similar society-cer-
tain arguments, and .certain books, which the insinuator
must have, will greatly ·contribute to raise. euch a wish ;
such are, for example, those which treat of the union and
strength of associations."
(P. 33.) "To sound the very bottom of Iris mind; the
insinuator will pretend to consult him, as if he had been in-
trusted with certain secrets ; he will make objeetions on
the secrecy of these societies ; but should they make too
much impression, be wiD resolve them himsel£ . At other
times, to stimulate the curiosity of his pupil, he will hold a
letter in his hand written in a cipher, or he will leave it
half open on his table, giving his candidate sufficient· time
to obse"e the cipher, and then shut it up with all the air of
a man who has important correspondences to keep se-
cret."
This claim of the Brother Insinuator to the sciencu,and
"to the light, while the rest of mankind are in profane dark·
nul ; this claim to valuable doctrines transmitted by secret
tradition~, and this attempt to excite curiosity, and magnify
self.importance, by evident attempts to conceal a mystery,
are all in the very image of Free. Masonry. Few wiU_ad·
mire them in the professed iminuator.
o191tized by Coogle
3-a WEISHAUPT'S IKPRDIIVK VI.IWS OP
CHAPTER Ll.
~ : TAe eNl ftfiiCtifiel tile ~MtJU : &a.ota tlaeir
Religion.
. .. With tract ob6qae,
" A$fine, UODe wbo _.,tit~ bat reu.l
"To iDterrupt,lide-lq,beworkabiiW&J•
.. on he bowed
" Hie turret Cl'8llt, and llleek enamelled neclt,
"h~,and Uckeclthe paacl wlweoallhe tlo4."
.......b.t.
Ta& innOcent aapeet UIUDled by this fraternity, is
worthy, in fraud, of the Tempter himael£ The ao'rice
ia made, at his mtroduetion; to say, " I subject mpelf
the more willingly to·the secFeCY required, as my introducer
auures m~ that nothing ia ever transacted in this society
,_.,ful.to religion, tRONJl., or tle 1t111e." (B. p. 38.)
These words are pu(into the mouth of the novice, and
prepare him with confidence to reCeive the tollowing intro-
duction to the statutes of his degree, which are nowplaced
in hia hands.
(B. p. 41.) " For the tranqoillity and security of all
the brethren, whether novices; or active member8 of'· the
society, and to prevent all iU groanded suspicions, or .-...
greeable doubts, the venerable order declares, that it abso-
lutely bas in metD no project, enterpme, or undertaiing,
hurtful to the Btate, to religion, or to good'hUWaU ; and tlult
it latJOUrl nothing of that nature in any of it1 membert. Its
i o191tized by Coogle
THB TBN)U:NCYOI' SECRET ASSOCIATIONS.
designs, all its toils, solely tend to inspire men with a zeal
for ~e perfection of their moral characters, to impregnate
them with humane and sociable sentiments, to counteract
the plans of the wicked, to succour oppressed and suffer·
ing virtue, to favour the advancement of men of merit, and
to render those sciences universal, which are as yet hidden
&om the generality of men. Such is not the colout-w pre•
ten, but the real object of the order."
To attain this "real object," _
the sect were instru~~
~arlessly " to employ the same means for a good purpose,
which impostors use for an evil purpose." If bad men
will lie to gain their ends, it is hard, according to Weis-
baupt, if KtJod men may not ha.ve the same privilege, em-
ploy a lie to defeat a lie. Good men, and yet liar• ! This
is worthy of the Dlwnineea ; a doctrine fit for the night,
proper to_be inculcated in a secret society.
He carries it, in the following maxim, one step further :
"The end sanctifies the means." To this precept of their
moral code they commonly referred in their writings, and
ita value they amply proved in their wretched lives, making
it their apology for every species of wickeclnetta not fit to
be named. The sect, in a aummary made by B~e~
apeak as follows : " If,to overturn Christianity and every re-
~' we have pretended solely to possess true _
Christia.ni-
ty, the true religion, remember, the pul 1anctijiuthe tl'&e4IIU;
the MJ6e MtUt Jllake_aue of all tlw1e _ mean~ for good pur·
~u, wiich the aoickw do for ~il. The means we em-
ployed to rid you, and which we continue, to rid mankind
()( all religion, are but a pious fraud, which we always
meant to reveal to you, when capable of understanding iL"
0, how deceived I They become imps, the better to op·
poae the Prince of the power of the air ! They use the
weapons of blackness and of despair, to maintain the
throne of h64V~ I They would become gods, by foul trans-
gression. How plainly this manifests " the 6pirit thllt now
worltetA in the childrmof dilobedience." (Eph. ii. 2.)
Their lessons profess to treat of morality, and morality
..
o191tized by Coogle
:144 WEISHAUPT'S IMPRESSIVE VUtWS OF
a1one. Weishau~t says," Not that mora1ity which, adding
to the miseries of the miserable, throws them into a state of
pusillanimity and despair, by the threats of hell and the
fear of devils.'' (B. p.l~.) He is a true Free _
Mason,
and would make men better without the help of fear. Let
others learn from his success, and beware of appearing
wise above what is written.
It is a remarkable definition they give to the word mora·
lity. "True morality," they say, "is no other than the art
of teaching men to shake off their wardship, to attain.the
age of manhood, and ti.us to need neither princes nor go-
vernments." They say, " man is wicked, because religion,
the state, and bad example, perverts him." They form
Iibera] opinions of human nature, and labour indefatigably
to inculcate their sentiments ; their live1 all the while giving
, them the lie. With fervour they exclaim, "May our princi-
ples become the foundation of a11 mornls ! Let reason, at
length, be·the religion of men !"
"This exhortation," says the Abbe Barruel, "will ena-
ble the reader to solve the problem of the altars of wor·
ship, and the festiva1s of Reason, in the French revolution;
nor will he be any longer at a loss to know from what·
loathsome den their shameless goddess arose." (B. p. 119.)
It is sickening to contemplate this exhibition of depravi·
ty ; but meeting with it in this connexion, it is good to pre-·
sent it here, that all may be admonished. They would have
their principles the foundation of all morals, and reason.
their religion. · Nothing seemed to them more reaSOnable
than this, notwithstanding the chosen basiS of their moral
code was that very principle which the inspired apostle·
repels with indignation, : " as we be slanderously reported;
and as some affirm that we say, Let us do evil that good
may come;" and notwithstanding their lives were there-
verse of that required by reason instructed in the scrip-
hues, and made obedient to the revealed will of God.
o191tized by Coogle
•
OF THE NATURE or SECRET SOCIETIES, 34;)
CHAPTE!t LII.
&quilitiom of Illuminiml; Wmhaupt'B impressit•e VittvB
of the nature of Secret SocietieB.
" The wretch that deahl in aly deceit,
"I'll not endure a night;
"The liar'• tongue I'll ever hate,
" And banish from my light."
Wllltl.
THE statutes of the order furnish four and twenty formal
questions to.be put to the novice, each of which he is ex-
pected to answer in the affirmative. Several of them, in
the likeness of Free Masonry, I copy here, to see how they
look in'the hands of the IUuminees. '
(B. p. 47.) "Ques. II. Have you seriously reflected on
the importance of the step you take, in binding !Jl1U1'Beljby
engagementB that are unknown to you?"
Were this question fairly put to every candidate for Ma-
sonry, the number of the fraternity would diminish.
(B. p. 48.) "QuP.II. XJ. Oo you moreover grant the pow-
er of life and death to our order 1 On what grounds wouJd
you refuse or recognisein it such a right 1"
Though Free Masons are not called upon to recogni11c ·
such a right in their order, circumstances render it too cer-
tain, that some have, in this favoured land, aBBUmed the
power demanded by Illuminism, of life and death over
the members of the fraternity.
" Ques. XII. Are you disposed, on all occasions, to give
the preference to men of our order, over all other men 1"
This is so nearly like the requisitions of Free Masonry,
that the difference is not worth naming. And it is an im-
44
o191tized by Coogle
346 WEISHAUPT's IMPRESSIVE VIEWS ot'
portant requisition ; one that leads many an idle brother to
ruin. Calculating on the custom, the employment, or the
vote of the craft, as in a measure secured to him by the
laws of the institution, he does not always make that effort
to deserve patronage, which those must make, who rely
solely upon their own merits to secure publicesteem and sup-
port ; and while he is attentive at the lodges, and ready to
teach at the lectures, and decorated with the badges of
Masonic honours, upon the festivals o( Free Masonry ; his
shop, and trade, and profession, and family, are all mourn-
ing his absence and neglect.
It is important, too, as it gives the Free Mason an undue
advantage over his fellow citizens not mason!'. Two men
of a trade or profession, equally deserving public favour, but
one a Free Mason and the other not, thefmternity are bound
by their Ma8onic obligations, to employ andprifer the brother
MIJ$on. The Mason may think this is quite right; but the
honest mechanic, who is left with a bare support, to contend
both against the hardships of poverty, and the secret influ-
ence of a selfish fraternity, will most certainly complain.
The known advantage of the patronage of the craft, is
undoubtedly the reason why thousands of young men,
feeling about them for supports in the first part of the du-
ties of life, have entered into the fellowship of the lodges ;
and the countenance and support they have received from
acquaintances formed there, will hP., perhaps, the most
powerful bond of attachment to the interests of this mys-
terious association.
.But to return to Weishaupt. The novice in Illuminism
promises, in the conclusion, " to be faithful to all the laws
of his order, and to support it with his counsels, his for-
tune, and all other means;" subjecting himself" to for-
feit his honour, and C\'en his life, should he ever break his
promise,"
How like Free Masonry is this obligation ! Only it is
horribly surpassed in the forms of the forfeiture of life,
which the hoodwinked candidate is called solemnly to re-
peat after the clear sighted master.
o191tized by Coogle
TdE TENDENCY 01' SECRET ASSOCIATIONS. 347
I said that Free Masons are not called upon to recogniae
the power of life and death in the order ; and so I under-
stand it. Others understand it differently. It is true, the
candidate invokea a cruel death, which would make a com-
mon executioner shudder to inflict ; but if one acknow-
ledges any power short of the Supreme, adequate to inftict
that death, he errs.
This would be effectuaJiy clearing a transgressor from nll
danger of the precise death invoked ; but it is leaving the
case with Him who will not suffer the wicked to go un-
punished, and who, " after he hath kiUed, hath power to
cast into heii."-(Luke, xii. 5.)
The novice is now ready for promotion. He is caused
by his introducer to request the protection of the order.
(B. p. 52.) "Your reque!lt is just," replies the supe-
rior. " In the name of the most serene order from which I
hold my powers, and in the name of all its members, I pro-
mise you protection, justice, and help. Moreover, I protest
to you once more, that you will.find11otlting among ua hurt-
ful either to religWn, to morals, or to the atate ;" (here the
initiator takes in his hand the naked sword which lays upon
the table, and, pointing it at the heart of the novice, con-
tinues,) " but should you ever be a traitor or a perjurer,
assure yourself that every brother will be called upon to
arm against you. Do not flatter yourself with the possibi-
lity ofescaping, or offinding a place ofsecurity. Wherever
thou mayest be, the rage of the brethren, shame and re-
morse, shall follow thee, and prey upon thy very entrails."
(He lays down the sword.) " 'But if you persist in the de-
sign of being admitted into our order, take the oath."
The oath contains promises of inviolable secrecy, of
obedience to the orders of superiors, and of remtattee to
the enemi~a of civil society ; the llluminee is not far enough
advanced at the second degree, to understand the mysteries
of the higher degrees, but is made to swear hostility to the
very aims which at length he is expected to support. No
doubt the higher degrees of Masonry are free of this sin,
o191tized by Coogle
3"48 lV.J:JSBAVPT'S IJIPI\ESSIVE VIEWS OF
and yet it is to a giddy height they ascend. At the rate Pres-
ton, Webb, Cros8, and a host, pretend they learn in the
three first degrees, if Masons do not begin to unlearn by
the time they reach the twelfth or fi~nth degree, they
must get out of all known materials of acquisition. This
fact will be very pia~, when it is recollected, that in the sin-
gle degree of fellow craft, if we may believe these renown-
ed Free Masons, are taught the jive noble orders of archi-
tecture, and the seven liberal arts and sciences, to perfec-
tion.
In the second degree of pure Illuminism to which the
novice is now admitted, he takes the name of Miner-val;
and this lodge assumes the character of a learned society
or academy, as was recommended to the infidel philoso-
phers by Voltaire, in his letter to D'Alembert. Letter 85.
A. D. 1761. "Let the real philosophers unite in a brother·
hood like the Free Masons. This secret academy will be
far superior to that of Athens, and to all those of Paris."
The days in which the academy met were called Holy,
and the place of meeting a church. At the commence-
ment of each sitting, the president is always to read some
chosen passage from the Bible, or Seneca, or Epictetus, or
Confucius; and to comment in his own way. " The care
he takes to give aU these works the same weight and au-
thority, will be sufficient to make the pupils view the Bible
in a similarlight with f:he_works of pagan philosophers."
So,in Free Masonry, the effect of the prayers, the scrip-
ture passages, and the Bible itself, placed with the square
and compasses, constituting " the three great lights of Ma-
sonry," and carried in solemn pomp with the Book of Con·
stitutions, is not unlike that produced by the readings of
the Minerval Academy, if the power of the laws of asso-
ciation in the human mind be not, this once, mysteriously
suspended.
" Now the Bible, t~re, and tiOII&JHIU•
" Shine aslightll with brilliant ray ;
" Then the cl&ildand the malld
Jra..Jfir.1816,p.t6.
o191tized by Coogle
THE TENDENCY OF SECRET ASSOCIATIONS, 349
Also, the disposition which some good Masons discover
to imitate Dermott, Hardie, and others, in calling the royal
arch, " the holy roytil arch," is too nearly resembling the
Minerva! church to be encouraged or countenanced.
Should the Minerva! retain what the chiefs call religion-
ist opinions and inclinations, he is never permitted to ad-
vance higher, but receives a Sta Bene,1J Those who im-
prove under their tutors, have yet seven degrees to climb.
We will not follow them in their mad ascent, noryet leave
unnoticed their frequent assertions, and ample proofs, that
"they make use of secret societies as tke only-and indis-
pensable means of accomplishing their unhallowed ends."
(B. 101.)
It is astonishing what clear views Weishaupt takes of
the advantages offered to his schemes by mysterious asso-
ciations ; it requires only a small share ofsense to perceive,
that associations ministering largely to the wants of this
fiend, can have no inherent difficulty in serving a multitude
of spirits less disciplined to vice.
"Here," says the Abbe Barruel, (p. 126.) "let magis·
trates, the chiefs of nations, every man who still retaO,s any
regard for the support of laws and empires, and of civil
society, let them, I say, read, and meditate on these advan-
tages. The lesson is'of the utmost importance. Whoever
you are ; all honest citizens, whether Free Masom, Roli-
cruciam, Mopses, Hewers of Wood, Knights ;t all you who
thirst after the mysteries of the lodges, cease to accuse me
of conjuring up chimerical dangers. I am not the man
who speaks ; it is he who of all others has been the but ac-
quainted with your associations, and has known what ad-
vantages could be drawn from them by able and patient
conspirators.-Read, and tell us which is the most impres-
sive on your mind, the pleasures you may find in your lodges,
• Stop,my gooa fellow.
t Name~ of eeeret fraternities in Europe.
o191tized by Coogle
350 WEISHAUPT'S 1.11~1\ESSIVE VIEWS 0~
or the dangers of your country. Read, and if the name of
citizen be still dear to you, rejlect whether yours should re-
main inscribed on the registers of a secret society. You were
ignorant of the·dangers ; the most monstrous ofconspirators
will lay them open to you, and he will call them ADVANTAGES.
He literally says, "that though these mysterious asso·
ciations should not attain our object, they prepare the way
for us; they give a new interest to the cause; they present
it under points of view hitherto unobserved; they stimulate
the inventive powers, and the expectations of mankind;
they render men more ind~ere:nt as to the interests of o·
vernments; they bring men of divers nations and religions
within the same bond of union ; they deprive tile cltw·c"
and state of their ablest and most lnborious members; they
bring men together, who would never otherwise have
known or met each other. By this method alone they un-
dermine the foundation of states, though they had really no
such prqject in view. They throw them together, and make
them clash one against the other. They teach mankind tho
power and force of union ; they point out to them the im-
perfection of their political constitutions, and that without
exposing them to the suspicions of their enemies, such as
magistrates and public governments. They mask our pro·
gre!IS, and procure us the facility of incorporating in our
plans, and of admitting into our order, after the proper tri·
tJh, the most able men, whose patiettce, long abused, thirsts
after the grand ultimatum. By this means they weaken
the enemy ; and though they should never triumph over
him, they wiU, at least, diminish the number& and the zeal
of his partisans ; they divide his troops to cover the atlaclt:.
In proportion as these new associations, or secret societies,
formed in different states, shall acquire strength and pru·
dence at the expense of the former ones, (that is to say,
of civil society,) t/1e latter must wealcen, and insensibly fall."
The lovers of Free Masonry will not reject the testimony
of Weishaupt, as they might that of a clergyman or of a
patriot. He was not a religionist whose attachment to
Digitized by Google
THE TENDENCY OY SECRET ASSOCIATIOl"S. 351
the church made him hostile \Q the covert attacks of the
adversary; he was not a lover of his country, that he should
describe the influence and tendency of secret associations
in the terror of his soul, for its civil rigbts and political liber-
ties. This old fox, descanting upon the~ with the cool-
ness of an impartial philosopher, says: "They undermine
the foundation of states, though they had really no such
project in view. They throw them together, and make
them clash· one against the other."
Here I am reminded ofa fact worthy of the reader's con-
sideration. What more unstable than New-York ~Ii­
tics 1 The nation know, and it is the reproach of the state,
that on any question of great public interest, the decision
of New-York cannot be calculated from her past expres-
sions at the polls, within any definable limits; a difference
of 20,000 votes sometimes occurring in a very short pe-
riod.
Again, Connecticut, on the eastern border of New-York,
is not less celebrated for her steady habits. None can fail
to have observed this, who notice the events of past times.
Connecticut has a soil proverbial among the fraternity
for the stinted growth of Free Masonry; and in New-
york, this society has pushed deeply its roots, enlarged its
trunk, and spread abroad its branches, flourishing and tow-
ering like a plane tree in the rich vale of the Ohio.
It is not only in mechanics that action and reaction are
equal. The habits of Connecticut and New-York have not
been inert under the action of Free Masonry, nor has Free
Masonry failed to exert a po~erful influence on the morals
and politics of the chief state of the union.
The contests of Clipton and Tompkins for the chair of
the grand master were parallel in the fraternity to the po-
litical struggle of the same candidates for the office of go-
vernor of New-York. And the later strife between Clinton
and Jackson for the influence of the office of some general
grand commander, or general grand high priest of the
union, had a direct reference to the presidential election
then next coming. Verbum sat sopienti.
o191tized by Coogle
352 WEISHAUPT'S VIEWS OF
CHAPTER LIII.
Weisharpt's Views of the Unlmown Origin of Free JJ[a-
sonry.
"Though aome may pretend we've no aecreta to know,
" Such idle opinion• their ignorance show ;
" While other& with ra.pturea, cry out •tlu:y'rt Mlttlltd,'
"In Free Masone' bosoma they still lie concealed."
Csoaus. "Wealways are ftee,
u And forever agree ;
"Supporting each other,
" Brother helpa brother,
" No mortals on earth are so friendly as we."
Book o/' Con~. o/' .MIUI. A. D. 179!. p. 241. ·
A nw extracts from the corres}>ondence of the chiefs,
throwing light upon Free Masonry, will prove interesting to
the reader.
And let no man think in his heart, that there is base art
in connecting this notice of Illuminism with an examina-
tion of Free Masonry. Fidelity to the truth, and an honest
desire to lay the true value of Free Masonry before the
public, compel me to show, in their own language, the use
made of it by these champions of a new morality indepen-
dent on religion.
(R. p. 90.) "I declare," says Weishaupt," and I chal-
lenge all mankind to contradict my declaration, that no
man can give any account of the order of Free Mcuonry,
of its origin, of its history, of its o/dect, nor any explana-
tion of its mysteriu and symbols, which does not leeme the
mind in total uncertainty on all th&Je points. Every man is
entitled, therefore, to give any explanation of the symbols,
o191tized by Coogle
THE UNK!iOWN ORIGIN OJ' .l'aEE MASONaY. 353
and any system of the doctrines, that be can render palata·
ble. Henee have sprung up that variety of systems, which
for twenty years have divided the order. The simple tale
of the English, and the fifty degrees of the French, and the
. knights of Baron Hunde, are equally authentic, and have
equally had the support of intelligent .and zealous breth·
ren.
" These systems are, in fact, but one. They have all
sprungfrom the blue lodge of three degrees; take these for
their standard, and found on these all the improvements by
which each system is afterwards suited to the particular ob-
ject which it keeps in view. There is no man, nor system,
in the world, which can show by undoubted succession, that
it should stand a.t the head of the order. Our ignorance
in this particular frets me. Do but comider our slaort hilto-
ry of 120 years. Jl7w will slww me the mother lodge?
Those of London we have discovered to be self-erected in
1716. [1717.] Askfor their archives. They teU youtAey
were burnt. They have nothing but the wretched sophis-
tications of the Englishman Anderson, and the Frenchman
Desaguilliers. Where is the lodge of York, which pretends
to tbe priority, with their King Bouden, and the archives
that be brought from the East 1 These too are burnt.-
What il; the Chapter of Old Aberdeen, and its holy cleri-
eate 1 Did we not find it unknown, and the Mason lodge~
there the most ignorant of all the ignorant, gaping for in·
struction from our deputies ?• Did we not find the same
thing at London 1 And have not their missionaries been
among us, prying into our mysteries, and eager to leam
from us what is true Free Mtuonry? It is in Yain, there·
fore, to appeal to judges; they are no where to be found i
·all claim for themselves the sceptre of the order ; all, in-
deed, are on an equal footing. ' They obtained followers,
not from their authenticity, but from their conduciveneuto
• See Robilon, p. 64, extracted iD .tbie volume.
4.'l
o191tized by Coogle
354 WEISHAUPT'S VIEWS OF
the end which they proposed, and from the importance of
that end.' It is by this scale that we must measure the
mad and wicked explanations of the Rosicrucians, the Ex-
orcists, and the Cabalists. These are rejected by aU good
Masons, because incompatible with social happiness. On-
ly such systems as promote this, are retained. But, alas I
they are aU sadly deficient, because they leave us under the
dominion of political and religious prejudices ; and they
are as inefficient as the sleepy dose of an ordinary sermon.
" But I have contrived an explanation which has every
ad,·antage ; is inviting to Christiam of every communion,
gradually frees them from all religtous prejudices, cultivates
the social virtues, and animates them by a great, a feasi·
ble, and speedy prospect of universal happiness, in a state
of liberty and moral equality, freed from the obstacles
which subordination, rank, and riches, continually throw in
our way. My explanation is accurate and complete; my
means are effectual and irresistible. ·Our secret association
works in a way that nothing can withstand, and man shall
somt befree and happy."
I have been ready to indulge a hope, that some rational
account of the origin, history, and object of Free Masonry,
might be given; but, as much as Weishaupt's principles
are to be contemned, his penetration in the knowledge oC
history, of human institutions, and o( character, is such as
to command respect; and though coming in an age after
him, wi~h some efforts to understand the subject, few will be
ready this day to take up his gauntlet. But let us hear no
more from those simple men who state matters of fact in
masonic history beyond the sixteenth century, beyond the
. Christian era,beyond the flood.
Weis-himpt, i. e. wise-head, he was rightly named. Pro-
found in research, he declares, that " all the systems of Ma-
sonry have sprung from .the blue lodge of three degrees;"
i. e. the master's lodge. Whence that sprung he is igno-
rant, and his ignorance frets him. He can trace it to the
lodge self-constituted in London, A. D. 1717, but no fur·
o191tized by Coogle
THE TENDENCY OF SECRET ASSOCIATIONS. 355
ther. " Ask for their archives ! They tell you theg were
burnt."
Britons and Germans, with eager interest inquire, " What
is true Free Masonry?" Weishaupt's answer will never
be improved ; which he applies to the authenticity of the
different rituals, but the reader applies to Free Masonry
itsel£ Free MlUonry obtain& follotcers, notfor it8 authen·
ticity, but for its conduciveneBB to the endthey propose.
CHAPTER LIV.
Wei.thaupt's Plan for the Dissemination of Light.
"Foolain their bearta believe and say,
" That all religion'• vain ;
" There ia no God that reigna on high,
" Or minds the tJiiUra of men.
" From thoughtl ao dreadful and profane,
" Corrupt diaco1U118 proceeds,
" And in.thar inipiotu li.tmlll arefwn&
".1bominable deedt."-Watu.
Spartacua to Cato, Feb. 6, 1778.-T/Iat is, Weishaupt to
Zwack.
*" Mon but est de faire valoir Ia raison. As a subordi-
nate object, I shall endeavour to gain security to ourselves,
t It ia m1 aim to ualt l'eUOII.
356 WEISHAUPT'S PLA:V
a backing in ease of misfortunes, and assistance from with·
out. I shall, therefore, press the cultivation of science, es-
pecially such sciences as may have an influence on our re-
ception in the world, and may serve to remove obstacles
out of the way. We have to struggle with pedantry, with
intolerance, with divines and statesmen, and, above aU,
princes and priests are in our way. Men are unfit as they
are, and must be formed ; each class must be the school of
trial for the next. This will be tedious, because it is hazard-
ous. In the last classes, I propose academies under the
direction of the order. This will secure us the adherence
of the literati. Science shall here be the lure. Only those
who are assuredly proper subjects, shall be picked out from
among the inferior classes for the higher mysteries, which
contain the first principles, and means of promoting a
happy life. No religionist must, on any account, be admit-
ted into these ; for here we work at the discovery and ex-
tUpation of superstition and prejudices. The instructions
shall be so conducted, that each shall disclose what he
thinks he conceals within his own breast, what are his ru-
ling propensities and passions, and how far he has advanced·
in the command of himself. This will answer all the pur-
poses of auricular confession. And, in particular, every
person shall be made a spy on another, and on all around
him. Nothing can escape our sight. By these means we
shall readily discover who are contented, and receive with
relish the peculiar state, doctrines, and religious opinions,
that are laid before them; and, at last, the trust-worthy
alone will be admitted to a participation of the whole
maxims and political constitution of the ~rder. In a coun-
cil composed of such members, we shall labour at the con-
trivance of means to drive, by degrees, the enemies of rea-
son, and of humanity, out of the world, and to establish a
peculiar morality and religion, fitted for the great society of
mankind.
"But this is a ticklish project, and re'quires the utmost
circumspection. The squeamish will start at the sight of
Digitized by Google
FOR THE DISSEMINATION OF LIGHT. 357
religious or political novelties ; and they must be prepared
.for them. We must be particularly careful about the books
which we recommend. I shall confine them at first to mo-
ralists, and reasoning historians. This will prepare for a
patient reception, in the higher classes, of works ofa bolder
flight; such as Robinet's Systeme de la Nature-Politique
Naturelle-Philosophie de la Nature-Systeme Social,
the writings of Mirabaud,• &c. Helvetius is fit only for
the strongest stomachs. If any one hal! a copy already,
neither praise nor find fault with hin1. Say nothin~ on
such subjects to intrants, for we do not know how they will
be received; folks are not yet prepared. Marius, [Hertel,]
an excellent man, must be dealt with. His stomach, which
cannot yet digest strong food, must acquire a better tone.
The hllegory on which I am to found the mysteries of the
higher orders, ~the fire worship of the Magi. We must
have some worship, and none is more apposite. LET THERE
· BE LIGHT, ANJ> THERE SHAJ,L BE LIGHT. This is my motto,
and is my fundamental principle. The degrees will be
feuer orden, parsen orden ; all very practicable. In the
course through these there will be no STA-BENE. For I
engage, that not one shall enter this class who has not
laid aside his prejudices. No man is fit for our order who
is not a Brutus or a Cataline, and is not ready to go
every length. Tell me how you like this?"
" Truly," he said, " this is a ticklish project, and needs
the utmost circumspection." It is to the credit of his wis-
dom, that he did not expect its immediate accomplishment.
(B. p. 116.) " Serve, assist, and mutually support each
"' Amoq the in6del artl practiied by Voltaire's school, this was one;
to publiah ~daloua boob under cover of honest names. Robinet's Sy..
tame de Ia Nature wu iaued ftom the press, A. D. 1770, in the name of
..._t Mirabaud, dead ten yeare before. Read, " The writings of Mira-
beau are ~t only for the1trongeet etomache," and the eeneo il complete.
o191tized by Coogle
WEiSHAUPT'S PLAN
other," he says, " augment our numbers, and leave to time
and posterity the care of doing tbe rest." (B. p. 127.)
" The seed is sown whence shall spring a new world ; the
roots extend themselves; they have acquired too much
strength; they have been too industriously propagated for
the day of harvest to fail us. Perhaps it may be necessary
to wait thousands and thousands of years ; but, sooner or
later, nature shall consummate her great work, and she
shall restore that dignity to mao for which he was destined
from the beginning."
Few schemes have yielded a more speedy or abundant
harvest, than this of Weishaupt ; but the fruit is of a qua-
lity not likely to be stored with pleasure by any people.
The seed aown, the roots already extended, and too far
strengthened, too i7tdustriously propagated, for the day of
lwrv.est to fail, was altogether proved true in the tre·
mendous events, and unexampled immoralities of the
French revolution.
o,9,JizedbyGoogle ,,
*"· 'Jl •
....._ - _.... - ~ ~~ · ·· ......
_
___.,._
_..
__,.
__
POll THE DtS8EJUNATION 'OF LtCJ'IIT.
CHAPTER LV.
WeiiAaupt's Prie&t Degree; and Ma.ottry a frivolOUI bu·
sinesa.
"·Tcrall that'• good, aYense and blind,
" Butprone to all \hal'• ill ;
" What dreadful darkne• nile \he miud,
" How obetiuate \he will."_;W11tt1;
Spartacru (Weilhaupt) to Cato (Ztoack.)
(R. p. ll.) "SPARTAcus says~" speaking of the priesfs
degree, "One would almost imagine that this degree, as I
have mauaged it, is genuine Christianity, and that its end
was to free the Jews from slal'ery. I say, that Free Ma·
sonry is concealed Christianity. My explanation of the
hieroglyphics, at least, proceeds on this supposition; and
as I explain things, no man need be ash,amed of being a
Christian. Indeed, I afterwards throw away this name,
and substitute Reason. But I assure you this is no small
affair; a new religion, and a new state government, which
·so happily explain one and all of these symbols, and com·
bine them in one degree. You may think that this is my
chief work ; but I have three other degrees, all different, for
my class of higher mysteries, in comparison with which
this is but child's play ; but these I keep for myself, as Ge-
neral, to be bestowed by me only on the Bene meritissimi.
The promoted may be Areopagites, or not. Were you
here, I should give.you this degree without hesitation. But
o191tized by Coogle
36() SPAilTACUS (WEISHAUPT) TO CATO (ZWACK.)
it is too important to be intrusted to paper, or to be bestow-
ed otllerwise than from my own hand. It is the key to his-
tory, to religion, and to every state government in the
world. (The key to their destruction.]
"There shall be but three copies for all Germany. You
cannot imagine what respect and curiosity my priest de-
gree has raised; and (which is wonderful) a famous protes-
tant divine, who is now of the order, i8 persuaded tllat the
religion contained in it, i8 the true sense of Ohri8tianity.
0KAN,KANf TO WHAT HAlEST THOU NOT BE P&llSUADED.
Who would imagine that I was to be the founder of a new
religion 1"
When describing to Cato the Christianity of the priest
degree, as he had manufactured it, he says, "It is all one
whether it be true or false; we must have it, that we may
tickle those who have a hankering for religion."
I dare say the order of high priests, and the most excel-
lent high priests, and grand high priests, and grand deputies,
&c. in this Christian land, are free from all connexion with
this degree of Illuminism. But it is a modem thing: this
.order of high priests; and the German so artfully contrived
his, as to make it his boast, it will do no harm for the
members to search it to the bottom. It may be that the
famous protestant divine of Weishaupt, is not the only one
that has mistaken the doctrines of Illuminism for the true
sense of Christianity.
Having dwelt at length upon the great objects of his as-
sociation, enumerating the obstacles to be overcome, and
the supports to be derived from various sources, Weishaupt,
in view of the necessary coadjutors in his work of moral
reformation, exclaims:
(R. p. 93.) " But where are the proper persons, the good,
the generous, and the accomplished, to be found 1 And
how, and by what strong motives, are they to be induced
"'Tho 19th of the Sublime Sovereigni.-DG/eho't Oraliofu, p. '77.
o191tized by Coogle
SP.lllTACUS (WEISHAUPT) TO CATO (ZWACK.) atH
to engage in a task so vast, so incessant, so difficult, and so ·
laborious 1 This association must be gradual. There an
some such per1ons to befound in every society. Such noble
minds wiU be engaged by the heart-warming object. The
first task of the association must therefore be, to form the
young members. As these multiply and advance, they be-
come the apostles of beneficence, and the work is now on
foot, and advances with a speed increasing every day. The
1lightut observation show1 that nothing will 10 much con·
tribute to increase the zeal of the members qs secret union.
We see withwhat keennel8 and zeal the frivolous businea1
of Free MtUonry is conducted, by peraons /mit together by
the secrecy oftheir union. It is needless to inquire into the
causes of this zeal which secrecy produces. It is a univer-
sal fact, confirmed by the history of every age. Let this
disposition of our nature, therefOre, be directed to this no-
ble purpose, and then all the objections urged against it by
jealous tyranny and affrighted superstition, will vanish.
The order will thus work silently and securely ; and though
the generous benefactors of the human race are thus de-
prived of the applause of the world, they have the noble
pleasure of seeing their work prosperin their hands."
In his remarks upon the keenness and zeal with wlich
tam cond.ct thefrivolous businesa of Free MtUonry, W eis-
havpt8peais like a man of sense.
46
,
l
i
.'
r
o,g,tizJ by Coogle
ILLtJLIMISM.
CHAPTER LVI.
It was the plan of the IUuminees to represent Free Mason-
ry as true Christimlity : then easily showing Free Ma-
sonry to be a blaJder of wind, they entirely abolished all
regard for the gospelfrom the lrearts of their pupils.
"Bh•ll atheitrts dare inault the crotl8-
" Of ourincarnate God?
" Shall iufidela revile his truth,
" And trample on his I.lood?
" 'What if he choo•e mysterious ways
"To cleanse us from our faults;
"May not the works of sovereign erace
" Transcond our highest thoughts ?"-Wat11.
Philo (Knigge) to Cato (Zwack.)
(R. p. 121.) " WE mustconsider the ruling propensities
of every age of the world. At present, the cheats and
tricks of the priests have roused all men against them, and
against Christianity. But, at the same time, superstition
and fanaticism rule with unlimited domjnion, and the un-
derstanding of man really seems to be going backwards.
(This was right in him.) Our task, therefore, is doubled.
We must give such an account of things, that limatics shall
not be alarmed, and that shall, notwithstanding, excite a
spirit of free inquiry. We must not throw away the good
with the bad, the child with the dirty water ; but we must
make the secret doctrines of Christianity be received as the
secrets of genuine Free Masonry.• But, farther, we have
"'The Grand Chaplain, and the Grand Chapter of New-York, could
have had no BUSpicion, that, in publishing " A Sy.tem tf Sjnn.dalille Ma-
ltnry," they were most effix:tuaDy aidiJirthe schemes of Wuminism.
o191tized by Coogle
•
lLLUMI.NIS¥.
to deal with the despotism of prin~ This increases every
day. But, then, the spirit of freedom breathes and sighs
in every corner ; and, by the assistance of hidden a<:bools of
wisdom, liberty and equality, the natural and imprescripti-
ble rights of man, warm and glow in every breast. We
must, therefore, unite these extremes. We proceed in this
manner.
" Jesus Christ established no new religion ; he would
only set religion and reason in their ancient rights. For
this purpose he would unite men in a common bond. He
would fit them for this by spreading a just morality ; by en-
lightening the understanding, and by assisting the mind to
shake off all prejudices. He would teach all men, in the
first place, to govern .themselves. Ruler• would thm be
needle11, and equality imd liberty would take place witlwut
any revolution, by the natural and gen#e operation of rea-
son and expediency. This great teacher allows himself to
explain every part of the Bible in conformity to these pur-
poses ; and he forbids all wrangling among his scholars,
because every man may there.find a reasonable application·
to his peculiar doctrines. Let this be true or false, it does
not signifY. This was a simple religion, and it was so far
inspired ; but the minds of his hearers were not fitted for
receiving these doctrines. • I told you,' says he, 'but liL
could not bear it.' Many, therefore, were called, but few
chosen. To these elect were intrusted the most important
secrets ; and even among them there were degrees of in-
formation. There was a seventy, and a twelve. All this
was in the natural order of things, and according to the
habits of the Jews, and, ihdeed, of all antiquity• . The
Jewish Theosophy was a mystery ; like the Eleusinian, or
the Pythagorean, unfit for the vulgar. _And thus ~e doc-
trines of Christianity were CQJllmitted to the .Adepti, in a
.Dilciplina .Arcani. By these they were maintained like the
vestal fire. They were iept up, only in hidden 1ocietiu,
who handed them down to polterity; and they are now pos-
BUied by tile genuine Free Mcuons."
o191tized by Coogle
•
JLLUifJNISif.
N. B. " This explains," says Professor Robison, " the
orip of many anonymous pamphlets which appeared
about this time in Germany, 1/wwing that Free M tutr~ffY
uuu Oltristianity. They have, doubtless, been the works
of Spartacos and hispartisans among the Eclectic Masons.
Nicholai, the great ap~stle of infidelity, had given very fa-
vourable reviews of these performances, and having always
shown himself an advocate of such writers as depreciated
Christianity, it was natural for him to take this opportunity
of bringing it still lower in the opinion of the people. Spar·
tacus, therefore, conceived a high opinion of the impor·
tance of gaining him to the order, and exults exceedingly
in the acquisition, saying, " that be was an unwearied
champion, et quidem contentillimti1." [He took the name
of Lucian, the ancient scoffer.] Of this man, Philo says,
'' that he spread this Christianity into every comer of Ger·
m~" ,
"I have put meaning," says Philo, "to all tbe dark sym-
bols, and have prepared two degrees, introducing beautiful
ceremonies, which I have selected from among those of the
ancient communions, combined with those of the·Rosaic
Masonry; and now," says he, "it will appear that tDe are
the only true Christians. We shall now be in a condition
to say a few words to priests and princes. I have so con-
trived things, that I would admit even popes and kings, af.
ter the trials which I have prefixed; and they would be glad
to be of the order."
This Philo-Knigge is the famous Free Mason mentioned
by Professor Robison. (p. 332.) He subdivides the adepts
of lllwriinism into two classes; those who scoff at reveJa.
tion, and those who need a revealed religion to fix their
ideas. To explain this he writes to Cato, (that is Zwack,)
in the following terms.
(B. p. 121.) "To unite these two classes of men, to
make them concur and co-operate towards our object, it
waa necessary to represent Christianity in such a light, as
to recall the superstitious to reason, and to teach our more
t
o191tized by Coogle
365
eblightened sages not to reject it on aeeount of ita abuse.
This should have been the 1ecret-ofMa~~, and have led
ua to our object. Meanwhile despotism strengtbeos daily,
though liberty universally keepe paoo with it. It was neee.
aary then to unite the extremes. We therefore assert here,
that Christ did not establish a new religion, but that his in-
tention was simplyto reinstate natural religion in ita rights ;
that by giving a ~[eneral bond of union to the world, bJ
diffusing the light and wisdom of his morality, - bJ
disaipating prejudices, /ail intention10a1 to teach w 1M tllecN
of gOfJ#Wtling our1elve1, and to re-atablilh, without che fto.
knt __., of r~, the reign of liberty t.llttl-~
~ tun. This wea easily done by quoting oertain ~xta
&om scripture, and by giving explanations of them, lrW or
falle ·if of little ~' pr0f1ided etJC4 OM jitull G
1eue ita theBe doctrinu CORI07ItJtlt tDitA 1U rea1011. We
add, that this religion, so simple in itself, was a.fterwarda de-
faced; but that by tnetnll of imnolable ncrec,, it Ao. been
traft~Mitted input'ily tow tArqugAFree MtuOIIf'?l.,." 8parta-
cus (Weishaupt) had collected many material» for this, and
I added my di8coveriea in the instruction for these two de-
.grees. Our people, therefore, being conviooed that we
alone .
are p08tlelled of the twJ lt!f.:rets of 0/triltitmity, we
have but to add a . few wordt against the clergy and priD·
ces. In the last mysteries we have to unfold to our adepq
ciUpiotufraud, and then by writings demonstrate the ori-
gin· of all religious impotitions, and their mutual COODU·
ion with the other."
(R. p. 169.) Again, Philo aays, "I have been at unwea·
ried pains to remove the feare of some, who imagine taat
oar tAtperion want to abolish Christianity; .but by and by
daeir prejudices will wear off, and they will be more at their
ease. Were I to let them know that our General holdl
all religion 1.o be a lie, and wu DNa, Dilly to l«Jtlmen by
tie·non-" ,
These thinp require no comm~t ; the reader cunot
fail to reflect upon them.
,,,t:le
366 1LLU111N18J(,
l copy them with a full persuasion that, if the projectors
of Dluminism could see Mr. Town's Speculative Free Ma-
sonry, and know the reception it bas met with, they would
cry out, in the language ofWeishaupt, with increased won-
der, " 0, man, man! To what mayeat thou not be perltUI·
dedi"
This is the language of truth and soberness. The very
aim of those dark conspirators of the old world, has been,
in one essential feature, aided materially by -the Masons in
the New. I know, brethren, "that through ignorance ye
did it." But what induced that ignorance 1 what led to the
unhallowed deed 1 what has so long concealed it from the
searcbings of conscience, and from the reproof of the just ?
A fond attachment to a nocturnal association, blinding the
eyes, and perverting the heart, is both the source and the
support of this singular delu8ion. ·
(B. p. 124.) " We must, first," says Spartacus, " gradu-
ally explain.awayall our preparatorypious frauds. And when
persons of discernment find fault, we must desire them to
consider the end of all our labour. This sanctifies our me~s,
which,at anyrate,are harmless,and have been useful,even in
this case ; because they procured us a patient hearing, when,
otherwise, men would have turned away ·from us like pet-
ted children. This will convince them of our sentiments
in all the intervening points ; and our ambiguous expres-
sions will then be interpreted into an endeavour to draw
answers of any kind, which may show-us the minds of our
pupils. Second. We must unfold, from history and other
writings, the origin and ·fabrication of all religious lies what-
ever ; and then, third, we give a critical history of the or-
der. But I cannot but laugh, when I thinlc of the reaJly re- ·
ceptima which all this luu met ulith from the grooe and learn-
eddivi1.u of Germany, and of England."
Ben~ meritil8itM,yea, my countrymen, m<>Jt deservedly.
What consummate art this man discovers iD his attempts
to remove every thing sacred in religion, and desirable in
national policy, from the affections of his pupils I Repeat-
o191tized by Coogle
JLLUIIINIS.M. 367
cd.Jy he assures them, that the venerable order has no .con-
cern with religion or politics ; and makes the novice even
swear to oppose the enemies o.fcivil society. These things
he calls preparatory piOU$frauds, which are gradually to
be explained away; and then he unfolds, from history, the
origin and fabrication of all religious lies whatever.
No, it is not art ; it is depraved cunning, joined with
inhuman malice ; it is the serpent writhing his secret way
to nestle in the open bosom. Free Masonry afforded a
shelter for Weishaupt ; she masked his batteries ; she co-
vered his attacks; she divided and distracted his enemies,
the friends of civil government and religion ; she enlisted
his recruits ; she disseminated his doctrines..
She did; and if this were all, we might forgive her; but
she htu never ceased to do it. Weishaupt is forgotten, but
his doctrines and his disciples live. IUuminism is accursed,
but it costs her pupils nothing to change the mime, and re-
tain the principles. They have done it. The name is
abandoned, as the name of Free MtUonry eventually must
be ; but the principles find a channel for themselves, and
they will find one in every large community. Falsehood
is their life; yet, to be current, they must appear'fair and
true. They, therefore, assume the form least to be feared
or doubted ; .they attach themselves to morality and piety,
as very important to screen them from suspicion, though
quite in the way of the1r ulterior designs.
We have no reason to be anxious ; we have abundant
reason to be on the alert ; and only one rule upon this head
will always serve, i. e. to punilh IUuminilm under whatever
cloak we find it.
o191tized by Coogle
ILI.UMnmnr.
CHAPTER LVII.
Female Lodgea of t!&e Iaumineea.
" NODe ahaU antie my •ir&'in zone,
" But one to whom the aec:tet'•.known
"Of fam'd.Free Muonry;
"In which the great andgood combine,
" To raise with generoll8 deaign,
" M~ to felicity."
•• Tss source of the passions," say the sect, " is pure ;
it is neee!sary that every one should be able to gratity his
within.the'bounds of virtue, and that our order should fur-
Dish him with the means." (B. p. 80.)
(B. p. 24.) Plan for an Order of Womea.-" This or-
der shall be subdivided into two classes, each forming a se·
parate eociety, and having a different secret. The first
shaD be composed of virtuous women ; the eecond, of the
wild, the giddy, and the voluptuous, au81c/Pveife~UUR.
"Both classes are to be ignorant that they are under the
direction of men. .The two superiors are to be persuaded
that they are under a mother lodge of the same sex, which
tranamits its orders ; though in reality these orders are to
be transmitted by men.
"The brethren who are iritrusted with this superinten-
dance, shall forward their instructions without making
themsetves known. Th~y shall conduct the first, by pro-
.moting the reading of good books; but shall form the lat-
o191tized by Coogle
lLLUliUNtSif,
ter to the arts of 1ect.etly gratifying their pa1lionl, dwcl&
begnugung ihrer lieden1chaften im verborgenen." ·
A preliminary discourse prefixed to this plan points out
the object and future services of these illuminized sisters.
'The advantages which the real order would reap from
this female order, would be, first, the money which the sis-
terhood would pay at their initiation; and, secondly, a
heflvy tiU upon their curiosity, under the suppoeition of
secrets that are to be learned. And this association might, ·
moreover, serve to gratify those brethren who had a tum
for sensual pleasure."
I will·not insult the reader with a comment upon this
specimen of the morality of the worShippers of reason;
but Paul charges the licentious, that " this is the will of God,
even your sanctification, that ye should abstain from forni-
cation : that every one of you should know how to possess·
his vessel in sanctification and honour; not in the lust of
concupiscence." (TheiS. ch. 4.)
M'mos to Sebtutian; 1782.
[It does not appear to whom these names belonged :
they were no mean flluminees.]
(R. p. 137.) "The propos.al of Hercules to establish a
Minerval school for girls, is excellent, but requirea much
circumspection. Philo and I have long conversed on this
subject. We cannot improve the world without improving
women. Bot how shall we get hold of them 1 How will
their relations, particularly their mothers, immersed in pre-
judices, consent that others shall influence their educationt
We must begin with grown girls. Hercules proposes the
wife of Ptolemy Magnus. I have no objection, and I have
four step-daughters, fine girls. The eldest, in particular,
is excellent. She is twenty-four, has read much, is above
all prejudice, and in religion she thinks as I do. They
have much acquaintance among the young ladies their re-
lations. It may immediately be a very pretty society, under
the management .of Ptolemy's wife, but really UDder m.
47
o191tized by Coogle
370 lLLUJUNISil.
management. You must contrive pretty degrees, and
dresses, and ornaments, and elegant and decent rituals.
No mao must be admitted. This will make them become
more keen, and they will go much farther than if we were
present, or than if they thought we knew of their proceed-
ings. Leave them to the scope of their own fancies, and
they will put us to the blush, and create an enthusiasm,
which we can never equal. They will be our great apos·
ties. Reflect ,on the respect, nay, the awe and terror in-
spired by the female mystics of antiquity. (Think of the
Danaids-think of the Theban Bacchantes.] Ptolemy's
wife must direct them, and she will be instructed by Ptole-
my, and my step-daughters by me. We must always be
at hand to prevent the introduction of any improper ques-
tion. We mu!lt prepare themes for their discussion-thus
we shall confus them, and inspire them with our sentiments.
No man, however, must come near them. This will fire
their roving fancies, and we may expect rare mysteries.
But I am doubtful whether this association will be durable.
Women are fickle and impatient. Nothing wiD please
them but hurrying from degree to degree, through a heap
of insignificant ceremonies, which will soon lo6e their no-
velty and iriflueoce. To rest seriously in mae rank, and to
be Ifill and silent when they have formd out the whole ua ·
cheat, is a task of whick they are incapable. [Hear,kear,
hear.] They have not our motives to persevere for years, al-
lowing themselves to be led about, and even then to hold
their tongue~, when they find that they have been tkceived.
Nay, there is a risk, that they may take it into their beads
to give things an opposite turn, and then, by voluptuous
allurements, heightened by affP.cted modesty and decency,
which give them an irresistible empire over the best men,
they may turn our order upside down, and in their turn will
lead the new one.,.
• There wu found in the hand-writing of Zwack, a project for a ·Sister-
hood, in mbeerviency to the deaigus of the illuminati. In it are the fol-
o191tized by Coogle
1
1LLUIIJNISM. 371
No form of folly in Free Masonry remains to be intro-
duced into this country, except that of female lodges. We
may expect it ; and it is good to see how it appears at
home, that we may know how to receive it comingabroad.
To this end I further present an account.of ceremonies in
a lodge ofFrenchdames at the .funeral ofa sister ; and it pos-
sesses a double interestfrom the fact, that nopublic ceremony
u more frequently performed by Masonry in America, than
that which she performs at the graves of her aons. On no
occasion does she pour greater contempt upon the Chris-
tian religion, and its glorified Author; on no occasion does
she more outrage decency with her uncouth trappings, and
·mummery, and ornaments, than in assuming, with pomp
and circumstance, to bury her dead ; lifting up her eyes to
heaven, unmindful of our Advocate there ; depositing the
marble dust in the tomb without praise, or hope, or the
slightest mention of Him who is the Resurrection and the
Life, "the Judge of quick and dead."-(A.cts, x. 42.)
" Funeral ceremony which took place in S. Chap. M. of
the Ladies Ecossais of the Knoll of Mt. Tabor, 5th Dec.
5811. In memory of Madam Sister .Adelaide Girmu,
daughter of Elmillac, Grand Almonress of this Chapter,
who died fifth morning of the tenth sign of 5811, E. D.
['fhe reader must expect a good deal of Free Masonry in
these rites ; they are much above the master's degree.]
" DECORATION OF THE CH.\PTER.
"The transparency of Asia, and of Tabor, covered with
lowiag paaap.-"It will be of great servieo, and procure u. both much
information tmd money, and will suit charmingly the tute of many of our
truest members, who are Ioven of theJJeX. It should consist of two clus-
el, the virtuous, and the freer hearted. They must not know ofeachother,
and. must be under the direction of men, but without knowing it. Proper
boobmust be put into their handl, and IIUCh (but secre&ly) a• &re ftalter-
ing to theirpusioll8."-.Robi•on, p. 110.
o191tized by Coogle
372 ILLUMINISJI.
black crape. Bands of crape upon the emblems upon the
wand of the grand mistress, upon the triple triangle of the
general of the order, upon the wands of the grand mill-
tresses of the secret, and of the ceremonies, and upon the
baskets of the dower girls. The canopy, and the curtains
of the chapter, black and white, with ermines between.
At the centre was a pedestal with a funeral urn, upon which
was written S. Adelaide; the ornaments of the deceased
sister were appended to the urn. Upon tbe throne the
torch of benevolence was lighted.
" Costume of the Ladies Ecossais ; white, a girdle of
black ribbon, a black crape veil upon the head, bare or co·
vered, ruff in diamond.
" Costume of the commanders Ecossais ; (particularly
invited,) full suit of black ; boots expressly prohibited.
" ARRANGEMENT O.F THE BALL.
" Madam the grand mistress occupiefl the throne ; the
commaQder in chief of the order at her right ; the master
of the mother lodge of France at her left ; the Master of
the G.·. Sphinx by his side. The dames of eloquence, by
their altar at the east of Tabor. The dames, secretaries,
by the see. general.
" The two grand dames of the secret in Asia, with the
dames standard bearers. The grand treasurer, at her.
altar, with her assistant. The place of the almonress is
vacant by the death of Sister Adelaide.
" The grand mistresses of ceremonies, at their stations,
with their assistants. The dame G.·. I.·. sword bearer,
seated upon an arm-chair with a sword before the urn ; the
dower girls by her side upon crickets. The sister dames
upon elevated seats. The good demoiselles by the side of
the grand assistants. The dames assistants of the first and
second rank, at their altars with their aids.
" The invited commanders and visiters, upon the ele-
vated seats, the lower seats, and in the gallery. The music
in America.
Digitized by Google
lLLUMINISJI. 373
" The scmtators of Mount Tabor tiled the visiters, and
examined their letters ofinvitation, and their costume.
" C&ll&JIONY BEFO&Jr. TB& CJr.LEBRATlON Or THE J'UN&RAL.
"The sister dames (with the exception of those to be
received into the lodge) were first arranged, having with
them only the officers of their chapter, and those of the
temple of Tabor. Madam the grand mistress, attired in
the apron of a novice. [They are about receiving some
apprentice Masons.]
" One grand mistress of ceremonies, and one grand
mistress of the secret, went to conduct in the candidates
for admission. (The music took their station.) Having
kneeled, they took the oath of the first degree, and were
received by madam, the grand mistress, and seated in the
front row of elevated seats in Europe and Africa.
" This finished, the two grand mistresses of ceremonies
went into the inner room, and called thus : The Comman-
der• of Mount Tabor, with the EcoiSail of the order.
" The two mistresses of ceremonies entered with them,
and seated them. They then returned to the outer apart·
ment, and called with a loud voice . The respectable presi-
dent• of the element• of the order, with the ma~ter of the
mother lodge of France at their head.
" At their entiy all the chapter rose,,the grand mistresses
of ceremonies conducted them to their places, and these
illustrious Masons being seated, the chapter also sat down.
" The mistresses of ceremonies returned to the outer
apartment, and cried, with a loud voice, " The brothers
visiters, Masons, whatever may be their creed or ritual."
The mistress of ceremonies allowed to enter only the num-
ber necessary to fill the empty places, without interruption
to the ceremonies ; the rest were placed in the gallery.
"DISCOURSE OJ' JIADAII THE GRAND MISTRESS.
" My dear Suter~A funeral garb, a deep obscurity, and
continued groaningsI What misfortune, then, threatens
, -
I
o191tized JGoogle
374 lLLUIIINISif.
the Knoll of Tabor, lately so smiling 1 My companions,
the altar of benevolence is deserted ; what has become of
the sister who served it with a heart so tender 1 Her seat
is empty. The friend of the unfortu~ate, the mother of
the poor, the good Almonress Adelaide; where is she 1"
Recitative. (This is in French rhymes, and is conducted
by the brother orator, by one of the dames· of eloquence,
by two sister dames, and by the full choir. I aubstitute ma
u:tractfrom our fwteral ceremo11y, as published F. M. Li-
brary, p. 108. and Book of Const. of Mass., perffYI'ftlt!id at
the gratJe.]
" Where is now our brother 1"
" He sojourneth in darltness.
" Can we redeem our brother1
" We have not the ransom. The place that knew him
shallltnow him no nwre.
" Shall his name be lost 1 [Here a roll is unfolded.]
" The memory of a brother is precious. We will record
his name.
" Write it here I [Viewing the roll.]
" We wiU tDrite it in our hearts.
" How will it then be known 1
" It shall live in his virtues, which shall live in us, and in
every brother.
(Here strew flowers or evergreens.]
" Was he worthy 1
" Like him we will be brethren, and our last end shall be
peace.
"He was, indeed, our brother, but who hath done this 1
" The Lord gave, and the Lord taketh away.
'' Let us, then, bless the name of the Lord."
As cobwebs and the dust of years, are beautiful on bot-
• The reader may change t.hia, for the occuiou, to rilkr; but I refute
to corrupt the purity of the original text,
o191tized by Coogle
lLLUMINISM. 375
ties of wine, so is the rust of antiquity which covers the
ritual of our Grand Master Solomon ; but the funeral rites
of the lady lodge are furbished with modem improvements
of surprising taste. See the following :
"Madam the grand mistress:-: (this character signifies a
stroke of the mallet,] and, plucking the leaves from a rose,
said : My sister, my first grand assistant; sisters and bro·
thers, thU roae wtU beautiful.
" The guard of the temple, supported upon her sword,
replies : Sister Adelaide is no more.
" The first grand assistant :-: [whack,] ~Iy sister& we are
roiU.
" The guard of the temple : Si&ter Adelaide is no more.
" The second grand assistant :-: [whack,] My lister&,
toe are 1hort lived tU the rose1.
" The guard of ~he temple : Sister Adelaide is no more."
Next is a funeral chant from the full choir, in French
rhymes, and the reader will accept as a substitutefrom our
ceremoniesat the grave, the following-
" EJACULATION.
" What is our life ! It is a shadow ! a dream !
" We once were-but, what were we I
" Whither are we going ! whatshall we become I
" Who is poor I who is rich ! The king and the beggar
lie down together I
" Our brother hath forsaken us I
" He is no longer one of ourselves !
" Every connexion of life has ceased !
" The form is no longer beautiful !
" He stretcheth not his hands to us !
" The hour of death has overtaken him !
" Shall not 1omefriend comjurl ws ?"
" Alas, me ! and is this mummery said at the grave of a
Christian 1" The Free Mason's Library, p. 108., declares
it is said at the grave of a Free Mason. So does the Book
of Cons. of Mass., word for word.
o191tized by Coogle
"
ILLUIIINISif,
But attend the ;.: of madam, the grand mistrell, who
sorrowfully exclaims : " TAe treamry of the poorjlow"WW
.a. her hantU."
" Guard of the temple : SuterAdelaide il no MOr"&
"The first granq assistant;.; All her life 1he ~ I&
claarity.
" Guard of the temple : Si.,ter Adt<!laitk il no fi&OI'e,
" Second grand assistant ;.; She coaforted the u.nlurppy.
"Guard of the temple : S. Adelaide uno 1110re."
[Here foUows a chant from a. brother and a sister, to
which the chorus subjoin ~]
" She il no more."
I substitute again a part of our funeral 1ervice at 1M
grave, as given by the Free Masons' Library, p. liS; Free
Masons' Monitor, 1802, p. 127; Preston'slllustrations of
Masonry, Richard's edition, p. 104.
" Invocations by the master; responses by the brethren,
the usual honours accompanying each.
" M. May we be true and faithful ; and may we Iitle
and die in love !
"Answer. So mote it be.
"' M. May we profess what is good; and always act
agreeably to our profession.
"Answer. So mote it be.
" M. May the Lord bless us, and prosper us ; and may
our good intentions be crowned with success.
" Answer. So mote it be."
But to return to the sister dames, in whose lodge the
Firlt Grand A1mtant corresponds to our Senior Grand
Warden, and the Second Grand Almtant to our Junior
Grand Warden.
"Madam, the grand mistress :-:(turning up a light and
extinguishing it) So the good Adelaide hal cea~ed in tAe
fflidlt of her COW'Ie.
"The first grand assistant :-: (turning up a light and ex·
tinguishing it. ) .An invirible breath hal eztinguillaed Mr
life.
o191tized by Coogle
ILL!iJilNISJII.
"The second grand assistant ;.: (turning up a light and
extinguishing it.) You see how frail is our life."
And here they chant again ; after which, Madam, the
grand mislt'ess, repeatedly smites the desk with a sensibili-
ty of feeling, and a grace in the manner of wielding the
mallet, which maf quite dishearten the grand masters of
America. There are abundance of ceremonies yet to pass
through, justifying the penetration of Minos, when he says,
" Leave them to the scopeof tlleir ownfancies, t.md they will
put us to the blush : tllefj will be our great apostles." But
Jest our masters' cheeks crimson dangerously, we cease
from the funeral rites, entirely omit the ceremony of in-
stalling a new Almonress, and entreat Madam, the grand
mistress, to close the lodge.
"'Madam,the grand mistress ;.: [whack.] Dames and Com-
manders, life is a swift dream; beauty is a frail flower; hap-
piness is a light perfume. Let us love, let us assist our com·
panions; let usweepfor our frieruls !
"Havingdischarged our duty, let us retire in peace-'"
:·: So mote it be ;.:
Hermes, ou Archives Mac;onniques, Pari~, 5818. Tome·.
i. p. 65.
'
18
:
G _
r
Digitized by 00g1e
/
..._
3i~ lLLU.III!I"lSM IX 'fHE
CHAPTER LVIII.
Illuminism in the Higl1er .Degrees.
•' The lips that with deceit abound,
"ShaU not maintain their triumph long."-Walt1.
Arn:a ten years of mischievous action, this order was
exposed by the discovery of some of their papers, in 1786,
and in 1787, by the capture of all Philo-Knigge's corres-
pondence, papers, receipts for deadly potions, sympathetic
ink, a method of filling a bed-chamber with pestilential va-
pour, a receipt ad excitandum furorem uterinum,-many
for procuring abortion ; a dissertation on suicide ; and a
method of·falsifYing seals, with some hundreds forged upon
princes, nobles, clergymen, merchants, &c. The counsels
of mischief were in the hand writing of Zwack.*
*These are the men of whom we learn by observing their manner,
and doing just the contrary way. They gloriflld rea~cm. "My &im,"
1&78 Weilho.upt, " is to exalt reason." Reason was their code of Iaws, by
which they thought to dispense with rulers and magistrates. Reason,
\oO, was their religion, by which they reject divine revelation. Reascm
was their guide to prepo.re deadly potions, forge seals, and justify .uicide.
"No, that will never do."
Nor will it ever do, my friend, to e:ralt reason independent on the word
of God. Erect reason on that teOTd to the heavens, and the work will
stand secure : but the moment reason would stand by herself; would tnm a
deo.f ear to thm 1aith the Lonl; would refuse the precept, because she can-
not admire its propriety; tho.t moment reason runs mo.d: reader, she be-
comes no better than the Syrian, who in a rage exclo.imed, " Are not Aba-
11& and Pharpar better than all the waters of Israel?" She becomes no
better than those Jews, who, when Je.ua Aid, "Before Abraham was, I
-w.m," took up atones to co.st o.t him; she becomes an mumi~. Trust her
not an hour; correct her at once; for though she have not led you to
'Yillany, lhe ha1 other1, and wo.tchea for the stumbling of the just.
Digitized by Coogle
HIGHER DEOREES OJ' J'B.EE MASONRY. 379
Knigge also fell out with Weishaupt, and the correspon-
dence connected with their quarrel is all published ; " in
which," says Professor Robison," Weishaupt's superiority
is very manifest." But Knigge, in the end, acted the part
of state's evidence, and assisted to discover the papers, and
elucidate the mysteries of the order, which was formally
suppressed in Bavaria and Wirtemberg by the government.
It is not so easy to suppress the principles of the order,
nor to bind the activity of its members. These assume
new forms with the facility of Free Masonry, and ate ac·
tive under a new organization.
I hope the higher degrees of Masonry have no connex-
ion with this corrupt association: those above the eigh-
teenth of Dr. Dalcho. It is with pleasure I bear the Doc-
tor say," In New-York, the hjghest degree which is held at
present, (A. D. H~03,) is the 18th." (Dalcho's Orations, pr
75.) Those above that degree have names of a fearful ·
complexion, after this glance at the German school of IJ.
Juminees.
The names of the first eighteen are as follows :
I. Entered Apprentice.
2. Fellow Craft.
3. Master Mason.
4. Secret Master.
5. Perfect Master.
6. Intimate Secretary.
7. Provost and Judge.
8. Intendant of the Building.
9. Elected Knights of 9.
10. Illustrious Elected of 15.
1l. Sublime Knight Elected.
12. Grand Master Architect.
13. Royal Arch.
14. Perfection.
15. Knight of the East.
16. Prince of 1erusalem.
17. Knight of the East and West.
18. Sovereign Prince of Rose Croix de Herodcn.
o191tized by Coogle
380 ILLUMINISM IN THE
The remainder deserve particular notice.
19°. Grand Pontiff, i.e. High Priest.
Weishaupt says of his : " You cannot conceive how
much my degree of Priest is admired by our people. But
what is the most extraordinary is, that several great protes-
tant and reformed divines, who are of our order, ~ally be-
lieve that that part of the-discourse which alludes to reli-
gion, contains the true spirit and real sense of Christianity.
Poor mortals! wlwt could I not make you believe ? Can-
didly I own to you, that I never thought of becoming the
founder of a religion." t
Cross's Chart treats of the order of high priesthood from
Pll8e 129 to page 167. These Plllles contain much to e:c-
eite the reader's surprise; but I will quote only the scrip-
ture passages " made use of, during the ceremonies apper-
\ainiog to this order." Whether it is solemn mockery thus
to use them, every reader wiJI judge for himself:
" Gen. :civ. 12-24."
From the 12th to the 17th verse, the account is given of -
Abraham's pursuing and overcoming the Assyrian conque-
ror, and recovering Lot and the other captives, with their
goods.
17th v. "And the king of Sodom went out to meet him
(after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer, and
of the kings that were with him) at the ''alley of Shaveth,
which is the king's dale. And Melchisedeck, king ofSalem,
brought forth bread and wine : and he was the priest ofthe
Most High God. And he blessed him, and said, Blessed be
Abram of the Most High God, [possessor of heaven and
earth : and blessed be the Most High God,) which hath de-
livered thine enemies into thy hand. And he gave him
tithes of all. And the king of Sodom said unto Abram,
Give me the persons, and take the goods to thyself. And
Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lifted up my
hand unto the Lord, the Most High God, the possessor of
hea,·en and earth, that I will not take from a thread even to
a shoe latchet. and that I will not take any thing that is
o191tized by Coogle
HIGHER DEGREES OF FREE MASONRY. 381
thine, lest thou shouldst say, I have made Abram rich."
(p. 130.)
I cannot divest myself of the fear, that this account of
Abraham's generous conduct is read in the ceremonies of
the masonic order of high priesthood, for the insinuation of
a belief that the masonic order has some mysterious con-
nexion with the order of Melchisedeck. This fear is in-
creased by the following, read during the same ceremonies.
(Heb. vii. 1~.) "For this king of Salem, priest of the
Most High God, (who met Abraham returning from the
slaughter of the kings, and blessed him; to whom also Abra-
ham gave a tenth part of all,) first being by interpretation
King of Righteousness, and after that also, king of Salem,
which is, King of Peace; without father, without mother,
without descent, having neither beginning of days, nor
end of life ; but, made like unto the Son of God ; abideth
a priest continually. Now consider how great this man
was, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the
tenth of the spoils. And, verily, th~y that are of the sons
of Levi, who receive the office of the priesthood, have a
commandment to take tithes of the people according to
the law, that is, of their brethren, though they come out of
the loins of Abraham."
[Verse 17.] " For he testifieth: Thou art a priest for
ever, after the order of Melchisedeck."
[Verses 20, 21.] "And inasmuch as not· without an
oath he was made a priest.
"For those priests (under the Levitical law) were made
without an oath ; but this with an oath, by him that said
unto him, the Lord sware and will not repent ; thou art a
priest for ever, after the order of Melchisedeck."-Cross's
0/up-t, p. 132. F. M. Library, p. 257.
Language applied by inspiration to the priest of the Most
High God, and to the only begotten Son of God, is here
perverted to hallow the High Priest of Free Masonry.
Reader, tell me if the hand of Weishaupt is not in all
this 1 There cannot be a doubt of it, except what arises
o191tized by Coogle
-,
,
382 lLLUJIJNlSM IN THE
from the pious men belonging to the masonic priesthood ;
and when they know that the crafty Weishaupt was merry
at the reception his degrees met from the grave and learned
divines of England and Germany, they will know what to
do ; they will make haste to clear their skirts of this per·
version of the scriptures, and this defamation of the Lord,
who alone is a priest Jot ever after tile order of Mekhiae·
declr.
" 20°. Grand Master of all Symbolic Lodges."
It was a part of Weishaupt's plan, " Make your inferiors
believe, that all other secret societies, particularly that o(
Free Masonry, are secretly directed by us." (B. p. 204.)
This order of grand masters may, or may not, have con-
nexion with the plan of '\\.eishaupt ; but, certainly, it has
none with the symbolic lodges of North America.
"21o. Patriarch Noachite, or Chevalier Prussian."
I am very sorry to suspect evil of any thing pretending
to purity ; probably this degree has an object better than
that of introducing 'Veishaupt's patriarchal state, "when
each father shall, like Abraham and the patriarchs, become
the priest and absolute sovereign of his own family, and
princes and nations shall disappear from the face of the
earth, and that without any violence."
"Or Prussian Chevalier," or knight If this degree of
Free Masonry has been rightly named Pruasion, Frederick
is certainly intended, and it is prudent to doubt its being
j()tmded in evangelical truth.
" 2'2°. Prince of I..ibnnus."
" 23°. Chief of the Tabernacle."
-" 240, Prince of the Tabernacle."
The tabernacle was constructed by Moses for the cover-
ing of the ark of the covenant; it was the holy dwelling
place of the Divine glory.
It were better not to trifle with its sanctity, by constitu-
ting masonic chiefs and princes over it.-
" 250. Prince of Mercy."
"26o. Knight of the Brazen Serpent."
o191tized by Coogle
IIWHKR D.Kt;RE£:'1 OF FRI::£ MASONRY. 383
" So did the Hebrew prophet ro.iae
" The brazen serpent high;
" The wounded felt immediate cue,
" The camp forebore to die,"
AU know this; and common men neither know any other
brazen serpent, nor what proper or honest connexion
this can have with Free Masonry. This emblem Christ has
appropriated to himself, the true Prince of Mercy, in a way
that it cannot be common to a nocturnal fraternity.
"As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even
so must the Son of Man be lifted up ; that whosoever be-
Jie~eth in him should not perish, but have eternal life."-
(John, iii. 14 and 15.)
"27°. Commander of the Temple."
Not good; Masons may build the temple.
"28°. Knight of the Sun."
This is the degree called by Barruel and Robison Cheva·
lier du Soliel. Itis down very deep in the arcana of Free
Masonry ; and, by their account, it is properly placed.
Weishaupt prepared his pupils: by long trials, and passed
them through many degrees before he fully unveiled his
design against every form of civilized society, as well as
against revealed religion.
"29°. K.--H."
The Free Mason's Library, p. 317, unlocks this mystery.
What do you think it can be, reader1-Knight of that
Holy Name, which, to blaspheme, is unpardonable by infi-
nite mercy ; " it shall not be forgiven ; neither in this world,
nor in the world to come." Surely this ought to be the
last of the black catalogue of masonic degrees. But now
comes the royal secret, and Prince of Jlasons.
"30, 31, 32. Prince of the Royal Secret, Prince of Ma-
sons."
" 33. Sovereign Grand Inspectors General."
Grand Circular of tlte Sublime Sovereigns, Dalcho's
Oration1, p. 78.
I ·hardly know what to make of these things. They do
Digitized by 6""dogle
, ,
JI.LUMJNISJI, &c.
not appear well ; and yet the sublime sovereigns may be in·
nocent of the connexion. They are strangers to the wri·
ter; this evidence of their anti-Christian character is of a
higher tone, but by no means so full as that exhibited in
the work of Mr. Town; who, with his sponsors, and the
grand chapter, was undoubtedly innocent of any evil inten·
twns qainst the institutions of religion, and of our coun·
try.
. The guilty one is Free Masonry ; let her be taken and
condemned, while her poordupes escape.
The reader well recollects the· degree, called, by the
Abbe Barruel, Kado1ch, the horrid blasphemies of which
so shocked and overwhelmed his pious friend. That degree
he places next after Chevalier du Soliel, where the sublime
sovereigns place the degree K.-H.
Now, observe, that Kadosca is a Hebrew word,meaning
Holy; and K. H., initials of K11igAu Holy, are explained,
in 1816, by " Knights of the Holy Ghost." The inference
would seem to be, that the twenty-ninth degree of the so-
vereigns, and Kadosch, are the same. The steps of Free
Masonry are lofty, but her ways are not past finding otit. '
-o191tized by Coogle
'ROBISON'S BLOQUEN1' .oUIJ) PATRIOTIC APPEAL. 385
CHAPTER LIX.
" We are aot ol the Difht, nor of,d&rksae- ; for they \hat lleep,lleep
ill the .upt, uad tlaey that be drunken, are drunken iD the nifh&; but let
u, who are of the day, be 10bar."-l Thai. chap. v.
TaE words of Professor Robison are now to my purpose.
Familiar with the truths of natural science, largely versed
in the knowledge of·mankind, acquired by intercourse with
various nations in their polite circles; a favourite Mason in.
the lodges of Britain, France, Germany, and Russia, read
and practised in the higher degrees of the craft, Secretary .
of the Royal Institution in Edinburgh, of irreproachable life,
and of a patriotic spirit, his opinion is entitled t~ ~
weight.
(P. 353.) " The above accounts evince, in the most in:
controYertible manner, the dangerous tendency of all mya·
tical societies, and of all associations who hold secret meet-
ings. We see that their uniform progress bas been from
frivolity and nonsense, to wickedness and sedition. Weis-
haupt has been at great pains to show the good effects of
secrecy in the association, and the arguments are valid for
his purpose. But all his arguments are so many dissuasive
advices to every thinking and sober mind. The man who
really wishes to discover an abstruse truth, will place him·
self, if possible, in a calm situation, and will by no means
expose himseU' to the impatient hankering for secrets and
wooden; and·he will always fear, that a thing which ruo-
lu.tely conceals it1elj cannot bear the light." [i. e. Free Ma-
sonry.]
49
o191tized by Coogle
386 PROFE!SOR ROBISON'S
" All who have seriously employed themselves in the
discovery of truth, have found the great advantage ofopen
eommunication of sentiment. And it is against common
sense to imagine that there is any thing of vast impc:>rtabce
to mankind which is yet a secret, and which must be kept a
secretin order to be useful. This is against the whole expe·
rience ofmankind. And, surely,to hug in one'sbreastasecret
of such mighty importance, is to give the lie to all our pro·
fessions of brotherly love. What a solecism f a 8ecn!l to
enlighten and reform the whole world." [That is Free Ma-
sonry.]
" If there be a necessity for secrecy, the purpose of asso-
ciation is either frivolous, or it is sel1ish." [i. e. Free .Mav
sonry.]
" Now, in either case, the danger of such secret asseov
blies is manifest. Mere frivolity can never seriously occupy
men come to age. And, accordingly, we see, that in every
quarter of Europe where Free Masonry has been establish-
ed, the lodges have become seed beds of public mischie£
I believe that no ordinary brother will say, that the occupa·
tions in the lodges are any thing better than frivolous, and
very frivolous indeed. [So mote it be.] The distribution
of charity needs be no secret, and it is but a very small
part of the employment of the meeting. This being the
case, it is in human · nature, that the greater we suppose
the frivolty of such association to be, the greater chance
of its ceasing to give sufficient occupation to the mind, and
the greater is the risk that the meetings may be employed
to other purposes which require concealment. When this
happens, 1elj-intereat alone must prompt and rule. [i. e.
Free Masonry.] And, now,there il no length that1omemen
will not go, when they think themselve1 in no danger of de·
tection and punishment. The whole proceedings of the se·
cret societies of Free Masons on the continent, have taken
one turn ; and this is perfectly natural. In all countries
there are men of licentious morals. Such men wish to
h!lve a safe oppOrtunity of indulging their wit, satire, and
o191tized by Coogle
ELOQUENT AND PATRIOTIC APPEAL, 387
sarcasm ; and they are pleased with the support of others.
The desire of making proselytes is in every breast-and
it is whetted by the restraints of society. And all
countries have discontented menf whose grumblings will
raise discontent in others, who might not have attended to
some of the trifling hardships and injuries they met with,
had they not been reminded of them. To be discontented,
an~not to think of schemes of redress, is what w& cannot
think natural or manly ; and where can such sentiments
and schemes find such safe utterance, and such· probable
support, as in a secret society1 Free Masonry is [not] in·
nocent of all these things, but Free Masonry has been
abused, and at last totally perverted ; andso will, and must,
any such secret association, as long as men are licentious
in their opinions, or wicked in their dispositions.
" It were devoutly to be wished, therefore, that the
whole fraternity would imitate the truly benevolent conduct
of those German lodges who haveformally broken up, and
made a patriotic sacrifice of their amusement to the safety
of the state. I cannot think the sacrifice great or costly.
It can be no difficult matter to find as pleasant a way of
passing a vacant hour; and the charitable deeds of the
members need not diminish in the smallest degree. Every
person's little circle of acquaintance wiU give him opportu-
nities of gratifying his kind dispositions, without the chance
of being mistaken in the worth of the persons on whom he
bestows his favours.
" But not only are secret societies dangerous, but all so- ·
eieties whose object is mysterious. The whole history of
man is a proof of this position. In no age or country has
there ever appeared a mysterious association which did not
in time become a public nuisance.
"The object remaining a secret in the hands of th~ ma-
nagers, the rest simply put a ring in their own n01es, by
which they may be led about at pleasure; and 1tillpanting
after the 1ecret, they are the better pleased the less they
see of their way. A m)'ltical object enables the leader to
shift his ground as he pleases, and to accommodate himself
oi9,tized by Coogle
ADDRESS TO THE IRATEIUUTl',
to every current of fashion or prejudice. This, again,
gives him unlimited power ; for he can make use of these
prejudices to lead men by troops. He finds them already
auociated by their prejudices, and waiting for a leader to
concentratetheir strength, and set them in motion. And
when once great bodies of men are set in motion, with a
creature of their fancy for a guide, even the engineer him·
1elfcannot say, " thus far shaJt thou go, and no farther.' "
And here I would stop, fearing to weaken the force o(
the appeal of this enlightened and just man: butI have a
word to say to my brethren.
CHAPTER LX.
CO:'\CLUSIOX.
·• Let Jon bo without diAimulation. Abhor that which ill eYil, clean to
that wbicb·ill good : be kindly aft'ectioned one to another with brotherly
Jove, in honour preferring one another."-R6mGI'&I, xii. 9, 10.
Foa you, brethren,I commenced this work ; to you have I
dedicated it; and, if you have accompanied me through
ita pages, your heart will testifY with me, that it is Rot an
effort to seize the present excitement for · the wonbip
of Mammon ; but a collection of documents, selected
with labour and arranged with care, having in its aim sole-
ly the ill01tration of Free Muonry, without the fear ofman,
er the hope of earthly reward, to turn aside the shaft or
truth.
And what, my brethren, do we find Free Masonry7-
o191tized by Coogle
ADDR'£81 TO THE FRATERNITY.
When men that have never been behind the eurtain, at-
tempt to describe what is done there, your patience fails ;
your indignation finds not how to restrain itself. But
Messrs. Stearns, and Barruel, and Robison, with ten thou-
land more who are beginning to speak, have been behind
the scenes. You will not refuse to hear them ; otherwise
·the world will hear them, and the retort ig11oramu1, will set
home effectually.
Again, you have not known much about Free Masonry.
It il a fact. You. compared the little you saw with Ute
eharacter of the upright men in the lodges, and with the
purity of your own intentions, and thus Free Muonry hu
been concealed from you. To make an inspection of her
volumes, an examination of her peculiar principles, and to
oote the downward cou"e of her tendency, a11 Been in her
European history, you have had neither the means, nor the
leisure, nor the inclination.
I have done it for you, rising early and watching late,
sparing neither labour nor pains, but bringing what know·
ledge and what powers I possess, cheerfully and unremit·
tingly to the task, in the exercise.of that faithfulneSB which
looks towuda immortality. It is not in the heartll of my
countrymen to condemn me unheard, or, having heard, to
doubt what I Bay.
And what do we find Free Masonry 1
This interesting question is yet difficult satisfactorily to
8118Wer. To reply negatively is not difficult: "It is · not
wha& it pretends to be :" but to tell what it u, you can
see, brethren, is scarcely possible.
It is undoubtedly an imposture ; but not on this account
do men, on their death bed, reque11t illl funeral honours. It
is a fearless hypocrite ; but not for this do men bestow its
charities upon the widow and the orphan. It is the ene-
my of divine revelation ; but not on that account do men
of piety hallow its mysteriea with their prayers, and fill its
hu.ka with the Lread of heaven.
What is Free Ma~onry 1 Who can tell ?
o191tized by Coogle
390 FIRST EXTENSION Of 1'8EE ll.lSOHil\",
None doubt that it is very frioolotu; (Professor Robi-
son ;) but then what have men of sense to do with it t-
None doubt that it is a selfish institution; but why have ge-
nerous souls a share of its honours1 None can doubt that
its pretended origin, antiquity, and universality, are false;
but then why do men of truth clothe in aprmu on St. John'•
day!
Ah I I fear we have all been deceived in this scheme of
darkness, but the old adversary. We have thought it emp-
ty, while he has known how to fill it: we have thought it
innocent hypocrby, while he has prooed that no hypocri8y
I. innocent.
What is Free Masonry1 I reply freely, brethren.
The mother we know ; there can be no doubt of that;
she yet wears her apron and trowel like an honest woman.
But, bow, when, or by whom she was defiled to bring forth
the monster Free Masonry, does not appear. Many cir-
cumstances fix the birth in the beginning of the 18th cen-
tury : certainly that was the time when the child first be-
gan to run to and fro in the earth ; and the mother lodge
which nourished and clothed the bantling, and sent her
forth into the four quarters of the earth to deceive mankind,
carne herself into being A. D. 1717; indeed it· is 80; and
in 17~, " to the irreparable loss of the fraternity, several
valuable manuscripts concerning the lodges, regulations,
charges, secrets, and usages of Masons, were tO() hastily
burnt by some scrupulous brethren, who were alarm-
ed at the intended publication of the masonic constitu-
tions."
These important facts are stated by Preston, p. 171,
Grand Mastership of George Payne, by Hardie, p. "}.7, and
by TannehiU, p. "}.9. They are contradicted by no one.
The Book of Constitutions which occasioned the above
alarm and loss, came to the light three years after, A. D.
17'J3, and modestly claimed all those heavenly things and
names in support of Free Masonry, which thousands since
have been 80 simple as to repeat. And that bOok was the
o191tized by Coogle
J'lllST EX'tii:NSION OF FREE MASONltY, 391
first book, so far as my knowledge extends, in any Ian·
guage, treating of Free Masonry.
Now, for what was the fire- three years before kindled
by the scrupulous brethren, except, by destroying the re-
cords, to throw an air of mystery over the monstrous birth
they were hatching1 It is but too plain : for Preston, Law-
rie, Smith, and others, agree to state, that Free Masonry
first went &om this same mother lodge to India, in 1728-9,
and to America, in 1730; to Gibraltar and Madrid, 1727,
and to Saxony, 1730. "From this period," says "the re-
nowned historian of Free Masonry," Mr. William Preston,
from 1730 "we may date the commencement of the corue-
quenceand reputation of the •ociety in Europe, as daily ap-
plications were made for constituting new lodges, and the
most respectable characters of the age desired their name.
to be enrolled in our records." (Rltutratiom of Masonry,
p. 180. Duke of Norfolk, Grand Master.) And Smith
gives, at great length, the names and dates of the patents,
including some for every people in Europe, Germans, Rus- ~
sians, Swedes, Prussians ; for the East and West Indies ;
A.&ica and America; Boston and the Cape of Good Hope ;
the most distant parts of the earth, where Britain had colo-
nies, or commercial relations.
For these facts, as for most others in tl)is volume, I am
indebted, not to the enemies of Masonry, but to her standard
authors ; and they indisputably prove the very modem ex-
tension of the society, whatever was its origin. To this
same point the testimony of most diverse men, Robison and
Weishaupt, fully accords.
I will not cloud these singular facts with one conjecture,
butlea'fe them to the supposed descendants of Solomon to
chew upon, as I have done; and, if at length, brethren,
they find the true story of old Hiram and the temple is
wholly a lie, and that they have been abused with solemn
and multiplied asseverations of divinity, unitoersality, mtd
ezcellent antiquity, whil~ the bastard is scarcely a hundred
years old, and no better than she should be, I hope they
D1g1tized by Coogle
39'J FREE IIA805AY OF lUNG IIOLOIION.
will sympathize with the writer in the full expression of in·
dignation and abhorrence ; that they will be heartily glad
to mock at her, who, by ber numerous Boob of Constitu·
tions, professes to teach the seven liberal arts, and aleo tie
blGck art ; who proffers to give one a wonderful secret,
which is that she has none; who sprung from the cloutll--
formed by the smoke of her own records, whicA aoere burnt
f.,. eM 1ununzr of the my1tery; who stood the shock of
qes, and the revolutions of time, on the reputation of
King Solomon ; who is always and unchangeably the same
glorious fraternity, whether of three degrees, of .aeYen d&-
sreea,of thirty-three degrees, or forty-three degrees, or fifty.
three degrees, or of ninety tkgreu!
Yes, brethren, I hope you will feel no kindness of heart
towards one who has so abused your confidence, mocked
yourcredulity, and trifted with your good sense. Pay her
double for all her indecencies. The shamelea harlot l she
hu palmed heraelf upon us for chaste virtue. FuU of all
subtlety and craftiness, she would seem as simple and plain-
faced as a trowel. Promising to bring us to the light, she
tint puta thick bandage over our eyes. Seeming to honour
the Bible, she makes it one light, wlu!re the llqiUJ1'e and the
compa~1e1 are the other two: pronouncing charity with ten
tbotll!and t()Qgl.lea, sbe is careful how she extends it beyond
her own. She can read " mystic chronicles long since for-
gotten in tradition, and lost in history." She can hold con-
vene with the spirit of·other times, while she peruses the
mo~sy stones of dilapidated walls. She can speak the lan-
guage of Eden, " which has come down uncorrupted from
the plains of Shinar;" and she who employed Ham in the
ignoble office of Tyler, to the disrespect of his own mother
and aisters, now admits sisten to have their tyler aDd
lodpl
" Your zeal, my friend, carries you beyond the boundsof
modeaty. You say tougb things tha~ are true; but you
have added to the e.xtranganee of Free Muonry, giving
o191tized by Coogle
CONCLUSION. 393
her ninety degrees, thirty-seven more lteps to her ladder
than she ever thought of."
Stay; but why may not Free Masonry have the other
thirty-eeYen degrees 1 Where, brethren, are the ancient
land-marks 1 In 1730, the limit in America was three. In
1797, a push was made to 1even. In 1801, the sove-
reign inspectors announced thirty-three in direct ascent,
and tweaty collateral degree1. (See .Dalcho's Omtion1.)
In 1816, the ·number in direct ascent was increased to
forty.three. (See F. M. L.) And now why not go to
ninety 1 It is done. I have before me, in fair type, the
names, and the numbers against the names, of 11inety de-
gree~ of Free Masonry as given mEurope in 1825. They
are in French, divided intq four series ; the .first of thirty·
three~ degrees; the second of thirty-three philo-
•ophic degrees; the third of eleven myuic degrees, and
the fourth of thirteen hermeticand Cf4,ali8tic degrees. The
four series are again divided into seventeen classes. The
·last I copy for the satisfaction of the brethren ; but let me
not attempt to translate the universal language.
" ri'th•Ciass. 87°. SS.·. GG.·. P.·. P.·. G:. G.·. MM:.
Constit. Rep. Legit. de l'Ord pour
Ia premiere aerie.
sso. Idem pour Ia deuxieme serie.
89<'. Idem pour Ia troisieme serie.
000. Et demier degre SS:. GG.·. MM.-.
Abs. Puiss. Sup. de l'Ord.
Esprit du Dogme, p. 262.
" Whatever we tell
" Of Trulla that's improbable,
" SliaU be deposed by tb111111 have seen't,
" Or, what's u good, proclnced in print:
".And if they willDot take our word,
"We'll proveit true upou I'I!COrd."
Thus, brethren, such a flood of innovation has gone over
the ancie1tt land-marlu, that Free Masonry's own science,
. 50
Digitized by Coogle
CONCLUSION.
MtJIOIIia, could never again run the lines and establish the
comers ; without a very free use of herfaculty of Abrac.
It has not fared better with our anCient CUitoms and wa·
ges. Time was when men disabled in body or limbs, meu.
of mean parentage, and without some reputable mode of
obtaining a living, were excluded from our privileges. But
the licentiousness of modem times makes little account of
these wholesome regulations, admits the halt, the maimed,.
and the disreputable alike ; and this to an extent that we
are sometimes pinched for want of honourable men to sus-
tain the dignities of the society ; QJJr very grand masters
being lifted up by their station. And, if only men were ad-
mitted, we might yet hope, that some Napoleon in..Mason-
ry, by a complete overthrow of the temple, would remodel
it upon the ancient foundation, according to the usages of
antiquity ; but with the admission of ladies, all hope ia '
lost. Once a Mason always a Mason; the ladies have their
lodges, their fetes, their funerall; the ship is lost, we can-
not hinder it ; we have only to seize a plank, and save our
own lives.
Again, our emblems were our boast. We learned to cir-
cumscribe our passions by the compaues; to do as we
would be done by, upon the square; and freedom, fervency,
and zeal, were deeply instilled into our minds with challc,
charcoal, and clay. We could see the very image of inno-
cence in our wl1ite apro11s, the frailty of mortal hopes in a
broken column, and the truth of history in the death of Hi-
ram. But another has robbed us of our art ; an infernal
grand master has entered into our schools, takes our mas-
ter's gavel to knock off all religious prejudicea, the trestle-
board of Hiram to draw schemes of infidelity, and the Ma-
son's trowel to spread the cement of hatred to the cross.
It is high time for common men to forsake the school.
In view ofthese things, brethren, it had been my duty as a
master Mason, to confer with you plainly upon this subject;
(Vide Master's Charge;) my duty as one appointed "to cor-
rect irregularities," "to preserve unsullied the reputation of
o191tized by Coogle
CONCLVSIO!f. 395
flae fraiernity," and to whom" the (p&Cient land-maries of the
orderare intrusted;" tU one charged" never to suffera devia·
tion from the established U$ages and customs of the frater·
nity," and to "let no motive make me swerve from duty,
violate my vows, or betray my trust;" to address you,
brethren, freely, as I have done in this volume, upon the
subject of M.L-.onry. None can deny it: but I renounce
the harlot, I serve a better master, obey a holier command·
ment, and addn::1111 you in the name of your country, and of
your religion, your children, and your immortal hopes.
I have no apology to make for disrespect to Masonry;
but if, in the heat of the battle, or in the ardour of the
pursuit, I have once been unkind toward brethren, my
countrymen, and my friends, I regret it. Lodges and grand
lodges with their seals, authors and orators with their ef.
forts, are her organs, and have necessarily shared more or
less with her in condemnation. As organs of Free Ma-
sonry, I can proffer no apology to them ; but, if at any mo-
ment, sentiments have been· uttered disrespectful to them,
except as the organs of Free Masonry, I regret it.
You, reader, may be free to laugh at Free Mtuom, but
the writer is not. He was lawfully made, in a legally con·
stituted lodge of Free Masons, and has never openly signi-
fied to his lodge, nor to any lodge, that he should have no
more concern with the Daughter of the Night. Until he
has so signified to his lodge, his name supports the fraterni-
ty; and he will not revile the men. who compose it. He
will respect and honour them. They have been led in by a
good motive, and have not yet seen cause for so extreme
measures as attend a public disavowal of Free Masonry.
But the writer has seen cause, and will take an early op-
portunity, formally to withdraw his name from the lodge.
Others, having studied the subject, as he hasstudied it, will
revolt from it too : even reading the result of his labours,
they will have less relish for the lodges, less zeal for the
chapters, less eagerness in pursuit of the secret, less ambi-
tion to become great Masons, less love of Masonic pomp,
aprons, and sashes. and tit)('!ll.
o191tized by Goo ·le
396 CONCLt1810l'f.
The glory of it1 darlme11 luu departed from Free Ma.-
Bonry, and none is left it save the honour of the gentlemen ·
who support it ; mea more honouring than honoured The
present state of things will not long continue. The sober
part of the members will secretly or openly forsake the
nocturnal assembly ; the more sensible will avoid beiJl!
seen in public, childishly girt with a feminine badge, " more
ancient than the golden fleece, or Ron1an eagle, more ho-
nourable than the star and garter, or any other order which
can be conferred by any king, prince, potentate, or othez
person, except he be a Mason," viz. a white leather apron.
The society will fall entirely into the hands of the igno-
rant and selfish. And who will have the courage to rescue
it from their hands ? What good man will enter its dark
vaults to control the spirits who will assemble there 1 Not
one who prizes his good name enough to avoid bad com-
pany ; not one who is unwilling to countenance dark delu·
sion, at the risk of being accounted simple, or deeply de-
signing ; not one who has understandmg to perceive, that
in supporting a hypocritical mystery, he will stand convict-
ed before the public of some base purpose, some pursuit
of darkness, some selfish aim, which, to succeed, must, like
the fallen angel, ''be cautious of day."
Such there are, and will be. To them Free Masonry is
suitable ; they are welcome to it. But the virtuous and
upright, the pious and faithful, the just and true, have no
proper connexion with Free Masonry ; those who revere
the testimony of the Amen, the faithful and true witness,
" Whosoever shall be ashamed of me, and of my words;
of him also shall the Son of Man be ashamed, when he
cometh in the glory of his Father, with the holy angels:"
to them I call, in the language of the prophet, " Come out
of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and
that ye receive not of her plagues."
TUE F.XJ>.
o191tized by Coogle
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Cuu. L Preteuaiou of Free Muomy to date from the CN&tion; and
to p1'8111VVation by the pillare ol Enoch. P. 1.
Csu. n. The refutation of theee hip claims. P. 6.
CBAP. IlL Enoch'• aubterrauiiOUI temple. P. n.
Cuu. IV. Di8covery of Enoch's rolden triaurle, by the eervanu of
Solomon, ebiuing amid the darlmea. P. 15.
Cuu. V. The destruction of the subterraueou temple. P. !!!..
Cuu. VL Review of the above pretenllio1111, with the sanction of the
G~d Chapter of Rbode-Ialand to tlae work CO&ltaiDiul{
them. P. 26.
Cuu. VII. Geutler-ninpwithFree Muoury. P. 34.
CJUr. Vill. The Book of Conatitutiona ofMUB&Chuaetta, and the black-
letter manumpt. P. S9.
CHAP. IX. Teatimouj to the ability of a Master Muon. P.51.
Csu. X. Muouic Chart. P. 55.
·· CJUr. XI. Royal Ardl Embleml; Prayer for Novice. P. 61.
CJUr. XII. Fellow Craft's Derree; Free .M&IIODI'J a Science. P. 67.
Cn.a.r. XIIL Free .Maeonry'a Plea for Diaaimulat.on; herperuaal of an-
cient arcbivea on mouldering ru.ina of dilapidated walla.
P. 71.
Cuu. XIV. Degree of Muter Muon; Prayer and funereal ceremony
of initiation, with Dalcbo's contempt of the MAJier'r uord.
P. 85. .
Cu.t.r. XV. The atory of the Rullians,.with Dr. Dalcbo's oondemuation
of the tradition. P. 93.
CuAP. XVI. Vengeance oflecrehocieties; Lodge work imitated. P. 99.
CuAP. XVII. The iugloriooa death of Hiram AbiJT. P. 104.
Cuu. XVIII. The Masonic C&lllle, or Free Muonry not balf finished
at the Degree of Perfection. P. 109.
CuAr. XIX. The officen and buaiDCI!II of a lodge. P. 116.
Digitized by Coogle
398 'UBLE OF CONTENTS.
Cuu. XX. Brick and mortar origin ef Free Masonry. Dermott'•
Ahlman Rezon. P. 123.
Cuu. XXI. Origin of Free Maeonry, with· her prevarications. Hutch·
inson'a Spirit of Maeonry. P. 12'7.
Cau. XXII. Ori4rin of Free Masonry; Charges and Emblema. P. 13!•
Cmr. XXIII. The Masonic Oath; her feundations at the pinn&ole;
her den discovered by removing the mountain of preten-
sions. P. 137.
Cuu. XXIV. The basenefiiJ of Masonry cannot dillpron ita exiateal.ce.
Instances of human perver~~en-. P. 146.
Csu. XXV. Free Masonry attired in her own apron. P. 151.
CIW'. XXVI. The Royal Arch standing 466 yean without a. found&•
tion. P. 159.
Cau. XXVU. Town's Speeulatin Free Masonry. P. 169.
C.ur. XXVID. Free Masonry founded on Gospel truth. P. 1'7S.
Cau. XXIX. Evangelical Outlines of Free Masonry. P. 1'76.
Cau. XXX. Free Masonry's pa.rallel between her excellent ll8lf and
Divine Revelation. P. 185.
Cuu. XXXI. To prove any great man a M&~on. Three degreea of
Masonry typical of three greatev81ltll. P. 194.
Cuu. XXXll. A concise method of pro'fing by Free Mucmry, that a
heathen ill a Christian. P. !00.
-Cnu. XXXUI. A lillt of Masonic worthies, with a rule to llhow, that
any man of eminent 181.1'11ine ill a Free Muon. P. !05.
Cuu. XXXIV. The Masonic word, " theappropriate name of the pro·
mised Measias." Mr. 7btm. P. !10.
Cn.lr. XXXV. A plan, with blanb, in aid of Free Masonry. P. !1'7.
Cuu. XXXVI. Rev. Mr. Stearns' Inquiry. P.m.
- Cuu. XXXVU. Free Masonry iiiDeillm. P.rrl.
Cuu. XXXVill. Free Masonry ill pure Deism ; her unity in Eeeen-
tials. P.!33.
Cu.lr. XXXIX. Definition of Deism; Esprit du Dogme com.., to mock
at Revelation, pleading Muonic charity for hill religion. P.
931.
Cau. XL. Arguments to show that Free Muonry is capable of blu-
o,g,tized by Coogle
T.\BLE OJ' CONTENTS. 399
phemy,drawn from her ropated orijrin, avowed principle~~,
and uniform manner~~. Her doctrine of expediency. P. !46.
Cmr. XLI. E.prit'a definition of Emblems, taken without leave from
the ancient Charch. Atheiml. P. 252.
Cau. XLII. Continuation of the Emblems; for the abuse of which
Flee Masonry ia preeented at the bar to be tried bJ the pub-
lic. P. 160.
Cau. XLIIL The Coptic prieata do not believe in the reality of devi!l,
and of angela, nor in a God that wu born, and died, and
roae again. P. !65.
Cau. XLIV. Apostrophe to Barruel and Robi8on. P. i73.
Cuu. XLV. AbW Barrael made a Muon. P. t'17.
Cau. XLVI. Hia account of man1obno:aioua doctrinel in the Sublime
Depel. P. !85.
Cuu. XLVII. Profilllor Robison'• account of Froe Masonry in Fruce.
P.314.
Can. XLVIII. All account of German Masonry, and an embUIY to
the caveeof Old Aberdeen. P. ~.
CBAP. XLIX. Froe Maaonry the tool of the lllumineea. P. 333.
CJU.P. L. The Brother Recruiter, or lnainaator. P.338.
Cau. LL The morality of Illuminism. P. 342.
- Cuu. LII. Weishaupt's Imprearive View• of the Nature of Secret
Societioll. P.346.
Cuu.Lm Weiahaupt'auftknown Origin of FreeMasonry. P. 352.
Cuu. LIV. Plan for the di6uaiou of the light of lllwniniam. P. 355.
CJI.\P. LV. The Degree of Hich Priest, and contempt of Froe Ma·
aonry. P. 359.
Cau. LVI; Plan of the Illwnineea to destroy Christianity by connect-
ing it with Masonry. P. 362.
Cau. LVIL. Female Maaoua; incapable of ailence when they might find
the whole a cheat. P. 368.
Can. LVIII. The 1111d of the Gellll&n Fratemit1; a glimmer of Illa-
miniam in the higher Degrees of Free Masonry. P. 378.
CBAP.LIX. · Prof-r Robiaon'aappeal to the Masonic Fraternity. P.
385.
Cau. LX. ConclUiion. P. 388.
•
o191tized by Coogle
;
..
'I
