{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1828__taylor___syntagma_of_the_evidences_of_the_christian_religion.pdf","mytitle":"Syntagma Of The Evidences Of The Christian Religion","mylang":"de"}
s OF THE
EYID~ES OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION.
BEI!IO
A VINDICATION
OP THE
MANIFESTO
OP
THE CHRISTIAN EVIDENCE SOCIETY,
AGAINST THE ASSAULTS OF
THE CHRISTIAN INSTRUCTION SOCIETY
THROUGH THEIR DEPU,.T,
\ J. P. S.
COMMONLY REPORTED ·roBE OR. ,IOHN PYE S~IITH, OF Hm!Eitl'ON.
BY
THE REV. ROBERT '!AYLOR, A.B. and M.R.C.S.
ORATOR OF THE AREOPAGUS,
PRISONER IN OAKHAM OAOL, FOR THE CONSCIENTIOUS llfAINTEN.oiNea
OF THE TRUTHS CONTAINED IN THAT MANIFBSTO.
" Enoris coi!Tincite ! nam i.Jitercipere scripta, et publieala!D Yelle lllhlllfll'J~• •
le~tionem, non e1t Deum defendere, aed nritatill teatilicMlo•em timere."
.A&NORitl• .
ft.GaDon :
PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR,
AND PUBLISHED BY RICHARD CARLILE,
62, i'LK:ET 8Tllli:ET.
1828.
Digitized by Goog[e
'.
Digitized by Google
THE
PUBLISHER TO THE READER.
Thou hast, in this Pamphlet, all the sufficient
ev.idence, that can be adduced for any piece of
.
history a thousand years old, or to prove an error
of a thousand years standing, that such u persou
as Jesus Christ never existed ; but that the earliest
christians meant the words to be nothing more
than a personification of the principle of reason, of
goodness, or that principle, be it what it may,
which may most benefit mankind in the passage
through life.
Dig1tizeci by Google
r
. :..
o; tizedbyGoogle
i
·CONTENTS.·
Ta& MA.NIFEBTo •• ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
PaoLEG~IIENA • •••••••.•••••••.•••.•••••• , •••.••••••
SECTION "l,....;..On the general Evidence or the pretended
g:enuin~~~ of th~ f?bristian ~cr!P.t.~~· ••
St:cTION 2.-0f Acts and Edicta for the alteration of the
Pa,e.
1
7
15
Scriptures. . . . . . . . •. . . •• •• •••. • • •. • •. . 24
SEcTION a.-Alteration of the Gospels in the reign of
Anastasius • ••••••••... • •••••••••• •••• 27
SECTION 4.--0n the assertion that Archbishop Lanfranc
• eft'ected an alteration of the Scriptures.... 35
SECTION 5.-0f the nature of various readings, and the
Inferences to be drawn from them •• •... 38
SECTION 6.-0n the s.tory of the Rocket Maker . •• ••••• 44
SECTION 7.-Liberties taken with the Scriptures by
Erasmus . . . • . . . •. . . • •• • •. . • • •. • •. • . . 48
SECTION 8.-The Origin IUld Character of the Text in
the common editions of the Greek Testa-
ment •• ••••.•••••.••••••••••.•••• ~.... 62
SECTION 9.-Immora1 tendency of the Scriptures.. •••• •• 58
SECTION 10.-0n the Prototypes, or lint specimens and
originals of the Gospels •••.• , •• •••• •• 65
SEcTION H.-Proofs that no such person as Jeeus Christ
ever exiated, and of the imposture of the
Go~pel History ...•..••.........·..••. ·7ti
Digitized bvGoogle
viii CONTENTS.
SECTION Ht-That the Gospel Narratives are derived
from the_ Idolatrous Fictions of India,
Egypt, Greece, and Italy••••••••••••••
SECTION 13.-The Indian~~ C.rilt.; •••••••••••••••
Par•·
85
ib.
SECTION 14.-The Egyptian Jesus Christ.............. 95 t
SEOTION 1:5.-The Phenician Jesus Christ........ . ..... 96
gsoTio~ 16,....;.TJle·AtlieliilU:l Jesus Cl'ltist.............. 91
~OTIO"W ·11.-HI!ItOties of t1ie Demon Je.eu:s, ah~eedent' to
the lleceived· Gospela•••••••••••_
.,. •• l(H
····································~····
109
' :.
•
• • ~ 4
,,·
o;g;ozed by Goog[e
• 1/• ; ; ·:;.,,·. '( . '•
'
. : ~ '
::. /:.1\.{ANIFESTO : .. J
, ' . I ; Jl
OF 'rBI!:
CHRISTIAN EVIDENCE SOCIETY.
. ~ I • • I
. .. &IQ!JlW.ed, NoocmiJer 12th, 1824.
TO ALL PROTESTANTS AND MEMBERS OF PROTESTANT
CONGREGATIONS.
•.·· j
MEN AND BRETHREN,
·To'O· ar~ MA)by iti\1ted· to 'attend t~e Discussions of
the Evidences of tlte Christian Religton, whiCh are held
every Tuesday evening, in the Soci'ety's Areopagus, 86,
Cannon-~tree~, City, to which all respectable ~rsons,
up()Jl_'ob~rvance ·of the necessary ii:!gtilations, are adinis:-
Sible: ·and \lrbue all competent pt\rsons;~_upon a prcvioqs
notification oftfleit intentions, arc aliow'eil to deliver their
~eti~e~t~.u~on .tbe' topic of discus5ion_~:_. · ·
. This'Soeiety aijms only to . pror~l<)te ·~· love of Truth,
the· practi~e·, of Virtue, and the .intluence of Un~ver-sa)
.~enev·~len~e.;· a!J opposed to foolish and c9ptradic~?.~
.s!.-#e~s ot'religious faith-,....derlved.fr~m th~ i~or~~e,:~
1>~».ar~q_'S ag~s, ~d craftily imposed upon ,i):u~ .!JlaJ)y, tor
tf.\e .~ggr~di~nlCnt of the power'and .iqilU~n<:e .o~ a few~
who,'aware of the suspicious o~iginatiou of their'pretended
Di~iuc Revelation;,. h~ve ~oWil .tbe~neell'es afllud cand
a~ed to m~intain the same, where. they mighc:be
auwerad by le~rood ao.d able men,· U:d might.ha~ th,eir
accii'tac:y,e~talllis)led, or their ertors cQrrected..· ·,: "..:.,
. ~-O~r: }t:EVRJt.BJ~o· 0R~TOlt; n:. rc'gti~,, ~n~_, t,(tnqiiif,~
ordamed Clergyman ot the :Estabbshed (!bliH.bj bath
B
o;g,tized by Google
ii MANII'EBTO.
publicly challenged all Ministers and Preachers (and
hereby repeats the challenge}-to come forward and show,
if they can, the contrary of the RQUI\ ~RAND PROPOSI•
TIONS, which, in the Society's Manifesto," To all Clergy-
men, Ministers, and Preachers of the Gospel," are
declared to have been, as far as to us appeared, fully and
aniUlSWerably demonstrated. ,·
The ,PROPOSITIONS are,
I. THAT THE SCIUPTURltll, OF THE NEW TESTAMENT,
WERE . NOT WRITTEN, JIY THE PERSONS, WHOSE
N.&JOS TH-Y BEAR.
II. THAT THEY DID NOT APPEAR, IN THE TIMES TO
WHICH THEY REFER.
Ill. THAT THE PERSONS, OF WHOM THEY TREAT, NEVER
EXISTED.
IV. THAT THK EVBNTI, WHICH TH&Y RELATE, !'fEVER HAP-
l'ENED.-Of these Propositions,
The PRoOFS are,
I. THAT TH.& ScJUPTURES oF '-ra~ N. T. WEKK
-NoT, &c.-:lJccaus.e.~' ih;annot be.sbow~, by any evidence,
tbat they were '' "W}'it~n'by the persons whose names they
bear ;" and because it can· be shown by evidence, both
uternal and internal, that they were written by otker
persons.-By evidence external, In the formal acts and
edicts of Christian ·Emperors, Bishops_, and .Councils,
.issued ftotn time to time, for the general 'alteration, or
'total renovation :of these Scriptures, according to their
oWJi· caprice'(a). ';. And in the admissions of ihe inost
learned Critics and Divines, as to. the alterations which
. ..
(a) Sach wer8 ·tho.e Gf the Emperors Constantine and Theodosius, and
t~ia •f the Empei!Or AnuliJ.ajus. "When Mesll8la was consul (that is, in the
year of Christ, 606) at c·oni;\an\inople, by order of the Emperor Anastasius,
'lM, Holy: · Oospeb~ as betng ;written by illiterate Evangelists, are censured·
alld C41rreeted.' 'Piotor T11tl.v~~eMis, an Afrlqan Bish!)p, quoted by Lardner,.
Yo!. 3, p. WT. See aho 101 accollllt of a general alteration of these Scrip~
tures, ·" to oecotttllt6date llum to U.e f.t~itll, qf ·the tn"tluxl~x,'' -by Laafrauc,
:~c.h~~;~~~ ~nterbury, a~:reco~dell by Beausobrc•. Riijtoi~,dc Ma1!ic~ee~
Digitized by Coogle
lI
MANIFESTO. iii
these Scriptures have, from tiJile to time, undergone (b).-
By evidena internal, In the immoral, vicious, and wicked
tendency of many passages therein remaining, and ·by the
insertion of others, whose only drift is to enhance the
power of K.irigs and Priests (c).
II. THAT THEY DID NOT APP.KAR, IN THE TIMES TO
.WHICH THEY RBFER; is demonstrable,-By evidence
external, In the express admissions of Ecclesiastical
Historians, of their utter inability to show WHEN, or
wHERB, or BY WHOM, this collection of writings was
first made (d). And in the admissions of the most
learned critics, as to the infinitely suspicious origination
of the present Received Text (e).-By tvidetu;e internal,
In innumerable texts therein contained, betraying a com-
.paratively modern character, referring to circumstances,
which did not exist till later: ages, and quoting other
Scriptures, which had previously formed the faith of the
first Christian Churches, but which, without any assign-
able reason, or alleged authority, have since been re-
jected (f).
(b) ADJIJSSJO:n OP THE JIOIT LEARNBD CRITICB-lst, "There were in
the MSS. of the N. T. OKB HUNDRED AND THIRTY THOUSAND Various
readings." Unitar. New Version, p. 2'2.-2d. " The Manuscripts from
which the received text was taken, were stolen by the librarian, and sold to
a sky-rocket maker, in the year 1749.'' Herbert Marsh, Bishop of Peter-
borourh, vol. 2, p. 441.-Sd. For the moMt important pauage ill the
book of Revelation, there was no original Greek at all, but •• Erum1u1
wrote it himself iD Switzerland, in the year 1616." Bishop Marsh,
'vol. I, p. 320.
(c) IKJIORAL, &c. See Romans, iii. 7.; Epist. John, ii. 10.; Heb. xii.
29.; Heb. xlii. 17.; Romans, xiii.; 1 Peter, il. IS; Luke, xiv. 26. &c. &c.
(d) See Mosheim's Eccles. Hist.; Jones on the Canon, &c. pa11im.
(e) RzcznED T&XT, &c. " The Received Text rests on the authority of
no more than twenty or thirty manuacripts, most ofwhich are of little note.''·
Unitar. Version, lntrod. 10. "It was completed by the Elzevlr edition of
1624-." ib. Mark melll the retaining therem, and circulating as the Word
qfGod, with consent or connivance of all parties, several passages known
and admitted by all, to be Forgerier and /,ie•. I John, v. 7.; 1 Tim. iii.
16.-EzceUeAt Morality this ! I
. (f) CoKPARATIVSLY MODERN, &c. See 2 Epiat. John, D
. ; 1 Tim. iii
S.; James, v. 14.; Matth. xviii. 17.; I Corinth. xv. 7. 82.; I Peter, iv. a:
B 2
Digitized by Google
iT . HANIF EST.o•
.III. THAT THB PBRSDNS, OF WHOM 'I'H.BY T&EAT,
NBVBR EXISTI.m; Because demoniacs, ·devils, ghosts,
angels, hobgoblins (g), persons who had once been dead,
who could walk on water, ride in the air, &c. 8Uch as
Satan, and Jesus Clrrist, are the persons of whom these
Scriptures treat; and that such persons never existed is
demonstrable ;-1st. From the utter incongruity of such
figments with the immutable laws·ofsound reason.-2ndly.
From the total absence of all historical reference to their
existence.-And 3rdly. From innumerable passages of
these Scriptures themselves, which folly admit the merely
vi~ionary Hypostasis of their fabulous hero '(h).
IV. THAT THB EVENTS, WHICH THEY RELATE, N.E:VBR
HAPPENED, is demonstrable (further than as a conse-
quence of the preceding proposition), from the fact, that
some, many, or all of these events, had been ptevi.ously
related of the gods and goddesses Df Gre.ece and Rome,
and more especially of the Indian idol CRRISHNA, whose
religion, with less alteration than time and translations
have made in the Jewish Scriptures, may be ~ed i,n
every dogma and every ceremony of the Evangelical
Mythology. ·
MEN AND BRETHREN,
If these things can be denied or disproved-your Minis-
ters and Preachers are earnestly called on to do so.-
y our Missionaries, who boast their readiness to carry
their Gospel to the remotest shores of the earth, are again
and again entreated to become its advocates before assem-
(g) HOBGOBLUIS. See Acts, xix. 15.
(.\) VtstoNARY HYPOSTASIS. See Luke, is:. 29.; Mark, ix. 2.; Luke
xxiv. 31.; l John, v. 6, and innumerable other passages, in perfect accord-
ance with THE TRUll: AND GENUINB GOSPELS of the most primitive Cbristi~ns,
which taught that he was ninety-eight miles tall, and twenty-four mtles
broad ; that he was not crucified at all ; that he was never born at all ; that
by faith only are we saved, &c. &c. ; all equally indicative that christianity
had no evideaee at all ; but was a matter of mere coneeit, fancy, or super-
stition. from first to last.
Digitized by Google
MANIFESTO,
blies of intelligent and learned men, here, in their native
land ; where, upon due notice of their intentions, and
upon the condition of allowing themselves to be respect-
fully questioned, and learnedly replied to, they will be
received with honor, and heard with attention.
By the assembled Society,
. ROBERT TAYLOR, A.B. and M.R.C.S.
Orator of the Areopagus, and Chaplain of the Society
of Universal Benevolence.
Areopagtt8 of the Christian Evidence Society,
London, February, 1827.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
PROLEGOMENA.
To the Readers ofthe Manifesto of the Christian Evidence
Society, being, as I hope they are, readers also of the
Answer to that Manifesto.
READERS,
Observe ye, I call ye not" MY readers," " my friends," " my
intelli()'ent countrymen," '' my worthy countrymen," " my
intelligent and reflecting readers," "judicious inquirers, &c."
Neither do l appeal to you" as men of sense,"" as upright men,"
nor by any of those coaxing and wheedling epithets, which the
Rev. Dr. John Pye Smith, the learned and reverend author of the
Answer to .the Manifesto, gives, with such a prodigal liberality,
to any body, that will have the goodness to see things just as
he does, and come to the conclusions which he prescribes.
-Because, I have ever thought, that, when men appeal to the
judg·ment of the public, it is but fair, that they should allow
the public to be none the leHs judicious, intelligent, and upright,
even should the verdict of public opinion be decidedly against
them.-Neither do I take upon myself to tell you, as the Reve-
rend Doctor John Pye Smith does, that, if his arguments seem
more convincing .to your minds than mine--" you must be in-
capable of reasoning·, and immoveable by evidence; or more
awfully still,you must have sacrificed both rea~on and conscience
to the darkest depravity ofsoul," (p11eo-e 54,) or be no better, than
he quotes the authority of the prince of classical critics, DR.
BE.NTLEY, for calling you," obstinate and untractable wretches :"
(page 27.)-Because, such language, quite proper and evangeli-
cal as it may seem to be, when used by doctors ofdivinity, would,
in my use of the like, seem to be blttBtering, and perhaps, justify
the doctorin charging me, with putting forth my opinions," with
a front of unblushingassurance," which, indeed, I should be sorry
to do.-For, if my opinions, will not stand upon their own merits,
nor get possession of the conviction of those, to whom they are
submitted, by their own intrinsic demonstration, I have nothiog
more to say for them, I can neither coax nor frighten the reader,
·to make him shew them any sort of favour.-I do, indeed, most
cheerfully, come to the ground of fair and legitimate controversy,
and I call on the readers of both sides, as heartily and sincerely
as my reverend opponent can,-to" think for themselves, to
examine fully, reason fairly, and conclude honestly."-Only, I
Qnoot go, with the doctor, to the length of requesting them to
do so DEVOUTLY ; becattBe, the grealm88 of .the ooca8icm
Digitized by Coogle
PROLEGOMENA.
demands their PR.\YERs," (p. 55.) No! no! He's welcome to all
the advantage, the devotion and prayers can give to his side
of the argument. I shall never own that mine is in a GoD
HELP IT ! condition.-Not, that I mean to blame the doctor for
bringing heaven and earth together to make the best of his
argument-nor do I think it at all discreditable, to any maa's
moral character, who believes in the efficacy of ·prayer,-that
he should turn his thoughts thereto,-and-feel it to be high
time, to seek his peace with God, upon arriving at the last para-
graph ofa treatise, in every page of which he had abused God's
creature and violated every precept of meekness, forbearance
and charity, which be professes to believe, that God's authority
had bound him to obey.
Now, let the reader, christian or unchristian, partial or im-
partial, judicious or injudicious, take the Reply to a Paper
entitled, Manifes.to of the Christian Evidence Society, into his
hand,--and before one single argument or objection is advanced
against the Manifesto,-he finds the reverend answerer almost
apoplectic, with rage, and choaking in the eructations of his own
bile. He is in the ridiculous plight of one, who, in the intensity
of his passion, forgets his reason and exposes himself to the suf-
ficient refutation of all he has to say, in a HEY DAY! What's
the matternow ! what is it all about !
..This, l hold to be as good an answer, and as complete a re-
proof for the abusive language of this treatise, as the reader
will require from me. But to save trouble and to clear the way
for genuine and rational argument, in which anger should have
no authority, and abuse no weight, l separate the mere epithets
of anger and abuse, to stand in a vocabulary by themselYes, that
the reader may see a fair specimen of the christian spirit, and
lay:it on, or take it off, as he pleases. He will only recollect
that-he will find nothing of the kind retorted upon the learned,
pious and excellent divine, whose disposition prompted, as
(perhaps we shall see) his argument required them.
VOCABULARY OF EPITHETS applied by the REV.JriRN PYB
SMITH, D.D. in vindication of the Christian Instruction Society,
versus the Chri,stian Evidence Society.
Page .
~J. Flagrant instance.
2. Audacious falsehood.
:.a. Not. posiible to entertain a hope that the person i8
. .sincere.
4•. A dishonest man•
./'J. A false witness.
6. A.wilful deceiver.
6-t-7. Unhappy writer.
. 7--8. Moat shameful misrepresentations.
Digitized by Google
PROL EGO!IlEN-'•
Page
7-9. Unblushing falsehoods.
10! A front ofdogmatical assuranc~.*
9-Partly of shameful misrepresentatiOns.
Partly of downright falsehoods.
Gross untruth.
Dishonourably omitted.
Is-Unfair.
Absurd.
19-Disgraceful ignora~ce.
Shameless perversion.
22-Ig·norance.
Dishonesty.
23-Falsely pretended to quote.
Grossly perverted.
27-Disgusting.
Falsehood.
Audacity.
This Manifesto writer.
Base misrepresentations.
28-Dishonestly garbled.
31-Dishonourable. ·
Base.
Wicked in soul.
How miserably incompetent.
How dishonest.
How aggravated.
Fraudulent, wicked man.
32-Gross falsehood.
Impudent forgery.
34-Unprincipled slandererand deceiver.
Dishonourable Manifesto writer.
36-Highest pitch of daring.
First born of calumny.
Defying all troth and justice.
37-This contemptible writer.
9
40-The Manifesto writer, with despiteof truthand knowledge.
One of the most unprincipled and impudent liars, that evel:'
opened a mouth, or set pen to paper.
43. Mass of impudence and misrepresentation, so aggravated,
that language has no name strong enough.
Unspeakable folly and wickedness of his mind.
The pretence of reference to the learned christian advo-
cates Mosheim and Jones, is a m08t injamouB piece of
Jorgery.t
* All these epithets are expended oa the &nt three pages of the answer,
before one singfe excertien is taken to the Manifesto.
t Tbe good doctor • l'age seelD8 to. have driven him blind, the reader
has only to look at the 3rd and 4th propositions of the Manifesto, and he will
see, tha& 110 rcferrnce is there 01ade or pretended to be made to Moabeim or
Jones.
Digitized by Google
10 PROLEGOMENA.
Page
53-The most false ofall that have ever disgraced the use of
l&Deouage.
54-Impudent falsehood.
This outrageous and insulting writer.
56-The boastful Manifesto.
Its artfulnesa.
Its effrontery.
The imposture.
The dreadful and unblushing falsehoods.
The outrages on truth and reason.
Perfect disregard of argumentative equity.
Its pitiable writer.
Unprincipled rant.
A shameless lie.
6o-Folly or knavery.
This unhappy man.
Enormous instance.
Conscious to himself, that he is constantly contriving and
publishing the basest falsehooqs.
Alas ! miserable man. ·
It is not ignorance, it is not error, that prompts his homd
course.
EI'ID OF THE VOCABULARY OF ABUSI~E EPITHETS.
" There is some soul of good, in things nil,
Would men discerningly bot sift it out."
So the reader, who has a mind to entertain his im~ination, by
gathering all that may be gathered, even from this unsightly ac-
cumulation of abuse, will pick up a much greater quantity of
admission, than the doctor's argument intended to spare.
When a disputant throws off so violently, as well nigh to
throw himliCif and all, and dashes upon accusations so unmea-
sured, as, ere they can be looked upon, be himself seems obliged
to recall them-(as here, in the doctor's'very first paragraph,-
where be says," the booluand pa~tBageB referred to Ba1J no BUCh
thing a11 u imputed to them," and ere he finishes the period,
turns it off with the poor mitigation, that the professed quota-
tions are grossly falsified,-whereby, the reader who can draw
an inference, must see, that, the books and Pa.8Sae""eS referred
to, do say some such thing as is imputed to them ;)-he only
shows, that his disposition, to bring a railing accusation, is of
full stature, while his ability, to stand by that accusation, is in
its infancy.
Undoubtedly, the man, who would offer that to the public as
a professed quotation, for which there really was no ori&inal
and no BUCh thing in the author, most make a very frightful
Digitized by Google
-------------------------~~ --~
PROLEGOMENA. 11
compromise of his own moral character; and if no probable
plea, of error, mistake, misprint, or variation of copies could be
put in, in arrest of censure, might deserve someone, (but one
would do) of those sentences of condemnation, that ftow so
copiously from the doctor's pen. . But if it really turns out, that
the professed quotations are bond fide quotations, and the pas-
sages referred to, are really there, in the books and places
referred to, I hope a man may be accounted as far from being a
" dishonest man, a false witness, or a wilful deceiver,'' as Dr.
Smith himself, even though he may not have seen the passage
with Dr. Smith's eyes, nor understood it with his understanding.
When charges brought against an adversary are utterly incom-
patible with each other, their juxta-position is their sufficient
refutation; and like similar terms on the opposite sides of an.
equation, they may be both effaced, and leave the accuracy of
our conclusion unendangered. Thus; when the doctor charges
the writer of the Manifesto with "falsely pretending to quote,"
and immediately subjoins " the tendency and application of
whicl& he has so grossly peNJerted," (p. 23) ; the two charges
involve a negation of each other, and constitute an instance of
that over-hurling rage, which has to recall its own bolt.-
" Falsely pretending to quote" (the reader will observe), is the
doctor's first fting-but conscious, that 'tis an overftiog, he
shrinks immediately from the DEFENCE-DIRECT, by which such.
a charge might be met, with-the demonstrative. THERE THE
BOOK IS ! THERE IS THE PLACE REFERRED TO,-THE PAGE,
THE CHAPTER, THE VERSE, THE LINE, THE VERY WORDS j
IS IT NOT so 1 and you have, instead, the doctor's mere opinion,
that, the quoter " has grossly perverted the tendency and ap-
plication of it:"-upon which tendency and application the
doctor may quibble, as long as he lists, but his very doing so, is
an ~~:dmission, that, the quoter really HAS quoted, and bas NOT
"falsel,y pretended to quote," but has been falsely charged
with haVIng .done . so. For which, 1 hope, the doctor.
will see, that " the greatness of the occasion demands his
PR~YERS," (p.M.)
When,in the very torrent of abuse,and in the deluge ofscornful
andcontemptuousinvective,wedi.scoverindicationsoffear,and that.
our man of mettle, amidst all his blustering, is Qnly "whistling
alo';ld to keep his courage up," and crying WHo's AI'RAID 1
wh1le his heart is in his shoes ; we learn, that it is not in what is
said, that we are to look for what is meant: and that the con-
t~mpt, that a man expresses for his adversary, is not the gage of
h1s adversary's strength; but of his own weakness. There is no
common-place in the world perhaps, more common than that
from the Ars Poetica ofHoraee,- ·
"Nee deus iuterait nisi dignua vindice nodus
lnclderit,"
Digitized by Goog[e
12 PROLBGOMBNA.
i. e. A man should not disturb the order of nature to hetp
him to look for the cat. Had this learned and truly Chria-
tian Divine reaJly felt that the Manifesto writer was that
pitiable writer, that contemptible writer, that mi•erable,
iMOmpetenl, that disgracefully ig1t0rant writer, that it was only
necesaary to-refer to the books he hadfalsely pretended to quote,
tG convict him of impudentforgeries, and downright lie•: and
that his own Christian friends, his intelligent countrymen, his
'' Jo.dicioua Readers," would inevitably think as ill of the Mani-
festo and its author, as himself; what occasion for this excess of
bitterness-this forestalling denunciation, andanticipative threat,
to those dear and impartial readers themselves-that if they shall
not decide, as he hasdecided for them, they shall come in for their
shareofhis maledictions-they alsoshallbe accused of''thedarkest
depravityofsoul," (p. 54.) they also shall be held to havesacrificed
their reason, violated their duty, and made themselves willing
dupes: (P· 55.) and above all, what occasion for doing the thing
DEvouTLY1for callingin the SUPREMEBeing--Divineassistance,
Almighty aid, and Infinite wisdom, to answer the arguments of
the Manifesto1 and thus, after all his railing, to pay me a com-
pliment, o'erfeasting the appetite of vanity itself, and virtually
telling his readers all that I could have wished to telt them; and
that is, that if theY. exercise only t~eir own natu'.'al sense and
shrewdness, they wdl see, that there 1s a greater we1ght of argu-
ment in the Manifesto, than Dr. Pye Smith intended that they
should see, and that while his sixty pagesabound in the language
of divine inspiration, grace, holiness, and barbarity: our one--has
REASON in it.
Another advantage to be sifted out,from the characteristic style
of this reverend Divine, is the unintended, but not less effectual,
support, that it supplies, to a position which I have steadily main-
tained, the irresistible conviction of which, first induced me to
renounce the Christian faith, the impregnable strength of.whic~,
still fortifies my mind in that renunciation; and which, when 1t
can, by evidence of history, fact, or reason, be conquered from me,
I will, as when the capitol is captured, no ~onger contend.f?r t~
borders and outskirts of a conquered emp1re.-That pos1tJon 1s,
that th~ influenceofChristianity,on thehuman mind, is altogether
a BAD and VITIATING influence, that it hardens men•s hearts, stu-
pities their understandings, and vandalizes their manners ; that it
corrupts nature's sweetjuices inthem, and tarnsthe milk ofhuman
kindness to gall and aconite.
Had there been, in this whole treatise, published, as it purports
to be, by the Society for Promoting Christian Instruction, and
publicly applauded by the Rev. Mr. Blackbum,minis~r ofClare-
mont Chapel, as having shown the author of the Mamfesto to be
so great a - that none who knew him, would any longer take
his word in social life,-had there been, but, per accident, one
Digitized by Google
PROLEGOMENA. 13
syllableof decent courtesy,some particleofmweg, to haveshown
itaelf in thechoiee of some other, rather than theharshest phrase ;
or some remembrance of ju•tice and faimeBB, to have admitted
the possibility of error and mistake, rather than to have called,
what might prove to be no more than error and mistake-" un-
blushingfalsehoods and impwientforgeries:"-the reader might
be deceived, as men ·are, when the1 read here and there a few
scattered precepts of forbearance, meekneu, and charity, in the
New Testament,into a mistAke, as to its essentially ferocious, bar-
barous, aad cruelcharacter: oras children,when they seethepolish
and the gilding onthe sword blad!', cease to be aware, thatfor all
the inscriptions it may bear, it is an instrument forged in medita-
tions ofcru.elty, and destined to works of destruction. But Dr.
John Pye Smith is an honut Christian: his, is the divinityof the
tomahawk and·the scalping knife; and the ferocity of his faith, in
the Lord Jesus Christ, destroys in him the faculty of being civil.
No one can read his treatise, and not read what the tempers and
dispositiOnsarewhich Christianity produces initsmoatevangelieal
and distinguished profeSSOl"B,-" 0 my soul, come not thou into
their secret, and unto their assembly, mine honour, be not thou
united; their angerisfierce, and their wrath iseruel !"-GENEBie
lxix. 6. ,
But another, the greateat and aU-involving "Soul of Good,"
resulting even from the redundancy of bitterness, that overftows
from this, the best answer to the Manifesto of the Christian Evi-
dence Society, that the whole challenged Christian community
couldproduce, is, its own admi11sions.
Take every thing that the Reverend Dr. JoHN PTE SMITH
bas 888e~, to be absolu~ly true·; take every thing contained in
the Mamfesto at all contrary thereto, to be absolutely false; take
all the angry epithets he applies to the author ofthe Manifesto,
to be justly due; take all that he assumes to himself, of superior
character, talent, learning, ability, veracity; all his vanity can
claim, or ftattery can give, to be no more than due: and so, even
so: the mightyeffect the Manifesto aimed at, is yet achieved: and
~undreds, who would .never have renounced the Christian faith,
ln consequence of my attack upon it; will do so, in consequence
of the Rev. Dr. Smith's defence ofit. Our war has been that of
Ul~sses rather than ofAjax: we have won by our stratagem that
wh1chwould neverhave beensurrendered toourpower. TheirAD-
MIBBIONs-:-th~ir OWn ADMIS8ION8 slaythem: they admitSO much,
that nothmg IS left to be defended, or that is worth defending:
the roof of the house, and the foundation of the house, and the
four walls, and all the doors and windows into the bargain, are
surrendered-the rest is Christianity-the rest, is all that remains
of the house that was founded upon a rock.-" Quod Theble
ceci?ere, ~eum ~st." The ~ev. Doctor has done me the good
serVIce of cnculatmg my Mamfesto--he has shown his own con-
Digitized by Goog[e
14 PROLEGOMENA. •
gregation, what I would have shown them too; with this mighty
advantage, thatthe access to conviction was open to his argument's
entrance, that would have been barred against mine; and with all
his affected contempt, and "ertl 8incere dislike, he has raised me
to the enviable pre-eminence of the man, who makes those, who
hate him, the ministers of his purpose, and the instruments of his
power; who does the thing he sought to do, by means of their
hostility, makes their malice to effectuate his designs, and their
rebellion to subserve his will.
" This glory, never can his wrath or might extort from me !"
Whoever shall have read the admi~tai01UI,which the Manifesto
of the Christian Evidence Society has wru_ng from its best llld
ablest opponent, and trusted himself to see the pretended evi-
dences of Christianity, as being (say not 80 bad as I had repre-
sented them, but) no bettet· than the Answer to the Manifesto
could make them, may be a hypocrite, and so may be a Christian
still; but he can no longer be a Believer. Did I not aim at this
effect1 Have I not maintained that Christianity is THE GREATEST
CURSE THAT EVER BEFEL THE HUMAN RACEf
Have I not laid out my life, and my life's energies, to deliver
and emancipate men's minds from the dreadful influence of that
curse 1
· Am I not now a prisoner,-the martyr of this great andglorious
cause1
Have I not made every treatise which has been written &e,crainst
me, and every cruelty that has been indicted on me, more detri-
mental to the cause of Christianity. than it could be injurious to
me 1 Then, railat me, all ye Doctors of Divinity-:Curse me,.al.l ye
Priests ; the spell, that subjugated oppressedand msulted mdhons
to your tyrannous dynasty, is broken-
" - - - Hoary beaded selfishness bas felt
Its death blow, and is tottering to the grave:
A brighter mom awaits the human day,
War with its million horrors, and fierce hell,
Shali live but in the memory of time,
Who like a penitent libertine shall start,
Look back, and shudder at his younger years."
END OF THE PROLEGOMENA•
.o;g,tizedbyGoogle
SECTlON f.
ON THE GENERAL EVIDENCE OF THE PRETENDED GENUINENESS
OF THE CHIUSTIAN SCRIPTURES.
I SHALL follow the learned and reverend Doctor, aceordin~ to his
own method, section for section, pa.:,o-e for page. Thereatlerwill
please to obse"e, that it is on the eighth page of the Answer to
the Manifesto, that he will meet with the very first sentence that
purports to be a reply to any part of the Manifesto. And here he
will observe, that, whatin the Manifesto are calledPROPOSITioNs,
and which, as propositions, are accompanied by subjoined
PROOFS, and submitted in public challenge to all ministers and
preachers, to come forward and show, if they can, the contrary:
those propoaitions being declared to have been, as far as to us
appeared (i. e. to the assembled Christian Evidence Society)
"fully and unanswerably demonstrated.'' These propositions are
very conveniently called by the Doctor, tJIJBertions,as ifthey had
not been accompanied by any attempted proof; nor offered in
fair and ingenuous challenge ofdisproof: that so he might bring
these propositions down to the level of all that he can bring
a,aainst them-tJIJBertions,-and seem justified in saying of them,
what can only justly be said of tJIJBertio'AII, that they are uttered
with" a front ofdogmatical assurance."
We shall find this distinction of some importance.
When EucLID published to the world his Treatise of Geo-
metry, he put forth what be called propoBitions, be accompanied
them with what seemed to him to be proojB, and he submitted
them in public challenge to all the geometricians in the work
"to come forward and show, if they could, the contrary." Now,
just such a geometrician, as Dr. Smith is a divine, would have
been the man who might have chosen to call those propositioM,
assertions, to say that they bad been put forth "with a front of
dogmatical assurance;" or, that they were sufficiently answered,
by applying to the propoBer of them, any of the abusive and
virulent epithets of Dr. Smith's evangelical vocabulary. But
calling the two first PROPOSITioNs of the Manifesto, assertions
(to wit, lst., THAT THE SCRIPTURES OF THE NEW TESTAMENT
WERE NOT WRITTEN BY THE PERSONS WHOSE NAMES TREY BEAR,
and 2nd., THAT THEY DID NOT APP.EAR IN THE TIMES TO
WHICH THEY REFER. ; and, .taking the two to be but one,) the
doctor(whom nobody must suspect of being· dogmatical) gives
what hts Homerton College students may consider as a complete
refutation of the two first propositions of the Manifesto, in the
words-
"Our summary reply, to the first of these ·assertions, is this :
_We have the most 8ati8factory evidence, that the books of the
New Testament WERE writtep. at the timewhich they intimate,
and by the persons to whom they are attributed.''-page6, Sect~ I.
Digitized by Google
16 VINDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO.
It is a .ummarg reply indeed! Let the readerdigest the know-
ledge he hath gained! and perhaps he will see, that it was a
good stroke of policy to call the PROPOSITIONS aiSerli&M, and
to complain ofthe front ofdogmatical assurance, with which they
had been put forth; becaose, by so doing, he might forestall any
11111picion of his own dogmatism, while he was making the best
of the beat materials he had. PnU down the ground about you,
and you raise yoQI'&elves-call PROPOSITIONS, accompanied by
•P*oon, andsubmitted in challenge ofdisproof, mere a8sertiom,
and then; when you can do no better, you know you may begin
and call ill names,and say thatone assertion is as good as another.
" WE have the mo8t satisfactory evidence," says this learned,
·unquestionably most learned divine. Have you so 1 and, by my
honour I'm glad of it for your sakes : but who are WE 1 For if,
in that WE, I, and half a dozen whom I could answer for; be in,.
eluded, I must remind the doctor, that satisjactin-y is not qni'te
the adjective that one man has .a right to predicate of another
man's meal: and that WE have not the most aatisfactory evideDce.
I deny not, 1 dispute not the satisfactorineas, the abundance, the
crapula, the surfeit of evidence, for the divinity of the Christian
Scriptures, that must appear to the minds of those whom those
Scriptures are the means ofseating in professorial chairs, and col-
lege dignities, of enabling [them to arrogate the more than mortal
prerogative, ofbeing ambassadors of Omnipotence, ofswelling in
idle, vain-glorious, and useless pomp, and riding in triumph over
the inau.lted intelligence and ruined fortunes of the starving and
.deluded people ;-and only starving, because they are deluded.
lf, indeed, the genuineness of the Christian Scriptures, can be
disproved, or, which is the same thing,if the great body ofsociety
ahall be brought to see (what I will lose no means of showing
'laelll) that those Scriptures really are 'Ml g·enuine! Why the
Christian craft is up I Doctors of Divinity will become-ah! what
will they not become 1 they will be obliged to turn honest-
and so-
Farewell pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious priestcrart!
And Oh! ye Moorfields pulpits, whose.loud throats ... · .
Th' immortal Jove's dread clamours counterfeit,
Farewell! The Reverendoccupation's gone! . .
Now read« be awake, and see what y~ see, and see·thi,s
revereod doctor of divinity, after :having given,.Yon his Qwn,u~­
~ualified and unsupported a88erhon, that the evidence for the
genuineness of the Christian Scriptures is " most satisjac,ory;•
and challenged for that assertion, that it should, on the ground of
his doctorial dignity, and autocratorical WE, be received as a sum-
mary reply to the propositions of the Manifesto : in the very next
aentence, receding from his bold advance, and leavi~ .ground
enough, e'en if there .~e~.n~_ more, Cor the firm footmg of tile
proposition he.aasails. i1Jh; ~1s t:HIJ
Digitized by Googl~;.
VINDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO. 17
"Several of them {that is, of the books of the New Testament)
do not bear any name in the beginning or body of their compo-
sition." Say you so, Sid then what say common sense and com-
mon honesty, upon turning to your English copies of the New
Testament, which you are circulating by your Bible Societies,
and never ceasing from your pulpits to speak of as a revelation
from a God of Truth: and finding that there is not one of those
books but what does bear a name in the beginning, the name of
some supposed iMpired apoBtle, per virtue and authority of
which name, and of which alone, it derives all its influenceon the'
minds, all its obligation on the consciences of men.
If that terrible and heart-appalling summons on the prostration
of aU minds-the surrender of all the faculties of man-his sub-
mission as unto fate-his obedience even unto death-If that
dread-THUS SAITEI THE LORD! or, thu8 by hi8 Holy an,d
lMpired Servant and MeBBenger hath he Baid-tums out at
last, that Tuus he hath not said-but thus hath said-we know
not whom-but who had .no more right to say so, than the Tutor
of Homerton College. What is forgery-what is imposture, if
this be not 1 And if this be the predicament of " several" of the
books, of which there are but 27 altogether, while we know not
which, nor how many, that several may be-what can we say
of the man who, with such an admission before him, that im-
posture has been at work; thatforgery is there; that the names
of Beveral of the books which are prefixed, were not prefixed
by the persons whose names they purport to be ; and that a
parade of authority is set forth in the translation, for which there
is no support in the original-what, I ask, can we say of the
man, who will still persistin ascribing scriptures of such infinitely
suspicious external evidence (to sa)v nothing oftheir incongruou's
absurd, and contradictory contents to the immediate authority
of a God of infinite wisdom, goodness, and truth 1 What?-
But that he had better do it "DEVOUTLY"-he had better do it
''with PRAYER" (p. M)-for he hath need of forgiveness; and
perhaps a little coNFESSION, too, might help to disgorge the
o'er-cloyed conscience.
But never was the wily shirking traitor, that had turned
King's evidence against his brother thieves, beaten by cross-
examination into so forlorn a come-off, as that of our Divines,
who, after having all along arrogated for the writings of the
New Testamefl_;a supernatural and superhuman authority-and
held it to be no more than " the words oftruth and soberness," to
say of the whole Bible, that " it hath God for its author, hap-
piness for its end, and truth, without any mixture of error, for
its matter," at last turn round on us with the startling surrender
of every thing, by attempting to show, that these writings have
as good proofs of their genuineness, or perhaps, better, than the
works of Thucydides, Xenophon and Demosthenes, among the
c
Digitized by Google
18 VINDICATION OF THE MANIFB8TO.
Greeks; or of Cicero, Cresar, and Livy, among the Romans-
works which have absolutely no authority at all, which never
pretended to any, but which do each of them, in very many
places, expressly discard and disclaim all pretence to authority,
and in all and every part of them, offer themselves in submission
to the reader's judgment, not in control or direction of it. These
writings claim no particle or degree of our admiration on account
of their being respectively the works of Thucydides, Xenophon,
Demostheoes, Cicero, C!Esar, or Livy, but are esteemed for their
intrinsic and indefeuible merit only, which would be and remain
the same, neither more nor less, though critical research should
discover to the world that it was not Xenophon, but Clearchus,
that wrote the Anabasis ; not Demosthenes, but !socrates, that
delivered the Olynthiacs; not Cicero, but Atticus,that composed
the De Officiis.
" The thing we call a roae wonld smell as sweet,
If it were called by any other name"-
but not so your RosE of SHARON-if that be not in the predica-
ment ye have predicated of it-if it be not, that
" Th' etherial spirit o'er its leaves doth move,
And on its top descends the mystic dove,"
Paugh! it's a vile stinking darnel, and hath neither colour,
scent, or medicine, to save it from our loathing !
The " intelligent" reader, unless he has a mind to surrender
his intelli~nce, ought not to suffer himself to be coaxed by being
called " 'ntelligent," into a peace and WELL-A-DAY sort of
compromise--with this NO-HELPING-IT-NOW condition of divine
revelation.
" Tlae titles at the head of each book were prefixed, 7Wt btl
the authors, but by the early transcribers."
But, reader, is it of no consequence, where eternity is assumed
to be at stake, to ask the obvious question 1-Who were those
early transcribers-and how early 1 And wherefore it is, that
supposing that those early transcribers had a delegated or vica-
rious right to affix titles to some of the books, there should be
several to which no titles are affixed-not even by those early
transcribers 1
Observe ye, then, the exact plight of the general evidence for
the genuineness of the Christian Scriptures, upon Dr. Smith's
own showing.
or BetJeral of the twenty-seven books of the New Testament,
the Doctor not showing which nor how many those several are,
it is admitted, that the names they bear were not affixed to them
by their authors-no, nor even by their early transcribers.-
CoaoLLARY-By whom, then, were they affixed, but by com-
paratively modern transcribers, who could have bad no authority,
neither direct nor delegated, for what they did 1
But, of those books which are not included in the Bef'eral, not
saying which they be, but which have the higher authority of
Digitized bvGoogle
--~- - ·- · --- - -- .. . •. - .-•• -- -. - - _ _ :~~--""- - ~lliilol~...._
VINDICATION OF THE MANII'ESTO. 19
having names prefixed to them, not by their authors, but by cer-
tain unknown whom and unknown when early tranlieribers; that
circumstance which in any other, would be thought a little dis-
couraging, in the Doctor's reasoning "involves a proof of the
general beliifand twtoriety, that those books were the genuine
productions of the writers whose names were familiarly at-
taehed to them."
Now, reader, as I at least wish to be innocent of" dogmatical
assurance," l will only ask leave, to ask you to ask yourself,
whether there be not two considerably important qutBrenda for
your logic, even from this position, emergent-
1st-Whether the circumstance of titles being prefixed to cer-
tain books, by persons who were certainly not the authors of
them, does certainly involve a proof of the general belief and
notoriety, that those books were really the works of the persons
to whom they were so ascribed!
And seeondly-Whether the public notoriety and general
belief of those early times (supposing ourselves to have competent
means of knowing what that public notoriety and general belief
was,) would itself be sufficient ground for concluding that those
early transcribers, or those who paid them for transcribing (good
honestmen),could not possiblybelesstrust-worthy thanpublic no-
toriety and general beliefheld them to be-that theywere no more
capable of intending to deceive the people, than the people were
of forming too high an opinion of them-that they could not put.
the wrong name rather than the right one to the title of the
matter thatthey bad transcribed-thatin those ages, 17 or 18 hun-
dred years ago, learning was so generally diffused, and public
notoriety so sure to find them out, that they could have had no
opportunity of doing so, even if they had been eo inclined-that
though God only knows who they were, or by what motives
they were actuated, yet we may be absolutely sure, that when a
manuscript would fetch a hundred times the price for bearing the
name of JACK rather thanofGILL,theywere too conscientious and
disinterested to be capable of substituting the one name for the
other!
To solve these important qumrenda, I eould supply the reader
with quotations from Ecclesiastical history, Councils, Fathers,
&e., as extensively, perhaps, and as fairly, as the Professorial
Doctor, for, indeed, "it is not ignorance, it is twt error, that
prompts my horrid course" (p. 60)-but if the reader happens
to be a member of the CHRISTIAN INSTRUCTION SOCIETY, the
chance is, that he may have been instructed by the precepts as
well as by the example of thili Christian instructor, to call such
quotations a parade of learning and authority, and an ostentatious
reference, &c.-and when he found the quotations absolutely
correct-and in the authors-there, as quoted, page for page,
line for line, word for word, he might, like the Rev. Divine, ron
c.2
Digitized by Google
. ::·~_.:·i1:,,.:::~·- ;.
:; . ;. ·..
. ).~ i·
20 VINDICATION OF THB MANIFESTO.
stark-staring desperate-foreswear his own eyes-and call me
•• the greatest liar thatever opened a mouth, or set pen to paper,"
&c. &c. So, as I hope he will notapply these epithets to Dr.
Smith, however he may seem to contradict himself-himself
shall be my authority. Let quotations made by him,be held to be
fairly quoted, and these are his own materials for solving the
qurerenda which arise from his own positions. ·
<< The documents of history, for that period and some centuries
after, are very obscure. In the time of Simon, and the learned
Benedictines of St. Maur, very great and numerous errors with
ret.-pect to the persons and transactions of those dark ages, were
commonly received," &c. (p. 16.)
« It is well enough known, that in t~e early ages of Chris-
tianity, many silly and fraudulent persons composed fictitious nar-
ratives of the life and actions of Jesus Christ and his Apostles,
and gave them out as the writings of Peter, Nicodemus, Thomas,
"Barnabas~ and even Judas Iscariot. By far the larger part of
these spurious compositions have long ago dropped into deserved
oblivion. That they ever existed, is known only from the records
of the early Christian writers, usually called the Fathers, and
they were always rejected by the general body of Christians."-
(p. 40.)
Reader, is this forgery? Is it I who have said all this 1 Or
will Dr. Smith again charge me with putting forth wbat I would
put forth, with a front of dogmatical assurance ; if I only suggest
the questions which arise from his own statements, and leave it
to himself or to any body in the world who can do so, to answer
them:-
Ist. If the documents of history at any given period, and for
some centuries after that period, are very obscure, what is there
· to render them such as a man may rest his salvation upon, prior
to that period1 ·
2. Ifvery great and numerous errors with respect to the per-
sons and transactions of the eleventh century, are admitted, what
guarantee have we for the infallibility of the first?*
3. Shall our knowledge that a man was infinitely mendacious
in his mature life, lead us to infer that his word might ~
depended on in his infancy ?
• Adeo nrbum Dei inefficax esse censuerunt, ut regnum Christi sine men
daclo, promoYeri po11e diffiderunt.-Epid. ad CtuttuliOfl, p.ll03.
It wu a maxim of the Church, that it wu an act of Ylftue to decl'il'e and lie,
when h:r that me&oa tile interest of the Church mirht bl' promoted.-Mo•l&eim,
TOI, I, .P.· 382.
For 1fthe truth of God hath more abounded through my lie unto his glory, wh:r
:ret am I also,iudged u a sinner.-Roma111, iii. 7.
"For, notwithstanding those twelve known infallible and faithful judges of
controvere:r(i.e. the twelYe apostles),there were 1101 many and as damnable heresies
crept in, enn in the apostolic age, as in any after age, perhaps, durinf the same
epaee of time-o little will nfallibility serve the turn it is set up for.• -ReiDt•'
Prelimiury Ducour~e to tl&c Commonilor.v of Yincentiu• Lirinmri•, p. 190.
Digitized by Goog[e
~.
VINDICATION OF THE MANIF£8TO. 21
4. If eleven hundred~ years (from the 3d or 4th to the 16th
or 16th century-from the more than barbarous ignorance, and
grosser than pagan superstition which prevailed over the whole
christian world) are justly called the DARK .\GES-how can
mankind be said to have been enlightened by'the Gospel1-
The world surely is as forlorn of evidence to prove any beneficial
effect of the pretended revelation upon men's underBtandings,
as an abusive and scurrilous priest would be, if called on to show
that it had any influence in softening his temper, or mitigating
his virulence.
6. Uin the early ages of Christianity, many silly and fraudulent
persons composed fictitious narrati\'es, &c., must not fictitious-
narrative making have been a good trade 1
6. Must they not have found the Christian community easily
imposed on ? .·
1. How, then, can Dr. Smith, or any one else, presume to.
say, that they were always rejected by the general body of
Christians 1
8. Or, who the general body of Christians were 1
9. Or, that rejection by the general body of Christians, was a
sufficient proofthat the matter ought to have been rejected 1
~-no. Or, that admillllion by the general body of Christians, was
a sufficient proof that the matter ought to have been admitted 1
11. Who were the representatives of the general body of
Christians, that exercised for them the stupendous arbitration 1
12. Were there no dissenters from the general body?
13. Will the dissenterian Dr. John Pye Smith maintain that no
respect could possibly be due to those dissenters 1
. 14. If by far the larger part of those spurious compositions
have long ago dropped into deserved oblivion, who is to deter-
mine now, that, that oblivion was deserved1
16. Who is to determine that they were spurious 1
16. Who is to determine that those Scriptures which hatte been
preserved (owing their preservation as they do to those who had
the strongest possible interest in undervaluing and decrying
them), are a fair specimen of what the others were 1
17. Would not those, who wished the received Scriptures to be
held in honour; make the best of them 1
IS. Would not those, who wished the rejected Scriptures to be
held in contempt, make the worst of them 1
19. If writings were forged in the names of Peter, Nicodemus,
Thomas, and Barnabas, why might not those which appear under
the names of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, have been for- .
geries also1
20. Why should not all the rest of the disciples havtl written
gospels, as well as the two, Matthew and John 1
21. Why should not the gospels of all the rest of the disciples
have had as good a claim on our credence, as those of Matthew
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION 01' THE, 1UNUE8TO.
and John, who were no more than disciples-and a better claim
than those of Mark and Luke, who were no disciples at all ?
22. Ir the gospels which appear under the names of Matthew,
Mark, Luke, and John, appear infinitely more respectable than
those which appear under the names of Peter, Nicodemus,
Thomas, and Barnabas, is not that circumstance a presumption
in favour of the prior existence of ·those of Peter, Nicodemus,
Thomas, and Barnabas?
23. Assuming that there had been some real foundation for
the gospel story, is it not a presumption-that the more simple,
artless, and awkward style of telling it, would have been the
original one 1
24. If all aecounts or narratives of Jesus Christ and his apos-
tles were forgeries, as 'tis admitted that all the apocryphal ones
were-what ean the superior character of the received gospel
prove for them ; bot that they are merely superiorly executed
forgeries?
Let the reader answer these questions to his own convictions !
Let him make them his own ! and if he should not answer them,
as he may perhaps guess that I should, he will yet, I hope,
observe, that with all my dogmatical llliSurance and unblushing
effrontery, I have not yet assumed the style of my reverend op-
ponent-nor shall I take upon myself either to say or even to
think that " he must have sacrificed his reason and conscience to
the darkest depravity of soul."
The Doctor's avowedly " fearless challenge to produce any
writings approaching to the same professed antiquity, whose
genuineness is supported by evidence equally. abundant and un-
exceptionable," coupled with the remark which follows it,
partakes of his characteristic style,-it is the desperabund
forlorn ftinging-off,--of a man, who when he finds he has
nothing reasonable to say-plays devil may care, as to what he
says,-and stakes his last throw upon the chance to frighten
you from observing the shallow weakness of his argument--
by the sonorous insolence of his vituperation.
" Approaching to the aat"M projeaaed antiquity." What !
an apology for them-there is wonderful evidence for their
genuineness, considering how old they are.-But were his
challenge to such a comparison accepted-and all the advantage
of complete victory, (which by the bye is infinitely doubtful)
in his hands : What would it prove for the pretensions of
divine revelation, to prove that its records stood on as good
ground, or probably better, for the chance of being iWnuine,
than the histories, legends, romances, or poems of an equally
remote antiquity-which it never mattered one penny or one
care to any body, whether they were genuine or not 1
Should we take up Hardoin's hypothesis, and persuade our-
selves, that the classical writings were the compositions of no
Digitized bvGoogle
- ..---- -~~-=---'"'- ___.........._
VINDICATION·OF THE MANIFESTO. 23
such persons as they are ascribed to, but were dexterously got
up by the monks...of a much later age, than that to which they
purport to belong-why, well done the monks! who·have dono
as well as the authors themselves, had they been genuine, could
have done! and there's the amount of the mischief.
Suppose it should one day be discovered, that the Paradise
Lost was written by no such person as John Milton, or that
Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, was no work
of Gibbon's-no material question is affected, no important issue
is at stake. But as the Doctor would find it very bard to name
any one celebrated work of antiquity that was ever in such a
predicament, that about the time of its appearance, or at any
time, there either were or possibly could have been rival and
competitive works-affecting to have been written by the same
author, and claiming equal merit: -as bold a writer asJ himself
mi~ht fearlessly challenge him to shew that any one of the
wnters be has named-has not a thousand fold better general
evidence, than any that can be pretended for the writings of the
New Testament: and might even defy imagination itself, to
imagine, ~ow writings which so strong interests, craft, policy,
passions, and prejudices of men had concurred for so great a
length of time to impose upon tile world as divine oracles, could
possibly betray stronger and clearer marks of forgery and im-
posture than are to be found in these.
Note.-" This opinion hu alwa11 been in the world, that to settle a certain
and usured estimation upon tbat which is good and true, it is nee~ to re~
move out of the way wliataoever may be an hindrance to' it. Neither ought we
to wonder that even thpse of the honest, innocent primitive times made use of
these deeeita; seeing for a good end they made no scruple to forge whole
books." Daille on the tue of t/&e Father•, b.l. e. 3. Passim oecurrunt patrum
voces de hmreticis eonquerentium. quod fraudum artifices, ut somniis suis an-
toritatem eoaciliarent, libroa quibus ea in vulgus proseminabaut, celeberrimae
eujuaque ceelesim Doetoris imo et ApQstolorum nomi11ibus inscribere ausi
e11ent. Johannes Dalheua, lib.l, e.S.
END OF SECTION I.
Digitized ~YGoogle
VINDIOATJON OF THE MANIFESTO.
SECTION II.
Oi' AOTS AND EDICTS FOR THE ALTERATION OF THE ICRIP•
TUREII.
"Nothingof the kind is to be found in history,"-says, this un-
assuming and humble-minded Divine, and that, too, within the
echo of his own reproof of another-for having spoken with too
much confidence. The greatest historian that ever lived, would
have been restrained by the modesty that ever accompanies
great and substantial knowledge, from saying more-than that
in his extent of historical reading, or within his memory of what
he had read, he recollected nothing of the kind : a dissenterian
Doctor of Divinity may say any thing. " It is scarcely possible
to imagine a greater untruth, than this assertion,"-says our
infallible D. D. ! Yes,if beingall that it purports to be, a riference
. merely, to direct the reader to the sources where he shall find
matter yielding such support as he himself may judge whether
it be competent or not to support the proposition which he is
called and invited to disprove-be an assertion : and if being an
assertion, it were. an untruth; it would yet be pos:~ible to ima-
gine a grosser one, because . it would be possible to imagine a
man's attempting to make the world believe, that there could be
nothing in the whole compass of history, but what had come
under his observation, and could not escape his memory.
"With respect to Constantine* and Theodosius, the writer of
the Manifesto has dishonourably omitted," etc.
• " With relflecl to Comtantine"-ij the reader -claoou1 to refer to the
life of Coutantine 6y /ail intimate friind EtUe6itU, (book 4. chap. 36, 31.)
1'he reader is to suspect no gasconade here, no ostentatious pretence of ac-
quaintance with the original Greek of Eusebiua, no concealment of the English
traoalatioo which he must han found so useful-and no suppression of what
-if he had had &OJ rreteoaiooa to the character of a scholar-he mUII!IIJt>e no-
of the character o Euaebiua,-aod how litde entided to credit any life of bia
intimate friend and patron muat be, written by the courtly biahop-who danced
attendance on the tyrant's pleasure, in an age when it wu an eatabliahed
" maxim of christian piety-that it wu an act of Yirtue to decei1'e and lie;
when by auch means tlie interests of the church might be promoted." (Mosheim'•
Eec. Hiat. London 1811.1'01.1. p.382), and when be himself coofeues or rather
a1'0WI hia own adoption of that pious principle, u tbe rule of hie fidelity u an
hiatorian. and takes a pride to himaelf •n haYing related whatner might redound
to the glory, and IVPPBBII&n all that could tend to the diagraoe of religion."
Wbboo Yol. t, p. 480.
Of the power of the Roman Emperors, and ef all c;hriatiao k.ioga priocea, and
gonrnon to alter the text of scripture to any extent they pleued-the proofs
are 10 abundant, that their abundance only stood in the way of enumeration.
See their innumerable decrees acta, and edicts to this elfect, in eYery history
of their reigna. " The proof• of that supreme power of the emperon in religioua
matters, appear so Incontestible in this contronny, that it ia amazin~t jt sliould
enr ban been called in queatioo." Mosheim, ceat. 4. part 2. Yol. I. p.4011, note 9.
See the Bible itself. See alao, the plenary ioapiration ucribed to kiaga in tbe
Liturgy. " 0 almighty God, we are taught by thy holy word, that the hearts of
king• are in thy ride and gonrnaoce, and that tbou doet dilpole and tum them
as aeemeth beat to thy godly wisdom." See abo, tbe king'• title," OJ' TBII cauaca
ON BAaTH, THill ¥VP&IIK8 BIIAD."
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION OF THE IU.NIFESTO. 26
, Could there be no supposeable reason for an omission, where
the whole matter \Vas intended but as an indez, and was to be
compressed on one single page ; but that it must needs be di6-
lwnourahle 1
Reader, turn thine eye to page 43, and see what Dr.Smith
can plead in excuse for his own sins ofomission-where his matter
occupies 60 pages. There you will see that he holds it autho-
rity sufficient for one of his propositions : (to wit-that the
occASIONS on which the miracles were wrought-exempli
gratil, the occasion of supplying more wine to fellows who
were half seas over already : the occasion for cursing a fig-
tree, the occasion for playing the devil with the pigs, were
occasions woRTHY of the. interposition of divine omnipotence,
a proposition which surely must be as bard to prove as any
contained in the Manifesto)-that it " has been shown with
an abundance of evidence by numerous and well-known authors,
to whom access is easy. Within the narrow limits of these
pages, it is impossible to do juatice to the argument: and surely
it may be expected that every person who feels the infinite
importance of the subject, will take the little pains neces~:~ary
to obtain the requisite information."
Shall! these, his own words! this, his own excuse! be good
and valid for himself-and it is so : while nothing less than a
diahonourably intended omission is to be charged on me, for
not having defeated my own object-by making my Manifesto
too much to be contained in a Manifesto: when the names of
CoNSTANTINE & THEODOSIUS were BUjficient to refer any
reader to the pages of a work so easy of access as Gibbon's
Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire: and when, for the name
and instance of the emperor Aoastatius, as not being so well
known, nor to be found in a work so easy of access ; I had
supplied the reference, which in that more essential case alone
.reemed necessary, to the author, the volume, and the page where
it is to be found 1
And of this, the Doctor, after having in the title of this
section designated it as a pretence, and in the section itself
characterized it-as '' the grossest untruth that could be ima-
gined ;" in the very next section ~od in the very next page,
admits that it is indeed fairly transcribed from Dr. Lardner's
translation of it. In that admission however, thrusting from
himself the credit of fairness, which the admission might win
for him, by the unfair and unworthy insinuation that-1 could
not have become acquainted with the passage, but by means of
a translation.
How far the piety and conscientiousness of CoNSTANTINE,*
• Coo1taotioe had a father-in-law whom he impelled to bang bimtelf: be bad
a brotber·io-law whom be ordered to be strangled: be had a nephew of tweln
or thirteen yean only, whose throat be ordered to be eo&: be had a eqo whom be
Digitized by Google
·..........
·-·~~ ...........
VINDIOA.TION OJ' TBB IIA.NII'BITO.
88 $'•aranteed by the historical veracity and impartiality or
his Intimate friend EusEBIUS, is positive evidence or the care
and diligence which were exercised in making copies of the
scriptures; or whether extraordinary " care and diligence in
making copies of the scriptures," exercised by such pious and
conscientious christians 88 Constantine and Eusebius-is not
itself an extraordinarily suspicious circumstance against the
chance of their remaining uncorrupted,-(88 sure no man would
think a treasure the more likely to remain untouched, for being
under the extraordinary care and diligence or a known thief) ;
or how far Dr. Smith can take upon himself to infer-what
could, or could not have been " thought of by the emperor;'
are considerations which the reader will determine according to
the bent or his own reflections.
I only claim his observance, that unmeasured 88 are. the
Doctor's charges against me, his amount ofproofs as yet,stands at
nought and carry nought.
beheaded: he had a wife whom he ordered to be aulfll4!ated in a bath ; and so,
when be had made a clear bonae for himself, hia mind took a serious turn. But
there was nothing in the reli,ion of the ancient paganism, that could giye
comfort to the conacience of a smner,-tbe ancient p~tganism bad no prbpitiatioa
for throat-cutting, no atonement for child-killing. Ita terrible language was
Ab nimium faeiles, qui tristia crimina cmdia
Flnminea tolli poue putetis aqua
Non boYe maetato cmleatia numina gaudent,
Sed quae praeatanda eat, et aine teste fide.
OVID (ul remembe~.)
0 I thia would nenr do for Conatantine-here was nothing for a ainner'• hope
to rest on ; but the religion of the Galilean proclaimed that the blood of
Jesua Christ eleanaeth from all tin (1 John i. 7.), aad Constantine became a
christian. Christianity conaequently became the religion of the state, and-
•• the terron of a militUJ force eilenced the faint anil unaupported mnrmun of
thep~ana." Gibbon (IU I remem6er). The exercise of the pagan religion was
prohibtted under pain of death, by an edict of the emperois Valentinian and
Mareian, in the year t51, See the edict ofTbeodoaiua, Gibbon, vol. 5, p. 15.
END Oi' SECTION . II.
Digitized by Google
Vll'iDIC.\TlON OP TH& JU.Nli'II:8TO. 27
SECTION III.
ALTERATION OJ' THE GOSPELS IN THB REIGN OJ' ANASTASIU8.
" The passagefrom Victor, an ob8cure author, who wrote a
Chronicle of about twelve pages, of which this sentence is an
article,is indeedfairly traMeribetlfrom Dr. Lardner's trans-
lation f!( it," ~c. "But, mark the honesty of this Manifesto
tDriter.' Well, o' God's name, mark his honesty!
"He copies the passage which makesfor his purpose." Well,
and what would you have said of him, if he had copied a passage
which did not make for his purpose1
"And 1Dhich•he would in all reasonable proballility, never
hat~e known of, had not that Christian adt~ocate furnished him
tDith it." And how could any body know of any thing, if nobody
had furnished him with the knowledge of it! or what would the
Doctor have said, if this bit of knowledge had been furnished for
me by an infidel, or if I had supplied it purely from my own
invention 1
u But he says not a syllable of the evidence which was before
him in the t~erg same page, of the total falsehood of the state-
ment, as it is professed to be understood by sume modern
iffftdel8.'' But suppose what was before him, seemed to him, to
be no evidence at all.
I take this clauseto comprehenda fair specimen of the Doctor's
claims to the praise of eaodour, fairness, and integrity.-His can-
dour, in charging it to a want of honesty, that being confined to
compress my whole quantum ofmatter within the border of the
Manifesto, 1 had takenno notice ofwhat I thought didnot make for
my purpose.-Hisfairness, inimplying that I had rejected evi-
dence which was before me on the very same page of the total
falsehood of the passage, when he knew that there was no such
evidence, there to be rejected.-His integrity, inthat for the dear
sakeofgratifying feelings which I shall never envy byftinging off
the railing accusation of TOTAL FALSEHOOD OF STATEMENT, he
has,ere hecan take his breath,torecall his own ftiog,and to shuftle
from itwith the pitiful qualification of predicating totalfalllehood
ofthe statement " all it is professed to beunderstood," of which
every logician knows, that totalfalllelwod is not predicable.
An illustration will exhibit this sophism in its true light:-
euppose one had said '' King Charles the First was barbarously
murdered," and had been answered, " It is a total falsehood of
statement," by an opponentwho instantly shrunk from thisgiving
of the LIE-DIRECT, into the COME-oFF,-"~ total falsehood of
statement as it is professed to be understood." What would be
the inference, butthatsuch an answerer had more the manners of
Digitized by Google
VIl'fDICATIOl'i OF THE MANIFESTO.
a doctor of divinity, than of a gentleman, a greater prnrience
of abuse, than pregnancy of argument 1 ·
I have not then made a false statement: I have not made a
misquotation, nor put forth a misrepresentation, no, nor the
shadow of a misrepresentation ; and he whom this good Christian
Divine politely calls" firs~born of calumny, and greatest liar
that ever set pen to paper," is as far from being such, as the sun's
disc from darkness, or a Christian Doctor's heart from charity.
As for the error (certainly not F.USEHOOD) which may, or
may not attach to any man's understanding of a particularstate-
ment, I hope I have as good a right to maintain my own under-
standing, as I leave to all mankind the uncontrolled exercise of
theirs : and could not have done so more fairly, more ingenuously,
and more honestly, than by putting forth, with the statement
which I fairly quoted, a reference to the work, volume, and page
where 1t would be found; and that, not by itself alone, as I first
found it,* but accompanied by the most powerful array of objec-
tion and controversy that the wit of man could possibly bring
against it. I left these therefore to all the possible weight they
could have on the mind, which my reference would direct to
them: on my own mind, neither all their weight, with all that
Dr. Smith can add to their weight, could overbalance the pre-
ponderance ofthe matter in its full effect to the intent for which
I quoted it.
Reader, think'st thou, that one r.o ready to bring the coarsest
accusations in the coarsest language, would know what fairness,
ingenuousness, and honesty were, when they !ltood before him in
the enemy of his faith 1
Now, reader, see and judge, on what evidence this learned
Divine would bring the most frightful charge, that could
be alleged against any mao, who wa11 possessed of moral sensi-
bility, and had some claim to be considered as good a scholar and
as able a critic as himself.
What was the evidence before me, in the very same page, of
the· total falsehood ofthe statement, as it is profe55ed to be under-
stood by some modern infidels 1 Why, the very next sentence,
after the statement itself, which I had fairly quoted, is Dr. Lard-
ner's admission, that "Some have hence argued, that the copies
of the New Testament-ofthe gospels at least- have not come
down to us, as they were originally written, they having been
altered in the time of the emperorAnastasius, who began his reign
in the year 491, anddied in 518." Lardner, vol. 3, p. 67.
And why might not I enroll myself among those who argwe
thus, (and among whom are names of not inferior renown to any
of their opponents) sincerely believing as I do, that they have
the best of the argument 1 Or why was it incumbent on me to
• lo the work& of Peter AooeU, where it is giYeo nry iocorrec:tiJ, but not
falwly.
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION OJ' THB HANIJ'BSTO. 29
have introduced into my Manifesto the objections of my adver-
saries-objections which I myself did not consider of sufBcient
validity to defeat or to alter the eft'ectof my proposition 1*
Or why should Dr. Lardner himself, have introduced any
notice at all of the .existence of such a passage, into his work,
and have employed his great powers of argumentation, beating
up for all the authorities, all the talent, teaming, and ingenuity
he could find in the world, to come" to the help ofthe Lord--to
tlae1t.elp·ofthe Lord agaiut the mighty;' if there were really
no matter worth a coosideration in this passage, or if there were
sufficient evidence of its total falsehood-which iii so far from
being the case, that after making the best of all his apparatus
in conllict against it, he conquers only, in his own reckoning, the
conclusion, that ·
"Thelia couiderationB, as seems to me, are sufficient to show
that learned men have with good reason, gen~rallylooked upon
this story ofVictor as fabulous." (p. 68.)
A conclusion which leaves the strength of my position, on-
assailed. It is not evidence, but considerations, which have
been brought against it-and considerations which, however
sufficient they may seem to be to those who have the strongest
possible interest in making the most of them, do not seem quite
so sufficient to those who have considerations, ofwhich they have
quite as good an opinion, and which have not yet been put into
the scales. ·
• Orwhyahovld Dr. Lardner's conflicting opinion be evidence to me, when in
other eases, 1had known and experienced the fallibility, not merely ofhis reason-
ing, but of his integrity 1
· WberethegloryofGod was con~erned, and an uglyfaet stood bolt intlteway of
it, even Dr. J,ardner weuld fight shy of letting us know its true dimensions, and
leafe no stone unturned to contravene, to conceal, suppress, or eeunteract its
impression on our convictions, Victor Tununensis tells more than it is safe fer
Chriatian faith to know,-O(t:ourse then, " Yictor i• noiJody," ia the Chrietian
argument,-and .d.ve, !Jut heha• told it! is mine; and it's well for him that he is
not to be fo•nd. Thus,
AIIJIONIUS S&ccua,
the moat di1tinguiahed ornament of the second century, had taught, that all the
Gentile religions, and even the Christian, were to be illustratedand explained by
the principles ofan universal philosophy, but that, in order to this, the fables ofthe
priat• were to be removed from Pafani•m, and the comments and interpretation•
of the diaciples of Jetus from Chrastianity. Then Dr. Lardner could not bring
bimaelf to admit that Ammonius was a Christian Father. Fabricius had been
equally illiberal, and indeed, I have found that learned author etilllesa to be
trUJted withthe reputation ofthose who dilfered from him, than Lardner. Mosheim
had once been of the same judgment, as to the character ofAmmonius; but with
that greatness that alwiiJ& cllaracterises a master mind, he afterwards saw reason
to change hia opinion, a11d did so. His reason• however, weigh little with Dr.
Lardner, who opposes nothing to them, but mere assertion, unsupported by the
aa&aUest glimpse ofevidence. •• The coalition between Platonism and Christianity
In the second and third centuries, is a fact too fully proved, 10 be rendered dubious
by mere aiBrmatioDll."-Mo•heim, tJol.l. p. 170, the Note.
Alas, the ravages of the religious Pyrexia are but too disoernible upon the
moral integrity, as well as on the ph1si~al capabilities, even ofgreat and good
minds, wlaat must be expected then from a Rev. Dr.John P:re Smith, but aucll an
an1wer u hi• ia, to the Manifesto of the Christian Evidence Society ?
Digitized by Google
ao VINDIOATION Of TltB lfANirBSTO.
orcoone, the advocates of Cbriitianity will make the most
• and the best of all tbe evidence that will seem to serve their
purpose ; and will depreciate, disparage, and decry the evidence
that makes agaiDSt them-aye! aod disparage and decry it all
tbe more, the more it makes against them. But, with all their
disparaging, here is surely enough in the passage I have quoted,
and in the implied admissioos of Dr: Lardner himself, to save the
honour, honesty, and truth of a mao who might cooscientiously
dift'er from him, and might hold the passage to be genuine and
valid, even his coosideratioos &ecraiost it, notwithstanding.
The conftderatiOM which Dr. Lardner quotes, in his note
from tbe Prolegomena of Dr. Mill, to invalidate the passage,
have much more eft'ect in showing what a curse those Christian
Scripturea have in all ages been to mankind, and what wicked
diapositioos they have ever engendered, and have a direct ten-
dency to engender, in men's bosoms, than to redeem their equi-
vocal claim to genuineness and authenticity. "Indeed, there is
ao saying what tragedies, what mighty tumults--not, perhaps,
to have been allayed without the murder of the Emperor him-
self-the very name of new gospels would have excited through-
out the whole East, &c. &c. Nor is there that I know of, among
:all the multitude of writers, one, except Victor, and Isidore _
of
Seville, who transcribed his worda-who makes any mention of
this Radiurgy."* -
Has not this sword two edges ?-and ifwe areto take into con-
sideration that suchwasthe temper and disposition of the Christian
community, that they would have slain their Emperor, and all
the rest on't ! bad they but heard of an attempted alteration of
their gospels, how can we shut out of our consideration its in-
separable consequepces, that truth and honesty had no fair
chance ; that one who had ventured to impeach the geouint:ln&i$
of those gospels, though he had known, though he had wit-
uessed, the very act oftheir forgery, would bave been in danger
of being tom to pieces ; and every villainous and wicked art
would be resorted to, to destroy his reputation, and to suppresa
the discoveries he had made.
So that it is actually to the obscurity of the author, and to
the circumstance of hia writings not being commonly known,
that we owe the happy event of their escaping the i011tant
suppression to which, 'tis well known, that the Christians
invariably usigoed all the evidence that they found likely
to make against them, to betray their secret, or to expose their
folly.
• lpt1um nomen sane -orum enngeliorum. diei baud poteet, qeantu per uni-
nrnm Orientem, excitaturum fuillet tragc:ediaa, quam gravea tumultus nee
fortUie aine lmperatoria cede sopieudoe. • • • •
Neque extet quod aeiam, ex omni aeriptorum turbl. preter unum Vietorem,
qnique verba ejus tra~i]JIIit Isidoram Hiapaneo~em qui jldlsp'yiiU" hujua
aliqaamfacit -tionem.:_Mill. Proleg. p. 1015. -
Digitized by Google
VINDIOATION 0 .. THE MANIFE&TO. &1 .
or this disposition to decry, and to disparage tlieir opponents,
I shall not send the reader far to look for proofs.
VICTOR. TvNUNEN8Is, he ~s, has be'rayed the craft, he baa
left a sentence on record, that gravels the kidneys of orthodoxy.
Very well, then Dr. John Pye Smi'h deprives him of his
bishopric-and though it was on the very page before him that
VICTOR. TvNVNENSis really was an African Bishop, Dr. John
Pye Smith degrades him into "an obscure author, who wrote a
Chronicle of about twelve pages," (though that happens to be
twelve pages more than many an Archbishop of Canterbury
ever wrote,) and will never recognise him as a bishop, or apply
to him any decent expression of courtesy or respect, any more
than he would to the Author of the Manifesto. .
And after all the charges brought against the Manifesto, of
total falsehood, of quotio~ books, chapters, pages, and paa-
&ae<res, which say no 8UCh thsng as is imputed to them; after the
most rude and offensive forms ofjlal denial, that a spiteful heart
could suggest and savage ·manners direct ; the reader will see
this good Christian admitting every thing that I bad maintained,
endeayouriog to make a poor excuse for how it might come to
be so; and quoting his crony, Dr. Bentley, to bear oil from him..
self the reproach of the gross and apparent garbling, which
every eye must see, and every mind be sensible of, in obser-
ving that the real Words of the passage, "AB IDIOTII BVANGB•
LI8TI8 OOMPOSITA," (composed by illiterate evangelists,) are
turned into'' AB IDIOTI8 LIBRARU8 conscripta," (written by ig-
norant scribes,) which makes just exactly, all the difference.
As for the charge of total want of argumentative justice, let
the reader look at their scale, and at ours :-
Quote they an Advocate for the Christian Argument 1 Why,
He shall be in a trice" the Prince of Criiics,,.-" the glory of
Scholars." Mr. Sharon Turner, and Mr. Hallam, the preachers,
it may be in some canting Gospel-shop, shall have " dissipated
the clouds that hung over the transactions of dark ages,'' &c.
But quote we an author who bas gif'en tongue, or let fall bot
a single sentence in their impediment 1 Why, like poor Judu
lscariot, he may go hang himself, and hi• bishopric shall
another take.
Challenge they na to shew, when, where, or by whom
the Books of the New Testament could have been altered or
corrected 1 We answer even to the exactitude of time, of place,
of person.-They were so, WREN Messala was consul, i. e. in the
year 606, AT Constantinople, BY the command of the Emperor
Anastasios-aod they might have been so, at any time, or any
where, or by any body.*
• Alexiue Meneai• Archbishop of Goa, ordered the Syriac Venion of thew. T.
to be altered according to the Latin Vulgate, aod this coJDDiaod was executed
with religious precision. At the end of tlae Strian Manucript of the four Golpel•
Digitized by Google
32 VINDICATION 01' THE IIANII'ESTO.
Challenge we them to shew the infinitely more consequential
points tDhen, tDhere, or by tDhom were the books of the New
T~tament, in the first instance, received, and recqgnized to be
the compositions of the persons whose names they bear 1
.They can fix on 110 time, they can assign no place-they can
gtve no name.
Mr. Sharon Turner, perhaps, Mr. Ebenezer Hallam, or our
desperately ftinging Doctor, might make some discoveries; but all
that Mosheim's Ecclesiastical History could communicate to one
who happens to know no better Ecclesiastical History than that
of Mosheim, is, that
" The opinions or rather the conjectures of the learned con-
cerning the time tDhen the books of the New Testament were
collected into one volume ; as abo about the authors of that
collection, are extremely dift'erent,-this important question is
attended with great and alm~t insuperable difficulties to us in
these later times." Mosheim, vol. I. part 2. chap. 2. sect. 16.
page 108. edit. 8vo. London. ISH.-" Not long after Christ's
ascension into heaven, several histories of his life and doctrine,
full of pions frauds, and fabulous wonders, were composed by
persons whose intentions, perhaps, were not bad, but whose
writings discovered the greatest superstition and ignorance. ., Nor
was this all ; productions appeared which were imposed upon the
world by fraudulent men, as the writings of the holy apostles."
ibid. p. 109.
Now the reader has only to compare this statement, supported
as it is, by internal evidence, Luke v. I. (Forasmuch as many
have taken in hand to set forth in order, &e.) with Dr. Lardner's
Table of the times and places when and where he conjectures
that the several Books of the New Testament might have been
written ; and he will see to a demonstration, that the " histories
of Christ's life and doctrines full of pious frauds and fabulous
wonders that were written not long after his ascension," had
the precedency of all the writings now contained in the Naw
TEsTAMENT; and that, therefore, those" pious frauds and fabu-
lous wonders" were not depravations and corruptions of the
Gospel narratives; but the Gospel narratives are only casti-
gated and improved editions of those original " pious frauds and
fabulous wonders.'' Nor was it only on vulgar aud uncultivated
minds that these "pious frauds and fabulous wonders,'' could
have been originally imposed, or have long retained their credit;
that part of every man's mind which is surrendered to the inftu-
eoce or religion, is always vulgar and uncultivated. Our all-
was the following aub1cription, " This sacred book was finished on Wedneaday
the eighteenth day of the tint month Conua (December) in the year 380 of the
GreeD, i. e. in the year of Christ 78, by &he band ofAche2us, a fellow labourer
of Mar Maris, and a discifle of the Apostle Maradii!US. whom we entreat ·to
pray for WI, Amen."-Marsh a Michaelis, vol. t, p. 28. 31.
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION OF THE M
.\NIFE8TO. 33
accomplished ADDISON, the author of the Spectator, even the
Protestant Addison, had the bleak heath or common in his mind,
extensive enough to give growth to a firm faith in one of the
grossest of those pious frauds. In his Evidences of the Truth of
the Christian Religion, be adduces his own belief of the genuine-
ness and authenticity of the Letter which Jesus Christ wrote to
Abgarus, King of Edessa ; if we believe Nicephorus, 13£111s-
x•ecrl* with his own hands. As for the arguments which
Dr. Smith puts forth in such a HIGH-HORSE sort of style, as if to
carry the convictions of his hearers by storm ; that any altera-
tion of the text of the Gospels was impracticable, impossible,
intolerable-not to have been attempted, or not to have been
endured. An' 1 were sure he would not open upon me a fresh
volley of that kind of language which 1 can never return, and
call me the first born of calumny, and swear that there was no
11uch a passage, and that it was a gross forgery, I'd venture to
whisper to some of his hearers, that " it is a certain fact, that
several readings, in our common printed text, are nothing more
than alteratiotu~ made by Origen, whose authority was so great
in the Christian church, that emendatiotu~ w,hich he proposed,
though, as he himself acknowledged, they were supported by
the evidence of no manuscript, were very generally received;"
and the Lord Bishop of Peterboro', in whose diocese I am now
a prisoner, and of. whose Divinity Lectures, in the University of
Cambridge, I was once a pupil-told me as much-and, reader,
would'st thou turn to Michaelis's Introduction 'to the New Tes-
tament, translated by Bishop Marsh, vol. 2, part 1, edit. 3,
Lond. 1819, chap, 9, page 368, he should tell thee no less.
And could'st thou read Latin, or give me credit for
quoting a bit from my memory, which, in this hot1.11e ofbondage,
• Of thit Letter of Christ, and of the Letter of Abgarus, whirh opened the
correspondence, Fabricius says, "lias Epittolas ila ut ab Eusebio prolalle sunt,
io Arclaivil extitisse Edessenis, oon puto esse dubitaodum. Ncque quirquam in
illis contioetur indig11um Christo, oeque si pro gt'nuini• babeanaur error aliquis
e1 illie coolirmari poterit," Codelt AJ;locrypbua N. T. Johaone ·Alberto
Fabrieio, Hamburgi, Anno 1703. Tom a. p. 319.-The folly of Addison it
further kept in countenance by the sympathy of DiYioee of high renown in the
Protestant Church, Montaeute, Parker, Cue, and, Grabe, though sufficiently
tceuted by the (in this respect) less credulous Doctors of the Romiah Commu-
nity, Ibid. 320. Tbe religious aft"ection, like enry other epecies of insanity, bas
itt lucid interval•. Hut though the belief ofimprobabilities, on the reportof othert,
it clearly to be ascribed to weakneu of understanding, quo4tl hoc: yet tbia
excute cannot extend to those who propose improbabilities to the faith of others-
and eeepticitm itaelf would not suppose that Saint Augustin could, with aoy pro-
priety, be suspected of being a wooL, when in his 33d Sermon, addressed to hie
reYerend brethren, he says, ''I was already Bishop of Hippo, when 1 went into
Ethiopia. with aome senaota of Cbrist, tbere to preach the Gospel. In this
country we nw many men and women without head~, who had two great eyes
in their breasta; aod io countries still mere aoutherly, we saw a people who bad
but one eye in their foreheads."
This is as true as the GoaJlel. This same HolyFather bean an equally unqoel·
tionahle tettimony to seYeral resurrertions of the dead, of which lie himaelf had
been ao eyewitoees. See Middleton's Free Inquiry,;,. loco. Of all tranllers in
the world, Christian Missionaries are the most famoua for aeeinJ strange thine"
D
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO.
I am obliged to make my best bargain of-though I cannot give ·
thee chapter, page, and verse, thou should'st hold me worthy of
so much reliance as to let me persuade thee that FELL, Bishop
of Oxford, bas somewhere said,
" Tanta fuit primis seculis ftngendi licentia, tam prona in
credendo facilitas ut rerum gestarum fides exinde graviter
laboraverit. Neque enim orbis terrarum tantum, sed et Dei
Ecclesia de temporibus suis mysticis merito queratur ;" and not
ha\'ing the advantage of finding it ready translated, as I did the
passagefrom VIOTOR-1 supply tl!eewith my guess at it-" Such
was the license of inventing, so headlong the readiness of be-
lieving, in the first ages-that the credibility of transactions
derived from thence must have been hugely doubtful-nor has
the world only, but the Church of God also, has reasonably to
complain of its mystical times,"-and SOALIGER, a scholar, and
a critic, well learned in these researches, though not " the
Glory of Scholars," nor" the Prince ofCritics," somewhere says,
"Omnia qme putabant Cbristianismo conducere-bibliis suis
interseruerunt:"-which J, not having learned all the .languages
that may be taught at Homerton College-take to mean little
more or less, than that " they put into their Bibles any thing
that they thought would serve the craft." i. e. that they thought
would conduce to Christianity; and when they thought that any
particular scripture would not serve the craft, it was not the
Dame nor the authority of an Apostle, that would save either
it or him from being rejected. But reader! take the Rev.
Dr. Smith's word for it ! that this is" a shameless lie, an impu-
dent falsehood, and that there is no authority, whatever, for as-
serting or inferring any such thing ;" and do it DEVOUTLY ! and
say thy prayers oYer it I and when thou hast well nigh prayed
thine eyes out, thou wilt see nothing of the kind to be inferred
from the 9th and lOth verses of the only chapter of the Third
Epistle of St. John; though thou bast before thee "confir..
mation strong as proof of holy writ;" and thou wilt leave it
only to such a miserable man as the Manifesto writer, to sym-
pathize in the wrongs of a rejected Apostle, and to say Poor
Johnny, Poor favourite of Christ! So they turned thee and
thy writings out of the church! and who the Devil wrote the
rigmarole, that the rogues have passed oft'as the Gospel according
to Saint John, all the while 1
Su1Hcient presumption however, of the power of other
.Emperors, as well as Anastasins, to foist whatever scriptures
they pleased on the easy faith of Christians, will be found in
still existing proofs of the fact of their suppressing the evidence
that might have exposed the villainy of the whole system. I
here present the reader with the substance of a formal decree 9f
the evaogelical Emperor Theodosius, to this purport.
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO,
THE DECREE.
"We decree, therefore, that all writings, whatever, which
Porphyry, or any one ebe bath written against the Christian
Religion, in the ~-session of whomsoever they shall be found,
should be committed to the fire; for, we would not sutfer any of
those things so much as to come to men's ears, which tend to
provoke God to wrath, and to otfend the minds of the pious,"*
A similar decree of this Empero\", for establi11hing the doctrine
of the Trinity, concludes with an admonition to all who shall
object to it, that, " Besides the condemnation of divine justice,
they must expect to sutfer the severe penalties, which our autho-
rity, guided by heavenly wisdom, may think proper to indict
upon them.''-Quoted by Gibbon, vol. 6, p. U.
END OF SECTION III.
SECTIGN IV.
'ON THE ASSERTION, THAT ARCHBISHOP LANFRANC EFFECTED
AN ALTERATION OF THE SCRIPTURES,
THE Section thus beaded, in the Answer to the Manifesto, would
almost induce a guess that our angry doctor had learned his logic
of Saint Patrick ; it sheathes the vinegar of intended accusation,
in the oil of palpable absurdity. To prove, you see, that there
was no such thing·. as an account of a general alteration of the
Scriptures, to accommodate them ~<> the faith of the orthodox, in
the passage which I had referred to, as containing such an ac-
-eount:-he finds the passage, agreeably to the reference I had
given him, he produces it in his own note, and there to be suro
the account is, and as I quoted it, in full etfect, and to all the
intent and purpose for which I quoted it, answering like the im-
pressed wax to the engraven seal. 0 wicked forger, as in his
account I still should be, though I were as the God of truth him-
self, without variableness or shadow of turning.
To perceive tbe absurdity of the accusations in this section, let
the 1'68der but run them over with the most obvious questions
to himself, that a moment's pause upon them must suggest.
I. ''The passage in Beausobre contains no such thing," &e.
.Afl8Wer. And there the thing u, subjoined in a note, by the
denyer of the thing himself.
2. "And its evident meaning is," &c. Answer. Paddy is going
to give us the evident meaning of that of which he has just told
us" there i8110 II'Uch thittg." .
• Saneimua lgitur ut omnia queeumque Porpbyriua aut quiYis alius contra
relljtiosum Cbrlatiauorum eultum, eouaeripsit, apud quemeumque ionnta fuerint,
igm maneipeotur, omnia eoim proYocaotia Deum ad iraeundiam scripta, l't piaa
mentes otFendentia, oe ad aur• quldem bomiuum nnire volumua."-Quoted b1
Lardner, vol. '· p. ll'l. ·
D 2
Digitized by Google
36 VJNDICATIO:'Ii OF THE MANIJ'E8TO.
3. '' Lanfranc directs a revisal and correction to be made of
certain copies that were in his possession, or to w bich bis agents
could haveaccess.'' AMU1er. Do£8 HE so? And whoe,·er accused
him of directing a revisal and correction to be made ofcopies that
were not in his possession, or to whicb his agents could ..ol have
access?
4. ''There are several questions connected with this statement,
which ought to be fairly investigated, before we can form any
decided opinion in the case.'' Auwer. ·Not if there were no
sucb thing as the statement itself: and if there UJere such a state-
ment, shoo ld not the several questions have been investigated first,
and the decided opinion suspended 1
~. "Laofraoc, a mao of good personal character, rivetting the
chains ofecclesia.<~tical slavery." AMUJer. What is a good per-
sonal character? or would it not have been better for mankind, if
he-had not been quite so good, and so had not rivetted the chains
quite so fast,-what is it to you, or me, reader, if those who chain
us to the earth, keep fast on Friday 1
6. " The documents of history, &c, are very obscure.'' AUUJer.
So, so!!
7. "Thoseerrors have been dissipated only very lately, by Mr.
Sharon Turner, Mr. Hallam,and other eminent men ofthepresent
day.'' AnBtDer. Saving their eminences' dignity, I warrant ye, ·
they are no better than Methodist parsons, and owe all their emi-
nence to their conformity to the opinions of Dr. John Pye Smith,
or to the exhibition of their •• human faces divine," in the Evan-
gelical Magazine.
8." Every printerand bookseller perfectly well knows,and many
readers or books know to their vexation, that even in the present
day, when the art of printing renders accuracy so much more easy
to be attained, many editions of good books are Eent out shame-
fully incorrect." Answer. Is not this EVERY THING? and does
it leave the possibility ofeither candour or piety, or of having any
rational fear of God before his eyes, to the man who willdare
to maintain that a God of mercy, troth, and power, would or
could have given to mao, a written, or book-containedrevelation.•
• .f fiDrilUra, or floolt-coat•iud rneltllitnt. "God ia jaat. equal, ud iood. ud
u aure u he ia 10, 10 he euaot pat the aalntioo ud llappioea of aor mao, upoo
what be llu oot pat it iD the power ofur maD oo earth to be eotirelr aa.tis&ed of."
-Biahop of Saliaburr'• Prese"atin, p. 78, u quoted br Tiodal, 414.
Biahop Jeremr Tarlor, io his polemical wor~ page 521, after enumerating the
Yut nnetr ofeauaea of dillieultr ud miaooderataoilill( io renlatioo, coododes
...... "Theae, aDd a thoaaaod more, han made it impossible for ur mao io 10
«real a nrietr of matter, oot to be deeeind." " There ia aearee aDJ ehorch io
Chriateodom at thia dar. which doth oot obtrude, oot ooly plaio falaehoods, bot
neb falaehood u will appear to ur free apirit. pure eootradietiooa ud impossi-
bilities, aod that, with the aame graYity, aothoritr, aod importooitJ, u they do the
holy oraelea of God."-Dr. Houy More, MpleJ'!I of GodlirteU, 4115, potu irt
7'ill4lll, 114.
Take lleed ud beware, leal ur mao tleeein rou; belien them oot 1-.f•criJu
to Jenu CAri#,-Bee._ that wbieh mar be lutowo of God, ia muifeat~
Romua i. 19••
Digitized by Google
VJNDIC.\TION 01' THE MANIFESTO. 37
9. " Had Lanfranc's party made alterations of the smallest im-
portance, it is morally impossible but the facts would have been
placed in a clear light, and the evidence of them would have
come down to posterity." Answer, by Dr. Smith himself,'' The
documents of history for that period, and some centuries after,
are very obscure,"
10. " It is worthy of obsenation, that Lanfranc is remarked by
Dr. Cave (Historia Literaria, vol.2, p. 148) to have been addicted
to the making of alterations in the text, which he conceived to be
amendments.'' -
Answer. It is indeed, worthy of observation, and I hope the
reader _will observe it, and ask himself if his imagination could
conceive a droller way than this of refuting the statement made
in the Manifesto. The Doctor's reckoning of refutation to the
Manifesto, then, as the sum of this section, stands tbus--
lst. There is no such thing as an account of a. g-eneral alter-
ation of the Scriptures to accommodate them to the faith of the
orthodox; because, there the account actually is, quoted by the
Doctor himself, from the very work in which it was stated that
the account was.
2ndly. It is morally impossible, that such an alterati~n could
have taken place, without more ample evidenceofit comingdown
to posterity : because, every thing that was done in those dark
ages, was sure to be set in the clearest light.
3rdly. It was morally impossible that Archbishop Lanfrane
could have altered the Scriptures: because he was peculiarly·
addicted to the making of alterations in the text, which he con-
ceived to be amendments ; and,
4thly. Even supposing that Archbishop Lanfranc had procured
the alteration of the Gospels, to accommodate them to the ortho-
dox faith in England, when England was rivetted in the chains
of ecclesiastical slavery, and bowed to a servility ofsubjection to
the Pope, yet we are to infer, how impossible it was that an;
like or other alterations could have been made in the Gospels of
France, Spain and Italy, which,- you see, were so much further
removed from papal influence.
11. "I nowappealt says the liberal D.D., "to any man of sense,
whetlier it is not most unfair and absurd, to represent this obscure
and dubious circumstance, and which is at most ofno real impor-
tance, as in the smallest degree impugning the Scriptures."
To which I answer, that I also appeal to any man of sense,
whether it was not quite as unfair in Dr. Smith, to set out with
denying in toto, the existence of an account, which he at last
admits and endeavours to explain away, to have impeached an
author's veracitywithout materiel to fortify his impeachment, and
to have given such hard names, as the prelude to such aoft argu-
ments.
Digitized by Google
38 VJNDJC.,TION OF ,.HE MANIFESTO.
SECTION V.
ON THE NATURE OF VARIOUS READINGS, AND THE INI'ER•
ENCE8 TO BE DRAWN FR.OM THEM.
I." The pretended reference to the Unitarian New Version, is
another instanceof most disgraceful ignorance, or shameless per..
version." So says the Rev. Dr. John Pye Smith, and one is the
more sorry that he should say so; because it spoils the heading
of the best written section in his book, in which the reader might
otherwise be as pleased as I am to bear witness to Dr. John Pye
Smith's able writing, deep learning, and ingenious reasoning.-
There was all the less occasion to have introduced so clever a
performance with so paltry a prologue.-The reader, however,
will, I hope, do my adversary the justice, to brush oif this un-
worthiness, and let the subsequent matter stand in undiminished
claim on the respect it merits. All that concerns the Manifesto
or its author in this section (which ia all that ia amias in it),-
wiU be answered in the reader's observance-that the pretended
reference to the Unitarian New Version, cannot at any rate. be
another instance of·ignorance or perversion,-unless some one
instance of ignorance or perversion had preceded it-whieh is
not the case.
Neither can the reference with any propriety be called
'' pretended,'' if it be a real one-if the passage affecting to be
quoted is there exactly to be found, in the book and page from
which it purports to be made-whiclr is the case.
And of which, to remove all doubt, the Doctor himself cites
" the passage fairly and fully" in which-by his own shewing, is
all and every thing that[ did quote, and to the fulletrectandintent
for which I quoted it ; and much further matter to the same
etfect,-a droll way this, of convicting a. man of" fal.ely pre-
tending to quote."
But as "fallely pretendit~g to quote''-were rather strong
words,-ancl in the general meaning and acceptation of them;
would stand but awkwardly, applied to immediate evidence of
the most accurate and literal quotation that could possibly be
made; the Doctor himself softens oft' the more revolting pomt
of the charge, by subjoining the wholly incompatible and con-
tradictory meaning of his own, " the leAdency and apj}licalion
ofwhich, he has BO gr9Uly per.,erted."
Upon the tendency and application of a. passage,-I hope, one
man has as good a right to exercise his own judgmentas aRotl•er;
but sure, a man's " perverting the tendency and application.
of a passage," is a charge, which in itself involves his acquittal
from the charge of falsely pretending to quote it.
2. To the Doctor's charge of the alternative of ignorance or
Digitized by Google
TINDICJ.TION OF"THE MANIFEIJTO. 39
dishonesty, of which be bids his" worthy countrymen" judge
against me, (page 22.) I putin his own discharge from the former
(p~ 60.) "It is not ignorance;" and to the latter, I put in
bo~h the title and contents of this section itself:.
The title, admitting-that there are " VJ.RIOUS READINGS,
and therefore I have not represented a thing-which was not:
The contents,admitting-that " the number of :varions readings
collected by Dr. Mill is computed at thirty thousand, and that
a hundred thousand at least have been adtletl to the list.
Tbei:efQre, so surely, as thirty thousand, with a hundred thousand
added thereto-doth amount to ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY
THOUBAND,-which IS, the thing, and is what I have represented,
I have not misrepresented the thing which xs.
If there be arithmetic in this-there is no room for tbe charge
of dishonesty, and Dr. Smith's anger bas outrun his wit.
3. But the superscriptioa of this section will serve us-further
than this, in its important clause-" AND OF THE INFERENCES
THAT ARE TO BE DRAWN."
Reader, if thou art a true and genuine Protestant, thou wilt
draw what inference thou pleasest, and maintain- not only thy
right-but thy atnlitg to draw an inference for thyself, as well
as any man can draw it for thee ; and to be unattainted either
of disbones~ or of ignorance, though thy inferences should be
the diametncal reverse of the inferences which Dr. John Pye
Smith, or his holiness the Pope,-who never arrogated more
than this Dr. John Pye Smith, would draw for thee. .
If thou art a staunch Papist or (what is not in principle, a
whit less papistical), a priest-worshipping dissenter,-why
Dr. Smith's inferences, will, of course, be infallible with thee-
and well may be so.
But,asforthe legitimateand uncontrolleddrawingofinfereoces,
it becomes a writer, who would Mftlt and not coerce the reason
of his reader, to submit bi11 views as inferenees which mag be
drawn, not as inferences which mU8t, or as the only inferences
which ARK TO Bllj,drawn, not in impediment of the equal right
of another to draw the most opposite inferences,-but in recog-
nition and deference to that right.
The maio tact however, equally incumbent on the observ-
ance of all reasoners i11, that their inferences, in any extent of
their divergency-keep still their hold · upon the original
muleus foet itaelf, and by no means of chicane and sophistry,
be slipt on to some counterfeit or mistake of the fact, which
must reDder the best spun reasoning in the world inconse-
quentiaL
Thus, it is in Iogie an Igwwatio Elenchi, an entire substitution
of a matter that waa twt in question, for the matter that wa.,~ ;
when the combination of chances which is suftieient to go to
sleep oa aa a good gUUB,-for what might laat1e 6een the . ·
Digitized by Google
TINDICATION 01' THE MJ.NII'.ISTO.
original text of Homer, Herodotus, or Hippocrates; (it being of
no conaequence what that text was), is to be held softicient to
assure us ofthe sense ofa divine revelation, in which, to be wrong
-may lead to our taking that which 'Yas forbidden, for that
which was commanded; and in which to suppose the alterna-
tive indifferent, is to withdraw the matter at issue.
4. Be it, that out of the hundred and thirty thousand various
readings, which the doctor, after having charged me with the
grossest falsehood for having put forth such an assertion, hif!lself
asserts,-" those which produce· any material difference in the
sense, are extremely few indeed." (See his note, p.M.)
Yet," extremelyjetD indeed,'' must, in any arithmetic, be more
than a couple out of a hundred and thirty thousand: not to say,
that on the preliminary a,nd infinitely important question, as to
what constitutes a material difference, we have to rely only on
the judgment of those who have the strongest possible interest
in causing the difference to appear as immaterial as possible.
Thus, it is well known, that in one of the early editions o(
the English Bible, the seventh commandment stood thus--
THOU SHALT COMHIT ADULTERY ; and many thousands of
good christians understood and obeyed God's holy commandment,
according to this, the commonly received reading. A various
reading has since introduced the important particle,-NOT, so
that the emended text became diametrically reversed, and stood,
"THOU SHALT NOT COMMIT ADULTERY." The advocates and ob-
servers of the commandment, however, according to its original
acceptation, would no doubt contend for their reading of it, or
at least that the difference was immaterial.
And there is good reason to think, and high authority to infer,
that the letter of the sixth commandment must originally have
been in a similar predicament, and have stood-THOU SHALT DO
MURDER ; not merely because Saint Paul expressly says--" the
letter killeth ;"-(which to be sure he means of the letter of the
NetD Testament), yet the history of the People of God, is little
short ofa demonstration-that they never coulcJ have understood
that murder was a thingwhich God had forbidden. The introduC-
tion of the negative particle No, in this passage, not only sets it
at variance with the known mind and will of the God ofIsrael,-
by whom themost sanguinary murders, and butcheries of" women
and children, infants and sucklings,"were expressly commanded ;
but is unsupported, by any authority, or countenance of any
other part of those " li.,ely oraclu''-there not being another
passage to be found in the whole Bible, wherein,-where murder
crueltyand butcheryof any sort is spoken of, that God says NO to
it. And if this reading of the passage-without the negative or
inhibitory particle be objected to, on account of the manifest
absurdity of supposing a positive command to commit murder:
we answer, what would become of one half of God's word, if
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION OJ' THE MANIFESTO. 41
manifest absurdity were any valid ground of objection against it1
Restore then, the primitive purity of God's word: let the texts
stand, THOU SHALT COMMIT ADULTERY! THOU SHALT MURDER!
THOU SHALT•STEAL ! and THOU SHALT BEAR FALSE WITNESS!
the practice of both Jews and Christians will be· found to
quadrate with this sense of theirrule of duty, and to all the objec-
tions of sceptics, and the scofliogs of infidels-we answer in the
language of the Prince of Critics, (p. 26~) "What a !Scheme
would these men make~ What worthy rules would they pre-
scribe to providence, (p. 26.) nod pray to what great use or
design ~-To give satisfaction to a few obstinate and untractable
wretches; to those who are not convinced by Moses and the
prophets, but want one from the dead to 'come and convert
them!', (p. 27.)
See, reader! how unavoida~ly one falls into the langu~~eaoe of
keenest sarcasm, when one only attempts-1 say not, (for I am
not Prince of Critics, that 1 should assume the prerolfative of
saying,) to "an~wer a fool according to Ai8 fo/1!1,'' (p. 26,) but to
answer a Doctor of Divinity, in the parity of his own reasons,
and the application of his own language.
But, reader, contemplate the facts,-not as stated by me, an
avowed unbeliever, and martyr to the just and glorious cause of
unbelief-but by my good service, wrung, and wrenched out from
the conquered concessions, and. unwilling admissions of those
who would never have made thee so wise, but for our conquest·
FACTI ADMITTED.
• 5. " The possessors of these
costly treasures had not the
means,nor, perhaps, wereexpert
in the method of comparing two
or more copies· together, in
order to ascertain the correct-
ness of each. (page 20.)
6. ''Variations from theorigi-
nal copy, purely accidental, but
sometimes from design. (p. 20.)
7. "The ART of determining
the true reading, out of several
variations most impottant.-20.
8. " Quotations may be, in
some respects, superior to ma-
nuscripts.-(21.)
9. " Very few of the various
readings produce any alteration
INFERENCES WHICH MAY BE
DRAWN.
6. "It was much easierto in-
troduce interpolations when
copies were few and scarce,
thaD since they have been mul-
tiplied by m~ans of the press.
-Unit. Version of the N. T.
p 121.
6. " How often-was, some-
times, and.to what aim and gist
did the designedvariatiOfla ex-
tend1
7."Who is masterof that art 1
andon what principlecanothers
rely on his ability~
8. "What respect could those
who thought so, have paid to
the pretended originals 1
9. " How many arevery few '
and who i• to judge of theef-
Digitized by Googl'e
42 VINDICATION OF THE IUNli'ESTO.
II'ACTS ADHITTED.
in the meaning of a sentence
still less (ftUJer) in the pur-
port of a whole paragraph.-
(21.)
Notet-But 110me&imes &be whole pa-
rllJrapb itself, :wu •l~ether a for-
gery ; as, for ina&ancf', Ac&a ix, 5, 8,
which Erumua himself foisted in with-
out au&horit7 of any manuscript wha&-
eYer.-See Marsh, Yol. 2. p. '116.
9. " The consequence is, that
of noancient books whatsoever,
do we possess a text so criti-
cally correct, so satisfactorily
perfect as that which e.xists in
the best editions of the Hebrew
and Greek Scriptures. (p. 22.)
This consequence, is, itself,
only an inference-but-Val-
eat!
FACTS ADMITTED IN THE
UNITARIAN VERSION,
1. " In those variations which
insome measure atrect the aense,
the true reading often shines
forth with a lustre of evidence,
which is perfectly satisfacto17
to the judiciousinquirer.--(23.)
2. " The various readings
which al'ect the doctrines of
Christianityarevery few.--(24.)
INI'ERE:NCJ:S WBfCH MAY 81!:
DRAWN.
feet of the alteration upon
the original meaning 1 It is
admitted, that alterations of the
inspired word of God have
been made to the full extent of
altering the purport of whole
paragraphs-whose word then
doth it become, having been
so altered 1-Produce a title-
deed to a forty shilling free-
hold, before a Court of Justice,
in 1t11.ch a predicament, and
.what would be said to your
pretensions1
9."Them011 criticallycorrect;
but who, being the critics f
The moat satisfactorily perfect;
but who being satisfied 1 Tlw
fJeat editiom-:-but which being
the best editions 1 And what
approach, shall being the cor-
rectest, the perfectest, and the
best type of an ancient book be;
to its being the WORD OF GOD,
which he who believeth not,
shall be damned. The snail
t~at out-gallops all other snails,
i1fyet no race-horse. •
INFERENCES WHICH lilAY B&
DRAWN.
I. "I• 16me meaa11re a./feel tlte
aen.te--is it of no consequence
in what meuure J TAe true
reading-which is tbaU Per-
fectly latiafactory to tie judi-
cious inquirer; that is to say-
and if it is not satiat'actory to
you, you are a fool, or aa the
PRINCE OJ' CRITics would call
you, an obstinate untractable
wretch.
2. "Two! six 1 ten ! fifty ' a
hundred ! or only, perhaps, so
few as two or three thoasand t
Digitized by Google
VINDIO.A.TION OF THE M.A.NIFE8TO.
F.A.CT8 .A.DMITTED IN THE
UNIT.A.RI.A.N VERSION.
3." Yet some of these are of
great importance.
4. ''Of those passages which
can bejustly regarded as wilful
interpolations, the number is
very small indeed.
~." I John v. 7, is by far the
most notorious, and most uni-
versally acknowledged and re-
probated. .
Note!-" In our -•011 editio•
of the Greek Teatament, are IIANY
readings, which exist not in a single
manuseript, but are founded on • -
CONIBCTU&B,"-Mania, YOI, t, p. 406,
F.A.CTS ADMITTED IN THE
UNIT.A.RI.A.N VERSION, BUT
NOT REFERRED TO BY D&,
SMITH.
6." Itis notorious, that the or-
thodox charge the hereticswith
eorrupting the text, and that
the ·heretics recnminate upon
the ortbodox.-(p. 121.)
1." It is notorious thatforged
writing-a, under the names of
the Apostles, were in circula-
tion almost from the apostolic
· age.-See 2 Thess. ii. 2.
INFERENCES WHICH M.A.Y .BE
DRA.WN.
3."Veryorthodox this ! Some
of the various readings which
do atrect the doctrines of Chris-
tianity, it seemsare not of great
importance.
4." Very amall, indd•d: only,
perhaps, halfa bushel.-Wi{fu/
Interpolations ! Does any iota
of the Manifesto now want
proof or demonstration 1
~. " Most notorious ! Good
God! and11omeare skulkifi¥yet,
undetected, and so not qu1te so
notorious 1 Yet is the whole
circulated as of equal authority;
the whole, and as it u, known
to be false, and acknowledged
tobeforged,readinourchurches,
and invariably spoken of as the
faithful and unerring Word of
God--God, for thy Mercy !
But they do it DEVOUTLY !
INFERENCES WHICH M.A.Y BE
DIUWN.
6. " They do, indeed! and
whentheorthodox havecorrupt-
ed onehalf, andtheheretics have
corrupted the other, all the
rest on't may be depended on
as genuine.
7. "The tracing ofa writing
up to the apostolic age, would
therefore, atrord no presump-
tion ofits genuineness: thename
of an Apostle is no proof that
the writing is not the compo- .
sition of an impostor.
The reader may receive or reject these inferences, or supply
any other, or contrary inferences of his own ; and shall
usuredly be ll&fe from any imprecations, denunciations, or
prayers of mine : ''those, let them employ, who need, or
when ~bey need, oot I !" All that 1 require is, his observance
Digitized by Google
44 VINDICATION OJ.I' THE MANIFESTO.
of the facts themselves ; and that to these facts may now be
added the fact, that the Reverend Dr. John Pye Smith has im-
peached the veracity of tha ManifestoWriter, without adducing an
iota of evidence to support his impeachment-a fact upon which
it is as unnecessary, as it would be unbecoming of me to suggest
an inference. Doctor John Pye Smith is a preacher of the
Everlasting Gospel ; and when he impeaches the veracity of
others, has, no doubt, higher ends in view, than to admit of his
attending to the accuracies of language himself. The trt~IA of
God so entirely fills the mind of an evangelical preacher, that be
has no room to pay any regard to truth, in his dealings with
the sons of men. In their controversies with unbelievers, the
saint!! have not only acted upon the principle of stopping at
nothing, bot avowed and justified it, even because "those who
r~ject the truth as it is in Jesus;" as they say, forfeit all right to
have any sort of truth, either told to them, or spoken of them.
END OF SECTION V.
SECTION VI.
ON THE STORY OF THE ROCKET MAKER,
THE manuscripts from which the received text was taken,
were stolen by the librarian, and sold to a sky-rocket maker, in
the year 1749.
1. " IC we had not already seen such disgusting instances of the
falsehood and audacity of this Manifesto Writer, one could
scarcely have thought it possible that any man would make and
publish such base misrepresentations, and hold them forth too,
as quotations from eminent authors."-(p. 27.)
This language is really frightful, and were not its barb broken
off, by the accompanying qualifications of the, bad we not alread!J
"SEEN SUCH DISGUSTING INSTANCES," &c. where, certainly,
no such instance had been seen at all, 'twould take a stouter
heart than mine, to_bear up against it. But, by this time, the
reader must have perceived, that Dr. Smith is more terrible in
accusation, than formidable in proof. He charges in thunder ;
he hits in smoke ; a puff of wind dissipates his caliginous arma-
ment, and leaves all the strong lines of our impregnable for-
tress, unshaken and unmoved. Indeed, it may stand as one of
the happiest exemplifications, of the native genius of priestcraft,
and the best resulting moral of this controversy, to observe, that
in exact proportion as his arguments grow weaker and weaker,
his passions become more violent; his language more intem-
perate ; his accusations more temerarious ; his malice-more :-
No! no more malice; that vesael waarunning over from the first.
Digitized by Google
VINDitlATION OF THE MANIFESTO. 46
So far from the story of &he rocket-maker, as glanced at in the
Manifesto, being an instance of falsehood or audacity; or
falsely represented as resting on the authority of eminent anthers;
it is an instance of the most heedful fidelity and punctilious ac-
curacy. The reader has only, once for all, to observe what the
plan of the Manifesto is, and how much matter was to be com·
pressed into how small a compass; and he will see that no full,
or extensive account of any matter was there intended, or,
indeed, possible; but an index only of the fact itself, was
given, with a reference to the work, volume and page, where the
full and extensive account of it would be found. And so heed-
fully faithful was the Author of the Manifesto, that even the so
many words as indicated the fact, were not without their autho-
rity: but taken from the eminent authors of the Unitarian
Version, in their Introduction, Sect. 3, entitled, Brief account of
the received text, &c. where the reader will see, (page viii.,
line l ,) the words-" The manuscripts from which it was pub-
lished, are now irrecoverably lost, having been sold by the libra-
rian, to a rocket-maker, about the year 1760. And so puncti-
liously accurate was the Author of the Manifesto, that, notcontent
even with the authority of the Editors of the Unitarian Version,
when they spoke so loosely, as to say merely, that the" librarian
sold the manuscripts," without saying by what right;* and " toa
rocket-maker," without saying what sort of rockets; and'' about
the year 1760," without namii)g the year exactly. The Author
of the Manifesto indagated the high source from which the
Unitarian Editors themselves had derived their information; and
from that indisputable fountain of learning and authority, giving
the most accurate reference to work, volume, and page, he sup-
plied the more precise statement, by which the reader under-
atands, that the librarian was a thief; that the rockets were sky-
rockets; and that it was in the year 1749. Nay, I have been
more punctilious than Dr. Smith had the means of being ; for
whereas be, on the authority of this great critic, decries the
Complutensian Polyglot, which is the b{lSiS or the received
text, and endeavours to show that the manuscripts from which it
was formed were few, of no great antiquity, and of little value 1
in order to make it appear that they might be very well spared,
and that it was of no consequence; yet for all this (strongly as
it savours of the sour-grape reasoning) he has only the authority
of the Bishop of Peterborough, as far as it will serve him, in the
edition from which he quotes, which is the edition of 1793,
whereas, in the later edition, which is that from which I quote,
(the edition of 1819) he will find that the good Bishop has
changed his mind on this subject, and set him an example,
which best becomes a wise and good man, safe enough fro'!l the
* Br what right ?-SToLEN, says the..Manifesto.-So villainotulf purloined
(p, 30,) aay1 the Answerer of the Manifeato.
• o;g;ozed by Goog[e
VJNDIOATION OF THE MANIFB8TO.
imitation ofa Dissenterian Theologue, an exampleofwillingness
to acknowledge the force of superior reasoning.
" Though I was of a dift'erent opinion," says the candid bishop,
" when I publUhed the /second edition of this introduction, I am
thoroughly persuaded, at present, that Goeze is in the right;
nor do I consider it aa a disgrace to acknowledge au error into
which I had fallen, for want of having seen the edition itself.
With respect to Wetstein, though he is a declared enemy of this
edition, yet what bas frequently excited my astonishment, the
readings which he bas preferred to the OOMHON text, are, in most
ilases, found in the Complutensian Greek Testament. He de-
grades it, therefore,in words, but honours it in fact." Michaelis's
Introduction to the New Testament, translated by Bishop Marsh,
vol. 2, part I, chap. xii. sect. I. page 439, line 881 THE THIRD
EDITION. London, 1819.
2. "Now I appeal to the ingenuous reader," says" Dr. Smith,
" and ask how dishonourable, base, and wicked must be that
man's soul, &e. who can, from this transaction, tell the public
that the manuscripts from which the received teXts. of the New
Testament were taken were thus made away with. If he really
believed what be wrote, bow miserably incompetent-and bow
dishooeat !"
AvAsT! AvAST! Here is more railing than any man who
had truth on his side, or who but thought he had, would have
had any occasion for.
The reeder will only be pleased to observe, that Dr. Smith
gives no definition of what the received text is, and therefore re-
serves his opportunity of evaaion from a complete demonstration
<1f the truth of the. Manifesto, by his coarse and abusive flat de-
nials of the most palpable and apparent evidence : but as 'tis
with the reader only that I have to deal, I beg leave to refer him
to the Introduction to the Unitarian New Version, where be will
lind fully set forth, tbe facts, which I thus abridge.
I. The received text of the New Testament, is that which is ia
general use.-Sect. 3, vii.
2. In the ~oinning of the sixteenth century, Cardinal XimeDell
printed, at Alcala, in SpaiD, a copy of the New Testament in
Greek, which was made from a collation of various manuscripts
which were then thought to be of greet authority, but which
are now known to be of little value ;• this edition is called the
• But ike reeder ••*oblene, that the editorB of the Uoilari&ll VerBioo, pub-
liahed in 1808, had not the adv&lltage ofBiabop Man~h'• lakr and more eorreet
opinion, &lid of the excellent reuoo1 which be gin• for that later aod more eor-
red opinion, in bia edition of 1819, or ther wonlil. in all JWOhability, ha'f8 alterei
~ owo_judgmeut of aa edition which new hold. to it~elf the high character of
a Codex Criticll8. He will obtene, too, with what complacent philoeopby nen
Unitarian Divinee play Fox with u, aad tale upon the•elvee to give • &heir
word for it1 that the m&lllllcripta, which 'tie certain they know nollaing abont.,
•• are now lrnGWD to Jane beea ef little YUIIEI."
Digitized by Google
VINDIOATIO" OF THE llfANIFUTO. 47
Complutensian Polyglot. They were the man~ripta from
which this Complutenaian Polyglot was formed, that were thaa
dispoaed of.
3. But it was this Complutensian Polyglot (which was not li·
censed for publication till A. D. 1622,though it had been printed
many years before) of which Robert Stephens availed himself
for the formation of his splendid edition, published A. D. 1660.
4. Anditwasthis edition of Robert Stephens,whichbecamethe
basis of the Elzevir edition, published at Leyden, A. D. 1624.
6. And this Elzevir edition constitutesthe received text. There-
fore, if the reader hath but logic enough to connect the first and
last link of a Sorites, so:as to perceive,thatwhatever was the baais
of A, after B had been built upon A, and C had been built upoo
B, would be the basis of.C. also: he must see that the manu-
scripts from which the Complutensian Polyglot was taken, are
the manuscripts from which the received text was taken. And
it being undeniably true, that the manuaeripts from which the
Complutensian Polyglot was taken, were sold by the librarian,
who had no right to sell them (to Toryo, the rocket-maker,) the
truth of the terma of the Manifesto are involved in that troth.
And it ia incontrooertibly true, that the manuscripts from which
the received text was taken, were stolen by the librarian, and sold
to a sky-rocket maker in the year 1749,* ss stated in the
Manifesto. ·
The alternative of dishonour, baseness, and wickedness, if it
could not have been suspended by charity, and by that reluctance
which good men generally feel to draw e:o harsh a conclusion, is
auperseded now, by the verdict of evidence itself.-NoT GuiLTY!
For the alternative of muerabl• incompetence, I leave the
scales of decision between the Doctor's literary pretensions and
mine, entirely in the hand of the reader, not caring on which
side the preponderance may be, nor feeling any apprehension or
envy of the unapparent and ttnkrwtDn teaming, which the Doe-
tor may in the back-ground really possess ; but weighing wbat
• The Unitarian editon teem not to han a much better opinion ofthe reeeind
text, than those who baTe the wont, einee 1-'!1•&1of it:-" From the few ad-
nntagee which were~ aod from the bule care which wu taken b7 the
earlJiKiiton. it ma7JUI&b' be concluded, no& onl7 &hat the reeeived text is'"'' a
perfeet copy of the apostolic orlginala, but that," &c. (U..Uar. Net~~ Yerrio11 111-
lrod. Loridllft Bdit. 1808, •ectW.. a, pqe 9, li,.. 19 .tro. tlae top, t fr- tlae
llott.,..) Let them sq on I ud let Dr. John Pre Smith aay that tlieysa7 no neb·
thing u ia imputed to them, but indeed the Yer'J eontrarJ, that it is an impudent
forgerJ, and an unbluabing falaebood. The reader bu, by tbil time, learned bow
Dr. Smith'eaeeuaatioDI are to be •tilllated I ud bilowa -rata will haTereeelved
10 illl-.a froa the clemoDitralion that bil treatiae auppliea, that the great.&
~Ilion togin the lie, ii.Jenerally tbe coneomi&antof tlie leut ability to prove
it. lt Ia due bewenr, to baatorieal tldelity, to atate, that there are muoh better
editioDI than that ofthe receiTecl text, auppliecl aod enriched bJ manu11ripla tha&
were not in the ~ion of the Complutenaian editon. And that ToaYO, the
roeke&omaker, of eourte cl•troJed thOle mannteripla of both Teetamenla only,
wllicb had been uaed for lAIIt edi.Wn. But tlull eclltioa being the buil of the
,_,.,eel tnt, the fact eoald net, In an l!fDU:, whiob. ia all thai the Manife~to
purporla to be, hue been more aeeuratel7 atated.-lt is truth itaelf.
Digitized by Google
48 VJNDICA.TJON OP' THE MA.NJJ'ESTO.
appears, and judging by what can be judged, the reader will ob..
serve that the temple·of Mine"a has been as open to the Mani-
festo Writer as to the Doctor of Divinity, and that where the
Doctor quotes an eminent author, the Manifesto Writer quotes
that same author, after he had become nwre eminent than when
the Doctor knew him: and had revised and corrected those opi-
nions~ for the better and more competent information of the Ma-
nifesto Writer; that did well enough as they were, for the Doctor
of Divinity; Neither is any reader in the world the less compe-
tent, or likely to reap the less fruit of substantial learning from
his reading, for exercising his own judgment, and taking no
author for infallible or entirely and in every thing to be relied
on; but sifting what he reads, and finding 011t DQt merely what
was meant to be made known, but what was meant to be con-
cealed. As perhaps he would be none the more competent, nor
ultimately the wiser, for reading upon Dr. Smith's plan, of either
swallowing all he reads, without examination, or not suffering- '
himself to see in what he reads, any thing that shall contravene
his own conceit : and so setting bars against improvement,
by calling those who know no better than himself, paragons of
learning, and "princes of critics;" and calling those who do
know better, just what be pleases to call them.
END OF SECTION VI.
SECTION VII.
LIBEILTIES TAKEN WITH THE SCRIPTUILES BY ERA8Mt'8.
" For the book of Revelation, there was no original Greek at
all, but Erasmus wrote it himself, in Switzerland, in the year
lfH6.-Bishop Marsh, vol. I, page 320."-Manifesto.
. 1. "After what we have already seen, the reader will not be
surprised at being assured that this also is a gross falsehood, and
that the pretended reference to the learned Bishop is another im-
pudent forgery," page 32. ·
No, indeed, the reader will not be surprised at any intensity of
abuse, virulence of. vituperation, and excess of triumph, which
this good Christian Divine would exhibit upon an unguarded po-
sition left to his conquest,.after having exhausted the whole artil.;.
lery of accusation without reaching the outermost lines of our
defence. Not the shadow of a falsehood, not an iota of a forgery
has he yet discovered; and if that name, and no other, must be
given to an INDEX referring to a fact, and to the authority,where
the fullest exposition of that fact would be found, because, from
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION ()t THE HANtli'EST.O.
the extr&me oeeessity of abbreviating its terms, it bad abbreviated
itself of some, that were abSolutely necessary to its sense, or to
its accUracy, but which would be supplied the moment the au-
thority referred to was consulted ; yet, where certainly it is the
only incorrectness, it cannot be called another forgery-where it
is the first error, it cannot be also a falsehood-but-
If in the line "for the book ~f the RetJelation there was no
original Greek at all, but ErasmtUJ," &c. had been supplied the
words, "FOR THE MOST ESSENTIAL PASSAGE IN THE BOOK OF
REVEL.\TION there teas no origitt.al Greek at all"-this filling up
of the ellipsis, absolutely necessary to the understanding of an
INDEX, would have removed all ground of fair objection, while
it·would hardly have led to any stronger impression of this monk's
recklessness of truth and honesty, than the passage as it stands.
imputes to him, and his whole character in life fully confirms.
The passage which Erasmus thus audaciously interpolated, and
"added of his own invented Greek, to that which he represented
a8 contained in his manuscript, contains the words, " If any man
shall add onto these things, God shall add unto bini the plagues
that are written in this book," &c. This entire passage, from the
18th verse (Rev. xxii.) to the end was first put fo~th to the wo!ld
under a false pretence, and rested solely on the Greek wh1cb
Erasmus had made from the Latin Vulgate. The reader might
thus have been put in possession of a more explicit,.and I admit,
a more accurate statement; but the Manifesto, instead of being
an Index, would have become a treatise; instead of referring the
reader to the sources of more explicit information, it would have
supplied that information itself-and its language, instead of
being in every instance, See there! should have been, See here!
-instead of its style running,'' If these things can bedenied, or
disproved, your ministers and preachers are earnestly called
on to do so !" the reader would not have been surprised at being
aslfUred, that it was as the Index gave him t$ understand, and
called upon to take the matter it only glanced at, as truth, upon
the only principle on which Dr. Smith's matter can be taken for
truth, namely, looking no further into it.
Had no reference been given to have enabled the reader to
acquaint himself more accurately with the matter referred to ;
or if, on referring to the works of that Bishop, no information on
that subject was to have been found, the Manifesto certainly
would have been chargeable with an air of dogmatism, and
would, inthis instance, have failed of the fidelity to be expected
from every work of the character which it purports to sustain,
which is, that of an Index lndicatorius; with which dogmatism
it is not chargeable-of which fidelity it bath not failed.
Let the reader glance his eye over the index to any great and
extensive work : I know of none in which be shall riot frequently
aad continually iRd, that when he tnrns to the ~qatter wtiicb the.
R
Digitized by Google
60 · VINDICATION OF .THE MANI&'£8'1'0.
ipdex referred him to, it does not upon that fuller explicatioQ1'
come up to the strength of the impression which.the index bad
I~ him to expect; and here, after all, it is only the author's and
the reauer's judgment as to the matter that is at issue ;. and :at
the worst, the author has only used an ordinary method in call-
ing attention to his labours, to provoke investigation, and to sti•
mutate inquiry. .
It is only one, who has as little respect for truth as he has for
the decent coprtesies of life and the established allowances and
deferences of the commonwealth of learning, that would, for any
advantage that a detected error could give to his argumentation,
violate the echoes of the grove with the eructatatioos of the
shambles and the gospel-shop. '
An error is not a falsehood-a misquotation is not a forgery.
But when it is for what in the very worst view, was only an
error-that we find that error called a grosB error-when it is
to that which is really no forgery at all, we find the terms ap- ·
plied, that it is "an impudent forgery," what can we say, but
that such a charge is a DOWNRIGHT John Pye Smith: a fair
example of the manners, the style, and the conscience of a mini-
ster of the gospel-a preacher of salvation through blood, and
-GO TO CHAPEL AND HEAR IT YOURSELVES!
Of the accuracy and fidelity of EraSmus, on ~hom the maio
chance for the accuracy and fidelity of all versions of the .Greek
Testament subsequently derived from his, must ultimately de-.
pend, we find, from Marsh's Michaelis, vol. 2, chap. xii. sect
I, p. 444, edit. 3..Loud. 1819, (only Dr. Smith will assure the
reader that this is another impudent forgery, for,as in the Church
of Rome, so among our no Jess prie~~t-ridden di88entera, a man is
not to believe his own eyes, nor trust his own reason, in contra-
diction to God's ministers.) We find that there is a reading in
the second Epistle of Peter (which Epistle itself is of question-
able authenticity) which Erasmus has , foisted in, which no
one bas been able to discover, in !lny manuscript whatever.•
That word happens to be one of the most frightful significancy
of the whole evangelical canonade-the war-whoop of the
gospel, -GOA•ICI.S· In the twenty-second chapter of the book
of Revelation, he has even ventured to give his own
translation from the Latin, because the Codex Renchlioi,
which was the only Greek manuscript which be had of
that book, was there defective. Of this, hi11 only ~PY
for ,so important a part of Scripture, he boasted that it waa
" tantre vetustatis ut apostolorum mtate scriptum videri potest,"
of such antiquity as to seem to have been written in the age of
the apostles, though it contained internal evidence of the hand-
writing of Andrew of Clesarea, in the ninth century ; and he
himself borrowed it from Reuchlin, though it was not. his pro-
perty ; but was borrowed by Reuchlin, from the monks of the
Digitized by Google
\'INtltO.A'l'lON OJ' 'tHE MANfFEs'l'O. 61
Monastery of Basil ; and he kept it himself for thirty years, till
he c;lied. Dr. 1\fill says, ''that of a hundred a~terations, which
Era&mus made, in his edition of 1~27, ninety relate to the Reve-
lation only. One of his most violent opponents was the learned
Spaniard Lopez de Stunica, who published 'Annotationes
adversus Erasmus in defensione translationis N. T.' Erasmus re-
plied in his Apologies, both to him and his other antagonists;
and the controversy has been so far useful, that many points of
criticism have been cleared up, which would otherwise have
remained obscure. But the character of Erasmus seems to have
lost by it, for he was more intent on his own -defence, than the
investigation of truth."-Vol. 2. p. 44~. -
What more to the just disparagement of this great man, the
Expositions of Lopez might have brought forward, I have not
here* the means of knowing. Though to hear both sides is
the first maxim of reason and justice; yet 'tis a most certain and
·safe presumption that, if he· brought forward any thing like the
language of Dr. John Pye Smith, Erasmus had no formidable
opponent.
The writer of the Manifesto has now met the shock of the
Doctor's furious attack-Truth, and not Victory is his aim.
That there should be nothing in the Manifesto, that might have
been worded better than it was, .or that mig·ht not fairly and
justly be liable to censure and correction, (as I cheerfully admit
this part of the Manifesto, is,)-is what I never hoped; but that a
single sentence of·it should be liable to the charge of forgery, or
fraud, is what I never feared.
One. single argument, that had been pregnant of such an
inference, though couched in language of- silk, and breathed in
tones of music, I can tell this angry Doctor, would have been
more terrible than all his fool, ill-mannered, and unmeasqred
revilings ; and had he but shown in any one passage off his
book, a capacity to.perceive a truth that made against his own
views, a disposition to recognize any one claim of his antagonist,
on a humane or liberal consideration : his criticism would have
been respectable, and his censure formidable. As it is, he perches
but as a gnat upon a cow's horn ; and God only knows, or cares,
whether he intended to sting us, or to rest himself and be off
again.
• Here in Oakham Gaol, being a prillooer of Jetus Christ. Some apology
lllope for the de&eieoc1 I ·
END OF SECTION VII,
Digitized by Googl€
VINDICATION CW THE IUNII'Il8TO.
SECTION VID.
'fBB ORIGIJI AND OBAilACTER OP TBE TEXT, IN TBB OOIIIIOI't
EDITIONS OJ' THE GREEK TESTAMENT.
1. '' Fao11 the facts already stated, the impartial reader will be
at no loss to judge concerning what this dishonourable Manifesto
writer, chooses to call the infinitely suspicious origination of the -·
present received text." I beg leave to suggest, that no impartial
reader would prewme the Manifesto writer to be dishonourable ;.
that no facts, already stated, support the presumption of dis-
honour, and that the reader has full right to retain his character
of impartiality, even though he should not be content to ac-
quiesce in the condemnation which either party may pronounce
against the other.
2." His paradeofreferringto the introduction of the Unitarian
Improved Version, is in the same spirit of deception." .
But there has been no deception in any part, in any iota of the
Manifesto. Even in the instance in which the mighty effort,
made to compress immense extent of matter, into the smallest
compass of exhibition, bas caused a syncopation or synecbdoche,
ltbicb read as a detail, which it is not-rather than as an index
referring to a detail, which it is-might lead to an error, there
is no deceit, no intention of deceiving; the reader, referring to
the given authority, will find the whole ma.tter extensively set
before him; and, surely, no writer, intending to produc.e a false
impression, would have put into the bands of the reader, the;
means of instantly correcting it. .
3. " -His parade of referring," &e. (p. 33.) coupled with the
charge in hisfirst paragraph, of my" making an ostentatious refer-
ence to the titles of books, chapters, pages, and passages, marked.
as quotations, when the hooks and passages, say no such thing;"
are words which would surely lead the reader to understand
that be bad, at least, some one or two palpable hits at the honour
of the Manifesto writer, and that be had found a passage pur-
porting .to be in such a page of such an author, of which be
could say, TRESE WORDS ARE _
NOT THERE! But what is d~.
ceit1 what is falsehood 1 and deceit and falsehood or the m08t
malicious and eva,ngelical character ; if it be not, after such a..
force of accusation, to be obliged to·shirk oft' with the evasion,
that these words; which are there quoted, are gaf'bletl; and that
the qnoter, who quoted wba~ served his own purpose, (which·
was, certainly, all that be intended to quote,) ought to have
quoted something else, which would have served somebody else's
purpose? I freely, and onc:e for all, confess, that after many years
of study and acquaintance with divines, and with their works,
(and I wish, I knew less or them than I do,) experience bas
shown me that their's is bad company, and that a man can make
Digitized by Google
YINDlOATION OF THE HANIFUTO.
no better advantage of his misfMtune in falling into it, tban by
informing himself, as an honest man would, of the mysteries ofa
gang of thieves, taking their word, not for all that they say, hut
· for what they sometimes say without meaning that it should
strike vulgar observance, when nature's honesty will, ever and
anon, break out or press through .the policy of the craft and
tell us unexpected truth. .
With this view, and this alone, I quote Christian authors; and
as the wicked murderer, in his sleep, betrays the secret of his
burthened conscience, in broken sentences, and unconcateoated
ejaculations ; in this way also, may more than divines meaDt to
communicate, be extracted from their writings. And all the
pledge for the fidelity of this most important of all possible
exercises of critical shrewdness, is the proof that, say they what-
ever else they might say, contradict, recall, confU&e, deny,
confound; yet, this, which we present as their saying, is, what
they really did say; of this, we produce the undeniable evi-
dence: we claim no more privilegeforourinference, than we yield
~ the most opposite inference, and let the galled jade wince !
I did not quote the passage from the Unitarian Improved
Version, which my reverend opponent thinks I ought to have
quoted, lst. Because I did not believe it myself. I hope that
may pass for one good reason ; and, 2ndly, because it would
have been utterly impossible to have made quotations of so great
a length within the compass of space assigned to my whol~
matter ; and that, for another. But as for my being an "unprin-
cipled slanderer and deceiver," I throw myself on the reader's
justice to decide, whether 'tis my character or hi~ own, that thia
meek and bumble minister of Christ compromises, when in the
very volume which he accused me of having falsely pretended
to quote; there, even in the same Section that he himself .waa
qaoting; there, before his eyes, were the very sentences as pur-
porting to be quoted by me : where he must have seen, that they
were not garbled, nor put in stronger light than they would have
appeared, if read, and conned together in the connection of the
whole Dissertation from beginning to end, and standing thus
withinten lines of the period, which the doctor would have had
me quoted.
''So THAT the received text rests upon the authority of no
more that twenty or thirty manuscripts, most of which are of little
note.'' . Such reader, is the whole of the sentence, thus exhi-
biting in itseir a s11ccinct and complete sense ; and the only
variation, in the quotation, as ·it stands in the Manifesto, is the·
omission of the two words, So that. The sentence, which im-
mediately follows, in the Unitarian Version, is,-" But since the
received text was completed by the Elzevir edition of 1624, up-
wards of three hundred manuscripts, either of the whole, or
of dift'erent parts of the New Testament, haYe been collated by
Digitized by Google
VINDICA.TION OF THE IIA.NIFEBTO.
learned men, with much care, industry~ and skill."....Jtatr~
duct. p. x.
From this sentence, marking it as the matter of a distinct
sentence, I extracted so much of tlie information as I wanted, \
adhering to the words as closely as possible in an abbreviation of
~~. .
It (i. e. the received text,) was completed by the Elzevir
edition of 1624. · ' -
Reader! without appealing to thy impartiality, I ask thy
reason, J ask thine eyes, is this referring to the Unitarian Im-
proved Version, in the spirit of deception ; is this garbling; is
this endeavouring to show a sense in a part of a sentence which
the whole sentence taken together would not imply, or which
the whole argument in which it stands, would be found -to
- contravene1 Or is it (of all men on earth,) for him to accuse
another of garbling or quoting a passage deceitfully, who, at the
very time, and in the very argument that he offers to make it
seem thataiiother has done so, does so himself, and makes what
the·Unitarian Editors say of the books of the New Testameni,
pass for a refutation of what the writer of the Manifesto has
said of the Received Text of the New Testament ; which the
Editors of the Unitarian Version were so far from intending to
contravene, that they have actually said, not only all that tbe
Manifesto says on that subject, but much more to the same
purpose 1
For what end, then, does the Reverend Doctor Smith apply
such terrible epithets to the aiUhor of the Manifesto1 why thus
call him an unprincipled slanderer and deceiver 1 Why, but to
conceal his own machinations, to supply, by clamour, the total
want of argument ; and to set pursuit on the wrong tract, by
crying sToP THIEF ! when all the whil~aye ! when all the
w~ile !-Oh, God ! what a wicked world it is !-Surely, Dr.
Smith ought to feel, that the greatness of the occasion calls for
his prayers-he shall have the full benefit of mine-God for-
give him!
I shall now subjoin, without note, or comment, a few of the
ADMI8SION8 OF THE 1108T LEA.RNED CRITICS A.8 TO THB
INFINITELY SUSPICIOUS ORIGINATION OF THE RECEIVED
TEXT-
Which the reader may, if he pleases, take Dr. John Pye
Smith's word, are impudent forgeries, and unblushing falsehoods,
but which, if he turns to the authors referred to, will be very
likely to stare him in the face.
I. A. D. 1624.-An edition of the Greek Testament was pub-
lished at Leyden, at the office of ~e Elzevirs, who were the
most eminent printers of the time. The Editor. who super-
Digitized by Goog[e
VINDICATION OF .THE MANIFESTO. 55
inlended the publication is UNKNOWN.-Unit. Improved Version,
.Introduct. p. 9.
2. It does not appear that the editor was in possession.of any
manuscript.-Ibid.
3. This edition, however, being elegantly printed, &c., it was
UNACCOUNTABLY TAKEN FOR GRANTED, that it exhibited a
pure and perfect text.-Ibid. ·
4. THIS, constitutes the received text.-Ibid.
- 6. The early editors of.the New Testament, possessed but
Jew manuscripts, and those of infer:ior value.-lbid. p. x.
6. Those of the Complutensian Editors were destroyed ; but
they were not numerous nor ofgreat account.*
1. Erasmus consulted only five or six.
8. Robert Stephens, only fifteen.
9. They were collated, and the various readings noted, by
Henry Stephens, the son of Robert, a youth about eighteen
years of age.-lbid. 8. ·
10. This book; being splendidly printed, with great professions
.of accuracy, by the Editor, was long supposed to be a correct
·and immaculate work.-Ibid.
11. It was published, A.D. 1660.-lbid.
12. It differs very little from the received text.-Ibid.
13. It has been discovered to abound with errors.-lbid.
14. Attempts have been made .to correct the Received Text,
by critical conjecture.-!bid. xv.
- 16. The Orthodox charge the heretics with corrupting the
text; and
16. The Heretics recriminate upon the Orthodox.-Notes on
Luke i. Unit. N. V. page 121.
17. The works of thOle writers who are called Heretics, such
as ValentiniUl, 1.\larcion, and others, are as useful in ascertaining
.the value of a reading, as those of the Fathers who are entitled
Orthodox ; for the Heretics were often more learned and acute,
and equally honest.-Introd. p. xv.
18. For, al!l yet, (i. e. the fourth century,) there was n.o law
enacted, which excluded the ignorant and illiterate from eccle-
siastical preferments and offices, and it is certain, that the greatest
part, both of the bishops and presbyters, were men entirely des-
titute of teaming and education. Besides, . . ·
19. That savage and illiterate party, which looked upon all
sorts of erudition; particularly that of a philosophical kind, as
pernicious, and even destruetive.of true piety and religion, in-
. creased both in number and authority.-Mosheim, vol. i. p. 346.
20. A l'egard du Nouveau Testament I' Heresiarque (scil. ·
Manichee), entreprit de Ia eorriger, sons le frivole pretexte, que.
• 1 bave shown, however, (tboagb it makes against my own argument.) tbat
they were more respectable tlian tbe Unitatian Editor•, or Bishop Manh him1elf,
at lint, apprlheoded them to be.
Digitized by Google
VUIDICAT~N 0. TBB IUIIIJ'BSTO.
lei Bvangilea n'e&oient poiat dea Ap6tres, ni dea hom-.a.po.ao-
liques dont ils portent lea noms : on que s'ila en etoient, ill
avoient ete fala~ par· des Cbretien11, que etoieot encore a
demijuifs.
21. L'impartialite, si essentielle a un historiel!, m'a obliger de
justiJler lea Manicheens de' l'a.ccull&tion qui le11 CatholiqDell leur
ont inten~, d'avoir corrumpu lea livres do Nouveau Testament
par des additions; on des Retranchemens sacrileges. Je l'ai exa-
minee, et l'ai trouvee sans fondement. Mais je n'aipft m'empe-
cher de remarqoer a c:ette occasion, qn'il y'eut des Catholiquea
assez temeraires pour oter quelquea endroita des Evaogiles.-
Beausobre,HistoiredeManichee,prefacexi. a Amsterdam, 1734.
22. Si les heretiques otent un mot dn texte aacre, oo s'ila en
ajooteot un ce soot de sacrileges violateurs de Ia saotete des eeri-
tnres ; mais si les Catholiqoea le font, cela s'appelle retoucher les ·
. premiers exemplaires les reformer pour lea rendre plus intelligi-
bles.-Ibid, p. 343.
The reader will bEi pleased to oblerve, that the above is the
pasuge in the text .of Beausobre, upon which the statement
about Laofranc, in the Manifesto, is a note illustrative, which it
was convenient for this Doctor of Divinity not to see, or seeing
which, it was convenient to his conscience to charge the Mani-
festo Writer withdishonesty.for doing,whatthe Manifesto Writer
was not doing; but what he was doing himself.-Steal! and cry
Stop thief ! is g08pel all over ! •
23. The Latin version is the source of almost all European
versions.-Manh's Michaelis, vol. 2, page 106.
24. No manuscript now extant is·prior to the sixth century ;
and what is to be lamented, various readings which, as appears
from the quotations of the fathers, were in the text of the Greek
Testament, are to be found in none of the maDUScripta which ue
at present remaining.-lbid. page 160.
This is but a spicilegium which the reader may safely mplti-
ply by a hundred, of the gra.sJorgeriea, and no auch pMaagu,
and 110 IIUCh thing• a8 are imputed to them, but which thn-e, in
his face and in his teeth all the while, I might have obtruded on
the angry Doctor's patience, in comprobation of t~e position of
the Manifesto. ·
But the Manifesto is an index, not a disaertation, aacl enough
was given there, as perhaps more than enough is given here, to
prove, from the admissions of the most learned critics, the i.Qft-·
nitely suspicious origin or the received text. .
The claim or the scriptures, therefore, in any existing version
of them, to re~~emblanee or identity with their original, God only
knowing what that original may have been, seems to be in much
~he same p~cament u that of the Irishman's knife, wJlieh had
Digitized by Google
VINIHOATION OF THE HANii',KSTO.
Ullquestionably descended from the first ki~g ofConaught, 'bough
it had had seventy thousaqd new blades, anc;l fifty thoiJS.QCl aew
handles.
. But to evade the pregn.ant conclusion of the matter which
forces itself into his own reluctant admissions, the doctor ring&
the changes again on his eternal sophism about the Greek trage-
dians and historians, as if it were proof enough for the claims of
a divine revelation, to prove as much for it as can be proved for
a pagan romance, or a barbarous melo-drame. We write better
poems, and more accurate histories; than any of the Hesiods or
Homers, the Herodotoses or Livys of antiquity-tb~ is no Es-
chylus, Euripides, or Sophocles t.hat ever produced a play that
would be endured in a British theatre, much less be worthy of
an hour's study of the man who could read SaAKE!JPEAR! What
are Virgil or Pindar to Byron and'Moore 1 the man who had read
Horace, and the Iliad, might po~ibly attain the beauties of style,
and fervour of expression that appear in the Answer to the Ma-
nifesto-the man who had studied Shelley's Queen Mab wotJld
become a gentleman. After all that could be urged for the eo-
equal claims of ancient poets, and as ancient evangelists, is, aU
tha.
t can be urged, enough 1 or shall the groUild which is solid
enough to pitch a tent on, be a sufficient fouoqation for a castle 1
But surely, to argue that it is only of late years, and since the
world has been blessed with the critical ingenuity and industry
of a Mill, Wet8tein, Griesbach, Middleton, Knapp, and Voter,
that we are in possession of the correct, or probably correct text t
·of scripture, is little else than to transfer the authority of apostle-
ship from the first writers to the modem critics. By the same
argument it may be inferred, that subsequent critics may mak~
aubsequent discoveries, which may give us as good reason to alter
the text from our present reading, as we have for holding the
present reading at present the best. We do but arrogate to our
own times an infallibility which we deny to others, when we
presume to think that the text, as we have it, can be depended on,
or that it may not be a thousand years to come, and after another
hundred and thirty thousand various readings shall have been
discovered, ere mankind shall h!lve a right to felicitate th~m­
selves on reading a text in the closest accordance with the ori-
ginal. . ,.
But if we are to take the knock-down dictum of l\11 iqsoh~nt
priest, who will call us " obstinateuntractabU wretches" for re-
sisting his arguments 1 If we must, on the ipse dixit of a pre-
tended prince of critics, believe that " that text is competently
exact even in the worst manuscript, ·nor is one article of faith or
moral precept either perverted or lost in it," why, there's an end
on't ! and what use of any other critic upon earth bot he 1 W~t
n8e of a revelation from God, when the prince of critics can brqa)l
up any dirty lumber into gospel, and give it us with h~s " Tak~
Digitized by Google
68 ViNDICATION 01' THE MANIFESTO.
that, or 'BE D.~MNED 1" (Mark, xvi. 16~) or what use of any
God on earth, when any canting fanatic, in the very slavering of
learned idiotcy, shall be so ready and so able to officiate in his
damnable capacity. to launch his curses, and denounce hia
vengeance?
END OF SECTION VIII.
SECTION IX.
IMMORAL TENDENCY OF THE SCRIPTURES.
1. "Here is, indeed, the highest pitch of daring."
"Here," (exclaims the Doctor, in a strain that makes humanity
hope his constitution may have no tendency to apoplexy)-" Here
is the first born of calumny." ·
He might as well, however, have left it to his readers to deter-
mine, whether the Manifesto demonstrates that its writer defies
all truth and justice-for truth and justice will determine, that
however ill a man may think of his enemy, it is not his enemy's
guilt, that constitutes his innocence ; nor is it the devil's black-
ness, that makes an angel white.
2. "Study the passages to which be r~fers, in their respective
connexion, and in their relation to the ~her parts of the .New
Testament," says this learned Divine.
But no! say common sense and honesty. If a'thing be appa-
rently right and fair; if it be manifestly founded in reason-loyal,
just and pure-what occasion is there for study 1 Shall palpable
villainy, seen, caught, and held in the very act and article of
crime, defeat our indignation, and bilk us into terms of peace, by
the sophistical evasion-" You don't know me-you don't see.the
bearings and connections of the matter-study this part of my ·
conduct, in relation to other parts of my conduct, and you .will
find it forms no exception to the SPOTLESS PURITY, the HOLY
BEAUTY which animates the whole of my divine composition. I
pick a pocket, and I cut a throat, now and then! but how unfair
.to suspect my general character."
Will Dr. Smith shew that there ever was, or could have been,
any religion on the face of the earth, so vile and wicked, that it
might not have been defended by precisely the S1lffie argument?
Can the imposture of the Koran, the Shaster, the Vedas; the
Pouranoas, or any other pretended Divine Revelation, be pointed
out, by any fairer demonstration of the cheat, than that which
should show, that amid all their pretended sanctities and subli-
mities-their spotless purity and their holy beauties-there were .
passages enough to be found in them, to betray the craft in which
they originated, and the deceit which they intended1 Might not
the institutions of Lycnrgus-the laws of Draco-or the bloody
statute of Henry the Eighth, be vindicated ·upon the principle
Dig•tized by Google
VINDIO.A.TIO~ OF THE H.A.NiF&STO.
of " stadying them in all the connections and relations that might ,
be imagined to appertain .to them," and explaining away the
gross sense of the atrocities that they contain, ~y taking their
own tDOrd for the sincerity of the philanthropy they profess 1"
Might not the language of Doctor John Pye Smith himself, be
supposed to be such as a gentleman and a scholar could have
used, if we areobliged to give him credit either for the truth of hi&
professions, or the sincerity of his motives 1 .
· The Doctor himself admits, that t~ere are difficulties in the
Bible, but seems incapable of the mgenuousness that should
own, that those difficulties are difficult enough to appear to have
an immoral, vicious and wicked &eodency, in which appearance
all their difficult.y consists. He begs otr this, by the complete
surrender, of puttmg the WORD OF Gon, on as good a footing as
the fabulous legends of antiquity, and claiming that the same
allowance should be made for the inspirations of infinite wisdom,
as for the madr\,ooals of Drunken Barnaby.
3. " The rational method of resolving them, is by acquiring the
information necessary to .go to the bottom of each instance,"
says the Doctor, (p. 37.) And so, 'tis the rational way to catch
sparrows, to put a little salt upon their tails.
4. " And those who cannot do so, possess, in an enlightened
protestant comitry," ,,
Where's that 1
6. "The inestimable advantage of consulting learned and judi-
cious commentators."
~ut.was not the advantage greater in a C.A.THOLIO country, of
consulting commentators, who were not merely learned and
judicious, but absolutely infallible, and who, when the difficulty
was propounded to THEM, would have answered it perhaps,.
,without giving you worse names than you might get from a
Methodist parson, for your pains 1
6~ " With respect to the passagesenumerated by this contemp-
tible writer, a man must have little understanding indeed, whose
careful examination cannot dissipate wha&eYer of difficulty is
pretended.''
There, reader! half of that is for yourself, for if your exa-
mination should not be careful etWUgh, or- should not lead to
such a complete dissipation of. the difficulty, as l>r. Smith opines
must,be its issue, he gives you hint enough that you shall be con-
temptible too.
7. "For, if the truth of God. hath more abounded. through
my lie unto his glory, why yet am I also judged as a sinner~"
Rom. iii. 7. How this can be the language of an objector.
and not the Apostle's own language, an apostle only can shew
us. How its most frightful and revolting sense-which is at least
the apparent one, is incompatible with the character of.one who
calls himself " the chief of.sinners,'' and who calla the other
Digitized by Google
eo VUfDIO.&.TION OJ' TBB IU.NII'UTO.
apostles, " false apostles, dogs and lian ;" or how·it is relieved-
by apposition with innumerable other texts of the same epistoler,
to the full etr~t of representing the God of trutll and mercy, as
the greatest monster of iniquity-" giving up his creatures to
vile atr~tions and a reprobate mind, that he O)ight have merey
on whom he would have mercy, and whom he would, might
harden ;"-how this can be compatible with holy beauty, 01
reconciled to moral juatice, they only can show, who can abow
falsehood and forgery in the Manifesto, and prove that the
pitch of Vulcan's smithy, was whiter than the pearl oo Juno•a
coronet.
8. "If there come any nnto you, and bring not this doctrine,
receive him not into your boose, neither bid him God-speed,for he
that biddeth him God-speed, is partaker of his evil deeds,..
1ohn ii.l0. This text, says our all-explaining Doctor," forbids the
aiding and encouraging of corrupt and wicked teachers, bot it
does not forbid any acts·of humanity or civility towards them as
our fellow creaturea...-(p. 7.) ·
The devil it doesn't! A word with you Doetor, if you please !
How were the leamen to know that the teachers were corrupt,
before they had learned what it was that the teachers bad to
teach ? ADdifthe learners themselves actually knew best, how
could they have any teachers at all 1 or what was .the depth of
that teaming, whose nature could be fairly judged of aoooer
than you could say HC1fD d'1Je do ? Or, ifthese questions savour of
levity-imagine a more seriooa one if you can, than the question
whose emergence from your own positioo cannot be evaded, and
imagine, if you can, an answer to it.
lf, before that epiatle itself waa written-if tlaere and tAft, bt
the Apostolie age, while the beloved 1ohn, the centre and source
of orthodoxy, was living and basking under the plenary illapaes
of inspiration, false teachers, and corrupters of the Christian
doctrine were so rife, that Christians bad to li'ye upon tbe·lt'NJp,
to keep the goapel-preaching vagabonds out of their houses;
how are we to be sure1 that in the course of eighteen hundred
years, false ·teachers haven't smuggled themselves into good
livings, and brQoght in the vilest trash that was ever foisted on
the credulity of a choused and insulted people! Especially con-
.sideriog, that what our teachen tell us is so pure and holy, amelia
10 rank and KNOCK-n:-~wx in snch a many places, aod eo&ts a
man su~h a head-ache before he can dissipate the effect of the
irst hav.t-gout, and swallow· it all, as a lump of apotleas parity
apd holy beauty! But, "Bhul gour efU and Of*' 1Jotlr f11014A,
and Bee what God tDiU •ettd rou;' is tbe divinity of tbe college,
as well as of the uunery ; tbe only difference being, that there is
an air of sportive innocenee and joke in the game of the liUie
~,_while .. game, u played by the grown babies, is not ioao-
amt, and is DO joke! .
Digitized by Google
VINDIOA:T50N OJ' THE 11.\NIFESTO. 61
9. " To peaecution, in every fortn and d~," says the Doctor,
"'dle whole spiritof the Gospel isentirely,opposed.'' N.B.--9nly
a little private assassination now and then, is recommended.
Aets vi.; Corinth. i. 15.; Galat. v. 12. ·
10. '.'The words of Heb. ·xii. 22. 'Our God is a consuming fire,'
are figurative language, borrowed from the Sublime Diction,
&c., and every school-boy knows, that the word RATE or hatred•
,
denotes no malevolent disposition, but only that holy heroism of
virtue."*-(p. 37.) Go it, Doctor Smith; at this rate, how easy is
the business of explanation !-the Persian shall supply thee with
the literal text of his creed, the very words of his holy liturgy,
than which he. could use no other to express his sincere idolatory
of FIRE-the Cannibal shall ·hand over to thee, all the modes of
expression by which be indicates and mean8 his feast on human
tlesh, and thou wilt explain it all, to some high sense of mystical
holiness. Cannibalism shall be spotlessly pure ; malevolence shall
be heroism, and consuming fire shall be a fit metaphor for a God
of mercy.
II. You oft'er, in illustration of the dispositions produced by
Christianity, the conduct of the Bavarian martyr. Here, Sir! you
are not tO be misunderstood; here yon stand committed, and in
the contemplation of thia frightful instance, you are no more to
be dealt with by the mild censure of the critical diasurmos, and
the sufticient castigation of merited ridicule ; but the sense of
your deluded and insulted readers, must be aroused to a percep:.
tion of the precipice of horrors, to which, in the error either
of your ignorance, or of your madness, you would lead them; ·
Petsuade the babes and sucklings of the Gospel, that I am aU
that malice could conceive me to be-feed them with the pure
milk of your word for it-that the Author of the Manifesto must
needs be aU that your coarse mind could think, and all your
coarse laQguage could call him-you have not yet approached
the showing evidence, that he bad renounced the profession of
something moral and virtuous-you have not yet potirtrayed him
as that monstrous ~:~uicid~tbat rebel against nature-that enemy
of his own flesh-that unnatural father-that merciless husband-
that wretch, immoveable by a child's tears, unconquerable by a
woman's love; that-nothing that was man-dlat scandal of
humanity-that thief of man's face,
" On foreign mountains bred, ·
Wolves gave him suck, aad savage tigers fed"
Your BAVARIAN' :MAB.Tvi! Take him,· crown him with your
laurels, cover him with your honours, exhibit him as the creature:
the production, the model of Christianity, and say, See here! l
• .ln.like JU&oaer, M e-reeyeobool-boy knowa, ·that no falaebood, however I '
apparent aad palpable it Jli&J be, denotes fallehood wbi!o the p~ tell• il. .
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION 01' Ttu: MANti'K&TO.
will say, eee here, too ; and when you 11hall have exalted your,
paragon to a Divinity, be shall serve me too, as the very instance
that I would produce in exemplification of the character of a
FIEND; and of the mischievous,demoralizing,'and denaturalizing
influence of that accursed superstition which alone could have
produced so foul a monster-alone have formed your Bavarian
martyr. If thou hast nature in thee, reader, bearit not! If nature
be not wrong, say not that this could have been right. Imagine
that thou hadst been the son or daughter of such a father, the
wife of such a husband, and with all the possible sense of duty
.and aft'ection of the one, with all the passionate devotion of the
other-hadst been an infidel, (an imagination which Christians
never trust themselves to imagine, a case with which they have
no sympathies) think then, what a hell of domestic misery must
the disposition of such a parent· have caused-what compassion
couldst thou have hoped to engage, from the wretch that
had no mercy on himself1 what power of remonstrance
could have prevailed over one, whose inexorability of purposes
would not yield to the argument of fire and death. What
greater degree of wickedness could be conceived, than such-
a degree of obsth:~acy in a creature conscious of his liability to:
error, and compassed with infirmities. Let such a monster'&
madness take but another cue, and he would be as eager to inflict
as he was obdurate to suft'er.· If such are the examples that Dr.
John Pye Smith preaches at Homerton, it cannot be safe to sleep
in that neighbourhood. If such are the characters he commends~
his foul language and his bitterest criminations are the highest
compliment that he can pay: consummate vice, with him;is
glorious virtue, and 'tis only his good word that could be inju-
rious to any man. .
12. Of the passages which betray a comparatively modern cha-
racter,* ofwhich the Manifesto gives six, outofsix hundred which
• See a - ' ample store, illuetrated with irreeietible demoDBtrations of their
medemiem, in Evensen'a DiHOnance of the Fonr geoerall1 receind Evangelists,
which, as tbie divine, tboup:b of the Unitarian school, professed hi01self a sincere
belie'l'er in Di'l'ioe Renlatioo, ban that additional weight which I have inn•
riabl7 brouglat to all my arguments-that of being concesaiona of tbe advene·
~~tt. xix. nne 1!, delinn the peruliar doctrine of the Encratites, a ae~t
which appeared nrJ earb in tbe second eenturJ.-E'I'uaoo, p. 168.
Matt. ui. nne 18.-Matt. X'l'iii. nne 17. The word church ie ueed, and its
papiatical and infallible authoritJ' referred to as then exietiog, wbicb ia known
not to llan E'Xieted till ~·after. ·
Mat&. xi. nne l:ii.-From the da11 oflobo the Baptiat uatil now, the kingdom..
ofbeann autreretb 'l'iolence, &c. could not han been written till a 'l'erylateperiod~
Luke ·ii. vene I, sbowa, wboenr thtt writer was, be lind loor after the ennt•
he related,, Hie date-ahout the fifteenth year of:fjberiua, and the lfOYernment
ofCJreoi-tbeonl7 indieati- of time in theNew1'eatament, are mamfeatlyfalsE'•.
See referencea in the Epietlea to 1td..U, a religious order owlnr its origin to
&he popes. Refereoeea to the diatinct orden of Biabope, Prieata, and Deacons.
aDd calls to a monastic life, to futing, &c.
"In my Father's bouse are many m011111terln"-•o ·it tblluld han been trans-
la&ed.--.Jobn xiv. t.
Digitized by Google
VINDICATJON .OF TBit MANIFESTO.
critical investigation might have adduced: the Doctor, with
that priestly subtlety which characterizes his performance, shirks
the great knot by the wheedling finesse of saying, that" the·
greater part present no difficulty to an intelligent and reflecting
reader-and of the others, a ridional solution may be found by
referring to any good commentator, such as Whitby, Doddridge,
Scott, &c. and, (HEAR.! READER., HEAR!)" ifthere were no such
passages, one great argument in favour of the genuineness of the·
scriptures would be wanting.'' (p. 38.)
By my honour as pretty a bit of Iogie that as ever was conned.
I prithee, reader, look back on it, and digest the knowledge
thou bast gained.
" When ye pray, don't speak like Battus," (Matt. vi. 7.) so it should have beea
traaalated, Battue bein!{ a talkative and foolisn ~et, as modern as you please.
See the word& for,lef•on, aprona, handker~hieti, ~enturion, &e. in the original.
not being Greek, but .at.
in written in Greek ~baractera, a practice lint to be
found in the Historian Herodian, in the third century.-Enneon, p. 30.
The general ignorance of the four Enngelilta, not merl'ly of the geography aad
statistice of Judea, but even of ita language-their egregi- blunders, wbieh uo
writers who bad lived in that age could be ~on~eind to have made1 prove that
they were not only no au~h penoDB as tboae who have been willing to be deeeived,
have taken them to be, but that the7 were not Jewa-had never been in Palestine,
and neither lived in or at any time near to the times to which their narratina aeem
to refer. The ablest German divinea have yielded thus much; the Englilb reader
will tee it irrefutably proved by the Uuitarian Evanson; and the ·Latin s~holar
will liud the argument, as far u it applies to the Goapel of St. John, in particular,
cautiously, but convincingly handled, in the Probabma of Bretachneider, in which
he modestly attempts to ellow that the author of that Goapel was no party or co•
temporary of tile evente to which it relates, and neither a Jew, nor at any time an
inhabitant of Palestine. ·
"Si forte ac:cidinet ut Jobannia evangelium P.Sr octodeeim aecula priora pror-
, .. ignotum jacuinet et noatria demum tempor1bue in oriente re~rtum, t>t in me•
dium produetum eaaet, omnea baud dubie uno ore eon&terentur Jeaum a Joanne
deacriptum Ionge alium -e ac ilium Mattllei, Marci et Luce; nee utramque de-
scripttonem simul, nram ease pone."-Page 1. :Modestesubjeeit Carolua Theoph.
Bretecbneider, &e. Lipaie, 1820.
Indeed, the moderniam of some ofthe paeages iD the epiatlea ia trulylndicroua,
and need& but a moment's retlection to detect the abtolute im(IOI8ibility of ita
having been written, or the like of auch a thing haYing been •magined, in the
imaginary apostolic age. Such is the passage, for quotinJ which, in ita eYi·
deDt and inendeable teDBe, u a Jl&l:l of the blupbemy of which I have
been conYicted, I am now a prieoner. 2 Cor. iii. verse 6.-" Who aleo bath
made ua able miniaten of the New Testament; not of the letter, but of the
spirit; for the ·letter killeth, but the apirit ginth life." If tile reader caa
reconcile auch a ~age to any euppoaable cireuJDBtaoees or condition of a lr.t
preacher of the Gospel, ere 1et any part of the New Testament was put 111to
letter, his faith will remain unahaken.
()ur Englilh venioo ~regioualy protestantizes, whereby the really mookiab
character of .the original 11 concealed from vulgar auspicion. One of the ten rea-
eona which Chillingworth givea for turning Papiat wu, " Because the Proteatant
cauae is now, and hath been from the beginmng, maintained with gro. faleifica-
twna and calumnies, whereofthe prime controversy writen are notorioualy, and in
a high degree guilty."-See bia Ten Reuona.
BanscRN&Jnaa.-lt is to be regretted, that thil work has not yet appeared in
.an English translation. The Germans aeem far to have out-run u in the march of
general acepticiam. I have not quoted thia work, howner, withont baviag duiJ
weighed the ausw<'r to it, in the same language. by the learned STIIIN, of Bran~
denburgb, i. e.Avtluntia Bt~tulfelii JoluJAnu Yifldicata. Steia'a principal ar-
gument for the genuin..neaa of this Goapel, seeDI8 to be the eltJIIIrimce of a certain
piou toldier, alias a Chriltian blood-liound, who found it particularly comforta-
ble to bia aoul in the &eld of battle. Socrates must be silent when Xantippe
...,...
Digitized by Google
VINDIOATION OJ' 'J:HB K4NIFE8TO.
· lmpnmis.-The position of tbe Manifesto, that·there are in-
numerable pasaages in tbe New Testlmlent which betray a com-
paratively modern date, is a false pretence ; nevertheless, there
are passages which do betray a modern date. Nevertheles'll, if
the greater part of these present any difficulty to thee, thou art
not an intelligent and reftecting reader. Nevertheless, thou·shalt
find a rational solution of the difficulty in D'Oyley and Mant,
Clark, Williams' Cottage Bible, and others." And to crown aU
this vast accession to thy .knowledge, thou shalt nevertheleBB
conclude, like a thorough Three-one, One-three Trinitarian, that
the marks of a very modem date are one of the clearest proofs of
very high antiquity: just as thou wouldst know a poem to have
been certainly written in the age of Shakespear, and probably
by Shakespear himself, from the aBusion that it contained to the
battle of Waterloo, to gas-lights, and to steam-packets. Indeed
if there were no such aJlusions, one great argument in favour of
the genuineness of the poem would be wanting: and so, of
course, the more the better. And the clearer.proofs there ate of.
forgery and imposture in these writings, the stronger will be the
faith of the Christian in their genuineness and authenticity. Go
it; Doctor! but what a pity that men who have learned to Mgue
in this way, should ever have separated themselves from that
Holy and Apostolic Roman Church, from whorn not only their'
creed~ but their Iogie is derived.
13. The passage from Rousseau is fairly and honourably quoted,
and serves effectually.to the fuJJ stress for which it is quoted, and
valeat quantum valere potest. But surely, when these good .
Christian divines argue, as we admit they do, very fairly, from
colieession8 and admissions that have here and there dropped from
the pens of infidels, and take no notice of such parts of their
writings 88' they very well know would contravene; neuteralize,.
or entirely destroy the etrect of those admissions ; they can have
no right to complain at having this fair card played back upon
themselves. We can make all that a Rousseau, a Chubb, or a
D'Alembeit may have yielded to Christianity kick the beam, with
the plumb-dead weight in the other scale.of the scepticism of a
Lardner, the deism of a Locke, and the materialism of a Til-
lotson.
For the·proper understanding of the works of divines, even
from the writings of those who are entitled to be considered as
respectable, down to such as by the stupidity of their argumen-
tation, a'ftd the scurrility of their language, show that they have
renounced all claim to such a consideration ; the look-out of the
inquirer after truth should be, not for what they wished to set·
before his observance, but for what they would fain should escape
it-not for what they meant to say-but for what they did not
mean to say.
END OF SECTION IX.
Digitized by Google
VINDJC.\TIO!'f OF THE MANIFESTO.
SECTION X.
Of THE PROTOTYPE!!, OR FIRST SPECIMENS, AND ORIGINALS OJ'
THE GOSPELS.
I. "THE Manifesto Writer, with his usual despite of truth and
knowledge, speaks of true and genuine gespels of the most pri-
mitive ChristiiUI8, and which be says have been rejected without
any &liSignable reason, or alleged authority."
Then follows the Rev. Doctor's characteristic virulence of
abuse, with which,by this time, one might hope even dissenterian
rancour would be satisfied.
Let Doctor Pye Smith retain his unenvied laurels, and surpaa
all Wapping ia the use .of the vulgar tongue-let him stand the
Crichton of a style that no gentleman could have used, and no
scholar would have needed ; I only wish the reader to
give the utmost possible weight of consideration to the
admissions made by the Reverend gentleman himself, and
which his extreme ferocity of language seems purposely
adopted to screen from observation. There are, it seems, admis•
sions which must be admitted, concessions which must be con-
eeded; and therefore, that observance may not arrest them, that
inference may not overtake them, there was no better policy than
giving them their chance to escape in a tumult of tempestuous
rage ; but should the reader preserve his coolness, and retain
composure of mind enongb to ask,'' What has be here 1" he will
not pay for another quarter's sitting in a dissenterian chapel, till
be can find some more satisfactory way of solving his doubts,
than calling the man an impudent liar who snggested them.
1. CONCESSION.-1'here were other narratives of the doctrines
and adventures of Christ and his Apostles, besides those which
have come down to us.
2. CoNCESSION.-These narratives were earlier in time than
those which have come down to us.
I. INFERENCE.-And therefore could not be corruptions of the
Gospels which have comedown to us-but,
2. INFERENCE.-The Gospels which have come down to us
might be .the improvements, or last castigated and enlarged edi•
tions of these. ·
3. CoNCESSION.-Those narratives of the life and actions of
Jesus Christ were fictitious.
INFEB.ENCE.-How know ye that 1
4. CoNCESSioN.-They were written by many silly and frau.:.
dulent persons. · · .
INFERENCE.-Who is it that gives them that character1·and
what better are your Evangelists 1
~ CoNCESSION.-By far the larger part of these have ion;-
ag-0 dropped into merited oblivion.
. ~
•
Digitized by Google
YINDICA-TION 01' THE MANIFESTO.
INI'ERENcB.-Then, by what right can any one now take upon
himself to say, that that oblivion was merited1
6. CoNCE88ION.-That they e:ver existed ils known only from
the records of the early Christian writers, usually called the
Fathers.
lNFERENCB.-1. Such an assertion would do to be foisted on the
bigotted Papist, who never reads the scriptures, or on the no leas
bigotted fanatical dunce, who reads them in faith and prayer, and
fO is none the wiser for his reading. An inteHigent and shrewd
·noticer of what he reads, would find, that be did not .want the
,Fathers to have given him information of the existence of Gos-
pels and narratives of the life and doctrines of Christ, of rival
pretensions, and unquestionably of earlier date than any of the
lCriptures which those good fathers have suffered to come down
tous.
· 2. He will find too, that ''fictitious, silly, fraudulent, and de-
serving ofoblivion" as those writings, now that their merits can-
not be investigated, are assumed to be, it was certainly those
writings that formed the faith of the first Christians, before an.r
of the writings which form our New Testament were in ex~
istenee.
' 3. He will find that the New Testament makes over all its au•
thority to them-and '
4. Ascribes to them the inspiration, sanctity, and sufficiency,.
which those who know nothing about them preposterously as-
cribe to the New Testament.
6. He will find that they are expressly quoted in the New Tes-
tamebt, and quoted as a source of appeal aDd higher authority
recognized by the writers of the New Testament themselves.
6. He will .find that the writera; of the New Testament never
presume to put their writings on a footing of equality with those
earlier and more authentic narratives, but otTer their composi-
tions only as commentaries or sermons on the already established
Holy Scriptures. For example, Timothy,when himselfold enougf:t
to be Bishop of Crete, is said to have learned from his graud-
mother,Lois, and his mother, Eunice, (2 Tim. i. 5.) the Scriptures
which were able to make him wise unto salvation, through faith.
in Christ Jesus {2 Tim. iii. 15.) And Luke expressly prefaces
what bas, by a shameful perver11ion been called hiB Gospel, with
a disclaimer of all pretence to co-equal authority with the then
well-known and long-established narratives of Christ and his
exploits, but offers all be has to otTer, as an avowed Family Ex-
positor, having no authority itself, but setting forth the certAinty
of those things in which the most excellent Theophilus had al-
ready been instructed. ·
7. He will find that had the text of the New Testament been
fairly and ingenuously printed, SO as to mark in CAPITAL LETTEIUJ
the words which stand for the titles of books, a glance of th~
Dig•tized by Google
\"iNDICATION 011' THE M.\NIFESTO. 87
eye would distinguish a CATALOGUE, of which I myself have
counted upwards of a hundred and eighty, whose divinity and
inspiration must be admitted, if there now are, or ever were in
the world, any writings that had a claim to be considered as in-
spired and divine. ·
8. He will find, in like manner, that had the passag·es in the
New Tt.>stament, which really are quotations from those apocry~
phal writings, been printed in italics, or marked with inverted
commas, so as to indicate their quoted character, there are a
great many more of them than have been ordinarily recognized;
and that far higher honour and respect were paid and intended
by the New Testament writer!!, to those (in their esteem} true
and genuine Gospels,upon which their compositions are but com-
mentaries.
9. He will find too, that the method of distinguishing TITLES
OF BOOKS, names of personst and other important matters which
the sense required should be so distinguished, with some differ-
ence in the manner of writing, aud of marking quotations. as
quotations, not having come into use till comparatively modern
times, is the evident cause why the original authorities of many
ancient books have come to be entirely l~st sight of, and so sur-
reptitious and plagiary copies, which I hold all the books of the
New Testament to be, have come in time to supersede the use,
and run away with the honours of those which were really the
originals. ·
10. He will observe too,that added to the fact, that the method
ofdistinguishing titles of books, and quotations from those books,
by a difference in the manner of writing, had not come into use
when the books of the New Testament were compiled; the very
fame, renown, and common notoriety of the unquestionable and
unapproachable superiority of those then received and established
rules of faith are sufficient to account for the writers. of the New
Te11tament blending them with their own compositions as they
have done, without any particular indications of quotation,-and
nothing is more common uow, even since we have adopted
the method of distinguishing quoted sentences, than to consider
the well-known style of a popular author as a sufficient excuse
for not doing so; and so bringing in the sentiment and expression
of a Shakespear or of a Pope, as if it bad
"Grown with our growth, and strengthened witb our strength,''
had been the original conception of our own minds, and had oc-
curred as the most easy and natural way of rounding a p'eriod un-
mixed with baser matter.
As to the argument from the quotations of the writings of the
New Testament to be met with in the writings of the early
Fathers,and ourobligations tothem,for letting us know that" silly,
fra1,1dulent, and tictitious narratives of the life and actions of J~sU:t
. ~2 . .
Digitized by Google
TJNDICATION Oi' THE MANIFESTO.
Christ and his Apostleseverexisted,'' there happen to be justthese
ftfteen followingdifficulties standingin the way of the eonc\osion
to which Dr. Smith would marshal us, and standing too, in the
stubborn attitude of unyielding and unconquerable facts.
I. The same Fatherswho quote, or seem to quote the writings
contained in the New Testament, do also quote those silly, ficti-
tious, and fraudulent narratives, and that too, with quite as much
respect and reverence, as they do the writings which are now
deemed canonical. ·
2. The earlier the Fathers are in respect of time, the more fre-
quent are their respectful and honourable references to the apo-
cryphal, and the less their notice of the cimonical 11eriptures.
3. It is by no means a!certainable when the Fathers seem to
quote passages from the New Testament, that it really was the
New Testament which they quoted, and not those earlier and
original writings of which the New Testament is only a compi-
lation.
4. lretueUB, in the second century, is the first of the Fathers
who, though he has no where given us a professed catalogue of
the books of the New Testament, intimates that he had received
four gospeh! as authentic scriptures, the authors of which he de- .
scribes.
6. But the same Father still retains the earlier and apocryphal
\vritings, even the most silly of them, as of equal, and even pa-
ramount authority to the four gospels, and gives the most silly
and contemptible reasons: " Quare non sint plura Bec pauciora
quam quatnor Evangelia."-Fabt-icius, Codex Apoc. page 382.
vol. I. Hamburgh. ·
6. 0RIGEN, in the third century, an Egyptian priest distin-
guished for folly beyond all names of folly, who died about the
year 263, is the first writer who has given us a perfect catalogue
of tho~~e boeks which Christians unanimously (or at least the
greater part of them) have considered as the genuine and divinely
inspired writings of the Apostles.-lntrod. to the Critical Study
and Knowledge of the Holy Scriptures, by Thomas Hartwell
Horne, vol. I. p. 90.* ·
• Though lreneua, in the second century, is the lint who mentions the Ennge-
fists, and Origen, in the third century, is lhe lint who gina ua a catalogue oftbe
books contained in the New Testament, Moeheim's frightful admiuion standa still
before us, in all the horron of the inferences with which it teems. We hB'fe no
ground• of assurance that the mere mention of the namea of the Evangelists by
Iren111ua, or the arbitrary drawing up of a particular catalogue by OriJen, were
of any authority. It is still, unknown BY WBOJI, or wasaa, or WHKN, the canon
of the New Testament was eettled. But in this absence of positi•e efidence we
nafe abundance ot negatin proof. We know when it wu Mt settled. We knoW'
that it wa4 ut settled in the time of the Emperor J ustiuian, nor in the time of
Cassiodorius, that is, not at auy time before the middle of the sixth centlll'J, " b7
any authority &hat waa decisife and uninl'lllllly aekoowledged, but Christian peo-
ple 1fere at liberty to judge for the11188lna concerning the genuinenea ofwritinp
JII'O~d to them u a~tolical."-Lardner, fol. 3. pp. 56. 61. And certain it ••
that '11• nry earlie.t Fatbel'tl acted precisely upon the principle of our referend
Digitized by Google
l'INJ)ICATION Of' THJ.': ~ANII'EITO.
7. !Jut Orig~~ al110 quo~s other apd earlier writings, u qt
equal or pa~ount claims to tbose of ~b.e New Testament.
8. Jle !'dmits, that if he should only relate those things which
h~ faJlen within the co,mpass of his own knowledge, he &bould
.furnisl! jnfidelswith abundant matter of laughter.-Chap. 39, ad-
"'rft£8 CelBUm-and
9. That there are some ARCANA l:MPERII, or secrets in the
.management,which are not fit to be communicated to the vulgar.
-Chap. 8, adveriiUI Cel8t~m.
)0, It i11 cenaio, that those whom their adversaries called BE-
RBTICS, from the very first retained those writings which the
others rejected, challenged for them the higher and original au-
thority, and tejected the cornpilations that were afterwards frau-
dulen~ly foisted upon the people, by the power of the bishops,
who happened to get the upper hand in the scramble-and
11. " It is an undoubted fact, that the heretics were jn the
right in many points of criticism, where the Fathers accused them
of wilful corruption."-Bp. Marsh, vol. 2, p. 362."'-and
J2. W:ere vastly more intelligent and learned-and
13. Yastly more candid, conscientious, and heedful of truth.
14. The inquirer will find, that the supreme and exclU&i.v.
e pre-
tensions to divine inspiration and authority now set up for the
writings contained in the canonical scriptures of the Old and New
Testamentin particularI are a 8Urpri8ingly modern trick-a new
ahufile in the game of priestcraft; for, in reading the writings of
'he Fathers, even down to the Fathers of the English church, and
the Homilies of the Church of England set forth in the reign of
Edward the Sixth, and renewed and enlarged by Elizabeth, as.
proper "to be under8tanded by the people," (Article 35.) he
will. find the works even of Soc~ates and Virgil, quoted as of
divine inspiration, !lDd the story of Toby and the Fish, or the·
Angel and the Dog, expressly ascribed to the Holy Ghost.t
16. He will find, that a really learned man, the very high and
respec~ble authority which the Rev. Doctor John Pye Smith has
Deetor; in the nry act of charging others with forgery, which they ~ould
!lOt Jlrove, they were doinJ it.thellll!ehes all the while, which ~ould be proved.
* ;vet Zt.o37J 11/lAI!l, "J'!'~O~. IJookl," /'Dd ~JU>III~ 11/JAI~,." dft'il!1hbookl,"
were the bett terms in whach the orthodox could speak of wntmg• wb1ch the he-
i-eti~• ueribed to Christ and his Apostles. The anger wbich they excited, is itself
a demonstration that-there was IOJIBTRING in them. .
· t ·My copy of the Homilies is the Oxford Clarendon pren 8vo. .I page from that
edition:..:...
"The meaninr;, tben1 of these aayings in the aeriptures, .
and other hol!J tDriting•,
ja, &c. (p. 380.) Antt St. Paul himself.declareth, &e. &c. .Enn as Saint Mar-
tin said, &c. ,82.) Aa the word of God · tl'stitie}h, &c."-th~n follo~e~h a pas-
aage, neither JD the Old or Nuv Testament. (205.) As he sa1th JD V~rg1l. (2M.)
AS Seneca aaith (251.) As saith Saint Bernard." .
All thne authoritiea, taken together-the homily takes them together, wJth.
" Thue have ye heard declared unto :you what God require~~ by his word." And
again, "The same Ieeson dot~ the Holy Ghoet teach in sundry plac~•·" ~ut
llo& one of those eundry places 18 to be found in any part of the ~anomeal •cflp-
uu·es.
Digitized by Google
70 VINDiCATION OF THE H.ANIFEITO.
referred to oo this dimcult subject, instead of assuming tbe toue
and language of Dr. Smith against those who most strenuously
opposed him, modestly and generously admits, that," In order to
establish the canon of the New Testament, it is of absolute ne-
cessity that the pretences of all other books to canonical autho-
rity, be first carefully examined and refuted."-Jones on theCa-
non, &c. vol. I. p. 23.
And, '' for my own part, (l:iays be) I declare, with many learned
men, that in the whole compass of learning, I know no question
involved with more intricacies and perplexing dimculties than
this."-Vol. I, p. 2. · ·
How much obliged would this great man have been to Dr.
Smith, for relieving him of his perplexities-by telling him that
the pretences of all other boob to canonical authority, were alaal:..
low pretence11, and that, dissatisfied as be acknowledges himself to
be with the result of his investigations, and apparently over-
whelmed with a t~ense of their intricacies and perplexing dimcul:..
ties, he had "put all question about them at rest for ever." (41.)
What a pity that he never thought of adopting Dr. Smith's way
of putting a question to rest, by at once calling those who ·made
any question of the matter, unprincipled and impudent liars.
As for the reprinting ofJones' translations, without any acknow-
ledgment of the authority from which they were taken, one
would think that the evangelical Doctor had laid his charges
thick enough upon me, without fathering me with a forgery and
disingenuousness, if such he hold it to be, which is purely and
entirely Christian. !lone's apocryphal New Testament, as it is
called, being as he declared to me, compiled with no intention of
discrediting the received scriptures; and Hone himself being pro-
fessedly a firm believer in Divine Revelation.*
ln the works of Toland, the reader will find a much longer
catalogue of apocryphal books than are noticed either in the
Latin of John Albert Fabricius, or in the English of the fair and
ingenuous Mr. Jeremiah Jones. To both their catalogues, as re-
ferring only to apocryphal scriptl\l'eB of inferior claim, I here
subjoin a list of the apparent titles of holy books, referred to in
the New Testament itself, and therefore, with whatever contempt
they may be spoken of, now that they are irrecoverably lost, by
those who would not let the New Testament itself speak a lan-
guage .that did not harmonize with their hypothesis ; they cer-
tainly were of higher antiquity, and of better evidence than any
which the New Testament contains.
* Hone, however, mighl ha'fe availed bi~elf of Archbiehol' Wake's ll'lUII•
l~lioa. . ·· · -
Digitized bvGoogle
TINDlCATION OF THE IIANIPKITO.
Imprimis.-Twenty-six Gospels.
The Gospel of the Kingdom .....•.. ; ... Matt. uiv. 14.
The Gospel by Christ himself............ Luke, xx. I.
The Gospel of God ...•................ 1 Pet. iv. 16.
The Gospel to the Poor................. Luke, iv. 18.
The Gospel to the Dead*•.............. 1 Pet. iv. 6.
The Gospel of Christ................... 1 Gal. 7.
Another Gospel, which is not anothert.... 1Gal. 6.
The Gospel of Peace............••....• Ephes. vi. 16.
The Gospel of Salvation ..... . •.•...... Ephes. i. 13.
The Gospel of Glory................... 2 Cor. iv. 4.
The Gospel to the Samaritans........... Acts viii. 26.
The Gospel to Abraham................ Gal. iii. 8.
The Gospel of the Blessed God ......... 1Tim. i. 11.
The Gospel of the Circumcision......... Gal. ii. 7.
The Gospel of the Uncircumeision........ Gal. ii. 7.
The Gospel which was preached unto every
creature under heaven.:.............. Col. i. 23.
The Gospel which was preached privately
to them that were of Reputation :f...... Gal. ii; 2.
The Gospel of Paul .............•...... Rom. iL: 16.
The Gospel of Paul, and Silvanus, and Ti-
motheus ....................•.......
The Gospel of Jesus Christ.............. Mark, i. I.
The Gospel of the Grace of God.•....... Acts, xx. 24.
The Everlasting Gospel ................ Rev. xiv. 6.
The Dispensation of the Gospel. ......... 1 Cor. ix. 17.
The Faith of the Gospel. ............... Phil. i. 27.
The Mystery of the Gospel ............. Col. i. 26.
The Truth of the Gospel ............... Col. i. 6.
Twelve Words, or Inspired Discourses.
The Word of the Lord ....... John xii. 48.-Acts, xiii. 4
The Word of Christ .......... Col. iii. 16.
The Words of the Lord Jesus.. Acts, xx. 36.
The Word of God ........... . Rom. x. 17.
The Word of Life ..........•. Phil. ii.16.-l John, i. 1.
The Word of Truth..........• Col. i. 6.
The Word spoken by Angels...• Heb. ii. 2.
71
~ The GOIPBL To TRB DBJ.D, or or &be dead, ia unqueetiouahl1 that which Chmt·
•• belie't'ed to ba'fe preaebed to the epirita io pr~o. aud from eome legend of
which, ie deri'fed that m01t important art1cle iu the Apostles' Creed-as DIICBNDBD
INTO BBLL, the baptiemal formulary of which is, THAT BBWBNT DOWN INTO BBLL,
of which uo traee 11 to be fouud iu either of the four Gospels.
t Senral instances of ·this rhetorical eoleciam are to he found io acripture, e. g.
Deut. xuiii. 68. Ye shall-be eold uuto ·Jour enemies, for houdmeu, aod uo mao
ahall bUJJOU. Luke, ix. 18. Aud it came to pan, that wheu he waa all alone,
behold hie diaeiplee were with him.
t Query, Wat there uo trick 111 "-ilt private preaehiJIIf
Digitized by Google
it VII!IDICATION OF TilE NANif'.I8TO.
The Word of Righteousnesa.... Heb. y. 1a..
The Word of Faith......... . •• Rom. x. 8.
The Words of Salvation....... Acts xiii. 26.
The Mass and Liturgy of Faith•• 2 Phil. xvii. 30.
ev.r~e~- Afi'l'll')''•· Such are the original words-it was good Pro-
testantism to translate them into the lesa tell-tale form of the
UOR.IFICE and navioE of your faith. By a similal' maDCBnvre
of good Protestantism, the English reader is put oW the seent of
tracing the monkish origin of John xiv. ~. " In my father's house
are many monasteries," n .,., ol/Cica .,.e .,.,.~ ps ,_.,. ~ '"'"• by
inding the word,_,, of which the La.tm significations a1e, man-
»io,quies,d~idia,mora, monasterium,translated into mansion,which
signifies rather a palace, or public residence, than a B&litude,
which the root fropt which the word ia derived indicates, and
wbic:h the context supports-] go to prepare a placefor fOV.
12. The Traditiont~ of the Apo11tles..•...... 2 "rhess. iii. 6.
Five Testimonies.
The Testimony of God.................. I Cor. ii. I.
The Testimony of Christ...•............ I Cor. i. 6.
The Testimony of Jesus . . .. ........••.• Rev. i. $t.
The Testimony of our Lord...........•. 2 Tim. i. 8.
The Testimony of Paul, and Silvanus, and
Timotbeus.. ..... .• .... . ........... . 2 Thess. i. 10.
The reader most not think, that beeaUie the subjects of the
books were the same, the books were identical. T~e variation
of a syllable, or of the singular for the plural number, in the
title of books, is sufficient to indicate, that they bad diCI'ereot au-
thors: and when we know the fact, that ditrerent authors had
written on the subject or theme ofChristianity, even that" MANY
bad taken in hand to set forth," &e. before any one of our re-
ceived Gospels can be dated; not having the names of the au-
thors themselves, we can only distinguiih one of these from
another by those variations which would naturally occur in the
ditrerent titles, which dift'erent authors would give to their dift'er- .
eot accounts of the same general story-one ealling his " the
Testimony of or concerning Christ," another designating his
" the Testimony of or concerning Jesus," or a Discourse or Word
of the Lord Jesus, or Word or Doctrine of JesWI Cbriat, &c. &c.
Sixteen Mysteries.•
The Mystery of the Kingdom.....•...... Mark, iv. ll.
The 1\fy&tery of the Gospel ..........•.. Col. i. 26.
• "Stewards of the mylteries of God," (1 Cor. if. 1.) iHhe tit.lc which PaoJ
arrogatea to bimadf and his coiiCII(Uel iu impoetare-tbe fery identical ud anai-
Digitized by Google
VINDIO.\TIO.l" OF TBE MANIF£11'0.
The Mystery of God ...........•.•..••. Col. ii. 2.
The Mystery of Christ...••....•........ Ephes. iii. 4.
The Mystery of the Woman....•.......• Rev. xvii. 7.
The Mystery of the Seven Stars •.•...•.. Rev. i. 20.
The My11tery which had been hid from ages. Col. i. 26.
The Mystery of Godliness..•.••••.... ••• I Tim.•iii. I6.
The Mystery of Iniquity ......• .• ••.•••• 2 Tbess. ii. 1.
The Mystery of Faith •.......•••..•..•• I Tim. iii. 9.
The Wisdom of God in a Mystery ........ I Cor. ii. 1.
The Revelation of the Mystery .•........ Rom, xvi. 26.
The Mystery of God's Will .•........... Ephes. i. ·9.
The Mystery which had been bid in God .. Ephes. iii. 9.
The Hidden Wisdom........•.......... Epbes. ii. 27.
The Mystery which was kept secret .....• Rom. xvi. 25.
Five Laws.
The Royal Law ....................... James, ii. 8.
The Law of t~e Spirit of Life •••.••....• Roni. viii. 2.
The Law ordaif¥l(l by Angels.... , . , ..... Gal. iii. I9.
The Law of Liberty ..... , ...•••.•...••..Ja~es, ii. 1~.
The Perfect Law of Liberty ....•...... , , James, i. 26.
Eight Doctrines.
The Doctrine of the Apostles •.......... Acts, ii. 42.
The Doctrine According to Godliness ....• I Tim. vi. 3.
The Doctrine of Baptisms............... Heb. vi. 2.
The Doctrine of Paul.. ................. Rom. vi. 17.
The Doctrine of God our Saviour......••. Tit. ii. 10.
The sound Doctrine ..... , ........... , .. I.",l'iln. i. 10.
The Doctrine of Christ •.•.••••••....•.• Heb. vi. I.
The Doctrine God ...... , ...... , ....... I Tim. vi. J.
Twenty-two irregular Titles.
The Record of the Word of God•••...••. Rev. i. 2.
The Message................. ... ...... 1 John, i. 5.
73
tered title of the Pagan Hierophants-privy c:OIHIIellors of God·I Luke •iii. 10.
" Unto you it il ginn to know t'be myateriee of tbe kingdom of God; but to other.
in parablee, that eeeing, they might not see; and hearing, tbeT might l!Ot uadt~r·
etaud." Luke, di. 22. " To tbe poor the Gospel is preached.'
" The profound reepeet that was paid to the Greek and Roman D!ysteries, &e.
induced tlle Christian• to gife their reli{l;ion a m!Jilic air, in orMr to put it upon
an equal footing, in 1,10iut of dignity, with that of the Paga01.-Moeheim, 'ol. I,
p. 20-1. They used, tn the celebration of the sacrament, eenral of the terms em-
JIIoyed in the heathen m.!Jiteriu1 and adopted the rile!! and cer.
emonies of which
theae renowned myater1ee coDII8ted.-lb•d. "He hath in•tituted and ordaineil
hely mJateriea, as pledges of his love." &e. " Consider the digliitJ of that hi'IJ
~yatery, and the great peril of the unworthy receiYing tbereot:"-.:Exhortatiou
in ·Litu't'gJ. If ·the reader canuo& draw the necee•arJ inference, his faith will re-
main uuhaken. · ·
Digitized by Google
14 VI:NOJCATlON OJ' TBE 11ANII'E.TO;
The Witneu of God. .'.................. I John, T. 9.
The Prophecies which went before on Ti-
mothy .. . .......................... 1 Tim. i. 18. ·
The Prophecy of Enoch ................ Jude. I.
The Epistle of Paul to the Laodiceans .... Col. tv. 16.
A more sure Word of Prophecy.......... 2 Pet. i. 19.
The Faith which was once delivered to the
Saints•.............. . ............. . Jude, 13.·
The Commandments of the Apostles...... 2 Pet. iii. 2.
The Scriptures which were able to make
Timothy wise unto Salvation.......... 2 Tim. iii.l6.
The ScriptureswhichJohn.wrote,andwhich
Diotrephes turned out of the Church.... Ephes. iii, D.
The History of the Angels.............. Jude,
The Preaching of Paul. ........ . ........ 2 Tim. iv. 17.
The Preaching of Jesus ................ Rom xvi. 26.
The Traditions of the Apostles* .. . ...... 2 Tbess. iii. 6.
The Ministry of Reconciliation... ........ 2 Cor. v. 18.
The Word of Reconciliation . . ......... . I Cor. v. 19.
The Preaching of the Cross ... . ....... . . 1 Cor. i. 18.
The Foolishnessof Preaching......·...... 1Cor. i. 21.
The New Te~Stament* ....... . . .... ..... 2 Cor. iii. 6.
The Foolishness of God ................ 1Cor. i. 25.
The Faith of God's Elect .......•....... Rom. iii. 3.
It is not contended that all these are titles of books that really
existed, though we certainly recognize several of them among
the books ascribed to heretics, and several others that are, by the
orthodox themselves, admitted to be so ; while many more than
are thus brought into prominence, might, by a shrewd observance,
be culled out from theirengagementin ·the modem fabric, having
even moredistinct claims than these to be recognized as the pillars
of a ruined edifice. Fabrieiust informs us, that Simon and Cleo-
bios, the most ancient of-heretics, bad composed book11, and given
them general circulation among Christians, under the name of
Christ and hh1 Apostles, but we have no account of what they
contained, or what they were. His authority for this admission
is derived from the Apostolic Constitutions, while the probabili-
ties in their favour are infinitely enhanced by the fact, that such
• TM Tradition~ of tlu A_podlu ii as nidentl1 the title of a book, or eollee-
tion of apothegms, as the Ne111 Tedamettl, and neither phrase eould haye been
uaed at an1 time while an apoatle waa then Jiyin&-theJ tioth belong to the cia•
of modernisms; as also does Jnde iii. "The faith which was once delinred UQ'U
the taints."
t In Conatitutionibus Apottolicis, lihro 6, cap. 16, dicuntur Simon et Cleobiu
heretici autiquiPimi Yenenatoa librot aub Christi nomine compo1ui"e ac TUI&aste.
Quales nro illi fneriut, vel quid contiouerint non constat.-Fahricii, tom. I, p. SOl.
The learned are unanimous in ascribing the Apot&olic Conatilutiont to aome im-
pottor, who aftixed to them the name orClement, Bishop of Rome, in order to
procure to them a high desree of authoritJ.-Motheim.
Digitized by Goog[e
"YIN.DICATION OF TBE MAJIU'EITO.
titles* aa they arrogated for those works are really to be found in
the epistolary writings of the New Testament, while a name or
phrase of any sort, that would indicate the Gospel according to
Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John, is nowhere to be traced. Every
one of the communities addressed in those epistles, whether Ro-
mans, Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colo:ssians,
·or Thessalonians, are addressed as being already Christians,
"rooted and grounded in the faith, beloved ofGod, called of Christ
Jesus; in every thing enriched, in all utterance, and in all know-
ledge," &c. &c. The Galatians, in particular, were so certainly
possessed of the proper and " genuine gospel," that the Apostle,
in the truly apostolic spirit, hesitates not to declare, that if an
angel from heaven should preach any other Gospel, be MIGHT BE
CURSED. (Gal. i. 8.) Yet nothing is more certain than that, ac-
cording to the tables of Dr. Lardner, this Epistle was written at
least eleven years before any one of our four Gospels; and accord-
ing to the Epistlp itself, the Gospel which the Galatians had
received, was not only not the same in substance, but not in the
least degree resembling the contents of any one of our Gospels.
So that the apostolic curse lights on the believers and preachers
of the Gospels that have come down to liB.
Nothing, indeed, can exceed the inveteracy of the orthodox.
against the heretics and their books, and the examples of bitter
cursings and revilings which the good shepherds set to the lamb8
of the Gospel. The Presbyter, Timothy, admonishes his Chris-
tian flock thatt "those writers, hated by God, had new-fangled
to themselves devilish books," (though these happen to be the
books, whose titles can be traced in the Epistles of the New
Testament, where the orthodox Go~pels cannot) and : which
they wrote themselves, with a design of making it appear that
Christ's incarnation had taken plaee only in a vision, but not in
reality: which design, as it happens, really does appear, in the
most genera.l tenor and overt sense of every one of those epistles.
But that these are false--" §Hear the Apostolicals, take ye care,
that ye receive not the books which have, under our name, been
established among the ungodly, for you ought not to pay atten-
tion to the names of the apostles, but to the nature of the things
they treat of, and to the sense, which is not to be set aside." .
• Such tides, e. g.-The Epistle of Paul to the Laodieeana.-The Mystery.-
Tbe Living Gospel.-The Treasury ofLife.
+Ot ~•is- ICIUIIO'rop.itrw taii'Tois- 3cup.oyuJB1J ~t/3Atll.
t A <TW..r~"" IH CIV'Tot, :t•Aovru 30IC7JII'"' mr0</n1J'cu '"'" ll'ap~U«TIII aii'Ti ""' a'" .,
oA~lCI-O'Tt 3tnwa ~ '"'"'• QIC8f .,...11 mroll'roAtiCOw. 'Opirt -rc& h IIHJAI'fl
>IJAW" "Gf M•~~~~ ~eptmn~:t<II'Ta /3t/3Ala, "'" .,..CifHI5Ex•v:t"'. 0v 'Y~ -rots- oiiO/-ICIIf'
XP"' IJfUIS ...poii•X•"' 'rlfll II.'W'Oif'rOAOIII """" .,., </)IJITfl 'f'(ll)l/ "fHI."riiA""'"• ""' ')'110•1-''1 ""
CI3UIII'rflO<INI>.-Fabriciua, tom. I. p. 139. ·
§ Which Apoetolieal Constitutions are an authority knewn and admitted 011 all
banda, to be a forger:J.
END OF SECTION X.
Digitized by Google
7• YINDIOATJO.N ·OF THE M4Nli'.EBTO.
SBCTION XI.
l'I.OOi'S THAT NO 8UCJI PERSON AI .JESUS OHIUST .BVBR EX•
L8T.ED, AND OJ' THE IIIPOITURE OJ' TBE GOSPEL Hl8TORY.
THE Rev. Dr. Smith opens his eleventh aectioo, with a
quotation, at length, of the third and fowih pr~itioos of
the Manifesto, for which I tbul'k him; and immediately calls
those propositions " a mass of impudence and mi81'epreseo-
tation so aggravated, that language has no ~me to designate
it;'' for which I do not thank him. But u aU this .is no
answer to the arguments indicated in the Manifesto, baviog bad
,&Ue enough of what the Doctor has to say for the benefit of
the Manifesto Writer, let us look to what be oft'ers for the instruc-
tion of his r~" That the mira.culous facts recorded in the
Gospel history did RBALLY occuR ; and that the occasions of tbeir
being wrought were WORTHY of such an interposition .of divine
omnipoteoce, has been shown with an abundance of .evidence, by
numerous and well 'known authors, to whom access is easy.
Within the Darrow limits of these pages it is impossible to do
joatice to the wgument." (p. 43.)
la it indeed 1 but could no.allowance be made for the difficulty
ef doing justice to the contrary argument within tbe Umits o.f one
siogle llelltence, on a page that bad to exhibit teo times tbat ar-
pnaeott
But why ..,\gbt not the Doctor just bave given t.be names of a
jWJ of those numerous aDd well known authors ;.for,.thoug.h they
may be nume~:ous and well known to him, and herein he shows
dae ~t proof of his e~nt of readiog and research, to be
IGuad.in his .whole treatise : yet it happens tbat I, and I guess
aonae hundreds who have had as good an education in all other
reapect,s u .his seurriloua reverence, never -beard so much as the
.-me of aay one of those author.s. It certainly coQ!d not :have
lleeD at any time within the last thousand years, that -t~hose au-
thors lived who were in possession of abundant evidence ofwhat
had happened seventeen or eighteen hundred years ago ; and
what is more, it certainly could not have been on this earth .that
any authors could have lived, competent to teach us what was
WollTBY of divine omnipotence. Those who might pretend to
do so may be fit tenants for Be,ilam Hospital, or .fit hearers of the
SaDctified impieties of Dr. John Pye Smitb. But neither Grotius,
Doddridge, Paley, or Lardner would have been pleased to have
such a preter.-e ascribed to them.
2. His second remark is a rec~Urence to abuse, without an .at-
tempt to refute the propositions.
3. His third is of the same character, except inasmuch as his
asaertion that" the pretence of refermu to the uarnecl Chru-
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION OF THE MANIJ'EITO.
tian adtHH:ates Mo81aeim and Jones, is a f'llWt infamous piece
offorgery''..:..would, with the abuse, convey also a most formid-
able argument, were the assertion not itself a most palpable-
RetJtrend John Pye Smith, Doctor of Divinity. The reader
has only to tnrn his eye to the Manifesto, and he will see, that
under these propositions, no reference at all is made either to
Mosheim or Jones.
The last reference made to Mosheim, and the only reference
made to .Iones, is by the letter (tl) in the second proposition, to
prove, that there are express admissions of ecclesiastica] histo-
rians, of their utter inability to ~Shew WHEN, or WHERE, or by
WHOM, this collection of writings (~Scil. the New Testament),
was first made. If these admissions shall not be found to the
full scope and utmost sense, spirit, letter, effect, and intention-
just as 1 have purported to refer to them-to wit, those admis-
sions purporting to be from Mosheim, even in the first volume of
his Ecclesiastical Histoey.-Cent. I, part 2, chap,2, sect. 16, vol. I,
p. 108. London ISH, 8vo. edition. And those admissions par-
porting to be from Jones, even in his work on the Canonical
Authority of the New Testament, vol. 1, pp. 2, 4, 23, 41, 173. .
Then is, Doctor John Pye Smith a scholar, whose learning is
respectable, and a gentleman whose word may be depended on ;
and l, a. guilty forger. In the other alternative, I shall only
claim that the reader will retain the very highest possible respect
for Doctor John Pye Smith, that may be compatible with a con-
viction, that he has said of me the thing that was untrue-tha&
when his charity ran stark staring wild, his veracitJ ran after it-
that be bas used abuse instead of argument, and invention instead
of truth.
4. His 4th remark, page44,continued to the end of the section,
p. 63, presents us with the best piece of. writing and of reasoning.
in his whole essay. Here, for a while, suspending the operation
of those malignant and intolerant feelings, which throughout the
rtst of his composition, have so evidenUy debilitated his under-
standing, destroyed his respect for truth, and obtunded his per-
ception of reason,-the reader is relieved, by finding that in a
lucid interval, the Doctor still exhibits the vestiges of niiod
enough to fill his ministerial and academic avocatiom, no doubt
wi~h suftlcient respectability. Hecan copy the everlastingly ban-
died passages of Tacitus and Pliny, and string together the
thousand times repeated sophisms upon these passages, which
thousands have strung together before him. Let him have
his due praise, this is really learning at Homerton College.
The translation of Tacitus and Pliny-if one were sure that it
were the boy's own, is fair enough for a boy of the irst form >
aod as this engagement keeps our author, at least for eight or
ni~e pages from the use of foul language, it is highly creditable
to him.
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO.
· 'tbe argument here assumes a general character, arid may
now be met on fair and general grounds. It shall be ao: every
concession, that historical evidence or even historical probability
can challenge, we will yield, grant, offer, not only with willing-
ness, but with alacrity, not only consenting to all such advan-
tages to the Christian argument, as Christians themselves ri~ay
choose to insist on: but lending the disinterested help of our own
historical researches, and throwing over to them whatever we
may find, and they may have overlooked, that can by any infe-
l'eDCe seem likely to serve their argument. We wish not an
easy victory: the harder they drive on us, the better they please
us,and the acrimony of their style, is only grievous to us,l>ecause
it weakens and breaks off the points of their argument. We
serve the cause of truth only; and if truth be not on our side, we
wish to surrender, and long to be defeated.
THE TESTIMONY OF TACITUS.
'Granted then be the genuineness of the passage, so often ad-
:tluced from the 44th section of the 16th books of the Annals of
Tacitus. Granted, I pray observe! not because it is wholly
incontestible, or that we have not good and tenable ground for·
a brave conflict against its claims: but, because it is, after all,
fully and fairly probable, and may be, all and every thing that it
purports to be. But what is that purport1
It is the testimony of one of the wisest and best of men that
ever lived in all the tide of time-one of the most philosophical
lovers of truth-most diligent investigators of the truth he loved,
and most faithful historians of the truth he found. He flourished
in the beginning of the second century, and it may be admitted
wrote this famous passage, about the year which Dr. Lardner
assigns to it, A.D. 110. Yet being such a man, and living so near,
or as much nearer as you please to the source and fountain-head
of all that could be known, or by his diligent inquiry, found
out, or Christ, of Christians, and of Christianity; he found no
more and has recorded no more than established his own eon-
l'iction : and may establish ours, that the Christians were pro-
digiouslywicked men-" HUMANI GENERIS ODIO CONVICTI-PER
FLAGlTIA JNVISI"-"SONTES ET NOVISSIMA EXEMPLA MERITI"
and Christianity-an "EXlTIABILIS SUPERSTITIO"-a damnable
superstition. If evidence in favour of a divine revelation ever
existed, why was it withheld from Tacitus? If divine inspiration
ever guided the pen of man, why was it wanting here1
THE LETTER OF PLINY, (the 97th of his lOth book) referred
to in the index or my Dutch edition-as " Christianorum res in
quantum Pliuio innotuere." The affairs of Christians (as far as
they were known to Pliny), of course is of the reign of Trajan,.
to whom it was written, and is by Dr. Lardner supposed to have
been ~omposed, about A.D. 107-it is the only undoubteddocu-.
Digitized by Coogle
VINDIOATION OF. THE M.\NIF£8TO.
ment of Chri$tianity in the tilne of that writer. That writer too,
is on all hand$ ad1nitted to be, one of the most wise and virtuous
of mankind-a man of whom it would cost us the most laborious
etrort of imagination to conceive that he would for any considera.
tion have dissimulated or suppressed any truth that ever came to
his knowledge. He had dyigeotly inquired into what the doc-
trines of the Christians then were-but what was the result of
his inquiry 1 There was the name indeed of Christ and of Chris-
tians, but not a precept, not a doctrine, oot a circumstance, not
an iota of Christianity. " Nihil alind inveni quam super-
stitionem pravam et immodicam"-are his words. "I have
found nothing else, but a wicked and exce88ive super-
stition."-This is the result of an inquiry into the evidences of
the Christian religion, made by the most candid, the most liberal,
the most learned, the most virtuous, the most able inquirer, that
could be conceived to have existed.in all the world, and he, prose-
cuting that inquiry,seventeen hundred years nearer to the original
sources of information than any man now in the world.
If it be objected, that being a Pagan, he had less respect for
truth, or needed the aid of divine revelation to sooth the asperi-
. ties of unsanctifted nature, to soften his temper, to polish his
manners, to control his passions, to give generosity to his senti-
ments and courtesy to his language ; only let the reader compare
the style and tone of his epistolary correspondence throughout,
with the specimen Dr. John Pye Smith presents of the advan-
tages which Christianity gives to a Doctor of Divinity. In the
judgment of Midas, the pipe of Pan was more melodious than
Apollo's lute; and an evangelical auditory may. perhaps find a
style more in harmony with their own feelings in the holy ruffi-
anism of the Christian Priest, than in the scrupulous veracity and
tranquil elegance of the Pagan historian. .
A P&e,ooan, for instance, (and the Writer of the Manifesto pro-
fesses no higher character,) would start back, not like the
Christian, indeed, with execrations and curses; (for bitter revi-
linga really are curses;) but with surprise at the finesse, the
ruse, the palpable argumentative swindle, that a man who
l1ad ever maintained the divinity of Christ, and taught his con-
gregation that that myatical being had been born withQut having
a human father ; that be raised the dead to life ; that he, him-
self, survived, after having been dead, and in that body which
had really died ; had visibly ascended in, and through the visible
heavens ;" should tlll'n round on his choused and cheated
hearers ; and tell them that the Jews and heathens, who never
once, in any way, nor in the remotest inuendo had hinted at any
one of those events, bad told " ALL THE PRIMARY FACTS on
which that religion rests." ·
Good God ! and isn't the resurrection of Christ a primary
fact ? Rests not his religion upon that? Can Christianity be true
Digitized by Google
80 VINDICATIOlli OF THE MANIFESTO.
· or true in any part or iota of it ; if that ·be false ? So judged
not the Apostles, when in their first assembly they maintained
that the whole sum and effect of the divine commission which
they pretended, had coJllltituted them Apostles, for no othtlr
purpose than that they should be" witnesses of hisresurrectioh."
(Acts i. 22.) So judged not, so argued not the apostolic chief of
snners, inhiscelebrated15thtotheCorinthians-; whereinbemakes
theresurrection ofChrist to be not merely a primary fact; but THE
primaryfact; and not merely THE primary fact, bot the totum, the
whole, the everg-thing; the sine qua ROO of Christianity. "If
Christ be notrisen, then is ourpreaching vain,and yourfaith is also
vain. Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God." (15.)
And turns it up at last, that a man will have the impudence to
call himself a Christian minister, who maintains that Jews and
~D'tlnS have borne witness to all the pt'imary faets; and that, if
the New Testament and all other Christian · writings were
blotted out of existence ; the writings of decided enemies to the
Christian religion, would be sufficient to establish all the primary
facts on which that religion rests'
What is this, in other words; but to fight desperate for Chris-
tianity, to throw it over for dog~s meat, and give it up entirely.
For who may not be as good a Christian as Dr. Smith, who shall
just believe as much of Christianity, and no more, than what
Heathens and Jews have recorded 1 Ir the Doctor has found
any one, Heathen or Jew, who has recorded any one of the pri-:-
mary facts of Christianity, his researches may well be reckoned
to put the labours of a Lardner to the blush.
But what should you say, reader, to the logic of a reasoner,
who finding from various " unquestionably authentic writings"
of persons who had no love of the marvellous, and no intention
to countenance or extend the belief of improbable stories, that
there really was, or might have been, such a person as Baron
Munchausen; "that he lived," and when his life was arrived at
its termination, " he died, at the precise period, which the
history (ofhis wonderful adventures)asserts; finding the extensive
prevalencyofhis (noti01&8;) at the time, and in the countrieswhich
arestatedin his (wonderfulhi8tory) ; findingalso itsreception, by
immense multitudes of people, who had the complete means of
ascertaining whether the sensible facts on which the (wonderful)
history was founded, bad actually taken place or not," &c. &c.
&c. (p, 44) ; what should you say to the Iogie, that inferred, that·
here were all the primary facts, and here the sufficientevidenceto
establish the most true and wonderful adventures of the
retrowned Baron Munehausen'I
Such is the reasoning· that would steal an unintended testi-
mony to falsehood and fable, from the pens of historians and
philosophers. Change but the names that may be changed,
Digitized by Goog[e
VINDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO. 81
(without altering the merits of the argume~ts); suppose it
urged in earnest, and not in banter; and urged with the utmost
rancour of malice, the deepest cunning of conscious sophistry;
the most reckless disregard of truth, and the foulest virulence of
low-bred scurril-slang ; and 'tis the reasoning of his ret1ermce,
the evangelical Dr. John Pye Smith.
"5. These memorials of antiquity, (continues our author,) will
furnish to the reader ample matter for useful reflection." (p. 50.)
They will, indeed; but not, perhaps, to the conclusion which
the Doctor would prescribe. His slander on the characters of
those "philosophical, elegant, and self-complacent Romans," is
a complete vindication of any other object of his calumnies. If
reason, humanity, and justice, were, in his judgment, violated by
sach men as Pliny and Tacitus, it most be his good word, and his
favourable regard, that can alone prove injurious to the character
of any man. Should the present age, or any other, ·but a11sign
to me no worse than the reputation of the most equivocal parts
of the characters of Tacitus and Pliny, it should leave me room
for more than the whole stock of Christian virtues put together.
It would be a blasphemy against moral righteousness, to attempt
a comparison of the character of the best Christian that ever
breathed, with that of the Proprretor of Bithynia.
Would the Proprretor of Bithynia, think ye, have dishonoured
his own conscience, by attempting to prop up the religion of Pa-
ganism, with so gross a ruse, as to say, that" immense multitudes
had the complete means of ascertaining the fact," (p. 44.) such
fact say, as that, of the resurrection of Christ ; knowing that no
one individual on the face of the earth had any means of ascer-
taining that fact ; and that of that pretended fact, there abso-
lutely was no witness at all1
Would Pliny, think ye, have reasoned with so insolent a con-
tempt of reason, as to ask the question ; " If any could have
divulged a secret, injurious to the cause, would they not have
done sot" When he knew that the cause was too contemptible
to be injured by any thing ; and that, if there were any secret in
the business, that secret was always kept from the knowledge of
the people, Matt. xiii. ll; Luke viii. 10.
The reader will now see, (immaterial as the question, whether
such a person as Jesus Christ ever existed, in itself may be,) how
far from admissions, and much further still from proofs of his
existence, are what Celsus, Porphyry, Hierocles, Julian, Tacitus,
or the Jews, might say about him ; and without saying which,
they could absolutely not speak of him at all. Shakespear, we
know, speaks of John-a-Dreams. We have all heard of Will- ~~-
o'the-Wisp, and Jack-a-Janthorn, Tom-Thumb, and Jack the
Giant-killer; and if the day were not too far gone by for his-
tories of these evangelical personages to be foisted in the belief
of the people, and their belief to be rendered a source of enor-
G
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO.
mous wealth, ¥1d the means of measureless extortion to the
cunning hierarchy who were really in the guilty secret, and
who endeavoured to make it respectable, by associating it with
all those moral proprieties which man's nature cannot but love in
whatever associations they are found; so that the people might
be brought to believe, that it was Will-o'-the-Wisp had taught
them to be just, honest, and sober, to pay their debts, to tell no
lies, and to do as they would be done unto : How, I ask, would
it be possible for the Celsuses, Porphyrys, and Hierocles, the
good and virtuous few, to set about reclaiming the people from
so gross a delusion, without soothing and conciliating their at-
tention, by recognizing what was good, and admitting what was
probable in their c;onceit.
As one should say to the fanatic, who would not be civil to
· one, if one did'nt say it, "Ah, well-a-day, be as just, sober,
honest, and humane, as Will-o'-the-Wisp hns taught you to be ;
and Will-o'-the-Wisp was, unquestionably, a very good fellow
for teaching you so." Would this be admitting hi11 real exist-
ence, would this be any proof that the person who so argued,
was not aware that WILL-o'-THE-WISP was a phantom; and
like Jesus Christ had really no prototype in nature, but was
merely an eM of conceit, a figment of delirium, proceeding from
the heat-oppressed brain !
"The poet's eye,'' says a poet, who dared not have spoken
what he meant more plainly,
In a floe frenzy rolling,
Doth glance from earth to heaven, from heaven to earth.
And as imagination bodies forth
The form uf things unknowa, the poet'a pen
Tnroa them to shape, and gives to airy nothing
A local habitation and a name.
There is no dilliculty then, in accounting for the wildest
romance that ever entered into a romantic brain's invention,
coming to quadrate, synchronize, and dovetail into many pro·
bable and real circumstances of time and place. Nay, you
could not tell a tale, if you were to try, without premising or
supposing a sort of" Once upon a time," or in some such country
as had somewhere a real exi~tence, and whose history would
furnish the scaffolding· for the baseless fabric of your vision.
'Tis hardly more a rule, than a necessity of invention laid down
by Horace,
"Aut verum aut sibi convenientla finge."
" Either stick to the truth, or feign such things as stick together
with themselves.'' The problem then is not how, or wherefore,
the hero of a romance shout d come to be supposed to have lived
at such a time and place, or how a thousand coincident chances,
.events, and circumstances, which were undeniably true, should
·Digitized by Google
VINDIOA.TION Oi' THE MAf'!IF~STO. 83
happen to concur and fall in with the thread of his fabulow
history ; especially when all the learning and ingenuity of the
world had been for many hundred years employ~d in seeking
for, exaggeratingor fabricating such incidental concurrences; but
the difficulty is, to account for the how-it-should-have-been, and,
wherefore, if the hero in question bad..a real existence, and had
been any iJ'Uek a personage as he is assumed to be, that we should
not have bad more than evidence of this sort; that philosophers
should not have believed, that historians should not have re•
corded, that the whole world should not have rung with the famt
of his exploits; and, as the order of nature was suspended to
attest his divinity, that the orderofnature should not have been
suspended to confirm the attestation.
The admissions of the enemies of Christianity would yet have
weight with them, if we had but sufficient evidence that those
enemies had fair play, and were not constrained by the necessity
of the times, to temporize, and soothe down the ferocious into-
lerance and sanguinary impatience of Christians, as wise men are
sometimes obliged to do congee to madmen; or, if we had
not evidence, in characters of blood, to the direct contrary. We
should, in all probability, have never have heard of the objections
of Celsus; bad Celsus been allowed to go the length he would
have done; or had not his writings saved themselves from the
flames to which others were consigned, by temporizing and con-
ceding some points, which Origen thought might be turned to
good telling on the Christian side of the argument. And is not
Doctor Smith himself conscious of the spirit of Origen's policy?
If he can conflict with the arguments here offered to him, he may
endure that his congregation should hear of them ; but if nothing
be conceded, if not an inch of ground be yielded, wby of course,
and of sound discretion too, he'll do his best, that they shall
know nothing about them.
The whole world's history, and that of our own country most
especially, evinces how slowly and gradnally even the outworks
of Christianity have been yielded-and with what a pertinacious
and sanguinary obstinacy not only the essentials, but the outermo~t
fringes of Christianity have been maintained. Not two hundred
years is it, since Dr. Leighton bad his nose slit, his ears cut off,
and eleven years imprisonment, for onlywritinga book against the
Jure-Divino-shipofBisbops. Not twenty years is it, thatUnitarian
Christians have been safe from penal statutes ; and God have
mercy on them yet, if Dr. John Pye Smith's voice or wish could
affect the legislation of England. And here am I the tenant of
a g-aol, at this moment, because my writings have not made con-
cessions enough to Christianity to have been pleaded in mitiga-
tion of punishment-because my orations afforded no 'vantage
ground to the tact of Christian sophistry.
But, as in every individual, and most strikingly perhaps in
G 2
Digitized by Google
84 VJNDIOATION OF THE MANIFESTO.
Dr. John Pye, so in every country we find, the brreater the prefa·
leoce of the Christian religion, the more rude the manners, and
the more eruel the dispositions of its professors. So we find that
it is in the foul-mouthed IRVING's country, and in those pure days
of genuine religion among his ancestors, which he is ever so de-
lighted to recall;-" In Scotland a greater refinement of cruelty
in inllicting torture was adopted, than in any other eonntry.
There the innocent relations of a suspected criminal were tor"'
tured in his presence, to wring from him, by the sight of their .
sufferings, what no corporal pain inflicted upon himself could ex·
tort from him. Thus, in 169'6, a woman, being accused of witch-
craft, her husband, her son,and a daughter, a child of seven years
old, were aU tortured in her presence, to make her confess:•-
See Amott's Crim. Trial11, p. 36S. quoted in Aikin's Life of King
James the 1st, vol. 2, p. 167.
Pretty fellows, these good Christians, to make D'S believe that
a Divine Revelation has done something for their· morals, that a
Tacitus or a Pliny could have needed.
6. The ltt' n,~tnn -,~0 Seper Toldoth Jesehu, which the
Doctor introdue.es as his climax of authorities in admission of
the real existence of Jesus Christ, and the reality of his miracles,
instead'of making " amore than thill" (p. 63.) for his argument,
really makes less for it. It is an absolute deduction, and throws
an air of suspicion over his whole purpose; for ho-w ean any ad-
mission of the real existence of Christ and of his miracles be in-
ferred, or avail, from a palpably furtive document, of which the
Doctor says, that it was written in the middle ages.
" 1 am of opinion," says the shrewd and cautious Lardner,
"that Christianity does not need such a testimony, nor su:ch wit-
nesses. It is a modern work, written in the fourteenth or fifteenth
century, and is throughout, from the beginning to the end, bur-
lesque and falsehood."-Lardner, vol. 3, p. 674. What a learned
wiseacre is the Rev. Dr. Smith,who quotes as his more than et1efll
thing ellle and his crowning proof of the real existence of Jesus,
the admission of a writer, whose admissions were not only not
true, but never written with an intent to pass for truth.
1. And" here, then," concludes the Doctor," here is a body of
evidence, far more than sufficient to prove that the PERSONS of
whom the scriptures of the New Testament treat, REALLY DID
EXIST, aad that the event11 which they relate really DID TAKE
P~ACE ( ~ a consequence, I ~uppose, of their existence)-" Gi"e
htm an tnch !" the proverb Js somewhat musty!
But why this "far more than sufficient"inopemm#'copiafecit!
Surely IIUjficient would moat probably be IIUJ!icient, but when
you give us far more than sufficient, you are palpably cram-
ming us.
END OF SECTION XI.
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO.
SECTION XII.
THAT THE GOSPEL NARRATIVES ARE DERIVED FR.OM THE IDOJ.A-
TROUS FICTIONS OF INDIA, EGYPT, OREECE, .\ND ITALY.
HERE the reverend Doctor's Christian indignation loses all bouuds
-'tis evident that there is something in the Manifesto that stings
him into madness. Its writer, he says, "seems determined to
post himself as the mostfal8e oj all that have ever disgraced the
use of language:• Alas ! that the reverend Doctor should seem
so determiDed to dispute that pre-eminence I I believe it would
cost ~ cleverer man than I am, a struggle to win the paragonship
of lying from the professor of Homerton College. For instance,
were an ordinary hatchet-thrower to do his best in this way, he
could only tell his lie oft' and ·oft', and the first fool he met with
would find it out, and there's an end on't; but the Doctor-the
.B.everend Do_..ctorof Divinity, beats aU the Bachelors and Masters
of Arts in Europe ; and in the very act, and by the very means
of making your hair stand at end with horror at the charges he
brings against others, is doing it himself all the while: his way
being to set Gawkey's mouth open with wonderment at the ac-
cusation that he alleges, and then down his throat, in a trice,
goes-"Jar more than 8ujficient."
For your life, you would ha\'e thought that he was honest.
END OF SECTION XU.
. SECTION XIII.
THE INDIAN JESUS CHRIST.
1." SoME, many, or aU of these events (sciI. the events related in
the New Testament) had been previously related of the gods and
goddesses of Greece and Rome, and more especially of the In-
dian idol, CHRISHNA, whose religion1 with less alteration than
time and translations have made in the Jewish scriptures, may be
traced in every dogma, and every ceremony of the evangelical
mythology." Such are the words of the fourth proposition of the
Manifesto. Now, how are they answered by the Reverend D.D.1
Why, in the perfectly evangelical way of doing it. They are at
once, without any shadow of attempted disproof, rudely and d's-
gustingly pronounced-" an impudent falsehood;" even in the
very sentence whicb the Doctor has cast on purpose to carry
down a falsehood ofsuch transcendent impudence, as nothing but
the burly-burly of ruffianly abuse could have screened from our
detection, and sheltered from our scorn.
Digitized by Google
86 \'INDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO.
2. The numerous and well-known school-books, entitled Pan-
theons, Mythological Dictionaries, &c. do not contain refutations,
much less ample ones, of the proposition of the Manifesto ; nor
is it possible that they could have done so,they themselves being
of earlier date than the Manifesto. Nor do they atrect to refute
the sense and purport of the proposition, as it may have been
previously maintained by other writers. Nor was it compatible
with any purpose of those dictionaries, that they should have
done so; nor would they have been admitted into schools, or have
been proper for the use of schools if they had, as being rendered
thereby books of polemical controversy, rather than of classical
instruction. Moreover, being generally edited by clerg·ymen, or
persons directly concerned and interested in the universal cheat
of "training up a cbild in the way he shoukl go"-they have all
of them the most direct and constraining interest to oblige them
laboriously and vigilantly to stand otr and forbear, even from the
outermost purlieus ofsuch a refutation. To have refitted, would
have been to have suggested the resemblance. Andas the modest
asterisks in the Delphin·classics, indicating the passages which
are too indecent and obscene to be translated, always serve to
direct the boy's eye to the very passages which he is sure to un-
derstand better than any other part of the book, even because his
research is provoked by the effort made to elude it : so an at-
tempt in any way to have shown that there was no resemblance
between the Apollo of mythology and the Jesus of the New Tes-
tament, the Bacchus and the Moses, would have shown more
than the reverend editors could wish to be seen. It was to their
purpose to put forth so much of the . Pagan mythology as
was necessary to enable tlie stupid fout to make some hold-toge-
ther sense of the text of Pagan authors, but nothing was further
from their purpose than to play at asterisks with him on such a
delicate subject, or to have startled him into perceptions, suspi-
cions, and investigations, that would have been fatal at once to
his loutishness and to his faith.
The Doctor'sassertion then, is not only NOT TRUE! as be knows
himself, but not within the measures of a probability of being
true, as any body else may know.
3. And to tell his readers, as be does, " that if they receive the
proposition oftbe Manifesto as true (which really is so) they must
have sacrificed reason and conscience to the darkest depravity of
soul," (p. 54.) only shews that he must have calculated upon
finding readers as patient of being insulted, as they were easy to
be deceived. He offers them blustering for their understandings,
and defiance for their feelings. His style betrays his habits, his
language tanks of his shop. He is used to address a congrega-
tion for whom ANY THING will do-a congregation delighted to
be de«<eived, and charmed to be abused. Go it, Doctor! tell 'em,
he that believeth not may be damned-tell 'em what " bell-de-
Digitized by Goog[e
VIND-ICATION OF THE MANIFESTO 87
~rving sinners" they are-tell 'em that it's of the Lord's mercy
only that they are not consumed-tell 'em that they are all as an
unclean thing, and all their righteousuesses are as filthy rags!
Give it 'em-lay it on. In one word, for every thing that is suit-
able, both for them and you-GOSPEL them. Tho~ who will read
both sides of the question, will not endure to be charged with
depravity of soul, whatever their decision may be.
4. CHRISHNA. So is spelt the name of the favourite god of the
Indian women, in the Manifesto; but Krishna, or Krishnu, is the
wayin which the Doctorchooses tospell it; chargingthe Manife11to
Writer with " having altered the spelling ofthe word, apparently
with the base design ofgiving it a closerresemblance tothe sacred
name of our Divine Lord." (p. 64.) Oh! for the sacred name of
our Divine Lord ! But here again with all this cant, this severe
charge of" altering with a base design," is brought against the
Writer of the Manifesto, like all the other charges in this scurri-
lous answer, to cheat and bilk the reader out of the exercise of
his impartiality, and to make his own falsehood slip down unper-
ceived in the torrent of his invective against another. For, all
the alteration in the spelling of the name, and consequently all
the baseness and design of that altered spelling, happens to be
his own. And his apparent design, too apparent, indeed:. to be
concealed, was, by altering the spelling, which he htU done, and
1 have not, to suppress and keep back from obse"ance, the close
resemblance of the names of the idol of the Indian, and the Di-
vine Lord of the European women.
The spelling of the name in the Asiatic Research'e8, by Sir
William Jones (the fountain-head, andfirstand highest authority,
from which I quoted it) will be found to be, not Krishna, nor
Krishnu, but as it is exhibited in the Manifesto, CHRISBNA. Sir
William Jones is, on all hands, admitted to be the most compe-
tently informed, and most learned investigator of this recondite
subject ; and in addition to his being on all hands admitted to be
one of the most accomplished philologers and prodigies of intel-
lectual acquirements that ever breathed, if not the facile prin-
ceps of the whole world, in these respects; he was also a sincere
and ardent Christian. He expressly avows and maintains his con-
viction as a Christian, in so many wotds-" the adamantine pillars
of our faith cannot be shaken by any investigation of Heathen
My~b~logy." ~!1~ in another p9:ssage-'' I, who .cannot help
beltevmg the dlVlmty of the Messtah, from the undisputed anti;.
quity,and manifest completionof manyprophecies,&c. am obliged,
of course, to believe the sanctity of the venerable books to which
that SACRED PERSON refers."-Vol. 1, p. 233. .
Yet the words of Sir William Jones, this unquestionably first,
highest and best authority on the subject, are-and I pray the
readers observance, that I give even his ~pelling of the words; ·
Digitized by Google
•
VINDIOATION OF THE MANIFESTO.
"That the name ofCHRISHNA, and the general outHne of hi&
story,were long anterior to the birth of our Saviour, and probably
to the time of Homer, we ktaotD very certainly."-Asiatic
researches, Vol. I. p. 2~9. I ask the reader then to direct his re-
searches to those researches ! I ask the Christian to say, whether
he can suspect, that this Christian writer would have spelt the
name CHRISHNA rather than Krishna, or Krishnu, with a base
design of producing an apparent resemblance where there was
none in reality! I ask his candour to decide, whether this un-
questionably sincere Christian would have spelt the name as he
has done, without the most constraining evidence to determine
his mind, that that was the essentially correct spelling? and
whether, after his long residence in India, and laborious studies
into the Asiatic Mythologies, he would havespoken so positively,
without having grounds and reasons for doing so, that are not to
be yielded to the arbitrary conjectures or impudent denials of
subsequent critics, of interested, crafty quibblers, who want to
get out of it now at any rate, and who smarting under the irre-
sistible inferences which we have drawn; wish their own man at
thedevil, for having given us such goodground for our inferences;
and now forsooth, that the spell tells against them, they won't
give their prodigy of learning credit for knowing how to spell.
Mr. Beard, the Unitarian opponent of my forty-fourth oration, in
which I first put forth this important argument, bad consulted the
authority. HE presumednot to deny that the original name of the
Indian idol was indeed spelt CHRISHNA, but denies the resem-
blance. It was too bold a stroke, with the text of Sir William
Iones before him, to let down his sledge hammeruponCHRISHNA
-so he claps the Latin termination us, to CHRIST, making it
CHRISTUS, and thus gets a syllable further oft' from the sus-
picious resemblance. " In the names CHRISHNA and CHRISTUs,
there are four letters similar, and six dissimilar" liays he, "and
therefore the two words are not identical.'' See his 3d Letter to
the Rev. Robert Taylor, p. 8~. Reader! see what Latin can do !
though by the bye it seems to spoil a man's arithmetic. Six and
four used to be ten, but an' if a man bad not more learning than
wit, he could count but eight in Ohristua. even with its Latin
termination. But, take away the Asiatic termination na from
Chrishna, and let Christ stand in plain English, and Chrish and
Christ are like enough to pass, the one for the ghost of the
other. But, Ob no! is the cry-out of the Evangelical mystics,
" Take any 11hape but that, and my firm nerves should never
tremble."
" 6. From a few anddistantresemblances,"says ourauthor,in the
midst of''a chaos ofacts and qualities the most opposite, it would
be highly unreasonable to draw the conclusion that there was any
real cc,>nformity in history or character."
Digitized by Goog[e
VINDlOATION OF THE MANIFESTO. 89
This is admitting something. The Rev. Mr. Beard, an infinitely
more formidable opponent, and it would be no compliment to any
man to say a more respectable one than Dr. Smith, admits the re-
semblance of four good point!! out of the round dozen for which
I had, in my Clerical Review-a work which I published in Ire-
land-stoutly contended. He admits that.
I. Chrishna was in danger of being put to death in his infancy,
a tyrant at the time of his birth having ordered all new-born
males to be slain.
II. Cbrishna performed miracles.
III. Chrishna preached.
IV. Chrishna wuhes the feet of the Brahmins.
Now the reader has only to recollect the fable of the L1on and
the Statuary, and its moral will admonish him, that as the man
would certainly not have been uppermost, if the beast had been
the carver; so in this exhibition of the rival claims of Christ and
Chrishoa, he is to be on the qui-vive, for the opposite motives and
interests of the opposing parties, and so make the corresponding
deductions for the colourings they will severally lay on their
respective pictures, according as they wish to conceal or to expose
the resemblance in question. Not only will the Christian artists
lay on the vermilion upon the cheek of their God, but they'll
lose no sly opportunity of throwing me- over a patch of lamp-
black upon mine. I shall have hard work to get an eye for an
eye, and a tooth for a tooth from them: the very same liae which
they shall say is crooked upon my canvass, shall pass for straight
on theirs. E:rempli gratia-Does my Cbrish wash the feet
of the Brahmins his disciples 1 Why to be sure itwas an obscene,
disgraceful, and contemptible action, and none but a slave or a
fool would have done it, and I cannot deny it. But, catch we
their Chrish in the self same act,-Oh, then it was infinite con-
descension and divine humility.
Does myCbrishspend a little of his leisure time with the milk-
maids and rustic damsels in dancing,sporting, and playing on the
flute 1 why the very worst construction is put on it, and they
declare that notwithstanding his own preaching to the contrary,
be exhibi~ an appearance of excessive libertinism.
But their Chrish may have his sweethearts, Mary and Martha:
his Magdalene, (noneof the most reserved of ladies)his Joan and
Susan* and many others,who whateverother attentions they may
have paid him " did also minister to him of their substance ;" and
scandal must not hint what it mnsto't hint.-Luke viii. 3.
Does mv Chrish breathe a vein occasionally, or cut a throat or
• Nobody kuows much about tbia Susan, but Joau was·certainly auo&her mao'•
wife. A good example thia, for our i&inerant preacben to set before &be ladies of
their coogregationa, to rob their husbands to support a vagabond; would'n& it
baYe been more honourable ofJesus, to haYe made a few Joa'fes and liahea iUr ui
owuuae7
Digitized by Google
90 VINDICATION OF TRE MANIFESTO.
two, and encourage his disciples to do the like~ why 'twas bad
enough, and God knows he was a scoundrel for doing so.
But does their Chrisb order his" enemies that would not have
him to reign over them to be brought forth and slain before him~"
(Luke xix. 27.) Why, that you know was only in the figurative
language of a parable.
Does he give it in charge to his disciples that-" if any of them
had not a sword he should sell his garment and buy one."-
(Luke xxii. 36.) Why those swords, you know, were not meant
to commit murder with.
Has the prevalence of his religion in all countries and ages of
the world, proved to be the greatest curse that ever befell the
human race1 and are the banners and trophies of bloody mas-
sacres and wholesale villainies, the worst and most horrible that
imagination could conceive, still hanging, still to be seen among
the ornaments of the most magnificent temples consecrated to his
grim-Godhead 1 Why you must call him the Prince of Peace and
the Lamb of God ; and his religion must be considered as the
source of civilization, morals, and virtue among men ; and should
an honest mao venture to speak his mind freely, or say but half
of what they would say of Chrishoa, if they bad but half as much
reason for saying it ; it isn't long ago since they'd have killed
him on the spot. lt is mercy, and humanity, and all that sort of
stutr, that has let me oft' with my life, and only deprived me of
my liberty, for laughing where I could not heJp laughing, and
throwing out a hint, that in my conceit, it was not" WOB.THY of
an interposition of divine omnipotence" (p. 43.) to steal asses,
to destroy young trees, to upset market-staBs, and to persecute
pigs: and that if the Son of God had a mind to show oft' his
~eir apparentship, heshould'nt have exhibited in the most obscure
and contemptible villa.,o-e in all his father's dominions, among the
very scum and scamps of the whole human race, where indeed
he was not likely to meet with better treatment ihan that, which
I suppose has cured him of keeping low company, (93d Oration.)
" In the Sanscrit Dictionary, compiled more than two thousand
years ago, (says Sir William Jones,) we have the whole story of
the incarnate Deity born of a virgin, and miraculously escaping
in his infancy from the reigning tyrant of his countrv," &c. See
hisAsiatic Rt!searches,Vol. I. pp. 259, 260,267,272, 273. And for
further coincidences in the two fabulous histories of the two fa-
bulous deities; call in the illustrations to be derived from the
Apocryphal Gospels, in which it will be found, that those earlier
narratives retained features ofcoincidence, which, since the art of
gospellingbas been better understood, have been judiciOtUly
pruned away. ·
The Unitarian editors of theNew Testament, strain every nerve
to get the whole account of Herod seeking the young ctiild to
destroy him, and slaying all the chiJdren that were in Bethlehem.
Digitized by Google
VINDIC.\TION OF THE MANIFESTO. 01
and in all the coasts thereof, from two years old and under.
(Matt. ii. 16,) whom "God made to glorify him by their deaths;•
(Church of England Collect,) ejected from the canonical scrip-
tures. It betrays too much of its real origin. And if the art of
printing, and the vigilant observance of infidels, did not make
Christians stick to their text, even when it gravels them, this
pretty story would be apocryphized, and, in a few years, the
possibility of tracing its Indian origin would be lost.
But observe now,,the retrogressive stages of imposture. When
grosser materials and huger absurdities, suited the brute appetite
of miracles and Wonderment, that ever cbaracterilSes ignorant
minds, the Apocryphal Gospels, the Gospels as they were, did
well enough: when awakening intelligence, or exhausted guni-
bility, called for something more within the limits of a conceitJ-
able possibility ; universal acquiescence, bailed the improved
Yersion, and the Gospels as revised, castigated, and accom-
modated to the improved notions and better information of man-
kind, according to the·learned Bishops, Mathew, 1\lark, Luke,
and John; who, (whoever they were,) would long retain the
gratitude of Christians, and be considered, as the very highest
authority for the able and Judicious abridgements they had
made.
Increasing shrewdness, however, calls again for a revision of
the evangelical compilations; more pruning and cutting-oft' is
needed. Whatserved for the dolts and savages some hundred years
ago, will serve no longer. The Unitarian editors otfer themselves
to do for a more enlightened age, what the Anti-Nicene Bishops
had done for earlier times. Subsequent editors will Unitarianize
upon Unitarianism itself,and theGospelaccordingto Richard-and
the Gospel according to Robert, shall beat even the Unitarian
Version into acknowledged apocrypha. *
ExAMPLE I. In the great prototype and earliest pattern of
gospel making, we read, that Chrishna when an infant, was
accused by certain nymphs of having drank their curds and' milk,
his mother reproves him for this act of theft, which he stoutly
denied, and in vindication of his innocence requested her to exa-
mine hi11 mouth- when, behold, she beheld the whole universe,
· in all its plenitude and magnificence.-Vol. 1. Asiatic Researches.
Well, 11uch a story was out-Heroding Herod, and, therefore,
must be apocryphued; but, as 'twas a pity to lose the conceit
entirely; you shall find it in another shape, in the canonical
Gospel of Matthew, (chap. iv, 8,) where the Devil taketh
Christ up into an exceeding high mountain, and sheweth·him all
the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them. Here the
• The faet 88 atated in the Manifeate. really eol'l'ea all the phenomena: Our
reeeind Goapels were nner oWered to the world 88 originals, tlieir authora ne•er
prete'!ded that they were any thinr more than c:ompilera of prnioWIIy exi1ling
ltiltor•ea.
Digitized by Google
VINDCI.A.TION OF THE llrlANIFE8TO.
judicious Bislwp Matthew, by bringing in the condition, that the
mountain was exceeding high, forestalls any objection to the
improbability of the story, since it could be easily demonstrated,
that, if the mountain was high enough, any body might see far
enough; and, though " the whole universe in all its plenitude
and magnificence," must have been rather too large a mouthful
for a little boy; yet, by the help of the devil, a man's eye might
be brought to take in an exceeding wide range of prospect. Here,
you see, is evident new 1Dorking upon an old material, the ground
is the same, the building re-constructed.
ExAMPLE 2. In the original history of Chrishna, we read, that
he held up a mountain on the tip of his little finger-well! this
would not do for the Western world ; but the hint would do to
supply the modem Jesus with a good metaphor, when increasing
credulity would take it for nothing better. So he tellshis Brahmins
that if they had faith as a grain of mustard~, they should re-
move a mountain, (Matt. xxi, 21 ;) and certain 'tis, that the good
Bishop, who complied the story, was aware, that in the way of
believing, a great deal could be removed.
ExAMPLE 3. " And when Jesus went in, the standards bowed
themselves and worshipped him."* So ran the original text of the
Gospel, from which Luke has introduced his account of the two
thieves ; of the Gospel, from which alone, the Apostles' Creed
introduces the article," He descended into bell.'' and, which is
evidently referred to, in I Peter, iv. 6. But this was become too
gross; it was overdoing it. Avast! cries Bishop John, they won't
stand that, but let us keep the pith of the story, let us have it, that
the men who held the standards bowed down; so the castigated
text became, "As soon then, as he had said unto them, I am he,
they went backward and fell to the ground, (John xvi. 6.)
Which is still a miracle, but not quite such an overftingat it.
Our conquest then, (and in the struggle to conquer so much,
have taken much harder words, than arguments, from my oppo-
nents,} amounts to this:t-
1. My Chrishna is the elder, and the first-born, and
• Nicodemi Evangelium iu Fabricii Codice Apocrypho, tom. I. p. 241.
t I. •• Very respectable natina have aaaured me, that one or two Miuioaaries
have been absurd enough, in their zeal for the conversion of the Gentiles, to urge
that the Hindus, were even now almost Christiana, because their Brabma, Vishnou,
and Mabesa, were no other than the Christian Trinity."-Aaiatic Resean:laes,
vol. I, p. 2711.
2. " I am persuaded, that a connection existed between the old idolatrous nationa
of Egypt, lnaia, Greece, and Italy, long before the birth ef Muses."-lbid. p. 271.
3. ~" The HCond great divinity, Chrishna, the incarnate Deity of the Sanacril
romance, wu cradled, u it informa 118, amo~ herdsmen; a trrant at tlae time of
his birth, ordered all new-born males to be alaan."-Ibid. p. 259.
4. " His birth, wu concealed through fear of thf' tyrant Causa, to whom it had
beeu predicted, that one born at that time, in that family, would destroy l•im."-
lbid. p. 259.
5. " He wu born from the. left interCOital rib of a Virgin, of the royal Jiae of
Digitized by Google
VINDICIATION OF THE M.-\NIFESTO. 93
2. That by a certainly "long anterior," probably more than
nine hundred years priority to their Christ, and
3. That upon the positive knowledge, the " We know very
certainly," of Sir William Jones.
4. THAT, their own very highest authority.
5. TH.\T an authority, against which they can with no modesty
attempt to pit a counter authority-and
6. THAT an authority, avowedly hostile to our inferences.
1. And CBaisBNA, not Krishna or Krishnu, is his name.
8. And He was a God incarnate.
9. And He was by his human mother ~ended from a royal
race.
10. And He it was, whom the tyrant of his country sought to
kill in his infancy.
11. And He it was, on whose account, the tyrant slew all the
children," that glorified God by their deaths."
12. And He it was, who slew a terrible serpent," bruised the
serpent's head."
13. And He it was, who was miraculously born.
14. And He it was, whose whole life was spent in working
miracles.
15. And in preaching mysteries.
16. And in washing other people's feet.
17. And He it was, who descended into hell.
18. And He it was, who rose again from the dead.
19. And He <
it was, who ascended into heaven, after his
death.
20. And He it was, who left his doctrines to be preached by
his disciples, but committed nothing of his own to writing.
21. And He it was, who bad been the object of prophecy.
Here is " the General outliM" and broad facts of a religious
romance or SPELL, which, relating the life and adventures of a
God manifest in the flesh, would naturally be called a Spell of
God or a God's Spell or a Gospel, admitted to have formed the
Denci and after his manifestation on earth, returned again to his heavenl7
1ea1 in Vaiconlha."-lbid. ·
6. " He was foatered, therefore in Mat'hura, by an honest herdsman, sumamed
.diiiJMIJ, or Happy, and his amiable wife Yasoda. The aect of the Hindua, who
adore him with an enlhDiiutie, and almCNit exeiDii'fe dnotion-maintain, that
Cuateutu, was 1uperior to all the prophets. who had only a portion of his diTinity,
whereas'-~hriebna, was the penon of Vishnu himself, in a human form,"-
lbid. p. ¥00.
For ill hi,m d111elleth ell thefulrteU ofthe Godhead, llodily.-1 Colouill111 9,
7. " At the age of senn yean, be lield up a mountain on the top of hie little
tinger."-AaiatieReaearehea, Vol. I. p. 2'73.
8. " He slew the terrible serpent Caliya." 9. " He paued a life ofa mo.t extra.
erdinary and incomprehensible nature."-Ibid. p. 259.
10. " He eand multitndea, ~tly by hia arme, and partly by hi• miraeulous
powen." ll. " He raised the dead, by descending for tliat pnrpoee, to the lowest
rt>gioll8," 12. " He was the meeke.t and beet tempered of bem&•, yet he fomented,
and conducted a terrible war." IS. " He wu pure and eh01te in r11Jlily, but
nhibited an appearaoee of exeeaain libertiniam."-lbid, Chap. 9,
Digitized by Google
94 VINDICATION OF THE MAN1,FE8TO.
substance of the secret mysteries of the Brahmins " long anterior
to the birth of our Saviour, and probably long anterior to the
time of Homer, which was nine hundred years anterior to that
time." Now reader" search the Scriptures" produce but one
text out of the fourteen Epistles of Paul, that seems to speak of
the events of the Evangelical narrative, as being then recent,
against the 20, the 60, or the hundred which refer to the
whole gospel scheme, as being even in his day altogether of a
remote antiquity, which in short are perfectly compatible and
entirely congruous with an understandin~that it was thisgeneral
outline of Chrislwa and the Hindoo-mythology that he was en-
deavouring to modernize, and I will yield thee thy more than
twentieth part of the probabilities on the opposite supposition.
Why should it have been, that when the Apostolic Chief of
Sinners made the best of his Christian tale at Athens, tbe Philoso-
phers, Epicureans, and Stoics should have been di~~gt~sted at him,
because, while he was attempting to impose that Therapeutan* -
romance, on the ig-norant and foolish part of the community, he
brought to their knowledge No NEW THING (Acts xvii.)t
Why should he have played oft' his villainous wheedling arti-
fices upon the illiterate and ignorant rabble, telling them that
they were especial favourites of God ; that the greater fools,
dunces and idiots they were, the fitter vessels of dhine election :
that God had chosen the foolish things, the weak things and the
base things.-(I Corinth. 1.) to be rich in faith, that is, to be as
they were likely to be, the most easily imposetl o~t.
Why should he have made it a matter of high crime against
the Greeks that they sought after wisdom, that is in other words,
they wanted something like rational evidence, proof, argument,
or grounds of common sense and rational probability ·for his
matter1 But, he bad nothing of that sort to give them, it was
too far oft', it was too long ago: he could give no clue, produce
no document, make no reference, put them into no train of in-
quiry: not a vestige, not an iota: not a glimpse or a shadow of
any one, even the most broad and necessary fact that must have
existed, and must have been at that time in hand to have pro-
duced, if such a person as Jesus had existed in any shape what-
ever. Only, they were to believe! Children and fools may do
so ! was probably the sentiment of the philosophers-" but, Sir,
it is too much to call upon our assent, to the most stupendous
events that imagination could conceive, upon, absolutely, no efli-
dence at all!" This was the real condition of the argnment,
when, Mr. Beard would persuade us, that the historical evidencea
• The Tlaerapevlte were an ancient Jewish seet of itin•rut quack doct.n
who profeaed the art of healing : from whence their name is derived : they were
mighty traYellen, dealt in cbiU'DII and apells: and from their plagiari101, the
ltliliafi Chriahna, got at laat, hie Jet~~ilh pltysiognomy.
t Paul of Tanua is unountionably 11 real character, and muth of hie actual
hiatOI'J hu been tacked on·to the fabuloua Ae&s ofthe Apoetln.
Digitized by Google
VINDIC.~TION OF THE MANIFESTO. 95
· of Christianity were unassailable ; while the Apo&tle, forlorn of
all evidence,desperate of all argument; with an impiety despera~
as his cause-and forlorn as his hopes, ascribed the whole Gospel
dispensation, to its origination in THE FOOLISHNESS OJ' GoD.-
1 Corinth, i. 25.
It is admitted, that of Chrishna's history, we have only the
outlines.* But, had we the fillings-up, a still closer resemblance
might be traced. What might be wanting in the Indian mytho-
logy, is abundantly to be supplied, from the idolatrous mythology
of Phenician, Druidical, Greek, and Roman superstition.
Itis impossible, that within the compass ofthese pages,lshould
trust myself in an expatiation on this subject, to which I have
for many years, devoted my atudies, and intend, should my prison
hours be extended, to revise and enlarge the works I have already
produced.
The ADONIS of the Phmnicians, is an undeniable Jesus Christ.
-See Parkhurst's Hebrew Lexicon.
The EAIITRE, from which our English word Easter, is derived,
is the Druidical type of Jesus.
The PRoMETHEUs of the Greeks, is the crucified God.
The MERCURY, the Word or Messenger of the Covenant,is the
same visionary conceit.
The Apollo.
The Bacchus, and all the idolatrous family, are but the varied
embodyings of the same parent, and universally diffused halu-
cination.
END OF SECTION XIII.
SECTION XIV.
THE EGYPTIAN JESUS CHRIST.
IN the bieroglyphical representations, on the Pyramids of·Egypt,
Plato,t 348 years before the Christian era, traced the significant
symbols of a religion, which the priests informed him, bad then
existed, upwards of ten thousand years. The cross with the mao
upon it, was the object of P&eo-an worship, and the significant
emblem of the doctrines of the Pagan faith, for countless ages ;
• 14." He wuhed the feet oftheBrahmina,and preached nry nobly indeed, and
sublimely, but alwaye in their favour." Sir William Jones in Aliatic Researches,
Vol. I, Chap. 9.
t PLATO BroaiUlaoulder• died 348 before onr Epocba. The beginninc of
John'• goepel ia evidently Platonic. This philoeopher wu himself believed to
have been born of a pure virgin; and in hie writings bad drawn up the imagill&l7
ebaraeter of a DIVINB XAN, wboee ideal picture he completed by the auppoeition
that auch a •an would be cavcJPIBD:
" Yirlwe coufesled iu human ehape be dra~ ·
What Plato tAourM, and GooLJ&a Cato wu."
See Madame Dacier'e Trans. and Clarke's Evidenen.
Digitized by Google
96 VINDIC.\TION OF THE MANIFESTO.
ere that faith took up its Jewish features, and Minutius Felix, one
of the earliest Fathers, taunts them for their adoration of that
symbol. • I myself have seen, and many gentlemen at this day
possess, lamps brought from the 'bases of the pyramids, of an
-antiquity, that makes a yesterday of the era of Augustus, and yet
shaped so as to present the light that issued from them, before
the symbols of the Cross, Eternity, and the Trinity. Nay, the
religious honours paid to the NILE, from the time when the
ouraog outang ancestors of mankind became sensible of the
benefit of its inundations, were necessarily addressed to the up-
right post with a transverse beam, indicating the height to which
its waters would reach, and the extent to which tbey would
earry the blessings of fertiliiation. The demon of famine was
happily expressed, by the naked and emaciated being, nailed
upon it: the reed in his hand was gathered from the marshy
margin of the river : the NILE had smote him with that reed.
His crown of thorns, emblemized the sterilityofthe provincesover
which he reigned,and his infamous title indicated that tie was the
king of vagranb and beggars.-Meagher on the Popish Mass.
END OF SECTION XIV.
SECTION XV.
THE PHENICIAN JESUS CHRIST.
A TERY learned sect or party ~mong divines and critics maintain,
that the Hebrew points ordinarily annexed to the consonants of
' the word ntnt Jehovah, are not the natural points belonging
to that word, nor express the true pronunciation of it, but are the
vowal points belonging to the words Adonai and Elohim, applied
to the consonants of the inetfable name Jehovah, to wana the
readers, that instead of the word Jebovl).h, the pronunciation of
which is now entirely lost, they were to say ADONAI, I have
sifted this matter out, by inquiring among the Rabbi!! and more
intelligent Jews, and find, that without any other reason but
their religion, they invariably pronounce the mystical tetra·
grammaton, which we see inscribed even over our Christian
altars, A DON: GNAW : YEI as a Scotchman would say" I
don't know ye. The word literally signifies: Oua LoRD. It is
the real ADONIS of the Phmnicians, and the Jesus Christ of those
who ought to know better. Not only the names, but the attri-
• "You it is re Pagans who wonbip wooden Gods, that are the most likeiJ
people to adore wooden crosses. Your yictorious trophies not onlr represent a
aimple crou, but a crou with a mau upon it; and whereas Je tax our religion
with the wonllijl of a criminal and his cross; JOU are strangelJ·out of the W&J
ef truth to imagine either that a criminal can desene to be taken for a DeitJ, or
that a mere man can ponibly be a God," p. llU, Reen'e Translation.
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO. 9i
butes, the legendary history, and the religious rites of these
mystical hypostases are the same. Under the designation of
TAMMuz, and as a personification of the SuN, this idol was wor-
shipped, and had his altar even in the temple of the Lord which
was at Jerusalem. Several of the Psalms of David were parts of
the liturgical service employed in his worship, the IIOtb in par-
ticular-tho' utterly without any meaning,as gabbled over in our
Church service-is an account of a friendly alliance between the
two idols mm: and ~.l1N : Jehovah and Adonis, in which
Jehovah ordains Adonis for his priest as sitting at his right hand,
and promises to fight for him against his enemies, and to break
their skulls for them. This idol was worshipped at Byblis in
Phoonicia, with precisely the same ceremonies: the same articles
of faith as to his mystical incarnation, his precious death and
burial, and his glorious resurrection and ascen11ion, and even in the
very same words of religious adoration and homagewhich are now,
with the slightest degree of newfangledness that could well be
conceived addressed to the idol ofthe Gospel. On a certain night
during the passion week, an image representing the suffering
God, was laid upon a bed; excessive waitings and lamentations
constituted an essential part of the mystical solemnities. The
attachment or the women to the beautiful deity provoked the ,
jealous Jehovah: and in Ezekiel, Chap. viii, verse 14, we find
that this mode of idolatry was denounced as a most wicked abo-
mination-" He brought me to the door of the gate of the Lord's
house, and behold, there sat wome.n weeping for Tammuz.'' After
thelamentations had continued to exhaustion,lights* werebrought
in, the image was lifted up from its shrine, and the priest anointed
the lips or the assistants in those holy mysteries. It was an-
nounced, that the god bad risen from the dead, and the priest
addressed the admiring and grateful worshippers in words,whose
e2:act sense ia retained in our Easter hymn :
Bat the pa!ae, which he endured
Onr ealntion han procured-
In sober prose--Trust ye in God, for out of his pains we receive
salvation.t-See Parkhurst's Hebrew Lexicon.
END OF SECTION XV.
SECTION XVI.
THE ATHENIAN JE8U8 CHRIST.
t THE Prometheull Bound, or .tEschylus, was acted as a tragedy
in Athens, 500 years before the Christian era. The plot, or fable
• Hence thoee expreaiona in the idolatrous P..lmography or the Sldonians and
Phceniciane-"There it •prong up a light for the righteous, and j11:rfal_gladnea
for each as are true.hearted." " Full of grace are thy lips, because God hath
aaointed thee."
t ~,.,..'rtf 8ftt H'l'& oyap "'""' •IC ft-~
: M:r nry able and reepected oppooent the ReY. Mr. Beard, of M&~~eheeter,
la6oure as bard to defeat this reeemblance of the Greciau &ratrdy to &he Ch(ie·
R .
Digitized by Google
98 VINDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO.
of the drama, being then confessedly derived from the unive~ly
recognized type of an infinitely remote antiquity ; yet presentmg
not one or two, but innumerable coincidences with the Christian
tragedy; not only the more prominent situations, but the very
sentiments, and often the words of the two heroes are precisely
the same. So that there can be no doubt, that as the original
was unquestionably a poetical figment, the version was ofthe same
imaginary creation. It has only been since ignorance has happily
given way to the inroads of scienceand philosophy, and men have
fonnd the pleasure of being rational, that the priests have found
it necessary to pretend the existence of a real person&eae, and a
substantial substratum for their system. In the pure primitive
days, it was'nt wanted, there was no call for evidence; but now,
must the priests go to work, the people want to believe, and to
have a reason for it too! and some time, some place, some proba-
bilities, must be invented for them. Well ! What was to be done~
Why ! " Get as far out of sight-and as long ago with your
story, as they willpatiently endure-sayit was in Judea: they had
no historians there-say it was in the light of the Augustan era,
&ian romance, as I eoafess I han done 10 establish it. But u I labour oo)J for
truth, and han no right to impute any other aim to him~ I am sorry when I find
him coodeuendiag to take an adnn&age iD the argument unworthy of his grea&
powera and h~hly eultinted intelligence. He defies me to ~iat out a line in the
trqedy, in whaeh the God Oceanus is called Pdreru, (p. 55.) I had never implied
that there wu mch a line ; but any good classical dictional'}' would have borne
out the a&riet and literal truth of what I both said and meant-" Oceanru, one of
whose oamea wu Petrnu." The eondud of this pei"!!Inage in the proeees of the
drama, is in as eloae resemblance to that of the fisherman of Galilee aa his n.-
Petreas ia to Peter. He foraook his friend, wben the wrath ofGod had made him
a victim for the sins of the human race. The dilf'ereace between being crucified
ou a beam of timber, and nailed exactly in the same manner apen a rock is ao&
enough to redeem &be palpable plagiarism. Let 1\fr. Beard boweYer, in welcome,
deny all thoae points of coincidence that I have maintained : his own admissions,
when he admits the leaat, will, I say not to nel'}' impartial mind, but sure)J 10
eveey excursive imagination, vindicate &be Atheoiaos, for rejecting tbe doetri.De
of the Apoatle Paul, ~a being no new thing to them. Prometheus made the first
man and woman out ofei'1· Prometheus was a God. Prometheus expoaed him-
eelf 10 the wrath of God, incurred by him in his zeal to save mankind. Prome-
theus, in the agonies of crucifixion had exclaimed--
See what, a God, I suffer from the Gods;
For mereJ to mankind, I am not deemed
Worthy of mercJ-bu& in this unrouth
Appointment am ixed here,
A spectacle dishonourable 10 Jove.
On the throne of Beaven scaree was he aeated,
On the powera of heaven
He showered his varioDB benefits, thereby
Confirming bia sovereigntJ : But for unhappy mortals
Had no regard, but all the present race
Willed toextirpateud to form a new:
None eave myself, oppoaed hie will~I dared,
And toldlJ pleading aand them from deatruction,
Saved tbem from sinking to the realms of night;
For wbieh olFence I bow beneath these pains,
Dreadful to sulFer, piteeDI 10 behold I ·
Potter's Tranalation, quoted from memory.
Digitized by Goog[e
\'INDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO. 90
when every body might have seenall about it: for eleven or
twelve hundred years of dark ages have transpired since then ;
an~ we're all safe, for now the candle has gone out."-Such is
the history of Christianity.
The close resemblances, the almost exact conformities of the
Christian and Pagan mythologie11, were so far from shaking the
faith of the first Fathers of the. Church, that in a sense perhaps-
which I shall not be allowed to put on the words of Sir William
Jones, they also would have said-" the adamantine pillars of
our faith cannot be shaken by any investigation of Heathen
mythology." Certainly not! for it was the Heathen mythology
itself, that constituted the pillars of that faith ; and the resem·
blance of the one to the other was urged by the first preachers,
as their most powerful argument to recommend Christianity, and
to induce the Pagans to be converted, seeing that the tranroition
was almost imperceptible, the difference was so very immaterial.
Paganism and Christianity were as like &II two peas to each
other-and in fact, the bettet• and shrewder sort of Pagans; had
been Christians without knowing it.
To one passage only in the Doctor's Treatise will I turn back,
as leading most: naturally to the conclusion of this whole argu-
ment. I follow a rambling writer, and must be excused for fetch•
ing him up to the arrangement he ought to have observed. His
objection to the very last position of the Manifesto, occurs 16 or
17 .pages before his objections to subsequent positions:-! take
him here, then-
'' It i11 a perfect insult to common sense, that this man pretends
to adduce scripture evidence, that the blessed Jesus: never ex•
isted." (I pass over his ruffian scurrility) and he add~J-" a mere
child wbo can read the New Testament might easilyconfute,&c."
Now this was as easily said, as was the egregious untruth that
follows it. But easy, as he may choose to say, it would be to a
child to confute that conclusion. He himself is not man enough
to do it: and I'll undertake to write.myself by any one of the
vile opprobrious epithets which he has applied .to me, if he can
find any other child to help him do it, e'en an' let it be forty or
fifty years since that child cut his teeth.
Observe but the canon of critical evidence, which the convic-
tion of all men places on the same. basis of certainty as the
theorems of the multiplication table-to wit
AN ABSTRACTION OR PHANTASY OF THE IM.\GINATION, MAY
BE SPOKEN OF IN TERMS STRICTLY AND LITERALLY APPLI•
CABLE ONLY TO A SUBSTANTIAL AND CORPOREAL BEING-
BUT A SUBSTANTIAL AND CORPOREAL BEING, CANNOT HAVE
ONE SINGLE ATTRIBUTE PREDICATED OF IT THA1,' WOULD
EXCLUDE THE NOTION OF CORPO"REITY, AND BELONG ONLY
TO AN ABSTRACTION. You may draw out an allegory to any
extent of invention. You may say for instance that" Wisdom
H2
Digitized by Google
100 VINDICATION OF THE MANIFKSTO.
dwelt with the sons of men, that she lifted up her voice in the
streets, and that she said-whatever any wise or foolish person
might say for her :" yet none of these predictions would imply
that wisdom was a real and corporeal existence. But say only
but once in the course of the longest history-that its hero " va-
nished away"-that he wal~ed on water, rode in the air, ~r that
he appeared alive after being once dead, and we perceive at
once, that it u an abstraction that bas been set before us; and
'tis not the author's dissimulation, but our own stupidity, if we
take that to be a reality which he gives so sufficient a clue to
show us, was nothing more than a figment.
I bave on my table the beautiful poem of QuEEN Mu. She
rides, she alights from her chariot, she walks, she waves her
wand, she speaks, and certainly never spake human being to
better effect of excellent good sense, exalted knowledge, and
consummate virtue. Was it necessary for its· author to warn his
readers in so many words, that Queen Mab was only a poetical
extacy, that no such pei'Son as Queen Mab, e'·er had any real
existence? Was it not enough to connect her history with cir-
cumstances incompatible with the laws of animal existence?
THAT, Bysshe Shelley has done for the Fairy-that, the evan-
gelical poetastei'S have done for the less pleasing demon of the
Gospel.
Some of the passages in which they have done so, out of very
many to the like effect, are specified in the Manifesto. Bot
"these passages," themselves, says the learned Answerer, "de-
monstrates the unspeakable folly and wickedness of my mind."
How so 1 or why should the Doctor have said so, if there had
'been nothing in those passages, that he could wish had not been
there 1 See reader! your Dissenterian priest is as unwilling, that
you should have your own U8e of the Scriptures, as ever was the
Jesuit or the Pope. The only difference between the two into-
lerant&, is, that the one kept the stable-door locked, and there
was no horse to be ridden ; the other illdeed, lets you have the
horse, but only upon condition that you shall ride after his
fashion, sit with your face to the cropper, and travel to no other
conclusions than he prescribes for you.
The passages referred to in the Manifesto, are
Luke ix, 29.-And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance
was altered, &c.
Mark ix, 2.-He was transfigured, (the Greek signifies meta-
morph08ed, entirely and wholly changed, and his apparel is
described as undergoing the same metamorphosis.) " And his
raiment became shining, exceeding white as snow,so aa no fuller
on·earth can white them."
Luke xxiv, 81.-And their eyes were opened, and they knew
llim, and he vanished out oftheir sight. . .
l .John, v..6.-This is he that came by water and blood.
Digitized by Google
YJNDICATION OF THJI: MANIFESTO. 101
His habiliments seem to have shared in his various metamor-
phoses, to have travelled with him, or to have grown upon him.
:For, as he certainly left his night-shirt in the sepulchre, when he
afterwards appeared in the costume of a gardener to Mary Mag-
dalene; and, no doubt, in a decent and becoming manner, to the
eleven disciples: unless he had waited on his tailor fir11t, to suit
him for such an appearance; a thought, which it is impiety to
think, he must have possessed .the faculty of producing his own
clothing, or have been supplied by fairies and genii. All which
circumstances, his miracles, his miraculous birth, his resurrection
after death, bis visible ascent into Heaven, the various and con-
tradictory manner of telling the story by the different Evangelists,
&c. &c. are incompatible, not only with any idea of his existence
as a man, but with any just grounds for accusing the Biahop!l
who compiled the story, of having expected that any rational
being would ever .come to think, that they had intended to
represent him as a man.
The reader has only to bear in mind, the certain and unques-
tionable priority of the Apocryphal Gospels, and the universally
admitted superiority, both in intelligence and virtue of those
parties in the early Church, who, not having been so violent
and sanguinary as the orthodox, or not so fortunate, were put
undermost, and made the Di88enter8 of their day ; and therefore,
and only therefore, were called Heretics ; and then, he will see
the convincing light of evidence from their writings, ftash on
those that have comedown tous-bringing up thedark points, and
throwingthe unaccountable lines into order, method,and purpose.
END OF SECTION XVI.
SECTION XVII.
HISTORIES 011' TBB DEMON JESUS, ANTECEDENT TO THE
RECEIVED GOSPELS.
I. "WITHIN the immediate year of tbe pretended cruciftxion of
Christ, scannot bring myself to use the stronger expressions of
Gibbon, sooner tban any other account of the matter could have
been made known, it was publicly taught, that, instead of having
been miraculously born, and having passed through the impo-
tence of infancy, boyhood, and adolescence, be bad descended on
the banks of the Jordan in the form of perfect manhood, that he
bad imposed on the senses of his enemies, and of his disciples ;
and that the ministers of Pilate had wasted their impotent rage
on aa airy phantom, who seemed to expire on the croliS, and after
Digitized by Google
,
102 VINDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO.
three days to rise from the dend."*-Gibbon, vol. 3, chap. 21,
page320.
2.-"Basilides; a man so ancient that he boasted to follow
Glaucias as his master, who was the disciple of St. Peter, taught
that Christ was NOT crucified; but that .a metamorphosis took
place between him and Simon, the Cyrenian, who was cn1cified
in his stead, while Jesu.'! stood by and mocked at the mistake of
the Jews."-Pearson on the Creed, vol. 2, p. 249.
3,-" Those who receive the book called the Acts, or Journeys
of the Apostles PETER, JoHN, ANDREW, THoMAs, and PAUL,t
muat believe that Christ was not really, but only APPEARED as a
man, and was 11een by his disciples in various forms, sometimes
as a yo.ung man, sometimes as an old man; sometimes great, some-
times small ; sometimes so tall that his head would reach the
clouds; that be was not really crucified himself, but another in
hjs stead,while he laughed at those who imagined that they cru-
cified him.'-'-Jones on the Canon. val. 1,p. 12.
4.-" The Gospel of the Helkesaites, who derived their name
from Elxai or Elxreus, who lived _
in the time of Trajan, about
A.D. 114 ; whojoined himself with the Ebionites or Nazarenes,
taught that·Christ was a certain power, ·whose height was 24
schenia, or Egyptian leagues, (66 miles) and his breadth 24
miles,and his thickness proportionably wonderful."-JONES, vol.l,
page 226.
Now, reader, turn to the Koran of Mahomet, the genuineness
of which, no Christians have yet called into question. That, is a
work·unquestionably of the Seventh Century, (Mahomet died,
June 7th, 632;) yet, without any disparaging, decrying, or ridi-
culing the Christian doctrine, what it then was, and how it was
understood by the writer of that holy book, appears in terms not
to be mistaken.
"And the Jews devised a stratagem against him -but God
devised a stratagem against them, and God is the best deviser of
strat3.eo-ems."
With these lights in thy hand, answer to thyself, and as thou
wilt.._..l care not, I have given thee means of answering
I.-Why-Bishop Mark should begin his Gospel with the
account of Christ appearing on the banks ofthe Jordan, and taking
no notice at all of his birth or infancy ; should expressly state,
that that was,the beginning of the Gospel 1
2,..-...;Why-In ·the reading of the three Bishops, Matthew,
!\lark, andLuke, the insignifican~, useless, and never again or any
where.else mentioned persqnage, SIMON ·THE CYRENIAN, should
be·lugged in, with no character to sustain, like a fool too mRny'in
* Apoatolis adhuc in smculo supcratitibus apud Judmam Christi aanguine re-
ceote. et Pu.&NTASM& corpus Domini asaerebatur.-Coteleriua PatrC!S AJIOI$11\·
tom.!. p.H. · ·
t ~d wh;,ahould the;, aot b• reeoiYed!
Digitized by Goog[e
VINDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO. 103
a pantomime, having nothing to do or say in relevancy to fhe
business ofthe 11eene 1 ·
3.-Why-In the plain and grammatical construction of the
text of those Bishops, as that text would be read upon a trial for
murder, it should really appear that it WCJ8 Simon the Cyrenian,
who was crucified ~
4.-Why-That there was a real mistake or substitution of
Simon, (as he is called the father of Alexander and Rufus) should
be so evidently implied by Jesus himself,in those words addressed
to Simon-" Father, (subaudi, Father Simon!) forgive them for
they know not what they do, (Luke xxiii, 34.) These words,
addressed by Jesus to Simon, are compatible with the character
of agood demon, which seems to be such as the Evangelista
meant to pourtray; they were respectful, in consideration of
Simon's venerable age-they were moral, as calculated to pre-
vent or subdue the anger he might have felt against his pel'lle-
cutors, and they were truein respectof the circumstancesassumed.
But applied to God, they were IMPious, in the indecency Of so
familiar a style, as merely saying, Father: they were ABSURD, as
attempting to suggest a reason to infinite wisdom : andthey were
FALSE, in saying that the JewsJknew not what they were doing;
when, unless they bad really got hold of the wrong person, there
was no room for the possibility ofa mistake in the matter ?.
5. Why, if Barnabas and Paul preached the same story, they
should have quarreled so bitterly, and like all other good Chris-
tians, never have been reconciled 1
6. Why Paul should so emphatically say, that when he and his
party preached Jesus Christ, they preached HIM crucified: if
there were none, who at the same time were preaching a
directly contrary doctrine-namely, Jesus Christ not crucified 1
I Corinth. i. 23.
7. Why he should call the other Apostles, false Apostles and
dogs ?-Philip. iii. 2.-2 Corinth. xi. 13. , ·
8. Why he should say that they preached Christ out of envy
and·strife ?-Philip. i. 5.
9. Why he should cur5e them with the most bitter execra-
tions 1-1 Corinth xvi. 22. .
10. Why he should recommend (in a sufficient hint,) that they
should be privately assassinated ?-Gal. v. 12.
' I L Why, never once in any part of the Epistles should there
be·such a manner of referring to the story, as to·make it seem to
have been a narrative of facts 1
12. Why, on every occasion that would have called for an
explicit statement, or reference to facts, should the Apostles
ha.ve made the most pitiful ambages, to avoid giving them 1
13. Why, even the admitted first Martyr Stephen, upon the
immediate freshness and then most recent occurre,nce of the
most stupeodoua events that ever happened (if they ever hap-
Digitized by Google
104 VINDICATION OF THE MANII'EITO.
peoed) when called upon to give the grounds and reasons of his
faith, should not have even glanced at the resurrection of Christ,
as being any part of the grounds and reasons of his faith; nay,
should not so much as have once mentioned his names, either
Jesus or Christ, or led his bearers to an idea that referred to him,
save in one single conundrum that might be riddled out with
equal application to himself, or any just person that had been so
unjustly treated 1
14. Why in every passage where such language as would de-
signate a real bei~, seems to be such as could hardly have been
avoided, find we Instead, the language only of mystery, trope,
allegory and fiction 1
u. Why, in such language as approaches nearest to a descrip-
tion of a real and corporeal being, should the strict and literal
sense, be such as cannot without impiety, absurdity and palpable
contradiction be admitted-exempli gratia-the Son of God, tbe
heir of all things 1"
16. Why should the only line of general uniformity, in the
writings of the earliest Fathers, be their concurrence in repre-
senting Jesus as a visionary hypostasis,*thathad no real existence !
* IOITIM MABTYB'I APOLOGY TO TBB ...8BOB ADBUM, &c.
"Ia sayiag that all things were made in this beautiful order by God, what do
we teem to "J more tbaa Plato. Wbea we teach a general cootlqratioo, what
do we teach more than the Stoicb. BJ oppoeiog tlie wenbip of the worb of
men's hand•, we concur with Menaader, the comedian; ana by deelariDf the
Log01, the lint begotten of God, our muter Jaoe Chri•t. to be boraof a Ytrgio,
without a&J human mixture, to be eroeilled and dead, and to han rote again, and
ueeaded into beano: we "J no more in thi1, than wbat JOO eaJ of thOte wh-
JOU etJle the So01 of Jon. For JOO need not be told what a parcel of 10111, the
writen m01t in Yogoe amoag JOO, -ica to Jon; &bere'a llereDrJ, Jon'• ia&er-
peter, in imitation of the Log01, in wonhip amoag JOO. There'• &eeulapiua,
the phf!ieiaa, smitten bJ a thunder-bolt. ana after that. ueeadiag Into beano.
There 1 Baecboa, torn to pieeea ; and Hereula burnt to get rid of hia paiaa.
There'• Pollux and Cutor, the eon• of Joye by Leda, and Peraeoa bJ Danae •
and not te mention othen, I would fain know why JOO alWBJI deifJ the dep;&;d
Emperor.. and ban a fellow at hand to make atlidayit that he aaw C•ar JDOua&
to Ileana from the funeral pile.
"lu to the Son of God, called Jaoa. ahoold we allow him to be oothiag JDOre
than mao. Jet the title of the Son of God is nrJ joatillable, upon the account of
hi• wildom, co01idering that JOO han JOUr MaacuaY in wonhip, under the title
of the Ta11 Woan and M8818ager of God.
"Ae to &he.objeetioa of our JHU1'1 being cracilled, I aaJ, that aolferiog wu
common to all the fore-mentioned 1001 of JOYe, but oaiJ tbef sulfered another
kind ofdeath. Aa to hi• beiag bora of a Yirgiu, JOO baYe JOUr Pene01 to balaaee
tbat. lu to his curii?J the lame, and the paralJtie. and aoeh aa were cri'??la from
their birth; thil illtUie more than what JOO aaJef JODr N.aeolapioa. -P. 76.
Chr.40.
Such were the eYideaeee of the Chriltian Religio11.1. u theJ were pretea&ed to
the Emperor Titoe Mlioa Aclrianoe Pioe A~toe veear, and to liileoa Veril·
aimaa. ao,l to Lnciu1 the phil01opher, bJ 8&. Joetio, among the lint. if uot
himaelf tbe yerJ lint of tbe Apoetoric Fathen, There II bard(J the dilfereace of
liftJ Jean between tbilapology and St. John'• Renlatioa. "And ifthe Chril&ian
faith (1a11 hi• learned tran1lator) lind not to theae Jean in ita original Jl.!l'itJ, it
came up, and wu cut down like a lower."-Reeye'a Apologia of the Fathen,
JOI.l, Load. 1716.
lt wu a Catholic: opinion ameiiJ the pbiloeophen, that piou fraodl were ,oot
Digitized by Google
VINDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO. 106
17. Why should his divinity have ever been dreamed of, if
his real existence, as a man, could ever have been ascertained 1
18. Whyshould the greaterdiftlculty, and consequently, higher
merit of faith, be made to consist in believin~, that he had real
ftesh and blood,* which no individual on earth could have
doubted, bad there ever existed, the least shadow of a proba-
bility, that such a man had everexisted at all?
19. Why, when his divinity, as an imaginary being, (as all
divinities were imaginary,) could be very well conceived; when,
as a supposed personification of an abstract principle,as the Logos,
or the Word, as the Genius of virtue, as Christ the power of
God, or Christ the wisdom of God, poetry would allow, and
philosophy would understand, the evangelical fiction : should
thiag.. and that the people onght to he iJIIpoted on in matten of religion."-
Ibid. p. 99.
"It wu held u a maxim &bat it wu notonl:rlawful, bnt enn praileworth:r to
deeein, and eYeD lo use the expedient of a lie, in order to ad'l'ance the cauae of
truth and piet:r."-Ma.beim, Yol, 1, p. 198.
Some of the af~CiM~ut writen of tlie church, ban not scrupled to call Socratel,
and 10me otben of the best of the heathen morali1t1 CAriltaau.-Clarke, p. 28t.
f, OBIGBN'S DBJ'BNCB OJ' TBB CBBJSTI.ll'l BBLIGION .lG.lii'IST C&LIOI.
"Then Cel•us, speaking of idolatr:r, does him~elf ad'l'ance an argument that
tends to juatif:r and eommend our praetiee; therefore eudea'l'ouriq to shew In the
sequel of his dileoune, that our notion of image.wonbip wu not a diseo'l'el')'
that wu owing to the Scriptures, but that we ban it in common with the
hea&hens; be quotes a ~age in Heraclitua to this etFeet. To Ibis 1answer, that
some eommon notio01 of gOOd and eYil, are originall:r Implanted in the minds of
all men; we need not wonder that Heraclitua and othen, whether Greeks or
Barbariane, ba'l'e publicl:r acknowledged to the world &hat tbe:r hold the Yel')' same
notions that we maintain.-Cha.p. 6.
Cbap.IO.-"And since our adYenaries are continuall:r making sueh a 1tir about
our taking things on truat, I a01wer, that we who see plainly, and han found the
'I'Ut ad'l'an&a&e that thecommon people do manifestly and frequentl:r reap tbereb:r1
who make up-b:r far the greater number; I say we, who are 10 well lidYised of
&hese things, do paonssiUILY teach them to belie'l'e without examination."
Such were the nidences of the Cbriltian Religion u &be:r a_pJICared to this,
tbenr:rllnt author of a c:atalogneof&be boob cont;lned in the New TestameD&.
"That God should. in some extraordiDUJ manner, 'l'iait aDd dwell wilh
man, il aD idea which, u we read &be wrltiaga of the ancient beatbe01, meet• 01
iDa tbouaaad ditferent form~."-BilbopHorne's Diseoune~, 'I'O), 8, P• 851.
• 1 John, i'l'. 2.-" Enr:r 1pirit that coDf-e&h that Je~ua Cbrilt ia eome iD the
8e1b, il of God,"
fl Joba, 'l'ii.-" For maD)' dec:einn are entered into the world, who eonf- Dot
&hat Je~ua Christ is come iD &be 8e1b."
I John i'l'. S.-" And enr:r epirit that eoDf-tla not tlaat Jesua Cbrilt il come
· iD &he 8eeb, i1 not of God." This ia language &bat could Dot ba'l'e been uaed, if
the reality of Christ'a exiateace u a man could not han been denied, or if the
A~le himlelf had been able to gi'l'e any nidence wbate'l'er of the fact pre.
tended.
" Croci beremua, eanguiDem sngimua, et inter ip1a redemptoria na.trl 'I'UIDera
fiJimDiliaguiUD," are &he word• of the bo)J Father Saint Cwrian, u quoted b7
B11bop Jerem:r Ta:rlor iD bia Hob LiYing, page 1180. "We stick to the c,_,_we
euck tlle blood, and toil our tongues in tlie nr:r wouDdl of our Redeemer." It ia
Denr&helea. an atrec:ioua aDd unfounded slander of &be Mobammedan1, wheD
they call tba.e who 01e this 1ublime and llguratin laaguage-CbriatiaD Doss I it
il eyident they doD't undentand it.
Digitized by '00gle
106 VINDICATION OF THE MANIFESTO.
the cannibal ceremonies of Eucharists and Sacraments,* have
been devised, to subdue not merely the imaginations and the
thoughts of the heart, but the perception of the senses to the
obedience of faith~
20. Why,Tertullian, the first of all the Latin Fathers, Presbyter
ofCarthage, should reason thus on the evidences()( Christianity¥
" I find no other means to prove myself to be impudent with
success, and happily a fool, than by my contempt of shame; as
for ins~nce, I maintain that the Son of God was born ; why am
I not ashamed of maintaining such a thing1 Why ! but because
it is itself, a shameful thing.-I maintain that the Son ofGoddied ;
well, that is wholly credible, because it is monstrously absurd.-
I maintain, that after having been buried, he rose again; and that
I take to be absolutely true, because it was manifestly impos-
~;ible." Excellent faith! as the Doctor will not give me credit
even for ability to give a literal translation, l otrer the above
only as a bold guess ;t below is the text itself, and be may get
his Grammar and Dictionary and mend it.
21. And why, there is no power of langu~ooe-no use of words
-no modes ofexpression and significancy, that could possibly have
been used to express and signify a real and corporeal presence,
that are not, and have not, from the earliest ages of the church,
been used in shameless prostitution to the maintenance of that
as true, which everysense and faculty of man did at the same
time show to be false.
The divinity of Christ was comprehensible by men's imagina-
tions--his humanity, the flesh and blood, stuck in their teeth.
Innumerable other passag·es there are, in these mystical and
mischievous writings, in confirmation of the irrefutable truth of.
the Manifesto, and in abundant supply of SCRIPTURE-EVIDENCE,
that the " blessed Jesus" never existed.
or these there are so many' that they may be safely left to the
reader's own observance; and if he should say that he really
cannot lind them out; all I have to say is, no more can I ! I could
* Cannibal ·Ceremony of the Sacrament-" Except ye eat the fresh of the Son
of man1 and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. (John vi. 53.) He that eateth
my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me. and I in him: for my flesh is
meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed," (56~) 1'bere can be no dillieulty in
admitting this to be merely figurative language; but Lite difficulty is, upon such an
admission, to show what sort of language it would be, that was qot llgurati'ff!. U
is not to be wondered at, that when our Christian Missionnries preach this sort of'
mysticism til the Anthropophagies, Catrrees,,Carribees, and Catabanks, theyaboold
be listened to with the profouodeat attention ; their hearers would whet their
kni'fes; the Chickesaws, the Choctaws, and the Cberokef!tl, would •qweal with
rapture.
-t Alias non invenio materias confusionis, quill me per contemptum ruborill
probent, bene impudentem et feliciter stultum. NatiiB cat Del filiu1 non pudl!l
quia pudendum est: Et mortuus est Dei filius, pronus credible est, quia inepcum
est. Et sepuhus, resurrexit. certum est quia impossibile."-De Carne Christi,
Semler's Edition Hale Magdeburgicm, 1770. Vol. 3. p. 35f. .
Digitized bvGoogle
•
VINDIOATIOlli OF THE MANIFESTO. 107
Digitized bvGoogle
108 VINDICATION OF THE MANU'EITO.
thing, my faith may be ready to say another. Save me, 0 Lord!
above all things, I beseech thee, from the craft and subtlety of the
devil, who at this time has, by thy allowance, been permitted to
assail thy church with sore and grievous temptations, and who
bas raised up and inspired such a devilish minister of sin, who
was once seemingly a minister of grace, and so endowed him
with his hellish and infernal gifts, that by his means he not only
denies the Lord Jesus Christ, but even denies 1-0 Lord! 0 Lord!
he denies every thing.-Forgive me, 0 God I for ever having
looked into his book, or trusted my weak faith to look on one of
his accursed arguments. " Peraecote him, 0 Lord! with thy tem-
pests, and vex him with thy storms ; pour out thine indignation
upon him, and let thy wrathful displeasure take hold of him.
Let death come hastily upon him, and let him go down quick into
bell." (P•alm, P•alm, P•alm.) And, 0 Lord! I beseech thee,
take away from me the understanding that would understand any
thing that is nol in harmony with thy word. Make me to see
that which I see not, and to understand that which I cannot un-
derstand. Make me to feel assured that that is certainly false
which my reason, without thy especial interference, would as
certainly pronounce to be true. Make the things to be, which
are not: and enable me, after the example of thy holy servant,
John Pye Smith, to call every thing forgery and falsehood, that
tends to bring thy holv word into doubt and uncertainty-like
him, may I have courage to deny myself-to forswear the use of
my own eyes-to see not whatl do see, and to see what I do not.
Like him, 0 God! may I always,when by thy help I have gained
a victory over my carnal convictions, refused the evidence of my
own senses, and set my own reason at defiance; then may I attack •
infidels in thy strength, 0 Lord ! and be exceeding bold in thy
salvation-then may I apply to them those names of scorn and
infamy which would be due to myself, were I not thy servant,
and did not my lies abound to thy glory, through Jesus Christ,
our Lord. Amen.
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX.
THE GREAT DIFFICULTY F.URLY STATED.
WE have shown the main story, and all the leading doctrines of
Christianity, to have existed in the world many a.,o-es before the
period which Christianity assigns as that of their first promulga-
tion. Yet we charge the writings of the New Testament, in
which that story, and those doctrines are exhibited, as betraying
internal marks of an origin, modern, even in relation to that as-
signed period.
Here is indeed a great difficulty. No candid Christian can
deny that the New Testament contains innumerable passages,
which can by no possibility be conceived to have been written,
either in, or any thing like to near, the times to which they refer.
No candid unbeliever can deny that it also contains innumerable
passages, and a general sketch, most clearly to be recognized,
entirely up to the times, and in and at the times supposed.
The passage which I here subjoin, from IREN&us, the first of
all the Fathers who has mentioned the names of the four Evan-
gelists, is, 1 sincerely believe, the very strongest testimony in fa-
vour of the Christian Evidences that I have ever met with. If
the Christians, who seem generally to have held dexterity in
forging, the highest Christian accomplishment, have not forged
'this, or perhaps substituted the names of Matthew, Mark, Luke,
and John, for those which they found in the passage itself.
'' Such is the certain truth of our Gospels, that the heretics
themselves bear testimony to them, every one of them endeavour-
ing to prove his particular doctrines from thence. But the Ebi-
onites may be refuted from the Gospel of MATTHEW, which
alone they receive. Marcion useth only the Gospel of LuKE, and
that mutilated; nevertheless, from what he retains, it may be
shown, that he blaaphemes the one only God. They who divide
Jesus from Christ, and say that Christ always remained impassi-
ble, whilstJesus suffered; prefer the Gospel of MARK. However,
if they read with a love of truth, they may thence be convinced
of their error. The Valentinians receive the Gospel of JOHN,
entire, in order to prove their pairs of ..Eons; and by that Gospel
they may be confuted. Since, therefore, persons of different per-
suasions agree with us in making use of this testimony, our evi-
dence fot the authority of these Gospels is certain and unques-
tionable.'' Thus translated from the Latin of the Greek, by
Lardner, vol. 4, p. 621. In the excellent theological library of a
gentleman, whom 'tis the proudest and happiest feeling of my
Digitized by Google
110 .\PPENDIX.
heart to call my friend, 1 have collated the original text, which
Lardner seems to have wanted for this passage.
THE SOLUTION OF THE DIFFICULTY.
This driving up to the mark, drives beyond it. If we believe
the Fathers, we must believe them throughout. The very high
antiquity of Iret.ms, as the disciple of Papias the disciple of St.
John, proves the still higher antiquity of the various orders of
heretics, whom he undertakes to refute; they must have been
. established-their tenets mnst have been extensively di1fused.
' The Gospels, therefore, on which they founded their various
systems, had obtained authority and prevalence, long, very loog,
before the time which should suit with them; and however mo-
dified, castigated, and ascribed to other authorities, were really
PAGAN in their origin, and were brought in by the Gnostics, Va-
lentinians,Essenes,Therapeutre, and various other itinerant adven-
turers and traveUing philosophers, from the sacred legends of the
Hindoo, Phlenician, and Grecian mythologies.
If we believe the testimony of the Fathers, we must abide the
conclusions to which they conduct us; yet one and all, from Ter-
tullian in the second, to Lactantius in the fourth century, quote
as genuine, those Sibylline verses which related the whole story
of Christ's incarnation, death, resurrection, and miracles to Tar-
quinius Priscus, 717 years before Christ, almost in the very words
of the Gospels. These verses, according to Bishop Pearson,
actually exhibited an anagram of the whole Christian Mythology,
in the mystical word IX~, a fish, the letters of which stand for
I,.rss Jeeurros 8•s'l'•os:wr11e. JesusChrist,the SonofGod-theSaviour;
and the Christian Sozomen was strengthened in his faith by the
authority of that Pagan Hexameter,
l> ~6ll.ov, "'J.UI.lCagurrov •.P ; 8<0s ·~f'T4VII<T31).
0 wood, most blessed! upon which God was stretched !•
There can be no doubt, that bad the objections of Porphyry,
Hierocles, Celsus, and other enemies of the Christian faith been
permitted to come down to us, the PLAGIARISllf of the Christian
scriptures, from previously existing Pa.,o-an documents, is the spe-
cific charge that would have been brought against them. But
these, as we have seen, were ordered to be burned, by the pru-
dent piety of the Christian emperors. In writings which, like
those of Victor, (see page 31.) have, by happy accident, escaped
the expunging policy of Christians, or in incidental passages
whose significancy has eluded their observance, in those which
they have suffered to come down to us, will be found the nucleus
of truth, e. g. There is a passage in Cicero, written forty years
before the birth of Christ, in which he ridicules the doctrine of
• See alao how the Cbristiao Father Mioocius Felix, taoota the Pagaos-" Voo
it ie, ye Pagall8, wbo wonbip a cross with a mao vpoo it I" What de~~perate fool•
thoee Pagans most have been to wonbip a crucified thief!
Digitized by Google 1
APPENDIX. 111
transu~tantiation, and asks how a man can be so stupid as to
imagine that which he eats to be a God 1 "Ut illud quo vesca-
tur Deum esse putet." Never should it be forgotten, that we
have only been allowed to know what the objections of Celsus
were, per favour of snch extracts from his writings as his oppo-
nent, Origen, found it convenient to answer; and if Origen were
the author of the objections, as well as of the answers to them,
he would not have been the first Christian Jack-o'both-sides.
It wouldn't have done to have suffered Celsus to ask himto
show proof of the existence of Christ as a man, to have called on
him to produce a copy of the register of his crucifixion, or to
refer to any extraneous and independent evidimce.
The dissimulations practised by Ebionite Christians, in order
to fabricate evidence for the existence of Christ,as a man, against
the Nazarene, Docetian, and Phantasmiastic Christians, who uni-
versally maintained that he was a ghost, and that e1ery thing
related of him occurred only in vision, are absolutely immea-
surable. Every testimony of this kind, hitherto produced, has
turned out, upon a thorough investigation, to be a most flagrant
forgery. Addison was deceitful, or deceived enough to profess a
belief in the letter of Christ to Abgarus ; and Macknight and
Doddridge have been gulled, or have attempted to gull others
into a belief, that the gods and dremons had borne testimony to
their blessed Saviour: upon the authority of the admissions of
Porphyry, in his "Philosophy of Oracles," which admissions of
Porphyry, Porphyry never made--but the whole work was the
forgery of Christian hands, for the purpose of making him seem
to have made such admissions.-Lardner, in loco.
Even Lardner himself was not honest, where he found that ho-
nesty and the pretence of evidence for Christianity were incom-
patible. He could represent the Emperor Julian as a persecutor,
in direct despite of hi~rical fact, merely because Julian was not
a Christian; yet tells us of Constantine, after he had murdered-
!. Maximian, his wife's father; 2. Bassianus, husband of his sis-
ter Anastasia ; 3. Licinius, husband of his sister Constantia; 4.
Licinianus, his nephew ; 6. Fausta, his wife, and 6. Crispus, his
son-that" be· was a sincere Christian, and neither a cruel prince,
nor a bad man." Zosimus had given the most rational account of
· his conversion,* and Sozomen, in refutation, admits the report
that Constantine, having put to death some of his relations, and
particularly his son Crispus, and being sorry for what he had
done, applied to SouTER the philosopher; and he answering
that there were no expiations for such offences: the Emperor then
had recourse to the Christian bishops, who told him, that by re-
pentance and baptism he might be cleansed from all sin; with
which doctrine he was mightily pleased. Whereupon he became
• See page 25•
•
Digitized by Google
112 APPENDIX.
a Christian himself, and required his subjects to be so likewiae.*
-Quoted by Lardner, vol. 4, p. 400.
It ia well known, that the whole of Ecclesiastical History must
stand or fall with the character of its great pillar, EusEBIVS.
Well, Lardner, after making admissions with respect to this great
Father of Christianity, little calculated to strengthen any mao's
faith, stumbles at last upon the very door that would let out erJerg
thing-bot bangs it in our faees, and is gone-'tis the blue cham-
ber-the troth is there! ! Bot here's a peep through the key-
bole.
" It is t.DOnderful, that Eusebios should think Philo's Ta&R.A-
PEUTM were Christians, and that THEIR. A.NOIENT WRITINGS
WERE OUR GOSPELS AND EPISTLES!! !"-Vol. 2, p. 361. No!
it is not wonderful that be should think so-the wonder is that be
should have •aid so. A hundred thousand volumes are contained
in that lllwfing's sense !
It should be steadily borne in remembrance, that the terms
CHRIST; CHRIST 0\JR SAVIOUR: OUR LoRD: OUR BLB88KD
LoRD AND SAVIOUR.: are epithets that have no identification io
them. They were of familiar application, and in continual
recurrence as applied to the SuN, to Jupiter, to Bacchus, Apollo,
Adonis,&c.; in the multifarious systemsof Heliolatry and Idolatry,
that bad for antecedent ages of ages, subjugated the aboaed
reason of mankind.
Byapplication of this essential canon of criticism, some of the
earliest pretended testimonies to oua LoaD, and to OUR SA-
VIOUR, will be found to have more probably referred to some one
or other of those Pagan Deities. Thus, the very earliest, that of
the Apology of QuADRATUs, pretended to have been presented
to Adrian, in the year 126, in which be tells the Emperor, that
" the works of our Saviour were always conspicuous, for they
were real ; both they that were heal~, and they that were
raised from the dead, who were seen not only when they were
healed, or raised, but for a long time afterwards, not only whilst
he dwelled on this earth, but also after his departure, and for a
good while after it, insomuch that some of them have reached to
.our times;"t bas no distinctiveness of Christian signillcaocy.
* TaanA tTl/11 ftlllf'rv.pDOS fiWTCIII1 ICCU 'ffp«f"'l"ff ,.., IU&T,.poll'f/ITflS, 'ffporrj«
'reef 'f~KUCT' IC~£4 llrf'Wo Kcu 'rll'rO ~fUI ntrnEA/J#. 'rO 'r8S IIITE/JflS JWr~·
/lllllo,.,., CIVnJS 1fAI7l)s ...,.,., *""'GfHIICI1IIJAA ~~. So far, Lardaer Jin•
Dl the text of ZoeimDI.
Mfu-svra 3e 'rOlf Btlll'lAEA "'' '"I A'fftryopfW'E£, 'fffii""'XEUI E'ffuriCO'ffou, "',.wr-
"'" BAirruri'A"' vrf<f](Otf'ro, .,.., twrOif IJ#UIP'T'AS "~l"f· Sozomea in Joeo
eoclem. Thie i• aot the laaguage of ridicule, their owa -t eaered eompoeitiou
will furai•h etrenger satire.
t I eubjoia the whole of thil preeioua fragmeat; it i1 im~ble thai it eoald
han beea pl'flfated ia thil 1tate to the Emperor. It il but a brokea eeatflee;
.ud ao reuoa eaa be eoaeeiYed whJ, huing thaa maeh of it, we should DOt
han had more, bat that the craf&J EDiebiDI, oa whoee fidelitJ it ffltl, wu aware
tliat ill eontext aad coaaectioa would haYe belraJed ill pagaa oriJiaatioa:-
Ttr 311 2fonJpos 'fiiUW 'rA .,-ya, AE' . ,, M,&., 'Ytlf 'llf o' ,.,..,.~.., t1
Digitized by Google
..
-APPENDIX. • 113
Such a testimony, coming from a priest of JBsculapius, aa for all
that appears, this Quadratus may have been, contains nothing
but what such a priest would have said of such a deity. It hath
no more indication of reference to a Jesus of Nazareth in parti-
cular, than to a Guy of Warwick.
The idolatrous epithet, CuarsT ; in one of the Pagan Gospels
of the ancient sect of the T&ERAPEUTM, which Gospels, as we
have seen, Eusebius thinks were the same as ours,• gave great
offence to the Therapeutan Thaumaturg, who, when one of his
satellites had called him" the Christ of God, straitly charged and
commanded them to tell no man that thing," Luke ix. 21.
The complimentary epithet, CHREST (from which, by what is
called the Iotacism, or change of the long E into I, a term of
respect grew into one of worship,) signified nothing more than a
good mao. Clemens Alexaodrinus, in the second century, founds
a serious argument on this paronomasia, that t all who believed
in Chre{lt, (i.e. in a good man,) both are, and are called Chres-
tiaM~ that IS, good men."-Strommata, b. 2.
It has been the universal trick of the Christian evangelizers,
to plagiarize and adopt pagan documents, and christen them
into Gospels; and to give a Christian turn ofthe matter, to an
UQqut~~~tionably idolatrous phraseology. I wisli 1 never found
the iq~portaot additament, JEsus CHRIST, in Lardner's English
text, where I could read no further than o «upws «cu ~~'"'""Il 7JIU'II-
our Lord and Saviour, in his Greek originals; a formulary
as idiomatically heathenish, as ·
ZEus /WYIITT< ~elll1trrt ~e•A~s ~•p1 ,_!-In Homer'd Iliad.
So hungry, however, was this great Christian-Evidence
manufacturer, to find testimonies to Christ and Christianity, or
any thing that could be strained, no matter with how much
straining, into a possible reference to it, that he actually quotes
the Metamorphoses of Apuleius, of Madaura, an aYowed work of
imagination, and brings in a Jack Ass, as bearing testimony to
Christ; where the dumb beast is represtmting tb~ character of~
baker's wife, to w:hom he had been sold, and of whom he says,
tbat;t" she so abused her husband, that even he (the Ass), could
CIIIIIOTIIJITES fiC l'flCpfW 01 811: ~lUI p.tJJIOJI ~f(KITEUOP,.I/01 I<CU .1&1'411'Tapntll, a]\]\Q
ICCU IHI "rGpOJI'rfS, a3. W~I'8J"l'OS p.tJJIOII '1'8 u..,.,..,pos, a]\]\4 IClU 411'a]\]\4')"V"Of, 'tJII'IUI
W& ](pOliOII - , 1«1'rf ICCU Elf 't'SS 'fiiA.f't'EpBS 'f'lllfS IWTGW IJA/>IICDVf'O.
ThO., with DO addrea, DO CODDec&ioD, DO purport, DO coucl111ion; what can we
infer from the uilteDce of such a fragment and no more,· but that there might
1101 han been another eentence in the document, but what would hue shown its
PBfaD character, aod ao hat'e defeated the uee for which it had.been 1lolen. . .
. /lvrUUI. IH f'J 'JCPIII'TOr Tfti'III'TfiHUI'f'U ')(prlll"t'OI 't'f flll'l ICCU 1\f")'OJI'rAS.-Strom.
t Lib. 3. c.l'7, p.53, et circa.-Psal.OS, D.
t "Ut, Hercules I ego, ej111 yicem quoqul!
. tacit111 frequenter ingemiscerem:
nee ullum Yitium nequileimae illi femine deerat. SceY&, SaeYa, Yitiola, ebrios~
~nicax, ]JeJ'tinax, in ra{'inis turpibus anra, in &umptibus turpis profusa;
1nimica filfri1 lhottis. pndic1ti•• faOeDI omDes homines, et miseruri) maritull!
l
Digitized by Goog[e
114 APPENDIX.
not but lament his unhappy condition; she had every vice with-
out any thing that was agreeable. She was penerse, ill-natured,
obstinate, given to drink, she robbed her husband, was profuse in
her expences; deceiving all men, especially her miserable hus-
band, a~d devoting herself to drinking, and •••••• from morning
to night." And upon this description, and a little more of it, to
the like eft'ect. Lardner concludes with the words, "there can
be no doubt that Apuleius here designs to represent a Christian
woman!''-Vol. 4, p.l07. .
It is something worse than this compliment to the ladies;
when in order to make the Platonic philosopher Amelius, (A. D• .
263,) seem to recognize Christ's real existence as a man; he
givea an Ebionitish rendering to his Docetian Original, and so
makes Amelius seem to say, that Christ took the form of a man,
(vol. 4, p. 200.) insteadof saying, (which is all his sense implies,)
that be was the Phantasmagoria* of a man.
A regular succession of the most learned and intelligent of the
Christian Fathers, from and in the apostolic age, steadily main-
tained, that Christ never had a~y real existence as a man ; that
he was merely a phantom or hobgoblin, and that aU the business
of his crucifixion and miracles took place only in a vision.
These, from the Greek word, which expresses their sentiment,
are called the Docetre, or Docetian Fathers, as opposed to the
Ebionite, or Beggar Heretics, who maintained the contrary hypo-
thesis, that Jesus had a real existence. The previous prevalence
of these confticting opinions may be discerned even in the pre-
sent garbled and transmuted text of our New Testament.
"Remember that Jesus Christ, of the seed of David, was raised
from the dead according to my Go11pel," 2 Timothy, ii. 8. A·
memorandum that can hardly be conceived to have been sent to
a Christian bishop, unless there were some other Gospels in being
at that time, which told the story in a different way. The three
Evangelists, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, distinctly relate one of
_. Christ's .Metamorphoses, and the words of John xii. 28, "Father,
CLARIFY thy name ! then cam~ there a voice from heaven,
saying, I have both clarified it, and I will clarify it again ;"t are
words that could not possibly have been written by one who
wished to be understood otherwi11e than as romancing. Would
any sensible man look another in the face, and say he believed it?
deeipiens, matutino mero, et continuo etupro corpus mauiciparat-SpreU. atque
ealcatia diTinia uumiuibua, In vieem certe religionill meotita aacrilega,.Preaump-
tiooe Dei, quem pr•diearet uoieum,"-Apuleiua, A. D. 1M, more fully tw
above.
• H(1-e .,., I'~ ~,_, Aaltw were the worda which ,Ameliu w!!!ld
haTe ued, had he meant u Dr. Lardner rendera him; bat fHWrat'fl'bcu, _,_or
ia the text ; wbieh ie rather awkward.
t CLARIFY ia the real original word in our uatiYe tongue, which hu bad both
itaaouud and aeDBe, ~pouted awa1in the more aoooroue but inaigui&caot mouthing
of it Into glorify. The oldeat Latiu copiee in exutence, enriched our l&n&Uife
with this woril; John xxi. 19, stood, "Hoc autem dixit aigul&eau • ~ua morte
clarificaturua eaet Deum,"-by what death lie ehould CLARIFY God.' ·
Dig•tized by Google
-\PP.II:NDlX. JU
'llhe ®etr;•e of Leuci..- or Lneian, (A,.Q. 143,) wbo 4ly argu·
meaU, more.00 more cogent than .my limit& woold allow ~ ~
touch ~. may be s~wn to be the ~uthor of the Received
Gos.,.l, .aeoording to S~in~ Lulie, 4nd of the.A.ct& of the Apos-
tle&, was-,•" Lhat Christ w:aa not truly .a man, but in appe~
only, and th~t he appeared to hia disciples in <lifl'~rent forma, at
ddreren.t t~es, sometimes young, and then as ao old man, .and
then apin,a boy, som.etimes greater, then lesa, then greater than
ever, so that his bead would reach the midst of heave,o, and tha~
.Christ W'IL.S.not crucjAed but ~other m
.hi, .ad." .; I
His boy~h character~ however, seerqs on all hands, .to be lid·
.mi~, ,_ that~·~ which wi8e,'' be ml¥ie his. last appear:aace,
.as we fuld the ~postles apeaking ()( hirp, aa Qf..tbat fashion,
after his Apotheoaia; "tby holy b&y 1e$US,"- {~eta iv, 21·.)
." 'Ih•~ eigQa apd wo~ra may be ~one by ~~Ill~ of thy holy
IKly JJ}IUii/' (Ac;tsiv:. 39.) 'fo be s\lfe, ·~.wp~ : ~war . ~
~hat of the ancient Liturgy of the jQlly (jpd ~~lloiii ev~
.fair and YQI!Pg; but t~ smaller compass. his .~ .
Q011l4 ..be ~~
.dQced into, the more .con:venient it would be Cor ~cending .into
" the clouds or heaven, with power ~ great cla,.,." -
It shonld however; never be forgotten, that t~ who oppo&ed
the Docetian doctrinet, aad maintained the extraordinary notion
ofan historical fouQdatiott of the Gospel-Th~phany, -~ that
Jesus Cbril;t was really a man, have- failed in ~very &\~m_pt that
they have made to adduce independeot teatinway! .•In or,iu to be
able to pretend that the adversaries ofCivistia~ity .had admilted
the real existence of Jeaw;. Christ p a:~- they ~ctually Wl'ote
.boob themaeives Cor.tbose ad.ver~il!f, {Qrgiag ~.POD tpe~p, -~
$P fatheriDg them with admissiQns .that tbey never did, ~ never
\TOilld h11--ve adroit~. , , ,..• . .
. C,LBQS, in ._
!Lll ~~iljty. ReVer IJQ, R~ijcll aU&llf: the Work
:Which the. mepdacious Pripn bas won immor~LJ•Bie t;.y aft'ee,q~
to:refqte. ' Jie .~ver .wouldba~e ma~ '10·. fwl~h ; ~,~ ~l¢ssif?D
,., ''.'hat C~t w,rough~ ~ ,m_~~es ·.by~lle ,po~- o~: magic,"
wh.i~h 9rigen;equid sO easily anawer: ~r ~e.,.;td ' he ba,ve failed
of asking a questi<m.ot: two~hi~R Orig~~ ~~14 h.a"~ fouod tq be
answered not quite so easHx.~ . . . .
. . . .... ·- . •' . .,.,
o;g,tized by Google
fls A PPEl'tDlX.
Ia tbe three iieokilof tbe Philosophy of Oraete.;• ·• ·fraudu-
lently ascribed to PoitPRYRY, ·tbe ~ vil'tGous aDd fOI'IDWable
enemy of the Chnlliao craft, even tbe GOD APOLLO·iarepresented
as having recognized the exia&enee of Jesus Christ M ta .
flrtooua
abd reHgious man. Thill egregious cheat was not too groo ~
held out by Eusebies in challenge to the Pagans. The· great
pillar ofEeefesiasueal history and ofprieatcraft, could·th• coo-
i!Ml tlie coa~~Cio~snesa of ·imposture under pomp a-ad J*8de of
declamations: · ,
" But thou," (as ifaddressing Porphyry, or IIORie eolJ who had
ma~ tbe admissions ucribed to Porpbyry)t" Bl1t thou, a' least,
.liateo to thine own gods;to thy oraeulardeiues th-.aetv•, who
have bome witnella and asmbed to our 8aviout'·J}(rt iatpo6tme, aa
'tMtl dost, but piety and wiadom, and ueension in&o beaveo...
. The orthodox Jgoauils, oever allu«les to the actioas abd ad'er-
ingr of ~8t witbouUllftleieot intimation t'hat bia whole biiCotY
had iD it enough ol ••.the stutr that dreams are made of.n " His
iricllmatron; death; and resurrectioa, three of the my~teriei · mOlt
spekeb ofin ·tbe w&tld, were bidden from human.-~.
aod done in secret by God.''f EnryatteMpt to bolater-~ into
eredihility as 16ets, baa taited.- .
The pretended letter of Pilate &o Tiberi88 ;
The Coriespondence ofChrist and Abgaras ; ·
The onee famous Sibylline Venes ; · ..
The testirnolry- of Pblegoo ; .
The Admissions of Porphyry; ·:. , .· · .' .
The -eelebrafed pwege of.Josephaa,-. · · · · · · .·
onee eoaatitutiag the tedo&btable array 01 the evJdeboet. ef~ 'lh
.Christian Religion, haw oae by one been beaten ol'"tt.e ~.
or IIOI'feDCiered by Cbri.Uao.s themselves all DO lobget ·tell&~.
Not 6De single-«<~tt~~~ent is there of the ftittenee or EJiariat as a
.mao, within the ttnt·bWKired y~!S. What can we aay d a
religioo·that ba(h DO better evidenee·than this, but t_
bat 'it hath
every·tnark of imposture upoa it, that impoSture- eould )oUibly
be- ~onceive«<· to haTe~ · Chi"()DDOogy ·puts out··all her light. to
hide the blulbettor history aube mention or it. . .
CONCLUSION.
As we-·aee- Prowatao~. to be a 1118$ MOdihatiOit-ol"m..,. of
'To~ry, sO''JJopery was ~ng more' .than !'l:simfl:ar ~oai~-.~
or reform of Pagahlam.§ It is ~bsohitely 4Xlriain tba& the P~
. • tJ¥. qs a~ 4i.>.Dd~-~ . ... . ,
t AUil ~ ""'.,..., _, -JIO"tW~· .,,.. "',.,., ~,..,_ .hW .........
....,...,._
_..,., u ""'"i ..,., ~·- ~ EtHtt~.,, ,_ ~..,, ..,. EU .,....
.........._,~.,..,.,.,..oem, E•.l. f,-.,. 6. · . , .
:l.~t2.!,~~~i•*IDI ~~,~iii. ,.,., ioaa*be -.
,_,,;,-,.;:: ef,~~··.,..,.., ~ .~.......-c ~"~-'".,.
llpiplnuli-" AU the Mre.its wer. dt!lWed ·hen a1ra Chalk.~...·_. il, .iJa
other wvrde, dMre's chntill( ia Kflff trade bat oan. ·
Digitized by Google
APPJ:!IDIX. 117
were in possesaion of the whole Gospel story many ages before
ita Jewish origin waa pretended; and it waa not till the first error
bad.~n commi~ted, of suA'ering the peopleto become acquainted
. too mt1mately w1tb the contents of the sacred boola, that it be-
came neeeasary to invent a chronology, and to "give to airy no-
thing a local habitation, and a name." The advance of the
human mind baa beaten away even tbele last refuges of impos-
ture, and in the absence of all hope of ever being able to set up
grounds of rational evidence again, Christianity rests her dying
struggle on the fanaticism of the vulgar, and the craft of the in-
formed-the willingnes! to be deceived on the p~t of the many,
and the power to puoillh ~hoae who would undeceive them, in the
hands of the mighty.
When" honour, wealth, and power unlimited," incite and re-
ward the machinations of hypocriay, and penalties and pains are
the meed of honesty and truth, the balance of chance~ is some-
what too much against the hope of struggling virtue. Jt ia
hardly to be expected, but that when daoger and disgrace attend
the avowal of their better knowledge, the better knowing will
keep that knowledge to themaelvea. Thus audacioaa ignorance
tramples on modest truth-craft makea sure of·the ueutrality of
prndence-tbe multitude believe, and impostors triumph. The
voice of boisterous fanaticism rings in her gorgeous templea-the
remonstrance of penecnted real(ln ia pot forth from the cella of
eaptivity.
OakbuaGaol;
May,l818.
J'INJK.
Printed b7 R. Culill', 61, Fhm Street.
'
Digitized by Google
.{
. '
'~ I
k
\
••
