{"name":"Dr John Dee","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1659__casaubon___dr_john_dee.pdf","mytitle":"Dr John Dee","mylang":"de"}
>. >
A True 6c Faithful
ELATION
OF
What paffed for many Yeers Between
D". JOHN DEE
(A Mathematician ofGreat Fame in Q^ Eliz.
and King James their Reigncs) and
Some Spirits •
Tending (had it Succeeded)
To a (general <tA Iteration of mo/l STATES
K.IH.Q'I^ ME^ in the World.
His Trivate (Conferences with Rodolphe Fmperor of Germany^ Stephen
K, o^Toland^ and divers other Prikces about it.
The Particulars ofhisCau(e,as it was agitated in the Emperors Court;
By the Pop £ s Intervention : His Banilhmcnt, and Rcftoration in part.
AsAlso %r
The Letters or Sundry Great Men
and PR I N c E s (fome whereofwere prefent at fome ofthefe
Confcrencesand Apparitions of Spirits ;) tothefaidD.DEE,
and
O U T O F
The Original Copy, written with D'- Dees own
Hand: Kept in the LIB RARY of
Sir T H 0. C T T JA(; , K^ Baronet.
WITH A
PREFACE
Confirming tlie Reality (as to the Point ofS p i r i t s) of
This RELATION : and fhewing the (everal good Uses that
a Sober Chriftian may make of All-
B Y
Meric. Casaubon,D.D.
Printed by D. I/faxwell ^ for T. Garthwait, and fold at the Little
North door ofS. fauls^ and by other Stationers. 165^9.
o
m The Orderofthe. Insjnrutt —
I |F-/^^CXI£Uy3^^^/.j^^^ thelnfitrrd^ of Spirits .
. Dee avaucheth his ptoneis hm^h:hy.^elujdlJtiniJhy.
f|ffffffffffff:f:ff^ffffffff|fffff
PREFACE.
HAT is here pre(ented unto thee ( Chriftian Reader) be=
in^ a True and pAithful Relation^ O'c. CascheTidebearech, and
will be further cleared by this Preface) though by the carriage
of it, in fomc relpeds, and by the Nature of it too, it might
be deemed and termed, /^ Work of Varknejfe : Yrf it is no o-
ther then what with great tendcrneife and circumfpedlion,
was tendered to men of highelT: Dignity in Europe , Kings and Princes , and
by all ( Ewg/W excepted) liftned unto for a while with good refped:. By fome
gladly embraced and entertained for along time ; the Fame whereof being car-
ryed unto ^o;«^,it made the Pope to beftir himlelf, not knowing what the event
of it might be, and how much it might concern him. And indeed, filled all
men, Learned and Unlearned in moft places with great wonder and aftonifh-
mcnt : all which things will be (hewed and made good (to the utmoft of
what we have laid) in the Contents of this^book, by unqueftionable Records
and evidences. And therefore I make no queftion but there will be men e-
nough found in the world whole curiofity will lead them to Read what I think
it not to beparahell'din that I\tnd by any book that hath heenjet out in any Age to read : I
fay, though it be to no other end then to fatisfie their cUrio/ity. But whatfbever
other men, according to their leveral inclinations, may propole to themfelvcs
in the reading of it
,
yet I may and muft here profcfle in the nrft place, in Truth
and Sincerity, that the end that I propofe to my felf ( fo far as I have contri-
buted to the Pubhftiing of the Work) is not tolatisfiecuriofity,but to do good,
and promote Religion. When we were firft acquainted with the Book, and
were offered the reading of it, having but lately been converlant iri aSubjedtof
much Affinity ; to w?t, o^ MJiaken Injpiration 3.nd Tojfe/sion ^ through ignorance
ofNatural caules (which labour of ours, as it was ouraime at the firft in pub-
lifhing of it, to do good, fo we have had good reafon fince to believe, that We
did not altogether miffeof whai weaimedat)we could not but gladly accept of it.
And as we gladly accepted , fo we read unto the end with equal eagernefle and
Alacrity : Which when we had done, truly it was our Opiniort , That the
Publifhing of it could not but be very Seafonable and Ufeful, asagainft Jihei/ls
at all times, fo in thele Times efpecially, when the Spirit of Error and Illufi-
on, not in moMAnabajftiJis only, even ofthe worft kind that former Ages have
known ancf abhorred, doth fo much prevail, but in many alfb , who though
they difclaim and deteft openlv (and heartily too, I hope, moft of them) the
fruiiis andelfed:s that fuch caules have produced in others, yet ground them-
selves nevertheleile upon the lame principles of Suppofed Infpiration and irnma-
ginary %eViliitions ,• and upon that account deem themfelves, if not the Only, yet
much better Chriftians then others. And I was much Confirmed in this Judg-'
inent when I was told (as indeed 1 was, at the firft, by them that knew very
Weil) that the ^o^ Reverend, Pious and Learned JirchbiJ]?op of ^rmagh^ lately
. _ „
A ' ^ "
deceaf-
The T'B.eF AQS.
deceafed, upon reading of the faid book, before his death, had declared him-
felf to the fame purpole, and wijhed it 'fnuted. But becaufe it is very poffible,
that every Reader will not at the firft be lb well able of himfelf to make that
goodufe by good and Rational Inferences and Obfervations of this fad Story
as is aimed at, my chiefeft aim in this Preface is to help fuch. And becaufe it is
not lefle probable that this Licentious Age will afford very many, who with the
Saduces oi old ( that is, Jewifh Epicures} believe no 5/?/m, or Angel, orRefur-
redion ,• who therefore being prepolTefled with prejudice when they hear offo'
many Spirits as are here mentioned, and fo many ftrange Apparitions, infeveral
Kinds, will not only fling back themfelves, but will be ready to laugh at any
other that give any credit to inch things. Although I will not take upon me to
convert anybyReafon that are engaged into fuch an opinion by a wicked lifej
that is, Unjuit pradifes. Luxurious lewd courfes,open profanenefife, under the
name of Wit and Galantry, and the like , becaufe, I think, it is veryjuftwitH
God to leave fuch to the error and blindnelTc of their Judgments ,- lb that with,-,
out a Miracle there can be little hopes of fuch. Yet I fhall hope that fuch as aj-^
Rational men, fober in their Lives and Converfations , fuch as I have known
my felf; yea, 'men of excellent parts in other things, men that are both willing
to hear and able to confider : that fuch, I fay, may receive fome latisfadion by.
what I (hall fay and propofeto their Ingenuous confideration in this matter. Were
we to araue the cafe by Scripture, the bufineffe would foonbe at an end ;
there
being no one Controverted point, among men, that I know of, that can receive
a more Ample, Full, Clear and fpeedy determination, then this bulinefs of Spi-
rifi, and Wtuhes^ and Apparitions may, if the Word of God might be judge. But
I will iuppofe that 1 have to do with fuch, who though they do not altogether
deny the Word of God, yet will not eafily , however, admit >of any thing that
they 'think contrary to Reafon , or at leaft not to be maintained by Realbn. I
fhall therefore forbear all Scripture Proofs and feftimonies in this particular,
and delire the Chriftian Reader ( who otherwife might juftly take offence) to
take notice upon what ground it is that I forbear.
But. though I will not ufe any Scripture for proof, yet by way of Application
I hope I may be allowed to ufe fome Scripture words, which may duedus
perchance to a good Method in the examination of this bullneffe. The Apoltle
faith in a place, <p«.Vxo^7s/ 1*^*/ (ro^oJ, e;u»s«e>icrct:. : (profe/sin^them/ihes to he wife ^ they became
fools) I fliall not enquire of whom, and upon what occafion it was fpoken : I
draw no argument from it ; only becaule there is a fhew of great Wiiclom in
this Opinion J
and yet, ^s I conceive, as much of Error and falfhood (that is,
Folly J
as the word is often ufed) as in any other falfe opinion that is lelfe popular.
I will frame my difcourfetothis iffue, firft, to enquire what it is that makes
it fo popular and pluifiblc, among them efpccially that pretend to more then
ordinary Wifdom^ and then fecondly, lay it open(as I amable)co the view in its
right colours, that the Folly or falfhood of it may be difcernabie even to ordi-
nary judgments.
Fiji then, (as for them that deny Spirits ^
Sec.) we lay. The world is full ofim-
pofturc; to know this, to obferve it in all Trades, inall ProfelTions, in all ranks
and degrees of men, is to know the world, and that is to be wife. Though we
call zhem Jailers J
yet they deierveto be thought the plainelldeaUng men of the
world that fliew their tricks openly in the ftreets for money ;
for they profefle
what they are. They are the trueil; Juglers that do their feats (and they for mo-
The T%EFACE.
ny toojttioft of them) under the Veil and Reputation of HolincfTc^Sandity, (or
Saintfhip) Religion, Virtue, Juftice, Friendfhip ;
fine words to catch men that
are ofealie Belief, and thinks that everything that glillers muft needs be gold.
Hence it is, that men that have had the Regutation of Wife men in the world
have commended this unto us as greateft Wildom, Not Easily To Be-
L I E V £: Mw?*' ^ iiit^vY,sa [e.Tiriiv : «fT?* 7<tt?T* ^Sy (pftfSy Epicharmus got more credit for
this one faying ( and hath done more good too, perchance) then many that
have been the Authors of vaft Volumes. Now if thofe things that are expofed
to fenfc, the proper Objedis of our Eyes andEares, be lyable to {omuchlm-
pofture and Deceit, that the wifeft can fcarce know what to believe: How
much more caution do we need in thofe things that are fo much above Senfe
and in fome refpcds contrary to Senfe (and that is «S/)/>/ff) that we be not deceiv-
ed ? If we confidertheNaturc of man, his Bodily frame, the AfFedionsofhis
foul, the Faculties of his mind, we (hall have no occafion at all to wonder if
moft men are apt to believe and to be cheated- But as no caufe to wonder, fo as
little cauie to imitate : Felix qui rerum potuit cognofcere caufas ! ri^<t]o^oyU, a deftre of-
or to grange things that may caufe amaztmentj is the proper affection of-the vulgar,that
is, of moll men , which they bring into the world with them, ( it is theob-
(ervationof the wileftof menthat have Written concerning the affairs and a<51:i-
onsof men) and cannot be rid of but by wifdom, which is the happinefle of
few : Etrandi^ non necefsitas tantum^ fed amor. Seneca fbmewhere fpeakingof the
Nature of Man j There was a time when the world was much governed by 0-
racles
;
private men went unto them as unto God, Kings and Princes lent unto
them to be advifed about greateft matters : and fo much faith was afcribcd unto
them, generally , that the very word became a Proverb appliable unto thofe
things, whereof no queftion can be made. Yet thofe very ancient Heathens
,
that tell us of thefc Oracles, tell us of their vanity; and though they fay nor.
That all were falfe and counterfeit, yet whileft they acknowledgit of lbme,they
give us juft occafion to fufpecft that it might have been found iis true of the reft
alfb, had like care been taken to examine the truth of them alfo.
Again, there was a time (and that time not many hundred years yet paft)
when Miracles were the only difcourfe and delight of men: Ghoftsand Spi-
rits were in every houle ; and fb prone were men to receive what was delive-
red unto them in that kind, that Miracle-makers were much put to it , not
to make their ftories probable, (for that was not ftood upon ) but to make
them wonderful enough; infomuch that fome have been forced seetheiifeof.i<-
to complain publickly of the credulity of the people, who yet them- *"""" '^^•
felves tell us much more, I dare fay, then was ever true. As of Miracles, fo
of Exorcifmes : How many Divels and Spirits have been driven out of men and
women, fuppofed to be p^pJJ^d^ by Iblemn Exorcifmes, to the great wonder
of the beholders, which afterwards upon further fearch and examination, have
been convicted to have been nothing; but the artifices and fubtil contrivances of
men ? Sentences and Judgments have palled upon fuch cheats when they have
been difcovered in moft places of Europe, which have been publiOied. But
they have done ftrange things though ( fome that were though: poffefTed) and
things impoftible, to ordinary fenfe, to be done by Nature, It is very true,lome
have : But they that know what ftrange things may be done to the amaze-
A 1 rricnt
Ihe T "RE FACE.
ment of all not acquainted with fuch myfteries, by long lifi and Cupme^ they
will not eafily wonder (fo as to make a fupernatural thing of it) though they
fee things, which , to their fight and of moft, cannot but feem very wonder-
ful and almoft impoiTible. As for the bodily temper of man and of his ^rain^
it hath been fufficicntly by fome late books of that fubjea: ( Enthufia/me )
both by reafons from Nature, and by fund ry examples proved, that a very lit-
tle diftemper ol the brain,fcarce difcernable unto any,but thofe that are well verfcd
in theftudyof Natural caufes , is enough toreprefent Spirits, Angels and Di-
vels, Sights and Stories of Heaven and Hell to the Fancy : by which fober kind
of MadnelTe anddeliration, fo little underftood vulgarly, many have been, and
are daily deceived j and from thefe things , through the ignorance of men ,
ftrant^e things fometimeshaveenfued, and the peace of Common-wcales hath
fuffered not a little.
Jnjlotk^ in his Meteors, tells of one thatalwayes faw (fo he thought,at leaft)
another man's fhape before his eyes, and how they happened unto him naturally,
he gives a reafon. Hyppocrates^ mpi araf9«r«<v^, ( a v^'-y fliuit Difcourlc, but full
of excellent matter) fheweth how fome, both men and women, through Na-
tural caufes, come to fancy to them felves that they fee j^^v^-f Divels and Spirits,
and to be tormented in their Souls, even to the making away of themfelves by
their own hands. The Author of the book, Ve Morbo Sacro, (very ancient too,
bur notricrht HyppocrateSj as many are of opinion) hath excellent matter too,to
the fame purpoie ; but I have not the book a- this time by me. Hyppocrates
^
(where before) fheweth how many in that cafe were gulled by the Priefts of
thofe times, making them believe , That this happened to them through the
anther of fome god. " They that are verftinthe 0/^«c/iiknow,Thatthereis a
"way, through the help of ^lajfes th^Lt fhall not be feen, to make moving fha-
*
'dows that Ihall appear like Ghofts, to the great terror of the ignorant behold-
" er : and it is faid, That pretended Aftrologers and Fortune-tellers cheat many
" by thofe fights. It is the opinion of fome Jewifh Rabbins , That what
Ghofls or Souls are raifcd by ISjtcromancy^ they alwayes appear inverfocorp&re^ that
is their head dowards and feet upwards. Though nothing is to be wondered
at in Raboins, who (commonly) ate as full of ridiculous conceits as ever came
into the head of any Bedlam: Yet my opinion is, " That the firfl ground of
" this wild conceit was, fome appearance by the Species of an objed:, gathered
"through a little ^/dj/e into a dark room. For fo indeed the objeds muftap-
" pear mVerfo corpore if it be done in a high room, and the objeds from whence
"the Spiecies are gathered be lower then the glafle through which theypafTe. And
the reafon of it is very Demonftrable to the fight of any reafonable man. Cer-
tainly ,by this fecret(which yet is no great (ecret,being commonly leen and pradif-
ed among them that are any thing curious ) ftrange things may be done by a
Cunning-man, to their great amazement that know not the caule. There
would be no end if 1 fhould attempt to gather from feveral Authors what hath
been invented by men, and what may be done by Art to cheat men in matters
of thisnature. Letany man, thatisyetaftrangertoit, but read the Hfe of^Vx-
ander the falje frophet^ or Prognofticator , written by L«ad/7, and he Oiall lee no-
table examples of fuccefl'eful Cheats and Impoflures, fcarce credible indeed, buc
that the thing was yet then frelli and famous , and that all circumibni.es of
^ -
Hifto-*
The T%EFJCE.
Hiftory confirm the truth of the relation. And let him that reads it jnda^r
what dull and dry fellows the Mountebank-Aftrologers, Proanoftjcators and
Fortune-tellers, of thefe dayes are,..to this Noble, Renowned Alexmviou Orily
let him know that reads ,
that Lnckn vjis a profeft Atheift, and therefore np
wonder if he find Epicurus fpokerl of with great refpedt, whom all Atheiil:s,and
Atheiftically inclined are fo much obliged to honour. -Thi^-vvcj^ted, I th'ink
the Story is very worthy to be known, and much more worthy to be read hyal\
men (confideringthe good ufe that may be made of it) then many books that are
daily tranflated out of other languages,
Butlaftly, If there were any fuch thing, really as Divelsand Spirits that u(e to
appear unto men ; to whom lliould they (probably) fooner appear, then to fuch
as daily call upon them, and devote their Souls and Bodies untothern by dread-
ful Oaths and Imprecations ? And again, then to fuch, who through damnable
curiofity have many times ufed the means ( the befl: they could find m books by
Magical Circles, Chara(aers and Invocations) and yet never, neither the one nor
the other faw any thing ?
I have faidasmuch as I mean to lay (though fbmewhat perchance might be
addedj to fhew theplaufibleneflfe of the opinion, in oppofition to vulgar appre-'
henlions and capacities, whereby (as I conceive, for I have not wittingly o-
mitted any thing that I thought material) it chiefly imitles it felf to wildom^
and more then ordinary prudence , which all men generally are ambitious of!
Yet I would not have it thought that all men that hold this concluiion That
there be no Spirits, ^c. go fo rationally to work, or can give this account or
any other more rational and plaufible for what they hold. God knows there
be many in the world, men of no learning, and mean capacities, who can fpeak
as peremptorily as the beft, notbecaule they have conlidered of it, and under-
ftand the grounds of either opinion, but becaufe they know, or have heard it
is the opinion of fomc Learned, and they hope they fhall be thought learned
too if they hold with them. Befides an ordinary (for Ibme have been learned)
£^;icHre4«,who makes it his Motto (to himfelf and in his heart) eV ^i f^»jir hrivau,
SMof $i»<: and leeks his eafe in this world ( *7«f.c«fiac, their own word, which
imports Tranquility both of mind and body j a good word but ill applyed) as
his fummum bdyium^ or chiefeft happinefle : It is - great eafe to him when any
ftrange things doth happen by Witches, Wizards and the like; and other fome
to fatisfie their faith, others their realbn and curiofity, are put to it to enquire"
of men by conference ,
and to fearch into books ancient and late, Sacred and
Profane, and all little enough. A great eafe, I fay, for him, then, and upon
all fiich occafions, topoffelfe his Soul in fecure ignorance, andtofave his cre-
dit (yea, and to gain ciedit with fome) by barely faying, Fabula ejl^ I do not be-
lieve It. We fhall hear fome of them by and by acknowledg, in effed:, as much
as I have faid : I impofe nothing upon them. I will not take upon me to
judge of a book that i never read ;
I cannot fay that I ever faw it. Butbecaule
I have heard fome men magnifie an Englifh book written of this fubjeit to
prove that there be no Witches , I will impart unto the Reader that hath not
obferved it, the judgment of one of the Learnedft men that ever England faw
( I wifli he had been more gently dealt with when time was) of that book,
whereby it may appear (if his judgment be right, as 1 am very inclinable to be-
lieve
The T'REFACE.
lleve, becaufe of his great Learning, and wonted circumfpe^tion in his cenfures)
what great undertakers many men are upon very little ground, and how prone
others to extol what doth tavour their caufe, though to the prejudice oftheir
better judgments , if they would judge impartially. Dr. ^^iwoWj in thole ela-
borate 'P>^/e^w«« <ie libris J'pocryphis ^
where he doth cenfurc fome opinions of
Boelinns as prejudicial to the Chriftian Faith, ^eginaldus Scotus^ Jiojiras^ (iaithhe)
qui contrarikm 'Bodino injamt infanieim ^ ah ^ap'ijlas confiteri ^ nonpojfe Vemonas ne au-
direquidem mmen Jehoy^e. Acceperat ille a bodino, <sr attnbuk Tapijtis ingenen ^ tan-
quam omnes Tapift^ in eo confpirarent. ^ergit ipfe , zsr qmniam animadverterat quafdam
fdmina^ maleftcas^ aliquando ijiim modi nanationes ementtn^ putavit omnia ejfe fiila j ex
imperitia 7)ialeBtc£ y O* aliarum bonarum artium : Ut qui nullo judicio , nulla methodo
^
miUa optimamm artam fcienua^ eodem modoaggreffas fit ham renij quomudoToeta loqui-
tur^
ritif.;. ,
^,,,.,..,-,,.^1:
—»
Tenet infatiabile quolcjam Scribendi cacoethes :
<sr eodem prorfiis modo ratiocinatur^ See. We have been the more willing to pro-
duce this paltage out of the writings of that Learned man, becaufe we alio in
our anTwers may have occafion to fay fomewhat to the fame purpofe ;
not of
that Author or his book, which hejudgeth, anything, but of the ground upon
which he builded, which we fliall find to be the fame upon which others alio,
that deny Spirits have gone upon. But we will go Methodically to work, anxl
take every thincr in order, as we have propofed in the oDjed:ions.
Firji, We faid, The world was full of Impofture. It is granted, of Im-
poftorsandlmpoftures. But what then fhall the conclufionbe , That there-
fore there is no truth in the world, or at leaft not co be attained unto by mortal
man ? Truly, many books of old have been written to that effed:. Sp^*".: Um-
/>/rfc«5 is yet extant, a very learned book it cannot be denied, and of excellent ufe
for the underftanding of ancient Authors , Phylofophcrs efpecially. I could
name fome Chriftians alfo, by profelTion, men of great learning that have gone
very far that way. But this will not be granted by fome I am fure that are or
have been thought great oppugners of the common opinion about Witches and
Spirits •
fome Phylicians I mean, and Naturalifts by their profelTion. But may
not weargue as plaufibly againft that which they profefle, as they have doneor
can do againft Spirits and Apparitions ? We would be loath to make fo long a
digrelTion • we have had occafion elfewhere to fay fomewhat to this purpofe:
and they that will be fo curious may fee what hath been written by Cornel. Jgrip-
pa (who is very large upon this fiibjed:) about it, not to nstme any oth-rs. It is
not yet a full twelvc-moneth , that a friend of mine, a Gentleman of quality,
brought his Lady to London (fome 60 miles and upwards from his ordinary
dwelling) to have the advice of Phyficians about his wife ( a very Virtuous and
Religious Lady) troubled with a weak ftomack and ill digcftion , which cau^
ed gi ievous fymptoms. I think he had the advice of no lefle then a dozen firft
andlaft : I am fiire he named unto me five or fix of thechiefefi: in Credit and
practice that the Town aflFordeth. Not one of them did agree in their opinions,
cither concerning the Caufe , or the means to be ufed for a Cure. So that the
Gentleman went away more unfatisfied then he came. What he did I know
not: I know what fome men would have inferred upon this. Yet I, for my
part, for the benefit that I have received by it, and the effcwts that I have fcen of
The T\SFACE.
it, both iiponmyielf, and others in my life-time, upon ieveral occafions
( whcxe learned JrttJJs J not Empiricl;^ have been employed) thou^^h all the
world (hould be ot another opinion, I think my felf bound to honour as
ithe profeilioa, lo all Learned, Ingenious Profeflbrs of it: and I make no
<3ueftion but the vvorfl o( J^rippas objedions, by any man of competent
judgment and experience, may^afily beanfwered. I lay therefore that as
in other things ot -the world, fo in matters of Spirits and Jpparitioni^ though
lyable to much error and impofturc, yet it doth not follow but there may
be reality of truth and certainty difcernable unto them that will, take the
pains to learch things unto the bottom, where trnth commonly is to be
Found, and are naturally endowed with, competent judgments to dilcern
between Ipecious arguments and lolidity of truth.
But this proveth nothing. No: but the removing of this common ob-
jedion may difpofe the Reader, I hope, to confider of what we have to
lay with lelfe prejudice. And that flhall be our next task,what we have to fay
for Spirits^ Sec. before we come to particular Objedtions. Wherein never-
thelefle I will be no longer then I muft at this time, becauie I fhallhavea
more proper-place in two feveral Tradates, the one whereof hath been a
long time in loole notes and papers, not yet digefted, to wit, my Second
Partot Bidujiajme: the other, in my head yet wholly, but in better rea-
dinefleto be brought to light,becau(e of later conceptionj towit,^ Difcourfe
of ireduhty and Incredulity
J
ui things jSjitnralj Civil atid Divine^ orThcokgicaL Wc
fhali meet there with many cafes not io neceflary here to be fpoken of,which
will help very much to clear this bufinels.
^ But here I (ay, firft of all, It is a Maxim of Jrijlotles the great Oracle
of Nature, which many have taken notice of, and applyed to their feveral
purpoies : o' -aracr/ /•jcbo ^8UT« iimi iptL/jiiv , That which is generally believed^ ii moji like-
ly to be true. Who alfo in another place of the fame book doth approve the
layin^ of Hcflod *i'^» J^'oi^iyt yriyL-aAv i.-7ri}iK\j]a.i , nvltva. Ketoi UoKAoi (pnfji.i^o>(/i. NoW it a-
ny opinion whereof queftion is made can juftly pretend to a general afTent
and conlent of all people, places, ages of the world, I think, nay, I know ,
and it will be proved that this of Witches, Spirits, and Apparitions may.
I do not know icarce any ancient book extant of Philofopher or Hifloriari
(the Writings of prolelVed Epicureans excepted , of Arijlotle we fhall give
an account Ijyandby) but doth afford fbme pregnant relation, teftimony
or paifage to the confirmation of this truth. I daie fay, fhould a man
colled the relations and teftimonies out of feveral Authors and books (that
are come to our knowledge) within the compafTc of two thoufand years,
of Authors well accounted of, generally, and whole teflimonies (Hiftori-,
ans elpecially) we receive in other things ^
a man might make a book of
the biggeft fizeand form that ordinary books (which we call Fo//ofx) are.
It is true, many Authors may write one thing which may prove fallc, as
the famous hillory of the thenix^ perchance, or lome fuch,- but upon ex-
amination it will appear that thofemany take all from one or two.at the
moft, who firft delivered it. They add nothingin confirmation of their
own knowledg or experience. But hckt it is quite otherwile • thole ma-
ny Authors that I fpeak of (^Hiftorians elpecially of feveral ages) they tell
7he T'REFACE,
us different things thathapned in their own times, in divers places of the
world : and of many of them we may fay they were fuch as knew little of
former books, or ftories of other Nations but their own. Within thefc
200 years the world , we know, by the benefit of Navigation hath been
more open and known then before ^
yea, a great part of the w^orld difco-
vered that was not known before. I have read many books , the beft I
could meet with, in feveral Languages, ofdivers Voyages into all parts of
the world : 1 have converfcd with many Travellers, whom I judged fober
and dilcreet. I never read any book of that argument, nor yet met with
man that I have had the opportunity to confer with, but was able of his
own knowlcdgto fay fomewhat whereby my belief of thefe things might
be confirmed.
Now for the Epicureans (ofall Philofophers the moft inconhderable in
matters of knowledg, as former ages have defcribed them) no man need
to wonder if they denycd thofe things which by the fokmn engagement of
their SeB. they were bound and refolved, notwithftanding any fight or fenfe,
experiende or evidence to the contrary ,
not to believe, at leaft not to
acknowledg. This doth clearly appear by one that may be believed
(though I have met with it in more) in fuch things. Luc'tan (himfelfa
profeft Ebicurean Athcift ) who doth commend Democritus ,
Epicurus and
Met r odor us (the moft famous or thatSed:) for their a/aactciimy yvaiAny ^ ashc
calls it their fixed^ (rrelwkeable ^
unconquerable refalution^ when they (aw any
ftranc^e thing that by others was admired as miraculous , ifthey could
find the caufc or give a probable guefle, well and good, if not, yet not
to deparc from their firft refolution, and ftill to believe and to maintain
that It was falfe and impofllible : It is a notable paflage, andvvhich excel-
lent ufe may be made of. I will therefore fet down his own words
for their fake that underftand the Language: ::,. ,.^,. li fAf,x<i'»(^*
(fpeaking of fome o^ Alexander the falfe Trophet his devices )
Lud'in.in Alex, Aldina '»- . 'i * \ ' t~ r > " ha t n > >r, n> \ n ~
td.p. I79.
^ l<t loictvTit yvd[/.nv 'ix'flof I ^i d-TTi^nfAi ) jg oiffif «» tiKMAi 1^ B (M ivfi!i> ']iv
If'oirov i/i/Va7») tKitvo your CTpoT8THfl-/xti'« , b'^/ AiAnfler dujh « 7p«'r«f lijf (jimy^Avdaf. "JJ ^avt irtif -^tvlot
If/ ,
J9 yinsrm Aj'jyuU- Who doubts that this is the refolution of many alio
in thefe dayes, not of them only who are Epicureans , whole manner of
living (as we have faid before) doth engage them to this opinion , but
of others alfo,vvho think it not for their credit ( the vanity of which belief
neverchelefs might eafily appear,there being nothing fo mean and ordinary
in the world wherein theWifdom of thewifeft, in the confideration of
the caules , by the confeflion of beft Naturalifts , may not be pofed ) to
believe any thing that they cannot give a probable reafon of. Not to be
wondred then it we fee many, notwithftanding daily experience to the con-
trary, to ftick fo clofe to thofe tenets which they have wedded themfelves
unto with fo firm a refolution from the beginning, never to leave them ,
be they right or wrong
As for Anflotle^ I confefTe his authority is very great with me ; not be-
caufe I am. fuperfticioufly addicted to any of his opinions, which I fhall e-
ver be ready to for/ake when better (hall belhewed unco mej but becaule
(be-
The T\eF ACE.
(befides the judgmenc ofall accounted wil^and learned in former ages) I aii\
convid:ed in my judgment,that (o much fblid reafon in all Arts and Sciences
never iflued from mortal man (known unto us by his writinfT^s) without
fupernatural illumination. Well: Anflotk i\oi\\ not acknowledg S/)/r/>/
,
he mentions them not in any place. Let it be granted : An<^ why fliould
it be a wonder to any man that knows the drifi and purpose of Arijlodes
Phylofophy ? He lived when P/^ro lived ; he had been his fellow Scho-
ler under Socrates , and forfome time his Scholer^ but afterwards he be-
came his<emulus, and plealed himfelf very much to oppofe his Dodrine
'
infomuch as he is cenlured by fbme Ancients for his ingratitude. The
truth is, flato's writings are full of Prodigies, Apparitions of Souls, pains
of Hell and Purgatory , Revelations of the gods, and the like. Wherein
he is fo bold that he is fain to excuie himfelf fbmetimes, and doth not
dciire that any man fhould believe him, according to the letter of his rela-
tions, but in groffeonly, that iomewhat was true to that effedt. Indeed
he hath many divme palfages, yea, whole Trcatifes , that can never be fuffi-
cicntly admired in their kmd; but too full of tales, for a Phylofopher, it
cannot be denyed. Jriflotle therefore refolved upon a quite contrary way :
He would meddle wirh nothingbut what had fome apparent ground in
I^ature. Not that he precifely denyed all other things, butbecauic he did
not think that it was the part ofa Phylofopher to meddle with thofe things
that no probable realon could be given of. This doth clearly appear by
a Divine paflage of his, Depart, anim. /.i.e. 5. where he divides Subftances
in iywlilovf »} <l^6i{]ov(^ Eternal ayid Incorruptible ^ that is, in effecl, Spiritual (for
even Spirits that were created might be termed a>f'''"1<", that is, properly, Ibat
laye not their hgmning by Generation j but we will eafily grant, that the cre-
ation of Angels, good or bad, was not known to /in^totle : (wemay un-
dcrftand Codi and Intelligences) and thole , that yLiiiyj^n yiviaia; ;^ ?9^?<xV, that is
are mortals^ He goes on, As for DiVtne Subftances^ which ipe honour^ we can fay
hut little of ikm^ ihcugh U^e defire if, becaufe fo little of them is expofed to Jenfe
Eand Reaion.] Mortal thmgs that ive are familiarly acquainted and daily converfe
withy we may Aw > tf we take pains. 'But much more jhould we rejoice in the know-
ledg (yea though Tpe know but a<very little part) of things Divitle for their excellen-
cy ^ then in the knowkdg of theje tiforldly things though neyer fo perfeH andgeneral But
the comfort that we have of them [which doth makefo?ne amends) is the Certainty^ and
that they come witLn the compaffe of Sciences^ What could be laid more Di-
vinely by a man chat had nothing by revelation ? Truly, there appeareth
unto mc (if I may fpeak without offence and miiconffrudtion) more Di-
vinity in thofe words, then in fome books that pretend to nothing ell^. Add
to this another place of his in his Metaphyftcksj where he laith. That though
things fupernatural be of themfelves clear and certain, yet to us they are
not lo ,
who fee them only withOwles eyes. Can vvc fay then that ^ri-
ftotle denyed thofe things that he forbore to write of, becaule they were
( their natures and tbeir qualities) above the knowledg of man ? Neither
is it abiolutely true mat Ariflotle never wrote of Spirits and Apparitions.
Ci«ro in his firflbook Ve Divinatione^ hathalongftory outof himof afhape
®r Spirit that appeared in a dream to one Eudmnf^ (his familiar friend and
7he T PREFACE.
acquaintance) and foretold him ftrange things that caraeto paile- Qemem
Jli'Xindnnus hath a tlrange llory out of him, of a Magical Ring, one or two,
which ExcejluSj King of thePhocenfes did ule, and fore fa w things future
by them. It is to be to and and feen among the fragm^iits of .^''jy^v/i/^') works.
And that he did not deny Witches, may appear by that mention he makes
of them in more then one place. How much healcribed to common re-
port and experience, though no reafon could be given, doth appear by his
Preface to hisTreatife Dc Divinatione pi^r wfomia: where he propofeth the
cafe, how hard it is for a r.itional man to believe any thing upon seporc
whichhecan fee no realon for j
nay ^ which ieemcth contrary to realon i
a-^jfor amanto foretel by dream what fhall happen in another KingJomC
far ott without any apparent caufe. But on the other tide, laith he, notiels
hardrodeny that which all men, or mofi: men, do be.ieye, to wit, that
there be fuch p red i»ft ions. "For to fay (his own word>) that (uch dieams
come from God , belldes whatelfe might be objefted (which might eallly
be underftoodby them that underftand his Doctrine) it is moll: unreafon-
able to believe th.it God would lend them to men either vitious in their
lives, or idiots and fools, of all men the moft vile and contemptible, who
have been oblerved to have fuch dieams oftner then better and wifer men.
So leaving the bull nelTe undetermined, \\°i do^h proceed to theconfideration
of thole Prophetick dreams, for which fome probable reafon may be given.
Yet in thefecond Chapter he faith di-eclly , That though dreams be not
^, ^
.'
^, ^i'a^iii-T]^ , vet they may be perchance ^/«//^o;/*, for fuch
*TncLatinc Inter- J J ^ r j
preter tra flices ic he acknowleciges Nature to bc, not Gdav, bur s-eu^ovU* on-
i) mo'U;&i\k.o^ ly. I vvill not enquire further into the meaning; of thefe
better cx^refled , wordS; It IS not to be djne in rew words. It plainly ap-
ihoug'^ lyable to pears that nothing troubled him lo much ( for he repeats
amhouty.
the objedion twice or thrice) as thatGjd fliould be thought
to favour either \vicked men or fools. I wifli no worfe Doctrine had e-
"ver been Printed or Preached concerning God. But ftill let it be remern-
bred that he knew of no Divine Word or Revelation. Yet JuLScal/ger, in
his Commentaries upon FJypocmtes Ve Infomnlis^ doth wonder that Aril}otle
fliould Ifick lo much at this^ and feems himlelf to give a realon grounded
in Nature. Indeed he laith lomewhat as to the cafe of fools and idiots
but nothing (that I remember) that reacheth to wicked men alio. Lee
thefe things be confidered, and let the Reader judge of how different tem-
per Aiijloik was from that ot" ancient or later Epicures. "This mention of
Jrijlotle and Tlato puts me in mind of Socrates their Mailer, Ins Familiar
Spirit-^ no Shape'but a Voice only, by which his life and adtions were
much directed. The thirg is attelied by fo many, fo grave Authors where-
of lome lived at the very time, others not long after, or in times notverjr
remcte, that I know not how ic can be queifioned by any man. Neither
indeed is it, that I remember, by any Heathens or Chriftians of ancient
times, and there have been books written of it, divers^in Greek and Latine,
whereot fome are yet extant. But whether it were a good Spirit orarK
evil, lome men have doubted, and ic is free for any man to think what
he pleafeth of it. For my part I ever had a Reverend opinion oi^ Socrates
,
and
The T\SF ACE.
and do believe (if there be no impiety in it, as I hope not) that he was as
among Heathens in fome refped, a fore-runner of Chrift, to difpofethem
the better when the time fhouldcome to imbrace (and it did it efFedually)
the Gofpel. Many other Phylofophers, that have been of greateft fame^
were certainly great Magicians, 2S Orpheus^ ^ythagorM^ Empedodes ^ and the
like, as by thofe things that have been written otthem by feveral ancient
authors may be colledcd. But above all I give the pre-eminence to Apol-
hnius Ihmeus ^ a man of later times ^
and of whom we may Ipeak with
more confidence and certainty. This was the man whom ancient Hea-
thens very tenacious of their former worfhip and fuperftitions , did pitch
upon to oppofe unto Chrift. His Life hath been written by divers four
of them were joyned together and oppofed to the four Golpels : and
Hierocksj a famous Phylofopher of thofe times, made a Collation of his
Miracles with thofe of Chriils ,
who was anfwered by Eufebms^ yet extant.
Sure it is, they prevailed ^o much, that he was for a long time worfhipped
by many, andinfundry places as a very God,- yea, by fome Roman Em-
perors, as we find in Hiftory. fhtlojlratus hath written his Life in very
Elegant ftile (as T/^ot/wj judgedJ in 8 books, which are extant. And
though they contain many fabulous things, as any man may expedt by the
undertaking, yet have they fo much truth and- variety of ancient learning,
that 1 think they deferve to be better known then commonly they arc
*
b"^ :^..uotbeunderftood, I am fure, as they fliouldbe, by any tranfla-
tion either Latine or French that ever I faw : Forthe'Parw Edition,though
it boaft of great things (as the manner is) yet how little was performed
may eafily appear unto any that will take the pains to compare it with the
former edition of Mdus ; Which I (peak not to find fault but bccaufe I
wifh that fome able man would undertake the work ; there is not any
book, by the Tranflations yet extant, that more needeth it. What ufc Sca-
llger made of him, may appear by his frequent quotations in his Notes
-upon EufebiHSj in the Hiftory of thole times. As for Jppollonitis his Mira-
cles or wonderful Ads (which is our bufinefle here) though many things
have been added , fome, probably, done by Impofiure , ver I uo not fee
how it can be doubted but hedid many ftrange things by the help of 5/7/-
r\u^ which things may be judged by due oblervation of circumftances . as
for example. That being convented before Dowifww the Emperor in the pre*
fence of many, heprefently vanifhed and was leenagrcat way off (at ^ute-
oli I think) about the fime time. That at the very time when i)omitian
was killed at "l^pwe, helpakeof itpublickly and of the manner of it at E-
^hefus : and fo of many others, which ieem to me (asuittomoft) almoft
unqueftionable. The greatefl: wonder to me is, that fiich was his port and
outward appearance of Sandity aud Simplicity, that even Chriftrans have
thought reverently of him, and believed that he did his wt)nders by the
power of God, orbyfecret Philofophy and knowledg of Nature not re-
vealed unto other men. So Jujlim Martyr ^ one of the ancient Fathers of
the Church judged of him, as is well known. Moft later Phylofophers
that lived about Julians time , and before that, as alfo the Emperors them-
felves, many of them , were great Magicians and ]S(ecromancers , as may
B 2 eafily
i:he T'REFACE.
eafily appear, partly by their own writings , and partly by the Hiitoiy of
thole times.
I do very much wonder whether any man , being a Scholer ^
and not
ftrongly prepofleiled, that doth not believe Spirits^ 6cc. can lay that he c-
ver read the books of Tryalsand Confeffions of Witches and Wizards, fuch
I mean, as have been written by learned and judicious men. Such as, for
example , I account NichnJ ^^cni^ins^ his DcmonQlatria : ex judiciis capitalihus
5^00 plus minus hormmim^ Sec. grounded eipecially upon the Confeilions and
Condemnations of no leffe then 900 men and women in Lorraine within
thecompalTe of few years. That he was a learned man, I think no body
will deny that hath read him ; and that he was no very credulous and luper-
ftitious man (though aPapift) that alfo is moft certain : and ihavewon-
dred at his liberty many times. I know not how it is now in thole pla-
ces ;
but by what I have read and heard of the doings of Witches and Sor-
" cerers in Oem'Va and Sa^oy in former times ( I could lay fomewhat of my
*'
ielf,how my life was prcferved there very ffcrangely ,
but my witnelTes are
*'not,and I willnot brm? their creditin queftion tor fuch afeuiincffe.) I
am of opinion. That he that fhould have maintained there tnac there was
no fuch thing as Witches, or Spirits, &c. would have been thought by
moft either mad and brain-fick (fo frequent and vifible were the etleds to
fober eyes) or a Witch himfelf. For '-.deed it is ordinary enough, that
thofe that are lo really, are very willing ( which deceiveth many ) to be
thought Impoftora , and there is good realon for it: I fliould (ooner fuf^
ped: him an Impoftor that doth profeffe himfelf (except it be by way of
confelfion , as many have done) and is ambitious to be counted a Witch or
Sorcerer. I remembe** I iaw a book fome years ago, intituled, T)e I'incon-
Jiance des 7nauvais Anges <(sr Demons^
printed at 'P^i/'W 1612. in ^«4?fo, and ano-
ther of the fame Author, and (ize, intituled, L'incredidite 6^ jyiejcnauce du for-
tile^e^Taris 1642. Strange il:ories are told there ot a Province of France , a-
bout that time (or little before) marvelloully infefted with Witches and
Sorcerers, inlomuch that people did not know one another ( in lome
one place) in theitreecs, by reafon of evil Spirits appearing publickly inthe
fhapcofmen; and that the proceedings ofjuftice ( which doth not hap-
pen.ofcen*) were fometimes difturbed by them. I think the Author him-
ielf was one that was lent to the place by the King with lome authority,and
to make report. But as I do not altogether truil my memoiy, having had
but a fight of the books (it was at the Bdl in St. fauis Church-yard : ; So I
beleech the Reader not to reft upon this account that I give him upon my
beft remembrance,but to perufe the books himfelf. I am confident he may
receive good latisfa(5tion, being things that were not done in a corner , but
very publickly and well attefted as I remember. However the reader muft
give me leave ( though it be not to this purpoie, left my Ci-
v^frVr'p*^^^' lencebe drawn to the prejudice of the truth) to tell him,thac
I met with one gre.u fallhood there concerning my own ra-
ther (ofS/. M.) which I have abundantly refuted, and all others of that
nature, when I was yet very young. But that (as I conceive) which in all
tfieieftories would moftpuzzle a rational man, is the fignes which are let
down
The T%EFACE,
down by many how witches may be known,as Teats ^
fwhnm'mg upon the ipa-
ter^ dry cyes^ and the like : which things indeed have Tome ground of truth
being limited to particular times and places, but are not of
general 'application. Mr. Vofiita had therefore realon to
i3o'f|/''°^°'"^*^*
find fault with Springerus and 'Bodinus for making that a
certain token of a Witch that (lie cannot weep. Who alfb in the lame
place doth well except again ft the tryal o^ yuvM^Kiaiai, as he calls it (com-
monly, purgatioper aqiwn fri^idam) condemned by many. But he had done
well to have limited his exception, snd to have fhewed how,' and w*hen
and how far inch obfervations may be ufed. For certainly they are not al-
together to be neglected. But the reafons of fuch obfervations or marks
that are given by lomc, are lo ridiculous, that they would make a fbber
man (that hath not patience enough to ponder all things diligently ) to
fufped all the reft. So one tels us^ That when the Cock croweththe fo-
lemn meetings ot Witches (which opinion perchance may prove ancient
enough ; as we fliall fhew elfewhere) are diflblved : and he thinks a rea-
fon may be becaufe of the crowing of the Cock in the Golpel, when St.
(Pf-m- denyed Chriff. Another tells us. That Witches being well beaten
trunQoVitts (with a Vine flick or club) Maleficia ilkta fohere fdVilllna cogwitur^
have no more force to do hurt, or, that the party bewitched rccovereth.
And the reafon (bethinks, and yet he no ordmary man
neither) exmjjlcriovini O* Vme^dilcSl^.VeOy ex cujus jmjlem So in my Copy, it may
qmtidie Sacramentum SacrofanBi Sariguhm Vommi conficitur^- ^,-^_
t^-vutso-
&c. 'But I fhall have a more proper place for the full
examination of thcfe things in one of the two Treatiies before mentioned.
It cannot be denyed but. this whole bufinefle of Witches, what through
ignorance , what through malice, is very lyable to many miflakes and di-
vers impoflures. And it were to be wifhed that in all fuch Trials fome
prudent Divfncs, and learned experienced Phyficians might be joyned-
But hence to conclude with IFtenus (who neverthelelTe doth acknowledg
Spirits , and the lUufions and Apparitions of Divels, and their mifchiev-
ous' opperations as much as any, and tells as ftrange things of them) and
fbme others, that therefore there are no Witches and Sorcerers, is as if a
man fhould deny the power of herbs becaule a thoufand things havebeeri
written of them of old, and areyet daily falfely and fuperftitiouPy. And
indeed it lo fell out once in ^me^^s by Tlmie is recorded at large,Where when
fpme afcribed iuch power unto Herbs, as though Sun and Moon had been
fubjed: unto them, the dead might be raifed , armies vanquifhed , and
whatnot! which was not very well reliflied by many : atlallcame Jjcle-
piades , who perfwaded men that were very well dilpofed to beperfwaded,
that all Phyfical ufe of Herbs and Simples was a meer cheat, and that men
were better want them, there being other means eafier and leffe trouble-
fometo rcftore health and overcome difeafes , which heprofeffed to teach :
and prevailed lofar for a while, that they were laid afide, and a new courle
of Phyfick introduced. Which for awhile, as I faid, (fo prone are men
commonly to entertain new divices) gave good content generally. It is
wellobferved by Jrijiotk (and I think a great part of humane wifdome
•
de-
The T%SF AQ^'
dependethon ic^ that in all things of the world that are commendable^
as there is fomewhat which is true and real, fo fomewhat alfo which is
counterfeit and falfc. There is beauty Natural, faith he, and there is Ar-
tificial beauty by painting and trimming. A true, found,healthy complex-
ion, and that which makes a good fhew, but is not found. True, real
gold and filver, but divers thmgsalfo that maybe taken for gold andfil-
ver at a diftance, or by them that judge at the outward appearance. So,
true , found Ratiocination , and that which feems fo to the unlearned,
or to corrupt judgments, though it be very fahe. They that confiderwcll
of this, may the fooner come to the knowledg oftruth in all things.
Well: we goon.
There wasm/^/x {
Aftit Sext't^ ^T\c\tnx\y ^ no\v Jquenfis (jVitai) in 'Pro-
rvence (a. County of F/jnce Co called) in the year of the Lord i 6 1 i . a Ro-
mifhPrieft tryed, convicled, and by Sentence of the Court or Parliament
condemned to be burned alive for abominable pradtifes, and horrid things
by him upon divers (fome perfons of quality) committed with and by
the Divel. He had long deiircd it and fought it j
at laftthe divel appeared
to him in the habit of a Gentleman. The Ifoiy is in divers books, Frifich
and Latine, and tranflated (at that time I believe) in divers languages. I
would goe forty miles with all my heart to meet with that man that could
tell me ^ny thing whereby I might but probably be induced to believe, or
at leafl: to fufpctt, that there might be fomemiflakein the particulars of
his Sentence. For my reafon, I muft tonfefle, was never more pofcd in
any thing that ever I read of that nature. GaJJtudus indeed in Tereskius his
life, hath fomewhat (as I remember) of Tireikius his Opinion , as if he
thought (omc of thofe things hcconfelTed might be aicribedunto imagi-
nation ,• but I fee no realbn given : neither are the things of that nature
,
that can admit any fuch fufpicion. Befides, Trijlan^ of the LtVes of the Em-
perors and their Coynes, will tell you (bmewhat which may nfakeadoubt '.
whether Gajfendus ou^ht to be believed in all things that he reporteth con-
cerning that famous man. I am not very much fatisficd of what Religi-
on (though truly a very learned man) Gaffendus was. And by the way
( which is fomewhat to the cafe of Witches in general) if I be not miftak-
cn (fori have it not at this time) there is a relation in that very book of
fomewhat that hapned to Tereskiushy Witches when he was a child. That
wicked Sorcerer which was burned at Aix, foretold before his death that
fome misfortune would be done at the time and place of his execution ,
which hapned accordingly, and very ftrangely too. Somewhat again, I
muft confeffc , I have feen printed (Mimica Viabolt, Sec.) to take away the
fcandal of fome part of his confeflion, or the Devils faying ol Maife, &:c,
fome part of which things might perchance with fome colour be afcribcd
to imagination : but that is not it that troubles me. But enough of
him
What man is he, that pretends to learning , that hath not heard, and
doth not honour the memory of Joachimus Camerartus , that great light of
Germany 'i fo wife (andfor his wifdom, and other excellent parts, loughc
unto by many Princes) fb moderate a man (an excellent temper for the
attain-
The T'BJBF ACE.
attaining of Truth) and fo ver(ed in all kind of learning, tl^it we fhall
fcarce among all the learned of thefe later Times find another (o generally
accomplifhed. The ftrangcft relations that ever J read, or at leaft as
ftrancre as any I have read of Witches, and Sorcerers, and Spirits, 1 have
read in him : fuch as either upon his own knowledge he doth relate, or
fuch as he believed true upon the teftimonie of others known unto him.
The I21I: work that he ever went about for the publick was, 'De genenbus
'DiVinationum^ but he did not live ^themorc the pity) to make an end of it.
But fo much as he had done was let out by one of his learned ions, L'tpfiiC^
an.Vom. 1576. There /?
^^- he hith thele words, De Spifituum-verd^ qiu
junt Grdicis ^cuuovta.. admtrabili non f'Aum effiiacitaie^ ft dmaniffjla Specie^ qU(t '^JLcij.aIa
perhtbentur,pr^Jefitia -^
hicredibda extati' pifiim veterum furratioues^ <(jrnoJins tan-
ponbiis fuperatuia jidcm compertafunt^ extra etiam yonl^^.U , de quihiis pojita dtcetur. So
t,%^.6cp. 15 1, again and more fully.- But his ftrangefl relations are in
hxsfroctmium to flntarchs i\mo Trcatilesj De Vefe^u Oraculorum^ and De fi-
gura E I (^onjarata Delphis ^ fetoutby him with Notes. Here I could come
in with a whole cloud of witnelTes, name hundreds of men of all Nations
and profedions chat have lived within this lall: hundred years, and not any
among them but fuch as have had, and have yet generally the reputation
ofrioneil, Sober, Learned and Judicious, who' all have beenjrf this opini-
on that we maintain. But becaufe Wc have to do with tWm efpecially
who by their ProJ-elTion pretend eo the Knowleclge of Nature above other
men, 1 will confine my felf for further teftimony to them that have been
of thatProfelTion, I have been iom^what curious for one of my Calling,
that had no other end but to attain to iomeKnowledae of Nature , with-
out which a man may quickly be lead into manifold delufions and Im-
poffurcs. I have read fome, looked into many • I do not remember I
have met with any profefled Phyficianor Naturalifl (fome one or two ex-
cepted, which have been or fhall be named) who made any queftion ofthele
things. Sure I am, I have met with divers ftrange reUtions in fundry of
them, of things that themlelves were prefent at , and faw with their own
eyes, wheiethey could have no end, that any man can probably lufped:,
but to acknowledge the truth, though With lome difparagement to them-
lelves (accoiding to the judgment of many) in the free confeftion of their
own ignorance and dilability to give reaions, and to penetrate into cauleSo
Well: whatthenfhall we lay to fiich as ^/(/.C^/^r, Scaligtr^ Fermhiis^ Sen-
nertusy the wonders and Oracles of their times ? As Phyficiansfo Phylo-
fophers, men of that profound wifdom and experience (much improved
in fome of them by long life) as their writings- fhew them to have been to
this day. What (hall we make of them ? or what do they make of them-
felves, that will cenfure fuch men as either cheaters or ignorant idiots ?
Hoiericus Saxonia ^ a Learned Profeffor and Prad:iferof Phylick in Tadua ,
in that Book he hath written of that horrible Polonian Dileafe, which he
calls Tlicam^ which turneth mens hairs (in fight) to Snakes and Serpents j
in that book he doth afcribe fo much to the po^wer of Witches and Sorce-
rers in caufing Difeales, not private only but even publick, asPeftilences
and theUke, ashiralclf confeireth he could never have believed^ uniil he
The T %e FAQS,
Was conviacdby manifeft experience; and indeed is wonderful, and may
well bethought incredible unto moft, yet is maintained and afTertcd by
Sennenus De Febnbiis ;
and in his fixth book (as I remember ) l>e Murbis a
fafc'mo^ incantationt^ ^ \'emficiis wduBii. I will forbear the names of many
men of fame and credit, Phylicians too, becaufe moft of them are named
("and commonly enough known} by Sewmtm upon this occafion. There
is one, whom I think interiour to none, though perchance not Co com-
monly known or read, and that is fieor^ius 1{aqujaiu4 a Venetian, who by his
fir ft education and profeffion wasan Aftrologer, caft many Nativities, and
tookupon'him to Prognofticate; but afterwards confcious tohimfelfof
the vanity of the Art (that is, when the Divcldoth not intermeddle, as al-
wayes muft be underftood : for fome Aftrologers have been Magicians
withall, and have doneftrange things) gave it over, and hath writcen a-
gainli: it very Learnedly and Solidly. Read him,if you pleafe^in his Chap-
ters Vc Mi^is^ Ve Oracidus; yea, through his whole Book DeDtvinatme ^2Lnd
you maybclatisfied what he thought of thcfe things : he alfo was a Phy-
fician. But I muft not omit the Learned Author that fet out Mnfrim Vtro-
nenfe^ a great Naturalift and a Phyfician tooj he handles it attheendof
that woik lomewhac roundly and to the quick ,
i muft confeiTe, but very
Rational.yaj^ Solidly, in my judgtnent, ^gainft thofe pretended Peripa-
teticians, tfflfc would be thought to defend the opinion ofjnjhtle herein.
I could fay fomewhat of ancienter Phyficianstoo, and give fome account
of thole many Spels and Charmes that are in Iralliems^ m all his books -
an ancient Phyfician , in high efteeme with lome eminent Phyficians of
theie lace times, as they themfelves have told me^ though not for his
Charms,bLir<^oi his other learning and excellent experience , which they had
found good ufe of But this I referve for another place & work. And this men-
tion of that eminent Phyfician who commended 'Irjilhenm unto me^
putsmc
in mind of what he imparted himfelf, not long before his death, of his .
own knowledge and experience ; and particularly of the account he gave
me of theexam.inationofa Conjurer in Salisbury ^zt which,he faid^none were
prefent but King 7dm«,(of moftBlefled MemoryjtheDukeoflB«c^/>igkw,and
himfelf: It is likely iome others may have heard the fame,and I had rather
any body fhould tell k then I, who was then a patient under him, and
dutft not, were I put to it, truft to my memory for every circum-
flance
Hitherto I have gone by Authorities rather then Arguments ,
partly
becaufe I thought that the Ihorteft and the cleareft way for every bodies
capacity, and partly, becaufe fuch Arguments ( if any bcfides theie wc
have here) as have been ufed againft this opinion, may be found fully an-
fwered in thofe I have cited. The truth is, it is a Subjed of that nature
as doth not admit of many Arguments ,
fuch cfpecially as mav pretend to
fubtilty of Reafon, Sight, Senfe,and Experience (upon which moft Hamanc
Knowledge is grounded) generally approved aud certain, is our beft Ar-
gument. But before I give over, I willule one Argument which perchance
may prove of fome force and validity, and that is, Aconfideration ofthe
it::.2^^ ^ f.; and evaiions and notorious abfurdities that chefc m^nare pun
to.
The T'B^eF A£8.
tOjWho not being able to deny the a?/ ,or matter o/Ki^,wouldfcem to fay fomc-
what rather then to acknowledg Spirits, and Divels^and Witchcraft; <Pompo-
natiusjWho hath not heard of ? I once had the book,I know not now what is
become of it.But I remember well,I never was more w^eary of reading then
when I read him ; nothing that ever I read or heard of j^egends and old
womans tales did feem to me more groundlefle and incredible. But be-
caufe thofc men bear themfelves very much upon the power of imagina-
tion (which indeed is very great, and doth produce ftrange effeds) I fhall
commend to the fober Reader that hath not yet met with him , Tho. Fienus
his Learned Tradat , Ve yiribus Imaginat'mm , a very Rational and Philofo-
phical difcourfe. Of their miferable fhifts and evafions in general, the
Author or Obicrvator rather of Muf^.umVeronenfe ^
before quoted, will give
you a good account. I have at this prelent in my hands the writings of
a Phyfician, Augerius ferrerius by name. What he was for a Phyfician I know
not,- all ( I doubt) of that profeffion will not allow very well of his Pre-
face to his Cafttgdttoncs ^raEiictt Medicbi^^ whatever they think of the Cajli-
gattones themfelves. But in general, his Stile, and various reading, and
knowledge of good Authors, fpeak him a Learned man ruflficiently, T/;»-
anus in his Hiftory gives him a moft ample Elogtwn^ and makes him to have
been Jul. C. Scaltger his intimate acquaintance and much refpeded by him.
But 1 doubt whether Thuams had ever feen this book of his : it doth not
appear by that Elogiim that he had. Well , this Learned man in his Chap-
ter T)e Homerica (fo he calls it) Medicatione^ where he treats of cures done by
Charms and Spels , by Words and Charaders, which others impute com-
monly to Witchcraft : firft, for the o^,, he doth not deny it : (Natn m qud
fsnfbus expojita jmit c<^tra'Ytmre^ Jani btminis non eft.) He thinks them little
better then mad men that will deny that which is approved by ^o vifiblc
experience. Yet it feems he was one of them that did not believe , or
would not believe ( though he doth not fay fo pofitively) Sinnts and Witch-
ts , and Supernatural Operations. What then ? he plainly maintaineth
and argueth it (though he quote no Gofpel for it) that luch is the nature
of the Soul of man (if he know how toule it) that by aftrong faith and
confidence it may work any miracle without a miracle: Verum confidentU
ilia^ acfirmaperjuajio ( that you may have fome of his words if you have
not the book ) comparatur mdoHls animis per opinionem quam de Qara^eribus is*
Jacrii Verbis conceperunt^ I)o£tis cr rerum intelliQenttam habentibns , ?uhil opus eji
extermjed cogmta Vi ammi^p^r earn miracula edere poJJuntO'C. And again alittlc
after , VoHus vero <(sr fibi conflans folo verbo Janabit. I do not hence conclude
that this Ferrer ius ^
though he Ipeak as though he were, and names no body
clfe , that he wasthefirll or only that hath been of this opinion. jh>icenne
the Arab was the firff,as I take it, that fet it on foot : fome others have fol-
lowed him in it. Butlince theie men acknowledg the ftrange etFcCts that
Others deny, let the fober Reader judge whether of the two more likely td
grant 5pjr iff and Divels , or to make the Soul t)f man (of every man^ na-
turally) either a God or a Divel. But let men take heed how they attempt ta
do Miracles by their flrong faith and confidence , for that is the ready way
to bring the Divel unto them, and that is it which hath made many Witch-
C c^
"The T "RE FACE.
cs and Sorcerers. As for that Faith whereby men did work Miracles in
the Primitive times, fpoken of in the Golpel, commonly CiiUed , The.
Faith of Miracles , that is quite another thing ,
which I fliall not need to
{peak of in this place. Of a flrong confidence in God, even in them that
arc not other wile very godly, whether it may not, according to Gods firft
order and appointment, produce fbmetimes iome ftrange eftecls ; we have
had a confidcration ellcwhere , where we treat of Trccatorie Emhufeajm. But
this alio is quite another thing, as may appear by what we have written
of it.
But to conclude this part 5 upon due confidcration of the premifes, and
what elfe I have inreadmefle upon the fame Subjc(it Cir God give me life
and health) I cannot fatisfie my felf how any Learned man , fober and
rational, can entertain fiich an opinion (fimply and lerioully) That there
be no Vivds nor Spirits^ &c. But upon this account which I give my felf
(leaving all men to their own judgments herein) that if there beanyiuch
truly and really, it mull: needs be becauie being at firft prepolTeffed upon
fomeplaufible ground^ and being afterwards taken up with other thoughts
and employments, they are more* willing to ftick to their former opi-
nion without further trouble, then to take the pains tofeek further.
dides doth very well obferve. And when we lay, A Learned nwi^ there
is much ambiguity in that word. For a man may be (not to Ipeak of
the ignorance of the common people, in thole climates efpecially, who
think all Learning concluded in ^Preaching • and now in thele times
too , them beft Preachers that in very deed have leaft Learning , but
preach by /7i/?/;i^ and Injpkation ^ as they call it) but a man, I Tay, may
DCzLear?ud Ma}ij a very Learned man in lomeone kind or profelfidn, even
to Excellency and Admiration , who neverthelefie is and may be found
ignorant enough in other kinds : but a general Learned man is a thing of
a vaft extent, and not often leen. It is a bufmeffe of an infinite labour,
befides that it requireth Natural parts anfwerablc; without which (judg-
ment fpecially ) the more pains fometimes the more ignorance. I aim
not by this at any particular man or men (Deum tejlor) I would much rather
fubmitto thecenfure ofothers my felf, then take upon me to ccnlureany ;
but the obfervation is of very good ule, I know it, and may give much la-
tisfadion in many ca(cs,and have given an inftance ofit in Tertullia?ija.nd fomc
others ellcwhere.
I have done for this time; I come now to the Objections, wherein I fliall
not need to be very long, becaufethey run much upon one thmg,Impofturc,
which hath already been fpoken ofandanfwered. But yet fomewhat more
particularly fhal be anfwered.
Firft, O^ Miracles. It cannot be dcnyed but the world is full ofhorrible
Impoftures in that particular : Yet I believe , that fom.e fijpernatural
things , as cures , &c. do happen in every age , for which no rea-
fon can be given , which alio for the ftrangenefl'e may be called Mi-
racles. But if we limit (with moft) the word to thofe things that
proceed immediately from God or divine power ; I fhall not be
very
The T^EFACS.
very ready to yield chat many fuch Miracles" are '
fecn in thefe Dayec>. ]^c
I will not further argue the Cal.e in this place. Well, let us z^ko. Miradei
in the ordinary Senfe : I v^'-'^y b^I^^'e that many fuch things do happen
in many places J
but that through negligence partly, and partly throuoK
incredulity ,
they are not regarded ohentimes, or. loon forgotten. And
wifermen, fometimes, though they know or believe fuch thin-^^s v^c ^ixc
not they very torward to tell them, left they bring themlelves into con-
tempt with ihorcfuppoled wile men, who will Iboner laugh at any thing
they do not underftand ,
then cake the pains to redifie' their ianorance or
inform their judgments. 1 hope I fhall do no wrong to the Memory of
that Venerable , Incomparable Prelate , B i s h o p A n d r e w e s for
Sound Learning and True Piety whileft he lived, one of the greatcft Lights
of this Land; if I fet down two Stories, which we may call Mitades
both which he -""^ belir"! to be true, but for one of them, it feemes he
did undertake upon his own knowledge : The one, concerning a njjki ,
or at leaft by many lufpeded Witch or Sorcerefs, which theDivel,in a ft^ge
iliape, did wait i<po?i (or for rather) at her death. The other, concerniu'^a
man , who after his death was reftored to life to make Confeilionof a
horrible Murder committed upon his own Wife, for which he had never
been fufpc^ted -, bcth thefe, as he related them to my F. (in familiar con-
vcrlation) and my F. did enter them for a remebrance into fomc of his
Mverfam. In the fubftance I believe there could be no miftake, but if there
be any miftake in any Circumfl:ances,as ofNames,or othcrwife , that muft be
imputed to my F who was aftranger, not to the tongue only , but to all
bulinelTes (more then what might be known by printed books^ and fuch
publick Wayes) oiEngUnd^
ThcFiiitjthus:
L. Vetula tondinenfiSj cu'i morienti DiaholM ajfuiL
Mira Bifiork quam narrabatut fibi com'pertifiimam D.om.Epi/topus. Fait (ju^amL^
muUer dm/sma^ et curtofis artlhus addiBi/sima : Vicma <&dibit4 Fuiconis, qui
futt pater Domini VvXcoms ^ tou Angha celeberrimi-; atque adeo teB:/:m£ ma.
troupe ,
matri ejujdem Fulconis ,
famdiah/sima, Hdc pa omnem VUam forti-
kgiis dtdita ^ is* eo nomine infainium muliercularum arnica et fatrona : (^uimo-
rmiti cum adjiarent qua Viri
,
qua fdemim-e ^raVi/iimi ; animadyerfum ejl fub
Uram mortis
J
adjlitijfe ad pedes leFii hommem Wuu terribdtm ^ (vulpinis pelhbils
amlUum ,
quern ipfa contentis oculis intuchatur ; ille^ ipfam. (hh^fttum ejt a jamto-
re ,
quare ilium admififfet ilk negardi fe vet vidtjfe. Tandem fecedunt ad fene-
flram duo yel ties , conjilium capturi quid ilk fuerent. Erat quidam Senator in.
gentis nominii , .... qui bis Trdtor Londinenfis fmt : item Tater Fulconis,
et alti. 'IPlacet illis ipfum compellare et rogare quis ejfet. Hoc animo rcpetwtt pri-
ora loca jua ad leButn. hiterim L. vocem magnam edit ^
qwfi animam agtret
^
omnes ilUm curare
,
f^eHare^ /ubleVare-^ mox redit ad fe tlU ignotum ilium nqutruftC
oculis, Nnjquam a^paret. Ante horn fpatium moritur Agra,
The other thus,
K^lend. Juguji, Narrabat hodie nuln rem mirayn ,
%e'Verendiff,
^tdjul ^ Domin, Epifcop. Eltenfis : quam lUe acceptam amribus fuis a te-
fie oculato^ auHore ^ credebat ejje <verijsimam. Ejl 'Vicus m Urbe Londmo^
C 2 qui
7he T%EFACE.
qui dicittirj Vicus Lon^obardorum. In eo <vko Tardcia eji^ O* <edes parieciilis ^ in
qua fuit ^re:^byter ^ homo fummd fidei , et notct ^ietatis ^
...... An. i ^6]. quo
annoJ Ji unquam alias ^
pejlis grajjuta eft per banc lirbein Londinum. TiarraVit igt-
tur hie Ta.rochits et pifswi aliis ^ et tp
ft quoque Dom. Epifcopo fibihoc aaidtjje»
Erat tin amicus in Jua T'ar^cia wfi^nis -^
v/r, utomnes exijlimabant ^
probus et^im.
Htcpejle concptus advocayu Tresbyterum ilium ftiumamicum^ qui et <egrotanti affu-
ity et njidit ynorientem nee dcfeniet nift mortuum ita T>emum repetiit domum fuam,
^ofl horas facts jnultas amorte hujus^ cum ipje pro mortuo ejfet yeliHus in cubiculo^
uxor tUim idem cubicalum ell ingrejfa^ ut ex arcaprotneret Lodicem ^
fine linteamenad
ip/um iylo^trjuv , utejlmorii. higrejfa audit banc vocem^ operi mtenta. Quishicejl?
terreri ilia ^ et "velle egr^di^ fed auditur iterum yox ilia : QuU hie ejl? Ac tandem
comperto ejje mariti yocem^ accedtt ad ilium : Q^d^ ait^ mante ^ tu igitur mortuus 7ion
es ? et nos tt pro mortuo compofitum defer'Veramm. Ego Vero^ rejpondit ilk , yere
viortumfui'. fed tta Deo-yifum^ ut anmiamea rediret ad corpus. Sed tu uxor^ alt^ Si
qtJ^^abes cibi paratij da mihi e/urio enim. Vixit ilia yeruecinam haberefe^ pullum
gafffaceum , et nejcto quid aliud : fed omnia iticon:a^ qu£ breVt ejfet paratura. Ego^
ait ille^ Moram non fero -^
panem habes^ait^ et cajeum? quum annuijjet ^
atque pe-
tiijfet ajferri , comedtt
jpeHante uxore : demde adyocato ^Presbyter o^ et jufsis exire
€ lubiculo omnibus qui aderant -^
narrat illi hoc \ Ego^ ait^ Vere mortuum fui ^ fed jujfn
efl amma redire ad juum corpus ^ utjcelu6 apperirdtn ore meo , manibu6 7neis admijjum ,
de quo nulla unquam cuiquam nota efl Jujpicio. Triorem yiajnque uxorem jneam ipfe.
occidi manihus ineis ^ tanta "vafritie^ ut omnes res lateret : demde modum perpetrati
fceleru expofuit ; nee ita multhpofl expirayit, acVeretum mortum ejl.
There is no necefficy that any body fliould make of either of thefe re-
lations an Article of his Faith ;
yet I thought them very probable,becaule
believed by fucha man, and therefore have given then\a place here. So
much of Miracles.
Of Exorcijmes we mull fay as of Miracles. One notable example of a
counterfeit Polfeffion, and of great ftirs likely to have inllied u^on it in
France^ we have out of Thuanm^ in our late Treatife of Enthuflajme. The Hi-
flory of the Boy of 'Bilfon is extant ^ who by the Wiiclom and Sagacity of the
R' R' F. in GodThomaSy Lord Bifliop of Lichfield and (jventry ^ wasdifco-
vered to be an Impoftor on purpofe let up and fuborned to promote the Ro-
miili caufe, An. Vom. 1620. Such examples and ftories moft Countries have
afforded good ftore, which arc extant in divers Languages. Neither muft
it be concealed (by them that leek truth without partiality) that lome, once
called VifciplinarianSj now more known by another name, have attempted
to deal in thoie things, hoping thereby to gain great advantage to their
caufe. It was a famous Story in Q^Eli:^abeth's Reign, though now per-
chance out of the knowledg of many, and beyond the remembrance of any
living, how one Mr. D. a very -zealous man of that Se<5t, did take upon
him by long prayers to call out Divels .
'^ .xuintained and ailerted with
great veh^ncncy by him and fbme others that favoured that caufe, though
upon legal examination they proved otherwile , which occafioned many
books on both fides in thofe dayes, but two, meliorismta ^ as we fay, writ-
ten by Dr. H. concerning Exorcifnes the one againft Papifts, the other a-
gainft QP. I have them both fomewhere yet, I hope, but can not come at
them'
The T'F^EFJCE,
them at this time, which is the caufe that I cannot particularize that bu-
iineflewith circuraftances of times, and names or perft)nsas I would. But
there were many other books written (fomevery big, which I havefeen )
about it , as I laid betore j
fo that the whole bufinefle , with very little in-
quifition, if any have a mind, may quickly be found out. One Book-
feller in Little Sr/fJzVi did help mc to the fight of fix or leven at once, yet
one of the books then written, and as I was told, upon this occafion much
commended unto mc by Ibme very Learned, to wit, Dr. Jordan^ of the
Sujfocation of the Matrix^ I long fought before I could meet with it. And
fuch was the ignorance of iome Booklellers, that I could not perfwade them
there was any fuch book extant: but now at laft I have got it. All the
ule I fhall make ot it at this time is» that whereas the whole drift of the book
tends unto this, tofllew the error of many in alcribing natural difeales to
fupernatural caules , which might bethought by (bme to favour their o-
pinion that believe not Wttches^ Sec. The Author doth very prudently and
pioufly make this profe/Tion inthe Preface, I ilo not deny but that God doth in
thefe dayes work extraordinarily for the deliy^erance of his children^ and for other ends
kji hiioivn to him/elf ;
atui that among other there may be both poffefsions by the DiVel^
and ohfejiions^ and Witch-craft, &c. and dfpoJJ'efsion alfo through the Prayers and Slip-
plications of his jeryants^ which is the only }?ieans left unto usfor our relief in that cafe^
hut fuch examples being<ver-f rare now adayes. Sec. V^rf^r all this I do not con-
clude that Mr. D. was guilty of any Impofturc : he might do it through
ignorance being cozened by others. I have heard he was anhoneft man,
and dyed pioully , and dilclaimed to the very laft that he did any thing in
that buimelTe otherwiie then Bona Fide. I would judge charitably, even
of thoie men that ate not guilty of much charity towards others, whofe
judgments and conlciences will not fufFer them (though men of approv-
ed worth and piety otherwiie) to lay as they lay, and to do as they do in
all things. Be it granted therefore, that this bufinefle of Exorcifmes is ly-
abletomuch Impollure : however, no man that hath read the relations
of men and women pofleft, in leveral places, with due obfervation of cir-
cumftances , iome of which relations, befides other perlons of credit, have
been atteiled j^
yea, Ibme penned and publifhed by learned Phyficiansand
Naturalifts, who have been employed about the Cure, fiblerved their car-
riage, heard fome of them fpeak ftrange Languages : lilly women pofleft,
dilcourlc of highcft points of Phyloibphy, or the Mathematicks and the
like. No man, I lay, that is not a ftranger to thele things (befides what
fome Travellers, no way interefledin the caufe, can aver upon their own
knowledge) will make any queftion either of the real poflcffion of divers,
accordmg to relations that have been made, or of the Divels (peaking in
them and by them when they have been Exorciledj and iometimes upon
bare conference. And though feme Proteftants are of.opmion, That it is
not lawful or warrantable for any man to take upon him to Exorciie upon
fuch occafions, that is, (as I conceive) by way of abiblute power and au-
thority ,. and by luperftitious wayes and means, as is ordinarily done :
Yet where a man hath a Calling, as it he be lawfully Called to the Mini-
ftry^ and fee over fuch a Parifh where any happen to be poifefled (as in-
deed
nhe T 'R E F AC E.
B. V. 'H r.
deed iViy kit have a Pariih , chat is, right to a Paridi as good
rs the Laws of the Land can give me, which hath been grievouily haunt-
ed, though not altogether in the fame kind, this many years, to the un-
doing of many there ^ but 1 muft not come near it, nor have the benefit oF
the Law to rerover my right , though never told why ) and he find
himleU zealouily moved ,
yet without preiumption, I would not .defpair,
but his prayers, wich other performances of devotion, and the affiftancc
of (ome others of the fame calling, might prove available before God :
but rtiil preluppofed , as mofl: expedient and neceffary, that the opinion
and refolucion of lome Learned and confcionable Phyfician, one or more
be had in the ca(e ; and their prefence alfo in all adions, if it may be had,
obtained. Some, it may be, will thanl« me, and I hope it will offend none,
if I impart unco them what I have found in my F. his Epitwierw (or, Vaily
account of hii life) tending to this purpole.
.
^ .,;: T)f^^ 60^, Kal Junii.. Q^tn menifem^et reliijuos omnesyelis Deus^Scc,-
H'-iDC ij Ulume^imus^ cum matre^ tixo'-e^
^ffi^'^y
^^ "^'^''^ mhtli^t)om deQounj. et
nobilt Item fnatronu
J
D. dcSz i* oris : qui omnes in re pie tatis oi^op?ovo:;,{jtc , Ecclejiam
hujus loci afidue cekhraVmm. Inter alios Sermmes quoshabui cum D. de St^Pons,
de tfiii'iflro proyinci^ FiVaretit /tonus locuti , cui nomen Mercero. ^git Hl^ in eo ;
tra8u plufes p-uva^ tcckfttvs j
habitat a. in loco, dfui dicitur ^ Chafteau-doublcw
jicce-yeramde eoex vdgi rumonbtii ,
quod a)im Ditmonaf ejtciendi hibe^et '.
qu^efm^-
ct>/i3ir5foi- de D.de St Pons quid ret cjfet. lllafendaffirmayit^pluyes 'D.emomacos
(decern ant circker) in Ectljiam auduclos ^ eo concionante pfimiim ^ dein orante
^
jmUm^ct Confejsione omnium fuijje fanatos. Qwfdam Demon a ita eum certis fignti
empij]^ , «f f^s ^p^d omnes fiznt tcjlatifsima, Torro autem omnes qui janatijunt ,
^e!t<r.oiicm Catholtcam \omuyiAm ante femper profeJJo<. Meuerum Veto impatmitif'
fime ferre ^ ft quis i^tenoquendmn ^ u^. fit ^ diceret^ Merctrum Viabolos ejicere ^ non
enlm /p, yfenui Ecclefiim Dei effe nomtnahdwi , cujm precibus ardentiffimis Ddawr.
j-espJtncrint. 'Djm et illiet unyerfi gregi fuortimbenedicat. Amen. .!>s--?-
In En^lifh (for their fakes that unierftmd no Latine, and that it be
not required alwayes, for it would be very tedious) this is the efFe(5t
,
At iuchatime, in inch a place, hehadcheopporcunicy to meet with a grave
(whether Lady or Gentlewoman) Matron , one he had a very good opini-
on oFj her nam? M.deSt.Tons^ and having often heard by common re-
port of a certain Proteftant Miniffer that was faid to caft out Divels, he
did accurately inform himfelf by her (fhe living, it feems, very near, if.
not in the lame parifh ) of all particulars concerning that bufincfTc;
who did averre it to be moft true , and that ten , or thereabouts, Demo-
moniacks, or pofTelTcd men (all making profelnon of tlie Roman Catho-
lick Religion) had been brought to the Church ("atfeveral times, as I take
it) and that publickly, and by the genetall conlefsion of all then pie-
fenc, and by lome. nocable fignes (Ibmctimes; at the going out of the
De\i!s- they were , upon his Praying after Sermon, all delivered. But
that he took it very hainoufly if any faid, that he had caft out Devils ; for,
not I, faid he, but the earneft Prayers of the Church, have prevailed with
Almighty God to work this wonderful thing.
As for Oracles : It is true, Heathens themfelves acknowledg, that fome
lijii: . were
The T%EFACE.
were the JLigglings of men. Sometimes Princes j ibractimcs private men :
(as now of Religion, ofPreaching, and Praying, and Fading j of MaflTes
and ProceiTions : moft Princes and States in all places ) made good ufe of
them to their owneends j
and made them ipeak what themfelves had prom-
pted. But a man might as probably argue 3
becaufe fome have been fo frec-
Jy acknowledged to have been by compad: aad fiibornation, it is the more
.likely, that thofe of which never any fufpicion was, fhould be true. Wc
read ofmany in Herodotus: of one, which was contrived by fraud j but
there we read aUo, that when it came to be known (though care had been
taken that irmight not :) the chiefContriver, agrcatinan, wasbanifhed^or
prevented worfe, by avoluntaty Exile ;
and the Sacred yir^m or ^Trophetejfe^
.depofed. But not to infill upon particulars, which would be long, it is
'
moft certain, and it will cleerly appear unto them that are well read in anci-
ent Authors and Hiftories, That^llHeathens^generally the wifeft: andlearn-
edeft of them, thole efpecially, that lived when Oracles were moft- frequent,
'
did really believe them to be, which they pretended unto : and that they
•were fo indeed, for the moft: part (taking it for granted that their Gods were
^tVf/ior BytlSpirits) by many circumitancesof Stories, and by other lood
proofs, may be made as evident : neither was it ever doubted or denyed (al-
waycs granted and prefuppofed, that, as in all worldly things, much impo-
fture did intervene and intermingle) by ancient Chriftians acknowledged, I
am lure, by moft, if not all. But I have fpokcn ofthem elfewhere already,
and therefore will be the fliorter here.
Ouilaft Ohje^ion was : Ifthere be VeVils a.nd Spiritsj'^hy do they not ap-
pear unto them, who do what they can, as by continual curfes/o by profane
curiofity to invite them ? Firft, We fay, «r6^e?<iVi(']« ra' xe4ta.7<t *ut». 1^ dvi^ixvi*Toi dt
WeiituVj. When we have good ground for the on ^ to ftick at the Mn^ be-
caufe we do not underftand the reafon, is as much as to fay, that we think
we fhould be as wile as God- Arijlotle did not meddle with things that he
could give no reaion of j
yet he did not deny them (as we have fhewed^
and it is one thing to require a reafon ofthings meerly natural j and another
ofthofe that happen by a meer fecrct Providence. But this will give them
no great latisfa(f^ion who perchance believe a God (fome) as much as they
believe a Devil.. Secondly^ Therefore we Tay, There maybe fome natural rea-
fon too, upon /i'r(/?or/a grounds, ^ri^otk (as hath been fhewed elfewhere)
compares the effects oi Melancholy ^ from whence he deriveth all kind q^ En-
thujiajm^ to the known effeds of Wme> What is the reafon, that fome men
with little wine will quickly be drunk, and become other Creatures, being
deprivcdfor the timeof the ule of reafon f Others though they drink ne-
ver lo much, will fooner burft then reel, or fpeak idly . as fome in their
excefs grow merry, others fad : fome calm and better natured ^
others furi-
ous : Ibme talkative, others ftupid. The Devil knowes what tempers are
beftfor his turn J
and by Ibme in whom he was deceived, he hath got no
crtdit,and wifhcd he had never meddled with them. Some men come into
the world with C^/'d///?/^^/ drains; their heads are full ofmyfteries ,• they fee
nothing, they read nothing, but their brain is on work to pick fbmewhat
out of It that is not ordinary,- and out ofthe very A'B C that children are
taught, rather then fail, they will fetch all the Secrets of Gods Wifdom, tell
you
The T\SFJCE.
you how the world was created, how governed, and wha: will be the end of
all things. Reafonand Senfe that other men go by, they think the acorns
that the'old world fed upon j
fools and children may be content with them
but they fee into things by another Li^k. They commonly give good re-
ifpedt unto the Scriptures (till they come to profeft Anab^ptijis) becaufe they
believe them the Word df God and not of men ;
but they referve unto them-
felves the Interpretation, and founder the title of Dmw Scripture^ worfhip
what their own phanfie prompts, or the devil puts into their heads. Buc
of all Scriptures the Q^evelation and the obfcure Prophefies are their delight^
for there they rove fecurely j
and there is liot any thing fo prodigious or chi-
merical, but they can fetch it out of fome Prophefie, as they will mterpret it.
Thefe men, ifthey be upright in their lives and dealings, and fear God tru-
ly, it is to be hoped that God will preferve them from further evil ; but they
areofa dangerous temper- Charitable men will picythern, and Ibbcrraea
will avoid them. On the other fide, fome there are whofe brains are of a
flirfand reftive mould ;
it will not eafily receive new impre/Iions.They will
hardly believe any thing but what they fee ;
and yet rather not believe their
eye* then to believe any thing that is not according to thecourleof nature,
and what they have been ufed unto. The devil may tempt fuch by fenfual
baits, and catch them •
but he will not eaiily attempt to delude them by ma-
cical Shews and Apparitions. An^ wh^'-^nber man, that believeth as a God,
fo a di vel,doih doubt,but they that make it their daily pradice to damn them-
felves,by fuch horrid oaths and curfes,are as really pofleft,yea far more in the
po{feis:on of the devii,thea many thattoam at the mouth, and fpcak flrange
languages ?
But j'"^ Some have tried and ufed the means,but could never lee any thing
but what if others that never defired it really,but in fome wanton curiofity,
unadviiedly, that they might be the better able to coni-urethe iimpHcity of
fome others as they thoughr,rather then that their faith wanted any fuch con-
firmation , have tryed fome things,or have been prefent at fome experiments
and have feen ( with no fmall aftonifhment) more then they expeded or dc^
'fired ? Some perfons of credit and quality, I am fure, have made it their con-
fefsion unto me,thac it hath fo h.^pned unto them ; who have been fo alFcdted
with it,that they Would noti'or a world be fo furprized again.
But4'y and laflly, TheConfefsionsoflome Magicians are extant in print,
who tell very particularly what means they ufed ,
what books they read, &c.
and they Gw and found (if we believe them ,• and what fliould tempt them
to lye, no melancholy men, I know not) till they were weary,and Gods grace
wroughtupon their hearts to bring them to repentance. There be fuch confef-
fions extant,but the Readei flial pardon me,if I give him no further account.
It would much better becom them therefore,that have made fuch effays with-
out fucceffe, to repent, and to be thankful unto God.then to make that an ar-
gument, that theres no divel, and perchance no God. There is a terrible fay-
incJ (if well underffood) in the Sctipturc ;
'opv^«?p(/WT«^ He that is filthy let him
hefilthy Jltll Let them take heed (I advife them as a friend) if they perfift in
their hardnefs of heart and infidelity^ left God in juft judgment,r.houglichcy
feek ftill,and provoke as niiuch as they can. will not fuffer that they fhall fee
any thing,left they fhoiild fear and be converted.
^
I come
7he T%E\¥ ACE,
I
Come now to Dr. D e e, and. to fhU ^ook of his, which hath been
the occafion of all the Dilcourfe hitherto. As for his Perlon or Pa-
rentage ,
Education and the like, I have but little tp lay more then
what he faith himfelf in his firft Letter to the Emperor (Rodolphe) of
Oerinanyj that being yet very young he was fought unto {amb'ii^eruni me) by
two Emperors ,
CHARLsthe 5''' and Ferdinando his Brother and Sue-*
cefifor in the Empire. Mr. Cambden indeed in the year 1571 makes honou-
rable mention of him, and calls him, Nobilis Matfmmtkus. He dedicated
\ his Mwj^f Hierog/jip/^/c^ to Maximilian Succeffor to Ferdinando firft
printed at Jntwerp^ Jn.Dom.i^6^^ and afterwards at Francford^ <59«» and
what other places 1 know not. In the year 1595. he did write (and was
printed 1599 I am fure,but whether before that or no, I cannot certainly
tell) J dijcourfe Jpologetical^ &cc. dire<aed to the then JnhbiJJjop of Canterbury
wherein he hath a Catalogue of books written by himfelf, printed and un-
printed, to the number of 48. in all , and doth alfb mention the books of
.his Library about 4000 volums in all , whereof yco ancient Manufcripts
Latin, Greek, and Hebrew. There alfo doth he produce a Teftimony of the
Univerfity of Qambndg^ dated 1 548. But this whole Difcourfeof his being
butfhort, for the better latisfa(5tion of the Reader, I thought good to have it
here reprinted the next after this Preface. His Mathematical Preface before
Euclid^ is that I think which of all his writings publifhed hath been moft
taken notice of in Englatid^ and added much to the worth and commendati-
on ofthat Edition of Eudtd, He was a married man and had divers children
as will appear by this Relation ;
a great Traveller , and lived to a great age.
But as I laid before, I do not pretend to give an account of his life in gene-
ral, unto others, which my felf am yet aftrangerto. What concerneth
this %eUtim I am to giVe an account , and I hope there fhall be nothing
wanting to that. Four things I propole to my (elf to that end
hrji , Somewhat to confirm the truth and fincerity of this whole %e-
lati m.
,
Secondly ^
To anfwer fomc Objections that may be -made againll (bmc
parts of it.
Thirdly J
To give fome light to fome places, and tofatisfie the Reader con-
cerning the perfection and imperfection of the book , as alfb , concerning
the Original Copy.
Fourthly^ and laftly, To fhew the many good- ufes that may be made of all
by a fober Chriflian.
L It fcems that Dr. Df? began to have the reputation of a Qonjurer be-
times. He doth very grievoufly complain of ii in that fp^^/^cf to Euclid
but novv fpokcn of , about the end of it , and yet there doth alfb
term himfelf, An aid forworn Mathematician. For my part w^hether
he could ever truly be fo called, I yet make fome queftion : But I am
very confident, that himfelf did not know or think himfelf fo , but
a zealous worfliipper of God , and a very free and fincere Chriitian.
How this is to be reconciled with the truth o^ ihis Relation ^ fhall be af'
tcrwardsconfideredof For the truth and fincerity of the %elation^ I hope
D no
The^^iF A C^'
man
cou
^^..Id be fufpedecl co Have devifed and invented thefe things in his oWii
brain to abufc the world. I fhould be forry my name iliould appear
jn any kind to any book lyable to fuch a Rifpition •
-^^-^ :!ic very name
atid' 4Vedit of that To much and (o defcrvedly prized Library from
whence this is pretended to be taken ,
is fufficienc (with civil undcr^
tending nien ) to prevent the groflenefle of fuch a miftake. Befides
thf GrKrinal Copy it fclf , all written with Dr. Dm own harid, there
kept and preferved. But by Truth and Sincerity, intending not only Dr.
7)ce's fidelity in relating what himfelf believed , but alio the reality of
thofe things that he fpeaks of, according to his relation : his only (but
areat and dreadful) error being, that he miftook falfe lying Spirits for
ATjgelsof Light , the Diyelof Hell (as we commonly term him) for the
God of Heaven. For the Truth then, and Sincerity or 'Reality of the Ela-
tion in this fenfe, I fhall firft appeal to the Book it felf. I knoW it is
the fafliionof many (I will not fay that (I never did it my felf) that arc
birers of* books, they will turn five or fix leaves, if they happen up-
on lomewhat that pleafeth their fancy , the book is a good book , and
when they have bought it, it concerneth them to think fo, becaufe they have
paid for it : but on the other fide, if they light upon fomcwhat that doth
not pleafe (which may happen in the beft) they are as ready to condemn
and c^ftaway. It is vpry polfible that fome fijch buyer lighting upon this
,
and in it, upon fome places here and there, where fome odd uncouth things
may cffeV themfelves ; things ridiculous, incredible to ordinary fen/e and
conik!i6tion,he may be teady to judge of the whole accordingly. But for all
this 1 will in the firft place appeal to the book it felf,- but with this refpe^ to
the Reader , that he will have patience to read in order one Fourth part of the
book at leaft before he judge ; and if by that tinie he be not conviaed^he fhall
have my good will to give it over. Not but that all the reft, even to the end,
doth help very well to "confirm the truth and reality of the whole Story :
but becaufe 1 chink there is fo much in any fourth part, if diligently read^and
with due confidcration, that I defpair of his aflent,that is not convidied by-
it. For my part,when the book was firft communicated un-
sv, rkmd* c«/o» Knight
^^ ^^ ^^ ^^^^ Right wotthy Gentleman who is very ftudi-
ous to purchafeand procure fiich Records and Monuments
as may advantage the truth of God (all truth is of God) and the honour of
this Land, following therein the example of his noble Progenitor , by his
very name , Sit1{ol)ert Cotton, known to all the Learned as far as Eu^
rope extendeth. I read it curforily becaufe I was quickly convinced iti
my felf that it could be no counterfeit immaginarie bufineflc , and was
very defirous to fee the end , fo far as the book did go- Afterwards
,
when lunderftoodthatthe faid worthy Gentleman (efpecially,as I fuppolc,
relyino upon my Lsrd of Armagh's judgment and teftimonie ,
which we liavc
beforcfpokcnof) was willing it fliouldbe publifhed, and that he had com-
^ '''. ^
-"» -v. , mitted
The T\SF ACE,
mitccd the whole biirinefs unco me ; I rcid it over very cxadly , and took
notes of the moft remarkable paflages (as they appeared unto me) truly
I was fo much confirmed in this firft opinion by my lecond reading, that-
I fhall not be afraid to profefs that I never gave mo^r credit to any Hu-
mane Hiftory of former times. All thmgs feer.ied unto me fo fimply ,
and yet fo ate '-'•rely ,
'
and with fo much confirmation of all manner
of circumftances written and delivered ,
that I cannot yet fatisfie my felf,
but all judicious Readers will be of my opinion. But neverthelcls, to
help them that trufV not much to their own judgments , let us fee what
Fir(i I would have them., that would be further fatisfied, to read Dr.
'Dam that forecited Preface, where he doth plead his own caufe, to acquit
himfclf of chat grievous crime and imputation of a Qonjurer. But that was
written I mull confefs, long before his Communication with Spirits:
yet it isfomewhacto know what opinion he had then of them that deal
witk Divels and evil Spirits. But after he was made acquainted, and in
great dealing's with them, and had in readincfs divers of chcfchis books,
or others o? the fame Argument, containing their ieveral conferences
and communications, to rhew, and the manner of their -appearing cxadlly
fct down • obferve, I pray, with what confidence he did addrefs himfelf
to the areateft and wileft in Europe. To Queen Elizabeth often , and to
her Council, as by many places of this Relation doth appear ;
but more
particularly by his Letter to Sir Frmcis Walfingham^ Secretary, &c. That
he did the like to Kins; >»JeJ and his Councel, may eafily be gathered by
the Records (in this %eUtm) of 1607. but much defedive. But then to
the Emperor <2^o^o/p/.^e , to5ff/>^e«K.lngof foUnd^ and divers other Princes
and their Deputies • thewifeft and learnedft, their fcveral Courts did af-
ford for the time : the particulars of all which addreffes and tranfadions
are ver- exadly fct- down in the book. Nay, fuch was his confidence, that
had it not been for the Kuncuts Aj^aflolim his appearing againft him at the
Emperors Court by order from the Pope, he was, as by fomc places may
becolledcd, rcfolved for 5(o;ne alfo , not doubting but he fliould approve
himfelf and his doings to the Pope himfelf and his Cardinals. I- i^W thefc
his addrelTes and applications being ftill very ready to impart all things
unto them that would entertain them with that refped he thought they
deferred, yea readily, w^'-l". i^ very obfervable, even to receive them into
this Myliical Society, whom he thought worthy, and in fomc capacity to
promote the defign 5
as de faBo he did divers in feveral places :
AlbertusA^
iafco Prince Palatine of ^olonia^ fuccius a learned man, and Prince 'Xpfem-
lenm Gewuny ^
who were long of the Society , befides fome admitted to
fome Adions for a while ,
asSt^i^^wKing of fdani^ and lome others. Wc
will eafily ^rant (as elfewhere hath been treated and handled at large) that a
diftempered brain may fee, yea, and hear ftrange things, and entertain them
with all pofiible confidence, as real things , and yet ail but lancy, without
any realfound or Apparition. But thefcfightsand Apparitions that Dr. Vee
gives here an account, are quite of another nature ;
yea, though poflibly the
Divcl misht reprefent divers of thefe things to the fancy mwardly
° ^
Q J which'
The T%EF ACE^
which appeared outwardly : Yet of another nature, I lay, au^Jiot without
the intervention and operation of Spirits , as will cafily appear to any niaii
by the particulars. Belidcs the long Speeches, Difcourfes, luLerlQcutions
upon all occafions and occurrences in the presence of more then one.al-
wayes j and externally audible to different perfons, for the mort: part or very
frequently. That thele things could not be the operation .of ^ diflem-
pered Fancy , will beafufficient evidence to any rational man. ,, .. .
,
Aeain, let h'" afual preparations and Prayers againft an Apparition or
Adion (as he called them) his extraordinary prayers upon iome extra-
ordinary occafions , as upon Edward ^liey his temporary repentance, and
another for him when he was about to forfake him (in Latins a long one;
Stephen King of foland being thenprelcnt. And again, when his Son A-
thur was to be initiated to thefe Myftical Operations and Apparitions, mthe
place of Edfi^ard I\elley , and the like. And again, his Humility, Piety ,
Patience (O what pity that fuch a man fliould fall into fuch a dclufion !
butwe fhallconfider of the caufes in its right place afterwards) upon all
occafions temptations , diftrefles , moft eminent thioughout the whole
Book. Let thefe things be well confidered , and above the refl:, his large
and pundual relation of that fad abominable ftory of their Tromijaious ^ car-
mi CopuUtm, under the pretence of obedience to God. •
Let thefe things,
I fay be well confidered, and 1 think no man will make any queftion but
the poor man did deal with all pofTible fimplicity and fincerity , to the ut-
raoitof his underftanding at that time. And truly, this one thing (aswc
faid before) excepted , his miftaking of evil Spirits for good, it doth not
appear by any thing but that he had his underftanding, and the perfe^c
uCe of his Rcafon to the very laft, as well as he had had any time of his
life.
Again, let it be confidered, that hecarryed with him where eVer he went
A Stone which he called hh Jn^dicall Sione., as brought unto him hy an Ah-
oel but by a Spirit fun enough ,
which he fihewed unto many ; to the Emperor
among others, or the Emperors Deputy, Dr. C«''fi", as I remember : But more
of this Stotie afterwards. We may thereiore conclude fi.irely enough , Thac
I
thoic things ^^ . ^
miftaken as though I intended that w^hatfoever the Diveldid fcem to do
or reprelcnt ; it was ^ally and Subflantially as it Teemed and appeared , thac
would be a great and grofs miftake. The very word Jpparition doth rather
import the contrary. All I underiiand by 'Sjalicy, is, that what things ap-
peared , they did fo appear by the power and operation of Spirits, adually
prefcnt and working , and were not the eflFeds of a depraved fancy and
imagination by meer natural caufes. By which, ilrange things, I con fels,
may be prefcnted and apprehended too, (ometimes by the parties with all
confidence , as we faid before, though all be but fancy and imagination.
But all circumftances well confidered, make this Cafe here to be ot another
nature ^ and it may be it was the policy of thefe Spirits to joyn tipo of
purpofe in this bufinefs, to make the truth and reality of it the more un-
que-
7he T PREFACE,
oueftionable ,• hoping (if God had given way) they fliould havepafTed, uk
time for good Spirits abroad generallyj and then we fhould have lecn what
they would have made of it. Fro-, ielle beginnings , I am fure, great-
eft confufions have proceeded and prevailed in the world, as we fhall fliew
elfewhere. And fince that in all this bufinefs, as we faid but now , Dr.
"Dee did not deal alone , but had a conftant Partner or Afsilfant, whom
fometimes himfelf calleth his Seer^ ot Skryer^ one by name Edward i\elly ; it
will be requifite before we proceed further, that we give fome account of
him alio. According to Dr. Dee's own relation here, I^?i.2)ow. i^Sj.Jprilj^
Trebonit : in the particulars of his Son Arthur's Con[ecra(ion (after his manner
which he calls, Hn ojf
eying and prefentirig of him to the fervice of God: ) Uriel
(one of his chiefeft Spirits) was the author of their ConjunBion: but when
and howithapned (being but obiter mentioned there) we do not find any
where ; and more then what I find here I have nothing to fay : For certain
it is by this whole ftory ^ from the beginning to the end of it, that ^lley
was a great Conjurer , one that daily converfed by fiich art as is uled by
ordinary Vlagicians, with evil Spirits, and knew them to be Co. Yet I
would luppole that he was one of the beft lort of Magicians , that dealt
with Spirits by a kind of Cow?/M«J (^as is well known (ome do} and not by
any QompaEl or agreement :^ this may probably be gathered from fimdry
places. But that he was a Conjurer, appearereth firft by that, where he
profFered to raife fome evil Spirit before the PoliiTi Prince Palatine , Albert
X^sky (of whom more by and by) for a proof of his Art. But D^.Dee
Would notfiifFerhim to do it in his houie. Wicked fpirits are caft out of
him to the number of 1
5 . p. 5 2 . But I make no great matter ofthat in point
of proof, becaulc all there upon his bare report only. But ieej).6^. &c.
where it is laid to his charge, and he anfwereth for himfelf and his Spirits.
See alio where at laft he yielded to bury not to burn his Magical books.
But read his own confefsion (where you fhall find him Ipeak likeonethat
knew very well what did belong to thcArt^ and the record made by Dr.
Dee concerning a flirewd conteit that hapned between Dr. Dee and him ,
(it was about lome Magical thingsj wherein EdivardK^lly carried himfelf io
fiercely, that Dr. Dee being afraid of his life, was forced to call for help.
Perufe well this place and I prelume you will require no further li^ht as
to this particular concerning B^lly,
As for the feveral Epijlles (in Latin moft) that will be found here, as alio
Narratives of leveral meetings and conferences, they carry fb much light
with them, bein^ let out with fo ma »^'- remarkable circumftances of time
place, perlons, &c. that no man of judgment that hath any knowledge
of the world, will or can make any icruple of thcfincerity and fidelity of
cither reports or Deeds and monuments (fuch I account the Letters to be}
herein contained. A man might with little labour (that had all kind of
books at command) have found lomewhat concerning moft (outlandifh)
perlons in them mentioned. I could notintend it, and I think it would
have been a needlefs labour. If any make any queftion let them* make
fearch ,
I dare warrant it unto them they (hall find all things to agree pun-
jftually- But becaufe Albert Laiky (next to Edward K^lley) is the man moft
in-
The T%BF A Q '^-
#ht^treted in this ftory, I will give you fome account of him out of Mr;
Qambdm\\\s'Annals
.
,.
'
AnnoDom.i5B^. E Tolonia^ ^ufsi^ vicina hac ^fiafe venit in Jtiglkm ut
^'ohiain inVtferetj Albertus Ahico^TaUtmHi Siradienfts Vir erudkm^ corporis linsa-
mentis hctrbapmrnji/sinhi^ 1^(?if« decero, <^ perVenufio -^
qui perbenigne ah ipfa mbi-
hhiifqtic magnoqiie homre <(y Imtitm^ ei dh Accadtmia Oxonienft uuditis obkSlationibm^
htqiii Hwiis Jpeclaculis exceptus ^ poft 4. menfes are alieno opprejfus , clam re-
cejsii:
But of all Letters here exhibited, I am moft taken, I muftconfefs, with
the Bifliops Letter that was 2>luncm JpoJloHcus : he feemes to rac to fpeak
tothecaie very pertinently {tzkc 'Puccius his account along m his long
letter to Dr. Dee^ of his conference with the faid Bifliop concerning the
lame bulinefsjand to havecarryed himfelf towards Dr^Vee very moderate-
ly and friendly.
1 1. Now to Objedions
:
The firfl: fhall be this : Although 'tis very probable that Dr. Dee him-
felf dealt fimply and lincerely ^
yet iince he himfelf faw nothing (for lb
himfelf acknowledgeth in fome places) but by Ks^Iefs eyes, and heard no-
thing but with his ears. Is it not pofsible that Bailey being a cun-
ning^ man , and well pradtifed in tliefe thir;gs might impofe upon the
credulity of Dr. Dee ( a good innocent man ) and the rather, becaufe by
this office under the Dodor he got 50 /. by the year , as appearcth. Truly
this isplaufibleas it is propofed ; and Hkc enough that it might go a great
way with them that ate foon taken, and therefore feldom lee anything in
the truth or true nature of it, but in the outward appearanceof it only.
But read and obferve it diligently and you will find it far otherwife : It is
true indeed, that ordinarily. Dr. Dfg faw not himfelf; his bufinefswas to
write what was feen (but in his prefence though) and heard by %%.
Yet that himfelf heard often immediately appeareth by many places ; I lliall
not need any quotations for that himfelf feeleth as.well as ^elley. In the
relation of the Holj Stone , how takcfj away by one that came in at a win-
dow in the fhape of a man ,
and how reftored both Jaw certainly. In the
ftory of the Holy ^oohj how burned and how reftored again (part of them at
leaft) which Dr D^e made a great Miracle of, as appeareth by lomeofthofc
places J
there alfo both faw certainly^ And Jlben Lasky^ tU Tolonian Talatine
pw as 'well as l\ellcy, Befides, it doth clearly appciir throughout all the
book that Kelley (though fometimes with much adoe perfwaded for a while
to think better of them) had generally no other opinion of thefe Appa-
litions but that they were meet illuiions of theDivel and evil Spirits, fuch
as himfelf could command by his art when he lifted ,
and was acquainted
with ,
infomuch that we find him for this very caufc forfaking ,
or defirous
to forfake Dr. T)ee^ who was much troubled about it; and is forced in a
place to (P.w/i A^ Som/ unto him (to ufe his own words) that it was not io,
andt^at they were good Spirits fent from God in great ravourunto them.
But fofall this Kelley would notbefatisfied, but would have his Declarati-
on or Proteftation of his fufpition to the contrary entred into the book
.
which you fhall find, and it wiU be worth your reading. I could further
al-
The T\SF ACE,
allcdge, that if- a man conlideis the things delivered here upon fcveral occa-
iions, being of a different nature, (bme Moral, (omePhyfical, fome Me-
taphylical, and Theological of higheft points (though romecimcs wild e-
nough, and not warr^ ntable j
yet for the mod part very remote from vulgar
capacities} he will not eafily believe that i\eiley^ who fcarce underftood La-
tine) not to fpeak of fome things deliverer! \^^ Jreek in lome places > and be-
tookhimfcif to theftudy of Logick long after he had entred himfelf into
this couric ,
could utter fuch things : no, nor any man living perchance,
that had not made it his ftudy all his life-time. But that which muft needs
end this quarrel (if any man will be pertinacious) and put all things out of
doubt, is, that not I'\clley only ferved in this place of Seer or Skrye/\ but o-
thers alfb , as his fon Arthur^ and in his latter dayes, when t\(lley was cither
gone or lltk, one "BartholomeTi^j as will be found in all the Jfliom a.nd Ap-
paritions of che year 1607. which (as I fulped-) was thelaft year of theDo-
dbors life, or beyond which I think he did not live long.
Secondly^ It may be objed:cd , or ftuck at Icaft, How Dr. Dee^ fb good Co
innocent, yea, fo pious a man, and fo fin cere a Chriftian as by thefc pa-
pers fhis delufion and the efFcd:s of it ftill excepted) he doth feem to have
been , God would permit fuch a one to be To deluded and abufed , io rackt
in his foul, lo hurried in his body for To long a time, nocwichffandinCThis
frequent, carnefl;, zealous prayers and addrclfe^ unto God, by evil Spirits
(even to his dying day, for ought we know) as he is hnrt hy his ownrela*
tion (ct out unto us ? Truly, if a man fiiail coniider the whole carriage
of this bufineflc, from the beginning to the end, according tj this true and
faithful (for I think I may lb Ipeak with confidence) account of it here
prcfented unto us , this poor man, how from time to time fhamefully ,
giofly delayed, deluded, quarrelled without caufc, ffill toled on with fome
fhetfvs and appearances, and yet ftill fruftrated and put off: his many-
pangs and agonies about it, his fad condition after lomany years toil, tra-
vel , drudgery and earneftexpedation, attheverylaft (as appeireth by the
AtliQus and apparitions of the year 1607.) I cannot tell whether?I Oiould make
him an objed; ot more horror or compaffion ,- but of both certainly in a
great meaflue to any man that hath any fenfe of Humanity, and in the ex-
amples of others of humane frailty : and again, any regard of parrsand
worth, fuch as were in this man in a hii^h decree. True it is, that he had
111/" «
yo)i«i withai and comforts, imaginary,delufory , it is true; yet fuch as he en-
joyed and kept up his heart, and made him outwardly chearf ul often times
,
I make noqueifion ; luchasthe Saints (as they call themfelves ) and Schtf-
matich of thefe and former times have ever been very prone to boaft of, per-
fwading themlelves that they are the ejfeHs of Gods blelTed Spirit. B ut even
inthele his joys and comforts, the fruits and fancies of his deluded foul (as
m many othersof adiftcmperedbrain) is not he an objed: of great compaf-
paflion to any, both fober and charitable ? If this then were his cafe indeed,
what fliall u'e fay ? if nothing elle, I know not but it ought to latisfie a
rational, iober, humble man: If we fay, That it is not in man to give an
account of all Gods judgments, neither is there any ground for us tomur-
mute becauiewedonotundcrftandthemjOrthat they often iecm contrary
to'
The T%EFACE.
to the judgment of humane reafbn, becaufe it is againft all Reafon as well as
Religion, to believe that a creature fo much inferior to God,by nature as man
is fhould lee every thing as he ieeth,and think as he thinks j
and confequent-
ly'judgeand determine inandof all things as God judgeth and determineth.
The Apoftle therefore not without caulc , would have ail private judg-
ments (for of publick for the maintenance of peace and orjer among men,
it is another calc)deferr'd to that time, when the hearts of all menjhall be laid open^
ail hidden things and Jecret counfels feveakd. But we have enough to fay in this
caie without it. For if 'Pn^^and Qirioftty were enough to undoe our firft
Parent, and in him all mankind, when otherwile innocent, and in pof-
leOionof Paradife. Should we wonder if it had the lame event in Dr.
Dee 'though otherwife, as he doth appear tons, innocent, and well qua-
lified? That this w^as his caie and error, I will appeal to hisownconfef-
iion (though he makes it his boaft) in more then one of his Letters orad-
drefles, where he profeCfeth , That for diyersyears he had been an earnejl Juter un-
to God in prayer for Wifdom-^ that is, as he interprets himielf. That he might un-
derfland the fecrets of Is.ature that had not been reVeakd unto men hitherto ; to the
end ashe profedeth, and his own deceitful heart it maybe fuggefted un-
to him That he vvght glorlfe God-^ but certainly, that himfelf might become
a, vlorious man in the worfd, and be admired, yea, adored every where almoft,
as hernight befureitjivould be, had hecompalTed his delire. And what
do wethmk fliould put him upon fuch a defire, with hopes to obtain it,
but an opinion he had of himfelf as an extraordinary man, both for: parts ^
and for favour with God ? But however , had he been to the utmoft of what
he could think of himfelf, befides his Spiritual pride of thinking io of
himielf (as great a fin as any in the eyes of God ) his praying for fiich a
thing with fo much importunity, was a great tempting ot God, anddeferv-
ine <Treatefi: judgments. Had he indeed been a Inter unto God for fuch
Wijdom2.s,thc Prophet Jim/j/c defcribeth ( ii.v.i^^z^.) Let not the Wfeman
olorie m ha wfdom^ i^c but let him that gloritth^<S'C. And for luch knowledg
as our Saviour commandeth , 'joh.vj.-^. ^nd this is life eter?ial^ that they may
knol}? thie^tcc. And his blelfed Apoftle ( i Cor.i t.i.) For 1 determined not to
know any things &c. he had had good warrant for his prayers, and it is very
likely that God would have granted him his requeft, fo far as might have
'
concerned his own falvation and eternal happinefs. Befides, it is lawful,
(nay fit) for a man to pray for Gods blefiing upon his labours, for com-
petency of wit and capacity that he maydo well in his vocation and glori-
fie God. But for a man to afpircto fuch eminency above other men, and
~by means that are not ordinary (as that conceited fhylo/ophers Stone ^ and the
like) and to intereft God by earneft folicitations in his ambitions extrava-
gant defires; that God, who hath faid of himielf, l%it herefijieth the proud
^
but giVeth grace untt the humble , muft needs be fo great and fo high a provoca-
tion (if well confidered) ^s that I begin to doubt whether it be charity to
pity him that fuffered fo juftly and defervedly. 1 do not know but it is
as lawfuU few: any man obfcurely born to pray tor a Kingdom ,- for a
Common Souldier that he may have ftrength to encounter thoulands, or
f<ir an ordinarie Maid , that flie may become the faireft of women. In
all
7he T%EFACE.
all cKcfe it is poffible ro glorifie God, We grant, were itiTtJor uscopre-
icpi?)e unto Cod, neglcdting chofe that lie hath appointed. -by what-.«-n^aiis
he (Iiocld be glorified,- and could we iecure ouc Selves that, jnprecendiag to
Godsglouy^wedo not feck oar own. Jwifh that our great undercak(^?i":4Hd
reformeis'Cfuch is their wifdom they think) pfArcs and Scici^x^ps wouj^Fi-
oufly thiiik of this; they efpeciiliy who take upon themfclves^q makealJ men
wile and of one mind, and to reconcile all doubts and difficulties in l^ligJQa,
and otherwilc; ina word,to makeTriithtpbeimbracedby all men. Sh(^uld
thefe men tell us that if they had.hadj:heCreatingof the world^ and thepiKle-
.tingof all things (and there be, Ithink,.iothe world that have (aid little-^ijs)
from thebeginning,they would have made, an other giiefs ofthings; th^a t^fya
had done;^J('e would have coniiderd ofit perchance what might be theground
..in any rnort?! man of ftich wonderful confidence. But ^uch'b^ingtheqQn^i-
•'tion of the world^as it is,and l]ich of men^tiaturallyjor tolpeak asa Chi|iftia:n,
fincethe bllof/<tij>«,and.thecQniequences ofit, thecinfeofGod^&c.to makne
all men Wife, of onemind^ good, religious, without an infinite omnipQt^gt
power,fuch as ofnothing was able to create a world : cananymanfrober^nd
wife) hear it-hear it With patience, that thinks it impoilible, yea ftrange, that
Caftles fliould be btwltin the air ,
pt the heavens battered with great guns'^?
And yet fuch booksare read , 'yea and miich fet by, by fome men. My judg-
rocnt is, That they are :o bcpi|;tyed (if diilemper be the caufe^as'l believe it js
in Ibm.ejthat boait of fuch things; but if wife and politick,co getcrediL^nd
rn^)ney(as iome I believe) it is'a:gi:eat argument of their c6nfidencej,that there
h^nany in the wotd that are npx,very wife^ But to return to Dx.D^e-: In
might be fuiLuci added and proved by exarriples, that fome men oftranlcen-
4ent holine/s3Lnd mortification ( in the fight ofrnen) Co fecjucfired from the
world (fome ofthem} and the vanities of it, that for many years they had con-
verfed with God alone in a manner ^
yet through pride and conceit of their
own parts and bvour with God,fell into delufiom and temptations,,. if not alto-
gether the fame, yet not lefs ftrange and dreadful. Such examples Ecclefiafiir
cal Story will afford,and other books of that nature, but I have them not at
this time, and I conceive I have faid enough to this particular.
But of his ^rayiio too, fomewhat would be obferved. His Spirits tell him
romcwi?erc,thathehadthe Gift of Graying. Truly I believe he had, a^it is
ordinarily called : that is, that he could expVefs himlelfvery fluently and ear-
neftly in Prayer,andthat he did it often to his own great contentment. Lee
no man wonder at this,- I havs, riiuwcd elsewhere that Ibme that have been
very wicked, yea, fome that dyed for blafphcmy, and with blalphemy in
their mouth to the laftgafp, have had it in a great meafure, and done m^uch
miichief by it. It is no dilparagement to Prayer, no more then it is to the
beft things of the world (and what better and more heavenly then prayer well
u(ed r ) it cheybe abuied. Aid it is commonly ob(erved,that the corruption
of beft things is moft dang^>ous. What bred thole pernicious hereticks
that folong troubled the world, and could notbefiippreftedbutby abfoluce
deftruction , but long affected prayers ( therefore called £Ko';im or xVff/jQ/ww,
that IS to lay,the ^^rayen) and Enthufiafms ? And as to that point oi: ml\?iird
joy and compiacency , which fome Schifmaticks and wicked men find ia
E them-
The T\SF AC E.
ihcmfclves at their prayers, which ignorant deluded people think to be an
argument of the Spirit : It io ^cxiaiii,and is a myftcry ofnature that hath(*may
I ipeak it without bragging ) been brought to light ( of late years at
leaft) by my felf and fully dilcovercd , *That not only the inward heat of
" mental conception (where there is any vigor) but alio the mufick of ^ut-
*'
ward words, is able to occafion ic. Indeed it is a point that doth deferve
to be wellconfidcredof in thefe times efpecially. For when young boyes
and illiterate men (and the number is likely toincreale now that CattcUzing
is fo much negleded) are turned loofe toexercife thcmfelvesin this gift (as
they call it) and when by long practice they have attained to fome rcadinefs
and volubility jWhich doth occafion fome inward lightfomenefs and excita-
tions, or perchance lomcwhatthat may have lomc relemb lance to fpiritual
Ibrrow and compunction, they prefently think themfelvesinfpiredj and lb
they become Saiuuht^oxt they know what it is to be Qlnjliam. And if
they can Pray by inspiration, why not Preach alfo ? So comes in Ambaptifm
by degrees, which willbetheruine of all Religion and civil Government
where ever it prevails . And I believe that this fond foolifh conceit of Tnfpi-
ration^ as it hath been the occafiou of much other mifchief, fo of that horrid
facriledge , fl\all I call it, or profanation ( I hope I may do either with-
out ofiPence, for it is not done by any pubhck Authority that I know
of) thecafting andbanifhing of The Lords Prayer out of manypri-
rate hou fes and Chuiches; then which, I think, Chrift never received a
greater alf: ont from any that called themlelves Chriftians. I am not fb uno'ia-
ritable as to believe that it is done in dire(5b oppofition to Ghrift by any re-
al Chriftians, but in a furious zeale by many, I believe, againft let prayers.
But this is not a place to difputc it : Certainly , as the Lords Prayer is a
Prayer of moft incredible comfort. to them that ufe it devoutly and upon
good grounds (a good foundation of Religion and found Faith, I mean) fb
I believe that fct Prayers in general are ot more concernment to the fct-
ling of Peace in the Commonwealth then many men are aware of.
But let this pafs for my opinion; there be worie I am lure thAt pals •
currently.
Again, A man may wonder (I cannot tell whether an objedion may
be made of it) that Dr. Dec, though he were at the firft deluded fto which
his own pride and prefumption did expofe him ) as many have been ;
yet afterwards in procefs of time when he found himfelf fb deluded and
fhufHed with j when Edward i^elley did ufe fiich pregnant arguments to
him (as he did hiore then once) to perfwade him that they were evil Spirits
that appeared unto them ^ nay,when he had found by certam experience, that
his Spirits had told him many lies, foretold many things concerning Princes
and Kingdoms , very particularly limited with circumftances of time
,
which when the time was expired did not at all come to pafs j
yet for all
this he durft pmn his Soul for them that they were good Spirits ,
and con-
tinued in his confidence ( fb farre as our Relation goes) to the hi\. I
anfwer, SwvL io the power of this kind of Spiritual delufion, it doth fo pof-
fcfs them whom it hath once taken hold of, that theyfeldoni, anyofthem^
recover themfelvcs. In the dayes o^Martin Luther (a great and zealous refor-
mer-
7be THE FACE.
mer of Religion , but one chat would have detcftcd them as the wdrft of
Infidels that had u(ed the Lords Trayer^ as fbme have done in our dayes, as
appcArsby whatheiaith of it in more then one place) there lived one Micha-
el btifeiim, who applying to himfelf fome place of the ^pocalypfe ^ took up-
DQ. him to Prophecy. He had foretold that in theyear of the Lord 1555.
before, the zgo't September the end of the world, and Chrifls coming to
Judgment wouU be. He did fliew io much confidence, that fome write,
iMtJxt himfelf was fomewhat ftartled at the firft. But that day pall, he came
;^ fecond time to Luther with new Calculations, and had digefted the whole
bulincfs into zz. Articles, thecffe^of which was to demonftrate chat the
end of the world would be in OBokr following. But now LMf/;(fr thoughc
he had had tryal enouglp, and gave fo little credit to him ^ that he
(though he loved the manj filenccd hiiTwfor a time-, whichour Apocalyp-
tical Prophet took very ill at his hands, andwondred much at his incredu-
lity* Weil, that moneth and lome after that over, our Prophet ( who had
made no little ftir in the Country by his Prophecying) was caft intoprilon
for hisobftinacy. After awhile /-«f/;ervifitcd him, thinking by that time
•to find him ol another mind. But fo yfar was he from acknowledging his
error, that he down right railed at LMf/;er for giving him good counlcl. And
Xome write that to his dying day (having lived to cheageof 80. years) he
never recanted. And was not this the cale of learned rojtc/my, who fallen
into fome grievous wild fancies in his latter daycs, though found enough
flill in other things , could never be reclaimed though means were ufed
from time to time the beft and gentleft (in refpedto his worth and perfbn )
that could be thought of? But what talk we of particular men ? Con-
fider che Anaha^tijh in s^cnev^}. Above an hundred years ago chey croybled
Germany \cry much: it coft many thoulands their lives. They roved up and
down. No looner deftroyed in one place but they fprung (whilefl: that lea-
Ibn laftcd) in another. Their pretences every where were the fame • (?^«-.
Velations and the Spirit : the wickednefs ot Princes and Magiftrates , and
Chrijljijiis to he jet up in his Throne. Well, at la ft they were deftroyed in moft
pl^es. Stories of them have been written in all Languages, read every
where, and their lamentable end. Can all this hinder but that upon every
opportunity ol a confuted and confounded Government, they ftarc up a-
gain m the fame Ihape and form as before ; the fame pretences, the (ame Scri-
ptureSjfor all the world,milerably detorted and abuled, to raiie tumults and
ledicions in all places. Such is the wretchedncfs of man that is once out oE
the right way of Rcalon and Sobriety. But withall we rauft (ay in this
particular cafe of Dr. Vees^ though his obftinacy was great and marvellous,
yet it muft be acknowledged, that great was i\iz diUgefKe and fubtility of his
Spirits to keep their hold : and (ome things fometimes happened ( as his
danger and prefervation about Cra'vefend^ when he firft , here related, went
out of the Realm) very {lrangcly,and fuch was the unhappinels of his mif-
applycd zeal, that he made a Providence of whatloever hapned unto him
asnedehred.
So much for Dr. Dee himfelf. But of his Spirits a greater queflion per-
chance may be moved: If evil wicked, lyins Spirits (as we have reafon
E %
"'^'^^
CO-
The TTS^SF ACE.
u
to believe , and no man I think will queftion ) how Came they to be fuch
perfwaders'to Piety and godlinefs, yea, fuch preachers of Chrift, his Incar-
nation, his Pafhon, and other Myftenes ot the Chriftian Faith, not only
by them here acknowledged, bat in fome places very Scholaftically fet out
and declared' ? It fcemeth fomewhat contrary to reafon and as contrary to
the words of our Saviour, Byery Kingdom divided agatn/l it /elf, Scc^ But
firfl: to the matter of fad : The Divels we know even in the Gofpel did
acknowledg, nay, in tome manner proclaim Chrift to be the Son ofGod :
which is the main Article he did gonteft with Chrift by Scripture Autho-
rity- and by S.*P^M/i teilimony, can transform hi mfelf, when he lift into
an Anc^el of light. And in fome relations well atteftcd, of Pofleftions
and publickExorcifms that have been ufed; wegnd the Divel often fpcak-
ing by the mouth of women, vuha like a Monk out of the Pulpit ,
per-
fwading to temperance, rebuking vices, expounding ofmyfteries ,
and the
like then as one that were an enemy to truth and godlinels. Infomuch
that fome have been ready to make a great myftery and triumph of it,
thereby to convia Hereticksand Atheifts, in time, more effcdually , then
they have been by any other means that have been uled hitheito : and af-
cribincT the whole bufinefs not to the Divel himielf, but the great power
and Providence of God^ as forcing himagainft his will to beaninftrumenc
of his Truth. For my part, I fee cauie enough to believe that fuch things,
the re contained at large, might come from the Divel ; that is, might tru-
ly and really be fpoken by perfons poflefied and infpired by the Divel.
But that they are impleyed by God to that end, I fhall not eafily grant.
I rather fufped that whatioever comes from them in that kind, though it
be good in it ielf, yet they may have a mifchievousend in it- and that I
believe will Toon appear if they can once gaincfomuch credit among men
as CO be believed to be lent by God to bear teftimony to the truth. A man
.may fee fomewhat already by thole very Relations , and that account that is
given us there. And therefore I do not wonder if even among the more
Ibber Piipifts this projeit (as the relater and publiOier complaineth; hath
found oppofition. The Divel is very cunning ;
a notable Polititian. 5.
^aul knew him fo, and therefore he ufes many words to fet out his frauds.
Hecan lay. the foundation of aplot, if need be, ahundred years before the
effeds fliali appear. But then he hath his end. It is not good truftingof
him, or dealing with him upon any pretence. Can any man fpeak bet-
ter then he doth by the mouth of Anabaptifts and Schifmaticks ? And this
hewiil dofor many years together if need be, that they that at firft flood
pff may be won by time. But let them be once abiolute maft^rs ,
and
then he will appear in his own fhape. There is one thing which I Won-
der much more at in thofe Relations I have mentioned ,
and that is, that
the Divel himfclf fliould turn fuch a fierce accufer: of chepi that haVe
ferved him fo long. Witches and Magicians. I know he aoth^here fo too
in fome kind , in more then one place. He doth iii'uch inveigh agiinft
Divels «nd all that have to do with them ,
Magicians, Sec. But that is
in general only, or in IQlley's particular cale , upon whom he had a-
notha: hold , which he made more reckoning of•, to-'wit , as he ap-
peared
The T^BFAC^'
peared to them as an Angel of light. Any thing to maintain his interefl.
there, and their good opinion of him ;
for he had great hopes from that
plot. But that he fliould purfue fb ridgedly particular men and women
whom he had ufed fo long, to death, and do the part of an informer a-
gainfl: them , may feem more like unto a Kingdom divided againft it lelf,
but it is not our cafe here ;
neither am I very well fatisfied , that whac-
fbever the Divcl faith or layesto the charge of them by whol^ mouth he
fpeaketk , ought to be received for good teilimony. Here it may hcWierim
had fome reafon ,- for I doubt ibme have been too credulous. But this by
the way fliall iuffice.
That the Divel fliould lie often, orbe miftakenhimfelf, in his Troche-
cieSj as by many particuiars of this Relation will appear , I wall not look
upon that, as if any objediion could be mad^of it. But it may be won-
dred ,
perchance , Dr. Dee being often in lb great "^anc of monks ,
that he
did not know which way to turn^ what fhitt to make ; at which time
be did alwayes with much humility addrefs hinafelf to his Spirits, making
his wants known unto them • and the Divel on the other fide ,
both by
his ownboalbng, and by the teftimonieof thole whocould not lie, having
the goods of this world (though ftiU under God) much at his difpofing ,
and alwayes, as he feemed, very delirous to give Dr. 'Dee all polTible fatis-
fa^lion that in this cale , once or twice perchance excepted, when the
Dr. was well furniilied (for which the Spirits had his thanks) at all other
times he was flill , to his very great grief and perplexity , left to himfelf
to fhift as he could, and fome pretence, why not otherwile fupplyed, cun-
ningly deviled by them that were lb able, and to whom he was io dear.
But I miift remember my felf; I laid fo ablej but in fome places his Spi-
rits tell him plainly. It was not in their power , becaufe no part of their
Commilsion, or becaule it did not belong unto them (fuch as dealt with
him,) to meddle with the Trcafurcs of the earth ; and (ometimes that
they were things beneath their cognizance or intermedling. Of the diffe-
rent nature of Spirits, we fliall lay ibmcwhat by and by^ that 'may have
>^mc relation to this alio, perchance. But granting that the Divel gene-
rally hath power enough both to find mony and to gratific with it where
,he feeth caufe. Yet in this cale of Witches and Magicians, dired: or in-
dire^^t , it w ttfiMm and obfaved by many as an argument of Gods great TroVidence
oyer men^ thatgenerally he hath not : It is in very deed a great Argument of a
fuperiour over-ruling power and Providence. For it men ot all ptofef-
fions will hazard (their Souls) fo far as we lee daily to get money and
cftates by indired: unconfcionable wayes , though they are not alwayes
Hire , andthat it be long oftentimes before itcomes,, and oftentimes prove
thpir ruine^ even in this world, through many cafualties ; as alterations
^.of times, and the like : what would it be if it were in the power of the
.;P. to help every one that came unto him, yielding but to Inch and fuch
r;;Condit!ons, according as they Cv^v^Ul agree i
Hitherto I have confidered what I thought might be objeded by others-
I have one obje^ion tnore, vvl.lca to me was more conlidcrable (as an obje-
ction, I mean, not Co readily anfweredj then all the reft : Devils , we think
gene
'The 'P\EFACB,
generally, boch by their nature as Spirits, and by the advantage of loijg
experience Tavjery great advantage indeed in point of knowledgj cannot but
have perfed knowledg of all natural things, and all fecrets of Nature, which
do not require an infinite underftanding; which by that meafureofknoWc-r>
ledge that even men have attained unto in a little time, is not likely to bf
foneceflary in moft things. But left any man fhould quarrel at the word
^erfeB becaufe all perfedion belongs unto God properly, it fhall fuificq^
t« fay, That the knowledge Divels have of things Natural and Humane-
is incomparably greater then man iscapableof. If fo, how comes it tc>^
pafs that in many places of this Relation we find him ading his part rathe,^
as a Sophifter ( that I fay npt a Juggler) then aperfed Philofopher,- as -a
Quack, or anEmpirick lometiimes, then a True, genuine Naturahft. And
for language (nottofpeak oi his Divinity, which he might difguiie of pui-.
pofc to his own ends) rather as one that had learned Latin by reading of bai;-:'
barous books, of the middle age, for the moft part, then of one chat had beer^^
oi Augufiui his^ time, and Iq^ng before that. But that which is ftrangeft ofall
is, that as in one place the Spirits were difcovered by Ed. IQlley to fteal out of.
Jqrippa or rnr/^ew«M4 (fo he thought at leaftj fo in divers other places, by thf;
'
phrafe, and by the doctrine and opinions a man may trace noted Chymicat
and Cabahftical Authors of later times j
yea, (if Ibe not muchmiftaken)
and fardceljus him(elf,that prodigious creature, for whom and againft whom
fo much hath been written fince he livedj thefe things may lecmftrange, but
I think they may be anfwered. Forfirft, we lay, ThcDivdis notambicious
to fhew himfelf and his abilirie? before men, but his way is (fo obferved by
many) tofithimfelf (for matter and words) to the genius and capacity of
thofe that he dcalech with. Dr.D^?, ofhimfelf, long before "any Apparition,
was a Cabali ftical man , up to the ears, . as I may lay 5
.as may appear to any
man by his i\fo/Wi Hmogly^hka^ a book much valued by himfelf, and by him
Dedicated at thefirft to Maxmilwit]it Emperor, and iince prefented (as here
related by himlelf)to (]{odolphe as a choice piece. It may be thought fo by thofe
who efteem luch books as Dr. FW, Dr. Jlabafier, and oflate Gafarell^ and the
liRe. For my part I have read him 5
itisfoon don, itisbutahttlebook : but
I muft profefs that I can extrad no fcnfe nor reafon (found and folid) out of
it: neither yet doth it feemto me very dark or myftical. Sure we are that
thofe Spirits did a6l their parts fo well with Dr.Dcf, that for the moft part(in
moft At^ions) they came off with good credit; and we find the Dr. every
where almoft extolling his Spiritual teachers and inftruders, and prayfing
God for them. Little reafon therefore have we to except againft any thing(in
this kind) that gave him content, which was their aim and bufinel^s.
Secondly ^l^zy^ Ifany thing relifh here oiTrithenmsoifaracdfusfix:iny^nc\\^
well may we concludc*from thence, that the Divel is like himfelf. This is the
jrucft inference. It is he that infpired Tritbemius and Taracelfus^Scc. that (peak-
cth here; and wonder yc if he fpeaks like them ? I do not exped that all
men will be of my opinion; yet I fpeak no 'Paradoxes : I have both reafon
and authority good and plaufible, I chink, for what I lay ;
but to argue the
cafe at large would be tedious. Of Irithmm fomewhac more atterwards will
be faid. But we rauft go far beyond that time. A thoufand years and above,
before
The 9'I{8F A QS.
beForeeitherof them was born, was che BookOf Enoch wellknowniri
the world ;
and rhen al(o was Lmgm Mami{u^on which twomoft of the
Cabala (lands) much talked or,a$ appears hy Greg.lSitffm his learned books a-
gainfl: Eunomius the Fhrerick. To Ipcak more particularly (becaufe Co much ot
it in this RelacionUhe BookOf Enoch was written before Chrift- and ic
isthoughtbyfome very learned (though dcnyed by others) that it is tlievciy
book that S.JWe intended. A great fragment of it in Greekfit was written in
Hebrew firft) is to be feen in Scali^er, (that incomparable man, the wonder of
his Age, if not rather of all Ages) his learned Notes upon Eufebius . it waS Co fa-
mous a book anciently that even Heathens took notice ofit, and grounded
uponitobjcdionsagainftChriftians. It may appear by Onge?i againftCV//Hx
in his book 5./?. 275- n^fv J'i .ruyKixvfxmf (faith he) irlnTifi 'JS, iMHrorar xe?* af6j«-!Tov«
•T^Afur i^i]iiftiTi9n9-i%' d9fctvdro< JAflsiTH itf ivriv , diri ISv \f ']a ^Tti-)r yiy^AiXfjiyay artva. Ivf ivrif
(^atviTui arayvovi , IvSi yva^irof^oTi iy 'Jaif EKKMfiaii; ou Taci/ f 4psT<t/ a( S^la. 7« Wiyiyfen/.iJLii»11 Ecav
fi,^Ki*. But S. Jerome zn^ S. Mguflin fpeak ofit more peremptorily as a fabulous
book, and not allowed by the Church. How much of it is extant , befides
what we have in Scdiger^ I know not 5
nor what part ic is Co often mentioned
in this Relation. By what I have feen it doth appear to me a very fuperfliti-
ous,foolifli, fabulous writing; or to conclude all in one word, Cabaliflical,
fuch as the Divel might own very well, and in all probability was ftie author
olF. As for that conceit of the tongue which was fpokeri by Muryi in Para'
difc,wc have already laid that it is no late invention j and I make noquefli-
on but it proceeded from the fame Author. Yea, thofc vety Chara6ters com-
mended untoDr.D^-e by \i\s Spirits for holyandmyflical, and the original
Charaders (as I take it) of the holy tongue, iLjy ^le no other,for the moft pare
but fuch as were fet put and publiflied long agoe by one Thefeiis Jmbrofits cue
of Magical books,ashimrelfprofcfTeth : you (hall have a view of them in
fome of the Tables at the c»dof the Preface. Some letters are the fame, others have
much rcfemblace in the fubflance ; and in tranfcribing it is likely they might
differ fome alteration. But it may be too the Spirits did not intend they fhould
be taken for the fame, becaufe exploded by learned men, and therefore altered
tht forms and figures of moft of them of purpofe that they might fcem new,
and take the better. So that in all this the Divel is but ftill conftant unto him-
felf,and this conftancy ftands him in good ftead,toadd the more weight and
to gain credit to his Impoftures. Not to be wondred therefore if the fame
things be found elfewhere , where the D. hath an hand.
With Cabaliftical writings we may joyn Chymical^ here alfo mentioned m
many places. I have nothing to fay to Gj;«//?rif as ic is meerly natural , and
keeps It felf within the compafs offobriecy.It may wel go forapartofPhylick,
for ought I know, though many great Phyficians, becaufe of the abule and
danger of it, as I conceive, have done their beft (formerly) to cry it down. I
my lelf have feen ftrange things done by it: and it cannot be denycd but the
wonders of God and Nature are as eminently vifiblc in the experiments of
that Arc as any other natural thing. Tlumver^itisnot improbable that diyers fecrets
^bf it came to the knowledg of man by the %eyelation of Spirits. And the pra(5tice and
profeffion of ic in moft (them efpecially that profefs nothing elle) is accom-
panied with fo much Superftition and Impofture, as iti would make a lober
man^thattendrechthcprefervation ofhimfelf in his right wits, to be afraid 01
ic*
The T %E FACE.
h. Ofthe IriViJmutattono^MetalsJ
what may be done by Art I will not take
upon me to determine : lam apt enough to believ5that fome ftrange thmgs
(inthatkmd)maybec3one,ifa man will gotothecoftofit, and undergoeche
trouble upon lo much uncertainty of the event. buL ilidrrwhich w,c call ordi-
narily ,and moft underltand by it/Che fhylofopheys Stone^is certainly a meer cheat,
the iiril: author <ind inventor whereof was no other then the Divel. ' Legi ttf
am Spirituumfiipemonon rCVelatiofie traditam anti^uitm at Urn faciendi Auri^is- nie dta-
uUtm uju eyefiijje^&cc. faith one {Jo.Franc.fkus Mirandula) of the Jearnedif Ah-
th'ors that I have feen of that fubjedt, in defence ofit, I meant. If1^ mean Sa-
perHosSpirkus^ luch as appear in form of Angels of Light,luch as deluded Dr.
X)e(?, and daily doththoie that hunt after (?(eVe/df/o?n, and Prophecies, and un-
lawful Curiofities, I grant it.DuLthdLany good Angels did ever meddle in a
prA<5tice commonly attended with fo much importure, impiety, coufenagc as
this commonly is, I Ihallnoteafily graflt. Though 1 mult add, I make great
difference (if we willipeak properly; between Ars faciendi aun (a thing I do
not deny to be feafible by natural means^and that we call the fhylo/opbers Stone^
as bciore already ii'itimated. And for that objection of his, why evil Spirits
flioiild not bethe Authors or revealers of it unto any (though otherwife for
.fome otiler reafons he thinks it probable) becauie it is not likely that God
iwpuldfufFerf/;«M to give fuch power unto men like themlelves, whom only
among men they favour and refped:, that is, wicked ungodly men. Firft, (
anfwer^That is a vgry weak objc(5tion,rince we know by conftant experience
of prefcnt and future Ages, thatthey arenotof the beltof men commonly
tlut are the greatelf and richeft. But Secondly, There is no great caufc to fear
that any thing hitherto revealed (or hereafter to be revealed, I believcj ofthis
iecret, Ihould enable men (goodorbadj to do much hurt in the world.The
.crreateifhurt is to themlelves who are deluded (yea,and beggerdmany firfton
laft) and to fome few not very wile whom they coufen as themlelves have
been coufened And for this that they can do riomore, we are beholding
not to the Divel who certainly would not be wanting to himfclf or to any
opportunity to do mifchief byhimlelf or his Agents, but to God who doth
not give him the power: So much to Mrdw^w/^ , out of my refpetfJ: to his
name, and tor the better fati 5 fadion to the Reader. I owe the fight and u(e
ofthe book to m.y Learned friend Dr.Windett before mentioned—. I am much
confirmed in that opinion (of the Divel being the Author) by what I find of
it in the bock which hath given me this occafion to Ipeak of it. Were there
nutui.ig, vlic but the grjIs and .impudent forgeries that have been ufed to com-
mend it unto men, fome entituling the invention to yfdam himfelf, others to
So/owo;/,and the like j
and the many books that have been counterfeited to the
fame end^and again the moft ridiculous and profane applying & expounding
of Scriptures,a thing ufually done by moft that are abettors of it,thofe things
were enough to make a man to abhor it. Sure enough it is,that not oply Dr.
Z^t'e, but others alio who had part of that precious Tot^der brought unto them by
Spirits^ and expeded great matters of it, were all cheated and gulfd (and I be-
lieve it coft fome of them a good deal of money ;
Ttince T{oj'emberg particular-
ly) by thole Spiritual Chymifts. Let them confider of it that have been deal-
ing in luch things as they fljall lee caiife.
The Trefnce,
So ilill wc fee, that in all thefe things, a'= we faid before, the Divel is not be-
holding to others, (as might be(ufpc6tcd) but others ha\c been beholding to
him: As for his Divinity, i nhighcft pomes, if he fpakc the truth, it was for
his own ends, as we faid before : He can do it, who makes any quellion ?
In contro\ crted points, wc may obferve, chat he doth fer've thefcene aod prefcnc
occafion i
and I make no queil;on,but had Dr. Dee^onc to ConjiantinopleiZnd
been entertained there with refpcd:, his Spirits there would ha\ c fliewed them-
felves as good Mahometans^ as clfewhere good Roman Catholicks^ or Troteftants.
We have fomewhere a very pretty Tale, (I would fay a curious Obfervation
if I thought it true) concemingthenature of the Serpen tor Addar, handfomly
cxpreflcdj how flie tra'neth her yong ones to fct them out abroad into the world
that they may (hift for themfelv es. Twenty days, as I remember, are foent in
that work: Now whether it be {^o really^, I cannot fay certainly, but I fufped:
it. It is not in Ariflotle^ and I looked in Aldroi/andffs^ and I could not findc
it: But whctheritbcfo or no, let no body wonder; forthis was the maner of
Preaching formerly (and may be yet perchance in fome places) amiOng Monki
and Fryars in great requeft. They would make a ftory of Man, or Bcafts, as
they thought fit themiclves, and their Fancies belt ferved ; pretty and witty, as
much as they could j whether it had any ground of truth, or no, no man re-
quired ; Thc.moralization was good. If the Divel have done fo here it was
not through ignorance (for he is too good a Naturalift; and I believe there is
fomewhat even in Nature, though we know it not, why both in facred and pro-
phanc H:ftory, Spiritsand Serpents are (b oftenjoy ncd) of which is true and
real; buias hath been faid, it Icrvcd his turn, and that is enough. And al-
though, having confidcred it as an Objcdlion, how the Divel comethto fpeak
fomuch truth, as will be found in this Book; no man, I think, will expcd I
ftiould give an account of any falfc Doctrine or Divinity, that ic rqay
contain: Yet one point I think fit to take notice of, and proteft againft it ; as
falfe, erronious, and of dangerous confcqucnce , and that is, where ic is
faid, That 4 wd« (in fome cafes) may kill another man (Vrinceor other") without
apparent canfe, or lawful Authority, and therefore pnnifhable by the Laws of
Man 5
who ne^erthelefs^ may expeB a great reward at the hands ofGod for his
aB : HJ w this may agree with the Principles of New Lights, and Anabaptifti-
cal Divinity, I know not; it is very contrary to the Principles of that Ortho-
dox Divinity, lately profcfTcd and cftabhfhed by Law in £«g/^ff^/.
I have^now faid in this main Objediion, (as I apprehended it) what I think
was molt proper and pertincnt,and I hope may fatiffie. But I have fbmewhat clfe
to Dy, which in this cafe of Di'vels and Spirits in general, I think it \ery confi-
derable, and may fatisfie perchance, in (omc cafts, where nothing elfe can.
We talk of Spirits, and read of Spirits often, but I think it is \ery litde
that we know (thebeft ofusall) of them, oftheir nature or dififercnces : And
how then can it be expeded that we Aiould refolve all doubts ? And though I
think it is not much that any man ever knew and rightly apprehended, or can,
as he is a man, in this bufinefs ; yet my opinion is, (though I know it is much
gainfaidand oppofed) that ancient Tlatonick Phylofophcrs of the latter
times, underftood much more then moft ChriRians; I do not write this,
as though I thought, or would have any thought by others to be the worfc
ehrillians for being ignorant in thefe things ; but rather, in my opinion, any
F maw
7 he Treface,
man thcbettcr Chrlftian,by much, who dgth not regard it or dcfire ic : For my
part, although I mail acknowledge that fomc fcriiples of my minde,did induce
mcto lock into many Book ,, unc 1 1 wasfatisficd, which otherwifel liad never
done i
yet I profcf^ to believc,ihat it ib (o little that can be known by man jn this
fubiedt, andfubiedt to fo muchillufion, as that I think no Rudy ismore\ain
and foolifti i
and that I would noBgo three i\cp^ out of my doors (more then
what Ididtofatisfie myminde in fomc matters of Faith, if anyluch fcruplc
didari(e) roknowasmuchasthcprofoundcilPlatonick. or Phylofopher yea,
or Magician oF them all ever knew. Certainly hcis buta weakChrilliaii, when
fo many high Myftcries are propofed unto us in ChriTi: by his Gofpel, and of io
much conlcqucncc, that cannot beilow his time better: They that ha\ cany
hopes, through Faith in Chrift, and a godly life, to be admitted one day into
the prcfenccof God, and to fee face to face, asGodliath promircd ; will they
hazard fo o-forious a hope, by prving through unfcafonable, unprofitable curiofi-
ty, into the nature of thcfc vaffd Spirits, which God hath forbidden : But be-
caule it doth concern Relig'on in general, that we bdicc Spirits ; and when
Objedtions arc made that cannot be anfwered, m.any arefcandaiized,and Athc-
ifts ready to take the ad\ antage of it ; I fay, that it ftjould be no wonder to any,
fober and rational, if we cannot refolve all doubts, fince it is fo httle that we
know orcatiknow^ beyond the bare o'-r' in this matter: MoiliChriftians are
bred in and to this opinion, that all Spirits, (fo commonly called) are cither An-
<Tels of Heaven; or Di^ els of Hell: I know no Scripture for if, or dctennina-
fion of any general Councel, that I remember, at this time at Icaft, and fo long
I do notthink my felfbound againft apparent realon ; For the conceit ofall eml
Spirits or Di'vels being in'HeU, I think learned Mr, Meade hath tak^nthattQ
task^ infome of hin Worfy, andfnfficiently confuted it : The very^ word Spirit,
is 4 term of great Ambiguity ; We undcrlfand by it, commonly, fubftances,'
that arc akoc^ether immaterial. Many ofthe ancient Fathers, it is well known,
did not allow of any fuch at all, befidcs God : But we think that to have no vi-
fible Body, and to be purely immaterial, is all one ;. God knows how many
deforces there maybe between thcfc but we cannot know it; neither doth ic
concern our falvation, for which we have reafon to praife God: But if ic
were fo, that all Sj?/r/>j" are either Divels or Angels,, what Qiall we make of
thcfc that are found in mines, of which learned As^ricola hath written ; of
ihofe that have been time out of mindc called ^u'/S^Ao/, (from whence pro-
bably, as wc have faid clfewhcre, Gobelin in Englifti is derived) who live in
private Houfes, about old Walls, and Ifaiks of Wood, harmlefiotherwifc, bun
very thievifli, fo frequent and fo known m fuiuc Countrcys, that a man may as
well doubt whether there be any Horfes in Unglandy becaufc there are none
in fomc parts of the World ; not found in all America, I think, till fomc were
carried thither : Neither can I believe, that thole Spirits that pleafe themfelves
in nothing clfc but harmlefs (ports and wantonncfTe, fuch as have been known
in all Ages 5 fuch as did ufe to (have the hairs of Flinim Secimdm his Ser-
vants in the Night, ashimfelf relates (a very creditable man, I am fure) in his
Epiltles, and the like; that fuch Spirits, I fay, have any relation either to
Heaven or to Hell : We might infifl: in more particulars-, but wc do not dcfirc
to dwell upon it at this time j and there is yet fomewhat clfe to be (aid : And
what
t
.
l^he Treface,
what I have faid of fome Platonicks, I did not intcud thereby to juftificall
their abfurd or fuperftitious Opinions in this Argument of Spirits: As they
have fcarchcd farther into it then others (befides damnable experience, havino-
confouiided Magickwith Phylofophy, yea ahr.oft turned all Phylofophy in-^
toMagick) fo it was confequent, they would fall into moreHrrors and Ab-
furditiesi yet withal, they have found fomcwhac that doth better agree with
daily experience, .then what is comrtionly known or believed. Stnefms w^s
a Bi&op, but as he doth appear to us in his Writings^, a better Platonick then
a Chriftian : In a place (in his Treatifc De infotnniis) he fheweth how evil Spi-
rits come to inhabit men, and to pofTefle their Brains: H s terms are very
courfe, and apparantly ridiculous j but there ir.ay be fome truth in the Opini-
on : For if there were not a 'very near and intimate conjunBion^ it ratre to he
vpondercd hon> the Di'vel comes to h^ow the 'very thoughts of Witches and Ma-
gicians^ as ii found by experience^ a'verred by more then one : And in thk 've-
ry Booh^ if I be not mi^aken^ fomervhat.may be obfer'ved to that pnrpofe : It
is pojpble there may be more kindes of pofffjion then one^ and thatfome men^
that ne'ver were fftjpe^edy have had a jpirit (beftdes their own) ' reftdent jn
themJ
ally or moU part of their li'ves^
, I have done, with what I could think of, vpon which objection can be
made : The next thing is, to make the way clearer to the Reader, by fonie con-
fideration of the method of the Books., and explanation of fome terms and
phrafcs there ufed, at which perchance Tome may ftickat the firfl: : At the very
beginning a man may be to feck, it the Title of ir. Liberfexti myfterioruntj ^
fanBi paraUelus^ no'valifque. 1583. both as it relates to that which follow, and
as It reHedts upon fomewhat before, by which it may be inferred that the boc k
begins hercabruptly andimperfedly : of this I am new ready togive an account
to the Reader, and it is yery fit it fkoiild be done.
• Firft concerning Titles, fuchas will be found here many more befidcs thH
the whole book, or relation being fubdividcd into many parts 3 in general I
fiy, thataccordingtotJicDodiors genius (we havcfaid before He was veryCrf-
baliftical, that iSj full of whimfies and crotchets, under the notioiiof iMyderics,
a thing that fome very able, otherwife, have been fubjcct unco) and the h'gh
opinion he had of thcfc a(5ttons and apparitions j they are moftly very conceal-
ed, and (to fpeak the truth) phanraftick, which muft make them the Obfcu-
rer: I could give the Reader a view of them all here put together, but it
would be (uperfluous: There be (omc fourteen or fifteen Divifions in all now
remaining, and Co many Titles
:
' There is a Table at the beginning, that doth
refer to the beginning of every divifion, where the Title alfo will be found:
But at the end of the viii. DmCion, I finde thefe words, SeqnitHr liber 24. qtn
hac die etiam inceptus efly a meridie : horam circiter tertiam, per ipfitm La-
*vanael: But I finde nothing 'ollowing, (biit fome vacant (beets, tiilwc come
to the ix. Divifion, Myjieri&rnm pragenfnm, d^c. And the laft Di' ifion hath
onelyifome tables, and before them, fome five or fix pages of unknown my-
flical words, which we know not what to make of; but of that more aftefr
wartfs: The main bufinefs tobercfolvedhere(asItakeit^ is what it is that we
have, and what wc have not, fo far as caii be gathered by what reraaineth 5
we (hall fee what wccan fay to it» In they ear of the Lord, One thoufand five
hundred
^he Treface.
hundred eighty four, September the third, (being a Monday) Dr. Pee fir it ap-
peared (being prcfentcd by Honorable perlons, and cf>pedcd) before the Em-
peror Rodolph. Among other things he then told him, that for thefe two
years and a half, Cods holy Angels had ttfedto inform him : Our Book^ or firft
Adtionhere, bcginncth 2 8M^j, 1583. According to this reckoning, it muft
be, that above a year and three Moneths before, began the firft Apparition;
The account then of fifteen Moneths from the firft Apparition, we want : How
much (in bulk^ that might come to, I cannot tell ; neither will I warrant all
perfcdtfrom this i8 of M<y, 1583 to the fourth of April 1587. though for
thcmofl part the coherence is right enough to that time : But from thence to
the twentieth of March, i^°7* is a vafl chafma or hiatn^^ of no lefs then twenty
years; How this hath happened, I cannot tell certainly j what I gucfs, is this,
(bme years after Dr. DffJ- death ( ) SiiKohert Cotton hon^i\iis
Library (what then remained of it) with his Magical Table, (of which after-
wards) and the Ori^z«^/ Manufcripty written With his own hand, whereof
this is a Copy : The Book had been buried in the Earth, how long, years or
moneths, I know nor 5 but fo lorg, though it was carefully^ kept fince, yet
it retained fo much of the Earth, that it began to moulder and perifti fome
years ago, which when Sir Thomas C. (before mentioned) obferved, he was
at the charges to have it written out, before it (houldbe too late : Now full fif-
ty yearsj or not many wanting, being paflcd fince this Original came to Sic
Robert, it is very likely, that had any more in all that time been heard of, Sir
Robert^ or Sir Thomas, his Son and Heir, would have heard of it, and got
it as foon as any body clfe : And becaufe no m.ore hath been heard of all this
while, it is more then probable that no more is extant, not in England, nor I
think any where clfe: Happily the reft might pcriflb, fome part, (it not all)
cvcnwhileft the Doctor lived j and we (hall finde in this Relation, That a
good part of his holy Book^s nvere burnedy but (which is more firange) a great
fart of them, by the help of Spirits, reco'vered and reftored: Or it may bcj,
that fince his death, the reft Cthe place where they lay being unknown) might
rot in the earth ; now if^ as probably no more be extanfj we may account this
that we have here, in that refped: perfe(ft, becaufe here is all that can be had.
But if any, (as it is the nature of many, if not moft, rather to defire that
which cannot be had, then to content thcmfclvcsw'th that which may) (hall
much lament the lofs of the reft, and be lefs pleafed with this, becaufe {o
much (though indeed we know not certainly whethetmuch or litde) is want-
ing 5 I would defire them to j:onfider with thcmfelvcSj in cafe there had been
twice or thrice as much more as all this comes tooj what fhould have been
done with it ? For my pirt^ for fo much as is here fet out (all we had) I
thought it would do beft, though fomewhat long, yet as a thing very extraor-
dinary, and of great confequence to many good purpofes and ufcsi I thought,'
I fay, it would do bed. to have it all Printed; Yet we had fome confiderati-
on about it, and it may be fbmc others would have thought that \t{s might
have fcrved the turn : But I hope more will be of my minde, and there be
but few adtioBs but alFord fomewhat that is extraordinaryjand for fome refpedt
or other obfcrvabic and ufeful 5 Howfocverj I am confident, if all had been
extant) (fiippofing that the reft would have made much miore) that none or
very
The Trefdce,
very few would have thought fictoha\elrintedall j and f ichad oncccoir:^
to a contra6tio;i or abridgcrncnc, it may be much lefs then this muft have fcr-
ve4 : It is free forall men to think as they plcafe , for my part all th'ngy con«
fidcredj 1 finde no great want tof the reft j and if I were put to it, I cannot tcH
whether I can fay, that I wifli more were extant : yjet itg \cs ncgreat content,
(and I hope there is no Blalphcray or Supcrilition in ir^ it I adfcube !t to pro-
vidence) that after that long intermilTion, or hiatus, we have )cc the lait Adti-
onsof aHj whereby it might appear, after many goodly flicws and pron H(:y^. fo
much hope'and e\pe6tation ; To many Prayers, fo many Thjiikgihe,^ and
Humiliations, what the end is of dealing with Divcls, and iifing ii cans thac
are not lawful, to compa(s ambitious unwarrantable defires. Bc(ides, be ic
more or lefs that is wanting, yet I am confident we have the ch'efei p^ns here
pre ferved ; as patt'cularly , an exad account of his addfeflcb and dealings with
the £/;//7eror,- and other great men and Princes, in the vii. and fon.c foliowing
Div'fions i and that fad ilory of their fromifcmus Copulation, under the per-
fwafionof obedience 6o God, very particularly related in the twelfth Div fi-
on ; wherein as the cunning and malice of evil Spirits, to lead away from Godj
when they moft pretend to God andgodlinefs ; Co the danger ofaffe<St.ed fin^^u-
lariiy andeniincncy, (the firft ground of all this mifchict) of Sp-ritual pride
and fclf conceit, is emincndy let out to every mans obfcrvation, that is noc
already far engaged (as in thefe times too to many) in liich Princi-
ples.
But yet neverthelefs I muft acknowledge^ that there is one paw of the ftory
wanting, which I believe by moft will be much dcfired : Forwhcrcasatthe
very beginning, mention ismadc of a Stonc^, and. that Stone not oncly there
mcnt'oned, but afterwards in every action almoft, and apparition, throughout
the whole Book to the very end, ftill occurring and commer orated as a prin-
cipal things whacitwas, and how he came by it yea and what became of it,
wouH be known, if by any means it might : All that we are able to fay of
it. s th s. If rpoo ajiofie in which-, andout of which^ by perfons that were quali -
jied for it , and admitted to the fight of it j all Shapes and Figures mentioned in
e'vcy ASiion were feen^ and voices heard: The form of it wa round, a ap-
pcarctii by Ibme courfe reprelcntat'ons of it in thcMtirgJns, as pag. 9 v5. 599.'
h. 41;} b. and itfeems to have been of a pretty bignefs : Ir Icems t wa^. moft hke
unto Cry lal, as it is called fom.etimes, as pag bo Infpe&o ChryJiaUoy and page
^ 77- b. nihil 'vifibile apparuit in Chryfiallo SacratOy practer ipfim tryfalii 'vifibi-'
li formam. livery body knows by common e:N per cnce, thac (mooth things are
iittcft. for reprefentations, as Glaffes andthelik-'i but ordinarily (uch th'ngs
onely arc rrp relented, as ftandoppofitc and are vifible in thctr fubft ance. But
it is a jeeret of Magich^(which happily may be grounded, in part at leaji, upon
fome natural reafon, not known unto us) to reprefent ObjeSis > externally not 'vi-'
fible^ infmooth things : And Roger Bacon- alias Bacun) in a M inuicr pt nlcri-
bed, DediSiisi^faSikfalforum Mathematicorum (^ Ddemonunt commnmc^Xfid
unto me by mv Learned and much efleemed Friend, D- . f^mdett Profeffor of
Phyfick in London, hath an Obfervat'on to that purpofe, in thcfc words, Hiii
Mathematicis in malitiaftt^ completis apparent Docmonesfencibilitur inform^ hu-
inank ©N aliisfornm i^ariis, ^ dicnnt ^ facmnt multa eismirabiliafecnndHin
G quod
Ihe Treface,
quod Dens permittit . AliqHando apparent huagina rie ttt in ung ue piierr 'virghm
carminati ; (^ i^ pelvibus ^ enjibus^ d^ injpathnl^ arietis fecundum mcdnm
eornm confecratk^ ^ in cittern rebus politii : i^ D^tnones ojiendunt ei^ omnia
qU(£ petunt, fecundum qmdDetts permittit. IJnde puerifw injpicientes respoli-
tas'Vtdent imagii-jarie resfurti^/e acccptas C^ ad qttem locum deportatxfum^ <^
qu<£ perfofi.e afportai^erunt j (j;^ ficde alii^^wultis^doeMones apparcntes omnia h^c
illis pejus oflfndunt.
Joach. Camerarius (that worthy man before fpoken of ) in his Proemium tt)
Tlmarch, DeOraenliSj d^c, hath a Ibange Story upon the credit of a friend of
his whom he much rcfpected (as himfelf profcfleth) for his Piety and Wifdoin,
AGKntleroan q{' Norlmbergh^d a Cryflal (how he came by ic/is there to be
read) which had this \'ertuc; Si qua de re certiorfieri 'vellet^ c^c if hedefired
to know any thing pall or future, that concerned hiir, yea, or any other (in
molt things^ let a young Boy (Cajinm, orc -that was noc.yct of Age, d^c*)
look nto it, hefhouldfirft fee a man in it, (band fo apparelled, and afterwards
what he defircd : No other but a Boy, fo qualifiedj could fee any thisig in it.
This Qryftal became very faii^ous in thofe parts i yeafoJLc leafiicd men came
to it tobefatisfiedin doubtful points, andhad their quel lions rcfolvcd : Yetat
Uft, (as Well itdcfcrved) it was broken in pieces by Camerarius hh Friend.
Many fiich flor'es are to be found of Magical Stones and Cryllals: And though
VerneliuSi De abditis rerum caufis; and after him (as I rcn ember) one, in
worth and cfteem of all men, not inferior to Fernelius, Dr. Har'vey-, I.;tcly de-
ceafed, uirns the relation of a ilrange ftone brought to one of the late Kings of
France, into an Allegory, or Phyficai explication of the power and proprieties
of the Element of Fire j yet I am not fatisfied, but that the relation might be
literally true : For fo it is, (as I remember here alfo, for I have none of thole
Books by me at this time) related by Thuanus, and fo by feme othcrsj very
learned, underilood.
Nowforthemaner how he came byir, the particulars of the ftory cannot
be had by this here prcfer/ed, butonely this in general, That it was brought
unto hi;n by fomc, whom he thought to be Angels : So we findc him telling
the EmperorJ
That the Angels of God had brought to him a Stone of that <value^
that no earthly Ki/rgdoin is of that worthinef^^ as to be compared to the fertue or
dignity thereof. Page 171, in his conference with Dr. Curts, appointed by the
Emperor to treat with him 3 andalfo let himfee theJione brought me by Angeli-
calMiniJiery : And we findc this Note recorded, [Prague, Tuefday 25 Sep-
tembris. Invent to Dinner to the Spanifti Ambaflador, and carried with me the
Stone brought me by an Angel, and the fourth Boob^ wherein the manerofthe
bringing of it is exprejfed.] Aad for the ufe of the Stone, befidc-. what hath
hten faid, this is obfervable : Some Spirits being in fight of JE. if. our of the
Stone, Dr. Dee would have the Stone brought forth, butE. A", faid. He had
rather fee them thus, out of the Stone; to which the Dodtor replies, That in
the Stone they had warrant that no n?ich^d Spiritsfhould enter ; but without the
Stone iUuders might deal with them, unlej? Godpre'vented it, ^c^ From which
paffagc alfo we may learn, as from divers Withers in the Book that although the
ftonc (as we faid before) was theplacc, in which, and out of which, ordinari-
lyj moll; Apparitions were framed, yet it was not fo always ; For we (hall meet
with
T^he Treface.
with divers things in that kindc that wercfcen and heard^ withojt any reference
to the Stone : From the fame place alfo wc may learn, that the faid Stone was
the fame he alfo called the Sherv-Jione ; as in many places bcfides. However^
it is certain enough that he had more Stones then one, wh ch he accounted fa-
cred j ohfcryM^rincipal Stone^and this other Stone ; 'yifirji SanBifiedStone^ nfti-
aI Sherv-ft07^ ^nd Holy-ftone, itiay be thought oppcfed and different j but I
underlland it otherv*jfc: This is the account wc can give of this principal
Holy-Stone. And to liipply the defcdt of the mancr how it was brought to
him, the Reader, if heplcafeymayfinde fomiefatisfa^tion, if he read the /;/<j«er
hovp it rras tah^n away, andreftoredy very particularly fet down, as before (up-
on another occafion) was obfervcd.
Befidcsthis5'f(?«(;or5'/(7«ex, there are divers other facrcd things mentioned,
that belongcd-coth'spcrfonatcd Sanduary, but nothing more frcqujpntly mien-
tioncd then Curtains', a. Curtain or Vaily as it is fometimcs calico . A man
would think at fir if, perchance, ihatit wasfomewhat outward, but it will be
found otherwife ; it was fecn in the Stone, and appeared of different forms and
colours, as they that read will quickly finde.
Next unto thcfcthc Holy Table is chiefly conCderable, ordcriiag of it is re-
ferred to Dt'Dee, which hedarlt not take upon himfclf^ until he had war-
rant from his Spiritual Teachers : This Table, which may well be called Ma-
gical, is prefervcd and to befeen in Sir Thomas Cottons Library, (from whence
we had thercR) and byhisleave ishcrcrcprefentcd inabrafs Cutj mention is
made of it, as I take it, where Dr. D^e propofeth to hisTeachersj Whether
}he Table (for the middle crofs of uniting the 4 principal parts') be madeperfeSi
cr m : You may fee more of it, it is alfo called League Table, Table ofCo'venant,
vtenfa foederis in fome piaces
:
" The Pedefial of it is mentioned in two or three
places, and in:leed a very curious Frame belonging unto it-, yet to be fcen in the
faid L'brary. But I know not what to make of that^ neither Nalu: nor the Ta-
ble appeareth ', and the roundTable or Globe appeared not. I bciieve it imifl be
underllood of fomcwhat that had appeared bcfo.re in the flone. The Reader ,
that will be fo curious, by careful reading may foon finde it out j I was not
willing to bellow too much time upon it.
But here remainetha main buhncfs whereof wc are to give an account to
the Reader; There were many Tables or Schemes at the end of the Bock,
containing Letters, a.b. e.&'C. difpofed into little fquares, with an Infcrip-
tion over each Table in that unknown Charader (b.efore fpokenof) exprciled
inufial Letters how it (hould be read^ There is one for a Specimen here at
the end of the Preface ; the re!! wcreomitted^ becaufe it was judged needlefs,
except it were to increafe the price of the Printed book. For firit, Dr. Dee
himfclf though he took a great deal of pains to underftand tlie Myftcry of
them, and had great hopes given him from time to time to reap the benefit
(himfelf complains of it in more then one place) of his toilfome work and
long patiei^ce, yet it never came to any thing : and if he made nothing of them
(to benefit himfelf thereby) what hopes had we? Befides, we may judge of
ihefe Tables, and all this myftery of Letters, by what we have fcen in others
of the fame kinde. Johannes Trithemius was a man that was fuppofed by mo11
so have dealt with Spirits a long time^, and to have been inftrit€ted by them in
fomi©
Ihe Treface.
orpc of thofe fecrccs that he pretends unto by his Books. "
I know f^me
have thought him innoccEt, or ct Icaft, have attempted to juilifie him;
Some affed fuch things to (hew the'r wit, and think they (hall be thought
much wif;r then other men, if they contradict received Opin ons, though
ther van'ty and ftrong conceit of their own parts, be rheAhief, i^ not
onely ground. Learned and Judicious Ma Icr Vojpm,^ hath fficwcd himfclf
very wiJHngfO think the belt of him and his Book->5 yet he gives it over
at lall, and rather concludes on the contrary. They that dare defend Jpol-
lonim^ the greateft upholder of hthnicifm that ever was, and by molt H-a-
ih:ns accounted either a God, or a Magician^ need not ibck at any thing m
thiskindc; But fay he was, what any man will haveof him, (^Frithemiffsvrtc
foeakof, h'sFolygraphy, he [ct out in his lifctiire, dedicated to the then hm-
pcror: Hptelis the World of the greatell: wonders to be done By it, that ever
werchearaof: AliVVifdom and Arts, all Languages:, liloquence, and what
not, included in it. But I never heard of any n an that could mske any thing
of it or reaped any benefit inanyk-idej wh ch I 'hinkis the reafon that his
Steganography> ment oned and prom led in this firll work was fo long after
his death befote ic was Printed: It v\as expected it would have given ron]c
hghtto thtfirft i but neither of that nor of this latter, could ever anything,
that ever I could hear, be made by any man. I have good ground for what I
fjy : For befides what others have acknowledged, I finde learned Jlgimire,
(who in his old cige w sgtown himfelf very Cabaliftical, or it may be had fome
diipofition that way, though very learned otherwifc, from his natural temper)
as much grounded in that book^ as any man before him ; He doth plainly
profefs he could mske nothing of it: And traly if he could nor, that had be-
llowed fo m ;ch t.me and pains in thofe unprofitable (Indies, I fee little hopes
that anymaneife (hould. It would make amanalmoft hate Learning, to fee
•whatdotagc, even the moillearnedj arc fubjeftunto : I could blefs them that
knowubut little, fo thcmfches knew it is but little that they know, and were
humble: But it commonly falls out oth^rwifc, that rhey that know but little,
think chat little to be much, andarcvcry proudofit j whereasmuch knowledge
(or to fpeak properly, more knowledge) if well u(ed, hath this advantage that
it makes m^en noil: fenfible of their ignorance. The reading of Vigenaires
book of Cyphers (which I once thought a rare piccc; cs many other things of
the fame Author, which I had read) hath expreflfed thefe words from me in
th:s place j and becaufe t hath fo much affinity with our prefeiit Theme, I
wasthebolJer j But to return. Upon thsconfideration, the Reader I hope,
will not be forry the rell ot the 'tables (being many in number) were omitted.
Though I mult addc withal, had I known or thought any ufe could be made
of thein, having no better opinion of the Author (him or theni) I mean,
from whom Dr. Dee had them) I ftiould not have been \ery forward to have
had a hand in their coming abroad,
I Qiouldhave told the Reader before butitmay do well enough here, that
befidej the particulars before fpecified, there wercoihcr th'ngs that belonged
to this holy Furniture (as Dr. Dee fomewhcre doth fpeak) whereof mention
is made in lomc places : as Carpet^ Candlefiicl{^, Taper, Table-Cloth, Cufiion,
and Ibmc others perchance. But I know nothing needs be obfcrvcd upon
any
The Treface,
any of thefc I make no qucftion but the Divel in all chefc things had a rcfdcdt
to the Ceremonial Law c/pecially ; as alfo in thofc words^ Moije not, for the
flace if holy^ often repeated, which are alfbelfe where expounded; The Inter-
locutors in all this relation, are, A. (that is, Dr, Dee) and £. K. that is Edw.
Kelley ', and the Spirits, to the number of foiix twenty, or thcreabo-jts fo
many named: (Madinij Efemeli^ Merifri, Ath^ Gaiuah, II, Jubenladece Ga-
briel, Jam, Moreorgratty Jph, Lasben, Vriel, Naluage^ Mapfama, Aue, llemefe,
Gs'x.a, Vaa, Le'z/eanael, Ben,) at leail, but whether all Inierlocucor,", I know
not, becaufe I do not remember, neither doth it much concern.
There be divers marginal No/^jandObfcrvations, which bcifigof Dr. Dee
h'sown, are for the moft pare not inconfldcrable, and (bme very remarkable
all therefore hcrccxhibitcd -, bjt whereas in fome places he had attempted to
reprcfent theapparition, or fome part of itj in Figures alfo , this being done but
fomctimcs, and in cafe it had been done oftner (except it were to fatisfie the
childidi humor of many Buyers of Books in this Age, whea becaufe they buy
not to read, muft have fomewhat to look upon ; whence it comes to paf
,
that much iradi doth pafs for good warcj for the trimming fake, and on the
contrary) of little ufc, no notice i« taken of it 5 except fome Figure be in the
Text It Iclf, and of fome confeq^ueacc, for the better undcrRanding of the
reft.
The Gree\, p. 25. b. is cxaftly fct out, as \z was founds and yet to be
fcen in the original written by Dr, Dee himfclf: But little or nothing can be
made of it, as it is written 5 and it is a fign that Dr. Dee who writ it^ as Edtp,
Kelley reported it unto him, and afterwards plodded upon it (as doth appear
by fome Conjectures and Interpretations found in the original^ and here alfo
exhbited) as well as he could, was no very perfcd Greciaui much Icfs Edw<,
Kelley, who could not lb much as read it, which made Dr. Dee to write fome
things diat he would not have Kei/e)f to read, in Greek Charaders, though the
words were t nglilh : I would not alter any thing that was in the Original
:
But the words, Ibel'cve fpokcn by the Spirit (and fo the Greek is warrantable
.enough) were thefe. Oo7o$5 IVar^o^rS^o ^fyov dvagna^-. Kofff/'Ot; yatp it^hfxoq rvy^^avit'
J*: K] ad73;'roffotJ?oi"7r£ie9^^e?ai: ''n^e HOivyn; a^jAxr^'sJa^ p?\.la.q : E^a^^ /mrilivd avIcHa'
ipiffArw -na.f.i^y,'^ : Tczg yb avra'/a? KOfAi^yi ma^axi.vd^ilat.i : TV ai S'lx iravUg airciXdiTyi"'
This hhink was intended of.Edrv. Kelley^ who was ever and anon upon pro-
jeds to break with Dr. Dee, and to be gone, as here prefcntly after, and in di-
vers other places of this relation ; nay, did really forfakc.him fometimcs for
fome time: The fence c^er^^/Z/V^ is this: thiifellow (or Friend) wiU oi/erthrow
this workXp^ Apparitions you muft underftand, to which he was requifite, be-
caufe r^c Divel had not that power over Dr. Dees Body, to fit it, though he did
promife it him^ for fuch fights.) His baggage ' orfitrnitnre') is in a readinefl.And
he doth 'very much endeafvor : to veithdraw himfelf from this common friend-
Jbip . Take heed, that yottgi've him no occafion : For he doth mightily plot by art
and cunning: How he may leafve you for ever, n^ly/^o^, in the firft line, mav
fecm unufual, for ^'roif^og, or -n^l'^zp'^h but it is an elegant Mctaphoro. '^n^taai
for vreisp^^&i, is not ufual ; and happily it fhould have been -^^e^'^^y and fo utter-
ed ; biit that is nothing. Certainly he thatcould /peak fo much Greei^, (called
here Syrian, to jeer Ed. Kelley') could not want Latinc at any time to exprcfs
H himfelfp
Ihe Treface.
himfelfi which ncvcrihelefs, might be thought, where we finde him (peaking
Evigl ftj, to them that underrtood It not 5 /o that Dr. Dee was fain to interpret
it. Bit we cannot give an account of all his fetches and projects : He hadacon-
fidcration, Imakenoqacllion,
I cannot thinkof any thngclfe th:t the Reader need to be told, that is of
thisnat'jrc, and it may bcfomewhat m.ght ha.ebcco fparcd; However the
Reader will confidcr, that as in all Books, io in this: It is one thing to read
from the beginning, andlotogoon W'thhcedand obfcrvation, without skip-
p ng i
and another thing to read here and there, which would require a perpe-
tual Comment; which is the wretchednefs of molt Headers, in tliefc declining];
day^ of Lcamin? J
and therefore they have Comments (0^ KhapfodL's Vitlx^r)
accordingly ; fimiles habent labra lactufeSy never more true of any thing
It may be fome will wonder what nade the Spirit* ro fall upon Ew^///^ Ge-
nealogies and Srories ; it is at very beginning, therefore I take notice oi it for
the Readers fake, that is yet (and cannot ochcrwife) a ilrangcr to the Book:
The hnfirefs is. Dr. Dee was larely grown ii to great league and confederacy
with Albert Lasky^(®T a lafco rather) a great man of Folonia. You had before
Wtiat Cambden ia 'hof biii of his cowin'^tQ England^ at this very time, and h's
going away, which doth very well agree wih our dates here. Ic lecm?, though
nobfy born, and to great dignity yet h's thoughts didafpirc much h'ghcr j
and though no rich man, for a man of his rank and c)ual ty, yet c-Npeding fuch
matters from Dr. Dte 2nd hi4 SpiritSy as he did, he could findc money enough
to lupply thtir wat)tsupon occalion. The Spir ts were ve.y glad of thcocca-
fion, and dd what they could to chcrCh him according to h's humor ; Being
then at that very tiiticiipon dehberations, that much depend. d of Jib Laskey
and his good opiMicni among oth.rthiigs, his Vedegrce, which muft reeds
pleale a vain man very well, was taken intoconfideration: That every thiriig
there faid, doth exatftly agree to the truth, as I do not warrant it To neither
am I at leif.irc at this time to take thepains to examine. We mufl: ne\ er look
funher in ihofe thiigsthat are delivered by fich, then if it were, or be perti-
nent (rruc or falfe) to their endard prefentoccadon, Befides, it is very pof-
fible, (which I dclire the Reader to take good notice of^ that both here and
elfcwhere the Tranfcribers, as they could not read fomctin^es, and were forced
to leave fome biaicks (though feldomc to any confiderable prejadice of the
fence) fothey might milfakealfo, having todo w th an Original thit was (and
is yet to be feen) fo defaced and worm-eaten as th s is, vvrittcn (as we have
faid) by Dr» Dee himfclf.
Befides the avithent ckntfs of the Original Copy, written by Dr. Dee him-
fclf; the Reader may know, that the Originals ofthe Letters that are here ex-
hibited, arealljormoil of them yet prefervcd, and to be fcenin Sir Xbo. Cottons
Library.
IV. I am now come to the laft ofthe four things that I promifcdjtolhewthe
£c\ era] good ufes ihit may be made of this Book, and which were principslly
looked upon in the publifhing of it. This order indeed I propcfcd to my fclf,
but great part of thisoccafion offering it felf upon other matter, is already per-
formed in the former Difcourfe^ (o that but little is now left to be done • How-
ever I willfum them up, and reprcfent them together, that every Reader may
have
The Treface,
have them in rcadinefs and in view for bis ule the better.
Thefirftisagainll: Athcifts, and fuch as do not believe that there beany
Divcfsor Spirits : Wc have argued it^ Iconfefs^ pretty largely, at the beginning
of this Pifcourfe or Freface, and I hope fbmcmay rccc ve competent iat sfa-
d:ion by what wc havefa^d : But if no Argument had been ufed, (letting alidc
Scripture Authority, which would be impertinent againR Athe ih) I do not
know what can be ir.ore con\ incing then this fad Story, (o exadily lo part cu-
larly, fo faithfully delivered. Truly, they mull fee further r hen 1 do, that can
finde what to an(wer (rationally) and to oppofc: This is agrcatpoint, and a
great ground of Religion j bat this is not all ; For if thcrc^be Spirits mdccd,
fo w eked and malicious, foftudious and fo induflrious, to delude men, and
to do mifchicfj which is their end, all which is fo fully raprcfented in this Rela-
tion; then certainly muft it follow, that there is a great oxer-rufng Power^
that takes care of the t archj and of the Inhab taiits of it ; of them efpecially
that adore that Power, and worfliip it w th true afFedion and fmccrity : For
without this over ruling Power, what a miferable World fliould we have }
What man r^iober orinnoccnt, that could enjoy hinifelf atany tiracwithany
comfort orfecurity ? Butagain, whatman can read this fad llory and can be Co
pcrlwatiedof his own WiSom or innocency, but wili in fomc degree rcfledl
upon hiirfclf, and will be mo\ cd to praifc God, that notwithftanding mauy
provocat'onsuifeveral k'ndcs (as damnable curiofity, open prophanenefs, fre-
quent Ouhes, Curfcs, Perjuries, feandalous Life, and the liktj God hath
been pleaicd to protcd: and prefcrvc him from the force and violence of fuch
enemies of mankinde ?
-^^
lizd before, fromlef. beginnings grcatefl: confufions had enfued, which is
very true as in the cafe oC Bacchus particularly many A'^es before ; and in the
cale of Mahomet afterwards ("two notable lewd Euthnftajis^ by whoiiiips Inftru-
ments, e'vil Spirits, by God^ pcrmiflion, brought great alterations inGcvern-
ments, and wroughtmuchmfchief andv llany amon^ Men and Women) we
fha lelfcwhcre (hew more at large. By due confidcration of all Circuir.ftaaces,
aschirfly their confident and reiterated AddrcfTcs unto, and Attempts upon fo
many great men in Power and Authority, and the like j I am much ofop'nicn
that thsfe Spirits had as great hopes of Dr. Pee, as ever they had of Bacchus or
Mahomet. But God was not pieJed at that tin e to permit that their malice and
fubtiltyfliould prevail And I chii k, if we confident well, we havercafon to
pra fc God for it. England might have been over-run with Anabiptifin (when
I fay Anabaptifm, I mxan Anabaptifm confirmed and in full power, notasitap-
peai s in its firft pretentions) long before this : God be thaakcd that it was not
then and God keep it from it ftill, I hope is the Prayer of all truly fober and
Religious And in very deed I know no reafon, but the XY'^ildom and prudence
of the r iMlijefties CounccI thatthen w^re, inoppofing Dr. JD^e/ frequent ad-
drsffes and Sollicitations, may(underGod) challenge and defcr^e fomc part of
Q irThank? and Acknowledgement.
Agaim TheDivel We fee can Pray and Preach, (as to outward appearance
wc iLean; for truly [and really, God forbid that any thing facred and holy
Ihould be thoight to proceed from Divcls) and talk of Sandi ty and Mortificati-
on, as well as thebeft. And what he can in his own perfonj or by h"mfelfimme-
diately ^
7 he "Preface,
diatclyj there is no queftion, but he doth by his Minifters and Inftru-
ments much more, more ordinarily and frequently I mean : Let any man
luuge then, whether it be the part of a fober wife man, not onely to hear
fuch menascangivenoaccount of their calling, but alfo to follow them,
to embrace their Do6lrinc, to be of their number or Congregation j and
all this, upon this account, becaufe they can pray and preach very well,
(as they think and judge at leaft) and talk very godliiy and zealoufly >
How much more inexculable they that will clea c unto (uch, though they
fee and know them fcandalous in their Lives, Proud, Infolent, Ignorant,
Seditious, Intolerable, becaufe they can pray, and preach, and talk, as
beft agreeth with their own humor, and gives them beft content ? Can
any man think they follow God in this, who would have all things clone
in order^ and is not di Cod of Confufien, (i Cor. 14. 35,40.) when all they
do tends to nothing elfe but diforder and confufion ? 1 confefs it is pofli-
b'e, that men lawfully called may prove bad enough, vse have divers cx-
amplesin the Scripture But if a man, fimply and ignorantly be mif-Ied
by fuch, certainly his judgement will be much lighter then they can ex-
peS:, who will not ufe the means that God hath ordained, in fo great
and weighty a bufinefs as the falvation of i'ouls is. I know not what thefc
men can fay for themfelvcs, except it be, that they are refolvcd to make
ufe of the Liberty ofthe times to pleafe their humor j they may do it, but
if that bring them to Heaven, they have good luck.
But the bufinefs of praying, is that I would principally in fift upon :
You fee here how Dr. Dee, where he gives an account of hinifelF to the
Emperorj and others, bears himfelf much upon tW^, that fo many year*
he had been anearneft Suitor unto God by Frayer to obtain JFifdafi^fach
wifdom^she wasambitiojs of. I believe him, that he had prayed very
earncftly, and witK much importunity many times: This was the thini^j
that made him fo confident of his Spirits, that they mufl: needs be good
Spirits and Angels. 1 know a man, I have no comfort to tell it, but that
I would not conceal any thing that m.ay be a warning unto others, and yet
I will have a refpev2: unto him too.- But I knew ohe,a very innocent man(in
his outward converfation, and as I believe very really) Humble, Religious,
very Learned and Orthodox, and one that had fuffered for his Confci-
ence, as others have done in thefe times: This worthy man, being en-
gaged in a controverted Argument, upon which hisphancy had wrought
very much, or rather which had much vvrought upon his phancy ; he
had written much, filled much Paper, and was defirous to communicate
unto me as his friend what he had done: But when I perceived that the
drift* of his writing was out of the Law and the Prophets, to (hew the ne-
cefljty of fome things which I thought of a more indifferent nature i I
was not willing to meddle with it; and begun to argue againft his main
drift, and to (hew my difliking. After many words to and fro, he be-
gan to prefs me with this, that he had often prayed with much earneltnefs,
and he vyas very confident that God had heard his Prayers: Yea, he pro-
ceeded fo far, that if God were true, he could not be deceived, and ufcd
many other words to the fame purpofe, at which I was much amazed, but
couM
l^he Preface,
coulddonogood upon him, fiich was his confidence and violence upon
thisoccafion, though otherwife a very moderate ingenuous man: And
thus I found him more then once, or twice. Truly, I think God was ve-
ry merciful unto him, that took him away in good time. But certainly this
bufincfs of Frayer aiidpraifing^ is a bufincfs as of great comfort (the greateft
that mortal man is ca-pabJe of upon earth) fo of much more danger and
d lufion , then many do believe. And if caution and circumfpedion be to
be ufccl in any thing that belongs to Religion, I think it ought in Prayer,
as much as any thing. And fince I have adventured to tell one llory upoa
mine own credit, I will t 11 one more upon better authority, which I have
long defired (for the obfcrvablenefs of it) to conmunicate unto the
world, and to tharend, had once inferred it in a Treatifeof nine, which
I thought would have been Printed, but it was not : I will firll; give tha
Englifli of it, that all men may reap the benefit, and then fet it down in
the words of my Author (mmQ0\^'n¥2it\iQvIfdacCafauhcn^ of b.m^ as I
have it to fhew under his hand.
At a Co?ififtory in Geneva, upon a Friday, i8 July, J $ 89. the cafe of one
Mr. Nicholas hei??g there propofed to the Affemhly to be confidered of who was
vpont to infiny^atc himfelf into pri'vateUoHJes^ jt?;der pretence of praying, and
madefnull congregations : Jhc bufincfs rvas dijliked by the Vaftors i ^irji, be-
caiife nothing in the Church of God ought to be done without order. Secondly, be^
caufe to turn fnch duties ofReligion to matter of Traffick to get money onely,
(without any other endor calling') was not lawful. Thirdly andlaflly, hisbatta-
fogyy (or vain repetition of words) was fiot tobefuffered: Then upon this oc
cafionitwas related by Mr. Beza, that the Saturday beforey Tvhilefithat (ha^p
confliUwas, trhichwe had before our eyesj (to wit, between the Genevians,
aid the Duke c{ Sa'z/oys Forces) that a certain Woman addrejfedher felft9
him, faying. What Mr. Beza, will you niah^ Prayers here ? To which he had
anfweredy No : What, do you thinks 1 do behold thefe things rvith mine eyes onely >
and do not pray to God in my heart ? Gz-vingtbis reajonfor his anfwer he had
mad: to the Woman : [It is nor fo expreii^d in the Latine, that the fofow-
ing words were Be%as words, buc the coherence of matter doth fo require
it] That frayer was certainly a holy thing, which it did not become any man to
apply himfelf untOj (or to undertake) ivithont due preparation: And that they
were deceived, who thought it foeafe a thi?tgto pray rightly : And that care alfo
Jhouldbe taken left [underacolour of zeal and devotion] a way be made to
fuperjiition : The Latine words are thefe,
I Die Veneris, JuliiiH. 1589. Cum relatum ejfet in co^tum^ de Mag. Nico-
lao, qui infinutretfe in domos 'z/arias T^ZSP'^'^^'^^ ^v^ia^xi;, (T^ jt^ aliquando coe-
tus^ etfi parucs, coirefolitos, pajioribus res improbata eji : Frimum, quia ex-
tra ordinem, nihil in Dei Rcclefia fieri debet: Deinde^ quia '^^o^/MfA^.v facere
rhrfri'jKilcivj nefos. Tertio, homirns /SxrloAo^i'a non fercnda Narratum efituni
aBfe die Sabbathiproxime prjecedente, dum acerrimum iUud pnelium committe'
retur, quod nobis erat ante oculos, interrogatwn a imdieracuU, Quid tn D. B.
*vis preces hicfacere ? Rejpondiffe, Nequaquam. Tu ne enim (ait) me putas, hac
ocidis tantufftJpeSlare, mcvotainanimoad Deum Opt. Max.fundere ? Omni^ro,
I
T^he Preface,
resfanSia y^^vyj^ adqnam nonniji vteditatnm oporteat accedere, falluntur enim
qui rem pHtant ejfe facilem^ preces bene concipere. Simid ca^vendum^ ne alicui
fuperUitioni 'viam iniprndentes aperiamus.^
In the lad place. All men may take warning by this example, how they
put.thcmfclves outof the protcdion ot Almighty God, either by prefum-
ptuous unlawful wiflies and defires, or by feeking not unto Divels onely, di-
rc£ily (wi ich Dr. Dee certainly never did, but abhorred the thought of it
in his heart) but unto them that have next relation unto Divels, as Witches,
Wi'Xj'z^ards, Conjurers, JJirologers^ (that take upon them to foretell humane
events) Fortune- tellers ^ and the like, yea and all Books of that fub;c6l',
which I doubt, were a great occafion of Dr^ Dees delufion : That men are
commonly di atcd by fu(h, is furc enough; and thofe that arc not
very fools, would take heed how they deal with them, and avoid them,
to avoid the Imputaiion of Fools ; but thofe that are wife , much
more, if they can more then cheat ; for the more they can do, the more
they know they have of the Divelm them : Wretched people ! that will
not, dare not trull God, who as he is the onely fountain of goodnefs, fo
onely knows what is good for every mani They may rejoycefor a time,
and applaud themfelves in their conceited fuccfifes, butmifery, if they re-
pent not, will be their end ; and it is a great fign that God is very angry
with them, when he doth fuffer them to thrive by means which Himfelf
hath curfed*
TOST-
rt<
FOSljt RIPT.
Since this Preface Was written, and almoft printed, I was fliewcd a Book, entituled, TheatrnmChe-
inkum Britanntcrtm, &c. by EhoA Afl)mole Efq; and in fomc Annotations there, at the end, an account
concerning Dr. Di?e and fii*. Kellcy^ (there (tiled Sxt Edmard Kelley) out of a Dt.iryoi Dt.Deesy all
written with his own hand : As I do not queftion the Gentlemans fidelity in this bufinefs, fo I make as
little queftion but Dr. D«'s own hand will be found to agree in all matters of Fad both here and there,
if any fhail take the pains tocompare. And it may be the Reader may receive fome further fatisfaftion
in fomc particulars by his labor, which is the reafon that I mention the Book here, being but lately come
to my knowledge ; His Judgement either concerning Dr. D€e^ or Kelley, I meddle not with ; andic
may be, had he leen what is here to be feen, he would have been of another opinion in fome things*
Here is enough, I am lure, to fatisfic any man that is not very much preoccupied, or otherwife engaged
by particular ends. As for thofcif-/?o;rj concerning /C(?//if7, ('fomc whereof concern Dr. D^e alfo) he
tells us of, as I believe him, that he hath heard (o, (o I muft (and may truly) profcfs, that I have met with
far contrary, and in my judgement, and by this account here given us by Dr. Dicy much more proba-
ble .- And particularly, that Kelky was put in PrKon by the Emperor, for a notable Chymica! cheat that
he had put upon him ; the particulars vvhereof, though they were fully related unto me, yet I will not
adventure upon, left I miftakc in fomc terms of art, or petty circumftance of fad. And let the Readec
judge by that account. Dr. Dee (who belt knew) doth give us here throughout the whole Book of this
Kelley, whether iVevers Story in his Fmerd MonKm. f<*g. 45, 415. of darrnable Necromancy, and other
. Dialfelic.il (^enjuration^ pradiied by Kelley in Lancafhlre^ be not (bcfidcs what is there faid and attcftcd)
much more probable, then any thing that hath been or can be (aid by others, to his juftification or com-
mendation : Which indeed doth make Dodor Vet's cafe altogether inexcufable, that believing and know-
ing the man to befucha one, he would have to do with him, and expeded good by his Minifteries ; but
that the Dodor his Faith, and his intellcdualls (through Gods juft judgement, as we have faid) werefo
much in the power and government of his Spirits, that they might perfwade him to any thing, under
colour of doing fervice unto God, yea had it been to cut his own Fathers throat, as wc fee in tbe Rela-
m»,that they perfwaded him to lie with another mans Wife,and profticute his own to a vile,and, by liim-
felf bclived, Diabolical man.
Befides, I have been told by many, that Dr. Dee, very poor and every way miferabie, dyed at Mon-
lack.^ here about Z-aWi7», which doth not feem to agree with the report in thofe .i*;?^^^*!"^^/ : Eute-
nough of them : Neither indeed have I faid any thing at all of purpofe to oppofc the Author, but to
give this further fatisfadion to the Reader, or rather to the truth, which I thought I was bound to do.
The pafTage in Wevers Funeral C^tonmncnts, pag. 45, 46. concerning Kelley^ for their fatisfadion
that have not the Book, is this; Ketley, (otherwife called T^/^ar) that famous £«^/i7S Alchymill of out
times, whoflyingoutof h's own Gountrey (after he had loft both his ears at Lancafter) was entertain-
ed by .S»i5!o/p/; the fccond, and iaft of that Chriftian name. Emperor oi Cjermany ; for whom Eliz^abeth
offamous memory, fent( very fecretly) Captain Teter Gwyn, with fomc others, to perfwade him to return
back to his own Native home, which he was willing to do ; and thmking to efcape away in the night, by
ilealth, as he was clammei ing over a Wall in his own Houfe in Pragne (which bears his name to this day,
and fometimcs was an old Sanctuary) he fell down from the Battlements, broke his leggs, and bruifed
his body, of which hurts within a while after, he departed this World.
Sedqmrfptmhac} youwillfay : Then thus, This DiaboHcalqueftioningofthe dead, for the knowledge
of future accidents, was put in pradice by the faid Kelley, who upon a certain Night, in the Park of
Waltoninle dale, in the County of Lamafter, with one Paul iVaring, (his fellow- companion in fuch
Deeds of darknefs) invocated forae one of the Infernal Regiment, to know certain paflages in the life,
as alfo what might be known by the Divels forefight, of the manner and time of the death of a Noble
yongGentleman, as then in Wardfhip. The Black Ceremonies of that Night being ended, Kelley
demanded of one of the Gentlemans fcrvants, what ("<?>/(? was the la(t buryedin I-^jj' Church-yard, a
Church thereunto adjoyning, who told him of a poor man that was burycd there but the fame day .- He
and the faid JVaring, intreated this forefaid fervant to go with them to the Grave of the man fo lately
interred, which he did ; and withal, did help them to dig up the Carcafe of the poor Catiff^ whom by
their Incantations, they made him (or rather fome evil Spirit through his Oigans) to fpeak, who deli-
vered ftrange Predidions concerning the faid Gentleman. I was told thus much by the faid Serv'-^-man,
a Secondary Actor in that difmal abhorred bufinefs ; and divers Gentlemen and others are now living in
Lancashire, to whom he hath related this Story. And the Gendeman himlelf (whofe memory I
am bound to honor) told me a little before his death, of this Conjuration by Kelley^ as he had it by re-
lation from his faid Servant and Tenant, onely fome circumttances excepted, which he thought not fitting
to come to his Mafters knowledge.
Do^lojr
A Letter
D'' Dees Apology,
Sent to the Arch-Bidiop of C a n t e r b u r y. 1 5 p J.
OR,
A Letter containing a mofl brief Difcoiirfe Apo-
geticall, with a plain Demonflration , and fervent Proteftation
for the lawfull , (incere , very faithfull and Chriftian courfe
of the Philofophicall Scudie:; and Exercifes , of a certain
ftudious Gentleman: An ancicnrvycrvant to Her
n:oft Excellent MajcftyRoyall.
"to the mofi Ke'verend Father in Qod , ^the Lord Archhifhop o/Canrcrbury,
FrimateandMetropolitaneof all Enghnd^ one of Her Majeflies mofi
Honorable Frii'ie Councell : my fingidargood Lord.
Oft humbly and heartily I crave your Graces pardon , if
I offend any thing, to fend, orprefcnt unto ycur Gra-
ces hand , (o fimplc a Difcourfe as this is : Although, by
forre fage and di'creet my friends their opinion, it is
thought not to be impertinent, to iLy moft needful!
fuits,prefentlyinh^nd, ( before her moft Excellent Ma-
jeftyRoyall, your Lorcfhips good Grace, and other the
Right Honourable Lordsof her Majefties Privy Councell ) to make feme
part ofmy former ftudies, and ftudious exercifes ( vvithin and for thefc 46
years laft paft, ufed and continued) to be firfckno^^'n and discovered unto
your Gr4«,andothertherght Honourable, my good Lords of her Maje-
fties privy Councell : Andfecondly, afterwards, the fame to be permitted
to come to publick view : Not fo much , to ftop the mouthes, and, at length
to ftaythcimpudent attempts , ofthcraih, r.nd malicious devifers, and ccn-
trivcrs of moft untrue, foolifli, and wicked reports, and fables, of , and con-
cerning my forefaid ftudious exercifes, paflcd o^er, with my grtat, (yea in-
credible^ paines, tra-c!ls, cares, and cofts, in the fearch, and learning cf true
Philofophic ; As, therein. So, to certifif, and farisfie the godly and unparti-
all Chriftian hearer, or reader hereof: Th.it, by his own;udgemfnt,( upon
hisdueconfideration,and examination cf this, no little parcel), ofthe par-
ticulars ofmy forclaid ftudies , and exercifes philofophicall annexed J)
He
will, or may, befufficiciitly informed, and pcrfwaded^ That I have wonder-
fully laboured, to fiBd,{ol;ovv,uie,and haunt the rruCjftraight,3nd moft nar-
row path , leading all true , devour, zealous, faithfull, and conftant Chri-
ftian
Apologeticall,
flian ftudcnts , ex 'valle hac miferU, d^ miferia ijiius 'vallis :
^ teiiebrantm
Regno i e^ tenebrie ijiiu<5 Kegni^ad montemfanS^nm Syon ^adcocleflia tjbcrna-
cula. All thanks^ are moll duf,thcreiore,,nnto the Almigiiy .^^ccjfibj it o
pleafed him, (even froa my yoiith)by his divine favour ,
gr ce, and h Ip)
roinfinuateintoii yhe.^rtyaninfatiabh zeal, and dcfire, to In. w his truth :
And in l>im, and by hiii»,incciiantly ro feck, and liden after the famci by the
true Philofophical method and harmony proceeding and alcending, (as ic
•wei:c')gradatim,iro:n things vifible, toconfider of things invifible fro.n
things bodil;/ , to conceive ot things Ipirituall . fro;n ihingstranfit ry,2nd
momentary, to mediate ofthngs per.iianent : by things mortal! Qz/ifdle.nd
in'z^ifible^to hn\c imc peiCcycraLWC of immortality. And to f.pncludc,
iHoft briefllyj by the m ft mervailous frame ofthe Tvhole World ,
philofophi-
cally viewcd,andcircimilpc6rIywei^hed,numbred,andmcifured(ac(:ording
to the ialent,and gift ot G D, ,'
rom above alotred, for his divine piirpofcs
effecting ) mofi: fai hfiilly to love, honor, and glorifie alwi^ies, tl e Framer^
andCreatorthereoi'. In whofe workmanfliip , his infinite goodnefs, un-
fearchabl wi do. i e, and Almighty power, yea, his everlafiing power,
and divinity, nay (by innumerable means) be manifefted, and dc.i on-
ftrated. The truthof which my zealous, careful!, and .onftantintcnt , and
cndeavc ur pecified, may ( I hope ) eafily appear by the whole, full and due
furvey, and confidcration of all the Books, Treat! les, and Difcourfes, v^ho e
Titles oncly, arc, at this time, here annexed, srd -xprefled : As rhey src iet
down in tSe fixch Chaper,ofanothcr little Khapfodtiall Treatife, intituled,^
the Comp2ndiousKehearfaU-^<^c.v^x\iiQc abo c twoyears fincc : for thofe hcc
Majefties two honor blc Gomiflloners j vs'hichhermoft Excellent Majeliy
had n oft grat ioufly fent to my poor Cotfage in Mortclacke : to underftand
the matters, and caufcs at I'ull i through which , I vcas fo cxtrcamly urged
to procur at her Majefties hands fuch Honorable i^uf eyors a'.d wit-
nefles t:>bc :ftigned,for the due proot ot the contents, o^^myiroft humble
and pi tifull lupplicat on, o^hibited unto her n oft Excellent Majefty , at
UamptonCouit^ An i^^gi. Ncvemb. ^, Thus there ore (asfollowethj is'
thelaid 6, Chapter there, rei:ordedrf
^ My labours andpains bejiovpedat di'vers times^ to pleafitre my native CoHtt-
trey : by » ntingoffnndry Book s^ttnd Jreatifes :Jome in Latine/onw in Eng-
liff\ andfame ofthem , vrritten , at her Majefties commandeiffetJ.
Ofwhich Book s,snd Treatifes, tome are printed , and fomc iinprin-
ted The printed Books : and Treatifes arc thefe following :
!• "Y^Kop^deHmata AphoriUica, De pr^fiantioribHsquibufdam Nature ^iVi
j^ tHtibus. Aphorifmi. \io. Anno. it; 5??.
2. Monas Hieroglyphica, Mathematicey Anagogiceque explicatay
adMaximiiianHm(^Deigratia) Komanorum, Bohemi^^d^ HnnganXy Kegemfa-
pientijjtmum^ Anno 1564^
3. Epijiola ad eximium Ducis ZJrbini Mathematicttm ( Fredericnm Com-'
vtandimim) prafixa libello Machdmeti Bagdedini, l)e fn^e'^jiciernm Di'vifioni-
hmyeditQinliicem^ opera ntea^ d^ ejnfdem Qom nandini. Urbinaiis j Im-'rcfa Pi-'
fauri. • Anno 1570:./
K^ i^-The
A Le T T E R
4. the Brytijh Monarchy ( etherrvife called the Petty 'Navy KoyaU ;
) for the
folitiquefecurityi abundant wealthy and the triumphantjiate of this Kingdome^
( withGodsfa'vonr^procuring^ Anno ^
$ 7 6.
5. My Mathematicall preface annexed to Euclide^ (by the right worpipftll
Sir Henry Sillingfley Knight^in the Knglifli languagefrfl pnblijhed^ ivrittenaP
the earneU requeji offundry right rvorJhipfuU Knights, and other 'very T»ell learn-
edmen. Wherein are many Arts, o[ me wholy invented (^ by name, defini-
. tion, propriety and ufe,) more then either the Graccian, or Roman Mathe-
maticians, have left to our knowledge, Anno 1570.
6. My di'vers and many Annotations^ andln'ventions Mathematicall , added
infundrj places ofthe forefaid EngliQi Euclide^ after the tenth hooh^of the
fame. Anno 1570.
7. Epiflola prejixa Ephemeridibffs ]oh3inms¥e\de Angli , cni rationem de^
clarai/eram Ephemerides co?ifcribendi. Anno 1557.
8. Faralafic.^ Commentationii^ Fraxeofq; Nuclem qnidam. Anno 1 5 7 3»
The unprinted Books and Treatifes, are thefe ; fomc,
perfeSily fnijhed : ahd fomCyyet unfinijbed.
p. ^T~^Hc firft great volume ofFamous and rich Difcoveries : wherein (al»
J- fo)istheHiftory of King 6W<wwtf«, every three years, h\s Ophirian
Voyage. The Originals ofPresbyter Joannes : an^^ of the firft great Chanty
and his fuccefiors for many years following: The defcription ofdivers won-
derfuU Ifles in the Northern,Scy thian, Tartarian, and the other moft Nor-
thern Seas, and necre under the Nortn Pole . by Record , written above
1200. years (ince: v\ith divers other rarities. Anno 1576,
10. TheBrytifhCcmp'ementjoftheperfed Art ofNavigation i A great
volume: in which ,
are contained our Queen Elizabeth her Arithmetical!
Tables Gubernautick for Navigation by the Paradoxall compalTe (ofme,
invented anno i 557.}'"^ Navigation by great Circles : and for longitudes,
and latitudes- and the variation ofthe compafle finding moft cafily , and
fpeedily :yea,(ifneedbc) inoneminuteof time, and lomctime, without
(ightofSun,MoonorStari with many other pew and iie^dfull inventions
Gubernautick, Annoi<;76.
11. Her Majefties Title Royall, to many forrain Countries, Kingdomes,
and Provinces,by good leftimony and fufficient proo'^ recorded : and in 1 2,
Velum Skins ofParchment,faire written : for hep Majeftics ufe : and at her
Majefties commandemcnt. Anno 1^78-
12. Dcliiipcratoris Nomine, Authoritate, & Porentia : dedicated to
hcrMajeftie, Anno I'^yg.
13 ProIfgoTena & Di£iata PariCenfia, in Y^mlidii Eleircntorum Geo-
jnetricorum, librum pri|?um, &fecundumi mCoWes^ioKhemenfi^Kn.i^'yO,
14. De ufu Globi Coelcftis : ad Regem Hdoardum fextum. An, i «> $ o.
15. ThcArtofLogick,inl^'nglifli, Anno 1547.
16. Thei3.SophifticallFallacians, with their difcoveries, written in
Englifh meter, • Anno.1548.
17. Mercurius
Apologeticall.
17. Mercurius C{xlcftis : Jibri 24; written at Lo^vayn^ An. 1549,
18. DeNubium, Solis,LunsE,acreliquorum PJanetarum,inim6 ipfius ftel^
]iferiCaIi,abinfimoTerra;Ccntio,diftantiis,miituirqjintervallis,&:corun-
dcm omnium Maghitudine Whav ^-^^^^^'^^^^'^izAEdoarchim Sextum , Anglisei
Regem, • Annoi55.i.
19. AphorifmiAftrologici 500. Anno 15 5-5,
20. The true caufbjand account ( not vulgar) ofFloods and £bbs : writ-
ten at the requeft of the Right Honourable Lady, Lady Jane, Dutchefle of
Northumberland, Anno 1553.
21. ThcPhilofophicall andPoeticall Originall occafions of the Confi-
gurations, and names ofthe heavenly Aftcrilhies, written at the requeft of
the fame Dutchefs, Anno 1555.
11. The Aflronomicall, &:LogifticaIl rule"?, and Canons, to calculate
the Ephemerides by, and other necefTary Accounts of heavenly motions:
written at the requeft, andfortheufe or that excellent Mcchanicien Ma-
ftcr RichardCbaficelor, at his laft voyage into Mofchcz/ia. Anno 1553.
25. Dc AcriboIogiaMathematicaivolumenmagnuin : fexdecimeonti-
nenslibros, ^ Anno ^555-
24. Inventum Mechanicum, Paradoxum, Dcnova ratione delineandi
Gircumfefentiam Circularcm : undc, valdc rara alia excogitari perficique
potcrunc problemata, Anno 1 5 5 <^-
25. Dc fpcculis Comburentibus ; libri fex, Anno i557.
26. Dc Perfpediva ilia, qua peritifsimi utuntur Pidores. Anno 1 5.57'
27. Speculum unitatis: five Apologia pro Fratre Rogerio Bacbone Anglo:
in qua docetur nihil ilium per Daemoniorum fecifie auxilia , fed philofo-
phum ftiiffe maximum; naturaliterquc& modis homini Chriftianolieitis,
maximas feciffe res, quas indodlum folet vulgus, in Daemoniorum referrc fa-
cinora, Anno 1557.
28.De Annuli AftrGnimicimultipliciufu/i^.2. Anno ^557-
2^. TrochilllcaInventa,/i/'.2. Anno 1558.
20. riefi aj/<z.oibac7//.iv S'fcoAo^'ixiVj lib. 2. Anno^5 5^*
3 1. Detcrtia&praJcipuaferfpe^livaE parte, qua? deRadiorum fra^ione
traSat, //^.3. Antioi555'-
52. Deltinerc fubterranep, //^.2. . Anno 15 "^©^
23- De Triangulorum redilineorum Areis, lih,-^. dcmonftrati ; ad exel-
tiffimum Mathcmaticum Fffr;w/'N(7«i///« confcripti. Anno 15^0-
34. Cabala; Hcbraicae compendiofatabella. Anno 1562.
35. Reipublicse Britanicae Synopfis : in Englifli, . Anno i5^5«
•:.
35. De Trigono Circinoque Analogico, Opufculum Mathca afiieunl
& Mechanicum, W.4. Anno 15^5-
37. De ftellaadmiranda, in Cafliopece After ifmo, coelitus demiiTa ad or-
bem ufque Veneris : Iteruinque in Coeli penetralia perpendiculanter retra-
fl:a, poft decimum fextum (uae apparitionis menfcm, An. ^573;;
,g8. Hipparchus Redivivus, Tradatulus, Anno ^57^
39. De unico Mago, & triplici Herode, eoque Antichriftjano. An.M7°-
40. Ten fundry and very rare Ileraldical Blafonings of. one Creft or
Cognifancej lawfully confirmed to certain ancient Arms, lib.i. An. ^574.
K 2 ./^i^Atlantidks^:
A L E T T E R
4.1. Atlantidis/vulgariter, Indiae , Occidentalis nominatac ) emcndatior
defcriptio Hydrographica, quani uUa alia adhuc evulgata, An. 1580.
42.Demodo Evangelii JcfuChrifti publicandi, propagandi,ftabilicndi-
qiie, inter Infideles Atlanticos : voluracn magnum , libris diftinQ:um qua-
tuor : quorum primus ad Streniflimam noftram Potentiffimamquc Regi-
nam Eli'i^ahetbam infcribitur : Secundus, ad fummos privati fuae iacrae Mjjc-
ftatisconfilijrcnatores : Tertius,Hifpaniarum Kcgcm^Philippttm : Qiiar-
tus, ad Pontificem Romanum, Anna 1181.
43.Navigationis ad Carthayum per Septentrionalia Scythia:& TartariiE li-
tora,Delineat!o HydrogrdLphicz: Arthuro PitySc Carolojac^mano Anglis,vcr-
fus illas partes Navigaturis,tn manustraditajcum admirandarum quarundam
Infularum,annotatione,in illis fubpolaribus partibus Jacentium, An, 15^°'
44. Hemifpb.3erij Borealis Geographica , atque Hydrographica defcrip-
tio : longe a vulgatis chartis diverfa ; /^nglis quibufdam, vcrfus y^tlantidis
Septentrionalia litora5navigationeminftituentibus,dono data, An. 1583-
45. The Originals,and chief points, ofour ancient Brytifti Hi(lories,dif-
courfed upon, and examined, An. 1583.
46. An advife & difcourfc about the Reformation of the vxxXgdLxJiinan
ycntc^ written b; hcrMayellics commandement, and the Lords of the pri-
vy Councell, Anno 1)82.
47. Certain Confiderations,ajid conferrings together, of thefc three fen-
tenccs, (aunciently accounted as Or3icles(^Nofce tetpfum : Homo hiomim Ve-
ils : Homo Homini Lupm^ An* '59*
48. Dc hominisCorpore, Spiritu,&/^nnima : five Microcofmicum to-
tius Philofophiae Naturalis Compendium, lib i
.
Anno ^ 59^
With many other Books, Pamphlets, Difcourfes, Inventions , and Con-
dufions, in divers Arts and matters : whofe names, need not in this Ab-
fi:ra6i: to be notified : The mofl. part of all which , here fpccifi-
ed, lie here before your Honours upon the Table, on your left hand.
But by other books and Writings ofanother fortp ( ifitfo pleafeGod, and
that he will grant me life, health, and due maintenance thereto , for fome
ten or twcl > c years next cnfuing ) I may, hereafter make plaine, and with-
cutdoubt , thisfentenoetobetrue, Plnra latent, quJm patent.
Thus far (my good Lord)have I fet down this CatalogHSjOat ofthe forcfaid
fixt Chapter, ofthe booke, whofe title is jthis
:
49* T'he Compendious rehearfallof John Dee , hi^ dntifuU declaration and
proofc ofthe courfe and race of his Jindious life., for thejp^ice ofhalfe an hundred
years^ now (by Gods favour and help ) fullyJpent^ ^c.
To which compendious rehearfall, doth now belong an Appendix .^ of
thefe two laft years : In which I have had many juft occafions , to confefTe,
thatJHf?wo Homini Deufyznd Yiomo Homini Lupus , was and is an Argument,
worthy of the decyphering, and large di!culsing:asmay, one day, hereafter
(by Gods help) be pubhflied,in fome manner very fi:range. And befidcs all
the rehearfed Books & Treatifes cfmy writiug, or handlinghitherto,! have
juft caufe^Iately given me to write & publifh a TreatifcjWith Title (<; o.) De
Mori'x.onteJEternitatis'.x.o make evident,that one AndreaaLibaviuSyin a book of
his,printcd the laft yearjhath unduly confidcred a phrafe of my MonasHyero-
•
' *
glyphica:
PO L O G E T I C A L L,
gliphica :
to hismifliking , by his own unskilfulncfTe in fuch matter : and not
underftanding my apt application thereof, in one ofthe very principal pla-
ces, of the whole Book. And this book of
mine, by Gods help and favour ( fliallbe dedi-
mcmbred"''That
''''' ''''^ '"'
catcd unto her moft Excellent Majcfty Royall ; years aler^hVwrSg of'JS
And this Treatife doth contain three books •
l-etccr, idid fomewhat fatibfie
,. The firft Intituled. D. Hm^om/: libn tSTct^^TZ
MathematiCHS ^fhyficm. penning fome matter concern-
2. The Cccond,De/Eternnaie:tihertheolo(ricMf, lyA'' ^V'^'!'
Sea-Sove-
Af 1 r ^ n/ 7
i »^t«/«/i«c.*.j, raigntie: under this title.
MetaphyficjfS ^ Mathematicus. -
. 51. ih^immHU^ Brytnmi.
5, The third , Dc Honzofite JEtermtatis : ^^•
liher Iheologicm ^ Mathematicus ^ (^ Hierotechni- -^'^^
CU^. ^^ Brytamco Maru Imperia^
^ Truly I have great caufe to praife and thanke £t! wf"':7"'^"7 = 4-
r^ i C r^ I'll /- tr
'^'^'^'''^
^P^'^'o i celen cenfcrtptA
God, tor your Graces very charitable ufing ofme : f^^^-wo. Anno, i J97. Sepemk
both in fundry points elfe, and alfo in yoar favour- ^°* ^-^•«««A'*-
ableyeelding to, yea 6c notifying the due means for the performance of
her Sacred MajelHes moft gracious and bountiful! difpodcion , refolution
and very royall beginning, to reft ore and give unto me ( her Ancient faith-
full fervant) Tome due maintenance to lead the reft ofmy old daies in fome
quiet and comfort ;
with habilitie, to retaine fome fpeedy , faire and Or-
thographicall writers, about me 5 and the fam'e skilfull in Latine and
Greek(at theleaft:>fwell for my own books, and Works, fair andcorre<a
ly to be written (fuch I mean ,
as either her moli Excellent Ma')eftie, out
of the premifleswill make choice of, or command to be finiflied orpub-
liflicd : or fuch ofthem, as your grace (hall think meet or worthy for my
farther labpr to be beftowed 00 ) as elfe for the fpeedy, faire, and true
writing out ofother ancient Authors theirgood and rare workes', in greek
or Latine :
which by GODS Providence, have been prefcrved'from the
fpoile made ofmy Librarie , and of all my movable goods here, 8cc. Anno
i5«:^. * In which Librarie, were about 4000.
books i whereof, 700^ were ancicntlv'writtenbv * Although that my laft
ijc^*/-/ r •
r r •' voyageceyondthe^eas, was
hand j
borne m Creck^ , lome m Latine , fome m duly unjenaken ( byberMa-
HebrcTifj -^nd fome in other languages ("as may by i'^^'" good favour and licence)
the .vholc CatahsH. thereof appeare. ) But the ^t'-X^^^XZly
great lodes and dammages which in fundry forts I the Right Honourable Lord
have fuftained, do not fo much grieve my heart, as ^"f^?"^/^' unto your grace ia
, n , jri 1 n° ri-i i "^V behalf ,
and her moft Ex-
the rath, Iewdc,tond, and molt untrue fables , and ceilentMaicftie willing his Ho^^
reports ofme,and my Studies Philofophicali , have "°^ ^° ^^ ^^- ^»»«- ^ 590- f^-
done, and yet do 3 which commonly , after their -'"•'^l """"''>
firft hatching, and deviliih dcvifing,imraediately with great /peed,aregenc»
rally all the Realraeoverfpread i and to fome,fecm true j toothcr,they are
doubtfull ; and to onely the wife, modeft, difcreet, godly, and ch iritable
(and chiefly tJ fuch as have fome acquaintance with me) thry appear , and
are known to be fables, untruths, and utterly falfe reports, and (landers.
Well, this (hail be my laft charitable giving^ warning', and fervent pro-
teftation to my Countreymcn, and all othenn this x:afe i
B
A Letter
A fervent P R O T E $ T A T I O N.
Eforethe Almighty onrG D, andyour hordjhipsgood Grace^ this day,on the
periU ofmyfotds damnation ( ifI lie, er tak^ hii name in i^aineherein ) 1 tahfi
thefame G D,to he my rpithef^e. That with all my hearty rvith all myfonl^with
all my Urength, power and ttnderHanding (according to the tmafure thereofwhich
the Alffiighty hath gi<ven me ')for the moU part ofthe time, from my youth hither-
to, I have ufed and Bill ufe^ good^ lawfnll , honeji , chrijiian and divinely pre-
fcribed means to attain to the knowledge ofthofe truthes^ which are meet , and tie-
cejlary for me to know, and wherewith to do hii difvine Majejiy fuch feri/icc^ as
he hath^ doth, and will call me ttnto^ during this my life '.for his honour and glory
ad'uancing^andfor the benefit^andcommoditiepuhlique of this Kingdome;fo much^
as by the will andpnrpofe ofGod .^Jall lie in my skill,and hahility to perform : as
a true^faithfull, and mofl fncerely dutiftdlfer'vant^ to our moji gracious and z«-
comparahle Queen ^lizz^beih. , and'as a fery comfortable fellow- member of the
body politique, governed under the fcepter Royal ofour earthly Sitpreame head
(^ ^ee« Elizabeth^ and as a lively fympathicall , and true fymetricall fellow^
member ofthat holy and myflicall body, Catholiquely extended andplaced {where-
foever ) on the earth : in the vierp^ Knowledge, direSiion, proteSiion , illumina-
tion and conflation ofthe Almighty,moji BleJ?ed, moji holy, moji glorious, coma-
jefiicall, coetemail, and coejfentiall Trinity : The Head cfthat Body, being only
our Redeemer, ChriH Jefus, perfeSi Cod ? andpzrfeB man • whofe return in glo-
ry, wefaithfully awaite-^ and daily doe very earnefily cry unto him ^ to hajien
hisjecond cammingfor his eJeSisfake ; ikiquity dothfo on this earth abound and
prevaile, andtruejaithwith Charity and Evangelicallfimplicityjyave hut cold-^
jlender andimcertrin intertainment amdng the worldly-wife men ofthis world.
Therefore(^herein concluding^ 1 befeech the Almighty God, moji ahutidantly to
ihcreafe and confrm your Graces heavenly wifedome, and endue you with all the
refl ofhis heavenly gifts.^ for the relieving,refrejlHng and comforting^ both bodily
andjpiritnally , his little fock of the faithfull , yet tftilitant here on earthy
Amen. --'^^
All Epilogue.
Good my Lord, I befeech Your Grace, to allow of my plaine and com-
fortable E^z/<9j7;/j- 5 for this matter at this time. i. Seeing my ftudious
excrcifes , and converfation civill, may be abundantly tcftified, to my
good credit^ in the moft parts of all Chriftendome j and that by all de-
grees of Nobility, by all degrees of the Learned, and by very many other,
ofgodly andChriftiandifpofition, For thefpace 0^46. years triall (fasap-
pearethby the Records lately viewed by two honourable witnieJTcs, by
Commifsion from her Majeftie^) 2. And feeing, for thcfc 36. years Jaft
paft, 1 have been her mofl: Excellent Majefties very true , faithfull and du-
tifullfervanr; at whofe Royall mouth, I never received any one word of
reproachj but all offavour, ai^ grace •• In whofe Princely Countenance, I
never perceived frowne toward me, or difcontentcd regard, or view on
Apologeticall,
mc : but atall times favourable, and gracious : ro the great joy and comfort
of my true, faithfjll,and loyall heart. And (thirdly) Seeing , the works of
sny hands, and words of my mouth(here before notified, in the Schedule of
my books, and writings) may beare lively vvitncilc of the thoughts of my
heart, and incljnati|^tmy minde,generally,(asa.'l wife men do know, and
Chrift himfelfdotj^Ruch, ) It might, in mannei' feem needlcire,thus care-
fully (though moinKiefly and fpeedily) to have warned or confounded the
fcornfull, the malicious,, the proud,and die rafli in.thtir untrue reports, opi-
nions^and fables ofmy jftudies, or exerciles Piilofophicall : but that , ic is
of more importance, thac the godlv , the honeft , the modefl , the difcrect^
grave, and charitable Chriiiian>s(E;;^///^ or other,) lovers of Juftice, truth,
and good learning, may hereby receive certaine comfor: in themfclves ( to
perceive , that Veritas tandem pr^ei/akbit^ and fufficiently be weaponed and
armed with found truth, to defend ircagainfi: fuch kind of my adverfarics
:
hereafter they will begin afrcfh or hold on obltinatelyin tjieir former er-
rofSjVain in^aginations,falfe rep:rt3,and mofl: ungodly flandcrs ofme & my
ftudies.^Therefore,(to make all this caufc,for evcr,before God 8c man,out
of all doubt :) Seeing, your Lordfhips good grace, arc, as it were, our high
Prieff, and chief EcclcfiafticallMinifter, ( under our mofl dread and Sove-
raigne Lady Queen Eli-^abeth) to whofe cenfure and judgement,! fubnaitall
my Ifudies and iixercifes j yea all my Books paft, prefenr, and hereafter to
be written,by rac (of my own skill, judgement, or opinion,) I do, at this
p'cfent time,moil: humbly, finccrgly, and unfainedly, and in the name of
Aimghry God, (yea for his honour and glory ) requeft , and befeech youc
Grace, (when, and as conveniently you may, to be well and throughly cer-
ti6ed ofmcj what lam, Intns <^ in cnte : Ke'verendijjime in Chrijio Fater , d>
Dignijfime Arckipraf^^ cognbfce d^ agnofce i/idtwn tarn internum ,
qudm exte/y
niimpecoristui : And wherein I have ufed, door fliall ufe, pen , (peech , or
convcrfation, otherwife then as it appertaineth to a faithfull , careful!, (in-
cerc,andhumb!efervant of Qhri I jefu. That your Grace would vou<:h-
fafe to advertifc me. So, I trull:, *Vltima rejl^ondchnnt primk : in fuch fort , as
this Autbentick^Kecord'in La tine annexed (ad perpetuam rei memoriam ) doth
teilific; having never hitherto had occafion to (hew that, in any place of
Chriftendome ; to teRifie better ofme, then they had proofe ofme , them-
fclves, by my converfjtion among them. (The Almighty , therefore, be
highly thanked, praifed, honoured and glorified, for ever and tvcr^Awen.
But now, in refpcftofthegenfrrdl intent of this briefe difcourfe, I moll:
h jmbly,and reverently, exhibit to your Graces Vkw, and p^rufing, the ori-
ginal' moniimrnt, and authentick Record, before mentioned, fair writt nin
Parchment, with the Seal whole, and pcrfe^f^duly appendant : as I have 4-^»
years, ar.d fomcwhat longer, prcferved it. The true Copy whereof, your
^racc doth fee , to be 'verbatim-^ as followefh.
%)m'verfis
A L E T T E R
UNi'verfis SanBdS matris Eccleft^e fil'js , adqjws-pr^fe7ites litersper'ventHra
funt, Vkecaficellaripts CcXtnfq; omnis Kegentium c^ fwn Kegeniinm ^ 'Vni-
fverfitatk Cantabrigia^ Saintem in Dominofempitemam ^ Conditioms ^ Merita
hominum innoflra^niverfitdtejitickntimn^ affeSiu fincer^oterpendentcs^ eoffoios
tefliitionio tiojlro ornandos ejje arhitramur, qnosfcimus obf^ditionem^ C^ mormn,^
probitatem promeritos ejfe, nt ijiud beneficium a mbh con^^tntnr : Qnamobrem
,
ckm hoc tempore ipfa'veritastejiinwniumnojirnmfjbi poUntat^ I'.'ftrcc pietati,
per has literas fignificamHS' Quod dihBHs nobis in Chrijio , Johannes Dec, Ar-
tium Magillcfj in diSia noBra ftni'verfitate focliciter 'z/erfatm,phirimam fibi ^
doSlrind; ^ honeflatis laHdemcovipara'vit : De cujus gradu ^ (^ con'verfatione
(jqnx lonejijjjif}/afei7!per fait,') ne qua njpiam ambtguitas^ aut qn^x^io oriri pifpt^
apkdeoSj qifibushnjus 'viri 'virtntes hundfitii inmtuennt^ 'vijnm efi nobisj in di-
Bi Johx'inis gratiamjoas liter as nofirifs Tejivnonialesconjcribcre'-y C^ confcriptaSy
publico .dcaddmix naftr^ ftgilloj obfignare : qito^ majorem apud'vos authoritatenty
Cb^pondm liter$tnojlr<£habe'mty Bene q/alete. Datum Cantabrigise , in plena
Con'vocatione Magisirorujn Kegentiitm (j^ non Kegentium^ Academic prxdtoix :
i^ . Calend. Aprilis, Anno a Chrijio nato. if^48^
For certain due refpefts the very Image
of the forefaid Seal.isnot here in portra-
ture publilhlij the Moto Locus veri f'gilli^
Peroratio.
THeAlmighty and mofl mercifull God,thc Fatherjforhis only 5on (out
Redeemer ) Jefus Chriil his fake : by his holy Spirit , lo direci, bJeffe,
andprofper all my ftudies, and excrcifes l^hilofophicail , (
yea, all my
thoughts, words, and dceds)henceforward,evcn to ihe very moment of my
departing from this world, That I may evidently and abundantly be found,
and undoubtedly acknowledged oi the Wife and Juft, to have been a "zea-
lous andfaithfull Student in the ^chviol of Fer/V^, and an ^ ncient Gradu^Ue
in the School oiCharity : to the honour and glory of the fa me God Aimigh-
tyjand t3 the found comfort and confirming of luch as faithful y love and
fear \m Divine Majcftic,and unfain d y continue in labour to do good on
earth > when,while, to whom, and as they may, Amen.
IVcry fpedily written,this twelfth even , and twelfth dayjin my poorc Cottage,
at Mortlake : t>4nno. 1595. iurrente a Natrvitate Chrijli : afi, ^An. 1 5 94.C0W/-
^leio^a Coaceptioae ejufdenty cum mvem ^aurea menjiltn, Completis.
Ahajes^ and very dutifully , at jour Qraces commandement:
Jo. Dee.
ATA
Ofthefeveral JHions contained in this Book- with the mofl
Confiderable Matters, either of FctB and Miflory \ or
Do&ri/ie. in each of them.
I. Page I.
lie firji apparitim of Madlmi,
inthejha.pe of a Girle. Alb.
H 'Lz-ikj-ihisTedegree. T'his h.\,
B L. ( whereof more in the Rre-
H face, ) being the firjl defigned
^^^^ bj the Spirits, as a fit htjirii-
ment^ under fretence of godli-
neffe and reformation, to turn all things j4pfide-
downin the World : But that flat failing,then the
Emperour of Germany :(i/'ffr him Stephen King
o/Poland : after him^ ?rince'Bi^o^\mht\:g,vc'ere
thought upon., and applications ( as will he found
here, ) made unto them to that end. JVhat al-
terttions,and deftrii&ions of men and kjngdoms
•would have enfued ( had God gixien way., as in
Mahomets cafe^ &c. ) may le collecled out of
^midry pajfages of this Book.
^^
p. 3. Anabaptiftical exaggerations of the gene-
ral irickjdnejfe) and a Promife of a general ¥\.e-
formatiou pj A. L. Of Ua.bc\ Lificr tempted,
andy hidden Trenfures.
III P- 5. Mfjiical numbers , and letters, for a
Magical Lamin.
IV ib. Ed. KeWey,his rage and fury,how reproved
j
a»i appeafed. 7hehook, the ScroW^ and the
powder.
V p. 9- Great threatnings of future judgements in
all places.
VI p. 10. Divers Apparitions. OfgoodJngels,
never appearing in the fl;ape of vromen ; Tri-
themius his ajfertion reproved. The Book. Di-
vine infpiration. ( Seealfo\>. 23. as thou flialt
find me to move thee, and divers other places,)
j>ro,ni\ed in the writing ani ord'ring of it,
^ This Book ( had th'ngs fucreeded ) jhould
hav.- been i^fead of a Bible ; a; the Alcoran,
( a:td much of the fame fubf'&i ) is among the
Mahometans. See p. 18, 20, 61. 8cc. Avery
effectual way to draw people, under colour of a.
New Law, new lighrs , ani doSirines, (which
Anabaptifts have alwayes fretended unto ) from
Heaven.
VII P- I4- Divers wyjiical Apparitions, and di-
fcourfes. Chades S[ed, pojfejfed and difpoffeffed.
VIII p. iS. . Ihe Contents, and worthin<ffe of the
Book. ,
!V\iijv)i '.
. ....
IX ib. A fudden Sun-ff.'ine. The Book named.
Some lines of it. Ed. KeWey^s pafigs, and agonies
at f67ne Vifiom, hs^ore Dr. Dee. Good Angels.
how to he l\nown from evil.
X p. 20. Prrmifcs to A. L. confirmed by an oath.
Ed. KeViey defirous and ready to raife a Devil
by his Art., before A. L. but not permitted by
Dr. Dee.
XI p. 22. Apparitions before the Lord Lasky :
The Devil prayeth._, and ('Anabapr'Ulically^ ie-
waileth the wick^dneffe of the World. 0/ Angel-
Guaruians. Suddm death fcntenced againji the
L. LaskifS ftrvant, for interrupting, though hut
cafuallyy the Aft'toii.
XII p. 23. T/jt-Book, a«^ divers injhuciions A"
bout the wrJtii'g of it.
XIII P* 24. Apparitions in the air. Ed. Kelley
fcandalizd and appeafed. Prayers for him tn
Latine and Englipi ; compofed by the Spirits.
XIV p. 25. The Prayer : the ufe and excellency
of it.
XV ib. Apparitions and Propbeftes, in the pre-
fence of the Lord h2.i\iY.
XVI. p. 2(). T^f Book tobewritten (asitisnoc
improbable the Akcran was : ) by Spirits. Some
thinz,s uttered in Greeks :
( of which fee in the
Preface ) Ed. Kelley preparing to be gone,liayed
with the promife of "^o pound yearly.
XVll p. 28, Divers informations and rautism
given ( by Spirits ) teDx. Dee, concerning fecrec
[ ^ 'J
enemies
The Table,
enemies at Court, Sec. Strange mjjieries csacern-
'
^ ing Guardian Angels. Al. Lasky's Se<r/.
"ICVfll p. 30. NewprJiikj of Kellyes. Dr. Dee
\^inuchftrplexed. Dr. Dee himfelf heareth, &c.
More of the L. Laskies Pedegree. The rftjjiery of
tSe Trinity, Faith, Hope, and Cliariry : Ed.
Kelley drfgnffiffcd (inpev') of winy devUs.
XIX g^ 33. Dr, Dee, andkis Company^fet out of
\ Mor:tjck ( in EngUnd^ net fur from London,)
'
''for Cracovia, in Poloniu. Their danger^ and de-
_. Uyerance at Qiieenbo.ough.
XX ibid. Divers Jpp^ritioiis. Serwirt-Hkf Jtuff
"„ delivered hy the Spirits ( in Latine) who tell Dr.
Dee tha.t it vas they that had preferv:d him in
his late danger. ^ ^^''J ''\^6' indeed that thej
ypere the immediate caufe^ as of the danger, fo
prefervation a-t that time, to have the f/fore hold
^ '^tipm lurtif^r tfif tiiiKto come, For they tell him
Sfieii of lil 'afterwards. '
<f. A, continuation, of the
iaurney. '->.'.. ^
* -•
"' '
- .''
»
XXI p. 35. Apparitions in the prefface of the H.
Lasky, Mojl things here in Lafine, for hii fal^e.
^ A continuation ofthejournej/.
XXII p. 36. Several Apparitions. Some evil
fpirits ( he ack^iowledged } appear , and bLif-
phtme.
XXlK p. 3(7; Sermonlikf Ihff, of mortifica-
tion, &c. Dockum, ( in Germany ) to be de-
'firoyed, men wo:ncn, and children, or favid
^:Jft)^r. D^espleafnre : as bis Spirits makj him
believe. ^ A continuation of the journey.
XXlV p. 41. Stag^-likf carriage, and speeches,
(^fuchas isfeen and heard in Pulpits fometimes, )
0/ Spirits 5 at which Ed. Kelley if offended j
•^ bow excufed, Prophefies and threatnings ofgreat
Koes.
XXV p. ^^.Dr.Vce'ifeveralguejiions ofworld-
ly toncernments , eluded hy Sermon-liks jiuff
of Santtification, &c. and fon:e idle Appa-
ritions.
9 Anabaptiftical P/-e<^/flio/K ^.f
great Commotions,
SdC. and^ Clirijis Terreilia! kingdom, p. 46.
^ Continuation of the journey.
XXVi p. 47- Dr. Dee ( to his great grief and
'
amazement ) rebutted for his abode , and afti-
onr, in unfaiiftified place.'. ^ Th'- confiant
pxahice of his fpirits , when they could not per-
form what they had promifed, to makj' him he-
, lieve it was for his or fome of his companies of-
fences, and provocations.
: XXVII p. 45?» Glorioiif Promifes made to Dr.
Dee. His prefent ejiate in England not very
-'t &'>0'i- ^^'^ douhteth thii p-efent Apparition to
be illufions of Devils ; and it muck troubled.
XXVIII P- 5 1- Gods Greatneffe, Juflice ,Zlc.
fet out i)i a prophetical-likf Jiile. His Spirit
twofold.
'XXIX p. 52. Some fpirits tell Dr. Dec, all for-
mer apparitions were but illiifuns of evil fpirits,
and he made a fool by tJ>em. ^ And all thit
\ while he fuppofcth thefe to be the temptations of
tl^eVevil,^ to make him the m re confident at
tther times, when the Devil appeared unto him in
a better^fl.'afe, and didmoii abufe him.
XXX p. 54. -^ eontinuation »f the fame TrojeU.
Examples of dangerouf iliufions.
XXXI p. 55. A continuation here alfo. Chunfel
given to Do&or Dee to burn his blafphemou?,
( which he accounted mod holy ) Books. ^ A
continuation of the journey.
XXXII p. 56 The fame Project here alfo. 'The
conclufion of this ( perfonated ) temptation, by the
apparition of better ( asiifuppofed ) fpirits.
XXXIII p. 57. Sermon-'tke ^uffof hurd\\\ty,'pcv-
feverance, &:. Cabaliftical diclrine of emana-
tions. &c. Aib. Lasky excepted againjl^ and
fome pramifes revo!{ed„
XXXIV p. 59. Some'places of the ApoczlypSf
and of Efdras applyed to thefe Aftions.
XXXV p. 60, Efdras agam. Strange Predi-
dions Qbut Anabapciftical, and falfe ') of the
dcjlrntiion of Kings and Kingdoms , within few
yean after. The New Book, to be injiead of
the Bible. ( See before , the contents of the
Sixth Aftion. ) ^ A continnati.n of their
journey.
XXXVi p. 62. Apparitions : good ( fo efleerntd )
and evil fpirits contcii. Ed. Kelley rebuked for
his Magick. New Lights of doHrhte promifed.
The holy Language, (wor Hebrew,") and the
venue of it. Gabale of nature. Chrifi^sTct-
reftial Kingdom : as before.
XXXVII p. (55. Chrtii to be revealed. Do&or
Dee's wife and maid threatned by Apparitions.
His affairs in England. Sir Henry Sidney
falfly reported dead, by fpirits. Alb. Lasky
confpired again'f. Cracovia promifed to DoSer
, Dee a place of re;} : (^and againp. 70.)
XXXVIII p. 59 DoSor Dee's quejHons, mt an-
fwered. '" "•
XXXIX ibid. The queftions again. Mydical, and
CzhaXifkic'iXelufions. Some things obfcurely an-
fwered.
XL p. 71. Alb. Lasky in part rejeded, as unwor-
thy : yet, to be King of Moldavia, ^ Their
coming to Cracovia.
XLI p. 73. IhefeVifcns and Anions magnified,
as incomparable mercies and favours. The Tri-
nity acknowledged. Cabaliftical myileries.
XLII p. 76. Great myjieries promifed. 49 Tables.
49 Calls, dr. Their virtue.
XLIII p. jj. An illufwn. A further progreffe in
the Cabale o/Tables and Calls : with fljew ( in
the fpirits) ofnuirvelltm reverence.
XLIV C p. 78. ) The firji Table. Myfiical num-
bers and letters, &c. >
'-.
XLV p. 80. Ed. Kelley, a Magician, andfhr
it, reproved. Further proceeding in the pro-
mifed Cabale. Great cppoftien of -witkfd
fpirits ( injhew ) whtleji this wonderful Gibale
is delivered.
XLVi p. 82. A Prayer, Qin words zealous) nfed
by the fpirits, preferibed to Doctor Dee, &c, Pro-
eeedings in the Cabale. More oppofition (in (hew)
of wicked fpirits- Bodily reverences, and pray-
ers, often rfed. The firft C all ended. The ufe
and vertue of it.
XVII p. £8. More oppofition ( lufhew) of wicked
fpirits.
XLVIII p. 89 The Sabbath (»r Sunday^to he kept
XLlXib.
-The Table.
XLIX ib. More ofpfition : yet the vork^ pro-
^ccedeth.
L p. 91. Nothing appeareth. Ed. Kellcf (upon
'
?fioi grounds ) very confident-, that they were De-
vils all, that had appeared hitherto : and their
pretended myiieries, very fopperies. Sec.
LI ib. Kelleyj of that mindjii//, and refolved to
brain Doaor Dee. Do&or Dee's great confi-
dence ( but upon little erounds : whereof fee tn
the Preface ; ) of the contrary.
Lll ib. KcWey refr('ved. The mjderieofNum-
bcrs. The Creation : Fall of Adam. TL'
language he fpak^e , &c. ^ Ed. Kelley re-
conciled.
LIIl p. 93. Somewhat heard by VoBor Dee al-
foy to his wondering. Sermon-likj fluff of Pre-
delii»atioM.,EleCfioniScc. delivered by fpirits. Ike
Keyes .•
Iheir ufe and vertue. Move not, 8cc.
C often repeated ) explained . The work^
goes on.
LIV p. 199. the wor}^ goes on, but not without (^as
. is conceived^ oppofition.
-IN p. 102. Myiiical Apparitians : explained and
applyed to Dodor Dee, &c. the holy Book
to he written by God hiwfelf according to fro-
-- wife.
LVI p. 104. A prayer : thework.goeson.
LVII p. III. Myjiical Apparitions explained.
New injiruaions for future A^ons. the Dayes,
the dreflc of the place.
LVJII p. ii5- A paralle again'} Ed, Kelley,
vho contejieth w-th the fpirits about the lawful-
ttejfe of hii Magick ; yeildeth nevertheleffe to
bury in the ground hit Magical Books, and Cha-
rafters ; which is accepted, fo one of 27 be burned.
An Apparition pewing (^ as it proved') the pre-
fent ejiate of A. L.
LIX p. 118. Ke\\ey''s obedience, the worl{,goes on.
the former cere.nonies ufed.
LIX .... Ed. Kelley at lali very, well fa"
tisfied , that all is fiom God : and very de-
\. fOHt.
'tX p. 138. Gods power- He not tyedto time, the
Incarnation o/C^ri/r ackjtowledged. Warnings
. to Al. L. and promifes.
LXI f. 139. Calls, Aires : IFhat and how to be
ufed. Diviiions, and Governments of Angels.
Divilions of the Earth. Al. Lasky, hu cafe.
Mapfantii, or Die nobis, under Gabriel. Jef s
acknowledged. Good LtjhftSiijns, Humility , Sec.
AgoodViiycty ill applyed.
LXll p. 146. An illuder. Obedience, Faith,
without which,Gods promifes not irrevocable. Ex-
amples in Scripture, the Cabale of Calls, &c.
. as before.
LXlIi p. 153. ^A.KcWty doubtful again, the
parts of the Earth : revealed unto Ptolemy, hy
an Angel. Some Characters and Prophefies of
divers places of the Jf^orld. ( Soniemiftakcn,
I believe, ) Conftantinople. the Turk, the
Arke of Noe. the place of Paradife, Eli,
Enoch, John .•
where referved. A contradi-
. ,^5ion observed by DoUdr Dee, not anfwered by the
'fpirits. Rome.
^ the fpirits^ ( upan good gniafds ) fufpe^fd^ and
anfwered by Ed. Kelley, /or illiMrs, and cozen-
ers : who is oppofed by t))Cior Dee, with mmh
confidence^ and fame appearance of reafon. Some
Mifiakjs in the Writing, jroni whatciufe.
LXIV p. 159. Ed. Kelley very bold ( «W per-
'
verfe, as cenfured hy Doctor Dee, ) ^ith the fpi-
rits : (yet not without good ground of rea-
fon ; all well confidercd. ) Ike Book ; the
leaves, dimenfions, and other particdars of it :
Not to be written, but by Angels.' Al. Laskjr yet
in favour.
LXV p. 160. God all in all. the "Devil in perpe-
tual oppofition. How dangeroui ^ truly fpoker\,
though by the DevH, ) to deal with hi-n. Infi-
delity piinifhed. Anahaptiftical Prophefies and
Promifes. Al. Lziky fi.fpecied.
LXVJ p. 162. Ed. K. reproved, and exhorted to
repent ; earneflly,yea with tears, infi:ew. Devils
and their bvfmeffe, both with good and bad. Some
Cabaliftical fluff, pronrifcd.
^ p. 164. Ed. Kelley 's Coufelfion of heretical,
y damnable opinions by him held and believed. Hu
repentance, abjuraiian of Migical arts andpra-
Bices ; converfion unto God ; believed by DoCtcr
Dee ( upon great probabilities ) to t-e he.zrty and
fincere. His th^nk,s to God for it.
^ 165. More of Kelley's converfion. No Appa-
rition,and why : divers conjeSinres of Dr. Dee.
LXXVII p. 166. Apparitions to conifort and con-
firm Al. Lasky.
LXVIII Vifions ^m^;? Apparitions to Ed. Kelley,
firji alone : then jn the prefence of Djcior Dee .*
the vifitation : tlie tiiercies,ofGod : Great prO'
mifes. Expofiti.n ( iy fpirits ) of the Vilion.
^ Ed. KeWey tempted, and doubtful agitin.
LXlX p. 171. A Vifo't to Ed. Kelley, ani Al,
Lasky : w/r.i);^^)*^;//^^ c«f fl/f/.?^ Pfalms. ,
LXX p. 171. Fz/rw/i/T.-o/ fif Tabic: crcffes,Scc.
the Tableof ftf Harth : Governour,Angels, ice.
the Bock, (the title of it, Lee thofe, &c.') and
dodnne of Enoch, reve^'ed wtto him by fpeciall
favour: counterfeited by D. and Magicians :
their Charaft;.'rs. MjlHral Tables, Figures,
Words, &c. Liica (pirltus Saiifti (a horrible
profanation 5 but fuch are moft C-ibaliflicaliay-
fterics) myiiial croJfes^Scc.Sohiiion'^k.nowledge,
(ifyou Will teiieve them) how far it extended.
^ LXXl p. 178. the Csb3\e goes on. the wonder-
full extent of it. Difeafis how to he cured, or
procured by it. Money coined, and uncoined,
given by whom.
^LXXlIp. iSi.LXXIIIp. 183. Tfaefecretsof
States, (fo tri:hrmi::s too: we have his tables :
but never was any nnn the wifer; whereofmore
in the Preface : ) Medicine : Chrift his earthly
Kingdom. All things in tkefe Tables. .\vsfi/ddeft-
ly gone : Madimi appeareth : Do&or Dee wanteth
money, but can get none. A gingling Q but falfe )
Prophefie, concerning the Emperoiir to fucceed
Rodolph. ( See alfo p. 243- )
% Ed. KeWey,his rage andrcvHing,much difiikedby
Dr. Dee; repented of by Kelley himfelf : taken
notice of (hit repentance) by the fpirits. An ex-
tfaordinary (Jo apprehended by D. Dee ) florm of
thunder and Rain.
[* 2] ^LXXIV
The Table,
^ I.XXIV ibid. Mire CabalilHcal hijiruaims
(^fomewhat lil\e Magick , as KcWey thopgbt ;
)
concerning the priiCiice of it. Dreiidftd Tro-
fhefies, of fudJen aher-itions in tbi- PVorld. h\.
Lasky," in favour.' The Book to le prepared,
&.C. Ed^ Kelley a pirfecl Magician, b) hit own
arkj:cvp!edge}}reKt.
^ LXXV p, 185. Fat/c/ice ani Uumility^ com-
irieaded. A pretty f.smlitude ( if true : whereof
fee in the Preface;) of fhe Adders denIt nf^
with heryomiz- InfiJe'iit/jfow ,^rf.it a fin. Jet
Ed. KcWcyjrill tncredulon,;, for all thify andviry
refcUire.
^ LXXVI 186. CKrift, h'n coming in Triimph,
3i.c. 'i be Bool{_ of hwocaoon. S-'ta^:s (^preten-
ded ) oppofiifiH. Some Pro^hefies, Prom/fes, and
In'h'.iCitons.
LXX^/lI p. 187. Some (jueflioits, I'clonpyig to the
Czhzlc, partly eli^dedipiirtlj anfn-ered. Invo-
cacions of good Angels. Sec Prayers ««t alltwcJ,
and why. Evil fpirits, how to be dei:lr with. 7he
Boo}{_ of Invocations ; and now. Set Prayers al-
'
lowed of.
LXXVIII p. iSj?. Sermon-like fluff, of the ufe
of nfiiCti"}!, &c. Sjwe pronufi'S to Vcdor Dee
and Ed. KtUey. A Progreffe in the Ca.ale
of Calls.
LXXlX p. 195. Volior Dee and hit fe'lovp re-
. proved. Voiior Dee, with gxeat humility, doib
anfwer for hinifelf. Enoch : the Book, deli-
vered unto hi »i ( the fa we in fiibliance, as this,
they fry : ) />/ Cod. Hit Prayer , Humility
&c. .
LXXX LXXXI p. 197. Jhefpirits appoint their
tiy}ie, and appear. Ihe precife time of Chiifts
comiiis; ; and other Prophefies, not revealed unto
men, {or three reafons.
LXXXli LXXXIII p« 198. 199- the fpirits.
Sec. oi before. Jhe nineteen Calls, and their
beginnings.
LXXXIV p. 200. More Calls and viyferies ;
bvt not without ( pretended, ) oppofition of wickj-
edfpJrits. Adam's //?//, Jhe Cur(e upon it, and
the 'ffect of it.
LXXXV p. 20(5. M(j>f Calls and Aires, y^n
apparent ccntradifr'in olferved by Do£ior Dee;
hut cunniy/gl)/ evaded by the fpirits. Voaor
Dee, hii Hynine, and fpiritual ( but not froyn
God , hecaufe not well gr-iind-d : ) rejoycing,
f
and thanksgiving. His fon Roland in gre^tt
danger.
LXXXVl p. 210. VoPor Dee's centefl with his
fpiri's : he offe^ ts hii ovrn tnnocenn, and ( to tt.-e
.. Mtmoji of bii pcwer ) obedience : but it buffiedby
the ffirits. Al I., reje&ed.
LXXXVU p. 211. Tefame cotitcA profecuted
hcrea.lfo: with fonte threatni:izs.
^ Iheir coming to Prague. <^ Sonte Chimical
gibb]i(h C fit jiuffte anmfe i:nfettled braines :
)
fcvnd in the hovfe, concerning the Piiiloiophers
Stone: Kead there, ( and.
nupta m, &c.
^ p. 215. Some conjeciures
,
, of Doiior Dee's, upijH fome
tare.
i\ rubeo m. lit
and weditaticus
places of Scr>l~
LXXXVIII 7be VI Viol; in the} A^<?f^9r
lypfe •, M underjiood by Vocior Dce..v rd
very good blefling, pronounced by an evill fpi-
rit. Divers Woes denounced. Somewh(Lt ef
Voaor Dee's JFitfe : Al- Lasky. Dodor Dee,
fent to Rodolplius Eniperour, with a «'effa^g^as..,
from G^id. >H^ai
'
LXXXlX p. 217. The Angelical Book. New or-
ders about it. Al. Lz^Vy-itl.ough rejected, yet to
be great for a while, Inlpiration prowifed t» Dr.
De , about a Letter to the Emperonr.
^ A Copy of the faid Lett, v ( by iiifpira-
tioii probably enough offpirits, <tf tf man may
£butffe by the fluff, ) to the Emperour, Secrecy
defired.
XC p. 219. Sermon-like fluff. Ike power of
God. Stvfral Woes. The Trimcy,&c. Vr.
Dee not beinr willing to be put off' Unger, tl^e
fftri's, ( againii their wills ) makf fome pro-
greffe in the Cabalc. Doiior Dee , in the exe-
cution of Gods Will , to proceed with fury,
&c.
XCI p. 2 22. Doaor Dee, Jhi/rply reproved ( by
examples cut of the Sciiptnres, &c. ") for chufing
( when it was put to hi* choice') rather prefent petf-
fo'-mance, than longer delay. ,^.
XCII p. 223, 2he fame matter here alfe.
Ihe yeares of I'odor Dee's ///e, 73. and t
half ; ( which perchance might come very
near to the truth, if we Could certainly knovr
when he died ; ) determined. Ed. Kelley to
die v'lilently : (and fo he did: for endea-
vouring an efcape outofprifon, he brake a leg,
and died ofic 5 as generally reported .•
^Doctor
Dee doth repent and revoke his choice ; in
very good language, had it bten upon a good
ground.
^ Doe,or Dee's Letter td the King of Spain
hif Agent ( or Amballadour ) with the Empe-
rour, about his Letter ; and weans of accejfe,
to the Emperour.
XCllJ Several cjueftiens prtpofed by DoCtor Dcci^
The fpirits jhrtwdly put to it about a lye which
they hud told , and yet by the help of Caba-
\\?f\C3\qnerks lif"^ diiunaions, ( but tfpeci^llyy
o/Anabaptiliical infatuations in DoUor Dee,)
they come off with credit. In what fenfc Dallor
Dee might truly fay. That himfelf had feen,
whatfvever Ed KcWsy had fen. ^ Didor Dee
hii Letter, and Prefent, graciovfly received by.the
Emperour. _! p
XC'IV p. 228. Apparitions , y.ot in ''ihjf^
Stone. The priv/ledge of apparition in\the
Stone. The Myjierie of the Trinity, R.«a->
fon an enemy to God, ( to Delvfion indeed,
and wildneife : found, and fober R.eafon ;
)
Of the fpirits would have it. Ihe Empe-
rour thre^atned. The names ef the fpirits now
appearing, and bow to be found in the Cabali/li-
cal Tables. . ,
'
.
, ,.;
G Some drunken pranks of Kelley's, And why here
recorded. <[ ^ /fttfr o/t^fSpanifliEnibafladoiir
hi^ becrecary to DoUor Dee, whereby be doxh
fignifi ' the Lniperours defire and appo/ntmeth,
to have htm cotne to him. Oftavius Spinola,
Chamber-
'.
5»'The Table.
-ehstwherUhiy Sec. brings him to hUn- An accofmt
UivbatwaifaidoHhoth fides. Vodor Dee's Mo-
rtal r of which, fee more in the Preface : ) hu
^KcveUtions a>id Vifions : His Angehcal Stone,
€ XCV P 2"!; Kelly's forwer mifcarriage
^
taken notice of: the caufe of it : It is for-
given. VoVxor Dee, 6-c. their Ofjxce wagnt-
hd Kingdom: of the Earth to oe deliroyed.
]^xinx(^\ctii relhred. ChnU to R eigne. Other
Prediaions,very ihange, ( but not tiue)^ai the
certain year. Rodolph. Eniperour, to be e^al-
ted Stephen King of Poland, to be dejtrojed.
Enoch's Tables. Voaor Dee his Prayer, and
Kelley's Vow. ^„ .
c i .
€ Vodors Det's Letter to Oftaviiis Spmola, fo
^ iecommunkated to the Emperour ; but not de-
livered at that time, by reafon of t^e- Emperour
his abfence. ,, r j
m XCVI p* 235. Ga. Za. Vaa : [pints m\ited :
that is, called upon by Do&or Dee .- their anfwer
-
interpreted by him.
€ r^/forw^r Letter,/ with fome alterationsJ de-
livered, and the Em^cronvs very frjactoui anjwer
to it by thefaid S^'inoh. Do^ror Curtzms, /r
Tion'or of the Laws, one of the Emperours Pnvy
Conncil 5 accounted very teamed : appointed
'hythel.m\>cxiom to deal with Vocior Dee, in hif
# XCVII P 237. T>o&or Dee askfth counfell,
^(of God', he thought: ) but firji encouHter-
•^dke it :') and hn temptations. Ed. ft-elley
very Penitent \hll, but defirous ,
(as unfit J to
heoHtof his Office. The fpirits appear. Kc-
>>conciliation ; twofold : ( mth God, with the
Churdi, &c. Purgatory, Ihe body of Chrift,
the cafe 0/ Rodolph. Emperoun tn cafe he
obey, or- difobey. the fpint of Choice m
Voa^r Dee, explained. Voaor Curtz allowed
C V- 239- P«^<"' Curtz, and Doaor Dee, ( af-
If^r fome Complements by Meffengers,} r>teet.
'^^heir conference of fix hours. VoSior Dee s
.^>>JiilatioH of himfelf , his Studies,^.;/ Suite 5
t'r;and therein, though not appr hended by
i;himfelf, his intoUeiable frefumptton ,
pride,
..-ibtri, opinion of himfelf, &c. ) Revelations ,
-i^oo\%, and wonderfull confidence 5 as of mojt,
^ that are fo deluded.
^ Ed.Kelley Ifrangely tempted.
^ DoGor Dee's mUhuil of Vocior Curtz, upon
what grounds,
^ XCVm p. 240, Lying; and froward li-
•
, tlence ; not ordinarily expounded. Reconcilia-
-• tion to the Church, the fin againji the Holy
- Ghoft : what it is. Complaints , and trophe-
'^fies againji the Emperour, and Doctor Curtz,
becaiife of their infidelity, and difobedience. Do-
ctor Dee in high favour : England given to him,
Mind for ^his fake, not destroyed : let the
uCrown there, to be transferred, &c. Doaor
.^£)eewarranted, atidcoinmanded to write to the
^^Emperour, that he could makj the Philofophers
^St&Bc: though, yet, be could not, but ispromifed
ft^i "arid the %\ft of healing.- ( which dtvct'Eh-
thufialts have boafted of; and if they'have
done any thing really, there is no qiicftion
but they have done it by the help offpirirs.
How fafe therefore it is to gounto fuch, lee
men conlrder. ) Ed. Kelley prayes for Doctor
Curtz hisfudden death, but not heard.
^ XCIX p. 243. the fame Commiffion,here again,'
about the Philofophers Stone : and the Empe-
rour, ^fr? alfo threatned : and another ( Erne-
{kwi^ ajpgued to hit place. Reported here to be
poffeffedby aVevil.
'
* C p. 244 Dodor Dee, comforted and c'oti^
firmed by his fpirits , agabijl flanders, andevill
reports : out of Scripture, &c. ^ Jke fpirits
here,feem to allude to a paffage of the Sibyls
Verfes, ( a counterfeit Book^ '
) as DoCior Dee
doth obferve at laji, to agree with it. they tell'
DoSir Dee he fl^all be w'th the Emperour in
fpight of the Devil ; ( fo they can play \ipon
themfelves, when they lift, ro fool men; ) but
did not fay true, and in that fifewed themfelves
very Devils; and that Vodor Dee might have
underjiood, had not his underiiandmg beenfo 'blin~
ded and captivated by them.
^ DoVior Dee invited to Dinner, by the Spaaifh
Embafladoiir ; who, among other things^ pro-
feffeth himfelf to be defcended of Raymundus
LuUius : that this Raym. L. ( if we may be-
lieve him ^ by a retired folitude, without Rookj :
(the way commended by the late Method al-
fo ; but indeed the moft ready way to put
men out of their wits- ) of an ignorant illi-
terate man, became very, learned : and that he
f>.z^ t/Eie philofophers Stone : whereupon he doth
conclude and build, that which Dehor Dee re-
lated of himfelf, his vifions, and revelations, &c.
might be as pojjible, and true, the EmperouriT
by him commended.
^ p. 246. the fecond Letter, written by Do^or
Dee to the Emperour. His confidence as great
as ever; and particularly concerning t/^e Phi-
lofophers Stone, which he doth herepromifeto
the Emperour, ( being fo perfwaded by his fpi-
rits, though as yet, as ignorant of it, as ever. )
* Do&or Dee at Dinner again with the Spanifh
EmbaflTadour.
^ Ed. Kelley troublefdme : DoSor Dee's confi-
dence in God, andgreat penury.
C p. 247, Dr. Dee vifited by Dr. Cmtz,at his cwh
houfe.His CO wplaints: Dr.Curtz account of tb& Em-
perour (his Majier') prefent apprehenfions of this<
bufinefs: Some Mathematical Books writtenbyDr.
Dee,and Comniandinus (^a very famous man)U.c,
€ p. 248. ' Another Letter 'of DoSlor Dee's to the
Spanilh Embaffadour. His wonderfull ronfi-'t
dence, declining ( wifely : his fpirits had fo in-
ftrufted iiira, ) the teji of humane reafon. (ro'-i"
iUis, for mcntifi to be cotreded, here.') ^ Att
account, ( in' a Poftfcript ) of his laji conference
with Dr. Cwvtz.
^ CI p. 249. After a [welling Preface j{ fit-
ted for the Scene , and Auditours) a l.ngi
difcourfe ( upon occafion of Dodor Dee bts
-
Wife\ fickjtelfe : ) of true Phyiick ,
and
[^* 3") the
.»! delThfi.; Table.
'
{he cUiifes of difeafes : much f<i vowing (^whereof
-V mote inttfe Preface;) of Paracelfus his jlyle,
and fPirits. ^Kare Jittffy ntoji part o/^» for a
Quack. • '
, . ,
'
^ ClI p. 252. cm p. 253. 7he fame matter pro-
»" Jeciite^, and particularly applyed to Jane Dee,
i*"-.
( the wife of- Dr. Dee, ) her jrefent cafe :
'
Her
«^"
Difeafe: aKdxheKemtAy.
^
'.'<r CIV p. 253. DoT: or Dee reproved^ ^s not
fenfrile enough of fohat God had done for him :
"<•'
which is fcmpoufly fet »nt by the Spirits. Mo-
V 'Key not to be expeded from thefe fpirits ^ who
i^<-\ffievertheleffe promifed them (after a while) great
'^'''^
'plenty of all things : poffer xo make, and marre,
'''''
fchtm they pleafe, &c. Ed. Kellcy reproved for
co»trivins. how to jieal away : Al- JLaskj^ ';fo fre-
*^'^vail againji hit enemies.
^ Jnother meeting f Dodcor Cnrtz, atrdlDcStot
Dee's. The Emperours Anfwer ,
(byDofXot
Curtz ) to fame faffages of Doftor Dee's mef-
fagey delivered unto him, as from God. Doftor
Det doth interpret hintfelf. Accepts of the Em-
ferours profer, to do him good, &c. ^ Dr.
^'VCwrtZrfw^ DoCtor DtCy together again : but
''"
'Wo accojmt ofhU two Letters to the Eniperourjff
^' given. Mathematical iKventiom y of DoBor
"«''
Curtz, e^r. ^ A draught for a. Pafle, to be
" '• bhtainedofthe Emperoiir for BcHor Dec, &c.
VoUor Dee takes notice of the refpe&s of two
(f'i,c,^pani(h Enjbaffadours, and another great Man,
Vi^ dvne to him pablickjy. ^ The account of fonie
-\s^ two woneths, front ^ Oftob. 1584. toDeGemb.20.
V nreifanting. •
"?/€ p. ^')^.JheJrfecond arrival to Prage. VoUor
Dee's Letter to the Spanifli Embafradour ; Hit
v^c~ rtonderful progreffe^ as he thought ) in high wy-
,r>''"(fteries and revelatioks^ &c. '
^'<-^''-
zz%.Hishoufe there. ^ p. 354.P«'c7or Dtth Letter
tc De^or Curtz ; ( one of the Eraperours privy
Council, &c. as before,') Complaint of afperfions,
V^, ( 3t minis : net nimis, as printed: ) Tro-
.„ .feffton of good intentions towards the Empe-
.^'6v p. 35'>. C li ^61. ) Long parabolical,
,j,
tenigmatical Apparitions i ( which DoUor Dec
'
did not likp very well, «or underfrand', as ap-
pearetbby p. ^61.') and fome wild Doctrines, of
the fear of the Lord; innocency, fanftifica-
tiou in Chrift, &c. cabalilHcally fet out. the
Philofophcrs Stone, ^row/piii to the Emperour by
VoUor Dee.
•'^i^ CVI p. 361. Gods myfteries not tohe difpenced
''"'°^'
hut by degrees, &c. The Philofophers Stone, a
j^ gfeatmyjiery.
'Mif CVII p. 362. A Trogreffe in the Corbale.
V* •
OppofttioH as before. The LefTon (fee p. 387. )
but of the Book oFEnoch.
., *vv ...^j.^, ..^ 'J -^ — ---0 ^V- - :»
' ^ and fome kjnd of expofition of it : but as Ed.
**" ,'Kelley, rightly judged, ignotiim per ignotius.
V'' Jih'eyence Hquired. . Beilor Dec ^».«i fr^^und.
'An iiiufton, {fo pretended.). \ '''J','- li- ijr
^^.eXtH j?^;3^7. Poaor I^e^^^.,5^^^«-
gainft, as unworthy, becaufe of their finst and
unthankjulneffe, for fo many mercies. Anothtrt
f^whomfoeverDohor Dee would chufe) ufoncer-
iaiyt cautions and conditions, to be fubflituted in
Ed. Kelley's /'/<zt"e. Dodor Dee's forrow, and
humble requeil about the Philofophers Stone.
H^ deftre to be tnflruHed ( by hit fpirits ) aimt
the Sacrament of the Lords Supper. The jSy-
ftery of it cabaliftically unfolded. The Trinity,
Adam's fall, Chrifs Incarnation. The D»-
^nweo/Tranfubftantiation; Of receiving Mt\-
deronc kind ; Of adoration of the Eucharift :
But receiving of it, not allowed.
• CXlV p. 373. Ihe former BfilJrine highly mag'
-
nified : as alfo the LefTon , in Chjmical gxh^
brilh, 0/ multiplication, dlgnification, &c.
C CXV ibid , More of their vnworthineffe ,
( through fin) and incapacity, for fuch high things.
Vocior Dee prayeth. Al. Lasky rejeSed. DetSor
Dee much troubled. *^
'
.
^ CXVI p. 375. Vo&orDee very earnefiforthe
fecret of the Philofophers Stone, fo often pro-
vtifed : but eluded with Sermon-like fluff of re-
proof : of patience,affliSions ; worr^ partaking 5
Confcflion, &c.
^ CXVll p. 378. Do^or Dee bimfelf henrctK
and feeleth. More reproofes. T>e3or Det to
prevail againft bif enemies : but commanded
fpeedily to go for Prague, to prevent imprifon-
ment, &c.
^ CXVIII p. 379. Here ttgain^ ba^emdto he
•
gone. A\.h. hit cafe. 1 K^vfe^oX
^ CXIX ibid. They begin their jeurnty^SuPbJfkH
Apparition intheway, after fome goodly premi'-
fes made to HoQor Dee, for hit obedience .'
uni
TrediHions ( all falfe ) of judgements upon the
Emperour, and exaltation ef Stephen King of
Poland, &c. they are commanded to return back,
again, and to return to Prague. ^ fFhich doney
T)o£ior Dec's Child it chrilhned,fomeofthechief-
eii in the Emperours Court being GodfatherSj««<i
Godmothers.
^ CXX p. 382. The Prophets of old times fum-
tnoned : why viiited, &c. The eternalgeneration
of Chrift, the Son of God, Platonically fet tut.
Divine Neceflity, the caufe of all thingt r Ele-
ction ; Perfeverance, &c, Earneii. exptjlula'
ti'Hs, and exhortations. Chrilt again: The
Church Militant, and TriumpboHt. T>oScr Dee
andEd, Kelley much taken with this goodlyjivffy
and confirmed in their Errour.yj!^$J .l//\o
^ p. 3S7. The pretious LefTon, before fpvi^ of,
of revealing the fecret of the Philofophers
Stone. .jT., rfvi;((fTiiiic _ '
h iWv* ^
f CXXl p. 388. T** Leffbn, mA.foWf.ohfcye
words ofit, exprtffed in Englijh. Ed.-.K-dley,
,, . defroM to be rid of hi) office. . \
M x-'iV^ '•
f^ CXXII p. 389. Jane Dee ( 2>«5?of fiee's
wif^ ) bet earneji and humble Petition, <t»> 60^,
,
^
( fo the pool- woman thought ) and his Angelsy
\.: for rehtf in her great neceffity, xThs Petition
,, anfwered , firji with reproof i hut covtmenda-
.: Skn, and pro mifes, afterwards. The. fpirhson-
feffeth, he had no power to proeVte, them .mi)key :
'^^^^^hut.J^IJ:ead ^ef it 5 pretends to. give tbem^.^od
eounfel.
.^WrThe^Tabk
^'^^c&unfe!, to get out o'^ Prage fpeeJily, &C.
t^' yi' fiecord of a hot conpiH between VoHorDcey
-^'ind Ed, Keiley, abont fame Magical papers :
«• ^»» which cenfiilt Dodor t,tee thought birttfe/f in
i>«' danger of hit life, and was fame to cry out for
kelp.
•|fpXXlII p. 391. An JpparitijH fitted for the
Q^cafm!. lb: fault of td. Kellsy*s rc/r^flon-
K[n(ffc^ laid upon thi tmlice and envy of t^i? Devil,
*'"' and fame places of Efdras , applied to that
'^'.'ttrrpofe > Ed. Kelley rebukjd ; but cornfor-
'
ted and co'tfinned with a. promfe of no evil
Cpirit to befijfered to trouble him henceforth : and
^^'^jytany good exhortations : vFith a Parable <z//() to
^
-'that pwpofe. If Some guejiions propofed by
T>oUor Dee, who' is referred to the Book of
Enoch
,
f .pXXlV p. 395. lienor Dec, &c. jharply
reproved for not fnlfiVing the command of a.
fpeedydj^arture^withm^re expedition. He ac-
^^.y^^owledgeth C convicted by fame pUuftble conff
. derations, ) hit faulty and prayeth fervent-
<f
CXXV p. 396. T'heStont Ihnt up for twenty
Jind-*yes. 7heir journey ^ /row PraJ^c, to Craco-
v\ j-Tia .•
) and in thevay^ ftrange ychirlewrnds. Some
r--k:iirife about their houfe. Al. Laskjr, i,y whom
w'jVoGor Dee ii brought to the King : ( fufHnem,
for fiftereni, to he corre&ed. Sec. ) delvers hit
CommijJioMy &c. He receives the Communion .-
fo doth Ed. Kelley.
ii^rf^f CXXVI p. 398. The Kings prefence required
-vT'tB? fpirits, at thefe Apparitions.
isJJ CXXVlI ibid. Si<perji,tiom frajers (by ap-
-sit fointment offpirits ) to the. Angels, Govemours
^Q yofKingdoms and Nations^ Stephen ( King of
^iTi'iPoland )
greatly in favour ( wth G.d ) and to
:i»Me-tbe MinHier of great thi'igs.
^iCorDee doth apprehend^ ( which Ke'Iey doth of-
\,\^: tenftofcffe to have found inhimfelf) that the fpi^
rits kjiew hit thoughts.
-lip, Ed; Kelley, very unquiet, and hlafphemo'it : Tet
m'V^onfirmed again, by fame ^-apparitions ; to Dodor
,«>jD,Se's great comfort, vho iHll ( very devoutly
^3l3and innocently, had not he brought this grie-
-s»VnVoi!sdelufion upon himfelf, by tempting God
. "^' fo grievoufly' : ) istfc ful'init untu, and comfort
'\hmfelf in Gtd.
/jf'lQXXVni p. 400. Apparitions in the prefence
of A\. Lasky. Fromifts to VoCror Dec, an I to
Xi«g Stephen. Al, Lasky upon con-liti ns to be
i- received tnto favour again. ^ D(3dT;r Dee re-
'^eives the Communicn again.
y^ CXXIX p. 401. Apparitions at the Cttrt of
, (; ; the King of Poland,i« the prefence of Al. Lasky,
(^
one of the Princes Palatine of th Country )• who
2*% 'it offered by the fpirits, fudden delirudion of the
^'^tHg, ( if hedeftreit, ) or to fee km liruck^with
fly.fieprofie ; or otherwife corrtiled, if fo rather.
no;Afc Lasky bit pious and religious anfwer, and
'ii^ehoice : for which he if commended. 7ke fpirits
•Ynwill not endure, though re quejled, to deal With the
. vKing, in the Hungarian Tofigt^e. They promife to
.>5^f«4te him in Latine. A good bleftngy and
formatl abfolntion , pronounced by evill fpi-
rits.
^ CXXX p. 402. f Dodor Dee, &c. bre'ght
to Sicp len, ( King e/ Poland, ) who upon fonte
conditions^ it willing to be prefent : yet wal{es an
obje^iinn out of Scripcure, as not fully fatisfied
thut thefe apjiaririons, &c. were from God. To
whi'h Dod 'r Dee makes an accurat anfwer : (by
whicii it doch appear, that'cither he had flu-
died the ca!e ^ery well, or was helped as o-
ther reilltnthuliafts, by his fpirits :) bat very
full of fa'lti in the Lo[>y, and jo printed. More
here, I think^^ then tn all the Latine of the
Bo'>k befides. We tuk^ notice of it in the
r rraca.
^ Before the Aftion, a fervent Prayer of Doittr
Dee*s, of /&« catling, revelations, Al, Laskic,
King Stephen, &c,
In the Aftion, or Apparition, King Stephen,
' jharply reprajied for hit yns. B'it upon condition
of repentance, and fubmifji in to God (i» thitwjy')
the Kine,sefthe earth ( inroxticati calice Mc-
recricis : a phrafe ften ufed in this B-ok^: thit
if drunk with the cup of the Whore,) are to do
homage unto him \ and he, (right Anabapti(rne,)
to work^ firange execution, &c. Very Ufty lan-
guage , here ufed : Fige pedem in Aquil
.
&c.
^ XXXI p. 406. SadcompJtainty(_asiromGod)
of incredulity : The Incarnation of Cbri'.i, avd
thereby priviledge o/Chriftians above the Ifraci-
its. Tears. T)o^orDee,fent with ait erra-^ I to
King Stephen : and a. direVt promife, and fiofer
of the Philofophers 'tone.
^ Docior Dee delivers his errand in Latin : ( but
here our records, I know not by ^vhac chance,
are very defeftive. King Stephen, it feeras
did not prove fo credulous , as was cjc
pefted. )
^ CXXXII p. 408 The fpirits are angrj ^ and
command all to he (hut up, for afeafon, itll fur-
ther order. ( the account of fome moncrhs is
wanting. J
^ C XXXIII p. 409. The power of God. The
Jewes, (tW Jerufalem tflif reiored. Andnow^
one Fi ancis Puccius ( a Florentine, a zeaUut
and learned Tapiii, ) being entertained, and o-d-
witted IB thefe ftCTtt.% : with great hopes of fome
good to be done by this feilowdup : Rome a T) be-
ing defigned henceforth for the Scene: ( ^"f p.
417.) the fpirits apply themfelves, and fit 'heir
fpeech to this end and occafien. The interpreta-
tion of Scriptures The Fathers. The Church.
Luther tf«/i Calvin, conder»ned. The P(>>e of
Rome, cannot be (Jaj thefp'rits) the Anrittinft
.
and think^tbey prove it. Exhortations to rtturn
to the Church : and a form of Prayer, or Thank}'
giving, to that purpofe. In the conc'' fion, 'he
fpirits apply themfelves to Puccius, perfonal'y :
He it to rebuk^e the prefent Pop , (^h^re cdiled,
i wicked Monfter, ) again,t whom^ if hewi'l not
beperfwaded, terrible judgements are den-tuncei.
<j" The fame hSC\on {beeaufe the fpirits here
rathet chofe to fpieak^ErigliJhj than Latine : ffhere-
The Table,
»ffontewhat u [aid in the Prddce : inLatmehy
DOor Dee.
^' CXXXJV p. 417. "fhe fiirntne of Francis
•
Puccius his cowMifton, in hisji Language. Future
i\ftions, in Rome. ^ But here foUoyfeth it
hiatus of fome 6 vnneths : which bereaves us of
vniny particulars. In the meaji time happened
the ftiitence of baiiifhtiiait againji DoCf.r Dee,
l>y the Tupes vndiation and authority 5 ( as his
Niincio,4>. j^:^j^.^d-th acktiewledge ) andfo brakf
the purpofe of going to Rome ; though much dri-
ven on !yy Puccius, &c. as will appear.
^ p. 418. Vaffor Dcei's record of a ftrange thing,
( a very niiiaclej in his jungtment^ ) that hapned
in hii presence, andfight j to wit, Bool{s that had
been burned Ly him, (or in his fight ) reflored un-
to him whoie and entire, by [pints .,
ice.
^ CXXXV p. 419 Frince Rofimberg {you
may fee hit Titles p. 415. ) called, and admit-
ted into the Society, to be partak^er of the My-
fteiies ; and the Executioner of (^fofuppofed )
Gods pidgentents, &c. ^ Prince Rofimberg,
upo^ relation of what had b-en revealed, con-
cerning himfelf, accepts ef it thankfully : promi-
fes amendment, and prajes for the Emperour,
; (w%ofe Vice-Roy he Wtn in Eohemia, &c;,') that
he may not be dejiroyed, but repent rather.
^ p. 421. A Letter ef hit (with hii own hand') to
T>odor Ded, to thefame pnrpofe.
^ VoUor Dte\Jo'^rney to Leiplig. ^ His Letter
/i.S'ir Francis Walfingliam, Secretary to §ueen
-Elizabeth: wherein is obfervable his wonderfull
confidence; andvain boafting, (^thovgh not with-
out [ome gruunds : ) its a very Enthufiaft, and de-
luded wan : thojtgh it cannot be denied,that fame
EntlmfiMs, upon leffe grounds, ( when God hath
been pleafed to give way ) have had far better
•If
"p.' 4I4. One)n\. Afcanius, his Letter to Do&or
Dee, informing him offame reports, and attempts
agamji him iff Germany, as a Necromancer,
&c. ' .' "'
^ p. 42;. A Letter of Vo&er Dee's to Prince
Rofimberg, complaining of thofe reports,and at-
tempts,by the Nuncio, &c.
<J ^16. Another, to t^e Emperour, of the fame
fubjed.
^ 7hefentence of Baniflinient againji Do&or Dee,
&c. in the German "Tongue.
^ p. 429* Prince Rofimberg /jif cjueflions and pe-
titions , miractilonfly ( as w'<m conceived ) an-
fwered. A white paper being fet jtpon the Altar,
whileji Mafle ws [aid : the faid paper after
Mafle, wasfound all written, tijtd as foon as copied
cut, all the Letters of itvanifljed. A Copy of the
[aid paper, or (miraculousJ writting.
* ibid. Some ohfervations of Vedor Dee's, upon
'""
'Francis Puccius (of whom before) his carriage ;
yfhereby it did appear unto him,that the faid Puc-
cius did not deal truely and fincerely : which
treub!cdDocIorDee,who much defirtd to be rid
ofhiifi.
'
^ p, 430. A conflici of his, with the faid lH'uccius,
about their going to Rome, &c.
^ p. 451. A Paper delivered by Pncc'ms, to Do- \
c?or Dee, <«/r^w!t^f Nuncio; by which they areff.
abfolvedfrom all crimes, (were they never fo great^P^
and hainom") fo they will gs to Rome. Pucciu|iC*
his inconjianry about that Paper. ^ Docior Dee's*
Letter to the faid Nuncio , upon that occafion :
wherein, aj7iong other things, to tellhimofthefe
Bookj that had been burned, and were (miracu-
louflj) rejhred ; and of many more burned (pare
of thefe Records certainly ) not yet rel}ored,but
promifed and expeaed. 4{ The faid Letter af-
ter fame contejl about it, committed to Puccius, to
. be carried and delivered. ^ More of Puccius
his not faithful dealing. Sfme Herefies alfo of
his. Some other things, laid to hit charge by Do-
Uor Dee,
^ p. 454. ThePopesNnncmi, his anfwer toVo-
dor Dee : grave, and courteous. ( At the begin-
ning of it, aut, for auttm to be correcitH)
^ p. 435. A Paper, (here infcnbed andfiiled,
Oraculum Divinum ) in Kelly's abfence, writ-
ten and delivered ( as Vodor Dee doth here re-
cord : ) by fpiritual and divine means ; the
drift whereof is, to confirm Prince Roiimber",
-
At whofe requeft, the fentence of banifiiment^
mitigated.
^ p. 43(S. A long and f/tbynifjtve Letter 0/ Fran-
cis Puccius, to Doaor Dee, &c. where, among
other things, he gives him a very punfffsal account
ofwhathadpaffed, in dtfcovrfe, between the Popes
Nuncias, and himfelf, concerning their caufe,
apparitions, high attempts. Sec. (iveli worth the
reading. J His encounter with a Jefuit, before
the faid Nuncio. Jf'hat account Prince R.olim-
berg , and fome other great men, inade of
them.
^ p. 444- Kelley, to Do^or Dee ; Do^or Dce,n
to his Wife ; but nothing confiderable in ei-
'
ther.
"
^ CXXXVI p. 444. f CXXXVII P..445.
Apparitions in the Stone, ( after 6 monetls in-
ter miffion') renewed, with exprefjions of great de^'
TOtion, in Dorior Dee : but with many Woes and
threatnings, by t^f fpirits : who neverthelcffe',^
Prince Rofimberg being prefent, promife fair ta
him, and give him fome injirucfionsy how to ca^ry>}
himfelf. - :
^
^ Francis Puccius very trouhlefome ; but at laji
cjuieted with the reliitution ( VoSor Dee, at this
time, abounded with money, 2000 Ducats in one
hag : Prince Rofimberg had a good purfef)
of 800, Florens .-
which the ^aid Puccius
had formerly contributed for the fcrvice.
f CXXXVllI p. 448. Poeior Dee tnakei bold
to fropofe fome quejiions ( tending to the fe^
cret of the Philofophers Stone ; asltdl^e it .*
)
out of feafon ; but is rejeded, dnd doth humbly
fnbmit. v.-
The
jrft
THE CONTENT
OFTHE
SECOND PART.
'it' *1WS \> .
Part II.
Action I.p. I. Sermon-like (luf : Vo&or Dee
C having a zeal, but not according to
tiiowledge ) mervailoiifly affiled with it.
Prince Rofiniberg his expectation of money
anf^rered) and eluded with great fvbtilrj^ by ex-
ample out of Scriptvrty of Abraliam, David,
Solomon, &c. Ih? precious Powder he had, how
and when, to le tifed. Judgements to be exe-
cuted upon feveral Great ones, ( fure enough
if they had prevailed ) by Prime Roliniberg, as
from God. Ed. Kelley, hit Wife banen : why.
He very weary of hit office : reproved for it^ and
another ( Arthur, Puc/or Dee's fon, ) to be fub-
jiiTuted in hlf place : yea, and hit portion of the
precious Powder to be tak^en from him., if he do
not repent.
Iltp. 4. ArthvT, firfi prefented, and prepared by
Pra.yer,&c. enters upon his Office : Seeth divers
things in the Scone ; Lions, Men, &c, but hear-
ethnot.
ill#p. 5. kn\mv againi as before : Three Exer-
cises in one day.
IV^rp. . 7. Arthur again^ as before : in two Exer-
.^^ifes more.
V, p. 8. Ed. Kdhy;inhif Office again : fees and
hears, M before. Uric], firji authour of Doifor
Pec's <j«i Ed. Kelicy's coiijunftion, A New.
Liw prom fei here again. Anabapt'ftical Vo-
Urineof committing Adultcry,ror Godsfal{e,Scc,
^ Offome words here, fee the 'Errata.
VI, p. 9. Here the fpirits begtH to Jhew themfelves
in their own lik^eneffc apparently , teaching do-
.iTfriHes of Devils : a/id yet jiill ( as their injiru-
vtents at this day in divers places ) in the name
of God. Voit'jr Dee and Ed. Kelley, are ex-
^horted, yea commanded, to have their ](Vivss in
common. Ih,- cafe argued on both fdefjh'fly and
eagerly. Other lirangeVedrineofI)evits,Qtotedy
and reje&ed in f/x? Preface ^ 0/ murder condem-
ned by the Laws of men, approved by God. Saint
Paul inipiouffy flandered. Great promjfes , in
cafe of obedience. 7he Powder. The Pope here
accurfed : yetVo\-<ci-y elfewhen piflified. Kelley
fcandaiized : Boiler Dee in great Agony, Some
/ifcret^ 0/ diftillation revealed by fpirits. The
Pov/dev again, and how K. K. came by it. Pre-
dicfions of England, &c. (all falfe and foolifh)
Ed. Kdky his fidelity fiifpeae-l. Cabaliftieal
myjieries of Letters, and Numbers : not well un~
derfiood bj jDoaor Dee, &c. though much helped
by his fpirits. Bat at iajf, he hath joy, ( in fpirit
as be is perfwaded ) and refolvrs to obey,
^ Dodur Dee, Ed. Kelley, and their two Wives,
their fenfe, apprehenfions, and refoli'tions,concern-
ing this new docliine of promifcuoits copulrtion en-
joyned: exprejfed in form of a CowcivJdit (^foby
them called) wkh God : here firjt exhibited,and
afterwards, p. 20. compleatcd,und fnifcribedby
thePamies: ^ with a imjl wicked dzui^c, or
conclufion, o|^ dreadful imprecations to all that
Jhould hereafter cme to the k.nowledge of it, or
bring it tokjiowledge : whereas it is much to the
glory of God, and true Religion, that fuch myjhries
of Hell and darl^neffe, jhoidd come to light, to be
abhtrred by all men : and that others way be
warned by fiich fad examples, not to hunt after
new doftrines, ««i pretended infprationsund
revelations.
^ p. 17, Ed. Kelley /j« Declaration f/i?>« <^//7ii^(?,
from the beginning of thefe Aftions, i-i gtnerall:
Ws opbofniontipon oQC^jipn.,; H;> diflike of this
}tew dodrine ( in particular') as contrary to the
revealed Will sfGod : lioyc fatisfjed in fame nua-
fure : and thereupon hi^ readimff? to «hi'y, ,^ut
upon f he wemens profeffed. di^fli^e, and dei/i/irr^,
refohcs to give over all further de^ili^g.
Vn,p. \^. Apparitions. Tfje chief 'itone car'
rjed away by fpirits in t'heir fight. More rxherr-
tations and arguments, for compliance to thU ijcw
doftrine. Offer of aUir'itcle, for farther con-
firmation.
Vill^ p. 21. Another Apparition ( upon .reqttejl
made) to confirm them in their pnrpofe of obe-
dience.
IXjjp. ^2. Xet another to the fanie purpofe. The
Covenant torne'by Kelley, m'ade whole again by
•fptritB. The great p,ower of &td: faith <r;7«i obe-
dieitcej'
•.\,
The Table,
d'lence, the yHtriH thing. Great frovrifes. Judge-
inenis prontWiced againfl Kelley his tearing the
paper of Covcmnt, Againjf others.) (fowe al-
readj exi'Ciited) f.r enticinz^hint away : Bjwh'ich
It feems Kclley bein;:, terrified, refolves to tarry,
and obey. ^ The Stone, jimngely takjK away,
Y'^ ''-ritngfly reliored, in the p-ffence and fight of
•\-bnth.
X The An c/ obedience ( good words, to coiin-
-'tcnance greatell villanies, never wanted: as
*' diiylyfccn :
)
performed, ;V accepted by f}:ews
" and fpecckes. Com-vendation of I'l'ifdom. Secre-
^)^''-iy enjojued^
Xi CabaliiVical Doarirte,of the Creation tfman :
The foul of nian^ not the fiibjed of fitnBiftcatio>i,
&c. Great Frotnifes and Preditlious : ( e(jua!/y
true ) entertained, ( with the VoUrine : ) with
comfort-
^ p. 28. Trince Rofimberg : ( the wan now in
favour : but miferably abufed and deluded:") two
Letters of his to Poflor Dee, 8cc. Several que-
ftimisby him fropcfed, as expeSing great things ;
and wholly to be governed by their fpirits. His
confidence of a great Trcafure, in the Powder
delivered unto him.
^ p. 30. Several ^ejiions, aud Petitions of Po-
cior Dee's upon the former Propofnion, 8cc. to be.
offered unto God : among the refl, one for ihe
fffakjng of the Philofophers Stone.- Another,
for Kelley's being fick^: for hit JFife, being bar-
ren : for his own IFife fi:\, &c. The Empe-
perour of Mofcovie, /^wgrfaf opinion of DoQor
Dec, and favour offered.
\ But here followeth that great hiatus, or inter-
ruption of Story, which bereaves us of many years
( fpol{en of in the Preface ; ) account. All from
hence, to the end, fet out unto m but the fad and
lamentable C.itaftrophie of this long Dclufion.
Kellcy is no more heard of »ow ; yet the
fpirits appear jiill in the fatnp Jhape , as be-
fore.
^ An, Dom, 1607. ( Stylo Jul.) Martii 20.
By this time VoTior Dee was become a very old man :
If he we.e bexagenarius ( m he is filled in Puc-
c'ms his Letter,?. I. 439. 1. 15. ) a, d. 1586. he
mult needs be fourfcore and upwards by this :
But we need not taJ{e the wordfo precifely : How-
ever if towards it then, (^more or lejfe) he tnujl
be very old now, m I faid before.
SJf. '%*•? ^ftests'
''\^*j^ '\jA^^ *ui*l* '\^w^
^^^^ #-» #> 4r 4^ 4b 4> «#» ^
"^
T i
E CONTENT S.^i
OFTHE
THIRD PART.
Part in.
Action I,p. 32. Raphael (
pretended) fent
unto VoHor Dee, to comfort him, being ( be-
fides old Age ) much afflided with poverty
andficktteffe.
II p. 33. Ibe fame Raphael. Of a certain
Treafure fomewhere under ground, ( as wasfup-
pefed. ) Dodor Dee's fjuefiions rather eluded,
than really anfwered. Put-offs, and Promifes,{of
vonderful Wifdom, &c. ) Jiill.
III ibid. A Voice fent to Voaor Dee, then(^ as
it feemeth ) alone.
IV p. 34. Raphael again : who, with many fair
pretenfes, and very''forcible Bketorick. {tofuch
anone as Voaor Dee) doth deliver 0. mtffagt
unto him, of a Journey into a far Country , to
be undertaken by him tn this his miferable cafe
and condition, of purfe and body, throughyears,
and prefentfickjieffe.
The danger of his difobedience herein , and reward
&f obedience; the Philofop'iers Stone, &c,
ToUor Dee is -.rilling. ( O rare faith : or ra-
ther prodigious, but dtferved infatuation •)
Salisbury,ifl«£i his Devils; // the Vevilmaybe
believed,
# p. 56. Some Cafes and ^ejiions prcpofed,avd
to he propofed.
9 It feems VoSorDee, at this time, took^upon him
to he a Cunning-man. His neceffrty which wat
great, might put him to ttto try all means : but
I thinks he was too boneji to thrive by it,
V p. 39.
.sldxv
The Table.
\^p., 59. !r6? /jwf R.apliaeL Some quejiins
'
( I doubt, how truly J ref,!ved about the Trea-
.lure. "The Journey h''jiened. Ike Hijiorj of
.Tobias.
Yl p- 40. R.aphael in the Stone : 7he Jewel ;
tif Powder : iri Vocior Dee's poJl'^fJioH ; but not
j[<| 0/ ufe to him. Hit thankjulnejfe y (good
,nwi.
)
^^IJl p. 41. Raphael agiia in the Stone, the
Journey. Great Fro wifes of WiCdom, &c. Do-
dor Dec's enetnies at Court. Money intended by
lif Eruperour { fo a/fop. 58,) to DoSor Dee,
hindered. Some Cafes^ concerning others^ and
himfelfy at his requeji anfwered.
VIII p. 43. Raphael ; Divers ^ejiions and
« 0/J?i by him anfwered. One John Pontoys,
very ambitious toferve DoSior Dee, in thefe Ap-
paritions. ^ f^hich end here in our Relation ;
and probably^ with hit life : or at lead, ( though
hit fpirits had promifed him, p. 34. addition of
manyyears ) not long before hit death. I can~
not yet learn the direS time of hit death : but
much about this time, (^ by all reports :) and in
England, certainly. Though hit fin yfas very
great ( as in the Preface is (hewed .-J y^t becaufe
ofhisfimple and fincere intentions towards Gody
it may charitably be hopedy that God w,k fo mer-
ciful to him, as to let himkjtow his errour, and ta
repent of it, before his_death.
^ p. 46. That which follows herCi if^urtainly
intended for part of that holy Language,
which Adam in Paradife is fa id P. I p. 64, p2.
to have fpokjtn : and by which great wonders
might be wrought, I have neither faith, nor at-
riofity to inquire into it any further : neither
willy (I thinks) any fober man. '
m
<k.'^
INfteadofother Approbation : the Reader ( befides the judgement Of the late Arch-Bijhop of Ar-
magh : for his Piety and Learning fo famous everywhere ; fpoken of in the Treface, firft page
ofit : and the judgement of divers others, that read the Book M anufcript,and wi(hed it printed :)
may confidcr, how lollicitous the Devil hath been, when he faw his plots ( God oppofing ) not like-
ly to take effcft; that tliefe Myfieries ( thefe Papers and Records ) might not come to light. Firft,
by p. 418. and p, 431. (Doftbr jpfe's Letter to the Popes Nuncio) and forae other places of the
Book, it doth appear, that they were all btrnt, by command; though feme afterwards ( upon ap-
pearance of better hopesj ftrangely reftored again. Again, Part II p. 21, is that horrible impre-
cation; w hereof more in the T^/i/e. Laftly, thefe remaining Papers and Records, here exhibited,
were under ground, God knows how long: and fince that, though carefully preferved, were even
at the very laft, when the worthy Owner took care, and was at the coft to have them tranfcribed :
aiid fo at the laft, ( not unluckily, I hope for the publick good : ) they fell into my hands.
M. C.
sr to
fi iti^Ai at
/i
!S
-liO
' & %4 ot
•»^ -q '
M
ERRATA; Thoje of the Book
,
Any will be found in ihe flaoi^: a good part prccsecir.p (befides ordinary jjpojraffc^ca/ mi flakes, even where beft care isufed :)
from the uncorreftedneflsot the Co y • which mig^hc happen partly through the iHegib'cnefle of the OiigW.al it fcif, in ma-'
ny places; and partly from miftakes inthefaid 0.>-;^!ii<j/,where mod legible. The caufe of which miftakcs and mifwtitirg,
you may finl r.r p. 1^9 /. lo. rf^e. an t befiJeswhat is there faid, it may be probably collefled from P. 11. p. 77. /. 43. andf.
13. /. 20. and fom: other like places that £i. K^/Zf)'. tor the mod part, when he made report toDcftorDff, of voices and fpee-
ches,( fuchefp;cially as were o£ fpnu length ) did not I
now whit he faid himfelf, and fo nn'ght the eaficr uiiftakc. A good
part of the Greek. P. /. p. 17. was mifrcportcd,and raiftal:cn,asis flicwed intlie Frefacep. .. .) and I believe never throughly un-'
derftodd by Doftor t)ie himfclt: It cannot therefore b: expected o:herwlfc,but that there ihould be mjny fauhs in the writing : for
which 1 would not have the innocent (the Pr;nffuand Corrc!}dis,l mean:) to bear more blamejtlian comes totheir fliarc.Yet how-
CTei,^houghm<rn> : moft are fiich(thofe phccscxcepted where the Oi/^ina/ was veiy faulty:) as may cafily becorrefted by an ordi-
nary Reader thicisconverfant in books ot all k'mds:Oc ifnotfoealily corrcfted yet fuch as willrlot bereave the Reader of the main
fenfe and matter. Some few paflages here and there,it mny be.will be found where arealonable Scholar may be put toitras F. //.^,
a.l.i\-aliai v.ibifmet iffis difif-piruis: which certainly tr.uft be TC3d,aIafiobifmet.jpfs difmfentii : there beirg a man fed (and perti-
nent ^allufion, in the words, to that allegorical 7r7£pctuT:< (rr/r^-iirerf/ng : or, ij<«r;,;^ :
) of the foul, fo famous in the Books o£
Philofophcrs ; Platoniflsefpecially. Thar very expefTi mis tobc found in F/afo, ( cr Works commonly adfcribed unto him :)
noi'^ifi's'fjiiv or\i\y 3ni:ififd aTToSeth^Tp : (which is the fame in eff.ct : ) but even j^spi •^?iSuS!r5a« : alas conirjrgere,m It
is here, iome fuch places here and there, may be found, where the Reader niuft take fome time to consider, (in what is Latine,
ef-iecially •: )if bethink it worth the whi e. I have faid as mu h as I think needful, and my leifuewjU affordme at this time.
C Since this wtitten, obfcrving that p. 4';5, 404. the Lirind there in both pages, is very full of fauks, ( far more there, than
any where elf^that 1 have obfeivcd :) 1 thought it would not be amide to correft thofe t.vo pages. The Reader may the bet*
ter knorV whit he hath to do upon fuch occalions, though I dare fay he will not meet with the like again in the whole Book.
PAge 405. line 5, 4. read Conf. in orat'ionevejl'a r. t. q. capitula, in q. totitis orationis u. ejf. m. Pr. de prophetiarnm fy tevela-
ttonum Cfjf ib. /. 6 g'atum, 1. 8. Re^is. 1. 9. intdligiiuv, ib. omnimoda D. pot. 1. i z- proph. fciliCet di D. f 1. I4. ecmpUtaM
((•/ c->nfumrtit.tm. I.17. Sam ob banc canfume.- - fcivi(f:t. ], i^.pr.phetica— pr^cipjftisfc. \. ig.Chnfiiancs) — c-llimaiiu
fyi prsfcimiam. l.io.redtfmption'uhnmanie tonfiimmAtiimc. 1. 21. Nam cum cr.nf. l.i^.depirentes eum de. 1. 23. ipfemet Cb.
\,i6.Cbri(liim-'-- ijicpicfsa M. KiJ.hite'pretnlh-nifr. I. iV.eo]dimrepetebat ; Hz: funt verba qux loci;tus fumadvos, cum
a'dhuccffcm vob. \ ^Oj'^i.nulUeff.f'Opbeusvdrevd. ipfjifc. — dk:ndumc. I. 32. rev. fivi norabili itlX B. Joar-.nii Ap. 1. Jf.
pfi'pbtiav. 1.34. Erin iil c ei. Ap. five Revelathr^U, ter, eanddmv. \.l(i.Priiterea,quter. 1.28 Alluam). ---dcemusC \. 19.
p \pk dicit,figL 1. 42. fynemign. revcLitknum extdlat me, d. e. w.ftimulinc. 1. 43. toUpb'net. iy. Notum m. f. 1. 48. Evan-
ediliia- 1. fe.iCfd'Kp/- l.^'-.pimiHyi7';amhacst. ].S'^. p'ophetis. \. ^^ u, cxpreffitde m,Divinis EideLciit. 1. <; ^ invfibile q.
i^Paf^ei^o^.l.i. q'l'sdpatandlimift f - Cbril}it. \. z. A^hum. \.^ fiipsrvinenmt. \. ^.q^xfalla e. f Clauiio. ^ Ad fee. a.
1. f.aff:ronav\t. I. 11, M.verep.r. dfcr. exiftimelis D. ]. J}.fecreta,valdel. 1. i6. roftrarum !\. 1. 19. aSinnes'. Argdorum
vidii. D.h. ].io fnnt ceiif. \. z6. Si mpite)nevere,ify uneD- \. Z7. admonuijli. \. z^. fyrsibin m. — hmnkidar. 1. 30. expeJivifli.
\,jt agn')fcimuf. 1. ^9.rr.infids —fitiebatK. l. $n. qi<i t. n:!iii ^j ffis ex animo c. s. vir. 1. 41. cbedientiam cxhibeam. I. 42.
fiotos-- fuftimre'TiHS.Ii- /y^.n'jfiyas-- pe>-7-m. I. 4^. autem— ruu maxima gratia, f. 1.4^. incdhmes. 4*. n flrs o— fpurcltiisi
J ^o.f:ime'tand4^. \.^\- nu'dampropcfiii-ms. \. ^i. wib,is tranf^lutierdjv.. !. ^4. Mineig.v. lucemi^v —ftmpiterne; Vive,
CrVcre- I. ^6 vivm -- ejj'^ : Meautem. \. ^y,i\idimtnum ify fincirum e. fervxtn : L '^S.anie m. C In the Margin ( as 1
ehuelle:) In lapide <iiiem Ang. m . adduxii : ify p<r{ciiftde,ainifiia ^.cv.metid:m.
Some things to be correaed in the Preface : the Authorir hehtg then in a. Journey when it was printedy and
fo hit intended re-view being prevented by the (juickjieffe of the Preffe.
FIrd, he defires the Reader to take notice that he finds his Orr/wirapfe/e altered in divers places : as Vhyifphie, and Phyhff
pher ; for : hihfophie, &c. Uyppncr.ms, for Hifpocrates, &€, Hi.s loir.tirg alfo : zSyfill points, for t;r; pomts : a in the fccond
page, before Alibufgh : and before : T^i : which dorh much obfcure the fenfe. f; Btfidts this : (but 1 mud dcfirc the Reader
firft to adde the f)^;(r«there,none being printed :
J Page 1. line i7.'<''"/:''i<Jn> rf^e : torcid 1 fay,<!?'f.p.ih44.F()J? then,(as from
themth. p 5.1.6.««'f9. « t. p.4.1.14. how that happ.p 5.I 35.r.andothers,fome to f- p. 7. 1.4. r. in^eni;ous prof. p.io.l.i4.which
may eaf. p.i I.I.43- io /«/f,ne .V So quoted indeed and believed by divers;but not rightly; bjt however one of the -anc. p 13.I.19.
fol.t. [spifitrJ e'g p. I4. 1.7.r. by the outapp. ibid 1. 37. fome jiiifchitf w.bcd ibiil 1 40. r. as the D. p. if. 1. 36. /.</.
Cajtr S^al. p. i<f- I. 23. and 18, iraHianus. ibid 1. 4;. r. Reafon : fight, S. ibid 1. a!r. that thofe ni. p: iS.l. ij.thefecl.
p. i^.\. i7- admjflffet illenegarefe ii.\b.ni.r,[c. illi igf. p.i().].7.dejeruiin lb. 10. e>7i;/i77»<r. Ibid 20. /j;i?MrfW, Ibid 45:.
th. djyes among others, oneOTe/7om«ot<e,asw(; fay, by 5. //.againft iw. As afterwards ( fome 3. or 4. years after ) Popifh im-
podures (then ufcd anj difcovered ) of the fame nature, fo; the advancement of their caufc, occafioned another of the fame
Authour,3nd Subjefi, ( exnrcifmrs )againd I'ApiJls. 1 have th- ;
p. 21- iS- of^olfciic'-V/s;. Ib.23. aiid^Hos. Ib- 24. cHtn
c.f. P'i;.l. 21. Chridians: ackn. lb. 33.morefcx. Ib. 55. Sec- therefore sv. p- 14 44. if. 'fvirarc'.ToiTi. p-2f. 44- tniea.
f.Cb.r. p. 2(?. 2 8-iequcft t. p. 27. 2^. yea ready, wh- p- 28. 11. forf. hm,p- j^c. and p ( in Lar. p. 27. 43. prcfcnted;
and appr. p- 3». 25- true nat- but in the o. lb. :^. obf- dilig- ib- 3o.for that P. . . . himfc'f f. p. } i. jr. comm-.iideth. p.jj.
7. differences in r. Ib- ii.ii. of thing-- hath d. p. j.j. 3^- dchjcd a- p. 3 J. 34. confufed or conf. p. 3s. 7. Devils >y-' ibid
J.
He did c. p- 57. 21. lived. th, 39. <;. more probably den- Ib. 17. part it is(it any part at all, and. not rather a new coun.
terfeit under an old vi7-or :) fo oft. Ib. 36. hath had a h- \'- ^o.j.fpirimum-- me&iT. lb- u.d. 60 ih.lh. '.^-Arf.fac- Ib-i?.
formcra. p- 4 l.23.of what is tr. p- 43.6. ihey may h.f. fom- p:rchancetli- bid 7. S.ref. ibid25.inth= T- ibid 3 3- conce'tcd.
ibid 43. feme Table. p-44-(?. about a y. p.n6.7.priks oil. p-47-2f • more of it- It is a. ibid 27. belonged u, p.49.1 j. « ho b. ib.ji.^ ?.
5ry6'3u/x©-- 32-a(*eMtiii:r«/. 44. T{6,3oj'@-,45.7r{ifKT2/. ?.fo. 12. lallitcas. 4y.of thiSjOCC. p.f2.3o. i knew p 53 y.and praying.
F(J?/<T;prl.22 n^inidety.
Befidcs thefis £rr<i a's : it is ft the Reader diould ! now that the written Copy of the Prefacehii'. many rcferrneff to the pages
of the Book .'Vf 5-which becauferh;y d'd not agree wi(h the printed pag"s, the Printer thoug'it imrcitiprn: to fetdown : which
neverthelelTe hath bred fonieconftifion in fomeplaces; as p. 4*?. 47. =nJ elfcv.herc : but may cafily be icclig;^ bv thcT,».'>/i-,
at rhe beginning. Asain, fome marginal quotations are omitted, which m-.y be fupplicd- P. ii. againd the ^^ 4- and tol-
lowing lines : [T'wri/er/ EntAHy/iJpw :<;/'. 4. anrf^. ofRhetor- and I' recti • Enih.] p. j^?. sgaind Jinc ii, i-.g^rc- [Veraac
memorabilis Hjh'iade i- Energumeiii^ &.c- Lut. Par, 16:^ .dcdicaied to the King of fV^nCf ] P. 4?. againft 1- et^ 7- ^irt- [Oe
arteOramm-l. i- cap- i^i.p- 1415 '4"--]
Ladiy, 1 cannot E,ive a reafon oi'ihe Italica t ot difF.;tcnt letter, in feme places : bat that the Printer, or fome body c!fc, hare
pleafed their pbinfies therein.
C \ni\\tTable: Parti hA>VT-cfthe fdme nature, \d- Lf-ref, to /mv? Tr. De?- Aft. I.X//r Some char- ardp'nperii,'s.
AA-CLobleive: at leaflet Tag- A.&'Cl\'-maCe-nfhisfe,ondL- ibid jv Wrjnr. Ad- CVf/. ^n rfce Cabale. Aft. CXl/l- i«r
refervingrfiirotall- CXVIl-frm Prei- h&.CXX.fpd^enof,tev CXXX. intoxic- CX'H'S.W, he doth leJl li, ef ihoje b'
l»:irt U .'&• IX' pronounced ag'
\
I i
-^-^^^^I^^^T^flh^T^H^- or Book, oi -E^ocw.
Se-ptcatrio
Faiprj^sftT
I
rSlT^Cll
\Sj\cin^
r grf^ HOLY TABLE.
VlTl^^lTl€!t^ii^lr>|gilLl-€:'T'^'^'^''^'^''^'^''^''^'^ "^
->
^'
-^..
-
.!r-
.-<i.-S,'J
R
V'
I,
iH .J
A TR UE
ELATION
OF
Dr. DEES (^jfBions, mth/pirits.
Liber Myftenorum(& Sanc5li)paralIeInsNovalirque4
Lefden May tt. 1385.
D. Is Dr. Def,'
E. K. fiYwari
Keilet. See chc
Pieface.
S J. and E« K. fate difcourfing of the Noble Polomati Albertus
Lafa his great honour here wich us obteined , his great "ood
liking of all States of the [)eople , of them that either fee him
or hear of him , and again how much I was beholding to God
that his heart rtiouU fo fervently favour me, and that he doth
fo much ftrive to fupprefle and conrbunld the malice and envie of
my Country-men againft me , for my better credit winning
or recovering to do God better fervice hereafter thereby, &c-
Suddenly, there feemed to come out of my Oratory a Sfirituall
creature , like a pretty g'rle of 7 or 9 yeares of age, attired on
her head with her hair rowled up beforCjand hangingdown veiy long behind,witli a gown of
Sey 5 .....changeable green ani red, and with a train (he feemed topiay up and down.......... Green ind reJ,
like, and feemed to go in and out behind my books, lying on heaps, the big-ell and as
fhe (hoiild ever go between them, the books feemed to give place lufticiently, dif.... one heap
from the other, while Ihe pafTed between .hem: And fo I contideriftli and ,.......;.. the diverfe
reports which E. K. made unto me of this pretty nwiden, and .....)......,
A. I Caid , Whofe maiden are you ?
..^A. Sh. ......... Whofe man are jou'i
A. I am the fervant of God both by my bound duty, and alfoi(I httpe) by his Adoption.
A voyce ."iovlhallbe beate^t ifjoutell.
;-'.-\_!--.
Aw not I a fine Maiden ? Give me leave to play in yavr houfe j my Mother told me fie
would come and dwell here. '
.
-
A. She went up and down with moft lively geflures of a young girle, playing by her felfe,
and diverfe times another fpake to her from the corner of my iludy by a great Perfpeftive-
glafle J but none was feen belide her felfe.
VJ?..»i Shut I? I will (Now flie feemed to anfwcr one in the forefaid Corner of the Study)
...... J^ pray you let me. tarry a /itt/f [fpeaking to one in the forefaid Corner~\
A. Tell me who you are .?
..,.'..i., I fray you let me flay -with you a. little^ and-l Will tell you who I ani.
.A. In the name of Jefus then tell me.
I rejoyce in the name of Jefiu, and I am a -poor little Maiden y Madini , I am the
liji but one of my Mothers children , / have little Baby-childreti at home.
A. Where is your homef?
Ma.,.../ dare not teUyoiiwhere I dwell, I (hall be beateft.
A. You (hall not be beaten for telling the truth to them that love the tiuth , to the eter-
nal truth all Creatures muft be obedient.
Ma I warrant you I will be obedient. My Sijlersfay they muji all come and dwell withyou.
B A. I detire
Jefas.
Proles ipfiUt
Madini.
Maiini her
Gx Sifters.
A true^elation ofD\ Dees AB'tons, mthfpirtts.
'
£,, I delirc that they who love God fliould dwell with me, and I with them. --^ ^^^'
]yia I love jiou now joii talkjof God.
Vie. A. Youreldeftfifterhernanie is E/cwe/i.
Ma Mjfiihr ii not popart as you make her.
hfemili. A. 6 j I ciyyoa mercy, flie is to be pronounced Efemeli,
B, K. She fmilcch, one calls her faying, Come away Maiden-
Ma. ...... 1 y^ill read ever my Gentlewoemen firjK
My Majier Dee will teach me , if I fay amijje.
r {i.-Kead over youv Gentlewoemen as it pleafeth you.
IVia I l^ave Gentlemen and Gentlwoemen, Lookjiou here.
E- K. She bringech a little book out of her pocket,
-Shepointeth to ainfiSiure the book.
Mad Is not this a pretty man.
A. What is his name ?
Ma My faith^ his name is EdwardjLoo^J««j he hutb n CrGwn upon bts head^my Mother
faith, that this man was T>iike ofTork^.
E'i\, She looketh uponaPi^«r^ inihe Bookyvithaforiw^^inhishand
and a Crown upon his head.
Ma Thiiwas ajollymanwhen he wasKinz, of England.
A. How long fince is it that he was King oi England ?
Ma, Z5o you ask^ me fuch a (jue^ion, I am but a little Maidm? Lo^here ithkFatbef
Richard Plantagenet, and his father alfo.
A. How call you him ? ^^
Ma Richard) Surely this was Richard Earle of Cambridge,
E.K. She turneth the book leaves, and faid.
Mad :Here if a grim Lord, He ma]{eth me afraid. , .j
A. Why doth he mak e you afraid ? •
Ma He is a jiern fellow , I di not kjtow him what he is. But this If as the Puf^etfCh'
rence. thiswas Father to Kichmd Earle of Cambridge. LO) here is Anne bis wife.
E. K. Turning over the leafe,
Jhe fame was heir to all Mortimers lands.
Edatwnd was her f^rother.
Lof Sir, here be the wicked Mortimers.
B K. She turned over diverfe leaves, and then ftic (aid
Ma.. This fame is Roger Mortimer.
My Mother faith this man was Earl of the Marches.
"Xhis fame is his wife.
He had a great deale of lands by her., for jhe was an Heirc.
P enounced
"^^'^ -^"""^ " viWd Genvill, her Father.
fenviUe.
Here is a T'ewn they call Wehhy, Here is Bend\ey. Here « Mortimers Clybery. Herein
jpiW Wenlock. Here is Ludlow . Here is Stanton Lacy. Geny'iW his wife was Heire of alt
thefe. Here is Hugh Lacy her Father. He weareth his haire long ^ for he was Deputy of Ire-
land ; That wakfth him look^ with fuch a writhen face. >y
(JHy Jijier hath tome cut the other two leaves ^ I will bring them when you have fupped. rni
Ipray do not tell any body of me, *'^ ^
A. We were earneftly called for to Supper by my folks.
After Supper,
Ma. ......Here iiWilliam Lacy Father to Hugh.
Here is K'lchzrd hisFather. And here is Sir Richard his Father , aMdhereisWlWhrn y Sir
Richards Brother* Here is his gtinginte Fiance.
A. Quo ainio Chrifti?
Her eldeft
^^^ ^ warrantyou my eldefi Sijler Will tell you all. Here is his going into Denmarfc-,^
Sifter. ^y ^'ft^r ypill come fliortly^ and tellyou how he married in Poland , and what iffne this Wil-
Her Sifter i» ham had.
to tell the A. I pray declare the Pedigree down to this Mert Lafcy. .wWU
""' Ma... Alas , I cannot tell whats dtne in other Countries.
A. I know you are not Particular of this Country, but Univerfal for all countries in the
whole world, which is indeed but one Countrey, or a great City, &c. „ .„.
^^'^ ^^11 > »>y fifter will (hortly come and tell you un/ookjd for , Ifyou judge thefe thing!
well that Ihavejpok^en. Nam vera funt. Nam verus eft qui me mifit.
Truth
Atrue Relation of D'. Dees JBions, mth fpirits. 3
"tnttb is all that is truth.
lleMortmcvI fpak^e of, is th^firdofthefix: r,&fre wfrf ^ar Mortimers E<rr/a 0/ March.
Edmond was the lajiy and Roger thefirji j that Mortimer ivas the Grandfathers Grandfather of
thit^Amond.
E. K. There fcemeth fomc one to call hcr» whom I hear now.
Ma • I come.
, , j n.
b.. She took up her Skrolls on the ground, of which fomc were very old, and Ihe put \\f
her book
.
Ma 't^fis may (layidyoti infonte llead.
A. Mittc lucem tuam &: veritatem tuani, Jefu Chrifte,Lux vera,8c veritatis pcrennis Fons,
Amen.
L
Richard L^fcy.
Edward mlliatH Sir Richard
Dux Ebor. Lafcy, Lafcy.
France. Richard. Peter. Kichard
France. Denmark^. Poland. Lafcy.
*• ^" 3-
milium Lafcy.
Geffrey Genvil. Hugh Lafcy.
pyilde Genvill-
^^^^
Rogeras piimus comes T. /«"» Genvill.
March.
Monday a Meridie hora^l /<rmii,lj8j,
A. Wc prefented our felveSjrcady for inftruftion rcceiving,and prefumed not to call my
good Minirter fpiritual, but by humble prayer referred all to God his good pleafure.
£ K. TheGolden Curtain which covcreth all the Stone hangethftill,
but I heare a voice or icntence thrice repeated, thus.
A voice San&unty Signat»my& ad tempus.
A. The fenfe hereof may be divers wayes ilndcrftood, and more then I can imagine, but
which fenfe is to our inftruftion would I faine know.
A voice SanSiumyquiA hoc vellefuum 5 fi^illatwn quia determinatum ad tempos.
E K. Hard fpceches,but he couii nKprfci-tlydifcern them.
A voice Ad tempus & ad teirtpusQnquam)quia rerumconfummatio. All things arcat hand.
The Seat is prepared.
Jujiicehath determined.
The Judge if not yet willing.
Mercy thrujleth it felf betwixt the "Divinity. But itis fiid^
Ihe Timt^fhall be jhortned.
E K. Saw no creature : But the voice came behind him over his head,
till now; when he cfpicd one ftanding oti the Table befides the filke
clothon which the Stone flood, he Teemed like a Husbandman all in red
apparel, red hofc clofe to his legs, a rtd jacket, red buttoned cap on his head,
yea, and red fliooes. He asked £, 2C- how he did,and5. iC- anfwered,
Weill thank God.
iA. By your apparel it fliould feem you have fomewhat to fay concerning the Commons
of this Realme, and nor of high School-points, or Sciences. / am deiirous to know who i'enC
you? What is your melfage > and what is your name ? for- a name you have peculiar as all
Creatures elfe.
A. He paufed a good while ; whereupon I asked him if he confidercd my fpeeches t
I cenfider your fpeeches, for I have left notbwgbehi/td.
E. K' Hckncclechdown and (eemcth to fay (omewhat, his fpcech is
quick, round, and ready- He feemeth to pray in a lira nge Language I per^
ceived thefe words among many other , Oh Gahire Rudna gephm oh
Qahirej &c-
His Countenance was directed towards the Stone*
Vejlra non me» facioi
B 2 E K.
— - -
'
I
-~~ - ——~———— II
4 J true Relation qf D'. Dees JBtons, whffirits,
E K. Now he fiandechup.
Uaii not thou (aid^Yrornvbowcomeii thoji? What is thy mejfage ? j^
A. He looked to-
ward mc ] And halt urged my name ? 5tf_)7Kg, All things have a name. 7t is true ; for fo they
/C:. All thing',
/_,^^^^ hecaii[e they are. H.iji thou left any thing I'nfaid ?
x^dtcwna'^^' A. You rehearff my Tpcc'ches not cncly in general, but alfo in particular.
Tcrt.pmelihi The will of God be done( to his glory J for the reft.
Eracomenfit de My vuffagc is frcm him., in whoienanie thouhaji def.red it, which hath [aid lift vpthine
^o^erif ex- eyes^aHd looknMto {behold ipryj (kfum of my Commandments, j. What Jam, 2. IFhofe Mim-
Thetu
^'
^^'"•* y*^" ^''^' ""'^ ( "^ '^ " '"''^ iefore ) 3. 7o what end ajtd prpofe it is.
our command - '^^"^ '^^"f^ '^ flead when JudgementjUndeth in place ; For all things are determined already.
td obfetva- They dooresurc opened. The 7 Governours have almoft ended their Government.
t'-^n. f/je Earth laboureth as fick^^ yea fick^iinto death.
Note 7, jf,^ fVaters pur forth weepings, and have not moiftweft'fficient to quench their otvnforrows.
T'he Aire witkerethy for her heat is infeded.
T^he Fire confiimeth and is fc aided with his own heat.
"Xhe B'dies above are ready to fay, TFe are weary of ouir courfes.
Nature would fain creep again into thebofom of her good and gracious Mafier,
Varkjiejfeis now heavy and finkfth down together: She hath biuldedher felf,yea (Ifay)fhe hath
advanced her felf into a mighty bialding^he [aith,Have dene, for I am ready to receive my burden,
Hellit felf is weary of Earth : For why ^ The fon of'Darkneffe ccmtth now to challenge his
Anticlir'ift his right : and feeing all things prepared and provided, defireth to ejiablijh himfelf a. kjngdom ; fay-
faying in the -^^g^ ^y^ are mwjhonge enough. Let us now build us a kingdom upon earth, and Noweftablifh
lp.ru ot Satan,
j.,^^^. ^.,^j^,^ ^^^ ^^^^jj ^^^^ confirm above.
And therefore. Behold the end.
Sorrows.
^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^ cometh. The thy forrows (hall be greater than the rvveccnefTe, the forrcws
( I mean ) of that thoiffeeft ; I mean in refpfd of the fweetneffe of thy k^nowleJge. Then willyou
lament and weep for thofc thou thoughtji were juji men.
Labor Pfhev you earnejily pray it Jhallhfaid unto you Ldhoi:. JVhen you Wdhld tak^e Mercy J'vjiice
pall fay. Be itfo.
"therefore ( T fay ) thirft not overmnch : For fear leaft tliy capacity be confounded.
Neither move thou him which hath moved all things already to the end.
But do th-nth'it which is commanded.
Neither prefcribe thou any form to God his building.
. All things fl)all be brought into an uniformal Order.
Al.alait(j>.
nhom thou fayefi that thou hafl not yet confirmed , confirm with good C6imfel. It iifaid Ihavt
accepted liim.
Are not thefe News fufficient "}
It isfaidy He Jhall govern 7ne a people: of himfelf he cannot. Therefore let him believe^ ancL
kS'"
^' /"^^<'«<^6'Kf>j« that the Angel of God hath fo governed him. Tkdt in Eleftion 'Jx jhall
govern him a people.
Defirethhe to hear of greater bleffedneffe ?
O King. He hath alfo faid: Then _fhall it be faid unto him,0 King.
Videiaminde It followeth Consequently that he is called, and that to a Kingly Office : For whofifver is An-
f-'t""-?
'"("
nointed in the Lord, his Kingdom is for ever.
LnsT ^'^^ ^' ^'f '''-'"
few ofperdition ? Let him then with his fathers put on the garmenti o/pride.
Pride, T)efireth he news? Tell him thou haft prayed for himjihc Devil envyeth hira,and his eftate. .
Tell him that I fayfo.
Say it is a fiame for a Kings Son to ammit theft ; and for him that is called, to do tf/e worses
of vnrightcoifncffe. Studie(i thou to pleafe him? Give him ifliarp and wholefome counfel. For in
him ( Zfay ) thejtate and alteration of the whole World pall begin,
jyouldjilhou kjiow from whence I came ? Thoupalt.
But do it Hi.mhly, it is not my part to meddle any further than my charge.
But as it is fa id before unto thee. So pall it come top.rjfe. •
Mofcs had a red whereby he was kjtown, and the hand of God approved.
Let him nfe therefore to carry the rod of righteoufnefle' about him.
Wofes 7. rbd.
^"'^ "'^ "'"''
f^^'en : and in us is c&mprcktnded that rod wherewith Mofes wrovght. As it it be-
^anlhm,fignii- gun fo I endiWhatyefee here is holy [^pointing to the and by himfealed and for until the time.
tMm,ad lempus. therefore tfe patience herein until the time that it is faid unto thee
Venice, videte, ( 6^ loqiiimni ) Judicia mea.
He that faith thus ^ Ifpeak^ of my felf, and as concerning my me^.ige,) is equal with the great-
eft Angels, and his name is Murifri.
Muufii my Thouhaji written my name, and J am of thy Kalender, becaufe thy Kalendcr is of God.
Calender. j^^ ^y grounds of all thy Tables thoupaltfinde my name.
A. / remember not any fuch name written by me, but it may be contained in forae new
Compofition,or CoUeftion.
Mur It is true ,for if thou hadji remembred all thofe things which thou haft written^ then
fijonld notmymcffageneed. A. if
(ui true Relation of D\. Decs ABions, mthffirits.
A. If/nii^hcwithoucofFaKling you, /would move two Petitions uiiro you, one concerning
the Soul, and the orhcr conceniii.g the body : Concerning tiie Soul, is tor owe Ifubel Lijier^
whom' the ivicked Enemy hath lore afflifted long with dangerous tertiptatioub, and hath
brought her knives to deltroy her felf withall;llje relilleth hitherto , and delireth my helping
coiinfel, which how fmall it is God knoweth. The other is of another w.)nian,who hath great
need, and is driven to maintain her felf, her hu -band , and three children by her hand la-
bour, and theroiis one t!:at Vy dream is advertilcd of a place of Treafure hid in a Cellar,which
this woniaji hath hired thereupon, and hatii no longer time of hiring the faid Cellar, but till
Midfummer next. She, and this dreaming Maiden dig.'^ed fomcwhat , and found certain to-
kens nocehed unto her:But fo left otf.I would i^ladly iiave your help herein,if it pleafed God.
Mur I answer thee, Iwill come again focn, and thou fJja/t receive a. Medccine which Jhall
teach thee to'workhelp in the firjL The fecoiid is vanity, for it is not fo, ha to the intent that
after great kfe cf this world hath infeUed the weakjings minde : Defperacion might h(ne the more
^en and ready entrance. But yetjhe jhall be comforted for thy [a\e.
A. Thepraife be unto God.
Mur I Go. One thing I have to fay^ he faithfull in all things.
I have faid. . _
_
. A. 1 prayed, and gave thanks hartily to God for his mercies, and graces , and fo rofe up,
A. Then he faid write, M.49. under F. 43 under R. 35. i. and 47. under JF. R. 7.7
ThispalUad thee to my name^he that fent me he amongii yoll^^. Amen,Amen,Amm.l9. 33. 42X
A. Note in tabula Colleaa,(which I firll gathered of the 49. good Angels) 1 took the third
lettersout of the names, it is to wit, oucof the 49'''. name, and th 47. p- 33'.4--. which
agreed \eij well with the letters, but the five and thij-ticth name did not yield R. in his third
letter. Therefore I am in the
Monday after fupper 1583. Junii 5«
A. After fupper, as we were together in my ftudy, and attending fomewhat the return of
the good meflager fpiritual, and faid that he promifed to come again fuddenly , he appeared
and anfwered.
Mur Sol am, write 7. 30.25, 44.57.35.46. •
To the firft S. to the fecond O.the third L.the fourth G. the fifth A, the fixth K.the 7th. S.
A. 1 hat maketh .S L G ^ JR. 5.
Mur Add the firfi,and laji number together, it maketh 5 3. let that he the Centre to the refi,
A. To be put to the Center of the Steptagomm.
Mur So. the ground hereof it to he found in the third Table in the firji lookj I mean in Tfi'; third Ta-
tbc third of the feven, the Table 0/ B. B. &c. being the firii. b!e in the firft
My name is alfo to be found in the fame Table. ^°°^'
Form this upon a plate of lead : It prevailcth as a cure againft fuch infeftions. My promife
is done.
A. How is this to be ufed>
Mur. ...,., Vfe it upon the body moMei, adding the letters of her name in a fmall Circle on the
back^h(ilfy not the letters in their forms exprejfed, but the miynber offuch letters.
A. We know not how to number her name hi our letters.
Mur Takf them out of the fcrond Table {any Table elfe of the feventh will ferve) fo tkat A The fefoni
theu take the numbers as thou fi,ideft them placed with the letters. Tih]^ did not
A. How is this to be ufed about her body ?
forri^'-^d^'ii"
Mur. ...,,. As by drfcretion jhall be thought bejl : It prevailcth fufficiently, fo it be done, hut thus
feventh where
far I teach thee, and this, of concerning nature. all the letter.
The health of him which fen^ me be anungli ym. A'nen. might be had,
A. Gloria & gratiarum aftio perennis fit Deo noftro oranipotenti uni & Tr'mOyAmen.
IfahelLi-
jj^r, the
back C't'^
ofihe La-
,min.
The fore-
part of the
Lamiri.
Wednefday a Mfrii/e czrc/r 2<l.
1583. Jmi^.
A. E. K. H^^d been ever fince nine of the Clock in the morning in a marvellous great dif-
quictneffe of minde, fury, and rage, by reafon his brother Thonm had brought him news that
, a Com-
J trueV^elationofjy. I^ttsABions^ yvith fpirits-
A m-tr vin- ^ CcmmiHioTi was out to attache, and apprehend him as <t fellon for cojning of money. Second-
tiuth in every ly, that his wife was gone from Mirtrefle Free)iuins houfe at Blohley , and how Mr. Hufej had
yiit thereof , reported him to be a cofcxcr, and had ufed very bitter and grievous reports of him now of late;
and a malici-
jj,jj ^\yj^^ 1/,^ wife was at home with her mother at Chipping Norton , whereupon, I confidering
"'^ ^^'
his great diforder and incumbrance tcnvard him externally, and his greater offending ofGod
with his furious impatience internally ; and remembring the whole premifcs of God his fer-
vicc to be performed by us two (if we would be dutifuU fervants to his Divine Majefty^
] was touched with a great pang of Compalfion , borh that any Chriftian fhould ufe fnch
f[>eeches as he ufed, or be of fo revenging a minde and intent as he (hewed himfelf to be : and
aUo in refpcft of mine own credit to be brought in doubt, for embracing the company of fuch an
cne,a diforderly perfon : And thirdly , that the good fervice of God might hereby be taken
from our two executing , to our great danger, both in body and foul : Therefore ro do my
Amiurumom- duty as Hi ViYiiiM'c^oXwtt (\\\)OX\ our uniting for Gods fervice') to do for h'm (tt for my felf :\ made
fiiAcommunia.
God my refiige for comfort, counfel, and help in this great affliftion , and crolFe of tempta-
tion.
Whereupon after my vehement and humble prayers for the forcfaid purpofe, this voycc
was heard of E. K.
I had (upon fome reafonablc re*fpe&) fetthe fhew-ftone with the myftcry in it, on
the Table by £. K. alfo.
A voyce Let the daughters f light
Tak^e up their garments, let them open the windows ef their fecret Clfimbersi for the voyce of man
hath [aid.
Oh, fiiew thy felf to be a God ; yea, pejform that which thou haft already promifed , ga-
ther your vejiures together, for thofe that are fick^have need of help ,y-(t are the children ofpitty^
NoteofDe- and inthe loins of conipa^on do you dvell : for I havg faid, yon are. And I have faid,my Deter-
termination mination ftall not fail, although with the fons of men my Determinations may be undeter-
undetecmina- mined.
Note tenta-
^"""^ gather Up your garments, for the Cankers are ripe , and the Biting-worm feekfth to gnasf
tions by the into t\}e Lily.
Biting worm. He hath faid. Let me prove them, for they are not juft : lea, let me touch them ,fer they are
jmrighteous, I have granted him power, but without prevailing, J have given him weapons, but they
are not jliarpned, his fingers Jhall defile, and yet not deface . For I have appointed him a night , and
have prefixed an end thereunto, to the intent it may be k^nown: That thm far I have ftretcbed his
month.
5. K, I have heard a voycc about the fliew-ftone very great , as though
men were beating down of rnud walls.
The thumping, (huffing, and cluttering is fiich,
A voice Arife, I fay , for I will be revenged againji the fcorning of thofe lyea , of tbofe
that are furkjings.
A, After a great filence and paufe , appeared one on the Table ( without the skirtsof
the filke farcenet ) like a woman having on a red kirtle and above that a white garment like
an Iriflj Mantle, on her head a round thing like a Garland, green and like a Coronet under
the Garland, but not perfeftly to be difcerned; on herbreaft a precious Stone ofwhite co-
lour, and on her back another precious Stone ; both which Stones were fet upon a Croffe, in
the very center of the Crofle.
A. Your external apparel ( you Daughter of Light ) you perceive that we have fome-
what noted : but by the power and mercy of the external Light, we truft and dcfire to iin-
derftand fomewhat of your internal vertue.
Shefaid What do youthink^I am a Jewellers wife by my apparel ?
A. We deem you to be the MefTenger of him that hath for mankind purchafed the Jewel
of eternal Blille, by the incomparable Jewel of his moft precious Blood.
of m''oraw-
J^'lhou have this too ?
™ behinde me,
^' After a pretty while iilencc, I faid. We cxpeft the execution of the purpofe for which
'
you arc fent.
She faid It is written that Pride was thefirji offence.
Githgulcag kjiew not himfelf.
"therefore he was ignorant.
E K. She is much fimbling about the Stone on her breaft , and re-^
gardingit.
£. K- Now She talkeih with other whom I fee not , her talke is very
fliort and quick, but I cannot perceive what (he faith*
She Read what I have faid,
/read the former wordi.
She To« will grant me that Fride is the great^ ftn,
'
Pride
.ir ?Kc:iEV J'C'l VttviilSik
qj true^Iation of D^^Dces J&ms,mthffints^ 7
^^—i^— ——--——-______^_____^--—————^————————^————^——————^—^—~—
", Pride was the caufe he kjtew not himfe/f,
/Therefore Pride it the caufe of Ignorance.
j'A, The Argument is good.
She Ignorance was the nakedneffe wherewithtriyou werefirji tormsnted^and thefirji Plague
that fell unto man was the want of Science.
E K. Now flic fpcaketh to other again who appeare not , and thcjr
fecm to anfwer her again.
She The want of Science hindrethyou fromkjtowledge ofyourfelf.
B K. She lookcth upon A- and fmilcth- Now ftie fpcaketh to the
unfeen people again-
She Whsfoever therefore kjtoweth not himfelf^ is proud.
A. God help us to know our felves for his Honour fake.
E- K, Shelooketh upon ^- andfmileth-
She Xou have time enough^ therefore we may takf leafure.
A. £ I made fpced to write,
j
€. JC. She talketh again with her invifible company,
She Pride is rewarded as fin. Ergo the firji offender was damned. What fay you Sir H
[fpcaking to E. K. ']
frhat difference is between your mind and Pride ?
E, K. Whcrqin am I proud }
She In t^e_,fa»te wherein the Devil was,firJi proud.
Who glorified the Devil ?
&. K. God.
A. God glorified not the Devil, but before he became a Devil he was in glory.
She The abufing of his Glorification made him a Devil : So the abufing of the good- ADevll,
nefle of God toward this man, may make him a Devil.
The workj of the Spirit quicken ; the doings of the Flejh lead unto dejlrpMion. Art thou offend-
ed to he called a Devil ? Then extol not thy felf above thy EleAion.
No man ii elelled by proper name, but according to the meafure of his faithy and this faith is ^>ii^.
lively and bath a quickening Spirit in it for ever. Indeed thou art ignorant , and therefore thou art
fufficiently plagued : thy lofi thou boafi thy felf and fay. This / can do?
The Reeds pipe, but it it long of the wind, and herein thou (heweli that thou kjiowefinot thy. felf^
for that thou art proud ; pray therefore that thou mayeji have underjianding, and caji awaypride
if thou wilt not be counted a Devil.
By trueunderliandingyoulearnjfirji to kjiow your felves what you are : of whom you are^ani
to what endyou are.
This underjianding caufeth no felf-love, but a. fpiritual felfe-hve.
This underjianding teacheth no Blafphemy.
This underjianding teacheth no fury.
It teachiih a. man to be angry, but not wrathful. Writh.
Tor we may be angry, and mt offend* Wrath is to damnation.
Therefore ronfideri'ig th't Damnation was the end of thefirji, which was Pride,and Igmrancey
thtpmijhment ofthefecond ( which is very loathfome. )
Pray unto God th u mayeji avoid the firji, and be unburdened of the fecond.
Confider by whom thou art counfe lied, and of whom the counfel is : with us there is no caufe of of-
fencey neither is the counfel given with a weak^mouth.
Wilt thou be well rewarded > Why (iudieji thou not to do well > muldji thou be one of the cho-
fen ? fiand jiiffand be contented with all temptations*
I{God a God ofJujiice >.
E' K. 7c is true-
Be thou therefore a pjijervant.
No man inheriteth the Kingdom of Eternity, without he conquer in this World.
No man c«n challenge ]ujlly a reward, without he he aConqitrroiir, or do the w r\es of lujiict^
Doth the Devil perfwadethee > Arme thy felf againji him.
Doth the World not lik^e of thee ? It is for two canfes ; either for that thou live(i well and ligi
as a worldling, or elfebecaufe thywickfdneffe isfuch as that the >Vorld wondreth at it. If thou be in
the firji Rejoyce, Fur bleffed are thofe whom the World hateth ; whek they laugh at thy godlineffe,
Be ferry and grieve thou at their finfulneffe.
jfthouoffend in the fecond flie bujiily from the World: Tell the Worldwbat thou hajl of hers,
and let her be ajhamedthat thou knoweji her.
Is thy flejh jiiff-neckjd ? Faji and pray, it doth avoide temptation.
Beforry alwayes ; For in this World there is nothing to reloyce at. For fin onely provoketh ^' ^°"f «^
to fotrow, whether it be ofthyfelfor of another.
' r „j^„.
Be
8 J truel^elation of D'. Dees jBtons.xrithfitnts,
Be ftijf ag(jinil temptations:, for whofoever it not armed as I aw, Jlmll be vexed with the weapons
of his a4verfary.
Kcrart'r
^^> Garland is God/inejfe, MfjBreftplate is Humility, and vpn wy back, I wear Patience,
roun^ded'^
^^'
^'5)f/> do I Wear to the intent I might Jhew you vhatyoupoidd wear.
The attire of But as thefe things are placed in their crojfes, fo do the crojfes alwayes follow them thatweai-
rpiricittl crca- them.
'"'''•
Art thoupunifijedas an Apo'Jle ? Rejoyce , it is a happy crojfe.
Art thou vexed as a Tyrant ? than\ God it is in this World. For Utffed are thofe that arepuni-
J}jed here^ to the inte>'t their fins maybe forgotten hereafter,
I terfwjde to the contrary ; Be humble, feek^ true wifdom, then are you truely fajhioned accor-
Good Angels. dinZio your Mak^r, andfl^alt rei with us, with Halleluja in- Heaven.
I have counfelled, I have done my meffage thus far,
L. Your counfel is perfeftly good, and your meiTage merciful. His name be praifed and
glorified that fent you. Amen.
As you were called hither, by the name oiDaughters of Light : So this other day, there
was cue fent hither ( of that blefled company ) who was accounted a Daughter, and had fix
Sifters more : That Daughter her name was Madini ; fo of your name we aredefirous to be
informed, for diftinftion and inftruftions fake, in the trade of thefemyfteries.
Shefaid It is good to kjiow my name ; to fee whether it agre? with my Do&ri/ie,
E. K. What can you (for all your exhortation j accufcmeof?
Indecdlthankyou very heartily for your exhortation and good counfel
i
buthovv unjuftlyl ammifufed at H«/g>j hand, and io provoked to ihis
extrcam i^fBidion of mind and fundry unfcemly Ipceches , be you Judge
between /i«y£^ and me-
She faid. Whofoever hath committed fin and is not reconciled, fliall have the reward of a [inner,
"there IS a double Kecon:ili.ition, the one is with God, the other with the Confcience, S'lt this man
'
is not reconciled in Confcience Qrepenteth not his wi-kedneffe ) thereby it followeth he cami t be
reconciled with God : Evgo he mui be rewarded as he is. The reward of fin is to be abfent, or ra-
ther to be banilhed in this world from the fociety of G d and his Angels.
Good Aneels So it falkth out to Regions and Countries, Cities, Kings and ^ubflis. Authorities and their
©ur keepers. Officers, when (^I fay} they are efhangedwith abfence 0/ their appointed and good keepers.-
Therefore it proved that the Devil is molt with him, and nearer with him. 1
Whom the Devil is a Lord of, he ufeth as hii fervann,and where his fervice may be greatefi dom^
there is he mojl alledged. Hisfubtilties are principal and great : And by thefi reafrni I pr,ve that
John Hufij, Hufey is eafily to be mfecied, either with envy, malice, (lander, err diflionour of Gjds word.
This is one of thofe Affauhs that is promifed jhould affavlt you.
Who is to be blamed, he that confenteth, or he in whom the procurement is ? Thou didjl confent
.and chufe him for a Companion. Be not therefore angry at his malice ; for;, the fire that is, thou hajh
brought in with thine own hands.
To meafure the Enemy his indttlhy is impojjible to loo\ into, his fubtiltie is mne incredible.
The Reward of good life is great : But the filthineffe that fin carryeth with it inthis World^
and leadethwith it into the f-Vorld to come, is nioji horrible.
Is it not faid. That a skjrmijh Jhall be Qand that great") but you (hall be Conquerours ?
It is written , It i<f true and (hall be never overthrown ;/o mighty is his fir ength that hath armed
himfelf with it.
In the Serpents belly, there is nothing clean : neither with unhoneji perfons ( ungodly I mean")
is there any pure fociety : Light agreeth not with Darkjieffe, nor vertue with vice; therefore be yoU
Our uniting, of one, and in one, that you may agree and have the reward of one.
Behold it is faid, I will part hounds between the juji and the imjufi, I will fuffrr the Enemj t»
[owe difcord to the intent that thofe that are my people mty be feparated and have a dwelling by
themfelves.
The neceffiry Terife the Scripture, it it alwayes feen that the Spirit of God forceth Satan in fpight of his
of Satin wo:- liczd to feparate the evil fromthegood by d\[cord, and herein the Devil wori{eth againft himfelf.
kingagiiBft
We good Angels keep fecret the Myfteries of God ; things that are to come we alwayes
De fnturii n'tfi ^^P '^''^^ ^^^^ '''" exception. The form ofour Commandment.
ju^ronpronun- Truth it is that a Commiffion is granted mt onely to enquire of thee, but alfo to attachthee, and
tiant boni An- that by the Council.
e'l . If he go down he_fhall be attached, therefore tempt not God.
'^ut'toKeZ/r!"
^- Butifhetarry here and his being here fo known as it is, it is likely that he (hall be at-
*""
cached here to my no ("mall grief or difgrace. VVhatisyour counfel herein ?
Shefaid It is written mifery jkall not enter the doors of him whom the Highejl hath
,uV^V I,
rfjagnified. DlXlT, & D I C O, & DICTUM SIT. The world (hail never prevaiie
Scrow°.°»nci
againft you.
Powder. A. In refpcftofthe Book., the Scrowl, and the Powder to be communicated, What is your
judge-
-i
(tA true Relation of D^, Dee his ABions, mthJpiritSy <3cc. p
judgement or mind, feeing when he was coming from Iflington with themj he was threatncd
to be pulled in pieces if he cTimcwitb them to me ?
All that is fpoken of, if in very deed, vanity. The book may be iifed to a good purpofe. The Book
Tliey were wicked ones. But as thefe things are the leajtpan of this a£lion, fo are they n'A much to tound.
be looked after.
A . As concerning the Powder ( I befecch you ) what is your knowledge of it >
The Powier.
'
It if a Branch of Natures life.
Jt is appointed for a time, and to a purpofe.
-' A. As concerning the earthes of the Eleven places being with expedition
What is now to be done with them ?
It was a forefight of God, if they had been there now they had atterlyperijhed. xhc n Earths'
A. O JefuSj that is a marvellous thing.
'
Helas, that is nothing.
A. By nature they could not hare periflied info fhort time.
I have [aid.
E. K. Tell US your name,
Ifyou willremember my counsel, I wi/l tellyou my name.
E. K. Your counfd was by piccc-meale cold me, that I cannot remember
it but in general.
Ton do, and have, and I am almofi HATH.
A. I nnderftand you to be AT H, in figillo Emeth.
ATH .So aw 7 iMt^e number of Gods Eleft.
A. Shall not I make meancs to (JMr. Richard loung , as one of the higher Commiflioners j^jr. Rkhard
to do my companion here fome good ? Ttmg.
ATH Trouble your felfivbenyouneed.
E. K. She fpake this romewhat tharply.
Get your friends to fignifie down good report of you.
Come not there in many years.
A. As concerning my writing of the holy Book, how ftall I do, by reafon of the perfeft
writing it in the Due Charafters > feeing many words arc written fo, as the pronunciation,
and the Orthographie do hardly feem to agree ?
ATH Toufhall have a School-majier fnfficient to read untoyou:
A. Where fhall I begin 'i
A T H Let him leadyouto that, who is within you.
A. As concerning Ftfif/ Li/^r who is vext of a wicked fpirit, how well have I executed
that which was prefcribed me ; or how well doth it work ?
ATH. Friend, It is not of my charge.
Remember the true path that leadeth mto true honour, where there 'fitteth a. Trueandjuji
GOD, who grant you his T>ire&ion and ejiablijhynent of perfeS life.
A Amen, Amen, Amen.
E. K. She is gone.
Jnnii 9. a Meridie hora 5.
A. Very long I prayed in my Oratory and at my Deske to have anfwcr or refolutions of
divers doubts which I had noted in a paper,and which doubts I read over diftinaiy,they con-
cerned the preparation of things about the Table of praftlce, and other things above my
Lamm and Stone 5 but aiifwer came none, neither in the Stone did any thing appear ; no,
not the Ciolden Curtain, but the Stone was of his natural Diaphanitie. But I held on in pit-
ti fill manner to requeft fome advertifement,iffor any our trelpalTcs or offences this unlooked
for alteration from former dealing had hapned, &c.
At length a voice came from behind £. K. over his head, and faid thus :
^'^(^I^^^ 7he judgements of our God are moji profound and hard in the underflandini of
man.
^ a j
There is filence above, let there therefore be patience amongji you^ I have faid.
A. Upon this anfwer I began to difcoiirfe of divers caufcs of this filence, and divers man- Silence;
rtersotlilences^andinthecndl became in a great and forrowfull heavinefle, and fear of the
Wrath, or difpleafure of God ; conceived for feme, our misbehaviour towards him (ince our
lalt dealing, whereupon I prayed long at my Desk, (landing for mercy, comfort, counfel , and
lome expoation of the former fentence. After a long time thus paiTing there appeared one in
theveryropof the frame of the fhew-lhne, much Wke M/chael.
VVho (aid, ...... Write, for I miijibe gone.
Silence there is in heaven, for the Governonrs of the earth are now before the Lord , the
doings of their feats ate now difclofed , every thing is N O T E D. For that God will be
righteous in all his douigs.
There is not this day any one that governeth the people upon earth , but his government
C is
cm
lo A tme^dat'ton of D^ Dee h'ts jBions^ mthjfirits, 6c c,
is difclofedj and his government is fee open, and his faults revealed.
They without number cry, Lord, ice thy vengeance come.
• ; The earth faycth. Be it fo.
S«hin. Sachan is before the Lord : He hath garnirtied himfelf with Garlands as a Conqueronr, and
what he faith is wonderful!.
Therefore fhall the Lord open his mouth, and curfethe earth, and all living creatures. For
Iniijinty hath gotten the upper hand: Publickly the States of niankinde in the world are
Viols rc»d;, condemned.
We are all filent and ready with our Viols to powre the yprath of God upon them , when he
faith, BE IT SO.
Therefore be you patient. For, our patience in an univerfal filence.
Yetawhlli. We look for the mouth of Juftice : But L O : The Lord faith unto the Lord , lift up thy
eyes (O God.) Behold, the Dignity oi thy workmanfhip , yet fuffer for awhile.
1585. 1 have a people that will forfake their cruelty, and put off their Garments that ftink of
abomination, in whom thy name fhall be magnified, and our glory in hcaren more exalted.
But as thou wilt, fo be it.
Behold, I fpeah^ m body, becaufe I tremble , as at the force of thy great indignation : Not-
^vithftanding, wc will what thou wilt.
If therefcfre thefe wonders be fo great in heaven, wonder thon not at our filcnce : There-
fore be patient, and fay unto the earth i Why groaned thou fo hard , or why is thy body fo
rotten : Haft not thou juftly deferved thefe things for thy iniquity ?
2 fay, if you be partakers of thefe fecrets, how much more (hall you be partakers of that
fncetncfle, which is the eternal dew, and veiy bread it felf of life .'
SO.
£• K. He is gone.
A. I prayed a pretty while after with thankf-giving, 8cc.
Soli Deo ftofiro omnis laus^potefiMy & gloria infecuJorum faculaj Amen.
^nii 14. 1583. Friday, a ftieridify Hon /^l.
A. The golden vayl, or curtain appeared, covering the whole ftone, whereas all other vayls
and curtains before did ufe to cover- but the more parr, or thofe things which were the ftand-
faig implements of the aftion for that time.
This appeared as foon as he looked into the ftone, ,
I made long, and often prayers of thankf-giving, calling for grace , mercy, and wifdom r
with fuch particular inftruftious as 1 had written down the doubts requiring light, or refolu-
tion in them, &c.
At length appeared a woman like an old maid in a red Peticote, and with a red filk upper
bodies, her hair rould about like a Scottifti woman , the fame beingyellow : {be ftood alide
from the green Sarcenet belonging to the ftone, and ftie faid God fpeed my friends.
A, A good greeting to wi(h us fpeed by him, Awen.
E- K, I never law this woman before-
...... It may be yon have feen me, but my apparel may alter wy fajhion.
£. K. She (e^meth to go in a great path before her very fpeedily.
A. I pray you, whither make you fuch a fpeedy juumey.
I am going home, I have been from home thi> [even-night.
Klirie my mild ^- Diftanceof place caimot protraft time in your journey homeward.
hid angered J^^h HOW he will be angry with me^as he w^is with his maid. A. Every Aftion not yec ef-
ttie on Thurf- fefted, whether is it at home , or from home ?
w^Ibhefun-
^' ^°'^ §i'^"f X^" fhen to make fpeed homeward , and to your home, and all we to tht
duefpcech."
home where the higheft may be well pleafed.
So,fo,you talk^too wifely forme.
All worldly
^' ^ niake me to talk wifely indeed, and God take all vanity from my heart,
wifdom vain, •••••• ^*" ""y thinly me a vainhtfwife to be going thus long : Btt by me you may perceive how vaitt
all worldly wifdom is. I am in a better cafe then many are, for though I be from home, yet am t
going home, (ome there be that neither have home, neither can go home.
E. K, Now comcth a goodly tall aged roan all in black, with a Hat on
his head, he hath a long gray beard forked, he faith to the Maid, thus ;
Old man Wihther go yon maid?
Maid Belike Sir, you may be fome kyn unto thefe men, for they are alfo dclirous co
know whither / do go.
Old man Me think} J Jhould have kjiown you before •''
Maid. ...... If you knew me before, you may the ealicr know me now.
[Old
qj true %eUuQn of D^^ Dee his Mions, wh/pirits, &c. ii
[Old man] kyhere have you been ? and if thy gravity were as good m thy ancient d/jfemblingy I
would tell thee.
Old man Thefe words he very large^ what is the caufe thou wilt not be acquainted with me?
(I never did thee harm) and I have defired to be acquainted with thee a long titne.
Maid. ...... With counterfeit gravity 1 will never be acquauited, neither thy age, and thy
fame nor thy hairs , nor the fobernelFe of thy countenance can move rae to any acquaintance
for that thou never delightedft mtrue wifd.m.
Old man Then go your way like an Harlot.
lifaid , If wicked words do prove an Harlot,then thou haft judged thy felf.
E- K. Now ilie goeth on forward, and the Old man is gone out of fight.
There appcareth now a young man, fitting on the fide of a Ditch , and to
him flic faid,
M^id What aileth you to weep >
Young man. . .... . / weep for thy difcourtefie.
Maid Thoucanft not move my confcience : No, (I fay) thou canft not move me to
pitty.
£ K. She lickcth his tears, and faith.
I
Maid. Every thing elfe hath fome fakneffe, but here is none. i
Young man Ob I pray thee, do fomethingfor me.
Maid Oh, toqualifie thefe tears, is no other then to dry rotten Hemp with a mighty
fire.
^
Young mia,..^l„ I will fee thee hang d before I will weep any more.
Maid Every thing commonly teach eth of it felf»
E-K. The young man went away damping, and angry, and now (he is
come where a multitude ot young Children are, there is aiuch meat on a
Table, and the Children being not high enough to rt^acb ic,puird the maid
by the Cloathsjand pointed to the meat jflie goc-th round about the Table
there is but one difti uncovered, and that feemtth io be i.ke dew , flic putteth
herfing«rsincotheDifli,and letteth theChudrea lick, and they tail down
dead.
Maid..,..., Blame Jurtice and not me, for if the Children had ever tafted of this meat be-
fore they might have continued'
E K. Now ftie mecteth a thin vifag'd man very feeble, who ftaggerccJ
on his ftafFe,andhe faid.
Feeble Help me for Gods faks.
Maid, ..,.,. 1 will do my beft.
E. K. As fhe came toward the man, the man fell down j She hcaveth him
up, and again he falleth down, and ilie liftcth at him ilill-
Maid Good will forms, but the matter is not fufficienc : This is long of thy felf.
Feeble Ohyl fay,help me.
Maid it is too late to help thee, I came this way many times befere , and thou never
fcfughteft help at ray hands. It is written, he that d^iireth not help, till he be helplefle,he fhall
be voideof the benefit of an helper.
E, K. Tne feeble man goeth away, and fhr deparrech from him :Now
(he Cometh towards a man going up an hili wno had torn all his Cloaths off
with brambles and bryars. Tb rcftand a ^rcatrii sny cf Mawmets , little
ugly fellows at the top of the hill, who thr.vA' tiont^ againfthim ,and fo
force this climing man Cor goer up the hill) to ru.mble down again to the
foot ofthe hill. The skin dorh fcem to be off his hands and his fect^ and
they very raw, with his exccfTive travail wich hands and feet up that hillj
Now there appear men earing meat below at the foot of the hiU,who offered
him meat to eat j But he laboureth up the hili again , one of thefe men faid,
come let me bind up thy feet.
TheClymer Vnto him that hath no TveariHeffe^ there belongethm forrow^
E.K. Sheflandcchandviewcthhim.
c 2 th«i
1 z A true Relation of D^ Dee his ABions , mth fpirits, &c.
TheClymer I pray you help me.
Maid It is inipofllble for thee to get up here.
Clymer Of my felf it it : 1 will never be of the mindc. It is impoflJble.
Maid* ...... Come on, I will do the beft 1 can.
E, K. She leadeth him over ftones, and rocks.
Maid Thou wilt be knocked in pieces, ere thou come to the top.
Clymer Doyouyyitr gsodycill,! feelnoharnt.
E-iC- Nov? flielcadcih him in a place, where Springs, Quick-mircs, and
JBogs are-
Maid. ...... Surely thou art beft to go down, for thou wilt be drowned.
Clymer I pray you help, 1 will go at long at I may.
E-K- He goech forward, and finkethalmoft to the throat.
Maid It is deeper on the further fide, thou wert beft to go down again.
Clymer. ...... I feelthe ground hardunder my feet : Iwillnot yet defpair.
E. K- Now he cometh out of thofe deep places, and he fecmeth to come
to a place like the bottom of a hedge, where ftand ftifFc thorns ,
piked up-
ward, very ftiarp.
Now come tv/o, or three handfome fellows, and faid, Alas,let him tarry
here and drink, we will lead him up another ypay to morrow-
Maid Farewell.
Clymer I pray leave me not fo, let me go with you.
Maid. 1 muft needs be gone, I cannot tarry for thee.
Clymer I am yet neither hungry nor tbirfiy , and feel no wearineffe : Why therefor
t
Should Iflay.
E- K. He goeth, as though the thorns prickt him, and grindcth his teeth •
for pain-
Now they are come to a fair place, and then ftie faid to one.
A LdboT T Maid. ^ Fetch meat and drink^and cloaths ^and cure hii vounds : For unto thee heloMgeth
imfrobus C *^^ felicity of this place : For neither from the higheji to theioweji is there any whom Ipitty^ butfuch
emniavm- C'^^thitis.
fit. -J Clymer I kjiow not howl (hz\\u(e thefe things.
. Maid. ...... The true Heirs have alwayes difcretion.
To thee it belongeth, and for thee it it prepared.
Vfe it therefore without offense as thine own. >
E- K- Now both he and ftie go into a Caftlc, and the doors are (kut after
them, and flic cometh oucagain-
Maid. ...... T'his is written for your tinderliandwg: Let therefore your eyes he opened yand be
not blinde. Neither forget what here hath keen opened.
'
'"
A. We perceive that Felkitas via ardua eii^multit ohfita difficult atibus & periculis ifed con-
ftantia&patientia pervemtur ad F^licitatis arcem, vihich we befccch the Almighty God to
grant unto us.
Mzid..... H^ell, I will he goingtillyou have fupped: And then I will tell you more of my minde,
Itwill be yet fiXfOrfevenweekj journey before I can get home.
ANote4i.or A. Sit benedicfuf Veui noiier nunc & femper, ?imai,
4j. dayes, re-
After Supper we ftaid awhile , bemg come to the plate, and though nothing was feen, or
the'fi'ft^day of
^^"'''y^'^ ^ fpake, afluring my felf of the prefeuce ofthe forefaid maid , though as yet to «s
Auiuftmxz infcnfible. j.^. x.. - - - .'
inclufive. A. We would gladly know thy name. ..
-.tn/o! •,! "j-ir;
GALVAff, Maid My name ii Gz\ua.''h, inyour language J am caHed ¥'m\i. '
"i •
E.K. she fuddenly appeared as flie fpake this.
.A; That [F/«;i] is Latin. Gal 7. ,
Fitisluck. _'^- '^ou dte none of thoCe that zrccaWed filixlucis, or. fili£ filiarUm. Gal.. .".
5Vfl.
'''^
Pilie filiarum.'^ A. You will not be oflFcnded, if 7 propound a doubt fomewhat impcrtinejK to our matter,
in hand, yet of importance for us to hear your judgement in the fame. Tritemius,i'a.yeth that
never any good Angel was read of to have appeared for})ia. muliebri; I pray you to give us an
nrinlormi
^"f^^*" ^° ^^^^ ^° S'*^^*^ ^ Clark, his words, which are to be read in his little book , O&o ^£r
frminia all- fiionmn Maximiliani C£faris There §u£jiicne Stxta. Sandi autem Angeliy quoniam affe-
qiMnio i^^i-dione nunquamvariantur femper apparent in forma virili. Nufguam enim legimus fcriptum quod
r«am? bonui fpirttus in forma fit vifus muliebri ^aut beftiae cujufcunqueyfed femper in fpecie virili.
Gal.
Jtrue fetation of D'. Dee his J&iotjs^ with fpirits, (5cc^ i
3
Gal Yon tbiMk^then I have fome KHderJlandifig.
A, Yea, God knovveth, I do.
Gal F/rli it is evident that the ^iprrits of God are incomprehenfible to thofe that are their
inferiours : For the higher order is ijicomparahle unto G d, And by degrees ^ thtfe that are their
inferiours are alfo incomparable loito them. It fo/foweththeref.re, that in refpeij of that degree
in Atig''ls thinz,s are inromprehenfible.
a r f
Angels ( I faj^ of themfeheSi neither are man nor woman ; Ihe.refore they do take formes ^.A nf^^/lV
not according to any prsport/on in imagination^ but according to the difct^eet and appliab/e will r^s, neqnc fie-
both of Him, and of the thingwhtrein they are Adminifirators :, For we all are Spirits miniftring minaneque
the will of God i and unto whom ? unto every thing within the compafre of Nature : onelyf'""'
to hit glory and the 7/fe of mun. It folUweth, Therefore, confidenng that we minijier *^°^ °f "^^^ l^-al""*
felvc s that we Ihouli minijier in that jinfearchablc form within the which our executions art limited :
.
But if Tritemius canfay^ Jhat woman alfo hath not the Spirit of God^bting formed and fajhioncd
of the felffame matter, notwithjianding in a contrary proportion by a degree ; If Tritemius can
fepar ate the dignity of the Soulofwotnan from the excellency of man but according to the form ef
the matter, then might his Argument be good : But becaufe that in man and wo 'nati there is propor-
tion, preparation, of f'^niiiftcation in eternity ; Therefore may thofe that are the eternal Mi-
tiifters of God in proportion to Sanftification take unto them the bodies of them both. I "ic
7
mean in refpeft of the Form 5 For as in bothyu read Homo, fo in both you find one and thefelf Hac \ *"'"*•
^ame dignity in internal matter all one. B«f Tritemius //)<z/^f in refpeft of the filihinefle (w^ic/b
indeed is no filthineffe ) wherewith all women are ftained -, and by reafom fram the natural Phi~
lofophers : as a man tailing more of nature indeed then of him which U the iVor^'^nan or a fuperna-
tural Mtjier. He ( Ifay ) concluded his natural intention. In refpelf of my felf , I anfwer Tri- Oalvah.
temius thus : I am Finis, 7am a beam of that Wifdom which is the end of mans excellency.
Ihofe alfo that are called Filine and Fili:e filiarum are all co-nprehended in me, and do attend Apparition ia
«^ow Tnie Wifdom ; which if Tvitemms marl{_,helhall perceive that true Wifdom is alwayes the forme of
painted with a womans garment ; For than the pureneffe of a Virgin, Nothing is more com- woman,
mendable.
God in his judgement kjtowethhowTni:emin%hrtv{2i:de.A
'
Tritemius tC'
Ifyou think, thefe arguments he not piff}iient,the one in refpsci ofthefirfi ground, and the other in warded.
refpeH of the meafure of my name, I willyet alledge greater.
A. Thefe Arguments do fatisfie me : Biit to have wherewith to flop the mouths ofothers
who might ufe Ctvillation upon fuch matters, it were foniewhat needful to have heard your
judgement: Whereas indeed our own affairs in liand are rather to be followed ar this pre-
fcnr, and of greater Arguments or Inftruftions in this matter I truft hereafter to have under-
ftanding : But as now I chiefly regard our Aftion in hand.
Gal Begin the B ok,Hepit Tuefduy. i
My felf will be thy DireUor ; And as my name if,fo I witHeid uiito the end. All other thin^i
»/(•, according to thy judgement and proportion of hn Spirit that guidethyou.
Gal -.. / myfelf will be the finger to direct thee.
A.
Gal. .... .. The finger of God jhetcheth over many mountains.
His Spirit comforteth the wcakjteffe of many pla'es. -
No fenfe is unfurniflied where his light rem aineth •
'
For underfiand what I am, and it is a fifflsient anfwer
,
t^. At the beginning to write the Book, fhall I require your inftru^ions ?
Gal Dofo.
fhe Mountains of the World fhall He flat ; But the Spirit of God Jhall never be confounded,
E K. Shi fitte:hpnarock^ and hatli done ever (ince fupper-
Ga[,,.....^ Ah Sirral^as a weary.
A. AscoiiceiningtheTa/ow//?.' Lo'rd Alhertm Litly whorii we are certified to be ef God.
eleSed to govern him a people, whom we are w illed to love and honour, What haveyou to fay of
him ? &c.
Gal Aik.me thefe things tomorrow,
'£:•: ^.: She imilech and cartech alight from hei". Sm.nng.
' Gal.' ...i'.. I fmile becaiife Ifpeak, of to morrow ; yea I feem to fmile.
A. As concerninj^ Ifabel Lijier, I pray in what cafe is fhe ? in refl^eft of the wicked fpirit ^_ i^
trhich long hath mojefled her ?
Jpal,-., Believe, For that,is the chiefejt :
•
,
What it fpoken hy m'we givebut our confentto. •
,
For he that fpeaketh in tis is to be. asked no fuch qiieffion: ' . =
*
^^^
For when he faith, it is measured. _
* -, ,.^,)i
As it was faid before ; The Hills and Mountains of the WorU may he made -plain , but. the
Spirit of God never confoundeth.
'
*
:^. He thac is the end ofall things, and the end of ends (unto whom all honour praife and
' ' - thankf-
1 4 A true Relation ofiy, Dee his JBiom, mthfpirits^ 6c c.
tliankfgiving is due ) blelfe us, endue us with his graces, and abundantly power forth his
mercy upon us.
^.Finhpar- Gal Vnderfiand tny nttnif pinicu\2r\y, <r«i«ot generally.
tiaJarh : fci- J fteak, it to avoid errour.
l:cet Ijlusalli-
Perfcvere to the end.
*'"'^'
A. ^i perfeveraverit fidelif (_Veo mjho ') ufque ad finem hie falvus erit : which faichful-
nefle with all conftancy and patience the Bleffied and Almighty Trinity grant and confirm
unto us for the glory and honour of his Name, Amen,
E. K. She is gone with a brightncfle'
, g, Saturday afternoon^hor a 6. S After that the noble Albertus Lashje had been
f«B»iiy! ^' I ufed fomedifcourfe I with me, and wa-; new gone to Londetty
by prayer to God, and afterward proteftation to Grluah in refpeft of her willing me to ask
certain matters again this day which. . . . yefterday were not anfwcrcd : But very long it
was, above half an hourjbefore any thing appeared, more then the Golden Curtain all over
the Shew ....
At length appeared divers confufed forms of divers Creatures, and then, by and by,
vanlfhed away.
A. I prayed to God to banifh all confufion from us and our aftions, and to fend us lucem
& veritatentyper unum & propter u»u»i,& COKliantiamrerttm...,
II, Then appeared he by whom ( before ) we were called //, and feemed to fcorn at £. K.
E. K. Here appeareih //, and he fce;ncch to mock mc
IL That is a gird to you Sir for your filhing.
A. £. iC. had fpenc all that afternoon (almoft ) in angling, when / was very defirousto
have had his company and helping hand in this Aftion.
A. Shortly after this,appeared Galuah and to be in a field clofed round about with a hedge.
Gal. ...... Here is no Wiiy out.
11 C ome I Kill do fomewhat for you j It is ajirange thing that yfifdom cannot find a. vay
WifJom. through a hsdge.
E K- This // pnlleth down the hedge.'
Gal. .. ....Go thy Wiry, thov. hafi done but thy dutj/.
II Farewell i)ff. Farewell JCf/Zy.
DecKeUj. €, iC, He is gone-
Gal Jhofethat tajie of everlajiiiig Bankfts, farewell, and defire thefame t$ others.
£. K. Now (he i$ come to a great Caftl6-gate,all of ftone, with a draw-
Note, bridge before it- There is hkc a ^nyhoundgra'ven or cm in the Stone over the
Gate-
Gal It it very late, Iwill loo\. ifI can have my entertainment here, 1583^
E-K. She is gone in.
/k. After a while flie came out again.
Gal Beeitfpokjn,
Curfed^ defaced, and damned be this plaxe.
A Yoice outof Gal And why ? Eecaufe they have puffed up their flejh^ follow their own imaginations^
the Stone. wallowing in their filtbinefe , as Swine that tumble in mire.
Behold It is too late with this people, lean get no lodging. ye my feet, be a witneffe againfi
them., ht the windes move the duji to report their wtkjndneffe.
E K- Now flic gocth a long a great Way, like a common high-way;
and the light of the Air about her feemed fomewhat dark like Evening
or Twilight-
Gal 7ea thougkyou have too much light, I have too little.
1 did but over-hear you, when you faw me not.
ts. [_iiote. I had fpokcnof too much light coming from the weft window of my Study
toward theTaWe, where the Shcw-ftone flood, when we began now to attend her coming,
and thereupon fiie fpoke this.
]
E-K- H^r own garments call a light-
E. K- Now file Cometh amongu a company of men /;4V7U5g^ai»«j/Kr-
red with Tvhitgy and feme ofthem having f^ehgt Caps, and fome Hats,
One of them faid to her, What art thou ?
Gal Ikjiow not what I am myfelf
milyou buy anypretious Stones of me .<"
E- K- She
(^true Relation of D"^ . Dee his J&ions, mtb fpiri^s,dcc, i r
£. K. She caketh out of her bolomcagrcat many of precious ftones un-
cut, or un poll (lied-
E- K. ihefc men look on them.
Gal Tr.'/f/j, thfj are pure and good.
E. K- They lay alfo i Surely they feera to be good , delivering ihem from
one to another"
E. K- 1 here appear two fat men 5 who (aid, let us firft get money before
Wc buy fuch trifles = be/idcs that, they have not their pcrfed form-
Gal. I prajij/OK, buy one of them of me.
Will you bi'y none neither ?
E. K. She fpcakech that to them , who firft praifed the ftones-
'tup , I pay thee go ahout thy bufines , doji thou net perceive bcft> tbey are found /««/? Thofe men
vithalL?
Gal. ..... 7'w/fc, Tujhy they be not cut for your fajhion,
Be it faid. Avoycefrom
"their fenfes are glutted tpith tranfitory vanities. dteftone.
Gal Let them (^therefore") ferijh vainly^becaufe they are tranfitory.
t-K- Now (he Cometh yphere jhe muti clamber up amJl^ haying fleps inihisPirabic,
it ofraggcd ftones i There is a fair buildmg beyond it. There go many up div^'^s^t^mes
"
ihofe ftcps : and when they are almoft at the top , there meeteth them (omc/p°'7".»^'r''-
who take them by the hand, and help them up and over into the place f^out^i" of
Then one of them that ftood at the top of the wall (who had a furred
^"^''*" *
Gown) and helping of menup,faid to hci^Cotn^away woman, wilt thou
come up?
E. K. She faith nothing to him^but ftandeth ftill,and looketh away from
him*
E' K. Again, that man faid to her, come away wilt thou come up?
Gal Vnha-ppy are th'fe vrhom thou helpeji : Andwhofe breath hath infeded many^your binds
are too bloudy, for me to come anighyou.
E- K- Now come handlome women to the wall, and fomc faid, good
lifter, 1 pray you come away-
Gal ..... Your voluptuous father k^towethtne not, for his daughter, I denyyo
E. K. Now con^e two, or three bra've fel'oTts with Rapiers by their The Anyre of
fides,and having /;;irri without bands, and the r ho/en pinned up, and with 'tutrbfThe
no garters ; thcle help up people that come, and one ol them faid : Tarrv a^°""-
littlCjWoman, and I will help thee ftiortiy.
Gz\...,„Fy upon you .-
your cloaths are infeUed with diominations of your Chamber y I fPtll
tarry time.
E- K. Now Cometh a big rtout man to the top of the wall, and a boy
with a Crown on his head : He feemcth to be about « 8- years old.
So it », and pleafeyour Majeliy : Therefore let this v/zy be razed. —^ . .
.
E- K. Hcfpake to the young King upon former talk between them™*"-
which i heard not-
Be it done, .
. A voyce out of
E. K, The ypillquaketb andfalieth down ', And fome of the jolly fellowes '•^'='^°"«=
which were on the wall before, fell down, and other tcllowes came and dig- Jcndown.*"""
ged a great hole, or breach in the wall.
Gal Thankj be to Gtd : Now^ here is entrance enough
i.K. Shegoethin.
The
6 A true^elationofD\ Dee hisJBiom, mthfpirks, &c.
The young maoi or ftriplin (with the Crown on his head) and the other
bi(T man embraccch her : His Crown is a Triple Crown ^or three Crowns
one upon another- He hath a little thing in his hand ., which he holdcth
clofe, and ovcr-gripeth, \o that it cannot be difcerncd.
, .. Jijoitgh thou halt travelled its a weman, thou palt HOW be kjioWH to be a man.
E' K He rpake to (^ahah- They embrace each other- They fetch deaths
for her, and put upon her a black Gown, a mans Gown, as the Gown of a
Counfeller-
Gaivab trinf- Shc kncclcth down like a man in form, her head and all-
formed into a
g jr n^^^^
^^^ youngKing fpakc to her, faying, ^
JVkat this Rod maji doyWor\.
E. K- He giveth the transformed man a Rod j
one half being bloud \ and
the other half white, the partition of thefe two being long-wife.
A voyce out ^^ jufta funt faciet & meas menfurabit virtutes.
Thi'u^v.^ov For untill it was appointed, I fought it not.
med man. let US cleanfe the Court, and examine the multitudej
A voyce out For erroar is alwayes covered in many.
of the (tone,
Gurfed are thofe that are judged by a multitude.
NOTE. £j^ ^11 they that fell off the wall ,and they that would have helped
r hetuv.thcvcomc'in hound hand andfoot'
formed, Root them cut , King , fittj no fuch ^erjons, for thofe be thefe that never had mercy on ^
tkemfehes.
E. K. Now cometh a TPoman out^haiehg a Cro'^n on her head •'
ftie hath a
long viftgc.
The big man.
Jsjay, let her drhiKaspe hath deferved.
E. K. The transformed man layeth down the Rod before him,and begin-
neth to Vveep • and faid^ Let it not be faidy lutl phty the anointed^
The big man • Let her die , for Jhe hath deferved death. ;
E, JfC- Other men about her lay hand on her, and pluck the Crown off her
head.
The transformed mantaketh up his Rod, and layeth upon the top, or
Crown of that womans head,
£- K' The young King faycth unto her, What wilt thou ?
The womjn. If '^ fie4^ you, pardon for my life and dignity.
E. i<C* The bigge man, and the young Ring talk together afide, the wo^
man holdeth her hands abroad, and knocks her brcaft?And a great com;:
pany ofthem about her are hewed in pieces, hyioimcviizv^ turned-
1583.
A voyce out Adjpvaho,
oftheftone.
£jj^. jhc King and thc blggc ffiau comc iu again.
The transfer. Eo JC- Thc King faid to thc transfomied man j Bc it as thou vvilt,E^ you
tfi^o joyned together- For I with you both well-
E. K- The woman boweth down with obeyfance , and thankcch
them.
E' K. The bigge man taketh the King by the hand, and the transformed
man taketh the woman by the hands , and putteth her hands to the hands
of the K-ing, and the bigge man ,- they take each other by the hand , and kifTc
^"-
S.K. All
n
mcd man.
Jtrue ^{elation of D". Dee his JBtom mth fpirits, (3c c. 17
B. K, All is now on the fuddcn vaniftied away, and ihc transformed man
is returned again to her wonr.ans (liapc, and file faid.
Gal 'Now l-pcill go withyni, Sir,your ]ourney, ^
E- K, She fpeakcth to you a.
To A Iwtllleadjo",ifyouwil(fonowmeup.
Bt4t you rn'ijl have brok/n (J.unns.
A. By Gods <;race,an(l with his'help J will follow yon, and in rerpeft of my fhinns break-
ine the joy of the confcqii ent efFeft will ntterly take away the grief of the ftiinns breaking.
Gal And to you Siry
you -were heft to hnntand firti after Verity.
f A.Shefpake fo to £. K. becanfe he fpent too much time in FilTiing and Angling. ]
Gal WE?o-w r/in3«fawcft here (hall govern over 21 Kmgdoms. ii.Kingdomt,
£i, jftherebenomyftery inthat fpeech , the Conqueft muft be great, and the trouble
great and ftrange.
f. K.. She gocth on her way along z lane-
A, We know not who fliould be that King fo (hewed.
Gal Sure thy demitndi are fully anfwered.
Confider thou what thou feel{eft,
Andofwhom thtufeekflf,
And by whofe help.
Ihen look^to that which is declared.
I will follow my office, for in thofe things wherein thou art inqiiifitive I have ihewed the End. j^^ ^^^
A. Tmely the occafion of my prefenc asking you fome queltions , arofc upon matter con-
cerning this Noble Polonian^ of whom you bad us yefterday ask as this day.
Gal Vanity hangeth not at mine Elbow. '
Believeli thou that already fpokfn ^ fpokjn ( Ifay ) of him ?
A. Yea forfoothj/do believe it.
Gal ....... / fay unto thee. His name is in the Book, of Life : "The Sun (hall not pa(re his ccwrfe
^j^^ Prjnce
before he be a King. His Counf^I Jhall breed Alteration ef this State j yea of the whole ^/^ Utkie,
World.
What wouldil thou kjtow of him ?
A. If his Kingdom (hall be of Poland, or what Land elfc.
Gal Of two Kingdoms.
A. Which 1 befecch you >
Gal The one thou haft repeated, and the cither Ix feekjth as right, , ^
A, God grant him fufficientdireftioa to do all things fo, as may plcafe the Higheft in his
calling.
Gal He Jhall want no direUion in ajiy thinghe defireth.
A. As concerning the troubles of Auguji next, and the dangers then. What is the beft for Auguft,
him to do ? to be going home before, or to tarry here ?
Gal Whom God hath armed. No man can prevaile again'i.
A. In refpeftofmyown (late with the Prince, I pray how much hath he prevailed to win
me due credit : and in what cafe (tandeth my fute,or how am I to ufe my felf therein ? The premlfes
Gal I have told you that at large even now, and if thou look into thofe things that are «= ananfvrer
now toldt and arc now done. ^-
„
A. Concerning C^/r/pi S[ed,\\i^ nofe gu(hing with blood twice ye(ternight and this mor-
ning upon my charitable inftruftions giving him to vertUe and godlinefle.
Gal / ktiow him not : n r any name hath he with in.
A. Meaneth he well towards me ?
Gal Whatfoever a wicked man meaneth it is not well ; hut 'in that fenfe it ii demanaed
^
Ix meaneth well.
The evil fpirit that poffejfeth him 'tpas caft out of him, even at hit nnfe, at the prefence of thofe cbtrletSkd,
that were present with thee.
A.
> Gal. ...... Believe me we know not his name ; Trouble me no more with him.
A. O Lord, though menbefraile, faulty , and filthy, yet thy mercies are moft praifc-
worthy ( among all generations ) of all thy doings.
Gal. «9j>., Holdthy peace, we are now to execute the Jtijiice of God.
A. I fpake a great while of the rrtercies of God and his Jufticc , and gave thanks for our
Calling and Eleftion into this blefTcd ftate.
Gal. ..... / Will take up my lodging for thii night.
A. God grant ine worthy of fuch godly ghefts, God grant me a dwelling with you where
his name is eternally praifed, glorified, and fanftified : To him all Creatures render thanks,
honour, and glory. Amen.
.»»... Amen,
^ •>
Ai This
1 8 A true Relation ofD\ Dee his Anions mthfpir'its, 6c g.
ii.j bionc
-out of ^' This voice out of the Stone being taken to be the voice of God, importeth as much as
one. if God himfelt had fealed to that as his will and decree, That all Creatures fhould render
thankes unto him and glory ; ^««r : Dignum& JnjiKm eft. Amen.
Noic,
I'liefriay ]un\i 1^ Aff. 1<^S^. ante weridiem circa p.
-r c>^
'
t.. 7 prayed firft, and declared our attending this day the promile of God to be per-
formed, &c.
Ga Are four hours yet to come ? and I will he ready.
Are thew^rks of wifdoinfecret, until I have afcended this Hill •
Is the Harveft ready when the Corn it ripe ?
Are the Labourers ready when their Inlhuments are prepared ?
I have faid.
All -iciflom it reckfinedhy the eternal ffill i
a^^untilit be faid, there is no aciion toUerable j
When the Sun fljinetk I will appear am.ngft yon ; when it Is faid Came:, lo I am ready. The dayes of
your fathers were hlefd; but the hour when thit Book, ihall be written Ihall he (zna:iiied,jea m
the }i:i4deii f inteil.-dual underftanding.
For herein is the Creation 0/ Adam with his tranfgreffion. Th^ Vignity and wifdom he had.
The Errour and horror wherein he was drowned, yea herein is the power fpread of the highejl
wording in all Creatures,
For as there is a partioiil-*r Sonl or fire infiamiMg u»to every body ( I mean reafonable ) So there
is an Vniverfal fire and a general hrightneffe giving general light unto thnn, which is but One^ and
Jhineth through the whole,yea is meafured equally unto every thingfrom thebeginntHg.
The life of all things is here kjzown :
The reward of death to thofe that are rewarded for life.
iSlone are rewarded but according to their deferts : of the which there are two kinds.
I Ihefe are rewarded with death for their wickednejfe.
2. So are they rewarded with life for their coniant living.
Among]} the Angels there way be erroury andfin may make them fall fnm the hrightneffe of their
glory.
But to the Soul of man ( being once glorified ) firiis utterly, yea woft largely oppofite : Neither
(hall that disunity ever he loft,ftained, or defaced, that is obtained here With the worker of righte-
oufncffe and true wifdom^
Whatfoiver hath heen from the beginning X fixce it was faid in Divine Determittatiom, Be it
done ) is here inclofed.
Therefore Ihould this day he Hallowed and Sanctified before the Lord by you.
, for if the Prophets , did worfliip this day of his afcenfion , much more ought you (which
have tailed of the firji, end (kail now tafle of the fecrets of his Judgements ) glorifie his coming :
Satan, But with you Satan is bufie j His briftles ftand up, his featljers are caft abroad.
Therefore watch and pray ; For thofe that go to Banquets put on their upper garments. Ammgji
you therefore is no found belief ; Neither do youconftder the fcope of this bleffrdneffe : Butfuch
is tljegreatneffe and excellency of his forekjiowledge,that he fuffereth the enemy to carry a burden,
yea fometimes to preach upon a Stage : For it is faid, Hejhall triumph unto the end, and flare
himfelf here as he would have done above ; Neither fl^all he he thruji out of doors till the end be
determined. Therefore watch and pray, and look, about with diligence ; for thofe things Jhall he
opened unto you which have no t been difclofed unto the Holy Ones.
Oh, how hard a thing it is for fiejh to continue in the workj of Jujlice !
Tea, oh how hard a thing it is for Wifiom to he acquainted with a hotchpot of filthineffe ?
Cleanfeyour garmentSyLift upyoiir hearts, and rent your fanlts in pieces, that there may be
one heart with one confent, and unto one end, unto him which is One and the End of all things : and
to himfor and in his truth,andfor the greatneffc of his mercies : To whom bepratfe for ever.
A. Amen.
E- K. All the while (lie fpake there came a bright beamefrom the My*
ftical Stone to the body of her, and at the end fhe mounted upward and
difappeared.
A. We fet up the hour glaflcs to meafure four hours juftly after this anfwer and in-
ftruftions.
Tiiefday, After Dinner about one of the clock and* the hours expired, and we attended
the mercy oftheHighcft.
A. At a great gladfome fhining of the Sun ( whereas it had not fliined but a little and in .
conftantly ever fince his lali words ) one appeared on the corner of the green filk Sarcenet, by
the Mjftical Stone,She was like a woman as Galvah in face, but her apparel was a mans gown
flirred with foynes, or,as Gentlewomen do wear upon gowns.
A. Upon the diver/ity of your apparel we are to ask whether you be Galvah or no'*, or
have you alfo,as I have done, put on your Holiday- cloths ?
Gal.
(^true Relation of D^ Dee his J&icns, mth fpirits, (Sec i c?
Gal. ,„=.. f E AR GOD^
E. K. She Aeppech forward one ftcp.
Gal, ,5,.., My Garment U called H X M A RC H, irhkh in your fpeech is called
A. Initiim fapie?tt i£eji Timor Dowini : we accknowiedge it to be an old and a true
LefTon, and alfo the firft ftep of the path-way to felicity.
Gal JFhat if fear ?
A. Fear is of two forts : one i> called ;f//<z/i^, the other/Vrz'/YAC.
Gal Vntothe Jiiji allfear it joy 5 and therefore the ieginnms, and entrance into ijuietiteffe.
true qtiietnejfe and reft it tvifdom ; For the nlmd that kjtowethhath the greateji reji and quietnefs.
the Daughter of Vifpaire unto the wickjsd if fear.
this fear if the firji that accufethunto damnation: But he thxt is perfealy wife, or hathtafled
offpifdoM, kjioweth the End.
And hit fear if of the thing that if done, thif if the true fear of God ; and when rve fear fin,
we do it hecaufe we hate it.
Whenwe jiudy to dogojd, it is a tohjn of our feary in that it is a tok^n we fear him, whom vvc
love and for whofe honour we Jhidy to do Veil-
this if all that may be [aid of lively and unlively fear.
touching the Bool{, it Jhall be ca.'led Lo^zh : which in your Language fignifietb Speech from XheXnieoi
GOD. If^rite after this fort L O G A E T H : it if to be founded Logah
.
the Book.
77}if word if of great fignification, I mean inrefpeB of the profoundnejfe thereof
tie firji leaf (as yot: call it^ if the lali of the Book- A. lunder-
And as the firjc leaf if ahotckpt without order ; So it fignifieth a diforder of the TVorld, and ft^nd not this
Uthefpeechofthat-Diforderov?iop\ytfie.
theSkaf
Write the Book^( after your order ^ backward, but alter not the form of letters, Ij/'f^'^iw bc.'nw indeed
refpeCt of the places. the "aft, is of
E. K. Now a bcame iliooteth through him from the Stone and fo through heriuh'^one,
his head and out of his mouth; his face being from £• K. toward ^
tiJof'^''^
Ifritethe^p. Ifm htrve but ^% already. PFrite firji in a paper apart. .-^
E. Jf. Said that G<r/7'«^ her head is fo on bright firci
that it cannot be looked upon: The fire fo fparklcch Lo.tzaeth fcZ lovi hrttic
andgliftrethas when anhot iron isfniitten on anAn- r ^Sl 'j J„^ ^„^u /^ /' j
vil, ic elpecially at the pronouncmg of every word. It m c
-LJiru u rr Now Seas appe-jr.
IS to be noted alfo that upon the pronouncing of foqie ^^„j,^ ^^„^ ^^^, ^,,.^^^_^
words, the Beafts and all Creatures of the World eve- > •• /
ry one fiiewed themfelves in their kind and form :
'f
"''*'
^(^»'PJ^''P
chzr^rvane
But notably all Serpents,Dragons,Toadsy and all ugly
^^bcriftacb lendix mr z'andox.
and hideous (hapes of beafts ; which all made moil (i„i*., ' /
ugly countenances, in a manner aflaulting E. K. hut contrariwife cbming t6t; ' ¥nfd fawniiTg
upon Ga Iv ah. It is to be noted alfo that by degrees came a fecondbeamp, and a third
beame of light into G'z/i'/?;tfiom the Stone, and all the three together appeared : the third
participating of the other two.
The fecond beame came at the word Lii>"i, pronounced ; when alfo Frogs and Serpents ap-
peared, &c. The third beame upon the word £xi pronounced. Note alfo, that the man-
ner of the firy brightneffe was fuch, and the grifely countenances of the A/onfters was fo te-
dious and greivous and difpleafant to £. K- that partly the very grief of his minde and body,
and partly the fufpefting the Creature? to be no good Creatures^ neither. fuch greivous
iights ncceflary to be exhibited with the Myfteries delivering unto us, had in a manner for-
ced him to leave off all : But I again with reafonable exhorting of him, and partly the provi-
dence and decree Divine, wrought fome mitigating of his grief and difquietiiig.
Gal thefe are thefe feven.
A. Bleffed and praifed for ever be He who is one and three ; and whomhiighty mini-
fters or governours do inceflantly glorifie. ..:;• ;
-
'"
, • 1583.
Gil, .,.,„ thy folly and weakjieffe is greatf God C0mfort thee.
[a. Hefpoketo E. ^> for his exceflive difquietnefle and fufpefting ofthe verity or
goodnc/Te of Galvah. ] .
; iij, j, ,;. ^io'llnsl
'
A. Note. Now the beames were all retired into the ftone ; again likewife all the Crea-
tures and Vermine or ugly ftiaped Bealh are all gone. We were willed alfo divers time's to
pray. At fund ry pangs of E. K. his griefand difquietnefle, fundry fpeeches were uttered *''^5''
by the fpiritual Creature : among which thefe noted.
....... He that if angry cannot fee well. From bim that is perverfe, God tu^neih hit fack
'
the hindrance of pumjliment, is the mercy of G d, which imputeth nt fin unto them whom uV-"^^ ^"'i^-
*'?ffcChofen ; therefore be patient, and reconcile thy felf to God. tion°"'
*'
D 2 E'. K. °
'
20 A true^elatiotj ofD'. Dee his ABions.wh fpirits, dec,
-
—
— m —~*— '
' I
E. K- I do it with all humility and fincehty of mindc, and befeechGod
CO help me with his grace; for of my fclf I cannot do fo,yet I am Thomas
Vidymas, I yoill believe thefe things, when I fee the fruits ofthem,
h. He feenied yet again to doubt , whether this Creature and the reft ,
(partakers of this
aftion) were foundly good, and void of all halting, or abufing us.
E K. How can youpcrfwademcthatycbenodcludcrs?
Arjj'iments to Gall / will prove it by contrary.
prove ojr In-
Jhe ferva»ts of darkjiejfe have tkeir Garments ftained : their mouths ftinck^ of blafphewy , and
^llf°J^^°^^^ lies, but our Garments are no fuch i neither do oiir lips fpea}{_ any untruth : and therefore we are
of God, for whofoever it of the truth, is of God,
Moreover:, the Vevil is kjtown by hit works : for the fpirit of God controlleth them, tbe fpirit of
God agreethwith us, and ufethno controlment again/tit, therefore it it mtDauleffe,
Inane thing thou mayeji know uf diffefingjrom Devils.
Mercy. The wickjd fpirits alwayes abhor this word Mercy.
Btit it it the Doftrine that wc preach in refpeH towards you, we are not now (then) evil.
But thii way teacheth hardneffe, and is a fiumbling hloc\ tt the wickfd : but the beauty of the Ca-
file is not able to he expreffed.
The ft-.tirc be Happy are they, which are covered with the TearIs of Righteoufnejfe, and on whofe head there is a
fore. Garland of godlineffc : For unto thofe belongeth to tajie of the Fountain of true wifdom.
Is it not written of this book, that it teacheth nature in all degrees ?
The judgement hereof IS Intelleftual.
And wajhyour feet, and follow vie,
L. Lord wafh thou our feet,, or elfe we fhall not be clean.
Gal! How thou art God kjwweth : But comfort your felves in this.
This Teftimo- That neither this Teftimony can perirti, neither unto you can remain any flavery : $luia w
ny viftory. ftfo. erit vi£ioria, in him, and for him, to whom I leave you.
A, What fliall I do with thefe 21 words now received ;
Gall There are onely the words of the firft leaf.
A. I pray, how fliall I beftow them, or place them. •
Gall In them is the Divinity of tbe Trinity,
The firft leaf Ihe Myflerie of our Creatian,
«f the book. The age of many years.
And the conclufion of the World,
Of nu they are honoured, but of me, not to be uttered : Neither did I difclofe them Myfelf: For,
\hey are the beams of my underjianding, and the Fountain from whence I water.
A. I bcfeech you, how fliall I write thefe names in the firft leafe.
Gall They are to be written in 5 Tables, in every Table 21 Letters.
A. How ftiall I place the $ Tables upon two fides : three in the firft, and 2 in the fecond, or
one in the firft, and 4 in the fecond, or how elfe?
Gall Asthoufeejicaufe.
A. Shall I write them in Letters of Gold?
Gall The writing hath been referred to thy difcretion with colleurs , an^uch things as ap-
prtain to the writing thereof. Vpon the firjl fide write three Tables, and on the fecond two,
A. How, thus? n:r: Gal. .... Set them down, I will direlf thy judgement.
A. When, now? lrL~ Gal Not now.
E.K. She is gone,
A. Deo Nofirofit Lauf,honor,& Gratiarum aUioperennis. Amen.
JFednefday 19. Junii. Hora 2. a Meridte,
A, I made a prayer to God : and there appeared one, having two Garments in his hands,
who anfwered.
p • • A good praife, with a wavering minde.
A. God make my mindc ftable, and to be feafoned with the intclieftual leaven, free of all
fcnfible mutability.
E. K. One of thefe two Garments is pure white : the other is fpeckled of
divers colours i he layeth them down before him, he layeth alfo a fpeckled
Cap down before him at hii feet j he hath no Cap on his head : his hair is
long and yellow , but his face cannot be feen •>
it the leaft it was turned
away-ward from E-k. continually, though e. k. changed his place.
Teu
Jtrue Relation of D'. Dee his Jettons, mth fpirits, <3cc» 21
Joujha/l fee my face, loy it is white.
E. K. Now he putteth on his Pitfd Coat, and his Pied Cap, he cafteth the
one fide of his Gown over his (houlder, and he danccth, and faith,
. . . . , There is x Gody let in be merry.
E.K. He danceth ftill.
"there is a henveny let ut he merry.
Doth this Do&rine teach you to kfjov Gody or to be skjlfull in the heavens ?
Note it.
E. K. Now he putteth ofFhis Cloathcs again : Now he kneeleth down,and
waCfieth his head and his neck, and his face, and fliaketh his Cloaths, and
plucketh off the uttermoft fole of his fliooes, and fallcth proftrate on the
ground, and fayed .-
Vou'hfafe (0 God') to takf arvay the vearineffe of tHy bodyy and to cleanfe the filthinejfe
of this dufiy that J may be apt for this pnreneffe.
E, K Now he taketh the white Garment, and putteth it on him,
Mighty h God in hit great Jujiicey and wonderful in his imme afarable ni-rry : The hea-
vens tajie of hii Glory : Ihe earth is confounded at his wifdom. In hell they tremble at him, a: at
a Revenger. Th'sjheweth thee ( O ) tobe a Gody and firetcheth forth thy Glory from the Eaii unto
the Wtji ; for thy Heavens are Statutesy and thy Creatures Laws : that thou ntayai be accounted
aGodof JulHceandGlory. Becaufe thou art a God, Therefore there is a Heaven : F^runto
the Frince cf Kighteoufne^'y there belongeth a place of Glory ; Into the which there entereth none
that are defiled y neither fuch as are fc/eJMz/^fi^ with the fpots of iniquity. M<mus H£C bona
efi E. K. putting forth his right hand, H£C Autem mala £. K. putting forth his
left hand, ^i Habet aures intelligat.
E. K. Now he litrctb down on the Desk-top and lookeih toward me*
A. This Parable is in general^ foniewhat underftood of us : but in particular, how it may-
be, or is to be applied, prefently we underftand not,
Beware left error enter within the dwelling place of Righteoufneffe. I have faid.
E. K. Hw fcemeth now to be turned to a woman, and the very fame
which we call Gdhah.
E. K. Now he is come down to the ufual place, on the Table.
L. I have affaycd divers wayes to place the five Tables, on the two fides on this firft leaf
;
Is it to your likeingas I have done it, in the five little Triangles ?
Gal As concerning tkefetting down of the five Tables, it is fufficient as it is done.
The caufe why 1 appeared thus, was that you might avoid error.
A. I pray you to iTiew us the means how that error was or is to incumber us.
Gal Whofoever taketh fervantsofthe wicked, to prove the Glory of God , is ac- Note.
curfed. B«f, Satan, how many are thy deceits ?
Note, my Companion ( E. iC. ) would have caufed perfonal apparitions of fonie of the
reproba.e fpirits, before the Prince Albert Laskie in my Study, thereby to fhew (ome ex- ^, £;,
perience of his skill in fuch doings; But I would not confent to it: And thereupon G(J /i"^^
gave judgement and warning of fuch an error, of my Companion his intent, &c.
Gal Beholdy ititfaid, before he go front hcwe I will pour w.iter into hi^i ; And my An~
gel (hall annoint hiwy as I have determined : Hidetherefore Nothing from him; Foryou be- Notcof>I.£.
long unto him. Neither can flejh and bloodwork. thofe things that I have Glorified in hiM (All
things that are ejiablijhed in God, are Glorified. I fpeak^thit for thy vnderjianding') Neith<r let
your hearts he hurdnedi for the Earth ii condemned, and thefc things (hall come to pafle.
Credit is all that Ifeek {faith the Lord; ) for when I come, I (hall be fufftcient/y believed.
^^ ^^^j,
I takj the God of Heaven and Earth to judge; and fwear by him as awitneffe,t\iaxt.\\dc wom-;
are true, and ftall endure unto the end. The general points of mans Sahation arc concluded al- Note of Gene-
ready ; but tfie fpecial gift belongeth unto God. God jirengthen you a^ainji his adverfary.
r*'clal"7fH°*'
A. Amen. ^'^ * ^' "'
Gal Soenyou (l>a II know more.
A. This Prince would gladly know, Whether it fhall be beft for hinj, with the firft oppor-
tunity,to be going homeward.
Gal Itjfiall be anfwered foony and what queftions foever he alfo demandeth,
A. May he behere prefent at theaftiondoing ?
Gal Thofe that are of this h'ufe, are not to be denied the Banquets therein.
"1-ef m'"'^
A. May I requeft you to caufe fome fenfible apparition to appear to him, to comfort him,
^^j^n,"
and eftablifti his minde more abundantly in the godly intent of God his Service >
Oal.
21 J true'J^elatmo/ D'\I)cchis jBions^mthJpirits,d^c,
Gal If jiou follow US3 let him be governed by in i But whatfoever it of the flelh, is not
of us.
E,K. Shefeemeth to wesp ; forihe water comcth forth of her eyes.
A. Yen perceive, how he underftandeth of the Lord Treafurer his grudge againft him ;
And perhaps fome other alfo, are of likernalitious nature : What danger may follow hereof,
or incombrance ?
Gal thefim of his life is already appointedy one jot cannot be diminijhed : But he that
A L. poverty, ii Almighty can augment at his pie afure. Let him re'pyce in poverty. Be forry for his ene-
mies. And do the workj of Jujiice.
E.K. Shefeemeth to put the air over her, and foto enter into a Cloud
of invifibility, and fo dilappear-
A. Deogratias agamuf.
TVenfday after noin, circa horam 5. T^he Lord Albert a Lasky being prefent,
A. We attended oiGalvah fome inftruftions or difcourfe concerning the Lord Laskje.
E. K. At length appeared before the Lord Laiky ( in the air) an Angel in
a vvhits Robe, holding a bloody Crofle in his right hand, the fame hand
being alfo bloody.
A. In n.mine Jefu Chrifti Crucifixi^a te reqviro qui Grucis Troph£um hie Gefiasut ilia nobis
f'gn/fies, qu^funt ad Chrijit gloriaWy cuifit honor & Lain perennis.
E. K- Now he ii come from before the Lord Lasky^ and ftandcth here
on the Table : he turncth himfclf to all the four quarters of the World;
hekncelethdown.
He prayeth.
God, Why jhould the people upon earth re'joyce ? or wherein Jhould the pleafnresof their
fenfual delights be fixed / Why doth the Moon hold her comfe ? or why are the Stars obferving art
order? Why are thy people thus Jrattercd abroad ? Bicahfe iniquity hath caught the upper hand.
The Doors of our God are polluted with blafvhemy , his Temples defolate, his Commandfnettts vio-
lated y^ndh'i^ Glory sccoutited as nothing. But wilt thou fuffer ; or canjl thou hold thy hand
from thy great and tnighty^ Jtrokjs t Moji High God, Mojt Mighty God, Mefi Honourable God,
have mercy upon thy people ; refped the Creation, ( the Creation I fay ) of thofe, wherein thou hajl
delighted. Siffer not the Serpent to extol his head above thy Altars, neither let thy holy Veffelte
poifoned with his venome. For thou art Mighty and overcomeji all: and who can rebel againfi
thy Prowejfe ? Bend down thy mereiful eyes. Behold this confufitn : look^upon thy "temple and fee
the defolation thereof. And then in thy mercy ( ')jl}ew thy felfto be a God, and fuch a merciftd
Governour, as hath compafjion upon thofe that are difeafedt yea even unto death. Grant this Catna-
fcheth galfuagath garnaftel zurah logaah luferoth. Amen.
A, I pray you to declare unto us your name.
My name is Jubaniadace.
A. If I (hould not offend yon, I would gladly know of what order you are, or how your
lUte is in refpeft o( Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, or Vriel.
Jub. Vnto men, according unto their deferts, and the firjl excellency of their Soul, God
hath appointed a good Governour or Al^ge\, from amongll the orders of thofe that are Blejfed
:
For every Soul that is good, is not of one and thefelffame dignification ; Therefore according to hif
excellency we are appointed as Minijhrs from that order, whereunto his Excellency accordeth : To
the intent that he may be brought at laji to fupply thofe places which were Glorified by a former ;
And alfo to the intent, that the Prince of Darkjieffe-niight be counterpoifed in Gods Jujiice. A-
7»ongli the which I am one which am.the Keeper and t)cfender of this man prefent ; which carry
the Triumph and Enfign of Vidories continually, before him, as a reproach to my adverfaries and
his, a^td to confirm the dignity whereunto he is called by the prefence of this Charafter.
£. K. Now he heavcth up the CrofTe.
I have alfo fealed the fame m his heart : For unto him belong great Viftories , in
the name, and for the name of his God. The Jews in his time (hdW tifie of this Creffe : And
with this CrofTe (hall he overcome the Sarazens, and Paynims : For I will ejiabajhone Faith
( frith the Lord of Jujiice ) That I may be kjiown to be the fame that I was firfi among all people.
CMoreover I will open the hearts of all men, that he may have free paffage throrghthem, and will
not fuffer hint to periffj with the vioUnce of the wickfd. I will hereafter vilibly appear unto him,
andwill fay, Thisis to be done. But a year isnot yet come, and theft things Jhall.be finijhed.
But (jhus faith the Lord) I have hindrcd him, becaufe he hearkjted to the provocation of thofe that
are wdtnon. And hathconi^ented to thofe that blafphemed my name. Bid him lool^to the
Jieps of his youth, and meafure the length of his body; to the intent,he may live better, andfee himr
felf inwardly.
A. Note.
A. L.
Jucliti.
Vinor'ts.
A. L.
A. L.
f n year to
come.
Hindrance
brcedeth ex-
ception; ard
fin brctd^th
hinJrante.
<t4 true Relation of jy^ Dee his ABions with fpirits, (Sec. 2 ^
A. Note. At this Inftanc Tjnfeld came lailily upon us, into my Study .-
we thinkini^ that
the Study door had been fhut ; the Lord Laskje being gone out of my Study, tlie orher
way through my Oratory, to take Taufdds nieHagc from the Court , and havint^ dif-
patched him, rcfted without : and T.r,ifeld having commendations to mcjas he faid, from TW:%-^an'eli
fome at London., fearing leaft he (hould be be fent away by and by, without doing thefe Co vcd h..
camcundifcretly upon us, to our no little amazing, and great fcarin,'; his ra(h opinion ^^'"1
^-^t'.
afterward of fuch things, as he could not perceive perfeftly what my Companion and 1
were doing: Hereupon, y7/i<i?z/a^<rcf gave this fentence, or declared this the fatal end
of Tanfeld.
Juban It is [aid, Hethat entreth iathiK rajhlyy Lofive tnoneths arejettocome^andfijhes
tfthe Seafi>all divoiirhis cark.^fe.
Ai pe^ore, whatfoever he takcth in hzndpall profper, for my names fake. For thus it 4, l. his m-
is faidi and thefe words are the words wherewithii! I do annoint him ; for than the comfort of the nointli r
Higbejii there is not a fweeter Inundiion. Look^ not for the marvciles c/ t/;ij /^or/^, as the '^'""x'"'^
wielded man in his heart doth; but jtudy to pleafehimwitb whom ye migh'- rejoyce for ever. Ja//
''»"''
"°V""'
fons ofmeHi ^''^-^f do ye feek^ after? Vo ye hmt after the fwiftnejfe of the winds ; or are you
^""'^'"' '''"''
imagining a form unto the Clouds ? cr goyeforth to hear the braying 0/ an Jffe^ which puffHh away
vith the fwiftneffe of the air ? Seek, for true wifdont ; For tt beholdeth tbebrighteji, and ap~
feareth unto the lowef. Cecill hatethhim unto the heart, and defiretb he were gone hence. Muny -p,
other do privily fting at him ; I cannot properly fay jling him ; But ( Ifay ) I wi 'I four down my XreafJ^e^
wrath upon the»t, and they Jhallbe confounded in the midji of their own iniquity. Let my faithful
live and belike the fruithtl Vi-'{)ard. Be itfo.
it. For his return homeward, What is your advice ? perhaps he wanteth Jieceffary pro-
vifion, and money.
Jutan Hepall he holpen here, and elfewhere , rairaculoufly. Ifpeak^as it were to him-
felf. Let him S.o,fo f^on as he can conveniently.
L. I fay again, perhaps he wanteih money, but the Treafures of the Lord are not fcanr,
tothemwhom hefavoureth.
Jub His help Ihall he firange which hath not been often feen. Ihe ^Jieenlnveth him
faithfully, and bath fallen out withCccW about him : Lecefter fiattereth him. His doings are
loekjd into narrowly. But I do alwayes inwardly direct him^ and I vriil minilhr fuch comfort
untobim,asfhallbeneceffaryinthemidjiofallhtsdou!gs. When this Country fhall be inva- p i
j
ded, then fliallyou palie into his Country, and by this means,fliall his Kingdom be eftabli"
"^*" '
flied again. This is more then my duty. This is the firji time he hath been here, and it is won- a t
derful. The fccond coming is not long unto, and then ftiall he be wonderfiil, Dejiitutus
i me, premitur i malo. He is now dejiitute of me.
tk. Note, as foon as he had faid this fentencc, he feemed to fink through the Table like a
fpark of fire ; and feemed to make hafte to his Charge,! mean the Lord Laskje : whereby we
perceive the frailty of man to be great when he is Dejiitute (yea but after this manner ) o/
this good Angel.
BenediBum fit nomen Dei nofiri nunc
^infsmpiternaf£cula. Amen,
Thurfday 20 Junii 1583. After Noonc Circa 6.
Gal Labour in the writing of this Book^diligently. See thou cleanfe thy felf oji both fides.
Be ahne while it is done : that is to fay, whle thou art in doing it, henceforth and till the time
come ufefpeecb with us no more ; every feventh day accepted.
"
Every feventF!
A. How Hiall thofe dayes be accounted ? day.
Gal Fromtuefdaylajt: Tuefday being the firji of the feven, and the next Munday, the
^°'^^*''"'
feventh, and fo forth every (Monday is the feventh. In a pure aCti.n all things ought to be
Jure.
A. May I be writing every day, and at any time, when it fliall come in my mind ?
Gal F-ver as thou (halt feel me move thee. I will ft ir up thy delire. Good defi-cs
A. How (hall I do for the letters ? Shall I fimply tranflate the letteii as I find them ? fti'^red up by
Gal. ...... J. good Angels.
A. The titles of the fides,are they to be written onely in the holy Chara fters ?
Gal As thoufayeji, even thofe Words do make the holy, that thou calleji them holy
i
A. I believe verily, that ti ey are holy and fanftified.
Gal Inthelaii feven of the ^Q dayes, the vvords of this Baok fhal! bediftinguifhed. D'ftinSfomf
A. Knd accented SiMo''. Gal /. words and ac-
A. How fhall I do, for the Tableswhere certain letters are to be written in all the void
^^""'
places, feeing they will not jiiftly agree ?
Gal Inhere is one fuperfluouf : it is to be filled in order as it (heweth.
A, I (hall not dare adventure on it without direftion when I come to it,
Ga! Thou Jhalt want no d-reaion.
A. For the inequality ofthe firft 49 lines I require your advife.
Gal.
14 A trueKelation of I>. Dee his JSions wh fpirits^ <5cc.
Gal It is no quefiion.
Gall TJyou heginneft in thevporld toloo\vp tohtaven : Soypof it begun in earth to hoJ{,
up to the doing ubdije.
The laft life is Hotclipotcli of the wicked in the Woild, and damned in theUcW.
potchW.' E. K.. What is a Hotchpotch, &c-
To E K
' '
Gal. . . . , *?'•'( gre.rter tky folly if, the greater thy w/fdom will he hereafter.
There are the Souls of the wicked and damned in Hell. Tbofe that an in the world
cannot dtfri' e the 'calf joy of thofe that are in heaven : Much lejfe thofe that are ignorant y declare
the wavifeliheaiity of ypifloni. There (hall come a day with joU) when yon Jhall rejoyce. In the
wean feafon, rent your hearts, and turn unto the Lord.
A. Deus in adjutoriiim noftrum intende^Domine ad jnvandum mc feftinajGlo-
lia Patrij&i filio,8i- S,6v- Amen.
Satnixhy, ante Meridiem. //or<r lo. Junii 22.
A. Whiles I was writing certain prayers to good Angels, and ad proprios nofiros Angelos for
^.L'f.'^jjthere appeared one very big m the aire, all in a white Garment fullof plaights , and
tucked up verj' dubble, with a niyterlike Attire on his head, and acrofTeon the forepart of it;
He Willed E. K. to fpeak^ to me, and to tell me of hk being there : But he refufed, and exprefly de-
nied it, partly by reafon Galluah faid that he would not deal with us, but every feventh day
(being every Monday) till the aftions vveie ended : and therefore he fuppofed this Creature
tobe an illuder, and partly he urged fome evident token, or proof of their well-meaning to-
wards us in Aft,d^r. He went down, and ftill this Creature followed hun with a drawn fwordy
requiring him to declare thefc words to me ; but E.K> a ioivg while bad him declare them
himfelf imto me, if he would : and faid, why flieuld he not,c^c. At length my Companion
came, appeafed, and contented to hear what this Creature would fay , who at length faid
thus:
.... The Eagles have food for their yomtg ones,hy Divine providence , and not of themfelves.
fe.K. w»?yet j^0yd lit me diminijh the power of this wick/d fpirit that doth fo provoke , and fiirre him to mi-'
fomcwhit.c-
^^^-^j^
BOTt" modiliy • • • •
^f ^^^ ^'^^ "f *^^ fathers (0 God) he great towards their Children, much greater are thy
this creatures bleffings in thofe whom thou hajl ch^fen,
gooduiords. A. So, (O Lord) fo.
«... 'Behold, I will draw threds together, and mal^e hint a Net, which Jhall alwayes be between
Now he came
^^^ ^^^^ j^^ Adverfary : neither Jhall it diminifh hit under\ianding from the true fight of me.
he Tared Vo-^'
^^ ^'^^^^ ^^^'^ /""'^ ' ^^^ place is holy. JFrnte that Jhall be here fpoken , with devotion upon
wards my thy kjtees. Great it thy name (0 God) and mighty art thou in all thy workings : Thy help it jirong
weft-fide, and to thofe that delight therein. magnified be thy nii-me from generation to generation.
came and /-^ •
ftoodbymy.... .
Oratio.
on the Table. Speritu & mentc dico,
Hecovereth Sit mihi venis orandi modus : nam bonitatem Dei Laudo : O, Iram Patrisnieritus fum, quia
his face. lumen ejus elongatur a me: Verum in nomine Chrifti remifTiontm deliftorum meorum, 8c con-
Now he pray- firmationem in fuo Sanfto Spiritu cxopto. Per te, Halleluja, refurgam, meaccufo, me con-
eth fomewhat demno : omnia male feci,
in his own
Omnia per te (Pater) funt. Paratus cftoexaudire. Oculosad Coelos Elevarenolo, egcfta-
hj"^Vi^r I.
ten'"l"i3 nieam nofti. Qiiid differesDomine , Cor meum in melius Confortere? Vivus &
roftratc'"
non mortuusfum: Igitur Credo in te. Exaudi me Antidotum mihi SanSum monftra , quia
N th t' ev . '"^'""^ meum agnofco. Mitte mihi auxilium tuum de fede Majeljatis tu2 : Et per Angelos
ry fentencebe t'onostuereme. ^W7,E;c/r?<<^/, O tu igitur Angelus mens adfis mihi. Defende me , ncc trade
ufed, feme di- Corpus & animam meam in manus inimicorum ; meorum fed fecundum magnam mifencordiam
ftinainthe Dei, (per potcftatcm tibi traditam)me protege, adfit mecum prudentia tua,qua Diabolum 8c
bowing of his
Sathanicam fraudem vincani. Adjuva me dereliitum, Confirma me debilem, Cura me fanuni,
nl.T. 11"^ fana me aegrotum : Mihi eJto fpiritus fuper humanam fapientiam. Fac me fidclem Operato-
proltrate, or aji a i i ^ < t rr ,- rt i - o
holding uphis rem : Adduc tecum Angelos de Coclis demiuos Sanctos, qui me tecum in adveruj tueantur 86
hands,&c. ab omni Cuftodiant malo, donee ilia hora venerit , quam nemo evitare poteft : Suftinuit aninia
He holdeth niea in verbo ejus. Amen.
hl*h
"^" GlorifieGodye fans of men ,and praife him in the midil of your wickedneffe : For he is a God
'^
'
thatjheweth mcrcie to his people, and heholdeth th fe that are affiiHed : All honour, praife, and glo~
ry be unto him, n;w and for ever. Amen.
A. I befeech you, what is your name, that this mcrcie of God may be Recorded , to have
been beftowed upon us by yom- miniftcry.
.... Gabriel,
A. Shall I fignifieto the Polonian Gentleman, that wc received this.. . . prayer from you,
and fo make him partner thereof*
Gabriel. ... Do fo.
Ihe
fiJ true Relation of jy^ Dee his ABions whffirits, 6cc. 2 ^
"the help cf the Lrd is with thofe, that he loveth^ anAfo be it.
A. He made the fi^n of a CroUe over our two heads, and fo went away.
Gloria fit in excelfisy Deo mjho & in terra. Pax hominibui bona voluntatis.
Amen.
Siturdayj Jmii 22. a Meridie, Circa 6.
A, Upon the pending and examining, this prayer G'tbriel revealed unto us, I found certain
imperfections, and fome'doubts, wherein we thought it good to ask counfel, and require G<r-
briePs advife : That the prayer might be perfeft,as he might well like of to Gods honour and
our comforts. At the length : Nothing appearing to the eye, but the noife of a found about
E. K. his head, and withall a mighry weight , or mvilible burden on his right ftioulder , as
he fate in the green Chair,by the holy Table,or place : And unto certain places of the prayer,
which I noted and repeated, thofe words, and anfwers were by G^zirie/ given.
Gab. ., ..Jhe Preface niuji be in, for if our hearts be not prepared unto prayerjOur prayers are
in vain.
Quid differs Domine, Cor meum in melius Comfortarc,
Per te & in nomine tuo reflirganj ; id eft, Halleluja.
The firii way is myre effeCtual. Say Angele race , but the other is more effeSualy Cura me
fanuni. Regard me, and look^unto me, beingwhole.
A. As concerning the infcription, which I have written before the prayer : I would gladly
know, whether it be to your well liking of it.
Gab Fiant omnia ad laudem Dei. My doings are of no fuch regard : What I have done
he it dene, fo that your additions be to the honour of God^it is fufficient. The efFeft of his prayer
is greater, then is the form. The former is greater then the forming. That is to fay, he that
bath formed it, is mightier then any virtue, wherein it is formed. Wherefotver, therefore the mind
formethit with you with perfe^ humility and confent, there is alfo the former. As formed of him
therefore, I leave you to the end of his workjnanjhij) , which continually formeth all things according
to his own fajhion.
Sins Your fins have banijhed me, from faying thofe things I would.
A. O cleanfe our hearts, and wafh away our lins, amplius lava me ab iniquitate mea & a pec-
"
cato meo mimda me.
Gab Sins are never wafhed away, or forgotten with the higheji , but with fuch as are forry,
and alfo make facisfaftion.
Satisfaaion.
Lird, full forry I am for my fins, ani what fatisfa^ion is ... required I would gladly kjiow>
Gab The offence was not thine. Every one mi.li fatisfie, or elfe he fhall be damned.
A. Good Lord expoimd to us the myflery of fatisfaftion.
Gab When the Soul ofendeth , and is cbnfenting to wickfdnejfe , he is then to makj a fpiri~
tual fatisfa&ion, which is the end and perfeU fruit of Contrition. For thofe that are truely Con'
trite, do true ly fatisfie. Another fatisfaUion there is, which is externil. This fatisfa&ion is to
he made for fins committed againji thy Neighbour : For if thou offend thy Neighbour , and do him
Vrong, or takjf any thing fiom him, by fraud, or violence., it is a great fin . For this, thou canji never
be Contrite if thou make not fatisfaction, not onely confefjing it, but in fatisfyinz his defire that is
offended, and that with forrow. This is true Voilrine, and (hall never be cvertlsrown^by the fpirits
NOTE.
of ftilfe invention : which indeed is the firji eye unto the Devil. Ifyou may offendyour brother , and ^°°'l Angels
I,
.
he therefore accurfed : How much more fhall you be accurfed, when yon offend the meffager of him"''^°^'^"^^^
I' thatisytur Father. Behold, hefiyethnot, I have cnce done amiffe. God be mercifull to you, that^^''"^"'^^'^'
his mercies might be the greater uponym. Be mindfull of ntyfayings. ^' ^'
A. Deus mifereatur noftri , & benidicat nobis, Cor raundum Greet in nobis,&: fpi-
rituni reftum ponat in proecordiis noftris, Amen,
1583-
Wedncfday, Junii 26. Hora p;. prafente D.Alberto Lasky.
A. As we were together in my ftudy, and I ftanding at my Desk. There appeared to
E. K. a round Globe of white fmoak over my head. Thereupon /perceived the prefcnce of
fome good fpiritual Creature, and ftraight way appeared the good Angel. /. L.
A. / laid, Benedidm qui venit in nomine Domini,& igitur nobis ejl gratus laudis adventus.
I.L. Et quid tu dicis? [ad E. K. LoquutuseiL]
6. K- Si boniii «, iff lucu fpirkus, bene yenijliy I. L,
I'L. Et bene tibi fiet. E. K. He hath a befome in his hand.
£. K- What will you do with this beromer
A. Quid cum tua fcopa decrevifti facere?
/. L. Seaindum Dei beneplacitum.
E EX,Here
2 6 A true Kelation of D'. Dee his Jciions mth fpirits^ &c.
£• K. Here comsth a bi^ tall creature , formi hutnana qux facile non
poflk difccrni, oculi ejus vidcantur cfTc duo Carbunculi Lucentcs & mirabi-
litcr micantes. Capur ejus videcur aureum , os vidctur valde largum effc,
& Caput videtur mobile & quad ab humcris feparabilc^ totum rcliquum
Corpus vidcrareflfemarmor quafi-
Vox Tecifti tu ?
[E.K.^ hefaidfotoZL.
Sufplar hue IL. Feci. Decedite in Oratoriunt, nam magna hie dicenia. (u»t.
faltii'neffeut ^i decedent ? I L. Trincepsy& tu. (Bow down thy knees brother) and here what I do fay.
q^kmr #t rJo g. j^, he fpake.]
TT'dnll Magnus ille Filiolihominum qvidvuhis ?
toi (uht'ienio A- Cupinius ninndari apeccatis, & illuminari fapiencia divina, ad ems honorem.
inccghatmee- g j,^. Eft lumen quoddasn in Acic J & ipfccfculatur lumen illud-
"' ^J ""
j^ DiCjPropititis ejlo/fiihipeccatori.
K £• Propitius efto mihi peccatori, O Deus, crefcit jam Corpus iftius
magniiii immenfum quantum, qaod nonpofCc facile difccrni'
Mag Filii hominum^ quid vultis ?
A. SapienXiamveram.
Mag vos pueri &filii hoi>tinu»t,quid vultis ?
A,. Sapientii.Ji inDeojSi propter Deum, verani.
Mag Jsdite, ci''.i Jujiuf &veriu fum ( inqi'it Vomiiiuf ; ) Vos nihil impiunty iniquim^
SwguUhm iielinjujhimfufcipite: N^m qudiCunquefeceritiirniiU , vel negligentiay vel tnfcitiayvelcontemptuy
pmfert vsrbii,
-j^i (titf-n ttiniia fuperjiit/one futtt, ( Sicut Scriptunt eft ) poteiate tradita fpiritibus mendacibufy
flammmexore.
^^ y^xarent brnos, dim affligerentmalos. Sed dixit Deuf ( Deusfum quidem vefter ) qui Spiritum
evmit,
Sanaum iton aufero a vobis : Nam eftisfquos per potentiam confirmabo meam : Nolite igitur Cz'
^ com.i'^i Cumperverlis fieri, ^//i inaniter rebus & Idolis h'jjus mundi potentiam afcribimt meam,
De Sullu'nn'i- Sed Crediteperfeveranter & ad fineni tifque & fidetn habete : quia, (^per me ) omnia, mundana
bus:p:inbus fupe.'.ii pgilhwt., &fiihjiciet D^mones voluntative!h£. Ddmones fub regienitus permanentes,^
Argii: b'niubi
ifi~i,jfi Lmaribusy An;^cli mei noii funt : Sed Caleftes, San&i & veri honi. Nonne vos homines &•
fedisbabent.
^jsyialcs 6' non fine peccato, C«i volimtateni liheram , fiinul & percare permijp : vt intelUgendo
Pene omnium exinde jnaluni, & me Veuni veflru>» agnofcatis vos. Audite igitur-, Audite filii mei, Calami-
pn.c:^>um'in' tatem totiui terr£ omniumqueviventium pr£dico. Bella erunt undiqtiehorrenda & triftiffima, Et
teriius. peribit ad tertiamufque partem gladio & fame Terra, Erunt cxdes mv.ltoruw, (^
penc omnium )
T.( -act Imperii tritrcipum interitus , Terra motin, quales non ab initio mwidi i Terreftrit D^monis QTurcg
ruina. y'u.') Imperii ruina. Nam fie conftitui.
[E, K,'] Nunc refpcit vos-
A. y^. L. and I were in my Oratory.
Stephanus, Folonienfis, niiferrine in bello jugulatus, Cadet. Iterutii dico ; Stephaniu, ?o-
lonienfis Rex,miferrime in bello jifgulatuf, cadet. Vocabant te itenim \^refpicit Alb. Lasky ]
ad Regnum Vrindpes : quern etiam ego Polonia;, Moldavice &- populi mei Ducem & regem con~
iiiXucro. Tunc attinges defideratam metam & nonerrabii a Scopo. Bl^it ego [urn Veus tuns, &
• doceho te iitilta & vera. Et dabo tibi Angelas meo: adjutores & comites etiam ad fiecrctum quod-
libet mundi. Vigilato, Orato. Igitur , Tim efto , donee venerit poteftas mio. & in te, &
fupra vos. Interum figillate qu£ vidiftiiy& me in publicum producite.
tse inpubiicum [i^-K."] Now He (haketh: he feemcth to turn his head about his (houlders.
'" """'
E, K, Nunc accipit en/em <(s* pcrcutit nubss, ^ crucemformat antefe, ah utro-
qu^ latere i^ poji fe. Credemihi, efl finis rerum -.
Dimitntntur Peccata'Ve/ira.
E. K. Cadic, quafi diftradus , ( vel fc feparans ) in 4 partes, & a-
volut-
Vox Habetit qu£adeo Vecretafunt.
A. Mifericordia Dei, fie fuper nos mmCj & femper. Amen.
Szturdzy Junii 29 i meridie hora 4.
A. While] was about to write the Titlcofthefecond fide of thefeventh leaf : zr\d(E.K.
^''•'^"^S^y '"^ ^ M<?(//«i appeared as before like a young girle, and I fainted her in the Naitie
Hhcn*he'be- °^^°'^' ^^ *'°™'"S ^"^^"^ ^^"^ '^'^5°°*^' ^""^ ^'^''^ "-^ '^^''' '''^'' ' ^^^ wonderfully opprelfed
gJn4;ftX4f(iic with the Work prefcribed tome to perform before ^.'i^«/r next, and defired hertohelpme
"
'Pedigree, toone to write the holy Book as it ought to be written: feeing I did all I could, audit f- em-
ed almoft inipoffible for me to finifli it as it is requifite. Madami promifed to help me to
one
.ni<
^true Relation ofiy. Dee his JUuns mth [pints, 6cc- -
ly
one to write the Boo'rC ; and thereupon appeared to her ( but uiifcen of E. K. ) her Mother
Madimi faid aU'Oj that (he was now learning of Greek and Arabiek , and the ^ylian
Tongue.
Mad Mother fprayyou let him have nne to write hit Book,,
A. I pray thee tell me Midi>»i, what was his name which yeftcrday tempted my friend
and accufed nic moil unduly and untruely to E, if. us a murderer^ and hypocrite, and one
that had injured a thoufand.
Mad Hif»ame was Panlacarp.
A. Can the wicked Conjurers have their Devils to write Books at the'r commandments,
and fhall not an honelt Ghriftian Phiiofopher hare the help of God his good Angels to write
his holy Myfteries fo greatly redounding to his Glory? And feeing you arc the Mjcher of
ftf'i^/wi here, I befeech you tell me your name here ; as the order of all our domgsaredi-
itinftly and orderly noted.
Mother 1 am of the word, and by the word : I fay, Seal up thofe things thou haft :
'
And I myfelf will take charge of G^z/i/^^ to the end. Ad evitand'm fcand^i/um.
A. Truth it is, it niurt grow to a great miflikeing grudge, that God (h ould fcem to have
laid burdens on our fiiouldcrs, greater than we are able to bear : and then if we fall and faile
under them, he would find a caufc not to perform his promifes made for carrying of thofe
burdens.
Mother Whatfoever is thy part, the fame will I perform. I wllfut thy yoke ( in this
one thing) iip'.n my (fioulders.
A. Will you then write it as I (hould have written it ?
.Mother ...... 1 have faid I will.
A. Where (hall 1 leave the Book >
Mother Leave it where y uwill : your locks are no hindrance to us. Even when Our locks.
the time Cometh believe andyou (hall find it written.
A. You have eafed njy heart of a thoufand pound weight.
Mother Becaufeje jhall not fall into error. JJoji thou believe ?
A. Yea verily.
Mother. "then verily will I do it. Fides tua erit inftrumentum operationis mei j
Erit, & videbitis, &; nunquamperibit.
Galvah One thing I will teach thee. The End is greater than the Beginning^ or the
Midii ; For the End n witneffe of them both : But they both cannot witneffe of the End.
Mother He that appeared yejierday is faji enough, now : Maiden, Sayyour leffon^ when
1 am gone.
A. I pray tell me your name.
Mad Mother I pray you tell your name.
Mother I A M j What will you more?
^' K. She flicth away like a fire. 3iad'ml falleth down proftrate on her
face a while.
A. Now I fliall have Icifure to follow my fute, and to do all Mr, Gilberts bufineffe.
Mad My Mother will fpeak,to the ^eenfor youJhortly. Serve you Gjd while I d»
fray,
E K. She prayech vehemently* Nowihecometh neartous*
Madimi I prayyou teach me tofpell, £ She fpake to £. K.
w f -TL- • • . . •
1
NificawMsifli^
Mad This iS e*^fiM<fi;MT7wf, amic .s hac ofut
OUT®- * i-mifQ- TOxa etyoi' *c<riiC*'- ^' »s the Syrian Tongue you do not undcrftind k. • - ( to A.) fubvcrtety «^f.
forte wiUftf/^tTn* vel icld(irM
law' aura TOo-auTor c^K4^»r«
alicitU'-,vel abdrahitur
•re Kana. <ifiKKilno,fi\ia.
ifogf, (in Ti»tt tt'ura a'fiffJju ira.fHTeu Th»r was with
" ' R » o_ .
his oft red
<»* <n S'lcL Tza>T^ a.7C0h.tTzet.
frienaflilpa*
he contelTed
£• ^- UnlefTc you fpcak fome Language which I undcrfland, I will cx-
prcffe no more of this Ghybbnfli- Now (he prayeth again. Now flic
ii gone-
E 2 A. Bene-
1 8 A true Relation ofD\ Dee his jBions mth[pints, &c.
t^. Benediftus fit Deus, Pater Nofter, Delis totius Confolationis, qui rcfpexit affliftionefn
fervuli fui,& in ipfo punfto neceflltatis nieae praeftititniihi aiixilium ; iple Solus Cordis Scruta-
tor eft & renuni, Ip(e eft Lux meajSc Adjutor meus, &: Sufeeptor njeus eft. In Domino fpe-
ravi , & liberavit nie ab anguftia maxima propter gloriam Nominis fui, quod lit exaltatum
tii magniricatum nimc, & in fempitema fecula. Amen^ Aniens Amen.
b.. My heart did throb oftentimes this day, and thought that E» K". did intend to abfent
himfelf from me, and now upon this warning 1 was confirmed, and more aflured that it was
fo : Whereupon feeing him make fuch hafie to ride to Iflington : I asked him why he fo haftcd
to ride thither: And ffaid, if it were to ride to Mr. Harry Lee, I would go thither alfo to be
acquainted with him ; feeing now I had fo good leafure , being eafed of the book writing:
Fifty pound Then he faid, that one told him the other day that the Duke did but flatter him , and told
y ar'y to be him Other things, both againft the Duke (or Palatine) and me, e^c. 1 anfwered for the Duke
provided for
gj^j my felf; andalfofaid, thatif thcfourty pound annuity ^ which Mr. Lee did offer him,
E K. by Juhn
^^^ ^^^ ^j^j^p ^^^^^^ ^f j^j^ minde fctling that way (contrary to many of his former prontifes to
"'
me) that then I would alfure him ©f fifty pound yearly,and would do my bcft by following of
my fute,to bring it to pafleas foon as(potlibly) Icoald,and thereupon did make him promife
Upon the Bible. Then £, K. again upon the fame Bible did [wear unto me conftant friendjhip, and.
never to forfikj me : And moreover faid, that unleflc this had fo fain out, he would have gone
beyond the Seas, taking fliip at New-Cajile within eight dayes next : And fo we plight our
faith each to other, taking each other by the hands upon thefe points of brotherly , and friend-
ly fidelity during life , which Covenant I befeech God to turn to -his honour, glorie , and
fervicc, and the (omfort of our brethren fhis ChildrenJ)
here in earth.
Tuefday,ytt/ii 2. a meridie. Circa Horam. 2-
A. While J was writing of Letters to Mr. Adrian Gilbert ^ Into Devonfliire y Madini ap-
peared by me in the ftiidy, before E. if. fitting in the Chair, firft on the ground, then up
higher in tiic aire .; and I faid. How is the minde of Mr. Secretary toward me, me think eth it
is alienated marvelloully.
The lord Mad Tbofe that love the world, are hated of God. The Lord Treafurer and he arc
Treafurer.and joyned together, and they hate thee. I heard them when they both faid, th,u wouldji go madport'
Secretary Wal- /j : Wbatfoever they can do agaiuft thee, affure thy felf of. They will Jhortly lay a bait for thee',
A. Lord have mercy upon me : what bait, (Z befeech you) and by whom?
Mad They have determined to fearch thy houfe : But they flay untill the Vuk^e be gone,
A. What would they fearch it for?
Mad They hate the Vuk^e, (both) unto the death.
A. And why?
Mad Tak^e heed that you deal uprightly. .... . {Shefpahs to E. K.]
E- X. God the Creator be my witncfle of my upright dealing, withj and
toward him, (meaning A •) ever lince my laft coming to him.
E K li' r
^^^ ^'^ " ^""^ ^^ T^^""^"^ difeafes,
condoath, £.
jr
gy this boolc (taking thcBiblc in his hand) I fwear that I 60
carry as faithfull a minde to him^as any man can, ever fince my laft co-
ming-
Mad. '.,.. Loo\_ unto the k,inde of people about the T>u\e : and the manner of their diligence.
A. What mean you by that ? his own people mean you ? or who ?
Mad. The efpies.
A. Which be thofe ?
Mad All, there is not one true.
A. You mean the Englijh men.
Mad lou are very grojfe, ifyou underfiand not my fayings.
A. Lord, what is thy counfel to prevent all?
Mad Ihefpeechif general. The wicked ftiall not prevail.
A. But will they enter to fearch my houfe, or no?
Mad Immediately after the J)uks hii going they will.
A. To what intent? what do they hope to finde ?
Mad TheyfiifpeB the Dukf is inwardly a Traytor.
A, They can by no means charge me, no not fo much as of a Trayterous thought.
Mad Though thy thoughts be good , they cannot comprehend the deings of the wickjd. In
Truft them /"wwwf , they hate thee. Trufi them not ; they Jhall go about Jhortly to offer thee friendjhip : But be
"Of* thou a worm in a heap offir aw.
A. I pray you ^expoHnd that parable.
Mad A
<iJ true %elation of D^, Dee his ABions mthffirits, (3cc, t p
^
\
-
- .,, - —— -
Mad Aheapofjhaw being never fo great^itnowaight upon a worm , notwithfianding eve-
ry liraw hindrttb the iforpts paffages. See rhem^ and he not feen of thtrttj doji thou nnderjiand it .<
A. 1 pray you make more plain your counfel.
Mad. . . . . Mv iowife/ it plain enough.
A. When, 1 pray you, is the Duke likely to go away ?
Mad. ... .In the middle 0/ Auguft.
A If in the midfl of Augvji he will go,and then our praftifes be yet in hand, what ftiall be
done with fuchour furniture is prepared, and ftandingin the Chamber of praftife.
Mud., ... Jhou had no faith.
His ''oing ftandtth upon the determinated purpdfe of God. He ii your friend greatly , and a.L.
intendei h to do much for you. He it prepared to do thee good,and thou art prepared to do him -fer' Sci vice,
vice. Many men purpofc, but one fettcth in order. _
' -
•' ''
"'•
a'. As concerning Adrian Gilbert^ what pleafcth you to fay of him , and his iritcnd-ed
voyage.
Mjd He ii not in the true faith. .
A. How hath it been faid, then. That he lliould be the fetter forth of God, his faith and re-
ligion among the infidels.
Mad That it a myliery, r?j. ,:s;,Vvi i>R,>
A. Whether fliall it be good, that the Duke refdrt hither oft, or tarry for the moft part at
his houfe atL:'«^c«.
Mad. ... Hununepohcie cannot prevail. As many as are not faithfull in thefe caufes^pall die a
wo'i nttferable death : and (hall drink^ of Jl.ep everlajiing. As in one root there are many divifans^
Co in the \iein and [ranches are many fepa'rations,
A. Give fome more light (l beleech you) to the particular undci (landing.
Mad Jhe fire that kjndleth ailthefe^ and wherein thy live ii One, f rming them accordingto
(wbatfo ver ) the fubftance whereupon they are grounded. So by the leffe yon may prove the greater:
7'hat Oi if pdrttcular,fo Hkjwife generally^ All emanations are from one. In the firit workman-
Jhip lieih fecret in one unknown : And is fealed, and therefore it hath an end. The fon through the
Circles and Majftf body , The heart in the body , The intelligence in the inward man , Jhe [on
fromhis iwntentte fpreadethout theleams of his limited virtue , The Hart life to two ; and yet yj^^ Yitaxu
the Centre of /ij." to the whole /^ody^ underjianding quickjieth the minder that minde I fpeak oflhemndc
pwrtft^oK <i fis'y ftape. It followeth therefore 3 that every thing (what fubliance foever") hach <rputtcthona
Centre : From the which the Circumfluent beams of his proper power do proceed, ffhen thefe ^"1 '^*P^'
dreperfeQly known: Then are things feen in their true kjnde. I fpeak,this to prove, that the good
Angslot man, which is the external C cntre of the Soul, doth carry with him the internal Cha-
rafter of that tning wnereof he feeketh to be a Dignifier, within the which doth lie fecret , the
Con]uni\\on jnd^c\^zrztion of the poportion of their times, betwixt the hul and body of man.
happy (therefore) is that Soul, which beholdeth the glory of his dignification, and is partaker
with him that is his keeper. This k.nown unto men, the thickjteffe of the earth doth not hinder
their fpeeches ; neither can the darkjteffe of the loweji aire obfcure, or make dark, ^he (harpne^e $f
their eyei. This Character, (at his next coming h'ther)Jhall be made manifeft unto him.
E' K. He flicwcih a bloudy hand, holding a hlondy Cioi{c with kttgrs
qYI ir^ liks our hoy ktters^
A. I befeech you, how fliall his provifion of money from home ferve his torn, or how flial!
he here have help for his charges bearing ?
Mad "iour words make me a Childe. Thofe that fi(h for Dolphins do not fi and upon t^^ More the form
ground, Thofe that fit in Counfel call not tn the harveft people, nor account not their workj. He of a child.
that jiandeth above the M'Jon,feetb greater things then the earth: Is it not faid. The Lord will
provide ? I jhnd abf.ve the Moon, for that I difpofe his life from above the difpoftionofthe Mton.
To aik,what ]dCoh his fervants did,was a folly; becaufe their majier was hleffed : A greater queftion
to Jikhow bleffed he w,ts,thento ask how many flieephehad,
A. I am defirous to know what you meant by faying , That my words made you a
Cf ilde.
Mad Becaufe yu ask. >"e Childijh que(iions. His good AngelJhall reveal hk CharaUer unto
Reference to'
him, and thou (halt fee it, [^poitJting to E. Kf] But take heed thou fay truely ; And ufe great rr- good Angeli.
verence, or elfe the feet that love thee fliall carry thy Carkas out of the doors. If he carry it lailum dim-
vpon him, it jhall be a token of the Covenant between hitn and G d. i"""-
A. The image, or limilitude thereof (mean you) made in pure Gold. Perhap* eta-
Mad I. .... So thofe that Jhall fee hit Standards with that figne in them Jhall perijh
*"' ' '
Mtterly.
A. You mean , if the fame be painted , or otherwife Wrought in his Banners and Pe»
tions, &c.
Mad Let him ufe it as a Covenant, between God and him,
A. How fhail he frame it in Gold, foiid-wife, or tamine-wife?
Madd. .... Hk own AngelJhall reveal it, , s
E 3 ^' Be-
90 A tme^elation of D^ Dee his JBions mthfpirits, (5c c,
t.. Becaufeit hath been faid,that in the beginning of our Country troubles wc fhould be
packing hence into his Country ; What token Ihall we have of that time approaching,or at
hand ?
Mad Tour watthwerd is told you before : When it it [aid unto youy Venite, &c.
b.. But ( I befeech you ) to be ready againft that watchword, hearing what is to be done,
as concerning our wives and children into his Country.
Mad. ...... (Ji^iraculouf ii thy care ( God ) upon thofe that are thy chofeny and wonderful
are the wajes that thou hajt prepared for them. Thou (halt takf them from the fields^ and harbour
tkemat horne. Thou art merciful unto thy faithful and hard to the heavy-hearted. Thou fhalt
cover their legs with Bootes^ and brambles Jhall not prick^ them : Their hands Jhall be covered with
theskjnsofBeaJis that they may breaks their way through the hedges. Thy Bell (hall go before them
as a watch and fure T>ire£iion : The Moon Jhall be clear that they may go on boldly. Peace be
avwngji you.
B- K- He is now gone away in a fire, JEterno T>eo nofiro,^ Laus
Honorf <sr Gloria in feculorumfaimla. Amen.
Thurfday j^z/Ai 4. hora 11. ante ^Meridiem. 1583.
Note. A. When I came home yefterday from the Court , and from London, and from the
Lord Laskje, I found that E. K. was purpofed to ride forth of Town, and intended to be a-
way (as he exprefly told me) five dayes : Certain Companions and his acquaintance having
fo appointed with him,rome tarrying for him in Mortluck^e^ and feme at Brainford ( as was
perceived this day afterward, and as he confeflxd unto me. ) Whereupon I thought good to
fignifie fomuch unto the Lord Laskje who meant to come and refrefh himfelf at my houfe,
as he was wont before ; either this day, or within two or three dayes after ; Who alfo de-
lighted in E. K. his company, 6'^c. Hereupon about the time of E.K. his rifing I wrote thefe
lines, intending to fend them prefently to the Lord Laskje^ that word might be returned of
his intent before £. K. ihould ride, I meaning and hoping to perfwade £. K. to tarry fo long,
and upon fuch refpeft.
^'10biliff^me Princeps, in reditUy noflrum Edwardum inveni^ facie quidem Uta : fed itineri ta-
^' men^ut dicity quihque dierum^ fe accingentem : Hocque matutino tempore abitum vel iter
ijhid ingredi mAitur j Reverfurus (^ut affirmat ')pofi quinque dies, ^id fit ipfa veritaSy
novit illequi verus & Omnipotens Deus eji nolh\ Hoc voluiy ifto manefummoy vobis fignificarey ut,
quid fadu optimum fity Cogitetis : De aliisyfuo tempore,
Vaeftrae Celfitudinis fidelifllmus Clientulus
y«/«4. 1563. Joannes Dee.
This Letter being now written, and not yet folded up, my friend E. K. was ready and
came out of his Chamber into my Study ; and I told him,that I was even now fending word
to the Prince L/Zi/;,/? of his rideing- out, and return after five dayes 5 and fofliewed him the
Letter: who when hecametothe phrafe, ^//</ y/t ipfa Veritas , he was famewhat offended,
faying. What fecret meaning hath this, uponfome of your two former conference ? Truly (faid
I ) even fuch as thecircumftance of the Letter doth import, that is ; Whereas you faid that
you intended to return within five dayes, or at the fame dayes end, it is uncertain whether
you will, or (hall, return later or fooner : and therefore ^idfit ipfa Veritas of your return,
or intent to return, onely God doth know. He would by no meanes admit that my iincere
expofition, but feemed fufpitious of fome other undue conftruftions of thofe former words ;
thereupon I took the Letter and tore it in three pieces, and fent none : But in my mind re-
ferred all to God his difpofition, affuring my felf of God his moji conftant proceeding in his own
affairs. Shortly after faid £. K. to me. Certainly here is a fpiritual Creature in my right
Sowle. (houlder, who fsnfibly faith to me, Come away : So ( faid I ) did one fay to Sowle^ when
Evil fpirits. they would have had him away to have drowned him, whom I flayed in this Study by force,
and fo hindered the Devil of his purpofe then ; as appeareth by that unhappy man yet alive.
Nay faid E. K. they have told me that if I tarry here,I (hall be hanged ; and if I go with this
Prince he will cut off my hcad,and that you mean not to keep promife with me ; And therefore
if 1 might have a thoufand pound to tarry, yea a Kingdom, I cannot : Therefore I releafe
Fifty pnind you of your promife of 50 pounds yearly Stipend to me,and you need not doubt but God will de-
ycarly ftlpend. fend you and profper you, and can of the very ftones raife up children to Abraham : And a-
£. K. his wife. S^'" ^ i-'^^MOt abide my wife, I love her not, nay I abhor her ; and there in the houfe I am mifli-
ked,becaufe I favour her no better. To thefe, fuch his words fpoken in great pangs and
difquietiieffe of mind, I rcpofed and faid, That thtfe his doings and fayings were not of God,
and that by my wliole proceeding he might perceive what confidence 1 repofed in his dealing
with the fpiritual, our friends, feeing even to the uttermoft penny (and more than my abiUty
ferved unto convenienily ) I laid out ftill about the .. .. ming of fuch things, as were by me to
bedonc, e&"c. Well, on the fudden, down he went ; upon his Mare, and away toward
Brainford.
Jtrue Relation of D'. Dee his JBuns mth fpirits, dec, 3
1
Brainford. After vvhofe going, my Wife eamc up into my Study, and 1 faid, Jank, this man
is mcrvalloiifly out of quiet againftliis Wife, for her friends their bitter reports againfthim E.rc.hiswiTcs
behind his back, and her lilence thereat, &c. He is gone , faid I, but I befeech the Al- fticnds.
mighty God to guide him and to defend him from danger an^l^fhame ; 1 doubt not but God
will be merciful to him, and bring him at length to fuch order j as he fliall b- a faithful fcr-
vanc unto God, &c.
Note within tliree hours after, came E. K. up my Study ftairesunbooted, for he was come
in aboat from Zminfori, When I faw him I was very glad inwardly : But I remained writ-
ing of thofe Records as I had yet to write of Tuefdayes laft aftions. I have lent my Mare
out( faid he ) and fo am returned. It is well done faid I, and thereupon he fate down in
'
the chair by my Table where he was wont to lit: And it was ten of the clock then. He
took up in his hand the Books which I had brought from London of the L. Lashje^ written
to him ill his commendations, d^'.-. And as he was looking earneftly on thetn, a Spiritual
Creature did put the Book on the outfide ofthe parchment cover, divers times ; and once
would have taken it cut of his hands : Divers times I heard the ftrokes my felf ; At length
he faid, I fee here the handfome Maiden M^'Aw', and have done a pretty while. Then faid
I to him, Why told you mc no fooiier ? Whereupon I took paper purpofely to Note what
fliould fe<:tn Note-worthy asfollovvetli.
A. Miftrefre Madimi, you are welcome in God, for good, as I hope ; What is the caufd
of your coming now ?
Mad To fee how jou do.
/\. I know you fee me often, and I fee you onely by faith and imagination.
Mad [ Pointing to £. K. ] Tbatjiefit is perfecier than his.
A. O Midi»ii, Shall I have any more of thefe grievous pangs ?
Mad. ...... C"r\i JFives, and great Devils are fore [^ompanions.
L. Inrefpiftof theLord Treafurer, Mr. Secretary, and Mr. Rawlj, Iprayyou, What
worldly comfort is there to be looked for? Belides that I do principally put my truft in
God.
Mad (JMadder willjhi>ie, wicked men will offend, an d are eafie to be offended.
A. And being offended will do wickedly, to the perfecution of them that raeane
fimply.
Mad. ...... Or e/fe theyvcere nit to be called X'ickfd.
A. As concerning A'b^ Laskje his Pedigree, you faidyour Sifter would tell all.
Mad. » I told you wore then alljrir Doit paimers and Cat painters can do,
A. You fpoke of Ji'illi:tni Laskje and Sir Richard Laskje his br other,of which fViUiam go-
ing into France, and then into Denmarkf '•
and his marriage into Poland^ came this Albert
Laskje, now Paladine o( Soradia, Sec,
Mad Thofewere two pretty men for me to meddle withal. fVbenyou fet yonr felves to-
gether, and agree together, I will make all agree together.
E. K. Will you Madimi\md me a hundred pound for a forcnight ?
Mad I have fwcpt all my money out of doors.
A. As for money we fhall have that which is necefTary when God feeth time.
Mad Hear me what I fay. God is the unity of all things. Love it the unity of every
Congregation ( I mean true andperfc& love, ) The fForld was made in the love of the father.
Jon ft'ere redeemed in the love of the Father and the Son. The Spirit of God it (yet ) the love
of his Church. let (^1 fay ) : For after it doth Triumph^ it is not called a Church nor a Con- ^' ^^ "'* '"
gregation : But a Fruitful Inheritance and a Perfeft Bjdy inChriji. Take the love of the Fa- r *'
m^"''^"'''*
ther from the World, and it perifijeth. Take the love of our Redemption away, and we are dead. ^^^^^^
( i will not offend ) put your injiead of our, Take the light of the Holy Ghojl, which is the love The '^ngels
of the Father and the Son fr^m the Church, and it withereth. Even fo take love from amoHgHyou, were not rs-
andyou are members of the Devil ; Therefore it is faid unto you Diligite ad invicem. For love "deemed.
is the Spirit of God uniting and k>'itting things together in a laudable proprtion. fVhat doji thou
bunt after ? fpeak^manJVhat doji thou hunt after ?
\_
This was faid to £. K. upon fome fecret judgement of Madimi in him.
E. K. Ihunc after nothing-
Tlje love of God hreedeth faith; Faith bringeth forth ( on the one fide^ Hope ; and {on the i. Faith.
other fide ) the workjs ef Ch.irity. to;} tbm love God ? Seekefl thou to be among his EleS ? Why ^- Hope-
d(.jl thou not ( therefore ) love th'fe things that are of God ? Herein thoujhewejl the want offaith;
J«C"*r'ty.
Herein are thy bragging words confounded ; for thou fayeji. No man can accufe thee of evil. But
»tfl« haft no faith becaufe thou haft no hope. - Wilt thou fay, that thou hafifaith ? Shew it me
hy thy kve : Whofcever ( therefore ) loveth not God, if accurfed. Thou loveli not Cod, Lb, be-
hold, thou breakjli his Cmmrindments. Ougkteji thou not to love him? And h.i ft thou not faith
through the kve in God ? Truely thm cughteffo to do. Wilt thou let me fee thy hope on this fide ;
Let thy yforkesftandon the other fide. And (hew thy felf to have faith thap therein thou mayeji love
Godf and be beloved of h:)n : But if thou haji none of thefe^ thou haji hate. If thou hate G:>d,the
reward
3L A truel^elationofD', Dc&his JBions mthfp'mts, (3cc,
reward thereof if great ; hut the greatnefe is vnqiKnchable fire. Whofoever foUovreth mt the
Conma»d»ients,hatethGod ;
'
If fin be the breach of the Cotntnandments^Scc. Voji thou love
Silver and Gold ? The one ii a. Thief, the other is a Murderer. JFilt thoufeek^honour ?
E. K. No-
So did Cain. But thou h^fl a Jufi God that loveth thee , Juft and verttious men that de-
^^Zil^^Jightinthee-., Jherefore be thouvertuom : For tho.i fhalc tread the World under thy feet :
'^Anno 1589. I pro7mfe thee, I have driven the Skjtllen-drab out of our Kitchen long ago.
w. en he was a. Do yoii mean worldly covetoufnefTe ?
niadeBaionof jy^^jj Tea, and the firji heavenly covetoufneffe.
hohemia 4nna
Carina geta Barman.
ijjo. °
A. I befeech you, what is that to fay ?
Mad Veni ex illo Barma.
E. K. Fe!c and law a fpirituil Creature go out of his right thigh.
Mad, ...... ff-here are thy i:\. Companions ?
Bar They dwell here.
A. [ He that was come out, feemed a great handfome man with a Sachelof a Dogs skin
by his lide, and a Cap on his head, &c. ']
A. O the hand of the Higheft hath wrought this.
Mad Venite TenebraJtigiteSpiritu weo.
E. K. Here appear 14 ot divers evil favoured fhapes : feme likeMona
kies, feme hke Dogs, fome very hairy monftruous Men, &c- They feemed
to [cratch each other by the face- Thefe feem to go about JMadimi and fay,
^il de praoina kures helech,
Ci- what is that to fay ?
Mad Volnmvs hie in Nojiris habitare.
A. QUcE funt ilia veftra ?
E- K.- One of them laid -• Hahsmin hominem iftum Dcmiciliutn noflrum.
Mad The vengeance of God is a two-edged Sword, and ciitteth the rebellious wicked ones'
Thecafting in pieces. The hand of the Lord is likf a jirong oak^, when it falleth it ciitteth in [under many
out, and utter hujhes. The light of his eyes expell darkjtejfcyand the fweetneffe ofh^ mouth h^epeth from corruption,
difpLicingot
p^leffgd are thofewhom he favoureth, and great i^ their reward; Becaufe.you came hither with-
Wrhs J-Tf
out licence and feek to overthrow the liberty of God his Teftament, and the light where-
'
withal he ftretcheth unto the end, and for becaufe you are accurfed it is faid, I will not fuffer
mine to be overthrown with tcmptation,though he were led away, Bihold Ihringback^ again.
Depart unto the lali Cry : Reji with the Frince of Varkjteffe there is none. Amen, go you
thither. Et fignabo vos ad fineni.
E.K. He fealed them all in the forehead : the 14 and their principal,
their fealing was as if they had been branded- They funk all 1 5 downward |
through the floore of the Chamberjand there came a thing like a wind & '
pluckt them by the feet away.
E. K. Methinketh/amlighterthan 7 waSi andIfcemtobeempty,and [
to be returned from a great amafing ^ for this fortnight I do not well re;: \
member what I have done or laid^
Mad Thouart eafed of a great burden Love God, Lovethy Friends, Love thy Wife,
E. K. Now comethonc with a red Crolle in his hand and Icadcth her
away,ar!dfo they vanifhed- We prayed the Pfalm of thankfgiving 14 of
Roffenfis for E-K- his deliverance from Barma and his 14 Companions- /fw«tf»i
'
A. firft papers, E. K. Sal.
by appeard often to him,whipping
before as 6. or 7. miles diftant from
him think that the blefled Jubanladace
had been fent to have faid fomewhat unto us of his
Charge ( the Prince Laskje ) But I found in the end that it was a token that the
^ Princce L<riii;,7> was penlively careful of us, and that his good Angel was his wit-
nefle and mefllige, by that token his peculiar Carafter as is before taught.
0)7mif Spiritns Laudet TeumMojlrum Vnum & Trinum. Amen.
Sequitur liber Tertiarius Sexti.
L IBER,
(^true Relation of D^ Dee his JBions mth fplrits^ 6cCs J J
LIBER PEREGRINATIONIS PRIMiEi
Videlicet
^ Morthco tAngltiS J
lAd Qraconiam Tohmu-
Saturday, i'e^^f/y^. 21. 1583. DieSani^iMatth<ei.
lE departed from Mortlack^, about three of the Clock after noon : The Lord
Albert Lask^y , (Vajwode o( Siradia ,in tolonia) meeting me on the water , as
we had appointed: And fo brought night to London j and in the dead of the
night, by Wherries, we went to Greenwich to my friend Goodman Fern the Pot-
ter his houfe : Where we refrefhed our felves, and thither came a great Tylt-
boat from Graves end to take us in, (by appointment of me and Mr. Stanley) to
go to our fliips , which we had caufcd to ly fcven , or eight mile beyoud Gr.-.ves
end. To which fliips we came on Sunday morning by Sun rife : In the greater of them (being
a dubble Fly-boat of DfHWar^) my Lord Laskjey I, and £. K. with my Wife and Children,&c,
'
went : And in another fhip (by me alfo hired for this palFage) went fome of my Lord his men,
two horfe,&:c, that Ihip was a Beyer, a pretty Ihip. With little windc we ftraight- way hoyfed
fayl, and began our voyage in the (hip.
This 22. day we were in great danger of perifhing (on the fands , called the 5pits) about "^here aiofe
midnight.- We had (by force of wmde contrary) anchored by them, and the Anchor came ^.*"'J,'',^"f
home, no man perceiving it, till the fhip was ready to ftrike on the fands. Then, upon great ^'^^j^
"
'
diligence and poliicy ufcd by our Marrineri in hoyfing fay!, and cutting our Cable, (to leave
our fliote anker) and committing our felves to the hands of Cod, and moji eurnejily prajing for
a profperouf vinde : It pleafed the Almighty , and moft merciflill God , Suddenly to change the
winds, which fervcd us to bear from the fands, and to recover ^inborrough, ba( k again.
The 23. day (being Munday) we came to the mouth and entrance of ^?KWro»gi& Creifi^, or rj,^
fV'J'-iic
Haven. And as we made to land in fmall Fiftier-boats, the Lord Ltfkje.y my Wife and Chil- help oi God at
dren in one boat, and 7, with E. K. Marie , Elizabeth^ and John Crokjzr , in another, it fell fo '^^ very m.-
out, that at the fliips fide, our Fiiher-boat his fayl-yard and fayl was entangled on the Mayn- ')'" j,°^
danger
yard of the Fly-boat (being ftroke down) fo that, in our fettmg from the fhips fide , the top " ^'
of our Boat being faft above, and the windes and ftrcam carrying the Boat off below , it in-
clined fo much on the one fide, that the one half of the Fifher boat (well near) was m the wa-
ter, and the water came foin (by theintangling before fpecitied , notearily to be undone, or
loofed) that my Lord, my Wife, and all thatfaw us thought that of necerticy our Boat muft
fink, and fo, we to have perifht. But God in his providence and mercy had greater of
us, fo that we becanie clear; the Boat half full of water, fo that we fat wet to the knees , and
the water with the billow of the Sea came flill beating in more and more : And in this mean
trouble ; one of our two Boat-men, had loft his long Oarc out of the Boat into the water ; and
fo not onely we lacked the help of thatOare , but alfo by reafon they would have followed
the winde and ebb, for that Oar, (contrary to our courfe in handjand not able to become by)
with much adoe we conftrained them with the fayl, our one Oare,and the Rudder to make
fuch Oiifc as they could to get to §^inborrougb Town : And in the mean fpace £. K. with a
great Gantlet did empty moll part ot the water out of the Boat,elfe it mull needs have funk by
all mans reafon. At length(to be brief)we came to the Town fide,up the crooked Creekjwherey
when as the Mafter of our fhip would have taken me out in his arms f Handing in the water
with his Boots) he fell with me in the water,where I was foul arrayed in the water and Oafc.
jGod be praifed for ever, that all that great danger was ended with fo fmall grief, or hurt.
At ^inborrough.
Wednefday, 5'fptf wi. 2$. Circa ^. a Meridie,iamfleno mart.
A. Oravimusad Deum3ejusimplorabamusauxilum,Cortina flatimapparuit. Oravi denuo
folus, pro auxilio, tempore necelTitatis : Sex pedum altitudineapparebatunus, in acre, quafi
altera ex parte nubis,inter £. if. Et ilium intcrpofitae.
E- K' Ego ilium cognofco-
..... Tu habes capfant me ccgnofcendi)& ilium qui vie mifity vel jam nm vixijfes.
R.K. Vidcturcfle Michael.
F A. Gratiai
34 ^ ^^^^ l^elatioa ofD\ Dee his Anions mihfp'mts, 6c c.
A. Gracias agimusCreatorl noiho, qui bonum,pocentem& fideleni miiiiftium fimm miferic
ad noftrani proceftigncni tempore iieccincatis noftr.e.
Mich, ..... Loquor de trihiis rebus^ de-vieiffo & ilto qui me mifit : De z'sbisyrefpeifii illips quod ejiify
& defervit/o Dei quod futurum eji-0 vos potejiates Cxli & terr£yCol[i^ite vos. in fimul^refpicite Beum
vejirum : Coafideraie hencficij ejiir, an non vos colUgiivit ^i:n\d ^ Et concatenavit vos in feipfof- An
mn ejtif glorificati refpeclii officii ve^iri^ad quod pr£.iaiidum fotentcr affignati ejiitj in voluntate ejiu,
qui glorificat [eiffum. Ecce qmniodo vofmet dedidijii^ pri'icipi tenehr.rrum : vel quare ve'iri princi-
pes contendnnt contra aliifftmnm : & colligiti^ vofmet in fimul ad contendendmn contra ipfuni qui eji
potentilfjtniu,v el tllum velletk fubptg-ire^ ctijiu arvia firnt fuper o-.wiem fortittidimm : ^o modo au-
detit contendere cum ejus fortitudtne ? Vel qu£ eft ciiufi quod tam inipii fjp velitis ? Sed ita opor-
tet efTc : quia, vobis fiigilavit gubernatioHerfi,8c \n veftrasmaniis dcdit violamdcftructionis, Sed
date locum jim vojiro : ^la in ejus fortitudine difperfi eritis : Et omnium rerum conctufiom oliia
vejira detent (ffe aperta. Ne mirentur fervi Dei, de fortitudin- teniptationit : §yja magna ejl
j/oteji-as intpii & hia7itit Leonit, quando i'li eji cum figillo trudita. Ne dedtgnemini , hac bora^ fcio
Government, ^/ejir am gnherndtiontm per i/lum. Ecce clavit p'fiitix aperta mibi ejl. Nthilominus vejhrx adhuc
ertt major iniquity, & vejirum regnum erit difperfum in ejus potenti fuperbia. ^am ivaguus eli
Sathan qui reii^it (omkndim Dei t ^am magna ^ igitiir , debet effe vejira. humHit.ts , qu^-
debet vel fuperare vel mori. Sed vobis fie di:it Dominus. Aperiant venti ora fna y& rabientes
Let the' Far- aqu£ profunda & potentia guttiira. In omnes partes Miiviuni vejlrarum. Aperiat terra os
kpts light. /««»;, & dieat, quod devorare vellet. lamen nan prevttlehmt ^ia ti'i addam (inquit Dominus)
Michael. qui esforcitudo meajPocentiam meam pr^valefcencem : Et vos eritis du<e liammas ignis , iwo
Gabriel.
^-^^^^ potentis firffocantis os totius Malitia
.
Idcirco^ vobis bene fit.: ^ia inimicus efifortifjinius^
vbiprdda eli maxima. Mementote, quod Homines fttis. Mementote , q'.iod terra fnif. i^e-
mentote^quodPeccatores, Mementote ^quid tratis ,& ne tradatis obl/vioni cuid ejiys. hi HIq
enim vivitis qui omnia infua habet fuhje&ione. Sed ille , qui cum illo eji yCrucifixi'.s ad glorianty
Hichrrovi- ^f^ff ^,, medio mortalitatis comfonere fe ipfuvt ad Immorta/em Totintiam. Servi Dei , fcmper
dedyou.
prxvaluerunt : Sed femper per Adverfitates. ^i tmi eji de hx mundo , vos prjeparavic.
Finis nSri Kihilo minus debetis ea implere ,
qiu ipfe providit. Qiiod imindus polUt fieri novus, 8c
jeivitii.
j^^j-^ agnofci. Fotens ipfe eji, Potens eji il'e y Aquila ilia ^«* coopent magnum montemalit
fais^ Sedpotentior eji ejus fortitudo qui mmerat jlelLa , & montes colltgit : ISl.im quicqrjd ipfe
Lapped up. /oq!iitur,eli veritatis ignis : Et eji fimul Potentia & Acius, in immediata proportione. Etiam ipfe
^ui' fecit Orbem,hominem inftmulcom\iegic,&- omnia operatus eji , Omnia, ipfe extjiens. Ipfeejiqui
vobis pmceptum dedit : Et ego vobis dicoj Kefpicite de pun6fo in pwiQum , ad mediuwCaeli , & pey
CirfuluM terr£ : Confiderate omnia in iino^& finum in omnibus. Ponderate, vel per ratioHent
numerentur,vel menfur.rte quemadmodum Salomon fecit .^ vel quemadmodum Adar.io erat ccn.effum
Quod nunc non potes fed facics) Tunc conclude,Ohfervant omnia curfim fuum : fed verbum Domini
res .eji ftnipitemum. Amate Deum quia Jujini eji. Amate vos invicem quia ju-
flificati. Obfervate mandatum Dei quia, eji menfura Jujiiti^.
E. K, Jam^-enit alter ad ilium, ctmQorona in Capite^ qiiaji... ^ ^ iiccipit
gladium MichaeHi-
Coronatus Ecce magna eft fortitudo Dei, 8i Prxvalcbir.
Mich Idcirco eji benediaus VeuSy vos jujiificati & hos fanaificati.
E- K. lamfaciebant fignum crucis flammed tubus Vidltu , «l7 f nauta nojler
cum noya Ancuora xLondmo hodie red'urit nomc efl confilmm , quoa fiatim bine
myi^emWy fi ita ille yeln^ &CC'
E.K. Redeunt-
.Coronatus Ego fum de Coelo : non'refpicio terram ; Niiv.lomimis rerra per Ca!o> vivit.
Of world-
Sequimiuivoscurfum Terrenoruni. Prxparate vos femen, Nosvoluimis, (C) Doniijic) in tc,
lines. efle parati , cum incremento. Veftra Cura non poteft pn?va!erc ,
quia vc{}ri Iiiimici funt
fortes : fed quare dedecore afficior, cum fak teireftrium vanicatum ? : Deftruat una vanitas ,
aliam : Ait Elefti pr<evalebunt in fortitudine, contra ilium Principem Vanitacis , & Regem
ftultorum omnium. QuiaDeus nofter eft fapicns, Judiciaejus imperfcrutabilia , Paticntia
immenfurabilis. Laborate vos, &c Nos guberiiabiiinis.
6, K. Jam recedunr.
Vox ,Ne difputetis ulterius cum Deo :'^i&orh veftra erit.
'
Ar*^agnificetur nomen Dei noftri folius oninipotcntis 8c optimi. Am.n.
"tkitrfday 26. Of September we went to ftiip, and lay in it all right at Anker.
Friday tj. Of September we fayled from ^/>;i«rro«gi, and fo by the lands end into the
main Sea, N%E.
Saturday
Jtrue l^elation of D'. Dae his ABions l^ith fpiritSi dtc^ 3 i^
Saturday 28. Of September we fell On Holland Coall , at\d none of our Marriners , Mafter,
jior pilot knew the Coaft : and therefore to the Miin Sea a^'ain , w th i^reat fear and danger^
by reafon wc couid fcarcely get off from chat dangerous Coaftjthc windc was ("0 fcarce for thstt
purpofe.
Sunday 2$>. OfSeptembefwc came into the Brief-haven ,ind there were like to ftrike on
ground : at length we came to an Ankor, and lay in ftip all night.
l4onday 30. Of September we landed, and went into the Briel,
Brie!4f Oitobrit 2. Mane Hora 9. I ie Mercxrii.
E,K. Nihil apparccirt Lapide , ncqiie Cortina , nequealiud quid. Ore-
ir.us conftatiter,&c. /pparecDomui magnacum multis pinnaculis^ Valdb
cicgancibus- Ec paviaicnrum vidctur efTc mulcis innatis lapidibu^ dillin-
dum&videntur multi cflTc gradusperqaos afcenditur;&vidttur efle area
viridis ex dcxtra parcc,& ex altera parte cfTe vallis,& rivulus ex alta. Pai> qua:
vcr(us folcm eft, videtur quafi noviter fcformaca- Ec circa incroitum eft ros
tundum qaoddam sJificium : fcncftra: non (unc fimilcs noftris^ fed qaaii e(^
fent Templorum fencflra**
A. L. Dixit qu'd videtur ejfe ilia arx Regia^ que Cracovix ejl,
E. K, Subuo defcendic ignis & pet cotuni iapidem apparec Jam vcnit
Cortina folica ante domum iftam.
Vox. Garil zed mafch^ ich na gel galaht gemp gal n$ch C^hanladan,
E. K. Jubanladaa. h jamapparec fupra Chryftallura : &Chryftallus \ids^
turcfT; pcrmagnus.
Jul), Dens H-fnieravit & dies tues & fojleritatem. {E. K. Refpicit A. L*]
r . K' Jam receflic a Chryftallo vcrfiis caput ipfius A- L-
Jub. Et a penidetmnoncadetCdpilUshnnmmeratMS, Omnia bene fehabent. [Roc dixit
de jiatit rerunt A, L. aptd Lask.] Ecee habe • vim refifiendi ; A;i .o'ttra leaionent pHgno.
A. Perditio te novit , ic nunJcravit annos tuos, & incipi efle fortis : Quia illi ell Poteltas Antkhrijlitt.
data,Infcrnus aperit os fmmi contra vos, quia fciunt, quod vos glorificati ericis in Deo. Ego
vici quinrum figillum, & mihi jam refiftitur in fexto. Qn.^ Deus facitjhon participant cum
huniano judicio. EecenuncDifcipulosfuoscongregavit , Jk docet. O Ccelum & terra
quam magn* func milcrije, qus vexabunt unum & polluent alterum ? §^ia b ni Angeli cadent
cum illo & Ccelt Chriliuot metuent, Sed illi ad tempus cadent, non in ptiperuum.
A. Salvo judicio f ccIcIke Catholicce Orthodoxae,videtur niihi quod Job de ejufmodi Ange-
lorum timore, five cafu,& reftitutione, five purgatione prophetaverii, Ca/i. 41 ubi etiaifi ai-
dit de niiraculis cjufdem : Sub tpfo erantradi (ollt y& jiemet fibi aurum qitufi lutnm. Antea
dixerat. Cum fu'^latus fucrit timebunt Angeli, & territi purgabuntur, &c.
A, O Deus quam terribile futurum eft tempus illud, e^cr,
Jub .Scrilas Deimy^ieria , & Ueo grati.ti agatit pro vefiro falvo flatu: ^ia mare i'lie
abunjabat contra vos, & multi perierunt. Ejus potentia pr£valebaty& commutavit vejirum cuv
funt in locum illit incognitnm i quia ab iliis non erat expedatus. Sed fugite ab hac terra , araa
Maledi&io Dei eji fuper ilUm, Cwn illo eji una veritm : llle qui >» ditabus viis erat^non placet Deo.
^i adfinem ufi^Ue perdurat, quiefcit cum gaud:e. Sed ille qui pedem nonponit intet Scorpionci
noMpoteji intrare fuper Goz,lacb»
A, Qu.id hoc ? •
Jub. Caudiuitinvera fapientia;
Jub Hor nojhum eji Manna, quo alimur. Sed ego fum fan&ificatus per Creationem, In-
(iituti'neyn & (xDivina voluntate. ikcirco vos fanUifico : non cum mea propria [anciificati me, fed
illivs Jujlitia, qui meam originem fanUificat. Edote Montes in Fide, fed quafi infantes pati«ntia.
Facite q'ltd Jujimn eji, & ne oblivi.ni tradatit vefiram Jujiitianio
E. K. Infinira; quafi locuftae vcl Aranca: cum faciebus humanis ilium
circumvolitant, & quafi ignem in ilium evomunt'
Jub Et levai^tfe cmtravos. [TollendoCrucerit fuam.^
Jub. ,...,. Fiat J»J}itia ejus.
E. K- Jam avolant praecipitcs, & quafi deorfum ruentcs-
J»b Cavete a firamine : quia jncenfum,tota domum incendit.
A. Quern fenfum hie perpend emus nos : Myfticura ne, an imterialem ?
F 2 Jub....H«-
3<5 A true^elation of D^ Dee his jBtons mthjfirits, 6c c.
Jub. Hommimfragilijfimarum. Viaholuf cumillis fraudultnter operatur : tnagna fji
irtercei quietn-, Sed qui apperit forei contentioni, intromittit Serpent em. (JUahdiGi funt invidi
:
^ia ilhfunt bened.Cn ijinfe mutuo diltgimt. Pax inter vosfit j quia ejl Kecejfaria. ^ia paci:
inimicifuHt potentes contra vos.
E. JC. Jam loquendo, videtur minor & minor paulatim fieri-
A. De noftro deceflu ex Anglia quid tandem jam Regiiia 8c fiii confiliarii ftatuerunt ?
Jub. ...... j^peritosfuutHy fed /iquor Hon eftfatis frigiduf. Jam eji intus calida, neqirejlin-
guipoteft. Cordafuipopuli do fall ivizy. Her arms are weakened, her legs weaker, her
Ihooes are full of forrow. »
E. K. The furious Monftersaflailc him again,
Jub ^is efi,qui potelt vivere, ft tranfgrediatur preceptum Dei ? Vel quid de illis judi-
care vei Sy whom God imputeth fin unto ?
E. K. They aflfailchim again, and he putteth his Crofle toward them,
Jub Tk/r Miferj heginneth, and (hall have no end, till he that fittethherc do end it.
E. K. The Monllers affaile him ftill-
Jub 7he wall wuji he Iroken duivn, and then Jhall It be [aid. Happy art thou which haft
dwelt antongfl Uf. But if thou liverightevjlyy and afcendthe (lippery mountaiHy Then tli all Gad
Angli*bent te w/em/w/ to them for thjr fake. Becaufeihoumayeft be belovedy where thou art now defpifedy
erit propter and haji vantjuijhed thy enefnies, with the truth of vertue. He that entred into the lowefthelly
C\.exmvA and fhed his blood for your finsy be merciful untoyoit, and give you peace ; which is the fpirtt of
Det mtjencor'
f^^-^^^^^ thatyiu may livey not like meny but as thofe that do feparate themfelves from the world,
to the trUe contemplation »f God his mercies.
E- K- Jam intut in Caput, A L- cum flamma ignis.
A. Omnis laus, honor, & gloria fit Deo noflro Omnipotenti vivo & vero. Jmen.
thurfdayy O&obris 3. We came fromiJr/f/to Roterodam in a Hoy of ^w;'?fri<?»w,to go with-
in land, here we lay all night,
Friday, OUobris 4. We came to tergowi hora 3 ^ meridie : where we lay within the Town
in the Ship.
Saturday, Ocfobrii <). We amchy Harlem to Amfterdam , and lay before the Town all
night in the Ship.
7uefday OCiob. 8. We failed from. Amjierdam to EncufetSj and Edmond Hilton went with
my goods by Sea toivard frfwi^. ,' .-'.
WenfdayyOUob. 9. We fet off from EHcujen ezily : but by reafon of a contrary wind, we
came veiy late to Herlinghem.
Fridayy 03 b. 11. We went within land in little Scutes from Herlinghem ( by Frainker )
to Lewarden.
Saturday^ Otlob. 12. From Lewarden, we came to Vockjtm ( in fmall Boates ) about 3 of
the clock after noon.
Sunday OHob. i > Apud Vockjim in Frifia Occident alt.
A. Diu Chryflallus tanquam lapis nigerrimus apparuit. Tandem in ipfa lapidis ni-
gredinc, apparuithomo nudusCrucifixus fupcrcrucem; fed tamen non mortuus ; Crucis
partes infra manus, omnes fanguinolentae videbantur. Fafcia linea ciicunidabatur Ci-rpus
ejus, ( a peftore deorfum )&: fines ejufdem fafcix pendere videbantur circa genua : 8c (an-
guinoienta apparebat .-
& ex quinquc vulneribus ( utChrifti erat ) videbatur languis gutta-
y^ tim cadere. Tandem difparuenmt hare omnia : & quail dcorfum fubaderc videbantur 5 8c
**' lapis clarus faftus eft,& apparebat Cortina aurea : fulsita erat hac mutatio.
E- K- Jam videtur lapis efle valde magnus, & ante lapidcm dare quidani
magnus, (
quafi Michael ) cum gladioancipitc cvomcntc ignem ex utraquc
acic ejufdem.
Mic Jufluf & mirahil'n & per maximus es tu, Altifme T>euf. £ genulm fltxit htc
dicit'} qui tu^i judicia mamfeftasy ttt poffjs fuper terrani cognofci ; & ut tua gloria ampHfiirttfry
ad c ifolationem ecrum qui eledifunty & ad do'.oremy & dtdecm talium qui criicifigvnt lumeit
mundi ( uitigenitum Domini nojiri, Salvatoremhrmtani generis ) quotidie. Ecre portx fr^paratjt
fvnt iniquitati. Attollite oculosy & videte quo modo filii homwnm liiflti devenerimt effe , qv.i*
eorum habitatio eft fada ngra , 'Terra figillata eft ad eorunr dejirudioneyit : quia Veum dereli-
qutrunt, &filimet ipfs adhjtfermit ; & adhuc inpartes diffecar.t Servatorem nundi Jefum Chri-
ftuni [ offtlatur enfts fiii crucem ~] continue cum blafphemis eorum facrificiit. Ve illk, qutmllos
odio prfffquimur , & ve illis qui inter illos habitant ; quia iniquitate funt polluti. Orate, dum
inter lUos eftif, qui.t veftri inimici funt multiplicati, quia vobis dico nuncium Domini exerciuiumy
Kegiifideiium. Kelinquite infantiawy & vivite, & amhuUteper vias prudenti^; & vivite cum
1>eoindomofua, ^ia 'Domut Iniquorum^ non eft habitatio vel fedes prophanis, w^^Wf potcft
Komen
(^true Relation of D^ Dee his Anions mth fpirits, &c. 37
Komen Domini efferri legitime^ in illegitima Natione, illegitima fada, quia, dereliquermt liatuta ^hefe words
JUi0t>ti. Hoc dicit Dontinuf ; Ego [urn Di'iif JulHtix : & juravt & uon eji untis inter il/os'^''^ '^^^
euivivet, innno ne umanima. ^owodo BfjH* ejff devenerunt <"
de quibus fcriptum eft. Acffi^"''*
°"^'
mtitiaPei : Homo ille fadiu eft pecus Vita illorumy qui devorantur, & taliunt TJ^os ignit con*
fuv/pfit fedebit in jud/co contra iflam Nationem.
Bltjfed and Sanaified , and for evermore praifed art thou Judge^ which baft faid^ and
Raigneli for ever.
A Si nuiltiplicati funt inimici noftri, &c.
E. K. He is gone-
A. Si multiplicati funt inimici noftri propter peccata noftra , ut difficilior nobis incum-
bat lufta, Mifcricordiam Dei imploramiis ut ipfe noftram etiam raiikiplicet fortitiidinem, &c.
Gab Pltick^vpyour hearts^ bowyour knees, 8c audite quas dicii Dominus. Thus faith
the Lord, Ifyou willprevaile againft the wielded, and rejyce among the fanBifted-^you mult obferve
and ;!^ff/'/"«o^co>«w«?;^Wf«tj', as are ordained by the God ofTruthf^ unto thofe that are partak^ers
of his Covenant.
Ask, Cou}7felof God; Remember it.
Bf- ""^^f
•
E. K. Gabriel alio noted thtfe Corns
Fall and pray. . ^_, ,, -.
Be Charitable. mandmcnK 111 a pair ot Tables, afcct
Vfe true Friendjhip in the fervke of God. hc had pronounccd them»
Terfevere to the end.
Are not thefe Commandments necejfary to be kfpt of all Chriftian men ?,
d. They are undoubtedly.
Gab And vnift of neceffity be kept of thofe that are faithful.
[ E. K- He rtandcth as though he ftood behind a Desk, and preached or
taught. ']
Gab. ..... . Well thou fayeft ; Lo our enemies are multiplied, multiply thou therefore our (irength
God. Nature MfubjeSl unto you for the name of the Lord, mt, as unto Kings, but as unto th6
Minillers of hit eternal will, wherebyyour juliification id fettled above the workj of Nature already j
For, behold,yii participate the mercies of God through his Son Chrift Jefus, tn m: in that we
open unto you thofe things that have been fealedi even fro/n the Juft, for the which we are become
flaves Unto Corruption ; Jhewing our felves in divers Jhapes, to the dijhonour of our Creation : let
are we quickned and revived, becaufewe are become the finger of God : and you are fandified,and
withal juftified, becaufe you are touched with the finger of him that revivetb all th ngs. Jherefore^
RejoycejRejoyce, be joyful andfingPraifes unto God, and faint not : faying. Our enemies are
rifenup againft us, yea, they are multiplied ; for thus faith the Lordy and it is already fpokfnhj)
the Holy Ghoft'.
LE'K- He maketh now great obedience or reverence-]
Foslicesfunt,quihufD^Uifpesefl.
[ £• K. He lookcth now up unto a thing like a Throne- 1
Et omne opus operatio Dei-
fE-K- Now there cometh a beam down into his head, and he is C03 ^
vcrcd with a great thing like a white cloud- ]
-»
E-K. Now the Stone is all on fire- Now the fire afcendcth upward,
the ftreaming beam ftretcheth into his head ftill-
E. K- There appearcth a little woman afar off, and flie is fo clear and
tranfparent, that there appcareth a man child in hetj She hath a Coat as
though it weie Crimfon, and hath a long little face, and hath a ftrange filk
attire about her head ^/•" Fideturejfe uxor mea'
Gab. ...€.. Go woman, thy grief jhall he leffe than it hath been.
. •£• K. HabetmuUos tanquam parvoi n'tgros canes pofl fe. Now goeth
ttie and tycth their mouths with packihred-
fp Gab So God ufeth to give a fna0e to thewick/d.
,-. E- K- A great wind blowcth on G^^riV/'
^. De AngUx&meo privato ftatu cupio aliquid audire : turn ex pietate ergsl patriam,
turn propter fam^ nie<e rationem. ,,
Gab ^iefeite pavlulum, & iterum venero. My Lordfaith, Let my fervants i'f "/'j
^^hile Ve
and take their rejt, I will vifit tjjem forthwith in peace. had kneeled.
A. After
38 A trueB^elation of D^ Dee his JHions mth [pints, *3cc.
A. After a great quarter of an hour, he came again.
E- K, Hcappeareth now clothed, with all liis garnncnt harging wiiti
bells of G<^, and filming fire coming from them, with (ilverifli flames.
He hath hanging about his Crown as if they were ieven Labells, the tops of
which come from above, from an uncertain place and diftance-
Gab Vettits M.rvorgran. E- K- He Cillcth WJth 3 loud VOicC^
E- K.- Now Cometh a big black man, with a white face, and after hinra
hath 14. They ftand in four rows, and in every row fix-
Gab. ..i... Let me feethyfeale.
(JMor Behold power is given to me : Neither is the liquor that thou miniftreft of
any tafte with me , Neither (hall I be overcome, for I have placed my feat here.
Gab. ...... hut by vhofe permifi n ? Gag lah ntii.
E. K. Now ^ionp'^gtan faPeth downon his knees, and the reft on thcif
face- Medicinix De ,m dif, 'hUi ia 'vera-
E K.. Tcy tremble ihat lie flat on the ground-
E. K. MoriPO'grat Ibcwcth to Gabriel on hij> own left breaft a Charader.
Gab. ...... Fur 19 moneths. Behtld the will of God: Becaufe thou halt confpired and rifen
aga iii.t the Lord^ in his chofen^ and hdli [aid ; It it to weet thcfe that arefubjeS unto thee, Let us
rife up agaimi him, and perfecute his foul : let us fe'-retly entrap him, for, witheut doubt , he is
rich- And hecaufe y v.r confpiracies are mt of theft onely y but j^ alfo 3 •/ murder : Therefore I
feal thee with a weak/r power ; And ie it unto th'e axording unto the word of Gjd, that jmdgetb
Righteoufly. Fro^ri (vil unto worfe. From wcife unto confufitn, Fromcoytfufwnimttde'
fperution. From dff'^erat oh unto damnatioM. From dtmnation unto eternal death.
[_E- K' Now Gdriel did put another prick to the Character on his Icfc
breaft ]
(jV/ov Curfed be that God, and defaced be his power ; for he handleth us inuir-
jufticcj and dcaleth with us without mercy ; Becaufe he is not merciful nor juft.
£. K. Gabriel goeth from mc to one of the 14. and (caleth them- Now
thy go all away i and he breakcth off the points of their Swords. They
go by him.
A. Quis eft ifte Morvorgran, 8c quo modo hsec nobis inftituit inferremala ?
Gab Vockjtmy thou Jhalt carry thit malice Hnto thy grave: But I have made weak^thj
firength. Blejfed be thofe that entertain th fe tha^re annointed in the Lord : for they alfofhall
tajieof the oil of his mercy. I had care ofyou,faith the Lord, neither fviU I fuffer youteperijh
in the way ; Therefore be thankful, and forfakj the world ; for the world hath forfai\enyou, and
confpired againjiyou. But thefe things are nothing. Behold lajily, thuf faith the Lord.
E. K. Now comech a falct or helmet on Gahriel his head , or an half
fphere. A great noife ofmany voices is heard as of Pillars that fell- Now
that thing is taken ofFhis bead-
Gab Thus faith the Lord. The world en b»tb fides, fhall rife up againil thee, and thtj
{hall envy thee,
E. K. Nowcometh a beam from above f again ) into Qdriel his head.
Gab Gnafemerob Jehufan gonfagvi ca^nephjehftfltshemfomnadedoilb.
E-K- Looking up, he faid thus.
Hoc eft
'
|- E. K- Now cometh about his hce.
Nefavea, repenting
^i«le things of fmoke, and hc pUtlCth
them from his face- He would opca
terrore : & eruentestihi
|^-^ mouth, and they COmc upon hi*
ptentias Impiorum, mouth. They rifcout of a pit befofll
.„ . him, inumerablc. Gabriel lecmeth to
Laskjey Vomtnus. i i r
be as big as one or us.
__. C £• ^- They fwarm continually . 1
Vomtnus
(Utrue%elationofiy, Dee his ABions mthffirits, dec. 55>
[ Gab Adhuc D. .s lahoro 3
[^ E. K- Now comcth another
ftrcaming beam down to him- ]
Vominus tile Ahraham
E. K. No\y cometh
a fire down bv the
fame beam thac came
into his head.
Now comcth a bigger fire
down on him]
[£-K- Now they run headlong
down into a great pit in the earth, and
one pinchcth me by the head. ]
erit in latere tnoy
lAdjutormeus;^ E-K. Look-
ing up.
& cuflodiet pdem tuiirn ne cafiaris
Spent igititr mdominumVeum titiim
For thou /halt overcome 5
& erit tibi Vi&oria maximay
in DeOy & propter Dmnty
qui eft Dominm & Deits exercitiam.
E, K, Now the aforefaid (pirits invade G^W^/ again.
Gab What I fuffer, is not lawfulfor wan to fee ; Therefore Ceafe for a while, and fuf-
fice nature ; But return and hear of -my commandment.
£• K' He is gone, but his Desk (landcch ftill.
, Sunday i meridiehor a 2. Oftob. 13. i
I
Gab And hereby I teachjoji,that thofe afflidions which yow XuStv in foul either for your
offences towards God^ or for the imperfeCtiom of your mindesy being void of brotherly ch-'ritj to-
wardyour neighbours; ( And fo from you generally hereafjcer, how great, orhowmanyfoever^
I
ought not to be manifefted or made open to the world r but ferfeclly Jhadowed in Charity^ bearing
your own infirmities, and fo the infirmity of others with r/uiet arid hidden minde. For the an-
guijh of the foul is compared with prayer, dwelling in one houfe which ought to laugh with tbe'A^orld^
and to weep towards heaven. For every fin is noted, and the lea't thing as well a-.nongji the Cele-
ftialbodiesf as the Terreliiall is ferfeBly confidered of. For fin hath his endy a-ridhis end is
punifhment. Andfo, contrarywife of Vertue , Wifdom ( in the one and twentieth Ent^.. . ie or
L...,) His ground is upon mildnejfe, which mildniffc furifieth the Icdy and exalteth xhe fo:il,
makjng it apt and ready to beholci the heavens, receive glorious illiiminationSy and finally Iringetb
in the foul to. participate, with us, not earthly, but everlafting wifdom. The Son of God wus
JanUified in his fiefh, through niildneffe, and vpas mt of this world, becaufe he was the mildneffe'of
his Father. Therefore be yon meek^: Be fervent in meekjtfffe. Then Jhall you takeup tb^zt
Crojfe which Chni fpok,e of, following him : which Crojfe is the Co'.npajftrn innnldniffe ov^r thy
brethren, for fn fake : Not as worldlings do, lookjng, but not lamenting. The other part is irt
fuffering mildly the afflictions of the world, 4ndfiejh : Herebyyou become Martyrs for that you wor-
I
tifie your felvesj which is true Martyrdom. : He th^t forfakjth the world for the love of God ^ in
his Son Chrijiijhall have his reward. But he that forfakfth hinifelf, jliall be Crowned wiih a Dia-
dem of Glory. Thus faith the' Lord, 1 am jealous over you, beeavfe you have vowedyour fehes unto
me. But great are the temptations of the flejhy and mighty ii hisftrength where the fpirit is we.ik.-
Bin
4-0 A tme'^^elatioti of D^ Dee his jBionsxpitbJfiritSyd^c.
But thus faith God : It is better to fill up the Soul with heavenly rontemplation , and ccelejiical
food , tu reign in heaven^ and to he beloved of him : Then to pamper the filthy flejh, vhofe delight de-
{irojethboth body and Soul. It is written. He that bridleth not his flefh , is given to riotoufneffe,
which U thejieep of death, and the fluniber to dejiruVtion. But th'n is true abftinence , when con-
temning the World y u fly the delight therein : refainingfom pleafures of the body , Temperating
the flejhy and m.rkjng it weak^, and that,for the L:rd his fake. For the fleJh and fpirit rejoyce
Hot at once. Neither can the full belly grone out true prayers. Feed therefore the Soul with the
love of our fociety. And bridle your flejh ; For it is infolent. One thing, I fay, look^ to your fer-
vants. See, that in one houfe there dwell not delighters in vertue and holineffg , mingled
with ftich Of harbour vice vpon vice : Whofe drunksnntffe is abomination, and whofe diet jiir-
reth up fornication. For wick^edneffe is aniongji them : and they fear »ot God ,neith r do they
abjiain, according as the holy Ghoji by his Church hath taught. Maks them clean : Ihen fhall
you feel oxr prefence among li you. And we will all of us defend you from the rage of wick^dneffe.
We delight in the Go i of truth , and inthe worjhippers of Jujiice. Jbus fayeth the holy Gholi :
Loy I have made me a Tabernacle, where the Cod of G.ds reigneth in Jujlice. And I will fanSife
thofe places which rejoyce in charity. Mingle therefore your Alms with charity. And let jour
prayers and fajiing be mingled with Alms deeds. For he that prayeth and falleth without mercy, it
a lyar. Moreover, let your friendfhip he fuch, as if of charity , and not of thit world : Neither for
the worlds fak^e, but for the fervice of God : All fiendfhip elfe it vain, and of no acctmt. Charity
it the gift '.f
theH'ly Gho'i, which Holy Ghoji it a kindling fire , knitting things together , through
Chrijt Jefus ; in the true wif-iom of the Father : Which fire it of no fmall account, neither to be rec-
koned of , as the Heathens have done. For happy are thofe which are fed with charity: For it it
the meat of lu that are anointed, which it the fon of God, and the light tf the world.
£k /b cha ri ty th e foil of God ?
Gab It it fo: He that wal\eth in charity wa \eth in God ^ for charity it the will of the fa-
ther, it hit own d^ltz,ht , and tllumination of the faithftill , through hit Ho'y Spirit. The charity
of the Church, it the Holy GhojK But he that dwelleth in charity, dwelleth in the bioud of the
Lamb , which it the will of the father , which is the Holy Ghoji. B'tJJed are thofe that dwell in
charity* Perfevere to the end : N t negligently, but with good will , which good will, it called
fear. Which jear is the beginning of wifdom, the firji jiep into reji.
Finis coronat He that continueth to the end, receiveth hit reward : But he that leaveth off, it a damned Sonl.
opus. M^ny mn begin, but few end. Neither it your jttftificatitn by the beginning, hut fr.m the end.
Pavil wjf jujtifiid : Eeraufe he died the ftrvant of God, and not f'.r his preaching fake. He that
dvelleth to the end, is the Childe of God : inheriter of everlajUng life ; and equal with joy himfelf :
Not the joy of joyes, but that joy which God hath made equal with the joyes of his fon Chrtji , in the
company of the fnthfull. Even in this plate , many perfo^is had confpired againjiyoH. But the
jirength of God hath fealed them : And they fhallnot he unpuniflied. For the Angel of the Town is
fealed , and his fea'it to deihuSion : Thrice curfed are thofe which dwell within hit government. But
you are fafe, and (hall be fafelj delivered from them.
Enelind
^^ F r.gland, They condemne thy doings, and fay. Thou art a Renegade. For they fay, TboH haji
defpifed thy Prince.
Ene'and. What wuldti thou kjiow of them? Ceafe till you hear the number of their deflruBion.
^ ..jjj.^jj;, Dcfire ivhat placur you will (faith the Lord) upon this people, for their ungrateftilnefTcjand
Vod-um wibi they fliall be afflifted. For the Lord is angry with them : and he faith , Judge you this wick^ed
ttncejjafi in- people, their ToWii, Men, Wtmen, and Children : And it Jhall be feen that the Lord , the God of
fertm, ^«, Heaven and E'rth, hath mercy en you.
A Non nofti a, fed Dei volumas fiat, ad ejus nominis laudem & honorem.
Gab Bid the fires fly from Heaven, and confume them, and it fiiall be done : Or , fay.
Let the Earth fwailow them, And they (hall perijh. F r 1 have made Heaven and Earth (faith
thi Lord) ani .... Juliice is for my people. lama flawing fire amongji you, and the Rod of Ju-
jiice Jt is faid. Heave up thy hands, and thou ft'alt be heard. The pczce of him that is the
fpirit of wifdome inflame your mindes with love and charity , and grant you continuance to his.
glorie.
ii. Amen.
Deo JEterno, Oynnipotenti & Mifericerdi Jit omnis laus, honor, & Gloria. Amen.
Tuefday 15. OAob. We made hard fhifc to get from J)ock»nt to Angem by fun fet.
Thurfday 17, Oftob. We came from Angem to Embden, going without the Ifles , and coming '
inat Wcftcr E»i. We came before the Town, by fix of the Clock after noon : but could not
get in at the Gates, and therefore we lay all night a (hipboard, but my Lord A. L. went over
to the lodping on the other fhoar.
Friday 18. OAob. We came into the Town : My Lord lay at the white Swan toward the
water- fide, and I, and E. K. with my Children and Many at the three golden Kcycs , by the
Englifl: houfc.
Sunday 20. Oftob. This day morning about eight of f hr Clock we went in a litte Hoy from
Embden
Jtrue Relation of Yy, Dee his ABions m^ith fpirits, dcc^ 41
f^mbden toward Lyre^ my Lord tarried at Embden. VVfe came late to Lyre : and the fame night
wcwent from thence in a lefTe Scute by StykjhufeH to Oppen.
Sunday 21. OSioh, By nine of the Clock in the morning we came to (?/'/'?« : a very fimple
Village? and from thence we went ftraight way toOldenhurgh.
J'iiefday 22. Oitob. From Oldenburgh^ by Delmenhwrft^ to Breams : and vere lodged at an old
fTidow] her hottfe, at the ftgn of the Crown.
Sztuvdzy Odobris 26. Mora i2. fcil, in Meridie. At Breame.
A. The Lord Albert Laskjey being at Styck^hafen behinde usjwith the Earle John of Embdeu
,and FrieflandyScc.
E. K. The Curten feemeth to be far backward in the none : and the ftone
to be clear between the Curten and the fore-part- Under the Curten I fee
the leggs of men up to the knees.
h. Then appeared one, and faid :
11 Room for a Flitter. JefHSi ivho would have thought^ IJhould have met you here >
E. K- He is all in his ragged Apparel , down from the Girdle ficed : But
above he hath a white Satten Gcrkcn-
A. By the mercies of God we arc here : And by your will and propriety , and the power
ofGod you are here.
II Tujh, doubt not of me, for I am h L.
E. K- My thinketh that the gravity ofthis Adion requireth a more ^raye
geUure,ind more ^rave fpeeebss- Bear with me^ though I fay lb unto
you.
1 1. ...'... If I Muji bear with theet for fpeakjngfoolijhly^ which art but fiejhi andfpeak^fl of thy
own wifdom : How much more oughteji thou to be contented with my gejiure^which it appointed ofhiniy
which regardeth not the outward form , but the fulfilling of his will y and the keeping of his Com-
mandments : which is God : whofe wifdom unto the world if foolijhneffe^ but unto them that fear him,
an everlajiing joy, mixed with gladneffe , and a comfort of life hereafter : Fartakjng infallible
joyes, with him that is all comelineffe and beauty. How fay you to this, Sir, Ha /
i- K' He turneth up his heels to fi- K-
E. K. I do not underftand your words : for becaufc I do onely repent
yourfayings.
II It is the part of him that is a fervant to do this duty : Of him that watcheth , to loo}{^
what he feeth : For thd greateji point of wifdom, is, reverently, to confider thy calling. It is faid,
do that,i»hich is appointed, for be that doth more^ is not a true fervant.
E'K, Hew can that be ?
U speaks when thy time cometh. Sir, here is mony : butlb<tve it very hardly. Bear with
ne, for lean help thee with no more. Come on Andras, where Are you Andras?
E, jPC. Now Cometh one in a Gown to him- The Gown is bare liks a
prentice ofIo?2iio«5 a youngman-
U T)id not Ibid thee go yonder, and fetch me money.
-4K(/r«...,. Whither.
II "^his is one of them that forgetteth his bufmejfe fo foon « it is told h'tin.
Ani..^,...S\T,\ wem halfway.
1\' :.„ And how then ? Spea\ on, Speak^on.
-<4«(i. ...... Then being fomewhat weary : I flayed, the rather becaufe I met my friends. The
third day I came thither : but I found him not at home, ^is family told me, that he was newly
gone forth.
I^ Andyou returned a Coxcombe. Well thus it is : I placed thee above my fervants , ani
did what I could to promote thee : and endeavoured dayly to makf thee free. But I am rewarded
With loytring, and have brought up an idle perfon. Go thy way, I will deliver thee to the Officer. The
Officer pall deliver thee to the Prifon : and there thoujhalt be rewarded. For fuch as do that they
are commanded, deferve freedom : but unto thofe that loytre, and unto fuch as are idle , vengeance,
and hunger belongeth.
E. K. He taketh him by the arm,and delivereth him to a man with a ftaffe
in his hand ; and he putteth him in at a door.
G £' K. Now,
4-1 A true Relation of Y>. Dee his Anions mthjfirits, &c.
E.K. Nowllhimlelf goeth into a houlc, which all this while appeared
on the left hand.
Il Come OH,
[e. K.] Now he brjngeth another by the hand]
ll ,. (J]'iy thinketb you jhonU be a fit man to do my mefage.
E. K. Now he whilpereth him in the car, and pointeth out h-—
11 I warrant the ma}!,be tiot abaped, A jlrange matter.
[Pointing to £. K.]
•
- il, ; 1 have hTtfmeffe in Denmarkj and this fellow h afaid to go thitfjer : Tellfhkt ,-thou cc"
meji from me, and that I -will come my felfjhortly. I kjiow be will do fo much for jm^, U hath had
much acquaintance with me. ..';'. ; .'.,'.. J ; ::';:
Icare not.yif Ihad fomemantokeepme Compa}}y, j
[E.K.] This new come man faid /o-]
E. K. He whifpereth again with this man in his car.
\\ T'hefe good fellows are not ready^or elfethey might go with thee. Go thy we-y in Cods
name : See that you do your htifineffe. I'\eef> fnch fervants , as none in all the Comt'rey k,eep-
cth. ..-..:
S. K. He kecpeth no fervants, '
11 Meddle with that^you have to do with all. 1 fray this man, and that man, md every
one deceiveth me. Good Lord, where jhould a man fiiide a. true friend now adayes ? I will go .
and tell the knave that he provide for himfelf. \
"
Ffr if will be ntarve/lpm. k(^xd weather. Ton were
beji to do fotleaji you blow your Nails. . / ., ^ ,_., ,,
E. E. He fpeaketh to one within the' houfe.
'«
U Thus you fee me (Majiers) bow I am troubled with my fervants. How now what fiiletb
'
thee? ^
\_E. K. There Cometh 'a woman roundabout his houfe, and fhe fecmeth
to paffeby him- She is in EngUfti Attire.]
Il 1 will kjtow what aileth her to cry. What aileth thee ?
Woman. One of my Children is dead.
Il Alas poor Childe : How can Children refifi cold? jhe might have \ept it wapner. Cold
pierceth,whereJhot cannot enter. "
A. This woman is not of our Company ? I truft. None of our Children, fliallperini in
this cold.
11 Hay A, your Children ? you kjep them warm : It will do them no hurt. Tljofe that arc
warned, efchue danger to come : For many things are prevented by the quality of wifdom..
A. I truft, we fhall fafe arrive at the place appointed, in Cracow, or elfewhere.
Ottmiii.
^' ^"*^ ^^ concerning Vincent Seve, brother in Law to the Lord Albert L'lskJh I Pray you to
fhcw usthe truthof his ftate. •
TfiJ 'j: ,'. V, ol-J ,J\
E.K. I fee him walking in a ftreeti and a thick manwitrihim; AndGifr.
li/h feemcth to comeafter kim. The thick man his beard is fomewhat like
my Lord his beard, he cometh after Vincent, Mineenf hath a black fatten
Dubblct on, cut with croflc cuts b He hath a lufFe about his neck, a long one
edged with black, or blue*
Note. A. 1 befeech you. J. L. to fhew us what Town that is.
II Speakjng to him that jheweth it : for I fhew it not.
A, O God.
11 I remember not the name of any fuch Town. Quern Deus non amat, non' novit.
£. K. Now the Town appearcth again, the Sea runneth by it. There is
an old rotten Church (landing at the Town end. The Town feemcth to be
6o- or 8o- miles off-
E- K- Jt feemeth to be Embden in my judgement-
E- K.. But Vincent and Ger\i(b fecm not to be in one Town,or ftreet-
A. I befecch you to fay unto us whether A. L. befurnifhed with money, at Graive John hi*
hand, fo as may ferve our turn, or no.
II If I have not told you already, I will. Tou grudge at me.
[E. K.] He /peakcch to E- K.
11 Judge
(l/ true Illation of D""^ Dee kis JBions mtbfpirits, &c. 43
'^^^R I Judge my words with reafoii^ar.d thou fliah finds tkem true, 'Touch them vchb vnder-
fiandingj and thou (luilt findethcni profound. My words are true, Bccavfe I am (ent byTrnth :
Neither are we to fpeak^ gravely, when we take upon us the perfons of Bujers and Sellers. JFhofo-
ever doth the will of his Majhr truely in this JForld, (hall be laughfd to [corn : But whofo fpeakfth
worldly and fendeth out jhadows, k accounted a pillar of the Earth. Happy are thofe which are
fiot fooHlh, neither in work^s fay. There is no God ; Such reficfi , fuch anfwer. Such earthly
winde,pich heavenly motions. Tet Heaven fpeakfth truth, and the Earth lyeth. Thif is not my
office which I have tal{en in band ; yet becaijfe I have dealt with you as a worldling, I was the fit-
t^ii to a7tfweryour worldly expeliation.
h. As you have dealt with lis, not according to your office, but according to our world-
ly expeftatiou : So now do wedefire to undeiliand fomewhat according to our higher and
heavenly expeftatiou, of our doing the determined rfi//of the Higheth ~
E-K' He is gone, and allthcStone as red as blood. y,^^ i^j^j
.
A-
E K., Nowheiscomeagain, andftandeth inthc fire.
II Thus faith the Lord, I have tanght you how to live, I have fct you Statutes , and
have wiped you wy Peace ; Follow me,andIwillbeyour God : For unto them that arewifeiJha/l^upra in fine
there be more wifdom given ; But unto thent that are become fooli/h, my wifdom i^ a . . .
dtei ij.Od.iiy
'
thefe five years to come, are the Deliverance . . . Tea, [orrow Jhall bring forth her ChildrenJ^^l,^"'^^^^
My Hon ur jhall he defaced, and my holy Places pluckj:. No man hath ever feen fitch a world : for of /In. 1^84,
Now fhall they fay unto the Mountains, Gome and cover us , and imto the iVaters, Swallow us up: ijSy* i?85,
for we know there is no God ; neither is there any care of Mankind. I will plague the peo~ '587> 1588.
pie, and thsir blood Jhall become Rivers. Fathers pall eat their own Children, And the Earth
Jhall be barren : The Beails of the field jhall perjjh. And the f'Vaterspall be poifoned. The Air
pall infeU her Creatures, And in the Deep pall be roaring. Great Babylon Jhall be bmlty
And the fon of wick edne/re,y/;<z//jit in Judgement. But I will referve tw) Kingdoms untouched.
And I will root out their wick^edneffe. lea, thus faith the Lord, Front the North Jhall come a¥<:om ths
Whirlwind, And the Hills Jhall open their mouths : And there pall a Dragon fi.ie out, fuch as'^°'^^^'
never was. But I will be glorified by you, and by thofe that are not yet dead. And you pall
have power, fuch as I will be glorified by. Keep therefore the Statutes which I taught you. Forget
not my words : For unto thofe that look, l>acl{,, there is great wo. Happy are they that continue to
the end. Amen.
£. K. Now he is gone.
'a
E. K. Now he is come again-
11 Thus faith Jehova : I am the beginning and the end. The root and life of all Righte^
eufneffe. I fay , ( By my (elf ) I am with you. And will bleffe you in Righteoufnejfe. Ceafe
therefore to move me ; for I am Almighty, And inquire not of me, what I have determined ; For "'"^'"f^ '
Time groweth, and I am a Juji God. Therefore Ceafe, Ceafe, I fay ; I in my felf fay Ceafe.
Call not upon my name in defiled places ; Leaji the wic\ed ones hear what I determin. I
•will vi/it you at your journyes end ; I will teftifie my promife to you. Be in hafte therefore :
^'^ """^ 5°"''
And flie from fin; Andflie thefociety of fuch as are accurfed : £^ / am jealous over my people,
"^y"*" "
Jea I will notjuff^r them to drink^or tajie of their veffels. S^e'm^ unto me a people, that I may
*hel}old my people : And I will be unto you both, A God for eve^
*'
E,K. IL- faith Amen, and falleth all in pieces,as fmall as aflics-
E-K. Now all is Clear, and the Curtain is come again.
A. Deo Omnipotenti fit omnis Honor laus & gloria,in fecula feculorum. Amen.
I.
2.
Friday i Novemb. 1588. Mane At Breame.
A. Albeit we were willed C O Lord) to Ceafe : yet underftanding the fame warning to
have been meant for EnquiringoU thy Myjieries andfecret Determinations, wherein we intend
now not to deal, but in matters before and laft moved, and wherein we were not fully fatis-
fied , that now we may more exprefTely be certified, and that is of three things.
•
Firft for Fiiicent Seve.
''
Secondly for Edmond Hilton, gone with the Ship toward Dansk^.
And Thirdly, as concerning help for money for the Lord Alb. Laskje. And herein we ^*
crave either the miniftery of Jubanladteck, or of II, orwhom foever clfe it fliall pleafethy
Majeftyiofend. i-
E. K. A man with a black Gown appeareth v\ith a Cap, falling in his
neck, with a big Book under his arme^
A. It (liould feem to be Aphlafben, my good Angel.
E.K- He hath a white Kobe under the black Gown, which goeth all
G i under
44 A tmel^elation of D"*. Dee his JUions whfpirits, &C.
under hisGown^ nailing behind him ; but, ihc whice Robe trailcth noCj
his Gown hangech on him , as chough ic were faUing ofF his (boulders
behind.
A. In the Name of Jefus^the King oPGloryj are not you Afhlafben ray good Angel, bjr
tlicmercy and power of God, fo alllgned ?
d- K- Helookeih very ancicndy-
Inipire, Moll high Glory, andthank^s, thronghont all Creatures, he v.nto thee {0 eternal
Godyfirji . . . Secondly redeci^ihig, atidjbirdlji fanaifyhig the IForld in hh Creation, NoWjand
for ever : And at long as it Jhall be [aid Ofanna tn the ^ire of the High God .... Amen.
A Amen Amen Amen. •
Mauifold are the Merries of God towards man,wbofe bafeneffe deferveth no fuch grace and
moliv.nf^enkjible Hejftiig : But fuch is God ; what he ]i<jiifieth hi»ifelf,in the jhength of his niercyy
and heveth his honour with his own holinejfe. For n'hat is ruan, that can pijiifie htmfelf ^ or that
hath any thingywherein his bowels can rejoyce ? JVhtrein can he determine happinejfe lo himfelf?
Or how canbe compare himfelf with the trees that are fruitful ? If the life of vtan be Jin, then .
is it hateful. But who is he that hateth it ? But even he which is above, and is fartheji: from ini-
(juity. Great, therefore ( man ) are thy miferies, when naturally thou art, and loveji to be
hated of GQd,wbofe ferviceis Jujlice, and whofe delight Peace. Cenfider therefore the Mercies
vf God, through his loving kjndnejfe towards thy weakjieffe : And ack^novrledge his Power which
jiiakeththofe iirongwhich have no force of thenifehfs. Gather not up your own inventions ; But
be faithful fervants,perforntiHg the will of him which fandifieth you with obedience : for of dufi
you are become fiefh, and of fieJJj the fervants of fin ; that at length you might be made freey .
through your own confents in the mercies of him which hath entred into your weakjteffe, and weighed
out his blood for your Redemption : Even he which hath payed the iittermofi penny ofyour Ranfonie.
And why ? Nn to the intent you Jhould brag ofyour felves. But hath charged in conditienyou
Jhould maintain juliice into tbeworkj of Righteoufnejfe. Vnto whom is Heaven a feat ? britunto
fuch as are faithful fervants: Wherein the Dignity of your Majler is kjtown, of whom it is faid,
Bleffed are thofe thatferve the God ofHofis, if any thing, now, happen u:ito you, that is the riches
ofyour Majler, Be thankfulfor it, and conftder his liberalitie : And how much the more he openetb
his "Treafures to you, Befo much the more thankful; For unto fuch belongeth the ownerJJ)ip of viorey
and the reward of fuch as are ten times faithful. Happy are thife to whom it is fa id, Thou good
fervant. Be no Gadders^ for there is no houfe to the houfc of your Mifter» 'lake heed alfo, ieajl
you ininijtcr his bread, to fuch itf are his enemies, andfo, unworthy : for unto both thefe belongeth the
reward of unfa it hfulnejfe. Be not high-minded, when you borrow your riches, lejl the moths enter
in and corrupt your garments : for Pride is the dephoffin .... Ceafe not to rehuKf the dijhonour-
ers * as, o .... Neither maintain the honour of any other :. For he that enterta'nteth you, hathfeal-
edyou for others. And hathJlrengthened you with Authority, "the Rod of his Juilice. Generally
thefe things have been fpok^n unto youy and thefe Leffons are not yet to learn : But happy are thofe
whom God fanSfifiethi beingunholy, Andten times hleffed are the Temples wherein his Holineffe
dwelleth. True it is as thoufayeji : Generally men are fan&ified , the people of the Earth ihrough
all Nations, myjtical/y : through the mercies of God : But where the fan&ifieation agreethmt
with the thing fandified, there eMreth wick_edueffe. The Spirit of God is not fan&ified in Hell,
Neither is his holy Temple beaiMj^ed with the feet of the unrighteous. It is ivritten,, Dogs honour
not bread, neither defiled place's things that are holy : For as Hell dijhonoureth Heaven, in re-
fped of unrighteoufnejfe : So, thofe that are wicked dijhomur the vertuous, and fuch as are tritely
'
holy,by fociety : and they jlink^of their wickjsdnejfe. For it is Written, And Satanwent from the
prefenee of the Lord, leaving a flinh^behind him. The light of the Sun is ta^en from the Earth,
by the congealed cloud. The fins of the people, and filthincffe ofplaces, are put between vertue and
the things Sacramental. Therefore, it is not true) that thou maycft lawfully call upon the .
Name of God in unhallowed places.
A. 1 crave pardon for my ignorance, and errour herein : But I required not to know of
the heavenly Myiteries ; Onely fueh thin^^s I demanded information of,which not onely were
above humane power toanfwer, ( and fo might feem worldly myfteries ; ) but alfo the true
good news of them, might, many ways, be comfort unto us and ours.
Behold iaifrael, the rough (tones are acceptable Altars, And the flinkjng Caves have been
known unto the Lord. And why s" Becaufe the place was holy, neither this filthinejfe here, nor of
any thing elfe created, hindreth: But the filthineffe of the place and Country wherein thy are de-
filed; for inpure places, the defiled are bleffed. David fanUified Szn\, with the prefenee of his
Annointing, and his Harp fpake out the wonders of the Lord- PVe come unto youhere,becaufe the
willof God inyoujhineth : But the filthineffe of this Country ohfcureth the beauty of our meffage.
Not that it is obfcured in us, hut hindered through wick, from you. Therefore flee the company
ef Drunkards, andfuch as we their own underjlanding.
[ E- IC He hoJdcth up his face and hands to heaven- ward- '
...... Drunkjtrds and fuch as defile themfelves are apt to l-jiow things worldly ; not as wife men
do:
Atrue Relation of D''. Dee his Actions mth fpirits, dcc^ 4"^
do : I'lit th.it the H''orld may be a plague to their htujuitj. Thou defireli pardon, and caUedll th...
biifmcffe a vDorldiy mjjtery. But the mjfieries of this world tire put under the feet of the faithful :
which (^overfeen through God^ are generally comforted and direcled. Then, therefore what cure
remaiiKth either of the Seas, or of the flimy Earth s' where, on the one fide, thou regardeli the Ship,
and on the other fide Uiioncy. I fay unto thee, God correcicth this world and the cajiialties thereof,
leji thofe that are o^^ thee, (hbP.ld blaffheme his name.
Zi. Bleffed be his holy Name, and his Power niagiutied for ever.
T'hy goods are fafe. And the EarthJhallfrovide for you. Be not you careful; for unto
thepi'f,yea even the hairs of his head are numhred. J am filen't for the JFor'd ; for it is not my
propriety : But notwithjianding ask^ and thoujhalt not be denyed.
A. As concerning Vincent Seve , his fta.te and being, we are very defirous to be in-
formed.
E. K- yincent Ssy'e appe^reih here , going down by Charing Croflc»
There is a tall Fellow with a cue herd v\'ith him in a jkic coloiived cloak,
V/Victf ;' haih a great FuflP- This man waitech on him with a 5word. He
is going down into V^efiminfler Ward : He is now calking wi:h a Gentle;s
man on horfcbackj who hath five men following him, with Caps-clo.iks
Ihort, and muftachcs j And he on horfe back is a lean viiaged man with a
fhorc Cloak and a gilt Rapier j his horfe hath a Velvet foot-cloth.
E- K. In Twc^M? his forehead is written j Where pother li?antsth, rigor
veakneth.
E. K- ^j««nrlaugheth heartily ^ and fiicweth two broad teeth before.
He holdech a li:tlc ftick within his fingers crooking. On his left hand he hath
a skar of a cut, on the nether fide of his hand- Vincent hath a pair of bootes
on, which come ftraight on his legs, and vcr^ clofe. A great many boats
appear at White-BaU, One is graffing in the Garden there. Many people
are now coming out of Wefiminfier Church. The Gentleman on horfc-
back alightcth now, and goeih down toward the Court bcfoicVJefimiftJlcr-
Hall. He goeth now up a pair of Itairs ^ and there ftandeth a fellow with
a white ftaff- Vincent is gone in with him ; The fervant walketh without.
The fervant gocch to a Waterman there. The Waterman ajiketh him, whes
ther that be he ; that is the ^olairtd Bi(hop ? The fervant askcth him, what
hath he to do ? Now the fervant goeth from the Waterman. Now coni-
eth one down the ftairs, and faith to the Serving-man , that his Mafler ftiall
be difpatchcd to morrow- The fervant faith, He is glad of it. Now all
that Shew is vanifhcd away.
Now come there two handfomc men , they have Cloaks on their
fhonlders, and they have hats on like Tankard Crowns.
Oneofthefefaid,
A Iiwderflajtdby the King, that he heareth him great favour.
The other faid,
• B But Kings rohen they become rich, ivax Covetous. But do you thinks he
will come this way .<?
A Tea mary, if he be rvife-, for he Jhall find no better friendpip than in
Denmark. Here is thefellovp, he hath brought a bag ofAmber.
E. K- Hetaketh the fellow by the fhoiilder, and faith; Come away.
He hath been an old doer.
E- K- Now th:y are gone, and that Shew-
E. K- Now
' r—t 1 . I Ity I
\ .11 , .
4^ J tme'J^eLition ofD\ Dee his JB'tons mth/firits, 6c c.
Vl» "^ "^ I'.r.
E. K' Now is the firft man in the black Gown come again.
Thiif yon fee^ the World anfwereth for the World. Be merciful. Flee privy leakfs ; for
the Devil is ready at every corner'. Be Humble and Obedient. 'That receiving the reward of true
fervai:ts,yOH may rejoyce as Enheritors of everlaibng freedom ; the reward of fuch as are faith'' k
fid t) '.hi end. God grant you may fo be. Amen. ^ <
E- K- Nowcometh the Vail again which all this while was gone be-
hind the Scone-
A. Deo noftro Omnipotenti3mifericordi,& jiiftofit omnis honor, laus, & gratianim aftio,
nunc &. in fccula feculorum. Amen.
A. While we were at Bream, among many other things told and delivered to E. if. as he
was byhimfelf, by a fpiritual Creature, I know not who, nor of how good eftate, or what
cftatehe was of : This parcel among them he held in writing, and imparted to me j And F
thought my painsnot ill beftowed, to keep the fame in record here. -A I
Two years and
a quarter,(lia!l
he An 1581?.
in January.
Ganiluf that, in houfe moft fiery fairer than the Sun,
Hath honour great, faith, give place, your former courfe is run 5
Therefore firft framed clouds unknown draw near with mighty ftorms.
Wherein fuch bodies lie obfcur'd, or take ten thoufand forms.
Your bellies ftrowtinglong difclofe, and on the harlot earthj
Seem fair toman, as when the waves as MidvVife help ... r birth,
Twice jhall the Sun put on the heavens, and once look, (]uarter way^
And workjng uncouth woMiyhtiild up a City,where men fay
The Holieft flood : AndBeares bring in ufurping fire at hand.
And people fpread return, vvhofenew built altars flaming ftand,
Whilfl: fuch as ftrangers were Catejy cry , and bloody knife.
With privy fhame defil'd bckyes, a thing n ... fometime rife.
Prom midnight unto noon, two parts and more (hall flaughter feel,
And all the World from South, tafte all, down force, of fire and fteel.
Small wonder though the earth at (hadows fighting nothing grieve.
When mighty Seas (hall dry, and heavens lie, who can live ?
That mortal eyes (hall fee a Temple built with precious Stones,
Or Creatures ftrange made new in fight, of old and long dri'd bones.
Or Angels dwell on earth : but I whofe firy fingers can
llnloofe thrice fealed Books, and utter worlds unknown toman.
J feethefecurfed wights, whofe borders lead thy journey on.
Shall with the thirtieth moneth,be bought, or fold, or fully gone.
And England -per ifli firji with Moths long harbour in her skirts.
The Spaniard lofe their King, and France rebel and fallbyfpirts.
And holy man ten dayes beiieged at home, with thefedayes whelpsj,
, Till he at length made free by fudden force of vertues helps.
The Foliflj King hath play edy and friendly manfhall then bear[way,
Amongft earthly friends, and fuch as hope of former faith decay.
At laft wear higheft Crown, if fall/row/ vertue makes no loffe.
And midft this coil to come in fpace of new come layfor tofTe.
Thenlo, Come other times mod Holy, and a Kingdom /hall, .
From Heaven come, and things forthwith again to Order call.
' -»'
i
;•!
Saturday 2. Novembrhwe rod from Bream, two great mile to a Nunnery called Oftarhold.
[Sunday Novembris ^. we c-dn\e to Fure or Fureden.
'
'
Monday tiovenib. ^^. vitC'AXwe.ioheA to Fiarburgl}.
tuefday Novemb. 5. we came to Buxtenhaden, ajid there by 9 of the clock in the mornintT
we took waterin two great Skutes or Boats, Horfe-wagon, and our fluff and all, and ferryed
down the little water, till we entred the Elh, and fo cio/Ted flraight over to Blanken nafen :
there dined, and afterdiimer by coaches we came to /Y/rwZ-wg^, where n»y Lord lay atthe,
Engli(h houfe, and we at another lodging, a widows houfe. • -^
fyenfdaji Novemb. 6. wt rid to Tritiow i^imlcdom Hainbjirgk, a little Village, having left
my
(^true Relation of D''. Dee his Mions mth fpirits, 6cc. 47
my Lord behiiide : and a Ifo milling my Cliildren,and fervaiits j which were gone before us an
other way to my great grief: till by midnight, by fending out lueflengers to liften and en-
quire after them, I heard of them. I, my Wife, Rowlaud.Niirfe, and Mjrcopskje, my Lord his
man.
7hur^iay, Novemb. 7. We came to LnheK , and were there' at Innc , at the figne of the
Angel, or rather St. Mkhael , at a Widow her hctife , a very hoiicit Hoitefle.
. Saturday:, Novemb. (?. /received Leefcrsfronitb^ Lord Albert LmkJe,oi the Englifli rrx^m
ill dealing, and confulting with the Towuf-meu of H^wiwg* for iuy flay, and conveying back
again into £«?/<!«>/, &c. '.
,, ,; •• .-^ilr -' .
vi ; .. •
Wednefday, 1 3, NovembriSy i'^'^f^ ^:\J^^a'nHora^pl!''^ - 'At Lubekj.
Ter horam fere., per intervalla^ vari.ts fecmiis fetit,iones& f<epe oravimiK.
At length appeared a fwordj two edged, firy, or rather bloudy, andabunfh of rags hang-
ing at the top of it. The rags feemed of Wo6llen,and LinnenCloath : like a bundle of Rags
gathered out of a Taylers fliop. . Thefword ftood upright in a manner, but leaning fioin
E./f. his face, though it feemed to fmite at E. if. 'kj;.;vv.iv, , . " ^tnY-^
A voyce. So be it, (0 Lord) for than art mighty. Be itfo mftfthein ':
For'^ey have errtbtAce*
anHirlotj and have forgotten thy jealoufie. '
'
£.K- The fvvord ftiaketh mightily.
•
'; Many arc the Harlots chat fvvarm
upon the earchj and mnumorable arc their Childrcn^and fuch as they fofter.
Their reward is ready
.
E.K' The fword now (haketh again mightily-
He that entreth into the hopfeof'the wickjdk defiled : but he that cotfentetb with an Har-
lot ii occurfed. He that delighteth in her fecrets, Jhall be Jiabbed, And Le^rofie Jhall dwell in his
houfe fir ever. '" ' 'j!^ ' ''.',
A. O Lord, I truft, this refpefteth none of Ui-, in commojiTenle to be underftood.
He that delighteth in light, loveth not himfelf ihtt defireth the hve of hint,that iUuntinateth :
But, thus faith God, I fp'll not dally yHith you -.Neither (hall you handle me,asyouhave\done. For,
your Horedom, u wtlfnll : and your vanities fPorfe. But this 1 leave amongjl you', that you Jhall
kjiow that I ant righteous. For, he that defpifeth me ,-
k accmffd ; and unto hint that - dijfembleth
wyfajhien, are wiferies vpithoutnuniber\ '"'So ,mtoth^t^,that enierhtothe ho'hfe .of blnfpheniy, is
vengeance ready at hand.
~
'
. .
' ' ' \^ '
b.. O Lord, what is this? Man is but earth, Vf here tht heavens dw^H^f'^^^ekhef th^
works of man acceptable, but with righteoufneffe.
...... j. .
F' K. There appeareth a man with a Bible about his neck, like a Doiftor;
and he ftandeth miferably in fire, .And fo likewile appeared divers other
withJBibles about their necks, and chey in fire likcwife- StilJ come flames
from the earth, and cncrcafe the flamciJ ofchefe men about thbhi- There
appeareth, and cndlefle, • • . me,moft terrible with fire , and other moll his
deous lihews„ .... They be fuddenly gone away. And all thefe men be
now no more in fight.
A voyce. Happy are th'/e that fee^ and can remember. Elrffed are thofe that hear^ and art not
forgetfulL
aobrioirv;^;.;! ...
A. Thefe words, and fiiews, O Jefu, make evident what, ^',^_,. « , .^ ';wvv,
'
.. ji '»f;^V
"
£• K' All is gone, except the fword which ftandeth in a Cloud, and there
cometh a hand and letteLh a leal upon the fword-
A voyce. I brought you from iniquity, to the intent you might be purified : But the more I cleanfe
you, the moreyou are defiled.
? have offered of old, and it jhall be told. I have promifed , and it Jhall be performed.
Hou have notkspt 7ny Commandments. And therefore you jhall be plagued. He that goeth out
of the way, jljall receive the reward of errour. For fir agglers, are fpotted people. And none caH
he hleffed, but fuch m dwell in the "Fahernacle of righteoufneffe. But behold , / will tell it unto yoH
but with greater hardnejfe. And I will makfyon kjiow me, before I vifit you in kjndneffe. For
thus fayeth Sathan. Lo, they erre jiUl. Do Jujiice for thy glory fakf. Ikey enter into the
houses of Idols : And laugh with blafphemers. Jhey are filent , when thy name is blafpbemed.
F>eal with them as a God : or elfe thou art not righteous. Therefore, he free from Sathan , that he
irtay praife your righteoufneffe. lea, that he may fay , as he hath faid. Let me touch thern.
Vntill
4§ A trueKelatio n of D^ Dee his J&ions mthfpirits, &:c,
Vntill then-, 1 yvill be jttii. I will not forget this wickjidneffe , tillj/'At be wade clean. For., heboid^
'
J have fealed it : and therefore it rnvji be finijhed. For what is fealed of me , cometh to ptrjfe.
A.
A voyce. He that d^ffembleth the image of Ckrijij it a liar.
A.
...... Nf'W Cometh a grave man-, all cloathed in white^ with a Mytre upon his head.
Ike God of peace is a. comforting Medicine ., to fuch-^cK delist in him. Ihe peace of the-,
•ftorld^ is the image of God : God and many which is JefusChriJi, the foH of the living Cod : Which'
kjiit With the father m the fpirit of truth , (proceeding from them both everlajiing yfilli) ope--
ned hit mercies to his Jpoftles, replenijhing them fully and mightily with the will of the father^ to the
roKifcrt of the wnld : JVhichy made mejfagers thereof , have delivered to the Church , full and per-
feU Statutes (^is the Will of him^whereunto jhe is united and married) to be kept inviolable , and
without transgreffiou, 7hit Will , Covenant , or Decree, (fealed unti the end of the world in the
number of the faithfitH) whofeever breakjth, or diffembleth^is accurfed, or damned. Therefore faith
tin word of God unto youilLou have runajtray, you have entred into the hovfes of Idols. I have brought
vo^ from fire, but you are entred into flames. And why f Eecaufe you defile your felves with the'
wickednejfe of deceivers : Wkofe images yo:tfaw affirmatively, though mt verily: Continually over-
whelmed with daily., and inextinguible flames : Continuing even fo long , as their errour is exalted ;-
'
Tea, even in the profeffors thereof y to their eternal damnation. For as Chrifl , and hit Vo-
Urine is light and truth: So feemthe impofitions of Sathan to agree , or tak^e unto themfelves, fhapes-
or lik^neffes of the true image of him that faveth : Whereby be trujieth in himfelf under the colour of
tneckjtejfe, into the companie of the faithfull : Devouring their Souls with ravening, dijfemblingy and'
falfe Itkelyhcods of truth ,undblctohe decided by man. Happie are thofe that believe them
not '.
For he , even he it is, that is a liar , and is oldeji in deceit. But as the father is eternal:
So it the fen eternal , which eternity of the father and the fon , it the holy Choji eternal, proceeding
equally, as the finger of God, and fpirit of truth, to the general workjnanjhip of Gods determination
kjtit to''ether, three Ferfons. [E. K. He maketh a great reverent ciirfie^ in this omnipotency
ly rpiritual illumination, and through the holy Ghoji delivered unto the Apoiiles, as the pledge of GoeL
/SEecUfix ^'^' mercie and promife, is alwayes certainly linked, yyned, and engraffed into the fociet/ of thofe
Cb'ip. that fulfill the will of the higheji perfedly, and without errour, whofe jirength Jhall continue y and
ghrie branch out, even unto the end of this world, and beginning of comfort* Therefore , believe :
For the fpirit of truth worketh wonders,raifeth the dead, and hath power to forgive fins. Through
the power of him, unto whom it it ma For,asCkriji hath all power in heaven and in earth deli-
i)(red So hath he delivered all power in heaven and earth to his true Church. Therefore fhe
cannot erre. For where power it without meafure,errour hath no number : Believe not therefore
thofe that lie '.faying y The Church of God it infeQedwith errours. For the ofences of few are
rt c-
•
<v, not counted errour, but unrighteoufnefe : Neither.can the ftragling feet of a few drunken, bring in-
^rSg."
^'
/" "(? ^0 the whole hoHfe.
A*
...... It lieth not in my power to deliver you , or reconcile yov from death and Hell : The tormen-
try and filthineffe of the world, and the wrath of God. But yety (That Cloud, fet afide) which it
between me and you') I fpeak. afar of to you , faying. The Juliice of God, is vengeance it felf:
Neither hath it any contraryybut even in the midji y and Centre of it felf : Which it the drop and
liquor of his eternal, greaty and incomprehenfible Majejite of himfelf, hit mercie : Which , even in the
midfl of Juliice it found out ,by forrowfull repentance , and reconciliation: Not in that it is necef-
farie with God : But that it is a Medicine applicable, and moji healthfull to the infirmities of that
Marty that coveteth to be healed, releafed, or recovered fi-om his foares. This is it , that mufi com-
fort you. For, asjujlice it the reward offiu,fo it mercie the reward of repentance. But mer-
cie it the Center of light : and Jufiice to be caji off, andfhut within dark^effe. Therefore , be not
negligent.
A. This whoredom, how is it committed, or of whom ?
J teach the Where thy habitation was, errour rained, God called thee fi-om it : and de-
livered thee by ynany, but unknown wayes : means not to be uttered by man. Thefe places alfo are
fhut up from the favour of God. For their obedience it eounterfeitedyand their prayers,out-cries.
Therefore hath the Lord opened him unto you that invented the vanitie : that you might be partaken
of his kttowledgey and Secret judgements of the wick^ed. Here alfo you entred,and are newly defiled:
For the Devil entred in y and found him wakjng : And lo, he entred yet , and he was not afleep.
But he was happie, being kf^dled with defire of Gody elfe had the judgement of hit bodie for this
World been fulfilled. Wickedneffe followeth him : and the fpirits of evilcounfel are at hand. Ton
jhall feel the forrow thereof , and your family fhall be dtfcomforted. But pray unto Gody that
it fain not out, that Sathan goeth about : Neither that it come to paffe, which he hath power to ex-
ecute. For, this token fignifieth your miferies , and it it a fign of that , which it given to exe-
cution*
I have faid.
The peace of God be rejlored unto you.
E. K. Here
(^true Relation ofiy. Dee his ABions mth fpirits, (3cc» 4p
E.K. Here is the man again.
.,;.,. Two vpords and 1 have done. Nothing it -plainer than that which is fpokjn : Nothing
certainer than that which is appointed. Be you penitent, that God may be merciful. This is all
J have to fay. IFafl? your fehes, and I alfo will makj yon clean, Kefijt you Satan diligently,
and I will help yon mightily.
A. O Lord that feal to the Sword and rags break off.
E- K. Now he is gone.
A.
E- K. Now he is here again-
....... This clond is a feparationhetwixt this, yea this glorified company andyoum Look^not
for any li^ht, whilejt this darkjtefs if prefent. Behold^ my mouthfaltreth, and my lips are Jlayed :
But prayyoiiy andyonjhall not bereje&ed. For the ftronger yon be, the mercifnller is God, and
the weaker it, and jhall be, your adverfary. Love together; Serve God together : Be of one
heart together. Alwayes preach God. I am tied.
E. K He is gone.
A, Mifericordia & pax Dei fit fiipcr no? nunc & fempet!. ' '
Jlmen.
Friday^ Novemb. 15. hora vtane. Lubek^.
£ K. The cloud appeareth, and openeth, Co that the Sword may be
fccn.
A. O Lord deal mercifully with US, as thy children, to be correfted with rod or whip,
andnot with thy enemies, with fword to cut or wound us. Let not Satan force thee to ju-
ftice more mightily, rhan tliy fatherly goodneffe can incline thee to fhew mercy upon us.
E, K, An hand comcih and nippech ofFan inch ofthe top ofthe Sword,
andforae of the rags are fallen down, fomc hanging on the hilcs of the
Sword^ and fome are thiuft through with the Sword. Now the Sword is
fhut up again in the Cloud,
A. Have mercy en us, O Lord, and deal with us as thy younglings and novices.
E- K. Nowcomcin an elevcn,alllikc Noblemen. Oneof them hath
a regal Cap, and a Gown faced with Sables- The Cap is like a Polonian
Cap, but trimmed up with rich Sables- Now cometh one and bringeth
a very rich Chair, befet with precious Stones : Four of the Company fee
down this Chair, for that Principal man. He that brought theChair
went away- They all do low obedience to this principal- He fitteth
down, and putteth his Gown over. He is a goodlier man than the Lord
A L. The 4 pluck a thing like a Canopy over the Chair, and they put a
round Cusfliion under his ftet. Thii> Principal fpeaketh as followcth.
Tluck^up thy heart and be merry, pine not thy Soul away with inward gro'inings ; for I
vill open unto thee the fecrets of Nature, and the riches of the iVorld, and wiihtl give thee fuch
direUion,thatJhall deliver thee from many infirmities, both of body and minde : Eafe thee of thy
tedious labour, and fettle thee where thoujh-ilt have comfort.
A. Thanks be given unto the Higheit, novv, and ever, ofall his Creatures.
JVhy doji thou . . . within thy thought : Hiji thou not needofCoun\el ?
A. Yes, God knows ; for I am half confounded.
Thenfirji d. . . with thyfelfto refl thee, for this Winter. Secondly open thj mindto defire
fuch things as may advance thy Credit, and enrich thy Family : Reap unto thee many friends^and
lift thee up to honour J For I will jiirupthe mindes of Learned men, the profoundefi in the World
that they Jhallvifit thee. And Iwill difclofe vntoyoufuch things^ asfljallbewonderfull, and of
exceeding profit. ^Moreover, Iwill put to my hands,and help your proceedings, that the World
maytalk^ofyour wifdom hereafter, "therefore wander not farther into unknown places, conta~
gioHs, the very feats of death for thee, and thy children, ajtd fuch as are thy friends. If thou en-
quire of me where, and how. Every where : or how thou wilt thy felf. For thoujhalt f$rthwith
become rich, and thoujhalt be able to enrich Kings, and to help fu.h as are needy. Wajl thou not
btrn to ufe the comniodity of this JForld ? l^ere not all things made for mans vfe ?
A. Willyou give me leave to fpeak ?
••'..., fFhat canji thoufpeak.hereimto / JFilt thou thank, me for this /
H A. All
I- o A true Relation of D^*. Dee his ABions mthfpirits.Scc.
A. All thanks be unto the King of Gloiy, &c.
A. Is it your meaning that wc (hall Itay here, and go no farther v?ith the Lord ^/i^rt
Laskje ?
Te-s in the Smnmer ; rohen it is more fair.
A. I befeech you. Where would you, that we fhould make our .... this Winter ?
H'here you tvUl. Are you ^o unwise to go with him now. Let him go before, and provide
fir himfelf, that he may the better povid for you. 7he weather will be hard, and the travel unfit
for children. If thou covet to live in eafe^ heap not up thy wives forrow.
A. I defire to live in quiet, that my (pirit may the better attend to the fervice of God
If'eil, TarryyoUi and wy promife fhall be quickjy performed. I will net halt witbyott.
How faj jou Sirs ?
[£. K He fpcaketli to his Company,vvho make curfics,and fay nothing.]
A. I befeech you to appoint an apt place : This you fee is no fit place.
I willJiir thee tip fftch friends, as jhall content thee. As for dwelling places thou /halt
belhw them. JFell, you are contented.
A. Is it your will, that in this Town we fiiould part from the Lord Albert Laskje ?
What fhould jou do elfe ? Are yo» mad men? Will jou run headlong into danger?
wilfully ?
,A. I befeech you, (hall this be nothing prejudicial to our former doings, and order al-
ready taken and decreed for our going together ?
What, isthis contrary to reason? Well you are content.
A. As the will of the Higheft is, fo is mine and none other.
Sirha, doyoufee this fword ? I will be a furety for this (^ J warrant thee ) alft.
four brother isclapped vpinprifon. How liisyou that ? lour houfe-kfeper Imean.
A. And why I pray you ?
For that, that thou mayeftbe afhamedof.
A. What is that?
Ihey examtnhim : "they fay., that thonhafi hid divers fecret things. As for tky Book^s-^
thou mayji go look^them at leafure. It may be, that thy kottfe may be burnt for a remembrance of
thee too. Well tf they do, fo it is : if Hn,as thou wilt. I have told thee my phanfie, and given thee
wy counfely offered thee my help, and defired to do thee good : The choice is thine.
A. O Lord the Authorof all truth, and direftor of fuchaspuc their truft in thee, 1 nioft
humbly befeech thee to confiderthefepremifes, thus to me propounded. If they be true,
and from thee, confirm them; If they Keillufions, and not from thee, difprove them. For,
hardly in my judgement, they do or can agree with our former precepts and order taken by
thee,
A voice He that afcendetb up to the top of the hill ^ let him believe : For until he come
thither, let him du his l.rbour.
O Lord, I doubc of rhcfe th ngs, and promifcsof eafe, wealth, and honour,
A voice J"dge the Truth, by the laji A^ion.
O LordjWhat is that Aftion ?
A voice Wenfdaies Adion.
This Cloud (^faid the voice of the Lord ) is put betwixt us and you '.
ff'bat therefore may come
between^ Now judgeyou.
A. I fufpeft the whole apparition of the eleven to be an illufion. O Lord confirm ray
judgement or difprove it.
A voice The Spirit of the Lord is not amongjlyou.
A. What miferyare we then in ? O Lord, Mercy, Mercy.
A voice I ifpnte not with God, where whoredom is great.
A. O Lord, This whoredom we underftand not.
A voice Fray daily, with repentance, that this cloud may be takjn away, and this fword
diminijhed. For the Seal cannot be brokfn, until Satan have done his uttermoji ; yea the utter-
moji of his malice. For it n granted him and he mujl firikf. But pray you unto God , that the
fword may bemadejhorter, or pluck} out of the hilt, that in firikjng he want power. For ytmr fin
it abominable, and a fevenfold offence in the fight of the Lord.
A. What this whoredom is ( God knoweth ) we underftandnot perfcftly. If the Spirit
of God be not with us, how can our prayers be acceptable ?
A voice Thui faith the Lord, Turn unto me and be forry for your fins y and let my An-
gels be witneffe thereof. For I[wear by my [elf, that myjujiice Jhall hang over you : And when
J punipyou next, I will raze you from the face of the earth. Therefcrej Vow your felves unto
tne , and mal{e your veffels clean , for your habitations in my fight are nothing : neither
is the fubjiance whereof I framed you acceptable . 1 am the Spirit of Truth and
VnderfiandiHg, and will net be dafijt in pieces with worldlings; Neither vfe I to dwell in defiled
places. For my Sanduary is holy, and my Gates are without fpot. And with me there dwelleth no
unrighteoufneffe.
A. Lord
(iAirm Relation of D^, Dee hii ABions mthfpirits, &c. ^ i
A. Lord, is ic thy vvil! we fhall go with Albert Lashje to Lafco ?
A voycc. T''e Lordfaifth, JFhat I hive fi'id, ii true. jyho rekihjth me, faying my words are
tatrue ? The corredion of hint that reigneth is mightie j vh) hath numbred it ? But to his de"
flruHiof!, Be you koly-, that my hand may be weak^.
A. O Lord, the fear of thy punifhment aftonieth my heart : and uncertainry of it in time
and place, doth alio encreafeniy grief, &c.
A voyce. The fool faith in bis heart : Oh, how great is thy punijfmient over me. Teach me the
place of thy correclion : And where thou wilt chajiife me. Who is he that defireth to meet God his
vengeance, or the piwijhment of him that confoundeth the damned ? Mal^e your hearts clean,and
vipe the fin from amongji you : And defire to be forgiven, for wiferable are they that meet with ven-
geance, or that kttow the place where ll.<e takfth up her Harbour.
A. Gloria , Honor , Laus & gratiarum aftio perenuis (it Deo noflro Omnipotenti : Nobis ve-
roaDeoPatre, propter Jefum Chriftumin Spiritii Saiifto , fit Mifericordia, Pax &: Confolatio
in via virtutis & veritatis. Amen.
Monday, iNTsT/fwf'.iS. Hora^. Mane. Lubek,
E. K. There appeareth the Cloud , wherein the fword remaincth en-
clofcd-
A. O Lord, be niercifuU unto us , and rigoroufly execute not thy Juftice upon us, thy
weaklings: Nor fufFer Satan to Triumph , where thy glory is expefted,8ic. Converte nos
J)euf falutaris nojier, & averte iram tuani a nobis, &c.
£. K- NowcomechoneiaawhiceCoat,nocperfedIy to befecn, but as
if he were feen through a CiprefTc ,• and faid as followeth.
f^'ho is he that leadetk out the Lion to prey ? or who is he that lifteth up the feet of the young
enes to devour ? Whofeedeth the fmell of the roaring Bear , or hath taught him to remember the
place of his recreation ? Hath he alfo taught the fields^ to put forth their voices : and the mighty
trees to floiirifh in pride ? Are not the Hills glad when they bring forth Corn ? When the Valleys
rejoice with threefold waters. The beafts of the itilderneffe have they not kjiown Caves : and unto
fuch as are made tame, it there not a underjtanding ? For, who it he that teacheth them, to
makjfubjeB themfelves, which are ravening, or to bridle fuch as are of their frowardneffe ? 'Even
he it if , that look^eth down from Heaven, and beholdeth the. earth , and meafureth with his feety
f'^yifgy
It it done.
ff^ich entretb alfo into the houfes of men, and lifteneth to that which they call wonders. Which
tpenetb the gates of hit knowledge with kit own finger ; And which fayeth unto you : How are ye
hecomewife ? Or from whence is your miderlianding, are your hearts become Caves to fend out Thun-
ders ? Or why are your ffirits thus vexed with holineffe ? Are you not a liiff-necl{ed people, and fuch
as are defpifed .<' Are you not poor,and therefore hated. Since, therefor e,you are become Bajiards,
who teacheth your lips to fpeak, of my Church? Or hath taught yon to urge me with mine own
fpirit /
Behold, t am mighty,
Becaufe I am the joy of the faithfulU For I am called the Temple of the Holy ones,and the beauty
cf Ifrael . Ths fpirit of man crieth out, and pierceth into the Lord , .w the fw'ftnejfe of an Arrow
:
And he heard them. Therefore, thus doth the winde o/Caboa open her mouth , and fweareth by
the ]i^\>-dv Pillar that jtandeth in the Temple of Reconciliation, and it Thundereth, and is faid ^
Be it done.
And behold, the doors open, and the Holy Altar it covered. The beafis with many feet hriitS, up
lurnt- offerings : And there it a facrifice that afcendeth up, and it is a mighty winde., fuch as hath
not beenfince the beginning of dajes. Open your ears therefore, and prepareyour felves to hear
:
For thit...... it mighty, for it it of peacei My Jujiice {faith the Lord) is fealed , andyou have
finned mightily : My arm it jir etched forth, and I mufi be magnified : For vengeance is gone
forth, and is appeared already. But who it he tha t refijieth the venome of the earth, or indrucfetb
man to avoid theVarts of po^fon ? He faith unto you. Thus it is, becaufe I have fanclified you,
and h-^ve made you holy to the earth: Therefore will I help you : But not as you defire : For your
prayers and unrighteous lifejhall becoine bands ofyarn. And I will ntak.e a Contention betwixt Sa^
than andyon. If therefore you labour hard,and open fervent mindes,fu b .is are not of the world
j
atid-can binde this fword and cloud of vengeance faji from amonz^ji you : Be it fo unto you, for it is
your own right eoufnejfe. For Sathan hath reviled, and hath faid ,
ThatJhalt thou fee,
^Butfo long as they are Holy, and become righteoufieffc, they are become fafe : hut when thy fall
i
Sat0» entretb in. For the power of righteoufmffe is become a. Conquerour 3 ifjt figkt mightily.
And Satan flidll be confomded by a righteous j udgemcnt.
H 2 For
^z A true "{{elation of D^ Dee his JBions mthfpirits, ^cc.
For I have decreed it : and by my felf I [wear it
Note.
tor 1 nave aciTc<;u' '< • •^•••^"j '"J i^-j * j" — --•
I Will he a righxem Judge betwixt you. Therefore, take heed you fin not , mr go into death :
For zreat n the fall of vengeance. Be not therefore defiled with the filthmefe of the wicked :
Neither delight tn fuch a, counterfeit truth. For I am one fire thatjudgeth all things. And I
delight in people that are joyfull with one Banket. For thofe that fill their bellies at the houfes of
ihangers : Become enemies to me.
For I have faidy
My fptrit is holy, and wy annointed righteous. Let the earth rife up , and continue in her wic-
kedneke- Tea, let them fayy we have found the anointed : But my continuance is truth, and they are
become liars. For my fpirit worKethy and behold, there are wonders in the fight of men. And
wheresoever I dwell, fuch is my power. Be therefore of One houfe,that you may eat together:Leafi
you banket too much , and fo become deceivers. I am one, and am kpown by One : And unto One,
mi^h One I am married mto. {And I am merctfulO Whofoever abtdeth not therein, is an Adul^ .
terer. Avoid yoft dark^effe, for righteoufneffe is prefent , and wy f^irit entreth. Bleg.d art
fuch as believe. Amen.
Even to the , Amen.
5- K. He is gone- There appcare fome bands linked together, as Chaincs
about the Cloud.
A. Welcome be thefe bands.
£.K. He is here again J
andfaith eth.
Why areyou become dull? Why are you yet ignorant ? Seefi thou thefe [Hepoint-
cth,and fpeaketh to E. K.]
f. iC. Uee them, I thank God.
...thefe bonds are your own righteoufnege : And m they appear before the Lord, fo {hall they
hinde vengeance together : But ifyou become weakyou fall. But pray, that you fall not : For they
'
are the dayes offorrow. the fpirit of God is twofold ; prefent Jah agian, and prefent Nah gaf-
fapalan. therefore take heed. For, in the firji, you are bleffed : and it may return. But he
that is filM with the fecond, (hall be drunken for ever. the firji it power prefent , and a comfort
inmeafurable, glorifying, and jhengthning all things that are agreeable to it : But when they difer,
it returneth. the other is the fpirit of the firji, and the fecond , Almighty , and everlajiing , w«-
meafurable , and inexplicable: drowning the will of man, that becometh jirongin the fountain of
gladneffe and underlianding : true wifdont her felf, and not returning. Fray, therefore , that you
may be perfed : and that you may be feafoned : For it is a fait that faveureth to the end,
the peace of God be amongji you.
E. JC- Hecaft off his Cloudy Lawn, and went away. Hefcemedtobe
Raphael*
ts.. Yet we befeech you more exprefly, and particularly to deal with \\?,&4.
It isfaid It is written It is true.
Ceafe.
A. Gloria, LauSj Honour, Triumphus & Jubilatio fit Deo noftro oranipotenti ; Nunc &:
femper. Amen.
\Vednc[d^y,Novemh.2o. Manehor.iil, Lubek,.
b.. As thou haft of thy mercies CO Lord) given us fome (hew of thy favour bent toward
us : foarewc defirous to underftandhow our Letters have wrought upon our friend his heart
to joyn with us to call for thy mercies, pardon and help : for if they have. Then do we hope,
our bands (of acceptable life) whereby tobinde vengeance prepared and intended againft us»
fliall wax more and ftronger : by thy great mercy and help to thy well-pleafing in thy fcrvice
hence forward.
£. K. The Cloud and bonds appear : But the bands appear fewer. .
A. O Lord, is our ftate fince yefterday become weaker with thee ? And (hall it fo narrowly
be exafted ? Thy will be done, who art holy, jufl, and moft wife, O God.
E.K. The bonds about the Cloud, now areonely twO; which before
were fix, or feven. The bonds feem of a fmoky afliy collour , fpirally going
about the Cloud.
At length a Judgement is the end of Juftice : difiributing and delivering alfo to every thing, feeny heard,
vcyce. or determined to hit proper end uprightly. Are you able to deny this i^
A. The end of our aftions , words , and thoughts may feem twofold : One of us in-
tended , and ment to be good : The other not depending upon our weening , but accord-
ing to exaft vvifdom, what istheend of the famejliere deemed the proper end, if 1 undcr-
ftaud right.
A voycc.
<a^ true Relation of I>. Dee his ABions with fpirits, dec.
^ 5
A voyce. Lo, yudgement is the end of Juliice in things that are handled uprightly : whereofyou
finde the Omnipotencie and Truth of him that pidgeth Omnipotently : IVhich beholding your Combat
^
hath girded himfelf together^and beholdeth the Lijis, and he judgeth ufrightly : For^ he hath fworn it-
Arm not your felves therefore as weakjings : But provide as mightie and couragious Souldiers, foryour
cwn defence. I am without corruption (faith the Lord) and lean not with the windes of
Bafannah.
A. O Lord, give me leave to rcqueft thee, &c.
A voyce. But I am juft, and judgement her felf. Entemot therefore into my holy places : Ifei*
ther kjteel down before my fanSuaries ; faying, the Lord hath Chofen us , He livethy and it is true
forever. For I have fazd. It may be undetermined. I will alfa- fee, whether you be ftrong in-
wardly, or privily rotten* For with the world your weakjieffe is great. JVhofoever overcometh
jhall rejoyce. But I will be a God in my Covenant and will hold on my promife : Fight therefore
as it becometh you, and caji off the world. Makf fiep fubjeif , and flrangle your Adverfary^
for unto fuch belongetb the entrance into my Chambers, and the ufe of my will, as the Horn of my
glorie. For it is written, light dwelleth not in darkjteffe : Neither hath darkjteffe comprehended,
any light : For darkjtejfe is the Cave of errour, and the reward of finners. Thus fayetb he, which
beholdethyour forrows : And it is a fight for -many daies, which appeareth neither in the one, nor in
the other : nor giveth he anfwer untill the end.
B- /^« There is one come in like a Ghoft, and hctaketh all the hangings
away, which beautified the place like to Curtains- Now all the fides of
the ftone are darkifh jand the Cloud ftandeth in the very middle thereof^
Now the bands feem brighter then becaufe the place is fo darkifh,
A. O Lord, many </<zi« Combat is affigiied us. And forafmuch as Militia eji vita hominis fu-
per Terram, we are now in a great uncertainty of our Combat ending.
£. K' There ftandeth the number of40* upon a great Labell , and no-
thing clfe*
A. This 40. ( O Lord) what bctokencth it , daycs , weeks , or years > Well : Whatfo-
ever it be, Blefled be the name of the Higheft. Our God, King, and Father.
'
E. K.
A.
E- K- Now is one come in very brave, like a Preacher ; I take him to be
an evil one.
A, Benediftus qui venit in nomine Domini. Yhis Preach-
E. K. He faith nothing 5 Not fo much as, Amen. wSy«h."
Are you fo foolifh to thinks that the power of God will defcend into fo bafe a place ?
£• K- The power of God defccnding, deicendcth to beautifie the place.
And whatfoeverhebcautificchjhe doth it mercifully : And ^o through his
mercy he defcendcth among us,that put our truft in his mercies-
It is true : But, unto thofe that are righteous.
A. Chrift his coming hath been to fave finners. His converfation was among finners,
naltjlame, blinde, anddifeafed. Solikewife : Now our fi-ailty , or impurity will not c%-^
elude his prefcnce, or the Miniftcry of his faithful! Angels,
What, in this bafe manner?
A. Doyoumiflikethemanner?
Can any that hath any drop ofwifdom likf it ?
A. Are you wife? :\,y.'a : r ,.
•
*... .» Or elfe I could not fee thy imptrfeHioas.
A. Which be they ? Accufeme.
^k^t greater imperfedion, then to imagine much more believe, that the Angels of God, Willi-
or may defcend into fo filthie a place, as this corruptible fione is ? Confidering the clearneffe, and big-
neffe of the aire, or the places that are prepared in mans bodies for fuch entrances.
A. Who caufcth thee to come here ?
Thy folly.
A. Art thou good, or bad?
I am good, or elfe I could not feethebad.
A. Ergo, thou art a lyar, for thou fayd'ft, No good Angel, ipould, or might come here intof
tnis ftone.
A. Thus will God be glorified againft wicked Satan, and his Minifters. His fetch was ve-
54 ^ true^elation o/*D^ Dee his ABions whfprits, &c.
jy Cubtile : As, To bring in doubt all the Anions performed in this ftone. What canft thou
yniwer ?
€• K. He fayeth nothing •
Neither can he fay any thing- He ftemeth to be
a very foolifli Devil,
A. Mendaceni oportct efle memorem. Now be packing henee.
I will abide here.
A. Where God will permit thee, there mayeftthou be : But we will (as now) ccafc : And
we thank God highly of this comfort and viftory : We befeech him , that we may as profper-
oufly overcome all other Diabolical aflaults or fophiftical , or untrue perfwafions : and all his
Tenipcacions. Amen.
Glory, Honour, power, and praife be to our Almighty and living God , the Lord of
HoltSj Jehovak^nsw and ever. Amen.
Saturday, A^oi/fwt. 23. kMeridiehora i\. Lubek.
E. K. Here appeareth the fame bad one, fitting, who laft appeared- The
Cloud with the 1 word appeareth at laft : with two wreaths on one fidci and
two on the other, Ipirally- This Creature taketh the cloudy pillar, and
throweth ic from him divers times-
He fayeth. Call ,ti long m thou wilt, J will keep thee for feeing any more fights here.
A. Or Lord, attend unto thy glory : Attend imto thy honour, regard the arrogancy of this
Luciferine brag againft thy younglings expreffed.
A, And of theLord, ^/i. Ldfi^?f, &c.
..... . Hejhallcome to dejiru&ion, at thou and thine to tniferable leggery : Becaufehe hathconfeated
to them that areMinijiers of iniquitj,fpirits of faljjjood.
E. K. He looketh on a bare book, when he faith thus-
.",. ,.^he power of God entreth'into the Soul of man, and doth vifit the Cbamhers of his under^
landing : openeth his will with p^wer. The fpirits of darkneffe are ready for every place , and.
can deceive, faying, This is of God. Vnto thefe you have lijiened : and have fworn it at a Covenant .
between God and yov^ But I am come from Goi : and am entred indeed , and will mak^e you hun-
gry in your own foolifhneffe, that you viay become wife. None hath entred here with power but I.
And I will tarry here. And I will be a wall betwixt you , and your imaginations : and betwixt
thofe that have tempted you , and your weakjtejfe. for thou haji called upon God : and be hath
heard thee, and I am he that fayeth fo unto thee. Laws offalvation are ready,follow them.
The way into dark^neffe is wideband eafie ,^an^ where light is, it encreafeth joy. Be thott therefore
warned by we.
Nay, I have fa id.
A. Thou haft faid here. That thou art God, is that true? For thou haft faid. Thou haf
called upon God, and he hath hard thee : And I am he , that fayeth fo unto thee.
I fee thee : And thy wifdom is nothing : Mal{e of me what thettcanji , I am the meffager o^
God.
Avoid darkjieffe, avoid darkjteffe, avoid darkjteffe.
E. K. He plucketh down violently (in the ftone) the Clouds, and all hi
cometh light in the ftone-
Ly here with thy fellofvs. Thofe that are of wifdom, let them xnderfiand.
A. O Sapientiapatris 2terni,illuminamentes noftras, ut tibi ferviamus in fanftitate, & Ju-
ftitia toto vitae noftrx tempore. Amen.
Carmathar, a Knight of theKhodes, was thirteen years deceived with one that appeared
(iW he thought) in glone & wifdom in the image of Chrifi. Antony was begttiled in divers wayes.
The Prophets & Apojiles have doubted in many things; But becattfe they faithfully believed they were
not rejected. Their hope became fruitfHll,and they bleffed with underjianding from above. Iffo be alfo,
y,u repent, and be forry in that you have yielded unto the injiruments of wick^edneffe : a nd follow on,
as they your fathers have done ,youjhall alfo become wife ; But I fay unto you, 7kat which you have
confented unto is air.iffc , and falfe,worfe then errour it felf. For, where have you tailed anie fruit
cutofthafDocirine. How poor is the power, that hath been longtold of inyo^t. Ton have for-'
gttten your own knowledge, and are become of feers, blitide : fuch as grope their way. Such end,fuch
beginning. For the end hangeth from the beginning : and is become a means in it felf , to bring all
tilings to paffe. But neither the end nor beginning offuch things as you have handled hath been per-
fed, or probable : But a deceit, comprehending the image of falpjood : Tea, much more the traps and-'
fnares into wickedneffe ; which deferveth dejiruUion eternally.
Jtrue Relation of D'. Dee his Jciicns mth fpirits, 5c c. 55
If tkU may advi[e yoUyB^ it fo. If thefe examples and probable arguments be found ^ Then
neceffarilyyou ovght of dtitie to be counfelled by me : Bat 1 have opened my mouth and toldyou. Be
itunto you^ according to your difpoftion.
A. Be it unto us according to the mercies and loving kindne/Te of the Highert ; into vvhofe
hands we commit ourfelves, all our doings, and intents.
"tliat is well faid . . . Godbewithym.
E. K. He is gone, and in the place where he ftood the likenefle of a littU
Circle, as ifa print were made with a Thimblc-briin-
A. Soli Deo, Honor omnis. Si Gloria. Amen.
Monday 2^. Novemb. Mane^ S i Lvh\.
E'K. Here appcarechltraight way, (atche firil looking ) the famefel- E.r^.
low that laft fpake, and Jcfc the print ofthe little Circle behind him. 1/"
A. Orabamdiu ad Deum) ut Arbiter cfTet inter iftos. A .... num .... lum confugimus in
tempore necefsitatis, &c. A te C O Deus ) folo pendemus, &s.
A. Sedebamus quafi in triangulo, & fe convertebat verfus y< L.
Jhou,Oma»,awal{e,lhakeoffforgetflneffe: Lift mt up thy felf fo much; But clofe up
thine eares againji thefe deluded deluders, which carry thee headhng into folly:, and transform thee
to ajhadovr : By whofe counfel thou art become difhmouredy and by -whom thou (bale become a fpot
in the Booi{_of Fame^, Call to remembrance the Hijhries of the whole Worlds Political andEc-
cleftajiical. Inguire of the Learned that have fettled their judgements in the Book^of god. Open
thine eyesy and behold, if any of the Prophets or forefathers ( men grounded in wifd^m and diep
intderjianding) have yielded themfehes to thit unrighteoufneffe^ belieting lyars ; confenting to un-
truths, and lalily dijhonouring the Name of God. Then call to minde thine own ejlate^ thf fiour-
ijhingof thy youth, and poffibil'ties, wherein thou may'f he made perfect. yf'Vich if thou truely ij.
Then banilh this diflionour to God and his Angles, lijien mt to thefe S ...... erfity : For the Syrenes
are awak^e,and their fong isto deftruiiion. I am fent from God, as a Meffenger to call thee
home; for thou difhonourefi God mightily. Behold thm fljalt be made contemptible, and iecome a
laughing-ihc\. Thy honour ,lhall be defaced, and thy pojlerity fpotted with ignominie. More-^
over, fuch as are thy friends (hallfhak^e their heads , faymg, H'hat wife man hath thus been over-
some ? What is he that is become foolifh t Thou maj'i defire it, and confent, as before ; But I am
a fiumbling blocks betwixt y)u,^ndw\\[ dwell in j// Elements for your purpofes.
E- K- Heholdcth up hii hands towards ^ and laith, «, Nay I have
told him truth- ....,,
E A.. /:iehath now gotten him a Chair, and littctti down- lunged, h=
A. If it be truth, then it is a token that God is Very merciful unto us ; and that we are DecUna, ama-
In his favour highly, to give us this warning to avoid evil. Now refteth the other part, /o 6' f"« *o-
How we fhall attain to good, and wifdom, from God ; fuch as by the true and perfeft ufe of"*™' ^'fato
his creatures, we might do him fome acceptable fervice , with true obedience and humi-
lity, &c.
E. K- Onecomethtohim,and faith Ht go:th about to takeyoaa
lyar.
E. iL' Hcgoethaway, and Cometh again,
E- K- This man which thus came and went awavj and comcth again,
is all in white-, he hath a filyer Crown on his head- he fpeaketh as fol-
ioweth•••.
T>e»y that you have done, Confejfe it to be falfe^ Cryyiu have offended. And let the An-
gels of God feeyou do Jo, ( that they may carry up your prayers^ fo Jhall you become righteous ;
But why doji thouwrite words of contempt againji M 1 For One in our number is All-, And we
are , all. One. Believe us ; for of our felves we have no power to infrnrt you, but to deliver you the
Commandment of God. Rent your cloaths, plucky thofe blafphemous bookj in pieces ; And fall down
before the Lord : for he it is, that is Wifdom. I have done for this tune.
E-K- He is gone.
A. QlLis eft difcretor Spirititum ?
E. K- Now he cometh in again and fpeaketh.
Oh,you are a Learned man Truth in the fecond : He it is that difcreetly jv.dgeth all
things. If his difcretion be given to you, thanks God.
A. mi
5 ^ A true "[(elation of D^ Dee h'ts JBionsmthffirits^dic.
A. IIU ergoConmiittemus hanccaufara; abillohoc donum petcntes &: expeftantes. Nos
interim pic in Chiiito vivcre intendimus.
E. K. He is become a great pillar of Chryftal higher than a Steeple. He
afcendeth upward in clouds, and the little circle remaineth-
A. Gloria, laiis, honor, & sratiarumaftio fit Deo noftro oranipotenti Trino 8i iini, nunc,
& in fecula feciilorum. Annn.
T'uefday Decembris lo. After Diner, we removed from Lubek^y and the Lord Alb. Laskjf
went by Coach to Lord fhriliopher, Duke o( L^^iecl^elburgh.
Thiirfdaj night we lay at JFifynar. 1 1. Vecemb. vel I2.
Saturday morning we came to Rojhch. 14. Decembris.
Monday Vecemh. 16. M'tne hor^ lO \. Rojloch.
E- K- He is here, that laid, he would dwell in omnihus Elementis^ Sec-
A.
, I came from the fountain of light, -where is no errour nor darkneffeiand have Powery ( be~
caufe It is given me from the Wgheji ) l^f'hicb, { Lo J is grown and become a mighty Rocl{. For
itisfaidofme. Behold I will vifit them that put their truji in me^ with a. comfortable jirength in
the time of need ; For my Kock. is an everlajiing ftrength^ and the Hills of my countenance en-
dure for ever. If then I be the Countenance of God, and a piercing fire fent out as a fiame^ not
onelywith his great mercy, but with his good will, and that towardsyou,overitihelmed,not caji down,
hut almoji for ever buried in a lakf of ignorance, and incuenchable flame, fuch as confumetb
with ignorance , deceit it felf , and a provocation too manifeji , and apparent dejiru-
aion : If I then with this meffage ( being the meffage of truth ) my felf a mean .... fufficent
Order for the publifhmsnt thereof, can, nor may as of ...niam) vehemently defpifed'
C the fruits of a good Confcience, notwith'ianding fiedfaji^ Then is he of no power of whom I
am .... lecaufe it is written. Such as rife up again'l my Spirit, I will defiroy them in the vtidfi of
the fame fire, and will deliver their ajhes to the windes for a memory of their wiekj^dneffe. But
heisju'l, and is without meafure : kjiowethwhat is, and what is tg come, which hath thus faid of
yoU' Behold their ignorance is greater, and they ejieem not truth. Lo I have heard them, in the
w'idil of their corruption; yet they are become faithleffe : I minijier unto them, but in vain; But
heboid their mouths are clofed upwith idleneffe. ye of little underjianding, are you become fo
blinde, that you will not fee ? Are the windows ofyour eares made fajt agamji truth? Are your
confciencesfealed up, with a thrice burnt iron ? Defire you light^ and yet refufe it ? Have jou
craved . . ,
, and now deny it : yea utterly difdain it ?
A. That is not true.
£• K Now Cometh a head behind him.
Lo the endfhallbec$me your comfort, if you liiien to the fengs of my mouth : ifnot, ever'
laflingfolly : and a reward of fuch, as areweary to hear offrnth. Now I pinched him
E. K- This he laid looking behind him.
A.
Burn thofe blafphemoui bookj of thine, and I will teach thee wifjom.
A. WjII you have me note down that fentence fo
.
I will.
A. What blafphemous books can I acknowledge, feeing I underftand none ? Ifthey con-
tain Sentence, makemeto perceive it; that fo I may compare it , with the Touchftone of
God his word, ufingthe Talent of fuch reafon, as God hath given me.
...... 1^0, I go, I go.
E. K. Now Cometh a great fire down, and there appeareth a great huge
man, with a^reat /Tvord in his hand '>
fire comcth out at his eyes, and at his
mouth. This terrible man faid,
Malediciifunt, qui'jurati funt contra Nomen meum.
E. K. Now that wicked creature fhaketh himfclf.
A. In nomine Jefu Chrifti Rcdemptoris hunrani generis, Quis tu cs ?
i This was Ipoken to the man with the 1 word. ]
Sume vires,
A. Deus in adjutorium meum intende, &c. Miferere raei Deus &c.
E. K Now the great huge one kncelcth down, and his face is ( now^
from meward j he lookcth up toward heaven 6 he hath very long hair, to
beneath
Jtrue Relation of D''. Dee his Miens mth [pints, (5c c^ 57
beneath his girdle i his Robe is long and tucked up. Now he ftand-
cthup.
Curfei are they : Curjed are they : Curfed is he for ever. I am, I gave thee tower
ind fcaled thee for a time; Fovcer to itfe thevehemency of thine own poifon ; but not to touch my
coat, 'thus hefaith) And (^I am') thou art a lyar from the heginning^and the fountain of curfed'
ttejfe, Vamnat'on is thy dwellingplace ; Death is thy feat ; Vengeance is the Crown of thy difglory.
Becaufe thou ball entred into my feat : Haji exalted thy brightneffe^bUfphemed my name ; wherei'a
( in this AUion ) thou continueji( No pint of thy charge, nor of my permifion. ) Be thou ac-
curfed, weakj-nid, overthrown, and defaced, "Thou art vanqijhed, 7ky time isjhortened. And
why ? I am. And I fay thou fighteft againjl me, and not againfi men. I am Jujiice, and the
Hrength of him that livetJjyWhom thou haJi felt, and ffialt feel, vDorld without end; therefore
Depart; Depart I fay.
E. K. Now the fword ftandcth by him, with the rags that appeared
before.
...... Vengeance, prepared for others,be thy reioard : As. it was delivered unto thee, fo ta\e it
mth thee ; that the malice which thou,fhewejt to others, ntay heap np thine own dejiruSfioH.
Jeofah, Jeovah, Jeovafcah.
6. K' The wicked Tempter falleth down into a hole^ and this high
creature putteth the fword and rags down after him- Now this great
creature appearcth as fmall as he ufed to do. And it is Michael,
Mic. ...... Veniat Lux Domini, & fidelium Confolatio.
E.K- Now is ail come in, as was before : The Vail, the feet of mcii
appearing under, if^c.
Mic Ihus hath God dealt mercifully withyou.
ti. His Name be praifed for ever.
Mic thiu hath Truth vanquijhed darkjtefe. Evenfo fiallyou vanquifh the World in him
which it the Spirit of Power and truth. For I have Swoni ( faith the LordJ and will he mer-
ciful unto you : But ceafe for thefe daies to come ; for they were daies delivered : Let them he
( therefore ) unto you daies of Repentance : For the end of ^o daies muji come : And this Do-
Qrine jhall he written unto all Kations, even unto the end of the World. The Grain is yet in the
earth, and hathnewly confented with the earth : But when it fpringeth, and bearethfeed, the mm-
ler Jhiill be the lajl.
U. A dark Parable, to my underftanding, is this.
Mic the transparent fire of Meekiteffe comfort and warm your fouls, re^fte and ma1{e
firong your bodies , to the eternal comfort of the World to come ; in the pilgrimage vpHch Jou Jhall
endure, with a heavy crojfe for the teftimonie of truth.
E- K* A gfcat many voices, fay, ^.Arnen.
E- K- Now he is gone,and the golden Vail is drawn ag^in-
h. Omnis laus, honor, Gloria, Viftoria & Triiimphiis fit Deo noftro omnipotenti. Vivo 8c
vero, nunc, & in fempiterna feculorum fecula. Amen.
Sonday, 22. DeCembris, Mane, we went from Rojloch toward Stetin.
Wenfday, z'j.Decembris, on Chriftmas Day morning, wc cume to Stetin by lo of the clock;
Annoi<)^^. Stiloveteri.
Stetini in Pomcrania.
January 2. MaHe,hora 9.
A. Veniat lux Domini, & fidelium Confolatio, &c. 40. dies, jam coniplcti funt, &c,
Expeftamus ptitpotens auxilium Altifsirai, &c.
E. K. 1 cannot fee but an inch into the Stone. The Curtain ap-
pearcth, but more deep into the Stone At length cometh one
very tall, in a long white Gown, all open, and his hair of his head hanging
down to his legs. He hath wings upon his head, armes, back, and legs.
Hefcemeth to defcend from the Clouds, and upon Clouds which lie floape^
Wife for his defccnding. He fpeaketh as follovvcth-
I the
T S A true'^elation of D^ Dee his JBions mthjpints, 6cc>
The pi>renejfe ofkumiltty^ difperfed through the inward-bowels of man, is that.whtch is cal-
led ( with \ou)?erfezerance. H^hich Perfevermcej hemttfieth and ejiabliflieth in a. true and
fiedfad Bafts thofe thi>tgs that are acceptable in the fight of God, the worses of man. Hence
fvrinmh jujiifiratton, which with the love of God. Herein are you become like unto uf^
for that we are the image ofPerfeverance, and the Glory of God. But in Uf it a dignified : U
\ou It if, and Willi be imperfea : For nothing U of fiejh or blood, that receiveth perfedion.
the Emanations from God, to, and into his creatures ( which agree in the Center of the Earth
<M the kjiitting up of things ) are ejiablijhed : So that one jot of his Will neither can, nor may per-
/7/j, wjx w.al{_, or dwell in error : Which forefeen from the beginning, carrieth in it felf there-
vienibrance of all things to the end. through which mercy and remembrance, you are become the
fervants of God : Not for your own fakes , but in that it is the Glory of him, which hathcalledyou
Otr Calling
^^ ^^^ exernfe : Irouhlefome to the World, hut rewarded with Glory.
or Exercife.
^j- ^^^^^^^^^ ^^„^ imperfections rife up and refiji the Will of God, faying, blafphemoufly asyou do;
Let usfeek other wayes, then you are not counted perpverers , neither are your work? worthy
reward: But humane reafon canperfwade and give judgement again'fthefe follies, much more-
are they damnable, and deferve correction in the voice and judgement offiich as are pure.
He that dealeth with the wicked is a lyar, and (hall have his reward : But the end of comfort it
in thepureneffe offpirit. But you of little wifdnm, you rife up againji thewindes, and yoke
your wits agaiml the mountains : Nay you cafi your felves down heaHong, where there is m mercy.
for wkatb/afphemie is it to fay. If it "be the will of God, it muft follow > Is not 7nan fuljeU to
the bringing in of his own labours ? And are 7tot they allowed to his comfort, being brought in >
the foul of man is the image of God, after his form, which kpepeth within himfelf the power of
his divinity in the heavenly Spirit, whereby he hath A'tthority to confent with God in the workntan-
[fjipof his Will and Creatures : yvhirh Power being fealed already, giveth mto man ( as King of
himself) to confent to his own falvation, conjoyning and knitting himfelf together, either with per-
feverance in the affured hope of mercy, or ( with wilfull drunkenneffe, ) to the reward of fuch as
fall. therefore. Become Holy. For the foul beautifieth, when it is beautified in itfelf. Re-i
fiji not the Will of God, which is mighty on you : Be not obftinate.
Be humble, Rejoyce mtfor this World : But be glad that your names are fealed, and that you
fhall correft the World. Befpair not through wea\neffe ; for from whom Cometh jirength ? If
puddles become Seas, the end is more wonderful : But yet greater when fimers are called to the
knowledge and perffrmance of God his Will, thorough his mercies. Even as one day perijheth,
and is not, although he hath been ; Even fo it is, and flyall be the ftate of this World. For the
Earth muli fingO Sannawith the Heavens , And there muji be One veritie. And Hierufalem
fhall defcend with an horn of glory to the end, the Sun and Moonjhall be witneffts, and wonder
at their jhy. the Kings of the Earth fhall become proud in themfelvesf and are unable to be tamed
with T?tan.
But I willyoke them ( faith the Lord Jv/khcoTreStion-:, And force them one to imitate ano~
thers fleps : Tea. they (fjall tread the grapes alike ; For in my Vineyard C'rruption fhall not dwelt
With Authority : Neither pall the Frince of t)arkneffe ufurpe my further honour.
€• K' He fpcaketh much in almaliervoicethanhcdid- I cannot per-'
ceive it- ] He turned back and fpakc*
J fpeak.thefe things for your underji anding, and that you vtaybeflrengthened,
E,K. He turnech back again (as before) and fpeaketh I know not
what.
My dear brethren,therefore rejoyce in Comfort, and the image of Peace : and remain
faithful, that you may he fed with that food that Ihall preferve and alwaies refl before the mighty
flames of Zanzor ; where there dvPelleih no defiled Creature, nor any unrighteoufneffe.
£.K. He turneth now back again (as before) fpeaking. Hefecmeth
now to lean againft a Pillar ofCopper, great and round : And he is become
IcfTe than he was- Now heftand.th on the top of the Pillar, Now he knee;:
icth down, his back being turned-
A voice faith to him Svpear CO
He faid It is done.
He faid thf firjivoice openeth his mouth and faith [ there is a great rumbling and row
Jhings offalling of towns or Houfs, as it were in the Stone, 3
Heiaid thewillofGod is fealed in this Prophefe, and it fhall endure.
^^A voice Swear [2]
"lie faid I have done.
;"'~Hefaid ....... It thundereth, and it is thefecond voice. the efFeftof God his \Y\\\,'ismt
of time ; and therefore not to bek^own of man, till that moment and end of time J^:all appear,
vhenin it mujt bepubliJJjed, and finijhed with power. "_
E. K. Now
(tA true %elation of Jy^ Dee his JBions mthffirits, Sec. 55?
E. K- Now it thumblech again very terribly, as chough a whole Town
fhould fall down inco a great V'alley-
A voyce stvear Lsl
'
He faid I have And it it the third, and the lajl voyce. All things that arecrookfd
Jhall be made Jhaight. The foinde of the heavens Jhall walk^ through all the earth. Wifdom jhull
fit in her Majejiie, Crowned^ in the top of an Hill, with exalted glorie.
It is the end.
£. K- Now all dafheth in a flame of fire, Pillar, and he, and all, and fd
flicth upward.
A voyce He that hath ears-, let him hear.
Another \oyce. It (hall be. Amen.
E- K. Now the Curtain coiheth before all^as ic was at the begfnning,this
day.
A. O Lord, for thy great niyfteries declared unto us (this day) vye moft humbly thank thee.
But on our parts, there remaineth fome matter. .... thy hands by feme ot thy good Minifters,
vvede/irc to have fome advertifemenc : as of the Lord AibtLaskje. Secondly, oi Vincent Seve^
&c.
£• K' A very little Creature appeareth, and faith
The little one. A word, and away. The hearts ofPrinces^ are the fecrets of the Lord: Such
they are, as unlock^ the doings of this world.
A. Oi A. L. his delay in coming (contrary to our defire and expeftacion) I would gladly
underftand the caufe, &c.
The little one. Thofe things that are efwick^dneffe, are not of our remembrance. , 'thU (lay
Jhall hinder a third part of hit glory. But all your life is not of him : Nor he of you. If he N^te.
become good: hefliallbe well rewarded. He is forward , Vincent is in France. Ok A. L. and
5. K- He is gone fuddenly. This Creature ftood between the Curtain, T ^'/""""S
and the forepart or the llonc,it was one or the Icaft Creatures that ever I
favv-
A. All Honour, praife, and thanks be to our God Almighty : now and ever. Amen.
Thurfday, Januarii 9. The Lord Albert Laskje came to Stetin, Her. 2 ;. aMeridie.
Fryday, Janurii 10. lAal^i^t itiv^iai usffosj/ft Tma-aQ- n(*. Hora prima incipiebatf &per 2. horof
durabat* Stetini.
\ tut
Sonday, 12. Januarii. .1584. Stetin.
A. After Dinner we were talking together of our affairs. A voyce in E. K. his head
faid.
Jam venithora.
A. After Supper, a< 1 had a defire to fhew to E. K. fome places of St. Johns Apocalypfis, a
voyce faid to him,
Equtis albus eji initium VoUrinx veflra , Et eji verbum Dei. ^ voyce.'
10.& p. funt N'>vemdecim. Eqmis Albus.
A. Hereupon feeking in the 19. Chapter of the Apocalypfis : we found the Text , Equuf al~
ius. Sec. VerfIt 11,
A voyce. Ne d'.<bites. Sum enini fervus Dei. To this purpofe appertain thefe places of Scrip-
re, &c. ^
Thefe are the dayes wherein the Frophet faid , No faith Jhould be found on the earth, vide Efdra
This Faith muji be rejio'red again, and man muji glorifie God in his works. I am the light of )Jb.4 cap. 9.
God. ^cfju 7.
A. Then, by like. He is Zv it J EL,
...... I am a witnejfe of the light. Tiefe are the times when Juflice and truth miifi ta}{e place.
Behold, I touched him, and he became a Prophet,"
A. Mean you Efdras ?
Vriel. 1 ea , in his ninth Chapter of the fourth book. There you Jhall finde manifeftly the Pro- this aaion ir
fhefieof this time, and this aaion. EfJras^tophe
^. Alak, we think the time very long, kefore we entred in the ri"ht trade of our trucked of.
leiTons.
Ur. Whenyou havt_ the hook^ of God before you. Then I will open thefe fecrets unto you.'
A. But Alak , the time is very long thereunto, the more is our grief.
I 2 Ur. Tie'
6o A tmeKelation ofD'. Dee his Actions whfpirits, &ic.
Ur. "the Bible itif.
, , • .
A. I meant fomewhat of our other book, which is to be written.
Ur. Iwtllfpeak^of that alfo.
A. This delay is greatly to our grief , and occafion of many temptations. - • .
lir. The temptations of ike world are mthingunto the wife,huppie are they that feel temptations
•srith ewptintjfc- of the bellj, 7he limber is not yet feafoned, or elfethouJhouldeJiPropheffe. I
mean jiot tfcee E. K.
A. Vincat mauifefta Veritas.
£• iC, He is gone.
Honor,Gloria,Laus,& benediftio,fit DcoNoItro ,
qui in A L BO E Q.U O Jufti-
tias luas tafturuseft. Amen.
Monday- J^niiarii 1^. LManehora, p,. Stctin.
A. After our long difcourfe upon the 9*^. Chapter oiEfdnWy 8ic. Vriel came, and flood,
he ly. upon £. K.his head, not vifibly,
llr. Read the fixth Chapter. For faith mujl flottrijh. I'he world is rotteHi and itskalden in
their own fins.
A. E. K. Read it, and in the 28. verfe, thus it is. Florebit autem fides, &: vincetur cor-
rupcela, Sc oftendetur Veritas, qux fine fra Diebus tantij, &c.
E. K. A voyce faith, Open the Shew- ftonc- 5
E. K. Ac length appared one in a long white Garment- The Curtain'
went allde, and the fccc of men appear not now- This man feemeth
iw^ce fo high as A^ He hath nothing on his hca^l, but long hair hanging
down behinde him. He is ticd^or girded abouc,as though he were tied
vvith many giidles*
^•. IIR.IEL. I aniVriel{_faid this man'jThe light, and hand of him that created Heaven and
Earth.-that talkj-d with ILidizs, and did cotnfort him tn affliction, and the fame that hath tallied
vithyou : Yea , from the beginning of this aftion. Therefore, ^ird your felves together ) and
hear the voice of the Lord : Lijien, (I fay') to fiich things at are hid, (I fay") to them that dwell above
the Heavens. Behold, this is the laji .fleep of the world : and the time,that the power of the highefl
hath armed hinfelf , faying. Come, ye jlrength of the Heavens,and follow we. For the earth
hath cned vengeance, andbith curfed herfelf , and defpaireth. Come (/ fay") For Iwill place the
feat ofrigbteoifneffe. Ibtt my Kingdom maybe in One : And that my people may flourifh : Yea,
even a licilc before the end.
And what is this ? E-K. He fpake thefe four words in another Tune.
£-K- Hs lookech up to heaven-
A voyce. Bhffed art thou, which refpe&eft thy Juftice, and not the fiHs of man*
iio^takinc Ur. Ihis is the voice of the Angel thzLtwovi tdiVtth. Y>\?ice.
plic«' A. May we be fo bold as to demand the name of that Angel ?
Ur. No, It is not lawful/. 1 fwear by all things that are contained within
/nOith. this holy book,: ^ By the feat of God , and him that fitteth thereon. that the * Note.he fpake this,
-.voyds .^y'-.ch httvt been fpokfn in this Adion , and pall be now fpo^en, by me, pointing do.vn to
j4 Prophcf.e. ^re true : three years are yet to come ; even in this moneth ,
(that beginneth
[^'fj". ulmlJ.
an )j87. in the fourth year) jhall the Son of perdition be known unto the whole world :
„„ whicli the Shew-
Jafiu-io. Suddenly creeping out of his hole likf an Adder, leading out her young ones af- ft«ne, nowj flood,
v^mich iftus. ^^j. jj^f fg devour the duji of the earth.
St ji:nrhcit:r, ^ ^ ' *
fic annus ej} in-
n
telligendHi,fin:nf^f'"'ri'*!ii'ius, noflroruti annorura %i.fnhahenddspromo anno tnyjlico : vel ^i.tnenfes, fyc, Perpende.
A, The fentence is dark, in refpeft of the time. Confider well.
A. 1 fufpcft 4''- moneths (now and then) to be underftood for an year.
, _
Ur. Ihis moneth in the fourth year .^'fliafl Antichrvi be l{nowminto all the world. then Jhall
/ouch .ftus.
yf^^ypQ^dtvell awongll the Kings of the earth: For they jhall be chofen all anew. Neither Jhall
rTt'i I'lrribur.t
^^^^^ ""y ^^"^ ^"^^^^' ""*> <*'' reignetha^ a King^ or Govermur of the /f, live unto the end of the
.inff le^tiuti third year : But they Jhall all perijh.
4iSnuihpaitiim. their Kingdoms I e overthrown.
the
Jtrue ^^eUtion of D*". Dee his Jclions Xi>tth fpiritSy &ic^ 6t
Tie earth wajud. "the Khers become bloud , with the hloud of met: and beajts iftixedtoge- ^'^"'P'"' 4^-
ther. la this time Jhall ihe Turkjffj liatehe rooted up , and raji f-om the earth. And i»iiead'^'^'^''J''^^'^°
of bint Jhail enter in that Vfvil : the father nf liars 3 and fuch as dwell in the houfe ofVa~ Myfilcoitiius
**'^y- Be-^o/'^, This * Prince fhall fly through his Kingdoms, .w tif"jvr,f,'j^yj/: x.ei
^.Iheyaie in Pira ife
, Greyhound after his fpoyl : devouring his poHefTions, and cutting duwnanmt vilgaris
efpecraUy £/;-'/.
'
ihe wicked: But he ftiall become proud. llje Prophets of the Lord I" "^^^""""'Ji-
; Jfjd/l defccnd from Heaven y cloathed with their old Garments very fr^J^^i^Anr; h ;""
and not liained. Thy eyts fr^all fee them. Out of thele books fhall the true Doftrine^^pfr^)^/'
of the Prophcts.,and Ap'jiles be gathered : Which are mt to be imderjiood , but wnh the fpirit of un- A.L.
derfiandtngi thefpirit ofwifdom, and truth. Behold, I will fay untojou my felf, Enoch.
Cii £liaf.
ome, Hear. Omfign.
For^ the voyce of the Lord is with power. Therefore^ be wi'de, and of humble fp/rit. For lo,
the time pull come. y4«^//['rfi'e feven iiooJ^j ,fuch as lliall be delivered unco one of you. Andl.Librttnt-'
I will meet thee walkjng in the fields. And Will firetch forth my hand, faying, Come : Then,fh a11'^"^'^' 'if' ^,
thine eyes fee th fe things, that thy fpirit doth. And tbo(*_(halt becom; a man of nnderftanding ;
For I will give thee bread , and thou (lialt eat it, fuch, as fiiall be the bread of fufficieaC
comfort.
E. K. • Ic chundreth in the ftone. Of thee^ [pointing to 6, K!.] thus fayeth
ihe Lord. <
Thou art flejh , and become ftu'^horn. Thy judgement vaxeth dull ^ and thy heart fealed: But 1 e.K.
willunfeal thee ;and thou Ihalt be partaker : Bttt (becaufethou haji offended vie^ not with power
inworldly things^ J will make thee a great Seer : Such an one-, as fljall judge the Circle $f things in
nature. But heavenly underiiandinz,, and fpiritual knowledgejhall be fealed up frotn thee in this
world : For, thou art become jiony, ani haji cried out againlt my Saints. Notwhhliunding , your
life flial! be together. Thou jhalt he a workjnan of nature, lookjnginto the Chanihers o!^ the earth :
The Trealures of men Many things are pluckt from thee, which were thine : Bat not from
you, becaufe I have promifed hem,
JFhat if he, th.it bridled the Windes., A. At your prayers ? Or, who is he that preserved you
from the bloudy imaj^inarions of men, [_and'j hatreds of the world invincible ? Is it not be, that is
God of Heaven and Earth ? Is it n t hr, that made both jieflo and Soid ? lea-, even he it is , that
fayeth. Fly from j/.?? wicii^f-^^f^ft', and fociety with Devils, Leave off to fm againji the Lord
:
for ht is of great powfr. Th:s is the IdH time thdt any JJjew jhall be made in this jione. i^or, /<;, This fcntencs.
the promife of the moji higheji jkall be fulfilled. is revoked af-
E. K. Now / ice a'j chofe men , whofe fecc / faw before : And there fir-lheZne dj?
tethOneina Jadgcmentfcac^withall his teeth fiery' And there fit fix, "'fi^''--
on one fide ot him, and i\x on the other. And there fit twelve in a lower
feat under them» All ihe place is like Gold ,
garnillied with precious IloncSj
On his head is a gre u ftcne; covering his head i a ftone moft bright, brigh.
tcr then fire. Four bring in a man bound. Now all is gone except
Vfiel.
Ur, The end of words, the beginning of deeds.
A voyce. Sea' it up : For, it is at an end.
A, What is your will, that I fhall do with this ftone.
Ur. All is [aid : and I am fealed for time to come.
i^. Deo omn-pocenci, vero, vivo, Si .eterno fit omnis honor, L2Us,G!oria,Potentia, vir^
tus & viftoria : nunc 8c in fcmpitcrna feculorum fecula. Amen.
Wednesday, January r 5, we went from Stetin to Stargirt,
iJo^^f?)', January 19. we came to Pafcw.
Eeclefia Cath^dralis FoGtinfnfis fnndabatnr anno 1025. /^^r Wincenaum Regem Chriiiia-^
Hum factum cuJM fepulcbrum in inferiorl ^arte Ecclefix extat , lafide eg^egie extra-
dum. ,
, , ,
'
Saturday, January 25. 'O «:>/(,>©- udyts t» Q^ivdvis Sia. ri); tx E. K. aJV/Kiaj ititidMs ecayrioy «h*,
(i.e. (JMagnum adnvit£peri:ulnm per iniquitatem E. K. contra me.)
Sunday,]m\wy 26. ...... Invifeham Biblnthecam Ecclefix Cathedralis,
M5«^tfj, Jamiary 27, f.^^i x.fi o^oe* <;?.««. (Kix£ cum uxore breves.).
TueJday, Jznua] J 2S. We went from F/^^.
Thurfday, Jan. 30. We came,to Komih fown^ over the Ion? and dangerous Bridge , with
much cumber at one broken place, by reafon of the huge Cake's cflce^ which lay there,
SatiiT"
6z A true Relation ofD\ Dee his ABlons mthff'mts, &c.
Saturdaj^Fehruariiy i. We pafTed the dangerous way of Ice, having 25 men to cut the Ice
for our C caches to come through above two Englifh miles long ; but for all that great help,
we could not get to Vmew City that night, by reafon of the great water and Ice hard b/
the Town, wjiich was broken over the banks into the medows very deep.
Sotiday, Februarii 2. We came over the great water, the Ice being moft part ( with that
nights wiiide) driven away out of our paflage.
Monday^ Feb. 3. We came by Shadek^to Lask? Town, and there were lodged in thePro-
voft his fair houfcby the Church,
Prima A&io apud Lasko.
Tuefday Februarii 11. Stilo veteriy ail 21. Stilo novo.
ti,. After our prayers of they Pfalms, and my particular invitation and calling for God
his help, and the mimftery of his good Angels : After ( I fay ) more than halfan hour fpacc
attendance; £.£. feemed and thought that he felt a thing about his head, as if it clawed
with Hawks claws. It continued no long time. And toward the Eafterly corner of my
creat Study Jibove, feemed to £. if. clouds to appear, far off, as at a quarter of a miledi-
ftance. Then appeared a Sea, endlefle oneway, and a Haven mouth with a River which
fell or ran into that mouth. And befides that River doing down into the Haven, did an-
other River appear by running into the Sea, without any Haven making or having. The
water of this Sea, is not like Sea-water, but rather like Qliickfilver. Now cometh a moun-
tain, and fwimmech upon that main Sea. Now that mountain feemeth to reft andftand be-
fore that River mouth, that is by the Haven.
A voice Measure me,
E. K. Now feemeth a great thing like a man to ftand, with one leg in
the forcfaid driver, and with the other in the f aid 5ea, by „ having a corner
of the ••• id between his laid legs. His right leg is in theRivcr,and hislefc
in the Sea- His right leg feemeth gold, and his left leg lead. The moun-
tain ftandeth before him. His legs are like two pofts, of the fubftance
of the Rainbow- He is very high: he hath a face, but with many eyes
andnofes,butnotdiftin(ftlyto bcdifccrned. His body feemeth to be red
Braffe. He ftandeth with his arms abroad, and no hands appear. His
right arme is of the colour offilver i
Bis left arme feemeth to be black,
twinkling. His head is much of the colour of that Sea wherein his left
leg ftandeth- Now beginneth a right hand to appear i a fair right
hand.
A voice fald to this man Meafure the water.
He anfwered It is 250 Cubits. .
A voice Meafure that foot of earth,
E. K- He pointcth to the mountain.
Anfwer It is a cube twice doubled in himfelf in a ftraight line,
E- K' One fpeaketh behind me, faying-
Meafure the Sea alfo-
Anfwer It is 750. Cubits.
3, in 4. effici- E. K- He now ftoopcth to it, and taketh of it in his hand-
ify in fe effici'c He faith The fourth in the third, and three in himfelf fquare. The age of Nature.
1' ^S«nr'"
^' ^ Now all is gone, all is clear, and nothing appeareth-
108. A, At length after this, E. K. heard from the forefaid corner of the Study, the noife, as
of a Ship tolled and jolted of the waves of the Sea. After that E. K. faw one that flood all
covered in a white cloud by the Eafterly corner of the Table, aboVe the Table in the Air.
He faid.
Beati funt^quihiw Veritas ^ fpes, & anfolatio ell : & quibiu luminaria majora infer'
viunt, ift fortitudine & potentia xterni & Omnipotentis Dei.
R.iC, Now the cloud covereth him, andabidcth-
E. K. is^ow he cometh out of the cloud , and ftepeth three fteps fors
ward
(^true Sf^elation of I>. Dee his JHions mth fpirits, &c. 63
ward, and chc cloud ftandcch behind him, like a garment At length
he faid.
Then is their blejfednejfe^ eternal life.
E, K. I never Taw him before: He is covered with a red Purple Robe,
fuch as my Lord, here, ufeth • but made fomewhac like a SurplefTc. His
head is covered with feathers hke Down •*
His face is hke a childcs face : His
neck is bare : His legs are ba .
• • • mod white : His garment comcth not but
tothcfmallofhislcg. He ftandcthupona white great round Table, like
Chryftal, all written with letters, infinitely- On the middle of the Table is a
great fwelling or pommel of the fame fubflance the Table is of. Upon that
pommel he ftandeth- He hath nothing in his hands,- neither can his hands
be difccrncd- His Robe hath no llecvcs- V
Hcfaid NoH pojfiim diutiits videri : Servuf fum Altiffimi : Novi Terram in faradifo,
Sfiritus fttni SATIENt I M : Nomen meum e}iNALVAGE.
E» K. He makcth a crofTe upon the place where he ftandeth-
Nal Beatus Filter : Eeatiu Filiiu: Beatm SpiritM SanUtu. Bea . . ,tu ., .t Menfu-
ratio\rerftm& ftibjlantiarum omnium vifibilium &inviftbiliumy verui & fanCtm ejt Deus z«pro-
niillis fuis & veritafejttSjTalit eft.
£'K. Hereupon he (hevvcth a round Globe.
.,.•... C-<fluniy MmduSi JngeliHi Homo, Nihil, & non nihil, & oimie quod efi, vel erit. Nihil e^,
nififplendor,Gtibernatio,&unitas Dei : ^£ a Centra formata eji reformata cji, ab initio ad
tewpus menfuratftm, & in perpetunnt, Laus tibi in Ccelo, Laiu tibi in Terra, TriHmphus tibi in in~
ferno, abi non eji Lam, nee Gloria, ^£ 'j'aminfufa.feHtio, doceo : Sed modo, lingua, & ideo~
iitatep-ddiUo.
E. K. He turneth round when he fpcakcth-
Nal Omnii Caro maximb ejl fibi appJicabilis, m naturit & jperfedione fna. Jgitur reve->
Undafunt Myjieria Dei, non ut audiantnr,fed «t intelligantur. '
E. K' Now cometh a great fmoak : now I fee nothing -. now he is gonc^
A voice. , Hear.
Le. k. I fee nobody.]
E- K. Mechinketh that two fpeak, or clfe this voice givcth an
eccho^
The unpatient and troahlefome fpirits of indignation,wrath, blafphemy, and difobedience,
eontinually contend, bear arms, and ravenoufly run wilfully, againjl thofe that are the . . . . Mejfa-
gers and Angles of the Dignified and Triumphant Glorj : which is now the Miniliery of him that it
Dignified in his Father : To the honour and glory of thofe that are humble and faithful inebeiience.
Tea thofe wicked ones keep open wars againji God^ and his Annointed in Heaven and Earth, onety
for the fafegnard and true kjepiig offuch ds love God, and follow his Commandments, rejoyce in
Truth, aM are vifited in Righteoufnejfe.
Dark,fpeeches to the fiefl> : but words mixed with humane imderjlanding ; wherein briefly
I will manifefl the envy betweenthe wicked ( in refpe& of their envioufnejfe ) and thofe that are
jujiified in Heaven; which fight in the government of mans foiil in the Creatures of God : Not in
that they k}iow they Jhall overcome : But in that they are envious and proud from the beg'nning.
Their contention IS evidently amongfl you, which are joyned in the fervice of God : Not asVe-
fervers, but as Chofen j whofe vejfels and power, are beji k.nown unto God
E.K- One ftandeth on my left ihoulderand faith-
Sinijier Doft thounot hear, how likeafool he fpeaketh, without all reafon ? Thou
art a fpirit of lying. Thou art one fartheft from the glorj^ of God. Thou art afower of
lyes, and a teacher of falfe doftrine.
t^-K. Thus faith he on my left hand.
Sinifier Speak, for I have power over thee. Ci-yjfl; thou deny it ?
Dexter..! Thouthinkeft fo, becattfe thou hadjl power:. But the brightneffe thou hadj}, is.
turned into iniquity, Trueitis,thouhadli\>ov;evtobaniJ}jthe wicked out ofParadife: But
>'ie thou knowefi not j becaufe thou ha,x not bamjhed me. In refpeci of thy dignification ( which
fprangwitb power ) I fay with the Hallelujah : But in refpeS of thy fall. Thin faith the Lord i
Pofui tenebras ii rergo meo.
, Si>iifter Fy upon God, that ever he created me, ;
Dexter;
6/\. A true Relation of D'. Dee his JUions mthffirits, dec.
Dexter Even thiis, do they feek^continuaUj to enter into the VPeak^ji veffel : of envj, not
totri^mfh; for thej kftow thej Jhalln>t : but they hinder the time with man ^ wherein they may
offend his coitfcicnce.
£• K- I hear howling and lamenting.
T E K Dexter Such ore thofe of whom theu feekfji aid and comfort: 7'hofe that appear unto
'
thee, have [o'ight thy f$ii/; Jrtd the fruit of tbemy is arcordingto their deftrulfion. Believe them
not. It lif>iid before. Thou dealefi with devils. H'hat reward Jhall he reap, that fighteth a-
gainj} the Highejl t Or ta\e'th part with fuch as are banijhed from Kighteoufneff'e / Much nfore
Jhall hts pMiil^ment he, which feekfth help of thofefhat are difhonoured. For dijhonour
to imperfedi.rt, and ii become a monfler for dejlruUion.
Jt is written .... Nothingcanjiand before the Lord, thitt is tmperfeCf ; M'<ch more that iwper-
feVtion weakened,which ohejeth the imperfe&. Leave, f^r the kingdom of Ktghteoufneffe is at handy I
And thou mu(i vow. Hear the Lord, That thy fms may be forgiven thee : for the Prophefies of \
the Lord are not uttered to the world, with the feales of the wicked. Therefore become holy, that
ihoji niayefl augment the benefit of God bejiowed amongjf you; and render it to the world, as the
rifffjge of truth , with thanksgiving. Meum eft paiica dicere.
A. Sed quis fis, Nefcimus, an non idem Naluage, qui nobifcum prius egifti hodie ?
Nal 7 am.
E. K. Why call you thofe Devils, with whom I deal ,• not offending my
confciencc, but mtcnding to do good to my fclf and my neighbours ? if
you be of God, where is the fruit of your dcdrinc ? <stcn
Nal If they were not Devils and enemies of truthy they would praife and honour God in
bis Mtffengers of truth. But becaufe thef.' Anions are true, and the truth of them jhall be the de-
^irulUon 0^ their kjngdom ; Therefore devilijhly and enviotifly they refiji the will of God^ Deny
'
Devils.
_
j^ff the power ', Blafpheming his truth, a»d infe£iing his veffels.
This Doft ine
j^ ^^^^ Voclrine there is nothing taught but the jiate of the world, here^ and to come. The prs'
w^at It teac -
^j-^^^
^jr
f /„,^^ ^uj, xhe kjiitting Up of God his myfteries, opened from time to time,to thofe that art
his fancfified : as teftimonies in the Creation and Operation of his Creatures; whereof this do-
cirine is a part. The Prophets in their times were not ignorant by revelation of the good
will of their Creator. The Apojlles in Chriji his Kingdom, were made partakers of the myjleries
to come, of the ftate of mans falvation ; and endi>ig of this combat, which is in that day, when all
Creatures fhallreceive their reward. The Church of G d is alwtyes garnifhed and furnijhed
'
Ifith ffiritual Revelations : as a Manfion or Dwelling-place of the Holy Chojh
Thefe latter dayes, and end of harveji muft have alfo Labourers : For no Age paffeth away^
but through the hands of God,who maketh the end of his doings known to the World : To the endy ,
the W. rid may confent unto him in Glory. So that this DoCirine, is the myfteries of the word of \
God, fealed from the beginning, now delivered unto man, for that Reformation which muft be in
Reformation. One unity cftahliftied unto the end. The very part 0/ that Circle, w;bifi comprehendeth the
Note this
iijiieries of the Highefi, in his Prophets, Apoftles, and Minifters yet to come, which are alive,
*""^'^^*
and Jhall bear witneffe of eternal Comfort.
The fruit of our DoUrine is, that God IJjould be praifed. For of our felves we feek.no glory :
But we ferve you to your comfort, teaching you the will of God, in the feIf fume Chriit, that was crw I
cified ; fold and died m the Patriarchs, and publifhed to the JForld by his Difcip 'es, and is how
taught unto you, in the remiffion offins ... . grcareft in the World, for the end of all things.
The very k.^y and entrance into the fecret my\ieries of God, ( in refpecf of his determination on
earth ) bringing with it reward in the end of eternal glory, which is the greatefi Treafure. Thofe
that tempt thee, do it in refpeS of the fear they have of the power tf God, fpringing in thee.
Let this fuffice. The JForld is vain in refpe^i of eternal joyes. Heaven and Earthpajfeth H'
way: The reward of the Righteous endureth.
E.K.
Nal fi'hat do you fee imperfect, in all that hath been delivered ?
h,
Nal Tou have 49 Tables : In thofe Tables are contained the myflical and holy voices of the f
Ange/s : dignified: and inftate difglorified and drent in confufion : which pierceth Heaven, and
t fr
•
r look/th into the Center of the Earth : t^f jifrj language and fpeech of Children and InnocentSy
to C^acZi'en. f'l^h as niagnifie the name of God, and are pure.
f, Afulu 11. n'herem, the Apoftles underftood the difftife found of the World, imperfe&ed for mans
dixu banc Itn- traufgreffim. 1 hefe Tables are to be written, not by man, but by the finger of her which is mo-
g«4m riin^'Mfn
ji^gj. (f) y^j-fue ^ u. Mddimi faid her mother would write them. An. 1583.3 Wherein the whole
imffe revela-
j^^^jj^ ^ {^ jj^jf, incredible ) all Creatures, and in all kinds,are niinibred, in being,and multitude* I
Let thefe two 1^^-'^ me -'fire and proportion of that fubftance, which is 'Iranfitory, and Jhall wax old. '
places be re- Thtfe things and mylitries are your parts, and portions fealed, as well by your own knowledge,
«onciled. as the fruit of your Interccfllon.
the
Jtruel^elation of D'. Dee his JBions mth fpirits. Sec; 6^
The knowledge of Gods Creatures.
Vnto we tire de/ivered five parts of a tinte : iVherein I will open, teach , and uncover the fecrets F've parts of a
of that fpcechy that holy wylierie. Tv the intent f^f C A B A L A 0/ N A T U R. E, in voyce ,^ub- '""=•
(tance of bodie, andweafure in all parts may he kjiown For there is nothing fecrtt , h't it Ihall
be revealed, and the [on of GOD fl^all be kj'own in POWER, and ciUbliili a Kingdom with
righteoiifntfle in the earth, and then cometh the end. .
,
For the earth mult come under fubjeclion , and muii be made pure. That death nxay he fwal- R'^ntim CM'
lowed in his own Kingdom^ and the eneyny of r'gbteo'fneffe fi^ide no habitatim. 7he word of God ^ ;,- j'' /«' w"'™ "«
dureth for ever. His promifes are ']ud, H's fpirtt is truth. His judgements infcrutable,""*'
hirnfelf Vniverfall. He it is of whom you labour. The promifes of God in this earthly Noble
manfhall be fulfilled. Salomon vfed the places of honour, and waf exalted.
Thus fayeth the Lord.
Ihave fealed him again(l iarreij and have made his feat open. Let him therefore arife up,
tbJt the people may fee him. For mortal men have places of honour, and in t-'eir own Courts , they
coine to oe exalted : H-'h'' is he that made the earth, and dignified him with a living Soul ? Even he it
is th-it exilteth, and in whofe hands the Kingdoms of the earth are fttled.
Behold, the hfth time (hall come, Qin refpe& of the parts of time') and it is the day , that hath
been promifed. Then fiall your eyes be ofen. Then fhaliyou fee-
A voyce. Stay there,.,.
„
Nal. / obey.
E. K. Now I fee him paffe'away over thcChriftallinc Tabic , which U
round hke a Care, wheel, having a great knop in rhe middle.
A. As concerning our ordering of the Table , and the reft of the furniture,we are defirous
to know, what is no'v to be done : feing, now we are come to th£ end of this iiril journey.
A voyce. Be it thy charge. 1 will put to my hand.
A. Mean you it to be my charge to order thefe things, as my imagination fhall be in/lruftedj
by God his favour.
A voyce. It n fo faid before.
"
A* Gloria, Honour, & gratianim aftioDeo omnipotenti Deo noftro Domino & Patri
Noltro : nunc, & in fempicema feculo'runi Ucula. Amen,
Tueild^y, February I S. a Meredie hora ^. Lasko. Stylo veteri, /?/? 28. ...»
Die jit lo novo.
A. After fome prayers made , £. K, faw fas he thoughtJ Nalvage ftanding at my left
hand.
A. In nomine Jefu Chrifti Redemptoris noftri, Eftis vos Nalvage ?
Nal. Tu diris.
E. K- The lower part of him is in a Cloud : but all his upper part is out,he
hath a thing like a Pall hanging down bchindc him from his head j He hath
hke a round- . . ,of boanc in his hand, he fcemeth to be as farre as thd
Church, And I Ice him, as well winking as dirc<5tmg my open fight on
him.
Nal. iVbat is it you require ? . ,
A. The expolition of the time delivered to you in five parts.
^ P j^^py^,
Nal, T^eadit.
^^ cedente.
A. I read, and when I came to the place , that death may be fwallowed, &c^ Nalvagf faid
as followcth.
Nal. That it the la^Canqueft, go forward.
A. In reading? ^
Nal. /. '1|
A. I read to the end.
Nal. The finger of the highefl perufeth nature among (l you by himfelf , and in her own motion.
Through which action things become^ that were not (by Gener ition : ) And in the fame time vanijhy
^ tbovgb they were not Qjy corruptin.') Ayear it is j Wherein nature lookfth with many eyes
through dwelling places : unto fome as a Nurfe: and to the refl M a llep-mother. And fo it is
fueam in the Scriptures. F^r, a time is an year ,
purpofed by determination in the judgement
*^f God; which is not ki\own to 7nan 3 how , or when it Jha II happen. Another year is a time,
fliablijhed, and prefently delivered, as the prefcnt judgement of Cod. Thii is that tfpeak. of. A
fime is unjear. The -farts are kjiownamongil jou. \
K E. K. I
66 A true l^tlation of D^ Dee his jBionsmth/firits^d^c.
£. K- J never heard any fpeak fo leifurcly-
Nal. Eoic looK^ojourmderlianding. I fpeak^of two years. One appointed h: the judgement
attd ddermhiition of God to come^arJ mihjiown to man. The other the time of the judgement of
God (^und before determined) now prefettt : Notwithjianding) before determined. There is dif-
fercnce between an year myiiically promifed^andunkjiown : and the time that is myilically fromfed
E K He freak- an-l k>^<,v;».. Annus myfticu* fumitur diipliciter : Unus, qui eft Tenipus cocniciim Deo,&: ho-
ethal3nguj{;eniininonrevcIatimi: Tempus , hoc dicitur , apuJ Deiim. Annumnos illud computanms.
to me ua-
Aliiid ell pr;ifiiiiciini,cognitum Deo & Angelis, & revelatum homini : & Aiinus eft prxfens,
foX"h TL T^-
^^'[;i
^^'O-r I fpea\ of
what on one A- What are your parts of that year >
, . . .„ ,. . • •
^, .„
fide. Nal. Mirch, April, M'yjme, July, Angujl In illo autem die , invenictis Chnftum.
The words of this DoBrine muii agree, and times.
E. K When come you with the rell of your word* ?
Nal. As it is given me,fo I give it unto you.
A gr atuiiparience.
fA He was thus interrupted by E. K.] —" Mufl end their courfein thepromifc of God:
"
fIn] Tbefe weeks are the fruits of my labour to be known, For I nuift unfold unto you,and
Cahali.rifal cj
j^^^^^ j]_^ fccrets of this myftical , and Delivered fpeech : Whereby you may talk in mortal
the^ ecilvin
" founds with fuch as are immoi tal: And you may truely know the nature, and ufe of God his
'"g-
jj ^^ eatures. T herefore,be dilii^ent in hearins,and Receiving. For the courfc of man iscon-
*' crary : But the determination of God moft certain.
You are anfwered.
Mean you thefe Lenten weeks, or the weeks of all the fore-reherfed nioneths ?
•
Of my whole appointed time.
E. K« He ftandeth higher up.
Miy we (with Ut offence') require your at all times, at our cafe requireth ?
Nal. lour labour is my readintffe.
Tou fee I have an Ague : /A hat is your counfel therein ?
Nal. I have to counfel you ( from God. J
A. BlelTed be the Fountain of counfel, and of all goodnefTe,
E- K. He iTiewcth an hou(c '>
and fix , or kvcn on the top of it with
Torches : Theyarehkcfhadows.
In the name of God what may this mean ?
E. K. Thele fliadows go up and down the fide of ihehoule , thrufting
their Torches into the fides of it. The houfc is Hke this very houle. They
go round about the houfe. There arc eight of them. They have claws
hkc Eagles. Whcnthey fit, they are hke ApcSc They fct a fire on it, and
it burnah mightily j Now your wife runneth out, and feeraeth to leap ovet
the Galery rayl, and to ly as dead- And now come you out of door, and the
Children itandin the way toward the Church. And you come by the
ycrn doer; and kneel, and knock your hand on the earth. They tske
up your w.fe. her head waggleih thii. way and that way. You look up to
heaven llill, and kneel upon one of your knees. The flone houle cjuiver-
eth an \ quaketh^and all thcroof of the houfe lalleth into the houfe , e^^own
upon the Chcfts, Andonct)f thefe baggige things laughcth- The houfe
burneihallolF- Your wife is dead, all het face is bartered- Tlie right
fideclf her face,'her teeth and all is bartered- She is barc-lcggcd, (he bath
awhitc Peticoteon. Now the apparition is all gone-
cMark feemtch to bepuUcd ouiof a pool of watcr,half alive , and half
dead, her hair hanging aboLir her cars- They hold her up- Now they
carry her out at the Gaic. You feem to runne in the field*, and three, or i
four men ifter you- You run through waters- All diiappeareth, And now"
Nalva^e appeareth again- He (ecmcth to have wept-
Nal. .....Coi
Jtrue Relation of D'. Dee his JBions mth fpirits, (5cc# 6j
Nal • God givethygu warning that yon may efchue them.
A. And how fhall 1 efchue them ?
Jsjal I l^hus fajeth the Lord. Behold, I have fealed thee for my felf : for my peoJ>le,and for
my fervant. T'herefore Jha/t thou not perifh j No, not the leaji hair of thy hodie. Fear not , be
iironl in faith. For I come Jhortly. Hearkjn therefore to my voyce, I fay , therefore hearken to
my voyce : For the fpirits of wick^edneffe, and confufionhave rifen up againji thee : If therefore they
prevail agfinfl my purpofes ; Ihenjhall it be no world : Neither are there any heavens. But,
this plif<^^ ^ ""^ /"'' ^^^^ iy^h 'f ^^^« wilt, be it unto thee. I will feal dejirvUion, both for a time
and for ever. Be mighty therefore tn me.. ^^ All the earth rageth in wick^dneffe. And finne
Cmelleth thee ready now to creep out of his hole. If thou move thy feat, it Jhall be jvore acceptable.
For even tbif yearjhalt thou fee the beginning of many troubles : And the entrance of thii LASKOj
into the bloudy fervice of the world.
E. K. He feemech to fpic fire, and fo vanifli away^
O Jefu Chrift, we have committed our felves into thy hand ; and do fiibmit our wills to
thy goveinment. What fliould this mean of terrible deftruftion threatned to my wife and
maiden ? And as it were frenzie^ to light on rtie fdr forrow. Thcfe things cannoc well
agree with our former aflured proteftion.
£. K. /fee a little wench on the bench, all in white, fhcfayech.
...... How do you fir ? ..,. [making curfie to A.]
A. Better it is known to you then to my felf , how I dd.
Sir, I havebeen* land,atyour houfe,where they are all welt.
A. Thanked be God.
Amen...; The ^eenfaid: She was forry that fhe had lofl her Philofoper. tut the Laid
"treafurer anfwered : He will come home Jhortly, a begging to you.
qiey were black.. Sir, Herry Sidney died upon Wcdnefday laft. A. Nete, at Prague, Aug. 24.
A privy enemy of yours. 1 un<k.(lood ih.zSh a^nry
^ J 1 1 l;„ c r I •
cc •
„J„ Sidney WIS not dead in Febru-
I e^er took him for one of my chief friends.
^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^ „^ „„, i„ May
...... But thii it it : Iruely, none can turn the ^eens heart from you. laft : Theretee this muft be
I could not come into your Studie : The ^ween hath eaufed it to be fealed confidered , Doftor Haget his
wp. lou have been ufed to good Cities : It were good , yen did confider '°" '°''^ ""^* '^^^ "'*y *}^°
it. Little words are of great matter.
mark ho^v the Devi! « this CRACOVJA.
'
Tin. r ij -n. r t rir^ n-. time did mil- inform £. K. and
A. Where, I pray, would you wiOi me to fettle my felf firft? {^h is poflible that this being
...... i^ty mother would give you counfel to dwell at LAS CO, a lye, was his.
A. Do you diflent from your mother ?
••••«• •'•
A. Upon what.
......Jefu, you think, that I am an unwife maiden. The Devil bringeth the found of my motith ^^^ ,^.
to thy ears, E.K. For I faidC K A C O V I A, and he fpa^e I A S CO. envy & power
A. Scing your mother would wilh rae to dwell at C R A G O V I A, at what other place of thcDevU.
would you wift me to dwell ?
, Lrw ante faciem,Tenebr£ poji tergum.
6, K. Now /feel a huffing thing go from my head-
I pray you be not offended with my fimpltcity : My mother and I am all one. In w ^TheCancord
no difcord : 1 prij.y you bear with me, if 1 fay, 1 be the Concord of time. 7hefe are my words, of ""*•
My mother would have you dwell <zt C R A G O V I A. And Iconfent unto it. Let them
that be wife underjiand. Alwayes pray that you may hear truely, and receive faithfiiUy.
A. May I before! go any further demand if you heMadimi ?
I amfo. Sir.
A. As concerning this terrible Vifion here Ihewed, whac , is either the intent , or verity
of it ?
Mad. Sir,willit pleafeyouto hear me?
A. The verity is moft acceptable to me alwayes.
r "wrf Anno
Mai I think,your book. Uith, tbif man hit w.ty is prepared, &c. lySj. jun.itf.
A. I trow, the words are, His feat is made open, or made manifeft. Supers ante dua
Mad Ititfo. Bear with we, / thinks, it isfo.
^
f"^''*-
A. What will you fay thereof >
Mad. .;.... And upon earth Princes have h . ..in their own Courts. I remember. He was feal-
ed at Mortlakc. Contra omne malum. Then cannot the King of Poland, nor the Chancelor,
prevail againji him. Yet Vendiderunt animam ejus.
^
A. Lord be merciful unto . . . ; What Trayterous dealing ? I befeech you to fay . . . e.
Ml that cafe ; He is our great friend, and fer the fervice of God furthering.
K 2 Mad ToH
f
' ' '
— "' 9 —
6S A true Relation of D. Dee his jBtons mthjpirits, 6c c.
Mad Tou met a man by the way : He is an Irifh man- (^ But as .. . me, he faid he was
a French >}un^ I heard the King, when. .. . him to go into England. But he could not poifon
him there . . . Therefore he followed him, all the way. Bat if he return again : They fay, fVe ypill
CoBfpJricy exalt him. But fend thou thy Army, and we will fend him. Wherefore hath the King abfented
oithcK.ot" himfelf, but to betray hn Kingdom^ fruely, I can tell no other caufe.
I'ol. wih the (j5,/j, i^gti,^^ j-^,^^1^ ^-fi,,^ t'^^p. feyp ^ayes, after he ... • calleth it J a little talk,, Lee him go
Afl. ^° Craco\ ia .... himfelf as David did before Saul ; It may be the people will like well of him.
li/Jh, Ti'JhyTimor innatus, will never prevail. £^ K, She faith fo^tUrnmg hcr head
Although he hate him, he cannot hurt him, i i_
,^ ^ U^- i~ i t
Sir, if yon tarry here, you Will have great DECk CO one that Ipakc CO hcF.
grief in this houfe.
A. How long ( I pray you ) would you wifli me, to tarry here .• or how foon to be rid
hence ?
Mad ;. Hark,... He,£..K.marvelkthwhat Iwillfaynow.
E-K- Sol did indeed.
Mad The Phyfitian faith, infededair it to he avoided in haft, tj^iany Princes fhallbg
acquainted withyou, and Learned men. T'he good are oftentimes jiirred up to rffend God, whofe
cffenes are both wilful and rajh : For temptation ii a Touchjione, and it one of the blacky fellows
chiefejiweapoHs.
A. I befecch you, to fay fomewhac of the time of our going hence.
Mad Ti^Jh, I prayyou. Go hence a$ foon as you may.
A. To Cracovia, you mean.
Mad I.... I will n'.w and then vifit you there : And will become friend with jou^ E.K,
Mow : for you are become a good man. .
A. As concerning that terrible fiiew, what can you fay of it ?
Mad Js a warning to bewarethat, that Jhould be. Thii is the laftS^ear*
A. But, if I go to Cracovia, no fuch thing (hall happen, I truft.
Mad S , Sir. Therefore, This is your warning.
A. Is it nor, then, the will of God, that 1 fliall fet up the Table here, as you fee, we have
prepared.
Mad. ......Be contented. T'hlf Pfildernejfe, is not 40 years. My Mother faith, It muft not
be here ; yet at your requeft, it may be.
€. K- How can tliat be ?
A. At mans commandment, the Sun can ftand.
Mad He faith true, Believe him Therefore I will not urge any thing herein,but de-
fer till we come to Cracovia.
A. At Cracovia, fhall I fet it up ? And fhal\ I require Ternns houfe there ? Or what houfc
clfe, is, in God his determination, for me and mine ?
^s w'/e as I am, I cannot tell, what, yet, to fay. It is the Town, inhere the Sabbath
day jhall he celebrated.
A. But now, as concerning the houfe. What is your word ?
Mad Touwillnot be defiitute of an hovfe. Will yon believe me ; For I am your true
friend MADI MI. Here (hall be the end ofyour turmoil. Be of goed cheare.
^. Did you not will us to have my cheft from Tom before we go ?
Mad. ...... I, when theblack^m . . . hath called home his waters.
A. Aflbon as . . . .nhave it fromTo>-« hither, then we are to be going.
E. K- How will my Lord agree to this ?
Mad Nowyou are become a new man, both we may dwell in one houje. Sir, I promife
you of my credit,yeu Jhall be to learn nothing of thefe things by Auguft.
A. By A'guji next ?
Mad Xea ... Next.
A. Perhaps my Lord his furniture of money will not be fuch, as to ferve for our carnat^c
anew, &-c. Beiides that, 1 would wilh Ke^mark. to be redeemed , before he /hould come ro
Crac.vii : Perhaps then with the people, his credit would be greater.
Mad Thofe that become Kings, care nothing for Farm-ktifes.
A. I would that needleflecoftj here beftowed, had beenfaved; or that you had told u:
,,^ this fooner.
Mad Silence now, is my beji anfwer.
A. Do you know, ( O Lord, what fay 1 >
) Have we had any name of NALV AGF
heretofore m our Tables or Books exprefl"ed > i
_j^^^- H' hat have you written, that have you written. He is a. near kinfmattto
NaWage. ^J^other. We call him, with uf,¥ugz tcirei\t'n[n\.
A. VVe befeech God, that all intemicdling, and faucinerTe of the wicked in thefe Aftions
may ceale. You know how one clawed him, Jiere, on the head, as with Eagles claws.
Mad.
1
^^true Relation ofD^, Dee his JBkns mth fpirits, &€• 6c)
Mad He may rejoyce^ Xkey clawed fiot kis foul. Ton are content to let me go^
E- K. Shcgocthaway lomewhat bigger^ and in a longGviwn-
A. Soli Deo Gloria. Amen.
Friday^ Febrtiar. 21. i Meridiem Lasko. Martii 2. Stylo novo.
A. As I had talked of Af/zi/wi, and /L. to E. K. about Treafure hid in E«g/<z;;«; : and I
was defiioiis to havefonie advertifementby Madimiy (he appeared.
Mad. ...... / answer your inward man. I am come again.
E. K- She is bkaer than ilie was-
Mad 1 am a little firovn.
A. As concerning a medicine for my Ague, I would gladly .; . And as concerning the
wife of our dear friend, the Lor . . .
Mad Iprayyou,hear witbmeat this time : Jamas willing to anfwer you (when li^ht,
cometh again ) asyou to ask. >»f • T^ou may confider of tnany things^ I can anfwer them briefly.
Such bleffing as my Mother bejhwetb on me, fuch Igive you,
E. K Shcfmilcth.
A, God grant that his good Creatures mayfmileon me.
Mad IVhen youk^iow me welly you will find, I have been very charitable.
'
E. K She gocthaway naked ;
her body being befprenc with blood j ac
the ieaft that fide of her toward £ •^'•
A. Laudetur Deus Trinus & unus, nunc &: in fempiterna feculorum fecula. A»ten,
Saturday^ Fthruarii 22. 1584. ante meridiem. Lasko. [ Martii 3. Stylo mvo.
A. The queiftions needful to be required of Madimi.
1. Good counfel for my health recovering, and confirming.
2. Ifthe Pedeftal ( for the holy Table ) being here made , fliall be carryed with us to
CracowJ rather than to make a new there : both to fave time, and to have our doings the
more fecret?
3. What is your knowledge and judgement of ^. L. his wife, in refpeft of her life paft
prcfcnt, and to come ; for we doubt flie is not our found friend?
4. It is our very eaineft defire, that the Danifh Treafurer in England, in the ten place?
(feifedonby E. K) might be brought hither, very fpeedily : whereby A.L- might vc~
6.ttmKeyfmarh^znd.Las\p\zi\dSymoTg3.gcd : and alfo pay his debts, in Cracow, and about
Cracow,
For, clfe, neither can he come with any credit, to Cracow, ( as he is willed ) neither can
he come to us, there, focommodiouflyj and oft, as our conferences may be requifit. And
thirdly, the day of Keyfmark^ forfeiting ( without the Emperour his favourable help ) draweth
nigh : as in April at St. George his Day next.
A, And by your fpeech of EHg//z«<i,yougivemeoccafionto enquire whether her Majefty
doth caufe my rents to be received, by my Deputy afligned or no?
Whether her Majefty, or the Council, do intend to fend for me again, into England
or no?
And as concerning the red p . . . .which E. K. found with the book iir England, what it is
:
And what is the beft ufe of It, and how that ufe is to be praftifed or performed?
A. after thefe Queltions written, and a little our praying to God for his light, verity, and
help, and to fend Madami, according as flie ivilled me to note many things,for that (he could
anfwer them briefly : we ufed filence a while ; . . . ath /he appeared on my right hand be-
tween me and E. iC.
Blejfcd be his name that in truth, and for the truth, fendeth his Mmijlers to in(lrucl them
that love Truth Even fo Be not pierced too much with fight of me. [ toE, K. for he
looked mervalloufly earneftlyon her.
3
E. K. She Icetneth more bright than (lie was. And to. • . andcoftand
in a more bright place-
Mad All honour be to him that livetb intieavenand inEarth,and ismighty in all tlaces:
Amen.
I lour health.
E-K- Now the is gone to the place on the Culliions on the bench,where
the flood ycfterday. 5he doth now as young children do, playing with her
coats i
yo A trueKelation of D'. Dee his Jettons mth fpirits, &ic.
Two imme-
diate powers.
Cncovia.
Riches.
coats . and at Icnoch ficreth down on the Culliions.
Mad. ...... Ev:n as spiritual ani dignified ilhminatio'n , from afcenfion, ani ly defcenditig,
work^the will of God, d terniined in all Creatures-, diverfly, according to the meafured purpofe f
the Hi^heli, in difperjing hif will upon and into every one, particularly ; whereby fonte become wife, <
one in thii, another in that 'legree ; other fome mighty in workj, whereby health and help, comfort
and joy, tf g'ven to thf faithful : Even fo, afcend/n^^, doth H'll infeU, fomettme with error, and
fonietnne with infirmities : So that from Heaven fpringeth h:!alxh, from below infirmities of body
and fo"l. JVhfre'y wt fi>id two imnediatc powers, bring'ng forth ttvo prepertieSf The one Comforty
with Joy ; "The other Infe£ficn withforrow.
hut this m.iy be cbjeded : Hath it not been feen, that the wirhjed cure diftafes ? and refiore
health? Whatfoever is of death, ii forrow ; which is the ground of fpiritual and b dily infedion
fo that evil cannot wor^gooi. How can it theref re be thn the dead revive, or re\tore health ?
Ihe cure therefore of all fpiritua! infedion ( I mean the infedi-ns offnchy as are fpiritval is in rf-
fpecl of hps weakjuffe, and not of hit lirenj^rh ; Beraufe Satan it'^eding, may become weah^ ( vhireby
h? rann:t prevail') and fo give health, by reafon of veal^neffe : Otherwife, with power, bringing
dvath all manner of wayes.
A. E. K. thought a thing, whereunto (he anfwered . . and he fa'd . . . my thought.-
fheaiifvveied .... in my decree, thoujjhts .... known to me. I, than an . . .. ihe is of
Cod and in God, tha .... the thought of man.
£• 2C, She • • • 1 hear • • • a baz- .
. earc.
'thefe two immediate and fupernatural properties are fo dignified in Creation and 'Deti-r"
wination, that the good Ange 's cannot cure, -r heh furh infirmities, as are brought in ly the fvbtile
in^'e&ionofthewickfdthemfelves: Vnleffe in body the immediate power of the fecond Ferfon in
"Trinity be adjnyned in the aid and cure of thf infected b.dy ; whi:h is the true PhyOtian. And JS
he tonk^upon him man his frailty, fo he is chief Govervour over the fame in all degrees.
If the f'ul be infeded, the Angels have tto power to .. . it or ma\e it clean: but ly the will of
the Fatherwhichis the Holy Gho.i, defcending through the Angels into the propriety of the Chrth :
whertby the Vi^eafe is cured. Therefore, confidering, thou art infeCted, not naturally, but by
fpiritual and wick^ed inflammation, Jiirring up thy body vnto in''ttlion. We that are g od Angelsy
cannot minifier h Ip unltffe wefeel the immediate power »f him which is the fecnd, a-d the water
of Life. Notwithianding, aswe kjton' hoiP the infection grew, either locally r really : So can
wehnd conrrary places and things for comfort.
IPhm Herod v a infetiedby the Devil t'l killvery Chrili the Son of G d; His p^'rpofe was not
altered by contra diaion r? the Levi', but by the forekjiowltdge of God, which appointed fgypt for
hisfafegi'ard. So it isfaid unto thee. It is tho'ght good thou Jljou.dii reli at CRACOVIA;
for it is aplacefanUified, bothin fore-dttermination, andnow. Therefore life the Sab ath, and
reli from labo'T : Reap now, and eat the fruit of thy labour ; Preffe the Vine, that thou mayeii
drink-, and It comforted : fcr theprnnifes of God, are not in vain ; Neither are the Ihavens
frritl jfe. For as it isfaid, Thou arr nor bound, but f.r thefervice of God : N itherjialt thoti
be enriched by Pnnces : but fhalt et-rich them. Flejh may fpeak^ vainly, and le without comfort
:
But the promifes of Gjd, ce-ife not, neither become uncertain.
This year to come, if of great lluod-'Jed: prepared »to flop the movth of the Earth^whi-h
gapeth f r fcrrow. Therefore thou muji be feparared, that the promifes of God may le fulfilled :
vhich Cometh ( not at your reijue', 'i-.t at h'.s Veterm-nation J mo'i alundantlj.
Thf'e B- rd> need not. The paviment Jlall ftrve; for it isneither the Earth, nor mans h'tnds,
(bit the Finger of him that liveth, ) that frcvokfth.
Behold .... That the pover of G d might be k/tcwn, therefore be hath ch fen thofe that are not
regarded, to the intent, it may be faid : Lo, This is of God. .. Haji thereforfy and jiay not^
for thy warning is great.
Th.fe that are wfe ( to fin") in thnr flefl-ly imaginations, are dei'eivers of themfehes : Which
with us are not to be accufed, but rarher unknown. For the Kingdom of Hfaven is divided
ana naturally^
^.l:
/S Ciioifmon
ipfius PaUtinK
from Hell : and thofe that are of Hell, are unknown from us. For as
.
know not, one another, fuch, andfo it is of us.
Sit tibi fatij quod illam non novimus, neque virtutem ullam defcendentem ab ilia vidimus.
Neither is the power of God in him-,for his own fakcbut for the Spirit that God hath planted in him.
F'"r we have kjtorvnhim, and again have forgotten him. And yet we underliand him But (^ I
teach thee a Myflery ) ly irradiation into him : and not by repexion from himfelf. As the heavens
fiy from the j{ink.ofthe infeded powers, even fo,Jiy thou,
£• K- She callethone, who is now come here.
E, K H: feemeth to have his face half
Gan What wilt thou with wf^7 ijj^g ^ ^3^^ ^^d half Hke a woman, his
ffhat Wilt thou have f Ji 1 1 •
n 1 •
1 1 • 1
body being ail covered with hair, rugged,
E. K.'lhlS
Canijlay, Canijlay.
(oyf true Relation ofjy. Dee his J&tcns mth fpirits, (5cc. 7
E, K. 3ladimii}na.kezh her Coates, and brufliech her Coatcs with- • . . • •
Mad. Thus fityeth mj M"ther. Beware of wiUi; hoftj, and raw fruit : the one clarified^
the other ripened may become good. 'iho^e that k^ttow not wine become drunkjn^ but to fwh as
i^ow it, it Iriiigeth health- I.ve7t fo, thit Vo^rine. For, unto hint that it if tajhd , being ripe^
or or becoviethcomfort^andthe Kfjnf a pr But unto hint that tiijieth it wifd/j, a>id......
Workfth f.rrow. Jour kjiowled^e is not to hzst^but to learn to...... So that you may be,'.oth having
and /earned. Small are the "treafures of thit worlds in refpe£i of the wifdom that judgeth NJ-
TVKE- For unto him that judgeth tritely, yphat fecret it hidden ? Thofe that feek^ the world
fhall be contemned of it : But he that flieth from her, Ihall iife her as a flave^ or as the feccnd moth, r
doth her davghtcr. Notwithjianding^of my felf^Iwill be more appliable unto you , then yon (hall
le followers of me. For, for that caufe anil become childifh. Therefore ceafe : He is truely vvfe. coA
'
Wife, that fayeth, God kjioiveth at all times what we have need of. Be not tempters. Be pati/nt. his Minifter
5. Even as thy defire is, fo are all things in Enghnd. Nothing kt^t. back^. But for thy fak^e, as zChilde.
fuch as are thine, are with them friendly ufed dealeth with
6 .
If thou fljouldejl not le called home-jhow Jhouldeji thou enjoy the benefit of God his prr,mife,which
"^*
hath {aid : 'thou f.'alt call her bach^, &c. tn her prefervation. But, fiiix thefe things niuft come
to pafTe. Ihe Countrey (hall be divided, one rife up againji another. Great treafons be wrousj^t.
tea, and one cut anothers throat : And when the greatefi troubles are, then Jha It thn-tfave her life.
then fi-^all the wall be hrokjtn down : And free pajfage Jhall be made : And fuch ,JS are sl{prners , and
afcend up the narrow jieps, or If ew themselves on the walls, Jhall be trodden down and de aced. Hers
is underjianding that which tho't, E.K. haji^is apart offour, and it become the fifth : tet it is
noneof thf four, digriifitd in a. Cube, whofe root is 'f'2<$2. -V-iV>i.l • iT.- ,
IwiHkj'ow it fljortlj. tbouhaji no power (for time ismt yet corm.) B»t wift bebrotigbt
forth Ihortly, that it may heUjt wn. ..... Made it, wa« * Holy (but it n.« made by thofe that. .....
Jt : which is not man, neither any thing of wickjrdneffe) which for his fins died, leaji he Jhould have
been deliroyed in the fecund death. Revealed unto thee^ neither fortliin* own fake ; nor ac thy
xequeft ; B'-'t by the will of God, for a time to come,
E- K- I pray you to tell mc plainly what it is.
Mad Be content.' I f
peak, thut, leaji thau Jhouldeji fm, God the father, the Son, and the
holy Gholi bltjfe yon.
B'K' ^ow (hi is zone^as ami?hty tall "Sipoman. iiotc. mdimi
A. Veritati xtemaEa fit asterna Laus Gloria & Beaediftio. °"" '*°^'-
E. K Amen-
|—
^m Wednddny, Martii 4- M^fte. 1584. LASKO. CHartii i^. Stylo Novo.
^V A. After my Petition made to God (at the inftaiice of ^. L. not prefent now|to know of
"Mildavia Kingdom, the ftate to come : that is, when A. L. and by what means he fhould en-
joy the fame (being before at Afart/rfi^jpromifed nnto him.) And at my reqiiefting that M^-
dimi might be the Minifter of his will therein : At length appeared Madimi.
A. Gloria Patri, & filio& fpiritui fanfto : ficut eratin principle, &c nunc 8c feniper, 3c in
fecula (eculorum. Amen.
Mad. Amen« A certain rich man, father of an houjfjold , returned~ and found all things out
of order : And lo, he lookfd tip, and faid unto his fervant .-
Arife , and be read), for Iwill fet my
houfe in order. Go to Affbn, and I will meet thee there : And he arofe up,and went unto Aflbn : But
his majier came not : At length he faid unto him. Behold, I will not dwell h Remove my houjhold
vnto Banal, tfMii he did fo. And the fervant prepared afeajl : But h's majier caiue not,- And he
faid unto him the third time ; why art thou forrie, or why art tho» angry ? Oh unto me, for I am
thy maiier. Andhe faid : Rife, go unto Molfcheck «,<?;/«/ thou jhalt meet me there. But lo, tbm fay-
eth the fervant , my majier forgetteth and hath commanded me twice, and I have prepared for
him, and he came not, and he faith unto we the third time, Arife, go., and I will meet thee : thou
Jfmlt finde me there; But he will there alfo deceive r/ie : And he fent before,and behold, his maiier.,..
But immediately after that,the fervants mejfenger the father of the houjhold came;ai.dhe looked
hut his fervant WiK not there. And he fent for bim, and commanded him to be ..». and to be brought
'
with violence : But the fervant faid, deal not thus with me, for it is violent : But the maiier anfwer"
td, and faid : What I command thee ghteil : For fervitnts have ho freedom of thenifelves. And it
Came to paffe that after the maiier had gathered together his friends : He faid unto them^ Arife up,
and finde me cne that » F A I T H F U L L with OBEDIENCE, then be jiretched out his
hand, and he faid unto his fervant. Hold, tal^e thy reward : For, from mf thou art banijhed. How
fay you, was this Juiiice, that he did unto bis fervant ? . ;
A. O Lord, we appeal to thy mercies, and we acknowledge thy judgements alwayes to be
moft juft and true, &c.
Mad. the
7 2. A true delation of D"". Dee his Jciions with fpirits, ^c.
Mad. 7he ArK of the Lord was the Coven-int 0/ OBEDIENCE, ll-ipfy are thofe that enter.
E K' There f pringcth a thing before her 1 ke a Reed, buc withered.
Mad . Vn'o thee, [E. K. pointing to the Reed,] thus fayeth the Lord , Bfcauy thou canii not
end"re the end of winter , Spring on, and gr^w : hm in the midjt of C'^j]
leautj , in the midji of
fiimmcr,lhal! thy dejiruaionbe.
A. L. I yvill anoint thee before thj time, for my promife fahj : That thou mayefi fall in the midji
of thine own time, for thy weakjitjfe is great.
£. K- she ftandeth and holdcth up her hands coward hcavcHjand faith no^
thing I hat I can hear.
Mad. Ga, mr\e hajh : All fieff} /V alowinalle.
E. K. ^he Ipeakech another way, not toward us.
Mad. I am fealed,neither cinl fpeak^any more,
E. K- Now fh;goeth away Ike a three cornerd Cloud.
A Oh Jefu have mercy on us. Oh King of Jews have mercy on us. Oh Conqucrour
againft Hell, death, and the Devil have mercy on us.
E. K. ]s]ow is he here, who was laft here. Arc you Naha^t^*-. ^ . In the
nameoi jefu.s. Lord be merciful! unto us, &c.
. . . . /j Jealidh 1 am excepted- "-Jam commanded,and my Office it to trach.
E. K- He turn:ih about with a great fvvit[ne{Tw,at length bcltandcth,
A. O Lord, and our defire is to he taught of thee, in thee, and for thy fervice.
Nal. 1o hiti to vclomit is faid, C : Thuf, I f"y, let htm be go-ng. For God hatb Jiretched
"
oi:X h s ht':d, "»d h fjyeth, I will nA plft(\ itLdL\, hht With vengtaace.
£. K- Hcfurncih ^g^in-
L. OGod,fowhcm isthat GO fayed? A. I was fick of an
•Ka!, Ihiv mortal man, who is the lord of health .?
jRue,»nd ihcreupon did
^. The God of Heaven and Farth.
j^^ ,,f„ f„, ,1,^ Lo^d.
•
Nal. Ihe Lord is angry, and he f'id unto thee. ^. t. Hishelp,chirfly,
A ViJeT'b. Begone. with Coach, Hoje, and
^7juJ'co,<-'-'^' ^'' ^^'^^^ '^ " '^"y f'^^' ^^^ '^ *" ''*''' ^"^''^ ^"'^ ""* ^"^^ intercefioH
Money,
« 'Z mTm for him, he had been nothing : Seal thefe things, makj hnjie,
de tnhiti w:du Begomg.
Pain* M'fe- Fcr the Lord is angry.
,uvd't,e-ga ^ OGod, &c.
homms.oc.
^^^^ ^^^ hefayeth Lasky hath fejoyced with an Harlot,andhatb mafured me , which am
vnknown : But he Jhall be rewarded.
A.
A. I.. To thee it is faid : Makj hafie, and be gone, I will fulfill my promife in him for thjT
'
fake : But he pall fall, hfi'tfi none of thy acCfUaihtance-
A. Pronounce favour and mercy onme: who in my fin, ,^... and fingleneflc of heart reJoyce
to do what i can polTibly perform.
Nal TW *ky h':ve faid againjl thee. Let hint not g$. Of th^m thut fayeth the Lord.
They Jlalltarric where they wopN not. Ceaf , write no more,
A. SoliDeOjOmnis honor 8c Gloria. Amen,
<J^fo«^(?j, Martii p. Hora 9. Mane reccflimus a &; prima nofte fuimus apud Petr
T'tifdity, 10.
Wedmplay. n.
2hi<rfd^j, 1 2. ..... At M'ch'w we lodged atnight.
Frid-y^ Martii 13. W e canK toCrdcOB-, circa tertiam a Meredie , and were Ibdred in the
S^ilurbs by theChuich at. ...... Where we remained a fevenighr, and then (I and my wifcj wc
rtmoved to the houfe in St. Stephens ftrcet, which I had hired for a year , for 80 eylders (of
50 s,r.) And Maiier £ Iward Kelij came to us on Fryday in the Ealter week (by tr.e new Gre-
g rian Kalendar^ being the ^yday of Afjrr^, by the old Kalendar : l-Ut the lixih A^y oiApril,
by the new Kalendar, Eafter day being the firll day of April mPoland, by the new Gregorian
inllitution.
CRACOVIA. Martii 13. An. 1584.
Omnis Honor, Lam, G'oria & Gratiarum Aciio, fit Deo Nojlro Omnipeteuiij Trim & wii nunc
&femper. Amen. A.
MEN*
aJtrue%elation o/D', Dee ^is Mions mthffirits, 6cc. 73
MENSIS MYSTICUS SAOBATICUS,
Tars prima ejufdem.
Titefday mornings Anno 1584. Jprilis 10. Jiilo novo CfeQoriano
CR ACOVIyE. .
^Fter our divers prayers and confeftation of our Inimiliry, obediencej
and credit in thefe Anions : and being come now to Cracovia^ the
place fanftified, whereunto we were willed to make haft, d^c. Ac
lenth appeared Nalvage.
E K- He hath a Gown of white filk, with a Cape
with three pendants with taffcL on the ends of them
all green ; it is fur, white and fecmcth to (hine, with a
wavering glittering. On his head is nothing, he hath
no herd- His phyfiognomy is hke the pidurc of King FA-^ard the fixth ^
his hair hangeth down a quarter of the length of the Cap, Ibmewiiat
curling, yellow- He hath a rod or wand in his hand, almoii as big as my
little finger ••
it is of Gold, and divided into three equal parts with i
brighter Gold than the reft- He Itandcth upon his round tabic of Chris
ftal, or rather Mother of Pearl : There appear an infinite number of letters
on the fame, as thick as one can ftand by another . the table is fomev\«hac
inclined on one iidc : heftandeth in the very middle; his garment covet-
ethhis feet • hisbreaftfcemethfmoothas the down remaining of a Swan
when all the feathers be ofF^ fo is his neck, i^c. He is lean and long*
vifaged.
L. The infinite mercies of God be on ns : and the light of his countenance fliinc on us
;
and his favourable countenance be on irs.
Nal Amen-, untohim that is, and was, ajtd liveth for ever.
6. K- He looketh earneftly on his table , and turncth him to
view it-
Nal All things are in order. Thus faith the Mejfenger of him which U the God of JFif-
dom. Is jour worthitteffe fuch, as you can merit fo great mercy? or are your vejfels cleanfed, an^
made aft to receive and hold the fweet •liquorj pure underftandmg it ftIf ?
h.
Hath the Sun entred into your bowels, or have you taftedof the Might-dew ? Where are your
wedding Garments ; or after what fort do jstt provide for your marriage ? Vnfeafonedyou are
and withered flejh, partakjrs ofthofe things which mah^e you holy : -through which partakjnx and
the fecret providence of him that is the Highefi,you became dignified to the end, and arefi/ffi:?entl/
yvaftjtd for the time of entrance. ftiff-neck^ed people you deftrve nothing, andyetyou have the
hire offuch as labour. But, what, can corruption be partaJ^er of thofe things that are incorrupt
tible ? or man, which favoureth in himfelf, can you favour alfo of the Almighty.
Oyou weakJings,6you of no faith, you Cankers of the earth , Where is thejh'ameyou have ;
Jf^hereare the tearsyou let fall ; Where it the humility yoi* are taught to? Nay jgu (ire fuch as
fay in your hearts ; if the Spring be fair, the Uar-jeft is Itkj to be good: If thefe thing come toj>aJf:,
n is the finger of the Lord. But fuch is jour imperfedion, fuch are the frtiits uf the flep, atid
the vanity of mortality.
Notwhhftanding, confider that you are fervants : Do therefore the will of your Mailer. Tou
are become free: Be faithful aytdtb:inkj'ul to him that is the giver of liberty : Nay you are be-
come children : part alters of thi ctunfel of kimthat fitteth and feth, and faith I am. Therefore
he fober, faithful, and Waver nqt^f^rtke inheritance of your Fath(r is great : your freedom is
"Without recompence, and your Mafter the King of Juftice.
L Where
74 A tmeB^elation of I>. Dee his JBions mtbfpirits, &c.
Where are the peopky cr in what generation did they dwell, that hath been thus acquainted and
drami into familiarity with the true Servants and Angels of God ? Vnto whom have thofe mylle-
ries been opened. Is itnot [aid, of thofe that are fan&ified , '£he Lord appeared, ratto them mi.
vilion •• But he cometh to you when you are awakj •'
Vnto them he came ttnlooksd for., untoyot he
T he tnd ma- Cometh requefted. Arife up therefore, and be not forgetful what the Lord hath done for you ; for
keth All. ^he things ofthi^ tforld are not, until they be done, neither is there any thing affured, but by the end,
p^-j}j It yeas [aid unto Abraham, And I will dejiroy them. He believed it ', but he as\ed not, when.
Great is the reward of Faith •,
for it giveth ftrength : But thofe that are faithful are not of this
world. Notwithlianding, you have f^iii, ( as it was [aid by the Difciples toGhrili,when they
were jet unpure, and blind ) When fhall thcfe things come to pafle t Lord, what is meant by
^'^'^^
th^, or that P Simple Faith excelleth all Science. For, Heaven and Earth Jhall perijh in
F»ich. xheir corruption : But the voices of the Lord, much more his promifes, are become Angels for ever :
for as the Sun hegetteth in the earth, and is father of many things that live in corruption and have
end ; So is the God of Heaven, the bringer forth and begetter of things celejiial with life and for
ever. For why. Dixit & faftum eft, Every Idea in eternity is become for ever, and what is
Ide».
thought, is become a living creature. 1 teach you amyliery.
As the tree in fappy life, watering her felf throughly , bring^th forth the ornaments of her own
beauty : So the fpiritual part of man being good and dignified, bttrnijheth himfelf, with hi* found
and faithful thought : I mean the glory and (hew of his own beauty; for the foul of man grow etht
either with beauty to falvatim, or with di/honour and filthineffey to damnation.
I have done my Commandnient, I have as a Schoolmafier warned you, and as a. friend counfel'
ledyou : Iwill alfo teach you.
'
LE.K. Herpeakethinathinfmallvoice.!]
A. Heufed a great paufe, and filence.
E. K- He llandeth and pointcth with his rod to the letters of his Tabled
as if he made feme account or reckoning. He went out ofthe middle, and
mcafuredhow may fteps it is about.
Nal. , Pater, Filius,Spiritui SanUtu : Fundamentum, fubjlantia^ & frtncipium omnium,
\_ £. K- Thought in his minde, rertm^ and he anfwcrcd his thought, fay-
ing. What need 1 (ay rerum ? The Grammarians will be on my fide- Onu
niumj is more than to fay dmnium rerum- ]
E. K- This feeraeth to be fpoken by fome other, in my imagination.
Nal Omnium, it the thing that is my charge.
E- K. He ftill conferrcch place to place, O'c
•
So. -E.K. NowhcftandethftiU,
Corpus ommm ••" £• ^- He pointcth to the whole or round table
which he ftandcth on.
1. TCke fi>bfiance it attributed to God the Father.
2. The firjl circular mover^ the circumference, God the Son^ "the finger of the Father^ and
mcver of all things.
3. 7he order and kititting together of the parts in their due and perfe^ proportion^ God tht
Holy Ghoji. Lo, the beginning and end of all things.
£' K^' He ftill counteih and conferreth places and letters together,
Nal Lo, it it divided into <\. parts : whereof two are dignified: one not yet dignifit*
lutfliall be : the other without glory or dignification.
£• K- He leemeth topoint tolbraedivifions.
Nal Vnderjland God, as tbefubjiance of the whole, ( as above [aid. )
E. K. He countcth again.
Nal. ..i... Thefubjianceofthis part it calledViti.
E. K. He pointcth to the uppcrmoft part.
Nal C<i//f(i VitaSuprema. See here three fmall lines.
[ £. X. Thofe ihree fmall lines appear in the uppermofl parcel- "]
Say ... GaudiHm, [ pointing to the uppermoft line.
Say ...frafentia
[ pointing tO thcfcCOnd.]
Lapdantes or Triumpbantes [ pointing tO thc third'D
£. K. NoVf
<^tYue Relation ofjy. Dee his ABicns mth fpiritSy 6cc. 7 ^
E- K- Now he beginneth to account in the fccond portion,
Nal :1!jf Contittenty Vita.
f_
He countcth again
.
E. K, The four portions arc of equal widcncfTc, buc not of equal clear-
nefle ; and thit about the center is 01 fuskifli or leadidi colour.
E- K- Now he flieweth three (mall lines in the (econd portion. He
feemeth to fpeak to himfelf fomewhar.
Nal Say Poteftas .... to the firji line pointing. Motus to the fecond ;
Miniftrantes to the third.
E, K, Now he procecdcth to the third circular portion-
Nal Ihk Continent is a!fo Vita [_
pointing to the third portion
[J
non dignificata, fed
dignificanda. . ,
Nal See .... E. K. ^here Are itifo three linesy Aftio in thefirji line. Faftum ,..;
in thffecnd. Confirmantes in the third, Sirha, this is true Logick^.
Q £.. He faid fo to E. K. who now gave himfelf to ftudy Logick diligently. ]
E.K- Now he ftandeth trembling. ,
Nal. ..,;.. Oh qualis ellJujUtia inter miferos ?
t. SedjHiors eft qus peperithanc vicam.
Vita eji etia»i ktec, fed ^Utep'pertt mors. •
= ..•}
Say Lu&us ...».
P
Difcordia > Here feem three lines alfo.
Conftmdantes j
Thofe that do their duty pall receive .their reward. Let my diligence teachyon diligence
Be not angry,, becaufeyou do not underjiand : rhefe he means to mderjiand. E. K. con- To £ K
felled that he Was very angiy.
**
Nal Pray unto God^ for I am refijied.
A. Dem in adjutoriiim noftrum intende, &c.
Say .... Vita S»prenta. [ pointing to the uppermoft line of all. ] I find it ( by addi-
tion J tn this Language, I ad, but written thus, toward the left hand, m three angles
I d
a
_
Say .... Gaudium ..m. Moz. ifindit is a name afcending and anfweretb to the two extremes
of I ad tn this manner.
I d z
a o
tn
A. I pray you, is Mozod, a word ofthree letters, or of five >
-
w7-i"f
^^
^^°l^
^^"^^ ' ''' " ^'"'^'^ extended. [ A. z extended is zod. 1
A. Will you pardon me if r ask you another qucftion of this exten fion ?
0^** ^"y""- ^'^'^ "' it felfftgntfietb Joy ; but Mozod extended, fignifietb the Joy o
^ No wordjn his ridical form is extended.
NaL Thefe doubts will at length grow eafie.
Fr^tfentia I find it called Zir.
So.,.., I d z
a o i
ni z r
This Leflbn is greater than any that was learned in Cracevia this day,
'al. ...... Fotentia Butfay, Vitafecunda. I ^dbut thus.
b n a
Id 2 s a i
a., o i g o d
m z r V r r
d. a z.. 36
i a B d i
L 2 I mil
^,6 A true Relation ofD\ Dec his Anions with /pints, &c.
/ w II teach joti here a^'ttr the dijUndion of them.
A. You nuan o\ I ud divcifly lignifying.
Say ..... Pnceftas Ifi'ii n Bab. Ii doth afctnd from the right hand to the leftt
Morio .... I find it Zna.
llfjttilhiot fall out foy but they will fall out well enough,
Kal. .. ... Viratertia I ad.
t I p ay you, what 'n o'.Mytijrantes?
Kai Lool\j'0'i xoyoT C'mrge.
A 10 . .. Jior
F-Tt-^m Gra
Vi'ii, qu* eciani eft mors.
I ad .
L ^nf J^er
V'j'Ordia ..... Olf
r a I
If the cr ier o
*"
f '1- Talk h ex Cphhu 5an3:o,
l">r f h\ia :ce of the Father ; Ho» Ifali' we -^aiher thf C>rcnnt^tr»ce,xeh/rh is th? Son ?.
"theS^nii ihe Image of his Father : J'lere^ore, i/ibn deatht be m',ji i>t ihi image of his father
J/fubftaiuia be in forma Cruci^, th-n he Son it thel>nage of hi:. Fat!:fr»
L'tudantes LHUi').
A The left I pray you ro delivcni^.
Nal Beur with me^for itaeafie foi^J-Uf
l:.t hard for we.
Minilirjtttes Ltng^
Coyjfirmantes ..... Such.
L. Now.
Nal irbenlkjtcKP^youJhall.
A. As Sach.
G'fibe merciful to man.
li is fo terrii'e., that I tremble to gather it,
CoufuuJaiites .... Vrch.
7h-:s I h-ive mudfp/ain thii body gemra.'ly : 7he particulars are lon.^, hard, and tedious.'
T.hy na-iiehe bhfffd^ God, fohii-h caniopen a meuUiy vhereby th* pcvers immediatemay be
cfened. Jinto wan. PuWerygUryf and honour, be unto thee, for thou art the true body of all things^
and ar' li'e eternal.
E^K. Now h: is fudJenly vanidicd away with the TaSIe.
1 eo nojho fit omnis laus ^ gratjarum afiio nunc isf i/t/emfiterna
Jeculorum Jecuia- Amen-
Th'-r''day, M'^e, ^'^/Vi^ll l'5S4. Cramvia.
A. Some delay upon our pr:iyers nude, at lengcii appeared Kalvage mfkz^t zndzttitc
as 1-ift bttore ; He Uaudeth fii:l.
Nal Benediilumftt n.)>:<^n'D'j^iin' i>t ^tern'un.
A Amtn.
Nal Audice mei fratre^i pari-ncer.
T'f Godhead in lis ft nt judgewent Keet>itig in hif Ah^/''hty hofem, the image and form of a't
thinjis, vniverfjUy^ 'ojkj'd dovin if n the turth •, for he faid. Let w ni,w go d:rt>n airo'ig th, for.s
0/ men : H fayc that all ih/> gs erevp Comrar} to their crati n and nature ; either i{eePtng their
dignities and fecret vertues It^utsip in .bJ:'trH</^ itreje noro'fly feri'ling , throus,h the imbe.i'tij k
and frowardntffe cf igncrauce: So th it it v $ (aid,, B^ld, J delight net in the fVo' Id : 7 >e
hlemcnts are dtfi.'edy thefnsofmeM-u>ici{ed^ihii-:0:lie> be o.ne dmghiis^ and the i^rwurd t.rts
( the fecret th.itt.bers of their hearts J the dms and du^gt'tns ' rA? dimied : I'teref-jre I will
dr .w mj fpiritfrom am^vgij- them, und they (halt leiome .T*.re drv.nken^ and their ignoru,ice fuck
as nev rw.s '.
No, not ft te the fall of he uve .
"
\
jtntieh'ijlur. F r, I ., the time is ic/wc, And he thai is the Son of LInripJueoM'"iHirr,is and liverh : Z'»to
him tier'f ore (hall be given Itrtngth and pvwrr : and t'.\: Kings 0. i/.\- L-rth jhu.t i e- on.e wad :
yea, ixen r'gifrg wad i yea even in th.' third widn ff^yutid that in the defth of thrir ovnnr agi-
nations; and 1 Will build my temple tn the Wo^d^, yea cvin m the J^if n ^Ud ; und Ivill
lecome
h c r V
i d z s a i
1 a i d h
V m z r V r r c
a b n a f s a
s d a z S e a s
t
.4
a b r d i
1 a n g
^
T •— — "- '.
'I
M' true Rc att'jri of 0\ Dee his AUions uith ffirits, d^c. -7
hecofttet S rpeyt in the v Idem jf : for I have ttickfd r:p wj/ g<trments and am fled dw.iy^ ani She 'mhe wilderi
JhaUmno'H omh Mo^ttt-^rhis tiith't com'^ort. (,_(fg_
Lo , rh' Ih'tiffer fpukf 3 and thr eurth became »ii'^y , ftid frdl of fogge ^ that the So/'' of
run might fl ep in hifovr-,! confvfion. T he fee ndThtoider fpak^, a>id there aroft fp.rii , fch
M art f-jr So'ith-flyers , ly'it hfs. Charmers-, Jnd Sed'icers : and they are entred into the holy pi'! vj,
a^4htvetjk.f*'"P t'>fir (^eats in mm. J/"oebe 7n/'o the earth therefore : For, it is C^rrutt -i^ IVoe'ce
jinto th" earthy for Jl e is furrcndrei to her adver^.try : JVoe be unto the earth, jhe is dtlner.'d into
the hands of her enemy : lea^ Jl^oe be vnto thefons of men, for their vffels are foyfoned. Bnt tv.n
then (aid the Lord, L , / rvill be kj^o^- n in the rvildernfffe^ isnd will Triumph in my vre.ikjuff-.
A»dlo^he called >o'<, and you became dnnk^en , and foo'/Jj with the fpir/t of God : Aid it vjs
[aid Vefcend^ for he caL'eth, and hath culled : an I K.a[>iiael thatcrv'ght up the pray rs defiendtd :
R-piui,'
and he WM frill with the power, & fpir/t of Godiund it lecame ••'
VoCirine, fuel) vva.s nevt r fi oni the ^.-^ q^
beginning : A''f painted, or carried: filed, or im tgin^'d ly .)ia>;,or accordme, to then- i»i .(i^'n iiif.na, ft,inc.
vhich are of f.elh : tut On:ple,pl:>in,jull of iire}t^ih,mid the powcrof the holy Ghol : rbtchVo-
Rrine hezan , m man did.^nak^ed/y from the earth : bi't yet , the image of perfedion. Ihis ftl''-
fame A^t is it, which is delivered unto you an infallible > oC:r>i;e, containing in it the w iters., v A; -i
runne thr.uzh -nany Gates : even above the Gace of iiinoccnc}' , wijerein jou are ta- (rht to fiy> le
tut the D'H^niry and C'.rruption of nature : a.fu in.ide p.trtak^rs of the fecret J' dgen-tnts f" t^e
A^'T'ighty t) be male m iniftft,ayid to be put /execution. Which k^mwJedge myov is to I ^ niids
ferfeH. two ways., bv power, mediate, and i^mnediate. I nmeditte^y from God, in refpeCi 0' hit
will, and fcCri't Jydoements, M unto the A^'^li's- By means and tr'iditi:jn, as fro'n ru, o'enif" thi
fitb.i <nce ami body of nature, according to our own imajje, wlncii is the thing I have iiov in
hand. I am therefore t- inirrd and inform yor, according to yo'r Vo&rine delivered , whith is
ctntained i>i .^p '
ab/es. 71/40 voyces, '/r calhn.s : wW/^ Krc fAr Natural K'-ye;,'o pnth''", wjf '
„^ „
4P 'vt ^^. ( for Oie is vot t(,teo,eHtd') Gates f indtrfatiding ,vher,by jO" Jha'l have K^i'^'li'di'.c ^^iyl^^.^^i^^.if
to move every Gaie, at\d to call out as many at yon p'eafe, or Jl)<llbe tk vght neccjfiry, which an ufe.
'
T'ry we l,riih'to' (l-.,i}id )ri''f/y^o''en vnto you t.'n fcrets of thfir Cit/es,& m ikjey « underft^.nd ptrr-
feftly the contained in the Tables. Through whub ejtowledge ^-a^i flhil' e.ifdy be able xo]v.d"^f,;i''t as
thi M or Id doth, but p^rfeU'y of the world, and of all things :ontained within the Comp ffe of Na-
ture, and -if all things vhi h are ^uby.£i to an end.
But behold, this chaige of mine is tied unto time : 7'(>frf/6r(>^<>^///<re>«t to /f.^rM, diligent to n te.
he-ir, and that With patience: For it is neither a fr-c School, nor a School of continuance. For /.s 'kt time
fowr is not given uati me beyond the fiift day oi A':g^Ji ticxt, fo hav.- you no iK'Sn^'th to learn '^^'"^ '"".'' '*»
after, becaufe I am the ftaff of your Doftrine. ^'^ ' ™" "^''^
Nal 1 am for th.' comfort of the world , and not for the hindrance : Thus fayeth the Lcrd a* Piift ntxt
To them that have Harve i let them rear, and ^nto fch M hav labotr let them work As for me,
1 am ti d to tint'., and am ready at all times : For I meafure not your night, nor day.
A. Thanks be unro the higheft
Na\.:,..Ceafe now with me, for no nmre difcendeth-
Soli Deo Honor & Gloria,
Afternoon, the fame Thuifday. .«.. After fome fhovt Ejaculations of prayers to Go Ij
there appeared a qreat black niaiSy Dogge : with who.n 1 would nave nothing to do, but ex-
fef^N'ilvaze. He (aid, that ! t wn^N hatTe. We rebuked himas an Hell-hound, Aclength AnUIuVlW
he departed, and Na.vage a^p^iared ; but bri^^hter then to day. Wickedfpirir.
Nal Hme yo' thofe th nT^i I told y I'ttoday?
A. We have them in record and miude.
Nal. Read them
A. 1 did read thtm.
H. K- HclaugScth, ha ha,ha.&c« a great laughter = He hath alfo a Ta-
bic, but (cemcth nor co belike the former Table of NalDa^e^ There arc
tcn,or e'cvc ^ divifions in this Table, as was not in the former Tabic.
^
A If thou art Nalvage, proceed in the Doftrine of wifdom, if thou art not Nalvage, depart
yin the name of felus.
i bi-'ve
fr.
e will, and therefore I will be here.
A. Now I doubt nofhincr, but thou art a deceiver, l^udite:'} The ignorance of the wicked .
becometii duir :
which fhewing it felf is fwcpt ou: of doors, and thrown on the Dung-hills. ,1
E. K Now appearcih ore like inc iVd/v.i;^.
^^' • E2/f«i"o ^ it of the [ ] for thou bxji opened thy blafphewy : and being difco-
vered, art become more acxurfed : Therefore brcapf, ihon art accurfed, ,ho^ art not di<rnified ; bnt
become a Velfel of unquity : And therefore hall no frec-wUl. For , free-will either I , or is in Fxc will.
jtate to be dignified. Jherejore, as dut I fweef thee out : uvd ca-e ihee into that i indjill , which-
it tbe place of the greateji woe: the i^ungbiU, and the nward oj the unrighteom. And, becaufe
thou
vovcc aa
the one fiJc.
78 A true 'J^clation of D'. Dee his jBions \vithjpirits, 6c c.
thou hjji thrufi thy felf into the Judgements of the Lord : and haji heard the fecrets of the Almighty
:
Ihcrefore I feal thee tanqiiam ti uncus in lufemum.
E- K- Heftrikcch him with an yern, like a pair of tongs,- in form of a
MouU to call Pellets in : griping his brain and underchaps, and fo he fell
down and difjppcared • and in his place came N^alip.ige-
S. K. Nalvage maketh curfie toward the four quarters ofthe world.
Nal., c/l'/j Us*/ ij) good at thy Um.
"
E- 1"^. In his heart though: that it might be^ that noi^one VeYilmaflered an-
Ofh^r^ and thereupon faid Z^m-
E. K- He is now accounting again on his Table as he did before-
Nal. ..... Vrito this Voarine belongeth the perfeCr kno-^-ledge^ and remembrance of the viydicall
/\ Ftne Creatures. How therefore Jhall I inform you, which k^noiP them not?
Chaa'his. A. Mcitn you zi Babyon Boborel, Sec.
Nal. .,... The Cbaradcrs^or Let:ers of theTables. -
A. You mean the myftical Letters ? wherein the holy book is promifecf to be written : and
if the book be fo written and laid open before us , and then you will fioni Letter to Letter
point, and we to record your inftruftions : Then I truft we fhall fufficiently underfiand , and
learn your inftruftions.
Nal Alfo in receiving of the calls', this is to be noted : that they are to be uttered of me,backj-
PicW.ird. ward : and ofyou, in praciife,f.rward.
'1
hefecalls, A. I underftand it, for the efficacity of them ; c\fe, all things called would appear : and fo
hinder our proceeding; in learning.
Nal. VPCE7ETRSMSSS
24. E S A I I M M N S E S.
E' K, All this was in one lincj in the lowermoft portion • and lowermoft
line thereof.
Nal IE E£ E TNOEVMElMMM
27. MMTi M A E 7 S E AM.
e- K Now he ftandeth ftill.
43. Nal AEKTISANSSEASDMMSEAOA
Eviiii. viiiiAOAOiivirsEirr
S D A I N.
E- K- Thefe leemed to be taken out of divers lines , in the three lone:.
portions 5
but none oucof the uppermoft, or fourth-
Nal...;.. R S H D D S R RESOLSNREREE
S F R H EIEEEEIEEOETISOE
RttHDEOISEOESMETFEVE (
81. ^SEEEEERSESEORSMEt
V.R. F E VETSEEERSE
X E E R
lorF. S I S E H E N E S M E F S F E E D I \_^^-^ E
[ll SSSISEOESHE
^^^
^SDFTEIEORSOEDHTEr
Wherefoevcf E S H E 7RTERE0EHSER
)^
' jjtrnddhvn.
lie reft of this Leffon, the next morning.
A. After the correaing of certain places before in the Letters he faid. I feel no
more, .
A. Thanks and honour be to the highe/1 for ever, Amn.
Fry day morning, Hora 8 i. AprHis i^. Cracovi^.
Not long after my Invitation, Nahage appeared, Nutu Dei.
Nal Oir peace, which is Triumphing patience, and glory be amongjiyou.
A. Amen,
Nal. .:... It
Jtrue Relation of D% Dee his AUtons mth fptnts, dcc^ y^
Nal. ....• It way he faidy can there be patience in the Angels^ which are exalted above the aire .<*
.
For, fi^<:h as were of errour have thetr reward : lea^ forfooth my dear brethren. For there is a.
P*'"^*"^^
continual fight between us and Satan, M'i<'rei«w<'i"i«9?#//^ by -patience. Tbii if not fpokfn vitk-
tut a caiife : For at the Vevil is the father of Carping , fo doth he futtlely infeU the Seers imagina-
xioH, mingling unpeifeft forms with my utterance : Jf^ater is not received without aire , neither
the vord of God without blafphemom infinuatien. The fon of God never did convert all., neither did
all that did hear him, believe him. Therefore, where the power of God is, is alfo Satan : Lo , I
(peah^not this without a caufe,for I have anfwered thy infe&ion.
A. E.K. Had thought that Angels had not occafion of any patienccjand fo was his thought
anfvvcred.
Nal I fittde the Soul of man hath no portion in this firft Table. It is the Image of the fon ^he firft Tt-
of God, in the bofome of hit father, before all the worlds. It comprehetideth his incarnation, taf-
^^^'
Ron, and return to Judgement : which he himfelfj in &c{h,k.nowetb not i all the rejt are ofunderjtand-
^ jy '"
tng. The cxaft Center excepted.
A (Two thoufand and fourteen, inthefixth Table^is) D
S6. 7003- I^ f^f thirteenth Table,is I.
A In the 21*^. Table. 114.06 downward.
I In the lajil able, one lejfetb^n Number. A word, J*\dz you Jhallmierfiand, what that
word is before the Sun go down. Jaida is the laji word of the call.
85. H 49. afcendingT ^9.defceHding, A 909. direHlyyO fimp!y,
H 2029. dirtilly, call tt Hoach.
225. Prom the low angle on the right fide. Continuing in the. fame and next f^uare.
D 225. [The fame Muttber repeated.
A It the thirteenth Table^ 740. afcending in his fquarc.
M The 30 *>. Table, 1 302 S. -from the low angle in the left-fide^
g< In the fquare afcending.
Call it Mid.
O The 7<h. T^ble, 99. afcending.
C 7he \9*'defceMdiMgi^09.
O The ..• !• from the upper right angle, eroding to the nether left, tnd fo afcf^ding too^»
85, N The ^i^^. from the Center to the upper right angle, and fo defcending ^009
.
Call it Noco.
Be patient, for I told you it would he tedinuti
O The ^9^^. from the Center defcending, or the left hand, 907 ^>
D The 41*. froft t*^ Center afcending, and fo to the right upper Angle, 27004.
R The 43'*'. fr'mthe upper left Angle to the rights and fojiillin the Circumference, 3400^^
I The 47'^ afcending, 72000.
82, In the fame Table defcending the laji*
Call it Zirdo.
P The 6*''. afcending 109.
A The 9'*'. afcending 405.
81. L The xV^. defcending 60^. ......
Call it Lap. A. Her, he ftrokc the Table on Saturday aftlon fol-
lowing at my reading over of it backward,
E The 6'''.
from the right Angle uppermoji to the left, 700.
G The 1 5 th- defcending^ 2000.
R The 17'''. from the Center downward, 11004.
80. O The 3
2th. defcending from the right Angle to the Center, 3200*.
Z 47'''. ic^^ooo. defcending. Call it Zorge. [Of one fyllable^
A 19'*!. from the left corner defcending, I'jiOO.
79. A 24'''. from the Center afcending to the left Angle, 25000.
Q_,Tif fa me Table afrending, 3 3 coo.
Call it Q_\ A. [Tfjree fyllables with accent oh the lafi A.3
E The fecond Table, 112 afcending.
L The ^. defcending %0i\..
C The 1 9^K Table defcending lOi^, [That C, it called CMinor.y
I The I ^^^. defcending, 200'y.
T^ji^
C The J <i.iK defcending, 290J. Call it Cicle.
E. K. Now is he kneeling, and praying with his Rod up
76. O The 4*^. afcending to the left Augle» 39'^'
D The •^^^. defcending S12. A. Here he ftriketh agaia
O In the fame defcending, 902. GaU it D O. vn Saturday.
N. The
8 o J true l^elation ofD\ Dee his JBions whfp'trtts, 6cc,
N T^f 9^^^ descending 804.
A T^eii''^ defcending 20Q'^
R 7he i^'^^ descending '^006.
N Tie 16^'' defcending 12004 :
A The 20^*" defcending 17006,
Z 7/&f 32th defcending ^oooO,
I give it fafler unto you-, than 1 received it.
75
M
,. This A may be anAorOH O.
be correUed it M.
Zamran.
Call it Zanran.
E. K. thought it.
7+
73.
72
T The 1^^^ defcend'ngiii This may he T or T).
O The 6''' afcending from the center to the left corner 1907.
Call It OD or OT.
A Ti^c- 9*'' afc ending 500
C 77j^ lO^'i defcending doi C<z// zr C A, [a. twofyllahlei .
] ^
E mtifl come after R .' but vpithout mmher^
andfo, it is Zacarc.
R 7i{if \6^^ afcending 22006.
A T/jf 1
9'*^
defcending 23012,
C jT/Jjf 30*'' afcendtng 30006.
A T^f 39''' /row f^e /f/r angle defcending 4201 2.
Z The 46 ''
afcending 3 1 2004. C/z// tl Zacar.
Vfeyour time of refrejhing^ and return Deo gratias feddamus Immortales,
The fame Friday after Noon, circa 3. horam.
After a fhort requeft made by hie to Chrift for wifdom, and verity to be mlniftcred by
Nalvage ; he appeared and fpake much to E. K. which he expreffed not to me : but a length
confefled that he gave him brotherly counfel to leave dealing as an Idolater or Fornicator
againft God, by asking counfel of fuch as he did.
E. K. confefled that he had been that day, and fome daycs before, dealing by himfelf after
his manner, tounderftand 5f my Lord Laskje^ and of other matters of Laskji, and left hi*
queftions in his window written. Nalvage told him the devil had now taken away hisque-
luons. E. K. went down to fee if it were true, and he found it true.
Nal fray A, We prayed.
There is an error in the lafl.^ not^in the Number-, but in the Letter- I will firfl go through the
Letters., and after come to the Numbers. How many words haveyot* received thit day ?
L, Thu teen, whereof laida was faid to be the laft of the call.
f^d\», ...,., They be more worth than the Kingdom of Pohnd. Be patient, for thefe things are
wonderful.
N ( The number mufi needs go to ) thefixth, defcending 309.
A The 7''' afcending 360.
71 O The 9^^ afcending 1000.
O Ihe 1
3*''
afcending I050.
V The ij^ afcending 2004. It is Vboaft, It may be founded Vaoan.
Adde thofe lajl Numbers
A, '
^
Vooan is (po^en with them that
faf.'i but Vaoan with them that
are^ and are glorified. The
devils have loft the dignity of
their founds.
Ltfit pi* «•
rum magr.jt
'^rdjeSiami.
A. They make 472^.
Nal It iscalledtke Myjiical roote inthe highefi afcendent of tranfmutation.
A. Thefe phrafes are dark } when it fliall pleafe God they may be made plain.
Nal. ...... It is tbefquare of the Fhilofophers worl{f
•A. you faid it was a roote.
Nal So It is It rootefquare.
A. The fquare thereof is 22306729.,..
The roordis^ by interpretation^lgnxi \eiz mater. The vain Fhilofephers ds think,,
leget bodies : but in truths it conceiveth, and bringeth forth,
qo D the fifth) afcending, 4.
O the 39, afcending) 7806. c<i///t O D. [ A, drawing the long, ]
E
!
it doth
i 17
—I
- I
-^ '-'' , . , ,. ,
.-- .r^— —- ,
Jtrue Relation of D\ Dee his JBions mth /pints, 6cc^ 8i
E L 17 (not 17 thefirfiy hut 17 and thethirdtb : ftr it is of the thirdtb : and ty it
L et may be of the>7i both ) afcendittg, 419.
69 O O the 18 afcending 2017 .... this O niuji be founded as A.
T M M the 24 from the center to the left angle, afcending,
'yoSp .... T mujibe inftead of M.
L A A $0 defrending, ^012.
A I I f/-'^ 35 afcending, 15079.
B P P the ^^^ from the center to the left ang'e^ defcendingi')9o6S. Avetfcd.
Call it Piamo cl. It it Piatel Baltale to be founded.
As the ear is the chief fenfe ; fo, being infeded, it is the greatefi hindrance. Manjr there be j^ote Intrii.
that thruft themfelves between yon and me : and they are increafed. Power is given agairt ders.
to the Shew Scone ; and thou (halt not be hindred.
A. Shall I prefently bring it forth >
Nal -^s thou wilt.
A. I brought forth the Stone, and it feemed niarvelloufly brighter than before it was wont
to appear.
5. K- He fcemeth to pray-
E. K. There appeareth to me in the Stone SHicbael as he was wont
to appear , with his fword in his hand , and in a long white gar^
mcnt/ ^c.
Mich I ant the firength of the Higbeji, and the tnighty arme of him that is Almighty :
yotir fellow fervant, and the mejfager of the Higheji : The fewers of the earth have rifen up '^-
^ , ,
.
eainU jou: But you fliall prevail, and this Doftrine /hall be delivered as is promifed, and -r n!' m
1"^°"
* !• •
.» /I I r r I fill r- M 71-1 )1 /»• I
miielhaH be
according unto time. But pray earnejtly i for lo, the whole hojte of Angels, juch as are blefjed, ^^^iQ^^-^^^^
have cryed unto the Lord_, faytngi Not fo Lord : Thy bread is torn in pieces , or reproachfully
eaten.
Thuf therefore faith the Lord, Be patient, for the place is holy, and the power of the Higheji
if amongli you. Receive willingly : for he that is offended is fmitten. Be '^"^'f"^^^^' ^^'^
^^'Thcdi tu^ci'
jpare of deceivers : for the power of the wielded is increafed, and is become mighty : But into don of the
this veffel fliall enter no unclean thing, not for this time onely, but for ever. Scone.
Vnto thee Nalvage tbui faith the Lord, gather up thy wings and enter : Do as thonart com-
ittanded, and be multiplied. Be comforted ; for Gabriel fliall afcend and fland before the Lord, Be multiplied;
and fhall have power and defcend : and he fhall be yoJ{ed utito thy loynes, and thou Jhalt become Gabriel,
utightj ; that thou mayft open the wonders of the Lord with power.
? E 2C, Now is N^/Vrfi"^ come into the Stone.
Mic Be comforted,be comforted, be comforted my brethren in the God of Hofis : for your
comfort is and fhall be of the Holy Ghoft. Therefore let peace be amongft you, and be no more T^^ ^°V
labes; for wifdom dweHeth not amongli children. The peace of God be amongft you : And tkia^ '
much I have comfortedyoil'
E.K. f/eisgone.
iS- K- Nowhere is another,
A. It is Gabriel thzt came to Daniel.
Gabr 1 didfo, and I am that Gabriel, and the IForld hearetb witneffe of my coming.
Tou rehcUiotii wi/}des,yqu deceivers of therighteous,you nakjd fuhliances and things lighter than
the vindes, \now notyou that the God ofyour creation hath rewarded you, kjtow you not your own
weakjteffet know you not your ftate ofno return ? I fay headlong you all ( without refiftance ) fall
down to your places : Be gone, fmkj, for I am of power, and do prevail.
Behold he hath placed darknefTe behind him,and hath made the lights of heaven as ths Lamps
i>fhif beatify. Go you that are confcunded without return ; for the name of our God in his de-
termination is invincible. S\ vi.
This night is a Sabbath,and afcoiirge-to tie-wicked.
Nal I promifed to expoundyou a word, the firflyouhadto day,hfitthe Idft. tt fignifiethj
ofthe Higheft.
^t. E. K- HisTabIc now appeareth very evidently to me, as that I could
paint it all. ^^ ,
.. Ceafe for this time, for it is a timeoffilence, for the wielded are confounded : in the morning
^arly you jliall be taught plentifully : for my power is become a hundred and fifty ; and I willfinijh Note,
my charge, long before the time appointed.
Gabr. We are alwayes prefent until the pronvfe he ended. Kefi in pedce.
E- K. Gabriel Icerr.eth to be all in compleat karnejjey like skaks of a Fifi from
i M the
.
--- -- , — —- - - I
S' 2 A true Relation ofD\ Dee his jBions whff'mts, dec.
^"^'^^^^^'^^'^^thearm-Utsdo'^Dn'^ardi with a Spear in his band, all of fire, about a two
o'iOtbnel at 1 ' •* '
this occafion. yards loHg.
A. The peace of God, and Iiis mercy, be on us now and ever. Ameyi.
A. I fit fliould not offend you, I would glady ask youi knowledge of the Lord ^/^frt
L(r.t/^/f-Our great worldly friend, and that for the fervicc of God, if he be paft the chief
danger of his prefenc intirniity, e>f.
,
». ..... Jf'''he>t we enter into hiMyWe kjiow hint ; hut fro'» him, he is fcarce kjtowHmito us : as ef
'
^"^^"^^
/„-,,j
ofwhom it ii f'lid, lie hatli confcnced with an Harlot : we kjtow not the end of God his ju~
jiice which is vfon him.
liii prayers are come to thefecond heaven^ wither hath any received remembrance of him : But
we will fray unto God to be merciful unto hiiity and that for thy fake j Becaufe thou Jhalt not be
niadealauglnng-ftock to tiie wicked. Fray thou fo,- him, that tfesH »;<?>:// work in him that
Tiaycr or
^^jjIj,), j^j. ^orketh not for h''>ifelf. Hold up thy hands for him ; for it is a lawful and a cha-
ritable thing: For God hath granted thee a force in prayer: But be ^Mient and hmnb/e.
Go,! his gift to f^e with thee, give thankj and laud u)ito the Lord.
Ain;)r«ycr. Ceafe.
A. LaudesDeo noftro incelFanter reddantur. Amen.
^zt\nAzy,Aprilis iJf't CMane. Cracoviae, 1584.
A. Orationc Dominica tinita, & brevi illaoratione Pfalmi 33. infpefto Chryftallo apparu-
cre utrique G^ir/c/ 8c Malvage.
E. K- They kneel, a^ chough they were in confeilion one to another,
and • • • . about half a quarter of an hour.
Gabr ') after me.
.0legimting and'fountain of all wifdom, gird up thy loines in mercy^andjhadcw our weaktteffti
"V""- t
^^ wcrciful unto uf, and forgive us our trefpaffes : for thofe that rife up faying there is no God, have
rifen up againfl us, faying. Let us confound them : Ourjirength is not, neither are our tones full of
jnnrrow. Help therefore eternal God of mercy : help therefore eternal God of falvation :
help therefore eternal God of peace and comfort. If'ho is likje *'nto thee in altars of incenfe ?
before whom the ^'ire of Heaven fing, O Mappa la man hallelujah ; Vifit u OGod with a com-
prehending fire, brighter than the Stars in the fojirth heaven. Be merciful unto us, and continue
with us j for thou art Almighty : To whom all things of thy breafts in Heaven and Earth, futg
glorypratfe andhontur. Saying, Come , Come, Lord for thy mercy fake. Say fo tmtoGod
kjteeling.
A. I repeated it, kneeling, and £. K, likcwife kneeling.
E.K- They both kned down again, and put their foreheads together.*
Crd^nViiecmeth to fitm a chair on the one fide ot N<j/v<j^e about 30
yards ofF^ on NallPdge his left hand- Nd/i>/?^dllindcth.
-. Ihiu faith the Lord, JFho is be, that dare reft,: invincible jirength: SeaU uptheEaJl,
lUnding J- /<"/<*
"P '^-'^ South, Scale up the fFeji ; and unto the North put three Scales.
^"'
E. K- Now (ittethN<a/'P^^<?inaChair afidc from his round Table, the
Table being fomewhat before him*
Nal Name that I point to. [^ To E. K. he faid fo, as concerning the Letters.
E-K- He flung like a thin brightnefle out of the Scone upon £. K. he
hath his rod, which he took out of his own mouch.
, . .ey .. . He holdeth up his rod, and faith, I am all joy, and rcjoyccin
my felf
E- K- He fniit the round Tabic with his rod; and it whirled about with
agreatfwiftntfTe- Now that which before fccmed to be a circular and
G obe. plain form, appcarcth to be a Globe and round Ballj corporal , when it
turncth.
Nal SaythelajL
A. Piamo el,
£. K- He
^true Relation of I>. Dee bis y^icris ffith fpiritSy &:c. 8 j
E- K, He Itnkech the Tabic now, and though the body Iccm to turn, yet
the Letter Teem to ftand rtill in their places,
'^ifi.K- "bJow he pluckcth out five Books, as if fiom under his Chair, and
fctteth them down by him ;
the books be green , bright , and they be three
corned, ^aclalp-
Si!. .... . ReJ J hckjvjrd ... [to E. K.] Eifrj tbiHg witb m teacbelb. Read bjckjuird.
Letrtr wttbcLt numbrr.
Kal Rejdhackvird-i letter without number, rk letters tbou badji jejierdaj,
£i. After all read, he proceeded thus
:
P J'-.'f fourth jfcendin^y 97.
A Tiv' fixtb afcettdingj 1 1 2.
^S I Tbfet^btbafcendixgyZoj.
P The Kn:th ifceniing, por, P I A P.
E- K- Nowhcl^ikethijacrain.anditturnerh-
i'
J TA. '•
lie tvtmhers after.
I
, A. A A I» Jbe firji A maj be g» .\ an O ^r £hE,
Tbofe are two words,
E. K. Now he ftriketh again, and rurncth his Rod feemeth to
be hollow Jikc a Reed-
65 A P G O B. Call it Bogpa.
E. K' GMel falleth down on his face ] and lieth proftratc,and
Kalyj^e holdeth up his Rod all the while.
'jift DOS- He pointed beyond him in the upper Circle, itfeemah
T like a Roman C,
^ L A M A O p. Foamal Od. ptt out tbe S.
hlak,e tt tTfc vr:rds, ...'.. It may he all one word with S. <r T. but it would be btri
for jovr JotderjiiiHd'.ng.
CMahj * P*'^^ hctweeK Poamal and Od,
E, .K. §4^?/ lieth proUrate all this nhile.
ij X V D M O Z. C^lL It Zorae. ,
*
With great difficultj tbis Letter wm difcerntd : Nai vage bintfelffaidj be kj!(W
it not jet; but It feemed to E. K. to he an\. Nalvage denied it to he an \. 'hud
faid be kjtew not yet tbe mj^iery : fay tbe Lords prayer, f.r T cannot cpot tt. AhLiugb
my power be multiflted,yet I kj:cw not this Letter. At length he faid it vjs V,
£. K. I can remember that word well.
Na] Tboufralt not remember it.
62 PEV. It ii called Vep.
(JHaks a ptint tbere. ^- A full point? Kal NojMOy a jhol^,
it OLOHOL. Crf///r Loholo.
lA»gy tbe ftrjl fyllahle accented.
€• K- Now he ftriketh the Table-
go S D. f It is the uppermri of Call <f D S,
59 S I M x'X P I. Pror.ownce it 1 P A M I S. (J\ial{e a ptint at S.tif h pt.-
jwuedjacrt.
58 LU. Call it UL. A. With fuch found to U.as wcpronounce
R'l
'
.yew , whereof bows aic made.
': Ms MAPI
84 A trueReUtion of D'. Dee his JBmsmthfpirits, 5cc.
57 -MAP I. E- K- It fcemcth to be an e.
XabiJs claufiSj [^Span] [itm um\ ... He hummed iffce^figmfyihg two
vordi morey which were not to be fronQunced till tktj
vere read in fraciife,
[) O. O D. Aijouhtd before.
E. K- Now Qamel rifeth from his lying proftratc-
56 HOT LAB. Ctf//itBALTOH. Tber* k * ftiitt,
P A 1 P. Can it Piap.
E- K. G;i^r/V/ fteppsth up, and fecmcth to ftorm angerly agalnfl
fomewbat,
^k. Belike fome wicked powers would intrude their illufions , or hindrances in thcfi
actions.
E. K. He hath thrown his Dare from him : and ic cometh to hin
again.
""Gabr Co->^nt the number of the words you hive received to day,
L. Sixteen, ifPoaw^r/i O-/ be made two words.
Gab Bf j-ackjugy and jo matiy flaguet it amottgiljou rmre then jiur flagut woi hefore^
E-2C- Hcleemcthtoftormftill-
cJai C;-''.'? in.
£. K. Now there come four more.
Gab Art not tkou Adnminl iVhich haiifaUcit., and hafi hurt thy neck, fcxr timet? A»
vilt thou >.'?»• rrfe agajn^ and take fart anew ? Go thy way therefore, tbov Seducer^ enter tut
ihf fifth r:rw?fjrr. Let thy p wer he lefetben it ity ty a mvch a thiuCeeji namhtr here.
E-K. NowthcyalHour falldownm[oapic,orH/4/»Mof the foundaLifli
ofthe place where they i^ood.
E- K. N^hage licth all this vrhilc upon hii face.
Gab Couxt Hiw again.
A. *^ir:eea.
Gab .... It it ifot fo. there it »H erreur.
Nal. .....I am deceived jram Ipaou
O D the next it falfe^ and fo are the rei : A>td fo it that that f*ilsmtib,
A B O S. S O B .^
A. lhaiB^/r:t.
Nal. .in:! Piap.
Nal. ..,. What is tkitf [to E. K.] E. K... ...G.
Nal Kti it is a* H,
S5 HOT. T O H.
there w a. ftixti jbelfinl * .r^Vj it'.'-ei Virjula.
54 MOH. HOM.
55 SD. DS.
52 . L I P D A I. C€BitlhDV\L t::eKt ad.
51 O N O G. CU it GoDo.
Gab. ..... f^(*ve HCt^ftr the flttt wtxetb msrt bi.yt
N'^ Fti^etb S.D. D S. tkts wxctrrtSeimUml^ftOfwimg ft
r«4 macb.
E. K- Cjhriel did throw a brighrnelTeupon E. K. after he had fti>-
ked his own face drfi , EJC. frarted at it.
49 azr:z
Jtrue Relation of I>. Dee his J&icns mtb fpirits, (5cc» 8 ^
49 AZRNZ C-?///t Zurza. d.. h^.../.nitrz.a.
E. K. Nalvage kneclcth down before the TaMe, and ufeth many in-
clinations,and gefturcs ofrevcrencejas Priefts ufe to do atfte Alter.
48 M Z R A F: F A R Z M.
47 H A L I
P
m$re<K>er P I L A H- 7bree fjUahles. ly pronoun-
cod bj it •*]!„
46 HAND A I the ArK^fkitTifUige lADNAH. Ijadnch.
E. K' Nahage cometh and kiffctii the Tabic and kneelcth down,
and fcemeth to pray.
45 MRE wttb ERM
44 B A C a Rod CAB
£. iC. He kneeleth down again5and ufeth fuch gcfturesas before.
GSN arod
E. K. Nal'va^e faid, Adjwva »/e, mi Dejfs. He holdeth up liia
hand and kifleth the Table, and ufeth wonderful] reverence. He faitla
again. Fer ofem^ mi Detts.
45 E R N OZ delivered jtm Z OK R E N S G
42 SD mndt^whiek DS
41 R I P the holj imt Pir, then is a. ^int
40 ABAC gevem Cdl it Caba.
3f ALEROHO, Zwiiiftf«L-nr C^// it Ohorda,
i
Nil There k a. flof, JhevpiKg a jhfli^e nuie Jhaight
dowH tbm\
38 M R A S A C n vhim Cafann j t fi^,
£. K. Now he kiffeth the Table again.
37 MASRG wnb idmir€tt9n GRSAM idfiopttVL
ft
M GarfaaCi
36 H E L O B O jnvr Girmenti O B O L E H
35 S B R U heautified U R B S
34 SD MndtkWbicb DS
E. K. Now he ufeth the former reverent gefhires again.
33 IDEA •fg*tbcrnt^ ALDI
32 EGRP with tie fire PRGE ttpiry,
31 PNONG Igzrmlktd ONOND
Nal, Ai]W3>* mtf m Z)<«,
30 LIHT fett, THIL *fmgthgrei
29 ABOS jr4#/ff 30 BA
4« ilElZ •fj.;**^* ZIEN heret^m.
27. HOL-
86 A true Relation of D^ Dee his JBions mthjfirits, &c.
27 HO LB ON the palms tiobloh.
26 A T ^ ^ t: A.
m
25 H A M M O C trilledyou together C O M M A H A point,
24 DO And As before O'D.
23 ZMIZ efmyvejiures Zimz. A point.
22 A O H T O N in the ntidji Notboa. Here is a point before the word. A polnc.
21 A AQ_. jigur garments ^A A. Three fyllabj«.
E. K. Now he ufeth reverence to the Table again.
20 qaOH meafureth HOL^ i^.nsHoIquu.
,^ SD which T>S
Nal. Adjuva me mi Deus. ,
. ^ ^
,
i8. GRPLAM a through thrufiingjire Malptg^ as Mdfutg.
* '
:'
i
17 AT <w rA.
Now he prayeth as before, his arms extended.
16 AARG andtheMoon GRAA. A pdnt,
15 D hSVZAN aSword NAZPSAV.
E. if. Now he prayeth again.
H AT ai TA.
13 r i* a word by it felf.
12 ROR The Sun- R»r. Here a point.'
XI LOZ bands Zol ... zod A, as 0/: A point. ' *
so ARBOS in Iffhofe Sohra,
? OHPNOy of vrrath Vonpbo.
j8 ZLAC a hove the firmantets Calz.
7 HSNAL iu power exalted LANSU asLtnJh.
Adjuva mt ODcus.
6 TLAB ofjujiice Salt. Here is a poinf.
5 DAI the God iad, as lad.
4 OHOG faith GOtTO,
3 GSROV tverjeu Verfg, Here a point.
2 FNOS Raigft Smf,
j» LO / Oh '-- •'
k— E. K. Now
(tA true Relation of D^\, Dee his ABions mthffints, &c. 8 7
This is the enddf theTh.^ftCaii
E. If. Now he fittcth down in his Chair,
mighty and firft Call.
Tray that jtii may uHderjland what it k.
A. Mean yoii prcfeiitly ?
Na! I,prefeMt(y,
A. I pray to that intent.
E. K. All the Stone /heweth fire, and all is on lire, nothing elfe
appearing : not like common fire, but clear, thin, d^r.
Now it waxeth clear.
E. K. And now Nahage is on the top of the Globe, and his feat
rcmaineth in the former manner of fire. Now Nahage holdeth up
his right hand, and the fame feemeth to be many hands. There is on
one of his lingers an I. It vanifheth away i andfoon divers fingers are
words as follow.
/
ReigK
ever
you
faith
the
God
of
Juftice,
in
power
exalted
above
the
firmaments
wrath^
in
vphofe
•
hands
the
Son
ZF
as
a.
Sword:,
and
thi
Moon
as
a
through
thrujiing
fire
rvhich
vteafureth
your
garments
in
the
midfi
of
my
vefiuresy
and
trujfed
you
together
as
the
palms
of
tny
hands,
tphofe
feats
I
garniped
with
the 60
fire
of
gathering
and
beautified
your
garments
with
admiration
to
whom
I
mads
a
Law
to
govern
the
holy ones,
and
delivered
you
a
rod
with
the
ark.
of
kjiowledgej
moreover
you
lifted
up
your
voices
and
/ware
obedience
and
faith
to
him
that
liveth
and
triumpheth
whofe
beginning
is
not^
nor
end
can
not
he
which
finneth
as
a
flame 60
7M
S8 A trueRelation ofD'. Dee his JBions mthfpiriti, dec.
tn
the
midfi
your
Palace^
and
raigneth
amoMgJi
yoH
as
the
BalUttce
righteonf}zejfe
and
truth.
Move
therefore
and
fhevv
your
felvcs,
oppn
the
inyfteries
of
your
Creation,
be
friendly
unto
me--i
for
49
the
fervattt
of
the
fame
your
Gody
the
true
vporjiiippet
of 66
the 60
Highefi, 49
169
Second Table,
The covenant
of God.
Obedience.
Many kcyes.
Note thefe
three degrees.
Faith.
A key of the
firil feven.
A Hgn to make
tn end.
E. K. Now all the fingers be gone.
A.
Nal It if thefenfe in your tongue of the holy anl myflical Call before delivtred : which
followeth mpraSlice for themov'mgof the CecondTzb\e, the Kings and Minifters ofgovern-
ment : The uttiance of which, is of force, and moveth them to vifible apparition : moved and
appeared, they are forced ( by the Covenant of God delivered by his fpirit) to render o-
bedience and faithful fociety. IFherebt, they will open the myfteries of their creation, as far
as fjadhe neceffary : and give you underftanding of many thoufand ferrets^ wherein yen are yet
but children ; for every Table hath his key : every key openeth his gate, and every gate being
opened, giveth kjiowledge of himfelf of entrance, and of the myjieries of thofe things whereof he if,
an inclofi'.re. yVithin thefe Talaces jou (hall find things that are of power,as well to fpeaJ{_, as to do.
for every [ (i) Palace ] " above his [ (2') City] and every City above his [ (3) entrance. ]
Beyou therefore diligent that you 7nay enter in, not as fpoilers, but as fitch asdeferve intertain^
ment in the name, and through the power of the Highefl. For great are the mercies of God unto
fuch as have faith. This is therefore the key of the firft feven, according to the proportion of the
firfi Creation. No tn^re for this time,
Afign alwajes to maks an end,
E. K. He drew a Curtain before the Stone, of white colour.
* 1 had dif.
courfed fome-
what with E.
K. of the man-
ner of skrim-
pes.
Gabr.
as 1 think*
E.K.heTpeak.
eth hollowly.
He,
The fame Saturday, after Noon, hora ^l ^.
The white Curtain remained about half an hour after my piayer to God, and fome in-
vitation to Gabriel and Nalvage, at length the Curtain quaked as though wind blew ic.
E K. Me thinkcth that I hear a ftir within the Stone. At length
they appeared.
E. K. .They have very eyes which twinkle as other mens eyes do,
and " therefore I fee them with my external eye, not within my ima-
gination, as,....
T^bere are two hJMd of vifions,xhe onehyinfufmiof will and defcending, the otherbyiH-
fiifion by permifjon and afcending. The firjl it the imagt -of the Will of God defcending into the
body, and adjyned to the foul 'of man, whofe nature is to di^iinguifh things of his own l^neffe, but
fhtit up inprifon in the body, wanteth that power; and therefore being illuminated iy fp'ritual
prefence, inwardly, feetb now in part, as he JJ^all hereafter do in the whole.
But note, that every vifion is according to the foal of man in power : and fo is received of him
that feeth. The boy of man feeleth nothing fpiritual ttntil he be of incorrupt ion : Therefore
ufeth no fenfe in aixd illumination. The other is to be ftund out by his contrary.
E. K. Here is a Devil that deridcth thefe in/i:ru(f}ions, and faith,
you may know his vertue by his wifdom : he never went to
School. „;
-i-"i Gabr....-
^^true Relation ofiy, Dee his JBtons mth fpirits, (3cc- Sp
,
Gih,,,.,.Ikj}owvhaihiU:F(,isnifigiiieniom(tprefilihm,butnottotouckhir4. He hach Hois.
afcended, and begotten him a fon, wherein the people of the eaith fliall be accurfed. As.Pmer Anti'
ihofe that are in fri^onflmt up -from li^it^'and the ufe of the day comprehend not a>i^ tking ybnt that '^hrifii.^
frbich eritreth u»ro thein by 'ferniifi6n,'tr freefvill^f'o U the Soul ofmmjhut uf from Mli^Bti except
that which eMtrethbji the will, or fuffi'ance of the hrgheji. .'/•"'; :
'•"
But at obedience it the tryal of dignification , fo are the Cerenmties appointed- hy Qod, the Wit-
tttffes of juftifjcatioH. For he that violated the outward Law waf accurfcd : 'But the very end of
%t(tice to fadvation if the obedience, andfubmijjicnofthe Soul. How can it he that the earth and
elements Jhallbear wi^ntffe dgdin'i mdn u/i ihe day of Judgement , but in the perverfe ufe of thr,>iy
;ontrary to God his Comviandments. He it a flow School-majier^and offmall jinderjiandinr.The wicked
Gab. Ceafe,fortheconfli£{iff^reat, and muji have judgement of the Lord. '^ fpiricfaid,
Ci, Sail I ;oyn my prayers with yours toour Godj co drive away this wicked fcorner y and
contemner of your miniftery \
Gab Not fo, you know not the fecret judgements of the Lord herein. "ihe white Curtain
^drawn.
A, Deo Noftro foUOmnipotenti fit omnis LausljHoaorjGIoria 3 & imperium ia
fecula feciilomm. Amen.
Sonday, Aprilis 15. (JMane Hor.jl, r
After a few prayers neceflary', and invitation to Gabriel and Nalvage for their inftru-
dioos.
....« Our infiru&ions fliall grow moft plentifully amongft you. But give place to time, /or A voyce out
tbif it the voyce of the highefi. , Be holy and righteous in the workj ofyour hands , and keep al- of the ftone.
wayes the Sabbath ofyour Redeem'er Aere<?/r<r : For even yet, the Serpent it amongji m. For^^'^^'^^^-
evenyet the Serpent it amongfi my holy ones, and endeavoureth to cut you afunder. Therefore J^ ^"^^"^
I fay be holy even in the workj ofyour fjands, for he thiiiketh to prevail againft yoii : But let your n* re us"fun°
boufesbefwept clean, thap when the fpy e?nreth, be finde nothing to feed on* der.and ho-
A. We ceafed and gave our felves to the Sabbath : coafidering, intending hence foreward P^'** '° P'^:
td vifit the Church and Aflembly, to pray and meditate on God his feryice. v**^'
0?o/«Jefus ChnHiis efi Triumphator contra mortem 6- Diabolam ,I>ominus Nojier &
'•
Veuf Noiler. Amen.
Monday, 15. Aprilif. Mane,hora 6. Cracovix.
A. After a ftiort prayer to God for remiflion of fins , and fending of his graces , and his
gpod Minifters afligned for our inftru&ions : and for the avoiding away of the great enemy,?^^
who held c&nBift againft Gahiel^ &c. The white Curwin appeared ftill drawn before in
tAic ftone for an hour.
£. jtf. There appcareth a face ftanding upon two Pillars, the Cur-
tain yet remaining drawn : The face is fiery, and hath very great teeth.
The Pillars are like Marble fpotted gray , and the ground of the Pillars
colour white. He faid,the works of the higheft are become a tum-
bling block, and have entred into the breafls of a woman,and he is be-
cewoe angry. But when fhe think^th her felf happy, /he jthall ftumble,
wJiere fhe would not,"and become forrowfull. without comfort.
E' K. This face and Pillars became a great water fwelling upward,
and fo vanifhed away.
&-. After about an hour, the Curtain was opened. All appeareth aS before : Gabriel fit-
terh in his Chair, and N^r/f/rge kneeleth.
Nal Pray,forthe mercy of God. A. I prayed divers prayers of God,& help
^*Jtfor tbtu Jfjalt not be heard? So, againft the wicked enemy,yet prefentj
mEfaidyfy upon him. and molefting us as he was permitrtd.;
A, This Devil rayled againft God, A. Thy judgement light on this wicked
€ab Move not, for prefence of power is great.
Mai. ..,.. Number the words of the firft Key.
A» I have counted them, and they feem to be 88.
^Wi.. »>^ Ihere are not fo many.
R.ebel for this blafphemy,0 God,
t? 87. A. Where'
9 o A true Relation ofD\ Dee his JBions mthfpirUs, &c.
87 £k. Where havel mifreckoncd, I pray jrou ? Perhaps Porfwirf/ao^ is to be but one word,
and fo are 87. .^.^- ,
.^ _^^ ,^
E. if. There is a great CrofTe over all the ftone that is red ; Not
onely over to be Impreffed through the ftone.
Nal Nftmher thewords inthy own language.
£k. 1 have nunibred them, and they feeni to be 169.
A. While I numbred , the great red crofle went away : and fliortly after came in again in<|
to the ftone as before.
Gab Move not, for] the ^lace U holy. Tou have Ziirza ds Gono in the Cull: the fd is toC
much.
A. I will then put it out.
A. 1 finde Znrs^a. Aina ds Gono,
Nal That ds is too much, IpirayyoUi whfit k then the Mtmher of them j */ ^o» ihi
lowed.
^
Nal S6.
A. Making alfo Poamolzod one word? in that account >
Nal Set down.
45 • 2
47 • 2
48 - I •«.. 8c>
49 .
5 you lifted upjow VejeeT,
'
50. 2 I..,, and
51. .1 i.,..fware
52. .4 I ,... obedienct i '
5 3 , I a and
54 I ^
t ....faith ^i
55 — 2 '..,' 102 to *i»J tbatltvetb 77
57 2 "ji61
58,.,—
3
-59 I
60 i
^» 3
62 __^ 5
%~2.\ efyour paUdce
65, I
66 2
67 ^i
68 ^2
69 2
70^ I
71 I
72 I
73 1
75
•
2 j^rtP J»tf KT p/j/f-f
7^ I
77 I
78 -3
79 4 t^ff ^friendly uat0 m$
.. 80 I
8i- 2
82 2
83 1
84 5
85 3
86r=::r3
TaeT'
Jtrue Relation of D'.. Dee bis JBions mth fpiritSy 6cc, pt
Tuefday, A^rilis 17. Cracovis,
]\ft?er divers Ejaculations appropriate to theaftion, and the Curtain of white water yet
remaining, E. K. thought divers times that he faw through the white Veil, and ftone
and all, nothing appearing therein. £, K. immediately fell into a new doubting of the ve-
liry of thefe anions, and faid he liad a Vilion by a good Creature the lalt night , vvho faid
thefe Creatures with which we dealt, would no more appear unto htm. Hereupon he faid
that both the lafl dayes skorner,and thefe our inflruftors were all Devils : and that he would
110 more (it to receive A. B.C. And fo by Letters, any Doftrine of theirs, untefTe they would
otherWife exprefly, and lively deliver a plain rule thereof : With many other arguments to
difprove the verity of our Aftions, whereupon he faid, that John your boy can well enou<Th
deliver you their Letters, and fo you need not me,&c. I referred all to God , his will, and
mercies : For. as 1 had at his hands onely, and by his order, and for his fervice required wih
dom and true k^iowledge, fo do I not doubc but God will, according to hi> accuftonied good-
ucfTe, provide for me, that Is belt for my vocation here in earth,e^c.
E. K. He rofc, and went away : and left me alone in my Study , ap-
pointed for thefe actions.
Dens in adjutorium meum intende^Vomine ad adjuvandum me feftina. Gloria Patri (^
Filio & Spiritui San&o^ fieut erat in p-incifio & nunc & Jenifer & in fecuU
feculorunt. Amen,
Thurfday, Circa 9. .
As I was in my upper Study , and had gathered the holy words of the fecond and thir4
call, and had conferred them with tlieir Englijh delivered alfo unto us : £. K. came up the
flairs, andfo went into his Study, and came out again,and as he was gointj down the flaires I
opened my Study door, and faluted him : He thereupon came up again , and came into
my Study : And there I ftiewed him vvhat I had donej and how I had fome under-
ftanding of thofe holy words, their fignifications by reafon of due applying the EnglijJj
to the word Chriftus, intending thereby to have induced E.K. to like the better of the
mannerof our friends, duc,and Methodical, proceeding with us, and told him that unlefTe of
thisftrangc language I Oiould have thefe words delivered unto us Letter by Letter, we might:
crre both in Orthography, and alfo for want of the true proiuniciation of the wo)ds,and di-
ftinftions of the points, we might more miile the effeft expefted : But as on Juefdaj lafl; , fo
now again he faid, our Teachers were deluders, and no good,or fufficienc Teachers,vvho had
hot intwoyears fpace made us able to underftand, or do fomewhat : and that he could in two
years have learned all the feven Liberal fciences, if he had firft karned Logick , &c. where-i-
fore he would have no more to do with them any manner of way,wifhed himfelf in EngUndy
and faid that if thefe books were his, that he would out of hand bum them , and that he had
written to my Lord (by Pirniis') that he took ouf Teddhers to be deceivers, and wicked, and
no good Creatures of God, with many fuch fpceches, and realons ('as he thought) of force
to difwade himfelf from any, more dealing with them : But willed me to ufe John my Boy as
my Skryer, for that thefe fpiritual Creatures were not bound unto h\m,&c. 1 anfwered unto
all thefe parcels and reafuus, as rime ferved declaring mj perfeU truji in G5«/,thac feeing I have
many years delired 3 and prayed for wifdorueCfu ch as the!e Actions import) at his hands,
and by fuch means as to his Divine Majefty feemeth beft, that he would not either mijlikf my
prayer, or abufe my Conftant hope in his goodneUe and mercy : Therefore / concluded that
1 referred all to the mercifull will of God, and doubted nothing at the length to be fatif-
fied of my requeil , and prayer made unto him. So he went from me this fecond time. ...
God lighten his heart with knowledge of the truth, if it be his Divine will and pleafure.
Note. Permis went on lafl: Wednefday morning, and had received our Letters after
noon^onTuefday lail : But on Monday before the wicked Prince of darkueffe did what he
conid to hinder our proceeding.
. On Thurfday, labius (brother to my Lord Laskje his wife) brought news to Cracovia, that
njy Lord L^skje was coming to Cracovia ward. Emericits came irom Keftaarkf 3 and re^
turned back again. Tabius rode (torn Cracovia tovi3.i-dK(f}narl{^.
S&tmdiy, Jprilis 21. aMeridie. ] \ ..
After our prayers made, appeared ftiortly Gabriel and Nalvage. E. K. propounded Rx-
queftions orderly , which had bred great doubt in this fantafie, and reqivelled "their- an-
fwers. ... L Ac
Na ik. He
ij 2 A true Relation of D^ Dee his JBionsmthJfmts,d^c.
Numbers.
Fnrmates.
I'utlHS.
Note ths pro.
pcrty of this
McihoJ, and
Language.
Un;icrfl=nd-
ing, Pcvftva-
fion, Motion,
Adam.
Note two be
true LanguJ-
gcs.'
fpccch after
the fall.
Litkx II.
Lirgua Ange-
lica.
Lingud Ange-
I'lti, Mil Ada-
mica infuoin-
noceniis S:a!n,
A. He'/?ould have ourfpiritual friends topromife him the peiformance of the Prints.
Gab If we were M'Hiers of our own doings, we might well fromife : But we are fervanti
and do the will of our majier. But let me ask^thee one queiiion :
po/f thou not think, that all things are pffible with God ?
E. K. I do fo, and I know fo.
Gab Ihen is there no caufe why thou P^ould dilhuli. Let him that is a fervanty and is
commanded to go, go : and let not the earth rife up, andftrive againji the plowman. H'hat fin is
7t when the creature rifeth up, and faith in his heart. Let the Lord make a Covenant with me,
confjdering he is a bond man ?
[ E. K. They leem, both the voices at once, to come to my eare.
]
None but be that becometh difobedient, and refufeth his Majier.
A (^ A would do fo.
Gab, Nal, ...,.. "Thefe things, that is to fay, this Vo&rine, delivered by uf, is of God, andof his
mercies granted unto you, which cannot be in vain : and therefore to be performed 5 for the
fecrct determinations of Cod are unknown unto us.
He never heard of any man that would ask,, if God would perform his promifes,
E. K. By Attgnji next ?
What if it were a hundred Augiifts ? you may he a weary before Auguft next, as the Childrea
of Jfrael were of their Manna*
E. K. Why joyn you numbers with thefe letters, and added none
with thofc of the former Table.
Brother, what is the caufe that all the World is made by numbers? "the Numbers we fpeak,
of, are of reafonand form, afid not of merchants.
A, I befeech you as concerning the powder whereof he thinketh that he hath made due
afTay of ir, as if it fiiould have been the Philofophers Stone, and fo affirmed to be, by tht
niiiiifter of this aftion ? I befeech you fo to anfwer, the thing, as his reafon may bfr
fatisfied.
A. They gave no anfwer hereunto, but proceeded in the former matter of Numbers.
Gab Every Letter fignifieth the member of the ftihjlance whereof it fpeaketh. Every'
word f.gnifieth the quiddity of the fubjlance. The Letters are feparated, and in confufion : a>iil1
f/!)frf/orfJ are by numbers gathered together ; which alfo gathered fignifie a number; for of-
every greater containeth his hffer,fo are the fecret and unkii'jwn forms of things kjiit up in their
parents : W^here being known in number, they are ealily diftinguifhed,/o that herein we teach
places to be numhred : letters to be elected from the numhred, and proper words front the letters^
fignifyingfubjtantially the thing that is fpokfn of in the center of his Creator, whereby even as the-
riinde of man moved at an ordered fpeech, and is eafily perfwaded in things that are tru« , /»*
are the creatures of Cod ftirred up in themfelves, when they hear the words wherewithal they
were nurfed and brought forth; For nothing moveth, that is not perfwaded : neither can any
thing be perfwaded that is mtkjtown. ?lEif Creatures of God underhand ycu not, jon are not
ef their Cities : you are become enemies, becanfe you are feparated from him that Governeth the
City by ignorance.
E. K. Whether is this Language known in any part ofthe World
or no ? if it be,where and to whom ?
Gab Man in his Creation, being made an Innocent, was alfo authorifed andmade p ir-
taker of the Power and Spirit of God : whereby he not one/y did kjiow all things under bts Crea-,^
tion and f
poke of them properly, namingthem as they were : hut alfo was partaker of our prefeucc,
andfociety,yea afpeakprofthe myjleries of God; yea, with God hinifelf : fo that in innoctncj the
power of his part ak.ers with God, and m hit good Angles, was exalted^ and fo became holy in the
fight of God until that Coionzon (for fo it the true name of that mighty Devil") envying hit
felicit), and perceiving that the fubjiance of hit Ifffer part was frail and imperfea in refpea of his
pure Effe, began to affail him, andfo prevailed : that offending fo became accurfed inthe fight of
God ; and fo loji the Garden offelicity, the judgement of h js iinderftanding ; but not utterly
the favour of God , and was driven forth (^ as your Scriptures record) unto the Earth which was
covered with brambles : where being as dumb, and not a'hlet')fpeak_,he b.-gan to learn of necejjitj
the Language which thou,E. K. callejt [ 1 Hebrew : ] and yet not that [z Hebrew'] amongftyout;
i-n the which he uttered and delivered to hit poJierity,the neareft knowledge he had of God his
Creatures: and from his own felf divided his fpeech into three parts;; twelve, tiiree, and
fevcn ; the number whereof remaineth f but the true forms and pronuntiations w-i^t ; antf
'therefore is not of that force that it was in his own dignity, much Uffe to be compared with this that
.we dch\'er,whicb Adam verily fpake in innocency,and was never uttered noi difclofed to man
ImcctiW now, wherein the power of God mvii v;ork.y and wiidtm in her truekjnd be delivered:
which are rot to be fpoken of in any other thing, neither to be ta\ed of with mans imagiyiations ;
for as thu fyork. and Gift is^ofGod^ which ii all prver, fo doth he ofen it in a tongue of power, to
th^
— ' . — — — ..., . . .-1. , . ., m.
(9yftrue Relation ofD^. Dee his ABicns fpkh fpiritSy &c. 9 3
thf intent that the proportions 'tUtty agree in themfehes : for it is written^ IVifd-jni fitteth upon an
Hill') and b(holdeth the foi<r Winds, andci^irdethher felf t',gether as th.' brightnejfe of the morningy
which is vifitcd with a ^ew, and dwelleth alone as tbondjo jhe were a Widow,
I'htis you fee there, the NeceJJitji of this Tongue : The Excellency of it. And the C'i^ife why it
it preferred be'^ore that wbic'?you call Hchrtvf : F^r it is written. Every leffe^ confenteth to his
greater. I trift ihis isfnftcton.
E. K. As concerning the power, What is it?
Gab JVhat it is, that it is, for the \nowledge of it may lead you to error.
A. This anfvver offended great!/ E. K. and theieiipou he left ofFjUiid would receive no
niore at tlicir hands. God make him patient, and a favourer of this A&ion as foon as it is
needful that he ihould be.
A. Laudetur, magnificetur & extollatur nomen Jefu Chrijii in omne
xvum. Amen.
Note on Tuefday after Noon^ circa horam quartam,zs we two fat together, E. K. faid that 24, Aprilis
he thought upon the matter, Et quod jam vellet duas boras ntihi cmcedere fi-rtgulis diebiis ad red- . his after*
pienda ilia, qu£ illi tradere vellent. Ego autem ilU & maxima T>eo gratias egi,quia banc effe mu- "o^n.
tationem dextra excelfi fadam vercjudicavi ; nam ante p-andium rigidiffimits erat incontrarin
opntone&fententia.
'Wtnidzy,Cracovi£, AprHis i<,. Mane, bora 7.
The Vail appeared as at rirft ainioft. After half an hoixr Gabriel znANalvage z^T^carcd^
after mj manifold prayers and difcourfes.
^. Two keyes we have received by the mercy of the Higheft and your minifters, the reft
we attend, according to the merciful will of the Higheft.
Gab Move not fromyour places, for t-he place is holy.
A. Shew a token O Lord when thy will is, whereby to perfwade thy merciful dealings
with us, and the prefeiice of thy faithful Minifters.
A. The frame of the Stone gave a crickling,no hand touching it, or othcrvvife any mor- xj^
tal or worldly thing moving it. , I heard it very certainly, and to £. K. it fecmed the found.
°'
of a bunch of keyes, as if they had quickly been fhakenandftrongly.
E. K. Gabriel fitteth, and Nali/age ftandeth.
Gab. My Brethren hearl{en to myvoice,for I am the truefervar.t of the God of Abraham,
\^Z2iC, and ]3iC6\3.i the dignity whereof is fufflrient both for the verity of the Vo&rine, and the
confirmation, and perfwafion ofyour mindes : for as God is the Father of the Faithful, fo hejlteweth
himfelfunto the faithful : wherebyyon may prwe the great comfort and confjlattni : that you may
jujily gather of the mercies of God, as touching your Eleiiion.
For at what time hath God appeared unto the unrighteous ? or where do you read that ever he
vifited the rej^robate ? for the reprobate hath no vifitation, but in the rod of Jufiice :
But you may rife up amongyonr felves, faying lo, we are freward, ws want faith. ^nobjeaion,
.
True it is,the aas of faith, but not the i-oits offaith. But I fay unto you, that the power 0/ /Infvrcr.
God in his Election, is the Bafis of mans purity and acceptation.
But here there is a (faveat.
That man imagining his Predellination and perfect Ele&ion , juftifieth not himfelf ; for
vherefoever this is found,or this Doctrine preached amongji you, either fimply in man, or publickjy in
Congregation, it is the fure fign and token of their perpetual ignorance and confufion : For the
Will and Tower of God beloiigeth not to our meafure ( for it was the cattfe of rebellion atnongjt us )
much lejfe amongmcn, which are fighting yet for the Glory of their reward. Behold it is a fin in
him that judgeth of his brothers Confcience ', Much more is it a threefold error, to form the inia-
j
ginations of fin, by whpfe imaginations they are.
Be not proud therefore of the gifts of God, but become humble; Neither JHjtifie ymrfelfinre-
fpeU that this is the word ofGod delivered unto yoti for your own felves : But the more you receive,
,
kethe more thankful j and the moreyou be in the jirength of God, the more nfe yon the pureneffe of
humility.
Of wkomit is faid. Behold nty Spirit hath entred, yea iftto my fervants, and tbey are become
humble and meek. i>i the fight of men : But if we be the fervants of the God of Abraham, then are q^^ , g|,
wethefpiritsoftrutbandunderiianding, for our faith is dignified in the fig'jt of the heavens, °
"^^ '*
and we are become mighty in the power of the Almighty. Therefore ought we to be
believed.
'
itow ifyou will confeffe your felves to be the children of Ahr4^^m,tben muft you alfo accept of our
Vocirine : For the meat whereby Abraham Vved, is the fame food ws miniiier unto you : of whom
't is [aid. He believed God, and it w^s eounted unto him for r'ig'iteoufneffs. Even fo do you,:
that
A CtveitMt.^
c)/^ ji tmeB^elation of D^ Dee his JBions wh fpirits^ <5cc*
that yonalfo Mi^y he rigliteous ^ wherein do you differ front Abraham? JFere you not barren i" ,,
Who bath viadeyou frf*itfull ?
VidGod vtak^c a Covenant with Ahviham 'f.
Even fo he doth with y''U. Did the Lord inhisMi-
nifters n'^pear :mto him ? fe doth he, and will do unto you. Were the fins of Sodom (t^e fifth that
ferilhed") imported into Abrahams bofome, as the fecret determination of the Lord ? Are they
alfo not manife'i vntt yon {even by the fame God')as touching the time and corruption of this worlds
Kofi- hi' not tip in the morning, and beheld the confpfion , and headlong Ruines of the wickfd ? And
jkall you not alfo fee the ruine of him thM is thefon of wickfdneffe. lest unleffe you hinder your
felves. F'or the promife of your God is vvichout excepcion. Be mindful therefore of your
fehes •, and c.nfideryour calling: "Thatpu may beftilllleffed inhim that is the God of Abraham,
jW-'o is your Father.
Inthefe k/yes'which we deliver, are the myfierits and fecret beings and effects of all things mo-
ving , and moie-l within the world.
In this is the life of MOTION, in whom all tongues of the world are moved, for there is
neither fpeech uoi filence that was or fhall be to the end of the world, but they are all as plain
here, as in their own nak^ednejfe. Defpifeit not, therefore For unto them that are hungry , it is
hr'ad,u:-ito tkf 'hir ly drink^, and unto the nak^ed clothing: A Serpent it is of many heads invin-
cible. B'Heve therefore, that with him you way be wife : that jour humility may be fuch j as may
be nu'ibre I in the world. 1 have faid. Nal. Move not, for the place is holy,
E. K. What mean you by that fcntence or phrafe.
Nal. It is of two parts, the firjl in refpeU of the fpirit and prefence of him that is holy : prefent
and teaching. Secondly tn refpeci ofyour confent, which is obedience, for obedience confirmeth the
villof God inman , and the will of God confirmeth mans falvation; whrrefore it is faid, move
not : and why ? hecanfetheflaceisholy. Move neither in mind, neither in body, for obedience
is the conclufioh, and confirmation »fyour feparationsfrom the Devil^, Sacrifice is acceftedf but obi*
dience is better, lou are furely anfwered.
E. K. I like your anfwcr well.
Nal. Our wifdom,Jhall prove Rhetoric}{.
«'
The Kcyes.
L'rgut. iy fci-
eKtix.
80 Naaq inyour creation It it qiit»
79 LEANANA of the fecret wifdom Ananael.
78 I L P A L P fartak^ers It U flapli.
77 OGUP as unto the partak/rs It is iiigo.
ye RAMAUMI ^pply your felves unto us It wimuamai
75 DO And Oi.
E. K. This letter turneth fo about, that I cannot well difc(
74 GALGINU Defcend VnigUgf,
E. K. This letter alfo turneth round.
73 RACAZ A^ove Zod a. cax,
72 AIHOG we fay Gohia.
71 GMRASAC in whome Cafarmg.
70 MOlAA Amongfl its A ^i <"»-
69 Z L A C I
M
mighty Mi CO. ob^
6% R A N it become NoUTi
E. K. This Letter moveth.
E. K. Now he maketh a reverend Curfy.
i-j NIAOODDO aninitmi
E. JC. This letter alfo moveth^
oi do 0€ in,
Od it atti icmaff befoon*
deA with one
breath.
'
—T- '
(iJtrue'B^latmofD''^Dtthis JBions mthfpmts,&ic. p^
E. K. Gabriel fiiaketh his ipeaie. Nahagc.
€6 MOCACAC Flourijh Co. ca com,
65 ZOSUHEI his mercies Jehnfoz,
64 A M C I
M
BekoU Micma.
E. K. NowheufctJi his reverent Curfies again.
63 N A R I M A lour [elves Amiran.
Nal. Did. I itot bid. thuu Jheuldefl not move f
E. K. He hath thrown down his rod upon the Table.
[a. I had moved to the dore, bccaufe I heard fonie going up-and down the cbanabcr with-
out: wehadfoigcttento fliut the ftaire-foot dorc]
A. O Lord, I did it not upon any wilful! difobedience. But pardon this Fault, and by the
grace (O God) I will avoid the like fault henceforward,
N»\. It vas a great fault. A. I befeech the Almighty to pardouit.
E. K, Now he is kneeled down, and all his Face is under the Table,
Now he is up again, and taketh his rod in his hand,and maketh a CrofTe
ivith it three times : Eaft, Weft, North, and South.
Nal. Soundyour vDord, A. Amiran.
E.K. He pronounceth the i fo remiiTely,asitis fcarce heard, and in
the pronouncing of the whole word he feemeth not to move his lips.
62 S U H O G I fay Gohus,
E.K. He made long leafurely reverence.
61 ROLOHOG liftuf. Goholor,
£. if. He ufeth reverence again.
Nal. jrte Mtxt is a name mightier then the power of the fame'.
60 DAM of the fame your God Mad,
E. K. He ufeth long reverent Curfy again.
E. K. Now he holdeth up his Rod.
59 '
PAIOOD In the name J)o oi ap.
E. K. He holdeth up his rod again.
38 N A O O V D O and truth Od vooen.
57 TLAB ofjuliice Balt»
56 HALANU rheSkjrts Vnalah,
55 NAON thusyou are beame Noan,
54 D L I
P
on the earth Fild.
5} GSOAC continually Caof^,
Now he ufeth courtefy.
52 I G R I P L A M the fiers of life and increafe Malfirgi^
51 RIPNAP pspringdo-iOK Fanpir
50 L E E A N A N my poiver N^na e eL
46 N U A y }'ou might yoor\ Vam, .
^6 A true 'Relation of D^ Dee his JBions mthjpints, dec.
E. K. He ufeth reverence. Now he holdeth up his Rod and /haket
it about his head.
48 B A A T E N G your governments
47 ED 9/ '
'
46 G A O N 1 1 M rhe corners
E. K, He ufeth courtefie.
E. K. Gabriel {haktth. his fpeare.
Nal It may be called Mi moag or DiupK
E. jfC. Now he extendeth. oiuf
Gnctaab
De,is my nam^
Mi inoag
45 DO fl»^ Od
44 POZIZI ^ow fk highefi vejfeli Izizop
Gab (Jl^ove not.
•43 N E F A F to the intent that
Fafen
42 B S A C C of time Cocasb
41 L I M H the true ages Honui
40 ALC 455 Cla
39 SR-OV oat-
Vors
E. K. He ufeth moft reverent Curlie.
38 ILAIMPAG fucceffively
Capmi'aU
37 ASNOL. pwer Ltffifa
3d GRAZMOV unto every one ofyou
«g5Kmbargir
35 AGULD giving
Dluga
34 BAATEN of government
•
hietaab
E. if. Many founds are heard in tht ftone. He kneelerhdowa.
53 SONLIHT in feats siz.
thilnoi
32 ALAAH placedyou
AAU
31 DO and OV
30 GRAZLAB Stewardt
&rg7&'mharg^ ^
BALZA&G
29 LOE I made you
•
EOL
28 ILI in the firli ILJ
27 LUZROT Jhall rife 70RZVL
2(? DO and
25 ADGRB
24 TSD
fleep •
i»hiei
es iurgijt
DST
Atrue^ekt'ton ofT)\ T)l^MrMk^ Scc.
23 NEIZO m,:epmt
^^ ^ except
E. K. Now he ufetli reverence.
to are not
21 EGSIHCl
20 SIHC
19 GROT LOT
18 NIIVQ_
17 H CO LET
are^
the Creatures of the earth
'ivherein
of deathJ
nth[firits, 6c c.
91
OZIEN
E M it ii a word
Kit
I Chifge
Kii
Chis
K
Org as in george
Tohorg
^i in
as och
in hnchpt--"^ ;y
lelocb
"'*'
E, K. Now he maketh f
.
16 HELPSOMQ^ or the horns
^ lMos Pkh
15 NIVPAT ^Jhar]^ fickJeSf
<K two word}
I'api in
To» may call it \
«4 SIHC Tapui alfo
are m Kh
13 LDNV the rejl VndL
E.K. Now he maketh a Croffe again,
down and kifleth.
Now flf> f)-n/-t.n^4.'L
it may le
i^wvv xxc icoopetn <
Vd Lor VndL
12 HAPIGIG ofliviMghreathj Gi gi pah
II LIHTO the featt Othil .
10 SIHC arc as Kijfe
Chis
9 ZRON fix Norz
8 HODNOLSO 1 2 Kingdoms: Os Lou dob
ACrofTeagain. \0s fignifiethtwelve']
Londoh
7 BAIB are
•
Biah
Biab
^ NfElZA CH fvhofe hands Aziett %
HeftoopethandkiiTeth the ground.
5 HLESMOC <t Circle^ Com Selh
4 RI2 I am; Zir
3 DAIP your Cod .
Pi ad
o He
% c; 8 A true Relation of D^ Dee Bs ABions withfpirits, &c;
^. Note.
He killeth the ground. He fctteth his hands on the ground.
2 O H O G faith Gtho
I A M C I
M
i>tboU Mic ma.
Ni
A.
lal..^. ;, 7his U nil.
Now, '.II the Name of Jerus, as it pleafed you before , fo would we gladly have the
fencehereot in Ew^/'i^- , a i -n , i , n
Nal Let him that htth wi[ed«r» mdtrjtand : Fer here tegi^iHe the mjfieries of your
Nal
world
I
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
ti
12
•3
'4
'5
6
7
8
9
I
2
3
4
5
7
8
9
o
I
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
.0
I
Behold y
faith
your God,
I ant
a Circle,
on ffhofe hands
ftand
1 2 Kingdoms ;
fix
are
the feats
of living breathy
the r'eji
are
as Jharp Sickjes,
or the h,rns
of death j
rvherein
The Creatures of the eartk
are
to arenoty
except
mine ownhand^
JVhich
fe-ep
and ,
•
fhallrife.
In the firfi
I made jou
Stewards
and
placedyou
in feat's 1 2 for] in 1 2 feat?
of government
:
Giving
unto every one ofyou
fo'srer, •
fucceffi-jelyy
over
456.
the true ages
42 oftime'i
43 to the intent that,
44 from the higkeji veffels
45 and
46 the Corners
47 ofyottr governments,
Gi\,.... mighty u the GodofHofisy amongfi
hit feofle.
48 you might vtrk^
^p my power.
50
5^
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
H
65
66
67
6%
69
70
71
72
73
.74
75
76
77
78
79
80
pouring devn
The fires of lifc,and encreafe
coutinuallf
on the earth,
Thut
you are become
The skirts
of Jujiiee
and truth.
In the name
of the fameJ your Qedy
lift upy
Ifay,
yourfelvesl
Behold ,
his mercit)
fiourijh,
and name
u become
mighty
amongji us',
in whom
yoefay.
Move,
Vefcend
and
apply your felves imto ut,
as unto
the partakers
of his fecret wifdom
E.E.
K.K.
in jour Creation
Now all all his fingers difappear.
Now Gabriel ftandeth up.
Gab Heark-, ye fens of men; is the firfi of
nature, and the beginning of your being in body i
Whereby the things of the vorld have life & live.
Let him that hath fvifdom underfiand. Crow togc
ther,for this hath its fuiit in due time. Albert
Lashje hath not done the Commandment of God ; he
.
yfeo«/i i(7Z'e been here by this time
A, Gloria, Lam, Honor, & Imperium fit Dec Noftro in inlinita fccuiorum fccula.
Amen.
Remember
There arc three calls in the fccond part
oiCracczia, and one in the firft.
Thefc four calls are the fccond, the ^^.
4'''. 5'''- for the firlt Tabic can have
call, it is of the Godhead.
no
ajtrue %elation of D'"^ Dee his JBions'mthJpirits, 6cc. p
p
&. Remember thzt on f^edfclay nighCy AbrU the i"). my Lord A!l>ert L<mJ^»> came at nigh
c
toCracovia,3nd lay in a little woodJen building, among guards,by St.Steniflaus Church : and
on the Friday morning following intended to enter his journey toward Kef)nark.y and the
recovering of Kefmark' Jefiis profper his juft Caufc.
Wcnfday morning,
Jefus
Aprilif 1584. Cracoviae.
Nal., A new Jcfion - — Back^ardy at before.
' -
52 DAIOI of him that -livethfor -ever. loiad.
5» RIZ I am Zir.
50 PAL for. Lap.
49 PLERV aftrongfeething; Vrelp.
48 MZA ZO ,
make ^e Ozazm.
47 DO and Od.
46 OZLAClM in powery Micalzo.
45 NARMAZ jhew jo-ur felves Zamran. '
44 D QS> N C unto hiafervants. [ as C No quod.
Gab.
Nal.
,'.'.., The place it become more holy, and he it become more meek,.
43 AC therefore Ca.
42 RA C AZ Move Zacar.
[NaL ...;, Make aflop there.
2
41 LEHOG faith thefirfty Gohel.
E. JJL. Now the Crofle is come in again thinner tha« it was
before.
40 UZROT Jrifey Torzu
39 N ODIAI ofthe all-powerful. la I don^
38 N I N A M in t^e minde Manin,
37 QP but Oqua.
36 EGAT Of is not Tage.
35 SROG Such Cors,
34 FORT . a buildingy Trof.
33 NAON you are become No an.
32 PAL for Lap.
51 NOGNOZO then the manj fold
2.
windesi, Ozongoni
3& AIB*
3^
lOO AtrueRelation ofD', Dee ^j*x y^Swwj mtbfpiriUy &:c.
50 AIB jour voices Bia.
29 SIHC are Chfs [ the I long.
28 PL ACIM mightier Mi calp.
27 DO . and , Od
2(5 IRRO than the harreH fitne . Orri.
25 DSUL your feet • Lusd.
24. SIHC are Chis £ as tl(.
23 lUlG jiroHger asGiui. ^
22 H T L A B of righteoufneffe Baltoh.
21 EGOO for the Chamber Doge.
20 SBRV T in their beauty Turbs.
-19 Q_LS.ROL the flowres Lorj 1 qua.
18 ATCL IrOf Quu Ta,
.
^7 ADELCARAP fotanveddiftg Paradedat
16 OHLAT cm *
Talhy.
J5 AT Of Ta.
14 GMARBA I have prepared Abramg.
13 AMRASAC vfhom CafarmaJ
12 HPDAIP within the depth of my Jaws Piadph,
II ZA2AZI have framed Izazaz.
10 GRUPLAI the burning flamed. I al purg.
? MAB OS Hvhom S bam.
8 L of the firji t A word.
7 VI IV Oyou thefecond Viiv,
6 DLAS your veices of wonder Said.
5
PIAAF mderfland Fa alp.
*
4 MO Cm.
3
GNOZ .
of the ypindes Zong.
2 HAAPV the "win^s Vpaah,
c TODA Can Adgt.
fk*
Jtrue "[(elation of D^ Dee his ABions mth fpirits^, i^
The firji word, ~ j the firji kthe Ujl.
I Can
E. K. Now he holdeth up many hands and fingers as before, and
on the very end of the fingers diftinaiy thefe parcels appeared in
2. Thefecond word —.—Theving.
Vpaahy is the wings^ and Adgt^ is Can.
3
""
efthe windesy
4 *" ^~ ttnderflandyoitr voices of ivindest
5 — Ojiou
6 — " •
the fectnd
7 ofthefirft,
8 " ~ "' rvhom
9 ' '- ~^ The burningfiawes
JO
"
">—
—
have framed
1
1
' — •—ypithin the deph ofttij Jaws^
1
2
'. '
whom
1
3
^- '
'————— I have frelated
i4
--'-
as
j^
• — '
'
Cup
J
6
•— • .——for a wedding)
^j
' '
Or oi
jg
' '- — — •
theflowres
J g
" * '« '
in their beauty
20
' """
for the Chamber
21
"
T- ofrighteoufneffe j '
22 "" '- ' '
ftronger
25
-' —are
24
" >»«' f'^^
>
25
— ' " '- then the barren flone^
26 '
•
and
27
—'
'
- ' "—— mightier
28 " "' ' ~——ire
2f
' • T—'jiour voices
20 — *'
then the manifold vindes;
31 For
22 ' '- •
you are become
33
•- '
a buildings
34 Such
55
' ^ '
—ai it not)
55 -*- i But
'"
27
"
in the minde
58 .—I—.—— of the all-powerful,
3P
^ — •
Arife,
40
-* faith the firfi ;
^l , -*. --~—,
._ Move
42 •
_ ,
1 - therefore
E. K. All the Stone is become very dark.
The wicked faid Thou fljalt go no further ..,.,.
A.I prayed Keffenfn Pfalm 9 . and the Lords Prayer, and the Stone became clear, and th4
fingers appeared again, through the mercy of the Higheft
43
• —— unto hii fervants;
44 — • Jhevyour [elves
45 in power
3
4^ •
—— and This his anj
47' '— ma\eme Wwcorreftedj
48- —— ajirong. [^SeethtHgt^ were of the
..f
wicked h.
50 lam g,jti„„5^
S.
5
1
» '. •
of him
5a t
^>t
_
t mxi___^ _^ _, ' that liveth far everi
E K". Now
7^1 J true^elationofD'. Dee his jBions mthfpirits, dec.
"^ ^.
E.K. Now appear no more fingers.
Nal. Compare them now together.
E. K. Now he is fet down in his chaire.
't,. IhaveeotnparedtheEnglifliJoyntsfcothcmyfticalvTords.andl findi2. of each : fo
that they agree. /.„ j j i /i
'
Nal ^^'Ui :jou have ihh dayes labour. Now Ihe ffhitefilK « extended over the Hone.
A. Soli Deo noftro, Deo oninipotenti,&Majeftatis tremedx, & fuper omnia amandae, fit
omnis laus,gi atiarum afticSc Jubilatio. Amen.
Friday, Cracovi^t Apiilis : Mane^ hora fere 9.
Oratione Dominica & aliis
Trecihus ad Veion finitity pro luce & veritate, in banc formant, Omnipotem, fempiterney veri
& rive Vem Jiolhrf witte Hobh fpiritum fandum & veritatem tuam , ut fapienter^ fideliter &,
conllatiter tibiferviamuSi omnibus dichus vit£ nol}r£. Amen.
The white Curtain , or veyle , appeared very long.
h. It fell fo out by the wonderful providence of Godjthat E. K. and I quietly confidered
thtfe aftidns,gen erally, & the contrary fpirituall informations given to him,apart by himfelfj
(& fonietimes5whilewe were receiving oiir inftruftionSjbyourSchoolmaftcrs^of which contrary
power, feme would rayle on God, and blafpheme his Majefty horribly, as may appear by the
record offeme late Aftiohs; But this was our conclufion, that we both dcfired the verity, and
that fo, as beft might pleafe God,in the mantier of coming by it.
Note arbltrc- ^- i3e Judge,OLord,betwecnus,fending US the verity of the judgment,for the glory ofthy
ment'ofGod name, for as much as they which impugne thefe proceedings, do fto E.K.) as it feems
jtqaired. jKrfeftcr , and more wile and fruitful then our Schoolmaftcrs , which I took to'be the true^
and blefTed Angels, &c. \. ^ '
^
E. K. Now is the note pluck't afidc. a. About an eleven of the
A. BlefTed be the higheft, who is Almighty. Clock.
viesmirr's Gab. Danida , a mightjfrophet (_tiot the leafiupoH the earth') opened his mouthyMnd faid 3 /^ffm
Sib! holdytherejhall a JFhale come front the Eajt, the founcnth day o( thiitAonihy SAB.
E. K. They Teem to fpcak both together.
Gab.. Nal. And he entred into the field^ and he met with a Merchant, and he faid unto him^
Ihou art not for me : for thy intent dwelleth in the world. He went further^ andJo, there was a
field of all hjnd of feopUfdiverflj recreating themfelvfs in their ownpleafures:and he yet faid^Lo,
thefe are rot for we: and he went on; and, lo^bejaw^ AND It IV A S A NA K EV MAN.
Gab. Nal. Mtrky I to E.K.']
F.. K. So I do.
Gab. Na\.' In his hands were divers things;mo£'ey leaves, flowers^ and herbs ^ and he wondred^
fayingiWhy art thou nailed? and he faid, Lo,I am old , and am without Garments, and thefe are
jhe things wherewithall 1 will be clothed. And the Vro^het talked with him , and told him of
fhe Whale.
E' K. They fpcak both together , that I cannot difcern their -
voyce.
Andhe cowmandedhimto)ijieeI,andhe lifted up hit hands to heaven and frayed within him--
Jelfi and he faid aljo unto htm, I am a Trcphet, rife jip,Iwillbleffe thee in the name »f my prophefte: *
andy lo,he took, him by the hand, and wentforward : and the way was rough,jiony, and. verj found:
and, as they went,they found men, huge and big, monlhous : and the Prophet faid , Thefe fleafe me^-
i( Child fiot: nnd,as they talked on'theway,they overtook_alittle child,And thefhrofhet ash^t himhis namCf
aud he anfwered , He vtas a man .• and he faid , Thou pleafeji me, for thou 7nayeji be a man.
A HUl. Ihere was a Hill, and they ajcended,and, after a while^he child became weary , and fate downyi
faying with himfelf , This bill is troublefotne, I ant not able to keep company with them •, and the
Prophet, milling him, went back, and found him fitting. And he began to weep, faying. Whither
willyou lead me s' But the Frophet comforted him ,' and faid: Now thou feefl , thon art not a. man.a
And thus he did, afcending fundry times; and, lo,it was the top tf the hill, and the Sun was hot and
clear in the mtdji of the day. The Prophet faid unto the child, look, to the Centre of the Sun, and fo
he didyjledfaftly.
4|
Pfn 'nk 81^1-
'^'''^ ^^' Prophet [aid unto him,Now I have experience of thee, and Ikjtow thou wilf be a man;
•
"
' * And he faid untt him, that was naked. Here are Pen, Ink., "^d Paper. —;
.-•- =
— i-;.
. And lo thou haji one that can fee far off , and be Jliewed him the Seas : faying, hok.unto the
Orient, Eaji : and he told him of the H^hiile, and »f his coming, and of many myfieries.
B^tthei^man anfwered him,fayingylMmnitked, the ayre it fliarf , and J have no food : How
can
^jitrue Relation ofD^. Dee his JHicns mth fpirits, (Sec 103
Thus, whiljl th^werf talkjug, they tbztvfiiited upon him were at his feet armed, faying,
come with us, f^l^we are ftrong enough to deliver thee.
can I therefore STA X fc tuaKj daj/es ? and be faid unte him ^ Sic down, and norejUnciil this
Child become a man. Note untill.
Feed by comfort. For the Whale fhall be tliine , in wliofebclly is a Cheft fwal lowed of
^
great Vfelue,. and they were contcnaedi. Behold,che people of the coimrrey were rich, and ^,'JJ^[ vj*/-^ •
had conquered many Nations, fo that he was a Monarch in the world; this Monarch was /mWk/.
skilruH in all Sciences, and knew all things to come, and he called hisCounfcll together, and
faid unto them. •
Lo^tbus it ir, thr caufe why I have r^iitde thoft mi^htj hajiks , a}id have drawn wy people frojn
the lon-er places and the Seji, is for that, Ifear a JFh tie : robichy if he land in wy Kingdomes, Will
"if jwy deiirnBiont andrhej told himnhat the Prophet had [aid, and he began forage, and was puf'
fed t:p with anger, andhe opened his hokj THE SECOND TIME; and his eyes Were
opened , and he vnderftood that the Prophet had afceaded unto the top of the mountain , and
had taken with him a naked man, and a child ; and he faid talis Miniihrs, Afcendy and bring
me the child, ftr I w'll examine b/m,and kjtow the Prophets meaning, ar.d he apparelled him richly,
and ga ve him much, but he prevailed not. And he faid within hintfelf, Afcend again theyfljall^ and
bring down that man.
And thefervants afccnded,attd they found a Marble (ione, and they vere angry among them-
^ ^ ,,
felvesifaying,Is this a man ? And lo they came unto the King, and faid, Th(fu fendefl us forth, but flong^
we found a mighty fione not able to be moved. Where is it therefore that thou wilt have us feel^
that man^But he faid within himfelf,! will overcome the child, and he took^ him by the hand , and
led him into hit Orchard, where he opened unto him the fecrets of his hookj, fo that he became skjl-
ful. But,lo,the Prophet arofe, and,as he walked towards the Hill, to comfort thim whom be ac-
counted his friends, he efpiedthe child ap|»aralled ftrangely , and in company with ftrangers : Strangers,
and he opened his month, and began to prophefie,faying.
The King hath rifen up againli himfelf, for /je hath GEOSEN THE CHOSEN , and hath
opened the'fecrets of his own Kingdom to his deftruUiim, and he jiretshed ftrth his hand , and faid
mto the child. Come with me : and he was unwilling, for bis pleafures were great. And he lifted
I4p his toyce and faid : andhe SJFAKE , And,lo,he carpe with him even mto the mountain: and
the Prophet faid unto him , JVhen thou wajl a child , I led the.e , but now thou art become a mail,
ftretchforth thy leggs,nnd labour, and he was i^nw tiling,
hgj we
amv/c
Eat the Prophet faid unto them , GOE backhand tellyour King, that 1 found him on the way^
and a ftr anger, and I had pity on bim, and I took^bim for my ovfn. Therefore firive not, for jujiice
wuji prevail. And they began to {tagger as drunkards, for they knew it was true. And the Prophet
faid. Now come with me-> I willyet lead thee: and thej afcended. The Prophet held up hit hands, and
SAID, I SEE, andbehold, he that was naked arofe: and faid , I SEE ALSO.
And the Seas arofe, and a great tempefi, and broke down the banks : and entred on the earth,
jyf^ris inunJa-
doing much harm to the people of that Kingdom : And, lot there arefe a wind the S E € N D : ^^ cum tempt-
and there were four bealh,fuch as are in the world, and were never kj^own. And they camefitte.
fwimming, andfo landed on the Hill. And the Prophet faidyArife, draw out your fwords and kjll V^^ntut.
theWy and fa they did. >
Bebnld^the blood of them vanifl^jed into aire, and the flejh became earth: The entrals of themVtnwsz.
wajled away with the waters : and their bones burned with a mighty fire. The fecond wind arofe,
and there were five Crowns: in the niidfi of themfate the Father of life, with a golden head : whofe
Feet bathed themfelves in due and fweet Manna : and the Prophet faid. Put forth your hands : and Patervin:
they didfo : But lo they were afraid, for he that (hod in the midji of the Crowns,was full of beauty.
And the Prophet faid. Fear not , come with vie ; and he opened unto them tie (ecrets of the Myfleria^Ci'^
Crown, for in every one of them was a golden fentence. And the fecrets of the Hill began to ''<"""•«'"•
fiiake,and ther£ was a great Earthfjuake.
The third wind arofe : and the twelve Cedar trees that were never corrupted, came and planted Veutus j."
themfelves in twelve places of the Hill, and they brought forth ftrange fruits, not as Cedar trees do.
The Prophet faid,Gathtr , for J kjiow you hunger, that yiu may berefrefhed. JVhile they thus Ventus ^'.
tallied, thefourthwind arofe, aHdybehold,all the mountain was afiaming fire, and there were f^ve ^.Tentmotm'
Earthquakes, fuch as were not fince the beginning of the world.
The Prophet took^them up, for they were become as dead. And fuddenty The Firmament and
the waters were joyned together, and the Whale CAME, like mto a legion offtormes : or as
came.
the hottomlefs Cave of the North when it is opened : and jhe was full of eyes of every fide.
.The Prophet faid,Stand ftill, but they trembled. The waters fank^, and fell fuddenly away , fo
that the JFhile lay upon the Hillyroaringlike a Cavi of Lions , and the Prophet took, tlj^f" h the
hands, and led them to the Wh-^les mouth,faying,Go in, hit they trembled vehemently ; He faid unto
^j^^ ^j^^
,
them the fecond time. Go in : and they durll not. And he fware unto them, and ihey entred inland m,mh.
* "
he lifted up his vojce, and cried mightily. Come away , and, lo.they Jiood before him richer then an
t,mperours Ihrone, for unto him that was naked, were ebthes given : unto him that was a child and
a man, were 1 2 gates opened. And the Fropbit erred mightily, and faid , This Whale cannot diei
and lifted up his voyce again and faid: Within this fVhale are many Chambers, and fecret dwelling
places , which 1 Will divide betwixt yoii on ike rightfide {mto the which was a child , and
ttovt
lOi. 4ir«> B^fjaiion of I>. Dee his JBions whffirits, <5cc.
y^ J ~ .
now-K mafr)'tbere are twelve' ofenedfbut unto thee that hali provided jirange Garments for thy
r iS ^ p/;', and not fitch as men vfe to wear, I vhH g^ve thee heai , hart , and left fide , whofe flace:
A ^
ai-e 46. 7ou fhall enter , and be pjf^ffed this day together : And behold , the fan fhall return
^'^ '• ^
again 2i tim.'Sy andin anejear, hut not all at one time, ICou (halt depart hence into a. dialling
... ^
^ that fhall be all one : where there is no end, the place of comfort and infpeakjthle glorie,
AMuaclt. , I ,- •
1
I have laid.
A. -A si you have delivered us a parakle, enigma^ 5r p rophefie, fo I befeech you, for the fee-
ting fprtli of God his honour and gloryjto expound what isnieaiic by the,
Gab. .. .. Nal, .... The Prophet is in his name. Whale,thc naked man,
the GluldejdT'c.
The nakud^^ian is Dee,
2iifpii,/i/f../V Kelly,
Ihr'Prince' is i he DeviIf
%be Hill is then orldy
.ilte 'waters are the bofome of God,
The 4 beafts are the 4 Elements,
7he 12 Trees ate the 12 parts of the Heavens,
TheJVb.7leistbefi>iritofGod,
Tfje Chambers are the degrees of wifdome,
,^fhe Thunders and windes "are the ends of God his IVill and Judgements
i
The reft are not to be fpokcn :
This I tnkj' to notifie to us the judgement and nrbitrenient of God between lis , in refpe& of our
P( titioii to his Divine Majejiy now made, whereby we maj be ajfur'ed what to judge of the Creatures
which do deal with us in' this adion, find of the impugners, or difwaders of the credit of it. This I
tal{e to be feat a^d delivered unto us, of the meer merry and providence Divine regarding his own
glory, and the fineerity of My hope and confidence,v;hich I put wholly in him, and alwayes will,
^^^ 7 Hou are happy, (or youheliev-', E^K* what am I. A. as happy ifyou believe Hkj-wife,
Nal
is,. Are you not to deliver us our leffbns orderly, as we have be^un to receive?
v-.ia- c
,..,.,Vn'h>-!LiHdthat,by the Fropbet delivering Pen, Ink^, and Paper. .^
Nil S ^- As concemmg the book writing by the higheft, what fhalll expefttheigff?
Cib- 7 >••••. Vn'hyih-iHd that, by the Prophet delivering Pen, Inh^ , and Paper. .^^
G.-,!) ) 'i!:ere isno fo'm Oj- faiTf}.
Nj!. jT A. I believiE verily that it fhall be wi itten by the power of the higheft,
Nsl. ..... The power of the higheji confirmeth me^ but not my power, the highefi.
A. Be it as che will of God is,
E. K. The white Curtain is drawn.
A. Gloria PatriaSc Fiiio, 8c fplritui fanfto; ficut erat in principio,8c nunc^Sc femperj Sc in
fecul'a feculorum.
E.K, Amen.
Saturday, 28. Aprilis, Mane horn. 8. Cracovise.
Orattonc pr^mijj'a jiatim apparebant,
E. K. They are here.
Gab ^OTe not, for the place is holy.
A. Holy, holy, holy, is he, who fanftiaeth all things that are fanftlfled.
N.ilvage. E. K. He maketh Croffes with his Rod toward the four parts of the
\vofId.;arid then kneeleth down awhile.
Gab Happy is he that hath his skirts tied up, and is prepared for a Joirrney , for the way
(hall he openynto him, and in his j oynts ((fall there dwell no wearineffe : his meat Jhall be m the teH"
dird^WjJS the ffcectneffe of a. bullocks Cud. For unto them that have ,fl}all be given, and from
them that have not, pall be taken away : For why, the bur cleaveth to the willow Item, but on the
fandi tt is.tcfffd .«•.» feather without drvelling. Happy are they that cleave unto the Lord, for they
Jh.llb-' brought unto the jhre-houfe : and be accounted, and accepted as the Ornaments of his beauty:
B.^tpraywithme.',,,j.
O thou eternal foundation and ftrength of all things, mortal and immortaI,which
delight in thy face and in the glorie of thy name,
Coufider tJje fovndatio-t of our fragility , and enter into the weakjtejfeof our inward part! : for
we art become empty ; whofe fait is not,, nor hath any favour : Fortifie, and mak^ m jfrong in thee,
arid jntl.y ftrengtb; Have mercy upon us. Have mercy upon us , Have mercy vpm us; that in this
world ourfirength maybe in patience, and after tl::s life, that we may afcend unto thee.
Nal,.....<^-
A true Kelation ofD^. Dee his ABions mthfpirits, &c. la^
Nal Amen,
A, We prayed the fame prayer. _
E. K. Now Nalt/age ftandech up irpon his Tabic ofLetters.
Nal It it a fide-long Letter.
47 pALOMaON the fons of vteH
*"
E. K. Now he kilTeth the Table.
Nor nio lip.
46 FA A amon0 Atf
4^5 L I T S E R that you may praife him Reft el.
Now he kifleth the Table,and maketh moft humble and low Curfies,
having fii ft laid down his Rod.
44. GNOSILEBO
43 NARMAZDO jt
E. K. Now Gabriel fhaketh his Dart terribly.
E. K. Why fhakc you your dart fo ?
Cab Scbolers ought to give ear to their School-majiers.
As pleafant deliverers
Andpewjour felves
Obelifong
Od Zawran
42 RACAZ LMove Zacar.
41 L A A CL. of the Creatour Qa*l
40 PIAOOD in the name Do 6a ip
39 ALIPADO and livetb Od Jpi la
38 I SD rehirh it
DSI
57 D At A N E R I Z I am the Lord your Cod Zire nai ad
Now he ufeth his aceuftpmed Curfie.
36 ELGAB -for Bagle
^5 AGSOAGF vifii the earth Fgaos g«
34 OD and Od.
55 IHASAVQJIOM you fans ofpliafure Nor qiiit fa hi
34 VGROT Arife Torgu
51 ALC 456 cu
30 OLAT mthefirji TaU
2? SIHC are Chis
28 NIHSNOLDO ind their powers Od lonftiin
Now he kneeleth.
37 NOAMIPAG tic mmher of time Capi oia 6n
P 26 SIHC
no %A true Relation of I>^ Dee his JBions mhfpirits,6tc.
i6 SHJC are
•
This . ' .
25 I L A M I P A C fiicceSiveljy Ca pi ma li
34 TSD ffhichtlfo DST
Now he falleth fuddcnly on his knees.
'^
23 G E G V D "n^ ipax firong: as Wed§c
Od Vgeg .
2» SIHC «>•?,
Now he kneeleth.
Kis
Chis
21IZDOORC the fecond begimhigs of things Cro od fi
20GMRASAG in whom thr g as ia
feiifgc
Cafarnag
19 LPRC hutone ; CRPL
18 O P M R O C hath yet mwhred Conn po
17 GA 2^i>/fr asaggiaiHg
Ag
16 MABOS w*o»» Sobam
15 MP AM 9639; Mapm
14 t L A O / Atfz/e i'/rfCfi O a li
13 I M R A S A C j/a^/fr »/!«)»» Ca faroui
izVlDVIV in thefecond angle} Vi v di »
Now he lifted up his hands.
II F N O S D vhkb raign Dfonf
£. K. Now he goeth off the Tablc5and knecleth Down.
rede
10 DP 3J PD
Now he lifteth.
9 PMROC tiumhred ? Cormjp
8 OGAVAVA the thmden «/ eKcreafe Ava va go \
7 EGSIHCG Are not GChlsgc^'* t'l^
6 LOHOG fayhtgj Go hoi
5 AHP.ROD have leek^ed about wf.
'3
Dor pha
^ H.
DO.
(^true Relation of D^ Dee his Anions mth fpirits, &c^ ill
4 DO
3 EGABAB
a IDSAL
I LIHTO
E. K. The Tabic turncth continually to his Rod end , and the Let-
ter fecmeth to ftandonhis Rods end diftin6:ly. That is it. This is
this Call.
and Od
in the foiith Ba bage
wy fett Lasdi
I have fet Othii
y
4-
5
-
6 -
7-
8-
9-
10-
II -
12";-
»3~
14-
i$~
16-
17"
18-
19 ~
20 -
21 -
22 -
25-
24-
25-
— / have fet
— wj feet -
'
— /;; i/jf /iHri&,
— ani
— about niej
— f''ji»gi
— are net
— the thunders ef inertafe
— Hiimhredt
— thirty three
— which raign
— in thefecond Angel;
_ under whtnt
_ I have placed
-9639-
_ whom
_- None
_ bath yet nunthred
_ hut one
_ in whom
_ the fecond beginning of things
— trey
_ and wax firong
_ Fi&ici alfo :
25-
27-
28-
29
30.
31-
32.
33-
34'
35
36.
37
38
39-
40.
41.
42
43-
44.
45-
46 _
47-
48-
49-
50-
'fucceftvely:i [or by fucceffion']
• are
the number of time-,
and
their powers
• are
- as the firjl
-456.
- Arife
- you fans of pleafure^
• and
- vifit the earth >
-for
. I am the Lord your Cod
- which it
~ and Hveth.
, In the n-ime
_ of the Creator
. L^love
- Andjhew youfelves [or appear"]
. as pleafant deliverers ,
. that you may praife him
_ amoHgji
_ the fons of men.
£. K. He hath now plucked the Curtain to.
A. Note.
•
A. Thanks be to GodJ
now, and ever. 'Amen, &
A. Remember to rcqueft information of fuch a word, as (faith the Lord) is not here to be
underftoodj fomc where.
Note, the fecond Angel.
Monday Cracovid, Aprilis 30. Afane hora 6 f.
Oratione Dominica finica ,& precatiuncula pro profpero fucceflu /^. L. ( jam apud /Tf//^
tnark,y queritantisSc petentis jus fuum hereditariura, & aliis brevilfimis ejaculationibus, pro
profpero fucceflii in hac aftionc tandem port femi horam apparuerunt,
E. K. Now they are here : and Gabriel is all full ofglory, he feem-
eth to light all places.
A. O the mercies of God encreafed, though his determination be all one
E. K. Now he is as he was before : and in the time of this his glori-
ous apparition, Nahage kneeled down, fomewhat regarding towards
Gabriel,
P s Cab. ...Civt
n X J true Relation cfD\ Dee his jBioris mthfp'mts, ^c.
6
Gab Give vnto him that hath his haslet ofen : But from kirn that is not readyydefart.
E. K. There appear here, j other like Priefts, all in white, having;
L long hair hanging down behind : their white garments traile after
^ them : having many pleits in them. Me think that I have fccn x)ne of
H them before, and upon that creature appearcth a B upon his cloathes,
^ an Lin another place, an.R upon his other (houldcr, another A upon
A his other fhoulder. There is an H upon his breaft ->
there is an 1 upon
V his head, and a C upon his fide on his garment;, and an A under his
H waft behind: The Letters feem to "go up and down enterchangeably
D in places. There feemeth an V on him, alfo an N, a D.
^ Nowcometh atallmanby, all in white, and a gicat white thing
rowled about his neck, and coming down before like a lippet. They
^11 in the Stone ( being 9 ) kneel down unto him.
The tall man faid Tal{e this Key^ and pojper : afccnd and fill thy
fejfelj for the River is not pure-, and made clean.
E.K. Now he is gone ( that faid this ) in form of a great Millftone
of fire.
An Hill. E. K. Now they go up a Hill , with a great Tankard , as it
were, of Bone tranfparent i Now he openeth one door, he,I meanjtJiat
had the Letters on his back.
1. There appeareth a Partridge,but it hath one leg like a Kite : This
Partridge feemeth to fit on a green place under the gate, one leg is
much longer than the othcr,being like a Kites leg. This Partridge feem-
eth to halt.
He biddeth one of his.Company take it up. There goeth a bridge
to the top of that Hill, all upon arches, and under it goeth a Pviver.
He taketh the Partridge and pulleth all his feathers, •
and they fall
into the River : Hecutteth ofFthe longer leg juft to the lengih of the
other. They about him cry, O juft judgement.
Now he turneth him offover the Bridge, and he flyeth away, for the
feathers ofhis wings were not pulled.
2. He goeth on, and (t)meth to another gate ^ and there the third
man unlocketh it, as the fecond next him unlocked the iirft Gate i he
hiinfelf having the Key firft delivered him, as above is noted. There
appeareth a thing like a Kite, all w^hite, very great, it hath a fowl great
head, he feemeth to be in a very plcafant Gaitlen, and fl) eth from plac^
to place ofit, and beateth down the Rofe trees and other fruit trees.
The Garden feemeth very delicate and pleafant. They go all into the
Garden : and he faith, Thou art of the Wildernefle, thy feathers and
carkafe are not worthy the fpoil ofthe Garden. .
Now the Kite fcratcheth and gafpeth at this man •,
but he taketh the
Kite and cutteth her carkafe in two equal parts, from the crown of hi§
head, and throweth one half over one fide ofthe Bridge, and the other
half-over the other fide, and faid, Fowles mufi: be devoured of Fowles,
^The reft fay, jjtjiitia di'vina^ clapping their Jiands over their
heads.
3. Now
' I. ' '
' '
I
-
I I
_
aJtrue Relation of D^^ Dee his ABions mthffirits, (3cc.. 1
1
3
q. Now the next in order opcneth another Gate (going up upon
the lame Bridge ilill. ) The reft of the building from the Gate in-
ward, feemeth very round and bright : yet there appear no windows
in it. It is a frame, made as though the 7 PJanets moved in it. The
Moon feemeth to-be New Moon.
There ftandeth Armour,and this man putteth on, all white Harnefi^.
He feemeth to kick down the Moon, and her frame or Orb ; and feem-
eth to make powder ofall i For there is no mercy here^faith he.
4. Now another ofthem goeth forward to another Gate, and open-
eth the Gate, and goeth in ; there appear an infinite multitude ofmqn.
There fitteth amancloathed like a Prieft, havinga great Crown on
his head: here are many preaching in this place. He goeth to that
Crowned P)ieft,and he takcth away divers patches ofthe Vefture which
he had, and the patches feemed to be like Owls, and Apes, and fuch
like.
He faith A King is a King^anda Prieft is a Prieji.
He taketh from the reft their Keyes and Purfes, and giveth them a
Staff'and a Bottle in their hiinds. He goeth from them. He putteth
all that he took from them in a houfe befide the Gate, and writethon
the door, Cogtiofcat qujfquefuum. ?„J5°',^
Nowthey proceed to another Gate, and another ofthem opened that
Gate. The Bridge continueth ftill, afcending upward. Now there
appeareth ( that Gate being opened ) a marveJlous great Wildernefle.
There cometh a great number ofnaked wilde men to him. He Jfha-
keth that Gate with his hands, and it falleth in pieces, one falleth on
one fide into the River, and the other falls on the other fide into the
River,
'-''''
Let both thefe places be made one. Let the fpoil of the firft,be th^omfcrt of
the la'i : For from them that have Jhalt be takjri, and unto them that have notjhall
be given.
6. E. K. Now he goeth, and the laft of his Company openeth an-
other Gate ; he is longer in opening ofthat Gate,than any ofthe reft. •
There appeareth a buihy place, and there runneth a great River on
the very top of the Hill,and a great Gate ftandeth beyond the Hill,and
a Very rich Tower all of precious Scones, as it feemeth.
Here he filleth his Tankard in the River, and holdeth his hands up,
and maketh fhew as he would return.
He faid This was my coming., andfboidd be my return.
E. K. Now they appear fuddcniy before the firft Gate, and there
the Principal man diggeth the earth, and putteth ftones and brambles,
and leaves afide. There he taketh out a dead carkafe, and bringeth it
to a fire, and ftroketh it : a very lean carkafe it is j it feemeth to be a
dead Lion i for it hath a long tail with a bufli at the end.
He faith . .... Come let us take him up^ and comfort him j for it is in
him.
Now the Lion feemeth to fit up and lick himfelf, and to drink of the
v^rater, and to ihake himfelf, and to roar. The man taketh ofthe fegs
or
14 A true Relation of D^ Dee his jBions mthjfirits,&ic.
or flags by, and ftrokcth the Lion as he would make his hair finooth.
Now the Lion is become fair, fat, and beautiful.
He faith Tarry you here^ till I bring yon word again •,
for I nmfl.
follow the Lion into the Wilderiicjfe.
E. K. Now all they are gone, except the two our School-majiers-,
Gabriel and 'Ndlvage.
Gabu qhij it the Judgement oi God t\x\s day. Haffy it he that hath judgement t»
gmderjiand it. ,
A, Thou O Lord kiioweft the meafure of our judgemjent : Give therefore light, undcr-
ftauding, and the grace to ufe thy gifts duely*
Gab. ..'....» Lijieu unto w) wordsj for they are a Commandment from above. Behold (^faithhe)
Thave defcetided to view the Earthy yeltere I will dwell for feven dayes, and twice [even dayei :
Ibrrtfore let them be dayes of reji to you. But every feventh day, I will vifit yDU, as Now I'dot
E. K. He fpeaketh as if he fpake out of a Trunck.
A, I undcritand that this reft ii, that every Monday, for three Mondajes clfe next after
other, we /hall await for our leflbns, as now we receive, and that we may all the reji follow our
-a^airi'effiudj cr hovfksld m^atters.
Gali. It u fOf for one day fhall be as a week : But thofe dajes you mufi ahjlaia fr»m all
tbiZgs that live upon the Earth.
£i, Ycu mean on theic three Mondayes, enfucing next.
Gab Toufiall cover this Table with a new limien cloth.
£. K. Pointing to the Table we lat at.
A. Mcft willingly.
Gab. ~.... Moreover a new Candleftickf., with a Taper burning.
A. Obediently ( O Lord ) it {hall be done.
Gab. And the Candlejiichj Jhall befet oh the midji of the Table betwixt jou tm,
J^ote ... ... That a day may become a week, and a week as many years.
Cab-.....- Jer I have fut on my upper garment^ and have ^re^attdto a\tet,and it is jhortly :
and notyet.
E. K. Now he hath plucked the Curtain, as if he had pulled it round
about the Stone •, and it feemeth full of little fparkes like Stars.
Gloria patri (j^ filio (j^ fpiritnifa?iSlo jficut erat inprincipzoy
^ nw2£j ^femper^i!^ in fecidafecidornm.
Videlibro F pro fsquentibus.
L
LIBRI
Jtrue Relation of D". Dec his JHions mtb fpirits, 6cc, 1 1'
LIBRI MYSTICI APERTORn
CRACOVIENSIS SABBATICI, Jn. 1584.
.; ifvi'"i
Satttrday Cracovi«e, 7 Mdii^ Mane, hora 6.
cer prayers, appeared Gabriel and Nalvage, with the Table, and
Gdirif/ with his Dart in his hand. Moreover there appeared the
like furniture of Table with a white Cloth, a Candleftick, and Ta-
per on it, with a Desk and Cufhions ( which I had caufed to be made
with red croflcs on them : ) alfo £. if. hiralelf and I apjjeared.^in
the fame Stone. In effeft, all things as we had before us , after half
a quarter of an hour, that ftiew of our furniture, ^ad our fclvas,
difappeared.
E.K. Gabriel ftandeth up,and fpeaketh as followeth.
J mighty Citj was built on the top of a mouHtain, in the which dwelt many thovfands.
Round about the Hil\ ran a frejh E iver, which was the onely comfort of the Town : for, of it they
drank.y 'heir wives, their children, their vtan-jervants, their ntaid-fervants, their canteh, horfes,
vmles, and a!Lthe beafis of their fields. The beginning of which River was a Spring, which wot un-
known to the city, by reafon of the . . yth front whence it defce»ded. It came to pajje, that a Ser-
pent groaned for her time, and lo, jhe brought forth : and . . . were fuch as her felf: and Jhe lifted
up her bead and leaned upon'her twice writhen taile : and beheld the Sun jiedfajlly, (" for her envy
•fPM toward that City ) and /befaid within her felf : My children are yet young, the timegrew,and
they became big : and Jhe went unto the Spring, and fmiled and faid with a laughing voice. The
Earth is faUen into thee, thou art cbokfd : but hearken unto my voice, Thoufhalt receive comfort z
JiMt /he would not. And jhe lifted up her voice and roared ; for Jhe was. full of craft and deceit.
And Jhe faid unto the Jhingles, through the which the Spring runs Qor rather fyeth ) "thou art full of
emptineffe, and void places. Let my children ('therefore') bide themfelves within thee for a. feafon :
and they were contented; And Jhe departed willingly, and faith within her felf: NjW I kjtow I
(hall be Lady of the City,
And after a few years, the young Serpents became great ', fo that the one half of their bodies
dwelt within the Shingles,the reji troubled the paffige of the Spring : So that the Spring groaned 5
for, the injury that wm done againii h^r, wm ereat.
Agreat mifery, for the Hill is become defolate without the water, and the City and the beajis
perijh for want of drinks ; f'/r the people groan, and are fud of forrow.
. This City and Serpents are 60.. now, and judgement muji be had, betwixt the Shingles and the
Spring . for between lieth the life and death of the City.
Thus faith the Lord unto thee [ pointing to E. K.'] Gird up thy felf, and fit down, Confidef
loth parts, and give judgement : for thy mouthJhall this day be the judgement of the Lord.
E. K. Do you mean me ^
• •
E. K. As the Lord hath put the Authority of Judgement into my
hands, fo I befeech him to give me wifdom and underftanding to judge
right. And becaufe the judgement hereof is committed to me, I fuf-
ped fome other myftery to ]i>; hidden in this my judgement required :
But if it Ihall pleafe God that my friend here, Mafter Dee ihall give me
his advifc, I fha!l think my felf well fatisficd.
Con fider With your felf Q faith tbf Lord) and give judgement againdthe Shingles, for
the fault is plain. Consider two points,the necejit} of the Spring, that it muji come that wayes :
and fecondly, the health of the City.
E. K. My judgement is that the Shingles and Serpent fliould here*
moved av^'av by an Earthquake from the place which they encumber
and let, that there mav be a fit new place, and courfe for that Spring?
to the reliefof that City as before it was.
it^ A true ^laiion ofD\ Dtchu Jciions mthfpirks, ^c.
Be it fo at thou hafl fatd, for it is a iufijudgewent.
How hearkfttyVhat the Lord faith. The people and City of the Hillj is the vorld, yphich «Ti
from time tt time by the mercy and fpring of Gods vifd,m, relieved , . quemhed : arCorliing to tht
extremity and nectfjtty of their thirjUng : But the people and City are fuch as are of the Tevipk
4HdChtirchofGod-y which drink, of hit mercy to their comfort. The Camels and other be afis an
the people of the f^arthy which delight infm^ and m their own imagination., which ajpi are relieveii
vith thoft that are of the City : but the diverfities of their bodies^ doth caufe the diverfity of tki
ends of their comfort. The Hill wherein the Spring ify fignifieth his Prophets, and (iich as ait
drunken in tHc Lord : Through wbowy inwardly the mercies and will of God and of the H'ght^
are open from time to time, according to the fccrcc will and determination of fuch m are within
theCitJofhisEleU. But the frailties and affednns of their fiefh and outward man^ are tiieh
fond imaginations and loofe Shingleswheretnthe Serpent, the old Devil, hathharbvitredher chil-
drefi the fpirits of dark^'teffe aHd deceit, which alrvayes refill the Will of God, and ar^f put bettceem
the mercies of God and his people, Mofcs, Daniel, EfdraS) all the reji of the Prophets : Chrii
bis twelve, Paul the C^teffenger of Cod, they did all hurt the Congregation of the Faithful in their
flejh, xxutW they gavefentence againil themfelves ( <?f thou haft done ) with amendment of life
:
for who u worthy to kjiow the fecrets of our God,but he that deltghteth in righteoufncff'e , « d^dtexty
full of faith, and the fpirit of underjlanding ? Be it therefore unto thee m thou haji faid. Let the
Shingles and Serpents be feparated, that the Fountain may feed as before- All the trajh that thti.
haji of the wicked, hum it.
E. K. I do not know, they arc wicked. *
Their doings with thee, are the hindrance of the Will of God, and therefore diey
are wicked.
"Thou haji given judgement aga/nfi thy felf : Takjr heed thou offend not thy own foul.
A. Send down thy Spirit O Lord, and illuminate £, it. his heart with perceiving cf his
wrong opinion, &c.
E.K. l(Mofes a.nd DanteI were skilful in the Arts of the Egyptian
Magicians, and were not thereby hindrcd for being the fervants ofGod,
Why may not I djeal with thefc, without hindrance to the Will of
Cod?
Durkjuffe yeilded unto light : the Greater excluded the lejfer- The more a man \nowrt^
wick^dneffe, the more he Jhall ha te it, being called back^. The more they knew the Jfjadnw, fo -mnch
more they delighted in the body : For the doings of the Es,Yptm\s, feem, and are nctfe. Tie
doings of the Lord are, and continue; for as the Painter imitateth the gtjiures of man in Sir fa-
culty, fo doth the Devil the fnbjiances and things created and made by God,
Stand up and look^ into the whole fForld, into her youth, and middle age, for they are f*^.
Where are the monuments that Satan hath builded?
E. K. Hath Satan buildcd any monuments ?
Tes : Hath he not budded him a Fort upon the whole Earth ? Hath he not the vidorj
'
ever the Saints? Dwelleth he not in the Temple of the Hig^efi ? Triumfheth he not in the
Cities of the whole World ?
Tfj. ..V... But withtut comfort, are his viHories : without pleafure bit dwelling places. For be
kjiowethhis time is at hand. He that now giveth freedom, fljall become hound; And unto whom
the whole World is M a Garden,fljall there be no one foot left. Therefore are all his pleafnres vJt~
nity: allhisTriumphsfmoah^ and his Authority, ttothing indeed, but a meer jhadow : For that
that ii not, cannot be ; where, it is faid of the Lord, it Jhall not be. Neithercan truth, light,
or wifdom, afcend from the Earth, but defccnd from the Heavens.
Compare the Earth, ( into the which the Devil is thrull us into his dwelling ) with the Heaxiem,
which are provided for the holy. Confider the pain of the one, and^the pleafurc of the other : 'Jib
feat of Gods Juliice, and Fountain of his Mercy : The Cave of Darkjieffe, and the Diadem ef
Lig^t. And then cry, wo, wo, wo, unto fuch a{ erre, and whofe lives are but padows : For their
felicity is fuch, as jrom whence it came; and their reward it all one, with the fpirit and prince tf
Darkjteffe.
Compare fond knowledge, with true wifdom. Thy fpirits of lying with us, that are the voice
of truth ; The vanity tk\'t they lead thee into, and the reward of our miffage : And fay within
Ks life thj felf, fCCCiVi. tVilt thou he pcrfwaded by experience f Confider thy intpnfonwents, thy af-
j . ned. fiiClion andjhame of body. Confider the love of a few, and envy of a multitude. Wtigb with
thy felf the vanity of thy life ; Ihy rajh foot-jieps. All that bappned unto thee, by the fociety, and
(^ as th:» thinl{elr ) comfort ; tut indeed the jiingingprickj of thy enemies
...... Since, we came into thee, (^fent from the Lord, and calling thee, to God ) tlxuhaji bet*
'^
eUlivired fern thtm ; frtm a place full of fornication, and the wrath of Cod: exalud to tU
skirts of worldly h* i-our ; and haji bttn fatisfiedfcr the nectfities of this World. Hdy is the
money that m gotten righteoufly ; but accp.rfed aretke tvilt thsttare reaped witllttrong.
AU
A true delation of D^ Dee his JBions mtb fpirits, &c, m 7
A/I which things thou hafl ky us in blejfe/iittjfey end in the kjtowledge of the will of God , a'^ove all
men. Befides our continual frefence with thee, to the comfort of thy Soul. Even thefe things are
of u!, ini of our G d. If'^hich [ware unto Ahrahxm^ and dwellHh in the Temple of righteoufneffe.
Now^thfrefore let experience he a. Judge betwixt uf and them.
Buty this fayctb the Lird. I deal with you as a Childe : But the vejfeli that I mujl ufe , m:ijl he p^^J.
rr .
fure and clean".^
A. Clcanfe thou us, (O Lord) Cor mundum Crea inmbishCrea.
Gab Tkej that are incredulous believe not the Lordy but drive away his fpirit : But where
g^grxin isyit becometh M a. mountain. The Lord is upon the earth : Tak^e heed thou fweep thy
^^*"^'*^''
boufe clean, for unto htm that is nal{ed,Jhall there be Clo athes given : But be that is Covered al-
ready, (hall he made bare.
Confider with thy [elf : for the Lord fpea\etb not once more , till t!iOU z&d:/ fulfilled thy own
judgement.
E, K. \ will be contented to bury them in the field, and not ta ufe h;s own
them , or come at them : and that I will fwear upon the Bible to per- ^obfhtml-'
fonn : and if they be earthly, I will commit them to the earth : and fo
''"'•
fcparate thole Ihingles from the place near the fpring : and in this man-
ner fulfill my own judgement : For, / rvill not be objtinate , hut commit
all things to the end.
Beca'ife thou art content to bury them ; andwithall, upon faith in the promifes of God, to ab-
jure theM in fjmp'icity of heartland external ufe,..-fimply,as a. true meaning before the face of
Tie higheji : Ihe Lord acceptethit, and it pallbe fi/fficient.
Further^ thou had 27. Co«^rw^ti9«i <>/yj«j and confent with the Devil, which your intention
callethCh3vndiers,whereby thoje [even and twenty , Qike unto the'r mother^ are become fami- Charaftsrw
liar ani plczfant with thee, they mii(i be brought before the Lord: ani offered into his hands.
For fo !on£^ as they are, the wicked alwayes vex thee : For the Obligation burnt, tlie condi-
tion is void. lbe(e muft bf brriedwitb the relh
[£. K, Which reft ?]
But muft be brought, and burnt here before the prefence of God: Thatithe caufe dimi-
uijfjed^ the effeU may perijh.
E. K. I will be contented to bury them likewife , befeeching the
Almighty to accept of my intent herein , as of the reft before fpeci-
fied.
Heif contentrd; hut let one be burnt. Tou may fHftr one to teiii^c the difcrcdit of the
reft. It if but accordingto the grounds of t\}y ownMngick.
E. K. I do not undcrftand your meaning herein.
Gab. .«... Radiui partif, may he ficut tottus Corporif,
E. K. I underftand not that, alfo.
Gab CMagtck. worketb effelf in things ahfent ^ that it doth in their parts , ^rw|
Jtefent.
The wicked kjll the body alfent, but the garment present : fo are all of one confederacie , dif- A. / doubt
fXaced by the confufioH of one. Thou art contrnted to bury them M,upon the confidence , and that! mif-
fure hope of the promifes of the God of light, and to bring one as a confirmation of thy promife to te - ^V^^^
^°'°'^*
jiifie thy obedience as concerning the whole : wh'^ch one burnt and abjured , may be a tejHmony onVbumr,
totheAtgels, that thou art obedient for God his fake, and for his tcftimony and truth. But md abjured
tbifyoH (hall burn with Brimhne on'ly. IVhofe afhes (hallbe'kjpt as a teilimony , till the reft be obedience.
alfo confumed. X^'V jo«>'^//do the next Monday at the rifing of the Sun. That the
number of the time may be of one bigneffe. For, before Auguji fliall thofe Kcyes be delivered
unto you : which give entrance, yea, even into the privy Chambers of wifdom, whereof you
/Ii all have 14. the next Monday. And this dayes aiiion is not the leaji amongji them. Glory be te ...ence.
G}d , and obedience unto man.
E. K. The Curtain is drawn.
A. We are dcfirous to know whether thus,thisdayes a£tion Ihall be finifhcd; and whether
we fhall fait ftill as was prefcribed.
Gab VetraS not fiom the day, that, which is commanded.
A. We are xery defirous to underftand of the prefent eftate of the Lord Albert Laskie : for
«s much as we were willed to go with him, and he linked to us in fome par^ of our aftions :
To underftand of his fhte, would be to our great comfort.
Gab. ...., It needfth not^for the world her felf is at hand.
A. Vcrily,l underftand not that fpeoch:Ii he coining back agairi?What, Wearc commanded
O- we
I! ^ tJ true Illation of D^^ L>e his Jclions nuhjpirits, 6:c.
we know : j[iid further then cvr Commandment ^ errour. He is in his hand that knoweth liow
to u(e him.
E. K. I fjbe a inan climlng over a Hedge , and as he clainmerctli
over rhe flakes break , and he falleth down. Now he is going up be-
tween two Trees into a Medow-ward. Now he hath both the boughs
in his hand , ftanding ftill on the ground. Now he goeth lower, there
is a gap, and through that he is gone into the Medow fo it is of
Lail{ie faid a voyce.
A. This is dark : it may pleafe you to give fome light.
* Ti5if *f more then e/toughfor the matter.
Ceafe to as k^ thefe things hercy where it k faid^ no impure thing fljittld enter.
A. Gloria, I'lisSi honor Deo Nofcro Oninipoccnti,Patri,fiiio & fpiritui Saufto, nunc
& fcniper. Amen-
ta, Note, at this prefent was one come, and in the houfe (of whom we imderftood not till
lit was gone :
) whom the Lord A. Loihje had feiit to certifie us, that flrft he was in fomc
cumber and hmdrance. Secondly, how Fahitu ( his brother in Law ) and another had given
hmi connfel, very rafniy to proceed : But leaving that. Thirdly, hy the gap and open way
with eftate of the Comn'ons, or Citizens, by their great Zeal , and ftvour that he obtained
hif. purpofe. This (in efFfft) we underftood ar the Meffager his return afternoon. Wiiich
(JUaj. marvellous exaftly did anfwer to the former (hew.
Remember that on Saturday after noon, the Chancelour came to Cracow , with 60 Coaches
in his Company and train : he bringing iu a clofe Coach (covered with red) the Lord Sa^
iww/ 5.JBoro.'/;/> Prifoner, whom he took on Friday night before , athisiifters houfe, being
feparated from his Souldicrs and fervants, &c.
S^turd^y, i^MzUy Mane hor'i 6 Fere. t Cracoviae.
Orationem Dominicam fudimm, &c. Mitte lucem tuam & veritatem , Vem^^c.
A. £, K. Said, he had done fliat with tfce trafli fpecified, as he thoughtwould be accepta-
ble to the Lord : And as concerning one of the 27 Charafters he had left it with me , ever
fince the laftaftion,to be burnt at this dayes aftion, and it lay ready by me.
E. K. Our inftruclours appeared at the very firft looking of E. K. in-
to the (hew-ftone.
A. W ill you that 1 fhallnow exeaitc this burning of the Charafter here as a facrificc (to
die hightft) four humility and obedience?
Gab. Not iii a facrtflce., but as a vidory.
A. Shall /then do it, /pray you ? As with the confcnt of my yoke-fellow , and fo all one
to be taken as his aftion.
He that doth righteafy cffereth up a facyifice.
.'Nal It is true, that he that u obedhnty and doth well., is accepted with the Lord.
E. K. I did take facrifice to be onely with bloud.
Gab. .... This is a facrifice, hecanfe it is done right eoufly.
E. K. You faid, Not, as a facrifice, but as a vitlory.
Gab He that overcometh his enetnjr rejoyceth not far friendjhip fake , hut for vi&ory. Tie
jriendpip toward Cod is obedience. He that oleyeth God , is a fiend unto himfelf. Cei
needeth not the love , or fiendfhip of man, Therefore yon rejoyce with God, who overthrew thentf
and thereby comforted. for he that dwelleth in the Lord is comforted.
Thou cfenefi thy mouth, andfayeji before the Lord, The fpirit of God hath defcended.
'^A. He no. A. Gloria Patri, &c.
<:*(« dfbou*fe
-^'"^ *^ *"'* entred into judgement with me, and J am condemned. But where JulHce dwtUetby
WK^'tiiion^ or dwelleth alfo mercy. For, try Idolatry is forgotten before the Lord.
prayer,ana»i- £. K. Havc vou Committed Idolatry ?
foaftionof •'
V V
F.K. a. Icon- \n , , . , , .^
L. K.
jcaure. A. He fpeaketh inyour behalf Mafter Kf/^.
i ffill therefore open mj mouth., fa) ing, I have erred. I will open my mouth alfo, and conf
feffe-yryfnis : And, \ will vow unto rhe Lord againil the wicked. And I will fay imto th«
Lord. Loyhcrearethefpbihcf the blcudy blafphemy. Behold ^0 yoH Angeh,a blafpjemy, and
, figainf} the higheji. lehold^ the Wickjtc} ejjt oj Alccndam,
Eear
(9^true ^elaUon of D"*. Dee his J^ftons mth fpirits^ (See- 1
1^
Bear witncffi with mty for I have fulfilled his Commandement. Bear witness fv'ith me, that I am in
return nor, and rej'jce; for ft*cb are thefpoj/es of the wici^ed. '^ /'•
Gab. Art thou contented to confent hereunto?
. ..ero
...no:
/
and
itf
...( eH,
E. K. What I have done with the reft, God, .ind they (if they be of
God) know : upon the forefaid conditions I am contented to have this
Charafler to be burnt. Let it be burnt.
A. 1 biiriu it immediately , with the flame of brimftoiiej and brought the biirnt black coa!
or cinder thereof to the Tabic , and laid it on a paper.
Now Lordydarkjtejfe is confounded^ let thy light flnne in us, and thy truth prevaile.
Gab. It is well. ^. BlclTed be the name of the highell : whofe mercies are infinite.
Oh, a fweet and comfortable fentence.
E* K. Now 'Nal'vage turneth round, as he was wont.
Gab. Move not, for the place is holy.
E. K. Now Nali/age putteth down his rod to the Table,he maketh a
croffe upon the Table reverently.
Nal. All things go forwards, Let uf g» FORWARD alfo. £k. Jii the name of Jcfiis^ fi„ ^
Gab. Move not, for the place, ii holj.
E. K. Nal'vage prayeth.
Nal. Not ^ y< C K i^ -4 ^ Z) , as you were wont to do, but F KW ART).
E. iiC. Now he maketh three reverent Curfies, as he was wont to do,
before the Table.
S A P A H Si pah. ^
Sapf.b*
E. K. Now he is on the top of the Table.
ZIMII
DUIV
OD
E.K. He maketh curfy.
NOAS
T A (lA N I
S
ADROCH
DORPHAL
CAOSG
OD
FAONTS
PIRIPSOL
TABLIOR
CASARM
AMIPZI
NAZARTH
AF
OD
DLUGAR
a2
Z't tuii.
Du iv,
Od.
Nms.
"la. qua nis,
as otc1}
Ad roch.
DorphaL
Ca osg
Od.
¥* onts.
Fir ipfol,
Tiblior.
Cafarni,
A mip zc
No. zartb,
Af.
Od.
Vlugar
I.L4>1^.
OD.
*>.<no
.... reth
....pone
E. K,
no A true Relation of D^ Dee hu Jclions mthfiirits, 5cc.
E. IC. Now he maketh curiy roundabout to all p^irts ofthe Table,
he kncelcth down.
Z 1 Z O P Zi z*;,
Zod lidit
It if a Word and a he tier.
E . K. He fhew cth it not m the Table yet.
Nal. 'No-if I ff e the werd of five Letters togethery following letter hy letter,
ZLIDA
C AOSGI
TOLTORGI
OD
Stajf there.
Z d-lida.
Z i'dn.
C« OS gi,
T'oltirgL
He maketh now Curfy.
Od
E. K. He fcemeth to read as Hebrew is read.
ZIZOP Zizo^. 'I
ZCHIS Zodchh
Nal. ff is better than the ether ,f mean that Zod-chis being of 'One fignificetlon^'vhiiZixAp^at
Zod-chis is better to be vfed.
ESIAS.CH E fiaci.
L L.
TAUIU "jta ui a.
OD Gd.
lAOD na, .
E. K. Now he maketh curfy again.
THILD Thildj one Sjllahlg.
Now he ma
DS. 4s,
HUBAR. Hubar,
PEOAL feifl.
Cdtnps
I. 69,
5. Julit
(aexpoundea.
SOBA
E.K.-—
Soba.
CORMFA Cormfd,
CHISTA
Chists.
LA
VLS
La:
Vis.]
OD Od.
QjCOCASB
(oyftrue Relation of D"^. Dee his Anions mth fpirits, (Sec* i ii
QCOCASB ^ocasb.
N 1 1 S Ni is.
OD Od.
D A R B S Obey Varbs-one Syllable.
CLA A S §^ as.
S. FETHARZI Fethirzi.
K. E. Curfy.
E. K. He hath drawn tfre Curtain.
It is Kat to be feen what he doth.
L, of 4 minutes of time the Curtain was drawn.
E. K. He is now otherwife apparelled, all the oiitfide ofhis Gown is
> white Furre, on his head is an attire of furre, wreathed or wrapped as
the Turks ufe^ his head is now ike a mans head, with Oiort hair.
OD
*
Od.
' '
BLIORA Bliira.
^'''^^'
I A I A L la ial.
EDNAS Ed Mas.
CI C L E S Ci cles,
EAGLE Bigle.
ie in as ten tit iad-as jade,
Ge ]ad.
il.
That is one Call.
,h.....„.Move»otyfor the place is holly.
"^AH Gab.
SDIU esdiu
Sdiu.
-HIS Chis.
E M Ew.
M I C A L Z O Micilzo
E. K. Curfy, and he kifleth the Table.
I
PILZIN filzen.
Pilzin.
b.
E. K The Curtain is now plucked again, for three minutes or four,
^owthe Curtain is opened again. Now is he changed. Now he isH!sappard.
all
Ill A true Relation of D^ Dee his JBions wthjpirits,,&c. "
—__ —
—
iffc, girded to him,
all in black farcenet, very plentifull of fti and with
the coller high to the midft of his face.
S O B A M * Sob am.
EL. el
HARG urgtntm.
Harg,
MIR Mir.
PlZiN Tiz,in.
babalon Babiltn.
Tut out the lajl THgin.
E. K. Why did you give us them?
\
Nal ,.Ifftftand.
OD u.
OBLOG «h ke.
s amvelo Sam vt!g.
DLUOAR Vlugar. ,
MALPURO Mai furg.
ARCAOSOI Jr c* if gi*
OD a
ACAM J dm
CANAL SdH*l.
Cantl.
•
SOBOLIAR So hi xar
AT.. TBLIARD Tbli ard.
It k bttter iftht th« made en F, 'ini fre»emced F bli W.
CAOSGI Co. osgi.
ODCHIF K'f-
Oi chif. ii
ANETAB A He t*b.
OD oi*
MI AM Miam,
TAVIV 'in vi V,
-t
ODD on.
i
DARSAR Varfar
SOLP.ETH Solfethi
BIEN Bi en.
,^
BRITA B ri ta.
m>ti
Atrue ^I^eUtion of D'. Dee bis JUtom mth fpirits, (3cc, 1
1
}
The Curtain drawn again. Now it is opened.
He is altered in apparel ; one halfunder the girdle is red,and above
the girdle white.
O D Od.
Z x\ C •• A M ,
Ztf earn.
GMICALZO G-nic'ilzo.
SOBHAATH Soh hi ath.
T R I A N •
tr'tan.
^ ..... HE LuUhe.
O DECK IN Odecr'm.
Curfie.
M AD Mad.
Q_A A O N ^tftfM.
Ihitt is tk( fecond.
A. BlefTed.
f
R A A S Raai.
IS ALMA N I Salman.
P A R A ••
I Z Taradi Kid.
OECRIM I kcTimi.
A A O A Ao.
Tal.
lALPiRGAH lALprgab, .
E. K. The Curtain drawn again, and fo remaind about 6 minutes.
E. K. Being weary offitting, 1 would gladly have leave to walk a
little. His Apparel all one as it was.
Nal Tou may ; lut to fity it wfcrf obedient.
A. E.K. walked awhile.
E K. Now, when it pleafe you.
Gab I feel a/iaggiriHC minde.
A. That God which created you and us, make us to have conftant mindes in all vertuous
purpofes.
Cab I [wear : Move not ; for the place is holj.
CLUIIN ^iin.
EN AY Enaj.
BUTMON ButmoH.
OD oi.
l;/; -ir,
'
I NO AS
\
14 A true Relation ofjy. Dee his Mions vpithfpirits, &c, ji^
INOAS
NI
E. K. He pi-aycth.
PAR AD 1 AL
C AS AR.MG
V G E A R
CHIRLAN
OD
ZONA ..
LUClFTI AN
CORSTA
VAULZIRN
TOLHAMI
SOB A
LONDOH
Ih 9 Of.
Ni.
Pa re di tl.
Cufirmg, Thc^ as <£^^ irmg,
V ge tir.
Kir.
Chir Ian,
Od.
Zo Mac,
Lu cifti an.
Con ta^
Viulzirn.
to! hi mi.
Saba,
LoH dob.
The Curtain is drawn again : and after 6 minutes open.
Now he is all in a blew long vefture, with a long train , and hath a
little Coronet of Silver on his head.
O D M I A M
CHIST AD
ODES
Curfic.
VM.DEA
OD
PIBLIAR
O T H I L R I T
ODMI A M
CNOQJJOL
RIT
Z AC AR
ZAMRAN
•
c.
Od. mi MtHy or OdNuim,
Kit
Cbif tad.
des.
V mi de g.
Od.
Pih It ar.
O thilrit.
Od mi am.
Kol.
Cno qml.
Kit.
Z« cur,
Zam rait.
OECB.IMII
Atme^elation ofT>^> Dee his Actions withfpirits, <5cc. 125'
OECRIMI
CLADA:
OD
OMIC AOLZ
A AIOM
BiA G L E
p APN O R
Ciirfie he maketh.
IDLllGAM
LON SHI
OD
VMPLlF
VGEGI
UIGLI A..
/"
O c crimi.
^i dah.
Od.
Omicaolzod.
A A I om.
Ea gle.
Fa^ Hor,
Id 'k gaw.
Lonflii,
Od.
Vmplif.
VGegi.
Bigliad.
Nal "tbi^ ii at an end.
A. BlelTed be he that is the beginning and ending of all things.
E. K. The Curtain is pluckt.
Now it is open, and he is all in green, with a Garland on his head.
« BAZMELO Baz, me lo.
I T A Ixa.
pi R I P S%'^ tW'tjfon,
OLN Oln.
' N AZAVABH Ka za v'ihh.
OX Ox.
C AS ARMG Cafarmg,
G or V RAN Vrin.
CHIS Chii.
*
VGEG Vgtg-
.'SABRAMO Dfa bramg. [ g HQt Oi dg.J
B ALTOH A Bal td ha.
E. K, The Curtain is drawn, for a while
R Now
illJT \i^
iz6 A true Relation of D^ Dee^ix ABionsmthffmtSy^c.
Now is in a Robe like a Marble colour fpotted, white, gray, and
black.
G O H O I A D GohSitd.
S O L A M I A N Soli mi an.
Fire came fiiddenly out of ths Stone, that made E. K. ftart.
T R I A N ^ri m.
E.K. Now he kneeleth.
"To. lot cisorfis.
Aha'tuo nin-
OD.
T ALOLCIS
ABAIUON IN
OD
E. K. He fctteth his fopt on a letter, Jointing to it. He throweth
fire on E. K. again.
tbdc letters.
HeputtethUs A Z I A G I A R
feet on all
RIOR
IRGlLCHlSbA
DSP A A OX.
BLI FD
GAOSGO
DSCHIS
odipuran
teloah
CACRC5
OISALM AN
LONCHO
OD
VOUIN A
CA RBAF
N IISO
BAGLE
A LI A U A G O
GOH ON
NIISO
A x,ii gi efi
Rior.
trgil ch'isia,
Vfpi € ox,
Ca» or Ka ofgo.
T>s chit,
Cdi fu rait.
Teloah.
Ca curg.
i fal man.
LOH choy or ^».
Od.
Vo ui Hai
Car baf.
Niifo.
Ba gle.
A ui uago.
Go hon.
Niifo.
bagle
A true delation of D^. Dee his ABions mth/pirits, &c, i zj
BAGLE b7^.
^" "
~~~
^, Hccafteth fire on E. K.
MOM AO •
Mo ma 0,
S lAION Si a i ,u.
OD . \ Od.
M A B Z A C^iab za.
E. K. He makcth a ciirl'ie, he laycth Mab'x.a again.
lADOlASMOMAR '
lad o i as mo mar.
POILP ?oil^,one [yllabk.
NIIS Ni iiy fmall found of i.
Z A M R A N Zam ran.
E. K. The Curtain is drawn , white , and reddiOi , more red then
white : Now it is away, and all open again : Now all his Gown is yel-
low and yellow furrc in iti and on his head, a Hoode of yellow like Vel-
vet, &c.
E. K. Why change you your Apparel thus
:
E. K. He ipeaketh very ipccdily to Gabriel, but I cannot perceive
liim.
C I A O F I C I A fi.
C A O S G O Ka.
Ca of gO'
OD OV.
BLI....S B/i ers.
OD OB.
COR.... Corf.
TA 1't
ABR AMfG A bra mig.
This is the end of that.
E. K. Now he pullcth the Curtain : Now it opencth again. His
Apparel is now changed again of an Afhy and brown colour, in faihioh
as before.
Gab who is to be compared to our God ?
M I C A O L
I
Oi'li ca li.
B R A N S G Branfg,
P- . G E L Pur gel.
N A P T A Nap ta.
S^IALPOR yal
I AL por,
R 2 :
DSBRIN
12^ %4true "Relation of I>^ Dee his Mions mhJfmts.^Ci
D S B R 1 N Vi hrin.
... F A F E £ /-» /« /'•
:.otia
^
thus ^
A
F
X
'
V ON P H O Von fho,
O L' A N r L * Mi,
X-
OD ^'^•
O B Z A <>l>za.
i SOBCA ' R'
Sob ca.
VPAAH V t'- "''•
C H I S CbU.
T A T A N , ^* **''•
OD ^^
T R A N A N 7'r« uan.
B A L Y E B« /y #.
£. /f. Now he turneth round about. He maketh a curfie. So doth
Gaby/el. ,
L«f (^<'-
Chis hoi q.
Cito quo di.
Si i,
Ci al.
V nal.
Al den.
Mom,
Co- of gi,
ta.
Lot el lor.
Gnay.
E. K. He plucketh the Cuitainjand quickly opcneth it,
rndfaverh-
'
1 /
r ' ^. This word
ToH wwff after E //» /* /f, fnt a P. backward,
ALAR
LUSDA
so;bpln
QD
CHISHOLCL
C N O CLV O D I
5 CIAL
V N AL
ALDON
MOM
CAOSGO
T A
LA. LLOR
GNAY
E. K. My
Atrue Relation of D'. Dec his JBions mth fpirits, <5cc, i ip
E. K. My thinkcth that I hear a rumbling, or clattering of Pewter
in the ftonc.
E. K. After he had fpoken , he /hut the Curtain again : Now the
Curtain is opened again.
L I M L A L Lim hi.
A M M A Ammx.
C H 1 I S Chtit.
S O B C A Ka.
Seh ca.
. A D R I D cW/t drid
ZCHIS Ki*.
Zod ChU.
OOANOAN OoAman.
CHI. Chit.
AVINY Avlny.
D R I L P I Tfril pi.
C A O S G I N Ca of gin,
OD Od
BUT MO N I But m Mi.
FARM Pjirm.
Z U M V I Zum vi.
CNIL A CniU.
D A Z I , Dtiz. it.
E T H A M Z £ than Zod^
ACHILDAO KiL
A chil da t,
OD Od.
MIR. Mirkj
Mire,
O Z O L OzoU
CH . . ChU.
PIDIAI Ti di Hi.
i
/'
COLLA
130 A tme "[(elation ofD\ Dee his Mions mthfpirits, &c
COL LA.. CollaL
VLCININ ^
Vlcinin.
ASOBAMA Afobam.
II C I
M
'^ <^'»''
BAGLE ^'^g^^'
lA.BALTOH Jadbaluk.
CHIRLAN J^ir.
Chir Ian.
PAR ^''''•
Nil.. Nli fo.^
OD Od.
1 p ^
Ip-
O . . . A F E ft fa fe.
BAGLE ^^ g^*--
ACOCASB ^co «'«^'
ICORSCA ^«
I Cars ea.
V N I G V nig.
BLIOR ^^'">^'
E. K. Now the Curtain is drawn.
A voyce. The end of thdt.
4k. This is the fifth of this day.
E. K. Now is the Curtain Open. All his Cloaths are ryjvcry
clear,whitifh, and blewilh.
C O R A X O Co rax 0.
C H I S Chit.
CORM . .
' Cornip.
OD Od.
BLANS
(d^true ^I{elatton of D^ Dee his ABions mhfpirits, ^c- 13'
BLANS .
BUftS'
....U....A L Ln caL
\ AZI R Az,l a «»r.
PAEB faeb.
SOBA Soia,
LILONON ^ Li lo Hon.
CHIS Chis.
auu
riiq.
i EOPHAN E pban.
OD od.
Betvceu Chis andVirq^youmiiji ptht Op A word.
R A C L I R F.a c/ir.
MA Ml a ft.
bagle Ba. gle.
SGI Co. ofgi.
[ DS ds.
1 ALP ON
DOSIG
OD
rai
tti big.
Do fig.
Odi
teASGiM B*s gim.
OD. Od.
OXEX Ox ex.
DAZIS Daz is.
....lATRIS Siatris:
CD Od.
5ALBROX Sal hrex.
CINXIR Cynx ir.
F....BOAN Fa. bt an.
|. UN ALCHIS Vnilcbii;
['CONST
DS
k,
ds.
•
1
DAOX
COCASG
Vaex
e as df.
5^7S-
G* easg.
OL
5^ A true Relation o/'D^ Dee his ABions mth/pirits, dec.
OL
OANlO
YOR
V O H 1 M
OL
GIZ Y AX
OD
EORS
C O C
PLOS...
M I
DS
P AGEIP
L ARAG
OM
DROLN
COCASB
EMNA
LPATRALX
YOLCI
MA TORE
01.
inio
Tor.
Voh im.
01
Gix.y ax
Od.
E orSt
g<io.
dg.
Co Casgi
Flofu
Mil ui.
ds
Ti ge if.
La rag.
Om.
iroln
Co cash,
Em Ha
El.
L pi tralx,
lolp.
Ma torb.
this word muji come next after Om droln.
E. if. Now he pulleth the Curtain.
A. This Om droln is before four words. The Curtain Is open away. He is in (lis flamin,
apiiarell.
NOMIG
MONO N3
OLORA
GNA Y
ANGELARD
OHIO
OHIO
OHIO
OHIO
OHIO
h''g> -
No migi
Mo nous,
lo ra.
Gnay.
An ge lard.
hi 0.
hio.
hi 0.
Ohio.
hi 0,
OHIC
O H lO"
'
^^~
NOIB -
^„.^^
OHIO Ohio.
CAO- GON Caifgon.
B A G L E nagle.
MADRID M^tdrid.
I /.
ZIROP zirop.
C H I S O chifo.
DRILPA Vrilfa.
NllSO ^iifg^
CRIP Crif.
IP If,
NIDALI Nid*lu
A voice, the end of that dill. ^. This is th^ fixth.
The Curtain is drawn. He appeareth now all in violet Silk like a
Cloke, and on his head a bundel wreathed ofthe fame.
6 XI AY A L OxiJjai.
HOLDO Hoi do.
OD Od.
. I ROM Zirom.
o o.
CORAXO Corixof
DS '
Ds,
2ILDAR Zildar.
RAASY Kaajy.
O D Od.
VABZIR r*i2/r.
C A M L I A X Cam It ax.
OD Od.
I
BAHAL Bahal.
'
NIISO Niifi.
S SALMAN
334 ^^^^^ Relation of !>, Dee his JBions mhfpirits^dnc.
S'ALMAN Salman.
kotch,
TELOC teloch.
CA5.ARMAN Cafir wah.
HOLQ_ ^'^^*
OD OL
TI ^^
u
TA Ta.
ZCHIS Zodcbit.
S OBA ^^«-
C O R M F G«rmf.
I G A H»'
NllSA Nil fa.
B A G L E ^"i^'-
A B R A M G ^* r'^g- g> »»» «^ '^g-
N«>tff.
N • N C P ^»«^/-
... Curtain is drawn. . . The end of this.
Ihis it the feventh.\
E.K. Now is the Curtain pull'd away: and quickly pull'd again.
Now it is open again. He is apparelled, of colour between a blew,
and a red mingled , but blew fecmeth to be the ground. From the
fhoulder on the arms, is a trunk of feven pendant labels, with laces. On
his head a very broad Hat, between dun and black colour. His apparel
is very long.
N O N C
I
NoTi ci, fu
D S O N F TifoHf,
BABAGE • Bdhasf.
OD Od.
C H 1 S CbU.
OB .Ob.
HUB AID Hubiii.
TIBIBP Tibibf.
ALLAR ^^I'tr.
A T R A A H Atraab.
OD Od.
EF Ef.
Jtrue 'J(eUuon of D'. Dee his ABions with fpifits, &c.
D R I X Tirix.
FAFE N Fa fen.
MIAN Mi an.
A.R Ar.
E N A Y £ tiay.
V O F Ovef.
S O B A So btt.
DOO AI N 2?» Sain.
AAI •
Aai.
1 V O N P H I vonph.
SOB A Soha.
V P A A H Vft ah.
C H 1 S Chis.
NANBA Nanba.
ZIXLAY ZixUy.
D O D S I
H
Vodfi/f,
ODBRINT Odhrint.
T A X S taxs.
He maketh Curfie.
H Hubaro. .
T A S T. . 7aftax.
Y L .
.
rifi.
...... Do a lim,
Eolit.
01 log.
'
Orsba.
DSC HIS Dschit.
AfFA Affa.
MICMA Micna.
ISRO /sre.
MAD Mad,
S 2 OD
ni
i^& A true %elaHm of D^ Dee^/x jBmsmthfpirUs^d^c.
OD ^^•
LONSHITOX LoHjhit8x,
DS '^•
JUMD. Jumbd.
LUSDAN Lufdan.
E M O D E Mwi.
DSOM dfom,
OD •
Od.
T L I O B Tli oh.
D R I L P A Drilpa,
G E H jeh.
Gth.
YlS «3^'^-
MADZILODARP Mad zi fo darf^
, T'i-zt iV ti&f Twelfth.
ILS.
................ Di alfcrt.
Za car*
c ,.. Co bus,
.....,.,.. Zamran.
...i..l.. O dt.
...ICLE CICLE,
QJVA §jg.
That is a call.
A. This is the eighth
NAPE A I Na^eiti,
BAB A GEN jen.
B ha gen
DSBRIN Vihrin..
OOAONA V X.
Jo Ha.
LKING LRINC.
V O N P H f^oHj>h.
'-^A
^
Jt
—
rjijftrue T^eUtio nofG' , D.*i hif Jciions mth fpirits, ^c» 1
3
7
S O B A I A D Sd hai ad.
IVONPOV^NPH Ivjnpovft^b.
AL,ON AUo».
D A X I L Dax il,
OD Od.
TOATAR t-utt tar.
E.K. The Curtain is pluck't to.
A voyce. That it the thirteenth,
E. K. Now it is open again.
E. K. He is now as if he had a pall, or Robe ofGold with a ftrangp
Cap of Gold on his head.
... lis,
cJWi ca 0I zed.
.L.IRT 01 pin,
1 A L P R G Tal.
I alpurg.
ELIOR5 Blms.
D S - Z>^.
D O Odo.
BUSDIR Buf dir.
01 AD Oiad.
OVOARS Ovoars.
C A OS GO CI of go.
CASARMG. Ca far pig.
LA... La i ad.
E R A N E ran,
*
. I N T S Brints.
CAFAFAM Cafafam^
DS Ds.
;1VMD lumd.
-A QJL O quu.
A q lo,
AD OH I A do hi.
OZMOZ iJ/p».
'^
> OD
i}8 tA true Relation of I>, Dee hi$ Anions mth fpirits, 6cc.
O D OcU
M A O F F A S Ma if fa,:
B O L P Bolp.
C O M O B '• I O R T CiMobU ort,
PA MET Famht.
Curtain is now pluckt to.
A voice . that is all.
Blejfed he 'ke Creator of all, who hath wercy en all.
E. K. Now he is here, apparellf d as he was wont to appear.
ProroiTe of Nal Ihm, hath the Lord kfpt prom/fe with you : and wilhvjt forget rhe leall part of
CodcMiiirmcJ his whole promife with you. Keep you therefore promife with the Lord , for^, he ii ]ealoui, end
annv. .^^f xo be defiled. Proceed as yon now do. The next Mondayy ni jhall htve, x many.
^^^^Jl*^*" ^- VV^ill it pleafe you to deliver us the Ens^lifh of tliefe 14 now, as you were woiw
CEived the , ^
* " 3 T ^ /
McEdayncxr. to do ?
Nal The Engltlh »/// have a day by it felf.
Nal The [ A.[j Third Monday to come,you Jhall have themall. S« that,you have but three
dayes to labour.
6« Yo*s fpeak of the next Monday, and the third ; and fpeak nothing of thefecond Mon-
day : and you faid, that the Engli/h wili have a day by it felf: And you fiiy we havcinuf
three dayes to labour, &c.
Nal H^hat I have faid, k fo. Go alfo, and refrejh your felves,
[ E. K. The Curtain is drawn. J
A voice Stay there. ,
A voice Give God thankj, and ma){e an end'
E. K. Prayed the 145. and 146. Pfahii kneeling reverently , and
I likewife in heart confenting thereto, attentively liflning.
Note E. K. is very well perfwaded of thefe Actions now,
thanked be the Highcft, who is Almighty.
Ci.. Laudate Dominumde Caflis, laudate eum in excelfis : laudate eum oinne<; Angeli
C)us, laudate eumomnes virtutes ejus. Quia ipfe dixit, & fafta funt nobi«. Non fecit
taliter omni nationi. Soli Deo noflro, !aus omniSjViftoria, Triumphus,8c Jubilatio,
Monday Cracovi^ Maii, 21. 1564. Mane^ hora 5. Adio Tertia, Lunarit.
E. K. There appeareth neither Vail, nor any thing eKe in the
Stone.
A. At length appeared one, but none of them : he is jolly and green, with a long ( like
green Velvef ) Robe : his hair long, like yellow Gold .• nothing on his head but his hair,
Heftandeth as tlwiigh he flood in a cloud, above the ufua! paviment in the air.
re Lo the Sunjhineth, and men fear no ram, the clouds are dfperfed, and they loo\ net for
atevipejl: Butwhen it ruintthmigh'ily, or the heavens frown, then k^ep they their howfes, faying,
one to another, JFhat unreafonable Tempejt is this ? what Hail-jicnes are thefe ? Good LorLt
•who ever faw fuch windes ? were there ever fuchwindes f" So jhall it be of the power of God,
V. which koldeth 'n kif hands the winde<, and frattereth cloudes abroad with hi^ feet: For -ef hii
co.mng^fhall it be faid amonglryotf. My Spiftt hatli vexed me, and I am troubled : ffhy hajl thoa
brought in things, greater than thy felf ? or where flmll this power dwell that overlhadoweth me ?
per^ Wantingyou fhall defire, ( asyoudo ) and being filled you fhall think you have too much.
foroiao" Flejh can never be throughly wortified but with death. Thinks not, that the Lord u m the Snn^
^
.tne'ancth j^^j hjepeth hit continual watch through the heavens 5 which becaufe he k made for a. time, is alfo
d«reir.i^«tth tied to time.
alwifions'.
-f^^ that fitteth and judgethy kfepeth no coiirfe ; but a continual performance of I is k>ng-be-
.fjithful fore providence : For he that nfethhim othermit, Jhall be rejelled : becavfe his[A. ] dwillitigi
.. fay arenot in the manfions of the faithful. Lift vp your ears therefore ; for t but faith thehizheji:
- '^- : ..
^
fibf
God Is not
tjedro time.
Jtrue "Relation cf D'. Dee his Mions mth fpirhs, dec. i
y^
Who niadetheheavens, or fpreadtheyn itk.e a garment ? Who breathed into mattythe fpirit of un-
derfiaHding ? Who overthrew the proud world with waters ? Who fmiled at the ruin of Pha-
raoh ? Who rooted the wicked out of their feates ? and made them become vineyard: for my peo-
ple : jet the '.iiff-itfckjd generation ? H^ho threw down the 'towers of Babylon, and the great Har-
lot ? Who dwelt upon the Earth, and became flefh, to pay for your wic!{ednejfe ? ^Vht tumbled
the ihne from the Well, that the Sheep might drtnk^ ? Even he it if, that gave allthefe their times.
He it it, that ;V a< able to mal{e jou underjiand, as thofe, that caji into the -waters, and faid. Let
lis draw iipour tilhj: w^/cA alwayes deal ech with the weakell; To the intent he might prove
himfelfthejhongeli.
[ E. K. He fpcaketh a great deal of fpeech as to himfelf, which I
perceive not. J
Even he it is, thatwill make you ftrongand wife, If he findyou with garments, V.jle nupt'mli
Ue it h, that faith unto joh, Waver not. Be jiedfajh, for the faithful are never ttnre~ opus efi.
warded.
\_E. K. Hcputtethhis right handout of the Stone, being grafped
together. Now he openeth his hand, and it is written in -,
and it is
{o far from me, that I cannot read it : yet he feemeth to be nearer to
ine, very much more than his hand. The writing feemeth to be like
the leaf of a Book. Thus it was written.
Have an eye to my foretelling .... Troubles, Sudden forrow is at hand, in all the earth.
No, hit Ship is almoii built. Laskic, if htferve me, (hall be King of Poland . If he ferve ano- ' •
^•
tber, hit bowels Jhall fallout, before him with poifon. Pcifon.
E. K. Now he clafped his hand together , and ftayed the
reading.
A. Whom hLaskJe to ferve ( O Lord ) but thee ? to keep thy Laws , Statutes and
Commandemcncs ? not to depend upon any creature.
The King and Chancelor have fold the people of this Land, and arefworn Turkj. Re- ^urts.
twM KOt home f Lasko ( Laskie ) forJ
«/" r/.;o« ^0, tkot* jhalt offend me. Go to the Emperour ;
-^^^ f^g i^,k^
for Iwill comfort thee with hii favour. Let him not return thence, tiil he be warned by lac. A. L.
£k. You mean, fropi the Emperours Court ? Ad Imptrato-
L. I befecch you, by what token, lliall he receive your warning ? ''"" "<»'/«"».
;...., Be thou hisrighthand, to his body, and his mouth to me. I will be merciful unto^^^^^ by
him, and hold up his head. Leave off, till the feventh hour of the daj ; thea cometh the Ytiiainz.
ACtion.
A. Mean you the feventh hour, as from midnight laft ?
A. That beginneth ac noon, if you make but i» hours in the day: or at iiifyou
reckon common hours.
Ike feventh from theHorifon : Run, that rm can.
E. K. He himfelf runneth away.
A. All Glory and Praife be to God, Amen.
Eadem die lunt, hora 7 ( inrhoante ) in meridie. Hora planetaria.
E. K. After a quarter of an hour (almoft) appeared our Inftru-
fl:ors, as of . . etime.
A. Gloria patri & filio & Spiritui Sanfto, ficut erat in principio & nunc 8c in fempi-
tfrnafc/rula feculorum. Amen,
.Gab i^love,mne, move not, for the place if holy. Be patient a little while.
E. K. Nal'vaae prayeth all the while.
-•£. K. G<«^rie/ rifeth out of his Chair again, and warneth as before
(thrice ) that we Ihould not move, for the place is holy. Nal<vage
piaketh a croiTe toward the 4 quarters of the World, with his rod, as
"e was wont.
Nal There are ^oCalls yet to come. Thofe 30 are the Cal's of Ni , . Princes and^i Pi'mces.
W'risual G •vermurs,i*nto whom the Earth is delivered^ « portion. Thefe bring in and again
ifp . . Kings and all the Governments upon the Earth, and vary the Natures of things : whb^^'"'
140 A true Relation ofD^ . Dee his M'ions n^ith /pints, dc c.
Pr'.ncfs the variatiiH of every mo>'teHt , Vntowhom, the pr&videiice of the eternal Judgement, is al-
They
K
'-'''^P- ready opened'. Ihefe are generaWy ,e,overned by the twelve Angles «/" t/E^c iiTnles: which
Angel'-
^^^ a If governed by they '.vhich \iaiid before the prefence of God. Let him that ran fee loek^
Good' Argeh hf : and let him that can here, attend 5 for this is wifdom. They are all fpirits of the Air ;
of the A'v, or not rejeftcd, but dignified ; and they dwell and have their habitation in the air diverfij, and m
Sfitki dign'i- riffdyy tlaces : for their wanfions are not alik^^ neither are their powers equal, Vndtrliand
^'^'^'
therefore, that from the fire to the earth, there are 30 places or abidings : one above and be-
"
neatli another ; therein tbtfe aforefaid Creatures haiv their al?oad,for a time.
From (be elc
ttienc of the
fire to the
catth.
Note.
For a cioie.
Njmf.
or
th
. e.
Pt tota terra diftributa Tub 12. Priiicipibus Angelis, 12. Tribuum Ifrael : quorum 12.
aliqui plures, aliqui pauciores partes habent fub fuo regimine ex 91 partibus ni quas coca
terra hie dtmonftratur effe divifa.
ApocalypH JohannisTeftimonium, de 12 Angelis 12 Tribuuni;, Cap. 21.
Qwando dividebat Altilfimus gentes, quando feparabat fiUos Adam, conftituit terminos
populorum, juxta numeruni filiorum Ifrael ; Hoc igitur hinc cgregiepatere.
They bear no name.
[ E. K. What is without a name ?
]
, 7'heiror'lerlj place: But w . . they have, in refpeU of their being. Vnderfland them
therefore, by the fill}, (eccnd, ih\rd .. fotthirtieth Air. ... are fo to be nominated, Otheu
tte Twentieth air, thou fixteenth Air, &c. . . . fontetime, (yea all together) two or three,
of the . . elfe govern, by time?, which are the Kings unto thefe . . . e to be fpokfn of J and beare
rule together, and At one tiwe in the divifons.
In the firft Air, the ninth ^eleventh, and feventh Angel of f^<- Tribes, bear rule and govern.
Vnto the ninth , 7000. and 200. and 9 minijlering Angels arefuhjeQ, Vnte the eleventh 2000,
3C0, 60. Vnto the feventh 5C00, 300, 60, 2-
Nal Coi'nt the number
A. The whole fum of this Government amcunteth to 1493 1.
Na\ If if right.
2. thefecond is divided into 3 parts, the A'tfi^lof the fourth Tribe hath the firfl ; tlie Angel of
thefecond, the feccnd ; The Angel of the fecond the third. The fourth hath thefe many 3000, 6co,
30, 6. The firji fecond of the fecond 2000. . • o. 60.2. The laji of the fecond ... 00^ ^00,
^c, 2. Aide thtfe together.
A. They arc 6660.
3. The third. Ihe fini, The ninth. The fecond, the fcventh. The third the tenth. The
ninth 4400. The feventh or the fecond 3660. The tenth or the third 9236.
Nal Nun'btr them ......
A. They arc.in all 17296.
4. Nal 7he faurthhJth alfohit three parts. The An^el of the tenthTribe h^thtbe jirjl^
The tenth hath alfo thefecond. The twelfth hath the third.
E. K. He prayeth.
The firii tenth 2560.
tiumber the fourth alfo.
They are <
Second tenth % 3060. Twelfth or the third
11660.
it alfo threeford. The firfi of the Tribes have the firfi . . enth hath the fecond.
venth hath the third. Ihe firjt hath under him 8630. The ftventh or fecond .
The eleventh, Ihe thirds 5000, Soo, two. Number them.
A. They are ^16738.
.. 6300.
The ele-
,. 2306.
E. K. He prayeth reverently.
Be patient for a while. Thefe govern in the fixth. A. If I undcifland yon right, thefe.
6. Thefe govern in the fixth place (which is to lome') The Angel of the fifth tribe, hath the firii
pert, (^for there are ,...) T-he Angell of the twelfth hath the fecond. The Angel of the fifth
hath the third p^rt. The Angell of the firji, that is to fay , of the firft fifth , hathfubjfds, 30CO,
6cOy2C, of }be fecond or twelfth, ^co,2CO, of the third place and fecond fifth 7000, 200,20,
2he fifth governs m this order twicet therefore it is termed the fecond fifth. Numltr it.
A. They are- 20040.
7. The feventh hath alfo \hree places. Thefourth hath the firfl. Ihe third hath the feccnd. Ihe
eltvcnthhatb the third. The fourth and the firji place— looo,^oo. 60, ^. The third Angell and
fecond placet 7000, 700, 6- Ike ehventh Angell the third placey 6000,300,20. Number it.
A, Thtyaie 20389. /o, it is the ftventh.
8. Ihe eight Ajre , h.th alfo threep>^rts. Ihe Angel of the fifth hath the firfl. The Angel of
the firfl hath the fecond- Ihe Angel of the ninth hath the third. Ihe fijth Aigel and firfl place 4000,
300,60,2. She firji Angel and feccnd place 7CCOJ 200,5056. lie ninth Angel and the third
place J 200,300,2. Numler it.
^
' A. Thcjr
Jtrue Relation of D'. Dee his J&ions with fpirits, dcc^ 14
1
A. They are 13900.
9. Ihefiiftthisalfooftbrefplares. The third Angel huth the firji place, the tenth An^el hath
the feco»d. The ninth Angel hath the third, the third Angel hath in tie fir It place 9 '00,900,90, 6.
Jhe tenth Angel and the fecond place 3000,600,20. Tlie ninth Angel and the third place, 4 ooq,
200, 30. Number them.
A. They are -17846.
10. 'The tenth bath places alfo three. The eleventh Angell ecrupieth the firlh The feve^tth An-
gel occnfieth the fecond. The ninth Angel occupieth the third. The eleventh Angel andfirll hath
8000, SoOjSo. The feventhAngelin the fecond, 1000,200, 30. The ninth in the third, 1000,600
10, 7. Number thent.
A. They are 11727* ,
^slahage prayeth.
Gabriel Ta\eheedyou wove not.
11. The eleventh, ii three as hefore. The firfi is occupied by the tenth. The ferond ly the
fxth. T^ke third by the third. In the firfl place. 3000, 400, 70, 2. In the feccnd place^
7000, 200, 30, 6. In the third place, 5000, 200, 30, 4. Number them.
. . -— They are 15942.
u. The twelfth hath alfo his dividons. Three firll places it of the fxth. Second place of the
eighth. Third of thefecond. The firjl hath 2000, 600, -^o, S. The fcond,yooOj 700,70, 2.
The third 3000, 300 90,1. Number it.
, They are 13821.
13. Ihe thirteenth hath three. The tenth is in the firj}. The firfl ii in the fecond. The feventh it
in the third. The firfi hath 8000, 100, 10, i. The fecond 30Q0, 300, 60. The feventh
Angel in the third 4000, 200, lo, 3.
Number it,
t^. They are 15684.
14. The fourteenth hath threefold place as the refl. The fift Angel occvpteth the firji , The
feventh occupieth thefecond , The twelfth tccupieth the third. The firji vhich is the fifth Angel^
2000,600,70,3. The fecond hath 9000 , 200,30,6. The twelfth ^00, 200, 3-0. Number it,
A^ They arc 20139.
I)Jal. Have patience.
t(. K. Now he ftandeth on the top of the Table.
htarKdiligently.
OCCODON Occodon.
Anfwereth to the Angell of the ninth, iffihich is of the firfi^ ivkich occupieth the firji place of the
firfi Ayre. It is the name- of that part of the earth which is governed by the Angel ofthe ninth
Tribe , and thofe that are under him in the firji divifitn. The firji A/re.
Mtrl{, diligently.
Pax ci>my.
Anfwereth the eleventh Angel, and is thmtpart of the Earth which is governed by him and his
Minijiers, in the fecond flace ef the firji Ayre-
Mark,
VALGARS Falgars.
Jt anfwereth to the feventh Angel and to his Minijiers, 5562, w^icA are the Ijfi part of the
firji Ayre*
Mtirl^ diligently.
DOAGNIS t>oggHis.
It is the firfi part of thefecond, the firfi part of the earth , which is. governed in the firfi
» jp/irr of the fecond, as itjhall after nffear, under the fourth Angel.
Mark, diligently.
PACASNA fa cafna, dcrftand this
well, how one
It if the name of that part of the world on earth, that is governed in the fecond part of the IVj^^cAf^l"'
fecond Ayre ,BY THE ANGEL of the fecond Tribe, with his Mhvfiers. 2362. An,°u
T Thhf
114 A true Relation of D^ 'Dtth'ts JBionsmthJpiritSydac.
Ibus joujhall underftand of all the na mes tha t fellow.
D..AL..VA Dial'tva.
the third of the fecond : whofe g'^ver»o»r is the mns ofthiTriht.
the third Ajre in the firft place.
S A MA PH. Samapha.
«
Samatha hath over it of the tribe the ninth,
the fecond of the third is.
VIROCHI. „. ,^/-
Vi ro chi.
Vnder the feventh of the Tribe,
the third place of the 7hird Ajre.
ANDISPl Andispi.
It is governed by the tenth of the tribe*
the fourth Ajre , the firji fart.
THOTANF thotanf.
His Govermnr is the tenth of the trihe^ fphofe Minrjhers are 2360.
the fecond of the fourth.
AXZIARG Axziarg.
It a governed hy the tenth of the tribe.
P . . H N I R. ^"^^ ""•
It is governed hy the twelfth of the tribe,
the fifth Ayrej thffirji part.
LAZDlXI Lazdixi.
Which is governed by the firfl of the tribe,
the ftcond part of the fifth.
NOCAMAL . Nocimal.
Which is governed by the feventh of the tribe.
Jhelhird of the Fifth.
TIARPAX .
tiirpAx.
ffhich IS governed by the eleventh of the.tribe , ffhofe Mi»tfters are 5 802.
Be patient aifhile.
ti
Jtrue delation o^Y)'. Dee his Anions veith fpirits, Sec, 1 4 ^
Tbe fixth.
Cab Move not Mofcs was to feck in thcfc fecrets,
Nal The firji of the fixth whofe Govermur it tbe fifth of the Tribe,
S • X T O M P Sax tomf.
Tbefecend ofthefxtb^ vhofe Civernour it the twelfth tf tbe Iribe.
VAVAAMP ViVa. amf,
the third of the fixth^ which is governed hj the fifth of the Tribe.
ZIR.ZIRD ZirzirZ
Whofe Miniftei-s arc /Jao as before.
The firft of the feven th is governed hj the fourth Trib e>
OBMACAS Ohmtcas.
K. E. Ever the Table turneth to the letter under.
The fecond of thefeventh, whofe tbe third of
gJ:NADOL GenaJti,
Tbe third «f hji the eleventh*
ASPI4ON. JspiaoM.
Tbefirftoftbe eighthy whofe Govermur it the fifthj See, whofe Miniflers are 4362.'
ZAINFRES Ziinfres,
Tbefecond of the ei^bthy by thefirfi dfthe Tribe, wbofe Miniftert 7236.
'
TODNAON Todnadn,
Tbe third of the eighth hj tbe ninth of toe Tribiy ad under him 2302.
P R. I S T A G TrU tac.
Tbe ninth: the firft^ governed by tbe tbirdj wbofe Minijliers, ^pp6,
dg*
ODD I ORG Oddiorg,
Thefecond of tbe ninth by tbe tetitbi whtfi Miniftert ^620.
CRALPIR Chi fir.
Move netfor tbe Lord it great amtngil you,
\e la^ tf tbe ninth by the ninth cf tbe Tribe* Mini(iers 43 30.
DOANZIN i)t*ftZin.
T i 'Th*
1^4 aJtrue'B^lation of
D'^Dct his Mions mth/firits,6cc.
BritaR.
7he firjl of the tenth
LEX ARPH
7'be fecond of the tenth
C OMAN AN
the third of the tenth
T A B I T O M
Have patience.
Whtfe Miniflen are 161";.
by the eleventh of the trthe.
Lex arfb. Xarph.
Ijthefeventh.
Co mn nan.
ly the ninth.
la hi torn.
governed by the tenth.
molpand
V SN.RDA
"the third
PONODOL
T AP AMAL
Ihe fecond of the twelfth
GEDOONS
the third of the twelfth
AMBRI OL
"the firjl »f the thirteenth
GEC AO ND
7he fecond
LAPARIN
the Ufi of the thirteentb
DOCEPAX
"The firft tf the eleventh^
Minijiers 3472.
«
UMolfand.
the feccnd governed by the ftxth Minijiers •J2^6.
Vfnar da.
ly the thirds
Minijiers as before 5 2 34-
To no del*
the firji tf the Pwelfth, go by the fixtb.
ta pa mal.
hy the eighth Angel.
'
Ge do om,
hy the fecond.
Ambriel.
gtverned by the tenth.
fitmilers 81 11.
•
Ce ca and
hy the firjl of the tribes.
• • La pa rin.
hj thefeventh of the twelve*
Is luHa.
the firjl of the fourteenth
TEDOAND
Do ce pax.
hy the fifth of the tribes.,
te do and.
this is England and Scotland roo, called anciently by the name of Britanla. there UvetkH»\
A man that knoweth the truth of the Britilh Originals.
A. The Br/f//7^ Originals.
the fecond of the 14. lythe feventh.
VIVl
Jtrue Relation of ly. Dee his JHiens mth fpirits, (3cc, 145"
V I V I P O S Vivips,
"the laft of the feurteentb hy the twelfth.
LMittiJlers $2^0'.
00. NAME O a namb,
E. K. Now he prayeth.
E.K. Now Gabriel ftandeth up.
Gab Ihe Lord pdr/oneth jour fajiitig , and acceptetb the inward matt , labour alfo to mor*
roir. ton jhall have the reji,
A. May I be bold to ask you one qucftion ?
Gab .Toumay.
A, Is the Queen of England^ alive, or dead ?
She liveth.
I am nothing near the earth,
B. K. The Curtain is drawn. We prayed joyntly fome prayers.
b.. Upon my motion, for the Lord Al. Laf. how to deal wii:h the Chancelour , the Curtain
was drawn open. And he in the green, who appeared to day, came into the ftone , and faid
as foUoweth.
Thus fayeth the Lord : Joyn body to body, but let m'mdes ie feparate , for he ii defpifed in the -^^ ^^
fight tf God, and is delivered over to deftruftion , which doth tarry, till it finde him ready.
_
^j""
"""^
Ifrael deceived Egypt, and faw Egypt overthrown. Let him do what he will with him , but Cracow.
let him not joyn his minde with him,
A. We arc dcfirous to know your name. Mapfam»
My name is called D\c\\\\s.
_ c'tiW
J am ene under Gabriel , and A. Jcfus declared his name, andfo have * ""^ '
the name of ]c£us J kjtow and other good Creatures before unto
honour. us.
Map. My name » Mapfama.'
A. Is, die illis, the Etymology thereof?
Map. It if.
A. How much it importcth for us to undcrftand the bed counfcl that is to be given to A. L.
yoQ know, &c.
Map I am commanded, and I have done my commandment. But fee, that thou, and he fid"
fill thofe things that are commandedyou by me.
A. You faid I fliouldbe his mouth to you : How fhall I execute that, I pray you ?
Map Not to me, but to God.
A. By prayer mean you ?
Map. ..... Tea, and by frefence;
A, By prefence,with whom? The Empe-
Map Thou (halt go from hence with him to the Emperour : God will fllr up farther rour.^
matter, by thy prefence there.
A. Shall all our Leflbus be finifhed, and /ufficient power delivered unto us according to
the promife of God ?
yeujhallbe al|le to-praciiceby Sunday,
A. By which iunday ?
Bvt the praftices that are the inftruftions of theHighcft, are not but in lawful caufes
and foir neceilicy, to glorifie God ; and agaiiift Pharaoh.
A. What ftiall, then, be the hability of my skill to praftice, before Sunday next ^
^
Map 7hefe Calls touch all the parts of the World. IheWcrld may be dealt withall, vifible
tftih her parts i Therefore you may do any thing. Tbefe Calls are the l{eyes into the (jates and hpp^rh'ion.
Cities of wifdom. Which [^ Gates^ are not able to be opened, but with vilible apparition* Note.
, [ A. Andhow rtiallthat becomeunto ?
OMerve per-
Map If^hich is according to the former inftruftions : and to be had, by calling of every au ^a"inhc
Table, loucalled for wifdom, God hath opened unto you, hit Judgement: He hath delivered hySunf^y
untoyou the k,eyes, that you may enter ; But be humble. Enter not of prefumption, but of "-xt praaife,
pcrmiffion. Go not in rafhly ; But be brought in willingly : For, many have afcended, but ^""^ '^*"*^
few have entred. By Sunday you fhall have all things that are necejfury to be taught 3 then ( as
^'.j^^'^'^"?-**
ecca-
_ H^s ^ i^^^ "Relation ofD^, Dec his Anions nith/pints, &c.
' occafionferveth ) jou may praBke at all times. But yoiTbeing calUi bj God a^iTtTu^d
A. How fhall we imderlland this Calling by God >
Map Godjioppetb r»y mtnth^ I will aufwer thee no more,
A. Mifericoidit Dei fit fuper nos^veritas eju? fulgeat & floreat in cordibus noftris.
Amen.
kneele^d b
'
"""^ ^''"^P^X" devoutly, and I joyning my mind to his pronunciation thereof
1 his pr,yer
T^omim JefnChriiie, Veiti fabnarium mfirorun,. Cnjm mmen fit benediaum hodie & quotidie -
W.5 m-.fwrittcn iimafcendtiu fuper Cxlim €xlt, ad dextram Dei fatris : demo venturM ad iudicanduyH ,-
i, ,bU rUcc «i'Um, cum potejhte magna, & majejlate mirabili, educ ms vmCtos tn peccati^ in fortitudZ
£"''lJ:n If.f•?T>'^
'"^ •
"^Z"/:^"''^*-?"'
remif^onempeccatorumfupr nivcm, adeo HtbenefUcmm
h^%c oecn jtt tibihabitare innobui & nos in te. Amen. '
:;Ma7foiLw- ^- Ex Pfalterio poil 67 Pfalnium.
ing.
TnefdayCncovxx^Oi'Uii^i. 1584. inWhitfon-week, Mane circa 7
w , »w Vh.
Q?'"'
r"?'
^"^ ^°'"'' P''^^^' "^^^' ^PP^^^'-d a very iitde Creature, on the CuHiion,
llluder. by the S one .• fay.ng, P«r out y.ur Ca-.dle ; for you fiiail have nothing rodo to day.
hi^t.fr! f ''
^Ts
"""' ']""' "^^ ""^ ^;ledgcyour mellage for our clcculc ; feeing we were
bid yelterday to labour to day. ^
E. /r. He IS gone.
A. After that about half an hour, there appeared our Inftruftors, as before time
^^°' Movsy move, mevenotjfor the place is ha'y.
£, K. Gabriel ftanderh up, and after a while faid.
......Jheheavens are called rit^hteow, b,. uufe .^ their obedience. Tiie earth aceurttd h.
Obedience. '""^ ?f ^'^^ frowardndle. Thcfe rh.-refore, that feek he.venly thi.zs, ought to he obedient led
Zin'f' ^°^^'-^"f^'
^'-y be confume.] in the end, bumfto aftes with fire Thiafh
Jhall be for her unrighteoufnefe.
^^^^i '* foe £.arili
is ^!'iHfrjt7'" °^'^"f*
""'^
f"^' i^''"'^'"^ ' "-^«^ '^' irrjirumnt of righteoufnejfe , (^hicb
Faith. "f^'ll } f'^i JOU may be perta^ers of the celelHal comforts -,
which are thfhire offuch a, for.
fake then- frovvardnels. It hath been faid nnto) ou,... ! Meaf.re not cut Cods buulig It hatl
bee;: faidwtto you, . ... Continue to the end. It hath been alfo told you, ... that the DeteLinZ
tmts of God are not as ye: cdabmcdupon you.
J > .
^aa, we uetermtm-
• \r^ie I. Rei.
f"*'''t iiwntttr. It may, again be * iiiidetermined 7 fpeah tbii for your inliruSion -
F.r
c.f. . F ,/. ^-J*-.tne power ofGod, but not unco righteoufnefTe:.,^.* eULrnong7thjew!Z
Pfe- ni,, u- *,ZCnJ I A f f
^^''oy^^^'i ^^e not grod. Not, that thej were evil in the timeof their
.; .. /.:/e et.a.,.
^"^'"V f'.
^'"
^''f'if'
^''^f
In-unUion, and the dignity of then offA ^r. defiled in them in the end
V-rt. ,.v,,.s. through rhe,ro..n frowardnefTe. rhe High-pn.jh alfo were chofrn inrighteoufn.fe , andbTtt
S.R:S'^c.,r.z.ffiritofGod: b,t they became Rebels in the holy boufe : and f^ich J ofwbo^ it k Li AltiSLus
«f cnttrmt autemfuir franrli iim ;iKc E^ r ; i i T '
'^'•"'•" " " jala. 3 /iltlllimUS
Vo-Jus fa.
'*""™;"''^ icanda urn lUis. Ei^enfo my brethren may it be with you.
n,onisf,J,c^c ^- J^'"=^'i"'^"J us from that inconvenience.
'
Fora.though,ithnthpleafedGod,toPewhimfelfuntoyou,yetareyonnctaJhanfedtoraj-
If
the harveit cometh not in, at the time appointed, I will become a runnagate
'^
But Euge C "'J brethren) Hath the Lord need of you ? It needeth not be told you ; you km-m
For what ? the contrary. Ihen it fcUcweth,you have need of God. But for what .^
.„d why" That ,3
fouls may overcome thi, World, overcome the body, to the dignity of an Angel
'
"^'-^^"^
And bccaufeyoH are miferahle, and turned cut to the field, full of brambhs and mifcry. hane
,
nakfd, and unarmed to fight againfi him, that reftjietb againjl the might of God. CMerxM,
lajt two, and then anfwer jour fives, for the reji.
& j ^0 .
L^onjiaer theje
Ovc IgiveyouaA-ortyvarning. God will fulfil hU promises : And (^ as he hath faid ) by this Att-
PiomiilA ret gult, youjhail understand. ' J ^J ••'"* ntr-
««>„«..«,. I. How to know and ufe God his Creatures, good and bad.
"^'"T
'->' !=; \ j"'T\^'':'''^^';'Z^''\'^/''-^^Z'^'<>f'^'H^f^^'ii^'^nd(hall^ y,m
Tif&L ^;: tf^
^^j""^ "' '""'['^^ •- CoHfider it, ifyou can : and they are the greatefiUecaufe the,
tb: g,«tcft.
f' '^^^
^'"^> '"^ ^«"""> all That hath been done before them. Lrh if you confiderwelL aZ
UwhatyoH areralled ; yo. p.U percene,ihat the Judgements of God, areiot llnMaU
Movcnotfion, ^Jl'\rtV I'f
"',^''7^'^«'«-^ ^^^ethren. Have a little patience for the A^l.
'
pla.c ^e
f^^' Mrftbfiom his p\^ejhallfind the reward of it.
A, After
^J^true '/^elation o f D^ Dtt hi s Acli^jns mth fpirits, <?cc. 1
47
6. After ha'f an hour ? The twelfth ha:h the third-
Qah ty.Uve not. Move not. Move not.
Three Prrts ^'" f"^"""^ ^"'^ '*^ ^'"'^
T/y r,hirb hathth^ firf,
V'u ^""-^ ti'^I'^'J^^'i'
: llf tenth h^th the fecoud.
The ninth hath the third.
' 2^'- '-^''f'^
'''' ''^"^-
18 The eighteenth is of three.
Th° i^ hfith q parts. i ? C the fifth.
The fecondhJ^hthefirH, 2 V hath ^the feventh.
The third bath the fecond, 3^ ^ the twelfth.
£. K. He threw like duft out of the Stone toward my eyes.
ip. ...... T'he ninteenth if alfo threefold. 2 third.
I Thetwelfth. 3 feventh,
2 The eighth.
,. The eleventh. 21 ,The one and twentieth, zV alfo threefold.
I twelfth.
5 ...
20 The twentieth is alfo threefold, g 2 f/^^t^
1 ,. fifth. 3 fixth
E: K. There ftandeth one, at one of my eares, and at another, an- a tempting iu
othcr, howling like Dogs i andfaid, Ah you beggars ! come^nKe.
Gab He will deceive yoU-, takj heed lefi you move.
E. K. He feemeth to be telling money behinde me.
A. Look not back in anj cafe.
The ninth of the fifteenth hath under him \j\.'\ of the ^ 2. 1000.300.60,7. A ^'i'^.
The tenth of the firti[^-~\ hath under 1000. 500, 60; 7. \_b..'] of the 12. Sup.
The twelfth of [a.] the ftrjl 1000, 800. 80. 6.
Terlar''''
^'^
The fir\i of the fecond\_^.'^hath under him 9000. 900, 20. and he it the fectnd of the
'"^^ ^'
twelve.
The fecond of the fecond, which is the third of the 12. 9000,200,30.
The third of the third, which if,the twelfth of thetwelfth, hath under him "j 000, 200, /^q.
Thefirfi of the third ( the fecond of the 12 ) hath under him jooo, 600, 20, 3.
The feeand of the third , which is the fir ii of the 12. 7000, 100, 30. 2.
The third of the third, which is the ninth of the i 2. hath with him , or under him, 2000^
600, 30} 4.
iS. The firfi of the fourth, which is the fifth of the 12. 2000,300,4036.
The fecond, which is the feventh of the 1 2, under him 7000, 600, So, 9.
^he third of the fourth, which ii the twelfth of the 1 2. under him 9000, 200, 70, 6-
The firj} of the fifth, which is the twelfth of the 1 1. under him, 6000, 200, 30, 6.
The fecond which is the eighth of the 1 2. under him, 6000. 700, 30, 2.
The third of the fifth : which is the eleventh of the 12, under him, 2000, 300, So, 8.
The firji of the fixth, which is the fifth of the 1 2. under him 3000, 600, 20, 6.
The fecond of the fixth the third of the i 2. 7000, 600, 20, 9.
Tke third, which is the feventh of the 12. under him 3000, 600, 30, 4.
21. The firJi of the feventhywhicb is the twelfth of the 12. under him 'yOOO, •yOC, 30,6.
2 he fecond of the feventh, which is the eighth of the 12. under him 5000, 600, 30, 5.
The laji of the feventh, which it the fixth of the 1 2 . under hint 5 000, 6 00, 5 0, 8
.
Number every Ayre. Hove patience for awhile.
^' — Tlie 15, 4520 I •
is the twelfth of the twelve.
The 16. 28390 2 is the firji of the twelfth.
_ -i,: The 17 ij s^ 3 is the twelfth of the twelve.
'«"'" The 18 19311
The 19
•»«
-^ i5 3'^<5 23. The firli of the fecond.
The 20 14S89
' I J
'
^"^
\\>.J}^
'^^ '~
'°^'^ 2- • the feventh of the twe've.
_l'.. ^ I the feventh of the tvrelve.
The firji of the fourth feventh hath three 3 the eighth of the twelve,
.. T'^rts.
i4. Thi
^A true Relation of D'", Dec his Mions whjfhitsy die.
24, "the third.
I the fourth of
Tj. The fixth.
2 — the tenth.
5 the twelfth of the twelve. I • the fecend.
25. the fourth. 2 • •
the fourth.
I
' the fourth. 3 the fifth.
2 the fecoKfl.
5 _—. the twelfth of the twelve. 28. The feventB.
The fifth.
I
•
the twelfth. I —'-^ the tenth'p-
2 the eighth. 2 •
the miith> of the twelve.
3 —.— twelfth of the twelve. 5 — thefix\}i 2x
2 ->
The firjl of the firft, whiah it the twelfth of the twelve, under him 2000. 200. 30. 2.
The fecondofthe firji, under him 2000. 300. 20. 6.
The third ef the firjr, which is the eltventhof wider him 2000. 300. 60. 7.
. . The firjl of the fecond, which 7000. 30b. 20.
The fe'.'ond under him 7000. 200. 60. 2,
The third of the fecond, which if thefecond ef the 12. under vim 7000, 300. 30. 3.
24 The firji of the third^ which is the fourth of the twelve^under him 8oco. 200,
Ihe fecondof the third^which n the tenth of the twelve.^ under him 8000. 300. 60.
The third of the third, which it the eleventh of the twelve^under bint bboo.200, 30.6.
25 The firjl of the fourth^ which ii the fourth of the twelve, under him 5000. 6000. 30. 2.
The fecond of the fourth, which is the fecondof the twelve, 6000. 300. 30. 3.
The third of the fourth, which is the twelfth of the twelve, under him 6000. 200. 30. 6.
2 6 The firfi of the fifth, the which it the twelfth of the 9000. 200. 30, 2.
The fecond of the fifth, which is the eighth of the twelve, 5000. 600. 20.
The third of the fifth,which is the fwelfth of the twelve, 5000.600. 30. 7.
27 Th? firfi of the fixth, which i$ the fecond of the twelve, hath under him 7000. 200. 20.
The fe-cond of the fxthithe fourth of the twelve, 7000, 500. 60.
Tie third,which is the fifth of the twelve, 7000. 200. 60. 3.
28 The firfi of the feventh, the tenth of the twelve, 2000. 600. 30.
The ferond of the feventh, which is the ninth of the triielve, under him 7000, 200, 30. 6.
Thelafi of the feventh, the fixth of the twelve, under him 8000, 200,
/^. The 22*ii. .... is....i ^925.
*
2} •
21915.
24 24796.
25 ——• ' 18201.
26 18489-
27 22043.
28 —^18066.
They 1 kneel to prayer. Then the Curtain was drawn.
E. K. There appearcth like the fnuf of a Candle on the top of the
-fione, it is like a little fpark of fire. After this , Gabriel faid by voyce,
Have patience.
A. Afc^r half ail hour, A voyee faid ... look to .... to£,if. -
E.K. The Curtain ib drawn open. Nal<vage ftandethonthe top oi
the Table.
'^
Nal The firfi\ fart of tht firfi [even jtH h*i ttd^j.
The ninth.
TAHANDO. T*h4Hd0. ,.
TU
» •
^ '. T
Jtfue Relation cf D'. Dee his ABions mth [pints, dcc^ 14.9*
7hetentbj the feconi'-f the firjly vhichisthe tenth.
N b C 1 A B
I
Nocisbi.
Th: third.
T A S T O X O Tasttxo.
1 -5 Ihe firli of the feconi.
CVCARPT Cm carft.
Toe fecoxd.
LAVACON Lava con.
•the third is gsventfd by the twelfth of the twelfth. Minijiers 9140.
SOCHIAL
17 T'he third.
~ the firfi^ which is the fecond of
SlGMORF
the fecond.
aydropt
7he third , whofe governaUr is the ninth of the twelve.
TOCARZI
i8 the firfi of the fourth.
NABAO MI
the fecond.
ZAFASAI
Hhe third.
YALPAMB
the firjl of the fifth.
TORZOXI
tke fecond.
A B A I O N
the third.
OMAGRAP
29 thefirfioftheftxth.
ZILDRON
Ki
So fhi al.
Sig morf.
Aj dro^t.
tocdrai.
Na ha mi.
Zti fa. faii
lalpa M B.
tor Zex i.
A ha i od,
md graf.
Zi L droit.
V. the
1^0 A true elation of D^. D^thhjBtons mth ffmts.^C
^he ffconi of the fixtb.
PARZI • A Par zi h».
the third »f the fixtb.
TOTOCAN To to can.
The firfi of tht fcventh bj the twelfth.
CHIRSPA Ghirs fa.
rhefecondcftkefeveHth.
TOANTOM To in torn.
'the third cf the feventh.
•
VlXPALG Vg.
CtWxt, ViKfaig.
^a\...,..'rbe Uft feve».
Thefirji.
OZIDAIA O'Zi'dai 0^
the fecond of the Ufi feveK.
PARAOAN Para an.
the third.
CALZlRG
23 1'he firji of the fecend.
Vg.
Culzirg.
-
RO NO AMB
The fectnd.
Ko no amh.
ONIZIMP m Z'tnif,
the third of the feteni.
ZAXANIN Zax a ni».
24 thefirfi.
ORCAMIR. Or ca mir.
Ihe
CHIALP S
Ki.
Chi alp.
Ihe third of the third.
SO AGEEL So i ge el.
Ihe firji of the fourth.
MIRZIND fJHir zind.
7he fecond
OBVAORS
hj the fecond of the twelfth.
Ob va trs.
*
The thirds.
ranglam
Toe firji of the fifth
26 POP HAND
Kan giant,
by the twelfth of the twelfth.
Pi fhand.
<^y{true Relation ofD^, Dee kis ABions mth fpiritSy <?cc; 15
iTte fecond.
N I O R A N A Nigrina.
the third.
B A Z C H I M B«« chim.
Ibe firfl,
.
S A Z I A M I Saaia mi.
The feeon*.
MATHULA '
MMthMla.
The third.
ORPANIB OrfuMih.
28 the firjl of the feventh.
LABNIXP LahHimf,
Thefectnd.
F O C • S K I Focis tit.
The third.
'
bXtdPAR Oxlofar,
Ifal Hdve patience ftr « Tfhile. Sty oh'.
*«?.;;*l*;,v l':^n;.*,rJ ./ * r..
=•
l-
now ^e ftaade*
The fecend the fourth of the 3 .... the fifth of the 12. oft the Table.
50. The thirtieth hath ^ parts,
1 •
the twelfth. "S
2 - the fourth. C r ^t .
3. tbeth^rd.
>'f'b^^^'
^ thefixth. J
The firfl of the nine and twentieth hath under him, 9<?32.
.Thefecond by the fourth of the 12. undfr him ^2^6,
The fifth tf the 12 that geverneth under 7635*
I
^o Thetielfthefthe li. 4632.
The fecond .... hy thefturth of the I2. under him ^6^6.
The third ....by the third of the under him 7^32.
The lafl .... by thefixth 5632.
, The earth in the firfl divifion of the 29.
V AS TRIM irastrtnt.
-^e fecond fart «fIf Ayrei-,
ODRAXTI Odraxtt,
hy the fifth of the i2f
The third, wbofe Miniflers are 7635.
V2 COMZIAM
H z aJ true %elation of I>^ Dee his ABions vpithfpirits^ 6cc.
GOMZI.AM (Somziam.
30 , "Ihefirft of the :^o,.., under tbt li.
TAOAGLA TaSMgU.
The feconi under the fourth of
GEMNIMB Gemnmh.
The tfnri under the third.
ADVORPT di vorft.
The laji hy the fixth $f the 1 2.'
'^J'.'none DOZINAL Vtzin^l.
. . re : but
*' ^**
Hal 1 have done.
A. As you gave us tafte, or warning of IttlU and BritanU, fo if it be thought good c«||
you, we are delirous to underftand of the reft, the Application to fuch names as we under-'
fland.
Nal. ...... Makf an end for to day: Give tver. Makf your felves ready for toimrrr9f\
^CttOH.
E. K. The Curtain is drawn.
A, Deo omnipotenti, Optimo, & snaximo Univerfa machina creata laudem gloriam &: ho-
norem reddat , nunc & in perpetuum. Amen.
A. There is a prayer written after the Aftion of Monday Afrfii 21. next here before be-
ginning Vomine Jefu ebrijitf &c» which I raifplaced there ; for after this dayes Aftion, it was
faid by E. iC. and me.
LIBRI
r"^
Jtrue Relation of D'. Dee his JBtons with fpirits, 6cc. i^ ?
LIBRl SEPTIMI APERTORII CRACOVIENSIS
MYSTICI, SABBATICI,
Tars Ouarta '^
Anno 15S4. Mali 25;
Wedenfdaj', t CracovUi Mail 23. Mancj hora J. \ fere, Poji orationes nojlras.
He Curtain appeared, at the firft looking.
L. There happened a great ftorm or temptation to E. K. of doubt-
ing and mifliking our Inftruftors and their doings, and of contem-
ning and condemning any thing that 1 knew or could do. I bare all
things patiently for God his fake, eJ"c. At length the Curtain was
opened, and they appeared.
E. K. I am contented to fee, and to make true re-
port ofwhat they vvill fhew j but my heart ftandeth
againft them.
Gab "The time jljall come, that the oak^ that is beaten with every florm fio-Il be aBiniMg-
"table in the Princes Hall. . able
Gab M ve not, for the place iih'jly. He that doulteth, doth the property oftheflep^ doubting i
hut he that hath faith, hath the gift of the Holy Ghofi. The Swallow flieth [yfift, but where fbe
lighteth, there if no remembrance of her being : fuch are the words of man. But our words are
like unto afwift arrow, that entretb and lHc!{?th where it lighteth.
As man loveth the Ofvre for the Gold that is in it, and for the end of his ufe ; fo G»d loveth the
dunghills of the ff^or/d, &c. But the enemy,the more he lifteth up himfe/f, the greater /hall be his A. I Tiifpeft
fall : for in'had of joy, jhall enter in an hundred, andinjiead of hundred a. thoufand. But beware 'J"?
"'*" '»
efthofe Rebels ; for they are like the fmall jl ones which are in every place of the 'Earth. But =""i'"f«'S.
tnove not. Let ui do that which is our part : Vnto others be it as they deferve.
E. K. There appeareth a great thing like a Globe, turning upon GlobeappM''r-
tvvoaxcll-trees. ,
'"^"
Nal T^rn tothefirfiJir .A. I have done.
Nal. Jbe Earth in the firfiayre, is this, [E.K.po'mt'mg on that Globe to it.
]
U. We befeech you to bound or determine the Countries or Portions of the Earth, by
their iittermoft Longitudes and Latitudes, or by fonie other certain manner.
.
Nal Ofir manner is, not as it is of worldlings : IFe determine not places tfter the forms • • w»rdes,
cflegs , or as leaves are : neither we can imagin any thing after the fajhion of an [ A J horn : as ' •'
^
thpfe that are Cofnographers do.
, -
, ,
A^^ngd ap-
UotW'thjlanding the Angel of the Lord appeared unto Ptolomie, and opened unto him the prrts peared to Fto-
ofthe Earth : but fome he was commanded to fecret : and thofe are Niirthward imder your Pole, lumie,
JSat unto yon, the very true names of the ^orld in her Creation are delivered.
A. There appeared a great water, long and narrow, reddifh, and thereby appeared . . .
There appeared written Egypt. He hath in his hand written Syria.. And of that he
faid, that it was the fecond of the firft.
Now appeared a very fine Land and R.egion in which appeared a great City, in the edge of
it. There appeared written Mefopotamia. The third of the firft.
Now appeared alarge portion of the Earth, wherein appeared Beares, agreat River from The firft of th«
a Hill going into the Sea with three mouths. The word written Cappadocia. fecond.
The fecond of the fecond.
written in his hand T/z/r/^.
A. I pray you, do you mean Tufcia by Italy ?
*tbe third of the fecond : vivitttn Parva Afta.
"the fir it' ' Hircania h. Mare Cafpiumzppezred by it.
The fecond Thracia
The lali Here appear people going into Caves of the ground, and dwelling in qoIj Mines
Caves : they are long haired men, naked ; Here appear great Hills, and the veines of the underthe Pole
Gold Mines appear : the men feem to have baskets of leather. This is one of the places un- ^^'^''t^.
derthc Pole Artick, written .... Gofmam.
A. .
Is it fo called, of the peopleof the Country >
ras
...ng
. . any
. . Poles
Divini-
ationc.
Nal Even at thishsur.
E. K. Here
1 54 y^ true Relation of D^ Dee his JBionsmthJjfirits, &c,
E. K. Here appcareth a mighty great Hill, and about it a great
Cave ofwater. Here appear bcafts divers: fome like a Swine, with
feet like a Beare, his neither )aw hanging to his and divers
and a mighty Hill running, with branches : there by lie things
with huskes on them.
Thefirjl.
he appointeth,
written The b a idi.
ihefecond —— Here the Sun fhlncth fair. Parfadal.
Toe third ~— Here appear people very beaftly, with Mantles on their
fliouldcrs : and beafts with long fnouts.
India.
Here appear great rotten trees, very old, great Woods of them.
Beyond the Woods are great Hills. Great Fens appear, and great
Marifh-^^round : Fowles as big as Swans, green, fcaled on their backs, in
the water.
'
,' •
the firii of the fifth ^' Baftriane.
•
The fecond « Cilicia.
7he third . Oxiana,
'
•'"
6. The firji ef the fiKth ^ Numidia.
Jhefecond Cyprus.
Jbe third Parthia,
•'
y, Ike firft ofthefeventb •—-*— Getulia. .[
Tbefeccnd Here is a great Dcfart : no Trees. , :i^: j
in his hand Arabia.
The third. • Phalagon.
^. i never heard of it.
E. K. It IS toward thel^ovtb^ where the 'z/eines of Gold , and fucli^
A.Groynitrdpeople appear as before were noted. On this fide them a great way
asitfcink.
^pppj^j. lYien with fwiniih fnouts, their vifage is fo ftrouted out j butfo
be percei'ved to be of humane fvifage. The women have about their
privities very long hair down to their knees. The men have things
on their fhoulders of beafts skins , as inftead of a Jerkin or a Man-
dillion.
8. Ihe firft of the eighth '
"
'" Mantiana.
People appear here of reddiili colour.
Thefecond Soxia
On the one fide ofthe black men "
"^
'
The third — -
like Spaniards appear very high men with Spaniili Capes witli^ut
Swords by their fides. Here appeare great Towns •, divers ; ^ "*•
The name being not evident we urged, and CaUia appeared.
S.thefirfi lUyria. :ri:>
7hefecotid »f,')
If thouflir, tkeuflialt never fee more , -_
To E. K. ^;.
_ . Sogdiana.
the third — Lydia.
'•
J true^elation ofG^, Dee Hs ABkns v?hhfpirits, <kc. i c; ^
7hefirjlCafpif.
Men like Dutchmen with leather nc-
'
ther Itocks.
j'Ae third. Here appear Monkies , great flocks.
j^^j^j^^
The people have leather Coats 5 and
no beards, thick leather , and Gar-
thers. They gather up thinkg
Na^ Ibefe people are mt kjiewn with you.
£k. Are ri: :y not in Africa ?
Nal... .. I "7 *•'• Now a dark fog covereth all the ftone.
Kiil.-.-- Stay awhile.
£. A . I pray you let us go to dinner. Mo'z/e not^ Jf^*
E. K 'Ndl'uas^e prayeth. Now he pointeth to a place.
II. To? fir'} of the eleventh. Bithynia.
Tif feiotfl.. \^A great Citie, and the Sea hard by if.] Graecia.
A. Ij not thac great Citie Conftantinople?
Kal Iti^. There is the feat of that great Devil the Turk,.
Nal He it but Tenant at will.
Tbethirc^. Licia. ,
12 The firfi of the twelfth.
E. K. Here appear handfome mcn,in gathered tucked GarnientS5and
their fhooes come up to the middle of their legs , of divcrfe coloured
leather.
Nal. ..., . Thefe be thofe beyond Hifpaniola.
E. K. It is a low Countrcy. Here appear 'great piles of ftones lik^
St. An^Ircws Croffes. Two Notab'e Rivers are here, The women
hav- great covertures over their heads, coming from their fhoulders, as
the Hoyks in Flanders.
ni Gap.
There are on this fide of it, Ca great way^ a great number of dead
Carkafes.
Nal It is beyond Gia pan.
A. Then it is that land, which I life to call Atlantis.
Nal Ikey firetch more near the Wefi : 7hey are 25 Kingdoms in it, •
7he fccond beyond ajlacewbere the Gefe.
I India.
India in the heavenly government is divided into two partsl This is called the greattr Inde,
7he third . .....a great many little Ifles,
Orchcnif.
A. Do you mean the Ifles of Orkjtey.
Nal No.
A. They fecm tobe theIflesofM<t/tfCi&d.
The firfi of the thirteenth Achaia.
The fecond Armenia.
E. K. A great old Caftle ftandcth on the fide of the top of a ve-
ry high Hill. Itfeemethto bemadeofwood, It feemeth iour<cor-
ner'd.
A. I befeech you what is that Caftle >
Nal. ...../t« theArkofNoc.
Tie tA/r^ ...... Cilicia.
,
^*^ Teuneverkjtew t*« CiHcIa. this is CiMzj where the Children of IJemrod dwell, m.w^j
It ts up m the Mounttins beyond Qith»j.
N«mrod.
E. K. This
H 6 ^/f'trm %e!ation of D\ Dec /.// AUions nkh/pirits, 6:c.
*-.
E. K. This people/omc great Cyants,and'very fair. Their Appa-
rel is Gowns tiickt up, they are very coftly Apparell'd, and in their faces
they have great "jewels lil^e precious fioncs hanged, they are marvellouf-
ly rich apparelled in filks.
14 lie fir'i H:re feem as if many houfes Were thrown dourK, and Cajiles. Paphlagonia.
One/jotte Hi/I appeareth in it very long,
'JhfftCund pliaziana.
• 7he third .. .... Here be men with Iroad Caps li\e Egyptians, and many Mountains are here on
one fide C\\:\\'^i,
• 5 Ihe firfl Itcrgi, Here appear Wo-tds^iVaters, and fair towm^hut the people are
yeli.nr, tajvKjy and have great lumps of flefli under their Throats. Ihty are to the South of the
lalt Ciliciens.
Jhere are 14 Kit^doms of them.
Ihe feeend Macedonia..
I'jethrd Garamamica. Teople of a low fiature,hlack,ifwarty people^ naked.
The firll of the fxteenth Here Itk^e men of wilde gejiure, chathed Itkf Polonians. |
This Conntrej is ..... Sauroniatica,
The fecond v^thiopia.
E. K. Here are fome naked , fome not naked , covered with red
Garments. The houfes feem like Tents, made oFcioath and leather.
There are great Rivers.
Jhe third.
E. K. Now he fheweth by the North-pole , and the great Moun*
tain.
Fi a cim Here he feven Kingdoms y their chief Citie it called Fiaciin , all that are of that ,.
Kine^s Ceunfel are Aiirommers, The Kings name that now governeth it Gapfacar.
The firli.
Seeji tbcuthiiCcPntrej ? ...4.. Cokhici. To E. K.
'ikefecond Cirenlaca £. |f. Hard by a great Water.
The third. Nafanionia.
The firjl .Carthago.
Thefecond Now appear many Crocodiles^hng fifcked,fcaledcnthe body^with long tailes.
...... Cox lant. A great place appeareth, covered about with tire. <J\iany great Serpents
appear here of 200 fiot. It appeareth iierj Eajiward. No feople appear here.
E. K. There cometh from Heaven like a Mift , and covereth a great?
place, about 300 mile long, like a Park, enclofeJ with fire. It is on a
hic^h giouitd. There come four Rivers out of it , oneEaft, ano.ther
VVeft, another North, and another South. The pales, or cnclofure of
it feem to be Arches,befet moft richlywith precious ftones. In the Gate
of it Hand three men like us,one is in a long Gown with many plcats,the
other like in aCaflek. The third in the rough skin of a beaft. In
the name ofJefus : Is this the f^^r^f^//^ that Adam was baniflied out of.
^
The very fame -, from hence he was turned out into the earth. This is the true Vak.of
Jofaphat.
A. Will you give me leave ?
Say on.
It fhould feem this muft be on the earth, not in the aire.
... ... It is upon the earth.
You faid that from hence he was turned out into the earth.
• Ihe cvrfe of God in Adam caufed the earth , whereinto he was call to le acciirftd. For, if
'
Adam hAd a.fter hit full tarried in Paradife , bit rcickedrnffe would have altred the tnnocency of
the place. Th-refore it ParadiCc diUngniJhed frinf the earth, in refped of her purity : hecaufe the
earth it defiled, and corrupted with man. The earth is faid to be finfull in refpeO of the fin of
yuan.
A. Till 45 degrees , both liJforthcrly and Southerly , all is knewn in the moft part of the
world : But of any fuch pUce there is no knowledge nor likelyhood by any Hiftory of tiiefe
dayej^ or of old time.
Nal .There-
(^Jtrue '}^ elation ofD'. Dee hts Mtom mth fpirits, ^c- 15-7
N-il .therefore this Is cunning, and the wifjom of God. Ihere dr^Reth ficJhhTit that
1> txi a. ..'I. f
'.J
vf 1. * .. .J fj \ iiiiiiiii^^^^ a.1 t*.i lilt vv UUvJUJ ur VjUl
(liall never die, iFhkh were taken up for a tclhimny of Truth..
A. £.''V and E>torf,, by the Apocalypsdo feem that they (hould fufsr death, under Anti
chrilK if »vc undc;rihini»i£;hc. There is E//V, Enoch, and Jo/?« : They fiiall />£>;» to ie dead
by his power, but not otad, '
I'l^th'i'rd Iduhlsa,
f>
inteen Ibe firji Parftavia.
k^now it i^ot
.
'lie fccpiid Celtica.
• 7hdtweu>iderjiaKdconmo>t(ynort>forGz[\i-Ji. ft is thxt rfbich you cal/ Fhndri± ths
Lov Cou«try.
*
ihi third .
E. K. Here appear men with tallons like Lions.
They be very devils. There are five Iflesofthcm. Thefe be they
that can dwell in any part of the Earthy and are called Pilofi.
Nothing difFcrcth them, but in that they have bodies.
Vinfc
J
an.
20- -
the firft. , E. K. Under the South Pole.
Here appear little men with long beards: their ""•^c '^'^
bodies as childrens bodies.
'''"'''^'''•
Nal. There dwelleth the tvouderful Emperour of the IVorld, and the wonderful City of the /\ a w-nder
'^orld : Beie are an hundred and twelve Kingdoms. Thii City it a hundred forty fix leagues ful great Cicy]
ehut,
A. Youunderftand twoEnglifli miles for a league, as in Friixcf.''
Nal It 1 here dwelleth the true generation of Chiia,
Tolpam, '
The feccnd —— •
Carcedonia,
The third —
—
Italia.
L, Italia znd Britani^Vf ere before applied; thethird of the 15, and firft of the 14.
...•. Tljerefore thefe two places to be reconciled.
He pointeth to a great City with a River by it,
This it that City which jhall not have one ftone Handing in it. Tbit City it in Italia
A. Is it Kontf, 1 pray you ? .
-Nal It ii Rome. ^
.£. K. Now there is come a white mift in the Stone.
Ceafcyfaid a 'voice.
Avoice ...... Stay for a wbilei
E. K.
Nal. Read them in my hand as thoit feejl them [ ^, He fpake to E, A^. ]
il The' firji
- -~ Britania.
The fecond Pheniccs.
. The third ConLigincri.
22 The /zrjl Apulia.
The fecond Marmarica.
The third — Concava Syria.
*3 Thefecond of the feventh ——— ;
. 'Xkt firfi . Gebal.
The feeend 1 Elam vide Elamita:,
The third -. — - Idunia.
^ Nal It is beyond Greenland.
"
24. The firft ^ . Media,
The fecond .
-
iz^ Arriana, ^
15 8 <i>'/ true %^'ation of Yj\ Dee his Mions mthjpirits, &c.
7he third Chaldra
A. I bcfitch yoii, whac d\Scrcth th\$ €haldea from CtUeibcfoTe t
Kal iop (hall finde the difftrence of it, in praaice.
25 _~ 7hffefe'p[e Scrici. w
Ihefecond Pcrfia.
7he third Gongatha £, K. Toward the South Pole.
26 ihefirji Gorfim —— Bcarcs and Lions here.
7h' frconi Hifpania
Ihe third
' — " Painiihilia •
ijThefiril Oacidi.
Gal There be 9 Katgdoms Fair madc people, Dut tawny.
'the fecond ^Bibylon.
rhe third
—" Median -— £. K. It IS much Nofthward.
28 The fir li
• Idnmian. Nal 7hey aretw$ Ifles environed ivith tttt arm
^y- q'hc fecond Felix Arabia. 0/ ft? Scythian Sea, yphichgoeth in at Ma^p'i.
•jy xhird • Metagonitiden It ftandeth very Southerly.
29 7 /'f firjl Affyria.
qhf feco-rii ^ Afnca
^
Ihe third • Baftnani.
^oThcfirjl- ' ~ Afran; Here appear people With onc eye in
nefrcofd Pi'^ys'^.
^I^^j.. hcad.fecminfi; to be in their breaft,
Ihe fourth
Mauntama. toward the Equmo:: lal.
A. I lemember of people called Arimafpi,
Nal. ...-. Ihis dayes Leffon if as nt'ich worth,'as all between thli and Mauricaiiia.
Note Heve are 15, whichwere never kjtown in thefe times.
Thereii arc
t.. 1 hear nothiii" of P Ionia, C^tofchwia, Vania, FJibtrnia, Iflmdia, and foof many 6-,
ther which I could name ; what is to be thought of thofe ? in lelpeft of the diliribuiiou of
the who! e face of the rarth ?
Poloiiia tfxi/ Mofchov-ia, /rr«. #/ ^aromatia ; Denmark, Ireland, Friieland, Ifcland,
t^. Arc under ^yg gf Britain ; jl>t'Ifo it is of the reiK
the Rigittient ^ J biM'eech you to vv!iat part, is Atlantas and the annexed places, under the King of
^w'tt'T'" Spa iii^3\\^d the fFe,,i- Indies i'
cth'^/'Tf
"'" ^^- ^^ ''•"'"
^^^f' ^° appeur^theji can each tell vhat they own. Prepare for to morr.ws AHioH.
A. Moll glad'y
E- K. If you prove your felf true, you (hall win me to God.
I^al fc-! may hf anfwred with thefirjiwnis I fpol{e to day.
A. Deo, Ope. Max. lie omnis honor, laus & Gloria nunc & femper. Amen.
Th'rflay Maii. 24. _
A. Becaufe E. K. came not, ( acco.di^v^ai ic was bidden yefterday ) to follow the Afti-
on : 1 went to his Study dooi, aid knocked for him; And I requefitd him to come; and
he refuted fo to do, and rave me a (hoi t and refohi^e anfwcr, That he would neytr more
'Thofe vro'dv
have ,0 do with thefe Aftions. I asked iiim die rcalon why : He would give none :
But
he fi'i e afcc'r earneiliy d.-nied to proceed. I tnld him rliac his words * yeflernighc (that he could not
the Adi-Mi ijiisday dcaie ) did very much grieve me, d'-c. whereof he made fraall account. Sol went
ended nmrc j^j-q [j,y \tuJy a.'am, and commiaed the C aufe to God.
in'"le'cit'ra-
After half an liour and leiie, hecaniL- fpeedily out of his Study, and brought in his hand
b"rlK(orem™' o"e Volume of Comeltuf Ainppa his woiks , and in one Chapter of that Book he read the
StJdy of pta- names of Countries and Provinces collcfted out of Pf(>/ej«f;<^ (* as the Author there noteth)^
fiice. VVhereupon heynferred, th.!t our fpirituallnftruftors fcerf c/fwrri to give M a defcriptitn dt
the World, taken out of other Books : and therefore he would have no more to da with them.
J replied, and faid, ) am very gUd that you have a Book of your own, wherein thefe Geogra-;
phical names are expielied, fuch as C for the moft part ) our Inftrudors had delivered unto
us:
A trm^elation ofY^, Dee his Asians mih/pirks, dec, t s'
9
us -•
and char, accordino to the Tenor and form ofmy reqiieft to him, fo to have; them ex-
prefled : for our more pcrfcft information, by tiiofe known names; to undcrftand tbofegi
imknown and unheard of n?.mes, of feven letters every one : whereby they ( our Inftruftors I
niean ) are very greatly to be thanked, and to be deemed (in all reatbnable mens judgements)
nioft friendly, and far from cofcnage, or ahuiing of us : And farther I faid, that I my felf, had
here fetdownona paper, all the pi names together orderly, as wc received thern, and that ?i. Names of
I had here brought the defcription * Geographical of the whole earthly Globe: and alfo the world or
Pffw/'ow/w cJJ^c/'i fet forth in Englifh with the Chartes thereunto belonging, fairly defcribed
^^'^.''''y 'i*''^-
by hand : To the intent he might fee the verity of their words ycfterday delivered unto us: "g °r"'riw u-
for the performance of my requeft made to them, onTuefday laft in this form of words, as nivcrfal Chare
the Book hach it recorded thus ;
of the World.
A. As you gave us atafte, or warning o^ Italia and Britania, fo, if it be thought good
to you, we aredelirous to undcrftand of the reji y the Application to fuch names as we
under(iaitd.
Whereby you may perceive ( faid I to E. K. ) how your rcafon is marvclloufly confounded
by your wilful phantalie : For fo much as, wherein you would find fault, in ourfpiritual
"
Inftruftors doings, Therein they hare done that which I requefted them .•
asappearcth ; and
that to the intent, of known Countries we might undcrftand which Angels had the govern-
ment : for fuch puipofes, as occafion might offer or require ourpraftices to betryed in.
This ( (juotb / ) is to groflc your error, and to wilful your wrangling : But I do in nar-
rower points perufe and confider their words and doings ; In which though fometimes my
ivriting^ ( after your declaration ) hath been amended by them, yet the occafion of niifwrit-
ting for the molt parr, hath been either in yourmifreporting what you faw and heard, or
in my wrong hearing, or writing : and fometime by the fpiritual prcfent corrcfting of my
writing, and fometime longer after, &c.
But for all this, E. K. remained of his wilful intent; and fo departed to his Study a^ain :
And I committed God his Caufe, into his own hands,care and ordcringjas niay be beft for his
honour and glory. So be it.
Monday, Maii 28. bora 10 J ttnte meridiem.
A. I fajd the Lords Prayer.
£. K. Here appeareth nothing but the clear Stone.
Now there appeareth a white circle , more than ufiial : it Is as it
were a white fmoak, very large comprehending all the heavens in man-
ner, having as it were, the breadth of my finger in the circumference or
border of it.
{
L. After this, an hour and an half, after divers our difcourfesof my Wife her fpeechcs
and ufage toward E. K. &c.
E. K. Here appeareth one like him in the green that appeared laft
i.the Etymologic of whofe name is Dk illis ^ and his name
Mapfama.
A. In the name of Jefus, and for the honour of Jefus, we bcfeech you to deliver the fe-
rity ofyour meffage.
^'^pf^' • He liveth, and he faith, Jrife up, and isy unto them. How many times have 1
opened my amies to embraceyou ? How oft have I weft over )ou,as a father ? Butyou areflill,
ftif-neckjd and difobedient children. Lo, I ccafe yet , and vill not impute tbh vick^ednejfemto P'^te, Ceafc
yt>*. !>•:.
i
.. .:V>J • -• not or Ceafc:
[ A. O bleffed God, bleffed God, bleffcd God of mercies. ] b"'*
'**]'
ft
"
- ,^^P/- BecanfeMypromifesmaybe: notwithflanding-, that the forn of men, may not fay, From"pu^r'*
fuch a day cometb m the Bridegroom ; nor at fucb a time Jhall the Lilly fpring : Let the dar^ ingyou.
,j^-tbat I will vifit you in, be unknown unto you.
E. K. I thought you would fay fo. a perrerfc
jn^ ^'^P But thif yon Jhall do titter part.
^
II : Bind up together, 48 leaves ; whofe skjnpall bear Silver : Whofe Perimeter fhall be Perimeter,
JO tnches , in length ; 8, in breadth 7. 7
A. Doyou require it to be parchment, or paper? 8 [jo] 8
Map .1 have faid. 7;
^ What fliall I, then, do, after I have caufcd 48 leaves to be bound ?
*^^P This done, rife up, and perform your Journey, as you are c»mmandctU
X 2 A, I have
I
1 do A true ^(elation of D^ Dee his jBions Vpithffints, 6cc.
Our soing to A. I liavc heard onely of the binding of the book : Mean 7011 after the binding of the book
t;'e Emiietours jjjat this journey (hall be entred into?
^•'""-
Map I
— 77" -" ' ' ' •
A. What ftall I do with the book, after I have bound it >
A Pcrvetfc. E. K. I willanfwcr for him....buinit.
lnvitM}» Bono- Map the fourteenth day of jour reji, even this tahle-Cloath , and none other fhall he fpread
mm. for a Bii>ikff-
E. K. He pointeth to this Dia-
per Table-Cloath.
The wrhlrg jrbneunto, you fliall invite the Angels of the Lord : In the middeji of the table lay down the
of rhcbook by hioj^ and go forth ; make alfe the doors after you. That the heavens may JMJiifieyour faith , and
Divine mcins.^^j^ „,^^, ^^ ,. ,„, farted. For^ man is not worthy to mitt that fliall be written : neither fhall there be
^ou^r^'™''^' f*md many worthy to op^n that book:
Fo.rmoneth-, I have entered already into the Emprturs heart.
, , , , ,
Vidi lib. 19. lut It n^aj be he will bkome wilfull. If he do , a hundred and twelve dayes remain, and he
Sfpccmb. I.
{s not.
>84.
f^^ 7 Lj;e cut down the bankji the waters may rujh out, that there may be € fudden alteration
Su>iden alte- r , •
I
ration in this
^n this^\\<!>'^^ time
,
Yjjj
;
. * When I warn you ,
yoPt fhall return; But you fleafe me
* Return wirned, as before was bid-
„,jich \f yon hdic\t. If tivte govern not my frovidence, (re-
dcn. May ir. Bu: he meant not to warn ^n i ^ 7 ^ ^ . j *• .. r u -^i r
usof.a/returnineas.ppearethbythe pne not) but let my providence govern time : Looknettber for
nineteenth hook : 1 hetefore with humi- the Sun nor Moon, but be ready alwayes.
lity that doubt muft be ineved.Be ready For, whom I finde aft, fliall be made after : And to him tbtlt
always'^- if barren, fliall there be little added.
Th ee dsves J
Three dayes before you take your voyage, jhall you meet nie here.
before our For, I have fomething to fay unto you, which jhall he hidden ^ till then.
jou-^ney to the Let L^^^Vy jiretch out hit Urns : For I will * love him , and let him gafe wide : And take much
Emperour.
_ j^y ^fjg I'rjfel is wide, that be (hall drink, of.
- Vide Junii 4. ^^j. f^-^ ^^^ defpair : for hi that governeth the w'ndes, and dwelleth net in the hands of man,he it
is that fliall comfort him.
Glory be to God the Father. Glory be to God the Son. Glory he to Cod the holy Cbefi. AH tht
Heavens rife up, and glorifie Qod,
A. Amen.
Mi^....., Hallelujah.
Th Calls or
^' ^ ^^^^^'^^ y^^^s as concerning the reft of the Calls, or invitations : we are moft ready to
Invitations"
receive theninow.
Z^. T I t'Jay
Wap Fray, that thofe tliree dayes to come, may fatisfie thefe three dayes that are fa (I,
Ffi<Jj>, Satur- ^. I befeech you to let me undcrftand , whether I ftiall take with mc onely this Tablc-
div l3rt,<\erc Cloath.
]°.^J/
^- ^' Map...... mtb the fliew-ftonc that is made foryturfelf.
ne'£ GoTbe ^ "^^Y^^ • ^'^"f' ^'"' ^"'^^^ ^^ """^' all ready.
tnercifull unto :_ ^« i underftand that I (hall caufe the leaves to be filver'd, and fo prepared.
u«. A. Mifericordias Domini in eternumcantabo : Eiu5nomen fit benediftum cr hoc
nunc & in fempitcma feculorum fecula : IHe folus eft Deus Nofter , Omni-
potens,etcrnus be vivus : lUi foli omnis honor, laus Sc Gloria. Amen.
Saturday, Cracovix. iMane circa 7. Pofi freces aliquot & f>etiti,nes meas :
fiatim fere apfaruit.
E. K. I fee him, that we call Gabriel , fitting in his Chair alone.
Gabr Cod is a ffirit effential and in himfelf : Effetnial and workj»gby himfelf : Effential
GOD. i'^ "'^ worK^, and dignifying them iy himfelf : So that the beginning and ending of all things , that
are already, or are in him already, and to come, ii flared m the fountain^ and tvell fpring of all
life, comfort, and encreaie : IVherehywe fee, that the heavens and the mighty j overs therein frovt
the bighejT unto the kwejl, things that fliall have an end, and the earth wnh all that fliehringeth
forth; jea, tie lower farts {thoMgh after another manner, a}id by another cevrfi) do allbang, and
are el}ahlifhtd,in and lifitnthe unffeakable power in the providence of him. How, therefore earn
the Heavens run awry i Or xke earth, (^fcr the EhCi fake) want a comforter ? Or the loncel^
places leek, for comfort ? If it be fo (^therefore) that the heavens cannot erre : Or if the fewer of
God be fo mighty, and fo full of prevailing 5 If in the houfe of light thtre I e no darkjieffe, or from the
Heavens can dtfeend no wick.ednejfe. (And why ? hecaife tbiy are dignified in the fewer of God.")
The Devil.
^^*f f^ ^^ that fhvuld live^zad. diflrnft the Lord? £*t /tfrf/». The power and equality of the
Devil
(7>yftrue Relation of D^ Dfe his Actions mth fpiri's, ^c- 1 6 1
Devil is nor oiiely maiiifeil, butaifo dill contendeth agamjithe power and vil! of God : ftirrittg Fiftirg, mlf^
upi and provokjng '»art to faji at full Bankets, to liudy for gooJ and evil. To nfe up again i the l<kcd o^lhe
Lord, arti agaimi his power. And to v-x the Lord hhnfelf : which camtot he v xed at the wi.\ed- Ui^vi!.
neffe of the !> vJl. l.ven for this cfrftyf'ryeth the Lord uiio you : H-w long wiU you wallow in wic-
kednef^e ? H w loi'g will you be druHkftt with folly ? Huvd long will you rife up agaiufi the ^'* /^"niiuJi-
Lord and againji rtu ? * Saying, A'ld if thU he the power of God, Are thefe the Mjfii'^ers of """ P''''^'''^/-
the highni ? Is this the vriU of God ? Or can it he,tbat he hath care of thf earth ? Btit tlj^fe 'are the
""'"" •
''^'*^
hlafphtwies ofyv.r movxh. B'<t I fee, I miift diff"rie my felf for a t\me,a„d muft raife up a Table J"^'"„f^^f'
Tfhere there jhall eat wore worthy. Coufidcr what it is to deal with Devih : Is it not tutake purt fi«j cjl
ffith Re! els ? L it not to he Traitors againf the annointed in his own Kingdom ? It it no t a greater l^l»';'heraic».
jiu thtn the fi>i of the T?:-vi!.^ For why, Ih? Devil ftnueth in hnn^elf , and therefore h.id his fall. '\ Punl'limcnt
But your fn is f y»ur felves and by the Dfvil, and th-refore it is the greater. But, oi it is fa id be- °oV"er tT
*"'*
fore, jyhere is there a moninient upon the earth that the peop'e have raffed up, in the remembrance of ya of G^d his
vicifdrtiffe ? M-iny there be thit fay, Lo, there H\{'\c\n[z\tm. Lo , there was the Lord i/r/e/^. moft m;.ciluU
ho, there thefloiUs divid'dthtmfelves with all the reji ; inremenihran-e of the Lor i : But ?z5;«f V'fi ingot m.
there is that fay, L", in this place the wf^ed have rifen up and prevailed. Therefore to cleave
D<-3liiigwith
unto the Lord is g^oi, and i
o fallow a fenfible Dodrine, which brtngeth with it felf the loathfom ieffj_ ,
h-'i^-yiu
afwicked'iijfe, and the liudy to do W.-ll, that the wickfd may be Confounded. Alas ! let th- whole Sopkftiy.
tarth rife tp, [^thn^fiing r.p his hana~\ even thifhand,can gather them all together : what therefore
can the Lord do when h jrowneth ? unreafonable C'caturcs, and worfe then heaiis, more ignorant
then thf Itahthat grafein the Mountains: Are you not afraid of the power of God,when it becomeih
a s\purge ? For, doubt you not. to deal with thofe thtt are wicked ? {you of no faith^ wherefore
hath the Lord made the earth, bn to be glor/fied in thf creatures theref ? And what is he that gU-
rifietkGod inearth but man? Think^y'iu[n f] (therefore') that the Lord bath not care of his
Jeople? Jhmk^yoii that there is a Seat upon earth, where in be hath not hidden the might of his free
fewer ? V th '^atan g-t a Soul that he is not privy of <"
Believe , yo^! of little Faich, for ir is F»ith.
tJie power of God. it is the Key of the whole vorld, which is the Key of mans cenfcience :
If he Faith is the
lock^not the door , b't d'part and leave it open : H^o be to that Sou!,f..r the frince of darkjtejfe en- ^^Y of t"'"'
ireth, and is poffffed to the eternal wo of his dwelling place. If, theref re the earth le /r Cfir "J^'^.^"'*'
.
unto him that mule it, {m afpeareih by his Prophets, and by the S n of God ) What are yon ? Or rhe^p^iiTocV*
how cnipcy arc you? When you think it is in vain ^ that the Lord hach appeared unto £.k \ e y ve-
yoil. hctnent y fpo-
But in you two is figured th? time fa com: : For many (hall Cleave unto the Lord, even at the firll
^^ '•
call: Andmary fl-ial' .'oubt of the L&rd,ani not believe him f»r a feafon. But m you two (hall
^^-^^^^^^^^
time toconr.a.
g.
dwell in one C-nrrr, {ifyou (yet ) do look^forward^ and jlep right) So Jhall the face of the whole r.aHib.
tarth he, for 8od. o»e hundred and fifty years. Piags,zT.^-\:'»,
(For, thetruic of Pi'^ad/fe lliall appear, thatmthinz may be on earth without comfcrt. V'-Mm ovtle.
For, lo, the firii (ha 11 1 e laii,) and it (hall be a Kingdom without corruption,
^?o years.
Now, now, hath 'the Serpent willowed his fi'l.
c^'tT"'^^'
Kow,N w, are all th'nz^t it the prid' of their wickjdneffe. Para'dife.
Now,n»w, is the Heir ready, moji lil{e his father. But wo unto the earth through his govern- P"^'dfewas
htent. fi <^ mafie, and
For, his Kingdom (l^all have an end with mifery. And tbefe are the Utter dayes. And this is the Y^^7
'"^ ^"'
MProphcii'c of the World. y^',,^ P^j
i Nov, HOW, Ihall one King rfe up a^aiH<l another: And there (hall be hloud jhei tbroughont all the ""'le annvum
I Wtrld: fighting between the Devil his Kingdom, and the Kingdom of lijrht, ^"i'" "P-io.'
Cntenti nsand q':arrels on the earth between man and man, father and fon, wife and husbind, i^T'^''l n
Kingdom and Ri^sFdow ije't , even in the very beajis of the field Jhall there he hatred .-
And into LiJlov'ffmi'
them Jhall the (piiics of Contention enter, ijlifunt
For, new ronteih the ncceifiry of things. T e lift Pro-
E.K. He now kneeleth down. teiufycon-
Gab As fo' you, thus fjyeth the Lord.
Z"' rr'
I have cho.'cn you, to ent-r into my barns : And have commanded you to open the Corn , thai the tW.ZJ,l:de
fcatteredmay appear, and that w'-'^rh remai-ietban the jheaf may liand. And have entered into the '^f^-
I /Ir/?, and fo into the ferenth. And have delivered unto you the Teftimony ofmy fpirit to come. E'taion,
.
For, my B'trn hath been hngwithoiitTh^eh^rs. And I have kfpt my Jiayles for a I ngtime hid
"^ ^' '"'°^"'^
.
,
^mtmkjtownpl.ices: If hich fiyle h the Doftrine that I deliver unto ^5;>.- Which is the Inirument DcHne
'"*
cfthraUnng, wherewithyou JhaU beat the jheafs^ that the Corn which is fcattered , and the reft Thcfl yVfor
I Hiay be all one. Gad h .v
Bain,
(But a word in the mean feafon.) ^ ^mcLUef^.
^ If I be Majhr of the B-Jm, owner of the Corn , and deliverer of my flayle : If all be mine ^ r^m tair.ovi-
(_Anduntoyou, there isnothing : for you are hirelings, whofe reward isheaven.)
'
""'Jo'^f'-''
""-
Then fee, that yo» neither threjh, nor unbind,, untill I bid you, let it be fffisient unto you : that t u.lTjif
you know my houfe, thatyou k,now the labour I will p"t you to : That I favour you fo much at to enter- Note,biddirg.
tain you the labourers within my Barn : For within it threjheth none without mj confcnt.
Fcti
i6z A true ^^clation ofD^, Dee hh Anions mth/pirits^ <?cc.
Our uniting F or., tH joii jhti't many people behlejfed, and in you jhall there he no divifion : For Ehu and
promifed- Izcoh jhall be jojned together i and their Kingdtm fioall be all one : For as the Sacrifice is, fo mujt
^ ^ E. K. Now he knecleth down again. Me thinketh, I hear them
fay, What: fhali become of Laskje ?
E. K. And fo the people fay.
[ AsK *"f ••'' ^elhons : but hear, what I have to fay. J
Js thofe that defire to make a fpeedj Dinner, and to entertain their guefis, gofuddenly euty and
c^ather the dryeii wood in the -wood-pile : Not becaiife it is more wood than the ether ; hut becaufe it
A. L. ^U dry, and viol} apt for the fpeediiiefs of the kitchen. So, it is with me, faith thi Lard.
A. L. The apt- p-,,^^ J refpeCt him not in that he is a 7>u:n, but in refpeU of the manner of his minde and in-
-f
J,<fHe, cap. y. htra in this world,and a lover of him for ever. But me thinkfth he will be t proud. If you find me
p 6. Michael yf.ak^: }^nowyou,thAtIamnotweak.,ofmyfelf ; but your own weakncfs may be your con-
illi appareret
f^fjQ,^. foj. J am afire, and takjf hold offuch matter as I find apt.
t Pride of AL. E. K. He kneeieth again.
fufpeded.
^ I Ij^^^ ^^^^ toldyou (my Brethren) of, and of the manner of tbep$wer of God.
a^mZurm 2. Of the nature of Hell, and of h^r wickednfffe.
Neccfsity/
'
3- OfthecourfeofthelVtrU,andoftheneceffityBfthings.
4. Ofyottr eleViioH, and of the end thereof.
5. Of L^-sk'ie, and wk} he is eleSed.
jjgfj
6. Now I am lajily to ferfwadeyou, by the power of God, that you make jour felves apt and
Apt and meet meet matter : and that you may jiand before the Lord as acceptable : which you Jhall perform if
matter. you intend your former LefTons. The ground whereof is Humility and Perfeverance, which be-*
Humility.
caufe they btve been often fpoken «f, I paffe with referring you to the confideration thereof.
Perfeveiance.
dnngjou one warning. That this ASion pall nc\tT come, to pa.Te , until there be no re-
v'e«^^'
* menibrance of wickednefTe, or hell, left amongft you : and yet, after, for a time, ytuwuji
have patienee. .For, your offices are above a Kifigdom. Hinder not the Lord inhis expeditions^
Wemuftgoto Remember he hath commanded you to go to the Emperour. Hafpy is he, that comethwhen
the Emperour. he is bid Go. And foolijh is he, that goeth not, when he is bidden.
J
The place for There, uf: thy felf : for it fhallbeakey of thy habitation : -^k^ for that place, i ti&ff,
which my An-
^y^^^^ Qf fl^y Creation ffa/e-^. Love together : Be h:nnble and c$ntinue to the end.
^^f°^I^""°"
A. Deonoftroimmortali, invifibili, omnipotenti, & Patri mifericordiarum, cjufquc filio
Asunder- Redemptori noftro, ic Deo iipiritui Sanftoi fit omnis laus, gloria & gratiaruni aftio;
ftand as vet,ei- Amen,
ther the Em-
perours Co'irc, ^
•
-
or Frage, Sec.
Monday, t Craetvie \ 4, Junii, Mane, hora 8.
Orationem dominicam g'nibus flexis recitavi, variafque juxta propofitam materiam ejaculatienes
habvi,variafqve inter ncscellationes,confiderationefque ultimgrum verberttm iffius Gabrielis, &c.
After almoft an hour after our fitting to the Aftion, he appeared.
E. K. Gabriel is here again in his Chair, and his dart upright in his
hand, his dart is like a flame or ftafFof fire.
A. BleflTedbcGod. A. After his appearing, he flayed almoft a quarter
of an hour before he began.
0ab As God in hit effential heit(g,is a Spirit, withtut demonjiratien, ft are his profeimit,
frovidences, workj, and determinations, unable to be meafured. :
£ E. K. He makcth curfie : but nothing appeareth in the Stone. ]
Gabr Hereby mayyou find, that the love of God towards yon ( wretches and fimters )
is more than a love ; and mere than can be meafured, which was the caufe ^that with his own finger
y
'
( delisting in the fons of Jacob, J kefeakd this faying ; yea. with his own finger , thk (Ihw and.
fign of his excellent,and more than, love toward his people.
Godhisjea- I am a jealous God ; which is as much to fay, Lo, I am your friend : najr., ratheryturfather^i
loufie-. and more than that,y»ur God : whch delight eth in you, rejeyreth in you, and loveth you with thai
Exod. JO. a. atfcftion [^
Jealoufie 3 which is more than love : rshichis asmuch to fay^ as 7ny love is fuch teJ^
Deut.y. a. »>tfr<; jo7/,as I am to my felf. But, O }ej}iff-necl{ed JtWs,0 ye Strumpets, you defpifed the love)
ef God, you committed adultery, and ran into the Temples of Idols : whichwas the caufe^ that thi
hmen-iomh, that praiferlyou I (fore, \'
£ E. K. He maketh curfie often. ]
•
'
*
.
Said
J true T' elation of D'. Dee his Aclicns mth fpirits, &c. i6^
.... Snid ^!fo ofjou ;' It repeateth mc that J wade this peopU. Let me raze tkent oat, and makf
a frople of ^thee. Ihis Idolatry vm the cavfe, from time to tinier that you becime Captives, *Ta Mofes
and of lyileritotin^ Ri'.ax.^igates, aiul v/thout a Maiier^ Vnto jou alfo, thiif fiiith the Lord ( Urito j^"'"' i^-
^
jot my Brethre;t, I fay tb^t are here ) More than the love of a father ts, it the love of God toward j^^ i ^'^
you : For, r,n:$ whit-h of the Gentiles, hath the Lord (hewed hinifelf ? Where dwell they, or vfbere xhe unmea-
b ive they dweV.fd, into vvliofe houfes have tiie AnE;els of the Lord defcendedj fayingjClnis and furaWe love of
thus, doch the God of Heaven and earth ni;an to deale with the World. God toward us
2bi'ik,yju not, thit this is more than love f Look^ therefore iuirrofcly into year felves : Vn- '''• ^- ^- ^- '^•
Cover the doings ofj:i/r We, and ferret Chambers : Fjiter into judgement with jo'^r fe!ves. Unto Exhortation to
thee I fpeak^ [ To £. if. ] Haji thou tiot rim aflrayfrom the Lord, and committed Idolatry ? '
am.'ndmsncjf
t^. He told E.iv. of his faults, whicli £. K. would not expreiFe to me, and I dcfired him nfc.
to liften ro them, and to do as it appcrtaineth to a Chriftian, &c. ^
Gab. ...... Bnt thuf faith the Lord, I am a pure Spirit that participateth not with the de- God,
filed : li'-fcher can I enter in mercj into that houfe which is defiled. A great fayina^^wy Bre-
tben: for hereby pu are wcnijhed to mal^ your confcicnces rlean, to open yourfelves in
nm-eneC<, to the Lord, tbtt he may enter into you with comfort.- For, fo long as thou dealeji jfith
wi\-i fpirits, will the Lord kjep back^his hands : and thou keepell back the Lord. For fha II The Lord Lent
if f:ot
'
e fjid hereafter ? Lo, is not this vtan kjtown to have dealing with the wicked ? And ( m back.
the foolifh voices of the people are ) Is not this he that can conihain the wicked ? with further ar-
gu:v;nts, by repetition of thy doings. Well, if thu wilt be the Minijier of God; If thou wilt go
forward in his wor'>f ; Iftbo'iw/'tfeetbe happy timvs that are to come , thou niiiji aijiain from
evil, <i«<^.'Z'3.'nnur:fwcep thy houfe clean ;•
Thou muti put on thy lejl garments. And muil become The chief Lef-
humble andmejk. Let n tthyWfcbe a fcandalto the will ef the Lord, and to ihe greatneffe of ^^n.
kis Worhj : For the t>,wer that is within thyfor/lQin rrfpeci a/i/j*efl"ential quid, ) is ofgreat ftree ^'"^ cflcntiil
p,:d ability to perform thofe things that proceed with power: which is the cav.fe that the '''''^^<^
t;onof£ /f li^is
one( cbey the!: ; for they fear themfelves, wbe^. they fee t/)?'feal of thy Creation, foii!,3nd lodie
Ibis IS tharefore the Caufe, that God finding thee ( as he pajjetb Ij, by bis Angel) fit in caufeot his
matter, hi:t, v;y brother (God kjKW(th) far undtinViie. Confider the dignity of thy Crea- e\e£i\ot).
tio I ; Confider th^t the rff^&ion of God toward thee, it more than love. See how he bearetb with ^'''^ ^''u*
t'y lyijlr-^nity, from time to time. 0, I f.iy, (^
yet ) Enter into judgement with thy felf : ^''''^
gn'ling thee
confider, that thou art now at a Turning where there lieth two wajes <: One Jhdl^ be to thy com- fit in matter,
fort. The other to thy ferpetnalwo. Let not good ground bring forth weeds, lejl it c/jo/o? /^^ r ""fit in life.
A. We will call unto God for his mercies, graces, and help, &c.
O, confider, my brother that the appearing, ""d workj of the devil are but of neceftty. That is
"^^^ "ccefsiry
to fay, that he x fit it gold, by refi'iing of the devil may vtanifefl and mak/ plain to the powers
f
^'^^"^
andfpiritsofHeiven,thelirengthofhiifaith,andaffi:ranceofhisHofe: and fo, neceffarily, by ° ,-
the froniife of God, inherit everlaiiinglife, to the which he is elected. To the wielded, that if- cither vrlih
caufe of their difobedien^e and partakjni with them, that are the Angels of darkjuffe, ( even thof-, good '^'^^
that tlrive.ag:iinji the Lord) they might worthily be damned: according to the necc'TLty of God . ,
* .,
his jiidq;ement. See, therefore they appeare unto thee, cither for the greatnefs of thy wickjdnefs, ,^j^
or ely Leca.'fe thfy fufpeft thee to be elefted. If thou, therefore thinks thy felf e'leded, defp-fe
Xbe-i i^f/thiu iherefore thinks to be a fpirit dignified, and in glory. Then be faithful in the afsu-
irauce "of hope, and refiji the devil: that we may teftifie thee, before the heavens, and before TefUficnion
the Gud of juftice. Angelical of
•*
-
E.K.jus ^-
E. K. He weepcth. ^^
'W
A. E. K. and I aho could not hold our teares.
Ah, my brother, great are the joyes of Heaven. Remember what Hell is ; for to thee the ^ For- * ^''"
^'''
nace was open : Remember the vilion thou hadft of iiell, and of her powers, at Mortlake. For ^^ Morttaht
nothing ( my brother ) is done without a caufe. Remember tbm co'-'ldi not abide it : No not to
fee : : Think,^ thy f.'- nccurfed ( therefore ) if thou feel it : For, if Sodom had feen it^ they
vould have keen coiwcr^ed. *
E. K. He praveth.
1. I have HOW told you if the Jealotifie of God, and of the caafe thereof.
2. / hjvea'fo taldyo'i that the houfe of God mufbe clean, and without fpot,
j^
£. K. Now there cometh a brightneirc about him. J
3. Lafth, I have toldynv, rfthatnecejjitywhi.'hcaufeththe devils towjrk^, and ajipear : and
have exhorted you to the love of God and repentance , which were the things J onely hud to
fptak, of.
_
A. O Lord, feeing we are uniformly defirons that the Aftion may proceed , and that we
crave thy mercy ani i::races, as well for the pardoning of our wickednef> part, as for the con-
firmation of us in thy fervice. What fhall we look for touching the proceeding, being thus
flayed to our great grief?
Gabr lonbave to receivethe will of God ( but what it isyl hjiow not ) thofe three dayes^
before
Con-
1 6^ A true1{elation 0/ D^ Dec his JBionsmth/firits, &c.
V,d;M,i!,'i before jrriicr-H your Jouritey. Jnd yon are alfo, tf learn, what the Angel ii, ^nd how vixny
»*• 2 S^ljeCrs kehath.
- A. Wuich Angel ?
^ ,
N}le. Gab. ...... Jhat governeth Hylcich : tthich is the mutter tf the 4 Elewents :
And which cntly
"
4 U au'E'.ement. th;?rinces And Governoun a'fj of the ^ E'enients, {and of their Geiterationt'^^
5 how they receize mixtion^ and in what quantity ) fVith their MiMtfiers that are under them.
A. I raid to E X. Thcfc (hall be part of your praftice and portion. '
6 f Gab. ...... Ltu are all to ]cjnjoynt/y in the Harveji of the Lord ] The Angels alft of the
7 t 4S a>^g'ei of the heaT>eKS, and their Mmijiers : For they are tbefe, that have the thunders and tbc
t E i» fcvcn dc- -ofindes at Cor»nundnte>it. Jh-fe makf up the time, and then, coTKeth the Harvefl. >
j;rces& a lalf ^ ^ .^ .
'
to every angle. L. K. He IS gOHC.
"w.n^cs"' *>• ^^O'l "obis Domine, non nobis, fed nomini tuo da gloriam.. Tu cnim Altifllmus, Om-
'
Thetuli inif. niporeiis, f£mpicernus,vivus, 8/ verus Deus noftcr es : unus & Trinus :
Cui Angelicus cxle-
'•
ftifque cBonis decantat perp:cu4, Sanftus, Sanftus, Sanftus, Domuuis Deus Zebaoth. "
Amen,
«i
t'
Friday, Cracovii, J««" 8. Mane hora j I
.
Poft prcces, & cjaculariones varias & gratianini aftiones pro magna mifericordia Dei,
crga uos 8c propter E.K.c\\ii jam patefecit mihi horrcndj Si ran!tiplicl:i hcrefium,'^
KOTA. & blafphemianim dogmata, quibus illi hoftes Jefu Chiifti il'.um imbucranr, & quod
jam ( coufelTione praenfil'sa ) vellct facrofanftum myfterium corporis Be fanguinis
Chrifti recipere, illifque malis Angelis renunciarc, & omncs illorum fraudes dcte-^
^gerCj &c.
Converfio E. K. ad Veum, abdicatis ? js^t-
j^jj apparuit hodie.
omnibus Diabolicts experimcntis^ &c.C
Albeit the like had never happened to us, ( that I remember ; ) but that either Cloud,
tUnaauftom- Vaii, or fome Vo-ce was perceived by £. K. Yet this f doing we not onely took patiently ;
cd abfsnce and but £. K. ufed many good reafons to prove, that fervants ought to attend fo Jong, as it plea- '
fiiencc.
^gj j.j^gjj. f^aji.,!- ^o have them await his coming to any place, to them.
And bat, abou: our own affairs we arc contented to ufe patience for a long time, but to
await tlie Lord his coming or mefsage, \i a time better fpent, than in any hum ine affairs, &c.
He very plainly, and at large mademanifeft i^;/ cowv^r^o?* to God from the prafticcs with
wicked fpirits : Yea, that he was ready to bum whatfoever he had of their trafh and expc-
'
riments. That he would write in a book the manifold horrible Doftrinc of theirs, whercbj
they would have perl'waded him
Ihat Jef.is was not God.
Th-it no prater ought to be made to Jefus,
'^
Ihat there it no Jin,
Tfhat mans f:ul doth go from one body, to another childes quickening or animatieH.
^ That as many men andwomen as are now, have a'wayes been : That is,fo many humane
^ hcdies^and humane fouls^neither m:re ver lejfe,as are nff, have alwajes been.
..... That the generati.no f mankind from Adam and Eve, it not an Hijiorj,but a writing-^
which hath an other fenfe
.
^
"No Holy Gboji they ackjttwledged.
they weuld not fuffcrhimto pray to Jefus Ckriji; but wouldrehukf him, faying, that be
ribbed God of his honour, &c.
Andfo. of very many other moft blafphenious Articles and Points ofDoftrine, whereof
more (hall be fpoken in another place.
Thisforbearingsof our Inftrudors prcfence,< did expound or conjefture to be donegrcat-
ly for the honour of God, many wayes, if the fame were recorded foraenhat near to the very
manner ofthe thing as it was : for fo,ftioulJ appear to the pofterity, how truely it had been
faid before, that he fliould be converted to God : How true!y God did prepare £. /if. his .»;
The matter foul to bea \efiel cleanfed, and fo made ape for his viliting of him,in mercy and comfort,
madeapt. whereby the lifeofE. K. ^'now being amended, and his dealing wich the wicked clean lefc
off) ftiould not be a fcandai to the will of the Lord, and to the grcatncfs of his works : aS'
was noted unto u- in the laft Action.
Alfo I faid, that iiot onely bis Converfion recorded (hould be a more evident ar<-ument
Z^ We left off of" his fo oft repealed Elcftion : hutlus patient attending this prefent day,( \_^j two hours and
bira II. a half, and takii;g all things in fuch fort as became an humble and patient Icrvanr, J will be a
more fure and evident argument that it was no light pang, fuch as he hath made outward ftew"
Jtrue 1{claiion of D^ Dee his Miens ^tth fpirits, c5c(f. 1 1^
^
of diverfc times before, but a very harty and (incere converfion, fuch as without all doubt
will be found very acceptable to the higheft.
*
Moreover ,
he declared that about nine, or ten dayes paft, he did intend to havcotten
svny Jfcretlj hy the belp fplritual of thofc, with whom he had fo long dealt;And therefore that
ti/l ftoWf he dealt k)pocritica!lj.
Bur, whereas they to fore were ever accuftomed to threaten him Beggery , (a thin<» which
"he molt hated and feared.)
^
'. That now he careth not if he fliould have want ; yea, he took it neither to be ftame or fin
to bc;4 : and tliat he now made more account of God his favour and life eternal, then "he doth
of al! tranfttory wealth and riches, and to be entangled within the danger of thefe wicked
fpirics their fnareSjWich all.
rtllb he now perceived hi"; great errour wherein he was of late, when he would for an af-
furcd temporal maintenance Irave forfaken the dealing with the wicked,and fo more willingly
would havcfoUowed thefe aftions without repining : Saying now,that he is ho perfeft Chri-
AiiUtj who for money muft be hired to forfake the Devil and his works, &c.
And as for t e iOiie of thefe aftions^e wtuld never either doubt, or miflik^e, howfoever tkey fell
«jirf; aduring himfelf : That God would do all thin£;s beft, and for his honour , 6""c. Many
OCiier his faying-; very glodly \ omit, thinking thefe lufficient here.
A. O Almighty, eternal, and moftmercifull God, we thank, glorifie, and praife thee ; Oblcf-
fedj and moll glorious Trinity, we will for ever Magnilie thy unfpeakable providence, Converfion.
favour, Eleftion, a7td Converfieri rait o thee.
O BleflTcd Jefu, we will for ever extol thy loving kindnefTe , and long fuffering toward us,
and thy Triumphant proceeding againft Satan and his Miniilers , for thy Eleft
fake.
6 holy Ghoft, the dircfter into all truth, and comforterof thy Eleft, confirni,and eftablifli our Confirmation
'
hearts v\(ith thy graciou?, and continual zeal, and love of truth,, purity of life, Chari- prayed for.
table humility, and conlhnt patience to thy well-pleafing untill the end : 1 hat after
this life (through the mercy of the father, and Merits of our Lord Jefus Chrilt, and
thy charitable embracing of us,) we may for ever enjoy the heavenly Kingdom,among
the blelTcd Angels , and all the dignified company of mankind. Jmeit. Amen.
Amen.
Munday, J?/«ii II. Minehortti\. Cracoviae.
A. Afterour prayers due, and thanks to the Almighty for his great mercies and power
fhewed in the converfion of £. K^ we flayed ftill attending fomc fhew,as we v/ere accuftomed
to receive : and among divers our fhort difcourfes of our faith, hope, patience, conllancy, hu-
mility, and other our duties requifite in this aftion, and in the fervice of God : E.K". ofhim-
^ fclf faid thefe fentences worthy to be recorded, as the evident token of his found and faith-
full turning, and iiitent to cleave unto the Lord.
1. E. K. I ach^ioTpledge my fins hai>e defer'ved^that this fe'ven years-
I fhoiild ha've fioperv^ or fight ofhis good Creatures.
2. E. K. If I ftould fit thus for feven years, attending the plea-
nre of God, I would be contented,
3. E.K. I repent me nothing of that I have done, in forfaking thofe
[ was wont to have to do withall, d^c.
E. K. In the ftone nothing appeared all this white of our fitting
lere.
A. Nihil vifihle apparuit in Chrjiiallo facratOi pr£ter ipfmChryJialli a- Monti j. vie hh off,
hijihilem formam : ut E. K. dixit. ^^ '^^
'''^"ts
^'
^°""
I
A. I will affirm nothing in this cafe, bnt this my conjefturemay be "" .'-qj*"^
recorded : The caufe of the non-appcafance the laft Friday, and now this Moundaymaybe
I
*'. That, as we loft and refufed three dayes adigncd by our inflruftours, to finifn all in ;
The J.iftice
Ip now we /hall call, and requcft three dayes, and have nothing : as, thefe two daycs ic hath °' ®=<^-
I'iQ'nout: and it ispolllblejone day more we fhall h^ve the like non-appearance.
'''"^
• Or elfe.
2. According to the premifTes ; Onely, three dayes before our journey fhall be begun, fr,jg j-^p^
fc (hall have that delivered us, which in the three lafl daycs wc fhoilld have reteivcd, &c.
Y Ot
6 6 ^me1{tlatm of !>, Dee his jBiorJs mthfftritSy <5cc.
Or elfe.
Th- convcr- 3- TJiat gre?it caveat before not,cd, (on Saturday Jtmd x. lall paft) may have fome forc-
fv ^ /e^ tC. Tvarning of xhi's iur faii'eHceto he fifed, after cur ConverfijH unto Ged : The words then re.corded
I... .1 maac 'are thclC!;
' '
mil Ilea. _ if,js AdioH f^iall never c-cy>ic to faffii untill there be m remembrance of vtcksdaefff^ or
Hell le't amsngii j»u : Andyet, after, for a time joumuft: have fape^tc. For
yovr Offices are abive a Kingdom.
^
To cmicludc,; whacfoever, with God, is known and ufed as the true caufejWe are content*
-ed : Nptjiing doubcing of the gooJnelfe, and wifdom , and power of God to perform Jiis pro-
niids and jCovenant made to, and with us, for our fervicestobe ufed to lushpn^^^
^
Moil wtUhigly 5 and patiently we will attend the will and plcafure ©f the fiigheft hercldi
Intendini^ hence forward (by the help of God) not to give our felves over unto, nor ealily
^
be invei^lcdjor alhiredof thetempracions of the world, the flefli, or Devil.
For which our difpoficion of niinde, and all other benelits received from above , we rendcp
nioft humble, harty, and entire thanks to the Almighty, molt glorious, and blelTcd Trhiity^
Amen, Amen, Amen. ,
.-
._
___^ __,7
fjltunday, ]\\rn\ i8. Mane, hera 8. Cracovif.
-in/
A. After the Lords prayer, and fome other peculiar prayers and than!5:t-g'mng,for the ex-
ceeding great mercies (hewed in the Converting.and Reforming of E, K. & my promifin<» to re^
cord the Aft thereof, as well as God (hould give me grace •* and alfo craving earuelUy for
comfort to be given to A.L. being foiuewhat opprefled with penfiveneffe tofeehis ownfub-
jefts, and fervants to triumph againft him in his low eftate from high,and all for lack of money
and wealth,e^c-. j
Suddenly appeared a mighty long, and big arm and hand in the aire , to catch at the fljeiPH
fione : and E. K. meaning to faveic from him, put his hand en the ftone , and immediately the
floneuas out of the frame, we know not how, and lay by on the Cufliion^ &c. ,.j.\c> .
-i'S
Pcflmeiiam And then foon after appeared Gairiel, in all manner as he was v»ont, and on the right fidtf
:
heram ab int- of the ftone Cthat is againlt E. K. his right hand ) as he was wont.
A» Ghria Patrr, & filio,& S^iritui Sancio, ficut erat infrincipio , ^ nmc,& femfer,& infe-
cula feculorum. Amen. tit^'"-^-;
*
- "
^
GaSr The comfort and peace of the Father, Son, and holy Ghoft be amon^ft rouL
quicken and confirm you. ^ '
^
^ ^„j^,j
£• A\ I pray you what was that,thag
would have fnatcht the pew*
jione ? *
Gab...... Let his honfe come, that hk iniquity nay be feen.
'
Thisfeemeth E- K. I fcc uiaiiy houfcs, and befides them a fair Houfe, feparated
oli'e^iX- ^y if ^"^^^ > ^^^ W''"/^ '^ offlone and wood, and a fqitare thhiff m the eni-
'Zi^gZ ""f '*' ^'^' ^ Turret, The houfes of the Town are low wooden houfes
is. fmall :
There appear in that odd houfe fellows in red Coats, like Pik
;;
land Coats. Now 1 fccabiggc man firting within the houfe afore
the window : and the Jioufe is hanged with Tttrkie Carpets , and there
h wrought in one of the Carpets ("juft afore the doorj) a man on horf
bach^^ with a [word in his hand : and the man is like the man I faw at
Mortlack^w'nhTi Wart on his cheek: There ftand by him twoboyes,;
they have red Coats on, one of them is a little fair boy : There itaqd-
cth a man by with a fword, which he delivcreth to him that fitteth, and
A-. There
^^ lookcth on it, being gilt and graven on it, and layeth it down on the
k-cmrrhi^o be Tlible.
* ^^
^^.eicalCba- ^ ,
^i r j , ,
'^
ladcrs.. ^^o iku n a [word , wheran he pittfth hit trnjl, but itjhallfail him.
^
E.K. Now
The A-ms of
Linitsp,
j^.trueB^ebtion of D*". Dee his ^Bfons mthfpirks, 5cc, 1(^7
E. K. No-.v that man calleth the Icffer bay to him, and rhebDy
thereupon runneth along a Gallery. Now that man with the Wart
goeth out after ,ftrouting himfeU, and no body with him : Now he
calleth that IcfTer bo V to him, and maketh iigne to him , fmiring one
hand on another, and drawing it under his throat : as though he threat-
ned the boy, unleilb he kept fecrct. Now he cometh to a door and
knockcth, and one like an Italian letteth him in. There he hath in
the corner a frame of wood, and a great ftone in the middle of it (of
about 16 Inches fquare) and there is a fire on that ftone, on the middle
of it. Novr he taketh that engine, or frame with the fire between
him, and that man (like an Italian) and carrieth it in^ another Cham-
ber. There thev have a dead mans hand. Now he taketh out of his
Casket a black box of yern (as it /hould fecm by the blackneffe of it)
The box i? about a foot long. Now he hath fet down the box , and
the fame is open, and therein appeareth an image of wax of blackifli
colour, like /hooemakers wax. There is one like an Angel, made of
red ftuffe, ftanding at the head of the image, holding, like a Skarf over
:
the face of the image. The image is marvelloufly fcratched and rafed,
or very rudely made with knob; and dents in the legs of it.
"'-'
Now he looketh four wayes : And fpeaketh (the man with the WartThemin with
^
t
.
r \ •
tSeWnrtin-
on his race.j , vocatet'-.
The houfe aforementioned fecmeth to ftand without the ftone ^
^^^^owkke"^^'
teyond the ftoJie.
power can en-
Ki 1 fit r -n r If 11 11 J ^^"^ within ihi$
i: Now they poure bloud out ot a Baton upon the nre, and lay the hand ftone.
upon it : and it frieth in the fire.
Now he, and the Zf^?/M«-//^e man, have ^Mfo« Apparel, black, li'te[;'°^'j,.^''J;^
Gowns : each of them, and the engine feemeth now to be fet in a where their
'j^\ >
° arms are pat
Chimney. oat,
ij Gih .,... Be it^at it vas.
^,^^E.K. There be fix fmokes, like fix men ftanding about them : and ^•f"'"/ ?«'»A»
they go like fmokes out at a window, and there ftandeth one like 2. qui venenmti
Gyant man, and he taketh them, and rvindeth them up as they come out
"'"'""""*•
at the window. Now all that (hew isvaniflied away.
Gab thpf it the caufe that Lasky is poor. 7hit it the feventh image that he hath
[craped fo.
.- A.. Asitis thefeventh, fo (I truft) itisthelaft. A. Ergo Aii.
n Gab TA/j i)- three years four moneths, and trn dayes, i»«cf thfy begUH; fo long bath i^i^^ 6, Fe-
fmtbe Angel of thu Lord been ready ^ for tky fafe-gtiardy (O Lasky) jianding at the window : and b uani incefe-
^ready to binde up rtiifch-ef prepared agatHji thee. '""' '^i' i-""*-
.
This mifchief ihall light upon bis own bead.
ftindtn^«
i^ But if th'^H remain my fervant, and do the workj that are righteoufi I will fut Solomon hehinde ^^^ Jinjovr
yHh^Cy and hi^icijes under thy feet. winding ui>'
" \Be tber^^m comforted tn me : for the breath thou hreatheft is mine^and the body that than iweliefi the 6. fraokci.
J
if.the ^P^ of my hands.
The ei-rth from yfhence thtit cantefi is mine alfo.
' ' '^t^^
" '^' ^^'^^f"''^^ ^^"^ ''"'^ down, and none but /, that raife up again.
'^-^E.'K. All the ftone is become full of a fmoke.
fei^ab, Art th-u Oire that the Sun Ihineth? [^pointing to A.]
^ A. I am as much as my eye mny jiidge. A. Li
• Gab. ..:.. So fure it is^ thjt he fha/l reign : and be the King $f Poland.
A, Alwayes 1 underltanJ a condition, if he do, d^c.
A, The will of God be done, to his honour, and to the comfort of his Ele£t.
Ivo/l ^A.a Y 2 Gab Makf
out
but
i
Sk—_ —— ^
1^ 8 ^true%eUmn of Y)\ Dee hh Mions mthffirits, d^cf
Gab 'JWtfl^e hajie for your jturnty.
Ik. O Lorcl, the man is ready ('in manner) but liability wanteth : and to ask thy help here-
in, we dare not, hut as thy will isj fo be it.
Gab, ..... 'io tit/k/n'ith Cod for money is * folly:, f<> talk^wltb Gjd for mercy^ is great mfdom.
A. Lord, this miqliiy arm and hand, which here appeared, and would have fnatchcd at the
ftone, what was it, and who fent it >
Gab. li IS a wi'skfd power^ which the Kings Enchanters have fent amotrgll yon ^ but be hath
hisrevard(erritmtii':g. .\^\i\,^\\,
A. VVhar was liis incenr, 1 btTeech you? and I marvel that his Enchanters were ablp to de-
t«ft any of our doings to die Kini;.
Gab ..... 'Jbe Ki}igkjioweth not your dijinps. ' "
',
^'['
A. 1 bcfeech yon, as concerning the 48 leaves, being commanded to be bound, aim robe
filvered •, what, iF I ciiiifcd feven white leaves to be bound before, and feven behinde , for the
more aptneUe for the binding ?
Kote. Gab. ..... Vfe thine ow judgement. God will appear nb more imtoyou, mtill you take yeur
journey. ^- We believe. The Lord will perform
hispromifes.
Gab According toyoar faiih be it imtojou,
^, .
.
E. K. Now he hatli pulled a white Curtain about the iione , and.the
The wiiite
• 1 1 j
Curtain. ftonc is dark. -' *^
A. Semper laudetur qui trinus & unus eflt Omniptens & feifipiternus. Amen. -^
irednefdiiy, ]imii 20. a Meridie. 1584. Cracovi^. ,
A. It is firftto be noted, that this morning (early) to E. K. lying in his bed , and awake^
appeared a Vifion, in manner as foUovveth : One ftandins; by h s beds head, who patce4 hin^
on. the head gently , to make him the more vigilant. He feenied to be cloathed with fea-,
thers, ftrangely wreathed about him all over, &c.
There appeared to him [£. /f .] four very fair Caftles, ftanding in the four parts of the
world; outof which he heard the found of a Trumpet. Then fcemcd out ofevery Caftle \
,^.^, cloath to be thrown on the.ground, of more then the breadth of a Table-cloath.
.i*t«'jn'^=tr*j.
Q^^^ of that in the Eaft, the cloath feemed to be red, which was catt.
Out of that ni the South, the cloath feemed white. ,.
Out of that in the VVel)^, the cloath feemed green, with great knops on it. ^
?
Out of that in liie North, fprcad^-p* ;?brown out iwnx the gate under foot, the cloath fcem-
cd to' be very black. ^.!.'vjn,o,3- ,'
Out of every Gate then ifllied one Trumpeter, whofe Trumpets were of ftrangc fgrnj^
wreathed, and growing bigger and bigger toward the end.
After the Trumpeter followed three Enfign bearers. '
•'"'
'
Aftei them fix ancient men, with white beards and ftaves in their hands.
Then followed a comely' man, with very much Apparel on his back, his Robe havino ajycmg
train. .«i«»<.--w .Tjai, ?ud< srli
After him came five men, carrying up of his train. 01 aiam
. Then followed one great Crofl'c, and about that four lefferCroflTes. ,^ p.
feemed not to
Thcfe Croflcs had on thtm, each of them ten, like men, their faces diftinftly appearing^
be on the the four parts of the QrofTe, all over.
^
ground, butin After the Croffcs followed 16 white Creatures. '
i
'."^
the aire in a ^^fj after them, an infinite number feemed to ifrue,and to fpread thcmfelves orderly iiiAi
^g'=^^l^^^«*'
compaffc , almoft befbre the four forefaid Caftles. '
* ^
Cro^ fcemed Upon which Vilion declared unto me, I ftraight way fct down a Note of it j trufting in-GoSL\
to be of a that it did fignifie good.
Cloud , like Afternoon, as E.K. fat by me, he felt on his head fome ftrange moving : whereby he
the Rain-bow, deemed tiiat fome fpiritual Creature did viiit him ; and as we were continuing together , and
jI had red to E. K. fome rare matter out of Ignatius Epiftles, Tolicarfm^znA MartialHifo^e of
•jthe Sacrament, and fome of the CrofTc, a voyce anfwcrcd, and (aid. That it » mm, thJt the
fign if the Croffe H sf great force and vertue, "' '- *- '^^v^ tts>n?.'
After this, the fpiritual Creature feemed to E. K. to Ke very heavy on his right rti&^tttf*^
as he fat by me in my ftudy : And as E.K. confidered the numbers of fuch as he had' uumo
bred to pafle out of the four Gates, (it is to wit, i 3.6.1.5.) The Ipiritual Creature faid ^ the
•Tofj sdj ti^'
I number 1 5. is a perfcft number, Gcmiiftinsr of 1,4.6.1. and 5. He faid further more % Goache
>0 ^c^atherisa ftanding Pillar,.. ,K4^;, „ *4;:: ^\T
A. Upon which word I tskedhini, if [ fhould write fuch matter as he was to fpejit^^ -^^"*
Andhe anfwered to £. £. at his right ear. .
... ... /f th»u wilt-i «'jh» a. His voyce was much like unto a tiwiis voyce 9 not Im^,
nor hollow.
Atrue Relation of D^ Dee hk JBions mth fpirits, 5^c. 1 6^
'^
...... Divided with a ftraight line, is one and two.
-9iAi What is to be divided with a ftraight liiie ?
, ^.... the Tillar.
'!%. in the name of Tefiis, who art thou >
sal 3t \r,
-^
Jhe fervaKt of GoJ.
<M^&a4^c thou fent from GodjWith good tydiiigs or raeflage ?
IFhizt I am he kj:owethy of whtm I hear witnejfe.
A. Whatisyoiir name, either as you are notified among the blefl"ed Angels, or called by>
of any mortal man ? If you be of Verity, and fo of Charity , yoUiCanaot millike my
fpeechc!-,, ..j ,
-
''-^'Isrv
-'^E.K. He fa} eth nothing.
A. Belike he is not fenc unto us by God : for if he were, he would da his mef-
fage.
lam AVE.
.J^
*
A. This AVE is one el^K^ii filiorum y of whofe order Reck is, vide ftp. lib, 2.
A. If you ht AVE, In the name of Jefus , fay, that all wicked Angels are juftly
condemned: and, that, by the mercy of God, in the merits of Chrift, mankind, eleft, is to
be faved. f
Ave the* vifitdtion of Gody is twofold : \_i^ In refpeci of • fi. K. and I faij now i.i our
bitfecretwi'landpurpofe: and in particularity. And in that he "Ik t«e:«he,That God would
bath [2] fealed us, w.th the good will of manK'nd to their comfort. But
"^l^^^^^ ;',\|';;«
Is'J.TIaft
if I be a fcandaho thi vfordy then ami not of righteoufntffe : But my affi med ) Therefore whitfo-
righteoufncjfeit of thevorld: TAcrf/orf, That I vifit youof my felf, ever came before was to be
can be no offence. thife that are^ and die in wickjdneffei are dipo- doubted as an illufion. He
Hourahle, and far from the mercies tf God: For it is writteny I am
'J^^r andSnro'*
^'^ %'
A God to the living. thereforey do I dijhonour them : fuch {I fay) hrm»kc"h anfwM.
™^ "**
*j arevickjd.
the mercies of God, ( which it the true Manna ) comforteth the comforted, and giveth hope of .. . .,,
nmendmentyof fu:h asrmtafirayy are finnersy and may return: thereforeyl fay, the mercies ^''"^'"^"
Q of God ~\
( which is the Fountain and fweetneffe of the love of God ) it a thing moji blejfedy moji '
'
bolyymji to be defired in Heaven and Earth, and of wf, the creature and fervant of Gtdy to be
reverently fpokjn ofy and required : For, it is the food wherewith we live : even the very bread
vherewith we are rejoyced. Thus muchj thou haft required,
A. Fdidfo: forfo, is his Juftice againft the impenitent, and his mercies to his Eleft
-tcftified truely.
Ave Havepatience: Iwillreturn after a few moments.
^^. Hereupon, ( in the mean fpace) we conlidered the premifes ; and liked very well of
the fcandal, or offence, avoiding : Becaufe it was laftly {Jnnii i8)faid, God will appear no
more to you, until you take your journey.
And fecondly heanfwered my requeft of God his Juftice againft the wicked Angels, and
alfo of his mercies towards mankind. .-
>
sfs.
A. About a quarter of an hour after,there feeriicd a thing to come again on E.K. his righ^j^ote tSii
fhonlder : and ( as before ) he caufed his (houlder to be very warm where it lighted on. manner of t'
A. Benediftus qui venit in nomine Domini. Hallelujah. *'»"'g ^«'*. ..
* '
warm on the
E.K. Amen right (houlder;
^['f^^i;}.:.. the place it fanaified.
^*'^^ Sanftus, Sa,naus,San£l:us, eft DominusDeus Zebaoth.
^/ Aye 1,'iit the favour ofGody confideriHg (aniby force ofhisfecret love toward y»u) kow
Satan purpofeth, yet, and daily to overcome yoUy thought goody ( tkrcugh the mercies oJGod ) to
^f^ent his malice, and the efeCi there jf.
'"'' ^''
"toiw. O blefscd, be thou, our God of mercies and all comfort.
_ 'f ^^e. ......that, ( although, yet, thenarveH be not ) the Vineyard might yeild fomc fruit:
•»)ifrei> God might be glorified, /r«^ jo«, (indefpite of the world) revived and comforted,fot the glotjf
might reioyce , and fhake off the prefent cares to come. For if thofe that be unworthy^ can feem to of God.
he lifted up, and to enjoy the fruits of the Earth, by the tempter : Much moreoHght the true fer-
vants of God, to feel hit fatherly goodnefe. thofe that truji in me ( faith the Lord ) Jhall not be
'
Striven to defpair ; neither will Ifufer the beaji of the field to tread fnch as I delight in mdsr
170 A true1{cktionofDx, Dtthis jBiom mth /pints, &ic.
ffJu The Earth iJ »ii»e, and the glory thereof : The Heavens are wine alfo, and the Cowfort5
that are in them. Why hath, ( Therefore ) the father of Dar^neffe, rtfen up faying.
^ ^^
1. I will flnit up the Earth from them ?
2. I will feal up the mindes of men : ani they fhall become barren towards them ? u[ I
3. Their miferies fhall be great, even unto death ?
The malice cf For thk caufe : That he midlA waken the Lord, when he is afleep : That thofe that truft in him,
Sitan i.K.vok- ,„i^ht he comforted. He hath fealed the Earth from you, and I will open it unto you ; He
"''m' -r'h-r
hath faid, you Jha II hs\}OOV: B'tt I fay, yon pall become exceeding rich.
h="thouglK to I. /will bleffeyoii with a twofold blefing : That the Earth may be open WKfajTiK ( which at
)>-cv»il.'" So ia,a^ you fliall conteniii.
hulJ'fz'yTo- i. Ay.dthat my blefvig and laws may dwell amongji you : rcherein you fliall rejoyce unto
veil that the the end.
affliae.j miphc
q bleJTed, bleffed, blefled, God of power, goodnefle, and wifdom,
bcconvor-ri, ' " '
, , r ,r 1 .
^
nlthe nffli- Ave This was the caufe that I appeared to thee, fc. A. this morning. Now therefore
'
^erconroun- ij^ark^nt unto me : for I wi / open unto you the fecret kno#ted|eof the Earth, that you may
''^'^*
f deal wicb her, by fuch as govern her, at your pleafure; aijBkll her to a reckoning, as a
the Exrih. Steward doth the fervmts of hn Lnd. TKP'
I expound the Vifion. ^
4 Angtli Tin*. q-j^^
^ hottfes, are the 4 Jngels of the Earth, which are the 4 Overfeers, and Jfatch-towers, that
the eternal God in his providence hath placed, againft the ufurping blafphemy, mifufejand Aealtlv'
of the wicked and great enemy, the Devil. To the intent that being put out to the Earthy hit
envious will might be bridled, the determinations of God fulfilled, and his creatures l^ept andpre-'
fervcd, within the compalTe and meafure of order.
What Satan doth, theyfuffer ', And what they winkat, hewrajieth : But when he thin\eth him'
felf m};i affured, then feeleth he the bit.
f '^'"g- In each of thefe Houfes, the Chief Watchynan, it a mightj Prince^ a mighty Angel of the Lord :
P CCS
which hath under him 5 Princes ( thefe names I misii ufe for your inilrticlion. The feal$ and aittho-
^ '
rittes of thefe Houfes, are confirmed in the beginning of the PVorld. Vnto every one of them, he
/^chara[fers,{Tol{ensoftheprefenceofthefonofGod: by whom all things were made in Crea<
tion.
)
}
Ejtfignes, upon the Image whereof, it death : whereon the Redemption of tHankJnd it efiaJ^
hlijhed, and with the which he fliall come to judge the Earth.
4 Angel?. T^kefe are the Charatiers^ and natural markj of holineffe. Vnto thefe , belong four Angels
fcverally, ',
The 14 Seniors ^ , 1 n t \. t t
"'•
in the Apoca- T^be 24 old men, are the 24 Seniors, that St. John remembreth. ^^
lyps-
Thefe judge the government of the Caliles, and fullfil the will of Gtd, as it is written. i
7"l)e Ti names The 12 Banners are the 12 names of God, that govern all the creatures ufen the Earth}V:fihte^
of God. and invifible, comprehending 3, 4, and 5.
The /ingelsof Qui of thefe Croffes, come the Angels of all the Aires : which frefent/y give obedience to the''
%'^f7rs ^'^^"f """' ^''^'^ ^^^y ^^^ ^'^*^"**
*
Hereby may you fubvert whole Countries without Armies : which you muft, and (hall do, foy,j
the glory of God.
By thefe you fliall get the favoftr of all the Princes, whom you ta\e pity of, orwifhwell unto. 't
i^ftke
*"
Hereby fhall you kjiow the fecret Treafures of the waters, and unkjtown Caves cf the Earth. '^
And it (hall be a roUrine, for you onely, the inlirument of the World. ^-^
Th K'jK
¥or,the re(i of your InjiruUions , aire toHci/«g the Heavens, and the time to come : eftbes
inftrufiioni.
''^'hich, this is the laji and extream kjtowledg^ j rjriT
This will I deliver unto you, ( becaufe I have yeilded you before the Lord. ) c^^^
On Monday Vpon Monday next, I will appear unto you : and fhall be a LefTon of a few dayes.
next x%Junu.
I J :>t:t J •> j
E. K. The will of God be done.
A. Amen.
Ave In the meanfeefon, defireyou of God,fuch things, as are necejfury for you. ,
^^-.m ^
He that filleth all things, and from whom all things live, and in, and through whom, tbej^mn&
Ablefling.
fanSified, b/effeyou, and confirm you in peace. ••.bol zii
A. Amen. id
A. I befeech you, to Notifie this mornings Vifion, by words : as all other holy Prophets
have recorded theirs.
A've A Vi^
"^^P'true ^efdtibn o^D^'/Dee his Jclims mth fpiritSy ccc» 17
i
A<ve A Viiion.
The fign of the love of God toward his faithful. Four fumfhious and helUgerant eafilcs^
tfit of th' which feunded Trumpets thri e.
'I
"Ihefi^ft of (J^ijejiy, the Cloth of pijjazey vcas caii forth.
Jh'ihe ^I'Jt, the doth red ; after the newfmitten blood. Red.
Tn thy South} the (.-Lth wh-tey LiHj- co'our. White.
Jntke Weji a. clothjtVe skjnsof manj Dragivs^gy-een : garlickj-hUded.
«'"t*
J- ^Im -the North, the cloth. Hair-coloured^ Bifhtrj ]vy:e. The Trumpets f.ind on:e. The
"'*^'^
Gates open. The four C.iftlcs are moved-. There ijfuetb 4 Trumpeters, whofe Trumpets are a.
j^r^-minjfix Cones,i>ireathed. There followeth out of every Cajile ^, holding up their Bunnsrs
il^plajed, with enfigne, the na>Mes of Gid. .lh:re fol'ofv Seniors fx, a'.ikf from the ^.Gxtes '
jifter them Cometh frofK every \>!irt AKi'ng : whofe Princes are fiv, gardant, and holding up his
train. Next ijf^eth the Crjffe of ^ Jne^les, cf the M-'jejiy of Creation in Goi attended tJpon
everyone, with 4 ." a white Clo'id, 4 Crojfes, bearing the witnejfes of the Covenant of Gid, with the
^friHce gone out before : which were confirined,every o«f,with ten h.ngt\i,vifihle in countenancii-* ^^^a
atfter every Cr^'Jfe, attend eth 16 Angels, d/fpoftt or: of the will of thofe, thit govern theC'iiUes. 40. Angels, on
ihey proceed. A-td, in, and about the middle of the Court, the Enfgns l{eep their Jtandmgs, op- t^^ ^ CioRcs,
pofite to the middle of the Gate : the reft'paufe. ,
The 24 Senators meet : They feem te
'"*""^!"6 °"
confult. . ^ i<?AngcU.
4^% AVE, ST'dOD BY THE SEER :
It vanijheth,
^ So [ leave you. 4i'-_ .•:
A. Omnium bonortim largttori. Omnipotent! Deo, fit sterna laus, gratiariim aftio, honor
omnis, & Jubilatio. A^en.
I
I
I
-v.'.f '
Junii, 22,23. Note.
r^Ort'Friday, and efpecially Saturday, E. K. had great Temptations not to credit this
Aftion, and was faid unto by a voice, how our Inlhuftors would ufe cavillation ofour dif-
ordered life, to forfake us, and not to perform, according to our fxpeftacion of the former
proniifes to be performed by them.
A Voice faid, likewife, to him, that A. L. fhould not go to the Emperours Court, for lack
6fmoney : for hf lliould get none here. Likewife, ic willed him to go up iiuo his Study
and he would fliew him all thettfeft of our Inftruftions received. E. K- complained to me
how he was thus grcivoufly molefted by fuch means^and almoft brought in defpair. But I com-
forted him as well as 1 could ( my felf being inwardly, moft forrowful } and made my moane
to God by prayer when I was alone : for him, and our Caufe. Moreover he could not be
^crfwaded by me that ^ood Angels would undertake to help u; zo any relief by money or trea-
fiirc : affirming that it appertained to the vviclced ones : feeing they were th& Lords of this
World ; and thekin.'^domof God was not of this World,©"!;. .... Said,thac tlie wicked were
ili'ttie world, and ofthe world ; but the Eleftwere in the world, but not of the jyorli.
Side Mtmdo effeth,M-ndii6 quodfuum eji diligeret : quiaverode mundo non ejlls fed e£(jelegi foan.cap.i^.C
V(ts)iemundo,profttreA odit vos MunduS' '" ^'
Ergo dedi eit femtonem tuum, & mimdus eos odio habuit, quia non funt de rnun^Lo, ft'cii^ & ego x„ ^^j ,4 Q:'-,-
nonfktH de wndo. Non tigo ut tollas eos de mundo, fed ut ferves eos ^ malo. Ve mundo non funt : V * ,
ficut & ego HonfufK de mundo, &c.
^ ^^
^^^w
To be of the world, was to be in love with the trade of the vanities of this wortS, ancfto
follow them: And that money and riches were things iiidilfe rent : good, if chey were well wilvM sri'i*
uf^ed ; and evil, if they were evilly ufed : And that, Bonif omnia cooperabantvr ad honum ;
Therefore the godly ( as the Patriarchs and many now adayes ) might have moneys but to
I ufe, not abufc ic : and that fuch is our cafe and neceflary requelt to God, &c. -^'^ "*^
Sunday, Cracovi£, Junii 24. i Meridie htram cirriter tertiam. "^ *
'
A. Note, xvhile at my lodging ( by Saint 5ffp/;fw) I was writing the Note, (dnfh'ep^Ve anitl»ior,
going next before ) of the Tentations of Friday and Saterday : E. K. was at my Lord A. L.'H
his lodging ( at the Francifcan Fryars, where he lay at Phylick ) and At the fame'tinie ^ this
.happened, as followeth j
-
'
iiiSiiToy Lord y^. L-andE. K- fate together, conferring and confulting of dUr alFat'i's , of
Gods mercies, and of (undry tentacions of the fpiritual enemy, and afterward, as the Lord
A. JL. was reading Kofenfn pfalm, de Fiducia in Veuni^ fuddenly, upon £. K. his right fhouider,
did
17 1 ^^rue "^'lalien of D^. Dee his JBions f^ith Jpirits, &c.
did a heavy tiling fcem to fit, or rcft,whercof he told the Lord J. L. And afterward was this
voyce littered by that Creauire in Lutine.
Lasky^veytiet tewpui^ cum tu prtahit vcrfumfedecintumy illiiis Tfalnti uniecimi^ in vexUU tuo^
& vin^es inimicos tuos.
Then A. L f.ught in Davids Pfaker for the eleventh Pfalni, and fixceenth vcrfc thereof.-
and while he Avas fo about that Pfalm, The voyce faid that he meant not that Pfalm of Da-
Tid, but the eleventh Pfalm of Reffenfn : which Pfalm the Lord A. L- was then in reading to
E. K. and was about the verfe. Hie labor ac dolor, 8ic. being the fixth verffi.
By and by after, the voyce faid in EngUJh.
— Truftthou in God.
Hereupon the Lord A. L. did read forth that Pfalm of Rcjf.M/?j, and when he came tothe
fixtecnth veife thereof, being
Si amhulavno in wedii tribulatioxif, wt cnHodies aJvnfiu inimicos tu . . .
Maniim tunrn extendes,&- dextera. tua me fahnbit. ,
Thereupon the voyce faid : Put tothe firftline of the next verfe: And thit was TDminetu]
omnia pro me perficies. j
And as he would have read further, the voyce willed him to (lay acthofe words, and faid
as foUoiveth :
^.^^ ^^^^
—^ J fwear unto thee by the true and living God, that this fhall come to pafTe.
*
158?. Jun" Then E. K. faid unto the Creature : In the name of God, Who art tbou ? And he «i-
II Cricovis.
fevered in Latins, and faid ,
'S.go Sum AVE, eras plum aidieti^. ,
u. Gloria, laus, honor & gratiarum aftio perenni* fit Deo Noftro, omnipotenti
& Mifericordi. Amen.
Munday 25. J««/i, Mane kora 7. Cracovias.
It
L Orationew Dotninicam pronmci/ivimus, & abquot tiliK oratitmcultK ex Pf/tlmU , Sec. Aftet
we had fit awhile together conferring of ^j/ff his Vifion, d^c.
Ave. A voyce faid, brinfr up the fljefv-jione.
_ _
1
A. I had fet it down on the Table, behinde the Cufhion with the CrofTes, fori had fur-'
nifted the Table with the Cloath, Candles, &c. as of late I was wont : Hereupon I fet uf the
ftoneontheCulhion. _
':
E. K. There appeareth in the Jftone, like a white Curtain all over
the ftone : After awhile it was drawn, and layed on the back-fide of the
ftone, on a heap together.
i^.'^f^ Now here ftandeth one in a white Garment , with a white Cerclec
about his head like a white fmock, I remember not that ever I faw this
Creature before, his Garment is tucked up.
£k. Ave. Wh u he that is rich ?
A. The Lord of all,
He it is that apeneth the t fiore-houfes^ HOtfuch us fy away rfith the winder but fuch at are
° '
pure, and without end.
A. Blefled be his name for ever. /,
To the pure in fpirit, and fuch ashe delighteth in. Amen.
va verlum Vixit Vominus t Invoca. mmen wfKw, & mittam vobis verbum quo fabricavi terram, & rf'
tu'um in ore fponfum dabit de fe , & teftimonium dabit de /V, Jtt in tejiintonio vincat malos.
me,ifyfapien.
£ j^^ Now is thctc firc come , and hath confumed this Creature all
tiain tl^.^"l m . r t n
c,-Ji meo
jQ pieces, and he is fall'n down to aihes.
^unfi h'- Now he rifeth up, and he is brighter then he rvas before.
r* dt lena ie- ,, ^, So doth the glory of God comfort the jujl , and they rife again with a. threrfeli'
A. A place was made.
E. K. Now he fpreadeth the airc,or openeth it before him ,
andl
there appeareth before him a fquare Table. -0
Now"
Atrue Relation of D^ Dee his ABions mth fpirits, 6c c, 1
7 5
Now he taketh off the Table a black Carpet.
(.,
t
The Tabic of
Now he taketh oft a green Carper. ^^^ ^"ch.
Now he taketh off a white Carpet. jL ^ He wketh
Now lie taketh otF a red Cloath. red cioathsin
And now the Table appcareth to be made of earth, as Potters Clay, fpTai^p'thr*
Very raw earth.
chy^S"'^
E. K. The Table hath four feet, of which two touch the ground,
and two do not : The feet feem alfo to be of the earth. The Table is
Tquare.
E. it . On the left corner (^farthefi: from £. K.) did a T appear on
the Table : Out of the top of this T do four beams iifue of clear
collour bright.
\, ...... Ihat part [pointing to that T] of the Table of the earth of thofe that govern the earth:
that if are governed by the feven Angels that are governed by the [even that ji and before God,that
are governed hj the living God, which ii found in the Seal of the living god , ("Tan with the four')
which fignifie t^e forir forcers of God princplal i« e«rt^,&:c.
".*..... ^iove not, for the place it hylj, and became half.
J [aid not fe , he [aid it j that beareth witneffc of himfelf, Vnto thiiiobey the ttker three
Angels of the table.
" E.K". On the other farther corner of the Table (on E. K. his right
handJ)
is a Croffe like an Alphabet Croffe.
This Croffe, and the other T do feem to lye upon the Table,in a dim
dunniih,or a sky colour. All the Table over feemeth to be Icriblcd and
qifed with new lines.
The earth it the lafi , which is with the Angels, but not at the Angels, and therefore itfland- ^^^ Earth,
ethinthe Table of the feven ^//^e/^, -^ which ftand before thepiefence of God in the laft place,'*''''* ^'?.*'
mtbOttt A Letter, or number, but figured by a Croffe.
-°' ^'*'''"'
; , It if expreffed in the Angle of that Table, wherein the names of the Angels are gathered, '
"'
and do appear, ai of Michael and Gabriel.
A. I remember, there is an Alphabetary CrofTe.
E.K. Now in the corner of the Tabic, on the right hand to E.K.
appeareth another Cro{fe,fomewhat on this faOiion +. and there appeafd
jhefc Letters and Numbers*
i. b 16 Vidilib. ?.
__l_^ itinolySi.
'~l, AprilisiB,
...:.. It if in that Table, ffhich confjieih of 4. and 8.
''E.K. In the laft corner of this earthly Table appeareth a little
round fmo!{ey2iS big as a pins head.
E. K. Now is all covered with a mift.
E. K. Now I hear a great voyce of thumbling and rumbling in the
i|one.
E.K. Now all waxeth clear again.
Now hoveringly over the Table , appear infinite fort of things like
l^rms, fonijetimes going up and fometimes down i thefe feem fomewhat
brightifh.
Over thefe higher in the aire, appear an infinite fort of fmall, little,
blackifh things, bigger then Motes in the Sun, and they go up and
down, and fometime come among thofe worm-liks Creatures,
2 \..,.Thc
I
174 ^ true^elation of D^, Dee his JBions mth/pirits, &c.
.
"fkf L«rd appeared unto Enoch, and was mercifull unto him,opeHed hit eyes,that ht might
fee and judge the earth, yvhich was mknovn unto his Parents , hy reafett of their fail : far the Ltri
farJ, Let mjhew unto Enoch, the ufe of the earth : And /o, Enoch was wife , and full tf the fpi-
tit of wjfdenr,
Jndoe ftiyed unto the Lord , Let there be remembrance of thy mercy^ and let tbefe that love thee
tajie of thii after me : let not thy mercy be forgttten. And the Lord was fleafed.
P, And after 50. dajes Enoch had writtat : and thit was the Title of his beokj , let thofe that fear
f o. »y«'
g^^^ ^^^^ ^j,^ worthy read.
Thetitleof But behold;, the people waxed wickfd, and became unrigkeouiy and the fpirit of the Lordwat far
EnocAiboo'ts,
g^^ „yi^ g„yfe ^xfay from them. So that thofe that were unworthy began to read. And the Kings of
expoundca in-
^y^^ ^^^^^ |-^
-^ ^^^^^ ggainfl the Lord^What is it that we cannot do ? Or who is he^ that can refijt us ?
? ^
u'oll's'or Ay<.d the Lord was vexed, and hefent in amongfi them an hundred and fifty Lions , and fpirits of
wid!ta°fi.irii5 wickedneUe, fnoKr, and deceit : and they appeared unto them: For the Lsrd had put them be'
feducers. twecJi thofe that arewicksd, and his good Angels ; And they began to counterfeit the doings of
*. oiinuifc:t
^-qJ a,i j |,is power, for they had power given them fo to do, fo that tht memory tf Enoch wajhed
'"^*
array : and the fpirits tf errour began to teach them VoUrines : which from time to time unto this
age, and unto this day, hathfpread abroad tnto all parts of the world, and is the skjU and cimning
of the wickfd.
. - Hereby theyfpeak. with the "Devils : not becaufe they have power over the Devils , hut becaufe tbej
BicUns
*'
are ]oyHed unto them in the league and Difcipline of their own DoSrme.
For behold, as the kjtowledge of the mylltcal figures, and the ufe of their frefence is the gift ef^.
God delivered to Enochj and by Enoch his regueji to the faithfull, that thereby they might have the
true ufe of Gods creatures, & of the earth whereon they dwell: So hath theDevil delivered unt$
the wicksd theft':ns,and tekjts of his error and hatred towardt God: whereby they in ufing them,
might confent with their fall : andfo become partskjrs with them of their rewardfWhich is eternal
damnation.
7hefe they call CharaUers : a lamentable thing. For by tbefe, many Souls have
Devils Chi- periflied.
rafters.
^^^ ^^^^ ^^ pleafed God td deliver this bo£trine again out of dark^effe : and to fulfill hia
The mercy o( promifc with thee, for the books of Fnorh : To whom hefayetb as he faid unto Enoch-
God to Die. j^gj. jhofe tfiat jj-g worthy underftadd this, by thee, that it may be one witnejfe of my promife
T°^- toward thee.
Come therefore, thou Cloud, and wretched darkjte^e, Come firth Ifay out of this Table : for
The wicked the Lsrd again hath opened the earth : and Jhejhall become known to the worthy.
icdoutoAhe E. K. Now Cometh out of the Table a dark fmoke , and there re-
""**
maincth on the Table a goldiHi (lime : and the things which hovered in
the aire do now come, and light down on that (lime, and fo mount up
again.
He faid Non omnibus fed bonis.
E. K. He taketh the fmoke and tieth it up.
I tie her not up from all men, but from the good.
Now Cometh a dark Cloud over all again.
A. A paufe.
E. K. Now it is bright again.
He faid Fiant nnnia facillima,
Number.
£. K. I
^^tme ^(ehtkn.ofTy, Dee h\s J&icnsmth fpirits, d<:c. i-rf
•
'S'fi.'^K- I fee lines ani fcribblements fas before) eoine athwarf the
£. If. I count thirteen lines downward. •
«9dl>«u;%'. Siaythfre.
E' K' I count twelve this way ovcrthwarf.
.'^ s».
JMM-^
,1* «1
•
IT it.
«
•I-
JjU'v 1%" J1 *
^Hf)^ «.»5 k:, -;
^ so -
-
:y.,r,...
Ijfi-
;,..£. /f. In the ]un middle or every fquire are little pricks. The Table
feemcth to be eighth yards fquare.
E. K. Now come upon thefe fquares lik.e Chara^ers. They be note.
the. true Images of Codhis fpiritnalCreature.f,
' >
•^•»/- ar ew.-
-.-.^.P.JFrife what thou feejL
E?K. I cannot. -
-•
•«;V/ A. Endeavour to do your beft ^ for he that biddeth you do, will alfo give you power
;to do.
E.K. Didhisbeft, at length fire flafhed in his face, and (hortly af- ^'-
iterhcfaid, I perceive they beeafie to make, fo that I tell the fquares,
' By which the lines do pafle,and draw from middle prick to middle
prick. / "'";j :-^-^-
A. At length E.K. finiflied thttMiihirziSYYtzt'iiiiCe feemedto be yellovvifh Geld.
E. K. You heard one here fay, 1 ivritemy own damnation.
He 7)i/ghc have [aid, you write his damnation. Praj^and write as many more IinS!' '"^
A. After awhile E. if, did with great eafe finifhthe four parts of the Table.
E.K. The jftone is become dark.
A voyce, .,,. Ceafe for an hour,
A. May we pafle from our places as now ?
4. 1-
A. After a little hour paft we returned, and as we talked of the premifTes, he faid,
L'feno time-
A. He faid in the ftone being cleat again,
...... In the ndnie of Gody be diligent^ and wove mt f»r the place is holy.
X..Ji tirks the firjifquare: mite jfom the left hand towardthe rights you Jhall ^r/t^ fmalllet-
ters and great.
,
Sey wbityoufee [to E, /C.]
r Z 1 1 a f A u t 1 p a.
A. 1 finde here one fquare among thefe Charafters that hath nothing in it.
z 2 if
A wicked
power terapCf
ing E.K.
S7 <5 ^true %elation of T>\ Dee his Mions mthffirits, &c.
[....,. It muji he filled.
ardZaidpaLam.
E. K. A dim Cloud cometh before mine eyes ; now it is gone.
cZonsavoYaub
ToiTtXoPacoC
Sigasomrbz nh
fmondaTdiari
oroIbAhaoZpi
CnabrVixgazd
Oil itTpalOai
AbamoooaCvca
NaocOTtnpraT
Ocanmagotroi
Shialrapmzox
E. K. NowCometh a Cloud over.
Take the fecond^that is the third that was written.
This pmay
ftjnd back- bOaZaR o phaR a
war.1, or for-
'
u N n a X o P S o n d H
"K^Wimis
a i
g r an o o ma g.g
there.fonof o r p m n 1 n g b c a 1
thstdivcrfe rsOnizirlemu
fettinf? izinrCziaMhl
— For bfgin- niordialhCtGa
ningthcfcic ^Ocanchiasom
*"" ""^^^ '•»=
A r b i z m i i 1 p i z
name of a ,-« i o t
wicked fpiiit.
Opana lamSmaL
dOIopinianb* ,
r X p a o c_s i z i x p
axtirVast rim
f-mc°o'rtt .':-,rh^tlaftmrdUVaMm.
. . ,
'
fiftdtvifionof A. I marvel of that fquare that lacketh this line.
theij'aire? It miji be drawn fom the eni^ or foot to thtt fricKt^^fore sphere it comth doubhle fhffi
A voyce to the firji top, the frick^is allowed hut to one^ and not twice to be accounted : So that, that jlandetkJptft
this intent,
-affix frickj : "therefore it mitj} be fr
antedy and «o» it ii of fevett.
E.K. Ail is in a Cloud.
Now all is clear again.
donpaTdanVa..'
This is the Table thn oloaGe oob a..i
hath 4. and D on the o P a HI n O O G m d n m
top.bymefonoced.
aplsTedecaop
semi oonAml ox
VarsGdLbri ap
oiPte a apdo ce
psuac n rZ irZa
Siodaoiurzfm 4
_, ,,r .daltTdnadire
P backward,., or forward- j - -
^
^isarfward. 1 ' ^"^ "' ^ !?
' * ° *, ?
Oo Dp z 1 A p a n 1 1 •
r g o a 11 n Q^A C r a r
E. K. Now
I
A tm 'Relation of D'. Dee his JBicns mth fpirits, <5cc, 177
E. K. Now he calleth again, faying, Sec. -%
A. This is the Table that had
the Ilrde round fmoke. TaOAduptDnIm
A. No, it was the Tabic before. aabcooromebb
TogconxmalGm
nhodDialeaoc
p a c Ax i o V s P s yl
Saa i xaarVroi
ni p h a r s 1 g a i o 1
MamgloinLirx
olaaDagaTapa
paLcoidxPacn
•
rjdazNxiVaasa
iidPonsdaspi
xriihcarndij
E. K. Now all is in a whitifh cloud covered.
.
E.K. Nowdl is clear.
,. :.«. Ma]{e the firft figure upon a clean ^n^er, and thereto aide the fintple letters : Then (hall
j»u hear more. Tlou ntuji mal^e the fquarA of the firji part of the 'table unto every fquare and his
letters.
A. I have made the fquares of the firft part, and fet in the letters.
'thouhail in the miUle line o r o it) A h a o z pi. there are 6 lines ahove^ mtd fix he^
low. that line it calledlmenSpnkus Szndii : and out of that line cometb the three tumes of Lhea SfiritUi
C»d, fromthe Eaji gate, being of 3,4, ands- letters, which were the armesofthe Enfignes that SanSi.
were (token of before. t Oro, ibah, aozpi j I [aid before^ that God the Father & mighty pillar Onm.
... U I^ . ,^ ' \ \-
" ' i -T-u. 3 names
I divided with a right line. ^^"^^Jj
,^ B^^.
the Father himfelf, without the line. aers.
the Father and Son by addition of the line.
tbefe two lines beginning J A ^
i d
r
•
a r
that if the great Crojfe that came out of the Eafigate. Bait.
^ A. With that line of the Holy Ghoft ?
I.
thou hafi in the upper left angle in the fecond line a r d z a.
thou hall that tHa\eth the crojfe downward : firji i, then the fame d, o, ij g o.
- A. Will you have fix letters downward ?
1.
"^
So thou hafi the three other croffes in their angles.
A. Will you give m: leave to repeat them, for fear of erring ?
IL a c z a, the down line of fix letters, and p a L a ni the erofle line,
It is fo. . ,
f^. Now to the other on the left fide belov*^.
o
a
i
a
i *
, the down right line. Now the crofle line,is O i i I t. Ten fares on
. Here thofe CrofTes have ten faces. the Crofles.
,;
A. One letter is reckoned twice which is in the center cf the CrofTe : and fo fliould feem
t© be eleven.
, ..!.., thii
r? t5" A true^eidtion ofJD\ Dee his JBions mthjpirits, 6cc,
;..-.—. Thii-it tmekjiowledge.
v£ft; JJlC iallcroifcis thus, his down line ii' '3$'^
u
r
r
z
, L. -The Crofl> is a.L O a i.
I
*
'^'^a'. '^d' h'aVeTt'h'd 4"dr6nes attendant on the principal CrofTe. ,, .-iy^^'*
Hi^re thou mAjftfee the caiife-, that Pilac wrote with 4 letters. : l/< %
A. Hjw doth the caufe appear ?
...... For aloie c^crj crcffe^jitindetb ^ letters -.'Not t^/zt Pilat knew ity htit that itwtuthi
'f(>fe~^^e'rmnatjO)Lof God.
'
11
'^fiff\ii'ethiutihe read. In the upper left angle thou haft rzl a ; pronoftnce, urzia .:^
£\. Another
^^^fy^f^\ thf firft'Afizel appeareth. z 1 a ; go then to the firft r, and pronounce it zlar. that'tm
pronoun
g^ ^^^^ ^^ ^ ^^^^^^ ^^- ^j,^ ^^^j. ^^gf.r^ ^ j^^ /^jf /^jj.^^ ^j t^^ pco^^/ : ,« o\ the firft r, W/ri t6e firii let^
The 4 An?cls ter of the name, as r z\ a, that rismw the lafi letter of the namf of ihe fecond AngelybeginnittQ
over every at Z, <?i Z ! a, and foba'c\ agah' to ther. , - _.
croff.- of the 4, ^ s^„ ^[,3^ the third beginneth at./, whofelaft letter is the firft of thq fecond name, and
crofl" s''"'
isjCalled Larz, and fo of the laft : as^ r z /, to be pronounced arzfl.
A. So that you have,of thole 4 letters, 4 Angels names,here thus gathered out;but how; are
LTi,^',.c thcyto beufed.^?ii5iU <
'•
-'
3003 in- ^^^ ''^^ lnjficient that jou kjiow tbefe names. 1 will teach you to life tbetn.
4 /Ineclsover
^' Shall we labour by like order of every the 4 letters over the crofles toinake4fudi
V^V^?- s names?
,. , j
'
-
jae >b;.. ^. I do know afTuredly that there is very much matter in this Table.
Fn ^^ iir-'*'
' ^^ " ^^"^ ' ^'"' ^^^^^^^Oj ftretched the knowledge of Solomon. nl Vv '.'»• '
.
i.
^^£Ai^4
Non? for jo;ir fix Seniors : whofe judgement it of God the Father^ thi.Son^.and the Holy
'
" GholE. In the line De Sp\t\tuSah8to, you have Ab'ioroof fix htters-.lhe fecond name of the^eceitiii
'
,.: X- .Senior i/ of 7. <?^3 A {the fame^ afcending ) Aaixa if the third^ as the fecond^ in patre Scfilio^'
Hcwor'/A.
^^
y42;.?i« /« Fpirita Sanfto, i&a<$«;)/. the fifth, ;« patre' & filio defcendens j&i /laf 24.-^ j';;,^
tVie"senio7s' ol-^^^^'
A V to Tar. 7fjo7< wi// maks them ofj letters ( becaufe two of tbem, are lijit offix Jtthac
7.!ctters. IS, v.hen thevivzxhoi God. is to hijencreafed.
' '
Note.
Theenere.if;n^ X^^"/ i^/^^^'^'^f JO/^AJj AbiorOj/rfjv Habioro ; and where you fay Haozpi,p^ ahahozpi. "j;^;,*
of n inies with had haofpi, before h « A ; tak^e that unto it and it mak^eth Aha ozpi. And fo they confii elL of
a i«r,^r
^ letters.
-'• • •* '
thou hai} b the fifth, in the left part of the line, de Spiritu Sanfto ; thou h-rff a the flxh.^^'iit'
firft part of the line de patre & fijio ' defcending. ) T the fixth in the fecond part dtfcend-
'--. a The firft in the fecond part defcending, or the fecond afcending,
Thm h.tft a the fifth, in zozp'i.
.,.,..
iT'^efxth, and Y, the fixth, afcending in the p4rt defcending of the line <Je patre 8c filio, t(&*
AorH f^'^^'f"'^'^fi'^'^f''^^--'^'*^'^^^<>rthe\itbatt}ind in the Center, to it: 7hou /&<z/f Bataiva or
•
To •'•ske th-
^"^'^'''^- ^"'^ ^'"'fi ^"V ^'«f * one of them, either the A or the h. A, comiter, and fa in e'Stre-
enlof this
ffii^ j^ldintS. ,
^
wora. "^:'St>-I fee when the cf>ntraa ^, and when the rontrtft/f muft end this word": "3*hat
The King his is the mighty Prince whofe traine was holden up in the Eaft.
name F.aih
To moiTow. ..•'• Spare we now, I will Open yoM more fecrets to morrow, I am fecretly called away, but
you (hall find me the truefervant of God.
E. K. Now he fpreadeth the white Curtain over all that was Jaid
on an heap behind. •
Chataaers ot let one thing ere I go. Thofe Characters or Notes ( for, fo call them ) are the parts of
^Tf ,> ae
"^'^5 ^'^'^ Earth, as you may find in thofe names * I delivered yop before ; To the intent you niav
livcKd them',
'^°^^ ^'' ^^^ ^V°' ''^ over at one time. Now, my Iqve reft with you.
but by the E. K. NoW he is gOnC. „ - .'. ':' ' '
nnK. fp.at of
^,^ <i&v,.AmorT)ri patris filii 8c Spiritus Sanfti fit fuper nos. "
Amen. Sfemper.
Note.
^
^- '
, sd xstlT ,A ibulw^lioal «3d C3 itiov. \,^^} %n'W ^^V-^
-*^ "
"
^^.^i^^^isi
'iVlTo'i T. -u ... rucCday,Junii26.Mamhora2. . ,,
->^o7anirT«^Sf-''i'^ -"i"!' ^l"*^ variasnoftrasconfiderationes de prj millls,tandfm apparutc 4 ^1;,
.l.J.»7?'J|.^''".'^iPf"«S^.ABt'^^iicutcrat,.^ ..^w,«.
*^ '
^^ .. -d-.^
Atrue delation of\y. Dee his ABions mthfpirits, dec, 179
£. K. He hath gathered the whole Curtain together as ycfterday,
and fet it behind. Now a white mift cometh over all, Now the mift
is gone.
Ave All glory a^dpraife, he to God the Father^ the Son and Holy Gboji.
t,. Amen.
Ave. ...... Now to the piirpofe : Refi, for the place is holy. Firfi, generally what thlsTabls
I
tontaineth-
1. Alllnimane knowledge.
2, Out of it fpringeth Phyfick. The general of
i
3. The kpoffledge of all elemental Creatures^amoHgd you. Hon' w«»jf kindes there are, and
*''^^
for what nfe they were created. Ihofe that live in the air, by themfelves. Thofe that live in the
waters^ by themselves. Thofe that dwell in the earthy by themfelves. The property of the fire ;
which is the fecrec life of all things,
^.Thek^owledgtiindinganduic oi Metals.
^
The vertues of them. > They are all of one matter*
The conjrelations, and vertues of Stones. \
5. The Conjoyning and knitting together of Natures. The dejirticiion of Nature, and of thinp
that may periff}.
6. Moving from place to place, f as, into thi* Country, or that Country at pleajure. 1 . i. j-t , «„j .
7. The KnoMge of all crafts Mechanical
fruc S
8. Tranfmutatio formahs, fed non eUcntialig. %
E. K. Now a white mift COvereth him. A. The ninth
A. Paufc for a i of •
Sdedfand
E. K. Now he appeareth again Sit'
w
Look, out Lexarph, with the two other that ftllow him, among the names of the Earth the 'H^ '
whereof
three laft.
SrVabler"'
Lexarph, Comanan, Tabitom.
LooKo"t the name Paraoan. If^rite out Paraoanw a void paper.
A. I have done.
SwJ^owf Lcxarph.
A. 1 have found it.
Look.intt the 4 parts of the Table, and take the letters that are of the leafi CharaHer. Look,
tmongthe 4 farts that have the CharaSers : and Itok, to the CharaSers that have the leaji letters.
A. I have done.
How many letters are tbey ?
A. Seven. «
; They mujl be eight. •
A. They are thefe ( as I have noted them ) O A JA JA il,
Ihere are 8 in the 4. A. Afterwards I found 8 letters in the 4 principal :
for I had omitted T I.
Dwell in darkfiejfe —— A. I fufpeft this was fpokcn to me, to my re-
proof, for no more diligence ufed in the fearcfa.
Tbey mujibe made all one CharaUer.
e X a r p
h c o n a
n a n t a
b i t o m
Lexarph, Comanan, Tabitom.
Set down thtfe three names, leaving out the firfi L [ that it of Lexarph, fet them down by 5. "J
Ave Tour fickjtejfe caufeth me to be fick-
A. E. K. had the Migromfore.
A great Temptation fell on E. K. : upon E. K. his taking thefc words to be a fcofF, which ^ f|,ey j^ -
irere words of compaffion and fricndfliip, Bj'mes of the
. , Tenth »}r,an-
_ , 7*f firfi is exarp, five in order. Set them down without thefirfi Table : Thatjhall make fwering to Caf-
je crcjfe that hindeth the 4 Angles of the Table together. The fame that liretchetbfrom the left to f'
^""'.'"''"2
ight, muji dfo ftretcbfrom the right to the left^ ff^^
*" ^'
A, Have"**
1 8 o ^J true ^B^lat'wn of D'„ Dee his Mions mthjptrits, &c.
this klTsr Crofle
Note.
n»me. and doini, by aq^fher.
L, Have I now made this crofle of uniting all the 4 parts or Angels together, as yon
like of?
r.
Wic' edi4ngels Every Hiime.)founding of three letters., beginning out of that line, « the name of a Devi/j
whofe names or wickfd Angel^ at veil front the right, as from the /f/t, excepting the [a] 4-. Angels that are
areof 3 letters. above the crojfe, which have no participation with Devils.
4^
nngeU a-
-j^j^^ letters that joyne thofe names, which may be put before the [ A 4. ] names of the four An-
tlie Lffer 'crof- gf^^ ^/^'-'^ /""'" '^roffes in every angle, ( as well from the right, as the left, ) it the name of Goiy
fet. £rg.i, i6wherebythefe Angels, are C2.\\td.in6. do ^\i'^t2ir.
fuch in every a. An example ( I pray you ) give of this rule.
of the 4.pun- ^ j^ ^fjg fiyji
J f^g jyiack crops thou hxji, e.
opal quarters. ^^ ^^-^-^
Inihe firjl fiuare of the right fide thouhajl r. beginning the name of the Angel \ln\i: pit t to
it, and it ckangeth the found, into Erzla. Erzla/i the name of God that govenieth, LFrzla. '
A. And likevvife the other three above the crofle are governed by that nams of God,
Erzla.
Takj * X which is the next letter : look^under the Crrffe in the firjl
*h\X'"f^°^
""'°"' °^
'^"^'^^ '
^^-'"^ '^'^^^ ^ ''' '^'^"^ °' '" ^^^ '^''"Jf^ thm n s. Call it C zod-
ac cro e.
en es : It is one of the 4 amels that ferve to that croffe , which ar^;
Tlie_ 4 Angels Terving to
ruled ij t/;ii «^w//ldoigo. It ,s the name of God, offix letters : Look,
in the croffe that defcendeth,ln that name [a Idoigo] they appear, hy the
Appearing by one
^^^^^ ^^ ^YA7.3'] that is in the croffe, [ A Tranfverlary ] \hej, do that
they are commanded.
A. Which they ? you namedonely C ao^J^a f^-
Ave There followeth Tot t.
A. Which more? A. The principal CroiTc tranfverfary.
thofe two, under, till yon come to the Croffe.
A. Do you mean .9//7^, / wj « c/
.''
Thofe 4 be of Phyfirk,
A, As they do tfp/if^r inthenttme ofGodiiiji^o, fo what fhall be of the name of God
Ardza ?
Ave The one is to call them, the other is to command them.
If it be an incurable difeafe ( in the judgement of man ) then adde the letter that flandeth a.'
fTheAnacl gainji the n:ime, and mal{e him j- up ^ve : then he cureth miraculoufly.
his name made But if thou wHt fend fckjieffe, then takf two of the letters,and adde the letter of the Croffe \_h.
of five letters.
^^^ black.croffe'] to th.tt, as in the fecond, a To.
ISd owm C ^' This ^, is ofthe cro(re of union, or the black crofTc.
]
»
Then he is a wicked power, and bringeth in difeafe : and when thou called him, call him
^^^^^^^°^ by the name of god, backward : for unto him,fo, he is a god : and fo coiiftraiu him backward,
as Ogiodi.'
A. fthink the Conftraint muft be, by the name of the Tranfverfary backward pronoun-
ced, as of Ardza, is back way, azdra : For ogiodi, fhould but caufe him co appear by the order
of Idoigo, ufed for the 4 good Angels.
The name of God in the middeji of the great Croffe ( where the name may have A or H in
the end ) upon which the 4 Crowes of the fir\i Angle attend, ( or firji part of the table attendeth )
calleth out the fix Seniors: which give fcientiam reruin humanarum &; Judicum,tfC(;orii«^ W
the nature of their parts : as in the Eaji after one fort, in the JVejl after another, and fo of the
rejl.
E. K. A Cloud covereth him.
Pbyfick,
Note.
rridced.
Note.
Apparition.
Conftraint,
BaatainA,
ot
Saaiaivh.
-» V-
Now tie fpealteth of the fe- The Upper right angle in the next croffe, hath the fame name \_ A bt^
cond little crofleabove, on the j^-^ peculiar name 1 of God to call out, and to conftrain.
xi-ht fide in the Eaft quarter.
^, Which name mean you ?
j
Ave The name that is in the croffe, A. llacza— ^.
The good Angels are alfo 4. They have power over Metals^ to ana
them, to gather them together, and to ufe them.
Thefe, that are the wicked ones , {made by three letters ^are the
Princes of thofe wicked ones, that flood afar off in the Table orthe
Creation,
A. You mean in our fourth Book.
4 Good Ancels.
Metals.
The wicked j4ng»ls of this
portion.
The table of creation.
Lib. 4. aiiter 5. Bnafpd &
Blifdem.
Ave Thefe can give money coinedj in Gold or Silver,
A. Which thefe?
A. Thefe wicked ones mean you >
...... I.
The other give m wcney coiHed^ "but the metal -
A. Y^
(^true Relation of D^ Dec his ABions mh[pints^ ^c- 1 8
1
A* You mean the good.
I.
^,AiX or.
EX or. :
A. I note this pronunciation.
A. The next is apa.
'
the third Crojfe it the Crofe ef transforMation.
A. Mean you that on jhe left fide underneath >
I.
7he fourth is the Crojfe ofthofe Creatures that live in the four Elements , myou calltbeik.
The firji Angel the aire.
thefeconi the water,
7be third :- the earth.
Jhe fourth • the liflt tr fire of things that live,
A. Is not Acca the firft Angel ?
A, En pe at.
/. 7heH NP at.
A. Then tor, and P wax. AVE. they »re eafie t» call.
1. the kttitting together of Natures lietb in the four Angels that are $ver the firft Crfffe.
A. As t^rzla, zlar ?&c,
•« .*» .'• X •
2. the carrying from place, which place lieth in the Angels $f the fecond Crojfe.
A. 1 Uiidcrftand in the Angels over the CrofTe.
3. All Hand-craftsi or Arts are in th- Angels of this third Croffe,
A. I underftand in the Angels over the CroITe.
E. K. He drew out much fire out of his mouth, and threw it from
him now.
A. I pray you, what meant you by that ?
...... For that I fulfill my Office in another place.
Stay, at this time Imuli alfo be gone, ,
'
A. When will you deal again. ,<
"
.
Aye. After Dinner about one, or two nf the Clock,.
E. K. Now he fpreadeth the Curtain.
A. Deo gratias nunc & femper agamus. Amen,
-
Transforms'
ciea.
The four Ele-
menct.
The knicting
toiccherofn*.
cures.
Tranjlith i li'
Co in Locum,
All hand-
crafts.
Note this rare
aftion of a
fpicitualCret*
turc«
'r
E. K.
t Tuefday, Junii 26. i Meridie kera^ 1 \ Circiter.
Gloria Patri,e^f.
LMittc lueem tuam & veritatem tnam, Veuf j &C.
Now he is here, and the white Curtain laid behinde.
4. Ave the Crojfe of the fourth^ fird Anile.
A, I underftand the Angels over the Croffe in the lower right comer.
Herein may you f,nde the fecrets of Kings, attd fo unto the loweji degree. Sut you wa/jThefecrccsof
Vote, That as the Angeh of the firil of the four Croffes in thi Ei''i, which are for Stedic/ne : fo
'^'"'"ixteer A
the fir& of the fecond , the firji of the third, and the firii of the fourth ; fo that for Medicine there ^^i^ forMedi-
lefixteen, and fo of ali the reft in their order : but that they differ in tkattfome be the A'lgels of ciae.
>
the Eaji, other fome of the Weti^ and fo df the relf...
Notvitblianding, to knofv the world before the waters, to be privy to the doings of men , front the ^^^^ -pj^^
R
paters to Chrijl ; from Chrijluntt the rewarding of the wicked : The wickfd domgs of the flejh , »r bkffed King-
ibe fond and devililh imigm^don'i of riian, or to fee what the bleffed Kingdom fhallbe, and hjW f/&fdomon eirth,'
Mrtij^*//^^ dignified, pvirgcd, and made clean, it a meat too fweet for your mouths. The earth.
A. Curialiry isfar from our inceius; ,, , . . ,
Ave, But there is neither Patriarch nor Prophet fanftified, Martyr,
or Confcflbr , King , or Governour of the people upon earth, that his
name, continuance, ar.d end, is not (like the Moon at midnight) in thefe
Tables.
Ergi,rhffe are here
to be iearoej put.
A. Mtxtmi enim
ffUndet fy manjfcSla
eft, in medio cceli ij ia
, , J>/."ni/nBTi>.
.
A. Mean you not the Croffe of the fourth firfi Angle, to be that, which is of a O u r r z.
Andbisfraufverfary of a I O a i ?
[z a]] Ave It
iSi J'true ^el4timi)f&,DQt bis ABms mth'/pjrits^.6Cc,.
Ave Itiffo. Mao2 -J i' nut tr.v
A. I iinderftand not well, your account of i6 Angels for medicine. \
Ave Are there not four principal Crojfes? Every Croffe hath tilfofeur. The firjl ef every
four are the Crofle of inedicine^ fo that there be fixteen.
Ave...... One book, of perfect paper. One labour of a few da)i£s,- „y,^„.
Fortf,For the. The calling them together, and the yielding of their promife, the repetition of the names, pf
ihtirpro C?«r^, arc fufticient.
miCo;-..
I /jaif given yoil Corn : I have givenjou alfo ground. Defire God to give yon' ability to
till.
"
•
' '
A. Wewillprayfor his help that is Almighty.
I an^feebefore.God. .^^CfU^rtliat catch can. ^ ^^'\,'\>T^!i^:)%'\:''^^1-\^x^"'^^
Be it now ai it was before. E.K. Hc maUOterfl Up^JtltO the
aire, andisgdne. "]^ ''^
^
' ,
A. When would you that I (hould prepare that book , and what>call j^iLpcrfed:,^ jipd ,i^pw
many leaves would you wifh me to make it of? ;;; ^ Ji , v jonisf) .i\.
' lour book, ^ ""f of my charge. -^ aq j,^ ^l.
A. Lord, as thou haft dealt mercifully with us hitherto, and haft giyeivus the lincferftand-:^
ing of many fccrets, foin refpeft of this ftrange dealing wich us, and leaving usof ^T;f,we arCj^,
defirous to know fome caufe : and therein we require that Mudimi may be fcnt. ^
E.K. She is here in the ftone. *
W^d' How^ojou? £. if. Slre:.;maketh a Iow\
;i curfie.
A. I declared our admiration of ^ff hisfofudden departure, aud required her opinion of
tltc^^. •
^
:'; J
'.
'" '-."••) -> '
'
" .'
Mad Surely Sir^ I canmt tell : but I will go fee if my mother can tell. i3
-^jjiJji- .....' A. He that is the Creatour of all things, be mcrcifuU unto us, and lighten our hearts with
•>«<rue knowledge, as our truft is in him. ^'
'.' '
E. K. She went away, and came again after a little while.
Mad Mj mother fayeth, yoa fhould have been at the Emperours. .
A. But you fee it isimpofllble to get thither without fome good pro\4fion of money made
by our great friend y^. L. I pray you, what can yon fay of y/r^f f"
,^
*Mad. LMy gentle brother^ Ave is a good. Creature ; indeedyou might have made mdre of
him.
A. I befeech you to give us fome Declaration of ^7/e his laft words.
Mad. '..... TJfrf is no word nnperfeft : My brother Ave his nature is to be plain and fliortf
A. I pray you to fay fomewhat more plainly of Ave his laft words. .
Mad // it rfere the commandment of wj mother^ I could do it. But this is the good mil
of my brother toward you. ..i->i'.i'HK'! n<''<i;< '
A. As your brother hath done this of his geod will, fo do' I defire you of your goodwill '
to do, or fay fonievyhat to our comfort. ,
-
Mzd. .-... Sir, I pray you, pardon me. ImaynotmTddteyi>ithK\thisdoing. - Jkaveno-.,
thing to fay to you, but I know my Motherha:hntftch 10 fay to you .
''
As the mighty thunder cometh,fo cometh tke promife of God.
.
Rtidulih»s xhs Em}e-
lo i:3i3:"l tTjJ^ f'le Emperour fwj mother fayeth) do amy thing agauiji X,asky^ or bin- ,. v''"*''
"°"'
-,-4 i
W.f: <«/>} 0;e anfweteth in earnefl) there Jhall be an tmpertur. '
-
EirncftVs means t^
Tt "T' \ v.t;- T^^' ^?'^ ^'"""" "'°''' P^*^^"^- • '
b« .e«Pero..r:, W. ,
'
"''
^fy Mother, my Siflers , Ave, //, myfelf,and the rejl of us wii)'Uot be fni^hu ^ ^y^^V- a :
_>ojf in yo'.irneed. '
V- i -^. '
a-i^
cGmtoriible -jS«>-
'.;"«, ..;. n:' U^'-1 •-•
••:•• -^""^ Content your felf: For ,yet a feafon , jm:mik"ve.p4tjmk, GoUhbp.^^i^
" jh».u.P^W'0^ feel nothing to fay to you. ,'.„r., Mi 'i,l. ' - V ,^
Mifencos, Clemens &pius eft Deus Nofter : Cujus nomen fitbcnediftmni Nunc 8cifempcr. -i.
Amen. "^
' J' :
•
^j
' -11 :
|!-iIl'"M ,./
" •>
«••"" . .,,!,_. , >-;\
^S'iV'.' Abcut feven of the Clock this afternoon, E. K. came again up into my fiudy; and j
fcm<? me rcadinp, and confiderin? this Aftion.IipP3ti to hiirf^r.lU r,f ;r o.,rI ,,;n„^ „... ,„ „r_
"^
lagmg
[•5']
"
day.
J^rne 'i^eUtion of D^ Dec his Aciicns wttb fpiritSy (3cc. 1S3
day. Nay, (faid I) any man livins;, clfe, would have found juft caufe of comfort,and to qjive
thanksfor AFE, (' ch (ptcclieaco .liin, as he iifed uncoyou upon trie compailion , and no
skofF, &c. B t you by and by called hiw Utrvil^ and ragd on i rthcr againji Mic'iael ani G^i-
\)n(^, and the heivenfy poffen \'i\ch moll horrible rpeeches,«$"<:. Hebecame vfry pcn!Cfnc,an I ac- noTA.
kjtowU'dged th:7t he bad orfFended Go.i : and faidjthat. furely it was of the Devil, for he did not Pxaiic'''*
remember his words : but he is fure that they were nor decent, and befeechtd God to fdr;t'v'
'^" f'-^if
him : And fo did I, and was very glad of this his reforming himfelf, and we (being ofc (be- ",7/^,^5
'* '"
fore) called down toiupper) were goin^ out of my Study : and as he was alnioii at the door jl^otc ihis
to. go put, he faid to mt,I feel a verj heavy thing ipon my jhoulder : and it if warm with a'l : minnerof
«
Whereat I put to the door , and wc far doivn again : Verily thinkingi(as it vvas) that it was 'icvf rt^'og
the nrcCcnce of ^ T £, whereupon I faid unto the Creature. °" '•''- '!'°"'
A. In the name of Jefus, Ave art thou there, <ie anlwered immediately after as followeth. whhall.
-AtB,'..... Bee aufe thon \_E.K.'\ht''t ac's^nowled^ed my honour again : I wi/l alfo ackjiowledgemj
helt) toward you : But where man curfeth the Heavens, what b ly Creature can abide ? Or
vhere Satan ii brought into poirclTion, by free will of man , what good Angel it he that depart--
eth not ?
A. O Lord, confirm thy mercies iponus from henceforth.
Ave As concerningy:nr A~iion , The Heavens bear witnejfe of it.
Jea^'yt^erday did the god Angels contend with the wickfd : and there A There was a terri-
w« it sreat confiia betwixt them; and that about the love of God towards ^''^^^ ^!"'^ "^ thunder
°i Ar~- T. T II r^ -I I »"" rain, tovfard the
you, and your A^.ion. B'<f I will vifit-you again in the morning , and ^„j ^^ ^J,. yefte,-dayes
will ptrform my good-will in God toward you. But th '« muli pray often Aftion: whirh, ( faid.was
if thou wilt avoid temptation. Godbe viercifull to you, forgive yoUyand fomewhai more thenna-
ftYtngihenyou to the end. .
t.n\-^\.
A, Amen, fweet Jefu, Amen,
iL. When all was thus ended, I delivered toEiC. my Pfalter book (with the fhort prayers w -c * p.
annexed to every PfalniJ where he himfelf very devoutly , and p:;nitently prayed three of^^^^^^L Lg
"
thfm, and I hearing al (oof them, gave my confent in heart to the fame prayers. eth.
A. To Godonely be all praifc, honour, and glory, now and ever. Amen.
Wednefday, 27. Junii. Cracovise. Mane bor^m circiter. 7.
Orationc Dominica finita, & peciiliari Oratione contra Tentationes Sathan£E,apparuit ij>fe
AVE,^c.
E. K. He is here.
A. Gloria P tri, & filio, 8c fpiritui fanfto,d^(:. Amen.
Ave. ... .. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the holy Ghofi,
A. Amen,
_x Now, what it that, that ii hard f) you?
4. Firft, whether the Table (for the middle Crofle of uniting the four principal parts) be
made perfeft, or no.
Ave Thou hajl found out the trvth of it.
A. I think a myftery did depend upon the choice of the three names, Lexarph,CemanaH,znd
labitam.
Ave. "that ii not to our purpofe.
A. Yoi bad me ch fe out of the fables the Chara£ters of feweft Letters, and I found them
tobcO A-^A J A, and T 5 you faid they are eight , you faid there arc eight in fo r:I know
riot what this meanech. ^
Ave. ,....Tou vi:iit make 'p the name Parzoan. A. It is the fecond part off the
A. What fhall become of the L averfed P 22 aire.
Ave. ......It may be bi,'.rL.
A. What mi ft I now do with that name ?
Ave In Exarph there wanteth «« L. which L. is of more force then the N. A. So is not one
mti therefore it is fet in the Tables. As far at that N. ftretrheth in the Charafter, letter fupeiflu-
/i f(jr /.'<z// that Countrey be confumed with fire, and fwallowed into Hell , at
ws ,or w^inting
Sodom was for wickedneffe. The end <jf all things is even at hand : And the *Vpro'^h''f
''
f
icarth mujl be purified , and delivered to another. things at hand
TkeMeivenslhaUbejjtimtishoycthtmMyt^. Jnd the earth fliall bring; NO l E
forth without Tillage : Trophets [peak, of dayes, [as] prefently,that * are far off. Nova Tma.
'
But we /peak, of dayes that are hard at h.7nd. fflr,immediarely after your * *^"^'
being with C3Efar,j^/j// the whole world be in fudden alteration. Battails Kodolfbus Ciefar.
and bloudfhed great mmher : The Kings of the earth fl^all run unta the Hills, Now Inkiura mah-
tnd [ay cover Hf.^ tminfiare.
v,,,
'
[a a 2] A. O
-. 1
1
—
84 A- true^elation of I>", Dee his jBions vpithffirits, &c.
Ami Ch.ia.
A. L.
Mmcy, provi-
\n Conftanti
nnplc. 1 5 Sy
I j.Stpusa^.
?4 Seniors.
N ne,Thisdi-
verfity of
\»orking.
The four
plagues J or
iju»rters.
Th! book.
A rerfeft m»-
fter ready.
The twelve
A. 0-, Tlion mighty God of Hofts : be our flrength and comfoir.
When you hear the peoplefay, Ls, there k a. man-cbiU that doth great marvaih^ (which
is 'even a: the door threfbold.) Then, then fliallyoa fee the calamity of the earth.
Bit let Las\ie, the fervant of God do of he is commarJed : And what goodnefTe foeyer he cra-
veth ihall follow him, for theLord hath fpared him among the Kings of the eaith.
Let hi'w provide for thii one journey : Hejhall mt need to provide for the reft : For, he thathath
all, hath provided for him.
The fitreenth day of September, that fhall be twelve moneths, ftiall you fet up the iigne of
the'Croff'e jeven in the midd'ft oi Conftantinople.
A.. Thy will be done, O Lord, to thy honour and glory.
A ve. .. ... 1/i this Kingdom fhall be much hloudjhed^ and the one fhall cut anothers Poland, p^j.
th;-oa.r. And as the Lord hath p-omifed^fo fl.^ail it come to fajfe, '"'§0 confirmatu
Ave i Kyoto tkelahle.
<li ."i.L.fone.
A. Of the Principal King of B/it/rifa,or 5<rtfr/iir/z, (ufing the laft a twicej I doubt of the
perfeft writing of it.
Ave Is it not written s' It is all, mojl eafie , and in gathering thou canfinet erre.
The 24 Seniors are all of one Office .- But when thou wilt work^ in the Eaft , thou muft takj fuch ^
hear rule there ; fo mu'i thoH d» of the reft.
A- Do you mean the eftate, in refpedofany place wefliall be id,or in refpeft of any earth-
ly place J, accounted alwayes the Eaft part of the world, wherefoeverwc be?
Ave....^ The Eaft and Weft, in refpeft of your Poles. Whatwillyou elfe of me f
A. Whether thefe four Tables be joyncd in their right places, or no.
Ave 7heybe.
A. Of the Letters in theTranfverfary of the wicked their black CrcfTe^
I know no 1 fe, as of m o t i V a t ; nan, &c.
Ave. ..... Tho"- paIt kjiowy vihen thou writeft thy book.
A; 1 defire you of the book to fay fomewhat more for the fafhion, paper, and binding &r,
Ave Ikcumayeft nfethy difcretion.
A. You mean (I truft) the book that you bid me to prepare : For, the other is not for my
writing.
Ave. •...• h if mt. I my felf will ftand with you, and ftiew how to praftife.
A. Eleffed be. God for hisready help.
A. I will prepare the book Cby the grace of GodJ with all fpeed.
A. As concerning the Offices, vcrtues, and powers of the three o-
ther qusrters of the Tabfe, what fhall we think ofthem ?
Ave They are all as the firft.
Note. Thou haft three names cf God, out of the line of the holy Ghoft, in the pruici-
Noce, of iLe
letters in ths
black Tcanyer-
fary.
The Offices
four quarters.'
of all the
A.
book; cnely
once to be
ufcii.
names of God pallCrofTe of the iirft Angle, fo haft thou three in the fecond, &c^
Ba^nc'r^^*
f07^ dayes (after ycur book, is' made, that is to fay, written) muft you onely call upon thofe
Fouc dayes
names ofGod, or en the God of Hefts, in tkofe names :
Fourteen
*
And 14 dayes after you ftiall (in this, or in fome convenient place) Call the Angels hy Peii-
dayes. tion, and by the name of God, unto the which thty are obedient.
Obedient. The 15 day you ftiall L\ozt\\ your felves, in veftures made of linncn , white: and fo ha-^
vealiTcs
'""'"
^^^ apparition, ufe, and praaice of the Creatures. For, it is not a labour of yeari,nor many
dayes. ^
E. K. This is Tomewhat like the old failiion of Mas^ick.
Giiincnr and Ave Nay, they allplayed at this.
Idu muft never »p the Garment after, but that once onely, neither the book.
E. K. To what end is the book made then, if it be not to be ufed
after;
A. It is made for to be ufed that day on.ly.
Ave. . .... What willyou elfe ?
A. As you beft know : we need inftruftions ; yet necefTary for us.
Av« Very few.
Ave It is aftem with fait, hit it wanteth leaves.
E. K. What mean you by that }
^^'^ '^'^^^'^^ ^'^ mcrekzvcs then fruit, and in many aaions there le nr.re circU7»(iances then
7r.atter.
^
A. But here is onely marrow, and no bones, or flefh. -\
A. -As concerning the great multitude that £. K. faw in the Vifion ftanding after the /?xJ
teen Ange s, next th? Ga^c, you made no mention in your Defcription of^the Vifion : There^
fore I would know what they are. A
h\t....,.'IhfyhcMiiuftersaudferuaiits. '
^^'
rhen
Fruit than
leaves.
i
^true Relation ofjy. Dee his JBicns mth fpirits, ^o n'B
5
E. K. *AViterySeMde>tna,asE.K.{'ii\d. '*- • A- OfThis
iK' fihere (Jjalt thou/Ve thy oli Sondennaj* and many other wicksd ones, that thou kali dealt with- '*"^''«'<1 •
»'"=''»-
all. Hereby Ihall you judge truly of wicked CMagkk.. God he with you : I ycill he ready,
^y iu^r^'^thts
^hen you need me.
_
Adion faid.
A. JLtcmo & omnipotenti Crearori rerum omiiiumj vifibilium 8c invlfibirmm fit onmis Seeing his
laus, honofj gloria, &: graciariim aftio. Jmett. "»""= 's fomc
to be known
( and not by
me: for I hid received th: Sacnmenc with Mr. Mir.iver, of whotnlhad him, nrvcr tobewtay ordlfclofe his nsnie)Iwill tellyou
fomewhat ot'liim. Hcappesrcth in many forms, till at length he appeir in a Triangle of fire, and bainf; cotiflrnined '« 'he Circle,
he caketh form ( as it w re ) of a great Gyant, and will declare bct"re for a month to come which fpiticsdo orderly range : whic \
by r.aroc being tilled, will do their offices, with a few other ciicumftinccsufedj Sec. Tlii?,. indeed was gncj ot whom I made moft
« account, &c.
£». I. Remember, I have not yet heard any thing of the 5 Princes which held up the traine
'of the chief King.
2. Neither any thing of the Trumpeter which vv>ent before all.
Doubts.
3. Neither of the letters in the Tranfverfary of the black CrofTe.
4. Alfo of * Docepax Ted9 a}id,he'mg referred to Cilkia, Nemrodiana^znd fafhlagsnia- m the * Declared by
htc cxpofition of the places by vulgar names : and before in the naming of them by the '^''*'''^' ''"•*
names of Creacion they were applyed to Italta. and Britama^ : One of thofe is to bc^^^^"*^'
doubted of.
5. We are defirous to know the Etymologies of all the names of God which we (hall ufe,
.either to Gpd himfelf, or to the Angels.
6. We require the form of our Petition or Invitation to be made to the Angels.
-7. Of the 20 (and more ) diverfities or corrections of this principal Table, we require •
your ccnfure, which diverfitiesl have ( by con^1,' re) fo made or amended.
8. Whereas I was [A]will€d to call 14 dayes,':he Angels which are to be ufed : fo would I A- Pagkafe-
know whether alfo I fhould fummon the wicked"h^r e recorded (out of the black Crofle, ha-
""'"'"'« ?'«'<;-
Ving their off-fpring ) likewife 14 dayes. •
Saturday, t CracovU, Junii 30, Manh^ circa p. homm.
Orations domiaica fittitay& -prj-pofitii Hits J. dubiif,quievi}nns paululurn. Deinde^ aliquot ora-
tiones exffalterio recitavi, iterum quievimus faulaluni. Ad femihoram nihil apparuit.
At length appeared a face, very great, with wings about, adjoyned to it j afterward he
feemed to be in a great Globe of fire.
Hearken tomy voice.
Modefty,patience,a;?ihumility 0/ heart and body, <fotA if/o«2 to thefe AHions. Tell me Note*
iiW many 7bunders the Lord hath injhre for the wicked. j
t.. O Lord, we know nor.
"-
Were you ever in the ^ecret caves of the Earth ?
A. No, Lord, never.
'
...... Ihen tell nie hove many fcindes the Lord hath prepared for anyeaf?
\ B.. Neither that can we tell : We are not ofthe Lord his Coimcil|»n thefe things of his
providence.
Can you tell me none of thefe (juefiioas?
_
^.....Canyon tell what Jhall become ofyour felves ?
A. God onely knoweth, and no creature but by him : for all things are kept Uncertain
until the end.
.. .... lou beget children i
\now you the, hour wherein they pall he born ?
ToubegiJt labour, can yoH tell what peint of time joujhall end in .<*
A. Godonly is the Fountain of all wifdom and truth.
^'f;V, then 1 fee, you are drowned in ignorance and know yiothing.
.E. K. He turneth round very fwiftly,
...... Even as the Adder leadeth out her young ones, the firfi day one foot, ( out of her hole ') Kct Note this fimi-
lecaufe they fnoM eat, hut becanfe they might acquaint themfelves with the air, and herfubtlety. liiude well.
The fecond day, 'one yard and more:Jhe encompaffeth her hole, andwindeth to andfro,and teach-
*e«r to creep ; and fo five or fx dayes, till theykizcw how to wove andjiir their bodies.
After thefeventk day, fl:e teadeth them further, and faineth deceit, jirikjng the ground with her
tail, as though it were the found offame one at hand : And then gaping^ heginnsth to hiffe, and fily-
t^hup fear unto her youngones, fo that they enter into her vim'h. And thuspe doth till they be 12
\vr.j^ dayes old : Then fJje leadeththem a:jiones-caft,.and 'exercifeth them hth with fe^r, and ' '
\btdtngthemfelves •:, And when they fleep( being young and wearied with labour') jhe fiealeth from
them and maketb a noife amongft the leaves and fmallfiones, with the moving »f her 'hinder parts :
'
-.1^
, Tt
iS ^ ; ^A true T^elation ofiy^ Dee his AUions mtb/pints, &c.
Triftnpliin^
To the fTttentJhe wight fee what Jhift her wormes can make, which flirred up with fear, and mijjing
their -mother , fo'; learn to couch themfelvesintheChyyntiesoftheearthi At length, afterfitence,
the mother thnlieth Oftt herself-, and doubleth her tongue ( with the found whereof (he vfeth to call
them ) ^hey come to^^fther and rejojce, wreathing themfdves diverfly about her body, for joj : She
for areconipence^fjferethtkemtJ hangvprn her back^^ and fo waJtereth to her hole ; where/he ga-
th:reth the leaves of the earth : and after jhe hath chewed them fmail ani tender, with her teeth,
and ntingled them with the did, (he fpiieth them out agtin, andbeginneth to lick^them by little and
little, as thoughjhe hungered, which jhe fubtlely doth, that her wormes might eat and forget their
hungtynrffe. •
'
"
'"H
Finally, in 20 dayes, they become big, and as sk^ilfiil in the property of their hjnd . . . JI.e (Ifay")
"
Ira^eih them cut into a fertile place, and full of dew, and full of bujhes, and places apt to cover
them, where they feed, dwell, obCerve their craft, and at laft forfake their mother. Even foy it^.
if forthyou ; So the Lord, (^the true Serpent and worme ) leadethyou out from day to day, accBr-^
dingto your fireng'.h '• -and as you g^ow, tothe intentyou might, at laji be brought unto the pleafant^
true wifJora, diW, and food of his wfrfj, which is Triumphing true vvitdom,
"But this the Lord fcarech of you ; that, as the wormes did, fo you will forfa\e your mother.
A. P'orfake us not, O God, Confirm thy graces in us, and we ihall no: forfake thee,
'^
Toe nalivre of the Serpent, is, not to forfakf bh youn%. ' ' '
'
A. O Lord we depend onely on thee, and without thy grace and continual help, we
perifh.
N O E. I^he Lord told Noe long before, the Flood would come, be believed him : Therefore he is fafe in
''
loth worlds. The Cons in law of Ln, funk into Wd\,f$r that they derided the words of God,and "'^
believed them not. His wife recarvea falt-Jione, for that Jhe looked bark^ and did contrary to
^'^=''-
the Commandment of G}d Mofes hs.d the reward of his holineffe in thit world pluckj back., he^'^
IZ'Vvetra '^""f" ^'f"''^^ ^^'^ ^^'^^ ^^•
hic'vabis a- I,asthemtffengerofGod,am as one that fay^ Czvc, Tal{e heed that you become Hot fon in lawsJ
q»am potcimus tlough)ou pajfe the fire, Take heed you look, notb-ick, : for if you do, you fitall mt fee the flood, tiei-
^
eliceie, therjhall the Lord put a vail betwixt yoft and veftgeance, neither {I fay ) jhall thepromifes of Cod-
come in your diyes. If God had takfnyou upinv theheavens and placedyou beftre hh ThroHe^anil ,
told you the things that are to come,youwjuld believe : But that yo'4 cannot do. .'J,*
The Lord is merciful, he defcendeth into your houfes, and there tellethyon what it to c»me, where"
yo-i may uhderjiand : But you believe him not. Therefore faith the Lord of you, I fear you' will
^' forfake your mother; But i(y$udo it,I f.iy,'i(yaudo it, I will makf of the Mothesy w/e«, that
fhall teftifie my name.
E. K. I ever told you I do not believe them , nor can believe tfiem,
nor will defirc to believe them. ;''
Faiih.
''
If you be faithful, you be able to comprehend ; I/joa ^f obedient and humble, 3^«
Obedience. Creatires of Heiven Jhall abide withyou . Yea the Father and the Son, and the Holy Ghoft. .
Humility. ^^\\ ,„^;^^ f,,^ dwelling with y^u. If you perfevere, even with faith and humility, you Jhall fee the
wicked d >yes that are to come, enjoy the promifes of Gjd, and be partaker of thofc blefled days
A Caveat.
that follow ; For wonders unheard of, iny and of (he world, are at hand. You are warned.
The Spirit of Cod reji withyou.
A, Amen, •
/\ r xt'
^' O Lord, fliall we continue in this wavering or ftifF-necked willful blindnefle, and fro-
m:s lackrmis wardly keep out thy mercies and graces by ourflellily fenfe, and unreafonable perfwafion a- ,^
h.ii a me fy gainft the vci ity of thy tiue Minifters ?
valJe ferio ad j. All thri:gs are Committed to thy charge.
Kim dilU c-
^_ O Lord as much as ever I can do by prayer orotherwife, I do, and yet I enjoy no'
*
fruit ofmy long travel. •
2. 7houhar ground, fw if thou can.
^
A. How can I without further inftruftions and help ? andnow, when I require Ave to come,'
he Cometh not: O Lord comfort me.
3. A V E Jhall come when thou haji need of him.
A. InteDominefperavi, & fpero, Sifperabo. In die Tribulationis cxaudies rac. P».efa-
gium meum, fpesmea, vita 8c beatitudo mea Jefu Chrifte,tibi curaPatre &Spiritu Sanfto lit
pmnis honorj laus, Gloria & Gratiarum aftio Amen.
Monday, t Craccvia, Junii 2. Mane hera i.
Oratione dominica finita, & mtra aliqua interpofita, & aliquot aliii ex pfalterio recitatis pre-
cih/s,&poJ} varim meas ad Veum ejaculationes.
F ofi
femihoram'. At length Ave appeared to E. K. in the Shew-ftone, &c.
A. O Lord, all honour, thanks, andpraifc, be unto thee, who hcareft the prayers of thy
rant.
fimple fervant.
A.Firi},
Jjrue.^eUnon of\D^. jbo^Ms Jdkns mth ffxirits, &c. 1
87
^,^(^v Fifft!./<>r.die refei;niingofdiseriity of leuers m the names wricceii, I leyuire your aid,
unle/Te you will hrl! fay fooievvhat e!fe.
Bj tljifarne Jefof iipho fitteth onthe fi'ght haai of bis Fathery atid is th: wifdom ''of hit Fathtryl
requelijiii^tojrocfed W.ithus. ...
-.rjj ..., , „:r.;f<..i iv- . .
...l
Ave So that the body of Chriji, now, U glorified and immsrtaL
A. Moft rriie it is —Mors illi ultra n^n iion duminabitur-
' AvE.[,-.,./^vf oi the'?rophets,tk'it.yfere fullfiled with the Holy Ghoii and Spirit o^God, before
Chrilt^tajied of h'nn^inthat he jl.ould coMe .if a Saviour, and in the feed of man ; So ii the Pro-
fhefie of this time, Chrili being afcended, in the fame Spirit. But ih.it Chriji JhaII cotac in his AJvemus d)ri.>
glorified body, Iriumphing againji Satan, and alibis enemies. Si.
A. io be it>0 Lord.
Aye, .,.,.. But that the words of the Propbefies maj he fulfilled. It it neceffary that the Earth
fwarjn, 'and be glutted with her own fornication and idolatry: which ^ what it jhall be, the fame
fpiric will open unto you.
A. Fiat voluntas Dei.
Ave Thatyou may »ot onely be wife in forfakjng the world, and forefeeing the dangers of
ferditio^ j But alfo preach the wonders of the fame Cfjrijt, and hu great mercies, which is to come
and to appe-ar- in the cloudes with his body glorified. The Lord faid to Satan, I will give thee
fower, in the end over their bodies, and thtn Jhallbe caft out into, the fields, and th.n for my Our bodies to
names fake: But myVineyard, and the frnit of my Jiarveji , Jhalt thou not' binder. Thus vtj he cidominia
brethren hath the Lord loved you. Thus have the Ireafures of the Heavens opened tbemfelves iktto
the fields.
ynu :^ But.your faith fpringeth not. • ...
A. It fhali whenitpleafeth theHigheft : We befeech him to cncreafe our faith as fhall be
moil for. his honor and glory. ^
;
Avc-i.... . But unto you it jhallbe revsalled, whatfhall come, after; Marrows,after T)ayet,Weeks, Praphefie.
ittdTrars : And unto you it Jhallbe deliveredy Ihe Prophefit of the time to come, which is twelve : ^ — "
oft^e which you have but one.
"'A. God make us faithful, true anddifcretfervants.
Ave. ...... For G-.d willfhake this earth through a riddle, and, kjiock, the veffels in pieces, throw
down the feats of the proifd, and ejiablijh himfelf a feat ^f quietmffe : that neither the Sun m"} j^^ggnm fuiu-
Jhine Upon t^e unjufi, nor tie garments be made of many piece:. •
jum.
A. All {hall be in unity : unm pajior,unamovile,&.c.
Ave HiTiie therefore and be gone : as the Lord hath appointed you, that you may be /\, Be f^ane to
ready for him, when he hringeth the fichje. Pur'fie all the veffels of your houfe, and. gather more the Empjrour.
Into it,(tnd t^hen the Lord preffeth,he will giveyou wine abundantly : And loytke ^ forkj are weary ' ' hat hold up
of their burdens : But be dihgent, watchful, and full of care : for Satan himfelf is very bufie
^^' g'^pes.
ifith you. After dinner I will vifit you with inftruftions ; But 'my tretbren, be faithfulj 4.iid
f""l^'f^i
ptrfiverh,^ for the fame fpirit that teachsth the Church, teachcth yoi*.. ... -
spnuus'san-
•
A;- Ttrthcfame Ho/y Spirit, with the Father and the Son, be all honor, power, glor^ and^w.
praife, now, and ever, J.meH.
\V,\\ V:
^^
Julii i. After Noon, fif«)<r ^4 . . .
'a. Gloria Patri, ScFilioScSpiritui Saufto ficut erat in priAcipio &: nunc & femper Sc in ..•.
"iciila feculomm. ,4we«.
,
E. K. Herehe is now. •-^'^ •,
.T . . ,~ • r.
jniM.1
A. Nobi^ adlit, quicunttacreavic- '
c>'-
Ave' What Willyou?
A. If it bleafeyou, thefolutionof the former 8 quellions firft. .
A. I, As of the five Princes, which held up the traine of the Ki|;ig,
Ave The kjiowledgeof them bilpeth not now,
A. 2. Secondly of the Trumpeter, what It betokened.
Ave... — It hath no-relation to thefe Tables,
Ji.. 5 . Of the letters in the Tranfverfary., I would know your will.
j~"Ave. ..;...' T/jfjiifrf, ifj fJbfoU-er, but for a peculiar prafticc. ' .
,, .^ ,; a.;!,'V ii.u
( . A. 4. For Der*p<ipc and Tf(/orfKi referred diverfly,. as I bave^noted,^ WhtiCil^Le.caafi^f O""?*;.
lirlrs divernty >
.•...,,. . .- V.-n .v.vf - -^''^'.-^ '•a-'-!^!- --^ '»>^^"*
Ave It nT/r^ tiflault of E. it. in reporting.
A. What is tlie very.Triith ? ,
:.«"'"/^TP,.-..:.'TtoKj:^«/t/'et<r7;g&tt*,rt,Trk«t/&»w haft their. Calls,., ,, ;
^'''
'l cc
^ It pelongeth to NaWngc his cerre^ion. .
..:.., .:.'..:. . ^ . -'
.coireft.
A. 5. As roncerning the Etymologies of tlicfe names of God, we would befatiified.
j-B Ave,.... God is a Sfirit^and is notable to be comprehsjided. •
,,j, ^^.^-^^
^A. SoraV Notifying oirDeclarationj no fuU coraprelieniion I r^guirtfo '^uvv,..m , -- •
1 «8 A true^elation of D^ Dee his jBions mthjfirits, &c.
hve..... It it no part of mans mderjiandiHg. They fignific all things, and thcj fignlfie
nothing.
Ave JFbo can expreffe JehoTah vhat itfignifietk, Dcus fignificat ad id quod agit,
A. As for the form of our Petition or Invitation of the good Angels, What fort fhould
it be of?
Ave A (h-jTt and brief [fetch. -
•
A. We befeech 70U to give us an example : we would have a confidence, it fliould be of
more erfeft.
Ave I may not do fo.
E. K. And why 5*
1 vo- tion
'^^^ Invocation proceedeth of the ;^ood will of man, and of the heat and fervency «f tbe
fpirit : A»d there fare U prayer of fuch effeS frith Goi.
A. We befeech you, ftall we ufe one form to all?
Ave..... Every one, a^ter a divers form.
A. If the minde do diftate or prompt a divers form, you mean.
Ave I kjicwnot : for I dwell not in the foul of man.
A. As concerning the diverficy of certain words inthefe Tables, and thofc of the portions
of the Earth delivered by N-ilvagey What fay you ?
Ave the Tables be true.
Is it Ajdrefl, or Andropl ?
Ave. Both names be true, and of tneJignificatioH. Ihave delivered jou tb« Tables^fo :tfi
them,
\ A. As concerning the Capital letters, have I done well ?
Theofc of the Ave Tou have eafily correSedtbat, and to good endj for every letter, and part oFIetteri
leqos. hith his fjgnificati.n.
A. I befeech you fay fomewhat of the 2V^ in P<ir^o<i«, of which you faid, fo far as that
Aretchedj fbould link to hell.
Ave Every letter in Paraoan,is a living fire .• bat all of one quality and of one Creation:
Note. £,/t Mnto ^ is delivered a viol of Deftruftion, according to that part that be it o/Paraoan the
Goveinour.
A. It may pleafe you to name that Place, City, or Country, under that JV.
Ave A^K^'^lvage^znA he will tell you.
A. As concerning the wicked here. Shall I call or fuhuHon them all, as I dothc good
ones in the name of God ?
The wicked Ave ..... Aw man calleth ifqn the name of God in thevicked : 7bey are fervants and vile flaves.
fpiritsarc vile A.We call upon the name of Jefusinthe cxpulfing of devils,faying inthcnameof Jefus, d^c,
(Uvc5.
^ye j^^j ]n^ ^ againjithe wicked. No ju'i man calleth upon the name ofGod,to allure
the devil.
A. Then they are not to be named in the firft fummoning or invitation.
Ave Atao ti'r.e to be called.
' ^. K. How then fhall we proceed with them ?
Ave JFken the Earth lietb opened unto your eyes, and when the Angels of Light, fhall tffa
thefaffages of the Earthy, unto the entrance of jour fenfes, ( chiefly of feeing ) Then fhall you fee the
•HieTTtx''Mret1'reafttres of tbeEartb,zi JOU go: And the caves of the Hills pall not be unkjtswn unto you :
onheEnih. Vnto thefe,you may fjy,\t[l'e, begone. Thou artofdeflruftionand of the places of darkneffe :
Our words to Thcfeare provided for the ufe ofman, Sojhalt thou ufe the wicked, and no otherwife,
that "kce"^
^' ^^"^ *" ^^ concerning the natural Minesof the Earth.
Treafure.
^'^^ Not ft, for they have nothing to do viththe natural ^Mines of the Eartb,but,witb tk
vhich if corruptedwitb ntan.
A. As concerning the coined they have power to bring it.
Ave. So they may : that they keep, and no other.
A. How fiiall we know what they keep,and what they keep not ?
Ave Read my former w.rds ; for tkou do'i not under t and them.
A. 1 read it : begimiing at the fii-ft line on this fide, when the Angels of Light, &c.
A. I mean of coined money that they keep not 5 How (hall we do to ferve our neceffi-l
ties with it?
Ave The good Angels are Miniflers for that purp:fe. The Angels of the ^ angles Jhsi
tnak^e the Earth open unto you, and fljallferve your necejjities from the 4 parts of' the Earth,
A. God make me a man of wifdom in aJ] parts, I befeech him.
A. Note I had fpoken fomewhat of my part in VevonJJ.ire Mines.- and of the T/i
Treafures which were taken ofthe Earth.
A. Thefe cur Queflions being thus anfwered, now I refer the refl to your h&rui.
intended.
Invocaticns to Ave lou have the corn, and yon have the ground : Mak^eyou hut iTn'ocitions to fow th
bimadf. Cccd, and the fruit Jha lite plentiful.
A.
>^A true Relation ofly. Dee his Anions mhfpirits, ^c- 1
8p
A. As concerning our ufage in the 4 dayes in the 14. dayes, we would gladly have fome
information.
Ave ToH would kjtow to reape, before your corn be fown.
t. As concerning a fit place and time to call, and other circumflances , We would learn
fomewliat.
Ave Toil would kjiowwhere and when to call, before your invocations har witnejfes of
your fcadineffe.
A. Then they muft be written in verbis conceptisy in formal words,
Ave. I • a very eafie matter.
A. What is the Book yon mean that I fhould write ?
Ave. ..... The Book.confilieth [i] of Invocation of the names of God, and [2] of the Angels , by Thi Book.
the names of God : T'hcir offices are manifeji. lou did defire to be fed with fpoones, andfo you are.
A. Asconccmm^BataivayorBaataivh, I pray yoa not t@ be offended though I ask again,
what is the truth ?
Ave The word is hut offix letterSy whereof, one it on the left fide, one on the righty tm a- C^, He mean-
love, and two under j A and H are put to, erhof the lefe
A. Sometimes or communiter, Ay and in extremit JadiciU Hats I was taught before. ^"^^ °^ *''*
A. So that the wosd is Bataiva, or Bataivh.
' '^"f^ "n'^"^
r I 1 ,-»
of the princi-
E. K. I think he be gone i tor he made a fign of the croffe toward us, p*'^;°'[- =
^°'
and drew the white Curtain. butheteromc'
A. As we fate a while and talked of the Calls received in the holy Language, and not yet
Engliihed, there was a voice.
Tchjhallhave tbofe Galls in Englifli on thurfdaj. Andfo ask^me no more queflions. The Calls to
•*•
A. Thanks, honour, and glory, be to our Creator, RedeemerjandSanftifierjnow and ever, b= *>*<!'« Eb-
Amen, glifhonXhurf-
day ncKt,
' * '
Thurfday, i Cracovi£y Julii, 5. Mine, hora, ^. fere.
Oratione dontinicafinita aliifque extemporaneis ejacitlationibus ad I)enmy& repetito prowiffo ul-
fimorumvirborv.m de Angelica interpretatiene 1^. illarttm invocationuniy quas a i^ Maii ultimi
recepimusytaniem appartierunty Gabri"el i;j Cathedra & Nalvagc.
G^^j-if/ in his Chair, zndNalvage with the Table, or rather Globe with the letters in
ita^"<:. .
A. Bleffed be our God alwayes, for his mercies : his graces be with us, now and ever.
E. K. G^^rie/ ftandeth up.
I
Gab Tittum eji f^pe vobis, perfeverate ufquead finem.
A. God give us chat ability.
Gab Andwhyii itfaidfo ? but hecaufe you jhall have many temptations and affliSlions
:
after wliich come confolation and comfort.
If th: Sm th prove and temper his Gold by fire, h'n intent is to excell in the Wor^ that he hath in
hand : that threby it m/^ht be tryedy refined, and made apt, to the end wherein it jhall be ufed :
Mtirh more, thin\_youy doth the God of wifdom, forge, try, and beat out, fuch as he intendeth to ufe
in the extent io?^ of his divine and eternalpurpofes. How therefore can you find fault with the Lord ?
How can you fay, he dealethnot jujily with yon? when hefufferethyuu to he proved to theuttermoji.
Jfjou pay the vttermo\l farthing, are you not become free ? If you feel affliSion and temptation,
tatdwitkiiand it, are you not the more pure ? the wore jujiified ? for the Vineyard and Harveji of
the Lord ? yes, my Brethren ; for the more the wife man is affliUed, the more he re]oyeeth
;
Andthegreaierhisadverfityis,themoreheproffereth. '
Is it not written ? No man Cometh to the Lord but he is jujiified, purified, and actepted. Whence
there fere ( ifyon feek^to come before the Lord, that is to fay, to appear, to be blejfed) Jhall your
jujiification or purifying arife ? Of your own natura it cannot 5 for you were born finners : But
hy Chrijlyoumay : In whom y ou are'] uliified, through patience, and refilling temptations. True
t' '^-ftoof, and touch of man : But me thinkjih I hear ytufay, O, if we were rich, or of ability.
True it is, for the dttjl of the earth many nien excel yoii : But inthat youfpenkvfkh God, in uS
his hngekf^ that is to fay Mejfagers )you are not onely happy ( which hafpineffe the others Wtant')
yUedfe^* i**
but ym excell all the creatures of the Earth. God.
^^
I
,
my Brethren, their joy is a bitter-fweet : But the comfort that you have, is eternal, is fweet,
1*^?"^ <* food for ever. There forey if you will be eternal, and in perpetual comfort with joy, defpife
the world fr the worlds fak^e : and delight in God for his mercies ; which ifjtu truly do,. Then can
|(»w Tempei prevail, no affliHien come antiffe., nor no burden be too heavy foryou : For it ii written,
Giudium beato; um eft Chriftus ; Cui Mundus omnia mala fecit.
O my Brethren, be contented, and fuffer the w»rId: for as Chrijl in vanquiflnnghery did prove
'himjelftbe Son of God: Stjhallyou in refijiinghery at la^ overcome, and be amounted the fans of
[bb] gU
1 c, o 'A true Relation of D^ Dee his jBions mthfpirits, &€,
""""d^^: 'codinChrilh of -^^kom yon kre a follower, John Dee, be of comfort, for thou (halt overcome,
A. Gol be praileJ therefore. '
;
E. K. And what ^o you fay of me ? :
A. If I prevail, Satan fliall not have his will ofyou : for
Gab But unto thee [ E.K. ']faith th Lord,Tikc heed,how thou meddleft with hell, left
it fvvallovv thee.
H'lve patience^ a time.
E. K. They be gone out of fight.
t.. In the (iiean time we read oyer the premiffes twice, to our great Comfort.
E. K. Now they be here again,
Now is a Cloud over them, all white like a fmoke.
A voice fjl'iove not, for the flace is holy «
By a great hollow voice.
E. K. Why fhoiild it be holy.
A. —« The Courtjs, where the King is : So where the Lord is prefent, the place ii
accounted holy, and is fo.
E. K. Now they be out of the Cloud.
- 1^. After this, they made another paufe : longer than before.
E. if. When fiiall we pradicey^-r/e his Calls, c^c.
G?.b. My brother, thou hajl leafl care: Thou draweft both of God and man. thatispr*^
His fee o? A.l. mifed thee,,llntll he payed thee ; and that which is to come, thou Jhalt be partaker of
of4ooDoUers f A. To £. if. for he hath no care neither for meat,nor drink for him and his, neither is
yearly. he difiicuteof 400 DoUers yearly peniion, and is to have fomehelp by Art, ]
Nal Say the-firjl word of the Call.
Cak S din, ^- ^^p'^h It isthe fifth,for 4beingEnglifhcd.
E. K. Heholdethup all his hand, and The spirits of the fonnU
on his thumb ftandeth written :
-^"s'e are
and on the fingers orderly very big letters.
Ibere was no word there that fignified Nine, the third wordjhould he E M.
A. It is yet a
myftciy to
what book
t'nefe, anJ fuch
words have re-
lation, they arc
in every Call
following.
Nine
mighty
in the firtnament
of watersy
whom
the ftrjl
hath planted
a Torment
to the wickfdf
and
a Garland
to the righteous ;
giving unto them
fiery darts
to vanne the earth
and l''*\T'',
thou haft not,
7^99 icisilcJm.
continual Work^ten,
whofe courfes
vrfit vf^ith comfort
the earth,
and are
in government
and
continuance
as the fecond
and the third :
Wherefore
Hearken unto
my voice,
I have tiilk^ed ofyeu
and
1 7nove you
in power and prefence^
whofe work^
pall be £.K. Liltea
a Song of honour ''°"-* """«•«
andthepraife
between nK&
r 5- J '"^ thincs in
ofyour God the air,
in your Creation, A «
2,
Sa^ab.
Nal. : That is 'one.
E. K. Now he plucketh the Curtain over all.
A. Becaufe you faid that Acam betokening 7699. was to be put in his place ; I have viewed
and numbred,and I find the words of the Call,raore,than the Engli/h parccl]5, by manir : Foi
theEnglifh parcelsare4i, and the Call hath above 50.
r , / /
,
A voice....... Jou have OD the fourth word of that Call-, The whole Call k placed tberel
and tuiht to be the next. Number the words of the next Call,
^
A. So that the next Call ought to hare this Englilh.
E. K, Now he flieweth again.
Nal, .J
A true "Kelathn of D\ Dee his Jciions with fpirits, &c. i p i
Nal.. ..Tfcf mrghtj fohnds
have entered
into the third Angle,
and
are becoynt'
af Olives
in the Olive Moimt^
lockj'tZ with c,'adnejfe
ufon the'farthj E. K,
and Clouds,
* dwelling in the brightnejfe
of the Heavens
as
continual comforters^
unto whom,
J faliened
Fillars of gUdnefe
nineteen
and
That is Af
that word
have not
there.
gave them
vtjf.ls
to water
the earth
with her Creatures,
and
they are
the brothers
of the fir\l • •
and fecondy
and
the beginning
of their own feats,
which
are garnijhed
with continual birningLamp
6p6^6' Nal *
whofe
numbers
Peral
you want
thiit word.
are its
thefirliy
the ends
and
the Contents of time,
therefore, E. K. Now all
Come ye the ftr-.gers art
and lowed down-
obey ward,
your Creation,^ ,
vifix Hi in peace
and comfort,
conclude lu
as receivers
of their myjhries,
for why e
Our Lord and Mujier A. 5
if all one. i
nal ....
E K Cloud'
came between.
E.K. His eyes
anJ the ihcw-
fionc.
E K. Clouds.
Forte Jic.
* DwfMInp in
the 1-r ghtiv.fle
of the heivens
as continual
comforters.
Nal that if it that went before.
E. K. Now he draweth the Cur-
tain.
Nal
Th-i' is P. you
have n ir m»rk
theroyfteiic.
A.. I inderftand this tobe the Englijh of the fifth Call; and that before of the fixth:
the Numbers of the parcels feem to agree. So that we have now the Englifti ./ the fifth and
fixth Call. Ihankfd be God. £, A/, ^f. and Pfoa/, three words which you faid we had
not, 1 finde them in the Calls: your meaning perhaps is fomc other then the common
words. ,
E. K. Now he hath opened again.
A mighty
Gujrd
of fi Pj
with two edged fwords
flaming',
which have
the Viols
eight
of wrath
for two times
and
a half,
whofe
are
of Wormwood,
and
of the marraw
of fait
have fetled
their feet
in the Weft,
and
are meafured
with their Minijiers,
ppp^ 7hatis,
filiot
Ihefe C.-t/^thatyoii ufon
gather up have not. their hands
the Mcjfe are
of the earth. Mtrble
[lis] the rich man fleevfs.
doth Hippy is he
his treafure. on whom \
curfed they frown not
:
are they For why ?
whofe the God of righteoufnejfe
iniquities rej.yceth
they ate. in the>K.
in their eyes Come aWay^
are And not
Milflones, yot>r viols.
greater For,
then the earth. the time
And is fuch as
from their mouths requireth
runne comfort.
Seas
^ I
ofbloud:
"their beads
are covered E.K. Now he draw-
with Diamond,
and
eth the Curtain.
The ninth.
Weft.
¥
L. As I was comparing the Call to this Englip^ a voycefaid.
''•*'to , It it the next Call.
A. I underftand it to be the fourth Call, or
[b b 2] £. K. Now
:yz iyl true T^elation of D^^ Dee his AUions mthfpirits, &c.
N„./ ....
Ox.: AnJ that
you havj noc.
E. A'. Now he opencth.
unto the Harvefi
ef a n'idow.
H(W many are there
wh'ch remain
in the glory
Ihe -midday the firjly
ii CK
the third Heaven
ryiade
of HiachiB pillari
26.
In whoyti
The Elders
are
lecome ftrangCj
ifbich
J have p-epared
for my own rightecufneffe^
faith the Lord,
whofe long continuance
Jhall he
as BuckJ.'s
to theftoufing VragonSi
and
this
ef the earth,
n>kich are,
and jhall mt fee
death vntifl
this hoitfe A- I underhand
fall,
and
the Dragon
fink.
Come awny.
For,
the Thunders
the end of
earth, &c.
Come away.
For,
the Crowns
of the Temple , .
and
the Coat
of hint, that is^ was, andJhall
he Crowned
are divided.
Come '
appear
to the terrour
of the earth
and
to our comfortf
and •
cffucb
M
are prepared
4
8
have fpokjH
:
E. K. Now he hath covered all again.
c. As I was fpeaking of his diverfities, faying. This you have not, and this you have not*
A voyce faid : Some you have, and fame you have not, whetherjou have, or have hoi, it is a my-
ftcry.
£. K. There is a little fire in the ftone, going about it like a little
Candle.
The Curtain is open, and a great Cloud over them.
Now they appear clear.
The ' Thunders of Judgement and wrath.
of lamentAtiott
and
Of',,....
That you have
not.
are
fiumbred
and
are hif-rlourei
in the North,
in the ti\entffe
ef an Oak.i
•whofe
branches
are
Neafts
22.
01. That you
have not.
weeping,
laid up
ftr
the earth,
that
times
5678.
in the 24.'^.
parte
That is T)MX
that you have
noe.
#/ « tn$ment
rear
with an hundred tmb,
mighty Earth-quak.es.
And
a Thoufand r—v- Math.
(urges
which
re(i not {jDr"] lahtur fiilly
tteitber
know.
E. K. Now Cometh a Cloud over them very white like fmoke.
Now they appear again.
Which
burn
flight
and
day.
And
vomit out
the heads
of Scorpi<^ns,
and
live Sulphur,
mingled
•with foyfon.
Thefe he
the Thunders
any
time
here.
One rtcK
bringeth out
a thoufand —
even as
the heart
of mau
doth
his thoughts,
wo,Wo,we,
Wi,TtO,WO,
Nal......
hUth. you
have it
not.
Tea,
•wo
he to the earth,
for
th
her iniquity
^>
•was,
andfhallhe
great.
Come away.
But
mt •
your noyfes.
6
10
XKieje ce 3- -d- • j
E. K. Now the Curtain is drawn again, after a quarter of an
•^;^"'*
E. if. Now
Jtrue Relation of jy. Dee his JBicns mth fplrits, (5cc, 15)3
E. K. Nowhe appcarcth.
Nal Confider Ij thtffjirhofe biiftiifjfe joii have in hand.
you
thdt ra)igr
in the Souths
and
of forrow
hinde up
your gird/eSy
and
Viftt iii.
Bring down amongf} yo» A 8
your train
lUre wiiji ycordi in the end of the firji^al!, follow at Move^&c.
A. Bi;c this Call, ic diffcrcth a little exprefly,
A. They are die 14 laft vvords» in the holy langirage thus : Zacar e ca, od zamran , odo ic.
Qiia, Zovge, lap zirdo Noco Mad, Hoath Jaida,
are
2S.
the Linterns
Oh
Thit )OU
hive not.
3663.
that
the Lord
may he vtagnified^
whofe name
amonglt you
ii wiathjd^c.
yiian..
Another *
"the mighty feat
grcanedy
and
there were
thunders
5-
which
flew
into the Eaj}^
and
and
cried with a. loud voyce
Csme away
and
they gathered them-
0. felves together
and^ ^,
, There is no
became , i,ng,„g, f^r
the honfe thefc words in
of deaths jhsCall.
sffchom
7
the Eagle
Note, then begin at the firjlCally Move, as before.
E. K. Now they appear.
it if iveafuredy
and
it ifOi
they are
whofe
Number
.
«
31 ,
ComJ away.
For
I prepare ~-r—
^
Ga.
foryon.
Gabr.
orjhave pre-
pared.
thou
the governoj^r
ef the fir>i flame
under whife
wings
are
6739.
which weave
the earth
with drinejfe,
which
kjiow of
the great name
RighteoufneflTe,
and
the [eat L
of Honour
II
15
Ih me^e.: Wednef-
day^ fnXii u. dixit
hie deefi.
Of the firft flame.
Nal Then move <wie/orf,&c
Oyotifons Sons,
of ff^ry. Daughters.
the daughters
At Urge.
Darg......
Of the fifft
flame.
ef the juji,
which
fit
OH
24
feats
Nal.,
01..,
., Move, as before.
Oyoufwords
of the South
which have
42 -Ux.
Nalvage.
eyes
to jiir up
the wrath
of fin.
vexing
all ceatures
of the earth
v/ith age
which have
umer you
i6-}6.
Behold^
tuahjng
men drunken
which are
empty.
Beholdy
the promife
of God
Nat....
the voyce
of Gody
the promife
of him
which « called
am$ngii you
Furie
Nal
— or ex trearn
-Juftice.
A 1.0
and
hit power^
which
is called
amongiiyou
A bitter fling;
A
9
»3
. Move, as before, Sec.
K. Now all is covered.
E. K.
fO thou mighty light,
and burning flame of comfort
which
Now it is open again.
epeneji
the glory
of God
to the Center
of the earthy
In whom •'>*f
thi
V
194 ^ true^elation of D^ Dee his ABions wh)f^s,^:x^
^
Eran
l^ This is t>»e
14 as 1 re-
ceived ih'-m 'n
the ho'y Lan-
ti'f ffcrfti c/ "truth
6332
tb.'ir ahidini
vbich
Move as before.
Faxs —
to be foiinil-d.
1 find in tne
Call T.-is. 1
finde alfo '"
fo.ne ".vords T
or F inditfcr-
cnth ufed,
LA. 13 1
['7j
thou
fecmi flawfy
'the hovfe of Jujiite
K>hi:h
hail:
th legmiyig
hi ft'ory^
aitd
hlovei 8ic.
it called.
in thy Kingdom
JOY,
and
ff'ah comfort
'the Juji,
v^l}ich wa/kfli
en the eurtb
with feet •
87^3
—
that undcrjland
and
Eniod.
not to be meafured-
Pe thou
a frindoff of comfort
unto me.
feparate
Creatures
great
art
thou
in the god of
end Conquer-^
i8
Stretch forth
E. K. Thry have covered all witif the Curtain
NOTE.
NOTE.
thou
third famei
whofe
wing!
are
thorns
to jiir up .
A voice.
Tj^xition
and h'iji
7336
L iiTfps living
-goin;
befire tjefy
Move-i as lefoTe-, &c.
Vpn Mifidijyort 'hall tjJve the refi.
ffih:fe God
is Wraih in Anger,
Gird up
thj lojnes
nnd
heark^en.
A. Tiie Goi o: Hofts hi praifed, his name extolledj and his verity prevaU to the comfort
:
ofhisLleft. Amen
^ voice I'ie Eternal Cod hleffeyou. We have no more nov. \
A. Amai, Amen, Amen. Mora 12.
A. Upon my coniidering ( immediately ) of thefe EngliOied Ca^ls, and the Ahgelical Lan-
cTua^e bslongiiig to them, I find tnat here are but 13 Engiifhed of the 14 wWich are in the
third Cracovien Vol-ime contained : and here wanteth'thc Englilh of the thirdofthofe 14.
Beiides this, you may conlider that tliefe Englifh Calls keep this order as foUowech : and
-
to make it a more peifeft account from the beginning ot the firil Call of All ( being longfincc
En<'liihed, and three more ) Then have vve 18 Calls,* whereof 17 are Engli/hed. ,^
\'M
Note , the third of the
third Book, which is the
fev£r-th5from the be;3in-
ning , is not yet tng-
lifhed.
Vidffojl Julii II. kora 4.
There is the Call Eng-
liftied,
i;
Tr,, there lack ycr =0 Calls, for the 30 Aires, &c. ( befides the Englifh of the feventh or
third^in'r^^^^^^^
'^' fi-"^
l^^\''
110 clw : A; chough xherc be letters gathered, but made into no words ;
as you may fee, be-
fore the fivJl'^allSf ail.
Saturday,
<^J true 1{elatiorj q/I>7D^^ jmcns mtb fpkiti^, T^^
Saturday, Jtdii 7. hUnc hortt G \ \ Cracoviie.
;
Oratione Dominica finita, aiiilqiie tarn ad Deumquani ipfnrn Ave petitionlbus, requirebara
Judicium ipfius Ave de meis tam ad Dciini quani boiios ejus angeios faftis orationibus. Poii
>13{ qi'rartL''n v^otz partem apparuic.
.-; Ave........ if the -fi^ords or truth of onr tefihmny and rttef.ige, were, or were contained within the
capa<^t\ of wany then might the Devil thrui in hintfelf, and dijfemble the Image of Truth : But
.
becnufeit is of Iruth^ and of him that beareth teftimonj of himfelf, tt can neither have affinity with
tiji'fielh,nor be ft'oksnof inthis fenfe.
Lo) tbUi deceitfully^ ^ "'•' '^^ Devil entred into man.
A: Bkiled b^ the Lord of all truth.
Ave, Therefore feeing the word is not cornipihle, Thofe that mlniller the word, canntt
dwell in corruption. If: eak^ not thii, without a cavfe, my brethren.
A. 1 pra}' you to proccedj accordiiifjly, that we may know the caufe, if it be your will : or
elfe leaving thi:; Caveat un:o uj, to proceed to the matter wherein we required your help-
ing hand to corrcft or confirm, or to do that which is behooful.
Ave fsr, which -fjon havefagbt the Lord, for the Lordhis caufe orfa^e -<*
A. Thar, God can be judge.
Are Or inwhuh ofyou hath due obedience ; either to the word , or unts us that are fan-
Sifie ct hy the word, been fuithfiil'y performed ?
A. My points of crrour, and difobcdience I befeech you to Notifie, that I may amend
'them.
Ave It may he,yo" will [ay, wc havi laboured, and we have watched, yea we have called on
the name of the Lord, trhat have you dune that yo:i ought mt to do , yea, a. thovfand times
more ?
'
A. We vaunt nothing of any our doings, nor challenge any thing by any perfeftion ofour
doings.
Ave, ShaU the hireling fay, I have laboured bard ? er doth the goodfervant think^he merit-
eth his wages ? It is not fo But you do fo; Therefore you are neither worthy af your reward^
tier the name offaiihful fervants.
A. No Lord, we challenge nothing upon any merits; but flie unto thy mercy, ant^thaC
Vie crave and call for,
Ave lou do wickedly andinjullly : yeayou credit the Lord, as you do your felves : your
faith U the faith of wen, and not of the faithful.
Many things have I[aid unto you from the beginning, ( faith the God of Jujiice ) whichyoit have
heard, and not believed : Butyoutempt me , and provol{e me; jea you jiir me uptobe angrj
ivith yriu
•
A, If thy Anger fhall be on us, befide the forrovv of this world ,tentations of the femd, &c.
Xhen are we not able to endure.
A'tfifcr not me, and hear what the Lord faith nnto thee ; Satan laugheth you te fcorn •
fvr
llifpif^ unto the Lord, ftanding before him. Are thefe they whor^ thou deliveredji from i'&^ The great and
perils of the Scar, and from the hands of the wicked, who}a the windes were a comfort to, and %peculiir mer-
jP'.imt?nance a Laii'hdPn ? ButtheLordjeemethnottohearhim.-forhekjioweth it is true. My^'^* of God
brethren, you leek the world more than you feek to perform the will of God : as thmgh God '^»*^*^ °n "*•
could not rain Gold and M-irgarits amom,ji you : As though the breath of Goi were not able to beat
'd'>wn the whole earth before you. you faithlejfe Creatures : ye hypocrites in the Vineyard of '
the Lord: you unworthy fervants of fuch a M'ljhr. Neither unto A\^r3ham, nor unto Noe, -nor
nnto any other Patriarchs or Prophets, hath God done more merciful unto, than unto yo>f. To Abra- ,
h^rahe [aid. When I return at this time of the year., Thou jhalt ha-ye a fon. Vnto Noe he fa id^
Build thee a Ship : Mnkj' up the Aik, Thus and thus., it (hall be : for the people jhall perijh.
Tofi remember not that Jofcph was fold by his brethren ; or ifyou do, it may be, you think^ it is a Gsnsf. 17.
fable : Ifyou thinly it to be true. Then confidsr how he efcaped the Pit ; Confider he was fold, and
fo hecame a bondman: B'ft who changed the imagination and fenfe of h:s brethren? who Q I fay")
came between their Tj/ranny an'J h:i innocency? fVhat w,ts he that made him free? that brtHght
hi»i before Pharaoh ? yea, and that which if more, made him reign over Pharaoh : Was it not
the fame God, thatdealeth with you?
ye of little faith, and jrarvelings, withered grajfe, and hla-lted willoy^fs : What and if you
vere in hell, conldhe not deliveryou ? Ifyou become bondmen, cannot he makj you free ? If you
ie in prifon, cannot he deliver you ? Cannot he compafTeyoih- neck with a chain? But Satan
faith, Lo, rtiey fay, they have a long Journey ; It is necejfary that God comfort thofe that put
'their truli in him. Euge, ho O yon begzerly frarvelings. Hath not the fame God, the fame
Raphael that he had. . . Tes verily, a tkouftni a hundred^ and a thovfand and a hundred thoufand
thoufands that are, and more than Pv.aphael for the help and comfort of the faithful.
TFhen Herodfought to kill the fon if God, in that he was man: hii Father delivered him not
with a mighty wind, nor with beating down of Lords Palaces; i«t by a dream appeared ««f(?
Jofeph, faying, flee, Herod feek^eth the child his life, flote the manner of his warning. The man-
iiii-
»> 6 A tmel^elatton of D'. Dee his Anions mthjfirits, &c.
Iter of kk departure : But hear what the Lordfaid in the end. Return, for he that fought the
Child hii [lie, u now dead. Why, I f^y, you rotten Keeds, worfe than the excrements of the Fens,
Ud anJ be have not yov greater warning? Jibberef^^re it it (aid unto you. Up and be gone, hut that the Lord
feon.-. feeth the thouglus of man > even of him which feeketh your deftruftion ; Even of this wickedj
-f''f<""''^y*«' King which feeketh todeftroy L<ziii^if.
"
!
Could not the fame Lord, cotiftme that wicked monfter and feller of his people, ( which tartl-
et h for a tine') with the fire of hit m uth ? Tes, but that he hath given all things a time. Thofei
^ , fhiit are righteom are often ti'tiestak^n away hecajife of temptations that are to Cytne : But the^
d.-^h *of' liic ^i''k;d are fvfered to continue., becaufe they jaight he more heavy, and. fink, deeper : But, ( for love)
rigl-.f-^us now I f^'t urtoyort, my .' rethren, P'lee the niifchiefs that are to come, aud go forward in the fervice of
a.i>l then. the
'
Higheji, thatyou may enjoy thefroniifes that are made yon, and bepartak^ers of the haj>py dayes
fl<:=-
to come.
Takeheedof whoredom, and the provocations of the flefh. For why .? thofe things that we
But ic- Jjyes. fay, are not wiboiit thtir cauje. To'.i b^ive but ten dayes to tarry ( ifyou will follow my c»unfe! )
But if you liiigei any longer, you may drink, of a C'lp thit you wo-ild not, JFberefore doth God
warn you, bvt that he would be juft with you ? Hith he not the while Earth tt ferve him ? Believe
vie, by thete;ti:»ony We if jr, thac the good Angels weep over )0'< ; for, as you are particular-
Particular ly called, fo have you your particular and unaccuftomed temptations. But pray unto God, that
Tsmptitions. jj^ y^^y prevail. Nititur enim, omnibus modi?, Sathanas ut vos devorer.
Piovide for
^^ if [aid imtr you. If you provide for this Journey, &c. That word is ais fure as the ftron"-
tnisjoirney. eft rock in the World. Confileringthatyou were warned by the fame Spirit (whereof Ifpea>^)
SfiTuus ian- heingwitneffe of himfelf, andhy m,whichhearwitneffe of him t, Give ear, gird up yo^r fe'ves, and
iti^i.
begone; Forycven at the very doors, are mifcbief. After n while I have femewhat elfe to fay
oe eon;. Jr
i j j
° unto you.
E. K. He covercth all with the white Curtain.
A, We read and con'idered thefe premifes fomewhat diligently.
A. Afterward, [^Ave"] he came again, and ( after a paufe ) faid as followetb.
Ave My I rather,! fee thou di i not underfand themylieryofthisBook^,orwork, thouhafiin
Enoch. hand ButI told thee,it was the knowledge that God delivered unto Enoch. Ifaid a!fo,that Hnocli
lab-iited 5c dayes. Notwithjiandittg, that thy labour he not frujirate, and void offruit, Be it un^
The Book con- to thee, as thou haft done.
""^ '
A. Lord I did the beft that I could conceive of it.
Ave. I will tell thee, what the labour of Enoch was for thofe fifty dayes^
L- O Lord 1 thank thee.
Nal. Avt. It H^ made, (as thou haji done, thy book.) Tables, of Serp^fati aud plain fione : as the Angel ef
15 1 kinJ of xhe Lord appointed him ; faying, tell me(0 Lord) the number of the dayes that I Jhall labuur itt.
flne.ftone. ^^ ^,^, anfwered him 5o.
btur.
^^"^^ ^'
Then he groaned within himfelf, frying. Lord God the Fountain of true vifdom, thou that openefi
thefecretsofthyownfelfunto man, thou k? T^'^i mine imperfe^iion , and mji inward darkjifjfe :
How can I ( therefore ) fpeak, unto them that fpeak. not after the vtice tfmm ; or worthily call on
thy nam', confiering th^t my imaginatnn n v triable and fruit leffe , and mkjiown t« my felf
.<'
Shall the Sundsfeem to ia\itc the (fountains : or can the fmall Rivers entertain the wonderful
Enich h's and unknown waves ?
prayer to GoJ, Can the Vfffel offear, fragility, -r that ;V of a determi-red proportion, lift up himfelf, heave up
his h'tnd!, or gather the Sun into hii bofom ? Lord it cannot be : Lord my imperfection ts great
:
Lord I am leffe thanfand : Lord, thy good Aa^els and Creatures ex e'l me far : our proportion is
mt alike ; lur fenfe agreeth not : JV twithihnding I am comforted ; For that we have allcte God,
One Crcirour/z// one bes,inningfrom thee, that w- refpea thee a Creitour : Therefore will I call upon thy
of all things,
name, and in thee, I will become mighty. Thou fhalt light me, and I will become aSccr;
"'•
1 will fee thy Creatures, and will m<ignilie tliee amongft them. T'.'ufe that come uifto thee hate
the fame gate, and through the fame ^are,defcend,fuch as thou Cendiii. Behy'd, I offer vij houfe,
wy /fio/T, wy^f(?>-ttf«<//o«/. If ic will pleafe thy Angels to divell with m;, and I with them;
to rejoyce withtne, that I may rejoyce with them ; to minifter unto me, that I viay magnifie
thyname. Then, h the Tables (which 1 have provided, and according to thy will, prepared) [
offer unto thee, and unto thy holy Angels, dcHring them, in and through thy lioly names ;
That as thou art their light, and comforteji them,{o they, in thee will be my light and comfort.
Lord they prefcribe not laws unto thee, fo it is not meet that I prefribe laws unto them : What it
pleafeth t^ee to offer, they receive ; So what it pleafeth them to offer unto me, will I a^fp receive.
Behold I fay(0 Lord) Jf / fhallcall up n them in thy name,Be it unto me in mcrcy,as unto the fer-
vant of the Higheji. Let them alfo manifeft unto me. How, by what words, and at what time,
The Call of I Ihall call them, Lord, L there any that meafure the heavens, that is mortal .? Hw, there
Argds. fore, can t^^e heavens enter into mans imagination .<'
Ihy Creatures are the Glory cf thy covnte-
tianre : Hcnly \boH glorifieji all things, which Glory excelleth and (0 Lord.) is far r.bove rny
underjiandmg. It is great wifdom , to fpeak. and talkie accordi>tg to underiiimding with
I
(^ true Relation of &, D^e his Miens mth fi^irirs, ^c 2 03
LIBRI CRACOVIENSIS MYSTICUS
APERTORIUS,
fulii, 11. 1^84,
PRi^TEREA PROOEMILIM M ADI Ml ANU M,
Libri primi^ fragenfis Cxfareique^ Anno i^S/^.
Auoujii 1 5 . Stilo No'vo.
Liber 5. Cracovienjiufft Myjleriorum Apertorius.
Thurfdaj, Julii 12. Annt 1584.
ARRY to the povidenct Yar ry.
A. Note the w'tcked power dazeled fo the eyes of
£. &. that he could not well difceru this O, but
ID'^'UlGO *0 ftaying at it a while concluded it to be ail V : which
afterward, and by and by, he correfted.
of him that fitteth on the holy Ihrofte Id ui-go.
.
Idoigo.
The Curtain being plucked.
lie Have Patience.
A. As we were talking ofthe name of God Idoigo in Enoch his Tables, a voice faid.
A voice IFhere the moji force was, the Devil crept moji in. Herein the Devil thought t«
deceive ym. • .
Vi
A. It muft be then 1 doigo ?
* OD ,, ani Od.
JOR2ULP rofe up Tor zulp.
^ lAODAF in the beginning
Y
la 6 daf.
GOHOL faying. Go hoi.
CAOSGA The earth. Caofga.
T ABAORD let her bt governtd Ta ba ord- O
SAANIR by her parti ^ Sa a nil".
OD and . Od.
i
CHRISTEOS let there he- Chris te ois.
,VrpoiL divifion Yr p6 il.
1
JIOBL in her. Ti obi.
f fiUSDIRT I LB that the glory of her Bufdirtilb.
'.
NOALN
204 A true Relation o/D^, Dee his JBions mth/pirits, &c.
NOALN
PAID
ORSBA
OD
DODRMNZ
ZYLNA
ELZAPTILB
P ARMGI
PIRIPS AX
OD'
TA
Maybe
alwayei
drunks»
and
vexed
in itfelf.
Hef^ courfe.
Let it run
with the Hetivtnsf
*nd
Q\X R L S T in handmaid.
11. ...... Have patience a little. E. K,
E. K. Now they are here again.
BOOA PIS
LN/BM
OUCHO
SYMP
OD
CHRJSTEOS
AGTOLTOR N
M7RC
:cL.
TIOBL
LEL
TON
P AOMBD
D I L Z M O
ASPlAN
No aln.
pa id.
Orfba.
OA.
Dodrumni.
Dod rm ni.
Zyl na.
El zap tilb.
Farm gi.
te rip fax.
Od.
Ta.
Kurlft.
Qurlft.
Let her ferve them B 09 apis.
one feafon
:
Lnib m.,
Chofe.
Let it confomd V Cho.
another^ Symp.
and Od.
let there he Chris tc OS,
no Creature A g tol torn.
Mirk.
upony Mire.
*r CL
within her Ti ob 1.
the fame Lei.
one and the fame.
All Ton.
her members Pa Onibd,
let them differ Dil zmo.
in their qualities^ As pi an.
''HE fWol
.11 '
'3"
6
t
t
)
i
.t
K t
045
Aj^V'C ^dation of D'. Dee his JBicns with fpirits, <5cc, ^ipp.
VVednefday, Julii n. i Meridicy hota 4.
A. Ac the firft looking the Curtain appeared to E. K. his light.
A. When it (hall pleafe thee, O God, we are deliious to receive wifdom from thee.
A. At fix of the Clock appeared a little one, yellow, like a little Childe : his hair fine yel-
low, and a very amiable face.
t{A^ '-f
notp
Tt avoid rfproachy and ''or the truth of the word I viftt jiw^inftead o/Nalvage , Mich can»'-t
i.^}f^
'
come. I afti I\c Mefe, thefervant of the higheft, which injiead c/Nalvage, wi//, and am able to fitf- ^ '^^^
f^' ^^^
fljhiifJ^cc. ^ of>^.//«'>,Dd,
A. s>o belt in the name of Jefi:s. oneofchesep-
llcm (JHany ,andj:rong are your enemies, both bodily and ghoflly : But he you flrongy '^"=»"' vvhere-
and you (hall prevui'. ' ^^ " •'*
Many enemies
-f^^^^^y^^^ f,y^ what you will have nte do.
A. That (if ic pleafe you) that Nalvage would have done.
The Eaji u a houfe of Virgins.
A, He diftinguifheth it not by fingers.
He lFell,youJhall have fingers.
'
bodily and
gholHy.
are
1 he Trinfla"
tion ot ihe
Call inco
Englifh.
Singing fraifes
*nto*tgji
the flames of firft gl oric,
wherein
the Lord
hath opened his mouth
and
j^^
they are become ^
^•*
Twenty eight That you have
living dwellings, not.
in whom
the jirength of man
rejoyceth.
and
they are apparail'd
with ornaments fo bright
fuch as
jpsri^ wonders
,
en all creatures,
whofe
Kingdoms
and continuance
are as the third
and fourth
fir»ng Towers
and ,
places «f comfort.
The feat of mercy
and continuance.
Oyoufervants of mercy.
(JHove,
appear,
fing praifes
unto the Creator,
and
be mighty
amongji us,
for
unto this remembrance
is given
power,
and
our ftrength
waxethftrong
in our comforter.
lie. .... .. Lo, there jiu have it,
A. I pray you to confider of the form of the promifc, for we were promifed to receive the Vide Supra.
Calls we looked for, and Co to be fit for the 49 Gates,€^c. If this you have done, be the
performance of thofe the words of Gabriel, or no, I pray you confider.
lie. ..... For tht thirty Culls, or thirtyCall, to morrow 4t the fourth benr, Thutfday at four of
/ will eafeyo'i fifficiently.
t^e Clock afcernoon.
A. I befeechyou (if I (hall not offend to rcqueft it) What is the caufe e/ Gabriel and Nal-
vage their abfence f
He Spiritual Contention between Satan and them, and more then man can, or may un-
der
jiand. '
•!'
A. Then I pray you, why was not this fupply fent at the time appointed?
lie It is not of God, to thinks that God is of time. All things are tied unto him , and no-
thing can be feparated from him. NotwithjiandiHg,he may feparate himfelf from them. But you -HiazKcn
/hall understand, that thcfe nineteen Calls. Calls re-
A. There arc but 18 befides the firft to God, «''«<*•
There are nineteen befides the firji'] are the Calls, or entrances into the The ufe of ihels
knowledge of the myftical Tables : Every Table containing one whole leaf, *9 Calls.
whereunco you need no other circumftances.
.\t. The fii-jl Call begiiketh OlSonf.
In Englifti / raign.
2. The fecond beginneth Adgt.
In Englifli Can,
3. The Call of the third Table beginneth Ol^icma.
In Engli/h
"
Behold.
E. K. A white cloud cometh about him, but hideth him not.
lie But you muji under'land.that infpeakjng of the firft Table , I fpeak of the fecond,
iSe that the fecond, with yon is the firft.
4. As this \z9i, behold iith.e. fourth, iat with you the third.
A. It is the fevcnthtbut the third of the fourteenth.
aO A [c c 2] l\e... ii.it
I
zpo 4 true Relation ofD\ Dee his JBions mth/pirits, 6c c.
He. ..... It it the Cd//of the third.
5. 7he next in EngUfli is I have fct
Otherwife—— O thji.
6. 'Jt^'e f^xth • — The mighty founds .
Otherwife'-—- Saphah.
7. thefeventh The fpirits
'
Gah.
8. The eight — 7hf Eaji
ROa.
lleni Look,that, tb/itjiou call the third.
C.-]t is Raas.
9. The next~——The midday the firji
Bafemi lo, or Bafemle.
10. *- ' ~" ^ yvtzhtjf
Micaoli.
II. "-- The Thunders of judgenttHt dHd vratb
Coraaxo.
There ctnicth a tph'-te bright C.'ond about bitH.
12. —~~
—
"-^ 2he mighty feat
Sai
OxCdial.
E. K. Every time he fpeaketh, he pulleth fire out ofhis mbififi / and.
cafteth it from him.
13. .^ you •-
Nonci. 'J ^ '
14. " you fworis
Napci.
E. K. Now a white Cloud goeth round.
15. O \0V foKS
No Romi.
i5. .1^ cho'itbfGovernour
lis Tabaam
11 There you lac\, the third vord ? !
A. What is that ?
Of the firit flamey it anf^eretb to L al purt. Jji
Tofihad 77or the expoftion of the third word.
17. Dye of the ftcond fiame.
Jls vivi a purt. cX
18. —• • • thou third fiame,
lis dial part.
19. thou mighty light
11 micalZoal part.
^hus you have not lojiyyur labour-
E. K. Now he wrappeth the Cloud that was under him about his
head.
God '.e with fou.
E. K. Saw him go upward. .
, ?*
A. Glory be to God, praife and honour for. ^nie».
>>3 A
M
TburCday,y"lii It, i Mereh.ra^. fCracoviit. 'MTH
Oratione Dominica finita, & breviter ad Ifejnefe qnibufdam diftis. ^
E. K. The Curtain appeared at the firft looking. ^Ik V
A. Now in tiie name of Jcms,as concerning thofe 30 Calls, or thirty Call , we await "ydrtr
information of Ilemefe.
A. Af-
A trueKe/ation ofD\ Dee his JB'iQns vitthfftritY, v5cc. "i bt
A. After divers parcels of our Aftions paft with Nilv'ize being rcad,which were very well
of ns liked, at length Iletmfe^ appeared : and aft^r he had /hewed himfelf ( the Curtain being llemife.
opened ) he drew the Curtain to again. ^ •' >
A. I then faid three Prayers out of the Pfalm?, &c.
E. K. Now he ftandeth as Nalz>age ufed to do, upon the Globe
with the rod in his hand : And Gahnelfitteth by.
A. In the name of the eternal and everlafting God fay on.
E. K. Now the Globe tiirnethfwifrly, and he polntetSHo letters
thus, with the rod which Nalvage was wont to ufc.
M A D R I I A X you heavens A. I think this word wanteth ^^("'^f'-
^s may appear by Madrittx , a-
bout 44 words from the end,
D S P R A F which dwell Ds frafr^:
LIL • Itttbefirflair Lil.
Kit
CHISMICAOLZ are mighty Ch'ts MkaoU.
Gab. ...... ^iove »it,for the place is holy.
L.. Hallowed be his name, that fanftifieth whatfoever is fan&fied.
^^^SAANIR in the parts Saauir. :
^-
Ih,
C A O S G O of the earth Ca osgt.
OD
F I S I S and, execute Odfifis.
BALZIZRAS the judgement ^al zi zras.
Ta
I AID A efthehigheji la-ida.
NONCA to you Nonca.
G O H U L 1 M It if faid Co hk Urn,
E. E. There came a black cloud in the air about the Stone as
though it would have hindered E. K. his fight.
Gabr. ..... It hehoveth us to do that we do even vfith frefent contention againil the wicked.
Have a little patience.
-The curtain is now away again, and they appear again.
MiV^ia.
M I C M A 'Behold Mtcma. afftr.
_jiEs^|C. Now is the curtain plucked to again, and they covered.
ADOIAN the face A do i an.
MAD ofyour Gtd Mad.
lA OD Ihe beginning I i od.
BLIORB of Comfort Bliirb,
SABAOO A ONA
t3Hl
whtfe eyes
are
Saba it ndi
Kisf
€hk.
•^A .A
LU CI F-
O or A.
I ox_ <iJ'tr^e %elatk'n of D^ Dee his JUions nhhfpirits, 6c c.
LU C I F T I A S the hrightuefe Jjt cif ti as.
PIRIP SOL of the heavens^ PerIf sol.
aS which Vs.
A B R A A S S A
NONCF
provided
you
Alra'iffa,
Konsf
H.ncf.
NE TA AI B for the g vtr»ment Ne ti a ih.
CAOSGI $ftbe earth. Ca 0fgi.
OD and Od.
TILB her 7ilh.
i
ADPHAHT tinfpea\ahle Adfhaht.
t
s
He Read it.
A. TheFnglifti.
lie I '3
DAMPLOZ variety. Dim flest.
TOOAT
NONCF
furnishing
JOU
1o at.
NoHsf
Hon cf.
-i
GMIC ALZOMA vith a fewerymderftanding Gmi cii Z6 ttta.
LRASD to difpofe Ltisd.
TOFGLO .
all things Tifglo, "•
.
--;
MARB according Marh.
£ &. It follows in LihroCr*. ;
•
1
HBRI
.A ]
!'" ''<
or A
I'ifi
H*
J trueRelation of D^ Dee his Jtt'ms wh[pints, &:c, ip7
Ta] Ki>tt.i B-it to command Kvigy by a fnb]eaed co»tmt,tdvent^ j^^ j ^.^^ ^^^^ noK;nf,,;n Emc&
is mt vi['loy>iy unleflc it come iromthet. BejpoU Lord., Hm hsri.n;;C.jn(iaerthe eto.ehowto
(hall 1 therefore afcend hitc the heavens ? 'the air -will not carry a»k th sdouSn of this phnfc pro-
m. hut refi'ieth m folly, I fall down, for I am of the earth, th.'re^ ''^"i^'J. '"
^^ ' ^
^"t a'I'-
^^
' !, . Til - r ^ ^1 ^\. n. /„-..,rft thit uniide"a N tnns had Kmzs
fore, thou very Lis,ht and true i^omfort, that canft, and uuylt, ^^^^^^J^^^ ^^-^ ,i„, j,,,^^.
and dott conint and the heavens ; Behold I offer thefe Tables unto fore there might be fome in Enoch
t/bffi Command them as ic pleafeth thee : and Oyou MinijL'rs, histimf. or hctnophefiedof them.
and true liSl,hts of uuderjiandr.i^. Governing this eartlily frame,
and the elements wherein we live, Ds for me as for the fervant of the Lord : and jtnio whom it
hath fleafed the Lord totalk^ of yon
t,shold-, Lord, thouhaji appointed me $0 times; * Thrice 50 times w// I lift my hinds unto * Ave,
thee. Be it unt > w' as 't f'l-.iCeth th:e, and thv holy Mhtiiers. I require nothin j biic chee, an 1 fhu i
.
to fay,
throiu;h thee, and for thy honour and glory : But I htpe I jhall be fatisfied, and (hall not di j,
thiiceiday.
(As thou ha'ipromifed)K«t;/ tioK gather the clouds together, and judge all things : wkn
in a moment I fhall kg changed and dwell with thee for ever.
Thefe words, were thrice a dayes talk^betwixt Enoch an I God : In the end of 50 dayes, there rhrice a day.
appeared unto him, which are not now to be manifejied nirfp^k/n of : he enjoyed the fruit of Clod
his promife, and received the benefit of his faith. Here may the wife learn wifdom : for what doth
tnan that it n-it corruptible ?
\ fl have not that X may fay any more unto you : But helievf me,I have faid great things unto you : If
you will have me hereafter, I will come.
Conftder well my words, and what 1 have now faid unto thee: for here thou mayji learn
vifdoM, and alfo fee what thou haft to do.
A. 1 wi!l,if itpleafe you read over fome of thefe Invitations which I have made and writ-
ten herein this Book.
Ave io'' may not ufethat word Obedientes.
.
A. You fpake of a firft word tocall, and of a fecond tvi coirdrain.
Ave. It fignifieth, it iirgeth them more in God. I have faid.
A. Note, what is meant by the name of God that was faid to conftrain, being the fecond vvh«ij meant
names of two before given. by the phrafe
£. K. He is gone, and all covered with the Curtain. ftraUiTinre-
A. All honour, pralfe, and glory, all thanks and power, is due to our God and King, ^^^ggi^'
^°°
So be it. AmeH.
Monday, Juliiy p. Mane bora y. three quarters, f Cracovir.
Orationibus quibufdam finitis ad Deum 8c deindcad Gabrie'em Sc Nalvage, Zee.
E. K. As foon as he looked, he found the Stone covered with the
white Curtain.
A. A paufe of a ^ of an hour : In which fpace I ufed fundry ejaculations to God, and his
good Angels.
A. This day was appointed, we attend therefore your inftruftions. At length they ap-
peared not, but ufed a voice.
A->oice. .^hii day, but the Sun decliningthe fourth hour-
tt.. Your meaning is, that at after noon, at 4 of the clock.
The voiie. As thou haji written ^-
A. The will of the Higheit be done. Amen.
Monday, A Meridie, hora 4.
A. As E.K. was faying to me, that he thought that the Angels might tell the certain day
liandtimesof things to come, and that Angels could now fall no more, d^r. Offuch things
|> touching Angels ; fuddenly a voice was heard, as followeth.
* Ajroicd Herein will I talk^with you, my brethren.
E. K. Gabriel onely appeareth : neither Nal'vage nor the Table
appearech. He fitteth in a Chair, and with his fiery Dart.
Gabr. .;.... 7heProphets infpired with the Holy Ghofi,were affuredoftbe coming of their Meffiits,
ef their Chriji: But what day, or in what year was not of mans underjianding. Chriit kimfelf
opened unto hit J)tfcipUs bis death , and the manner thereof ; but the day and hour he never dif-
[cc] eltfed.
I I
— _ ^
15/8 A true Relation 0/ D^ Dee hts Mions mthfpirits, &c.
De fecundo aJ. c/cfed. So I/lifWife the ScrifUires ffeni^ f the coming of Chrift, but the day and hour , tht Son of
ventu cbrijli. wan kjioweth not. But hecavfc in time to icvte , and for this ur;ion , (the vitjfage of the higkeji)
AHd affuredyard infallible 'Door ine^Qntrefped that God appointed ytt no certain time') is neref-
fary. For^ for this caufe you waver »n brethren: and may lofe the benefit of God his favour, and
mercies. weaklings examine the frophets, look^ into the doing of the Apojiles . There alwayes
V(Ht a fromife iefore the end : But the end WM the benefit and fruit of the fromife. Some aU
leadge Paul, ^ome Peter, fowe Daniel : But m this cafe (hall you alleadge the fayings of God,/"y&j-
ken in the fpirit of truth by me ^ahriel, the fervant of the higheji. God^for three canfes hi-
deth the ehd, and the very time of his heavenly purpofes. As after a little filence you Jhall jhert-
ly hear.
E. K. A cloud covereth him. •
E. K. Now he appeareth again.
Gab. ..... Firii, Lj reafcn of his own intxplirahle Eft & non eft efTe, which u without the circum-
ference yjirength, capable vertjie, and power of man, dii intelleciuainy, whereby be appeareth to be
verily one God, and incom-rehenfble.
Secondly, i'ccaufe Lucifer w/r/)(!»Af yea {iycrs,(d.in?ned juily) fhuuld never talh of hit light,
nor onderlhind hif feeret -judgements : whi h he Vould, and might d», if they were delivered to mans
imagination, and d/fconrfe : Becaufett is withm the circumference and compajfe of hit Creation.
Conf ler of thefe two.
E- K. Now he is covered in a white Cloud again.
^
A, The firft reafon, or caife we do not fufficiently underftand, or conceive.
Deufet eff-,'^2n&.[iDcus. -
JSlon ei tjje, I uipiis Deus.
For, In the judgement day, G d in his fon, Chriii,jhanfkut up his perpetual and everlaliing Jm
fiice, wrath, and anger, > nh Hell and damnation. Leavng them, and forfakjng them, and im
no cafe to be called their G d. Fratres \_>i'~\ non habebunt Dcum. But they fiiall be without
a guide, and without a Centre. Hcruy jou may underjiand , EfTe & non eft efle. To the
pirp4^.
Thirdly, that man firmly perfwaded of things fpokjn of hy Ged above hif capacity to come , att4
unknown, might worthi'y in the jirength offaith, and thrmigh the effea of hit premifes merit his fa-
vour in Chriji, and receive eternal falvation,ju}iIy before God and bis A»gels. Thefe are the three
caifes,
A. Thi? laft caufe, if it would pleafe you to make more plain, it ftiould greatly cnfcrm us
and confirm us.
...... Thcfe are the three onely caufes, that the ends of God his determinations are feeret.
1. In the firIT, that God vi/ght appear omnipotent.
2. In the fecondyfeaicd up in bimfelj from the knowledge of fuch « have rebelled t« their de*
firudion,
3. In the third, that man vtight jririly be made Worthy of the places prepared for him.
Wedntfdiy ^^.Uzge it called away . .end cannot be in jidion wiihyeu till Wedne(dzy, Then fhall you
following. have the Calls thatyoi; look for. And fo enter into the knowledge and pcrfeft i:nderf
ftaiiding of the ^^ Gates and Tables if youwill.
k. O Lord, thy will and mercy be (hewed upon us.
Gab. But vudeijiand that it it a labour, the hardell and the lafi,
•
A. Violenti nihil difficile : God ftrengthen our will and faiih.
Gab.. ... / hdve utthing e.fe to fay unto you. But God be merciful! untt you j and forgive jow
your fins.
A. Amen.
Gab And that you go hence, mak/ hajte.
A.
E. K. He is gone. ; ,
A. Gloria Patri, & hlio,& fpiritui Sanfto (icut erat in principio, 8c nunc & fcmpcr , & in
fecula feciiloruni. Amen.
At four o( the
Clock after
nooD,
Craccvi£.
The Curtain appeared
jhaight way.
Wednefday, JuUi 11. Mane hora, 6 f.
Oratione dominica finita, &c.
A. We await the promife, which you made us , O Gabriel.
A voyce. Not ntw, tut at the fourth htur^ declining as before,
E. K. And why not now as well.>
A voyce. He that laLeureth tn hit own barveji laboureth when he lifi : but he that fijheth oh the
Se^'^muii be ruled by her *urfe,
A^i^Fiat voluntas Dei.
Wedncf-
•f\ ,
' " '
""' II I
^ I ^
I
4trueRelation o/D^ Dee ^/j jaions mthfpirits, dec. 205:
OD and- Od.
Longjorjhort.
CHRISTEOS Let there le Chris te os.
AGLTOLjTORN m one Creature Ag 1 ter torn
PARACH equal
Ah.
Ach.
A S Y M P
CORDZIZ
D O D P A L
OD
FIFALZ-
LSM N AD
the wieldedfiakfbehmdeE. K.
yith anether.
The reafcjiable
Creatures of the earthy
or Man.
Let thetftvf^^
and
"iPeed out
one another.
Pa rach.
A fjmp.
Cord ziz.
TQod pal.
Od.
Fi falz.
Ls nonad.
E. K. Now the Curtain is drawn.
A voycc Kead.
A. I read it .... terfrom the beginning hitherto,
lie. IVhereat doiAt you.
'^by turned God Adam out into the earth
^ ' ^ ^'
'''''' '^' '''^' ^'^'''' ^'^
^. Becaiife he had tranfgrefTed the Lav^s to be kept in Paradife.
u'mZo% earJt" ^ff7 f7f"'^' '''T'^
^"''"'"''' f"' ^^ cfence^in'm he >;« t.rn-
L tL7do'n i-rt\ha^ /f' ''"i ^T ''''T^ 7.\
'' '^ ^^'^^^ f^'^'^^ ^ben can you not aptly fay he
<^fa%r.c^x\tJ\n IrlZ F''i
''/'J^'^'''' • ^-'^/^ Adam, fro;, ntnocency through
' r4^J/'^ChriHrought allblejfedneffe^a^^
T ^T"
'
Note.
If.
f^ftJO" ^^y mderjiand my rule.']
\ Note, All this was anfweredbv a vovce a=;.coiirrrtim,T ,i„> a-
ore exprcfFed.
/" ^0706,35.conceining niy queflion.
caith.
or doubt hereto-
tinif,. ^;„..v ,.«.... L..L . ^ , ,
coarge with their Creation, but afterward in d ,
times, d'vers offices.bith toward God and 7nan.
^ ''''^'''
^' '''"'"''^ '''^rmng I will meet you here the third B
[dd]
'jur,
A. The
20 6 A true^elation of D^ Dee his jBtons mthjf^irtts,&.c.
^. The third hoir after the Sun riling mean you >
Avoycc I-
A. Let \ s hartily than
vpon ns, now and ever. Amen
A Let'i s hartily thank the Lord and praife him alw ayes : His Mercy and Grace be
TTyA^y^Ji'tii 13, Manehoraj. + Cracovidt.
A. Orati ne Diwimca finitdy 8cc.
^. At the firft looking , E. K. faw the Curtain ufual to appear , and fomewhat plighted,
and fhordy.
^ voyce f^ead that you have done.
A. I read hitherto that was written.
E. K. Now they appear, the Curtain being drawn away : But the
round Table, or Globe appeared not.
£. K. Now they have drawn the Curtain over them again*
A. BlefTed be they that are come in the name of our God, and for his fcrvicc.
E. K, Now they appear, and the Table, or Globe with them.
]lc Ihereji.
A. In the name of Jefus, and for his honour.
OD
FARGT
BAMS
OMAO A S
CONISBRA
OD
AUAVOX
TO NUG
ORSCATBL
NOASMI
TAEGES
LEVITHMONG
UNCHI
OMPTILB
ORS
B AGLE
MOOOAH
OLCORDZ{lZ
And Od.
the dweUing places^
Gad.
Farg t.
Let them forget Bams
their nameSf Omaoas.
the ffgrk.of man Co nis bra.
and Od.
bk pmp
:
A ua vox.
Let them he defaced To nug.
hit huildjngs^ Ors cat bl.
let them become No af mi.
Caves Tabges.
f$r the heajis of the field Levith raong;
ctnfound
Ki.
Un chi.
her mdtrflanding Omp tilb. ;
With darkjiejfe^ . Ors.
for vhy ? Bagle.
it refenteth me Mo Oah.
I made man 01 cord ziz. '
LCA"
^^tme "Relation ofD', Dee his J&ions mth fpirits, ^c. 207
LCAPIMAO
IXOMA XIP
ODCACOCA S B
CMC while
let her he kfUWH,
and /ntttber while
Gab '.. Move ftot, for the place is-holj.
E. K. All is covered.
E. it. Now it is open.
GOSAA a firafigety
BAGLEN becaufe
PII
TIANTA
Jhek
thehei
ABAB ALOND of an har!o%
ODFAORGT and the dwelling place
TELOGVOVI
M
of him tbas is fallen.
MADPlIIAX Oyou heavens
T R Z II arife.
OADRI AX The lower heavens
orocha Underneath j/ou
ABOAPRl''^ let themferve j/etif
TABAORI Gtvern
PRIAZ thtfe
ARTABAS that goverfi^
ADRPAN Caji dswtt^
CORSTA fiich as
DOBIX fall.
Y L C A M hring forth
E. K. Now the Curtain is drawn.
PRI AZI
ARCOAZIOBl
O D QJX A S B
with thofe
that encreafej
and dejhroj
[dd 2]
L ca pi ma o,
Ix o mf.x ip.
Od ca CO casb.
Go fa a.
Baglen.
Pii.
M /
Ti anta.
i .. ;
A ba ba lond.
gtjordgr.
Od fa orgc.
lotch, ot loch.
Te 16c vo V im,
yax
Madri iax.
Tor zu.
O adriair,
ka.
Orocha.
A bo a pri,
Taba o ri.
Priaz.
Ar ta bas,
dirJ-J AT
A dr pan.
Cor fla.
Dobiz.
YoJ earn. X
fuitu
Ar CO a zior;
Od quasb.
QjriNd
2, o 8 ^A true %elation of D^, Dee his ABions whfpirits, 6cc.
CLTING the rotten
dg
Qjing.
RIPIR No place. Ripfr.
PA AOXT let it remain Pa a oxt,
Kor
S AG ACOR in one number. Sa ga cor.
V ML Adde Vml.
OD* and.
Pur
PRDZAR •
Diminijh Prd lar.
C A CR© until
ciirg
Cacrg-
AOIVEAE the Stars Aoiveae.
CORMPT he numbred ; Comipc
T»ORZU drifei Term.
ZACAR Move Zacar.
ODZAMRAN and appear Od zamian.'
ASPT before Afpt.
SIBSI the Covendfti Sibfi.
E. K. Now he hath drawn the curtain again.
BUTMONA
DS
SURZAS
TIA
BALTAN
ODO
CICLE
QA A
OD
OZAZMA
PLAPLI
lADNAMAD
ofhitmouthi But mo na.
which Ds,
be hath [worn Surzas.
unto m Tia.
in hi* Juji'tce. Balcan.
m
Open Odo.
the myfieries Cicle.
ofpur Creation^ QJa.
and Od.
maks ut Ozazma.
partakfrs Plapli.
0fundefiled knowledge. lad na mad
3ik
Atrue 'Relation of jy. Dee his JBicns mth fpirits, (3cg, 2 op
The fir\i A'lre^ is called -»
Li!.
Thefecond • •
Am.
The third • ' '
— Zom.
4 • —- •
Paz.
5 — '—'
1 Maz.
—. — ^ Deo.
7
8 — Zid.
Zip.
9
10
II
12
I ?
— Zax.
-Ich ik.
— Loe.
— Zini.
— Ura.
— Oxo.
H
15
\6
" Lea.
17 Tan.
18 Zen.
Pop.
19
20
'
-'—-" -" Chr karinpalato
21
• •— Afp. very miich.
- Lin.
Tor.
Nia.
Uti,
22
23
24
^>
26 •
Des.
27 — • - Zia.
28 :
: Bag.
jp . . — -— Rii.
50 . • — '——•• — Tes,
^here it all'
tioff change the name, attd the Call it all me. Note.
A. Blefled be he who onely is alwayes one. ^"1*
^'''» One
A. I take thefe names tobe aj;)rjwK^,/>aW;«-, ffrr/ar, and to 30. th-?"*^
^'^*
A voice ATor/a, tifj if t/jefubftantial namesof the Aires.
A. It was faid they had no proper names ; but were to be ca'led, O thou of the firft Aire,
O thou ofthe fecondjdfc. I pray you reconcile the repugnancy of thsfe two places, as
they (hould feem.
£. K. The Curtain is opened.
£. £. Now Gabriel ftandeth up.
Gabr Thiuhath Gad k^eptproinife ivithyou^ and hath delivered yo74 the keyes of his ftdre-
houfes : wherein you Jhall find, (if jou enter wifely, humbly, and ^Titiently ^ Jreafures mare
vnrth than the frames of the heavens.
But yet it not Auguft csme : Notvpithftanding the Lord hath kf^t his fromrfe with you before „ , ^.- ^^^
the time. Therefore, Njro examineyour Bookj, Confer one place with anocher, and learn 10 bt mlf^cfuifine)
ferfedfor the prahice and entrance, before A. gi.-li.
See that your garments be clean. Herein be not ralh : Nor over hafiy ; Frthofe that are Cnuvfc] for
hafy and rajh, and are lothfomely apparelled, may knock long before they enter. p^epiration.
There is n» other readingofthe Book^,but the appearing of the Minijiers and Creatures of God .-The reaciing
vhichjhewing what they are themfelves,Jhew how they are conjoyned in prpfer, and reprefented "^ i'''''''^''''-
formally by thofe letters.
'^^^ letceis;
E. K. Now he taketh the Table, and feemeth to wrap it up to-
gether.
A. Seeing I have moved the doubt oitheir names I pray you to diflblve it.
Gab Jou play with me childijhly.
'
A. I have done.
Gab Thinkj-fl thou thatwe fpeak^ any thing that it n-.t true ?
Thou /halt never kjiow the mylhries of all things that have been fpoken. The rayfterfcs
_
Ifjo« love togct^fr, and dwell together, and in one God ; Thenthefelf-fime Godwillhemer-^l^^^ ^'^''^
cifulnntoyou: JVhichbleffe jov, comfort yu, and firengthen you u»to the end. More I would^^H ^^^^'
ifaj, hut words profit not. God be amongfi you.
E. K. Now they both be gone in a great flame of fire upward'?.
A. Laudibu^
2 lo A true Relation of D^ Dee his jBions mthfpirits, <3cc.
A. LaudibiistecelebraboDomine Deusquoniam non prxvaluGrrnt luimici mei fuper me.
Domine exercitiuim clamavi ad te,Sc tu falvaftinie. ConverciUi dolorem in gaudium mihij
diflblvif^i luftimi mcum 8c circumdtdifti nic Ixtitia. Mifericcidias tras in ytenuim caiitabo.
Notam faciam vaiiactmtiiani in vicamea. Os meum narrabit Jufticiani tiianiomni tem-
pore beneficia tua : certc non noyi numerum. Sed Gratias agam donee mors ia^>iar , tibi
pfa'ilam quamdiu fueio. Laiidem tui loquetur qs raeiim : &: omnv; vivens celebiT nomen
tuum SanftiMi, in pei petunm & femper. Laiidatc Domimim, O vos Angeli ejus, potentes vir-
tute facientes juiriis tjvsj obedientes voci verbi illius. Collaudace Dcuni Umverli exerci-
tus ejus , Miiiiftri ejus qui facitis voluncatem ejus. Omne quod vivk la.det te Oomine,
1584. Ptemeniber'that on Saturdityi the fourteenth day oijuly , by the Gregorian Caleh-
Hi!andu;fene der, and the fourth day oi Jvhy by the old Calender , Rowland my Childe (who was born
»;;, tHHs, /inuo i^iSj. JnjUary 2%. by the old Calender^ was excreamly iick about nooH , or midday,
and by one of the Clock ready to givu up the Glioft, or rachcr lay for dead, ajid his eyes let
and funck mco his head, &r.,
I made a vow, if the Lord did forefec him to be his true fervant , and fo would grant him
life, and confirm him his health at this danger, and from this danger I would Cduriug my
life) on Sacurdayes eat but one meal, 8iC.
Remember on ?/^4'.;/«f/'i<z7 night the eighteenth of J?^/>',
as I walkedalone about nine of the
Clock in the evening, in the Chamber before my btudy, fabove) indivers places of that
Chamber appeared flaihesof fire, and did not li_,hten abroad.
Mi-.nday, jK/zi 23. MjneCirciter S. f Cracoviz.
"
Orritione Dominica finita,
A. I read hUpfama. his firft words of the book to be prepared of 48 leaves to be filvcred,
and would gladly know what I was now to do. By and by at the firft looking into the
flone.
£. K. There appeared ten Pikes, all black on the ground in a Cir-
cle as it were, and i in the iniddle,a great Pike, franding up. And
Vera,fa!fis, falfa^ fecmed to be written in the middle of that^ Circle,
fomewhat blacker then all the reft , which feemed to be as new molten
Pitch.
A voyce ^i non in 7. rivant m j'ndecimo.
b.. I made a fhort difcourfe to God of my fincere, and juft dealing,hitherto of the book of
Enoch, written,of the book to be filvered, how hardly I can get it peiformed to my content-
ment : (the books being laid on the Table, that of £«of/E?, and that as it were filvered) ^c, I
craved therefore the expofition of this dark /hew , and as yet nothing plcafant, or plain: Mjr
confcience is clear, and 1 truftin the Lord his mercies.
E. K. After this appeared a man all black, naked all over.
thou that art juji, and haji a. clear conscience, answer me.
A. Inthenamc of Jefus.
g. „g fFho'commandedtheetohe gtnet
I take the Commandment to have been from God.
Thou haji brohjn the Commandment of God,
A. J can in no cafe yield thereunto.
I0U have dijhonoured the Lord : which if juji in the bottom of his ovn Ireafi, *nd gave yoU
warning, and commanded you to go : rehich is the Lord of Heaven and Earth.
May IT. MMt. ^' O Lord, my firft charge was in thefe words : Thou ftalt go from hence -^ith him te the
EtiMeridie Emferour : It was alfo faid that he fhould make proviiion for this one voyage , and for the
ter Maplama. reft God had provided. So that feeing I was to go wicli him, and he hath not yet provided
'avI.
^" (''*°'"§ ^'^^"^ ^^ '^''"^ "'''"^ ^^" ^ %5 or do ?
...... True it it, thou haji had theviciory, and thou, and thy Children have tdfled mercy. Thou art
one of thofe, that when I command thee to leave nothing with life, yet tboufaveji the fatlings to of-
fer before hiw that abhorreth fuch facrifice.
A. Lord, I know no fuch aft of mine : The Lord be mercifuU tome. For when it fliould
come to fuch a cafe, God knoweth, 1 would fpare none.
than juji man \_Uiaking bis head'} thou art become a Saul.
....... Wherefore did God (anfwer me) tal{e the Kingdom out of Saul hit hands ?
A. It appeareth in the Bible, becaufe obedience was better then facrifice.
Keg.i.caf.is. ...... Eie;t f».^ if thou badi been obedient , thy obedience had been regarded. But I fay unto
thee 3 the Lord oweth thee nothing for thy labour : he hath fayed thee to the uttermsji.
At
<$j{ true Relation of D^ Dee his J&ions mth fpirits^dcc 211
Js for Lasky, J wi// give him over Xo the fphk of errour : and he Jhall become more poor , fo
'^'^
that his cfCH Children jhall defpife hint. H'.s phgue
But itfljall not come to pajjl in thefe d.jyes : For I will keep my promife with you. Tou do \^Omait
the Commandment of Princes^ and Lords, and Mitjiers : Eat wh n the God of Juliice (without your merci'f U n I
defert) entertainerh you, and placeth yoriy and dffelletb amongi you, (which if able to give you all pUCod.
things^ commandfth you to go, and that for your own profit, you thinks it nothing to offend him.
Bat true it ii,.7hat, Ohed/ence p.'eafeth the Lord for thererin,his Creatures glortfie him moll. Obedience.
All IForJhip, a II Honour, all Love, all Faith, all Hope, all Charity , all the knitting together of the
Heavens confijieth in Obedience. For if you had beeWohedient,the very jhnts of the earth [hould
have feived your iiecelTity. For the Lord will not be found a lyar.
A. O Lord, be mercifuU to me: 1 could not do thy Commandment in going without
A. L^iskje, and him 1 was not able to caufe to goe without provision : And to our judgement
he feemeth marvelloufly tobe careful! to make provifion : but ftill he hath liindfrance.
Jhou (heareji thou/J the Lord forgiveth thee : but frnnhencef.rth,
he commandeth thee that thou open ntt the fecrets and the judgements,
No'^morc^fcc "rof G d
which the Lord jhall open unto thee of the times to come, unto to be opened to /l.L.
La'^ktc,
A. I pray you tofay fomcwhat unto us, as concerning this book to be filvered : Elfe what
fhall I do, if 1 have not direftion herein, the cafe being fo hard.
. ..... As concerning the book^, when thou art at the end of thy journey it Jfjall he told,
A. Mifericordias Domini in ieternura Qantabo, ^Wf«. Hallelujah. Amen.
Tuefday, Julii ^i. Mane hora y. f Cracoviae.
OrationeVomiuica finita,& variis ejaculationibus faUii tarn ad Gabrielem , quam Nalvage,
Ave, Mapfama, & llemer, quam maximc ad Deum ipfum pro fuo lumine, diuxilio & froteClione :
tatu in iffa aOionequam itinere pr^fenti, futuro,verfus aulavi Csfaris,
After a great hour attendance. At length appeared one all naked, black, and about the
ftone a Circle of black
.
He faid Were you not commanded to go after ten dayes ?
A. It is true.
...... And what followeth?
A. I appeal unto the mercy of the higheft, for that I have not offended upon wilfulneffe.
Say what foUoweth.
A. It followeth that we may drink of a Cup, which we would not, &c. And alfo we were
willed to provide for this journey, which provifion onely now is made for us two , and not yet
for A. L- himfelf.
« Ihm fayeth the Lord, I have flretched out my band , and you have kindred me.
I have brought things unto their courfe, but you have thruji your felves between.
Whin 1 appointed yott lO dayes, did I not alfo tell you that the earth was mine. lo Dayes.
Am not I the God of heaven and earth, by whomyM breath. Jke fame which alfo forfai^eth not
wy people tn the time of need.
I have opened my wings, but you have refufed my cover.
I have brought in raadnefle into the houfe of the unjvji, but you have pre- A- Forti. MadmlTe
vented my judgement. procured in the K.
Andbecaufeyouhavedonefo,andhavetrjifled more inthe malUces of the
y"rd''*^
" ""*' '^"°'
'
Vorld then in my power
.
[p. Lord we have not done fo ; to our knowledges.] A. A fcourge to fol-
therefore jli all you drink^ of a Cup that you would not : but it jhall not 1°'* ^into u$ : Lord be
fall in thefe dayes, but in the dayes to come. merciful'.
[E. K. The fire Cometh out ofhis mouth as he
'^'""''''
fpeaketh.]
Ifyou go, it is : ifyou go ntt, it alfo jhall be.
. [^A. Make that dark fpeech plain, for I need you not.]
A. We were willed to go, but with this condition, that Ljskje fhould make provifion.
- Ihavenot fealedthii fn unto the(\js..'y ut yet Ihave meafpred out a plague, and it fhall light
^'
^
Upon you all. But unto L?isky I have fe aled it, and it Jhall be heavy.
E. K. Doth not A.L. ufe all the means he can for provifion ma-
king.
Ihe time Jhall come when lam, and will appear unto thee in aVifion, andof feven Rtdsthou
' j^alt cbufeone, unto you both Ifpeak^: For I will not let paffe my diponour mtpunijhed,neither will I
fell my name li\e an hireling.
Notwithjiandiiig, in the midf of my fury I will be merciful! unto you, when you think, I have for"
faksnyoui then jhall the Rod break, in pieces.
A, Lord
1 12- A trvie Relation vfD\ Dee his jUions mih /pints, d^ c.
h. Lord deal with us, as we have juft caufc to pnt ojy truft in thee , not onely in the prini
cipal rtate of orr falvatioii, but alto in this Aftioii.
You £;o : I will not forrake you. A'td what I have [aid, that I have [aid. And it is a
living fpirity andjkallbearwitnejfeof itfdf. For, great is the God of HoUs in power, and in all
his Tvorkj, and words molt jwi.
a. Lord, is it thy will that we fhal! po before this A. L. toward Prage ?
...... If ymi tarry it \'i^ and if yon gfl, it fliall be.
A. Lord make that plain vnto us?
7kus fayeth the Lord, ifyou tarry, \t h tecanfe I a;», which am firength, and triumph againi
tiiiite enemies, and fo agamji the enemies of thofe that pit their truji in me : And fiiall be, becanfe
I am ]u\i, and be.aiife it is.
For, that I am, 1 am, and my fpirrt if jujiice and truth : which before, w.ts, it, and jhall be, ani
after,r!'orld without end.
A. Lord, fhcw IS the light of thy countenance, and be not wrathful] againft us any longer^
be a comforter unto us in our journey to be undertaken.
...... ^tove me not, for I am gone.
E. K. He is gone.
A. Mifericordia Domini fit fuper no?, nunc & in fempiterna feculorum fecula. Amen.
ANNO 1584.
On Wednefday the firft day oi Augnft,jiX. afternoon (hora 3.) we ciitred on our journey to-
ward Prace., in the Kinr.domofBf-iWf, whither we came on thurfdyy fevcnitlit afterjby three
of the Clock, that is exaftly in eight daycs.
.
We came by Coach, 1, E. K. and his brother, and Edmond Hihon , fo that we came to
Prage Augufti 9. by the new Calender : but by the o\dJulj 30. two dayes before .4«g«jf the
old Calender^
CMifererc Nojiri Dens Nofier neque in eternunt irafcaris nobis.
PRAGE 1584.
Ai'gvJh 15. Wednefday, we begation the day of the affimption of the b! efl~ed, Vi rgin M^rj:
in the excellent little Stove, or Study of \;. Hageck^his houfe lent me, by Bethlevt in old
Prage. Which Study feenied in times pjft (Anno 1518.) to have been the Study of fome Stu-
dentjor A-- skilf 11 of the holy ftonera.nanie was in divers places of the Study ,notcd in letters
of Gold, and Silver, 5/wo« BaccaluM.r.us Pr/?gf»/'-«i ^nd. among other things manifold written
very fairly in the Study (and very \nany Hieroghphical Notes Philofphical, in Birds , Fiihes,
Flowrs, Fruits, Leaves, and fix Veffels, as for the Philofophers works) thefe verfes were over
the door.
Immortale Veens far gloriaque illi dehentur
Cujus ab ingenio e'f difcoler hk paries.
Andof the Phlofophers work (on the South- fide of the Study) in three lines, uppermoft
was this written.
Candida fi rubeo mtilier n'.'pta fit marito : Max completntnti'r , Complexa concipiuntur. Per fe
foIvunfHr,per fe quandoque perficiuntur : Vt diwfjux fuerant, vnum in corpore fiant : Sunt du£ res
frimo, Sol cum Luna, tamen m it»o, Confice, vidcbis, fit ab hits lapis (jtioque Kebm.
Lin£ potentate , peregit Sol Fidis aW* : Sol adtt Lmtam per mediiim,rem facit wiam. Sol
tendtt Velum, tranfit per ecliptica Ccelrim : Currit ubi Luna recurrit htsnc denuo fublima, Vt fhi
lux detur , in fole qv£ retrnetur. Nee abiit vere , fed vult ipft comnianere : il/ujirans certe de~
fvndum corpvs aperre : Si Rebus fcires, quid ejfet tti rcperires. Hxc ars eji car a, brevis, hvis atque
rara. Ars nojira tji Ludi^s putro, labor mnlieriim ', fcitote omna filii artis hujus , qu d neme poteji
colligere frudus noftri Elixtris,nifi per nitroitum noiiri lafidii Element ati, etfi aliam viam queriU
viam nunq'iam intrabit nee attinget. Kvhigo eji Opus, quod fit ex fAo axtro , dum httraverit
in fitam humiditatem. And fo it ended.
MYSTE-
^true %; lation of jy. Dee his J&icns mth fpirits,d<,c 1
1
3
MYSTERIORUM PRAGENSIUM
. hiber Trimus^ Capreufijne, Anno 1584,
Stylo [\(jyo.
Angujii 15. inca'ptJis ad Omnipotentis Dei Landem, Honorem,
^ Gloriam. Amen.
leri poteft, quod anhi 1588, & aliorumfupputatio, initiiim fuiim Iia-
bent ab ipfa die Palfioiiis Chrifti Yel AfcenlionU in C^luni. Atque cm]eftura It-
hac latione,^^, vel 54. anni pliircs con(iderari debent : quia tot zn- viuU.
noiiini c.hriftus eiac tempore fu^panionis, vel afcenllonis : Addas
igiturannis 1588, 34. & inde emergunt anai 1622 . atqueifteiuime-
x\\<^ propius accedit ad tempui atinoruni dilavii 8c Arce, ciijiis li- ^v^f^ de AnnOp
miUtudiuera fore circa fecuuduni ChrilU adventuni Scripture 88,
docenc
:
Vel, cum port creatiim Adamiim, Anno Mund, 11^55, Diluvium
Aqu.e, omnia deleverit viventia : Poft Chrifti, ( iioftri Adami
fpiririi'lis ) reftitutionem in Caelum. Anno 1^5'; (qui crit anno 1688.) expcftamus Dilu-
vium ii:ni>, quo omnia fuuc Immuunda: vel Chantads 8c ardoiis ChrilHani magnum futu-
rum ipccinscn.
Non facier Dominus B E7^ S verbum, nifi revelaverit Sccretum fuum ad fervos fuos, uro-
pheias. Leoiugiet, quis non timebit? Dominus Deus loquucus ell : Qjiis non prophetabit ?
Aifios, Cap. 3. B.
Nihil mali invenimus inhomine ifto : Quid fi fpiritus locutus eft ei, auc Aiigelus ? A3,
A^oji. Cap. 23 C.
Dico enim vobis quod multi Prophets, 8c Reges voluerunt videre, qux vds videtis, & non
viderunt ; 8c audirc qua; audicis, &c non audierunt. Lucx 10. E. A^titthxi 13 B.
CharilTimi, nolireomnt SpirituI credere : Sed probate Spiritus fi ex Deo fint : quoniam
iniilti pfeudopropheto", exierunt inmundum. In hoc cognolcitur Spiritus Dei. Omnis Spi-
ritus qui contiteturJefumChriftum in carae veniffe, ex Deo eft, &c. Johannes Epi;ioU i.
cap. 4. A.
Qu^ifquis confefTus fuerltj qudniani Jefus eft filius Dei, Deus in eo manet, & ipfc in Deo,
^c. Cap. eodem C.
Pauluf ad Corinthioa, Epijiola, I Cap. I. b^
Gratias Jlgo Deo mco Temper pro vobis, in gratia Dei, qu:E data eft vobis in Chrifto Jefu,
quod in omnibus divites fa£ki cftis inillo, in omni verbi 8c omni fcientia ( ficut telHinonium
Chrifti contirmatum eft in vobis ) ua ur nihil vobis deik in uUa gratia, Expeftantibus reveU-
tionemDomim no\iri Jtfu Chriii^ qui & coniirmabit vos «/"/«? in finem fine cri>nine, in die Ad-
ven:m domini no'-ri lefu Chrifti. Fidelis Deus per quem vocati eftis in Societatem Filii ejus ^ . _ ,.
Jefu Chrifti Domini noftri,e^r.
*^
Sottas M«.
A. Noto Revelationem Sc^dventum Chrifti fecundum : deinde confirmationem quae re-
fpicit alium adhuc finem teniporis : unde de Regno Chriiihic in ffj-rif,fecundum Joaniiis Apo-
calypiim, videri polllt hie locus aliquem prxbere guftiim, &c.
Taulus ad Corinthios^ Epijl. 1 cap, 1. V,
Qus ftulta funt mund'i, ekgtt Deus, ut confundat fapientcs : & infirma miindi elegit Deus»
mconfundat fortia : 8c ignobilia mundi, & contemptibiiia elegit Deus, & ea q-e non funt uC
eaquxfnnt deftrueret, ut non gloiiecur omnis caro in conlpeftu ejus. Ex ipfo aiitera voi
.eftis in Chrifto Jefu, qui faftus eft nobis fapientia a Deo, & Juftii:ia,& Sanftilicatio 8c Rc-
deaiptio. Ut, queniadmoduin fcriptumeft. Qn,i gloriatur, in Domino glonetur,
[ e e ]
Faulus
.^..« .11* Ml--
2 1
4 ^true %eiation of
Tl)\ Tkciis JBions mthjpmts, &c.
.-n'^'-p :::'-'. PaulusiU'Coriftthios^Ep'jl. t. cap. 2. C.
'
c^iq
Nobis aiitem revelatDeiis per Spiiiciim fiium : Spiritus eiiim omnia fcriitatur, etianips^.
fiinda Dei, d^c. VidcprdEcedencia Stfequeiuiain eodein capite.
U'
Prag;e. Prima Aftio, Aff«o 1584.
j^ Wedenfday , At^g^ti 15. M7«p /^!jr/?w circiter p. iifiifl -jl I
A. We tfianked God for his fafe biinginj; us hither, to the place appointed by him : We
delired liim to direft u?, as the reft of our Aftion requireth : And thirdly, for the Book with
filver leavesj to be prepared, we required iiiftniftion, as we were promifed. •
1 >
,i»
Anon after £. K. his lookini; into the Shew- itons, he faid, I fee a Garland of white Rofe-
buds about the border of the Stone : They be well opened, but not full out.
A, The great mercies of God be upon us; and we befeech him to incrcafe our faith ia
him, according to his well liking.
£. K. Amen
E. K. But while I confider thefc buds better,they fcem rather to be
white Li- lies. '/
L. The trernal God of his infinite mercies, wipe away our blacknefle and fins, and make
us pure, and whiter than Sn;>M^. \\
A.riAngtis. £ K. They are 72 in number ; feeming with their \\Q2i*\s(altcrKatini)
one to bend or hang toward me, and another toward you. They feem
atfo to move circularly toward the Eaft ; but very flowly. In the
middcft of this Circle, appeareth a little fire, of the colour of yern,
hot, ready to melt : from which fire to every pne ofthe laid lillics, k»
fiery beam extended i whi.h beam toward the end, is, ofmore whiti/h
fiery colour, than it is near the center.
^ A 'voice. -... E. K. A voice comcth fliouting out from the Lillics,
faying, Holy, Holy, Holy : and all the lillies are become on fire:, and
feem to tumble into that fire. And now they appear again dif^inctlyj
as before: And the fire remained in the center ftill : and the emana-
tion of beams, came from it, Hill to the forefaid liljy buds.
E. K. I hear a found, as though it were of many waters, poured OE
ftreaming down in the clifts of great Ro:ks and Mountains : The
noife is marvellous great, which f hear coming through the Stone : ^as
it were ofa thoufand water-mills going together. i
A voice £/r.
Another voice Seemeth to pray over, & quo moio eji.
A voice Male & mfHrntio : & nifnf'rutitm eli.
E. K. 1 hear a great roaring, as if it were out of a Cloud, over ones,
head : mofl perfe6ily like a thunder. v
Another voice l^he Seal is broken.
A »/j A. , 1 ^r.,. ,^ ,e f.j Another Poure out the fixth Viol I thtU the earth tday
C^. Vide Apncalypjeits, ttp. \6. jed .
, r rr r \t- t c- ~i
vidaur qmd non feq^enter ordm. , ve- Knowher felf [ Viola Sexta. ]
hit qms ex texiu ]udKatet ; .^ft nan Thcfe are the daycs of wo, that are Spoken of.
t::^.d!i:^:;£:rt!;r^ £• ^--Now I (be beyond nke a Furnace-
aitar:fiint: m^ydum itii erat omcfjfum, mouth, as bi^f as A Or < Gatcs of a Citw It
<^e. Sithicdtcifoujt. r. .
,C( ~1 J ^ '
r
leemeth to be a quarter or a mile orr : out or
the Furnace-mouth feemeth a marvellous fmoke or fmother to come.
By it feemeth to be a great Lake of pitch : and it plaveth or fimpreth,
as water dothj when it bcginneth to fcethc. There ftandeth by the
pit,
. .
~~ \ : f
V
A trueB^eiation ofY)\ Dee his ABions mthfpirits, »5cc, 21 «^
pit, a white man, in a white garment tucked up : his face is marvellous
fair ', he faith very loud.
A white fpiritual Crcatme Afcertd.
E. K. Now there cometh out of the Lake, a thing like a Lion in
the hinder parts, and his fore part hath many heads , ofdivers fafliions
:
and all'^on one trunk of a neck. He hath like feathers on his neek.
He hath 7 heads : Three on one fide, and three on another, and one
in theitiiddle : which branch from the neck is longer than the other,
and lieth backward to his taile-ward. The white*man giveth him a
bloody Sword : and he taketh it in his forefoot.
Lu fiThe white man tyeth this Monfter his 4. legs with a chain, that he
cannot go, but as one (hackled, or fettred. Now he giveth the Mon-
,ftcr a great hammer,wdth a fcal at that end where the hammer ftriketh,
--and the other is fafliioned like a hatchet.
.'
Tfae white man faid. ...;.. A horrible and terrible head ......
•E. K. This the white man faid with a loud cry.
J,
.
•
A voice out of the little fire Seal hint, for two years of the Seven: For, fo Utig is
bit power.
"the Stars, with the Edrthi even to the third part, are given unto thee: ^he fourth fart tbott
jhaJt leavt untouched,
E. K. The white man taketh the hammer , and flriketh him in the
forehead of that head which is in the middle, and lieth down backward
toward his taile.
JE. K. Now all this vifion is vaniflied away. The Stone is clear.
E. K. Now M^^z/;/i appeareth, and (he feemcth to be bigger than
flie was.
Madimi The hle^ingof God the Father, the Son, and (in the Father and the Son) of the
Holj Ghoft, in power and comfort reji vponyou, takfhold of you, and dwell with you, that you may
be apt to receive thecomfon of my childijhnejfe ? and the reward of fucb Innocents, as my voice
leareth witneffe of. fou loth, the Spirit of God, falvte you: which alwayei comfortetb thejuft,
and ii the iirength and {lay of fuch Hs are EleUed: of wh,nt it is faid, Mittam illis Angelnm,
in Adjiitorium.
L. Are you Madimi ( in the name ofJefus ) that I may fo note ofyou >
"Mad I am Maditai, and of that order, wherein the wonders of God are wrofight vrith ^. .
power, with you, as wy words are : with my felf, as my creation is.
Madimi eji ex
Le, as I have often t^ froini]edyou,jo in the time of yojir ne^ejjity and grief, I viptyou, ^^
\ h. Thanks be to the Higheft. * Vide i5.
Mid. ^...., Nit as the friends of the world do, hut as a comforting fpirit : exalting the fer- funii.
vants $f God, and cheriffjiHg them with relejiial food : But my mother is at hand, "which op eneth MsterMiditai.
unto thee, the will of God. Believe me, many are the woes of the^ world, and great are the for-
rowi that ire to come : For the Lord prepareth hit Rain-bow, and the witnejfes of his account : The Rainbow.
and will appear in the heavens to finijh all things : and the time is not long. Apocal'iff. 4.
Sleffed are thofe that believe ; forfaith /halt flee from the Earth,aitd her dwelling places Jhall be p h (T, 11
caves, and unknown mountains, and inparts of the Earth which the Lord hath kfpt fecret for y^^l^u be
;
fuch Mfliall triumph andrejoyce in the Judgement to come. found on tfic
I. If^o be to women great with child, for they Jhall bring forth Monfters. Earth.
^1. JFo be unto the Kings of the Earth, for they jhall he beaten in a Mortar.
'3. JTo be unto fuch as paint tkemfelves , and are !il{e unto the Trince of pide ; for thej fhall
drink^ the blood of their neigkbi^urs, and of their own children.
4. IVo be mto the falfe preachers, yea feven woes he unto them ; for they are the teeth of the
Beajt.
He that hath ears, let him hear. Seven Woesi
,
'i. Wobe unto the Virgins of the Earth, for they Jhall difdain their virginity, and they Jhall be
come CoHCubius for Satan, and defpife the God of Righteoufneffe.
[ e e 2 ] .
6.m
2 ! (5 (tA true flatten of r>^ Dee his JlHions vehh ffWits^ 6cc.
.
\" -6. ft^o be t/tito the Merchants of the earth ,for they are become ab/wiuable : Behold , they tire be'
rowe thefpiescf the earth , andthe dainty meat of Kings. But they are foohjh : ieaythej jhntl ftiU
inttfthe pit that they have digged for others
Mt M d- ' 7- f^ ^^ '"'« '^^ ^"''^^ °} ^^* earth,for they are cerru^ted ; and are become a wrafiingftock^., and
firebrand re the confcience.
Stay a f:^f9Hiforp^^mothep^cometb. -,
6. VVc reaJ over the prcmifTes, and fo conferred of the verity and weight ofjLptn. And
all t is- while Mtdmh ftood ftill in E F. his fight (as £ K. told me : j But became we were
%villed toftaj-, I moved no quefiion : bm wirtied to have (onic iii)derfianding,how my wifeand
childieh (at Cracoviaj did. Here- pon Midi^t faid as followech.
My Wif-
^''"^ tleur ithat I fey unto thee [a.J The King of darkjttjfe whetteth his teeth againji thee,
tcnipteJ todc- and ramYeihxtith great rage toovervrhe'm ihe world upon thee: And he feeketh the dejiruttioit of
ftioyhcr fclf. thylo'Jhcld^and iher-.hy thy cverthrow:7he life of thy Children -y yeu^ he tempteth thy wife viih de*
fp^ir, and to I'e violent imto her felf.
A. WhyWith defpair?]
...... Bpt his lips are feuld^and his claws made dull: thatwhen he would bite he cannot : And
vhere he fcratchcththe bloud foli'owth not-
But bear wh.it thy {ciend fayeth unto thee : Both in her felfy and by him
Madam't,rny friend,
j^^f moveth her tofpeah^'. As thou art the ftrvant of the Ood fviljo^'y^f. (halt
thou triumph i« t;!;e Gu^^o/ ftrecchfoith and Conquer. A. Madzijodarpi,
in'^rhe i^^' iMinnlu ^*-> '^'Z'"' ^''-^ cA;7//rf«, thy fervaHts, and more then that, fuch at favo-^r ih e.
Call bte nnii.p /, v.- *'^'>' ^^^ coverings of thy honfe ; are under the protection and defence of fich its
malpait. SAir.an tilt, are of power : againji whom^ neither the rage of fuch as raij^n, neither the fury
i;e, ef Authority (jhovgh it hath the help of SatanJ an prevail, F r why ? God
hath care over thee : Bit thy faith is fovewhat lower. Jake heed of Satany
Satan '-is Trsiterom
Jtf w^// joyn ;&iw/>// 1 nto thce. B't bfware of him. Fi^r, j/w k eepeth back
infinuauun «o be taken
^^^^ ^^^.^^ ^^ ^^^^ ^^ . .^ .^
oftentimes deferred for antther feufon : lea^ even
for ike wicl{ed»<ffe of one Sojil.
A.L. LasVy J lno\ for, Ivt I fee not : Bthold^Iwrafi my eyes after hi>»i and cannot fiiidehim. Per-
adventure he huth hidhimfelf behinde fome Mountain^ or is crept tnto a Lave: for he appeareth
not.
L. T befecch yon, what is the caufe thereof? Is he not gone from Crac^^via?
Mad. .....Stn if the gre ateji Mountain ^ and he rejoyceth when he pleaftth hmtfelf; and in tht
fury of hh flejh creepeth into a C-ve fr^m us. "
LoyI loo'{ tor him, and ca}tmt fee himjyet fee all the world over J Itk
leeth a'l the wotld over. .il/l.;i. r ^ •-..•.
A, J beleech yoU,ishenot gonefrom Crtfcci/*/ yet?
Mad I ell thee^I ftchtmnoi il i,anfay nothtngof bim.
t. Lord, our coming hither was ro come with him.
Mzd. .....Th re fore bro'ight I thee hither, that thai fhouldft nor tarry with him. Knowed
thou not that God ii m rve loiu in his workj ? Haji thou not hmrd of his fe.ret judgements ? tf
thou hajiy Think he hath care ever thee.
, , ..
,
, For alfo,thy wife and chi Idrenyand the refi of thy houfhold mull be moved
My wife, child- en, nna
J.,j[[.,gp^
^ ^ j ^ i
j j
toerage. ^- When, 1 befcech you ?
Mad Let that be my c'-^arge to anfwer thee.
E. K. Now here appeareth a little fire like the fame, which appea»'ed
before : but it hath no beams from it, as it had before. 4
Mad Hie & h£c, eft Miter ma. J^E.K. Pointing to the fire.J
Mater Madi- E* ^' ^^^^ fallcth down on her face proftrate : Now (he rifcth again.
""'•
This fireentreth into her mouth, /he is waxen of higher ftature then flie
Trjniqr. was, flie hath now three faces.
h. Now it is the vertueof the Trinity in her fo reprefented. arfgUEi
Mad. ....7. And I have a few things tJ faf, and I fay.
"'
E. K. I hear a marvellous noi{e,as ofmany Mountains falling. -
Mad Arife,and lelieve. The time if come, that of the foolifl} 1 will mak/ the wifti^
If,
An'l »f fxc'} as are linfull men, my anointed : if they encline their ear unto myvoyce.
''^*
£. K . The noyfe is mat vellous: And which of the mouthirdoth ipeak^
I cannot diicern. ' -^^ *»•*» ^^'^'^ ^^^'^ c*^»^-
Mad.
Jtrue Relation of D''. Dee his JBions mtb fpirits, 6cg. zi7
Mad Fir/?, thoujhalt vrite unto Rodulphus, as I Jhall enfpire thee._ "then JhaIt thou go KOHOL-
mto hiytJy f^ji»&} '^hat the Angel of ihe Lor d hath appeared unto thee. f H U S.
^^ \_E.K. A greatnoyfeftill.]
~And rcbuketfi nirii for his (ins. \T never heard anyfuch ntyfe : it it at if half the loorld were
rufhing down an hilL']
_ .
Mad If he hear thee : Then faj unto him., He fhall triumph , tear thee not. A. Eichcr E.K. y ,_ ^^^
Jf he hear thee not: Say^that, 7he Lord, the God that made heaven and earthy fp«J<e not this, or E
'Cunder whom be breathethy and hath his fpirit') putteth his foot againji his hreall.
on>'^«d to write ic
.[ [£.ii:. Agreatnoyfeilill.]
*"'''''^-
And Will throw him hettdlmg from his feat. ,.-.,,^ jj jf
Lo,thnf(Ifwearu>nothee')Iwilldo. 1( he forfti\e his wickfdnejft , and turn Dei J^ramentum
'.
unto me : His feat fljallbe the greateji that ever was, and the Devil Jhall become ^ l^allum cum ^^
his prifener. de R.
E. K. There came great flaflies of fire out of her, and fo out of the
iionc : and fiiddenly fhe was in her former fhape again.
A. In the name of Jefus.
Mad Where this vojce etttrethy no man hath to fay : For it is the beginning , fo it is likfwife
the end.
Therefore enquire not any more now, but ceafe : For this is the mar- The marvellous beginning
'yellous beginning of this laft time. "^ '*>'» laft time.
...A. AH thanks. Laud, Honor, Glory, and Empire be to the Eternal, OmnipotenCj and our
onely God of Heaven and Earth. Amen.
ThurCdzy, Augufti 16. 1584. Mane,circiterhoram^\. t Pragc.
A. Precihiif finitisj I propounded, as concerning the book to be prepared for the Angelical
writing, &c. And becaufe Mapfama had dealt about that poipt i Therefore I required at God
his hands, the Miniftery of Mapfama herein : if it were his will.
E. K. Here is Madami.
A. Bleffed be the God of Heaven and Earth, who rcgardeth the fincere intent of his fil-
ly ones.
Mad. ..... When feed time is pafl, who fewethhis Corn ? Or. what is he amtngli men that calletb
hack^ the Sun a minute ? S« may it be faid ofyou, which were flacky in fowing, and therefore have let
faffe the benefit of timey wherein your feed might have multiflied. Beheld, your labours are in vai»y
in refped of that you might have received.
is paji with jou the firji da; : And Mz^tfami wanteth, not by himfelf , hut
M-rifama
; whofe fingers wrought, and made an end of anothers workt which was tied ^
^, ,
....... For Auguft
'through your negligence
.
$0 time.
h Nalvage wat beaten bac\fremyou : But you confider not his eonflilf, neither thank, Godfor that
be bath finijhed for you : with whom [Nalvage] now, you have no power. For the Receiver and
Giver for that time,were of time.
But to the entent that the Heavens may agree, (becaufe they are the light of him, which is the A paper book
fiSf't of his father^ I fay unto thee that thou mu(i prepare, of fair^ and decent paper , a book.. To to be prepared.
'jhe entent, that the paper itfelf may hear witnejfe againji you : and receive that,whichJhouU have
leen printed in Gold.
fi. God he knovveth, and the Heavens, that I did the beft I could, to have had the book
filvered.
J^ad It is fo : I will bear witneffe with thee. But where the watch-men fleep, and do not
their duety : Theft taketh places and the enemies wak.e havock..
The fins of Lasky are not a few ; yea, they are fuch as have brought in the Prince of Thieves,which
had prevailed : But God was watch-man at the inner doors . For, he deubted of thy faith, and
laughed God to skorn. But hear the voice of him that fitteth : Leapers and defiled people ufe
not to carve at a Kings Table : for when his Carvers become Leapets, they are not : becaufe they arc
expelled.
' Even fo into my Chambers, and fecret judgements entretb not the Jncredulous , Proud, and
SkomfuU finners. But becaufe he became worfe then a Leaper, I hanijhed him out of my Chambers,
for I am more then a King.
Kotwith'^anding, becaufe I have fworn unto thee for him , I will fuffer him
teihe exalted : But in the midji of his Triumph he Jhall fall, at a proud Tree
f''y'ran'ium^'"i
doth, whofe roots are wncertain.
v<^e,frt, a.L.^^
^
.
And
111. A true Relation o/D^ Dee his jBions nith /pints, &c.
Mifericird'/M
Dei fufer a.
Cum Imperore
Kod.
VTofbtttiitti,,
A»d because thou hali believed vie , and bafi not murmured agamfi me, I will be
juji vith thee. And vvich this Emperour (hall be thy aboad. And through thy mouth
Jhall ffrhtg a Cedar-T'ree, whofe tip pall touch the Moon , a>!d branches cover the
\enjh of the field, the birds of the Aire ; yea, and a part of th? Sens. Becaufe tbau
haft taken pains for me, iwill deal julily with thee, and reward thee.
Ike fans of wickfdntjfe are frond, hecaufe of their promotion 5 are fiout, hecaufe of their King-
*
Miihei 7 D '^«"" "^^^ V»winiotis : But they, mud fall, hecaufe their building doth ftand on * fand.
Do myCommandwent, be not afraid.
Ncwlcdons. For 1 have new lejfons to teach thee, and new hnkj to open, fuch as have been fealed in the wil'
NiW books, derntffif,
E. K. She is gone.
A. As concerning the Letter to be written unto Kodolphur, O Lord, I would gladly knovr
the Aminicntjand when 1 fhtu'.d fend it.
A Voyce Incipienti, dabitur. ^. I und^rftand this thus : That, when I
• begin to write it fhall be infpired from
Godj as was faid before.
A voyce Ceafe.
.A. Deo Noftro iRimoitali, Invifibilij 8c Omnipotcntij fit omnis honor , Laus & Glo-
ria : Nunc 8c feniper. Amen. ' '
(JW,ane. t Pragx,
Ne ditm toram
Angrh Don pf}
Pfvidentta.
Eeclefitfies,
"P J.
Friday, Augufli 17
A. Bccaufe I would make no delay, for the Letter writing to the Emperour fio^ioj^wf , |
framed my felf to write,befeechin^ God that I might fo write, as might be fufficient for the:
purpofe,?^r. And thus I wrote as foUoweth.
Omnipotentis Noftri Creatori< ( '
hriltianorum omnium fmperatorum fxliciflime , O Ru-
dolphe') tarn eft hominibus incognita ilia , quie cunfta difponit perficirque PRO VI D E N-
T I A t rataque ipfa rerum feries Sc coordinacio (3 primo ad ultimum^ quod a plerifque, te-
merCjfortritOjVel cafu, hoc jUove eveniremoioj exiftiinencur omnia, qux extra prxtcrve fuo-,
rum Confiliorum defii'nationes,* fieri confpiciant. Veiiim quibu? eft mens Divinae veritatis lu-
mine colluftrata, & ad multipliers longifque incervallis diftinftas rerum confecutioiies confide-
randas, atrentior, evidcntiflime deprehendent illi quideni, Quae, quibus pr<ecurri/re , tauquam
caufas, occafionefq' eneceffkrias, alio priori, & interdum longe diveriiffimo,tempore,oportue-
rat. Atquc ut varietatem nunc omittam excmplorum, (qu», ex aliorum hominum inter fc^
collatis vitis, conditionibus, faftifqueadferrc polh'm,) txemplum fatis confpicuum hoc uni-
cnm fieri poflii : Niminim iila, fincredibilis fae)qu* inter facram Cxfaream Majcftatem vc-
ftram jSi humillimum (in UeoJ Mancipium me veftrum (ex multipliclbus utrinque piaecut-^
rentibus cccafionibusj jamqualiiriftare videtur. In unrm (idemque admirandum quid) CtMn--
binaiojDiviiiaque confpiratio. Ambiverunt me (Juvcneni) IlluftrifTimi Jmperatores duo:
Viftonolifljmus ille Carolus §uintM, & ejufdem Frater Ferdinandus, veftras Cxfarex Majeftati*
Magnihctntiffimus Avw. Hic, Pofonii, H.unguri£ : ille veroj BruxelU,Brahanti£. Hie, An. 1563..
Jlle aittcm, /4;z«e 1549- Aft clementillimum Imperatorem MaximiHannnt , C£fare£ veftrae Ma«
ieftatis Patrem (Immortali glora dignum) jam trm Hmgsrix coronatum Regem, (invitiffimo
quidem ipfo Tyraniio Turcico) eodem in Po/o« c!,codenique. Anno 63. in deliciis habere coepi:
illiufque rariflimas virtutes,cum fidditcr colerc,tum pofteritati eafdem icdderc comnicndatilli-
mas,operequodamconabarHieroglyphico.Quo etiam in labore exanclan-
do animus mihi pr^fagiebai,nurtriiic\ ^tamilisjalium fortfaliquando all- * LibtUi Montiis Hien-.
q, em, in qiK> maxima mea fpes,8. p blico Chr.ftianonun ltat..,Res,ccn-
fi^ttfoTn'r:/":
firmaretur, (vclconhrmari poteru,) Opuma. Maxmiaque, Veftrse igi- _V
twrCsfarex Maiefti,Iniperatorimi R ni.Tr.oriini (ex Auftriacorum Principum nobilillima fami-
lia) mea state florentium, §^V ARIO: Adfuii), &c ego, Triplicis Alphabeci, litera * Qiiar-
ta. Atque ita adfim,ut meiplum ad pedes Cirfarea: Majeftis veftr* aemif§^ ofculandos oiFc-
ram : plurimum gavifurus, fi qua in re, Chriiiians Reipublicae Imperatori tanto, taiique,gra-
tiis,utilifve eife potero.
Superfcriptio erat hic.
Sereniffiitio ac potenfiffjf-o Principi ac Vomino Vo-
wini Rudolpho,D'» Gratia Romanonm Imperato-
ri frnper Augufto,jc Gcrmani-PjHiingaria'jBohe-
mis,&c. iLf^^ ArchiJuci Auftris, Vtici Burgun-
diae 5rir;<e Carinthisf^, 6-c. Comiti Tyroli* , &c.
Domino meo cUntenttfftmo.
Veftrx facrx Ctfarei Majeftati, foli, Jihic
aliquandi u coi^fiare patltmini(neminiqvic
detegere velitis ) rem facietis valdc nc-
ceflariam.
Trag£f An, 1584. Angufii 17.
C£^are£ Ma]eftif Veftr£
Humilii.mus & fideiiffimus
ClientuUis ^a
Joannes T>et%^
Munday
4true Relation of D^ Dee his Jciicns mth fpiricj, &:c. 2ip
Monday, f Trngx, Angnfti 20. Mane circa boram 7,
A. Frecibus adVeum fufts^ exmore nojhoyScc.
1. l propounded : If the letter written for Roiolphusy were as ic ftould be 1
S. Secondly, becaufe we were willed to invite the good Angels, for the book Writting, I
asked how we fliould invite them >
- ^ A? concerning OIK- wives, and my familly fending for : I required, when that fiiould
be dons '
A. (Viickly apparition was made.
E; K. Here is ZJrieL
A. Welcome be the light of the Hisheft.
.
V-R. I E L W-'o he unto the world : for her light is tak^n aw.iy, JVo^ wo be unto vian^ fcr
tbeeye o^light hath forf>il{e>t hif». JVoyWohe to the mtderfiandiKg ofman,for it is led out^ with a.
threefold fpirit, * the fpirit of errottr and ignorance. And wo be unto fueh as believe *
AUqutd de-
uot the glorious and filpere>ttinent- light of this Tejiimonj: for they are not written with the life, ell forte,
neither fball tbeir portion he with the living. The Spirit of
"thws faith he that is a mere flone, ( whith fitteth between the feat of light anddarkjteffe ) whofe This Teflimo
ffinp -are great y aul more than mighty : wherewith he gathereth the Stars , and the pcwers fArt ny to be belie
bang i:f.on the ftrmament of the firji and leffer light : pla:t,tg them and powerin^; theyn, in the Spi- ved upon gre.-.
rit of Truth; and through his own powers the power of the word, wherebr a /I things are, and are ^^^f^^^^^'^^'^'
CQynprtheKded: in that he if as well in the heavens of Glory, Chafiityy and Mfff ge, as alfo in t'ciyzm o(
piaces hiikjro^'i to us. t-ilary, Cha*
'Behold, thofe that di^ into Nature with dull Mattockj, and dull Spades, are fiich,as of every
""^^ "^"^ '"
congeled f'-liance can imagin, but not judge : are foo'ijh, and of the world : whofe im!!gindtio::si
I ttre become the inftrninen'-s of vanity, and the piercers of him which it the father of ignorance. iFo
he'tmto'them, for their difputatiens and doUrines, are dogma.''s and dull. Wo, wo unto them, for
they areftich as p'eafe themfelves, and are become fathers to many lewd children: of whom it is
written. They are become jiif-neck/d and proud,and the followers of their father. Ihtrefore have
I gathered -'ity felf together, and am hidden from them; becaufe they are proud and hatets of inno-
Cency.. Thefe teach not unto you a dodriney neither are yon partakers of their Bankjts ; for the
Spirit of God, it plan, pure, and moli perfect. ThefeJ^reath not upon you, neither are the Orna-
tiients efyour Garlands enterlacedhy th'fe : But by Kim are you lifted up, that is the God of
Juftice, and the Difclofer of his own fecrecs : and the headlong drawfr of thl>igs to an end. ^">^ t^ "s '**
Therefore believ, and dream not wiith the world : For the world fJhtll perijl}, and allherHd-^^^y^^'-'^^°^^f
herents : andfl)allbecailintothepitofwocverlafiing. Read the Scriptures, and widerjiand ^aK.
them: but icraii them not, with the wicl\ed. Look, into the fimplicity, and naksd,uff( of God his
Promife. : View the innocency of fame that received tk-em, And let n-t the wickedncjfe of thofe
\i K^at the Lord made vertuous, go out ofyour remembrance. Bd Co Tri'imfleth true poxter, f) ga.-
1 ikereth he himfelf together to difcomfort the Serpent : Of the lightefi he muKeth tb: heavieji, and of
i fke weakfll the jirongeji : A)fd in the weakfjl veffels, work/th be hii merry. And Why .<•
Eeholdy
^t^ the world, in her proud im.iginatio>is, in the ornaments of her pearls, and moji pretious wits,
fhwld brag, faying, I can compare With the Lord. Hear my voice, for tt is of God. The world
brntgeth forth no good thing, neither are the doings of man accepted', but where the fpirit ofhumi- Humilicy.
lity dwelleth. Oat of the depth of dnrkncffejiaih God made light : And lo, the light is great, and
tbe'iarkjitffe comprchendeth it not. So, in the wea\e!i will he he exalted. .
'
The Spirit thutfpeaketb unto you, is he that hath a Tower to bi.ild, ajirong Tower and a mighty,
yea fuch a one., as ha:h not been from the beginning : No, n t from the beginning. Great U the fo'^ai'- Vriel hath 2
daiimi thereof ; for, it it of Iron ; But greater are her walls ; for they are of Diamond. jVfo/?-
Tower to build
great'are hn- Turrets ; for they are the feven Heads, that behold, judge, and gather : And they
^'^'
are ^y aie of Truth, the Spirit of Eternit/. Vnto the laying of every fone^ areyoumade privy^ .
:And.-:far this Tower areyou provided.
^^ C^. and E.K,
_ I . for lo, the firn hath appearet^, and (hewed himfelf mightily,
"2. And the fecond hath redeem.-d, and overcome Satan. PnmusFifKf
„3, -^"^ ''^5 '^'^ third appearctb, and (hall vifilly fiew the power of God to all Nations. ;?«;!"*'
"'**'
F^r N-'W Cometh the Defolation of the World, And the fall of her pride. And this is the lafi^ ., .
l^od th<it me.rfureth, and ihallbc brokfn : For it is faid. Now will 1 hear youiiom\m-^,f^'p['^^
^^f'^
"
"er the Altar, NiW will I revenge the blood ofjour brethren. /"fu"'!i7%'!
On» ignorant, and of weak^ faith : Knorryou mt the times that are to come ? O youthat /j^it
^P^'c-ilypf.cap.
at the meat of cowf..rt : yea when it is put lovingly into your mwths. Why are yon f-jfrowful .?
'^"
l}yre]oyceyo't not,thij: the God of Juliice if girded, avdhath whetted hiffrord, itpnt a thoiifand
ol^Mud Mountains of fire ? Why lattgh yot* not the world to farn ? and deride her fornication ?
Weep not upon her ; forpe it accurfed : Neither wonder at her j for pje will be more wonderful.
Toti
2o6 A tme%ehuon of T>\ Dee his Anions mthjjitnts, &ic.
You have received t/j/i Doftrine in Cliambers, and w fecret
A. EcdeMe^.
':''"f« f.;^3 r!''ce.^ : But it (hall ftand in the great City : a„d upon 7 Hills,
S;-Mr;o« (fciiSi Matth. 17. B. and (iiall eftablifh her lelf in truth : P,vr/^Mif w<i//i, «K^ /B'fe;)
Marc. 9. B 1 uc 9.B. ii. A. C(iri|?<ir. o;^t f/je riw/f <rw^ cobv-'ehs ( t/^e woriy of the veneniotis ) t/.?/zt /r may
Et p7,p:ikhlnihx\ct<(<. le. C.^W j^g caliinto the Kiver, andb^ought into no remembrance,
in »ure iui'i'us, pvedioaie flifer icOa,
j^^^ -^ jj^all fit m* Jofaphat , in Judgement, againjl the
^\-}'^{'
[Ip , .vcicksd) andjball become a fire eng^dred in the rave of Thm-
t Fear not ders. Tierefore^ When you are commanded, life v.p your
heads, and t fear not: for whom, the Heavens Jhall fight.
Bwt in your fehcs be patient^ and continue to the end : "That your Crowks may exceed the Gar-
lands of the Earth.
"thm faith the Lord, Lo, Ih^ve promifed thee, thct vy An-
f proro'.fe of vifitation for the 4J. gel \h all t vifit thee : And fo H pall he. But if I now vifit
grcst Calls, and the Holy Boo'.i wri- thee, Ihns ycill theworld fay hereafter > Lo, he hath fained
tine and prjaifine.
a Doftiinefor himfelf. Lobe txcelleth m fubtilty. When I
c,,o. AnnchnmeLipo per SpirH.n, SS.
gavemy laws, they were not fecret ;
neither v^as the p/ace
fuima. '
Ep.ft. I'aKli ad ihcff. 1. unfanHified. When the Comforter cometh,girdeth himfelf a-
caf. I, gainji the fon of * wickedneffe ; 7hen ntujl you be known, and
feen unto the Earth.
A Eleftionor
B»t I will give thee the choice : Chufe therefore, whether thou wilt banket Now : lecaiife I have
Cho\ce cfi'atdpromifed thee : Or tarry, till I {ee the time more, convenient ; For lo, if Rodolph. hearken unto
to A. my voice. He .(hall wonder, and rejoyce with thee : And I will exalt htm, above the Kings of earth.
RoDOLPHUS Stay a while : 1 come again.
Imp,
A. After he had flayed a while, and read over the preraifles, and talked of the manner of
the Choice or Eleftion offered : and the dealing with R'idilph : we thour.ht good to be-
feech G'-d to regard his promife, for his glory and hono"ry and we mofl: humbly to thank him thac
he would offer a choice to me a man of no worthineffe, nor wifdom : therefore moft defirous
to le entredfpeedtly intothe School [>/ /^/H^jw, wherein we might grow, aiid attend the oppor-
tunities of any thing to he doneor faid by us; So that (if it were his will ) we Were, and
are defirous ww to bevifited, ashii moft merciful promife importeth.
AVifion, E. K. Now 'Vriel is here i he hath a Chair, andisfet down in it:
It is like a Throne..
Here I fee a green Hill : and I fee thereon three men, like learned
men, in Gowns of puke-colour : they have Hats on their heads. ZJnel
hath in his hand a thing like a rolling-pin (of half an ell lontr) of
Gold.
TheGirdenof I fee bcyond the men, a very fair Park, enclofed with pale, piked,&c.
I fee Roles and Lillies, and goodly Flowers in one part of it , and fair
running waters in it, and little Hills, and all manner of Birds : And in
the middle of the Park, is a turret, and in the top of that, a round
thing like a Stone, which giveth light all the Park over : but without
the Parkpale,itisduskifh or dark. Thefe three men ftand together
upon the pitch ofthe bank of the Hill that goeth down towArdVrieh
There appear three diverfe fair wayes to the Park, two from the
Hill where the men ftand, and one from the place about Vricl.
1. I fee one man walk in the Park, und he pirketh Flowcrs,and put^
ting them to his mouth, they fmoke, as the fmoke of the fnuff of a
candel when the candle is put out.
2. I feelikewife another man gathering of Flowers there, and he
would put the Flowers to make them flick on his Coat, but they will
not hang on but fall down, it is fo bare
3. I fee a third man, who hath his Robes all belayed with lace of
gold, great and fmall, and divers pretious Stones, and on his head a
wreath like a Garland, very broad befet with very beautiful pretious
Stones : and he trimmeth himfelf all over with the flowers of the Park
Of
Comfort,
One of thofe
men fiit'h
Jtrue Relation of jy. Dee his /^Bi/m n^ith fpmts, 6c c. lu
or Gard-n, Now tiie three men arc come from the Hill, before
IJricl his feat.
I moft humbly hefeechyoH that I may have accejfe into the Garden of Comfort.
Uriel ..loujha!^: I am contented,
E. K. Now they three go toward the Garden of Comfort : they
point one to another, and feem to taike one v/ith another. They go
in the path which leadeth from him ['Um'/] toward the Park.
'
' Uriel 7h4e are V/ife men, for they fliall efcupe the dumber nfthe [a] firft a>,d the fecond, A He mMn-
mdjhitll !ive /ri-the[A] third in comfort and plcafure : For behold, Thofe Vfhich have ent^ed, ^'^_^° ,^'^^'^^'
and Hoyi>(}}£ II enter, have defervi-d their reward. whjchgathcr-
But fi>ne there be that enter, and nffeS not the end ; and fuch fljall they he as he is, which cd flowcrs^ajid
defileth the flowers. " ot the- third.
E. K. Now here cometh a man from the Park-ward, and meeteth '^'"J""""-
thofe three men, and givcth them three very rich garments : they put
off their former garments , and put on thofe rich and beautiful gar-
ments.
Uriel Otherfome therehe, and g^o the middle way, hecaufe it It the next and ftraightefl-, i."
and thofe be fuch as enter with their owh oraamentSj which are very poor and bare, and upon whofe
garments can hang no pleafpre.
•, Some there are that enter [i] from nie (for without yne none entreth into that Garden ) and j_
iecaufe I am the light of him that Ughteth by Creation, therefore is there a way perfed, and bear- Note. Caafa
eth teftimony from me, whereby they are thought worthy, and ^-re [2] apparelled for that place fi^eqitt ««:_
Ofpleafre, and fo worthily enter.
, ta7^''ll^i*
Lo they enrich themfelves, being made rich with the beauty of Co pkafant floicers : and they ah ^t^%luiit)iic,
ipayes dnnk^of the water of wifdom to their comfort and continuance- Bleffed is he. that fo
entreth:.
/ Three ntett
\ Uriel, from \
] this Hill \
Three men
'The (jiirden
of Comfort
^ \ViJ6orn,
ell wotthy to enter : hut onely one hath
the proper Tejiimony, &.c.
to enter f^ithTedi-
jnony.
1 . He that dcfileth rhe flowers, was worthy to enter into our Gjrien-. l,t because he ca^e not A <kfi er of the
.hither t.rnyThvonc,andfotookthewaydefcendn,g from th- Wl', Q^
'«J^''«^
^•7?'^^ ''^^;^*;
f^^^^i.j^^f
. Garden of WifdomU^ worldly apparel i
T.^ici,/.,*f«/«'^;" as a mi'k between hm and true ^^^^^-^^^^^^
\mfdom, yet he think^eth h\m£c\i f^t\i(\cA. ^ >. , , , ,• r \c f j -r^.J
2. He whofe coat is bare, was alfo worthy : Bvt hecaufe he tho'jiht hmifelf worthy, andvifited
y»ot my feat, he took the middle way, where are no ornaments ; Therefore he brv":o^ in his o^ri
zKedneJfe which is fo thredbare, that the flowers fall off it, as ftom a marble jlone, and the waters
'ideth of it, asfrotn the bacl^of a Falcon.
Behold., I fit: happy are thjfe, that come unto me. , ^ -,
,
, , , ^,
Lo you fee, you may become wife ; with the [i] Cloudy, wife withtht [2] bare ; and wife yfiith thre.m«ner
lefe that are [3] advanced ; and dwell in trtte wtjdom.
The Gate that thou (halt enter into, is a fire of fury, and of revenge :
, ,, ^ ^ ""^^ '"^ ^^
But be it unto thee, as thy Eleciion is. Even from the beginnmg, nakedly. Open ««to vcnge.
'
fffl Kudolpa.
A true^elatictj of D^ Dee his Anions mth/fints, 6:c.
Rv.doly>li, the wanner of Gods vifitation . ShefP unto him the holy Vifion -.for I vcill nia]\e thee uu-
Rh.i':/;;) the
^(,)j^^,a,^ hand, an ann,jf/? an half body. Ifen I will bf merciful unto hij)Ty and feal hini for
*^'"rL°"L, J. mv feif ; and he fhall be thy comfort. I will put my fear /fife him, and he fhall be afraid to
P ivy Q^ all. fin, and he pall hccov.e a rod to thoje that are }mul.
RW DOL- Bappj ayethofe, -frhofen ovks are a hope; «;?<iTy/x/e faith deferveth the aid of my light. This
P H.II s i M- is of God, and I am the finger. HaffJ are thofe that are directed by »je. For, in me it the tru^-
n^ r rt:^., Pffh aii-dW^htofd^redion.
m^rtium. E. K. Hc IS gOnC.
A. As concerning this Gate(la/lly fpoken of^ whereintol muft enter, thatit is a fire of
fi.ry, fir.d, of revenge: O Lord, I am afraid, if tliat phrafe be of any difpleafur> to nie : for /
rrferrtd my EteCiion to the willofGody m was for his honour and glorj to be granted .-
And I have
longm.ide Petition to Qod for jo"r helpymd I defire nothing that Ihould make the higheft of,
fended with me. But perhaps the fervicc of God wherein I am to ferve him now, (with
his Talent of vvifdom to be imparted to me) confifteth in the exccntion of the juflire of Go^, 1
\yith a furious and revenging fire, as under ths Altar they lie, and cry foryr^o-.
'
7hou h-ijifaid — —
Af^c. cap.6.
V-id
His voycc.
A. All Laud, Honor, and praife be unto the Almighty, wife, and our moft niercifull God
:
iU)iV, and ever. Amen.
Sii^th.
Tuefday, 21. Augufli : Ante Meriiiem horam Circiter 9. t Praga^.
Precibus finiti?, &: invito Vriele ut nos illuminaret, dirigrret> confolaretur, &e.
E. K. Z)riel is here, and about his head at a little diftance,is a bright
part of a Circle like a Rain-bow, ^c.
A, We propounded unto you yefterday (O you faithful! mcfTager of the higheft) as coii^
cerning this letter, how it is liked : when it is to be fent, ind by whom, &c.
Uriel O earth-, how great a Monjier art thou, and hew great is thj wickedneffe, which makjli
dull mans capacity, and carriefl him away into an obfcure and rafh fenfe ? Not without a. caufe ar%,
thou hated with the higbejl ; yea, not without a caufe are thy Garments made port.
0\ly brethren, how long willyou be grievous to the Lord, how long (I fay} will you be without un-
dcrlianding.
0, how long will you confder your own commodities, and neglect the harveji of the Lord?
[a. I iinderftand nothing of the occafiou of thefe fpeeches.]
CfricI But behold, for you have chofen unto your felves a vifitation , and have Irokjn the
viftation of the Lord,
For when you were commanded you went not , and v.nto jour fe'vts you chufe dayes for ad-
vantage : Well, 1 fay. Take your choice and become wife : for 1 am ready to deliver.
y fay, prepare your felves, and he ready : But I fear me , (yea, I kjiew it) that you will become'
fogpy and mifty. Nolwithjiandmg thut faynh the Lord : Sinceyou iicillhecomewife,Chzl\ifeyoni^
felf for a few daycs, and abftain, and you fhall fee that I am a God that can vifir,and mightily: *
The rromife I am not man, that my promifes may not be, neitherfpeak^ I of any thing that liveth not, for I am
bccomcch life, light, and the breath of underftanding. Becaufe you have followed my Commandments ("yet'
God well plea- ffjnie of you obftinate]y,and rather, as reprehenders then obedient fervants) / will put afnaf-^
A ntvr ptomifc-^^
^'^^° Satan, and unto hi) Minijiers, and thou fhalt fit in judgement againft the wicked ; For^
A reproof of
our choice'
Dudc.
Prepare.
I
to A.
NOT Y E r
Stewards
Ovcrfeei?
L'ibourers.
ThcLo.d his
vlfiratJon is
not yc:.
I will multiply thee, and thy hovpold : And of thj feed ; yea, even of thy feed.
Will I finder out a Camber, ^ <:»«; will root out a people, which 1 have
long favoured. And for this caufe fpared -^ I him unto thee, for a«fo him
that loveth me,will I be a jufi rewaraer. Ihe branches of the wicked do I cut
off, and viahj worfe then the Affes dung : Jjiit unto the faithfull will J fend
honour, and a Crown ofrejoycing.
Hui, who is he, that I cannot reward him ? Or where dwelleji thou , (in
Heaven, or in Earth) that art, andrejoyceji not by me ? If thou follow my
Commandments, and I once begin to love thee?
I have told thee that I will place thee here.
£a. In this Citie.]
Uriel Not as a Citizen , hut at an owner of ma-
vyhoufes. But take heed, thou be be jv.'l to me, and do
what I command thee.
A. Lord thou knoweft my heart, help, and fupply my wants.
Uriel Behold, the Corn is not ripe, neither are the Grapes red , nor the Sun bath not yet fea^-
foned them ; Therefore, yet, need 1 not Stewards, but Overfeers : And as yet. Laborers are tome
as fliadovvs. Becaufe, not yet, no, not yet is the time of my viftation: therefore he that bring-^
eth his Syck/e now , ma'.i not reap for we, but 7i!uli rejoyce in himfelf. Happy is he that tarrieta
the Lord, ieall afterward the doors be ilmt, and the fealt at an end. AHvifdom {andfcien*
A. I muft be
placed here in
frage.
a Camber, vide
Anno Ij8i. \%.Martii.i
» A. Fane iAldti^ib
RoUndiim infintem menm
uii vitam rtfiimit Dens
(miraCulo<e qaafi) Crth
covia,An.-i^S^.J»l:i 14.
Sed Dens 114 nop quod
h^c mi'iii tarn mtrum li-
detuT qtiam virum MtfiJl
fregnantem cetiferi, fyc.
VideSepu^i. jyfifericor'
diaiH Dei fJimijfam.
JtrueRelitkh of D^ Dee his Jclisni witbfpirits, ike, tl^
line.
to
res comprehended hi wifdomj ^"-^ Tfork.eth forJ:}mfe/f , U of the vorld ; But the vifdoni that I givr,
I rrlve Openly') ,rnd hitho>'t reproJCh : that I aifo rt']oyci>ig in tkewifdom may be gl rifled^ and ex-
acted with a TH a 'erne of ho/f-rir. JVbcn Sodom cried for ve^tgeaMCfy had I it net ready? Could
nat I jrom he:n<nt h.ive co>:fin»ed them viih the breath of r,ty own titouth ? /, in my fe/f kjiow
tt^and am witneffe : But lo, in the f ride of their filihineffe I had regard to time: And (that it might
he known to all Nations) lice><fed my Anj^els, und %ave them power . Ayid lo^ then made a. promife A. Promifc
untt all Nations tJun they fl^onld he blefftd in Abrahain:fr.f« the fame moneth that I deiiroyed the So- A''\,ham.
domicfs. Jbefe things did I, as iinta Nos : and imt-> Seth, whom I Ived : \ made tiicni privy .<^'*. the third
of time ts come^ and iptnedmto them my] mlgements : hecaufe the w,rldJhould be jujlly condemned. °^'''<^'""-
After '.he favie m.nmer made I a p.-omifc imco you : L", after the fame manner have I called yon A piomife
.to coi:nfeL But you have cliol'en the loweft, and have ixfufed the higheft places , and have mide '.mte)
regarded your own comforts,and not my viiltation. I command d thee /tot to go into the woods-^"\ , .
and to fetter fFolves : neither to f.tw the lygers teeth. I delivered you not unto the wich^edy neither
miniked'"
fnff:rcd I them to rejoyce over yjnt But I liave brought you from deatli, and fiom tlie dayes of ri-.e'mocies
lamentation, andhave dealt withyoti of faithfull brethren do in their divifions : Not that I forget ofcjodui-oa
f„y felf ^ but that I would be m'lgnified., and that yon might fee yovr wildnrjfe,and nah^ed rafijnejfe : "*•
M'»'' 'Iff there upon the earthy which would have burji with gladn(Jfe, and have rent their Garments
in pieces. If I h^d touciied them witli the leall of thefe Counfels ( fo I call thentj becaufe they r^ ro^.^xge.!
are my ftcrets") Is it not fafficient that I have brought yoh\_\.'jhii[\cc fafe i'.Have promifed you a liK-elidp
afurehelp? piomikd.
Lo, yon wrajl me, for what it he of the [*^. This is fpokcn In refpeft of God his
world, to whom I pall c:.nfirm letters ? judgement required of the letter.]
They orieve me^ beca'fe^they are the doings of man : man^ let man anfwer unto thee, and let it
tufice thee, that the mark^ whereat thou fhooteji ;> in my hand.
t.My Wjrk, it not a work^ oj hours nor dayes. But when I command^ do fpeedily . . ^'^(?k the Do the Lords
Thunders fall from Heaven , and burn up the Earth , fcale her face^ and leave her nailed. Then, Command-
Xfcw, TV/// you believe.
'
ment fv^ecdily.
Behold, lie th.it ii a man, heingnew born, is accounted a. Mon'hr. I^ok,
''f^J^^^-
i
Is it not written ? Lo,the Lord looked from heaven in hiivifitation , and in the midday, and a' , "V-
groatred upon her, for lie had vexed him. Htpfy is he that ii ready whenbe v/fiteth : That which
^
I command, lee it be done. For when the Kings of the earth, fay, do this : They play not alfo the
)f4rt5 of their fervants and fuljeds , but lo,. it is done. Suffer me (I pray you') to have that fa~
I vour.
A. DcoNoftro Mifericordi, Pio, & Jufto; fit omnis HonotjLaus Zc Gloria. Anen.
Tut[ddy , 21 Af<gu(li. t Pragse.
After Dinner as we [E. K. and ^.] were in my Study, and conferring of my choife , and
very forry t/j^twehad nvadeour cijoiienot of the beft; E.K. faw I^r/f/In the ftone, which yec
fiood unput up : and faid, he had feen him there ever lince we began : So conii>:g to the jione he
fnid as fellowcth.
Uriel ftUrmurnot among<i ynur felves: But rejoyce and be glad, and found into the greatneffe
«
f Gods mercies, which beareth all your veukneffe,and leadeth you through the fogiy end perikys
mijis of your daily temptations even by the hand : And now, not onel'y giveth,lut alfo exhorteth^
1 fpeak^with yot as a man. Yea, let we fpeaj^^with yon as a man : You zrc o^\^reA viiih Cm ^ and
with the world, and are not yec ape for the vilitation of God, Norrour urt-
My brethren^ God hath dealt mercifully with A. In malevolam animam non introibic to be vi '^ted,
you,hath opened unto JOH thefe three wayes de- fapientia , nee habitabit in corporeBcckfiauesi
ftrtus fubdico peccacis,hcclefiaftes, cap.i. "p; i.
[E. K. He fpeaketh other language, I under/land not.J
Tt<rt oneof you might have cntredinto thehigheft Gate.
A'td why ? B'caufe the workman might be able , and correfpon-
m^l\i^ltTTo^i^
'^'^ """'^
dent unto the work, and time ('of the Lord) to come. God hath ""jo ^ '^"wxThiT'^'in fac fu-
done may great things for you : but you will not fee them. Tar- p,^ Xo E.K in viJe To A.L.
ry av^hile till I come again. -luvive.
E. K. He iigonc beyond a thing like a Hill.
A. After half aquarter of an hour he came again.
E. K. He hath a pair of Tables in his hand, made as of white bone
:
md therein arc many i ames written orJerly, one under another.
-£. K. If I thought this to be of God, and this to be Vriel indeed, it
verc anothermatter : but their too much familiarity maketh me doubt.
A, The old faying is true in you,i\?/«i;i/j»ji//tfr;frfj/)^rit conteniptunu
[ff 2] Uriel iBe=
214 ^true^elation of I>, Dee his AUions mihffirits, 6cc.
Ikiel. r..... Believe me, by Heaven and Earth, I ain true Uriel.
E. K. He hath another Book holdcn unto him, by one ftandulg^^
him, who is like a fliadow.
A ne* choicf, Uriel Give ear, fay and chnfe : for after this time, there is nochoice.
by GoJ hii Dee, thy age and continuance in thii world, in flejhi according to the finger, and fecond/rp-
prjit mercy partion,ifhicbyou call Nttturcy is7.\jeiirs and it half : ^and her? 't if L^- po^riting to the otfatr
I)'rhis :g.-. E. K. He that is like a Oiadow openeth the Book •, it feeming to Be
of yern or fteel. In which Book appeareth divers names, as Bamafan^ ,
Corfax-) Tobomaphala-^ ^c,
[ A. Tliey recmeJ cobs the names of good Angels proper to peculiar men. ]
Uriel....... T\\oy\\ E.K.']doii more than thou art Commanded. Tet^ccale awhile. }
.
-
t ^. Be'caufe he [ E.K. ] read thefe names.
E. K. He ipreadeth athing like a Cloud before them. „, ^ny,-
E. K. Now he appeareth again, and the other with him. "^^
Avidat bMis, E. K. Sudfaijina appeareth in the Book, and againft it ^6,
Uriel. ...... So muchfhalt thou [ E. iC. ] live by nature, and die violently. ''a
E.K. Now he is covered again.
E. K. Now he is here again. -q
E. K. ^^^//'cw ftandeth written in that Book, and 73 with a prick
over the upper part of the figure 3.
E. K. The Book is vrry big and full of names, and numbers againft
them: the leaves are very thin.
Ajiafhtn rr.y
p^ j^ Now l/'WJ openeth his book himfelfj And there appeareth
pooj angel.
t • n r\ ir UO
Sidfamn. R.K. againft Jflafbcn, 122. And againlt Sudjamna appeareth 87.
h^sgood An-
^liel. Beyond the which^you cannct :
—- Kttwitkjianding this lifr^is alwajes given bj
vlt'u Kami, Gody or at the intercedion of fome one, or mo, of us bis Angels. The other it itatur^i! : not'
e.ati^t. ' withitanding isjhortened through the fin of man. I ara a vitnefs to mjfe/fi that thefe books aad
words are true. '
|
E. K. Now he is in his Cloud again.
A. After a while, they appeared again, as before. ;;
E. K. They look very gravely on their books.
Uriel Behold my brethren, God if ready to open hu merciful ftore-houfes and gates eftiH'
derftanding unto you : But he that liveth for himfelf, and for the end ef thit fhadow , limitttk
A. ^s Kinj; his wifdoni with thi<i number : and fhall loth have an end at once : But he that turneth himtd
txekja^ did the wall, and weepeth bitterly, fliall enter into this Booh^ : But he mujl not build his own houfey
RegnuntA.tap. ^^j ^^^ houfe for the Lord ; Neither mujl he be vifited by the challenge of proniife, hut bj/ the
'°
M . nieermercy and good will of God, and at his pleafure and appointment : He that hath under-
Jlanding let him hear. '
Behold, This his pen, it a pen of Steel ; But that that I raze withal, is of Gold, and x piercing In-
* /fxgnftiii. firunient. If therefore your vifitation Jhall be after to ^ tnorrow, and that you Covet to buiU>
O r new or re- ( becaufeyou are men ) Then give your names unto the yern : But if you will retnember the Lord,
io^mei choke, and adde any thing unto his building, faithfully. Then vow your names umo me. In the name
of hini which created you. After this time, there ts no choice. '"3
j4 g est mercy, Therefore, confider ; for, never before, ( but once ) was this myfiery, and mercy of God opined
ana myllcry. mtotftan.
E. K. Now he hath drawn the Cloud to him.
~ n.'n'
A. I am notable ( O Lord ) to give thee condigne thanks for thefe mercies : But thy
will be done : Not as we will, nor as we have rafhly and blindly ( before ) chofen : But this
is our choice,to be thy fervants all the dayes of our life ; and we delire not long life fo much,
as th& favour which addeth thofe dayes, wherein our faith may be fruitful through thy gra-
ces abounding in us, 1 renounce my former choice^ I challenge no promife : But require thee, O
Ood,of thy fatherly goodnefle to be my light, direftor, ftatf, ftrength, defence, and comfort.
The former
now and ever. Amen.
cha.ce renoun-
y^.j^j Alwayes call untome for the T'eftimony and witneffe of tht p-omife of God, and
This Day. the remembrance of this day.
v- I E.K. He
Atrue ^eUtioti of D'. Dee his JBions With fpirits, 6c c, z 2 <^
E. K. He hath wrlrtcn after the * numb-rs in his own B jok, .
^^^
,
A. A<i laudcm, gloriam, & honorem Der, Efto, Ef!o. /^;>/f«.
Uriel Now/lf<i! with Kodolph. and be noc flack: ftr until thoii have talked ^it* ,^, .
him, I appear no won: *'f-'- «<« wt'i ik^ . ,v i ,,,-.}:
.
r.oacipm.
Tdy hafte, fliall prevent theflander of wk\ei tongues., wh.m Satan bath alreadj Jiirred up
agaiUji thee.
A. 1 iiiiderlland of none.
Uriel. It u beji thm UHderjland it not at all.
E. K. He piittcrh a Cloud over all the Stone, like a white wrinkled
Curta'n.; and fo difappeareth.
A. Bit thoui^h'you appear not, yet of ^^t/iwi I may require anfvrer, to know when mj
wife and children are to be fent for, &c.
E. K. There is no a. fwer given.
A. Fiat voluntas Dei, juxra illius beneplacitum : cui omnis laus gloria & gratiarum A&io,
nunc & in omne sYum. A'uen.
A. f received letters from my wife, that (he and her children arc well. God have the
praife and thanks therefore. Amen.
-J- Fridayi Auguliiy 2^. iMeridif. Pragx.
Being willed to deal with Rodolphusy firft by letter, and then by fpecch : I thought good
to fend the Letter before written, for the Emperour ; by the Noble Dew vi helnio de St,
CleW''fne,t\\t)L\ngoi Sp.iin)\\^Pi-£-e[lns Negotioriiynvi\z\\ tlii^ Emprrciir; and theraipon by
"E^tiericiis Sunttag, the Lord Lisk^ie his Secretary,! wrote this to the aiorefaid Ijou CUmence,
!
^tnd/f»t it this Bartholomew Day,
EA eft honiinum in terris conditio (Nobilifsimevir) lit fibi foli nullusnatus efTe videatnr:
Iir mo ntqiie libi iillus omnia fponte nafcetuia, vel ulcroab aliisoblaca, qiis iiti maxime
funt iieceflaria recipiat. Mutu p tnde hominuui emerlerunc fociecates, niucue amiciti.*",
mutuxoperjE, Mu uadona, Reriim commutario, be empcirnis, rerumque vendicionis concra-
&US : Aiiiquediverli hominiim exiihnit ftacusjunde hominnm inter homines, &.cumhomi-
nibiis miiltiplicia procurantur officia, commerciaque. N rque omnium iitoriini, (ola eft iitilitas
•^ei (que peribit) voluptas, fcojius ille, vel riiii>, quern aciingere conantiir ta. ftudent : Sed
-aliudaliquibus eft piopj.irum quod Divin.usquidem eft, quod vtrturem vel Honcftatem no-
minare poffumis ; qui c iliius demi:ia, hominum intoinjct mentes &(. orner, iibiqiie coapcet :
Ade 1 ut fcdibus illas reddac c^jleftibus difjnas. l!!u J, illud, erco eft IlluftrilVime vir quod
cxcellenciam veftram cam mihi pridie reddid t atrencam, beiiignam Sc peihunidiiam ; Illud eft
quod veftram refricabit memoriara, 8c ve/lrum inlignicer acuet ingeniiim, in ( aufa mea, fujs
CaefarcT^ Majefti cam proponeiida, quam commciiJaiida : eoqric traftanda modo, quo ilia
traftari Arcana debeanc, que a.pnicis crcdantur , Sc a piucioribu-; inceliigaiicur : veriftima
licet lint, 8c ex fefe utili.fima. Qjpciriu-; G efjrea fua .\lajell4>, rairiib'r:;m hanc 8c maxi-
niam r)ei,nonProvidcnciani foium fed bonicacem etiam aniplexus fucrit.,eo cicius & abuiidan-
tiiis, me*' ad ilhmi legationis conlUbit lincericas, bonicas 8i utiliras. Voluiiiem cquiddm
huiic inclufum iibellum, lirer rqu^iaclufis veftr<e exccllenli^, ipfc-met acrulifl~e. Sed (cum
venia lit diftum ) ex di^iti pedis mei otfiufa cuticula, nun ram cominr) J pDlfum hodic pedes
venire. Pr&inde amico meo hoc onus impofui, ur ( cum veilr r ExccUeiuijt manuumdcolcu-
latione ) omnia mea vobis oiferac ferVitia : hocqu«, quicquid cH, pro fua Ca;larea Mjjellatc^
traderet muaufculi.
Frag£ 24. A'tgufii i^^.
-E ;
"The Superfcription of this Letter was thus, Joannes Dec.
IlluftrifTimo Domino, Domino Don Gulielmodc Sanfto
Cicmente fcrenilTImi atque Catholici Hifpaniarum Re-
iStns, gis Ne^otiorum apud facram C«faream Majelidccmj &C'
Prxfeao;,Domino meo ObfervandirEmo. ^^* '^'t
^««
'
f^" »A-i Monday
^1^6 jltrue^eUtmi ofD^, Dee hh JBions itith /pints, 6cci
•
••\
Monday^ Ai/gniti 27. Aiajie circa <^. t Pra^x.
•
freriliii finitis^ I propounded to God, of Maitmi four things.
Fiiit, what was the caufe of the erioiir recorded, Felr. 18. this\4««!> 1584. at Laikfi c/E
Secondly, In what fcnle is thts to be un 'erftood, which M-^dimi willed me to fay to Rodol- ^
pfk'.f-, An Affl.fl of the Lord htth appeared unto me ?
Thirdly, Midrmi fai J as concerning die time of my wif<; and children and houfbold to be
moved h'thcr, L?t th,it be my ;h'arg^e to a>tf»er thee /
Fourtiily, M.idr,ni willed nie to write to Rodulphiu: And I have done, and caufed it to be
dtW'^cicA (oDm n^ilhel'tio de Saniio CUtnettte, the Spauifh Ena'o4;radour, to deliver it to thtf
Ediperour. God profper it. Amen.
E. K. Hercfheis.
t. The eternal roots of verity bring forth fruit, to the comfort of fuch as delight in th«
pure vciicy (or the fervice of God, &:. And you Madimiy as a Mini/ler of the Higheft in^yc-
.
f.
rity, are unto me welcome.
jvfajtne q
a
^^^^ ^ Even as mms fingers [ or a thing,] touching , moving, or forcing ah irtjiruvtent
Note tliTs
'
ni'^fJCal^is lb.'Cj.uf:', without the which it cannot [Mni-, or dvWi. up the air ; -which again feek^
ph .ife of ingiffnet and feeling a {lay, is the [^objedum~\ caufe of concord or di]f,Mancjj according fe die in-
found,
ward fpi*'it and iw-tgination of the thin<z. that nioveth, or of the finger moving : So the earthly part
of r,taft,Khi-h hath fto motion of it felf, (^radicaHy") tnoveth by touch or finger (^whatfocve^') fpiri-
t'la', iwd feyideth ''lit fomids •-,
not according to her felf^biit according to the fiery ^ yea invifibUy »nA
fp/ritual psJTP."'-', v;herevrithal it is moved, -
Three movers Hereby tfe Uirny that manshjdyy and hit organical motions^hdththree manner of movers ; cen-
'" '^'" '^°^
zr^Vuci; iy th? property an-l perfeclian of toe SJuly .iCw^er'iovc, and by defccnfion y frovi the An-*
cu.nng,
gels or participants of underjianding : E contrario, and afcending, jjpirifi wickjdy and tempterst
Q SpUnd r in ill moving
dKobiittutit I.- 'B'.t here ym ntiijl Kotey That asthe Sun depriveth the Moon in refpecl of her end, which is t4
meBlunttt^am ^l^,g ligljl^ liit fjot of her felf , So do the Angels and higher powers drown and overpadow the-
fuprM b r,x,ii-
J^^i j^^ maiwhen they are prefent : wor}{ing from God and in tkemfeheSy { asfroniabov^ ) andnot
Note the mm- h'^^f^'^ " *^/ *'''"'» "'' '^'''^ '^'^"/^ "^ ^^^ motion.
fierof thsDn- Bit when the 'Devil entret'-, f.-ti afcendeth, he wor\eth not hj force , but by enticement, and ft
bilknl wj k aliureth the foul, to grant of iiis poiTeilion : whereby he entreth and becometh jtrong.
ing in^ or by
Thofe that have ears let them hear i for my w^rds are wifdom, and the grounds of mimj
"'"'•
Scien:es.
y.unius Hurajnun dr^us , &c. Then, by afimilitude, is the world wax : Mans body wax : aUX
tMiuamCera. tk' natural motions of things, natura/Iy extended, wtix alfo : B>it
{<uftrior,
our purpoCe is of rttan ; which zt ot\e injiant receivethtbree impftf^
"^fc^or"
^'0"' •
M>five, Natural, and Offenfive.
Pray ao^inft Temptation. Whereby you Way perceive, 1hat man greatly weedeth to pray ,
T-rprrfJij prtdomitiar.s eft cmfiJe- again} temptation : For the laft Seal, is lign of him that owet'R'
rarJs. the wax, Hapfy are thofe, that can watch and pray: for fuch they
A. Pi' qu^ h,-n^ vreca, per 4-
^^^ ^/^^^ ^^^^ ^^^ ^„^ ^^ /«rfrf/? , to the wicked afccn-''
J^tB ex hferual, (i4tu,Jimi-er af- ^^'^-
rr u l e. r-L^n i .
andiitdi tinrar. 1 an'wer you : Ifyou be but as a ftrmg , Cbmenge but yottr own
duty : B'it takf heed, yon be vntuni- *^
E. K. She fpeaketh, but I cannot exprciTe it. i]
A. I pray you let nothing of your words, that you utter to us, or before us, be unrecor'-'
ded. . y"
Mad I0H are not worthy to write it : for it if the harmony of the heavens. ^. ..
St^y a while ; for I World open that unto yon, which I perseive I may not : hnt I come again.
\_t.. We read over the premifes, and weighed them as inftruftions of the three divcrS"
movers of mans fenfes internally, &c. And fo after a quarter of an hour
E. K. Here file isaeain. .^
r
Mad. For hethat pur'fitth hif houfe, and flraweth ruJheSy and beautifieth the -chambers
with Garlands, is worthy to receive ( becaufe of his aptneffe, ) fuch as are meifagers of uiider--3
ftanding and light My friends and brethren, marvellous is the God of U ifdom inallkndur.^A
and W!,rk^s, and full of v iriety are th' workj of his hands.
E. K. Now flie fpeaketh again i I undcrftand it not.
^'"k^"c"i>'
^'"^ ^^ ^^'^ ^''/w^r • The end of my purpofc, Satan, perceiving you [^ E.K, ] as well to be
Ij,'.^ moved ly him becaife of your own grunt y as ly the motion K*'kcri.withal yAi ifere moved and i!lu-
7iiinated :
<^true %clat'ton ofJD^, D^e his ABions with fpints,^c 22]
tninated : andharg the father of futt/ety, ayida. frowiiri nnderjiandhig pur-
Smn ab n h'
p.fed, even \nth\s one fentence •,j!ea, with thii one \ye, to everturn, or at timcwasvcrybafic wicli
lettfi to h/ewiflj the woirh'mefft of our meffage, and ofyour Yeceiviag : he- e.K. and declared his
ctiiifeh&faw the coiirfe of nature^ and th^ doings of ynan^ and thattWismin name to be Satan ac
Mr. Simon Hagck,yoing f/<?^^f/;,, would firji vift thee ,[^i\'] therefore he i-^k:*
thrnft \na fhingle of his own cutting and nature : Not to the iment it fhould
hecreditedybitt to the intent, it Jhoiild le ajiumbliugl/kck^to the aclion inttme j,p
"^ *"''^"''*^
^^ ^
to conte, which is now.
lMj brethreVyhe is a marvellous workr ^"^ •'
"^4 one that Jtri\eth row the nioii jhingSyin a man-
ntr,all. 'Buthchathhiirerv>rrd:Tl:>eref,redoIde}tyittol>efp!ikenhynie,orofme. ^
A. So by God liis Graccj 1 did conceive, and undoubtedly think, and of many other things
^
lefid'S that, I have occalioii of reformiag the Records: that the heavens may agree, as the Reformati-
phrafe was ufed.
^t'^'
^"
l/l,id Many there are not : But fuch as are, gather them together, let me fife them,
A. I thank God for thac his mercy.
A. Now I befeechyoii to the fecond my prefent reqiieft before propounded, it may pleafe
jou to give anfwer.
Mad. When the Khtg fendeth a Prefent to a Noble r)tau,er vnto any one that he favourethj Anrwcr to the
be lovetby or delighteth in : Ihe Mejfager carrieth it3 delivereth it within his houfe. f':<j«n<l '« » ^*-
£. K. She fcemeth to fmile.
He to whom it is fent enioyeth it 3 he iifeth it ;
yea ,
feradventure (being a dainty difli)
fgtethofit.
Afterward the King fendeth to hi>» bjf the fame nteffageryfalutetb his honjholdy and c^mmandeth
him to fay : Jhnf fayeth the King ; Go te fuch a man and falute him : lell hint that I will vifit him,
and that Ifay fo.
Behold, he fitteth fiill, and geth mt^ neither dothhe the Commandment of his Superionr. Tor loy
fayeth he : The King commanded me not -, his'mefTager came, and would fo. Bat whether the
Ring Will fo, or no, I kr,ow not.
Butheareji thou : Thou wicked man, hafi thou not eaten of his meat, and enjoyed the benefit of f^ Myftery."
bii prefent before ? T«, A threefold benefit, which fliall continue uncill the * feventh Angel, »K;rf(r8.9.io,di'
and untill the third woe. Ji- capita Aft'
•
Man iegettetb a Son, and lo, his wife is with Childe, andfhe l^okfth for the time of her delive- ('*bfi'^''-
rance : If the (jue'iion be moved unto him, (his wife not yet delivered,) whether he have iff
ne ^ or,
'fruit of his body, fay thoH vnto me,what Jhall he anfwer?
A. As it flvall pleafe God.
•
Mad "that is no anfwer,
A. Then he may fay. He is, in hope to have the ilTue his wife goeth great withall , vnay this
feeni an anfwer, I befeech you ?
Mad Jhciigh the Childe be notyet horn, he hath ifftie, Velivemnce, is, by reafon of the iffue,
ijmd not called iff'^e of the deliverance : for he is a fou Of well unborn M born.
AM
So is it ofyou : Thou haft prayed unto God, and he hath heard thee.
^i^'^^ God'^for"
And loythe iiruc, wiiich he giveth thee is \Vifdom. But lo, the Mother of it is not yet deli' y,\{^oa^
\iifred. Wirdoni,
[
Fory If woman kjiow her times and feafons of deliverance : Much more doth he^
DEVS Mater
iWiich is the Moiher of all things. But thou mayejlreioyxe that then is a time of rerum ommiim,idim
deliverance, and that thy gift is compared to a woman with childe. fy Pater.
.For^ as the one is,andfljall be Tiftlle : fo is wifdom granted, and fhall appear ;
BenediHusriiDeut
yea^ a lively, and mo(t perfeft Creature. mjUr ! qui "eipict
Behold, the Angels of the Lord have been fent down from God , unto him gemism Paupernm.
{^.K.3 here is fight, which is nf this houfliold in God : He hath brought unto thee E.K Nottafteroi
(that which he tafteth not himfelf: And yet thtu donbtejt, faying. How fhall I fay j''^'
^ f^'l^* °^
ithe Angel of the Lord hath appeared unto me?
"^^"^^^
UiAo thee, |^A.] we have appeared : for unto thee, £a.] we are ^'"'e- A How the Angels
fent. And becaufe bis eye hath feen , therefore we have loyned htm °' 'he Lmd have appeared to
* ^7 *;*!; r I 1 n- I i ,i r A which may leem moreccr-
mto thee, that in the time of darkfieffe thou mightei lee. "; „' ,
1^-. , ,
' ^-^
,,. ., tain falmoft) then as the
A. It IS to be made And before the time oi thy vi- phrafe is vei ificd of the /l sels
rrfeft before the time fitation thou mrft be made per- appcarinp tojc/f/iA, infmnisy
his vifitation. fcft. -vJi Maithsi,cz<?.-i.
jLnd becaufe it it of thee and not of him : "Therefore doth not Gsk^ impute unto him his offen*
*i, hut placeth in you the figure of time to come.
ra lib. 15. 1584. Tor fome there he that naturally fjjall draw in the View of the Lord.
.' Jtifiii 2. And other fome there be,th^zt muji have their times and fcafons.
For thy houfhold affairs, I fay nothing yet, neither for thy Letter fent, or Meffen- ylnfwct to the
T. Nam Deus agit in fuis, ficut vult. third and fourth
I have nothing elfe to fay unto thee : but blelfed he tbofe that helUve in ths Lordj
'*«™»n''^-
tbeji have their reward,
E.K. She
2. 2 S ^true "^ReUtton of D^, Dee his JlBions V;ith Jpirits, 6cc.
E: K. She ooethalway, di'vided into ^ great many -pieces of fire.
Peo Noftio Oar.iipocenti, ecerno i>c fapienti : fit omnis honor,LausSi Gloria. Amen.
Nste. At noon, this day I received Letters from the Lord Ljfkje , from my wife, and fromi
my hrot!ier NicoLts Fromonds in E>;gU>:d : how Mr. Gilbert, Mr. SUd^ Mr. Andrea Firmorfiemy
aiy Book-teller, ufed mc very ill in divers forts.
TheDares of the Letters from England were of the 15. and 16'^. day o( April 1584. My
wife is in j^reat forrow for my brother Ni:./;j/.w. '
. .
'
•
,
j\t jiioht after Sun fee, Bwfric/j ^owt/r/j brought me word from the SpaniOi Ambafladour,
Si 17'.'
'""
that he had delivered to the Eniperour this day my Lettejs and Book : and that he took them
" '
jracio! fly and thankfully, and faid that withiji thncjor four dayes he would let the Spanifli
An.baflado'.u-! nderftand, when he would give me audience.
Tens bene vertat : & ad fni mmials honorem & Laudem. Amen.
Saturday, Seftemhris i. Ante Mcridievi Circa 10, f Pragje.
A. As I and E.iC. fat in my litde Study rafter our talk of divers matters , and of my ex-
peftin." audience at the Emperoi.r his hand;f>i-. £. K. faw three little Creatures walk up and
downTnthe Sun-lhine, about an handfuU from the pavyment : and the Creatures themfelves
very fniall, nor an hundf li long, like little fhadoivs, or finokes, and the path wherein they
walked feemed yellow. They wall-ted a good v^hile co and fro, till at length I fufpefted thut
they vere (eJitto m ; and fo prepared the jhevv-llone : But F.K. faid , he bad rather fee them
thus out of the ftcne. i faid that in the Hone we liave warrant that no wicked thing Q;all en- ,
ter : bi;c wiihout the f;one. Hinders might deal with us , unleffe God prevented it, €^^f. ,
E. K. faid again, he had rather deal thus.
One of the J
.,i...'Hk Wiaiungis- ah<.ve thj fight.
ipirituii crea^ £. j^, Now tvvo of thciii ieeiTi to kiicel dowD lo thc SiTH beaiTis.
H»ln ti'c mid- 'B'.ipd he God the Father, God the Sen ,
and God the holy Gboji, the moji bsly and hleffed
dle'o/t he""
'
Jr'in'ity : One, true, mighty, perfea everlajHng and inconipehenfible God. .
'
Th:e...... [a. An)en, Amen, /^mcn.]
'
Wbichrptll be comprehended With thofe that live in the Heavens ii.Koi. his heart is %6
(the trueCh'-rcb of God) of fu:h ai nieirfure hl->by fdith, and not reafon : be turned by God, but j
tfkich h.tth fent is to do his will; Both in that be will turn his heart: kno.v no: the mesnin?.
And in tb^-t he doth vouclffafe to mal{e y}u witnejfes of bis fecret pi:rPo~
A.SHH.'a'«</:.-^ fc/./w^m
fes , and determinations m band. ^-^ TaLh.
Ihe [i] middlemofl faid ——J am the midji of the thirdy and the la]} [a] ofthefpirit of life:
Vnderfiood in this temporal controverfe , and confiiii of mans
Soul : but mt according to bis eternal and immenfurable propor-
tion.
Flmlhm Dei "Hie^iXon the right fide faid J am the fecond of the third, which dwell in the fpirit , and pover
cf God in earth : I have power to fcourgc them that refill: the
power, will, and commandYnent of God : and 1 am one of tliofc
that ftand, and is perpetual.
Tiinttas & II- For even as the father, fon , and holy fpirit are one , hut of themfelves and being dilated, is full
mas Divina. tf tower, and many. So are we one particularly in lower.,bnt feparated iHotwithJianding,fpiri-^
lually of , and amongil others, and dilated in the will of God, and into the branches cf his determh
nations : but particularly living, andjoyntljr praifing God.
E. K. Now [3] the other Cthe third) on the othcrfide flandeth up,
andfayeth.
5 'Xhe Kingdom of God, andofhisfon ChrHl : (which is true God, and the fUfa^ice of bit
father, T'rite Cod of true God) is contrary to the Kingdom of this world.
^. The Confeflion and belief of the
E. K. What is that, God of God ? Catholick Chmch : not to be
talked of now.
E. K. They aredifappcarcd : but their path appcareth in the aire, in
fun-beams ftill.
r , , ^. j ac
, ,
. A. Half a quarter of an hour they had dil-
E. K. They are here again. appeared.
filii fiJei fy p^appy are thofe that are of his Kingdom, for it hath r.o end ;yea, happy are thofe that are
m« ramms
^ ^ £ j-^l ^^,^ ^^^ j ^f j^g ^yo,-! J ; ^-^^vi is called Realon. /; bicb is blmde, and is fealed.
kumantc, '
fgiXo
A true'Kclation of D^ Dee his Jciiofu mth fpirits, Sec, zzg
hft ;. letters of the
I. line of the fouitFi
Tabic.
Rod if. Vide[\\,. I
J.
Ga
Za
Vaa }
And when itexceedecli the
Angeli obfervantes
Noiira opera & con-
ftlia.
Strike.
with the »tark^of '^eliruaion, Becaiifefi>e pr:fecute^,'znd puc to de^ith the Sort of Go-i^thi God of
rie,bte0"fi!''lfe , and light of- all that live.
*
I am the la i^o'^ tht; fi'ityof the fourthjiind I have power to gather np the b!ef~ A. His namjistfis
•Ejus orticiiim eft tranlplau- fi»gi of God, and to fet theVifif tijej
tatio ! )onoruin Dei. be difdained) in a better [ojl.
3. Fvi't'yn fayeth theGodofHoafts.
I lie dream »nd will not hear me Gather tip that he hath, and that which
Jhould be given him : that his life may be fliorr, andhithohfe without comfort:
that he may p.iffe nvay nak^ed'j, as a Jhadow.
As '0, behold, re go, and we will dwell there ij'ea , even tntbe.skjrts of
their (Jarnietits will we takj" up our habitation. And why ?
^,-h>:'dytbii hath God tn'id: In the morning vf^tch them , and fee how. they
rife. In the day time. give tar vnto them, and li lie motto their counfels. Stand
c'je^ < hem in the ni^ht.) and note their filthiiteffi
number, ftrike,
Jf'e are they that mufi dire& yovr fra&ifes.
, Behold, let us give leftiiriony of ov.r names.
I^iynameis •
Qj •
E. K. He in the middle.
jijynameis Za ?A. The three names make one name of/. Ltttets^ Gazavaa.
l/lynawe is • V.ta\
S) we are called ^xpoiition.
Iko'i .Ih'tlt find.- Its amongjt the mercifull Tables delivered unto Enoch : and fo unto you.
I'be Middlemoji fl am of the third 'table, and am extream. A. Of the Phy-
I am of the third, but of the humanity-, and the fccond. iick part.
A, Note the third Table here meant:, is that
,, of the South, as b/aft, VVeft, South, and
"^ North, their placing is others.
J And I am the fourth, but y^ngular , and extream. Linear of the upper
IK
Note.'
One of them
fayeth.
I.
3
MOjh A. The three laft Lett#is in the uppermoft
line of chf fourth Table.
\.„i.JFe are gone.
A voyce. Follow that which is commanded thee.
E. K. They are out ot fight.
Vaa-
Vltimm fpiritus vivorum.
Flag llator refidentium potejlatij
voluntati, pr£Cepto Vei.
• 2 ranfplantator Donorum.
A. yEterno , Oinnipotenti , Trino&uni
Deo, fit omnis hoiwr Laus 8t Gloria.
Monday, Septembris 3. Mane. t Pragas.
A. Nota. Sathanx aftutum & violentitm Stratagema.
A. There was great difquietnefle in E. K- being come home from our Hofts hoiife, where
he had Ij en all night upon a form : by reafon he had been (which lie never was r!ie like aforej
as he faidj wicn uuie overcome- fudcknly :yec intending with hiinfelf to take heed of being
qferihot in drinking of wine : being rcqueftcd by the Hoftes togiveher a cjuarc of wuie
upon the i-;ood baigainhehad inat^lock he bought of her for five Suckats: In this company
of drinking was /i/<x..-«,!/tr, the Lord L.)ii;;e his fervant, wiio came with Us 16 Frage. L[nto
whom E. K. ( wiien the drink on the fudden had overcome iiim^ faid he would cut off his
head, and with his walking flaftcdid toich him fair, and fofcly on the neck , fitting before
him : Tin's Alexander benig half drunken himlelf , by be by took tucfe words in great fnufFe,
and went to defend himfclf , and fo took his weapon to him,and there' pon they by caufed
Alexander to go down : It was fupper time ; and J that night retiained to fiippe, and fo tarry-
ing at my Lodg ng, and lookmg our, faw Alexander litting on the great Hone againfl: our
Lodging : f called to him, and told him that they were at fupper : And he came over to me,
.«and he had wept much ; he complained cf E. K. his former words, and the touch of the ftaffe,
iiovv it was againfl: his credit to take that in good part , and ipake many Souldicrs terms of
I -ftout words, not worthy the recording. I, thereupon went to our Hofts houfe, and woidd un-
;derftand the very truth ; and there 1 found E. K. fafl on fleep on a form, moll foundly : for
;which I was right forry ; /And yet better plealed to perceive the words of EiC, which fo
moved Alexander (being half drunk'en) to have been fpok en by E. K. when wme , and noc
wit,.bare rule : and fo pleaded long time with Alexander, that of words fpol'^en fo m- they were,
no ftich exaH account was to be given to him, &c. And after two hours perfwafion caiifel
Alexander to go to bed in our Lodging, where he ufed to lye. For he would have gone outj,
2 30 (fj true Illation of D^^ Dee his Mions whffirits, &c.
to our former Inne, in thofe raging half diunken pangSjhc was in : vrhich I thought noc good.
This M>nday morning E /f. coining honis, and {ec'mg AUxandery as he came in ; he fai^,
they teiU lliould have fpoken words, which greatly otfended thee yefternight, and that I
touched thee with my ftaff,d^c. I know nothin^of it, and (hokc hands friendly witii A/ex-
ander. \Nt\\ (zxiy^ A'exiinder,Si fni^et a'i'H^ Uc. E K. came up to me : I told him how
forty I was for this mifchance, and told him of the Watchmen perceiving Alexander his dif-
qiiiec nitii I, and hearing his word?, they came to me and charged me to have a care of the
peace keeping ( as they did indeed ) And farther faid, that Alexander in his rage, faid, thic
rather, ot before, he IhonH cut oiF his head, that he would cut £ . K. in pieces. So foon as
1 had cxprelTed that word of ct\\s drunken A''xa>i{er likewife, ( whom now I faw qtiier, and
E. K. alloquiet) fudienly E. K. fell into fiicti a ra-^e, that he would be revenged of him for
fo (ayin^, and for railing on him in the ftreer, as he did, &c.
Mch ado I, Ewr/c/w, and his brother, had to (lop or hold him from going to Alexander
with his weap;)n, &c. At length we 1« him go in iiis dubblet and hofe, without a cap or h^c
on his head : and into the ftreet he hafteJ with his brothers Rapier drawn, and challenged
Alexander to (-ight: But ^/f.v/r«ifr went from him, and faid. Nolo Vomine Kellcic, Nolo,-
Hereupon E /f. took up a (lone, and threw after him, as after a dog, and fo came into the
S»t9n hij rx-
hcufe a^ain, in a nioft furious rage for that he might not fight with Alexj-ttder. The rage and
ceeJifi^ vehe-
|-^i^.^ ^j.'^f-Q gj-j.^^ ;,^^^.,jpj^3,,jgg{^^,,.gj;^ 35 might plainly prove, that the mckjd enemjifmght
tation.
'"''
either £. K. hi-; own dejhoyinz of hhttfelf\ or of we, or hii brother, &c.
This mayfutfii.e tonotifie the mighty temptation and vehement w 'rking of thefubtile fpt-
Norf thecjufe jitual enemy Satan, wherewith God futfercd £. K. to be temptr-d, and almoii overcome : tomjr
o; rhjs recor-
^j.g^f grief, difconifqfi t, and moft great d'i'credir : if it fhonld ( a-; the truth was ) have corap
S- tofhe hmperoursunderftanding, except he had known me well, ^c. I was in great doubt,
how ijod would rake this offence, and devifed with my felf how { might, with honefty, be •
cleared from the fham': and danger that might arife if rhefe two fhould fight, eS^j. At tlVe
kaft it would crolTe all ^ood hope here with the Eniperour, &c. for a time, till God redref-
fed ir.
_ f
^ . After I had brought E. K. to fome quietne(r-,( by yeilding much to hh humour, e^c. and
timc^need faying little :") nftitjoiig after, came my msirager from my wife at Crarovit : znAHiighmj
fervant with him, rt wy grftft Crt-M^rt through hfr letters , and the full fattsfying of me b/
Hi'g^ my fervant his knowledge farther than conveniently could be written.
About 2 of the clock after Noon, came this letter to me, of the Em^erourh'n fending
Nobilis, PraEclaridimeque Domine, Dominc obfervandilljme.
j^
. /"^^fai', jr^i jam fiz,!t/ficavit PonttHo Legato Hiy-in/arum ^ H^ro meo^ut Vominatisftef* vf-
I jiram iid feevocdrer^ai borantfecundarn i qui earn iudire cuperet : Vominatio vellra ft a4
diUam horamve-nire pote^it : accedetJiatimDo'vinuni0^rvi!imSpinota»t, qui eji Mtije'itti
fii£ C^i^area cL Stahtdit & Ciibkulii . Is entm ea,», ad Muj.jiateyn fuant introducet. ^od
rtliquum eji, KieD- vcjird quam ofjiciofifmh etiam o-tque etiamcommendoy
"Domination'u vejtr4e Studiofijfimns
Arnoldus VanderBoxe.
Note the Original letter itfclfSs Hereupon, 1 went ftraight up to the Caftle : and inthq
in this Took.
, . , . j Ritter-Stove or Guard-Chamber I flayed a little ; in the
Otuvms Sp^noU Ch'rnbedam and
^^^^ EmerKus to fee what was of the clock : and
Officer who IS fent into J>4iii. the Chamberlain , ( On^n^'ta Spinola ) fpied hmi out of the
Emperours Chamber window, and called him, who came up
tome, and by that time was the Cnamberlaincome out to mt j and by Emericits he nndcr-
• HorA tenia ftood that 1 was the man the Emperour waited for. He came to me very * curCeoufly :
txalliamni- told me of the Emperours deijre to fee me, and to (peak with me. So he returned to the
Einperourintothe privy Chamber, and came oat again for me, and led me by the skirt of
th« Gown rhrou^Ji the Dining- .chamber, and the Privy Chamber, where the Hmperourfacat
a Table, with a great Cheft and Sraiidilhof Silver, before him, my Monasand Letters by him,
&c. I came toward him with due reverence of three curlies , who (hewed me a gracious and
chearful countenance.
Then I craved pardon at his M.tjefties hand, for my boldneffe to fend his Majefty a Letter
iind the Mj>tJS Hi'-roz'yp'f'''^ (dedicated to his father.) But I did it of fincere and entire,
goodwill I bare to his father Mtximilian, and alfo unto his Majifty : and that the rather,?
because 1 iiaJ i;ood proof cf the favour whi h Ahnigi'ry God bcareth unto his Majeily. Hci
then thanked me for his fathers Book, anrf did atfi.m, that he believed me, that I was affefti-
onate unto his Hishneflc : And gf my eftemation with the learned of the world, he had.
kear^
More Comfort -
in time of need/"'' ^^
die,
I I
-- — - -
II II I T .___^^__„_____
]_ ^:Atrue %latwn of D*". Dee btt JHtcns mth fpirits,d<.c 1 3
1
of my zealous mind towards his grace. And
too hard for his Ma jellies capcity ; and ad-
pinilh Emliai'fadourcold liim, that I had fomewhat to fay unro him, ^od
"i^it pr« fna rttlitate. I aufwered, Sol have, and withal looking back whether any man were
-in the Chamber or no, I fo;uid that we were aloue : Hereupon I began to declare chat All my
'lifetime [ had fpent in learning : buc for this forty years continually, iu fund ry manners, and
ill divers Counrries, with great pain, care, and coil, I had from degree to decree, fought, to
come by tlie b-fl knowledge that man iTiigiit attain unto in the world : And I found (at lengh)
,
that ncirher any than living, nor any Book 1 could yet meet withal, wa; able to teach a\t thole
tniths I delircd, and longed for : And therefore I tonclilded with my felf, to make inter-
'
ccinon and prayer to the" giver ofwifdom and all good things, to fend me fuch vvifdo:!!, as I
ought know the natures of his creatures ; and a!fo enjoy means to ufe them to his honour
aiid glory And in this purpofe made divers alTaye-; : and it length it pieafed God to fend
mc'bis [a] L/^/y, whereby I am allured of hismerciful hearing o: my long, fervent, conftanr,
^ ^^j^.^^
and coiuinual prayer, in the caufe before fpecliicd : And that. His holy Anjels, for thcfe
two years and a half, have ufed to inform me : and have fiuilhed fuch works in my hands. Books fiaiiheJ.
jto be feen, as no mans heart could have wiflied for fo much j yea they have brought nte a.
5fo"f of that value, that no earthly Kingdom is of that worthineife as to be compared to the A Stone •
vertue or d.gniry thereof, €^c. And that thefe things be true, I protefted, and took to 'roue'it by
^
witnefle the God of Heaven and E^nhjhy whofe Commatidnjei'tt I am now before your Majefty, g'^°<> ""ge'*
^( faid'I ) and have a melFage from him to fay unco you ; and that is this :
The Angel of the Lord hath appeared to me, and rcbuker.h youforyovir Ciil'. If you will My meflape w
,'
Ji ear me, and believe me, you /liall Triumph: If you will noc hear me. The Lord, the Godt'^e Em'^eiout
:(
that made Heaven and Earth, ( under whom you breath, and have your fpirit ) putteth his ^ ''"'f'''
^"«*
foot againll your breaft, and will throw you headlong down from your feat.
Moreover, the Lord hath made this Covenant with me ("by oath) that he will do and
J
perform. If you will foifake your wickednelTe, and turn unto hiin, your Seat fliail be the
j
greatefl that ever w:as : and the Devil Hiall become your prifoner : Which Devil, 1 did
coiijefture, to be tfie Great Turk,( faid I ) This my CommilHon, is from God : I feigne no-
thing, neither amt'an Hypocrite, an Ambitious man, or doting, or dreamiug in this Caufe.
If I fpeak ocherwtfe theii I have juft caufe, I forfake my falvation,faid I.
The Emperour faid, he did believe me, and faid, that he thought 1 loved him unfaignedly^
•ind faid, that I (hould not need fo earneft proteftacions : and would not willingly have had
me to kneel, fo often as I did.
Farther I faid. His Majefty was to fee and nnderftand nakedly, from the beginning , the All the rourrs
whole courfe of this Angelical leading, inftnifting, and comfoitiiig of me : for fo I was com- "fo-" Mions
nianaed, that I Qiouldfrom the beginnirj^, nakedly open unto Rodolph, the manner of ood '"'^
m b
his vifitation, and flievr unto him the holy Vilion : Which my charge I am ready to do. Tha ii4vve/ to°thc
tmperour faid, at another tinie, he would hear and linderftand more. I fpake yet fomewhat Empeicur.
piorein the purpofes before, to the intent they might get fome root, or better ttick in his
iiiinde. To be fhort, he thanked me, and faid he would henceforward, tal{e nte to his re- om-
»«c'W:/fzo>?/iWr<trf, and fome fuch words ( of favour promifed) he ufed, which 1 heard not
\ weM, he fpake folow. In the end perceiving fhdt his will was to end for this time, I did my
I
duty with curfie ; and at the door going out, I turned back, and made curlie, and fo came
into the nextC amber,where the Noble Ociaviiu Spin'oln came to me again, and wiih curte- 03hv'wi ypin0'
bus words, offered me great friend/hip. I rook my leave of him, and (b came through the '-••
I
Ritters Stove or Guard Chamber, and fo down, and hbme. I had a large hpur audienceof
his Majefty.
Veus bene vert at : adfuinomiHisLitudem^Homremj&GIorijm. Amen.
I
Wedenfday, 5f;)ff»;i'f/j, 5. 1584- Mane circiter horaift S. f Prags, .
; Trecilusfinitis^ &c. Repetivi ter banc Sententiant Mitte lurem tuam ( Bern ) & verita^
fCM Xuam qu£ ms durat & perducat ad monteni Sandum Sion & 'lakernacula. ccelejiis H'lernfalem.
' A. I have to the beft ofmy ability,both written andfpoken unco Kodolp'^ as 1 was willed :
Ijow it workethor takcth place in his heart, is known to thee O God, &c,
i. Now I am to receive farther inftruftions, what is to be done in this caufe, or clfe what-
ifocver fliall pleafe the Higheft, &c.
-l £. K. Now here is Vriel, and ^ hlach, thing lih^e a Sarcent offilke be- tf^^'noi^^
i5>re his face, and over his head behind : by the reft of his garments "^^ ^J""^hth
it feemeth to be lyrid. ^^^ highly of-
,
fended God.
t. Godmakeallthmgsvvhitc,andmakeus whiter than Snow ; What that Jblack Scarf
inipprjcth 1 know not 5 but I fufpcft.
[gg 2] Uriel....
_ .. II. ,...,11 II ! mmt •"• •• ii-^«. I " ^'
231 J true Relation 0/ D^ Dee his ABionswh)fmts, ^c^_
Uriel Si'ch as defje the feat of the Soul, and ate fiifocatei With driinkennefl"e#»tfr
^•'^j^''*^" notiHlothe Kingdom of Heaven, neither C2inhd\o\drhe ornafncnts of thf Lord his beauty.
bcenmcivil- See, how Satan, hotP he runneth headlong aboHt and throus^h JO'!. See, how he makfthhi/difief-
Joufly diunk, ling place within you : of whom the Lord gave you warning, fayi'ig : Saca,} feekj?th 'H fift jm.
&c. 1,0, he hath dtne wirkjdnejfe againjl the Lord^ and ag.iinji you ; for he hith blemijhed the eyes
Satan.
tfyctirunderjranding.
'"'01
[E. K. He fpcaketh other words between, .which I underftanc!
not. j '.J '»(•;
Jefuf. Uiitl h not Jefus, Gody and the HighPrieJi of the Lord, placed on the right haniofhit
Father? , .
?.-irio
,
L. He is : we believe it. ,.
I
tZach.cap.j.a. Lliiel Is mt Sitan (^ as t^? f Prophet fiith) fufercd to 'land and triumph on lSk,%
light hand of the Lord of HolhanJ Jaltice, ai the open enenij of the Lord , and of his'ati^
tiointed.
The overrli'ow True it is : and he hath almoft given you the overthrow,
klmoft given. ^^ ^/i]ft us O GoJ, and be our ftrengch againft chis moft fubni'.e and mighty enemy.
Uriel. ...... But becaufe he is (ilhzWe, and h^th powe^ givet u>i::o him ''or iz timi'., attd hath Uri-
ven againiiyou, not for your own fakes, ( hut becaufe yn are of the Spirit of the Hizjieii ) ani
The eye EK. againii hii tejlimony : 'Therefore doth not God,in.hit Jujiice impute thp ijus of the eye, unto thjt
the body A. body.
[ A. Lord thy mercies are infinte, praifed be thy name *^or ever. ])
By the eye Uriel Bat cowmandeth the [a] eye to be reconciled , as ihe fpirit of Truth butb.
is'underftood taught.
E.K. the Seer £. K. Hc IS gOne.
in ih.s ..ftion, *-' *
,
t i /-> j r •
andhyihcbo- Vide Septenih. l^. h. Glorified be God for his moft loving kindnefle
dy is under- of Reconciliation. and infinite m^-rcies toward^! us fraile, and imful
flood /lini^ee creatures : and wc befeech chee to fhew ust^e light
^' of thy countenance, to our comfort and direftion.
Amen. <i
A. As 1 was putting up all, 7Jriel appeared again, with his black Scarf, as he did before :
'
but paufed a while before he fpake any thing.
A. In thy name ( Jefu ) we attend thy words by thy meflager to be uttered.
Uriel Give ear wito my voice.
"
E. K. Now he is become like a great wheele of fire, like a waggon
A wheel : He thruil: out ];i. hands on the fiiddcn , and fo became like a
wheel full ofmens eyes : it turncth round, it is full in all places of
thofe eyes, like living ard feeing eyes. \
V Now Cometh fire out of ir in 4 places.
Now there is a great Easjle, vn hi ch is come, and flandeth upon it : It,
Eafic"
** "^
is a white Eagle : The wheel turneth ftill , notwithftanding that /he
flandeth on it.
E. K. She hath in her b-ake, like a fcrol of parchment. She hath
two monftrous eyes : one like fire red j her right eye as big as my fift,,
and the left eye, is Chrvftal-like. She ftandeth hovering with hct
wings fpread, and her fte'-n or taile fpread. r
Under the wheel is a ei-par valley, and in it a gieat City,and a Hiltdn
the Eafi: part of ir. And all rjward the South are Hills.
TheCity isasasbigas fix of Craco'via rand many ruins of houfej
in it there appear.
„ Ther^is one place in it covered, f^uarre like a little Chappel : I|
hath a little rour.d pinacle in the end of it i and over it in the air,
hanging a ^'it;tle fire b.ight.
N Therc'be many like unto fowlcs, like Ravens, and their heads like
unto
Atrue delation of D^ Dee hh JB'wns "with fpirits. Sec, 23^
unto bright fire : :. They flie into a Country a great way off from this
Now Vrkl ft;indeth befide the wheel, and the wheel ii- as it was be-
fore : and he as b.-fore with the Scarf.
^ The Eagle cryeth and skriketh as a Gull , or the Sea fowles do.
IJricl fcemeth to dcfccnd ftoni the air above^and to come to the fide
bf the Shew-ftone.
Uriel ,1k'' Lord hath chosenyou to be\V\tncKt9,^throveh hit mercy and f:.fferanceJ mtin the ^- '"<^ ^^•
\gice of ApoilUs^but inthe o^cts and dignities of die Prophets : wWcjfr is alwayes beautified'"^
^'^ ^^'^\
with the wings of the Cheruhims, with the voices that cry a thoufani thonfa.U times in a moment he- God his r
f re the Lord, and before the Ma]e,iyofhis etemxl Seat : wherein yo'i do exceed the'* Temples and CiffTancc.
of the earth : wherein yon are become pparated from the worldy and whereby you are lifted up, as
* ^ich have
ffthe houfhold of the Bleffed, even by the very hand and finger of the H'Zljcti. .
"°' ^^^i h pre-
*A. Ble/Ted, blefled, bleiled, is the Lord to whom Cherubim and Seraphim inceflantly firi" ^^f^^
""geli-
Sancius, fiancliu, SanaHs^ Dominw em '/.ebatth. Amen. ' f ca .
Uriel £«f that ic may appear, t^</f^e/f*f, that rfw^/ff*, which gathereth theC'andstd^ j)^,,a.uii,.,
fether, and is the breath of all things that live : Becavfe I^fay it ynay appear that the Lord vifit- revelJt
ech, and if of power, and that the i'naginations of man, fl/e befor.e themfelves, as the dftf of the
earth dovh before him that movethtt: 1 open unto you a Seal, yet fecret and not kj:own. ASeal opened.
Q A. Zjch. 13. — Et erit diesuna, qux nota eft Domino, &r. ] Zjchiry 13.'
Behold^ now cometh that day, that is known unto the Lord himfelf, wherein the Kingdoms of the
'^^^' ^'
'
t^thjhall begin to fall : that they may perceive how they have run ajiray : and bow weal^they are
'
f« the triumph of their ponipe.
Add now out of Hien.falem, out ofthe Church of God, and of his Son Chri(i, fl,allfaffe out and ZJch- cap. 13.
flow the water of life : That the fayings of the Angels and Spirit of the Lord, may be verified ftp-
^'
on the face of the earth, fpokfn by his annointed Zachary.
JVaw Ihall thofe dayes open themfelves, which are the dayes of vengeayiCe. ^'" '"•''"^'^*-
Mow, Now _ihalhhefewoes, th^tt have been fpokm of andfealed, burji out , to the confufion of the ^TsUbS
wicked, andthe cmuhihment of bis Kingdsmywhich is am^inted.
Behold, I teach thee.
Thofe that inhabit the holy City, and nfurp the authority of the Higheft, are cal'ed in remem- ^ Prophefie a-
he
Rod,
Irance before the Lord, and they (hall befcattered /% unto the mighty hail, that thefpirits of the
^^'"'^ '
'
^orth have gathered againji the day of revenge. Clergy.
They are become proud, and think ^here is no God. Vhey are lUff-necked ; for they are the fons R„d
^wieKedteffe. Lo, in the dayes of Rodolph, Jhdl this come to pajjff of whom the Lord hath "If
faid. If he hear me,it\d believe my words, Iwill place Thee [a] unto him, asa mi«^hty rock :
I will open unto thee [£k] ( for his inftrufkions, and fafegijard to come ) my determinations in E'-^'"* ^PM-
ian-f,and h,t» come. And when he bath wiped a^ay his dark^effe , and offence of his foul
\'^'''"hftB.o-
'^'\\\ z^^f3iV unto \nm, to the terrour of allTSiatioHs.
J J t
dnlphoftaenda.
For Irejoyte, when I exalt fuch as are weak^: And when I help tL comfortleffe, am I magni-
•'i^^' Thanks, honoiu-, and gfory, is due to thee, O our God.
.
Uriel And behold, the day of this vifitatien, and of the execution of my judgements, is at Another Seal
iand : And lo I open unto you another Seal ( Becaufe I have faid unto you, I am true, and opened.
\pji. ) An, 1588. or
In theyear eighty eight, (hall you fee the Sun move contrary to his cou rfe.
'
^^."f« fr^ L/e.'
^ The Stars [^nJ] tncrtzfctheir l- 'Jit : and fome of thevk* fallfrom heaven. *Math.i4. c!
•
Then Iha// the Rivers run blood:
i
ThenJf^all the wo be unto women with child.
((Th^Jhall the time cometopjjfe, that this Fropheftejhall be kjtown.
itobe kpown^^n_ 1^88.-^ ^. Which?!? ? For I have nor yet had (tlwt I remember) the year notif.ed tobe ij38
ifjrre An.itf88.ThisPro^hsfieistobeknov*nAn, 158S. •
This Prophefic
nor ycc 1688.
mFor lo, the Lord hath prepared his Prophet, and he Jhall defcend from the Heavens i^as it is
*
Malach.cap
'tl>nitenhy*W[j\^ch\a.\\ the Prophet. 1 .. r 4 K.
Behold I willfend before that- day, (^notthztdiy I fpol^e of, but- the great '
day'of the Lord ^^ol
t\\*^ again a;nongii you. '- .
'
AN
A- Note twd
day.s.
^94- ^ true^J^elation of D^ Dee his jBions mthJi^tnts, ,Scc,
Jn the mean feafon wdl I be viercifull unto Rodolpb, and will bring into kit
'
Red. Thebfjiitify- houfe, fi^ch Of fhtill be fkjlfull : mitt vk»m 1 will give my fpiriCjto worl{_ Goldy
jnpof Rc(^(.7;i;Hisf£ac Silzer^ and ihe Ornaments of hi^ houfe. And he pall perceive that I bLffe
Impel ial.
^^-j^ ^ j,^ j/_,^f j have tied him to mj Garments.
Jf If, he bear thee not
Vidi hjyaSep- Behold,! have one in ftore : Tea , fiich an one as cleavetli unto Juftice. Man is hut a Keed.
temb.it.
that is Jhal{cii with ei'crjwinde. "The pride of Kings, is as the beautji of a Peacock^: See borr the*
run all ajiray. See how they tempt the fpirits of rigbteoufneffe.
^
Rex I'.l Lo., {as I have faid unto thee) I rcfcrve that wicked King, no}jkat lwillbe,friercifullmtohitji\-
Stip'ianus.
'
Puttbat he HiaWlhovtly perijh with an eternal fcourge.
And ?iow hear me what IJaj unto thee. . Hereafter, fee thou tempt me npt:^
CAVE: V'.elom^'j AVitkf /ooi^ for my prefence after this Order: But for great caufs. *
• in great caufes is to \>z f^y Iq^ this is the end of Teaching. Now co.neth in the time ofvata."'^
looked for
inc and of counfe!. ^-
ioft'X'glr''"''"^ f.
.Will y- S-'e me leave to fpeak ?
'J
Unei Saj,
t. I trud itfhall not offend God at any time, to call for [Uriel] his light in matters dark^
EnochhttTn' to US) and above our capacity. Alfo in Enoch his Tables underJbnding and enjoying , ye
bles. are to require help ofinftruftion at Ave : and fo of other points and Doftrines already begun,
we are to require their help, who have begun with us,^t-.
*
'
Uriel. As far at the Lord hath fuffered you to enter into hit Garden : Iven fo far (J pj)'
Talie,andeat. P
£,. The entrance yet we havenot, but the manner to enter :.Thc perfeft praftife Isihe belt^
entrance.
Uriel (Ji'tanfpeaketh not with thee '.wherefore doji thouvinA the Lord.? All things t^tt
are delivered thee are plain.
h. Lord, I do thus fpeak to be perfe^Iy inftrufted in what fenfe ycUr words are to be un*
derftood, when you faid : This is the end of teacliing. A. Vriel^or perhaps. in the
Uric\...*-.'lhoHhaJi called upon we,and I h^ve heard thee. name of God.
Thou haji defired comfort, and I have romjorted thee.
The fpirit of choice ^*»'' f'^J^ the fpirit of choice.
Vide 13. September. Be it fifficient unto thee » that the Garden ef the Lord is open unto thee :
Garden of the Lord. ff}j(Ye there is no huttgn, nor thirji, but a filling fpirit, a comforter.
Note. t What care if H unto tne, if the Kings of the earth fay : L^, this is not ef)»e. A. ExDeilu-
Loy this is not of the highejh mine.
Uriel Behold, I am the light, and fervant of God : BlefTed are
ThlsTiftimony. , thofe which believe , and are made partakers in this Teftimpny : by'
Advtntus nomim,
^^^ ^^.^.^ ^^^ ^^^ become Prophets, and are fanaified for the coming, ,
of the Lord. •
^. Ke Duttcth us in re-
4, g^^ ^^ ^^ j^ j r^^r
„^f ^^,^ ^^ve defiled yo»r fehes ? I will
ttietnb^ance of our frailty; , ^ , r i- it/ j ni r i 1 cT j • ; 1 ..
Tnd offence comirittcd be- ^^K^ «? M^ '*'«?^ tk.it I have, and will be gone, Lo, bleffed u he that
forenoted. giveth ear un'io the Lord.
E. K. Now all is vani/hed away, anJ he is difappcared : Wheele,
Eagle, Citic, and all, ^c. -
,
A. All laud, thanks, honour and jrlory be to the eternal , AImighty,moft j ft Judge, and
mereifuU father our God, the God of Heaven and earth, whom ofhisinhnite goodneilc , we
befeech to have mercy upon us, and to purifie our hearts and confciences, granting us humble
contrition, and fincerc confeflion of our tranrgrelfions and iniquities whatfoever. Amen. '*
Note. While I was thus requefting God, E. if. made a vow of penance, during his life;',
(in token of hearty forrowfulnefTe for his fault in that dayes adion notedj ntver t) eat his
E S. His vow [upper, or evening meal on S.it".rdayes , during his life jwhcre'm I bcleech the highcfl: to rega«<|\ [j,
of faftingdu- j,is inward intent, and his continual mjmpry of the Lord his mercies, in fparlng him when liC^ '
'i"gli'«-
nioft had offended him.
A. Deo Noftro vero, vivo,omnipottnti, & eterno fit omnis Honor Laus & Bcnediftio,
nunc 8c in pcrpetm m. Amen-
Wednefday, September 5. NOTE. ij l
A. The morning of this Wednefday(bcfore I prepared my felf for the former aftign^ I fegt
£wfj-/r.'tf with two Liters to be dchvered : thcone to the Span/jh A nibalfadoiir (giving him
thanks for his honourable dealing with the Emperours Majerty in my behalf) and the other
to tlie KoblcOclavius Spinola : thanking him likewifc, and requiring his inftruftion, or adviffe
how i might molt conveniently proceed in dealing with the Emperours Majelly :Thc Cop/
of
m
Airm^fjelation uf D^ Dee his Mions mth fpiritsT^^ 1^
»r which Uttei- 1
rhionght good co record here, thattheeffea thereof c^iti^'e^^^T^rrh;^
the bg.K of the Origmal caiife (Divme and humane) annexed.
a
&
"-
Z//#ri e^ M.!g>ilfico Vomica, Vomhw OBavio ^fimU^ facrt Coatee Majejiatii
\_
^ .'^"^I'i's&Cubkulii Domino fuo ohfcrvandifmo.
ILhiftris ac MagniRceDomine:Non pofTiim fatii condi;"nas veftr^ Magnificientii acrcre ^ratl
as,i>ro imgulari i!la,qua me Hen amp!exieftishtimanitate& benevolentia : homin^mquidem
vobs iiico£;ninmi,red tamen vncucis & veritari^ ftudiofilllmum : quiquc o;mte reliqruni me^
vicT curriculum (Deo lie volciitej in hoc co fimicre decrevi , ut facra fua C4area\vA)ti{zs
cV-r'; ^t\-6^\zt\i^i-,iiicredibditer(i<:rh')fropt,.im fore Dei Omnipotentis tremendam Maie/iacem
Aiq e quamvis videam mulciplicibvs multarura Regionum negotiis
,"
fuani i^Acrzm Cxfarearn
Maj.flatemoccupanllimiunfepiirmie tenerijHeque aliis, illifque ame, (u&izctxCxfarce Mi]^-
fra:i p-oponendis caulis , commode vacare, vd pofTe, vel evidenti aliqiia racione deberc"
T A ME N, li aliquis excogitari pofHt modus, pro loci, temporis, & rcrum occafione, quo fua
faaa CtUrea Majeftas, ea penes me viderc, vel ex me intelligefe dignaretur , qu? illi forent
grata •• Ea in re, veftra; Illuliriffimae Magnificentix libentiUIme audirehi ve! recipcrem infonm-
tronem atque Judicium, Namin hoc totus cro, ut tempore debito, appareat, Omnipotentis
Dei, 8i fua; facrspi C£rure£ Ma jeftatis fervitio (Maxime auteni,pro Sacroianftie Orthodoxx Ca-
tholicjp 8c Apoftolic^e tidei Jlluftracione, ac Reipublicx Chriftian* dcfenjione , ampiiHcatione-
qHf) AJdiaiiliraam, devotiirmium , fideliffimumque me cfle, ac forefacrs fu^C^^re* Majc-
ftatii fervitoreiu.
4. Septembris 1584..
OpPortunit^fi* flos mature colligi debet :
Cito enim fiet marcidus.
I/lujhifwu Magnificenti£ ve^r£
ParatiSimm
Joannes Dee.
tmrkus wehtand delivered toy tetter to the Sfanijh Ambafl^doi^r : But this he brought
back again; faying, that the Emperour was ridden very early abroad to Brandeifh^ or elfe-
where: (notcertamly being known) and that thi» Noble (?5/zz//»f i>«(7/« was gone with his
Majefty.
Hereupon I determined with changing the Date, to * fend unto him at * Panum em dk
cbe Emperour his Majeities returning to fr«gf. Veus bene vertat, tLSeptembJequente,
CMr. DoQor Hagek his fen vm At mon xhit I fent Letters to my wife : to raj
h ^"J' Lord L«^i>,aiid to Mr.ViulHertoUy
by the Meffager of Reichentiemj
on this fide NJfe.
'MonAnY 1 Seftemh.Manehora g. t Pragse.
^.frecibw fittitit ;
T inviied Gay Z.?, Vaa , (as being afligned to underftand of Kodolph his
!oings,) that of them I might receive inftruftlons i that my proceedings might be anfwerablc
[isoccaiion ftiould be given.
\E. K. There appeareth written ir. great letters upon a right hand
ifind no body appearing:) the hand being very big.
* 1
Oil eft habet
:
?
Cni nihil non hahehit. ^
E. iT. And fo the hand vanifhed out of fight : The writing was in
he palm of it.
A. After that appeared the fame hand again, with his writing
t'^ Fncei& fa&titti eritf
Vltraynonhabtf, Vltraom
haiet,
'^
E.K. It
E.K. It Van i filed away , by and by, hand, writing, and all.
A Further 1 ^' I take this (O Lord) in this fence : That I am to proceed, and to do as I intended , i
have n. t w' either writing to Rudolph himfelf , or to the Spanijh Amballadour , or to Oilavins Spinola fc
layjor do. the Eniperour to give me audience, time, and place to hesir, and fee, the Records and Monu
mcnts,which 1 have to (hew him .- And that when 1 had doni as was commanded me , that^
Thenche piirpoleof God (hall dZ/o ie<^o;ff. ^, ^^
A. Deiis,inadjutorium noftnimintendetuaquenosdirigatfapientia, ad illiid Facien-
diimj quod tibi maximc erit gratam. Amen.
in
for
Tuefday , Seftevih. 1 1 . Hora. 9. fere.
Mifi per Doininini Emericum Sontagiiim Secretarium Domini Palatini Siradien/is literas
illas ad Dominum Oftavium Spinolam : qiias fuperius defcripfi ; fediibi in illis fcripferam qu^t
we heri awpltxi ejiU. Nunc, fcripli, </7^<i! me a'lte piiucos <//« amplexi eikiSySf
f10, (juique otme
reliquuntj nunc fciipli quique rciiquum,^^!-. 8t pio hcredibiliter (fere) propitia»i, 8ic. fcripiJ,
nunc, Intredrl Utter ( fereJ & modo mirahili^propitiam fore^ SiC. Et reiiqua oninia fcripti in
fupra annotavi : fed dat;e erant hse, 11. Die Septewbrkt : Ills autem priores, 4. Septembris.
Tradidic iftas .iceras (Kmericus) '\?agnifico Domino SpinoU ,
jam llatim port prandium Ce-
fare£ Majelhtis,&:craftina die (poll millam) pro refponfo, venire juflit.
WedneCday,3ept'e»tbrii 12. Mane.
A. This morning, vvhen,E»«fr/r« Sontag went up to the Caftle for anfwer from the Empe-
rour'tBy the Nohie O'laviut Spinola, he received the eff^di of this anfwer , which I required
the fame Emerkus to write dowii with his own hand ("foi" fundiy refpeft?;j whi.h his oivn
hand writing 1 have annexecl ad majoremrei f.dcm. And becaufc his writing is not eaiie' tc
be read, I have writteji it plainer foinewhat, as folioweth :
Kefponfum Imperateriit per Dominum Spinolam.
Sacra C^farea Majeftas benigne intellexit quae Dominus Joannes Dee, per fijas Majedis Cu
bicularium, Dominum Ociavium Spinolam, proponi curavit: Ad qu2 , fua Majeftas gratiose li
fe rcfolvit .Quod quandoquidera Lacinnmiiermonemnon omni ex parte exafte calleat : pr^
tcrea etiam variis Si multiplicibusnegociis occupata, non femper ad andientiam vacare polTIr,
videri fiut Majeftaciut idem PominusPff, cum Magni(ico Domina Dodorc Kurtzio (qui &;
fux Ma'titati ab arcanis eft confiliis, fatifque fidus, eruditione quoque inligni poller^ trafta-
re, si: negotia fua concredcre veiit. , ]d quod, hia Majeftas pralibato Domino Conl'Jiario fuo,
Kmzioy Mniinciari curabit. Sin ve'ro, fecus Domino yo^<r;/«7 Dee videbitiu- , fuam Majelhtem
qiiomoJocunque tanJcm per occUpationes facejre poterit , defiderio Domini Dee fatisfaftu-
Vani.
1 5 §4. xii, Septembris. Emcricus Sontagnis wanu
propria.
A. Which anfwer, both by word of month,and thus by writing being received (
y me : and
the faid Emenciu being (by the Noble Spinola) willed at Evenfong time, to bring my anfwtr
herein 5 which I gave him of my great good liking the fame, and moji htanlle thankj. to his Maje-
ih •> for fo wife and gratiout hit confideration had of ihe caufe. 1 req ircd the fame Emriciis, tc
imderftand ; vvhen, and : ow foon Doftor Cur\z,m (hould bemadepiisy of liisMajufties plga-
fure herein: and fo, aftermy difpatching of £we*-ic/tf,I endeavoured my (elf to render thank-
unto God for his mercies, graces, and truth, in tliefc Iiis affairs : befeeching himto frame my
heart, tongue, and hand inYuch fort, as to his Divine MaJ£fty,my dutifull fervice, doing, may
be acceptable : as chiefly of nie inccmled to his honour and. glory : And fecondjy to t!
comfort of the godly and cleft : And thirdly to the confullon of the proi:d, arfoganc , fcon
full enemies of truth and vertue. A>uen,
ThurCAayy Seftembritii^ Mancphjraj. f PragT.
I received the Noble O^aviui Spinola his anfwer by E,i'ericM, as concerning my accept; ' f
the Ewperour hit gratiom former anfwer of condefcend/iif^ to my req^eji^fo ynuch M he convc:.
» On Wed- ^j^;^ _.
winch my anfwer yeftcrday * night, late was delivered to the Noble Spinola. VVm^Cj
ncf<^a)r.
^^ijj.^ i^g j-^-^^ j^j^^j. „,y._^);^^gy would be }noji acceptable unto the Emperour ; and that to jitorrtfC-
,
.
(meanii!
^tme Relation ofD^, Dfe hif J&icns mh lf>trits,^.c lij
meaning this Thurfday ) the honourable Doftor Curtz flioiild underftand the Enjtieroiirs
pleafiire herein. Hereupon I willed £;>;fnrw to go up to theCaftle, and to bring iiimfelf
in light of chs Noble Spino/u, if he could. Thereby to help his meiiioryj for warning and in-
formation to be giveji to the faid Dodor Curta : That fo weaiighc conie togccher, to foou,
as conveniently might be.
DeOf omnii UuSy honor, & glorht. Amen.
Thurfday, Septetnbris i 3. Ui'lttfte, horam circiter 9. t Prag^.
A. Trecihui finitis^ and the cafe propounded oF the Emperour his Anlwcr, for dealing
with Doftor C./rtz., a man of his Privy Council, faithful, learned, and wife : upon the coa-
lideratlons alledged, I requefted of God, his pleafure to be fignilied unco me , by fome of his
faithful and true Mcflagers ; whether 1 fhall ofenfy and fraikjy dgal with th'n Dolf r, fo, as the
Eniperour, by him may underftand that which he rtiould have done at my mouch and hands
originally: And whether I may, both alone with the Euip^roir , and before, and with the
faid Doftor, deal in this Aftion asoccaiion (hall fervc from time to time, at my difcretion, in-
formed by his fecret grace divine.
A. Nothingappearing, or being heard, in a quarter of an hour fpace, I fufpefted fome of
our mifdoings, to be the caufe of the Lord his refraining to anfwer : and thereupon I did
fall to prayer for mercy and grace, and deliverance from the aifanlts and malitiouh purpofcs
ofthe Devil againft us : And that I did the rather, becaufe as 1 felt my good Ailgel ( or o-
thcr good friend) in vertue, fo I felt Pi/i/"H»;, fen Gbly, bafie, and as it were co cerriSe me
with my offences paft, or to put me out of hope, at this prefeur, from being heard. B ic I held
on to pray divers Pfalms, and at length againft the wicked tempters purpofeiy. After my
prayers and affuring E. K. that the fpiritual enemy was here bufie, and accended to fruftrats
ttiis daycs Aftion : He anfwcrcd, that againft him [ £. /T. ] he could nor prevail, or accufe
him, for his lace notable fault; for he had nude a reckoning, and forrowful bcvailing for
that his trefpafs, to ch? Lord, and that he doubred not of forgivenefs ; and that he was fo
reconciled to God, that Sacan nor any other wicked accufer, could puc him in any doubt of j^jjq^^jjj^jJ,^
God his mercy, €>(.\ And he fpake very well both of repentance, Gods mercies, his juftice,
«nd of thefe Aftions.
Mary, he confeffed that by reafon, he himfelf was an rnmcet perfon to come before che Em-
perour, or Princes, d^c". and therefore ifit would pleafe God to difcliarge hiu of further
medling, fo, by reafon he might fecm well at eafe, &c. At length, after an hour appeared
Vriel ; but with a Scarf before his face, as he had laft.
A. God fend us the brightnelTe of his countenance when it fijall pleafe him.
Uriel True it is, that in reff>e& of the terrour and forr^ of God his wrath and indignation
in (]i] Judgement : Reconciliation is made ; throttgh thxt fo-mer which is given unto the Luntl, KiconcW'Mioa
to whom nil power it given in Heaven and Earth: Bit with th.' £ 2^ congregation, and the Wt^wj- of two focw.
hers of Cbrifihis body, the number of the faithful, the Church of God, you h.ivs not made reconcilia-
ttoH, And tjneixforcyare not finners worthy to behold the face of true light and undcrftanding:
;.,j./his°Ucei»
for there it a double Keconciliation : One (^and the firji') between the Confcience and the Judge : yet covered,
through the force of faich and repentance : that it to fay , Recon- i,
•iliation againft Judgement. Another, (^ the fecond ) Keconciliatign ^'l^ fupra S premb. y. 2
tetveen the Sinric of Truth, ( the Church of God ) and mans Con- ^liceyc wascommindedta
- .
* ^ ' -^
b; reconciled to inc ap.ric
laetice. „f r.uth.
'Behold I teach you a myflery'.
I. "Ihofe that are at onewithGod^fliallmt be judged with the wicked in the lu(l Judgement :
7^1^,1^ pj.
Notwithjianding the Juflice of God is purr, and undefiled : and fuffercth noc nuns fault un- * w
puniflied.' 2. But he that u at onewith the Spirit of God, it made one with hint, and without
puniftimcnt,
For there are many things that God heanth witneffe of, in the foul and fecret Chambers of many ^ AboccuhU
that Kcither theblefed, already dignified, nor to be dignified^ do, or can know ; which is the caufe mt'u muni*
that the foul of man, (^ after bit body fleepeth^ being found foWwicd, it received, and fnatchcd we. Sec.
Mpjof fuch as are the Melfagers of puniflimenc: and fo,according to the multitude of their fins, are A temporal
lnhorrour5and puniftment. Therefore wtall, that are punilhed, ihall be danincd ; Neither paMlhineht.
is it evident unto the Angels, who (hall be faved : I fpea\ generally.
Thereforewhen you ojfeHd,beaKo reconciled unto the Mithet of the boufe : that you may have ^'^^I'fi* «'*»-
^«r<. before /«<:/.» as arc reproved.
- Iicai eanaiiad
Herein yon may underfiand the retaining of fin; For the [a] re- A. Acdoite Spidtum S.an-*''
^"^^'
taining of fin is a judgement . And therefore it is necefjary that God ^"f". quo'-u.-n rmiferitis peccata,
fifouldhold a general day, that tbofe that have tr'tlied in him, and in-
remimnmr a, .-
p ,«r«», re-
tfatdly hxve been forry for their offences, may alfo tajle of hit mercy. ji^E. Muh. 1^. C. 18 C
Elfe bow could it be verified, that the Prophet faith ? If in HcH, thou si dtfcendcn in infunHiti^ t« -
art tlfo there. iUu. es,
[hh] H
z 5 8 A true Relation o/D^ Dee his jBions wh/fints^ &:c.
Ignis purgath- ^"^3 '•'^»'^» f'-'^'"'' '^ <* Caution ; ^///z«i tA/Jt are forgiven hy tkCWc&jpafli not the fire ; i«t
„„. y that is forgiven in bis heart by God, in his Son Chriii ; and {tT^ reconciled through the holy Spi~
The perftft af- rH^ to the body from whence he ii falkni is fafe, as well from the wrath of God to come, as the
^''h^n^ ^Iw
pnnifliment due unto his offences.
Church wSp.- ^^^ therefore is the reconciling of brethren, of ^reat force. Wherefore * hath Chriji left his
rir. body with the Church ? iVherefore is he called the bread of Life ?
* ."Viath.c.^.D. I fay unto you, }tiy brethren, that the body of Chriii dignified and glorified, is true bread j is true
cowfort, which cieanfeth finners that are penitent, and wipeth away the pinifhment of adverfity,
A Alimhtrc- Hafpy are thofe, that eat of him, and that account not his body, as the Jhadow of a candle,
vci dicutx B^-'hoid, I teach you : Even as the Spirrt of God filleth the Congregation of the faithful ; fo doth
(h'li coifus thelodyofChriinowdignifie, dW and deinCe all that receipt with forrow : forrow I mean for
f'ffefhanta- their wickednefe.
ftiuim.
But lo : his body is become an offencfmtto the world. Many there are that fay, 'this is Chriji :
B'>t behold I teach you. Even as all things were made by him,ffiritually : So are all, that are of
his Ele&, nouri/ied through him, bodily.
Lo, he is become one power, one God ; in that be is neither fe£»arated from his bod/j nor fe-
parareth his body from his Church.
After a while I come again,
E. K. Now he is gone away.
A. We read over the premifes to our great comfort, in the mean time , while VRI E L
ditappeared.
E. K. Now he is here again.
S\, Now he Uriel Oye timerons birds. How long run you headlong into the JFilderneJfe ? How long
anfwereth to ff ill you be ignorant ? How long will you tempt the Lord with thefpirit of fooliflmeffe and errour ?
niyrcqiieft Behold thouhajl not judged well of me. Behold thou hafi placed me in a low room, and haji takjn
firft proponn-
^f^^ Garlandfom my head, and trod it under thy feet : For, what is Rodolph, that is not at
kudilp. leifure for the Lord, the God ofrighteoufneffe, the King of Heaven and Earth ?
Are they troubled with things that are greater than I ? Trix it is ; for with me there is no
trouble : for where I enter, I fet all things in quiet. Will the Counfellours of the Earth, fit in judge-
ment to frft the Lord ? ye fooles andjiarvelings of the Earth : Oycu of little underjianding.
T^hink^ you, that ym are able to find light amongli the affairs of the World? true judgement in tb^
jf
imagination of man ? or verity amongji the hoords and corruption of covetoufneffe and faljhood ?
If he be not at leifure to hear me : Have not I told thee, that J have another in jiore .<*
Lo, /
fee, allflefl: is full offolly.
A. It is not yet done : and therefore we ask counfel ofthee ; and I thank thee ( O Lord )
Spiriii't EUB-
^r rebuking of US, before farther errour committed.
enif quid'fit
Uriel Lo, I gave unto thee, the fpirit or choice: and therefore I wiH regard thy doing,
vii/epagiM/f- and will wink at thy weaknefs. 1 will bleffe all that thou tak^ejt i» hand, and will cover thee
quente. with a Robe of Purple ; that thou mayli underjiand that all it mine, and that I raife up whom I lifi,
Kodulp.
j„^ J fay unto thee again : Lo, Rodolph hath heard thee. And I will poure my Spirit of truth
^mf«vfm4. i,jto thee, and thou /halt be a light unto him.
If.
But, now, \ihe liverighteouflj, and follow me truly; I will hold nphit Houfe with Pillars of
^. From tlic HiacinU, and his Chambers pall be full of Modefiy and Comfort. I r»i!l bring the Eaji wind over
Haft, Comfort him, as a Lady of Comfort : andjl^e pall fit upon his Cajiles with Triumph, and be Jhall fleep
toles'in tertiam
Moreover Iwillbleffe his loynes : and his Houfe JhallJiand to the third generation : and to the
gtnerittionem. ^nd ; for, now, the World hath hoary hairs, and beginneth to be fick,.
If. I/hedefpife my commandment, /wi///)«rf/A' /jpori rfgd!/«/fiin»i; and in his dwelling places
^ecic&citqui- jfjail his enemies banl{et. ( But thofe that deal with thee, let themfow up their mouth: left
'^^ beingcut with a Razor, they fpeak not. ) For thofe that negleU my Judgements I will defptfe
them, and their feed Jhall wither, as corn fown out offeafon : But he that lovah me, I will multi-
A/deteveo quo ply him. And he that addeth unto me, I will ^dde unto him a thonfand.
m((rfoSo««m eji: But lo, thou haft the fpirit of choice.
5piri'w "i/f. ^' P ^^^'^ °P^" '"y underftanding of that faying.
Sims fiipra
Uriel ^os tu eligis, eleCiifunt : quo autem defpicis, defpiciuntur etiam.
Sept. J. A. Dwell thou in me ( O Lord ) for I am frail, and ( without thee ) ^ry blind.
E. K. Now he is gone.
A. Thy glorious name ( O Lord ) be magnified, praifed, and extolled for ever. Amen.
A- ^ Tpake this A. 1 perceive that I (hall not Jf«/ with the Poflar C?<rr^ now. Well, 1 can let him undcr-
10 £.K. ftand that I had rather deal with the Emperour himfelf, aqd fo fliift my felf of him.
£. K. He is here again.
Uriel Tes, deal with hi»* : and bide nothingfrom hint.
X>, CuTt^, ^. VVith Doftor Cwtz, O Lord >
Uriel /• •
_
And therefore Ifaid, He that addeth mtt me , f will adde unto bim *
thoufand
'
<^true "Relation of D**. Dee his Miens mth [pints, dec 239
thoi'faftd : But hf that flayeth vith-nie >, lo^l fwear^ I VDiUhiot his narw from life
:
([A^Libercagas : Deus eft enim liber. A-FranMya*
•'£. K. Now he is gone. !?.';«-"
,. A. Deo Omnipotenti, Invifibili Sc mifericordi fit omnis honor, laus, gratiarum aftioj &; ^o'if
^j,"'
3""^
i : nunc &: in pernetimm. Amen. J°^.'
'* *^"
Gloria : nunc &: m perpetimm
.X.'!"*/"
:
; -lO ., i» iH(.\i v •
itoii, Thurfday, Septemhtit i^: Mant. + Pragse.
T;^iEwfrir«f did bring himftlf in fight of the ChamberJain, the Noble Ociavm SpinoU : as I
willed him : And he c-iWcA Emericus to him, and told him, that this day Doftor Curtz, fhould
HHderlland the Emperour his pleafure, to confer witli me, &c.
Vo f,mericiif about lo of the clock before Noon being in the Ritters Stove ( or Guard-Cham-
ber) faw Doftor Curtz. come out from the Emperour,
nijtie.
Friday, Septemb. 14. Mane^ circa 10.
.'.
i fent Entericui to Doftor Curtz his houfe in parva parte : with my commendations ; and
to fay that before, I underftood of Doftor Hageck^ Mr, Doftor Curtz. his defire to be ac-
quainted with me : whereof I was very glad and defirous : and now I truft that the Empe-
rour his majefty, i)y his Aiithority hath taken order with him whereby to begin our ac-
^quaintance, and ( God willing ) our perpetual friendfbip. The Doftor was at home, and to
imericiu ( faying the effeft of my meflage before noted) the Doftor declared that Captaverat
''avtea varies occafionesmecum contrahtttdjc aniiciti<e, &c, and that now he is very joyful bf the
-occafion offered by the Emperours Majefty : and that this day fundry afitirs did hinder the
opportunity of our meeting, but to morrow at any hour (at my choice ) he would be ready
to welcome me to his houfe : and fo with theufual phrafe of offering all his fervices to my
pleafurcj he fent Emericus to me with his faid Anfwer.
^os Dt us coJijmgit, Homo m feparet. Amen.
*'
^os auteviVeiK&.C'efarcopK/atjCopu/at/finn nianeant. Amen.
Sitrndzy, Sfptemhris,,!'). A Meridie hora (fere) prima. t Pragae.
I came totheforefaid ( called Doftor ^ C/rf2 : about one of the clock after Noon, tvho
•had all the day been ready to have heard me, if] wou'd fo have had it : but I fent him word
in the morning by Emericuf, that after Noon, ( as m w at this hour ) I would come to him.
'Being come, he tntertamcd me curteoufly : and two chairs being at the Tables end, he gave
'bie the preeminence C by a friendly kind of earneftntfrt ) Then he told me , that long hnce
mGerii:an}'i he had heard of my fame, and had feen of my writings : and that he was very
Ifeliad of the opportunity now of my coming ro this City ; and that otherwayes he was delirous
Wmy acquaintance, but chiefly feeing the Emperour his Majefty Ore tenm ( for that xvas his
%Tirafc ) by word of his own mouth, had willed him to hear what I had to fay to hisMajefty.
i began and declared my longcourfe of flu dy for 40 years, alwayes, by degrees going for-
'ttard, and defirous of the beft, and pure truths inallmanner of ftudies,whercinl had paffed,
and that I had paffed as many as were common'y known, and more than are commonly heard f^
'i
of. But that at length I perceived onely God (and by his good Angels) could fatisfie my
defire: whtchwds to underjiand the natures of all hi^ creatures^ and the befi manner bow to yfe
^- ^tudioruin
them to his divine honor and glory^ and the comfort of the ele&, and alfo to the reproof and coii-
"'"""" '"f"'^'
fvfion of the adverfaries of hi<f name and honour. And herein I had dealed fimdry wayes : And
at length had found the mercies of God fuch as to fend me the inftruftion of Mic('fff/j Ga-^*^:^"^^''
briel, Raphael^ and 7Jriel) and divers other his good and faithful Meffagers, fuch as I had
here now brought books ( about 18 ) to (hew him the manner of their proceeding : And
that I thought it good to begin at the laft book, which alfo concerned molt this prefent Em-
perour Kodolph. And fo I did ; and fo by degrees from book to book lightly, I gave him a Kodv^l!.
taftc or fight of the moft part, and alio let him fee the Scene breught me by Aagelical
miniftery, d'-c.
_ ,. . -.
,_
^ ?.-v, ^ti-
«r-,v •
,
? ^
F ,- t» -^-. -
-,n'
All things being feeridhdheard/thatTn fix hours I could fliew him: at length he required
Cff tne what conckifion, or fummary report he fliould make to the Emperour, I anfwered , as «
he had occafion of the things feen and heard ; but if he would follow my counfel (fomewhat
expert in thefe Divine and Angelical doings,) That his Majefty vyas to thank God for his My counfel to
great mercies and graces offered :.and that by me one, who moft fincerely and faithfully gave ^o&qi Curtx^.]
his Majefty to underftand the will of God herein, and thaqJiis Majefty was to do, as Mary
i^h%^)^?^^K^§^^'^^^3^'^ iaj up all thefe my informations in his,.feeart, and to fay Eccc
z 4© aJ 0ae %eUtkn af Df^ Dee his Miom mthJpmtSy da^^
fen US Domini, fiat voluntas tua, and fo to attend the manner of the Lord his proceeding, while
lie framed liis life, as it became cvcr^ ChrilHan to do.
»
Hefaici,thac he would write (for his own memories help) fome Aiort note of his obfeivn-
tions of my fpecches , and things feen and marked : and that he would to morro\y (being
Sonday) or on Monday, if he conveniently could, make a report to the Emperoui'jandfo with
all .fpeed give me to uuderftand further of the Empci'our his Majefties will and i^leafvtre.
Hereupon coiiiteoufly he brought me down to the iheec door of his hoi*fc ; and I came home
after (even of- the Clock, and an half,in the evening. i "^^^':v > •l- •
"i : -\ , ;\v-\ .,
,
The mercicof God be on me, and his name be magnified and extolled in this world,
iui4, for ever. Amen.
'fjote. In the mean fpace while I wasthus occupied with the forefaid Mr. Crirtz. E.K. was
vi.li?ed at our Lodging with a wicked Tempter, w/!>o denied any Chriji to be : and that as the
HealTo f»id
j^^^j,|. j-t-ceived comfoit of all the Members of the body : So that he, who is God, of all things
fonincr"m' Re- received comfort by Angels , and other the Members of the world : and that I was now with
corjs that J one, who would ufe me like a Serpent, with head and tayl compafling my confufion, e^r. he
had noteJmi-earneftly reviled E.K. in divers manners : he faid, that £./C. fliouid be damned, and faid :
nyaly,andun- jjj^,j.j.Qver, thatof our praftifes fliould never come any fruitfull end, 6""C. , ^
,^^^
A. The eternal and Almighty God confound the Advcrfaries of his truth and glory,
and of hisSon Jefus Chrift our R.edeemcr, and the Triumphant Gonquerour a-
gainft. Hell, fin, and the Devil. Amen.
P R A G jE.
On Monday and Tuefday the 17'''. and i^^^. of September, I Cent Emericuf n\t totheCa-
ftle, to liftcn after anfwer of that Doftor Ctirtz his report to the Emperour , of that he had
Note, the perceived by me. (But on Monday Ociavius Spinola had fent into the Town for Emericitf,
Emperour en- aud told him that the Emperour had care and dcfire to imderftand my doing with the Do&or :
clincd toheai, A,vJ therefore asked EWfric;^- if I had been with the Doftor , and he affirmed that I liad.
^'*
Hereof (faid he) the Emperour will be glad : And yet (as I began to notc)£>Mmc//if coming
I riifpeft the on Tuefday in the face of the Doftor in the Kitters ftovc ; had not one ivord fpoken to
Doaour doth him, that either he had fpoken to the Emperoiu', or he had not. And therefore Ifitfpeli that
not deal lin-
^j^^ Doftor dealethnot hoiieftly, faithful y, or wifely in this fo weighty a cafe._ And foraf-
""^^ ^*
nrch as he told me, that the Emperour his Majefly was perfwaded,that he was pious,e*^c. per-
haps he would be loath ; now, to prefer me to the Ipeech of the Emperour, feeing both he liim-
fclf, and the reft of his counfel flood perfwadcd to the contrary of this King. Hereupon this
great delay, upon finifter report made to the Emperour might follow,d^c.
Note. Frfdzy^Septemb. 21. Circa horaw 10. Fere, Mane. t Pragae.
A. As {and E.K. were together in my Study, earncftly difcourling of Auricular confef-
lion, publick confedion, and confefling to God alone, and of the Authority of the Churchjand
the manner of the fame Authority uling to releafe, or retain fms, E. K. i'aw one walk on tiie
Table between him and me : Thereupon I framed me to write , and note what fliould be
fliewed, or faid, £. K. willed me to fet down the fliew-flone : So I did, and he looked.
£. K. 1 fee him here with the Scarf over his head and facc,untill his
wafte, but I fee his hair yellow bchindc on hh hezd^d^c.
Mitte lucem tuam^O Deu-s d?^ i>aritatem tuam nt jpfA'?tos diicant ex
hacvalle miferU ad monism Sa7iBnm Sion, &• ad ca'lejiia tua Taberna''
cnla. Amen. -
; ^v
Uriel I aw Uriel the fervant of the mofi reife, mighty, and everlajling God : which vijhjdft
for twocaufes. '
The firji, that I may tpen unto you true, and perfect light : fuch as darkjteffe comprehendetb ntt,
infallible, and true meat, the pewer and fpirit of the everlajiing God.
Ihe fecond,that i may counfel jou againjl the world, and teach you to triumph againfi her fro-
wardneffe. For, who hathtrujled in the Lord, and hath been cajl down .^ or what is he that hath
*TnnitatU Lux <^'^'^ aloud, and is not heard ? Therefore, I fay UHt« you ; Hear my voyce : For I am of truth, and
sbmySleria fer put agaitift darknefTe, and tn me are publijhed the light, and wyjieries of the Irin/ty fiem tiWf
VrieUmreve- to time, and in all ages unto thofe that fear, and obey God.
laniur
y^^ thi»gs there are which are]the feals and markj of Satan : which bring eternal deaih- and
ObA'mttum'fi'
«^'*"""'^'«'* f* all fuch as are notei^or burned with them, that if tifay , lying 3 and froward fi-
entium. leme.
Behold
A true Relation of D^ Dee his JBicns mth /pirits, <5cc, 241
'
Behold the words ofChriji,mto the fubtUe (joitr father is a (yar from the beginmag y and the
Devil. J
Hearken mto wy voyce : He that [i] teacheth falfe BoUritte, opetteth [-2] hu mouth tgainfi truth-
tr defraudetb [33 hia brother U a lyar^ ^ttdjhall not be forgiven.
I. For fir It., he fmneth againft his Creatory which created all things in truth.
a. Secondly ybeoffendeth againji the truth ^ and hit Ledeemery which is the fon of God, ven
Cbrijt, / , ' ^
3. thirdly, he offendeth againd th: fpirit of God, (of the Father, and the Sou) the holy Ghefl :
wbiehfl^allmtkg forgiven h.4ndtherefoTidothke incurred the rigour, of Q,:ds ptjiice , his tt email
damnation.
Butyl ^ay, give ear mto my words : For, I will fift thediijl^ and finde out the Teatle, that of n
longtime hath /yen trtdden under the feet. .
twin come again. E. K. He iS gOnC
A. We read over the premifleSjand fo expefted the reft*
E. K. He is again here.
•
Uriel. -
Now let lu joynthefe things together.
All flejh offendeth, and it a lyar. Who, therefore jhall he faved, or efcafe eternal danmatioM ? obkH'o
He.it is (i fay) that when be hath lyed^and fpok,en againji the truth doth not -frowardly drtwn'dy Salutk.'
mtd keep down hit fin in filence.
For, lyingmeriteth the vengeance of the Trinity. But he that is wilfully froward , fealeth up Meniacium.
bit own damnation : For this caufe {jmy brethren) and to the intent that the mercies of God might Eukfis D'gni-
alwayes be ready for finners ; hath he provided the light, and comfort of his fpirit , left as a con- '"^ if Authori.
tinual workman in the Church and fpoufe of Chrifi.
'"''
J teach you briefly : that, he wbofoever, opening bit mouth againji the fpirit of truth ; ajid with
tfilfull fiowardneffe continueth inhit /j/«^, without reconciliation ty the iOhurch fnneth againfi the^^'^°^"^''"''°'*
holy Ghojiy and fiiall be damned eternally. " '^^^ Church.
1 come again. E. Jf. He is gOnC.
E. K. He is here again.
Uriel Be now therefore a dmonifhed {I fay) he warned : And confideringyouhe finnerSy^''tt&^
kjtowledge your offences, leajl in the end your fit be againji the holy Ghojiy and fo not to he forgiven,
hut herein they erre with you that expound tkr Scripf-resy fayingy that man iinnethj and cannot be
forgiven, becaufe he iinneth againft the hoIyGiioif.
I teach you, my brethren : that there it no fin againji God, but it it againflr the holy Ghofi::
Iffoif, intheend, ir te>«t Hp w/f/^ wilhill lilence.
WUful fi-
, Wbenfeever, (therefore) you have offended acknowledge , I fay, your fins, before Cod and his An- ^"'''
• .. . .
gels : That God may forgive you, and the Angels bear witneffe ofyour fergiveneffe , and /hut not up pxnhemu!""
your fins in froward filence. jfyf„ Angeitcl,
If thou commit adultry, if thou bUfpheme the name ofGodyifth'jubealyar;yea,ifthoufpeak,^'°^^^dS,-
Mgainli the truth : yet, if thou fay there is no Go d (as the * foolijh do) Defpair not ; faying, I have '/""•
finned againji the holy Ghofiy becavfe I am a finner, and a blafphemer of the name of Gody becaufe I '
bavefpoken, and opened my mouth againji the fpirit of truth ; But go vwto the Church , wki:h if ito ad Er.le.
governed ly the fpirit of God, and there with hearty, and open confefton difclofe yand make plain Jiam,
'
thj offences, that the h:ly Ghoft may bear witneffe in the fpoufe, and Church
of Chrtii ; Thttt thou hafi not finned againji him to eternal death : Becaufe A. Voluotirv confefHon
thou art not drowned in froward filence. Js contrary to froward fi
Tory although Gcdht2iV witneffe of repentance. Although he hear, end 'f"^^-
open hifs ears, yet confider alfo he hath hands, and mv'i vntye thofe bonds jr/'j'"^^'' ^"Z^
^"*
vthcrewith you are bomid. What nre th. hands of God , but his fpirit,
' '^''"' '°^- *"•"*
wherewith he makfth and created all things. Therefore when thoubaji cried out and art forry,
endeavour thy felf alfo to be lifted up by the hands of God.
Learn a fimilitiide in ChrijiyWhich (fignifying the power of his Church,) commanded the offen-
der to go and wa(l] himfelf : and fo he w^K whole. I fpeak.thisyfor thy \E.K^ inllruHion .- 1 fay alfo
mto thee, [E.K.] Go and wafti thy felf: For thou art a ly^ar'ythau art a. drunkard : And therefore
thou art a finner. And if thou perfeverey andjhadow thy fins with wilfull filence frowardly , then
fe^Ufi thou thy felf with the fecond brand, and canji not be forgiveny becaufe tfjou finneji againji the
Gbojl.
* Anaiiizs fell dowH at the feet of Peter ynot oHely for, that he lyed : but becaufe after his of^ * Alt, 1.
fence he was wilfully filent.
Here thou mayeji confider the greatneffe of God his myjieriesy and fecretjs of his will and of fa- supra
vour, that he ftretcheth out unto thee in mercy, /or t/froH 4ft «.ChiIdc, and maftafcend, and
'
niuft become a man. The reji after you are refrejlied.
*
VA*, \Ve went to Dinner to bur Hoft his houfe.
-i\ i.f^; Thanks, honour, glory, and praife be unto ihc Almighty Trinity, now and ever.
Amen.
•' -" i A. After
^ t -* - - —— " - - .-
z/^v A true %^dat'ton of D^ Dee his Anions mthJfirttSy &c.
t More af-
A. After we had been at Dinner, they read over the preniiiTes , and confidcred them
.
E. K. Here he is.' : '^lot
h. BlefTed be he that cometh in the name of the highcft, to whcm be all honoar and glory\*
Lfriel. ..... Lo^ Lo,L'^, Qfay) ynhich $f you hath an tye^ that feeth net ^ (now) the world : Ahe
vnitji, and folly of worldlings : and fuch at are choked wiih the mildew of vanity and worldly tri^X
motion / : b
For th'M fayeth the Lord ; wherein could t pew vty fe!f wore, either unto this age , or unto this
'E.vipsrQuri then with rebuking hiraforhis fins from Heaven ? -sti^id
T^ho is ah!e to proniife more, or t» perform t affureder then I^whicb lighten,and ma\e all things ?
^- ft defpifed of Rnd,3iii
Curt^. -J
* T
furedly. ' ^'^f '* J believe not,
Tea, they rejoyre in their own folly, and defpife me : yea, becavfe they
defpifc thee, whom I have fent with my word unto them,
E. K.
Well, thus fayeth the Lord, they have defpifed their own Garlands , and have trodden their food*
mider feet : Ihey have rent their Rohesin pieces, and have caji them into the waves. Tkey are he-
Contra Rud. come majierlijfe Dogs, for I have jorfukjM them. And to, Rodolph, 7 will fcatter thylones^ atieH'
thy bead fliall be devided in many pieces. I wilUring m thy er.emies over all thy Kingdoms , aneL
'
Contra Cmx.. for thy ful{e fl.a/l many thsifands perijh. He alfo that thinkjth himfelf wife, if he dye a naturid^
death ; then fay, I am not, neither that I live with my people.
_
A f«'f lo^i Bnt~becaufe thou haji done that which I cotmnanded thee , [and hali not forgot mj nayne. Xe,
till injunil^m
I will plant thee my felfjand thou fhalt grow, and out of thee (hall fpring a mighty and a ter-
VaSuia mifeii-
"'^'^ fvvord : whofe Wits fliall be M the Carbuncle, and edge like unto the fting of a Dragon,«»ii
&rdti divins I ^'''^ ""f f"ffe>" ^hee to fall : neither fhall thine enemies ride upon thee. Truely, truely, ;
mm A, k.now I am with thee.
thou fioalt
Sathanas. * Ke magnJtudo reve-
velationutn extelUr mc, datus efi mi-
hi iljmulus cainis meaf, &c. Faults
ad Corintbm jecunda, cap.ii.
England par-
doned fot
^. his fake.
But he patient : for Satan hmiteth hard after thee. I'hou fljolt
have aiwayes a ^ pric\ even unto thy laji graven But therein fhall
thy faith he exalted, and thy reward great,
I come again,
E. K. He is gone.
E. K. Here he is again.
Uriel. ...... Lo,for thy labour I will reward thee : And fo it pall be. Behold , /had deter-
mined to have rooted out the Englifii people, to have made a wilderneffe, and defart of it ; to have
filled it with many ftrange people, and to have tied the fword to it perpetually.
But
A. This is no contradiftion,
for thus this wilderncire and
filling is to be underflood<
A.
God will give me England , that is to fay,
fpire It from diftruftion for my fake, &c.
England. A. Our good return into Eng-
land. A.pjrJijps, fplders flying in the aire,
arc carried by firings of their own fpinning,or
making, or el fe 1 know not how. Rui, 1 re-
mained for the mod part in Bohemia, and in
the Empire, till 1^89.
The filling of it with ftrangers fhoiild have
been for the conqucft, and in a manner ra-
zing, or defacing of all Cities, Towns, and
CafHcs,and foto have brought it to a wil"
derneffa and defart.
But Lo,Iwill give thee that land j ('onely for thy fake) j
J
it fhall not be confumed.
And after certain moneths , I will bring thee homej^
yea, thoupalt live till thou be able to pafTe the waves"
without a fhip, and to afcend the Hills,as the Spiders do,
Notwithjianding,! will takj^ the Crown fr$m the hovfe, it 1
in , and I will place it, as I ^.i^tf Prophefied unto thee'
Notwithjianding, for a titoe, thoujhalt live with Caefar,!
^
E. K. He is gone.
A. O Lord, what fhall become of my good friend the Lord L^tskje.
E. K. Here he is again.
'AL. Uriel f Lzsky thus it is faid: i'hou [a. ] haji groaned for him, and hajl placed ^ in
A. i.Came to thy j^A.^j heart : From henceforth will I reconcile him unto me, and I willceafe my anger upon hinr,
us to I rcfeon, and be Jhall come hither* Jhertly. But he is a wanton, and very prone to fin.
in Bohemia, ..,-,, t/- .
An. I j88. fcft
EHt hear what I f.iy unto thee.
mwZmfpo* [^- ^' He feemeth to have talk with one afar off]
^''•*>*''-
Caefar thought thoubadji had the Philofophers Jione, and (as yet) ^ thinhjthfo.
Kum.tt.
'
Even as I ch«aJ{ed the gluttemus Jfraelites with quayles , fo will I eboa\e him with that
i'faln. fecret. .,^.,. , , .,, 1 . .^ ^ ..•.,--• ^»- . i
.
I come again.
^u* ^'i '^'^ ^
Atrue B.elation of D'" . Dee his ABions mth fpiritf, <3cc, 24^
—^^—.
—
'
—
^
•
— —
•
I
-
I
*
Mfhold^ thoujha/t vrite unto hint-, fapag, that he regardeth not heaven :
And fay unto him, that thou canft make the Philpfophers ftonc, I will per- ^ ^TT " ^^ '*''"'"*
Zr '. , rr-i /I I J • ^ I T ,, I r- ^ . , unto Cilar.
form It unto t^fi? ; i how ihzlc do it : And I will ^ive mito thee a fpecial LapUPhMnphorum.
vcrtue in healing .• That wbenfoever thou conieft hither ; Ihaujhalt under' a fpecial eifc in he»Iin»
ftand the truth. And this I do, becaufe they (hall not defpife thee. W '1^= ^^^ '» t^'s ftone.
A. O Lord, forme to be defpifed in doing thy commandment , is honour and comfort to
me : But as concerning thy honour and glorie ; Thou in thy wifdom Jvuowelt what is beft to be
done. R, Perjbir.
Uriel NotrfiththiHdingy thou pal/fee hint ferijh before thy face. Lo^from thii timet I will Benediaio Dei
bleflc thee marveiloufly, and I will help thee in all thy workj. fnfuper nos.
{Do thou alwayes
:
,
S*prt.
And Yua\e we thy Biickjer. ^" ^"•
a. What fhall I do with Doftor Curtz, as concerning his anfvver?
Uriel Hiinile him lik^ a 7>ian,forhe will deceive thee.
E. K. I requeft you but one thing for all my labour and travel i
tiiat is, that this Doflor might this night be bereft of his life, to the ter-
jpur of other, cf^c.
Uriel Have patience God tiirneth all to hit glory^ andyovr commodity. To morrow I have
Something elfe to fay.
Dcus Nofter in coelo, omnia quaecunque voluit fecit:Ille folus eft Omnipotens, JCternuSjfapi-
ens, BonuSjJuftus & Mifericorsrilli debetur omis Laus, gratiarum aftio,honor Si. gloria. Amen,
Saturday, 22. Septemb. Manc^Circiter hordm 9.
Precibus ad Deum finitis, & variis ad ipfi;m E jaculationibus pro L'ce &: vcritate Dei, &c.
\
3c quibnfdam de KHc/o/f^i &: Carrzii corruptis Judiciis (qui Dei Mifericordias ,
juxta cainis
I (enfimi judicare aufi funtj (^apparuit Vriel facie velata ut ante.]
Uriel For thu caufe {fay I unto ihee) write unto Rfidolph ,fayi)tg, I can make the Philo- A Letter to
I fophers ftone : Becaufe Iwottld place thee with them, according to their hope and imagination; Rudolph the
•
%bat whileji they think, little of me, and of the fweetnefTe of my meflage and teftiinony , I might ^"'P=f°>"''
I lurjiout atmngli them i as the mighty waters do out of Hills^when the earth moveth : For Ihsveiaid^^"^!^'^'^^'^'
unto thee, I will place thee here ; If 1 fow thee here, what Raven can piuc'k. thee up by the roots, ra mmbnt.
No, I will hide tbee, (k the Hen doth her Chickens : And J will make thee fprinij to their de- upis 2h'tlofo'
I firnftion. For why, thou (halt overcome that myftery for thj own fakj?. fn'"'
A, For the glori.^of God : his honour and triumph, all good come inito me.
Uriel Behold, fince they willmt tj'e thee unto them from heaven : Thou Jhalt tye them unto
! tffee from earth : That thou mayefi rejoyce when thoufeeji their dejiruaion , and be ready doithed c^f^r fatmAs.
I
f^r him that is to come.
,Jt WJS faid unto thee, my mo ther faithfhe will chufe an Emperour in
}' '"
\ ^^vH^^ ''^^<^"«i> !"«"
lemeft .- But tt ii ErneH that fiall fit- Jipon his feat. Behold, there ^
'e!1/^ FratlTZLlphu
I
Jkall be no feed left m hmi-/or hif wicKedneJJe. Tea , the bleffmgs that ^. Bieffings offered are prd-
JJaavc ottered htm fhall return agam ; and I will leave his houfe na- mlfes with conditions.
V^d. 2)«t w^f« he feeth and hath Gold (which if the thing he de- GolA.ex Lpide Phlfifopbornm.
fVfttb, and thofe that counfelhim,do mo\i defire him, for') Thenjhallhe ^'"' "ni'-l'sMmbilis, inaHcli'
»
fcrijh with a moji cruel, terrible, and unheard of mifchief.
"
But lo,I have written his name within my hand, becaufe I would not forget to put\i(l\ him. Be- Nocc,
ithldy I could fend the windes to devour him, and could open the Caves of the earth to fwallow him;
which Would tuna to my honour: But I have a care over you.
. Now lam unto you in mercy and wifdora . But I will be with you in ter- God In mercy , wifJom,
iipr tf«(i miracles. And I will deal with you in a higher degree : Andyou terror.miracles.
\\fiall hear mj voyce, m men do their brethren.
»"« Domm uthomm fu-
A. What thou wilt (O Lord; for thy honour and glory :That be.
*"'" "'"'" '"'^''""''
Uriel But thofe that are his counfellers have commanded him , rather then counfelled himf confdiani di
tto hare no dealing with thee /zt/i//.
fjjs,
c And he is poffejfed with a great, and a mighty Devil. And behold Belzagal (which is the fury and R. Poffffut
trime of the Turkj) doth if^'ji him in his wick^ednejfe, for he k>ioweth it may come to paff<; that * his Bel*»g»t f"-
f Kingdom pall be jhort. But give ear unto me. Fawn thou upon Cxfar as a worldling, that thou
"'^^"">" ^'""*'
)mayeft draw him with the world, to fee the glory of God : but to his dejiruaion. For lo , hofo much ^'"j'urk'Ph or
»«flre a mans felicity it in this world, the mofejhallbe the bnrden of his deiirudion. KadAphM rd-^
There be that gape after thy books, and fpeak vainly of things that are not. Therefore I coun- ''''^'''
feltbat they dwell not long w/t/^ Poland. My ^^^ t
Behold, when L^sky Cometh, bi fmll not hafiiJy return into Pohnd: till Iwbifper inrhis ears,^'°"^* '
He it dead that fought thy life. I have wore to fay, but they are not (jc't) neceffary. ^- ^'
lit ^» 1 befeechyou to tell me when I Ihall prepare my felf to go for my bookSjC^e^^
*:' UrieL....jt
~^ J^true1{elatmo/ D^ Dee his jBionsmthffirtts.d^c.
r' 7~r ilnel I fpeaknot^ that Ikmwnot ; but chufe thy own time. Nokp will Ibeceme a Courtier.
I miy chu'c vj 1 iti ij;"- >, 3 V
myt.mctoj^a £, J^'^ Hc IS gOnC.
to Caci». '
Fiat voluntas Veiy ad ejm Undent, honorem & glorityn. Ameu.
Monday, Septembri^^ 2^. Matte hora S. t Praga!.
A. \t the firft \ooklns; E. K. faw t/rie/, but covered with his Scarf, &c. Notwithftanding I
faid Tome prayers to God on my knees, and came and faid here. Mitte lucem tnam & veritatem
tuamODeiu: ut ipfx noi diKavt ad mottteyv Sicn, Sec ,
, ^, . , ,
It is to he remembred that for two caufes we repaired to the Shew-ftone : the one by rea-
fon of the letter which I had written to the Empcrcur : and was nnndcd to go to /hew it to
the Suanifh Embaffadour before I fent it t o the Enpcroiir, to have hi> opunon of it, and alfo
to bear it Seco.idly,by reafonof foul flanderous wordswhich were fpoken of mc hcreat this
EmbafTadours Table : That I was a Conjurer, and a bankrupt alkimift, and came here to get
fomewhat ofthe Emperour : and that I had Ibid my goods, and given to tlie Lord Li^k'f the
inony,and that he had deceived me. To thefe uncmths the Embaffadour did reply in my
behalf : for which I meant to thank him, ^«^c.
[li\c\. Even as the accurfed,and caji dow;t,mofi ffilfully abhorreth^hatethyiDtd dilhomw
eth the Cod of Ju\HceJbecajtfe ofhis wightinefs and power over him : So do all thofe that fwk^ and
hang upon his dugs,that are covetecus and dejiroiis of worldly promotion : that gape and thirji after
the glory of this world, ahhor, hate, and continually vex and diJhonour,fuch as lovejujlice^ or dwell
under the wings of the God of power and Triumph. Herein may you rejoyce, thatyou arepartakjtrs
and innocents (^railed aty and defpifedwith the world) in thefellowjhipofCod^ and of h» Son
Chriii. Herein may you be glad/hat you are fealed, and dwell with the Fathers, and that you flaj
r- t-ir^ Vivi alfo upon the Harpc of David ; for verily as thej are,fo Jhallyou be ;
and as they are made rightt^
dl OVA by reafon of their elsaion, and crowned toward eternal Joy; So Jhall y.ur Ehdion ejiabljflt
EelHo. your righteonfneffe, and giveyou Garlands of eternal comfort. Thofe that are oh the Seas, are
fearful if the windes : And why / becauCe ef the motion of the place, and of the power of nature :
But it M HOtfo, TfithyoH : for you dwell in Cajiles made ef marble,, wrought out of the middefi of a
v'ens habitat in fure rocki <> ^"oji Ji^l'le foundation. For why ? I am fure that Goddwelleth in you, aitd you in him.
t»bis h i>" i» Therefore lift up your heads, and rejoyce vhenyou are afflidedy^m. keep the image of Sod finccre
lief. and nerfeft in vou, that you may alwayes be * merciful in the Image of bit Son Chri^. But when the
fffum fnpri in ^,,„rg^j ; Comfort of \ wifdom and power, I am mindful of yon,and will be mindful of my ^ prf
ml>hUas.
^^
J
toward you. And If you remain and ^wf//[ forte [ together'] deed ] and be conjiant in me^
t Sim's'. you (hall paffe the t Thunders that are to come^you ftiall be witnelfes of my power : and (hall enter
* VSet. into the * Land of Fromife with thofe thatjhallbe comforted: where thefe dayes fliallhavc an end,
t Sufkntiacm q ^^^ by-^thren, thii world exceedeth in wickjdnejfe, and is a terrour to the good Angels : Becavfe
foientu.
of the fouls th^tjhe devoureth. But when Ughtneffe is rewarded, and Juliice fittetb in place. Then
t
rl'mtmav^n-jhalljhe hear no weight, but be made all one with the bottomleffe fit. Deff/fe her, defpife her j for
twa. jheis au Harlot,
' Terra p>o:nif-
^ .^^ ^^. ^^^^^ ^^^. ^^ Behold I have entred in amongfi you ; and it is my Spirit that
'"""''
Damini Magnifco D^miro Gutielmt leadetb to the Embafladour from Spain. I will reward
ieSitnlhCUmente,HiffaniiirvmKc- him.
g„ UgaK bee 4pmremiK (ni mine- Therefore as thou hajl opened me unto the * v>ickfd,fc let alfo the
f^^Ufif
T-he Lord is become a firebrand tn jury, and hath armed htm'
felf : and hath takjn wtto him his great Target, and the Spear «f
l/is indignation '•
Accurfed are they that have offended him.
Turn vero sterni Genii Imniortalis
£^. JgiKHfiim memini in SibylU [!«* & • «fo^K.\. URIEL, Saniel, Araelque,
oraculit Gmcis & Latims factUs
Quas mala quifqne hominiim patraverit ante Scienccs
VruutiZ iuJ,ui coiUll.ni.nt
E tetns an.mas tenebr.s caligini. omnes.
hmmes ad JHdimm. Vide i(y htc Judicio hitent ad formidabilepatns
aicfibe. Magni, Immortalis folmm, &c.
Orar. Sibyl, pag. jp.
Ubi fequuntur pliira dc V K I F L E.
And when I feparate them in the day of wrath to come, ( as one of the finders and gatherers
in of the harveli of God ) Then they (hall know that 1 am URIEL, -Khich will not forget ihi
mek^dneffe of their bandsj nor their blafphemous mouth, in that day of revenge. !
Aftd
^^true Relation of D^. Dee his Acltons mth fpirits, dec 24^
/tfter a. certain time conidth Michael twto jouy and (hall (kew unto jiu h's bloody Sword ; attdi'rapbeU.t Je
jcujkal! iiard under his B-'nittr- Hefljdllho'dup huh rndi , a>jd i%a!t fight as.ai>t\T the Hills for ^^(^^AELS.
you : and your enemies JhaII not he. Unto which time, receive jou Light and Comfort : and be cok-
tentedwith udverfity in the Lord. « Math. cap. y.
My brethren, it is better to be poor, with thofe that are "^ oooi- in fpirit : then to be rich with^''""^'"'!'!''-
thofe that are gluttons, and with the Princes nf the Earth
'
'"xlJum^'fyT
Tboujhaltie with Cxfafj in deffite of the Devil. A Eh (nm
r L r J Cjtf't'-e.
Ihavejaid. I underftand
A. Gloria patri 8c filio& Spiriciii Sanfto : Sicut eratin Principio SC nunc Sc fcmper, & in "°' tli««. Iww ic
f€cula feculorum. Amen. 's or (hail be
v;ritiid , or
wiih which
Cjfar.
Note: Asl had finilliedthis Aftion, and was come to my Study door; Emerirus vizs re-
turned a;-;;ain from the Spaiiifh Embtiradour, to whom I had fenc him defirous to knovv his
leafurc for me ; who had now fent me word by Emericus to come to diner,&: fohe would have
leafure, &r. Whereof ! was right glad ; and went thither to diner: who into his inermoft
Jtudy ( where he himfclf was writing of letters ) caufed me to be brought. And after I had
complained of injury and violence done unto me, by foul Ilanders, and that, at his Honours
Table : ( to which his Honour, in my behalf had replied : and therefore moft humbly, and
lincerely I did thank him) I faidthat theEmperous Majefty himfclf could bear me witnefTe,
that I nfed this phrafe unco him5thac I came not for his riches zs^Non verti ad vos Sereniffime
Ctefar propter divitiasveiiras,nt inde ego dives fierem, fed a D:'o mfjf:ii, non audeo aliter facere
(Ottame^Hf ad ve'iram Cjefaream Majeliatemvoluntatem declarare. Sic. And therefore , How
falfly they flandered me, it was evident : and becaufs I perceive tiiac Doftor Curtz hath noc
dealtneither with due entertainment of me as of allranger, or a Sudent,or a Marhematician,
or of one whom ( to my fdce ) he gave great praife unro, di of one long (ince of great fanle iii
Germany, and fo in his good eftimation, &c. And leaft of all, as of one, who offered fo greac
curtefies to the Emperours Majefty as he was made wicneile of: I thought good to lend umo
the Emperours Ma jefty this letter following, and fo read it unco him after diner, when I
(hewed him Librum Prugenfemfive C^fareum ; and moreover Litrirn decimi'n, ( whole former
title was Ltbri Sexti Myiici'Tertiarisis ) and there (hewed iiim divers Aftions in Lartne al-
ready tranflated, becaufenow to tranQate fo to him of the Ea^jlifh, did Icem toiiieboch te-
dious, and to him not fo readily pleafant. All things on his puL considered, 'ii> fummar/
final concluiion was, as well of the laft offer in this my letcer, as of the great aftions and di-
vine purpofes. For the firft he declared that he was lineally defcended out of the confaii-
'gu'mitY,ofoHe a GentlemaH,b!4t unlettred at the firiy woo left ha wife, chi'dret, '^'''^/'^''''''^
'^D,;„;„; r„^,j
Maiorca, dnd .rfcended *n Hill there, and in plase fa'itayy remmined an while year, and at the
^^.^^^ Hijpinia'
iears end, be came down, but fo learned and wife, that all who knew him before, wondred at ic. mm Rijiinlnm,
And that the fame man was called K<zj'>ij«<faL'-*//ia : ani tnac he m.iie that which is called
chePhilofophers Stone, as in England ( faid he ) I underftand is gojd record of ic : Therefore
I fee, quoth he, that it is a truth and poTible : and as he hath granted the knowledge of ic to
one man, fo he may grant it to another, &c. And as for the other higher matters, / perceive
that God intendethfome great matter in thit world. But I am ror able to judge or deccrniine
of it : But I am ofthis mind, wherein I can any vtay further the (ervice of God, 1 will be
ready and obedient, &c. And as for the Emperours perfon himfelf, I find him of a good na-
ture, curteous, and moft zealouQy Catholick : yea ready to (hed his blood in the caufe, if
opportunity required. He underftandcth the Latine well, and fpeaketh fufficiently well :
"That is true (quoth I) for he fpake well in Latine to me divers things Moreover ( faid
he) as soncerning yoii,I faw him very well affeUiomited , mtikjng great account ofyour book,, &c.
Therefore you aie noc to regard chefe Dutch mens ill tsngues, who hardly can brook^ any
firanger, &c.
Upon farther matter that I had to fliew him, I offered my ready repair itnto him at all
times of his good leafure being called or warned. And he delirous to fee rheStoii£ brought
to me by an Angel, willed me to come to morrow alfo, to Diner : I promifed him, and fo
with thanks yielded to his honour, I departed toward my Lodging ac Zethelem in old
frage.
[ii] thk
z/\6 A true %clatm of D^ Dee h'n Actons nith/firits, 6c c.
the Copy of the forefaid Letter to the Eniperour.
llltis ( O SerenifTime Csefar ) & perniagnis ( fere omnium ) Creaturanim Dei , imm6
itHius Dei, & coeleftibus hand paucis myfteriis, arcanifqiie, veftras C«farex Majeftaris
juiriipernie( jam, ante quatuordecimdies ) fideliter, iincciej& diligenrer( quantum
fex hovarum fieri poterat fpacio ) declaratis, ac manifertatls^ eidem, cui, eadem penesme
videnda, audienda, intellir,endaque eife volniftis : Inde, nunc, quje lie vcftra Cjefare.x Ma-
jeilaii, limplex (tanquam ab aequo rerum y^ftimatore) fafta rclacio : vcl, quod aim relatione
adjunftumJudicTum : vel, qnalis rotius procefRis excogitata cenlura : vel,qualis mecxini pro-
cedendi, vobis perfuafa cautio; vel, quale pro Cxfarei veih'i refponfi forma, initumcaptum-
queconiilium,,Nonfumtam immodeftccuriofus, ut cxpifcar, Ncque aliter, vel alia ratione
de facras veftrse MajeftatisCsfarese prndenti& gratiofa (inprsemiifis ) Refolutione, fumfol-
Ijeicus, qu.im, me( fidckm, fincerum, & devotum ) Dei Omnipotentis, & ( in Deo, propter-
que Jeuni ; veftr.J: facr.e Cxfare;f Majeftatis fervitorem deceat. Video ramen mts ( dum
nullnni adhut ad prjemifTa receperim refpoiifura ) per tarn alci (ilentii ( quafi ) ftimulum, ali-
q\iantMUimimpeUi,uc fecund u veftram Crfaream Majeftatemadmontim,Nc div'niam banc, &
di\inirus oblatam Mifcricordiam, taminexpeftatam, tam magnam, lam inaiiditam, tarn ad-
mirandam, rainnnikipr.Ltm, tam ftatui Imperatorio, Chriftianaeque Reipublic.c neceffariam,
tarn cerram, tam paratam, canique (
per Dei Omnipotentis, C I'faresque Majeftatis veltr^, ii-
delem fervitorem ) re ipfa, vo.jis confirmandam, & adnfinilbandam : ( fi facra veftra Caefa-
rea Majeftas voluiifet ) parvimomentinegotium, vel inventum aliquod Iiumanura, autfrau-
dem Diabolicam, efle, f'liiie, vel fore, ullo modo fnfpicemini, vel Ciedatis. Tali enim&tara
gravi veftr>« C efare.E Ma/elfatis errore, Omnipoceiitis Dei incendi polTe furorem vehementer
vereor : & ne hanc Dei mitericordiam refpuentes, ejnfdem indignancem provocetis vindiftam,
valde mecuo. Qiiapropter, cum videa n C .lum ipfuni , & c<eleftia talia mylteria , non tali
tanta:que curi, veilr.E facrs Majeftaci Ctfares adhuc elFe, quali, quant^tque optaffem equi-
dem : Ego potiusquam, ut, vel Deus huiiis fui- ( prius inaudic* ) Mifericordis ultroqufi
veftrx Csefarc.t: Majeiraci oblate, prorfu^ Duikni ( penes homines ) haberec confpiamm ju-
dicium, argumentum, Teftimonium vel expeiiniintuoi : Et potius quam mea (f;epe nominata)
fid*elifas, finceritas, 8iDevotio( (ivevotum ) erga D.um & veftram C^efarcam Majcuatem,
onini( apud pofterosnoftroi ) careret fide, & veriratis manifeftae robore : In Dei Nonime,
& ad ejus laudem, honorem, & sloriara : & ut veftrr fereniillmf Cafare.t Majeftatis fadsfa-
ciam deliderioHcroico, De lapideilloBenedifto : ( Philofophorum vocato lapide ) infal-
libilicer videndo, poiiidendo & utendo : Affero veftre facre Cefareie Majeftati, lapideni euil-
demme( auxilio favoreque Divino ) conficere pofTe. Etpropterea; Si veftra Cxfarea Ma-
jeftas, me velit interim, :;bi intime charum habere .-
Et, li, pro dignitate tanti mjfterii, &
Beneficii ( fibi .i me liberaliilime & humillime exhibendi ) graiiofe me traftare dignabitur
( Non tamen alio quidem velaltiori me iniigniens Titulo quam qui veftrs Csfarer Majefta-
tis Phiiofoptio '6c Matheinatico c(5fiveniat, ) Hiis Uteris ore & corde polHceor, fanft^qile coram
Deo Ornnipotenti voveo : Opus illud philofophicum , Omuibus fuis mimeris perfeftum, in
manus vei'cras Gsfareas, Q 8c 'ine fumptibus veftris a \ illud opus pcrficiendura require ndis )
ac brevilTIino, quo fieri poterir, tempore ( Nutu Dei) medaturum. De aliis pr.j.terea Arcanis,
adhuc mihi filenJum e'ie video. Nunc autem facr;t ^Jafarea. Majeftatis veftrse gratiofam, li-
bera.-n, conftintemque volunratem, in pra2milTis,non aliter, nifi ex veftroproprio gratiofo ore
vel ex veftris Csfareis literis propriis, intelligere Cupio. Nullum enim jam nofco, dignura
& aptum, qui in iftis, aliifque Nature & Artis fecretis, meus ( penes veftram Csfaream Ma-
jeftatcm ) fieri deberet Mcrcurius.
Taefdaj, Seftewbrii 25. Prag?.
JVofe : I wenttoDiner to the Spanifti Embalfadour : and carry ed with me the Stone
brought me by an x'\ngel j -and the fourth Book, wherein the manner of the bringing of it i;
cxprelTed. And alfo 1 carried with me Librum Sextuin SunSrim MjiHcu-m.
Aft«r Diner, when I had fliewed him thefe things : his final anlwer was , that verily he
took the doing to be by good Angel : marry, the matters to be too^reat : Therefore (faid I")
they are for the fervice of God, and not bnelj man. Bt fa'.d he was a finner, and not wor-
thy to be privy, much leife to be a doer in them : Notwithftanding whatfoever he can do
ACopyof the '^^^'"'^^"^P^^'^'^o^^'Jj'^^ would be moft obedient therero. He defired a Copy of the
letters defired, Eniperour his forefaid letters, tliat he might confider circumlpeaiy of the Contents before he
fliould deliver thenij whereunto I confcnted. Reuderiug his^ honour thanks 1 de-
parted. ^C -n -. T\ OJl-"'~>i''
After
A true Relation of I>. Dee his JBicns mth fpirits, (5cc. 24 ^
e-
After my return home, I found E. K. refolved to go from hence to morrow, for his wife, r ^ p i
and fo Itraighcway into England: which was to me a grief: But what can I do, ^y^<: ^o imo\V.^
refer all to the mercies of GoJ, whom I have called upon for wifdom to.ferve him withal > ] UnJi% hepr
hive put my trult in the Lord, I have not murmured at any Inch pangs and tentations tended.
hitherto.
The mercies of the Highefl: be upon me, as I have put my truft in hiu).
AmcK.
Now were we ( all ) brought to great penury : not able without tiie Lord Laskjes^ or fome Poverty,
heavenly help, to (iiilain our ilate any longer.
Befidesthis, I underftoodof theQljeensdifpIeafure for my departure, and of the Bi (hop
of L5«'io« his intent to have begun to nave accufsd m: of Gonjuratioii , and fo to have had
the fecret alTilbmce of you know whom.
Titi es Dens fortitudo mea, refugiumntetim Sttfceptor meuSi& liberator mens.
Amen.
Wedcnfday, Septemhrii 26. Ante Meridiem. Prag^.
About 10 and a half of the clock, Dr, Cartzfent with Mr. Sittion Hageck^ his fervant to ^•^'"'K.
know my lodging : He had paflTed not far off in a lane on horfeback his felf going into the
Town, and fo met Mr. Stmen Hagecl{, at the lanes end, &c.
Thurfday, Septembris 27. t Pragae.
Mane :• About 7. of the clock came Dr. Cnrtz his fervant from his Mafler to tell me,
that his Mailer would come unto me at 9 ofthe c'ock. ^' ^'<"'^*
At p of the clock came Dr. Ctrtzon horfeback to me, to my lodging (at Doftor Hagec^
hishoufe by BftWeew ) my wifehe faluted, and little IC^f^rfwzf, my daughter. Mv. Kei/y
had gotten him into his chamber, not willing to be feen.
After he was come up into my little Study, and there fet, in Mr. Ke/(y his ufual place, and
I in mine ; I began to complain of the great injury done unto me here ; for I came as a fin-
cere and faithful fervitour of the Emperour his Majefty, intending all goodnefle and honour
unto him : no hindrance, loflc or hurt ; neither came I propter div/tias C£faris mihi coUigen-
daSf as Ifaid expreffely unto his Majefty. I was, before 1 came hither, of good name and
fame, both in this Court,and all Europe over. As you your felf Mr. Doftor ; quoch I ) can bear
me witneffe : and other in this Court divers : And that here my namtand fame (hould fuf-
fer fhipwrack, where I thought I had been in, a fure Haven of my principal Patrone : My
thinketh that great injury is done luito me : I know no means how to help it, but to give
you warning of the envious malitious backbiters that alfo are about this Court, that as you
find occafion, you might encounter'with this evil, and foul monfter, in fo mighty a Princes
Caufe intruding it felf.
The Doftor feemed not to know what I meant, I told him, that at a Noble-mans Table^
There was, of great account,who faid, that there was an Englijh m.ui,come to the Emperours,
A hankjrupt Alchimijiy a Conjurer, and Necromantiji : who had fold his own goods,, and g'ven the
Lord Laskie the money : and that hehad beguiled him : and that now he would fain get fonts of
the Emperour his money front him, ?:cc. The Doftor feemed greatly to milltke thefe llanderous
words, and faid, that he never heard of any Inch ; with fome few words more, of the wicked
manner of backbiters.
, After this, as concerning the report making to the Emperour, of that I had fhewed unto
liim, at his houfe, (as before is noted ) he faid that he had made a plain and lincere report.
Whereuntothe Emperours Majefty, had ( as yet )
given no anfiver. .And to be plain with
fou ( faid he) his Majefty thinketh them almoft either incVedible, or impoilible : and would
ave fome leafure to coniider of them : and is defirous to have ilie fight of thofe Latine A-
^Uiens you Jhevoed wf, or a Copy of them, and efpecially, of that, wliich containeth a para"
fhrafis of the Apolh/icai Creed. I anfwered, that my Books I would not deliver out of my
glands: And as for a Copy of them, I would (atleaCure) write it, that his Majefty might
pave it. And then I told him farther, that becaufe it was fo long before I heard any word of
nim, I had letters ready to fend to the Emperours Majefty,to have farther declared my mind
unto him, and I declared unto him the tenor of them : and he told me that about three of the
clockafcer noon, his man ftionld go to the Court, and if then 1 would fend them, his man
[ i i 2 ]
fliould
^T^^ J^true'P^elatino/ D'. Dttkis jBions'withJfmtSyS^c,
fhou\d cany them.
h"
Boo
If .
that
that if : had another i^opy, 1 woina give ic nun , uul i ua.» .u..^ v.l.... ^... ..,».. > ...v"^^
himairothe?rc&^'/f<»»<tr<z Afhorillkn it pi'tanxiorihiv qv.ihu\i(im Nitura virtuUbits, vihich he
had never feen before. After this, with mutual cnrtelies offered on both parts (after the
manner of the world ) he took his horfe, and returned homeward.
Friday, Septemhris, 2S. Pragx.
Intending to fend the Emperours letter ( here before written ) to his Ma jefty , by my good
friend, the Spanifn EmoaOadour, I wrote this letter to fend to the Embalfadour in tliat be-
half, and as concerning the credit of thefe Aftions.
Illujirijfrmo Domino, Domino Don Gulielnio df Sancio C'eviente,fere>tiftmi
atque Catkolici Hifpaniarum Kegis afud[acrarn Crfaream M*-
jelietemjSi.c. Legato, Tomino fvo obfervandijjimo.
Jlluftris & MagninceHeros : Mukis hoc probari poteft tcftimcniis Si c^emplis , quod ilia.
crenuntur a pluri ub : Aftqualis, in noftris, (ii reft* pi^que inforniat?? roltris adhibeatur
iudicimn) effe poteft fufpitio ? Nam a Deo Omnipocente, per mukos jam annos, ridcliter, ar-
dentei-, 8^cor.ftanter per prcces jequilitafapientia : Una (Tciiicet qus: pene- nos quidem) vi-
detur effe radix 8c occaiio tanti iftiui Doni obtinendi. Aft in cce'efti luo Pa!a:io-,ante condi-
tuln mundiim, deterroinata, & alljgnata erga nos Mifericordia & gratia Omnipotentis Dei,
prxcipuum, folidum, immobileque hujus tanti ni) fterii eft cenfendum fundamentum : In quo
ruyfterio, talis relucet, per pctentes fidelefque Angelos Ifagogica kiformatio, De Arcanis Dei
coniiliis tarn in mundi creatione Creaturarumque naniris, &c veroufu, quam in mundi pr^-
fcjitis moxque frturi ftatu : Etpreterea, de Knius CathoHcae Ecclelix i^charidimoe Jefu Chri-
ftifpoif", noftr.eq'.e pi^ matris) fanfticatCjdignicare, & Authoricate ( vekui in qua etiam
eft Sanctorum Communio, & Peccatorura reraiilio ) & de mukis nondi:m per nos revelandis
Dei Arcanis Magnalibus & Determinationibus : Quod tantimi abeft, ut aliquis (fans mentis)
Chriftianuf, Aftiones Noikas Myfticac, Diabolicas elFe frandes, contendere , immo ne fufpica-
ri quidtnj coneair aut pollit: at porius , tale Arcanum Dei propofitum ,incredibiliter admi-
ran, raxionem humanam, in cifdem examinandis . fubjugare, & Dei erga Ekftos fuos admi-
randam mifericordiam m iftis elTe manifeftam, humillime, & cum fummo tremore fateri velit ;
E"0 quidem , hafttnus, in iftis , aliud (feie) nihil, me effe invenio, nils Calamura fcvibi,
velociter per me frribentis. Nam vifa auditaque (in mea prsfentia) fideliUime, de litera in-
terdum ad litcrar.., interdum, verbatim, interdum pluribus fimul receptis verbis (ipfo eodem
temporis momentoj quo traduntur) annotare fum folitus. Aft jam in quammuka excrevic
Nofter talis labor volumina ? Ex qu'bus omnibus ilium fruftum , fucceffumq e cxpcftamus,
qualem prshxit UlejCUJus nutui cunfta obediunt.!fta> autem ad fuam facrem C£[areavt Maje-
ftatcm literas meas : Cum vcftra magniticentia opportunitatem inveniet primam, li meo nomi-
ne: humiltime eidera ^hibere dignabitur , Tum magno mihi (Diviritus) injunfto, levatus
ero onere •. Tum ma^no, a veftra magnificencia atfeftus benchtio : Interim vero , Dum fu.e fa-
cta Majeftatis C<eprf^ ad iftas refponfum dabitur, (nimuum fi ad 14. vel 16. dies prius ex-
peftanuum efl"et) vel, ftatim poftacccptum reiponfr.m (li tam expedice illud recipere pofflsm,
qu.m quod leccpi ultimoj ad iter me accingerc dcbeo, propter familiam , iibros , 8c aliquam
meam fvppelleftilem, hue (ante hyemis afperitatcra} transfer cndam. LIbi . cwmCaf.-.rea Ma-
ieftatis gratiofo favore, 8c fub ipinisProteftionc Jmperatoria , voluntatem Omn potentis Dei
implcre, pro viribus, 8c fvisfacrs C-^Urf*; Majeftati infervire (tancjuam ejufdcm Pjt//c/o/i^«f C"
Mithematicus) fideliffime, d« tempore in tcmpus, paratiis cfl"e potero.
Illnjlri vejir£ Magnificent-it
AddiGijJtmns
Joannes Dee,
I an-
Jtrue Relation of D^ Dee his JBtons mth fpirits, 6cc. 22j 9
I annexed hereunto a Poft-fcripr, which followeth :
roli-f:riptum.
MEaruni efTc partium , & confultum efle duxi veftras Magnificentiae paucifUmis verbis
fignihcare , quodheri, mane, hora nona, viregregius, & fnx Ma jeftis C.eprf:e fi-
dus Corifiliariis D. Doftov Curtziiu, me humani/Time invifebac in nieo ergaftulo , 8c hy-
pocauftato ,
jtixta Bethlehem , ubi videre poterac BiLlIiorhecam pipfentem nieam , nullam
(fere) alianiefl'e, prxter Sanfta Pei Evangelia & Biblia facra ipfofque noftrorum myfte-
riorum libros : Ego autem qiiodam humili modo ('inter cxteras querelas meas) de tarn loii-
ga incerpolita mora conquerebar , inter ejufdcm fde meis rebus) faftam relationem , &
Caf'neum de eifdeni recipiendum refponfum, Ille vcro fe fimpliciiUme C^farea Majefti vifa
auditaque (penes me ) retuUffe afferuit , nullo fuo , de eifdeni , adhibito judicio. Ve-
runij C<e/"«ri (dixicj quafi impoflibilia vel incredibiliafuiire vifa. Ec de refponfo mihi (\n
hac parte) dando , fecum , adhuc, fuam deliberare velle Majcftatem C^prf (Tw. LInde ego
de literis liieis iftis , fu.e Majefti mittendis , mentionem feci & fummatim earundem teno-
rem, eidem'enarravi. Ille eafdcai ftatim habere voluit , ipfi C£fare£ Majeftati a Meridie
mittendas : Ego quidem C.i[arif me velle ad pauculos dies expeftare adventiun dixi, Deinde
de rebus Mathematicis brevilTime inter nos habico fermone, illique (ad pervidendum) dato
libello quodam Geometrico ( per me & Federkum Commandinuw Vrbinatem ) in lucem dim
dato, & mutuis, poft, utrinque promillis ofticiis hunianitatis & benevolentia?, abiir.
1584. Sept. 22.
Saturday^ .?fpff»;i. 29. Vie Saudi Michaelis.
The forefaid Letter to the Emperours Majefty, with this Letter to the Ambafladour , and
thisPoltfcripr : And moreover, (according to the Ambafladour his requeft) the Copy of
the Emperours Letter, all in one uttermore paper clofed (Letter like) feajed, and with fu-
perfcription to the forefaid Ambaffadoiir , 1 fent to his honour on Michaelmas day at din-
ner tmie , by E/wric/tf 5fi«t^!r: Who delivered the fame to the i>ecretary of the Ambafla-
dour, and he to the Lord AmbafradoUr, as he fat at dinner.
Deiif bene vertat^ad laudem
mminis ^ui. Amen,
September 2^.
Remember that this day (after- noon) I fent H«^(& on foot with my Letters to Cracovia.
to Edmonds that my folk fliould not be out of quiet, or afeard to fee Miftrefl!e Kelly , fent
for, and no Letters to come from me, e5~c; I writ to the Lord Laskje of our want of mo-
ney, 6>c.
Mondayi O&obrit I. a Meridie circa ^. horam. Pragae,'
' Oratione dcminica finita , &c. Valde citb eft fafta apparitio.
E. K. Here be two, one his face is covered , and the other is not : vrki..
And he, whofe face is uncovered fcemeth to be Gabriel.
oainei.
A. Sit benediftus Deus Pater, Deus filius, & [Deus Spiritus Sanftus nunc & Semper;
Amen.
A. Our chief caufe ( at this inftant ) whywerefort to thisfhevv-ftone, is for to under-
- fiand faccording to the grounds of God his promife ) the ftate of my wife her grievous dif- J""^ »*o^''i
eafe, and means to cure her, wherein if it pleafe the Lord to be mercifull unto her and me, '""«'';'"«
it ftiall be the occafion whereby (he will all her life time praife the name of God for his mer-^^'^^"
"'''''
cies, and be of a quietter minde , and not fo tt^y and fretting as fhe is.
f^f^o are J!0U, or from whence ce»te you, that you require fsience ; which fee}{, to he more Gibndl
'fife and expert , then fucb ^ are the Children and Dodors of this JForld ? whofe judgements are
[ii 3] rajfif
2^0 A true Relation ofD\ Dee his Mtons V;iih/fmts,d^c.
rajh, and underfia-.rling na\ed : and in yehofe lips dwcHeth no truth,
youjhoidd defervcthe nj,i]elhal benefit of fo great and fandified- g\
Who (l^ay) are you. , that
grace .*
<« to undcrjhnd fhe de-
termination of God, the power of his Angels, or thehrightnep.orokf.urity of mans Soul, and
vnderiianding: loudefperate finners, and partah^ers vfith theyoicked , how canyon feek bread at
yoi'r fathers^ands : when you feel{, to Ileal into his barnes? Tea , into hit heufe , and dining Ta-
Thcrobbinp'Wei ; and more then that; yea , even into h^ privy Chambers : net to fpoylhimofhishoujhold jhffe,
God of hii hu- ofhk Gold , or precioM Hones , but of the diademe, and Crown of his evcrlajiing Majeiiy and ho-
nour. „our -.you arethievesand robbers;^x\A through the Dignity of your fpint you Ihall think to exalt
yor,r fdlves,andto live in Majcflyvviththe world.
'true it is, you may live fo : But you live with an Harlot, and Jhall popjfe the reward of Fornica-
tors and Ahilterers.
Therefore feek not to feed of fuch fooiy as the holy, and hhffed mcffengers , and Miniflers of the
God of H''lb and glory do tajie of : and are comforted ,for they are the fpirits of truth and nnder-
jtanding: fuch as cle>ive unto their God, and fight againji the abominations , and horrible blafphe-
mies of'^tbe world and her adherents: which (becaufe yon fet your felves againji them') fljall kjep,
and clofe up the brightneffe, and obfcurity of each Soid from you, that yiur ignorance may be greater;
and J our dar^tieffe thici{er, and that you may return without light : to the Barathrum of ignorance
,
Superbia phi-
^^^^^ pride, [elf -love, and the Children of vanity have their habit atisn.
laotia vant-
^^^.^ (peradventure) will you fay within jour felves .-"There be other doors, there be other woods ;
''^'
yea, there be other wayes , let m therefore feek, out them.
K/goi-E/fmfn- Ji,!t behold, I will put up front yoH all Elemental Vigor : So that the Fountains of coagulation
^°^"'
(liall he dried when you fec\tkeni, and the natural nourifhment and food of parts that dwell in one
?ahlT°' 'proportion fhallhide themfehes , and be afleep whenyou feek, them; yea, in the loweji I will place a.
threefold door-bar, lironger then a Reck.ofyearn , which palfltand between your eyes and kjtow
led^e ^and you pallnotfee : for peradventure you may fay in your felves.
A. fue lapis
'^^ehold, there is a fcience known ; yea, there is a conjunftion of [a] equal qualities, opening ««-
fh,lo[opbo,um
^^ ^ ^j^^ mylieries of comfort in infirmities, that is not fo. you foolip : for neither here, nor
there, IJjail you finde the Lord, if you follow thefteps, and defiled wayes that the world teacheth
rent Argsli
Va.
/mnurum
jjldndof v,l
tbjcunlai
intelltg>fnr.
If.
you.
tfe< mundi Irim'tcl effe debe-
mus,!(y mundus nos odia profe-
quiiiir propter Dmm.
Gabrhi.
JUifericordia
Dnjuper/S.
For I faid ofyou : Lo , I will place you againji the world , that
my name may be magnified , and the world fhall hate yon far my
cake.
A. O Lord, be mercifuU unto us : Deal, O Lord, with us, as I have put my truft in thee:
Turn away thy wrath (O God) and vifit us in mercy : O God, O Lord , what grievous fay-
ings are thefe ?
Gabriel T'rou^le [a] thou not thy heart, hut hear the vtyce ef me, Gabriel, the man of God.
I am the true niedecine of Inch as put their truji in the God of Hojis, and in his fon Chriji ; which
is the Lamb of life, and the comfort of his father,which give unto thofe that thirli, the true medecine
of comfort and coufolationj neither fhall God forfake thee , neither fhall thy Soul be de-
ceived.
But it hehoveth thefe things to he fpokjn, that fitt might he corrected, and Not* caulamacerbxin-
the name of him that fent m, magnified.
crepatims iftm.
Here placing. A. In nomine Dei loquitur,
qui per omnes Angelos loqui-
tur : licet enini Vriel dixerit
vel alius , tanien Deus Temper
KMphus ad- loquitur.
hue Mifeucor-
di* capax.
Gabriel, Hear my voice : as I faid unto thee , fo will 1
place thee here. And from hence thou
fhalt have fcience and underflanding,</«^
thou (halt be favourable in the eyes of him,
that I favour not : that wy glorie might be
exalted in him, and againji his childilh-
nelTe. Tet, I will be mercifuU to him ; yet
if he hear me. E. L.
...... Vnto thee PE. K.l J fay, (O thou that art a worldling) • A voyce from an uncertain pi j«.
iwillftir up friends amongji you , and I will fill thy hands with The. -. W wjc^a^^.p..
that thou defirefl : But that thou receivejl in the one, I will plucky ,
& & ^
lack, in the other, that when thou wouldeji be wife, thou fhalt not,
£_ j^
and when thou wouldefl fee, thou fhalt not.
A. E. K, Was very much offended at thefe fharp words, d^c. and would have left oflT,
&c.
Uriel Inobcdiens es, & cafligatlonc dignus.
^ - . Gabr As for the vertue of the holy fpirit * ( fpokjn of) the gift of medeeine , and healing
fn^'''*^'*
(which you call Phyfiek) ALts^yotikjiow not.
Inf*'
A true delation <?/" D^ Dee his AB'tons "with fpirits, &c. 251
Infani fmt omnes , & fatui : For, Phyfick is in very deed,
the true , and perfeft fcience of the natural combination, ,
m-<'r'o .yfd,ans, Mtd,anacaverafy
and proportion of known pares, anfwering in graduation ^rofon.om parmm no,ar,.m detho mUo
real , to one principal and defined ; iS Therefore above the refpendennum in'graJuatinnercaliad unum
capacity offuch as are worldlings^and do hunt after money more /"''''t'i'-'t^, <b defmitum effc,
then the truth of Gods fpirit.
Uriel as a wit- But lo^ light flandeth by me, and my words are medicine :
ttejfejiandi>;g by. and whatfjever I fpeak.^ light leareth witnejfe of me
:
Therefore are my words true.
} Have paHence awhile. A. He difappeared.
A. We examined the definition of Phyfick to be a very apt anfvyering, both to the Anato-
mical natures of man, or any patient, and alfo of the Herb, or iimplcj that is medici-
nal , &c.
A. He came again and proceeded.
Gab. ...JVhich confijieth of two parts,the kjiowledge of cxlejlial radiation (jhe caufe ofVi] com-
bining) and of Elemental vigor, the jiayy and caufe of [2] proportion.
w1 V
"*
'"l
The firjiy and cixlejhal is threefold^ that is to fay, from God, from the Angels , from mans mcJalii,
Soul.
Thefecond ( that is to fay Elemental ) is the kjiowledge of the liar [i] coagulating ; of the ["2"]
fabttla of the parts nourijhed, of the [3] conjundion of lik^ qualities.
( Here is the true Art of Fhyficl{. )
"Thisfecend is threefold.
After a while I come again.
A. He is comeagain, and proceeded,
. Gab Goto.
A. In thenameof Jefus.
*
Gab Thenyott are difeafed,you are fick.: yon mufi have a Tbyfitian : why theft, jour
Fhyfitian mujibe fuch as hath this Science, to judge your difeafe.
Whether ( for fin ) it come friim God : andfo by prayer to be cured \ Deus i.'
Or from the Angels, as the Minijiersof Gods Juiiice ( generally ) for defert or for reproof: AMgelnsi.
Or from the foul of man, as from the chief life of the body , whofe infeftlon radically, and by the Ammd hominit,
injitteHCe of proportions immediate, (hidden from man, but k,nown unto us, J .ii called C with us) ea^'
Mazah : wifA jo«, Impictas.
'
-^ InfSw amms.
Impietds.
Ihefe are the ftrji three j and Magicall Caufes : The other three ere Elemen-Tres magk&
tall. cMjx.
1. Either b]f the (iar^that ff caufe of coagulation and imbibiijg of mans fperm i>i the femine Stella, i,
lUod, Without the which it could not.
2. The other ( that is the fecond) through infe&ion of meates which are divers , wherewith the Cibus. z.
thing is, [^
and ] continueth, which in their kjnds are many.
3. The lafi, by conpmaion or mixture : which m the fecret property that draweth infiSiion from Mtxtii.z.
man to man.
Thefe ifyou kjtow ( for he is no Fhyfitian if he kjiow them not ) how they are and live, and are
joyneitogether in their proportions, and alfo when they exceed, or are diminifjjed, in that they
^"'"'^" '"'"'
are you Jhall be able to bring them to their proper hcins , wherein they are ratified and^/'T
""'"'''''
rejoyce.
joritm.
(^
A. He was away a quarter of an hour, ]
Gab Lo, thefe are feeds and foundations : and here I have ( according to my property)
touched the leaji of my jirings for you.
If now you intend to excell the Fbyfitiansof the Earth, and to help thofe that are d\(tzftd, Medicinavera
fincerely, truly, and through the power and mercy of God ;
Then muji you attend upon me, and my expofitions, for fortj dayes, wherein I will open unto 4o- D^Y"-
jou, many and Mikjtown fecrets ; and will comfort yon with this one herb or branch of my Garden, fruc G:ibr;el-
to the intentyou may perceive I am true Gabriel. virut Gx^n^X.
"But as in you that are hearers, due obedience ought to be, fo tnufl I kjep the Authority and Abainnentei fy
gravity of a Schoolmajier, fuffering none to hear my marine, but fuch as are ablHnent and clean- e«».'<jf« a psc
fed from their fins. '^^^^
I
Confider therefore, what the mercies of God are, the fruit and value of this Dodrine, and the
uakfd"
1 «^ I <iJ true ^lation of D^, Dee his JBions mthfpirits, &c.
Refpsnfum -jq-
nakjdntjfe and neceffity of the world that requireth it, and then anfwer me,
Aiwl'vm & Far your anfwcr is a vow unto the Lord, of whofe help and comfort I bear witneffe.
conf4.tm Dei. ^ut as touching thy wife, her difeafe is in the firjl Elementa/, and very dangerousj and threat-
fanji «.t, M
neth her child, yea-and her jelf death.
men mrbttt
-^
^ i --, r ii j- /•
feitculajiis. A. Lord, therefore I retort unto thee, who art the Curer ofall dieales.
Gab But to morrow ( if thou refart here, )
I W'll tell thee, what it is, and will define of it.
Lor.i, I truft, it fliall be cured : What is unpofliblcunto our God ?
Gab. I reafe.
A, InccfTant praife and honour, be unto the Alaiighty, moft bountiful, and wife God, the
Lord of Hofts, our God and King.
Amen. '
Remember I fent letters to Cracow by the Meflager of Trage;
Tuefday, OUobrii 2. Mane hora 9. t Pragae.
A. Orationibus finitis,ad Deum, &c. Deus in adjutoriura noftrum intende, &c.
E. K. Here they be.
A. Gratia Dei, patris,&filii,& Spiritus Sanfti, fit fuper nos nunc Sc fempcr 8c in faecula
fa:cu!orum. Amen.
A. They paufcd, before they fpake, very long.
A. Perhaps they expeft our /?;//»'fr, as concerning our cleanfing and abflaining from fins;
Herein I crave at Gods hands his grace and mercy , and intend and defire both to be
purged, and alio to abftain not onely 40 dayes, but all my life, to the beft of my abili-
ty, &c.
Gab Paris habemut omnia, Immundif nihil.
A. I befeech you for God his fake, d^/jer vifcera niifericordia Altijfimi, that you would de-*,
clare uuco us a certain remedy of my wife her difeafe, &c.
Gabr When thy wife was a milkjefubiiance, growing by the perfedion of the place, and
Q y:r!us. influence radical, (which onely, is the gift of the Sun) then, was not the Matrix, or bag of
Nature ( whereinjhe encreafed j perfea, or of f:fficient retention : By reafon of a feaver going
Feb/' laborab.H before the conception : So that^ the Angelical admmfiration, generally containtng,the veffe! of lifey
Mater uxnni j-^^. the proportion of the world, ^ entred by force of their Order imiHediately,before the [AJinward
""m '^*%mZ p'irts,were efiablijhedin their nutriment and proportion.
the foul is fent Which is the caufe, that the fecond ^ veffel, and lowefi of nature ( for, your terms I mufi vfe )
'"' '"
y is fo thin, avd tyed (liort, that it is n'jt able to keep in, or retain, the fimile and quidditie of her own
r^'.Z ^'"''
fxHi^ntial being andfeed.
* Forfan, vafa Wherefore, when the refi of her digefiions (according to her age and natural ftrength ) fulfil
jeminctria.
^j^^j^ offices, by degree to be received into that receptacle ; then, doth the force of nature quail :
and by the fibtilty of the principle, or matter ejefttd, (which feek^eth to tak^e up on every center
a dwelling place, ^ the guts and pajfages, are ofended and fcalded with an intemperate heat:
the .nofi fulttle and Jharpeji part, being of a moii penetrating vertue ; {and therefore feekjng
*hc T p'rff^rge ) mix'-th her (e\'cwith the excrements, where refting, (he turneth unto her firiKorm, which
!'= S is blood ; IVhofe ®uintejftnce wor\eth, in her own property and beginning, andforceththe^Q ex-
"'
crement RcrcorA many times to become bloody, the other part being mere heavy, notwithfianding
unapt to defcend, (QM,i:inatiiraqujerIt omne fuum ) beconieth corrupted ; and fo by vertue of
Etcrementa nature, is cafi oat as uu [2] excrement, beingblood and matter.
But I tell thee, that fo long as Nature was in the lowefi degree, and the fperm kjpt more near
tcgfther,by reafon of the finrhual heat in youth, it was not faulty in her :
The''brc«hir"
^'^ '" her fixteenth year, when they were m re heavy and fought ijftie and defcenfron, then began
or vapm'rin'"^ N'rture to feel the efff&, in the places, and ve(fel, which is the ground of her retention, the chief hafis
heat. and Mother of her dwelling.
B'hold now, being f^tive, and the force of heat drawn to the nutriment of the Creature ; More'
Vw'jampfig-
^^^^ thf other part A&ive compelled into a nearer place, by the impediment of imagination, ^r/'«g-
Inwelnation. ("^^^ <ire at danger now, by reafon that Nature is become very weak, and not able to make excremen- ,
tal expn'fon.
But
I' — '
'
" — '
- — ,
— '
— ~^ •
" '
I' . - _ ... I
. _^
(3^ true Relation of D*". Dee his ABions mth /j?irifs,d<.C 2 ^ j
But do'- thsu thinks that there is a remedy to this difeafe ?
A. Yea verily, thro';gh the wifdom and mercies of tlie Higheft.
Gabr 4.1havetuifgbtthedife>ife; I re/// go and fee if there be a remedy.
A. The Godo? Alirabam, Ifiac, and Jacob, be merciful to my wife and me, and fend her
remedy and cure of her grie£
E. K. Here he is.
Gab Come again after Diner.
b.. We had been lent for to diner, twice or thrice before. So we went.
A. Mifericordi.E Dei line f per nos. Amen,
After Diner, circa hor am i.
A. Wcrcforted totheMyftery: and fhortly, they appeared both.
E. K. Here they be both.
A.
Gab T'ulir pure wheat, a piiite : one Pheafant-Coch^ alive, an eleven ounces of Mifcttline
Anihfy ( "^hich IS the white Amber ) an ounce and a quarter of 'turpentine. TheD^yficil
A. Of waflicd Turpentine > lemedy.
Gab Turpentine that if wafJ:edlofeth hit vertfie.
Break, the Cock^in pieces with a pe'id, ( his feathers pluckj: of J pound the Amberfmall.
Tut all this into a gallon 'f red wine.
., , May we take the red wine of this Country ?
*
Gab I. Di'tillthem, with a fire of the fecond heat,
{| A. I befeech you, how long lliail they ftandin fteep ?
Gab As thou wilt.
]
Still It again the fecond time, ( the feces being cafi away ) And adde fomething more to the fire^
fe that it be a quarter toward the third.
Let her faii forty ho^^rs from meat : And let her divide the^Iedicine into three parts.
Ihe firii part, let her drink^ ( being milkjwarm ) by little and little.
The fecond purt, 'et her mal^e a fawce of, for five or Ox meiiles.
7he lai part, lather nfe in Alfconditis : And fhe fhall have health.
A. I befeech you, in how many dayes conipafs wo ild you have this to be done?
Gab It is no cuejtien : thenet tfpty of thethmgteacheth.
A. As cOTicerning the Infant, what ftate is it in ?
Gab Sh'it thy mouth : Seek^not.
A. I am contented,
A. As concern-n J a Pheafant-Cock, ! know not how or where to get it.
Gab. All the creatures of the world, e/f', help not. I have tai'ghr, takf thou care.
A. The thanks, honour, and praife, be to the Higheft, and I thank you for your charity
and good will, to impart thefe thmgs unto me.
Gab ro«^<?// ^i^z/fwowarf, </r we, until you be repentant, and reconciled.- and are r^g^ffenfia
made apt for my School.^ Keconctlmtio.
E. K.' You might ^i-z/e this Table 'vertue to cure her, or cure her
with fome one thing, or fimple, if you be good Angels.
Gab Vnto us, the vertpie of Gods Creatures are known : which we may open wtt-o you : and ^ „ yx\%
the power of giving vertue is in God : Therefore ceafe tf^y mahtious tongue, litlous tongue
I have no More. • •
againft God
E. K. They are gone.
'
h;s^g°°<iAn-
A. Deo Omnipotenti, Optimo & Maximo fit omnis laus honor & gloria : nunc &
femper. Amen.
Thurfday, OTrobris 4. Mane, hora 10. \ circiter. t Prag*.
Orationibus variisadDeum, &: propanequotidiano jamin tempore neceflitatis, finitis, &Ci
apparitio fafta eft.
E. K. Here is he, that is covered with the Scarf.
Uriel. Hear, thou, [ a l that fayell, ( if I have put my ^ r 1 r
trujiin tbee) hear me. If that thonmdii iaried at'home,and wan- ^^^'j
'*'' parcel of my prayers
ted my admonijhment, thy children had been fcattered,thy wife had ^. Miferimdias Dmini in ster-
ended her dayes with frrow : and lo, the birds of the air had num cantabo , qui me fub alU (ttUU-
rejied en thy carkafe, Iftl}Ouwaiihe/d by the hand, and attended 14'*'" je>-U'ivit,ferv.u,:^feiv»b!r.
OKi by heavenly Pilots, when the Seas would have fwa/lowed thee,and
Satan had power over thee ; If poifon had prevailed, wherewith thy meat was often times fawced.
If the contimidl rage of S-ttat and the world had overthrown thee. Then had not I been thy
God, neither had done well unto thee. But out of all thefe I have led thee, as a father doth his
child
z e^
4 ^^^^^ %elation of C*"^ Dee his ABions mth fpiritSy &c.
Prohntio.
child from dtnzer. And from many more fcourges and adverfities unk/tcwn to thee^ hut ready to
If. afflict thee. H'therto, thou fayeji unto vie^ If : What haji thou done for me y or added untomy
name ? Wh'it haft thou loji' that I have not given thee ? or what canji thouhave, that I pluck^hack^?
Hear my voice. He that loveth the world^ loveth not me ; for what I do I do: and what lam^I
am: And 1 made nothingwithout acaufe. 7hou halt not yet begged for my name, neither hall:
been iniprifoned for my fake ; But I have turned the prifon from thee, and have opened un-
to thee my myfterie^. I fay unto thee., I amtkebegnming., and an undefiled Spirit^ and there u
vo riches that is without me. If Ifliould not fiifFtr thee to be proved, "then were thou not for me
;
SaVanswhins For., thofe ik^H a'/e mine, tajle tribulation : But when Satan hathffent hit whip 5 If thou be found
are long in faithful, J will place my covenant with thee and thy children. And I will be revealed unto them,
fpending. wtto the end of the world. Silver and Cold I give not; But my bleffingy is above the fub-
Fel tibe.idum,
^i^,^..g g^ ^y Earth. Dayes there be, that thou niuft drink of gall,and a time cometh, when
/l"f l^/'"'""'
thou (lialt drink wine. In the mean feafon, thofe that give unto thee, I will mnltiply all they
hdve With hlejjing a thoufand fold ifor tkofe that give unto thee, I will give unto them i And thofe
that flpck.b-ick^ from thee, Iwill alfo pluck^back^ fromtbem* Thofe that are of me^bave no fpf,
for.I am all beauty.
E. K. But will you give us meat, drink, and cloathing ?
*OKe!ly,t^ell}t, paulus ad Cor. Epijl. i. c<if. ly. ^ 7;bf rej^<z//c9Wf « riwf5fifyou dwell together and love iiie)
wr!„ 5 1. (&• 5i Ecce mfjhrium rJobis
^ly^^ i^^jje twiuk of an eye, you /hal 1 breath your laft, and live
fid cmvcs muJmnr : mom m & ^gam.- t»dl will kjc^mder my feet all the proud Nations of the
jaritoaliySic.
• Earth:: for my day is at hand. But I am a jealouf God : Be
ThcCominKTion, and manner of therefore faithful. Jf Ifend thee forth, znd they hezr thee not
:
propUefving againft the incredulous, ^r meafure thee, as a fl}adow,at noon dayes. Go unto the mountains
andtal{e up (tones and break^them in pieces with a mighty peflel , caji them again(i thewifjdes, and
into the four parts of the Earth. And fay, Ihiis and t]\Hi he it unto them: 'Thus and thns let
Confirmuion the Lord work for me : and thy prophefe jhallbe true, and it (hall cometopaffe that thou faye^,
of the Pro-
^^ Ukj'wife if they hear thee, do unto them, that my bkjjing may alfo be kjiown.
The manner of
^- Lord, what fhall I do, if they hear me >
bleding Pro- Uriel Do unto them the figns of good ; as tt jl)all come into tkymind.
P'^"'"l'
I come again. E. /f. He is gone.
A. I thank thee O God, for this great comfort ; my heart is greatly rcfrcihed therewith ;
Thou art my Gods
L, We read over the premifleSo
E. K. He is here ao;ain.'
1 K Intending J^y doll thou [E . K.] feek to flee fro »t me, and ferretly pntteji into thy heart, 8cc.
to depart, and A. He fpake divers things to E. K. which chiefly concerned himfelf: and he wouldnot
1 not knowing,
m-fgj. them as now : But he told me, That he was determined to have fold his cloths, and
with as much fpeed as he could, with his wife, to have gone to Hamburgh, and fo to Englandy
&c. If his wife would not go, that he would. ni>
Uriel Hear me,'Ihere is not any one,vioreflrong,ntore rich, or more friendly., than I, &C.
A. He fpake much again to E. K. of himfelf, which he exprefled not.
E. K. It is true, I will follow God j but I doubt that yon are not-
of God.
My wifenot to Uriel / willpewyou the water : do what you lifi. I fay unto thee [ A ] Takf not thj.^
go now to Cra- ^/^f Jane with thee, leajl thou have a new forrow. ,
"'*'•
Three ofyou jhall go^ The fourth, [ T. K. 3 ( which « [ E. K. ] his brother ) Jhall be a fer*^
vant to his houfc. .
,
Vriel our I can well keep it.
Houfe keeper.
j^^j ^j^^^ t^5„ comeji into Poland, be not known. Lead oat Lasky by the hand, and bring him
ik^' k'r , hither., and prophefie a^ainft his enemies, that I may break them iu pieces : and may b.cmind-
his enemiej as f"l of my Covenant.
in the former He hath much need of Counfel. ,)1
praftice was J am with you.
"^ '
E. K. He is difappeared.
A, Deo noftro, Domino noftro & Sanftificatorl noftro Oranipotenti,3eterno,& mifericordi fit
omnis laus, gratiarum aftio, honor 8c gloria nunc & femper. <
Amen. -:
'X
Fridafji
.id
Atrue delation of D^ Dee his Jciions xvithffints, &c. 2 5!$
Fryday, Odohrii 5,
At afternoon came one of Dcaoiir Onrtz his fervants from his Mafter to tell me,that his Ma-
ftcr would come tome to morrow in the morning about feven, eight, or nine of the Clock as
Saturday, OSobrit 6t M-mc.
Before feven of the Clock I thought good rather my felf to go to Doftour Carfe, then
to frffer him to come to me fo far, and that for divers ca.fes : So I v^ent tohimjan 1 came be-
fore he was ready. At hi* being ready he cams forth , but nothing with fo clicarfull n coun-
tenance to welcome me as he did at the firft ; I conjectured that he fufpefted that I would
take his words in evil part , which he had to fay to me from the Emperour, which (after I
had fomcwhat fpokeii of the book that 1 lent him, and Ibme other, that had vv lirten fome-
Wbatof fuch matter of diviiion of fiiperficies, and he had told me that tliis my book was the
nioft excellent in that Argument, and lb made a paufe , he be^^an ia this fort in two pares to
divide his fpeech , and (aid that C^farea fua M.jjias r,uaHtum /'J fit a peccata (per M- rcpre-
hfftfa') folet Coiftftonarium adh here tempore & loco opportmili ^acque diffi-lere il!u>» ds M'fericor-
.dia divma; ^antum autem ad me attinehat , piirntitm ejfe fuam (^?idiezm M'ljejtuteift mihi
gratificari & ienefacere imquacuwqve re qujc illim fiihjiceret A'fthoritaii : [ hereupon anfwer-
cd, and faid : Doteo vrba men m alio fenfu intelhifn vel concepta fmjf' a fua Cjefarca M-ije-
jiate quani intelligi vel ioncipi delebunt Hon enim vte e]m fieri ConfijJiuHdrium cupiebani , fed
feccatorejus ex cxloriprehtttfi ffffey hx ilii fignificare pibebar , tn feci : unde ille confoUtionit
J>lw haurire poter^t , quani ex confiUt ahcijm fiii amici ve! C n'^ejjtonarii fiii ,
peccata ejus re-
darg'ientifj Domini entnt Dei eximium declarabat favorem^bcc. ^Utituvt v?!0 ad illam gtiau mi-
hi fireb at fua M ) eih s C^Carea. gratiam , humilUme ac ep-ibuni. N'nc vero qpod defiderem
titulo Philofophi & Matkemntici Csfarei inftgHiri caufa. eli muhip-ex; ti*m refpeQn fecret, me' fer^
vitii erga C;ctarem ,fub to prxtextu cxlandi quam wajoris authoritatis & f.tvcrii ap d C tlaiia-.
nos & Anglos nt^i^s^ ne vel ilia ijtc wgjs agere videar^ & nullius effe <e iimat'.aii , vcl 1 tit et/am.
viderer aptus ,coMtra quern fuum invidiam & maledlcenuffimam ^ ut incepere , exercerent Imguam
i,>tpune,8cc. Oruattigitur D. Lurtz'nim iit Cxiat cam fuam M'ijejiam a.lmoneret de indebitA
interpreiatione illorum verhorum qjiibiis vitia ejui redarguebantur^&cc. Tiien lie fpake of the fe-
cond Letters to the Emperour , the eltcft whereof he had heard at my hands , and liad lent
onMifi'»f/»»(» even to the Emperours Majefty, a note and advife ot^ them , as he now faid.
And did willi that they had been delivered before the Emperour had refolved on the for-
mer anfwer : Thofe Lecters ((aid I) are in the Ambalfadours of S aini hands ; and if he will
not deliver them to day,I will fetch them for y.iu : if you do(faid he)l will deliver them ftraighc
way, for at eighth of the Clock yo.; fhall have me in the Kitter ftove , or hear of niL there»
, Then (faid I) I will llraight way goto the Ambaiiadour.
I vftnt unto the ^ mbaifadour of Spain, and reported all that had pafTed between me and
jy. Curtz- He faid that by rcafon of his divers atfairs he had not good opportunity, never
fince the receipt of my Letters to go to the r m'perours Majefty : But that this day he deter-
mined to deliver my Letters with his own hand luuo his Vlajeftyifo with thanks given to his
honour I departed : 1 w;?nt to the Ritter ftove (or L hamber of prefencc) where I found none
of the Guard, butverymany fitting without, in the ftove were three, or four, of which
one went ftraight waj^ into the privy Chamber , and by and by D. Curtz came outfrorti'th^
Emperour unto ms , I asked him if he had told the Emperour of my grief conceived of his
mifunderflanding my words : he faid, I, and that the Emperour took ic not in evil part , arid
fo of divers other thin .s we had talk walking up and down together about a quarter of an
. hour : Among other thingb 1 told him that the Lord AmbaflTadour would deliver my Letters
himfelf to the Emperours Majefty, fo I departed, and be returned back to the Emperour into*
the privy Chamber.
•
Sunday, OExobrit J. Mane hora 7,
T fent to the Lord AmbafTadour his houfe , and there 1 learned that the Ambaffidour had
yefterday delivered my Letter to his Majefty : And that anfwer was to be expefted by
D. Ci/rtz.
After Dinner I went to Doftor Curtz home to his lodging, and he had nothing as yet to
fay of the Letter delivered by the Lord AmbafTadour: But we fell to other talk, and I told
him plainly, that I had not hitherto lived obfcurely , neither without care of my good fame
and name, maintaining, and increafing; therefore ii here for my ilncere dealing i fhould fecin
rto be defpifed , or not regarded, or to be but a trifler , ray thought I Ihould have great inju-
ry : And fure I was that the Emperouis Majefty was much ruled by him, and as he did fraine
his judgement, fo did his Majefty very ofcrefolve in fuch matters as mine j wherefore it I
were
T56 A true^elationof D^ T)tthis ABionsxipithffmts.^c.
were not ufed in my caufes as was reafonable, and for the Emperours honour it ftiould not be
laid to any other mans charge but to his, &c. He promifed that he would deliver ail in the
beft words he could, in friendly fort,«^r. After this he Oiewcd divers his labours and inven-
rions, Mathematical, and chiefly Arithmetical Tables , both for his invention by fquarcs to
have the minute andfccond of obfervations Aftrononiical, and fo for the mending of Nitinjus
his invention of the Quadrant dividing in 90. pi. 92. ^t^.&c. I then opened tobimmy fecret
of my "laffe, for battering in a dark night, d^'^'. Hefaid that conclufion would be very accepta-
ble to his Ma jefly , I told him that the glafTe was at Cracovia^ and his Majefty (hould fee it by
Gods leave.
After this I told him that I would full fain have a Pafport, or lafe conduct to palTe quietly
and farcly in any of the Emperours Dominions. He thoi'ght h'ls Majefty would willingly
"rant that and willed m: to write three , or four lines as I would have it, and he informed me
Ca farcam ^uam Majejlatem huntillimc orat Joannes Dec Anghts^ ferenijlinu fn^ Majellatit De-
votiSlmiii fervitor ,utprof»tt mapri in ItineribiK per ampli^mum fii£ Cifareae MajejUtit Impe-
rium conficienus fecuritatej literas falvi fajfus fibi coucedere digmretur.
Joannes Dec.
At my coming home, I bethought me that I would gladly ,the faid Pafport , fafc Condaft,
or Letters of pafTage, more ample and beneficial •, as for my wife, children, family , fcrvants»
and goods whatfoever , and for one whole year to dare from the date of thefc prefem*
thus.
VVcdnefday, On Monday morning 8. Oftobris.
Sacram fajrw Carfarcam Mqejiatem humillime orattferewffimx fu£ Mafejiatif Vevotifftmuf fer^
vitor Joannes Dee Ang/usy ut eidem Joanni pro feipfo , uxore jua,liheru fuif , fanii/ia fva.fervito-
rihuf, Ancillit fuii & fuppelledili fita (juacmque fua facra Cxfarea M'tjejias favor abiUs & gjraxio-
fas fuas Iit eras falvi quiet i & liber i tranfitus per omnes & (juafumque ampliJJiMi MJjejiatif fu^e C^-
fares Imperii partes viafque , & pro integri anni Qprcxime j>eji datam fr^fetttititu fequentit) tent'
fore quocimque^ clementer conceiere dignaretur.
Anno 1584. Oa.S. JoannesDce.
Monday, OSobrU 8.
I went to Mr. Doftor Curtz, with thefe laft Letters fair written « and I found Kim to be ac
the Hoff rate Camer in Counfel ; and fo awaiting till they rofe (^half an hour after 6. of tke
Clock) he came out with my Letters in his hand,which I left yeftcmight with him. 1 (hewed
him thefe laft written : And he faid they ufe to limit no time , but to make them indefinite.
So he took the laft, and I had the former Letters back again . He went with them into the pri-
vy Chamber, he faid, I fhouid not need to fend for the Letters, but he would fend them home
by his man, and I went from him toward the AmbafTadour D<»« Gtdielmo de Sando Clementer
whom I foimd coming with the Ambafladour oi Spain (who caracthrcc,or four dayes before,
to give the golden Fleefe to the EmperourJ and the Marftiall of the Court to go to theEmpe-
rour prcfcntly to haVc audience : And as I ftood in the Court of the AmbafTadours lodging,
and they three on horf-back coming, the Ambafladour my friend did put off his Cap, fo did
the new Ambafladour and MarOial twice very courteoufly to me, I faw it was no time to of-
fer fpeech to the Ambafladour ; now of my giving thanks, taking leave,and requiring his plea-
fure toward the LordLitfi^'f : fo following them to the Court,I pafl«d forward home tow^d
my Lodging.
Myfterio-
^'v.:?
Myttcrior^i Pragensium Confinnatio,
Anno, ijSy. famiani 1 4.
P P^ A Q M
Iteruni vcni Vrngam ultimo Dirtmhis,
Anno, ijSj.
+ ;\r o r £. (i/2/;J I5P4.
NNO, 1584, D(ctmhris 20, fSfj/,? Gregoriano") wc did fcE
forth, I,Maftcr AW/;, Rowland my Infant, \'*uh his Nurfc,
and ^»hn Cr$kar , ( in a Coach with Horfe , which I had
bought of Mafter Frizn) from Cracsvta toward Prage.
P R A G E.
Becemhris 10. We came to Pr4ge\n tke afternoon.
Dectmhtr 31. I wrcic to Don Culielmo dt San^o Clement ^ the Spanifh Atil-
bafTador, as followeth.
JLluftriffimc & magnifice Hcros , Licet mea nondum privata curavcrim negocia
:
proquibus ordin3ndis,multos interim dumhincabfuetim, &laborcspcrtulcrim,&:
Tumptus fcccrim : Tamcnnoluiliceras ad vcflram magnificcntiam , dNobiliffimo
illo Domino M^i^/wSyradicnfi mifTas in multas horas a reditu mco retinerc penes
nac : Ne aliqua e x partc,officio viderer deefTc meojtam erga vcftram naagnifa'ccntiam^
quam iplum Dominum ?Alati»un*. Qiiantum vero ad Myftcriorura incredibilium pio-
grefTjm, habeo & quae dicara, &funtqi)saudiammulta advciitatiscaufamCinvitif-
fimis cjufdem advcrfariis quibiifcunquc)elucidandum.Dc quibus quando opportunum
crit, paratifTimiiscro, cumaudire, tumaudiri: eoquidera modo , quofinceritati&
fidclitati mea: erga C^iy^rfdw faamMajcflatem eritconvenicntiffimum. Interim ali-
quotdicrum intervallum liberum rcquiro , uttam xdcsmihi meifquc conducara (fi
fieri pofTit) accommodas, quam ut aha, ad rem familiarem fpe(ftantia difponara,'
Dcus Optim. Max. Magnificentiam vcflram ornare bearcquc dignetur,
llluftriffimae Magnificentiac Veftrae^
Obfequentiffimus,
\ A a Joannes Dee^
354
^ ^it*i ^ «>
<^mo \'^%'^. ? RAGM.
FKIDAr, w.
JAnuary 4. / ffired the H$ufe in the Sal vjireet 5 oftbe tvta Sijlers : But Mr. Chrifto-
pher Chriftian, wZ'O hudlong time been Chancehr , cr Regtfier ofeld i ragae , didmtke
the Covenant or Bdrgitn with me : ht had Annc theene Stfier^ to Wtfe , andthe other
Sifter named D ^totbc , had to her husband. This Dorothea
dwelt tn the Houfe^ and was to remove to an other Houfe of her own hardly) : andto deli'
vet unto me and mi/.e the vfhole Houfe^ mth aJi the appurtenances ofroemes and eafements^
and I to pay for the fear 70 DoHers : and that eiuarterlj^ {every 3 Moneths expired) toyay
the quarters rent thereof,
JAnuary 6. /jrro/cwD. Jacob Curtius: OneoftheEmperourstrivyCounfayie, of
whom the former Records of Prage Anions do make abundant mention : Anda letter of
htr written to me the %th. day #/Odobcr Anno 1 5 84 , is beginning of the Book next
written before this. 7he Copy of the Utter which I wrote now^ is this,
IBuftri OfS\d^a^mflcoviro D°JacoboCurtioy^cr4f
Cefareae ^\d!^aj^f^atis ab arcanis ConfiliiSy
Vominomeoflurimumcolendo,
ILIuftris & magnifice vir- Majorine gaudio affici debeam ex bona veftra valetu-'
dine, & falvo mco ad Pragam reditu : an ex contumcliis hie interim dum abfue-
rim, contra mcconfi£tis,'&: variis ejaculatisreprehenfionibus & quafi nimis , do-
lorc torqucii ,
peneincertum videripoffit. Ego quod ftatuij hadenus feci: fup-
pellcdlilem fcilicet ex Cracffvia meam cum tota familia mea , hue jam adduci cura-
vi-,cum magnis quidem laboribus meisj & fumptibus baud modicis. yEdcs (ex quo
jam vcni) tales quales > etiam cum aliqua difficultate , conduxi. Et hac prefenti
feptimana, omnia hie noftra ad eafdem citiffime transferri,remquefamiliarem, &
Oeconomicam , quodam craffo modo difponi , negociorum mcorum requirit ratio.
Interim veftram magnificentiam enixe oratam habere velim , ne uUo modo a^grc
ferat, quodeandcm nondum inviferim, officioque meo , in hac parte, accurate
fatisfecerim fpero,qu6d una mecum fentire velitisj'uremerito in proverbium hoc
abiiflc didtum.
Sati^ cite, modofatis be?^ e.
-*
Non folum literar ad me vcftrx, in abitu meojmihi magno interim fuere folatio
0: Sed & abfente me , fzepeteftificatabona vcftrademe concepta opinio magno
me delinivit gaudio:dc contumeliis igitur, & Uteris veftris, & veram de me opinio-
ne , five judicio,cum opportunum fuero nadus ocyum (predi61:is ncgociis meis con-
feftis) veftr^e magnificentix aderojUt aliquid dicam:& paratifllmus futurusjUt om-
nia quaj poterofaciam, quo vobis & pofteritati conftet , fideliter & fincere (prouc
ftatueram) ad facrs fuae Q/<iyf<cMajeftatis, aegregia fervitia, animnra me applicaffe
Ineum.
Traga fanuarii 6. Anno 1585.
(^mtereUtonof Dr. Dee /.// ABiom, mthfftrits, kc 3 «?<
err,
t:Ulc is
cue
-j" 'Tr'^gA 9Ar.n0 1585.
Januarjf 12,
Saturday Afternoon ! remfived clean fiom Do(5lor Hage'^, his Houfe by BeJlem, anH cime with
all my HoutlioW to the Houfe which I had hired of the two Sirters(nianicd}nottar from the Market-
place in old Trage.
Ja.nnary \^. VragA t^ttio firim,''..,pofi reditum.
(JMonday Circa 9 honm a media noiile : Prccibiis ad Deum dc more fufis , & invocato lumin6
auXihoqueDei, adejufdcm verttareminttUigendam. & cum viruue tia>3aiidam,&c.
E. K. Herds'^ one with a Vail atorc his face , asic were, a Hair Cloth of Afh- A
colour; I know him not yet: Ifcea Garden f ull of frviic, oF divers fores. Inttic
^^vanael
^nu(t ot it is 3 pijcc higher then the reft. On thar place ftandeth a round Hou(c,it hath '^fZV.^^^poP;
ipur corners, [vvithip] and 4 Windows: and every Window is round , and hath 4 «''WMp<:r«e.
^und partitions, round alfo . It hath 4 Doorcs , and at the Eaft Dooris one ftep , at j'^J^
l^e South 2 fteps , and at the Korth 3 , and at the Weft Door, 4 rtcps : The fiift round wh'h
^oor is white, likcChryftal, tranfparcnt: The South Door is ted of an'high colour, andfqustt
Iranfparent. The North Door is bright black , not to be thorough lecn , as the reft.
'*"^""-
Tthe Weft is green, like an Enaerauld Scone: bo is the South Door like a Ruby. The
Poorcs be all plain. The Houle wiihin (as it nia^ be judged by the tranfparcnt
Doorcs) reeir.cthtobev^'hite, and empty.
E. if. He char hath his ^acc covered , openeth the Eaft Door^ andalithc Koufc ,
fecnnethtobe onfire,iikcalutnacc. Thcfiic withmdcthwcvc, and move about the Fire.
Houfe, and by the roofe. Nowhcopencththe Weft Door, and there appcarcth, as
if all tfc Houfe werea fountain fullot water. And there run divers ftrcames , in the Wacer.
lamconc water, w'.crcof, one doth go and come, asit it ebbed andflowcdj which
fticam doth goab'^ut all the reft , bythcfidesof thcHouIe, thatis, asif it wcrcthc
Ocean fcacompafligt eWorld. Thencxtftream, within that, moveth from the
4fidcsward, andm.kc (in manner) 4 Triangles, or rather Cones, ofwatcr, wh<.fe
vertices reft cut oft us it weic) by the middle ftream of water which occupieth the
middle or Center oft he Houl .
, and is m circular form invironcd.
An other manner of ftream there is, which commeih from the 4 corners of an in-
ncrmoft iquare: ^x\iM<iX\indiametraUtcr 01 contradiBorie wife, toward that circular
middle ftrtara.
The n:.iddle ftream feemeth to ilTucout at the very Center of the place, and to
mount up, and making an arch of his courfc, dothleem to fall circuUrith in one,
circumtcrencc. ^
E. K, Thefircalfohaddiverfityinit.
l\ I would you had noted the- diverlity of the fires alfo,
.».,. Thofe '.hat learn truly-, learn by parts.
E. K. Thecolourofthe waterinthcCentcr, Is moftpurcwhitc.
The waters of that Saint /Indrtxvs Cioiic , arc like a water f)mewhatSaffromflico»
loured. The waters of the Triangles, arcfomcwhar like a watrifh blew, which ap-
pca.eth moft, inthciopof the arches of their flowing :
For all Ipnng ocherwile-
The uttermoft water, is of Quick-filver ibcw, as if it were fomcwhat mortified.
A In the figure toUowing, you may gather a better and raorceaflc underftandingofthis Defcrjp-
tion of the water llreams,
Here IS i
l)lank,or /old
fpace in the
Original Co-
pic: butnoS*
jure.
A a « . .. S.K,
guie,
356 (^ji true Relation of Dr. Dee his ABionSy withffiritSy &c.
E. K Nowhcopcncth the Fuc Door againc: And the fire appcarcth in afquarc
place. Andthcreappeare4fircsfillingthewholsplacc, leaving nothing vaccuum.
Oncof thefc fires fceraeth to rife from the Center of the place j andto go in low
arches to the 4 corners of theHoufe.
The Houfe fcemeth to have 14 foot long in every fide.
Thearchcsoftheic fires fecmco come from a trunk of fire, which rifeth from a-
bout the Center : and feemcth to be 4 foot over in the Diameter,
This Trunk fcemeth to be high three quarters of the height of the place •, The place
feemcth to be as high as it is broad.
On the top ot this fiery trunkjcemeth the fire to be in form ofa fiery Globe .having
6 foot, his Diameter, which firercverberatcth and roUeth in it fclf.
From the fides of the Trunk ( between the faid
Globe and forefaid Arches,) goeth ufifireTrjangi^
larly, filling all 5 faving that which lemaincth filjf
led, by the flames of fire , which arifeth from thf
""^ '' * .
'
Globe to the 4 corners of trie Houie, filling all thf
fptcc'in'Ihc » place above the Ghbe: asbytlie figure annexed^
Oripinsi to- more plainly may appear. ^
pic-:butnofi.
2j^^ iVo^e The colour of the fire of the 4 af-
chcs , is very ted } The reft are very pure, Aeria^
candent, &c. ^--^
The Motion ofthe trunk fire is fvvifteft.
TheOriginal Center of all thcfe fires , fcemeth
to be very little.
£. -K". Now hcopeneth the red Door.
J The Houfe feemcth darkifh , of colour of the
ft«f« fmoak of a Wax Candle being put out.
». B) it felf^ it is not^ but by the St*nne,, it is char,
£. ^. It nath 4 motions in it alfo ; every one n oving more fwif tly then the other:
AUtrom the middle of the Houfe, Three of them move arch-wife to the fides.
The firfl and fecond arifc to half the height of the place.
The third occupieth the other half.
The fourth goeth uptight to the top of the Houfe.
The fecond his fpace (that he ihiketh againft on the Wall) is doable to the fpace of
the Wail, againft which the firft fmucth.
" Here is a
blank, or Void
fpace in the
Original Co-
pie : but no fi-
gure.
4
£. K. Now he opencth the black bright Door 5 And the Houfe there feemcth full
Earth, ofblatk dufl, like Gun-powder colour, or fomewhat of Leadifli colour.
£. K. Now he feemcth to goe down , faire and foftly from the Houfe , down the
little Hill , and from thence goeth by a water fide, to a Rockifti Mountain.
B. K Hefpeaketh.
jifcefid.lamKowreniyforjoH- Bring om your C^attockj^ Spades^ and Shovels. Enig
c veri eri.
E. K. Now come out of that Rock,feven loan men,with Spades, and Shovels, and
Mattocks, &c.
.«. » Follorv Tf)e.
£. JK, Now ihey be come Up 10 the forefaid Hill.
«•
<^trne 9^lmon ofDrJ^eebis A^hns^ mthjoints^ &c. 357
• ^ome «», Di^ till jost jinde,
E. K. Every one ilandech diftindly one from another, and they dig on the fortfaid
Hili, which before Teemed covered with Earth and Grafle : But now itappcarethtobe
a Rock, and they dig that the Fire flicth out again of their ftroakes, and (omchjy.e
broken their Mattocks, fomc their Spades, all except two, one with a Shovel,an ocfiqr
with a Pickax.
The (Workmen. O Lord we labour in vain.
' . ; .^... So jott arc [tire cq. do, MvUjjc jou have better Tooles.
The Wo;i^tsn, A las we labour m vain.
One ofthem. This is long ot you.
I had yoH provide Inflrnmenti to labour rotth, but )on askednot ms^ whertifi yotifljoHtdlO"
hour. Therefore hnve joti digged array that which yon faw , and have repHlfe with that yoK kjin
not.
'
A d.iik man tliou art, ami hidden horn men, and lo arc thy doings. One of them
•£. ii'., They flood gazing one on another. faidcothe
, H^ve yo:tftot hetttr fnllrumiKts ? Ge,')rovidey('ur [elves, and rettirK. man covered
-; £.K.l hey runne a great pace to the forcfaid Rocky Cave from whence they came cio'tifo*'A(h
•-outfirft. Now they come agsine with great Beetles ofIron, and Wedges. "Jhey "lou.
knock their Wedges (as we ulc in Wood) and fo break off great Slakes of Stone , like
ilat:c,and throw it down the Hill.
Ofte of.tbera. Wha.C a thing is cluS, :hac this Wec'g is broken ?
tyin other We are in worfe cafe then ever we were.
E. K. Their WedgcsareWokenj the moft part, and the Fire flieth out of the Stone
.^gr^abuixlafifC;;-. , .
The nature of this Stoneit»ot to cleave : Therefore if yon hkve no other Infiruments yost
mtilh (e.iff.
., I
E. ^'.-Ttiey arcin great difquietnefs among themfclves.
.^,.,,Thofe that zo a Journey ^ frovide them Cloathes againjh all weathers' He that is worthy
of the 'f^ame of a CoK^ftiror, carrieih vel'th him aH Engines : fVhere the Bridges be broksft dowft , he
jiayeth not , bicanfe he is frefared : Behold^he hath visualsfor time to com{ , and his Study is as
well the event ^ as is the titean. Sojhould trite Labourers do : confidering what they work-in . For
the Earth is a Monjter with many faces : and the receftacle of all variety. Co /jome, fiancL not
idle, Provide by Artsfor the hardnejfe of Natare^fiT the one S'fier weepctb without the other,
'
E. K. They go away fpecdily.
... They have their Tooles to harden^ and their Steeles to temper* It will be more then 4u hour
'•
fpace before they return. Therefore may yottfpend the time inyoar^ecejjity, andufe the time of day
at yon are acquainted or .iwonted. J alfo mufi ifver-Jee them , orelfe their labonr will bewithofsi
fruit^i,.-il ^'h .o'A .
E. K. Now he is gone.
/!^. Gloria Pat i^&F. ScSS.ficuceratj&c. Amen,
—P—
tJMond.tyy
-jrruu} •..- . -).:,'j j,
,The Ijms day, aier dinner we returned to oiir former purpofe for God his Service, tohisHc-
noiwarid Glory. "
-''••--
E^K. He is here. Now the Labourers be comming out; They have Wedges
made long and (har^ : and Pickaxes with three pikes very fliort.
They fay. Oar cruil is, cba: thcie tools will ferve.
£. it:. , They falfto work. They make like fquare holes, and put in their wedges,
and bicak up the rock or blackifh flonc (like yron- mine, or Magnes ftonej in roundilh
lumps as big as a two-pcny loaf, about two or three inches thick. They pick or dig
*
roundabout the hole tirff, and fo after ufe their wedges. The Pickaxes have three
heads, every pick thereof bigger then the other. Thcfitftasbig asonc finger: the
fecondas two : the third as broad as four fingers. And fo after the firft digging they
fetch three or four cakes or pieces out of one hole, and then they go to another. Now
. one of them is fatn into the ground , up to the arm-pits. Now another is fain in, to
the kneeb\ Now the houfc (landing thereon beginncth to fhakc, and waver from one
fide CO the other. Now the menbe gotten out of the holes they fluckin.
»., i^fakj an end of yo:tr labnur.
Ofeof the workmen to the guided I:behovcchyoutofindaremedy,ort0kLUSunderft2nd whac
remedy
95^ <^-^ ^^^^ ^^l^f^on f/Dr Dee bis y^dicm^ rrithjj^ints.^c^
remedy we fhallfinde, that you may dcfcend thence: forlo, the P'-il yo i iaiid in, iS great: for
th is Rock was nothing elfc but a fhelljwhofe kernel is a boctomkffe lak", and a myie quickened
with fome fhut up vv.iter.
... ^"^ <^**'' hither as Labourers^ therefore make an end of your wr^. cni f^Attd ngt
idle. If theh'Jufe fall,4»d ljink.,the»ts yo'tr LtkoHrat an eni. F^r the end of jour Ubourit
the fn!Ji!U>t{r of my wiS, atid the fromifc which pti hitve made me.
One of them. Wcare ready to do our promifc ; but wc are more ready to provide thatyoumay
beamongrtus; I'o yoti may be free from danger.
t.„i,Oj/i)u of /ittlewit ; are jott Kot A(h/imed^ which of yoi* have dwelt wihin thefecretsof
this Hill ? ye.t., which of yott mteadeth to fulfil his prom'fe ? ftti^e not a thmi whereof yon have
no skjll, neither hf J}ack.in that y«fi hav^ to do : for the one h.ith his revard of idUnefe^ and the
91 her IS coid^mned of rafhnelfe : For why ? !> fprinj^eth on her mother tgttorance.
T/ify/^/. Ifwe work, It IS a^ainii realoii. Nichcr do our tools anfwer to this labour. Therefore
we had rather b: idle then tolabour about nothing: for to labour in vain, is to do nothing.
If we were detei mined to work, how fliould vve perform cur determination^ fince the InHru-
ments of woiki'ig want ?
.....i Gather up 'he pieces of your fpades, that is wosd^ and may bejoyned together : The older
and the bafer thy are^ the fitter they are to turn up fuch fotle.
£ K, Tlicrccommctha Smith by vviiha budget full of nails.
Oneof ihcmf»the S'nitht What halt thou there ?
Smith. Nailes.
E K4 They be like Horfhooe- nails.
«..«, Thou cam'fi in ^ood timeJeave thy nails behind thee, and at thj return I wiU pay the: for
them. See^ Gjcits not unmtndfHl of ti^.fo^ tftilf are the fittefi things to farther your work^. Joyn
therefore your fpades andjhovels together ^ andLibour.
E. K. Nowihcy aic mending liicii fpades and (hovels, the iron cf them being all
off and broken.
Now they wnrk, and throw away rhc earth like duityfand, and the skurf of the
car.h ticket h to their ipadesanc fliovcls.
E. K. Oijc gocih bchinde, and makctha trench tolet the water out from the
fand.
One of them^ How now 1 Have we found harvcft in the midft of winter?
«,.... '*'»7 •• tvhat have you there ?
Oneof thfTtt. Marrv ^nhcr it^^lablafier or Salt.
E.K. Nj^voncottliciiikiiockcthapicteoff with his fhovcl-end, andreachethit
wpto nis<.uide.
,.. Did I not tell you^fh-'t the Earth hath manyfaces ?
£. K. They work now cafily, and cut up Uke Salt tr AUbUiier.
Novvchey have digged all thchiUaway, even tothchoulc. Now the houfcfec-
j
mctiibiiiUtd vpouihdi tp^/te /tuff.
One of them. Itwedigaiiy further, we (hall undermine the hsufe.
*»tt*Go to your bufnieff'e,
E. K. They work.
„ „.. ^oft-, f''f^-
^'^ labour with your hands as foftly as may be. Stand afide,
E K. Now he takcth one of the irons of their fpidcs, and letmeth himfclf to pare
the tides of the FoHnaAtien underthchoufe,andit Iccmethtobca vcflcl of tranfpa-
rcnt glaflc,and having fire within it.
riinorDomini •<» The fear of the Lord is a burning fire, confumeth not^ but re^ifieth the body ',
theolddroft
it wipeth away, and the daily i>ffl"Xion of the flefh and fin it
f parateth from the foul.
Behold ( Ifay) heliveth not, but unto whom life is given : neither is their any joy, but it is af'
cending; for the end of joy ts glory ^ but glory is the conf'.mmationof defire, and the beginning of
felicity. No m.m entreth into oy^ but by life : neither is there any life, but in the fear ofQod.
^htfoevr therefore hath the fear of Cod-, let him draw ««r, and come hither. Number ex-
Afcenfion ceedeth not^ but by unities. Netther is there any multiplication bm by order. For the root of num-
ber ii one. yind things that afcend are digntfiidby order. Out of thisveffel gofoHr vents afcen-
Scpirst'on ^'"^ into that /{oik^, whuh is the Root, which is this building.
It isfaidy Behold ; let my fpirit enter in, let there be Separation made "Within the houfe of the
"^^orib jhat the earth may he divided into her members. Curfed be that body, that is not divided,
according to profffrnun,anfa!eringto the Dtvffifin, for (he hath yet not cafi off thejhape ef darks
nejfe.
E, K. There runneth up fire into the houfe, from out of the round glafTc vcfTel
undec
(9^true Relation ofUr, Deebis ABions^ mthjointsy &c. 355?
iindcr the foundacion ot the houfe. And chat fire makcth a great noife (thiough the
black bright or marble door to be hard oncly.) Now that North door is mighuly
thrown open, and there appear inthchoufclikc kernels of apples, and flimc appear-
«h,andwatcrthinnerthenflime,andthereappcarcthpurewater, elfc. Now there
coramcch together ftufFlike yellow earth, which the fire wrought out of the' black
earth: And the pure water runneth into that yellow fluff.
,„„.0f that tdke apart.
E. K. The fire recurneth back again among the ftufFin that houfe, and there appear
of all Creatures forae.
Creitioii
Here is Creatisri, and it is the firft.
£. K. Now he takethalumpof the earth lying by, which was thrown up, and
he brcakcch it into fix pieces like round Balls.
E,K. Hctakechathinglikeavefrclofiron,andputteth/«ftfin*^ mixmre efjcl-
Ispteartb andrv^'er. And ic lookcch now like graffc mingled with water.
\tt„*T^hfH art firong, and wilt be^et a flron^ Child.
E. K. Now he piicceth out the earth which he put in, and it is a lump of gold, lie
givcth it him tha: ftandeth by.
....../* '•'f the feeds of the earth.
E.K. Nowhetakeththcfccond,andputtcthitin.
^Qirritptitnimthief^ for he haih robbed thee of thy befi OrnAtHOits^ for thoHArt vtaktr iti
thefecond.
E. K. Hetakethitout,and it is as if it were pure filver.
„,„^fVhere there it double I heft, poverty infiteth. But, mtwtthfianding, Thoff art true; for
thoHgiveji unto every thing as much as hi defirtth : Thift openefi thegreatefi habiUty andJlrength
of thy power, netfuch as n hath been, but fuch 4S it is.
E. K. Now he putceth in the third Ball.
That* muft tarry, for thoft art of an harder di£efiion,fiuce thoU art the third. Content thjf
felf, for thou art not an Inheritor.
E. K. He takcth it out, and giveth unto one of thcai that ftandeth by, that is a red
metal like copper.
£. K. Now he takcth up another of the Balls, and holdeth it in his hand.
^^^^^Behold, thy mother. Heat isgone, and the enemy of life entreth ; for he that pajfeth his mid"
die age, decayeth, and dnnveth to 4h end.
Behold, thou jhalt find a Step-mother, for thou cam'.fi out of time,
E. K. Now he putteth k into the veflcl.
,.,. t. Let cold cover thyface, let the North truly beget thee-, for thou art an enemy to thy prede"
ceffors. But thou art ofgreat vertue ,ftr of thy excrement (hall vertue receive dignity. ,
/Ind thj
vertue (hall be a garland to Nature ; for thou (halt be vijihle when the other are filent : the Seas
P)aU not hinder thy vertue, notwithftanding, thy vertuefhalI differ with the Seas : For as they dif-
fer-, [o (halt thou,
E. K. Now he takcth it our. It is a ragged thing like Smiths cynder of iron, and ie
hath holes in itj as if itwerefpongy.
E. K. Now he taketh up another Ball of the earth : he putteth it in.
„»„ Thou art tradable, and like unto an obedient daughter: But thou jhalt be the fifth i» the
fecondi and an Injlrument to the firjt.
E K, Now he takcth it outj it is like unto a white whet flonc, ashcfhapcd it at the
p utting in, it is like Tynne.
E. K. Now he taketh up another Ball, and putteth it in.
., ...Thou art the lafi that hath inhim/elf and by htmfelfhis being'. Behold thy face is Uke unto
I vax, but thy inward bowels are like unto the anger of a Serpent ; Many (hall have thee, but fhaH
) hot know thee.
One of them by faid. Will you give me nothing ? i
E. K, A great cloud covereth them all, the ftoneand all.
A Ic durcd Ibaquarter of anhour,
E. K. Now appeareth another, none of them before appearing. He fccmeth afar
off comming, and higher placed then the other, it fcemcth lobtURIEL, he hath
his face covered wicha Skarf of black hanging down to his breaft.
URIEL BleffedarefucU as are not offended in the little ones.
'
£e. K. He fpeaketh now a language which I underftand nor.]
lift. I E L ..... For the Angels of the God of Righteoujneffe, are his little ones : andfuch as k^orf^
mi)
560 (^true relation ofDt, Dee his AUions^ mtbj^irits^ &c.
InChtiftwe
ma' bccoiii:
Innocents,
and be born
anew.
Temptation.
lings.
Pra etit.
Mir.ijl/i icr't'
tain.
magna mi-
feiio'di.i lua,
D$mine.
Proplicti*
1590
1591
Ttic Hiibour
we are in.
not ftu ofCPHCHpfcence by confent ( / fpe<ik_ this for your underjtandh:^. ) Take heed (therefore)
that yon offe/id »ot yoiirfelves : for you mujl become little ones '•
and the pojver ofthe htghefi mtifi «>
bo;i»d in yoit.
He that vjfeudeth his brother^ ojfen^eth God : b:4t he that ojfendeth his crvn inmce»cyy is abhor'
red of ihe Lord. Lo yow <«rf ThechilciiCR of Piomile 5 and 111 youisthe myllery of a great, and
iTiigh-y Seal. Therefore flttdy to humble your fehes 1 /'"' Hufnility is the Root of Innocency, But
{tny brethren) Innocents by nature yon cayinot be , neither can jouferve (^od in the intaainntion of
clean.iejfc of foitroivn ftcfh. Now (therefore) (ince joit are fiefhly ^ will y,u become innocent ? Or
how can joii feek^th'it which N<i!ure hath /«//?
The Scriptures teach yo:s ; That in Chrilt yon were born a-nem: ^And by him you may become
Innoceins , when in hitK yon are cle-infed. Therefore^ ifin him th'fiate of your Innocency remain.,
if in him you are renewed, and made clean, (being rotten and defiled,) whyfeek^jou not him, as you
fhould do ?
7^j man thatf-eketh the brightneffe of the S'inne, goeth under the Earthi Neither creepeth he
into unknown Ca'ocs. The Tygres feek^not their prey upon Earth, where the waters are not. Nei-
ther the Eitgles upon rvaters.
No moic ougfic you to gmdg that the Lord temptech you, nor to be oSended when the World of-
fencieth you.
Isit not faidunto you , that you (hall fight a great fight: fVhat fight is it my brethren : But a
.^atcelagainlitheVVorldhngsand the Devil?
//rfr«»/a/o« f^.i.'Kingslliall be off.'ndcd inyou.
The Sunne ceafeth not, yet hs fh.iUceafe^yei he Hiall not be.
The Lights of Heaven kefp their courfe ; but they (hall ftddenly fiagger ^ andforget their long
vorne way. Much marejhall the wick^dnefe of thofe that rife up againft you , have an end , for
in them is no courfe but error, and the fire-brandt of Sathan, prepared in their own hands , for their
own defiruElion.
Behold, they (hall contend againfi you and (h.-tll defpife *thee: But lo I have bleffed thee above them:
for thou (halt fight againjl them, and fhak overthrow r/)fw : that my iViiwf w^^ ^f magnified in thy
mouth amongit the multitude ofche linfull.
Behold, they are oppofite unto thsc, becauft they are oppofite unto me : for I havegathered '.hce
from amongfi them , and they are become thy Enemies. Since therefore they are thine Enemies
(i^ecaufe thou mufi- fight againfi them:) Be not grieved therefore when ^tiv wickednefle doth of-
tend thee ; But put on the armour of patience-, and Become innocent.
Dofi- thou think^ thatfrom the Heavens cancome the dew and life ofall things} Even fo think,
alfo,that from tu commeth ho untruth.
Be therefore innocent, and be not deceived by thefiefh; ^afi feafon afide , covered with her
Cloitd: tylndliftupthy felftnhim, unto him {Ifay) that hath lifted ihtt {torn xht Oooresof
Death: tak^n thee out ofthe hat\dsot Buccheis, and continued thee for a member or his Glory,
'Behold, Jfay umo ihcc,The brightneffe of Truth over-fhadoweth thee, Jftherefore,thou dwell in
truth, why fhouldeft thou be afraid ? Confidtrir.g that fbe conejuercth and refijteth aH her Enemies,
Behold^ the World defpifeth you, you alfoJhall defpife the fVorld-
tvhen the Angel of the Lord poureth hit wrath and vial upon the Earth, and the enemies of the
Sonne of God, runne in among thefheep. yi^'hen thefelf-fame Plague that was in the land of Pha-
raoh rameih in the Houfcs of all that dwelleth upon the Earth, fuch as the Lord abhorreth. fVhen
theLordwith his hand fha II gather up the fruits of the Earth from them, I* here then fhaU be
their honors} What then fhall be done with money ; with that harlot andfirumpet ofthe Earth} Of
what v,ilue fhall their love be then, cr who (ha/l regard theirfriendfhip ?
In thele 4 yeares that are to come, fhall all thefe things come to pajfe.
ty^nd thisgreat ]oy fhall be turnedinto teares of B'imfione.
Why ? you oflittle faith, you know not how often I have been amongft you : neither the Harbor
that I have thruli you into. Notwnhfiandtng you murmnr amongfi your felves. Bmfl'ick^fafi tut-
to him that leadeth you : For he ts a fure G'^ide,
jind be not af>aid,though the Earth open her jaws againfi you, for why ? Iwillbleffe all things
you take in hand, (faith the L»rd,) and my Ipirit fhall dwell amongft you.
A May I ipcak }
E. K. He curnith him to you.
A How fhall our new proceedings joync to our old beginnings ? O God, our guide,light, flaffe,
fii If Id, and com'ort, &:c.
URIEL. Behold, I teach you, before I correQ : But the 'DoBrine I teaeh is Humility , Pati-
ence [hejeemeth to fpeakjo oneabove,] and the fear of wrath to come
ttAfter which manner, I have taught them, by thee A .
Therefore, ifthou teach Obedience through thefpirit of God, appearingunto thee ; B' ihott alfo
Patient and Obedient -•
-^nd Humble thy felf onto them, for my fake. Net with the opening of any
Mpomifcd i'*^ > fieither with the Counfailes, that Ifh»S deliver thee : jS«f yfith A ready mind, Obediently,
the none. definng to petfornie that vvhich thou haft promiftd in mc.
To RtdoUh,
and t««f.
Note
^true Relation ofDr. Dee bis A&ionsy mthf^iritSy &c. 3 6 1
/ amfufficient Jlren^th, and will be thy buckjer^ and if they intend evil^ it (hall refi upon them ;
yea when they imagin it-, it (hiHfriz,e within them. And thy g'^ings in and out fhall be lafe amonglt ^ . ^
,
them. Bm l>eh»ldf 1 teach ttnto thee away, whichthou follovnejl not. when thou ntindefi to do any Y^^„
thing., in the name ef Ggd, to hts honour., to the help »f thy neighbour.^
or thine owncomfort '. Go a-
bouc ic whatfoever it be : and begin a Labour ; Do that thing chou intended. .And fee that you
joyn with one cpnfent towards God and the hnjineffe you are-occHpied in.
Then cry out to God for Komfort^{oi light, and rr»eunder(tanding. Andit it Jhall be givenumo
thee abundantly. For Lc, Jfay unto thee [£. 7C. I Undcrftundhimnot HOW.] I will o-
pen my hand unto thee., and bi merciful unto thee : And whenioever you^M/>«/'the VVood toge- Together,
thcr, I will defcend andgive^.rc.
Behold^ I ks'p backache refi of mj mefage for an ether time. Which fhall be ready for you when
I find joa ready to receive it-
A I requeltedto know how I fhould deal with th' Ambaflador oi Spain, or the Ernperor,orC»r-
t/«*;Secondly,your KJl L E here given,! underihnd it not.For I dare not begin any labour withoLt
counl'el divines Mans imngination is lo weak, &c.
URIEL Thou hafi thofe that are fent unto thee here for thy inflrnHion^ whichfhall by degrees
lead thee intothedeg^rces of that thou art to do. . ByJegrees.
Brtt It is one thing ta receive Corn^ and abundance ofgrain., by the bleffing of Cody in the return
of an year ." and an other thing tu do the workj of the Apojiles.
For the fpirit of God is twofold : working by information , ani influence Ccelefhiai through the
grant ef God his good will ^ in the mimjl-erj ot his Angels to the information of fuch as are hti
faithful and chofen : An other thing to be infpired from God himself-, in his holyfpirit , imedjatcly
comforting and knittingfVifdom together with you ^ beyond the power that is giveuunto his An-
gels. L
J have fpiken unto y ou a found and true doHrine, and have given you not fiefhly but Celeflia
counfel : Apply your felf unto it-, as the Spirit of God leadeth you. tAs for thofe wic^d men
(that Ambaffador excepted) our underflandi«g hath no name of them :, PVe remember themnot-^
neither limit any thingfor them. But tf thou tn thy i\m^hc\zy and innoccncy canft not deal with
them^ thefault rejteth in thy own faith. Simpliciry
I am gone. Innocency.
A Deo noftro Omnipotent! Immartali & Regi Gloriae, fit omnis laus, honor, graciarum
adio & Jubilatio. t/4men.
January 16. -j- 7ri*g£.
^if</«fyy<i^, Manehora 9 -jfere t
A PrecibusadDcumfulis,utnobifcumproccderet infua mifericordiaSc lumine yeritatis, non
in parabolis foliim & imgmtatibus , fed clara & naanifeUa veritate, modo qui illi maximc pla-
cet, &c.
E.K. I fee the man again and the houfc: the man fecmcth to be covered on his
face, and fo over with a vail of hair-cloth to his middle.
A When it fhall pleafe God , all vailcs and ^y^nigmata fhall ceafc.
^t^.^iyhatfeever Iteachyouhath a Myffery- Andlama (Jiiyftery iu my felf. Even fo al Myfteiies,
things that you learri of me., you mu^ be content to receive as myftical injhruilions comprehending
ferfell truth > and to be k^iown to f^ch as are true. Some there be that h*ve-, and have nothing:y ea
though they have all., for All,iscoateined: But the myfieries of God 4re infinite^ and his grace is
not to be determ ined.
A Thac faying is dark.
That which is All., is conteined. Beleeve you, that we give holy things ttntt Swine ? Or open the
finger and worknsanjhip of God unto Sinners} God forbid. Moies faw God but his hinder parts.
The Prophets were ac(juainted with God-, but myflicatlj. The Apofiles with the Sonne ofGod infha-
dowsy and their own impotency. Tea, Ifay unto you , that fhe th4t lyeth in the lap of her Mother,
knoweth not but by degrees-, for it is the manner of Gods Wifdom, both immediately and by us , to
keep l>ack his VVildom from Hell and corruption.
Therefore murmur not at that which you receive-, for it is noty our own. Behold, ifyou have bet-
ter., you need it not .-for it is vanttte to feek^ for that yau have, ffell.,fince tt is given you-, Conjider
iphat it ISJ
that is given you. Conftder alfo herv it isgiven ytu , and by whom.
A We know by whom, as our confciences and faith teach us.
„,. O yoii of little underfl:anding: Who is he that can and hath to give., but God., Jefui Chrift
the Sonne of the living God, unto whom all things are given in Heaven, and in Earth, iftherefore,
All he his.^ then hegiveth. And ifyou receive it hardly ; Confidcr how hardly you ought to deliver
it again. .^ .
And if it be a fire reviving the form of all worldly things : Then cafi it net to Swine : neither ^^^^'^
vivip-
yet worjhip it . Behold, y»c -re men, But in having it you muft ceale c© be men, for by it you enter i^py,^ j._
B b upon pijw-^.
5 6 1 <?>^ true relation ofDr. Dee bis A&ions, mthjpirits,8^c.
findhy it pfifacend into the true kitovUdg ofour fare-fathtrs^and
Green.
Red.
upon, and into all tmmortality ;
flate of Innocency.
But I hear a voice ; / ttill depart^ and come again.
£. if. Nowallisvaniihcdaway. .
. r u /- j '
A We read over the prcmiffes to our comfort and inftru6lion , webeleech G«d tocontinHC
liis graces and mercies, on us, and inus,to his honour and glory,here and forever.
£. A". Now he is here again.
The will ofGod tt «/>«« »»?, ar.d fnatcheth munto other things.
Tomorrow in the morning., with empty Bellies, / nvill tell yoH what it is jou feekj
A Fiat voluntns Dei,adeiuslntidcm,l-ionorcni & gloriam, nunc &: femper. Amen.
Note this
VISION.
Earth of a
iiwny colour.
Water.
1 AWomsn.
i A Child.
3 A Wmian
with child.
4 An old man.
An Angel.
AnOathi
a-.K
ihi
thought
-j- Traga.
Antio 1585- Janst.try \'j.
Thnrfday. Mane, circa hovam %. \- .
u • ••
Oratione Dominica finita, & alia btevi cjaculatione,pro lumlne & Tcruate Dei okinendis,&c.
Po(t quartam horse partem, renit.
£. A". Here he is now.
A Ulorja, laus,& honor fit Deo noftro Omnip»tenti. ^men.
...... Hoxoiir aud thankjgivtng tvtth lorvd voices., beunto our Lord fefus.
A Amen. £. A'. Amen.
£. A'. He hath a great heap ofearth , or little hill natural ^jf him of orange or Ursnj
colour.) dravpingfomtwhat t»a Litntawnj.
£. K. A Woman commcth , and with a fpadc diggcth about it. Now com,
mcth a child (a man-child; out of a dark place , with a fire (hovel in his hand.
The WommhathtdVcn away all the edrthi and t here afpearethrvatcr, where the earth
%vas. The boy caftcth out that Water with the fire (hovel, ihe Woman laughcthat
that, The Woman is in green clothes, and the boy in red.
Now comraeth a Woman with child, or with a great belly , in white clothes , (he
pucteth her hand down to the ground, and pulleth out a littte Glaffefull 0fred oil.
Mow commeth an old man with a Crab-tree (taflfe on his backj his clothes of mot-
ly colour. This old man takeihthc GlafTe from the Woman by force, with his lift he
brcakeih the Olalle, and all the oil runneth about his arm , and eat ofthat til did feem
4 ieo* /« f«»»^ a very little Book.
PUiner-) trueri or better can ntthing be.
'^r^:. He faid this, looking on the Book.
Tht['e.iov\xfoMKd,btttnoneIIADFRUITybuttheIaJl^. Hear and vfrite the my
fteries of God, tvtth humble hearts, notfittings but kjieeling., before Sanftum Sanftorum.
A I kneeled, and lb prepared my I'clf to the writing. In the Name of Jefus our Redeemer,and
the Wild oiT" eternal of God Almighty.
£. JC. He kneclcth himfclf.
e\ K. Now gceth fire out of his mouth ftrcamingly, hcmrncrh himfelf tothc4
parts of the World, (pouting our, or breathing fire vehen.cncly.
E. K. Nowcommerh onclikc anangcl, hovering ovcrhim inthcairc: and bid-
dcth him Hold up his hand.
Jlottflj-tlt fvoear by heaven and earth ., and by him that fitteth en the Throne y that than
fl)alt open thy month., andfpeak^Ko more then is contei^ed in this Bookj
£, K. He delivcreth him a Book out of his Bofom.
„.,.. I have fworn.
£*. K, The Angel is gone. Now truly, the place is holy.
E. K, He holdeih the Bonk in his hand which the Angel gave him. ThcBookisas
if it were oi Ivory bone. The Book is open, he looketh on it. The letters fccm to be
blcwiih.
Thereis filence inusy and m the heavens,
h.k. Now all is full of (moak.
A Oia'fi paululum tacitus.
E. K. Nowitisclc.iragain. ,.,. HefeemethtoreadofthtBtok.
TaksofjourDlafod.
E.'ic. The book fccmeth to be written io the holy Charadcrs.
Dlafod dignified.
E. K.—
" -^"*^ <J\fy brother,le4ve ofthy chi/dffhnejfe: murmur not, thou hindrefi mi'
imftrti 9p- ^ ^ ^^ .^ ^^^.^ .^^ ^^^^^^ ^^ ^^ ^^^ ^^ ^ clccr again. .
i^^i
(^true reUtion ofDr.Dec bis ABions,n>ithffh its, &c. }6'z
, ^nd'L\x\v\n.\xs orfrom due degrees, .,^^.,^ ~. 7
Read it.
^ I read it fake offyour T)lafod dignified^and1.\xm\m\i^orfr9m due degrees',
E, K. He fcemcth to labour much abouc the reading ot ic.
.... . Gather or t^ke fierce degree,
[/ feel »o power J
therefore have patience.^
„ NotmthJiandiHg, work.it diverfe dayes multiplying four dtgefthKf^ '^i
E. K. Now he is in a Cloud again.
.f.»,. Tr^ltthat it may he givenuntome ofCod.
.... « -^"d d^uhU then Dlafedy and thy Rod 1 n r. \_It is a word which cannot hefounded 1
AMuaKbcRlodnr? .h„,«Uerwn,d
,„.,» Loot.Mout you^jor Satan would hinder you oj (jods benefits,
„ ...... R / d »r.
,,
Diligently,
...... PrAy,that you way underfiand,
A Wc prayed.
„ For^until thou watch fo continuing,
E. K. h Cloud Itandeth by him, and novvcommeth before him as other times
before : and then gocth away Irom before him again.
„ it^a holy hour defc'endeth, *
yVTio/f f/j/Zj-j/fr/ wf//, for here you may be cafl over flioes.
V E.K
This Cloud is in thee. A VVe had talk of the forefaid Cloud.
„ .V.i.. Of every work^there afcendeth one Audal, andfo every Law R 1 o d n r,
E.K. Now he is covered in his vail or cloud again.
E. K. Prayed a fhort fervent prayer, whereat 1 rejoyccd much.
E.K. Now there commcth a beam from above into his head as big as my little
I finger.
,).. ey^ndpurpofe DUfod-, takj^im^t Image., andhave the proportie>i of am»J^ glorioxi ^' K^-
umixture Audcal and alfo Lul j. Continue and by office feek_ R n o d n r hackward by the red di- ^ '^'^u^'^'
\gtflton. But hebythecohtmonorred Darr dothgathermo/i- ripefimrkj, purge the lafi fortene arms abroad
\vtell fixed. Thenthe four through your \K\odnr'] fwifcly.
[^Ifatd'^KoTitan fnijhed more together at the loivsr body by one degy-eeT^^ be by you /or him iFo'tene'}
hold It, for him in one of them, — ' <^This w?s
E. K. Now helycthdown proftratc. '"^^^^ ^ ^°'-
m .1 / ..r I a r
reeled aiter-
„ ,..»,. ^»f'i of thelafithmg. „a,js.
E»K. liefpeaketh
„ ...... Inhim become his red and hlghefi degree of his refurrtUionthrsHgh coition. ^*"^^'
E. K. Now there commeth a great thing like a fircjand covereth him.
Now fit up. ,
A We did rile up from kneeling, ,
„ ..." .After a while I come again,
...... There is the whole workj
E. K. Here is again.
,,,,,, Brtng forth the bookjf Enoch.
Uber Enoch
...... Read your leffon A I read the former, Take OH your, &c.
Gather your fix words-, /^words confifi- of 6 letters, andtwotf /{, ShvioTii
R 1 o d n r read that, in the upper afgle defcending in the firft fquare* .
Jt is a great thtng to know which is the firjt table there in Nature .
"Deliver the Book^ here. "
A I gave the Book to £.K.
...... Look_wherethou¥..K.feefi the letterclear.
E. K, looked, and faw a (park of light upon R, then on Lj &Co
A He was led by light appearing on the letters to read the fix words
,
'
'Dlafod.^ Roxtan., %^*dnr., nAudcali Darr., Lul». SJx yyo,-(}s,
,.. Tiere /V ^atenurius in Circumfcrentia,<J«</^uatcrnarius in Centre
There be the 4 mediating wayes to the Center,
Allthat may befpoken in that you caU Animal.,Vegetabletor Mineral workjnanfhip of Nature Animal,
is here, as in a part of tha four. This farnowymoreas youdefireit. But that you mayfee. I ixa
Vcguable,
iCompanwnwiththere/}. m<:<al
r:\, u Omnevcrunt .
J:.. A. tic IS gone. .jjijg ignco'-iiiii'
Bb 7, A Bene- -.^,, , ..-
7,6 /\. (?yf trne Relation ofDc. Dee hit AUions^a^ithj^iritSy^c,
A Bencdicamus Dommo Deo notho OmnipotentijPatri Filio Zc Spiricui I'andto, Armn^
famarii i8. + Pra£a.
fri'^^y Mane horam circitcr 8 £
Orationibvis fufis ad Deum, ut MyReria nobis exhibita (hefterno die) explicentur ; & ut decrafta
literx cortice luccus & fpiritus vericatis manifeHus fiat, &c. tandem apparuit ille cum velo cmereo.
E. K. Here he is, upon a green cndlefTe plain field, and as I fee abroad in the field,
lo the Heaven appcareth, andailcircumftanccs ot the air abroad: but mji thinkcth,
that I am from the earth aloft, and fee all under me, as if it were in a valley.
t**,,,^of what have yon learned out of that Leffon .?
A We perceive the grace and favour of God, to deliver us Myfteries in outward terms determi-
ned, but in the fruitful inv^'ard verity, as yet unknown to us.
,,.^,, Behold I have delivered pn (through the ^Villof God) the true perfe£land moft plain Sci-
icuean
ence or underHandin? of all the lower Creatures of God : their natures, fellowfhip toeether, and
fiuitot rhetor- -_,,.. ^7 < , c r m id j
mcr Uflons. perfewi knitcmg together, which is rourtold.
Thefirfi, the ks'tttin^ together of celejlial influence, and the Creatures belom. The fecond, the
centra of every body EjJ'ential, The third, theeor»bin4ttonof many parts or bodies concurrent to one
principle. The lafi the true uje and knowledge Q£. K. He fpcakcth 3 language which
e/ every (abjlance to be conjeyned and difiribw | cannot foUnd after him. ]
ted. Take a paufe —
•
A Weread thepremiffis, and diicourfedofthem.
E. K. Now he is here again.
4»»..t/« the Lejfon which I have taught you is this knowledge, tvith the refi contained.
., Thereforefeek,,andtHr>t theeaahuY^idedow'T], Labour, that you may receive fruit, for unto
him that wo; kith, and hathj}renath,fire»gthjhall be given, and the rervard of a Tvorkmau. Many
years, the daughter nf long time, are not neceffary to the opening of this Myjttry. Many moneths
have noihiH^ to d) h-re : For lo,it is a labour of one ds),for >n one day you may underftandto tear
• this Lejfon tn pieces., and to underfiandwhat every rvordjignifieth.
Note But here ts to be eonfidered .,
in the learning of this Le^on, three things : the plact that every
The place of word.occupieth -
the place that every letter oecupieth^aftdthe nnmber amd place that every word
wordb and let- and letter is referred unto, for here place and number are apart, and beat an Image of the work
5*"- that they tntreat of.
The nuaiberof
^f^r >.umber andpUce muft bejoyeed together, and thereby fhall jiu tafte ofthat whichfollorveth,
jg,.j_
frue vpifdome.
The" joyning Be therefore diligent, and pray for the grace of god, that you may learn and underfiand. The
of muiiber and manner of mansteachinglook^mt for, inme ; for Ih^ve nothingto do with man, Sce^ haw yen can
place,
dtg.-fiths:
* E. K. He is flept afide. ^ I difcourfed.
£. K. He is here again.
•
......f Notvhtarofifhat Ifhallfayuntoyou. Jn>illopenuf>to'yoKaMY{\crY,tht\itY and foHK-
dai ion into the entrance and knowledge of the divine wifdome, delivered uute you in a Science pal-
p.'.ble, contcined ih letc-rs and woids unoiderly placed, as a Chaos : and therefore not to be undcr-
ftood but by order to be reduced and drawn into their places, and thereby to be underfiood,
C»baliftically For you have not a letter, nor the him of a letter, nor the place of a letter, but they are all coun-
tedwith us, as thefiars2reco\inK(i\NithGo(i, The letters andwords workjnginto all reafon , as
thefiars dotnto the lower creatures : Therefore humbly receive that which I have to fay unto you,
or fhall open unto you as obedient Scholars, kneeling.
Firfi,a little with me praife God— E. K. He Is Otl his kneCS.
E. K. pray ea the 1 42 Pfalm, Dontine exaudi orationcm meAm, and I with heart con-
fcntcd, and greatly rejoycedintheaptnefTcof the prayer: ^%E.K. Iiis cafe chiefly re-
quired, and mine alfo.
.. .. I come a^atn,
E.K. He is gone.
A We conferred and confideied many things to the praile of God, and the contempt of the
worldly wifdorre,&c.
E. K: Now he is come again.
£. /^. Now there commcth a white curtain before him.
..... Now hear my zoice, for thou canfi net fee me,,
110
One, Seventy three, 67, 29. 3^0
lijad— -6 I read it mnfi be izo.
35*
Q^true 9^elat^n o/Dr. Dee bis ABions^ mthj^irits^ &c. 3 6*^
E.KA hear a voice, as if baskctSjana earthen pocs were thrown from place to place,
from one fide to another.
lOJ
78- Jr50 95. loo. 60. 9T.*
K, K. I hear as ic were a whiftling very bafely or lowly, vvhu, whu,whu,&c,
..„.. Say what jo'.t have. A I lead all the 1 2 numbers —
.
Afake a note there. ,C^ I m;ide *ns you fee before.
59. E. K, Had a very heavy thing on his head : and in his cap it fecmcd
as ifit would have crept into his head.
5t. •
52. 8?. 6.
-J.
12. 20. 88.
*
Note that. A Sociid I, asbefoie, with * asafuU point, Notabl;%
Tal^e thoH-S.'K.alfo pen^ ink^,'a>}d paper, tind note the numbers dlfo ^ that joti may /tgree,
E. AT. Took pen, ink, and paper.
fyrite than E.K- alfo the fiumhe/s that he hath written.
E. K. Wrote ou: ojl the formernunibcrs.
5 II. I?'. 2,3-. 62. ^± 141. 9. 81. 18. 26. 54. 123. 105. 14. 27. £IJ.
lU- « 37- lO' <54. 46. 59- .
•
A Ibecame herealmolHn a fiiund , I wis forced to rile from kneeling. Our guide and School-
mater bad me go away, and £. K. flioukl write out the re(t : But it was not oui; friend that lo bad. ^
i;9. 22. 3. 45. 128. %6. 71. 68. 58. 14^. 121- H?. ^^^,f^^. f-
24. fi- dp. 55. 19. 15 25. 37. 31. T7. 76.- 57- 7J. 40. hJ.'^eceivi
41. 79. IT9. 8. 95. 113. 9?. 84. 7°' ^P- 3* »?• afcermygo-
122. 136 71. 2. 1^8. 43. 109. 106. lifi- 116 131. ingjbyrtiewof
77. 4. 103. Id. 124. 30. 10:. no- 50, 48. 89. brighclighc
44. ,7 loi. 82. 129. 130. 90. 34. 98. 99. ^5. ^S. -Prcfc^'jn^^
IJ2. . 114. 47. 144. 107. 131. 61. 133. 134- ^° ^°- upon his pa-
53. 75. 35- 9i "t' 21. 127. 108. S*** ^1^' **5' per. Bucit
104. 87. 42. 94. 38. 85. 74. wataSophi-
Thou £. K. halt all done. ft'"' "lew ,
a 5
may appear
aftcro
After Dinner ws repaired to our bufincffe, and by and by apparition was made.
And luminous, all one word.
•vr
Nowfetygar niimhen., as they follorv in order^fo orderly sver tvery vford,
A Together is to be taken for one word.
Itisfo.
A Therefeemtobcjufl: 144 accounted words.
Non bring every word confetfuently in order by MUmber dirc^ii^g y"*- iyhenjoHha,Ve p'
nijhed and confidered^ after z hours I will help you again.
5 Mup be in the place of iX., and mujl anfwer And luminous.
3 „.,,^ The number over Comoton^mufl be i; and not x-^i.Set all togithety 1 will help -^QMt
errors.
A I cannot do it well this night.
...... As thou wilt-, andwhen thou wilt.,! am ready.
A Omne quod vivit relonet laudes altilTimi. tyimen.
+ Tragd,
Saturday.
Januarii 1 9 Mane hora 9. InlpeSo Lapide fiatim apparutt, qui ante heri.Poft preccs ad Deum.
Hear what I (hallfdy untoyau. The iVerd and Teftament of Jefus Chrift , the bread of
Itfe, left to the Comfort and infirstii-ion of the faithful-, is fuch 41s infermtth according to the digni~
ty and pureneffe of Spirit in htm., which feekeih to be informed. For why, the Holy Ghoft helpeth
notfuchat are Lepers , neither healeth fuch asarejtck,^ Hnleffethey come feekjng him truly for
^medicine,
tJMany read the Scriptures after thefame manner., {my brethren) but they are confounded , be-
eanfe they feek^their awn ghrj., and not the glory of him, whereof they intreat. Herein doth Sa-
tan rejoyee that the f^Vord of God is become an inftrumcnt mto him y tofpoiltht life-) {andfiate
to come) of man.
Herein dtth he rejoyee, that with thefame meat that Sti feedeth , even with the felf fame
he confoundeth.
Fof
q 66 (oyf true relation ofDr. Dee bis Anions^ mitbf^irits.&ic.
^
After the fame manner hath he etone unto joh. ^ ^
A 1 was very Tor jefitrdjij^ whe* he faw thee (a) Uheur andfirnggli vith infirmides or :he flefh, he thought
fick fuddenly, ^ fit time to thru/t in himfelf, and of the fame bread tb^tt I have liven jo:; {in the pvfer 0fCl^ifi)
and Wis con-
fg „f,t]i^ himfelf an iafirument hy tHrnisg of himrelf into our brightnefic, to lead je$i into errour.
lea "'off
° ^'*'^ ''^^ unxftrthy are -joh of this mijior dtrknefe : Read joh not «» the Seriptures, that he pertjh-
ed that moved himfelftoftay the Ark^unbiddtn ?
The Hand doth not the part of the bodj^neither can he that is a Setr^ar.d the member of anOthef>
CS a \ufquirr< .^rii I ^. r
f
^jr
i^^^ f.^ member.
,m:iumpiiii. /p; *«w thee [EX]
, , . l l- ,.
• '
Becarife thou jejierday woulJefi effer upfacrifice , wouldeft^ put thy hand to that which is no:
-. ^ thy office^ and th4it in the abfe>:ce of h:m,\s'Wicn\sthfbody : t!:erefore hath Satan deceived thee,
mntu^im- ^"^ "^ thefat her of hers hath in a Irffoi of truth ledyoufa f-ir into errour, that )ou vftll never fiy.d
gjtur fiOprii. the tfay otft, if you fhofild follow thofe injlruclions.
For vfhy they are falfe, and of the Devi!.
H'hen thou jtert commanded^ f'*J'''-g-, VVrire ; then write: But when thou hafi- no authority 'gi-
Mercy and vtn thee-, iifttrp not. But notvetthftanding.^ Humble jo:ir felves before the Lord^ and kneeling before
G:3ce. him^ Receive you Le{ronstose:her,youaiebutoneboc]v.
A Thanks be unco our God, which hath delivered us from the {hare of the wicked hunter, and
is ready to lead us into the path of truth. •
...... ^0'"' write both together, ai yoHJhall hear.
£\ In the Name pf Jelus.
, The Place is holy.
I. lo. ^7- ^9. 120. £. ic. Now I hear as the falling of a block.
.•. .*. 33- 78- 140. 95- yi- 60. 91. ;9. 51. ^5- 85c 6. 7. 12. 20, 88.
• • • •
/ II. 13. 5. 62. IZI. 63. I2J. 141. 9. 81. 18. 26. 54. 123 128. 14. 27. 115,
66.
•'. I3J. I37i •^0 <54- 59. 139. 2J. 3. 23- iC). 85. 72. 62. 45. 142.
.: s:.^- i4>- 24- 3^. 58. JV. I)- ^5- 37- 3^- "7- 7^- 57' ^9' 4°-
41' 79' 15' 8. 96. 113. 93. 84. 70. 35. 32. 17. 122. 135, 49.
J38
,• • 2. jg^i-.
4J. 109. ic6. ii6. \\6. 131. 11. 4- 103. 92. 19. 124.
• .•
30. 102. 110. 5c. 48. 89. 44. 97. lei. 82. 129. 130.' 90, 34,"
132.
87 98: 134. S7. 2S. 112. 114. 47. 144. 187. 132. 61, al. ^g:
•.•[45j 71.
.•, 42. 8c. 55. 66, _ r}2- 16. III. 133 127. 108. 56. 118. 119. 104. loo»
7lr P4. 58 85. 74.
A holy muftbeallone word-, andfo Sfe wjiere, A moft^
j^^jg
A I find here 8 numbers donble, and 9 numbers between i and 144, not fcnred with words,and
one to want of 144.
...... ff'hat is it to me, if Satan confoundjou,
A As I put my trutt in the Alnjohty power ofChrift our Redeemer, fo I naoft humbly, heartily
and conlhntly befeech him, and verily believe, that he will confound and utterly extermbe all Sata-
nical temptations in thefc afticns, dfe are we nothing.
Befeech God to forgive you jourjins, I will vijit ytu at thefourth hour after dinner,
— - Deo Gratias.
Saturday,
After dinner, circa horam 4.
A Comtor: lis, O God, with thy truth.as we intend truly to bc thy faithful and devout Sex-
vants, tjlfitte limam.
E. K. Here he is.
1 .• .;. Tou have 29 twi ce, the laS- zg t»ufl clean be put oftt.
a Tou have twoT>\iiQdt yonmnfi put the latter out,
^'K. He is gone.
E.X,
oJtrne relation ofDr.Dtt his ABiom.mihfprits, &c. i&j
E.K. He is here again.
^
5 Have you not this word double?
^Kttwo words next to tfiAt, Dlafod and
Look out the HHmber of 6j
Put next to it lis A The wicked enemy prompted falls.
^ Ton have two lo
Make the /aft 66.
5 Ihelafi -]] mufi- ie-]X.
The refi wi/l prove it felf.
J^ow fet the numbers and gather.
rhink^Mot that I can erre; tf there be afaulty it is yours.
Saturday^
After drinking at night, hora -j.
,tt,ttTour words and numbers mufi be all ofie^ or elfe you labour in V4t>n.
,. !• 2- 3-
A Which be the words anfwering to tho^ numbers ?
,...„ Take Common Rlodnr / will teach you wfurther.
A God be thanked.
*.„,Take Common
Ifpoke to thee in the beginnings of Darr And And , over the which there mufl be \l\ and i a j
Ifo inJhruSied thee in the beginning.
But it mufi be for a new Revolution, but notfor this. ^^0,^;
Put out thefe numbers, let themfall elfenhere. For anew Rc-
Note that, in the Margentffor the beginning of another. volution
- The beginning
of anochcr.
I Take
2 Common
^ Audcal
4 Purge
f and
6 Work
7 It.
,,» Dlafod and then together.
«,„» 121 <'wrDhfod,<««<ii25 «wr'thcn.
,»»» Now doubt wt.
jarmartt 20.
Sunday after Dinner, about 3 of the clock. As we fat together in the Myftical rtudy, and the
Shew-Jltne being t*fore €, K. our School-mafter appeared therein.
, .» Behold I open unto thee this key, which is not worthy for the unworthy ; neither are the ««-
worthy worthy of it. Teafuch it ^, as never cntred i«to man before ; but the body it is , with
theimagewhereofthey have brought forth many things-i to the fraife of Gody i/» the Timber of
his fVorks.
Take Common^ &c. Take hold.
Write it in a paper by it felf.
N»w you have that youfought for (yoit may apply it, andfindyour ew» errours) which yoH are
unworthy to receive any fuch thing.
A Gloria laus&jubilatio fit Deo noftroakiffimo Domino Dominanttum& Regi Regum ira-*
mortali. Amen.
fanuarii 21. -\* PragA,
tJHonday.
Mane hora 9 j.
A Oratione Dominica 8c aliis precibus ad Dcum fufis, pro ejus gratia & auxiIio,per fideles fuos
Miniliros, & noftros conatus promovendos, &c.
E. K. Here he is.
,
A Bencdidus qui venit in nomine Domini, cujusnomenfanflificeturSc exaltctur, nunc iC in
svum per omiies gentcs.
f»t %fmember that ycft are ftejh, and by yottr wfrkj defirve nething at G«ds handst
%6S (?y{ true Relation of Dr. Dee his ABions^withfprits.^c.
New then ifyett be ma,n^ then are you of earthy earthy. "But according to your (tmilitude^
i,*'^f'
ted in the image ofGod in his Sonne Jeftts yon are heavenly.
But behold^God is oppojtte unto you , and hisfpirit cleat eth not unto you , in that you are flefh^in
that you are earth-tin that jou are filthy : <« thM you are the children of Satan , und thttt therefore.,
take part with him agaiKJl Ckrtfi anointed ofthe Lord.
£. K. He is out of fight now.
Now if JOU be "ppofire-y or more contrary tt the image of him which dr»elleth in you, *fyu dwell i»
him what do yee here : why prefume you to enter within the Doores of him to whomyou are an adver-
faryf
Herein you (iocw your ignorance ', and the Ittmptihneffe of your fragility .^
in that you feek of him,
unto whom you are odious ^or crave the bread which is dm .:;>d necejfary for his children andfcr-
fank vants. But hear myvoice, Pacntibus dat, kd pcccntibus hliis, & fervis, led non alienis-
Notwnhjlanding^ of his mercy, andfor that , he ^nerv before the beginning ofall worlds , the cor-
ruption of you r vejfelsi and remembring that you have been of his houfhold -, mercifully he hath hi-
therto winked at yottj andat yourprefumptien, andfed you with that bread, which is not the bread
of (inners.
But now confidering that you continue in your wic^edneffe , continue in your rebelUw againfl his
Uponconditi- cMajefiy, and fight dat/y under his banner which ts accurfed, he takjth his breaU from you, pjut-
*""•
tethuphis Doores againfi you , warrethhts fervants againfi you, and is become a fire-brand of
wrath againfi you.
But here you wtllfay : were not we of thtfe number unto whom he made a prorfi'fr^you were/o.But
ttpon condition : That ifyou would bridle your tongues from fpeakj^g evil, a>:d become wholly hts.
But you are neither his , wor bridle your tongues: but Ipeak Blaiplicmy bcrorc tlis Lo;d , andihz
Meffengers of his light and covenant. Therefore are you not inheritors of his premife. Behold,while
thegrapesgrew, and the corn ripeneth, God did expeB your return, fo, no hour is unacceptable un-
to him.
But MOW the hiirvefi commeth that the corn mufi be cut down and thegrapes prejid, you are no: as
you laid you would be, nor ns you promifed.
Therefore are you exclude d., for in the vineyard there commeth no jlrangers 5 norinthisharvefi
commeth any hirelings, for it is not the harvejt ofman.
Now either fulfill your promtfe andreturn from the multitude of your finnes : or murmur not,
though you befhut out of 'Doores.
The earth of it ftlf bringeth forth nothing , for it is the lump and excrement of darkueffe-, whofe
Hell.
bowels arc a Kuning lake.
But where the heavens yield, and the Sunne poureth down hisforce, (he optneth herfelf, and be
commeth fpongy , receiving mixture to generation, andfo is exalted above herfelf ^ and bringeth
forth to the ttfe ofman : Even fo the Body when it lyeth in the puddle and hotchpotch of his earthly
filthineffe^ and darknejfe m^kjng himfelfequal with beafis : whofe dignity is not, bm in their ufe.
E. ^. Now he is here again.
,„.,» Two things you have to be infrutiedin , t»RIodnr, andinthe Law of Coition and
Mixture.
the firfi, is the infirument workjng , and drawing things together of one nature. Thefecondis
the bounds and termes, wherein every mixture confifteth, and beyond the which it cannot ^0,
Thefirjl of ^ parts > every part conteining,conteineth his contemtd double.
The firjl ii Tepens , this teacheth the reft.
Thefe two things can I open unto you in two revolutions', which it but one dayes work..
But new I ceafe toofen any more unto you till I fee the favour of God more open untojou.
yffter 7 dayes I will come again, until then, [neither am, nor fpeakj
A The mercies of God be upon us , now, and ever, i/fmeu.
-j- Tragi, ^efus Mercy.
tMonday.
Januarii 28. Mane, liora i© fere.
""
Oratioiie Dominica & aliis pro mifericordia divina , fufis precibns extemporandis.
After diverfe pitiful complaints of our frailty , and calling for favour,grace,and mercy, he appea-
red.
,„, Let the heavens prepare themfelves to hear , the earth fcatter her felf before my voice J
for J am the Trumpet of the Higheft , and the pierctng Spirit, difperfed into all creatures, which
arefrom the beginning in Cod, and made to his glory , and the ufe of man-kind , that in man he
might be glorified,
^ive ear thirefore,prd up your garments, andfcatter your hair abroad beftre the Lordywhichit
glorified in me , snd through vihem Ifpeakj ^"^ thefe are my words.
Har-
(^true relation ofDr, Dec his A5fiom,mthfpirJtf, &c- 3^9
Harden not yoffr hearts againfi the Lord , neither exdc your felves above hint that hath created
JOH. B^f humble yoHr [elves, and conjider yoit areflejh-, niortal, tranjitory-, and full of finne.
i^y brethren', rMj brethren^ ftnne and fle(h appear not before the L»rd ^ neither fuck as arejin-
MtrSy and flejhly veffils apt or fit for the Lord to dwell tn.
Underftand what ths Lord isy and how gr:at he is '. afndg to ther^fckedy great and terrible • a
father to the holy andJlncerefuji--, full ofmercy, and loving kj»d>iejfe.
If ^on now therefore be holy , andput on the garments of Iny:occ:jcy , and walk before him in [f
righteoitfnejfe ; Then look^to have the reward of Children •-,
Then look^far his fatherly merc.et, and
loving kjndneffe ; Then, then rejoyce at the oaruieiits of glory prepared far jo t.
Buc'it yoK feek^him tniadv^mcnt, andflir him up to wrath and a nge- .-
ifyon catife him to call the But If
terrible thptnders (providedfor the wicked) about him, in the mnfl furtotts flames of his indignation,
togather you together likj vhirl iVtnds : f/^yoK draw his hply Ai'geltrom you , andfp/i! you ofyour
Mrmes: ifhe fit down upon the mouth of vengeance, and arm ii'nfelf withrighiemfnejfe agamfi-
your wickedaeffe.
Then look_,for the horrible and Htfpeakjble reward of the wicked, an i the confumingfireof Ju-
fiice,(harper then the two-edgedfword.
pyh} hath flood before the Lord tnjuffice ? or who dare (Quarrel -with the highefl ? whdt flefh
hathfeen the Lgrd in his Majefiie ? or can appear before htm.as riahtco-is ?
. Tear your [elves therefore in pieces, andfall do-wn before the Lord , worfhip him as a futher, and
hecome his children :
for his Judgments (my brethren) are ten ib!e, and his wrath ts vtchout mea-
fure^ Many wayes you are bound and tyed unto God ; yis by difciplwe you learn.
But three[pecial wajet you have been advanced by /. im more thenyour brothers or (ifieri have binx
The firfi in the vifitation, wherewithal he hath comfortedyou , and exalted you above thefforld-
lings, ot his good,pure, and jult Miiuliers ot eccrnity and light.
Secondly, in that with his own hand, yea^wi.h the beckj>f his own eye, beyond the miniflryof
Angelifhshath divers wayes protcdttd you : defended yon, yea^andfnatchedyou from imminent and
violent envy, and prepared deftruction of Satan, at home, abroad, and divcrle other wayes , fecret
4nd not to be opened.
Lafily, that by their meanes and minijlry, which are hisgood Angels, and minifler unto him ', he
hath guarded you from the wickedneffe ofyour own Country , aud hath brought you , ready to place
jouinto the lapof aVirgi>i, with whom, ifyou cake part, you fhall afccnd into that Hierufalem,
which fhall defcend, and there live for ever, .
'' -
Theietore ought you, above all men , to life up the horn of the Lord , and to blow his praifes a-
broad.
Therefort ought you when others are full of idleneffe, the dalliances offtnne , to humble your felf
tffon the earth before the Lord, and to praife his Name^ --^
Therefore ought you,theugh allficfhforfookjhe Lord, rind cried out againfi his anointed , tefiand
fiifiy againjl the malice of the hills, and to be without fear.
O my brethren, therefore ought you {invery deed)to fhake offyour wickedneffe , and to cleave
.
(^before the Lord) unto the innocency of Angels , delighting in the one as an eternalfood , dsfptjing
'the other as a fire-brand for Hell-fire and the wicked.
A O Lord, Vellc adell nobis, aflabfquetuo fmgulari favore, &auxilionou pofllimus perficere,
quod ita debcmus prxibre. Igitur Deus,
Lo,behold, your humility is not , you are fealed to the fVorld , and according to the World mea- ^_rl/,-
[ure the Lord ; Therefore with the fVorld jhall you be judged. Thereforefhall the Lord ft in judg-
ment aga'mft you.
A O Lordjwhat prevaileth us that we arc are born? or \Afhat prcvailcth us that we have heard of
the myfferies and promifes moft merciful of the highelt, as concerning our Ele^ftion , if the Lord will
not help us in our g:cat frailty and mifcry .*. where fhall we become on the face of the earth? &c.
,,»,. Hear me. /r^r wr »« 5p/m, for it is not in thee- A
£. K. Now a flame of fircflafticthinmy face.
,. Oyeeof little faith 10 yee of little faith I
ye of little faith \ Ihave gathered you to-
gether asTrophets. Put you fiie from me. If I had known orforefeen^ that to Jit on the feat of
Kings^ had been meet for you • to have had habitation or dwelling ^ith the crafty Counfellors of the
Earth would have made J9U fit for me. If I had feen that pride of the loathfume heaps of money
iEgathered together, could have fantiifcd you before me ; Then csuld I have lifted you up, placed v
jou amofgjl the worldly wife, or epenedunto you the lowth ofthe Earth. But /prowa'tfJ you againlt ^hifjum,i\:e
Kings, agamd Counfellors, («jfi«/x/? the Govcrnours oi thetVorld, toopenm'j judgments , «t/>^ ro lowih.
bear n'//««']/i'''/ ray power. But [mce you are [of»tl of rebellion, and will rif^ up againjl the Lord A
that made you, difdainto take part with hishoiy Spirit, that you may be rectified audi'anftiftedto
Ourofficeap-
the performance of his holy will; Hear lu]^\\o\.\ my voice.
poime .
Take whom[oever thou wilt, inwhofe fdce the Lordfhall feem to dwell , and place hint with this Ve voz-t
Seer, andlet him fiandfeven times by him : I will take the fpirit from him , and will give it unto ffcifccndo vi-
another, unto the fame that f^andeth by, and fhall have fower to fee: andhe fliall fulfill my word) ^'"'^
^ ^.'''
that I have begun. But tfthoit dofo,take heed th/it upon his head there come mrafor; But keep him
YHmt,"^'""
forme. <yC- /
370 (^ true Relation ofDt, Dee his ABions^mthfprits^^c,
/come again.
A O Lord God, thou haft coupled us two together, in thy clefiion, and what the lord hath
joyned,no flefhly fancy of mine (hall willingly feparate. But Lord, if it be thy will, feeing he is
fohardtogivecredittothy holy meflages, wichoutfome proofinworkfirft pafled; as for example,
this doftrine ofthe Thihfophersfioae ; that fo he may come to be allowed, though he imitate Tho-
T»AS T)jdimus in his hard and How belief, or credit given to thy Minifters in this Adion. Lord,
proceed herein, that he may perceive thy power and mercies, &c. And Lord,becai!rc he is to re-
ceive the pledge of thy mercies, and myliery of the heavenly food, we would gladly hear of that
holy SacrATitent fome dilcourfe for our better inftrui5lion,and his better incoursg.ment to the myIf e-
ry receiving.
A After a good while, in which mean time we had difcourfcd of the Sacrament receiving, and
of the Philofoj^-hers flone making, he appeared.
E.K. Here he is now.
....ATofff vfell. vthat I fuj untojoH.
£,K, He opcneth his face, he putteth on a white garment, he takcth up the four
corners of his garment, and putteth them under a broad girdle he hath; on his head
is nothing, but hiir rtddijb n>averwg.
t,t„Gad^ in the begtMnin^^ of J^thtng, bj himfelfy made) created, and gathered together nil
Creatures ; of Nothing, becaufe in h:mfe!fhe is.
E. K. Heholdethuphishands,andlooijeth up to heaven, and feemeth to pray fx-
tefttii mAntbfti.
.... Jf he Be, then doth it fo/larPi that nothing is, b^t that which is (jod. But God made not
nil things (made and create i) of himfelf neither out of himfelf : therefore rf nothing,
Underjhand then fore, that Godfcmbeginntng. and bejond the beginning in himfelf, in himfelf
*sGod,co)iteined I am andu,j)reper to htmftlf, and for himfelf: But alfo by the knowledge of
himfelf, he conteir.ed alfo that Nothing, of the which in hisfecret and determined pttrpofe feparated
from himfelf^ he intended to m.ike all things. Itfolloweth necf^urily \ t her -fore) thdt that which
w.is not, had ni porter of it felf,mtifi- remain after the Image of IS, brought or knit together by
the fVifome ^fGod,fubJtantially in himfelf, whereby fefis ^hrifl appeared in hii God-kead*
But behold, whenGod the Father andthe Son throughonef^iritnal f;ibftance andillHmination,
from ont centre, hadgatherered together (I(5u Divino) that f>^\\\'^feparable,
E.K. He fecmeth to be confumcd to aflics in a fire, and fo lyctb as it were
in aflics proftratc.
E.K. Now he is up again I know not how.'
E.K. HeTcemeth now JO be very clear, and in manner tranfparcnt.'
..,» Say that lafi.
A I read, But behold, when God, &c. as in the 8th. lineabove^
E.K. He loofccth about him diligently.
t.,,tThen did he feparate that Nothing from himfelf, and oi it marvelonfly lay hid in him : ft
marzelonfly he wrought upon it: Not a: c c iiinai t, for then it had been like unto himfelf.
But iM time, which he firft made out of noihir.g : which being canfumed. Nothing fhall return in-
Hme, jg jj,^ ^hcc from whence it came. And that which hath offended in nothingfhall be a fecond^ oppo-
fite from God, and out of God i which fhall have continuance, world without end : And it (hall bt
alwayes vexed, the Spirit of Godmediating: notofthefiibJlaKeeorp'treneffeofGod, or of his Spi~
rit, but With the ftlf-fame Nothing; out of which (^ od created ad things. Seeing therefore, that the
fVill of God, which IS hts Ircagejeparating Ntthingfrom eternity, in time made ail things (beinf
the work^of fix dayes.) ^But I teach you a Myfiery."^
tyfll things th»t through god are moved to the Center by the Spirit of God, (which is the center
Angeli of the Godhead) are not after the world,after the confummation of the world, as Angels and ths
Mens fouls, blefled fouls,are not to be reckoned with [that] Nothing'. But are of God, becaufe thej dxtell in
him., of whom it isfaiJ, There they fhall not need the Sun nor the (Ji'feon, the Lamb himfelf fhall
be then light, and a Jbtning lamp for ever. Note here that the Trinity, fir
jl, [econd, and third, tO"
tally not tMoved,but bj himfelf, tn himfelf, time bringing forth all things according to his Word,
made all things except Mav.. For why} when all things hadpUafed him, not becaufe they were,
but becaufe by ihefnrd(th: I m.^ge ofhimfelf, and wherein he is delighted) they were made,he
made man, as the Scripture teacheth you, how by the Spirit of God >'« Mofes, that he fhould injoy
and ttfe the benefit o^^all this fomahing proccedtf:g from nothing in the Creatures of God in their
kind : that in him God might be glorified ; net onely in this world,which it your earth & vailtftni-
ferj ; bft t alfo and chiefly that the memory of his exceeding and great mercy & omnipotency might
remain before him in heaven, in the image »f man, andthe moH- excellent Creatures^ world with'-
""' ""^. E. K. Now he is fain into alhcs again, as before.
E.K. Now he flandeih up again, as before.
Here is the makingof man to be confidtred : for of the mofk excellentejt dignified, and
aii:sR]^ix:oi i^oih'iDodtfirib»(tdjajitwtrt approaching ngfr Hmo Cod: God madeth$ Soul of
man^
(^true reUtim ofDr, Dee bis ABions^withffirits^ &c. 57
1
mariy as a thing k*>it or tied in the convex of hts orvn Sphere-'^ ytht taki»g fart with Nothing materi- Crcaton of
ally, hat with Nothing Immortal. man.
The Soul was made fpiriciial and increafiiig, wherein the Philofophers^, the wife men cf this rvorld /fima homini's
are deceived^ and hath been a fecret fhut up m the Book of Eliiras, not fit for the world. Efdrtu book.
for evenasfiejhby conjUnEtion and commixtion of Hkjlihoods proper in thetr own natnre to Note of the
hring forth the tmagf ofhimfetf ;
/o ^or/j the molt exc^Ilcncell part of man, taking part wuh the [ouls fpiiitiial
yiKunvj o^ God^{aridfo perpeiHrilly moving') bring forth, after the manner of c ternny. every livifig
a'^'^'^^ Mn
foul: the Spirn of God {conioynedwtth the Trinity) \\o\-'K'\f\o^\t\\\\[\x\i-t his infinity. -
ry
gehaldin the beginni>7g God t}ath not nurnbrediormaWy alt fouls that ihAlcmcr into thefe vef- /\^ .
fcls-, or other part. But the matter macerialin himlelf, he knoweth and hach limited, beyond the Sothjcltmay
w/i'f/'jDcficiente materia, r/jfr«' C(j»>!of ^f. Therefure /f is conteincd in Number ; Not-, that it
bcfaid,thac
is fonteined tn Numbtr to be nttmbred^ bnt within the proportion of nnmbtr centeined in the l{now-
J'
qyl'c-<e-
ledg of fefns Chriji., taking part with man., and fs to he » -ytbred.
quafi'seneran-
Adzmfell; tranfgrejjid God his Comm.mdment-) and therefore was his fonl darl^enei^ bare ai:d do^ tinmam
nakedybecaufe he wantedthe beauty and excellency of Cods Spirity wherein he dignified him ^ and humanem prO'
made him likj Unto htmfelffhzm^z living foul. He was caflosn, and now cajleth ofmifery, g'?,'"'-
wanting the knowledge of shufe things., tor tie which he was created Now God, the image of his
Father^ grieved at (hefall of man.^ and moved wnh pity, voui hfafed-, becaufe of the excellency of
manytoenter into m^n. being before feparated, into this p.*rt of nothing, into man. Not that he
would beautifie himfelf with any thing that m.in had : But that^ Become man, begotten of the
Holy (jhofl, he might , as youknow by the Scriptures, make man acceptable again w'th God his _., — . .v
Father, God himjelf, with Godin unity, for Ju'.iice and Tcrrour is God the Father, Mercy and love diftmit,
«God the Son. Wifdomc and knowledge is God the Holy ghofi.
He, fince he became man, pur not on ihefejh of man to become a lyar^ but that the flejh of man
might be full of the fpirit ef Wuth and under/land ng.
E. K. Now he IS fain again into aflics.
E,K. Now he is up again.
Anifo receive forgiveneffe of Jins-, and be at one with God, which is to fay, in his favour, ta'
kj^g hold in God, not as created, and from Creation fnfulby fall. But by ranfome and redemption
M bought andmadefree in Jefus Chrifi, which ojferedup the SacriRce ef frankjnctfife, geld, and
vtyrrh, 0^ true propitiationyftr the quicksand the dead.
JVew, my brethren, givegood ear what Ifay unto you,
Thewtfdomeof the Father, in love, created and made man, dignifying him^ and exalting himy
4s the Lord and (^Mafter over all Creatures mortal. "But how ? by Plafmation. For it is written^
Let us make man.
Here thou feej} alfo the Scripturefaith, that Cjodtookj>f the £arth. Markjhts ward, and con- Eirth,'
fider it when I(hall apply it.
Now if this power, if this Plafmating,if this Taking, which was the Word, become man.,
perfeiiman; thenfolloweth it^that man woi andiSyOodcre3itiT\o:ind crated. If therefore this
eonJHnilion or knitting together of God and man, bear the image of him, tn excellency and power
^
whtch created all things, and by whom this Nothing was fpread abroad, and had form in his parts •
then followeth it, that thefelf-fame God and Man being truth-, fpeaking of himfelf unto his Dif-
ciples,fayingy This is my body.
E. K. Now he is fallen again in aflies.
£. iT. Now he is up again.
«. Resd^
A I read, Now my brethren give good ear, &c.
E. K, Nowhcholdcthuphishands.
„,,^did in breakino of bread, whichJtgnifieth the earth, tn takjng itfignified, the power of md'
king., and his own Office, and breaking it before hts Dtfciples, atcordtng to the fecret fenfe of mans
Jotil, then being yet alive, give lumfelf in the bread, and tn breaking unto hts D'fctpUsj as the fenfe
of hisw0rdfpokent
E K. He fpeaketh ihac I underftand not.
did import and truly ftgnifie himfelf, his very body, tofuffcr, andfufered in that, in him, in
his Godhead anAwifdome before the worlds it was fo I bis very true body and very true blood. But
mtwithflandin£ Myilkally. Confider of this,
E.K, Heisgone^
Ct Bleffedbe.
E.K. Now he is here again.
Mark^here for whom, and unto whom Chrift took,, a»d brake bread : alft took^ the Chalice,
And called it his blood of the New Teftament, which (hall be given.
Here yoKfee,ihzzin{di'\ih,a.v\dS2cr2mini3\\Y it was given unto his 'Difci^les there, which w-tt Note,
alfa to be given upon tht Crojfefor the redemption of man kind ',
for elfe, why (hoHld he ha,V€ faid. In faith & Sa-
which ^all be given}
cram?nialiy.
Qc 7.
Sut
37 i ($yl true Relation of Dr. Dee his ABms,mtb[prits,^c,
But here mj Brethren^ hi that it tvM to be given^it wasto feat the perpetnal and everla:flifg me-
mory thereof fi»to the dd\md\on of SMan^and the comfort of his chofen. But i>i Spirit, hf«re,he
had pacified the wrath of his Father : Therefore tt was given and to be olvcn.
B'M ttnto whom > tohisDtfciples^andnottiKtofl-ra-/igers'y not unto the Scribes and Pharifees,
but umofrich as did apprelund him by tnidi.
Here thntfeefiy that to appreh.nd by faith-, is to be comprehended in the lo^e ofGod,
But in that Chrifi faid that fhall bejh'd, it fi^nified unto the worlds end: for his blood is always
(lied before his taihcr, as afattsfaUtonfor iheobjltnacj and fin of man.
Tl Tcm-m- ^''-^ ^'^" remembrance thereof is the power ( f doing, that he gave to hu Difciples, which confijt-
bra'nce. eth in Au^whichmufi be dor.e inthe Qmrch of God^yea even unto the end. For as God (fefus
Chrifl ) is faid to be a Saviour and anointed., fo is he an eternal King,, and A Continual Saviour of
fhltlit* Potel f"^^'
^^ fl)
"""' ^"'''^ ccnteining in man {being dignified through bis Godhead) the eternal power of
cTeubtque. prcfence and Being., in all places whercfoavcr,
Confider (w/ hethren)untowhat nfe (hculdthe body of Chrifi bc,if r/j^Body it felf were not
a Sacrament, and the holy (ign ot the peace between God andean.
Behold it tsfaid^ unlejfe thou eat of the flefh and drinkjf the blood., thou canfi not., &c.
If the T)ifctples did eat the body of Christy Chrifi minifiring himfelf., and flinding by, not yet
cr/fcified., why therefore jhouldefi not thou eat the body of thefame Chrifij which dwelleth in thee,
and in whom thou haft to dwell.
But here is to be corfidered the manner of eating.
E.K. Now he fallcth in aflics again.
E.K. Now he is up again.
..... But at whom jhall we learn this manner of eating? Mybrethren.,ofhisT)ifciples. For
althouffh chrifi himfelf alive., vifihly and fub^antially ttood beWe them , and minsjired unto
them: Notwithfiandtngtojk^bread, brake it, and gave it unto them., fayii^g^ fnis is my body :
They fimply did believe it, confidering and acknowUdgtKg his Om'nipotency {which Peter had
grounded in fay !>ig. Thou art the Son of the living God. )
If therefore he be acknowledgedof us (^I fpeak^ for you') to be the Son of the living God. Then
muft we truly confefe.fthat all thtngs are poffible unto him, and that by faith, we ought to believe
the mylftncs, woiks and wonders of God, Sacramentally opened and to be ufed for the cure of our
own fores.
[He fpcakcth I knownot wh at, nor to whom,]
A I read : But at whom? &c.
And net as the wicked ufe to do ; Tie the power and majefty of God and his Omni'potcncy to
the tail or end ot rcal'on, to be hailed as fhe will.
If his Apoftlcshaveleftusexnmplesofbelief, have taught us how to believe, and upon what
rock<ind foundation to fallen our belief; Then fimply and nakedly follow the fleps of true Ftiith.,
and laying realon afide, believe.
But here note, that this Sacraincnt is to be miniftred amongft the Apoftles, amongft the Mini-
ftcrs and true Seivaats of God, in his Church, and not in the temple of the Scribes and Pharifees,
Hypocrites, and Deceivers, which whilcll they tear ChriH Jefus and his body after the frowardneffe
of their own ienfc, do eat (as fudas did) and fo perifli eternally.
But I fay unto you, and teach you, that wherefoever in the true Church of God remembrance is
madej and the ufe of. this Sacrament is celebrated of the true body and blood of Jefus Chrift cruci-
fied> there isalfo the true body of Chii(f,God and man lubRantial, and bread of eternal comfort
andfood, to fuch ax humbly, nakedly, and penitently receive it, propitiatory for the quick and the
dead ; not unto kich as arc dead in (in, and jn hel], and out of this life, but unto fuch as are iiere Sin-
nersyandfo dead, and to be revived. For he that dwellcth in Chrill is quick, becaufe he dwelleth in
life and light. But he that gocth out of Chntl through fin, and in whom Chrift dwelleth not, he is
dead. Fur this., I havefaid.
A Lord, whatdiall weiay tothePrieftx,when they would have us to acknowledge Tranfub-
flantiation, &c. ^
t^
^t,t,The bread that was min/fired by Chrifi unto his 'Difciples., was not a figure of his body, hut
Ihewordsof his true body. So ihc Mmxliev ufing i he efpce and perfoit of Chrifi- in office, pronouncing the [a]
Confccrotion Tvords, d oth alfo give unto the people not Bread., but the true body.
pronounced. "But hear me, Thou wufi confider it as a Sacrament.^ and mufi- believe as the 'Difciples didy that
Subfemapa- ,j y^ ^/,^ ^^^^ j^^^y ofchnfi, that thou eatefi in the form of Bread.
A As concerning under b®th kinds rccieving, what is your doftrine ?
,., Caro &[anguii faciunt corpus & confiitttunt,
A Then it is no ofience to God, to receive under one kind onely.
(^ As concerning the vvorftiipping of it, being lifted up by the Priefl-,
ThM
nu.
t*tt*
(^trne Relation ofDr, DcebisA&ms, withjoints, &c. 373
That^hy fatth,(inthat ft is i>e/ieved to h the true i>od^,) is alfo hy faith to ie rvorjhppsd :
XJot in that it hath the fhape ofbread,, irtt that it is the body of (^hrift, true Gad and mat.
^ As concerning alfo the refervifig oi ic,bcing confecrated, what are vve to underftaiid ?
^.... Reafott hath ko place here :' To them that receive it, it is a SAcrament • But receiving cca-
fing,tl\e SaeramcnC(rf(«/If^<«//i. i
Cclebvanii, & accipjentibiis, Sacramentum&Saci'ificium eft : Ccflante cckbratione , &niilh's
atclpientibiis , ceflacSaci amentum & Sacrificium. Nam Sacramentutn dicitur ab inrtitutioue 5c
mode. . ,
The mean confifleth in them both. •
To morrow yoit fhall hear more of me, iv the mean feafon confide): Joh, HowmercifulGod
is unto JOH through me, and open this dodi inc alto unto your wives , that they tnaj alfo know Cjod
trtilj.
A Gloria in cxcelfis DeOjS^ in terra pax hominibus bons voluntatis.
158--. + "Frag^.
fan»arik,a,:^. Tnefday. Mane hora lo x-
Orationibtisfin!tis,polt hdlcrns adlionis le(5lioncm,apparuit, facie vclata>uc pvius.
.....i '/ ilemunflrattdto you, yefterdaj, how the viliblc hi^n? or matter appearing was united and
knii.ntftO\tli:tvt(ii>le,figmficated'- wherein and whereunto /<?»/jj'fr4'a!i« my own form and perfon,
farwhofvtmr (alkcth of (fodand Chrifi expounding the Scriptures^ ought to tail^plainly, truljf, and
openly^ that that which rheyfpeakmay be underJtood. This is the Office of a Preacher. Evcnfo
. / ti^lk^ng of ^od. , and illumtnated to this Office, for the time , was bare , becauff Ifpake not of
my felf. But the dobt rin? I taughty ou was true : and is worthy to be graved in golden Tablcs,and mo-
numcnroliy co be pliiced upon the a!ear,wherein man may fee, as in a glafl'e,How God through his Sa-
i[y:am£n,ts ^^id lioly inthtutions, fandifieth, regencraceth and purifieth man unto himfelf.
J^ow t$ fke worl^intended , which is called tn the Holy Art Gebofal , which is not(^as the Thilo- ^jy SanSla
fophers have written, ) The jirfijlepfupernatural, but it is the ^rft fupernatural fiep naturally li- GE BOFaL,
mited «(-?« the 48 Gates of Wifdoni ; w/wf)'ff«!'/j<'//\5<7«^beginncth. 'Y\\z\i'^ is the fpeaking V/ima Porta.
withQpdra.s'i^oiisdidy -mhifh ttinfifjite' s/4ll the reft have proper limits < whereinthey are con- ^'^^^f""^^' .
tetned.
'
fni'
But underfland that hoc opusunum reieiveth' Alultiplication and dignification , by afcenfion (;oilo'qniim cu,
through all the rejl that are limited according to their proper qualities, Deo , fiimm"-
of this knowledg I have laid a fure foundation , have taught what it is, andthe inflrament Sapiential'or'
wherewithal, and whereby it is. The manner of proceeeding, and her Bafis. So that there rvanteth w" , .
,.
nothing but the hm^h and eajteunknit'ting ofthofe things that are wrapped ^ not with the l>^''^dsof " 'P '"t»"
itfelf, but with the obfcurity and caliginoiss Cloud of your own ignorance. Dignification.
But ifthe Cloud be in you, then by your own help and confent it mufi be removed. What hath
A By the favour and help of the Highell: we trult the Cloud fliall be removed. teen taught.
.»• Take heedthereforeyou lift not up your felves inmind, prefumingagatnftreafon, (^where^
What yet
by you Are knit together,) and the wtU of God : whereby you are taught obedience. ' e 1.
for prtde is hmefitl before (jod : and to be in love with yourfelvesis the greatefi ignorante. Pride.-
Sb-iH a dark, feller bmg or boa(l of her beauty} becaufe fhe receiveth light and cleerneffe ,by a Sclf-jove.
(fandle brought into, orjhning into her.
NomorecanfithovjiE.K.jfortheripenneJfeofthy wit and utiderfiancLittg is through the^vt-
fence ot us, and our illumination.
But if lee depart , thou (halt become a dark, feller > and fhall think^too well of thy felfin
vain.
Matter wanteth amengfl you^ the fire cannot continue , but when you bring more Wood, youjhall
have more fire , / wtll not vifit you again, until thejeventh day.
, A DeonoftroOmnipotenti, Sempiternovero& vivo, fit omnis Laus,Decor,Gloria &gratiaium
aftio,nunc & femper. ^men.
-j- Praga.
February 5.. Tuefdaj. Mane, horamcircitcr 10.
•
A Orationibus finitis, & fpecialiter pro milericoidja divina fuper nos tres, iA L.JE. K.']^'\ ad
ejushonorem, laudem, &gloriam,
E. K. He is here now.
A Gloria patri,5cc.
m
^ - I. — .^—— — .... - — r . - -- I -.— MI-...I _ jm
574 <^true relation ofT)i, Dee bis AUimsy mthj^iritsJkc.
Wo be unto the lVorld,far(he hath appeared before the Lord Hnpitre.
Wo be ftnto the Sonnet of men^ for they are the dwellingplaces of the beajf.
Fames. ^o ^^ "*'" the feed of the earth , and unto the feed rvithin her j ^orfne is touched with fire from
on high , and is trod under the feet ofthe Highejl.
Who ishe that girdeth hts fvfordttnto him: or what is he that is ready for the battel? fuch as
havefarfaken the Lord awd are run aflray : ainJ. hath placed himfelf with thefcornftil,
fnfli optri-
^^^'^^ farrow ts at hand unto all fe^ : the jurt (hall be trodcn down , and the (ueets (hall bear
memuY. witnefle ot them.
Bellum. For there is a Battail proclaimed in Heaven , and the God of Hefts hath put on his armour , uni
is become afire ofrvratb.
Now commeth the time , that fuch as fo. te/ear not God, jhallfaU down Headlong , and fuch as
have been lifted up, runne afiray and down willfully,
Happy is he that endureth and appear eth a Labourer before the Lord , for he fhalt enter into his
holy hill and (hall be crowned with the f^iiiery.
Such as GoiA covcteth,chey flie from him: yea,fuch as ferve at his Tables,become his enemies.
What therefore (h.tU Ifay } I makefeed^but I reap it not : I build, but I enjoy not.
"'
A Bem;icituhous,OGod , and help our frailty, purge our filthineffc, and create adeanhearc
in us, &c-
Thejlnner kj">cketh and is heard : but he that is juft entrethyTor into the SaeHuarj of the
Lord, ne unclean t hing commeth , for being cleanfed, they enter.
He that is a Prophet, or an yipoftle,or a Servant called, by the mouth of the Lord, andfo fepe-
^ rated from the reft' , let him do his duty; Firft', chat h; make himfelf clean before the Lord ; yind
Make dean then may he hear , and fit in jif dgment , againfi the impure and unjuft , and may fee the works and
fifft"
wonders of the Lord in his holy place.
Laborovos, adnaufcam.
£. K. He is gone.
A After an hour we had difcourfed together, I fell to this Prayer.
A O Lord thou haft heard our conferences , difcourfes and refolutions: O God, be our com-
fort, and reconcile thcfe repugnances ot purpofes , foas it may appear that thou art the merciful Fa-
ther, thealmighcy and living God , the Creator of all things being and that thy promifes made
in mercy and favour , fhall not with mans frailty be overthrown, or Kindred. LManifeft thy power
andglory to us herein, that thy Prophecies may come to light , to the end and purfofe thyWifdom
and power may work, thy own honor andglorj. So be it.
£. iT. Now fir, where arc you?
.,. HereIam,thefervantofGod,
Unus veftrum, vocatus eft hujus negotii minijler.
^her, Puer.
Igitur ad impleat minifter minifterium : Puer autcm humili & fe minifterio.
Taraboh de Un^erfi and that.
fern sudo & A I remember the old Parable told us of a man naked, who cloathed himfelf with leaves , and of
^s'ltpri
a child,anda VVhalc,&c. ^nnoi')^. yiprills ii. Cracoviz.
Hear my counfel, and follow it.
Wonderfid and great (ire thefecrets and judgments ofGods determinations to come : which are all
CsKfijim,
ready leafed andgathered into your bofome.
A Gmilitude of Thej/^regfeat and true : and are hke unto the Rainbow which the Sunne makfth by the aptnejfe
the R Jin bow of the matter and place (that jheweth itfelffudd^nly a»d nfany behold it : So fhall the harveft of this
very apt, Doftrine, when the Tialis lunnc , and the World rccciveth difpofition, fhew himfelfwonderful
and terrible to all Nations.
But ifthe. matter agree not with the weaknejfe of your underjlanding , and palpable blindntjfe ;
%^pinenot, neither murmur. But pray, that you may have the fpiiit of God , to undeiftand , and
that your eyes may be opened.
A T^cium lib. The Prophet lij^ftw , but his bey did not.
c bT
'
^'*^ '''*
^^"P^'^^ P^^7'"K ' '^" ^"'^'^ ^y^ '""'' opened.
Thefe myfieries are delivered and taug ht to a Minifter aptfor them through the Grace andftre^
tte. k.nowledg of God, wherein ho haih bleffed f/jf f,Dce.
Vnto thee is :ojned the dignity of this mans veffel, which miniftreth unto thee,as afervant.
He therefore is not part of the labour, but part of thy knowledge.
KcUey. Kelley. Tme iz is, that this rain fsHeth out at thy re^neft. But lo, thou art let into the garden,
. ,., .
andi/rf Prfffrrf<^^f/<7r«>4//others, asa catherer,thatthe wonders of theLordmavbe finiftiedinhis
orotn^-uTl
"°"'"e-
nient is to be Therefore feeing thou art let in as a fervant, not as a f t^ D G, lay Judgment afidt j and do thj
I«id afide. duty.
. So
^true 9^elation o/Dr. Dee bis ABionSy mthj^iritSy &c. 375
So fliall it com; to paffc that the minifier-, through thee,/halt hefatisfiedy (as through the labour ATluough
^
, ofanecefary) and thou throvigh thee fatisfed. Ihaltbefat'tsfedalfo.
t^'fi d'"'^'^
^
In the mean fealbn gather thy felf together, tear God truly , and humbly^a home unto thy cJVfo- ^ ^^^ g.^^^^_
ther. pum Caihoti-
Endeavour thy felf to know thing? ncccfTary for mans underflanding, whereby thou flialt be aptcr cam Matrent
to judg^ and to take part wuh the * Spirit of God. emrtium fide.
I piomife thee, if thou do fo, that the Spirit of uyiderfianding in all hftmane kpowledg and divine^ ^'"^ •'?«<»'«•
fafficiently for thy Protvirion, Calling, and Creaciony^^// multiply upsn thee. ^, 2^' g^^^/^
A I pi'clume not to interrupt your dilcouifeot matter, butasvve are knit with the Lord fc/^. L. fi,i cathoHca.
in league of triendlliip, for the Service ot God, fo doth charity, and the order of our aflaircs re- Apromifeto
quire that fomewhat we fhould underHandof hisprcfentellatej&c] ^* *C- of great
Cafi fride away and be humble :
for he that hath an humblefpirit kpowethmitch.
unporcance.
Et cum puer Prophete, es, ab lUo qusre, ipfe te iuformabit.
Video ic circiimlpicio, ltd non video, Lasky.
A Oh Lord, what is this, what is this! OhLord'. A.L.Voy^ap-
. Sedempofuit Sataiuis ill cor ejus, Cr^f^/fA'/f mandata D«.
pm mconjpe-
St qua dixi feceritis, be/iefiet vobij : Sin minns, fiat vobisy fed bene mihi.
p
A Give me leave lo fpeak I pray you.
.»,,, Fio, locjuendo^ macer.
A If Z,4;^vt3ll, (upon whom fo much of our worldly doings is grounded, as the Houfe-keeping,
ftill in Cracovia^ in hire for an ycar,&c.) How fl-.all we fupply the wants ? &c.
i.... Siccciderit, rtatu.
Untcnmhabct^h..\'.~\acoelofecumreli^ttm. ._
But iniquity and negligence ca-tfeth him avolarc alfo, ofzi , this is the lafl. ^- ^' **'"««
A O Lord, Lord, Lord, have mercy upon us.
llmum i^^~
,, Confider this lafi counfel for lean counfel yott nomore. Asjourfight it, fo (hall yo» habet/eli£lum;
fee me. Mahuit zi.
A I befccch you let me know your name, if it fliall not offend you to ask. ultimum coaft-
lium,
Sum fanftilTimi figiUi foederis centrum.
A Are you the lame that is about the Croffe in the Center ? Sigillum jcedi'
4» I' C ^+^^j A Then arc yoMXn'4«i«e7. .
'"•
Ltvj. %elinquo,fed»o»defero. .\ £. iT. He IS gOllC. SiglU»'-I>(i.
A Gloria, Laui,Honor Deo nolboOmnipotenti. ^men.
—^— « ——»—.».^——^-^""""^
•4* Traga,
FebrHarit 1 8.
xj^londay Mane horam circiter 9.
' A Orationibus ad Dcum fulis, & aliquantulum de £. K. quantum ad myfteriorum participatio-
nem prefentem : ut mifericorduer nobifcum agat, & illius [£. JC] intentionem , & fidem Catholi-
cam ielpicit,& ut fuadivina bonitas nobifcum procederct inmyfterio perficiendojMt, de lapide Phi-
. lofophoruni , propter honorem & gloriam lui nominis, &c.
£. K. I fee an cndiefTe thing like a red Sea. A head cut off from a body dothappear: Shortly tiicti
the Hair hath bin pulled offit:that Head appcarcth to come out up of that bloudy Sea,
tumbling fomccimc oncpartj and fomctimc another upward, and fonaetimc under
the water clean.
£. K. Now I fee a Tree upon an old Hill full of moflfe in a dcfolatc place j bcfidcs
the former water.
The Tree is fprung ofa graft , which hath been grafted in .'.The Tree hath a few
green leaves on , and many old leaves: Theftatc of the Tree is as if it were AutHwif*
There lyeth by it the top of a Tree cut off, and dead withered.
f The Tree hath a eleven Shots or branches ifTuing out of it.
There tumblcth down from heaven a white thing, and out of it ifTueth an arm with
abroad axe in his hand, (uch as they hew pamnci board with,itfcemeth to be about a
yard long
That hand with his nail maketh a race down along the body of the Tree , and then
fpreadcth the bark open from that place of the race made.
^od erit, &futHrum efl-, efl & non efi. A VoIce«
E. K. That voice feemeth to come out of the top of the S hew Stone
.
57"^ ^*^^^ relation of Dr, Dee his A&ions^ withjj^iritsfiic.
A Voice otit of
the white.
I ©branches
cutoff of the
grafted [tee.
h voice from
theltcpof the
ftone.
Regnum "Dd
i> terru inflit.
{
Dee
KeKy
Seven more.
A voice.
If
E. K, On chc place of the Tree where it was made bare appeared two figures of
8,one in manner underanother. Now the batkis put together again , and the Tree
fecmeth whole, and as it were not cut.
Qttod erit & futHrum efi-, jam efi.
E, K. At this word he ftrook off ten of the Tree branches, and the ftem or branch
that ftandcth, fcemcth to be now between me and the Sun rifcn about an hour high
;
And that ftcm or branch hath five IcfTcr branches out of ir.
Every.
E. K. Now there ftandcth one like Michael, , with a tanckard in his h^d of filver
and (looped, he faith t,
Mich. ,».,.. Itirum LAvahote.
E. K. He wafheth with water, and his hands the old branch cut off. Now he ta-
kcth thai old braach up in his hand, and holdeth it up. The ax is torned from the
tree.
,.,» P/antavi te^ & neglexifli mandata &flatuta legis met,., & in fitperbia tua defalcavi te :
Sedjam memorftim verhorum & pa8i met apnd patres, & occupabis locum folitum, ^ ipfe rorabo
te Kubtbiu cccli. J.tm pon.im ttmorem in cor tuum^ & viftabo te legthtu meis-, & introducam pedet
reduHosiH SatiBuariunt : Neque cades, /icut patres tv.t ceciJem^t ; Jndttxi gentem malam&
frp£rbam,& benedixi et,{fed proh dolar)tiidet me. fgitur dejeci.,& pntcipitaviilhs a me: Ne
ferte trinmfhtt»tes pofui^ent nptllum Deum.
Michael Magntu es tu Ben Elohim , magna eJiglortA tua , magmudo tudfaperat ccelos^
& jam reguabis im terris.
E. K. Now A//V^<«f/putteth on the dead bough on the former tree : Now he with
the ax with his thumb, clofeth the barks together.
Now out of heaven commcth drops of a rain, and that ftcm which was foput to,
had 1 2 branches 5 and both that and the reft fpringeth together very frcfhly.
Michael. ,,,„ QHihabetocCHlosvideat^&cHi[u»tauresAudtat,
T)ee
E,K. Nowappcareth one like A under the tree.
E.K. or Safeguard.
And alfo I fee my fclf (faid E. K.) comming there, and my Gorvn is aM white, but ^e-
bhudied : and A feemeth to have a vi'hite Gown, or rather like a woraans fafcguard
full of pleats , and full of mens eyes.
There appear fevcn more, fix men and oncboy. One is 3 Blackamorc.
They have all white garments alfo.
The tree at the firft fcemcd to bring forth and (hew horns, and after that there ap-
peared men iffuing out or growing plentifully on that tree, and thole men to have
ihofe horns.
Then he with the Ax pulled one of thofe men off, and pulled one of bis horns,
skull and a\\,4»elthereef ^aveteeatte^^E.K. and the other fevenj and they (iiti
eat : and fo all the Vifion did vanifti away, nothing appearing in the ftone.
.«. ^fi^ ad rem ; V^os ant em pofi modicum admonebo,
A After half an hour, wherein we talked de Converfione fudaorum,
E. K. Here is now Levsaael, as before time.
Levan. ,„., O thott which art of thefeed of the earth., attend my voice., and open thy heart, that
thy bowels may be filled withgladnejfe., and that ruthin thy head may wifdome enter,J[nce God hath
not o-iely called thee, but alfo hath made a choice in thee, If thoM hear his voice, and obey it,
'Be not fliff"- Kecked^ neither fuffer fenfual imaginations to obfcnre or defle thy inward under-
Jlanding. The firfl nouniheth thee to the nourtpment efthyflefh, that thy fle(h perijhing may alfo
carry thy fo»/ with it. The fecond teact eth thee to underft and thy felf and thereby to acknowledg
the Creator : that thereby thy foul purified may alfo purifie thy body : that thereby in the end thci*
mayefl rife a purified and perfeS {^reature.
Behold, there are which rife; and hays \ol\ththhodizs'- and there are alfo which rife^ and they
rife in body.
^ui appetit fe propter fe, not intclligit Deum, fed qui intelligit Deum, appetic feipfum ; fed appe-
titus ejus non efl a fe, led ab alio.
Since therefore, to feeingod inot'] for your own fakjs, is to glorifie God, lift up jour felves, and
txhotd the heavens, and look^into the earthy and mufe at her wonders: And let wt the lejfer part
carry away thegreater.
E. K. I pray you fpcak higher, I can fcarcc hear you.
Thofe that have their SanUification through promife, andfulfilling of the Will of God, have al-
wayet
Q^tnte relation ^/Dr.Dec his ABions,mihfpYits, &g. 377
»ayes forfakjn thcmfdves ' B»t yet^ioxt\\<imk\vts, follomed his Commatidtments ; Therefore I
fayforftike jour felves^ and do the wiH ofGod ^ thac for che comforts of;'e«r /(f/w/ , and your e-
ternal falvadon ,
you may leek God.
But he that feeketh God^feekjth him through fatience^ through afjliElionSy through temptatid»i. pjticnce.
Therefore defpife this LMonfierthdt tempteth you , andtiegleU her m the miidefi ofhcrpride^ /\ffl,a,onS.
for fhe is vooTy miferahk, and prepared as a fire-hand for defirttUion ; ifyon feei^rtches ofher, {he TcivptJt ons.
h*th none, if yoti feekjvifdom at her, fhe knoweth it not, if you defire qmefriefe-^andtkejoyes ofreft,
MundM.
ttie cryeth out agaivft joHy fVatch^Watch, andgirdupjourfeives.
And tf joH feek^eternal life, or fiudy to pleafe God, and toglorifie him , wheremto you are cre-
ated , fepereite your felves from the Harlot.
Swear your fives her enemy , and hate all thofe that take part with her ; For,hel}old , fhe is he- .A mtindo &
come an enemy ofhim that created you, a Blafphemer ofhim whom yoif feek^to gUrifie,the daughter >"tnd.ims dc-
cfhim, which fet himfelfagainji the Htgheft.
J;^"'
'^* '"-
Therefore for your Creations fake t oMghtyou to defpifeher-
tor your Redemptions fake to negleit her , a>idftr the (jlorj that yon feekjo attain unto, utter-
ly to delpife or contemn her.
But here, peradventure, you willfiy unto me, as he [aid unto C^rifi the Sonne ofthe living ^od»
E. K, He makcih curfy , and kilTcch the ground.
IVhat fhall I do to enherit everlcfiing life ?
Jfay unto you follow the CommandementS'
Behold, it is written, Igive you a new Commandemnf, Love one another. j
How love you one another without Charity ?
But what ii (fharity ? is it not the gift of the Holy Ghfi ? jott kjfowit isfo, J oh kpon alfo^that
the Holy Ghofi is called a Comforter.
But confider with your felves, why he ts called a Comforter ; Not hecaufe he comfsrteth him-
felf, for he is all comfort ; But i>eca<'fe he is the comfort of fuch as he hatbjpokjn to, faying,! have
given you a new Commandement, Love one another ; But, who are they ? Even they that cat the
nefti, and drink the blotd ofthe Sonne of man Jefus Chrjft , the Sonne of Cod , true God and man,
tfhieh unleffe you do ,
you are not of that Company unto whom ^hrift faid Igive yon a new Com-
-mandment.
For info doing you are grafted in Chrifi, are [uhjell to the Commandment , tycdunto Charity,
wherein you are refrefhed by the Holy Ghojt the Continual Comforter , andgiver of wifdom to fuch
as dwell in Chrift. , . _
See therefore that none is of Chrifi, that hath not Charity , neither hath any Charity, that is not
of the Company offuch as feed of the flcfh and bloud o(Jeftu Chrifi , without the rvhich there is
no Salvation, therefore art thou^. K.alyarwhenthoufaye^IfearCod, Hove God, I intend to
live wellandin obedience, for thoufollowefi not his CommandementS-, thoufiiefi from him; There-
fore thott art »ot vtkh him, *
But I hear* thee faying, I confedc my felftoChrift before the Throne of God. C^f.KiH
But thou hafi net offered thyfelfunto the Priefi , neither hafi laid down thy Sacrifice.
h°"h''^ 'ht fo
t fay unto thee , Thou confeffefi not thy felf, neither thy finnes, before God) beeaufe thou cam- a^thismftant,
mefi not where he is. Penance.
Not that Godfeeth thee not, but thatheisfaidnot tohtitRnners , unleffe fAi?;' be penitent , but The Church.
fenance is limited by the Church, andforrowfulnejfe is not judged by thy felf, itbehoveth thee Ad Ecclcfiam
therefore , if thou wtlt fiie unto Chrifi , to enter into th: Company of fuch as profeffe htm , where (^"^olicam
heis,andwithwhom hcdwelleth. •^ *
., 1\\tK,at what time thourepentefl thee of thy finnes -, and (halt confeffe them with fofrowful-
'
Mefe, before him which is in ojfice at the myfiery ; there alfo by the myfiery {which is Chrifi) ]hale
thoK receiveforgivenejfe of thy finnes.
Far if he that minifireth, is heard in the power of his Adminifiratien , and Sacramental vow,
much more hath he power to forgive Sinnes ; For lo, that he doth, is not of himfelf, but his digni-
ty is of that, whereof he is called aTriefi-
Now therefore I fay unto thee E. K. until thoum^kj thy felf clean , thoufhalt continue filthy,
Sc immundis & impuris, non revelat Deus Sacramenta.
But even as thou, not clean, feefi, andyetfeefi nothing' fo being cleanfed, not feeing thou fhalt
fee, and fee all things.
I have done,
A Gloria Patri & FiHo 8c Spiritus fanilo, ficut erat in principio, 8C nunc & femper, & in fecula
feculoruua. Amen.
D d i-f* 'Prage
5 7 8 (oyf true Relation ofDt, Dee his AStofisltjpithffirits^^c.
ijSy. + Tragi.
Fehuarii 23.
\}f '^
SaturdAy A mcridie horam circitcr 2. ^ ^- .
Orattonibus ad Deum tuds, pro luce & vericace divina, &c.
A The occalion of this comming to the Shcw-Stone , was that as we lat together in the Stove"
there was a pat or (troke or two (not natural) given on the Bench and Wall: and withal 1 felt on
my head a heavy moving thing., and alio after that E. K. felt en his back , as if one had written let-
ters dilUn^5Hy : whereupon we went to underltand the will of God'j as being thereto half warned
and Hirrcd by thcfe tokens.
£.. K. Midimi is here.
A BeneJifti lunt pedes evanoelizantium pacem & favorcm akiffimi,
Madimi .,,.,. f^h^fljould Ifpeak^unto joHf Jinee you have m faith}
Faith. f-yhyjhonld I teach yon that defpife my documents ?
/ \nockjn vain,for you hear me not.
IJnus unam alms alium qnnrtt : difpares eftis.
A Deuspotell omnibus &diverfilTimisfatisfacere,bona Temper petentibus.
Madimi ,,t,,» Shall I fpeakj^or no}
A Speak in the Name of God, who would not hear the words of the wife and of the roiohty
of ihe good and true? ^ '
MtitcY. Madimi „„» Shall 1 clofe my mouthihecaufe ofyenr vpickedneffe ? or fljall I open my mottth, be^
Madimi, coftfe my Mochc r hath commanded me ?
I willgo back^, and will defire that my mouth may be fewed up with a double threed : for affure
yourfelf I will not come again tpillinglj : But iffhefay again. Go , I vtillcome,
,
' lui , wherefore doth Godgive bread to Dogs : or fuffereth his fonne tofnine to the bottcmleffe
Caves} I know a eaufe^buc yet\ am torn infpirit,
O Afother, Mother ,if thou jhouldejl- fpeak^unto this people , out of andfrom above the Cl^udty
they would melt before thee ,
yea, they wouldfall.
But lo thou fpeakfjl unto them by thy daughter that they may fianda»d hear ) but they hear not
:
But I fwear unto thee, they defpife thee.
ffhat {hall therefore become of them ? Igo , I willfee if I can abfent myfelffrom thfnt.
A She went away as if fhc had been angry, in the mean fpacewc argued after our former man-
r ; £. K. as he was wont , and I ftjll in my conlfant hope of Gods mercies,
E. K. Now (he is here again.
f.iT.Shcputtcthoffherpcticoat , and putceth on an other Garnncnt full of pleats
of a golden colour, and after that an other Garment , upon that Garment with ma-
ny Crowns bordered on it, with hands out of every of them, and a great part of
the Arm, they arc right hands, the firft Garment (which (he put off) and flingcth
it into a fire.
Madimi ,,,,, \ fpeak^unto you^ though \ fay nothing.
Madimi ^„,,^ThecoHnfelsfrom above , are perfetl, bAaufe they defcend.
C»»fiHa "Del. ^'^f '^^e wrappings of mans wity are unpsrfeB knots., hard to put together, and harder « unlofe ;
1 herefore they are not.
Imprifonment' But thefe areofGod, and they are true- Envious minds, and falfe hearts, -do hunt afterthee, and
conrpircd a- they have faid and have cowTf/rf^j Butlhavefaidunttthem, be it unto them , as they have mea-
gainft n c. fured unto others : /ind that which they have nonrtfhed in corners, let it befire , and confnme their
A dwelling places; Let it feek^out their brothers : Let their throatts be hurfi it pieces : Let it range
along their Kingdomes , and let it burn downthe gate of their borders, that the way may be wide :
for a narrow way ferveth not where 1 bring i» mifchief , I will bring her to the borders , and will
place her in the Gates, and willfay unto her.
Accipe tibi vim.
sy^nd I will give her a two edged fword, but I will not enter in with her : becaufe I willtiot hetr
their Lamentations, neither be moved with theirgroanings.
Thefe are the hard and heavy knots, that the evil fpirit and mans wit hath wrought togther ; But
becaufe they are humane, they fhall petifh.
7 lie way ij Truly it feemeth good to my Mother and me : and our confent thinketh good alfo , {and the rather
picparedby becaufe (he hath prepared the way by her own wifdome, which part of the North yon muji atwajti
^' ^' _j[/ooi^unto,) and be directed ^^.
'''
For why, that ^onfiellation is true , and dothttach thofe that errt ; Thofe alfo that *re right^t
(omfoneth thtm.
But
ner, . ,
After half an E. K. Now (he is here again.
hour.
^true relation ofDr.DcQ his ABions.mthfpritSy &c. 379
Bttt I vull go Hnto my 0\^Eother , aadask^ her once -^orf, whether 1 maj hiAc thefe rhingsfrem SapitmUdlvi-
joti. Ttd HoflratUbec
£.ii:. Shcisgone.
f'Jl'JiV"'
A We read over che premiffes, and gathered/.hac ibme treachery was devifed againft me : AM Hmlgnt.
"'"'
therefore,! befeech God,:o give ui his couiilels , and advjfes.co be my guide and procc^aor, my light
and comfort.
E.K. Here (he is again. h
Madimi ,.«,». 7 hiit jov. both,or{>fyou will be diftra[i:ed)one ofyoa,gofecretly hence,and fpeedily piIc from
unto Laskv : So (hull tt corns to f^jje, thM he whom zhey mzaidcd to i»xprifan , (fayi^ftr, we will Pra^e.
compelhiui to perform his word, Icali be peiadveiiture triumph eli'ewhcrc againH us; } [6c]raayat The words
la/l,open the Trifofj 'Dosresfor them , afid laltitc a ftrange King, even in the felf lame pLice, where oft^'C Confpi-
they lliall eat to moi rows Dinner. But when they perceive that yoii are gone ; Then will they h»-
'"°"'
derjtaadthitt yon t^yieivj and that zn<: h'uK vi\jod was ai»io»gfi- you,
J come again. . .
E. K. She IS here againc.
„Jf''^^'
°"
Madiini Jftt.efe words he trne^^bear witMefe ofthe truth : ifyon thinl^them to befalje^yoi*
need not fallow thsm.
A How iboa would you advile me to be going hence ? you fee how bare I am of money,
Madimi „„.. Dofoastnanemtnentdanger. Ihavefpokechelafiword. Sedadhuc tria;
Omnia fucctdsnt voto.
A DeonolhoOminpitcnt!,(apienti,& mifcricordi, fit omnis giaciarum aflio, Laus, Honor,'
& Gloria, nunc &kmpcr , (nyimen.
^Monday
Februarii 2j. ameridie, circiter i i. £. K. Fell on his back as One had
PrecibusadDeumfinitis,cit6apparuK Angclus written as he fat at the Tabic-, Hcre-
^^^-
.
upoawcrcfortcdtothcShcvv-SionCj&c.
E.K. Wtxcis Madimt.
Mnimi ,,,,^, You have vowed to ynur felves , and to the Lord ,
perform your vowes. That
which God commandeth., that do.
Excftfe your felves with men , andgirdttf yonrG-irments to the travails ', Notinfvaggotjybut
on Horfe-bac!^.
E. K. I pray you to give us (omc inftru(5lions of my Lord Lasky his being,
Travaile hence dtreElly^ <i«ci «/;f(? Wratiflania , and there 1 will meet you.
E. K. I pray you to deal openly with us, according'to our frail ftatc, and to declare
unto us of my Lord Lasky his cftaic. a, l
Madimi .,,,, Youdz^ndnozu^an Laik.y >^^tLasky dependethupenyoM ; tfhedocvily hit
fHnifkment is ready : tfhe do well, he d^th it for himfelf.
I amgreater then yoM^andmy eye firetcheth farther then yours ; yea^ though you went to mor-
row, you have loli fome dayes. , ; ;
; •
.; Daye?;
A I muft carry my Books with me, we mufl be at the leaft three horf'e.
Madimi , iVbf/o, ^«f thou fhalt hide them. hidden'
A Am I to return hither again, before my wife come from hence?
Madimi lamnotflefh, neither do I move , or am moved with fiefhi But if you fulfill che
firlij the reli folioweth.
Do this, as though yon committed theft, A Secretly and fpeedily.
for if the hours be diminijhed, the purpofe fhall alfo want fucceffe. Hautes
DuUtis es, fecjnere ji vis.
The hand ts open, and ready to take hold on you , what therefore fhaU Ifay more to youf
A What hand I pray you ?
Midimi ,,,,., OHaniis ampleSlensnanrapieits.
A Lord I underfiand not that neither.
£. K. i he is gone.
^ In manuSjtuas Domine, Commendamus noftra corpora, anjmas noftras & fpiricus noftros.
tAmen.
Wedxefday.
February 27. A I and Jf. K. and Thomat Kelly as fcrvant, rode to Limbarg, (otherwife na«
med Nhnlfitrge,) fu miles from Prage, in the way toward Bre^el : otherwifc,n3med PFraiiJlama.
D d 2 FebfH-^
Books to be
380 (^jftrue Relation of Dr. Dee his ABions^witbfprits^^c.
A Voice.
Note the rei-
lonw'iy a Re-
ceptacle is f
more credit.
Hidlm.
Febru^rit aS. Mane circa 6 horam. ^At Lintberg.
ThnrfdAy. Note, I had caufed from 4 of the clock in the morning the Horfes to be looked unto,
fo as, by rive, or afl'oon as it was break of day, we mi<jht be riding.
In the mean fpace while £. K. yet lay in his bed awake , and I was in the next Chamber by, in
orderii o my things of my male. E K. heard a voice (like mine) fay D.
Whereat ke asked me , what iaj you ? I anlwered, that I fpake nothing. Then he doubted what
creature did ufe that voice. Afterward he role : and when he had been ready a while, and fate in
the Chamber where my male lay , he laid, that he felt famewhat crawling , or as »*ie vnriting on hit
^fck^f 2nd zt length 10 afcendiyito his hfitd- And lo I left him, and went out into another place, and
kneeled to pray, and prayed , and upon the comming in ot ThotttM Kelly into that room where I
kncekd (in the Door of a little open Gallery over the (Ireet) I rofe up , and went in again to £. K.
and he told me that he flumbred by reafon of the heavinefle of his head, and that he feemed te fee
me praying, a»dM\chac\ to /{-and by me, I anfwcrcd, that truth it was I had been fomewhaC bent to
AVifion.
prayer, but that I cc^uid no: pray as I would, &c. Hereupon, Immediately he faw Michael over my
Head with a pen in hu hand :Thereupon I was relolved that I was to write fomewhat of importance:
And I made fpecd to take pen, ink and paper, and to fettle my felf to writing , becaufe we made ha(t
to rid ' , as intending to ride 8 or 9 miles that diy , and company tarrying for us : one of them be-
ing a Jew, whofe filler is wife to Doitor Salomon oi Prague ^^ ^^^t &c. And going about to
attend for I'omething to write, a voice faid,as followeth.
Cur fton includis te ad audtcdum vocem meam ?
A Hereupon, I did iTiut all the Doors, and uttermoft Doors,
^ Z'MiTf ,.,.., In rcccptaculo, nt magisapprobctur vcritas.
A Hereupon fpeedily I took out the She w-Hone, a!nd fct it on the Table before E. K.
£. K. Here appearcth a white Circle roundabout the border of the Stone, and a
ball or Globe of flaming fire in themidft j The white Circle hath greac brightncfle of
lightinit.
E. K. Now here is Mddiml , flic ftandeth in the white Circle : and lookcth into the
firejfhckncclcih.
On the cutlidcof her, ftandeth Michael with a fword.
J5. K. Madimi is gone away , and Michael is come to the lower part ofthe Circle.
A voice „».. Speaks, for -who controllethmef
E. IC. Michaei bowcth himfelt toward his feet, as though he kiffcd the place
where he Hood : as if it were the Circle that he kifTcd.
Michael .,,.„ Tkefe are the words of the Lord, and ofme his z/ingel^ and LMinifler of truth:
and they follow.
Behold^ I have ledjott forth diverfe times : andyoKhave obeyeime. Therefore Jfaj ttnto jopt^
Be *'0T» Scewardi of more.
A O meicifuIGod.
E.K. He fprcadcth his Arms abroad, and ftoopeth down.
Michael .,„j. He that committeth his Treafure unto man, findeth favour^and at his return bath
his own. Btnhethat committeth himfelfunto me, andheareth my voice ) I will write his Name in
the Book^of Life. Behold, Behold, Behold, Tfwear and it is.
'Dte. That tn the. Dee, / delight. And lo, becaufe thou hafi obeyed me , and not of force of humaKs
perfrvafions , f (hew Hnto thee what is to come , <j«^ W?4f I would have thee to do : rt«<i wherefore
thou commed hither.
A Fiat voluntas Dei. E.K.
Michael » Cover mefor a while) lefi peradventure thou fee lambejond the al>ility of thj
capacity, and fa return not eafily
.
E.K, He bccomnicth very bright.
A I underllood no: well this laying, neither £.i<r.
Michael Ifay unto thee cover the receptacle,
A We covered the Hone a while, and read the premifTes.
E. K. He is brighter then he was, the Circle of light ihineth ftill.
^ Weuncovcred the Stone, and then he fpake again.
Michael »...,. Before twelve moiicths of your account be finifhed , with the Sunne- I wit
keep my fromife with thee , as concerning the deflruftion of Rodulph : lefi peradventure , he tri-
„^^ umph, as he often doth, for, f/j^ //»« are many times pcrufcd by him ; Saying, T\[\%m3X\AoKAy
The deflrH&l- where is become his God, or his good Angels ?
vaoiKodulpb. And behold, I wtUfweep him off the face of the earth '. And he fhaR ferifh mijeraily: that he
may underftand , that thou dealt not for thy f;lf , Ijwt ^}^^ fulfihhc vs'Qik of thy mafter.
UHor**
(^jltrue 9{elation ofDr. DecbisAclms, with^iuis, &C. 3cii
cJ)f(w**(9^-f/-/ w/i/^r/»j»>, even in the fecondmoneth, (the twelve erdcd)5f(?t'<fn. 'st\
eA»dfor a truth,(4s J am) will place htm in the feat Imperial; Hajhail pofejfe an Sm^ire A
mefigreat: and. {hall (heiv^ifhat it is to govern^ when Cod placeth.
All cor.ditio-
Iii his time will I fullhl many things that I have promUcd thee , and I will be mercifull unto thce ; TnlUZu
bcciule thoii hart not broken my Covenant.
,
'"^ '
My minde abliorreth from Lusk^y , for he is neither faithful Co me , nor to thee : neither he ca- A. L.
r-cth tor his own 1011),
A Chamo & trxi;o maxillas illius conftringe (o Dsus) ut apprcximet ad ce.
Michael „.,., The fpeedy remmef Curtius was to deliberate ve it h Rcdolpb horvthej might,
(((»der the colimr ofJi*fitcc) emangU thee.
And. lo^ vhcm thoitfafiredjt andfedfi at thy Table, is he, that hath wet his hand in the dijh rvitb
thee, and hath dzl.viicd thee.
Moreover, he hath betrayed his Majlir : And the caufe of his adverfity , hath had chiefrott in
^>"^rtcns.
him. F^m the third year he hath done unjufll^ : and h.ith made naked his Lords fecrets.
Soniagmr,
But he \hall have his reward : and Oiall periOi with his own hand. Before thott CAih.:fi cut of
r/j/oww D«»r«, f* frt^f//7^y«/>r«<fr, Rodolph knew of thy going.
And tor a truth, his ktteis are before thee.
Therefore, tt bchoveih m: , to give thce warning, and to te^ch and inftruiS thee, as one exeicifed
ill my bulinelle.
Cover me, I am become cleerer.
j\ We covered the Receptacle.
After a while we uncovered it.
Michael t,,..,This therefore fhalt than do.
The fame way thou camefi , the fame way then jhith alfo return : Not to flie from their malice
or tyranny : But tu Hand in the face of them as my fei-vant.
, Hereby, indire^ly,jh.ill the Tcanoni underjtand you k»ort> him. The Traitor.
^nd RodolphuS /j^Jrdl heart, I wtlljtir ftp wuh indignation agatnjl him. For hefhallbe conflru-
ed a Ljar.
And they fhall begin to fear thee, and alio to love thee : and thou (hale be in favour amonoft
»^^°"- •
^
"^
Note.
-.4«»»<<f(; their doings , and hear tieir fayings. t/indthofe things theyfhall offer thee , refufe Annuatc their
not. I tvill fend one oHt to pay them their wages. doings.
Moreover, I commaed thee KeWy ,
(^But in my own perfon , 1 counfel and adverttfe thee) that
thgu take part wuh the Lord J efas : Andgo forward with the bufincfle thou haft in hand
.
^ Beljkc he
For why? They fliall be fliortly made open and plain; left thy ^£^) word (to the Emperour he was fiudying
meaneth) receive foil in the hearts ofmen. '^ D/infions
But I bind It not to that place. For, the fruit that fpringeth of it , fhall do my fervice with Ste- °^^ ^ Table*
ven; ay/Wyet, if he wiU, with that nni\i[\ Lask^y. And it fhall be a (jarden for yon: wherein maderne
^
yoft (hall not borrow of the ^Vorld, but of the GiiiofGod. privy.
And hitherto I will deal with thee, that the leafi thing which thou hafi bfiowed in obedience to- Yet if.
ward me , {hall not be forgotten. Vionum Dei.
Live jou together, as brethren : and wonder together , at my works , and in me, for there fhall
°6^'"^r>
Ktt a hair of yuitr head perijh ; So that J^»«
li'ten, and be obedient unto my voice. If.
fVhen therefore tho» commejt home , hide not thy felf ; But fee, that the Infant be regenerated. mfans ba^tl'
A As concernin-j the Godfathers : fliall 1 requelt and ufe fuch as I intended? ^andus.
Michael .,.,.. 'T>o, that thou haft done. ^^"^'
'
Butput all I hefe t hings up amongflthe fecrets of your hearts , as though not feeing ,
jret feeing
all things.
Let thefefor this time frfjice.
£. ^. The fire is gone, he and all.
A Creatorinoftro Omnipotent], Proteilori noftro mifericordillimo & confolatori noftroabun-
dantiilimo in tempore nece(ll:atis noUrs (^i perennis Laus , Honor , Gloria , & giatiarum zAiOi
n/imen,
A Hereupon wc had great comfor, and lb braie our fafl, and returned to Prague ngain, before 4
of the clok in the afternoon.
'
Note.
While I was thus out, and had left a letter for the Curtefe Balthafar Federictfs.'Dominus ab OJfa^
<tc. to deal with the Spanifh EmbafTndor, the Lord %omfe, and myne Her Kinskjy,io crave pardon
of my fudden departure, and t he (fhild not ytt chnftened , &c, and had given my wife charge
not to deliver the Letter before Friday night, &c. It came to paffe, that this Mr. Balthafar had fenc
yw>rd of his camming to 7rag4 with the Lord Kinsk^y, (whom on the Friday before I had met ri-
ding
^8 2. (^A tnte relation ofDu Dee his ABionSy mth fpiritf,8^c.
ding out of Town: and he told me that he was to be out three or 4 daycs, &c.) and that he was de-
firous CO Ipeak with me.
Upon which oecafion my wife thought it bcft to fend tlie letter to him, and fo did, not long be-
bre my coming home. Which thing when I underftood, I was half forty for it, andfent prefcntly
word to Matter Balth^far of my coming home, and to ccrtifie him that my wife had erred to
fend that letter unto his worfhip before fr/iii^tjr night, when flie might perceive that indeed I did
nde forth to Brejjel,
He thereupon was defirous to fpeak with me, and of him I received, my Letter which he had per'
Mfed^und offered himfelf moft ready to latisfic the content thereof, &c.
Now to the chief purpole, At my return home from Mailer B^lthafar Federick^ ab Ojf*-> I found
Smericiu SontagitUi in my wives Hove with Mi'^er Kellf^ -who at the fight of me was fore amaMd^
and half mt abU^or not viHiHg tofpeak^i but fud, vos cltis veteres .cquitcs. Then Mr. Kellj told
me, that fwmrw had told him, that the Emperour had been all day yetterday very melancholick,
and would Ipeak with nobody. And that he k>'ev> of my journey in a moment vhen itwM, and
that by cl.'' Jews, & fpecially by the Dodor his Ion, that ha^ gone about to get me the four hoifes,ac
laboured very much with himfelf (unasked; t) peifwade me that the Emperour his firft and chief urx-
derllanding of" it was by the Jews, &:c. Hereupon (being now night) he went h^me.
-^ Prag<e.
(Jlfartil 14.
Thurfday. A mcridic, hora 2 \, Baptiyatus erat Michae! DtedMus meus in arcis Pragenfis
majoriTemplo. Baptifmum cjiercente, CrfaieaeMajertacisCapellano.
Sulceptonbus veib, Illulfr)llimis Dominis, Domino don Gulielmode fanfto Clemente, Hifpani-
arum Regis, apud Csefarem Legato, & Dommo Magnifico, Domino Romff^ fummo Caefarex maje-
ftatis cubiculario, & a confiliis arcanis intimo & primario, &c.
Sufcepiricear.tcm, Nobiliflimafcemina, DominadcDittrechllain, Domini de Dictrech(lain,ux-
ore chanlbma, qui majoi- Domo Cxlarcae ma jcHatis eff. Infanti vcro nomen erat inditum Michael
Hkhacl, adpeticionemmeam, o^^r*r<j«»^;4r» Michaelis wfworww, qni {ex mifericorditiDei) tarn fHit
ejt & erit nobis b.'».ficM, anxiliaris & tuteUrUy &c.
4- y/-*)!^^.
M'trlii 18.
(Jlfonday. Ivlane,horam circiter 7.
A P'ccibv.s (ex more)adDeum fufis, p:imiim,deiiide (aliqua intcfpo{itamora)aliisetiamejacu-
lacionibulque fadis pro niifenccrdia, luce & .-^uxilio Dei, ice. po(t horas 2. tandem nulla fatSia appa-
ririone, c.'iiavimus. E^o veio de Deiiiatimidus,caufamfubeHe magnamdobicavi, &c,
A Mikrcre noHriDeus,& nenobifcumagaSjjaxcaomiies iniquitatcs noftras, t/^men.
Afartit 20,
fVednefd.ty^ mar.c. A Note — E.K. ycfierday had a fhcw of a little thing asbig as a peafe of
fire as it were i'l che (lone going about by the brinks. And becaufc it wasnot in fhape humane, he
of purpofe would not declare it fa CO me, and fo I have noted (asapp^areth) of no mew. This he
told me on Tuefday night (^that was yelTernigh:) upon oecafion of a oreat Ifir and moving in his
brains, very lenfiule and diliind, as of a creature of humane fhape and lineaments going up and
down to and fro in his brains, and within his skull : fometimes feeinino to fit down, fometimeto put
his head out at his ear.
And this began from the fame night following.
+ Prag*.
Aiartii 20.
'
"
,
JVednefday, mane circiter <5 7.
A Prccibus ad Deuiii fulis aliquantoprolixioribusquamexmore,&c.
(iatim fafta eft apparitio.
£. K. Here is the fame (hew c^f a little parcel of fire fomcwhai lefTc then apcafc,
going about/ he border o^ thcftone.
E. K. Here i^eat, but he hath a covered fdct^ I k»$w him not, his covering is of a
compoundcolcuV, between black, red and white, he is covered down to his middltf,
the ground of it is white : There be fpois oi black and red on it, fome big^fomc little,
as if they had been fprinUcd on with a pen, 01 daihedonwith a pencil.
S
(^trm 9^elation ofDr» Dee his AUionSy mth^irm, &c. 383
». ,.
»
^gainfl divine necejfity is no prajer nor refinance- ; -
E.K, 1 fed nothing, in my head now, and cill now I did, as is moved before.
i«„t Comedo you Prophets, and render your accounts. Come,0 you that have frcked of the
brejis-^ wherein the -judgments And fecret xvill of the Ljrd is hid, and of Necejfity to come, father
yourfelves together, render feme account why the Kin^ of eternity defcendingfrom the heavens hath
fo often vifited you} And why he httth rather vijited yon., in the Defert,. upon mighty and high
t^Iountaim, unranged of men. Tell, I fay, what the caufe is, that he hath come down into the
'Fent, and amongfhyotir flacky : Could not this God have lifted yau tip, and h.tve brought you into
his feeret chambers ? Could he not have ravifhed you unto himfelf^ and fo have carried you about
tvith him. that you might fee his great wifdome unknown to man, and the abundance of Glory.,where -
)hhhe hath his habttation- There is none of you that dare prefume to fay.^
that you dsfervedthe
^L^rd his prefence.
. •
There is none of you that dart open his mouthy ['"T'^gt God hath need of us,
fc - TeU therefore what is the caufe that God hath vfiredyou.
-i <5i Theunfeaichable j^do^mncs and determinations of the higheftj &c.
-0!.\\^^^ "Befi lent, thou a^ifwerefi before thou art called.
t».. ^hat is there none ofyou that a»fwereth me ! No, where art thou ?
]ob,where art thou ?
Moles, where art thou ?
Zyrom, where art thou ?
SyraGas';!a,Wj#re art thou f
Daniel, where art thou ?
t ^ai\3S,whcre art thou }
tzechiel, where art thou ?
-• Holy, h!>lyf.idr3S, where art thou >
'•TeHteffer Prophets, where are.you ^
Ton number without number, (whom the Lord hath tallied withal) wherefore (hew you not youf
felves >
All thsfe were full of the Holy Ghojl.
All thefe mortified their fiefhfor the love of God. Yet, what, ^re you not able to render accomB
or to (hew the true caufe why God hath vijited you ?
God vifited jou fo long, andfo oft^fo merctfuUy andfo ahundtrntlp and are yott film and igno^
rant? IVhy}
Mandata cua jufta func Domine.
}Vhat, was thh- the cjtufe that God vifhed you for, that you Jhouldfulfill his Comma»dments,ani
teach hit people the way offalvatiin} '
7 rue it is Jt was the caufe that moved you to obedience. But the very caufe why Cod appeared
MHto yoM^yoft l^/fow not.
Behold, the Commandments of God are jufl- & true, whofefont you are : if therefore youfollov^
not the Commandntems of yourfather, you are difibedient. But why, your father hath commau-
illtdpif,.l,fr,feachyou,
t ii f
WhenGod of very God, the true light, beauty and honour of his father, conteined or was full of
the tmage of an heaven and earth, and by the omnipotent, conjoyned, and equal power .tndjfrength
^ them both, ;oynedtn one, was brought forth, and had his real beginaing, he determined alfo, in
the felf-fame Image and Idea, the due and proper order, jufi law and determination, of all thngt
thiit "were comyehended, which law and things togethtr have their courfe co-ejfenthlboth in heaven
ivd earth, difii>?gu'lhingall things i»to their real beginnings, limitation of time, and determwattoti
I'^iwien tbe<r ex. reams. This order or law, begun in thcbofome of the Word of god, keepethfo hn
proper courfe; and order, and law of his own efiablifhment. That thofe things tbat^before were
wrought in God, might alfo receive working and being fubfiantial to, the end of God his pro-
greffion, v--^.- .<;-'.. n. i i i
This IS the (df-fami tlat wefpoke of before, in the name of divine Neceffity, againft the which
no prayer prevailtth, nor refifiance can be maele-
This N(ceffi,ijv>^ thfcauffyO yott Prophets andChildrenof Qoi, that Cod dwelt amongft
\ This Nefeffny wat the infirument that brought you to thefiage of your eleaien.
•'
' This Ne'ceifity w*s the caufe that God cho/e you.
Tl.is Necfjfitymakethofwax,honej; of tar,mtlk.;of long ranging, return, of Infidels, Chri-
fiiaus ; of dtfobedient, holy ones.
Finally, of the t;nperfeft and evil, rage and roming afiray of mar.kfnd, the trtte number of fuch
asfeturnfrom wickednejfe, and are chofen to eternal joy frcnf the beginning.
But this way,feem unto you afirange andfiumhltng Do^fine.
I have Uid the B^for j : n c
A We read the premiffes, which fc^m^d 10 us veiy Pithy, and ponderous, and toll ot my-
fterks.
^ I
„ —. ^ ' —- .
— - ^-. — .
^
984 <^true relation ofDt, Dee bis AUions^ mtblpirits.SiC.
A I noted two Prophets names, not before.
.•. This Neceffitj is tveo-feldf one {that is to fay^thefirfi) contemplative »ndfix.
The other^ forking and leading to an end.
In the firfi do dwell two great and mighty Judges, fufiice and Mercj,
In thefecond dwelieth the [on and image of Jajtice^, leading on by order for the comfe ofth'ngs^
that are led on by the later^ have not true Jufiice^ but the image of fufiice.
This is the caufe that the eleli end chofen may trre an^go afiray^ and lofe the benefit both of the
endof his EleEiton and firfi determination.
For why : v4// things come op, and keep their courfe, even as they are led, by the image offufiice,
fj]fan onely excepted : whichbyreajonefhisfree'WilUdraweth VE.K.Vic tcachCth
oi4t of order, > unnethfrcm the mark^-, refufeth that which is goody hinifclf. 1
and through the burden of his fiejh, incltneth unto evil.
In the tvhich evil., whtlfi he drvelleth and continuethy lo the courfe of neceffity taketh hold upon
lim-, and draneth h:m unto the fccpe or end whereunto he inclineth himfelf.
For, behold-, Although he be beforefan[lified unto the Lord^ and made a chofen vejfel., tvhertin
If Tic continue, if he continue, necejfdrily he fijall enjoy the reward andglorj of the fanllified. Tet if he lofe that
Necejfity-, a>.d fly from his own law and condition, taking part with the filthinejfe and iniijutty efhis
enemy-, through Satan or his fiejh, of Necejfity he mufiperijh.
If For as thofe tha t are good, tied unto the law of goodnejfe, are glorified, if they continue : ft likj~
wife are the evtl tyed unto the law ofwickednejfe, the Necejfity whereofis damnable.
This IS the caufe that the Prophets are vifited.
"Becaufe Godfound them punijhng their fie/h,defpifing the vanities of the ttorld, and refiftitrg
Satan.
For lof the Lord looked down unto the earth : Andhefar* them defpiling wickednefle , fearing
him, and groundid in the bich of redemption.
Therefore he thrufi himfelf in amongfl them , and through the ^rfi part of neceffity {tn mercy")
he vifited them.
Take heed(o yoii) that the Lord ofneceffity vifiteth in fufiice , for your burden Jhall be great
ttnti intolerable.
E. K. He IS gone. A We read and difcourled a pretty while.
E.K, Here he is again.
,,, Now unto therefi.
What is (therefore) that neceffity divine againfi the which there is no prayer ner repfiance ?
For why it is evident, That finnen may return y and theft that erre ^ maybe brought itita the
right way, and that by Prayer.
Prayei. Behold, no man is penitent, but he ufeth Prayer.
No manfatisfieth, but he ufeth Trayer.
No man taketh part with the Church , but in Prayer, for Prayer is the Key , fanBifitd by the
Holy Ghofi, which openeth the way unto God.
Ncccflicy had deteimincd the dcftrusSlion of Ninevee, neceffity alfo faved it.
For lo,when t heyjhould necejfarily have received rewardfor their wickedfiefcy they prayed , m4
refificd neceffity, ., ,/^"- >'*
/
It appeareth, therefore, not yet, what neceffity that is, that Prayer prevaileth net againfi.
Note here. The later neceffity is neceffity, leading malum ad malum, & bonum ad bonum ; which
neceffity is that, which is tyed unto every thing leading it unto the end that it defireth.
Even as God, feeing the Prophetsforfake the loathfomneffe of their flefh , and framing them'
felves to the mceffity which leadeth untogood, ofhis meer mercy, in thefirfi, thrufi himfelfamongft
them, fixing their later and defired neceffity , with a neceffity of his Omnipotent andunfpeakable
mercy wherein there dwelieth two things ;
foy , and Perjeverance.
Thefe therefore (as the Trophets) which are vifittd with Cod in mercy , arefed,noHrifhedand
fofiered as the Prophets were, with thefe two difies,
whereof the greatefl is Perfeverance.
Herein Iteach you , that he that is firfi eleSled and applyeth himfelf to the necejfity of his Ele-
Rion, doing the workj that are righteous before the Lord, and receiveth comfort by the vifitationof
Gods mercy, isftaledto the end of hisEleHion, ingladnefe, and through the valne and firength
ofTerfeverance, and cannot fallfo far, that hefifall be bruifed, or runfofar afiray , thatht ^aB
not be able to remember himfelf.
Happy are thofe that are ele^ed.
But happy, happier are thofe that perfevere in their EleEiion.
Thefe are thofe unto whom God imputeth not their finnts.
Thife are thofe th atfinne and Satan are a weary of, for they are not able to prtvaile. .
Thefe are thofe which are numbred in the Book, of God, and whffe brethren tOfry as yet for their
fomming. But the altar fhall be opened^ and theyfhall rife.
But
^true Relation ofDr, D^QbisAtlmSy with^iritSy kc, 5^^
But IS (here a mercy fixed , and doth this mercy a/fa fix fujiice ; Or as I have called ii the /•
mage of- Jfeftice.
/t is evidoMt ; So alfo is there aja^ice that is fixed , ajafiice triumphing ^ aj'fi'cemi^htf
a Jnftice unable to be refifted^ a fu^tce that Praytr prevaileth not agtunfl-^ yea^ a juflice that Hell
and the Devil are condemned in.
This is th.1t Jufiiccy this is that two edged ftrord, this is^that Iron (jMall, wherewith thofethat
refiffe their EltHion^ or are not eletied , following the necejfity of wick^cdneffe , are and f^all h
cut in pieces with, beatenintofmall powder^ and be caft into the lake of fire andbrimfione.
Thistshethatfealethuo thefecond Hell, wnh the fecond death.
This IS that yon, iyoi4 fiarvelings-, yon vagabonds, yon ftiff'-nec^ed afid fiinkjngfinners aught tt
dread and fear!
Hath God eleUed yotty and do you dtfdainit ?
Hath he provided a Seat for yon, ^n Honour for you, a Crovnn for you , a}Vedding CJarmentfior
you, his eternal glory for you. And will you farce htm to cafl it into the fire.
shall the finger of God nrite you , and Jhall the vengeance of God root you out,
"S^pent I fay^ andfite from yotir iniquity.
Return into the way of the Lord, Icdfi- Godfeeing your wickednejfe^ your un- natural and inhu-
mane rebellion, your dtfabeditnce againfi yeur father, thrufi himfelfUpon your necejfity with his ju-
fiice and venge^ince.
yyhich thing ify^u do^ Prtyer prevfiileth not^ much leffe is theirrefi/fance.
tyfre yo:i not afraid to l^fi the fjujyt of (fod, and to be deprived 'f the glory of his Afajejtie ?
Are you not afraid ofthe unfpeakjble flamts and fire-brandi of Hell^whtch are prepared for the
nicked ?
"
fVhat (hall Ifay ftnto you '
Shall I takjpiry upon yon ?
fyhy care you not far your fives ?
Shall I pray unto Cjodfor you ?
Toupray not for yourjelves.
Sh all I beflor* goodtiefft upon you >
Hiii, you difpife It.
S'lall I bring three Sheep from the \JMo«ntaini ^ and Hiall I lofe two of them before I cohie Three (hcsfJi
home.
O you mortal men, be merciful unto yourfelves. Take pity on your felveS' PaH into the truejudg-
.fitent of light and darkjiejfe, ofgood and evil, of eterMalGlorj and Damnation.
For^ behold, I tell you., that ^od is ready to thrufi himfelf yea, to throw himjelf as a mightftone
upon you,
Agatnll the which there is no time of prayer, nor nothing that canprevaile.
/ have here taught you, and exhorted you.
Ex honed you to forfakj your wickednejfe, and to cleave unto the Ltrd.
Taught you that thofethtit are eleUed may lofe their eleflion ^ and may be efiablifhed in their
(legion, Alfo that thofe that are not eleEled run by the rule of necejfity unto the end of their rfickc
ed»effe,wh'ch is rewarded with eternalfire.
From the which (yod of his mercy, and in his Sonne fefuj Chrifi^ -who hath redeemed you , is jet
ready, ifp^ wi'l^ to deliver you.
Hal rovvgh ha.
A^We long difcoiirfed of fimdry things, and each reproved other of haughtineffe , orpride of
mind, how jultly wi'did it God knoweth.
E.K. He is here Hill.
A O L">rd order thele matters with us, and between us, to thy Honour and Glory.
£ jr
Thou E. Vi.and we, receive at one fountain , t*e are created and made by one Cod , to the ^°|'^ ^Jl**^
'*• •'•""» ,„,'-, -
„j ._ laid, IcitDeot
end we fhould glorifie him, as our Creator, jou. as your Redeemer and Creator'.' gj^g ^^ (-„^g_
. Butlo, we'^a'-e of Heaven heavenly , comforted and nourished with the glory of God , rvhereiv whit, or f rae
(^ftnce the ( ^) divtfionmade amongft us) wjerrenof. you to the intent you may be proved .y are thinfjbencfi-
soveredwith mortality and corruption, to the intent that the judgment of God may allow you , for caltomy
thofe places yoH are apt to inherit. Iftherefore we be both refrefhed of God, have our beginning ^„'j jhcn''°wii
from God as from our Creator, let us both acknowledghis goodnt^e, andglorifie him in thework^s
ji,se the better
of our hands : we- in our angelicalforms, you, in tie Skjrmijk wherein you fight, by fightingman- of thiir.
fully, and overcomming. A The fall of
Tet of us thou haft., as thofe have that are rewarded in the labour cf him that isfent in meffage Angels,
from the giver.
If the t^ ingfend his ij\€efengef unto thef, he ought for three caufes. Firfi,fer the perfonfront
£ e whence
^^6 (^true relation o/Dr. Dee his ABions^ mtbjpirits_8^c.
,. whe>!ce he commeth^ Secondly-f for the authority of his meff'tige-, or goodnejfe of reward, Thtrd^
mellir -cr to ^7» ^^^^ h ^^'"* P^ receive the benefit^ -mherehj you are gratified.
behon^i.cd Even fo deal ytith m .' . for w he mayfay ^yau fare the better by him^ i» refpeSi of hit laboury
for 5 c«iifci. and the authority that he ufeth : fo may wefay, you fare the better by us.
The Ai ge's
2pi( let the heaven and earth bear witncjfe {befides the benefits of God) of our good wiU toward/
goo 1 win to-
^^^_ ^«f^«/wfrwf.
warci£.\.
^jr^
W'nat lay you tome ^ wherein.
....» As toHchingyour rtcetvtng^as tnuchtnq^ thj taking fart tvith Chrijljefus^very Godn
ts. mnr,: the Son of theltvvig God, rvhofe precious blood cryeth out continually before his father for
1*°"
f their Whether is greater, the authority of truth ^ by the Church Militant ^ or Triumfhaut ?
doings &coun yinfrver you [E.K^ ^o that.
feis.unicffc E,K. By the Church Triumphant.
they were al-
^ ^ ^ Svenfuch is oh r authoruy. 7 hertfore it is greater then the authority of him that is a fl. fti-
'onfil°dby
lyPf'^'*-
ihe PrUft , to It the Angels that have appeared unto ycu, had appeared alfo unto the Jews, faying., Crucifie not
Yvhom he the Son of God, they would not have dene it,
would confers for though ihey believed not man, yet would they have believed an Angel.
himfelf. Therefore dtd God the Father acknowledge his Son (^hnfl, by both Churches : as you may read
'r'^*^*"'^"''^ by the Angels that appeared to the Shepherds., atknowledgtngfrom heaven the truth, that Jeftu
ech'^s pte" ter t"" f^^ ^o" "f ^'"^•
then the .mho E.K. What is thcChurchc: I did not think that the Angels were of any Church.
rityotthe Tht Church is the number of thofe which a-
e
governed by the Holf Ghofl, and that conttnuaRy
P°P^-
fng Holy, Holy, Holy, Holy., Lord God of Zebaoth : But that weftngfoy the Scriptures bear
7 ws^°
' ^
v'tneffe. 7Acw/or; we are of the Church, and rur tcftimomes are true.
Bo h Church- / counfelyoii therefore to put on humility, and to make your felvei fubjeU before the truth,
«jTiiumphant Love one another, not becanfe you are men, but becaufe you are partakers of the heavenljr tefti-
and Militant, rnony.
Ecclrfia.qmdt j^ refpeB of thy body and mind, I anfwer thee, that thy body ii which no^ had not been., and what
faid letthe'm '^7 mindefeeth, commeth through the light that we leave with it.
ivc'me [orac- But ifweforfake thee, thy body is not, much leffe (hall thy underftaxding be.
whacpolita- Stay and \ come again.
blc to my bo- A We read, and E.K. marvelled a: the aptiieffc and foundncffe of their anfwer.
dy or feme
£.2C. Here hc is again. E.K. I cannot tcU <F or f.
Witdom to my / ; "i , jr» f # i i
minds behoof. ,.» ^^'hen * hath ended., and v hath ended,
A Prophecy. I come again,
AFor.ePi. £. ^, He is here.
iffaplmumU-
^**'^ ^ ^^*^^^ ""^^'^> ^"^ ^ *'*'^ ^"^^ {which is at hand) then cometh the fon of perdition, 0ni
|,i. emret h.
Ihis we had Ofthefe two Letters I willfay more, in your next aftion.
not yet. The Light of heaven be amongffyou.
A Amen.
Mifcricordia Dei iBcftabilis fit fuper nos, nunc & femper. Amen,
Se^uitur Liber 2 ^ ,
^ui, hac die etiam inetcptus efi a Meridie^ heram eirciter 3 per ipfum
Levanael.
q87
Myfterioruni Pragensium ©onfirmatorum
Liber.
? K A G /E,
Anno Ij8y, Mart'n iq.
My{teriorum CR a c o v i e N s l u m Stephamcommi
hitm Aprilis 12. I J 8y •
, Myfteria Stephanica.
? Ake common Audcal, purge and work it by Rlodnr o£
four divers digeftions, continuing the laft digeftion for
fourteen dayes, in one and a fwift proportion, untill
it be Dlafod fixed a moft jed and luminous body, the
Image of Refurreftion.
Take alfo Lulo of red Roxtan, and work him through the four
fiery degrees, until thou have' his Audcal, and there gather him.
Then double every degree of your Rlodnr, and by the law of
Coition and mixture work and continue them diligently together.
Notwithftanding backward, through every degree, multiplying the
lower and laft Rlodnr his due office finiflied by one degree more
then the higheft.
So doth it become Darr, the thing you feek for : a holy, moff
glorious, red, and dignified Dlafod. "" ~
But watch Well, and gather him, fo, at the higheft : For in one
iiour, he defcendeth, or afcendeth from the purpoie.
Take hold.
E e Anno
988 (MT true relation ofDr. Dee his ABions^ mtbjpirits^Scc,
syinno 1585, CVide hujusDiciaftionepra:-?
^cedcnte. De Neceflitate di-> -j" Trags,
Murtii 10. jfvina &e!cdione, &c. 3
jyedncfdnj^ a nieiidie ciica 5^. A As we fat together in my Study, and talked of our af-''
fairs, and of the Philofophers rtone, £.7C. felt a thing heavy upon his head, and heard a voice, fay-
ing, I will teach thee. Hereupon I fet the flone in place.
E. K. Here is Levanael, covered as he was wont. •
Levan. ,,,,» i-yhj are yon not pttre^ chat yu may learnt
E. K. So we will receive at EaJfter , as the time of the year doth
require.
A Lord, thou hafl faidj we4j||iild at length be of one minde, through thy mercie?, Lord help us
herein.
E. K. He feemeth to have had his lips lewed : for the vail is {o
thin, that it permitteth his face in manner to be perfedly dif-
cerned.
Levan. «,„» See that yotitAks thefeafon^avd^ather while it is time; if yon let this Harvefi
NOTE. fAjfc'^yoit (hall he dejlrow to gathir-iandyoH cr.nr.ot. .
Thrice. Thiicc I muR come unto you, // 1 finde you not. ,
Lo, f have do>!e,for Icome ^0 htore. j } i
E. K. I pray you to deal with another : here is John , a boy in
the houfe, you may ufe him.
Levan. ,,.,., Thy talk^is hum.uie folly : But before Igo^ Irn^lnot be hidden from yeu.
Read your Lejfon^ it is now a flale lejfon,
A I read. Take Common Audcal,&c. Take hold.
Levan. „,., To'i are hefi to do fo.
E. K. Now he hath heaved up his vail, his face is bare, it was not
his hps that had thofe flitches as it were, but it was in his vail, his
face is a very fair beautiful face. ,
A \Ve befei ch you for God his fake, his glory and honour, to give light, and to make plain
this Leir^n or C ^nclufion. •
Levan, „,,,T/>/j C.onclu(ion wherein man is exalted being the lafi and the firfif is 4S necejfary
/o»';('c»,ana for the avoiding of temptations that iie to come, as your garments are to cover yoHr xa'
kedneffe^ or the hoftfes to keep off theflorms.
A Give us thereforevthis help, this hand, thi^ ftaff, this counfel, O Lord.
Levan. „^.. HorvmHch the more you negleU tt, and the time wherein it is to be gathered, fo
u c '
c
^'^'^h the mcr: (haHyoH be tedious unto yoHrfelves and the bufnejfe which yon mttfi fulfill in the
the'phihfo-
'""^^"f^o'^^ if jo'-t have this ;
it will firjl caufe you to foifake ; fecondly, it will plant you there,
oBhers ftone.
^^^"^^ without K your feet Cannot enter, and from whence when you are planted, you fliall not eafily
be moved.
Ifpeak^not this, for that ynnfhoHld murmur^faying, Cannot ^od plant us without this ? But to
make It evider.t unto you : j/^dt G(?<i «/«/> his Creatures vifible to introduce or lead in (yea, fuper-
natural)[foicc and wifdome-
Thcfe things will demonfirate the will and power of Godgrafted injou, that it is found perfeli.
The dircfs andfrom above.
commodities Tor tf you fay, lo thefe things hath God taught me, and thefe things hath God opened unto me :
'
fo he s fto°"
^'^'^'^'^ ^^^y wonder at the one, they fliall be forced to believe the other.
know"!
""^ Moreover, they jhall leave their Table-talks, which objeft poverty unto you, and they fhall be
Table- talk of f"^"^ '"/iJ'j {even tn defpight of their teeth) what need had he oftts ? he fought hs not of the worldf
povcity obje- f^flo, he leadeth her ashisjlave.
ftcd to us. Thefe things^ ifyou confider not, I put you in remembranccy that you may know jou lofe timet JM)
that you lofe a benefit^ dejired of many, andfo forth.
Lo, I come again.
A I read over the premifles,
£. K. Here he is again.
Levan. ,..», %ead.
A I read.
Levan.,,,,, fVhat is Audcal?
A Godknowethjiknow not.
Levan. „„, /r^Gold.
A Purge and work It. How your purging is, I know not, Levant
(tA^tme relation f?/Dr,Dee his ABions^withfprits, &c. 389
Levan. «„ Read andgo forward.
Levari. ,»„., D/afodis Sulphur.
Go on let me teach you o^zntxA\^.
A Take alfo Lttlo of red RoxCan.
Levan. ,.„», Kotizn^is fare andJimfktyiMe'tnher felf.
Lulo is her mother.
A There may be in thcfe words great abiguitie.
Levan. ,,,,„ Lulo is Tartar, fimply of red wine.
9y4iidcat IS his (JMercMry.
AHe Ta id be-
Darr,(/» the ttngeltcal tottgue^is the true Name ofthe Stone. tore it w«s
/ come again. Gold;
£. K. Here he is again.
J have 710 more to fay to yon ^ r/i/jis the firft time. ^, ^„ ..
£. ilT . He is P;orie. ^ ^^ ^"^.^ "^'"^ ^^P'* PhUofophicus fit ex metallis,cuin of three bcfors
mecallis,&lupermetalla,&c. fpokcnof.
E. K. Here he is again. — All is there.
Levan. ..,.,. Hovf> many letters are in (iyiudcal. A—--Six.
So many wayes is this a working. 4
£. K. He is gone. A Divina nobis fcmperadfit gratia, &nobircum co-ope-
ratur, ad Dei Honorem&Gloriam. ty4men.
-\- Praga.
cMartii. ai.
Thttrfday , a meridie circa ^ horam.
Note, my wife being in g catperplcxitie for want o( money , rcquerted £. 7<r. and me that the cf-
fe>ft of the iinncxed pctiaon might be propounded to God and his good Angels , togive arifweror
counfel in the caulc ? Hereupon I prayed a Iitde to the fame purpolc, and read the petition, &c.
We defire God of his great and infinite mercies , to grant us the
help of theie heavenly myfteries, that we may by them be dire^ed
how or by whom to be aided and relieved , in this neceffity that we
are in , of fufficient and needful provifion , for meat and drink for
us and. our Family , wherewith we ftand at this inftant much op-
^refled : and the rather becaufe that might be hurtful to us , and
the credit of the adions wherein we are vowed and linked unto his
heavenly Majeftie ,
(by the miniflry and comfort of his holy An-
gels) to lay fuch things as are the ornaments of our Houfe, and the
Coverings of our bodies , in pawn either unto fuch as are Rebels a-
gainft his divine Majeftie , the Jews , or the people of this City,
which are malicious and full of wielded flanders : 1 Jane Dee humb-
ly requeft this thing of God, acknowledging my felf his fervant and
handmaiden , to whom I commit my body and foul.
£. K. Here is one with a leather coat and a fpade, with a white
Coronet on his head round , hath a bag on one fide of him, and on
the other fide a bottle, it feemeth like an husbandman, but a young
fair man he is.
Jane Dee.
Giveear H>ito me thou Woman , h r'r not written^ that PVomin come not into the Synagogue^ _., .. r
m»eh Ujfeotighttheyto come l>efore the tcllimony of the will of God to be fulfilled mightily, and to j^ions
comcngainii the World nnd agaiiift the romp for money and iniquity, (?ut hecAufe thoH h.tjl
httml>hd thy felf andhafi refufedto tarry beforeme-, as it hecommeththeei I mil anfwer tothy
infirwitieSiand will tall^wtth thee.
m
39© ^^^^^ Reiation ofDv. Dee his AQions,mthfprits,hQ,
He that haih hii Houfe hhemmed with 4 Ditch 1 rvhich is deep and, fveelkd mith water mufl
needs make a Bridge over^ that he may be at liberty, elfe is he a Prifo»er unto the naters , hut if
he want IVood, and have no Jhift to enter into the fields , is it not JVi]dome to break, his DtningTa'
bles, andto fet himfe^f free ; why crjefi thou unco me ; Behold, letthy Hmfe yeeld, and the cove-
ring ofthy bodygive place to the necefiTicy of hunger,Behold ,God fuffereth his Elcft & chofcn veffels
oftentimes to be without Manfion or apparel: But,lo,he feedeth the Sparrows, but I will not reprehend
Apromife to '^^^^ » becaufe thyfoul is fratl, but be faithful and obedient , and that truly , as thou art yoked : Be-
Jtnt her chil- hold^I have blejfed thy Children, and of thyfeed and bones will I btitld a new , and they foall have
ditn. Heufes, andjhall be ferved of fuch as the petple fdnte, faying, hail C^tafter. Be thou patient and
full of repentance , and do that thou haft to do, and not that thou haft done , f(7r,lo,mercy is with
thee, 4»<i well fliallcomc unto thee.
Of Neccfliry. Behold,the Scourge is withjou, andefneceffity you m.ffi be tempted, that your Faith may tfor-
thily be glorified, and that you may be pratfed tn me.
Behold thou feekeft C'"*''f^^°f "*'->^ ''^*i<^''^**>f'^f^"i Behold,/ would dig for thee, but I fhould
do contrary to myfelfe, becaafe I have given power, ar^d he that pojfejfeth the earth is againfi me •
But fuch as I have, I will give thee , and it fhall be fufficient , more then thy veflels can hold , or
thy dayes can thank me for.
Confider th^u to morrow commeth not before he be brought in : Neither canfi thou have ««-
t<7 thy power come ; But caff up thy eyes ^ and hope for better things; Lo,Jince J cannot give thee
that thou defireji- , really^ yet I bow my head , andfo I counfel thee, let thy husband arifc and gird
kimfelf together , and let him take bis eyes with him , and let him haft out of this place : For my
thinks they diftemble; Lo, let him ftand before Steven , and let himvifu Lasky ,
peradventure he
find him not living: But if he live he is dead , there fliall you fee that I will relieve thee and do good
unto him , and will bind up the Jawes of the perlecutov, that he may go on.
Thou art afVoman, and thy infirmities follow thee, I counfel not without a caufe ^ neither did 1
R'lne thee tip tajpeak_-- Butfor thy faith I will reward thee : "But one fiorme is to come,takj it pa-
tiently, thou (halt be the more whiter, and more neerer : Behold,l ophz^oxz and he that followeth
me do/h well unto himfelf, for I do wellunto thofe that follow me ; Cafl away your murmurring^
and fweep your Houfes, take heed of Spiders , and of the whore Rats.'. This is the fir
Ji time that £
have anfwered to this kjnd in the latter dayes ; Lojgo.-.
A Lord,it was faid unto us as a Watch-word, when Stevens Meffengers (hould come for us, that
then we fhould go. Now bis Meflengersarenoc yetcome, &c.
...«. Ifthe Bridegroom invite thee himfelf., what needeft' thou his fervant.
A Now isthedifficuky for money greater, for if we had tarried together , leffe money would
have ferved then now it will do. &c.
VHimata, dl- « Thou hafi asked counfel, I haveeounfelledthee, if it pleafe thee hear me , it fisall be wei
vim. with thee tfthou tarry, but much better if thou go ; I have numbred thee, but be not proud, but be-
tiefcimns quit caule I have numbred, diminilli not thy fell , leaft when I find not the number, I findnot thee alfcx
nobifcm lo- if thou wilt any thing elfe, there are, and they can fay unto thee, but who fpeaketh with thee thoP
.
g^'W. knoweftnot.
E. K. He is gone.
A Seeinghereismatter unlocked for , weareftirred to ask queftions not thought of before:
Therefore,© Lord,fend whom it pleafe thee to us.
A voice .,»,,, Sunt alia hora,
Deonoftro Omnipotenti fit omnisLau3,Honor, Gloria, &JubiIatio. tAmin.
Note,
Oncftoimis
yet toceme.
A
Huicfexui
fcilicct mulie'
iri.
fVednefday,
27 Martii Mane circa horam 9.
E. K. came to me and asked me t^fC'V'"/!?'"' Copy thereof which was fhewedtohim atO*-
ford, and he had written out , or defcribed by the light that was {hewed to him by the fpiritual Crea-
ture , he intended as he faid to fhew it to a Jefuit , and to ask his counfel of it, &c. having a great
mifliking of our fpiritual friends , faying,' that they wire thegreat Devils ; and fo the Icfler that he
d eak wi thai before, gave place unto them, &c. Hereupon I told him I would ask our friends coun^
fel , before I delivered any thing of theiis to their enemie, &c. He would prefently have it , and
with great threats moft tenible and dangerous to me, he willed me to deliver it ftrait wayes .*. I be-
ing occupied with writing a letter to the Queens Majeftie , faid afloon as I had leafure I wouldgive
it him, he faid he would tarry my leafure : I told him that would fcarce be this fevcn night , I had
fo many letters to write , he thereupon grew in fuch a rage that he faid 1 fhould not pafle one foot
beyond him before I did deliver It him.-, at length he rofe to fhut the Door of the fludy upon roe,
I arol'e and went after him and took him by the llioulders to keep him from the Door , and withal
galled aloud to my folks ; Come here (how) here is violence offered unto me, whereupon they came
(a>f tme relation of Dr.Dee his /iBionSyWiihfprits, &c. 59
in all^and my wife, and la afterward by degrees his fury adwagcd , and my folks, my Wife and his
wentaway : and after he had fittcn two orchrce hours with m?, hcTaw on my head as I fat writing
fj\{ichael Rand with a fwor(], and willed him to fpcak , which he did forbear to do, above a quar-
ter of an hour, as E. K. faid : At length he fpake as foUowcth
E. K. Here appeareth Michael on your head , and hath bid me
divers times to fpeak to you.
A I dilpokd my kit to write, and Michael 'md bring the *^t me.
E. K. Here appear 1 2 with him , 4 behind him, and 4 on each
fides of him 4, and all with fwords of fire, and he the hindermoft of
them had a Barrel of Glafle on his back full of lire , the 1 2 were
all in red Coats.
Mi:hac\ ThTrofhtt.
Nunc ergo Notum fMctttHs Dentine Rtx ejuoniam Ji civilas h<tc adi^cataffterit, &ipjtnsmii- ^ efdrte caf.i.
ttiztifuerint , defcenfut ttht mnerit Cdhfynam^ r.eejue tn Thopr-.irem, C.
E. K. Now they all kneel down abGut him.
They look piiifully with their faces upward, as though they were
praying, they be all in blood red Garments, and Michael his fword
is as the fword I once did lee him have h whofe edge did open.
£. K. Now anfwer me to the purpofe : whether I (hall have
the Circle of Letters which 1 did delire ?
Muhael Js there any like tono (hee^O Jehovah «« Meavet) and in Earthy or can thy eitc
mies rtfe ((:\Jayin^agatnft thee^ and jhall they Jtand ^ O thou ^vhofd look^is more terrible unto
thj AngelSy then all the fircs which rho/t hafi created, either in the bottomUjfe fit or in the Itfe of
allElemental Creatures ^ or abive in ^e heavens tf they tvire gathered together in one can be ter-
rtbletoman.
Hafi thoti not made Heaven and Sat th , and hafl pit thy head no where , and thy feet fatne-
jphere ; becaufe xvithom thee there is not, and vntthotu thee there cannot be ?
O thou that hafi numbred the Starrts, and art Domir.ns 'Dominamittm above thofe that go^
vern them , and mart i» knowledg then thetr (jovernwcnt, Thou^ Thou, ffilt thou- fuffer thy
J^amt to be trodden underfoot ? Tiwu, Thou, I't^ilt thou correU the Heavens , and the wholefeed
pfman ? kVtlt thou drown the H^orld tvith waters, ar.d root the wicked from theface of the Earth?
yVflt thou caft down the lothfome and wicked Cittes, that they may grow in the terrour of thj judg-
ment ? W»/f thou fend fo many Plagues into Egypt?
fyilt thoH fuffer allthefe things to be done and many more memorAble-i which are all in thee .-
And
thou permit one Man , one Soul to be thus carried away with Sata» to the difhonottrtnJ and tread- *^"^ ^^n\
ingunder foot of thee, and thy light of thee, and thy truth. .'
/fthe kmg exalted htm which magnified Truth before the firength andTolicyoffVomen: ex-
^^'"'"'
tolled htm before his Trincet , and caufed for his fake the building of this Temple to go forward
:
ff//; f/j()« no: punifli him that dtpifeth truth, that preferreth the WJntonneffe and volaptuoufaejfe •^/"•^M-JIj
of the iVorld (that errant firumpet) before thy word , a' d before the (trengrhof a hcavei 1/ Au-
thority : Art thoH fo become a little one, that thou art leffe then a King ? hajt thou turned thy face
fo far a fide that thou fee H- not this 'B^bellion ? (fa^ one man be dearer unto thee then the whole
fVorldwas? or fhall the Heavens be thrown head-long down , and (hall he go a»correiled f Hafi
then t^Mountaines and Stones untrodden on , out of the which thou canfi (hew thy Praijeand Ho- . , .
Kour> Are there not yet Infants which may be ian»ilified co fpeak with the Hfavens, that thou fo \^{^£t£ei.-
hidefl- thyfelfe away fomjufitce ; i^hat, «/?<!/•, if thole that uften cry lor grace receive it not, yec
doH thou 2ive ic unco him chat commech from ic Note.
Sane fiupor Calts , (^ finpor terris.
fVhat, are notfo many Ftres at watt upon mefuffictent to arm Satan with vengeance afainfi this
/f^
Norcthemin-
wicked one ? O thou Bcafi , O thou roaring Lion, thou (.Monfier, O thou Whirlpool, thou ter-
"* "' J^*^"^^*
. ribU Aiurtherer.
E. K.
Hsfl- 1 hoH plac't headlong many thoufands into HeU , and dofi thou linger to rage Upon this imp
Ylhom thou hafi fo long fought for? . •
/t It n-it wiitt?n, leaif pcradvencurehe findchemQeeping,and fo overcome chem,
Bt\ behold^ whom thiu fiitdefi fieeping, it ready for thee , willing to go with thee . what fpareft
tht: p art tho'f'botd to five anchor ttj unto thy M'tifitrs to co»fou»dj nay^tofo blmd that thou
. . eartfi rot Jeefo great 4n Htll ?
_
Beh»ld^
~ '
—
I
' • ' •
I
I r I I
-
392 (^jl true Relation of Dr. Dee his ^Biorsmthjprus.b^c,
B.hoid, thy Jirttmflerscry o-ti unto thee , and fend th;e wordy calling thee Mailer, Kino.
Take heed the City be not btiili , take heed the walls of tt be »ot lifted up , a»4 as they th it Vt'.'re
the Aiejfengersof the Ktngmadc evident before his face that tt was againfi his commodity , to
have the Templeof tie Lordbuilt up, to have the City new fhapen, tohave thefyalls madtfittng^
iF/ir<MS.i4. ^ff<«;//f u lliouUi hiiid;r h>s oaliaoe into Ca;lolyiia, and the relK
jE. a. Now the 12 (he excepted) fall down.
Mch. ..,.,, ArtAthy Miwjters h.tvctkey notfaid attto thee , if this work.of the Lord ge for-
ward . tfthe City felt downfro7n the Heavens may receive a place to fet her fetfe in ^ if the tValU
a»d Rampiers of this ch'it was bifih above .hall be placed oh anyplace of the H^or/d on earth,Beho/d,
Behold, wtllit not hinder thy ca-ife , wtll It not fubvert thy Kingdome y will it not turn theeoutef
lioors : will tt not bring thee to a ttrrthle day bejore the Lord ?
Is it not written, that thit day fhdl nz terrible to Satan, and his Angels ?
Andwilt thoit f-.iifer a Door tob:»peHed, wherein it may enter ^ it bchovetb thee Satan here t*
bind thy bow, it beboveth thee now to draw up thy arrowes.
it^fidifthoft intend to plant on earth , that tt may grow, time is, jet, novf to weed out this Mef-
fagefrom abjve.
'Do thy Alffengcrs give thee warnin£of thefethtr.gs , dofi thou holdback^ thy force: when the
Portefs will betray the City , wohld deliver it into thy hands ^ would breaks down the walls before
thee, what I fay art thou like to enter , thou that lofeth no opportunity, art thou fo negligent : Be-
hold, the Doors fland open before thee, why entrefi thnu nit.
Dofi thott want fre, lo,ht that bnr^yeth it hath fire for thee, y:a^ rumor.
Behold^ hi o^ereth htnifclf a compa yjion , what wouldejl thou more , unto ihefe things thou hea-
rejl thefayiKgs of thy fo vanis , which f^y unto thee O Satan, if this (ftty be built , and the walls
ereiea ; 7 hon canfl not go into the Holy Land : iy4nd lo, hearefh thou not them , neither dofi- re-
gard this o';portHnity , whence art thou fo forgetful,0 God^. great is thy mercies ^ andfar art than
above the fhnes of tnan : O thou not only ih'itt eft tip the eyes of the w:ckjdy that th^y cannot fee
truth before their face , but the profouna [jhe~\ malice and fight of Satan , that where he fkould
mojl enter he m<ffeth thatplace, a^d when timeferveih hi^< that he letteth it pajfe.
But fo, fo, God, thou givefi to whom , and where thou wilt , ardcven as thou art terrible it
Jufitce , fo nkiwife art thou wonderful in mercy ; Therefore of thee is no end, neither can be added
a>-y end.
1 his thy great mercy is the caufe that this blafpkemons Rebellion is yet unpufiifijed ; This is the
caufe thai Satan mi^etb his ma k^ , and is become weak.
Ifany man make a pot, an earthen vejfel , workjrh he not, tempcreth he mt , to the end to make
a pot ? B:it lo, when he hath made it , tnd applteth it to his intent , if even he againe dejfroy it^ it
he net vain ? Do not ihofe that ftandby him wonder at him? More tatrvail is it , that when S*-
tanjhcuteth andhittethihemark., that hefhotildbe blind ^
yea,foblindj that he kj:oweth not where
togather up his arrow ?
But lo, the Temfle was built , andthe (fity flood , althoughthe work^ wM left off for awhile^
and he that ma^t.ified truth went with glad tidttigs, neither defirirgrich apparel, neither to fit next
the King^ b'4i that the City of the Lard might be built , and that the Name of God might be mag-
nifieA , fo jhalltt be ofthis City which the Lord hath fent down with his finger , his unfearchablc
and wo. dctiul tmh: ;he Rcvilatioi. and Law of time to crnie, it fhallbe tuiit, it n-i;ill flounfh , it
I'hall Itand , it 111:, 11 endure, it (1;ip11 be magnified, ic Oiall be Ipokcnot through all ihe Woild, and
it iliall notccal'-.
Behold, the Kiig of Kings hath allowed it and I he love of truth . is great with him , what hath
he to do with Kings f orwhereinneedeth he the beauty of the Earth i Doiniiu eft terra , & pleni-
tudo ejus.
IVhofoever therefore flickeih unto truth, (hall be exalted with God - which is the King of Kings
fhaS bemagnrfi.d. before hn Counfcllors, not Connjellors fcre-varnng, but (foanfellors pc^ takjngef
holy tVill : not called CoHnfellors, in refp CI of counfelling him , but tn that they are made prtvteof
the CounfelofGed : Befo e thefe alfo (hall he be magnified.
E. K. For what end faith he all this.
O ye Infidels, and of little faith , which tafi of the meat that Was hidden from the Prophets,
which are over-fhadowed with the light oj heaven ^ which have alwayes affociated with the holy
(Jlfini/lersofGo i wherefore are you fofl'jf-ne eked , pleafant is the yoke wherein you are Imk'd,
and honourable is the earth that you draw the plow u on , for the Lordfolleweth , and his Angels
drive ,
and the fed that is fown (hall be the btg\nvir\goi ^lory.
C yeefliff-ncckjd people, why forfake ycu your vifitaticn, or runne a^ray from your faith that
you are driven in , do yon ^-tkj m'ich of the Lords of the earth ? Do you delight in her droffe that
harlot money? D» you give reverence to the King, and fiand you infear to break^hi^ Lawcs* have
you a greater Lord then the Lord of Heav n and Earth , have you any money or jewels to be com'
/<irr<^cohisGra<:e ? haveyou any honour on Earth ^ that can fland up againfl the Crown of Heo-
vent
M'falilif 'T):l
mtfeiieordia.
Bhfphcmous
rebellion.
3 tfdiat cap.
jiifioniim:
(^true Relation ofDr, Dee his ABions, mthjoints^ &c. 3 9 .3
"i/en? tvherewith (jod, crownsth thofj that Are Victors ? Have joa any Lnvo fjvceier then the pHri
illuminations^ andfweet dew likj com^orts^ t^ic voices and prclence ot the hcly angels ?
Be mindful^ be mindful, and lift tt? pur felves^ and be not blind , but confiderthe time of jonr
vijitation , and thnt rvbich yon do, is the vork^of a Ktita , a Kifjir whieh is able in power, flrenrrth,
And mnjejiie to exalt yoy,, to/lren^then yony a>id to makj; yjti honourable , bm i» the end of the Vi-
fiuition ^ and in the reward of your faiihfiilnejfe, r^orknot to day, and be.forry tomorrow ; But Jay
fjrroxv ajide , and conttmie yoi^r labour ^ leafi feradventttre God'.inhood-rfir:^^^ and makf open nhff
ifght of Satan, andfo deliver yiH.
JVo, wo , be unto them that are delivered , for beleevc me their tribulation is treat.
There ts harroHr a^d gnajhiii^ of teeth, there is mifsry and vengeance forever , there is horroftr
andthc tvormofco>:fcier.ce.
Bat ttvo things are to be confdercd, here, whether the temptation be greater then the rejifiance, or
the refijtance,^ more dignified then the rtgor of temptation.
Behold, the worl^is great , the labour ts alfo equal unto it ; eyfnd to fight againfl the 'Princes of
dar'^ejfe in afet battail^ reejutreth great force.
TJje temptations therefore that follow yoftJ TKitfi needs be great , //?? therefore the temptations
kirmoumcth your Ilrengch , and vour dignity isnot fucb ascanpefift agaixfi: it; JForwhy, Satan
Jlriveth r,ot with yott, fimplj for thefinne of Adtdttry , for the cregs of Fornication , for the cove-
tous dcfire of money , for the want ofcharity, or becanfe yott are proud ; B^t hefiriveth , rifeth up
againfi yon and tempteth yott againfi the Lord , and againfi theJtrength ofhis trMth,v>heretinto yon
are elected : Therefore, I give fextence.
Lo, becaufe that tempt Mions hath entred into you above your power , and not fo muchfor thefub-
vsrtittgasof the work.of the Lord intended, and of JiecelfKy to be done. .
skvim quo -
Therefore,! preaednot againfi yon , but againfi Satan , and God f^all deliver yott from your cirii f(J'e pojfi-
temptations ; Ah:d this fhall b; a fign and token ^ that I will hamper and bridle thejawesof thee- mus quod De-
nemy, that is to fay, fo long as thou (Kelly ) art in this fl:lli, never Oiall there appear, or vihbly fliew '" ^'.""'*. ("*'
hiiiii.lf u.icochee any wicked or cvillpiiu, neither flialt thou be haled in peeces, as thou halt been, "'""j^'"' '*
wholocv-r therefore apperreth hereafter is of God; For thy eyes (hall be fliut up from the wicked
obj:ft. E: i:;telle6tu tuo Non introibic umbra mortis.
can'iat EiK,
But now take heed, thou either perverfe or froward , ftiff-ncckedor difoBedient; Thefinneisofd^i^ccps.' '
thyfelf, andfhallfall upon thee, and thou lliaknot befparedas thou hall been ; Now watch and
gird up yoHrfilves, anddo the will of the Htghefi, preferre and worfhip truth, that you may be al-
^^'^'^^'
fo n/or\htpped. Lift up your felve s , as the fervants of Cod, and help to bring fiones unto the build-
^
ingof this great City, that ;'o« may be openers of the Gates , and that the white * horfe may en- >„^^*''p7
g-
ter, and that he that entreth may reward you with honour, , woff^a v'ocacia
Greater thenyou are in the dignity of truth,arc not amongfl mortal men, neither fhall there be any magna.
4mongfir mortalmen that fhall more defpife the t-Vorld then you , therefore hath God framed one of Dec faff
you as afiiffe made affe , to bind up the countenance of his work^, and to be free from yielding unto
Satan, which well underfiandeth that Satan endevoureth , anJtthat his Mtf'i'fiers cry out againfi
this tlorsoits habitation, witch being built, the wicked come not to Caclofyru , neither fhall they fee
the beauty of the Phanices.
I^benyou have read thefe things I come again, and ponder them well,
A We read chcm, and che places of Efdras ._,
one in the fecond Chapter' of the third Book of
Efdras,zn6 the other in the third and fourth Chapter of the lame Book.
£. K. Now he is here himfelf alone. -p.^mUkde
Michael ...,,. A IVood grewup and the Trees were young , and lo, there arofe a great Temfefir „i,ii^ duobmi
from the North, and the Seas threw oat the air that hadfubtilly floln himfelf into them , and the
winds were ^reat, andbehold,there was o>:e Tree which was older then the re^,and had grown long-
er thin that whichfhot tip by him ; This Tree could not be moved with the wind , but the Tree that
was young, was moved to andfro with the Wmd , Mndfirool^ himfelf oftentimes , upon the ft'fffet
Tree : The forefier came and beheld , andfaid within himfelf, the force of this wind is great , fee
this youfigTree heateth himfelfin peeces againfi the greater , I will go home , andwill bring my
ground inflruments,^ and will eradicate him.and I will place him further off: Then if the winds come,
hef})allhave room to move : But when he came home, the Lord of the Wood feeing him in a readi-
iujfe,wnh lus Mattock^and his fpade,aikjd him of his going.'^hich told the thing tn order to his Ma-
fier. But lo, his Mafier rebuked him,a>:d hefud tbus^when the winds are not they increafe,they are
not hurtfulon; t^the other , fiffer them therefore, when the youngTree takethreots,andfhall look-up
Unto fame 7.-4rj,his roots fhall li;ik themfelves with and uuder the roots of the greater ; Then though
the winds come, theyfhall not be hurtful one to another , but fhall fiand fo much the more faft , by
howmuch the more tbey olXZ wrapped toociher,yea,whentheoldtreewithereth, he fhall be a ftrength
nhto him, and fhall addc uato:his age as much as he hath added unto his yemh.And he ceafed to dig.
'
Be not therefore haled in funder ^ neither be -fou ofended one at another, peradventure Reafon
would fet yoi^atide : But God will not .'. Behold,if you breaks the yoks that you are in, andrunne
ay?>-4j',^ff that erreth fhall peiifh: evenfo fhall he that fiandeth alfo.he defolate : For why,tbe dri-
•*"'
^n^rhcminueth not with oncBa: he Ihall return homs.and fliall not fee the end of the Harvefi/.
'^ ^ -
p f Ijo^e
394 ^-^ f^^^ Relation of Dr, Dee his -^Bions^witbfprits^^c,
Love thcretore one another , and comfort one a?tother ; for he that comforteth his hrothey comforts
eth himfelf : and when one is a weary , lee the other, draw ; For-, why you are men and not yet
frorvKcd ; the firfi is paid : fo is alfo the tenth ; Evenfo the tree thar isgrafted heareth fruit
fooner then that which gronmth ef the feed. NotvpithJ}a»dir,g^ both h^ive their place in the Or-
chard, the night let that yield unto day ^
and IVirjer bear rule over Sumntsr : Let youth y tela tn-
to ripefor jcars *,
Solomon /4/f/;,/f is good for that young man that ohejah the eonniel of h:s elder
'
In the Ccsinctl Hoitfe the things that they handle are far their Common- weMlii •
Nocyvithiand-
rfg hath hit order and degree. Caflyour eye upon all t lungs and youfnaU hav: examples ,•
Peter in
his vocation preached the fame Gofpel that the refiof the Jpcfilesdidy bathe was greater then
therejl-, not inrefpeflof his ^pojflefhip, mr in refpeEl of feedings l»it that Godmightks'phis
order, asthechiet'amoiiglt them, which preferred Velcr frfi- i 7 i^erefore be nt>tfi«bborn. B'*t I
command you in the Na!»e cf him that fent me, and becaitfe you have \nwcd that iht oiieofvou
did nothing witln^iit the others courfd , notwichftanding [J^all you not be two comifellors.
7 hcreftre^in ihiitgs that are to be Aonz, let the Door occupie the fupertortty ; The Seer let him
fee , and look after th; doings ot him that he feeth ; For you arc tut one body in this work.
£. K. He u gone oyit of fight.
Vr'm'it'ns &
Vicimte.
tr-
VetiY.
Oido faviit-
ftus.
Vota ro^/a,
/46ior.
Vidcus.
One body.
Tunica.
It is afcrlbed
lo my negli-
gence, that I
have not the
praftice of f-
nod) hU Boo!-,
SiflUuta
ty£mcth.
Liber Znoch.
K«te (his
RqIc.
Liber Enoih.
Ptlonl*.
VtrtHlaniis
HoPer Chrijlut
HtifftiO.
Image
£^ Asconcernin?; my Letters and buJineffe into i^^j/^W, I thought good to ask counfelwhac
Iwerc I'-efl todo with the Letters to the Queen and otheis.
Michael ,,,,>^ Gather cut ofthe beok^of Enoch , the Seal and the Angel ofthy Countrey,deal with
4iim.
A I found a Door, in the name due to Britannia, z^nno i 5.
Michael ...,,. Thou fhalt eafily find the truth bji their appearing , for the one anfwsreth not hh'
to the others fuir.Etion,
Hereby muf} tbott do in all.
Kircgdomes and EJfates, both how, and what thou wilt , that thou haft no: is ihy own errour.
Note. „.,„ KnAerftandme well here.
when thou wilt have any thing te do in the fVorld , in humane affaires , feek^nothing in SioiHo R'
mech, Enoch his Bookjs a worldly Bookj
Veritas inCoelo.
[o verjtatis , in terra,
homini
Imago imagini rcfpondet,
Ccelejtia autem ptnntur a Ccclo,
A I befeechyo".
Michael ,^,.,^T)ark^effeyeeldethuato light: Falfttm cjuod efi , veritati malum bona.
But note in the Book^of Enoch there are thofe that aregood , there are there alfo thsfe that 4rt
evil , the Prince efdark^e^e is evil.
tAnd thofe that are evil there, dofiand on his fide : bri$ as his Minifters give place to thofe that
are good, fo do they alfo.
Note , But as concerning the manner hewto jir»EHfe ih4t "Bool^^ Iwtuld ghdlj htm
fomewhat,
Michael,' , Sua funt,fua dicunr.
A I underhand this tobe lequired at his hands that gave us that Book.
Michael ....„ Polonia te expe(f)at , & qui EST priceffit.
A Asconcerning my health helping, iruy I fray here yet 8 day es , and then make fpeed tobe
going towaids Poland, as was prefcribcd to me.
Michael ....,, Pojfumtibiconcidere dies,Scpttm —
Ifthou didfi know that which Ifee,thau wouldfl notgo^but thou wouldft runneiHe that is before
is a Gardener , and he k»oweth the vertut of Herbs : But the eighth day I wiH be there alfo,
„.„ , f^bere, and whivh eighth day,
Michael , The eighth day hence I will be inCrocovh: I have told theeplainly,
A May I then Hay well 7 dayes, before I fee forth on my journey.
Michael , Potes ^ & wan potes.
Tlxu haflthy ownjudgmentgranted thee , thereby thotf maifl do it : But *» refpeB of the necef-
fity that requireth thee there , thoucanfl ntt.
A I beleech you not to be offended , if I ask the caufe of the Lord Lasky, filence A—He
itaysd long.
E. K.
«-« . . .w- ... .
, , ,
_
(ayttme relation o/'Dr.Dee his ABiom^wiihffiritSy &c, 395
E. K. Why did you not fpealt now.
Michael',^ X^'tt Bekold^he li.sthfiid ivitl} himfctfe ,
(and thoft that are wicked , tiavt vfhifpered
Httto him^) f'*^'h it [eemetht^M they H^fp'/e ntCy and obfiinatciy(bcC'tufehe hath not received let~
ten from jo'fi) he ufeth this JilcHce.
CMoreoverJhe huth not done.^ as God commanded him : Buclwili' give hiinthcc,idc thoii him
as thou wile. •
• •*
^ I fender unto thc.e Oihoft ijierrtful, ^mighty and loving God) tfaaiUis aud honour -, and will
during my beinj', )p!aile.|hy holy Name. '
.
jE. K. He is gone, and went away mounting upward, &:c.
^uis, (icuc Dstis nollcr, iqiii' humiliter relpliccr, & ptccatorts lita duat i^i adibus.
nil foil (it omnis laus, honor, & glovia, nunc & Icmper. Amen.
,
\y\'.\ ,
,
.
\
^-
Mife:::or^'i!t
& oix Dei pt
[nfier not.
A A rcm:iiibrnnce for me.
England Letters.
A.L. His Letters opened, and
fomc yet kept.
E/ficrick_ his traiterous dealing to
be deciphered; Counfeltor the man"
nevof our gomj', , and what things
fliall be ncedfuU to cake wuh us.
(J^'Lofid.ty
Aprtlis r. Mane, circa 8.
A Prices teci, &t yihtacas, & alias (ex tempore) cjacu"
lationcs, proauxilio Deiomnipotenci necedario in omiiibu^
nortris (Dei prefcnpci) tmiianc^is negotiis, Sec.
E^K. Here is a tall man with white
clothes , with wide (leeves , and his gar-
ment very much pleated, and a thing like
a Cypiefs fcarf before his face black , which had been many times
doubled, and with a knot behind him , Two others there are by
him on his left hand, one of them is apparelled in a green thing like
a Caffock commihg down to his middle leg , and a pair of {hooes
on his feet, and a hat on his head.
The other in a marble Jerkin like a leather Jerkin with panes,
and a pair of Hofe , with round Breeches of the fame fluff , his
neither ftocks like common black, and ufual fhooes , and on his
head an hat as the other hath of the Englifli fafliion : The firft
hath a little beard fhort, aburn colour, The other hath a young
beard whitifli.
,,,^.. why d I yon frovokt me to indignation?
J7 J^ j^^ fceUieth tO
^^"^ '''^'"
fVhy accnfe yof-meof doingvproKg?
r \ i_ i I
•
Have 1 not lead yon out by the handfrom the Serper4s? IpCak tO them tWO lOOKmg
on them.
nian.
E. K. There appeareth a
very great Hill up to the
Heavens by him.
Carried you againfi nature thorow the waters ?
Have I not held yei* up from falling?
Have I not brought joh hither unto the Hili ?
This is the entrance.
The way is open for you afcend.
And are you not yet ajhamedto urge me ?
If 1 have done you wrongs xvronq^ be unto me.
If I have d'ne more then I ought to do^ why do you vex me ?
£s Hef-emethto mean us. £. jf . He foeaketh to them two-
Jhavejaid unto you eatf and you have not.
I have told you it is time to eat, bat you have your own time.
I haveflid unto pit ( io before ; Follow me.
But in this cafe I will not be Judg againfi you.
Thefe two, that record my fayings jl^all give j»dgffK»t againfi you.
Therefore now unto you. £ J^, He tUmCth tOWatd yOU, ^1
Jiereyott fee the Hill ^here you fee the way open.
Hey yoif fee no hinde ance.
Tet, ..
lo, thefe men ac cufe me, trouble me,
Tietermine you againfi them,
CaU not at thffe Doerey anymore, uatilljBU be ealled unto them,
F f 2, 2^
^^6 ^true relation ofDr. Dee bis A&ions^ mthf^irits,^c.
If Te have (2'id if, beftre the Lord , ifyofthaduot., it hAdietH tetter for pu.
E. K. He treadeth them two under his feet all to pieces , and
taketh his hands , and flingeth the bloud of them about , and it
fticketh to the fides.
A voice Wha: is 1: to m: if man had never been.
E. K. He wrappeth up the place of their lying as if it were a
Cloth, and putteth or tumbleth them out of fight.
E. K. Now he is gone like a Whirl-wind away.
LORD,
A I am heartily lorry for any thing I have faid or done , \jvhichhatb provoked thy indignation,
thy mercy be upon u$» and not the rigor of tfay moll jult Judgment. AmeM. Thy Name beal-
waycspiajfed. Amen,
O Lord,I find my own weakneffc and frailcy continually , and therefore I call unto tbee for thy
gilt of Wifdome , that I might vvitely and difcrectly feive thee all the dayes of my life. O Lord,
the efcapes of my lips and the folly of my heart pardon,! moft heartily befecch thee : And if thy hel-
ping hand forfook us, and much moic, if ihy indignation workagainltus, weaie in molt miferablc
ana pitifuUcale, have pity, have mercy , have compalfton onus, Lord, Loid, Lord, forgive this
our offence whatfoever; Suffer us not to be confounded through our little faith, OGod.helpour
faith, help, help, or elfe we per.fh.
K. K. Here he is againe.
cffcnce.
"^<^"theLgrdl>adthte£o^ if thoH had'fi fo done ^ dndhad'fi not tAkjn thine own time,
^ more bad hee» given unto him^ andmore hadheen added ftnto thee.
i-askj his Jet- ^"^ '""" Letters came, that have pajfed through the hands p/ Sodomites 4«^ Murderers,(f/)r<?«^6
rers came en fvhofe hands they are accurfed^) yon rejoice, you receive comfort, joh determine to got,
Friday l»ft. But ifyou hadleft thofe letters hehindyou , h ad iovse when I bad ^ougo. jhin had mj Name
^ been u/itouched.
don , pi'rdon'
Therefere is the Lord angry, and forgetteth not this effente.
&God, thy For he that dealeth with me ,deaUth not as with A»iAn , for I have nethingin me tied Iff time,
j«iJg«Knts arc much lejfe hitth he that fent me,
J"'** Ck O God, what a wretched miferable man am I , thus to fall , and to offend my God, O Lord,
that thou judged is very juft ; for man would have taken indignation againrt his fcrvant that
iTiouId not go where he biddeth , or that would feek or ufe better credit to encourage him to his du-
ty, then his Mafters,&c.
mtafiy t imes hafi thou been wearied.
Have iijcicy,OGod. Etdcle omncs iniquitatesmeas, cor mundum crca in aie, & avertoi-
ram :uam a nobis , Is thy fury ini[-l3cable , or fhall thy anguifli lalf for eter, what is flcfl:i aaddu(t
before thee ?
.,
J.
...... T here ihall remaine the Jltng of this offence^ «» both your generations, Hntil thefifth.
punM^m^t^ct
^"djfwear unto you by heaven.
Lord be mcr- , ^P^''^ ^bis Sentence ot indignation (O God) againH us. Thouhaft faid in what hour loever
Ciful, a (inner is foriy for his (inncs , and turneth unto the Lord, &c. And Lord, I am heartily forry , I
ta don
bcwaih with tearcs this great offence, thou fcell my contrite heart,OGod,0 God, O God,8«c.
...... This hath added much, irx/fw W/> bound up the rod, which Jfpoke before unto thee,
A Thy iherciesbe recorded, likewife,0 Lord, andpraifed from Generation to Generation.
After this we lat and conlidcred,and peiceivcd, and confelkd the grcatncffe of our oSence , how
it concerned much the Honour and Glory of God , if we had gone without receiving the advertife-
mcntot thofe Letters ; So fliould they hear (the )aiid the King St. have perceived that wc
had die direction ot God, and of hisgood Angch , a-.d not to have depended upon mans letters,
or pel fwafions, &c, we both a like confeflld this great mifdoing , and fo framed our fclyes to make
11 Ipccd away that poinble w; could , the mercies of God be upon us now and ever.
ai
S>
A E. K. He is here, and faid. Be thou fliut for twenty daye ,
",n7"toLc and withal pulled a thing like a Curtain about the Stone , and the
'^"'
Stone feemed to be full of the fame fubftance , being like the
froth of the Sea ^
yet hanging or joyning together like Curds of
a polTet.
(1
^yttrne relation 6>/Dr.Dee bis AUions^withffirits, 5(C. 397
Mifcricordias Dominum in xternum cancabo, quis ficuc Deusmeus,qui cum iratus fueric, mi-
fericoidiampizftavitcontrirocordeinvocantibus: Soli igitur Deo meoj fie omnis lan$^
honor, gloria & jubila:io,nunc& femper, >rfw;«.
A^rilii f. ^ Prags. '
Friday^ I cook my Journey from ?rag£ toward CrMCovia^ God be our good ipeed, E, K. I^Tho^
vtM Kelly1 & Hugh Brycket my fervancs.
Friday. -f- CracovU-, 1585.
ty^prilis 11. A meridie wccamc toCr4ro^';4, and as we were within an Englifli mile of the
City, bcinc; a fair and calm day, there palled about half a mile before us,croflingfronuhe right hand
to the left Whirlwinds, divers one after another, wreathing up the duli with great vehemency on
high, and flioocing forward Ihll, and then mounting into the air, and fo went Southerly from u»,arKj
likewifc fome began on the right hand, and came furiou{ly,raifing up and wreathing the duft up into
the air Southerly alfo, and did not crolfe the way.
VVhcn wccame toourhoufc, we found that a ftrarger wasfetintoit,by the Landlords (lAi.^ohn
Lo>ig^ the Judge, and CMartw Tlutncr) and having by me the keys of the Store-houfe, and of the
Street-door, I cauled my (lufFbrought with me to be fet in, and chat night wc made hard fliift for
lodging. But the new anti fenced in tenants gave me leave to have one of my Bedfteads, which
via* in one (love, and emptied tlie lame to us, with much ado.
SMurday and Sufday we were lore out-faced or rather threatned, that we fliould have no houfe
. there, and alio one Bofiar his arms were let upon the door, as if the houle had been allowed to him
ex officio. Monday I made the Reitor privy of the Injuries I indured, and he courteoufly lent
two Mali crs o[ Arc with me to die Proconful to have Citation for the Landlords to appear on Tucl-
day by 7 of the clock, to anlwerto our complaint.
This J/oW<yr-night came the Lord Z«<?^;^7 from LAf;i;9,upon a Letter he had received from me
from Ntfo , of my coming.
Tuefday (ey^prilis 16) the Lord I.4»j^;came to the houle, and in the morning would have pre-
fcntly call all their Huffout of doors, but by entreaty he permitted them to empty all into the lower •
ftove.
, In the mean fpace I appeared with myLawyer or Attourney Mr. TetAldoy (an Italian) an anci-
ent Praftitioncr in the Voliih and Cracovian Caufes : And to conclude, I had a Decree againft my
Landlords, that I was to have at leaft an half years warning ; whereupon John Laugh gave me
warning to avoid at Mtchaelmofy and fo we came from the Court or Tovrn-houfe, called Prateri-
Mot in Latine. This lame Tuefday afternoon, my Lord Lasky went to the King oi Poland up in-
to the Cattle; and told him of my comming,and how evilly I was uied : and he faid, why did he not
cart them out of doors? fo have I now, quoth the Lord Z/<w/^-, and the King granted the Houle
to be holdeii ex officio : And the next day the King was deftrous tofpeak^with me.
Aprilis 17. PVednejday-, I went with the Lord Lask^y to the King, to whom'I faid, to this in-
tent, Cofifolatto, pax^ & miftricordia 1>eijit tibi^ ferenifflme Rex : Coram cjuo, Divinitw red-
pi admonittonent^Ht me fujitrem 1 cjUidnttKchumilUmefacio: paratijfimtu chtm omni fidehtate
& (inceritateeacum %egiavefira Majefiate tran:are., ^«<e mthi divinitus injungantur, ^m^
rum myfieriortim hifioruts de ordine tn ordinem referresprout occafio dabitnr.^ non recufabo aliaqHt
imniaperagere^qsiA 'Deo & veftra Majeftati RegU gratiafore inteUigero^&c.
The Kinc anfwercd, Vt de veflra perfena multa bona audivi abfeme-, ita jam mihi grains val-
de ejl- adventHS vefier^ & ft cjuod (It tn quo vobis meagratia 6~ favor, poffit effe commodo »on de-
tro me vefirnm favorem, & proteElorem exifiere : tAtque de iflis & alits majortbfu rebm aliquid
magis opportunt loqitendt tempus poft fejfos iftos dies : quo tempore ves ad me aecerfori cu*
rtboy (^c.
Hereupon I made Courfy, a5 was appertaining, and Hepped back fomewhat from the King, and fo
the Vicc-Chancclor and other Officeis, the chiet Sccretaiy brought Bills to be read, and fubfcribed,
or alligned with the Kings own hand, which he did: and after the Lord I.*^; had watched a fie
time to tell the King of his dehre to fpcak a few words to his Majelty of fome of his own aftairs,.
and was bidden to rclbrtllraightway after dinner to his Majefty, we took our leave with reverence
doing, and lb went out of the privy Chamber, or rather with-drawing Chamber through his privy
Chamber, wh: re he had faid MalTe when vvecame, and lb into the Guard-chamber, and down,8cc.
Friday^ \ tookChoftly couafelof T)o&or Hannibal, the great Divine, that had now fet out
fome of his Commentaries u^on'Tymander'^HermttifTrifmigifti.
Saturday (Aprtlii 20) I received the Communion at the Pernardines^ where that I?0(^ori5 z
Profcffor.
Thi&day £. K, the Ghoftly counfeland comfort, a* his cafe required.
^ pS (^true relation ofDr. Dee bis ABionS:, mtbj^irits.Sic,
On Safier Adond^y^ very devoutly in Saint Stephens Cliurch £. K. received the Goirmunion,
comyunfpeakablejgladnefle and conrent , beingathing (b long and eatneOly required, and ur-
ged of him, by ourloiritual good friends, as may appear by lundry former a»5tions.
-\- Cracovii,
Tnefday in Eafter week^-,
jipri/if 2^. Mane circa horam 8. Praecibus fufis ; mcdiocritcrlongis.
E. K. Here appears many thoufands of jpiritual Creatures, all
in white : Now there feemeth one like Michael, (all in red) to
ftand before them, they all ftanding in an half Moon compalTe be-
hind him.
Michael 4^,, „ Adhuc feMel(ftd Stefham ajfidente') Loijuor.
Sed fi Aiirem^& animitm fitAmy loijitette me£ pmbtferitfiabtlietur fedesilli.',
E. K. Now they feem all to mourn or hum, all in one tune/
He fpeaketh ftill, but I underftand not his ipeech.
Sin mintu lorjfthor pro me peftis : ulcere enim percHtiam terram Zelt plenm [nm^ ^ 7ftfii(U.\
E. K. All are vanifhed away.
A Ne olferves iniquitatesmeas(Domine JefuChri(li)qui fpcramns in mifeiicordia tua, qui
redempti lum.is prastiofo fanguine tuo,e/^«>f«.
Emicce Domine verbum tuum Evangeltcum, ut liqiiefacias & emolias obdurata cerda mea fi igore'
viciorum, uc meapeccaca purgentur, & cfficiantur, quafiinChnfto, uc nebula igiiorantixcxpcllatur e
cordibus meis, SclpiricusSauitogratiiaffluantaquxLacrymarumin pcrnitentia Salutari, y4»;f».
MkhtuC.
A Fcriedt
A.L. imlligit.
A woman.
Vt^um oin-
liuii ergt Sce-
phanum Rf
gem.
^eres 30.
^ui terrain
gtbemaai &
i 1 Reges Tti-
buum.
Vide Anno
1584. CM»n II
1584 Jun'no.
dt ..itigdU At'
rum,
A
j/i libfo Enoch
fimt qui tirrt'
ui traflanC
malt , at in 10
Aetf (icru
rKajo)ib:ii nan
funt t-jUs qiii-
bsts cum nobis
res tft.
Vide XI Mmi,
Sd fentinto
1585' + C^acoviit.
Aprilis 24. in E^ifter-vtek,.
fVedtiefday morning, ^ica horam 8.
. Oracionibusfaitisad Deum, tamoratione Dominica, quamaliis particularitur refpeflu Mini-
Herii Angelorum, qui regnis prefident obtinendi, ut nobis prsfcriptum erat, & dumconarer particu-
laricer mmi^are aliijnem, llarim incipit E.K. & Icquiiiir —
,
' E. K. There appeareth afar off a woman comming, and flie is
here now, flie is all covered in green, as with a cloud : I may
through it difcern her fair face , and her hairs difperfed abroad.
The place about her feemeth to be concave , repleniftied with
light of the Sunne : ftie ftandeth as in a hollow Ihell, or Oval figure
concave.
.,„» Stephen, hft Hp thy head amor^ft the fiars of Heavei ; for the Spirit of God is with thee,
and thoH art become the Darling of the Hi^hejf, but the Lord will reprehend thee for thy fins.
Behold^ thoM fhalt Jlandf and thy fword fhall be made holy .• See therefore that jon honour him,
Uhnur for him. and obey him, as the anointed and beloved of the Lord.
For why.) his/piritjhdll be plentiful among/}- you^ and ht fhall put the pillow of reft under your
heads.
E. K. The more fhe fpeaketh, the more the place is bright,
»*4.,The Prince of 'D.irk»efe(haU He as ajtumbling bUck^t» his way-, but he (hall Jiridt ever
him without offence.
The earthly Creatures have not to do in thi^ receptacle :
Therefore takj heed thou defile it not.
Jf thofs follow the rules of calling ihcm^thou (halt fee that the air ;/»Atf/'r habitation.
Other waits irregularly they appfar infuch veffels : Butfuch at are prepared for th«m.
Take heed {t'rHreftre) thou defile not the place of the "^uflifcd-^ with the prefence of thofe that
areaccurlVj.
But as they are of tvpo forts ; f) let their appearing places ht divers.
Thvfervant is conducted, and {hall not liunible, but {hall rtturn, that the nam* of God may ht
ilejfed.
Now ceafe thy voicefor our prefence-, untilthe Lord hath ribuked Stephen, in th« confidtration
vphereof confifleth the feal of his EleElion.
VevbHmJhali be thefirJi word wherein the I.orifhall(heyr himfelfmtt him,
ISthtlA,
\
<jjr true 9^elation ofDr. Dee bis Anions^ mthjpirits^ &C. 599
Behold-, I am ftfU of the light of heave»i asd Ifhnt up andgo,
^E.K. She is gone*. •
A NoK5aUtbofe things I intended or defircd CO be latisfied in, are anfwcred me without my
asking.
Milericordia, Pax, & Lux Dei nobis fcmrcradfint.'.omnis autemlaus, honor, & gloria fie Deo
nortro, Amen.
Nota Cracovitt.
(_Ma»d>ty, Tuefday^ Wcdnefday.
Mdy6.,& "jS' £-i<r. was very urquiec in mind, and focxprcfled come in words: for that ^.
L. had not paid him his money, long hiice duc^: and chiefly for that he doubted very much of A.L.
his turning Co the Lord with all his heart, and conl^antly. So wHch did A, L. his farmer Itfe and
ungodly living and dcalifigoffe»dhim,,zndio\oi<\ was he of any hope, that he became in a great
oppicirc of mind to find us coupled with I'o * ungodly a man. I lliewed ^y4,L. bis la(t Letteis, how
he was in a Monaftery of his own, belongingto theCalile Ritlnvyan-y {y\\\\c\K he had now by a „ ut
ttracag;m won from the un juft delaying ot his adverfary )and what penance and contrition he was in, ti,'i'"ij |, ^h
what meditations, and what godly puipolcs,&c. But £. A', would not hope of convcrfion, and them,
thereupon utteily and icfoluccly intended with all fpecd to be gone trom hence coward Frage^ and
willed me (if I would) Co prepare my LeCtcis Wz became very hlafphemous againfi God Corny
gieacgrietand ccrrour : whac the iflue thereof would be, To great was th; blafphemy and rebellion
againit God and his holy purpoles in us, chat almoft greater could not be uttered. I ufed as quicc
words as I couKI, alluring him of Gods mercies alwayes ready, and his helping hand for all fuch as
pucthcircrult in him, andcall uponhim in ch"ir crou lesaiid cim;s ot need, audio did betake him
to God tor chat Tuefday night, being paft 9 of the clock.
Wednefday morning, as I was at my prayers in my fiudy over his Chamber, and had made decla-
ration of this caui'c,and of the perplexity moH grievous that I was in to fee my friend and partner
(£.7<r.) chus carried away with fo grievous a temptation, fo manifold and vehement.
B.K. yet lying in his bed,did call his brother Thomas to him, and willed him tocallme to him ;
Thomas came (when I had in manner ended my devotions and prayers) tor me, I went to him, yet
lying in his bed : And after I had wiflied a good moirow, and late by him on the Bench ac his beds
head, he began and fa id fuch matter as foUoweth,
£. iC. A Spirit appeared to me this mornijig by my Bed-fide,
and bid me be quiet.
Bad me will you to go to morrow with both your fervants to
my Lord, as fecretly as you could.
Bad you comfort him.
Bad you bring him with you.
Bad you to go to the King as you came homeward.
Bad me to board in the n;iean fpace with the Itahan * Doftor at » Grrgovw,
Perins houfe.
Bad me lie here every night.
JerdanUi,
VenltyA'
Hereupon I was moft gbd and joyful, and praifed God for his marvellous merciesr loving kind-
neffe and goodnefl"; CO ward us, and declared my felfallured that God had put out his term, and fet-
led the degree : For the performance of his purpofes and promiles made to us, for his own honour
and glory^ And fo with joy and thanks given E. K. for his courteous imparting thefe good news to
rae, I went about my buhneire intended, which was to go to the Table of the Lord : as I was prepa-
red for it, and lb went to the Bartiardines Church
.
Soli Deo noftro fit omnis laus, honor, gloria, & gratiarum adio,
nunc & Temper, sAmen.
Note, I had in my prayers allcdgcd to God, that albeit I was in great perplexity and agony of
mind, yet fince I was -filled to ceafe my voice for having at any angelical frefence^ I laid he of his
Jivine clemency and care over us,in thefe great dcfives might counfel us and direaus,though we did
not urge our requeft as we were wont. The conclufion and fhame which many wayes would follow,
if this intended purpofc of E. K. (hould go forward and take place) was to great, that we might
feem to the world, to have been led to that evil end, by a manifold digreflion, rather then otherwife
led in mercy and verity, wherein I requefted God to regard his own honour and glory, &c.
- I
.
- — •^ —.1 — I ™„_
400 (pyf true Relation of^Dr. Dee his ABions^mthffiritsJ&LQ,
JiMj 2 o.
KjlioKday a mcridie horam ciiciter 6. in manfio meo.
NOTE /I.
A
be cue lift lot
o.ir uaworihi-
S.K. (icting with nie in my ftudy, told me, tbat after my going to RithiaM to :hz Lord Lm^^ he
had very mafiy apparitions, and divers mactcis declared unto hiir, of the Rate of (^hrifteudom &c. d
He farid (moreover) fault was found with my manner of Handing before Stefhen^ I fliould have
made feme more ample declaration of*iny Calling and knowledge in thefe our a(5tions. Secondly,
that I did miliakctlie phrale fpokcnimtomc at Ty^^e ot ih.t rod binding tip* : For he faid, that
Mich.icl "Dec lliould die, that I fhould thereby be alHided, am) divers fuch things he told me, and
amongoiherthaths was willed fo^fre<?£i/fo leave Mir^n>he>i hej'hould be called : for, he faid, our
cEiioKsjljAll be iHt off^for fomeof ofir iinworthinejfe^&c. All which things were fo grievous unto
me, as I was (in manner) ready to found ; and my dillvelle was the gi eater, becaufe (aftcrafoit) I
was barred from requiring the prcfcnce of any of our fpiritual f; icnds. till Stephen had been rebuked
by the Lord, and I had vowed to obey their commandments aiid inliiuftions, whereby I was driven
to beieech G^d to confider my caufc and grief, who unfair; dly dedrrd to be his true Servant : And
being dcfirous to obey them, liaying of my voice forihc pn.knce o( hisgoodMmifiers, I was con-
tented to off r 'p my obedience herein for a iiicn^xt ; and ready to receive this dilireflc and afflifti-
on, as a pumlhmcnt for m\< fias, awaiting his will and pleafure.
E. K. fai \ It {hall not be amiffe to bring forth the Shew-ftone,
and affay what the good will of God would be herein.
^ 1 fetcht the Shew-Itone, aiK; after it had been fct about a quarter of an hour. £^ J^^ g^^
Apparition; fpied in it a little naked boy , with a white cloth fcarf , from un-
der his Navel hanging down unto his knees j The hair of his head
is fhort as of an young child :
[a'^d about that time cam? the Ln d A. L. unto us,
o whofatdo«vnbyus:] He had a little Cir-
cle of aire in his hand : There is a hght in the ftone as if there
were the ihining of the^Sunne in it.
Puer ,„„» Creavtt DcHS omnia Spiritu oris fat ejHt etiam Sfiritfts^defendit (^ defendetfuot, f^
.
in ftominefnofperantis,
E. K. He throweth up his Circlet , and catcheth it againe,
three times i He ftandeth ftill, and faith nothing more yet.
Piicr »,.,,. ?erf.rrattu a Dotutiao^ laqncr-
E. K. Now he is turned into a water which goeth round about,
and in the midft of it is bloud.
Now he is returned to his former fliape again.
Puer „.... IheerJ'f rtlifle(hisathaKd.
jiadtheficklecf iheHighcfi (h'tlren^down the LMountaines ; The Vdllejt (haH k without •
fruit : i/Ind thefeed ofman jha/l be acttrfed.
E. K, Now he turneth his face to you [ A ]
Puc"^ ...... f^ho is hethat the Lordrejoyceth tn, or o» whom the Heavens look.with merry com-
tenance , rvhofefeet are not a burden to the earth , and in whom it theforce of the foul comforted ?
f^ho is he that jhall rejoice in the Lord ? Even he tt is that goeth out of himfelf., and beholdetb
himfelf faying , O thou Carcafe thou art a Sepulchre for me ; Neither am I placed in the*,fir
thine Own beauty , but that t he Lord may be magntfied,, and his Creatures dignified ; He it is that
fhakethoffhtmfelf^ andputteth on the ny^rmour of Jffli^ion, praifngand extolling the Garland
of the Cjodof Hofis , before that great tchore , and in deffite of her Congregation ; He it is that
forfdkjth his own will , to do the will of him that created him ; fVhnfoever {therefore) doth hit own
viilL IS thefervant of Terditieu ; But he that expeQeih the will of (jod is anointed.
Behold, therefore^ becaufe you dofj^ andhave beheld your fives ^ not in your felves ^ have ac-
knowledged the power of God , and the truth of his Adeffage ,
ytur Honour (hall be great : There-
forefear r^ot^ For Jo, This Garland is prepared for y01* and reft is fcalsd unto you, of the High-
eft, unro yoii, your wives, children and fervants.
A Bltflcd be thy Name for ever , O eternal, almighty, and moft merciful, our God and King of
Glory.
Puer
'prrphtta.
/)>»- nt acc('
p .iiio no{in-
r^iff ftiuiik-
<^true relation ofDr,Dec bit ABions^whhfpriis^ &c, 4 o t
Pucr ,.«» Ifthe Sntine Jhine not in vnin , if the Stars move r.et, bm by variationaKd difcourfe^
fnoving things, alrernacim , to etncKd^tl the Earth fia^d fliU.^ bec-jtufefhe ts fo created: Afuch
ItjfeoHght man to defpairein the mercies and promilcs of Uod ^ ivhich are mt yvithont a caufe^ nei-
ther any timeffoken without ejfeEi.
Iremember thee {Liu'Hy) fanh the Lerd; jindIm'dchaflentheefcrthyJi»neSf andbehold,!
fwear ttr.to thee., as I hive dom ; But humble thy jelf. 7 his body of thine (hall turn into dafl. Take
heed thereftre that it ^^fle not the greater part ; For unto him tliac dicch a finner , vengeance is
judgment. But ifthou nve according unto my Lawes, and graft thy fclf within my will, if thou
forllke the World for ir.y fake, and do the works of nghteoulncfle ; Becaufe I have calld thee be-
fore mc, I will addaunco thy yeares > and will not blot out thy Name out of my lemem-
brance.
Be not therefore a Man ^ byj thefealcd fervant of the Highefi. Rejoyce in him that created
thee , and when I command thee to firike-) follow me,for I will maks the way very broad for thee.
Beholdy I iK r'nndfulof my Covenant made unto thee , the feventh d.ay of September in th^
yearfourf'^c re avd three,
IwtH efiabiifh unto thee^ that fortitude, both in true Wifdome and Viftory : ^nd I'witlmake
thee mighty as a Corner Stone in the Angle of my Temple ' if thou turn , it thou do the will of him
that fpeaketh K»to thee ••
if thou beceme a marble flone^fpeakjng Jnflice and ferity ; The mylteries
of thv Crofl'e li^ht upon thee ,.and let thy fonncs be blclVtd m thee.
Jgreatly thirfi after Steven , for the courfe of things are at hand, i
Behold,! will blejfe him, that he may leave bUffing unto thee.
Behold,! will place thee unto him^ as bis right leg, and hefhaUfiand.
But his wicked Garmerxs I will cut infunder, yea I willfend in the fire of wrath and diffention s
And I will tak^ away the buttons from his brcft.
/ havegiven unto him three wicked Nations , that they may grinde under him as flavijh Cap-
tiiej.
y/hcn [came inotse Week^ Behold^ Ifinkj, and thofe that are proud^become poor and dsfolate.
The outtvardface ofthings jhall be changed^ And the whole IVorldfhallfay^o here,/.; the finger
of the highefi.
Rife Thereforejand with fpeed go before Steven; Bitt the League Table thou {halt leave behind
thee. I will reveal myfelf in thy proper Shevo-fione,
Dixit quarite viSoriam.
A Deo nollro Omnipotenti , Patri totus confolationis & mifericordiarum plenifGmo > fit omnis
Honor. Laus,Benedi6tic, Gloria 8c Imperium , nunc & fempcr Amen, Amen, Amen.
^.l:
/!nno I jS j."
7 Septcmb.
Monlaci ll'sro
le.
If
titiicidat*,St.
Digitus Dei.
Hcnfa jaderis^
In meo yrepna
tupide mjP'ut,
CO]
liote.
Mail 21. A I did communicate, and this was the third time, within Eaftet receiving.
Tuefdajt ^Primo cum Humbate, & bis eum Raphaeli confcffus, &c.
That all manner of way es I might have a dean and
a quiet Confcience.
+
Mail It.
H^ednefday, Nyefolonicz^c, in Aula Regia, circa horam i ' a meridie.
bJotc, after dinner as we fatcogether, A. L. E. K. and I diicourfing offiame of our matters j
There appeared over 9y4- L. his head (to the fight cf E.K.) a little Child lialf^ the upper part holding
over the head oiA.L. a v^'hite Crown,and a finger out of it pointing toward A,and withal he faid,
Puer AudiviteviEloreseflii.
A Hereupon we iat oat the Shew-ftone , as being ready and defirous to be inftruftcd » accord-
ing as the caufe chiefly required.
As I began to pray and ifudy , Domino non fumus digni ut nos exaudias, fuddenly E. K^ faid he
faw as foUoweth.
'E. K. I fee a great Hill of fire , a very great Mountain , and it
is as if it did hang in the aire : for I lee the aire under it , and I
fee the Sun {hine on it .-. the Mountain fire flameth not.
Now the httle boy that appeared lall day , ftandeth on the top
of this Mountain.
Pucr ..,.. God hath fpr ken unto you , and hath gathered jott together , andlo^you are become*
ftrcng (word , with the which the Nations fliall be cut down , and the God of Hojls (hall firetch
forth hit hands ; zy^nd behold, you are come , and now is the time you Satanjhall reap .'. But Sa-
G g ud
401 (z^ true Relation of Dr.Dce his J&ms^n^ithJfirits^Scc.
tan rtnvethlore agauiB you ; Behold, L^s'^y thou art l>ecome rich; But havefaith : Forttover-
comcth riches f
and[hall beAntifie andfirengthen thee ^ that thou fhah he able to receive rewardfor
thy labour : for «»j«w «j/?»4// labour to contend againlt finne, 1 have brought thee unto Ste-
ven j And I vDtll give him thee into thy hands '
zAnd becattfe thou (halt fee that God is not bar-
ren , / ar>i of fiver ;
-
Hear me therefore faith the Lord , nilt then that before thy face Ijhallde-
ftroy Steven for his vcickjdnejfe ? mtlt tKvu that J fhallfinkehim vcith a perpetual Lepro/ie, or wile
thou that I lliall correct him and leave him to do good unto thee? Nov thou fhalt fee that I am mt
Ofilo data, rveak^; Neither that my -words are barren or raithout frtiit : yisk^ therefore of the Lord, andbe-
^»fl» Lasky.ae
j^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ it^jM begiveu thee .'. for thot* dealefi with him that is a flame of fire , and a trvtt
vtBione
edged fword tothervicked, oHtoftheDunghd I chefe him , out of nothing I can ftirrt thee up^
and exali tkee , 'but thou mufl firft he poor before thou be exalted, read the Scriptures andjudge .',
Nowfpeak. E. K. He is gone.
Infinit2& incomprehenfibileslunt mifericordix tuae , ODcus, & Judicia tua funt inperfcmta-
Rilia, homimbus,
A.L: Dominc Dcus mifericors ,
quanta eft tua mifericordiaj quod me fummum occcatorem
lanta gratia profcqueiis? Iiidignus i'umDomine ante faciemtuam : Itaque Domine, qu2efo,neil-
lum propter me dcleas ncque Lepra percutias: led potuis infpiies in ilium , utmihi proprerte , & a
te, per ilium bene fiat. Non qua:ro Domine divitias, fed gloriam tuam. Non nobis Domine, non
nobis led nomini tuo da glonam. Et fiat mihi fccundum voluntatem tuam Domine. Tu I'cis Domi- •
nc, an hypocritice ago.
Milcrc'mei Domine, milcrere rasi, fitque mifericordia tua fiipra me & fiat voluntas tua, ficutin
CcElo,fic ctiamSc inTerria, Atquenomcn tuumfitbenedK^uminfaecula fxculorum. Amen,
E. K. He is here againe.
Puer ..,.,. Sapiens estu, I yl. L.'\ cr ple»its fpirUu Dei: Non quarens fanguine fratris tui
igitur ben. diEiam, fis inter poternes hitjusfaculi , & ab hac die fpirttus meus nunquam a te difce-
det ; & httc quia te humiliaflinam non elegt te pne ctufa.',
Puer „,,, iAridlo, I vntll correti him fharply : Ask^therefore in what Language thou wilt
have me correU him {for he is fcarce worthy to hear that he may underliand,)
E. K. He is gone.
t/f. L. Hungarice pt-co, ut ipfe audiat ea qus illi iunt dicenda fie ita Dirini tus placcue-
rit Majeftati.
Puer Hungarie is hateful unto mt; For it is full ofiniquity ; Neiihernilll fpeal^unto
him my felfthat he (hall ( yet,) hear me. Imil open my mouth tn Latin for thy f.^kj : and if he
become obedient , 1 will alio appear un:o him my felf and uuto you all , in thefpuitandprellnceof
my Angel : JSut to overcome him by Miracles it needeth not , for by him the people are not edified.
But by my words he ("hall wnderftand, that I touch him, although Satan fland by him : unlejfe it
werefor thy fAk,e I would not \NiihdTzvf my w Did and curie from him , for why,I amfiafficicntlyad-
viled , ^nd I do but keep backjhe fire from him.
BtttgothouiA. L.iunto him, andfpenk^unto him liberally ^ when he hath heard me , if here-
ceiv£ me , my blcfling is upon him of necciricy.
If he hear me not , I can eafily nnlocl^ for I have the Key ready.
^od the Father, God the Sonne, {unto whom all power is given in Heaven and Earthy with
the fire of eternal comfort, which ts the privj fcience and knowledg of the faithful ; The Holy
Hod'ti dibcntui ^^"fi-, ^^ upon thee, and with thee for this day^ thy [A. Z,.] fmnes are blotted out of Gods re-
fcccatt.ipfmi membrance
.
yl-L. J have no more to fay
.
Tieohtnor, Omnipotenti , tremendo & Solis AdorandoDeo , 8c Domino noftro fit omnis gratiarumaftio,
latii & lit»ra.
-^^^^ ^ Jubilatio, nunc & in omne sevium. Amen.
Jf- Nyepolonic^e in Aula Regis Folonit'
tyfnna 1^8^.
tjiiaii. 25. A meridiehora Circiter 6.
The King fent for the Lord Laskjf and me, by his Vice-Chamberlaine , whom we came unto in
a Chambeij within the Chamber or room? where he ufeth to give audience , or to eat with his Pa-
latines and other : He lat by the Window which is toward the South, and by which his Profpe(5l
is into his new Garden, which is in making : He began thus , (the Lord Albert Lask^y being by,
and thereto willed by the King,) and faid unto me very near as thofe words import.
St. Egit mccumDominiisPalatinus, ut vosaudirem de rebus iftismagnis&raris loquen-
te: ^uod Iibentur feci : & tamenhoc confiderari debet, quod Prophets omncs & revclationes
>am dm & in tempore Chrifti ceflavetunt. Tamen fi nihil in tfiis , contra Deifit honarem , eo lu-
beniius funt audienda : Ecego quidem haud dubito quin Deus nur;c pofllt mulcis raodis fecrcta
quasdamhominibus deligere, ad hac ufque tempora, maadatis & innfitatjs,
Heer'
(^true relation of T)tJ)tQ lis Mio)i5,whhfpilts^hc, 4-03^
-^'
Hereupon I anfwered to this fence , alihongh Icamiot exprejfe the
_. fame words,
• A Ccnfidcroiriorcinevfftrarrcsia tria quafi. capicala, in quibus torus ordinis
veftrx eft mcdull i. Primum dc Piophctiar;S,& Tcvch< ioncm ccflationc-Jccundum. an
aliquid in noftris adiionibus, vd cxcrcitiisinfit contra Dei honorcm : & tcrtium(quod
animomco eft valdegratium; quod, Deo non pra:fcribacis ccrcos aliquos raodds
vcUcmpora quibcs fuii hominibus vcHcaut dcbcat kcrcta dcccgere. Dcpritno, hoc
poftimiis vcftrcE MajcftatiRegipa?aflererc , quod ille Sciipturse locus baud re<ftca
plurimis inteiligetcr : &ab iiiis pcftime ,
qui vdint omni ir.od^. Dei potcntia:&
mifcricordi^ & lapicntigr prsefcriberc ccrtos mcdos , cc tcmpora ccrta : aflercndo nul-
lorum hiis teiiipcribus cfiTe Prophctiam , vel poft Chriftum fore.- quia omncsia
ChriftoccfHivcic : hoc eft, quia omncsdcilloqusBerant Prophetix fclicct. De Dei fi-
Jio in came venture &MctTiavcro, &rcdcraptorc generis humanifuturo , (&deto-
tailiaquam rcsagnovimus&confitcraurChiiftiani, complctum & confummatum
cfTcChriftihiftoria) jam cclfavcre : adcoquod ilia ncquc jam futura funt mputanc
Juda;i , nequc rcpccenda Ibnt , cura jam funtconfummata & pcracla qucmadraodum
Prophcta: prccnuntiabanc nam ob hac caufa cum Chriftu' Jtfus iti crucc pendens kmC-
fet, quod omnia de co Propheda complcta fuiflent, & prarccpimus fcilicct omni-
um Prophetiarum (ante Chnftiano ) kopus j;im eftct Collinatus , & Juxta pra^fenti-
am &propo{itum Dcirccemptoris humane confcicnnam tfTcc myftcnum ipfc dixit
confummatum eft : Nam & Paulus dixie ad Judges, (namquc confumm.fTcnt omnia
qua: gc co fcnpta erant^ dcponcntcs eum, dc Ligno polucrunt e'jm in nonumento. Et ^ ^ ^^ ^ p,
poft Rcfurrcfticncmfiiana ipfammeiChnftusiuis difcipuiis ipergcntibusvctfus Q\- Aani'.B.
l{ellum£w/i«/^3&deilhusmonc &rcruucditnedi(lcrentibus &dibttantibus) dixit,
O ftuki& tardicordead crecc^-'tmin omnibus quie locuti funi Prophetx.-Nonnc ha:C
oportuit pati Chriftus, & ita incrare in gloriam fuam, & incipicntca Moyfe & omnibi;s
Propi;ensinterprjEtabituril1is in omnibus kripturis, qu£ dtiffotrant , &c. &paul6 ^"h.^^^
poft itcrum ad coljcm vobikum : Quoriam ncccfte im^leri omnia qux fcri^td funt in
lege MojfJ cb" Prophet li^ ^ Pfalmis de meJ
Scd quantum ad alium lenltm quod poft Chriftum milk cfTent Prophctae vel rc-
lationcs ipfam Scriptura: planifllme contrarium docent. Nam quod delccndum erit dc
rcvclatione fine notabilc ilia Beati Jeanai Apealypft quce poft Chriftum era: < quse &
abcodcm Jodnnt Prophcta vocatur, dicendo^^wrw qui Legit (^ Auait verba. fropiHtiA *
(^ap.i.Apgd
kujus (jrfervat ea qui tn at [criytafunt, ^ in ultimo Capite tjufdem Afocalypfecs Jiiae re-
'vtlationes^ ter- eatiemitcat Prephetia lihrum. Quare manitcftumeft poft Chriftum
cflc Rcvclarioncs & t-'rophctas. Prxteria que erat lUa Paulo hda. revclatio in ejus Vo-
catione & Convcrfione per ipfum Jcfum Chriftum, ut in Apoftolicorum apparct A-
^um libio. Cap p. quid dc ilia dcccnncs * Cor»f//'0 Ccnturiano r *
\Aasio.
Quid de WhPitro cic ammalibus mundis & immundis. Et i'<a«/w ipfam dicctfi
A ^
Acis ii.
gloriari opcrcet (ncn expcdit quidera)vcniam ante ad vifioncs & rcvclationes Domini, A
&c. &pau:6poft :&dc Magnitude reveladoncmcxtollitmc, daroscft mihiftimulis
'•^^^*'•'^"•
carnismes,An2clusSatanxquiraecolophizetcs,notummihifa(kumcft facramen'um,
\ ficutfupnknpfi:prout potcftis Icgentcs intelligerc prudcatiam meam in myftcrio
Chrifti, qood aliis ficncrationibus non eft agnitUTi filiis homini , ficut nnne revelatum
. eft fandisApoftolis ejus & Pro/;/;fminrpiritu,&c,ubietiaProphctaspoftChriftiicfrc
apparct : &cap,4,Et ipk dcdit quoidam quidcm Apoftolos que fdarn autcm Prophetaty
alios vctdEvaugdiftis,3liosautemT aftores & Dodojcsad confnmmationcm fando-
lum, in opus miniftcrii, in cedificatione Corporis Chrtfti,Doncc occuiramus oaines in
unitatcfidci in menfuram ^tateplenicudinis Chrifti, &c.ubitam diu Prophetas fore in » Anscap,r.
EcclclhCfjrijlt poft Chri ft u apparct. D(?flff occutramus omncs in unitate fidei,&c.quod Ph'i.ppi dTil.
nondum poft Chriftum faifiumfuifle bene fimus Sejamhsec rotate noftra maximefu- ttriiocoinio-
mus circa ncgotium fidcidikordcs maxin-e videntur cflc ncccflaria? non Prophetse fo- "ctdcI/^'
'
lum kd ctiam Rcvclationes valdc exprefle de Myfteriis Divinus. Et de locotione An-
gelica *3idPhilippm, & ejus de loco in locum invilibile quad tranflatione per Spiri-
Gg 2 licuut^
404 <?jf ^^^^ Relation of Dr. Dee his ABions^mthfptits.^c,
ritum Domini) quod puccnduai eft. Et dc Piophetis poft Chriftum tcmpora tcftifica-
tvii A£lum undecimum caput , ubi legitnus quod codcm tempore quo primum difci-
puli Chiifti Amiechia cognominaicntur Chrillianijfuperdeneiunc ab ferifeijma Pro-
phctc-c 4ntiochiam^ & furgcns unus ex eis nomine Agabtu , (ignificabat per fpiritum,
famem magnam futuram univcrfo otbe tcrrarum, qua* f adum eft fub CUuciio , ad fe-
cundumautcm veftrse Majcftatis Regis Capitulum , fie rcfpondeo quod coram Deo
Stbcatisejus Angelis, r.flerequodconfcientiamca nihil adhucdeprchendic,Notivir,
vcklijrdicarepocuiCjnequcpoflTu in omnibus noftris adiionibus, vel illanrm aliqua,
quod (i: contra Dei, honorcm, vcl glcrianij Immo, quod ad Dei honorem & glonam
valdc fpccicnt, poffimus.
Dcniquc tcrtio in loco quod cum magna & vera: pia Rcgiaquc & dircreiionc exiftU
tis, mc Dcum Omnipotentemiis temporibuspoflemodisfuisvaiiis, l:ominibusqui-
buPdam fua manifcftarc myfteria & fecrcta. Valde letor : & co magis , quod tarn ex
noftris prxccritis id conftarc potucric multis Adionibus-, quam ex futuris: quibus inter
eftc &: adtflcprxrens(li ita illi vilum fucrit) vcftra pofTu MajcftasRegia. " Et pra:-
" tentarum noftrorum Adionum librus 24, paratus lum (quccunqne vcftra? Icrcnif-
" fima? Majeftaiiplacucrit tempore,) vidgndos exhibcic; quorum qi:a'dam Latina
•' lingua,GrKC3 alise, alije Angiica lingua, fed ex maxima parte Anglica funt Confcri-
*'•
pis ipfaeadiones Angelorum,r;5^. Dcibonorum Inftrudiones, admonitiones, cx-
«' bortationcSjCcncioncSjProphctia\&quocur;qicaiio funt. Ccnlencxncminc nobis
*' fadsRevdationesjreahsvelvtrbales, &pcripacium jarn trium fere annoruma
" nobis receptee & annotate, &c.
-\- Nyefoloniu£ in Aula Regia fnfer.te ipfg
Die Luns Stephana Rcge-, & A. L, &c.
<^May 27. Mane, horam 7. circiter. In camera prjvata Regis.
In laftde qui Omr^ipotens , Seinj)iter>>£, Fera -, & utii D'H* .,
o m mifericors Pater mi, qui me de VatriA
AugdMvnhi mexftmejtA contrein:e co-nccptaniAhc'-A ^ perAmc/aj tuos h:;ros admo>jifli-, & per eofdem , tnde^
addnif.iit mc cumZ^xre , Libtris'^ ^ Famtlia mea i/:f^* duobw , egyedi juffifii : e tgredietites nos-,
p'^xfoipiHtne-
ex fertihpu maris, cjuaft tniracHlofe liherAfli : ft cjui cx homicidtartim& Hereticortimmanibui
''cumeodm
^^'^
^'f*''*''<i^bM vartii nos cxpedtmtfit : ht q:ti multis ms modis {parttm mbu cogr.iiis^ partimin-
* A.L, £.1\,, C!?gnitis ") aptriculii & mortefrttexifti , abeo tempore, quod adtutt [ecreta judicta& negotia
tej}:ficat>dd , trAlinndu & pmmnTenda nos vocafi' : Idea propter hanc tttam taut am & tttam ad-
n/irabilc mifer'cordtam ; trumprt^lis tui a ?it/bii d.beri landes c^ gratiM humiUime agKofcamiu.
O tu Pater nofler Cfcmeyitijfime qftt * kcs duos ; vwchIo tm Divim artltjfime copulafit : & quaji
* LS&e.i^ nnum ex duohtu ejfe voimfit. O tu frrtijfime Dem mens qui ha^ic tu/imtasky , quaft Klh-
letam meum catittffimum , ammofum, & mesirn amamijfimum ^ robit adjunxijli : virum C/«-
thelica tua & orthodox a Keltgionii umnntifjimam cr Anti-chriftta»ifmi omnis acerrimum hefiem;
"Deuique Sapter,t'^me , Pore^.t'Jft*Ke& 0;time Dem , & Pater mens, qui tuis mox irtcipien-
dis Regiis , magnis mirifict Conaitbm -, quemfatiebat Regem , ta/,dem iuvenifli Stcphaniim, tuum
futurum Billatonm; q nist:io mutui ^ & jitffit ex (tnimis , totis fuisveribus , & ntaxtmo zelo
obedirevelit: Cr cut non honorem & obeJieyitiam (jr cxhibtemtu , in mandatis dedijii; & propter
quern labores (^tibin6tas')ut [nbiremHS ^ ^ujtenueremtu • flatutfit : & ad quern, pofi laborio-
fas peregrtiiatior.es noftrt multtplices qtiidem ,
prater-] tj\ie?7ji s f,iB as , direUas aliquas , alias
ante, ( humano judicto ) qt<aft reirog, ados , tuam maximam gratiam ,
favore : & auxilta inco-
lumnies & [alvos nos perdnxiflt: Nos quafi
hie tuos -^ tuo Nomine & unamente eoKvententes ^
tnadignerts Patctna rmfericordta , a totttts vit£ mtAommbus pttrgare fpurdliis : Et Chariffimi
tufPilii Domtnt <y Redcmptorii Nomini Jciu Clii ifti intercedonibin meritis , nobis^ Condona quiC'
qtudcontrtk Leges tuas SanElas (^Jtiflas, volentes , vel nefcii, vtl negltgentes , verba-, fail*
vel cngitatione ad hanc ufque hor^m cffenderimm omnes (^ pnguli , ttt ttbi jam p'ffimtu majfa pura
(^ iizima cfferri : una D'Viia& abuttdantij/ina fermnanda gratia; & tute charitatis ignein
cordibus njihis per te acee*!pj ,
quaji qtudem proportionis & facriinj emplo tuo effciamur panes.
Et (ic nobis interim Filius'tutu 'Dominw noftris ]z'ms ChriHus 'Panis vitte : querngufiandofua-
vffuntsm , etr fldet veribm tranfgladiendo vivaciffimum t^Manna eundem habsamus nobifcum in
perpetuam , mitte tgitur nunc Luce (jr Veritattm tuam o Dem Omntpotens fempiterna,FtV<£) &
Vera, c^ tuo Ster haiio ( nofler a'-item Serewffimo Cratieftffimoque Regt ) appareat , Te Deiim no-
ftiHm veium vivam, Omnipotentem Do6toiem nodrum in lis adionibus & Myikriis cffe wf <?wf
«
( Itcet peccatis cbmxium ) voto &• Conatu mtgno ifidele tuam ^ ftncerium effr fervatunt : omnia-
tjue tuAjajfamihtmax'tme ejfe Cure : nofque ftngulos fingularibtts iate (tutem muadi exordium
fr^ordinatesefftmunerthus , tHtKoSanUofervitiotra^andi:, (^c,
E. K
E. K. Nihil poft primas prseces apparebat.
A Bievcs fecundas kci, & adhuc nihil apparebat .•.
Terciasadjcci, etinm breves.
Poli tcrcias ex lapide quidcm Calor in facicm ipfius.
£. K. Exire vidtbatur.
Circa lapidis oram Sc fimbriam rubicundiis viridis circulus appa-
rebat.
£. K. Jim video hominem albis indutum veftibus, & fuccindis
facie longa Iparils crinibus, & a deus notu quafi undantibus , Sc
dexter pes flans fuper magnum lapidem rotundam, Sc finifter fuper
aquani, Sc pofl: dorium e)us magna lux eft : Nunc video terram lub
pedibus e)us, fed quafi in aere videtur elTe tam lapis ipfe quam a-
qua ilia.
A Sitbcnediftus Dciis noflcr , & lia: voluntas ejus.
Aqvx carfus (qui verius Occidentem el)) pedem ejus videtur fecundum fc prigs defcrre,
Vi'letur lite longo ameclT; cumiiuueor taciciiiejas interdumunaappareteUe interdum tres fad-
es & ita confufo quoi!,T.r. iiiodo.
E. K. Audio magnam vocem Dicentem , Vetii ^ Vidi.
E. K. Dcfcendit juwi alter ad ilium quafi Globus l2;nius cum
facie eminent!, & ab ejub corpore quail verga arundinea videtur e-
manare.
..,» J»fpex' , & examinavi^ & ecce^ Nulla efi Juflicia. Anilke mnla
Vox ,»,.» Interet aqua in mare, & fiat ftilfa , cji^ia ecce tertia viola efl- plena. diliteramuf-
E.K. Jam venit ignis , & ilium totum circundat, aliquo mini- ^^'^^^^''*'"*
mo : Circa illud reledo intervallo fibi proximo.
Vox ,..., mienf' a.
iji'tenfttravi ^ftj^-.llum efl (y:) qitiy>qnaginta duo,
iu^/? ecce, fumplemts Jujfttia & Mtfertcordis,
Vis <2 iiy.r tti
,
quod aperies os meum ?
tAfiqttareinqHir DomiHus vificarem Stephanum humiliet Semetyrum,
E. K — Inclinat caput fuum] quia ecce habeo quoddicam. Si.
ecce habeoj^ labia mihi confuta funt.
iJM^^K'ficat igitHT fotenti Cceli & terra Dettm CreMorem , Regent & illuminaterem qmdpcf-
Jtt VjbispeccatoribHs prop'itiuf ejfe & VHlt'.tm ejus miftricordiamfuper vos convertere.
E. K. Jam converfuseft totus inClobium igneum.
A Milereie noHri DoiTiine,iecundumm3gnairi mifericordiain tuam, &:c.
E. K. Jam ma"gnus quidam fumus per plicas quafdam (infta nir-
bis) lapidem operet.
E.- K. Jam videtur ilia nubes convoluta efle , &feoriim ad u- A
1 1 • 1- r r*^ Ldiine hac
num latus lapidis lepolita. funtmbatm
...... Verbnm^ ab altijfimo miffus facioj ^^''*
O uamohrem crige te (^ diliqmter notaqiadhac
Attencle btefbane y
quiste aLunabults reprehoifwm-
Enntriajit ? qnis z>iarmn tuarum labores. m^abhfui-
Aut jfiventatis tea temeritntc me»fiiravit ? alf impetu judicii & temporis : qais te legit ? ^'"^'^ verbiim
am Hnde muMttis cs Coelefli decore ? Hayic itbi animam viventem , [agacem^ &[ale plemm^ quis
?'«'^/'{"""'***
induxit? Noyive %ex ille gloria , in ciijy.s gratiam omnisfiibjeBa efi , in ccelo & in terra pote- ^j^^Juracoviie
fioi? qutte potentieltvans brachio a milite admajorem , amxjore ., ad maximum evocavitfep-
trium i iV«?j,vf ider,t ille
,
qui te & vocat & vijitat : & de femetiffn , ame facula dixit , Ego
f«m ? Q^uareiaitur-, Nebulam tam tenebrofam , tantaeccecaliginetamadicotngratudinefufful-
tam , imer Benrataum^ &animam tuaminduxifii? An'cjuodKonaccepijlihabes} []he fhaked
his hand at tbeKir.g, after the Polonianmauner] Jlut unde{'Dic) DiademaCapitis? Ecce quit*
*»fra£ili cordis tHifrudefJtiaj Detim a fimfiris,immo a ttrgo ^ pofuifii^ fequitur te fpiritus ma-
lignus
^o6 (ayf true relation ofDu Dee his Adfions^ mtbJpints.SiLc,
lignus: Namerafii: IgitHrmtiltiflicata&nHmeratafHntpeccatatmiin CccIts^Judicutift tunm
intt CA»es ifficum ffmda ProphetaferMtin^uinatiifuntRegiavtitfceleretPtrpiJfimo-, Cubkultt
tun olint mahm , ignar f:irrexu 'Dens tHrgidus & terribilis faEltu eft &iratas tibi. Verum fie
d:citDominus ; qittapatres tm ^ ad Ahare mcnn: fanEiiores ft-ctereine(]ue perverfi a voce (^vi*
mcirecejftre; t: ^mem ^
qnia virHm avulgo diftwclum feperando feperavi , o- feperatust; eli-
j^endotdtUxi : NonvifitAbo tniquitatts taas invergnmeA : Hicjue 1)ejictam te tjiionadntodum
decrevi: Sidi>iSo\\oz\x.\.\h2Li\dledeaspermitta9». l^erum fi hrticbiHm mettmZelo cognovfris pe-
tens: ft impktatemtuam derelinq'tes :
ft
HmuMittiiz ornaveris^ ftfetidam afmn tuo leprtim^
Aluf2ic4tir.eam^ (aon ddvomitum rediens) ^bfter ftris Ego quoque iram avertam mcAm , ^ dies
ti:* relinquA ftabilicntur fartitndifi{ '. RegesmalidiEii & potentes hHJits nudi tHioxicati calice^
Jl-feretricis (^mea qui* fiegkxere ftMHtA ')fiilmine ire mei in mami , & ante pedes tiios cademfer-
rurique eritgUditu tHta nAiiombm , tnteln te (^oeli circumdHcent dnm in rohore dextera tua peri-
bunt inimici'
Cor popnli ;«/, a te alienDttuWy poft modicum repurgabitttr : qui nutem infantum confpiramere
turfiftir))? , cadeut ulcire. Adhne ft latere mco cum ftrmiter , tamfideliter adhafcM ahumbrabit
tefpirntis men: & evades fapietis ' teqne res Fmcundabtt de Ccelo. Hec eft verttas & Lex Domi-
« r •/ "'> fj''i>»prcp}ft t'bi^ LwxDd I.odie Stephii>}o: /git({,-ft{metibigladiumfemori,eftrt»ge,elev4
fr(/'Don:tno& vsritiite^pugtia^vince, 'S^gn^i Nolt {ftcat hom»^) timort cedere-, nequede mtindo
querttate : quia Dens tads tecum eft ; /^«'-f terrtbilis & magntis Dominus exercituitm : Jgitttr-
ft
OS ttium '{'.^te a folio aperies :
ft
impinm condemniveris impietatts iwpleto te fptr im meo , c^ ;?«/-
mutuArepUniurigntpotehti^ dntitntanHs tUAVindicam C celos
^
\Jnchnatcafut.~^
iihmit Impiam illam getter.tttonem, (^de qn.t Dom 'no loqimntur eft^ 0- infervitutem tibi tradidity)ctinr
videris tcmpHs^ cum flits fnis^ 0" apoptflojuo ^ aparvo ufque admajore ^
percute gladto hi pro
impietaie veccar i^f;t pljKrxrfim numsrus \ teniae it ifftiRpis Bahdrnz (»on minns odiofa (falis :
qttam terr.i, gri'.-jts^ & wdtofa) fanata tibi eft ; & nmlediEia injubarefolis, CclLige & Orna.
Ftigepedem m Aqniii»}e^& digitts tange mare-, <^ not,ifper»ere corottam alttfftmi ofiendum tibi
nomenmeum ^ Q- ponam Uudt s tuas inter aquM. Ctnge te etiamftcut forti-, ampleSere monies
nteridior^Aies ; & ttdifica mthi altare : Er^ptiim enim vmeula ab tlht. Ab Oceidente , manus vie-
lefit.ts in vifeera tua extendttnf- Sedfcrro prafcindam illas ungues. Denique ft a peccatis ceft'averis^
ftfsaiofi/igyabiscixleBium, & ambuUnd^s coram me Domino Tyco tuo injuftitia., & veritatty
^ Csr ndiicqutdinKomtnenfeo feperit be»edicatHr&inmefpleHdoremfufciptt;St»aittem,verba.,qH*
Sgomet niter , n i
° •
»
txifjiimt vtdt locutKS eft Dominns » aadire Mttneris , Egomet ulcer cxiflam hodie exaltavi te in Domino, (^ poftti
Jit/tii 14. caput tuum inter ftellas : Efto igitiir obediens : Faratfts eft terror tmpits , & maledtUus eft mun~
dus : Beatus autem q'ti fdelner obfervttnt Verba, (^ ilia cuftcdtet qUit Dominus hedie fecit ^r4»
tia Del patris, jefn Lhrsji/ftlii, ejus ^meltnat capui^ & Sptritue Sanclt vifttetvosfemper [exteit'
dit mantis ftitu valdeq
A Ainen.
Add-vic familiam tuam cum cckritate.
Anfliit hot ^ Sitbcnediiftusnomcn r.l-.iflfimi qui in fcrrandis promifHsefl connanciflimus, &in mifericor-
dixit. diisabundantisfimus/. llli Gloria, Laus, Honor,dccus, jubilatio,& graciaium adionane
& Icmpcr. Amen.
(Ji^aiii^. J^ '
.
Ttttfday mnne circa 6. i» NyepolomsLt.
A Orationc finica & aliquicus verbis fadis, dc nofira cum Stephano Aftione prxteritahxrl.
£. K. Here is he that was yefteiday in our Adion with the
He, mihi (faith the Lird) [Hg ftoopcth by Httlc dowHward] "^h^ ^^"i^
myhanJ from the Earth? IVhat have all the Princes of the IVcrld built a lower againftme}
Thefe in denjfing me and my Majeftie : The other rvallorving in extream drunkjtinejfe amongfttht
pleafures and blmdnefte of the ftefty , negleHing (rvithout fear) mj Commandements , have I
thYowKOf'.c the (fhildreh from the Vineyard-, andcalled in the Dung-carriers? have Ivifttedmy
fervams, {whom I ehofef) in reratb and indignation with the Sword ofjtiftice ? have I thmfcat-
tered them Won the face of the World, without a Shepherd , to entertain blafphemous Murderers-,
Lyars, and the Runnagates of the Earth, the feed of Cain , and ofthe curfed \ O you Caterpil-
lers, Ojou thatfill the Earth with peifan\ Oyou abufers of my Name, and Di(honororsofmj
Temple \ F/hat is the caufe that you arefo barren , or that the Lord hath not mightilyftjewed him-
felf among/} you, as unto his Children ? PFhy are not the ^Miracles and {Venders a Teftimony of
the God of Truth amongft you, as they -were unto the Jfraelites ? Why,hath not the Sea divided her
felf ? Why, hath net tbf Lord dthvfrtdyou from binda^ ? Vntt the Jfraelites hegavt a fruitful
Lanit
,
^
' ' * ! -- '
^
—— ,. —. . — -I ^—Ml»-M,| I
^ I., , , , ,. „ ,.. ,.
i^jftrue i^elatim ofDr. Dee bis Anions, mthjpirits^ &e. 407
land ( the pojfcffion of the wfck^d ) abottndtfi^^ with CMtlk^ a^d Honej .• unto jott , he hath dettvc
redrour foJfcJJioH unto the D^gsTandyoHr children to become Ca^tives^rvhj doth not thiGodof Bvfts
ftretch forth his ha«dfayiK(!^ : Deliver my people from bondage? Are not the times of thofe tatter dajes
^
a»d ofthe Harveft of the 'Difcifles * findorved amorgt the doings andgraces ofthe Ifraelites^jou- Asthe//»«f/l/«
lire become blind 1
jok have eyes but you fee not ^ for you * kiioA' not the time cfyour vylmuon, and HUrufa-
O thoff ftif-necked Cfeneratior this is the cafife^ that the finger of God commeth not amongft you :
^"^ '^"<-"' "ot
Thisy this is the canfe , becatife you have noc Faich : Neither it the Sprit ofgodlmes and obedience
li^'pj'""/^,
°\
^
amongft jou^ can he that tsainnsth defile himfclfe with lying'. orcanthefiejhofmaKdiminilhthe and fo arc
authority of the godhead: isChxii} ]cius,( very Godofvery God) of lefs power or firengih unto thcfe daycs
you , then he wtu before ,' wdo the feed of Abraham : becaufe he hath taken your ftejh upon htm. I^'adowcd in
O you ignorant-, 9 you blind firangers ^ you that were faithful inthefight of the Lord, is not
'hei/"Mc/««
the God of Heaven and Earth heire unto you , by reafon of his Man-hood have you nu now ac~
*^'>°^^'
cefs your felvts unto the Throne of the Higheft, which your Fathers had not > the Jfraelites ran unta
the Prophets and high Priefis : yea ,they dnrfi not run before the Lord : For it was faidofthcm
* Let tbe?» ftand before the hill. They brought their offerings t« the Prieft , which offered up thetr
frayers and humility i But unto you {.0 you df littlefaith) the Gates are fet open: yea, even unto "^xod.c.ij.bc
the Throne ofGod : vtl?y therefore, doe you not afcend unto your Chnfi , l^ioich is anointed before
the Father. Hath he anointed himfor himfetfe^orfor you? for both : //you have no miracle, you
havenobkh , ifyou have {faith the Son of God) faith , to be compared with a Mu^ard'feed, SCc,
But you do none of thefe things , neither is the name of Cod magnified amongft you , Is it not a ^^'^''nculk
fhatne , that the faith of man groweth not to be equal with a Aduftard-feed , is it not a figne ofyour
^'^"'
flavifh nature , from thewhich you were cal'ed,<hat there is nofaith amongft yati?
True it is: For why the bloodofchrift ts flied upon you: and you are wafhed without deferts
Behold.now ( faith the Lord ) when I have Ihncd up a Moles there are no Ifraelites that willfollow .A ^ofeti '
him : thefeed of Abraham is dcftroyed with the /Winter of kit-love <?«^dif-obedience.
The Lord groaneth, faying: fVhether jhalt J turnme ? unto whomfhalll fljew myface? ifI fat
unto them go out, jet your l erts againft the wicked Behold, 1 will be amongft you , andfioht for
you : who ts it that hearcth me ? where is jour faith become ? who is he that betieveth me , O yoti
wicked feneration (hall the Lord call you andfeek,e your deliverance , and will you know of the
Lord wi'.h \vh;t meaneshe will werkj^'^ow'^ you,M the God of Heaven and E^rth become amonaft ^'"^ '"^fp''"'"^
yotf an Ingineer or a Merchant,a Hoarder up of worldly treafure ; or one that rideth on horfe-back to
'"^'''^^ Stephani
battail ? youjtinkjng Carrion, you hatefuj^etches before Heaven and Earth ,
you blind htrehnvs. ^'^a'
""" ^'*''
who deviled the Seas nhothn'i} down jeTicho, who overthrew the wicked Kings}' who dcfiroyed
the Citie' of the wicked? who fought againft the reprobate (jianis andtheflefhofmankind} who ^^^
opened the windowes of Heaven and confumed jou all except as you read ' eight perfons yea if *
out of the wind'iwes I can confume you , what (hall become of you if I open my doors, if Ifend out
Gsnef./. 8,'
tKy fervants agu-nlh you, and my innumerable army. Is it notfaid, whatfoever Iput into your fy»
mouthes ,
thai fpeake. H'hy do you fo^ but for the truths fake: Iftherefore I bid you doe,is not my ^
truth all one ? / amfull of forrow : for no man openeth his doors unto me , no man believcth me •
no man rtmembreih that t made Heaven and Sartk :
Stay a while that I may weep with myfelf.
£. it. All the ftone is become black and
full of fiery fpecks.
A After we had read the premiffes
£. iC.Here is another now come in green a man with nothing "'"^fe- J^rf<
on his head but onely his yellow hair.
"'^'^''*
He haih iiive a pair of black boots under his garments clofe to
his legs : llKe buskins Sec. ^ Note Ilemefe appeared in July,
Anno 1 548, and did make an end of
^ Nalvage his work, &c.
Iteach you [ he paufed afccr a pretty while •
,
^= appeareth their like a little
'
child with yellow hair, &c,
Thuf faith the Lord thou muft <«;j/n?«r Steven according tothe hardnefs ofhishart : Anfwer Refponfuifpu-
A/»»f/;?«, tor thi Mean.' Lo, Kivg^the God of Heaven and Sarth hath placed me before thee, and *"" Stephana
hath fhewed Ui-ito ihee his will , hath nouri(hed up me his fervant from my youth unto this day , in
^^''
thefear of hmi O'ldthe fervent dehre of true wiidome , whereby I have attained {through his help)
unto the k'^ov ledge andfecrets ofthe things in Nature : which knowledge behold in the nameof God
andfor hisfiks • and bec.iufe he hath chofett thee , lo, lofer up unto thee , and willingly made thee
partaker of^rbis do. e be not afraid to open thy -mouth unto him , as thoU didft «»f(» Rodolph> in v Jolf the
Writing , B:bold ( King) lean make the Philofophers Stone , forfo they caEit , Bear thou there- Empetoard \
fore the charge, and give me a name within thy Court that I may have aecefs unto thee' andyearlf
maintenance of thee ioi\xsho\h i .Command htm alfojorjtrike 4 band effecrecy betrris» him i thf
felfe,
T
-
- - . — .. .
,
^oS^^true relation ofDr. Dee fcw J&ms^mtbprits,SLc.
felfejandLisky, Take heed, thou want not taith : for I will help thee : A>ui hefljall have a grca*:
For us both Jreaflire / rvtH fee them , if he will labour for me. But it may ie Lasky vpill holdhtm by the
£.iC.an<iA
kcele.
Fides. ^What mean you by that phrafe ?
». As jAC9bdidEfau,
G:nef,23.D Vntothis appl^ *hy felf^ And give thywhole endei\ox from ti??Je, to time alfo I rvilloptM my
mind unco Stephen through chee,or in the prefence of himfelr.
But let Lasky open this unto him : The Camp is kjiorrn >*nto me,
A I underltand not this point-
,.., . Let him underfiand, than art mindedfo to doc,
Stfttmd'icbus For this fevend.t/es ,3.skz no more zn\\NZi-.
cijfandum a
£s How,and ifthe King be delirous ofany aftion ?
refponfispe-
^^^^^ j'refpea m the KiKg.
* * A I bcfeech you be not offended that I ^ske your name ?
„.,, ihmefe. £. J^, Hc IS gone.
A The other will come again.
. A voice. Non venit. |»
Therefore fliut up the window.
DeusCoeli 8c TerixdanobisFidem.
I ..
/ -j- Nyepolonic&e in Aula Regis St.
S Tuefday a meridie circa horam tertiam : The King fend for me to hear what I hsd to fay to him
as lhad,lend him word that Ihad tgfay lomcwhat tohimin Godhisbehalfe.When I wascome
into his privy Chamber, and all others excluded but ontly the Lord Lasky who came with me , and
fiayed by the King his commandemeiu. I faid thus verbatim as foUoweth.
A Ecce ( 6 Rex ) Deus Coeli & terrs , me ante oculos Veftros pofuit : & vobis fuam declaravit
valuncatcm: me autem fcrvum fuuma juventute mca ad praefentemdiemenutrivit intimore illius,
& defiderio ferventi verae fapientiae qua ratione(& ejus auxilio)aflecutus fum cognitioncmSc fccreta
rerumnaturalium qil&mcognitione ( ecce ) in nomine Dei.
^___^^.^_^_«_^——^__^.^__^^^^—^—— .^____—.—_^
—
- -^
—
»
Janii 6 '\' ^racot
Mane horam circiter S .*.
Orationibus finitis ,
pro luce & veritateDivina, quae nos ducerent & perducerent ad montem
fandum5'/'»«. &c,
I have (6 Lord) according to my fimple abilitie , endeavoured my felfto declare to .S«?/«»
thofe chinos I was willed ; accept, 6 Lord, my intent, and give me thy graces and encreafe my
faich that I may in my doings and layings, plcafe thee or not offend thy divine Majeftie , and now
6 Lord, T^e await thy further direction: not prefuming to propound ( as now) matter, fuch as our
frail ftate might move us unto : but therein we grave this aide , chy light and wifcdome, Sic.
K.E. Here is a great head with wings like a Cherubim : all of
fire, the eyes are very big, as big as your bat , and his head as big as
thisTable*
„.,» He that is a Jleep let him fleep on .^ he that is in the high way let him fiot return home.
He that eatech let him not rife , but eatftill , and he that weepeth let him weepftill , he that re-
joyeeth let him reJoyce for ever. He that goeth arvry let him not return into the way. He that
planteth his Vineyard let him notfee itj he thatgathereth the grapes let him xot drin^efthem , be
that blafphemeth the name of God , let him blafpheme , for he retumeth not. But he that looketh up
Unto Heaven, let him xot cafl his eyes upon the Earth.
Behold^the Lord hath forgotten the Earth, and it is a burden to me that I am here , therefore Igo.
Z^nto thofe that do well ) the Stetvard is ready with the rtwardy wo be unto the Monfier of t he
Earth,for he is accurfed.
E. K. He is gone; 2ind
fly
eth in a flrange order : upward in a
fpecial line in manner ?
A voice. Put all things to filence that the Lord had touchedy
Therecentacle ani tiie Biol^s^fee youopenthemnot., nor touch them until you hear morefrom
me. But h f ' rio^kt heart, and walke the ways that you are returned into, i
Take this one lejfon: you are in favour with me, and for the reft care not.
^ Thy mercies be fealed upon us for ever and ever, 6 Lord, of Holts.
£. it . Now is a red thing, like a Cloud come all over the ftone.
Ignem cuiamoris & pra:potencis f\dei in cordibus noftris, accendc, 6 Deus
Omnipocens nunc 8£ fempcr. %Amen.
Anna
(^true relation of Dr. Dee his AUions,withffiritsyB>Lc, 409
Unica Adio,- qiice Fmuma vocetur.
Que durabatabhom y. mane, ad horam 1
1
? K A g M.
Adiio PiHcciana.
prior pars.
-|- Pragx.
Angtifli 6.
7 uefddjf Mane, circa onnm St lis , & nobis hsii injungebarur.
Fufis de macre prarcibus, &c. piilcmfcus nobis A , E. K.!k Fr. Ptteei, ut prilcriptum erat.
Dilpolica crac Menla foedcus : Canddaquc cerea accenla.
E. K. Here is one , covered in white to the breft , all white ap-
paralled,he hath a long glafie in his left hand , full of filthy loath-
iome ftuffe, like matter or hke bloud and milk, or curds mingled
together , and a ftafte about an ell long in his right hand , he fet-
teth the end on the ground , he pointeth with his ftaffe toward the
* Table of Covenant. atu^tp
Accede JJominum. j^ aj jh^ uC^,.
_ .
al Table, ia
A He Lf. A. J cams to the Table ot Covenant » and looked intotbe Hff//-/?^^, our fccrcc ftn-
and law cbi- Idme vifion, but his face is (heic) bare, and he feemedi to be ZJrisl, dy,»nU bad fst
my ufujl
A Benedidliisquivcni: in nomine Domini : obcatiDei Lux, shew-fti^ne
URIEL. ...... GioriAtt{;i1>jmi>i(, 'Rjx coeli, & terra^ qtti es, & ventftrus es.
before hmi.
E. K. Now I fee the foundation of an old thing , as though it
wiere of a Church.
A voice ...... Meafare.
A/cdfttrefrom the Eafi to the North , andfrom the Morth to the fVcJl part , for hshoU , the reji
is judged already.
U R I H L ,.„. IhAvemcaftired^ (L.,rd)z<^yai>dthehalfoftn>e»tj/fivt.
37 1-
The voice .,..., Divid: tfto three parts. [A The third part of 37 1]
URIEL » It IS done. is ii~.
Th: voice ,,,,,» Vnto the Kings ofthe Eafl give the firJi.
K»to the Kings of l^'eft give the fecond.
The remnant meafure nnttthe dayes of the North : that thefire of my indignation ,
may be a
tridle amongfi them^ and that the whole hVorld {except the excepted) may dri»kj>f thefarrow ofthe T/opfccfirf.'
[eve/ith part of the half time, yet to come.
URIEL „»,. Thy mofith (O Lord)is 4 two-edged frpordf thy judgments are perpetual and
tverUfhing^ thy words arethsfpirit of truth and underftanding^thy Garments moft pure and fmel-
Uttg incenfc ; Thy S:*t withiut end , a>7d triumphing , vfho is hkj unt» thee amongfi the tiea-
H h mini.
41 o (oy^ true Relation of Dr. Dee ks ABtons,mthfprhs,^c,
AVifion.
Libet cum 7 fi-
giUis.
Emet tail.
The argcl
with the Beok,
ly^'fiutio
ju'Tiiia,
C^ltjrricordiie.
Judte^rum.
Convcifio.
Virhits prtva-
lehati
'vens, or who hath known thj beamy ? Great art thoH tn thy holy ones , and mighty in thy rverd a-
tnoKgft the SoKnes of men : Thy Tefiamem is holy, and itndefiled, Theglorj of thy Seat , and the
health of thy Sonnes : Thy anointed is [acrificed^ and hath brottght health unto the faithfnl ^ and
utito the Sonnes of Abraham. Thyfpirit is cverlafitng.^and the oil ofcomfort The Heavens {there-
fore') gather themfelves together-^ with Hallelnjah to hear witnefe of thy great indignation andfu-
ry prepared for the Earthy which hath nfen up with the Kings of the Earth , and hath put on the
Wedding garments : frying rvith her felf I am a Queen : I am the daughter of felicity. Remem-
ber ally e^ that are drunken with my pleafure,t he CharaBer I havegiven you , and prepare your
felvcs to contend with the Higheji , fet your [elves againfl him , as againfi the anointed , for you
are become the Children of a firong (fhampioK : whofe Sonne {hall garntfh you with the Name of a
Ktngdome, and fhall poure wonders amo"gfi you ^
from the fiar res , which fhall put the Sunne the
fieward ofhis Waggon^and the Moon the handmaid of hitfervants.Bttt-^O God,p?e is a Lyar^ and the
fire-brandof dejlruciion, For,bcholdithou art mighty^ andfhalt triumph^andfhalt be a Conqner^
for ever,
E. K. NoTV the Stone is full of white fmoak.
A A Paufc.
£. K. The fmoak is gone, and here ftandeth one over him in the
aire with a Book,whofe nether parts are in a cloud of tire , with his
hair fparfed, his arms naked , the Book is in his right hand , a four
fquare Book, with a red fiery cover, and the leaves be white on the
edge, it hath 7 fealesupon it , as if the clafpes were fealed with 7
golden Seales. And there are letters upon the Scales, the fiift E.M.
£. r. r. A.v.
w.» T^'^ks this Booky ut Veritas Luce magis clarefcatfEt Li-x, verttate fiat valida. Data
ejl enim tibi pottfiaSy dandi & aperiendi hiinc h rum mundo & mundis.
URIi^L, ^^^filoria tibiiRex cwli (^terr& tjxi fMtfti.es,& venturus^s hinc f»/>w,judiciu meretricis,
E. K. Now 'Vriel taketh the Book, kneeling'upon bothhis knees.
URIEL ,.,,., Rejoyce O you fonnes ef mm , lift up your hearts unto heaven for the fecrets of
God are opened . and his word letoutof'JPrtfon. Rejoyce^OyoufonnesofGod^ for the fpirit of truth
and underflanding is amoKgTt you. Re.ojce O yo/t that art ofthe SanBuary , for youfhall be full of
wifiom and andrr/laiding. Rijoyce O thou tie Houlc ©f Jacob, tor thy vilnation is at an end, and
thy vtfitationis begtnning'.Thefour windsfhallgather thee together^and thoufljatt build up the trod-
den wall : he bridenroom fh^ll dwell with thee. And /o, behold, the Lord hathfworn, and wit kei-
nej[e(loall >int emcr into thee., »eu her (hall the Spirit of the Higbeft go from thee, but thy fathers
bones (hall have refi ; And ti?ou (k-'.lf Itve eternally.
The bloud of the Innocents fhall be wa(hed away from thee, and thou (halt do penance f»r many
dayes,Then fhall the LambJi and in the midde(f of thy greets O Hierufalemutndfhallgivt Statutes
unto thy people ar,d inhabitants : All Nations (hall come unto the Houfe of David : The t^Jiiothers
fhall teach their infants, faying. Truth hath prevailed, and the Name of the Lord (kail be the
Watch-man of thee, O City.
E. K. Now all is full of a white cloud.
URIEL ,,...» Silence unto mc^and refi unto yo If for a feafon.
E. K. All is difappeared, and the fbone feemeth cleer.
Ad:ionis VucciaM pofterior pars.
A Legipr3Em!flaLatineipriF^-.T;/m, &pauca lociitusiumderegibus&aliisqui hxc putanc
efle noflras impoQuras, & a nobis haec malaratione tra£lari,&c,
E. K. He is here again.
E. K. He litteth in a chair of Chriftal, with his Book in his lap,
and the meafitrifig rod in his right handjand the glaffe vial in his left
hand.
URIEL ,.,,,, Seeing that power is given untf me , andtlmt iruthis added untevty Mi-
iiiftery , and I am becom: full of light and truth^ I will open your eyes , and I will fpeak, unto you
thetruththatyoumayfl^n't^eof the lumpi(hnefeof your darhneffe ^ and profound ignorance : a^d
Tpalkjn truth with your fathers.
Give ear (^therefore) diligently unto my voice : and imbibe my fayings , within the liquor of your
harts , that the fap of your fttfdfrfiandino may receive firength , and that you mayfionrifh
with
^j/ftrue 9^eUtwn ofDr, Dee bisABions^ mth^iriiSy &c. 411
'with /tcctVta()le Trxth^ As the chofen fervants and Mi»iffers of the Hif^befl.
Touts tnundfifinmdigno pofittaefl^ and is become the open fliopof Sasan, todc- Maihia,
ccive the Merchants of thcE^rth wich all abhcmifiation. But \vh«j arc you the Ped- ""''''''"'''
Icrsof fuch wares •: or the Carriers abroad ot lies and faIfedo(5irine. Do you think rZ^M.
itisafmallmattcr toticihcfenfcof Gods Scriptures and myfterics unco the fenfc
and faatching of your Imaginations i Do you count it nothing to (it in judgment a-
gainft tbeSpiritot God: leaving him no plucc, butatyour limitation. Isitlawfu!
before the Sonne of God , to fpcnd the whoie daycs, yea, many yearcs , with the
Sonncsof Satan , the lying iraps,and deceivers ofche World :f Are you fo farcntied
into the lliop of abhominacion , thac you point unco the Same ef God the time of his
comming, thcdefcending of his Prophets, and the time wherein he fliall vifit the
Earth i Mefes durft not lpcak,but iioin the Lords mouth : The Prophcis expoun-
ded not the Law , but the voice ofthe Lord. The Sonne of God fpake not his own
words, in that he was flcdi , but the words of his Father -, His Diiciplcs taught nor,
but throughthe holy Ghoft-, Dareyou (therefore) prefumc cotcach, and open the
fccrct Chamber of thcHighcff, being not called^
TcUmc, have you left your Merchandize*, and the counting of your mony deceit-
fully gotten , to bcome Teachers of the Word of God i Arc you not afhamcd to
teach before you undcr{tandCyca,;irc you not afliamcd to lead away^wherc you cannoc
bring home 1 Hypocrites you arc, and void of the Holy Ghoft,lyars you arc become,
and the enemies of Chrift, and his holy Spirit.
Pcraovencureyou will fay, i.i reading the Sciipciircs wcunderfland Buttcllme,
by what fpiric you undcrftand them : what Ai^l hath appeared unto you 1 or of
which of the Heavens have you been inftruded r
Iimay bcyou will fay of the Holy Ghofl,0 thou fool,and of little undcrftanding!
Doll: thou not underhand that the Holy Ghort, is the School-mafler of the Churchj
of the whole Flock & Congregation of Chnft;? If hebctheSchool-maftcrCthercforc)
over a multitude, it follovveca then, that one dodlrine taught by the Holy Ghoft, is a
IcflcB or an undcrffanding of a multitudc.-But what multitude arc of thine undcrftand-
ing or of what Congregation art tkou ? Wilt thou fay, thou art fcatteted. Thou fpeak-
eft fafly,thou art a runnagatc.But, behold,! teach thee,and thy error is bcforcthy face,
Whofoeverdoth undcrftand the Script uresmuft feck to underftard them by Ordi-
nance and fpiritual tradition. But of what fpiritual tr;^dition underftandcft thou:" or by
what Ordinsncc are the Scriptures opened unto thee i Tfiouwiltfay thouartinfot-
med by the Holy Fathers , and by the fame Spirit that they taught, by the f ime Spirit
thou underftandcft. Thou fay eft f o,but thou doft not fo. Which of thy Fore-fathers
i)Ath tiedreafon to the. Word ofGod i or the undcrftanding of the Scriptures to the Dif-
ciplinc of the Hcathe; -r 1, fay unto thee, that thy Fore-fathers were dear unto Chrift,
were pcrtakcrs of the heavenly vifions and ccleftial comforts, which vifions and cde-
ftial comfoits, did not teach unto them, a new cxpofition of the Scriptures , but did
confirm and give Iigtit unto the myfterics of the Holy Ghoft fpokcn by the Apoftles,
the ground-layers and founders of the Church.Whatfocvcr, thcrcforc,thou Icarneft
of thy Fore-fathers,thou Icarneft of the Apoftlcs,and whatfocvcr thou Icarneft of the
Apoftlcs thou haft by the Holy Ghoft.But if thou expound the Fathers after rhy fenfc, .
& not after the fenfc of the Apoftles,thou haft not the Holy Ghoftjbut thcfpirit of ly-
ing. Therefore humble thy fclf and tall down before the Lord. Lay rcafon afidc, and Reafon,
cleave unco him. Seek to undcrftand his word according to his holy Spirit. Which ho- £«;e/i4 ^^W-
ly Spirit thou muft needs find, and fliak find in 4 vifibU Chnrchy_even unit the end.
'^'
I will plainly fay unto thee (ThatjTruth may appear mightily in light:) Whofoever
iscontrary unto the will of God, which is delivered unto his Church,taBghtby his A-
poftlcSjHOurillied by the Holy Gholt,dciivcred unto the WotId,andby Peter brought
10 Rome, hyhxm, theie caught by his SucccfTors, held, and maintained, is contrary to
God and to his Truth. ^"'^{^•^
Luther hath his reward.
Wilful°lv
Ca.\\in his reward. GbftiniteJv
The refi^ all that have erred, and vnilfully runm afiray , feparating themfelves from the Church erring.
And Congregationof Chrtji oh[\'mzx.t\s'-, andthrough the infiigatioM oftheir father the Devil^have ^^^ dcfir.u!^
their reward^ Agniriji jfhfm the SoHnt of Gtd^aUfronoHHeejudgmemf faying^ . •
onof anH^-
H h 3 Gi
^^^^'^^''
412- (^true relation ofT)r. Dee bis ABions^ withjj^irttsfii.c.
Go yea deceivers into Hellfire y provided for joHr father and his Children from the
he<^inmng,
_ p Tgttrifeup among'flfffour felves ^ f.ipng^TheTop: is tXfttichrifl ; Tor by this nante yon call
no:\n°nduift. ^"^ J
3ii evil mm he may be, and fall trom his vocation : But he can never be Antichrifl : For An-
Antichrift. tichrifi is he, thtfonne of the Devil-, a ma>3,fle(h and bloud, born of a rvicksdand deceitful H.:r-
lot, that[hall fedace thi peonle 1 fvnell rvUh the fir ength of his father , andreflftGod in Earth a-
fvongf} men ^ as kis father did in Heaven among the Angels ^ titterly denying bis Omnipotencyj
Ardfettiag himfelfagainfl him,
CUvcs Cteli A' OjoHfools, and of little tindirJlA»di»g: fVhen unto the Apofl/es , the Keyes of Heaven were
fojlolu data, given , that is tofaji the fame authority and power ot Chrilt Jefus the Sonne of the Living God,
to forgiveJinxes, sud to exclude fmners from the Ktngdome of Heaven ;
(And) when unto the fame
Apoflles'ytc Tvasfaid alfo Come behind me Satan : yoit have not ftndsrflandtng to fee into the myfle-
ries of the Highefi; ifthe Sonne of God did commend and rsfrehend his Difciples, why May no$
Rcmemberti (thtrcfort) a Bifhop ^ be counted good and evil; if it fulLw {thereforeyhat-good ,tnd evilmay be a
aske amending Bijh^pJt \olloweth alfo , that neithergond nor evil addeth n»to the A»th«rity ofa "Bilhop , bt(t ti?itt
of this place, hij orvn life; if he be good he reapeth the benefit of his goodnejfe , but ifh; be evil ^ hcisaLyar,
jf»ne bejong.
l>eca»fehis'T)oilrineisagaixft hirnfeify //f/jer<'/arf fov the (innc of man, God hath piffered many
» Afts »? A '"fhefpirit of ' Ananias/o (it in the holy place^it is joryoar finnes fnke-andfory cur rebellions nature
"
to be punifhed : And not for the oblcu^ing or darkning of his Chn; ch.
Open your eyes therefore, andundcrfland , and cleave to the Church for the (^hurchfah^ , and
no: for the love of m.in- D(fi>ife not the Cixirch, becanfe of the trarifgreffions of man : But fub-
mit your neck^tinder that holy yoke and ordinance , which [hall leadyou to the Congregation gover-
ned by the Spirit of God, wherein you fliall underfrand the ftcrets of (jod- his Book^, to be inter-
u Hi fi'iati-
pYetcdaccordmcr tothefenfeof your fathers : whofe u»derflandin(r was the finder ofthe Holy Ghofl-,
mete pole[l.
you cannn authortii.- your jelves , a»dwHhout authority you can do notntr.g; 1 herejore tf your
authority be not , i; by t4ke you upon you ttgk doings of the ([h'.'.ych , which it is e»e thing to fcek^ to
underj^and the Scriptures , and an oth:r thing to teach the Scriptures according to his undcrftand'
ing , for he that teacheth, teachcth, by Authority , but if he have no Authority , he is an
'"P^'''
(J}^ brethren remember yourfelves , and confider you are Children : you are not , veflri juris,
^.vfaheni. Ihsrefore^donothingthatisofyourfelves: But follow (asgood children) thejlepsof
^"'^f'^'^J^''^ your Mother : which Mother is a pure Virgin , andisalwayes tnflruVred with the wifdom of the
mm y'lnie
'
Comforter J fVhat meat fhe fiallgivr unto you her Children : and how (he [hall bring you up and in-
Slmplicuas, flruil you '. Simplicity r^ mnch worth, and obedience is a Garla-nd before the Lord. But Citriofity
Obediemia. is the Devil ; Have you not read ; That the breadof the holy ones is not to be cafi unto 'Dogs ?
Curioficas a. Lookjinto yourfelves whether you be 7)^7s or no. See ifyour life be holy : your doings (Iraight and
Diaboloell.
j.^j^ ^ jour patience manifold: your 0iU:tongreat for the Lord i if youfind not your felves fo ,
you
p"l 'J^^l^[
are not Children ; Ifyon be not Children , you ar: not Sonnes , ifyou be not Sonnes yon have no
Cams. Mother , tfyou have m Mother you are Dogs,- you are devourers ofthe breadof Children, currifhi
In miin \udi- fenfelejfe^ and againfi God.
cium (iatiu'.ffi Entir therefore into jud^rt/ent with yourfelves,
(U[ce»damus.
^anfidcr you are created by God.
Filint,
Confider you are redeemed by God.
Spintiu Sunn. Confider alfo you are alfo left to the fpiritual tuition 4nd comfort of God : which God hath made
Ecclffa. ofyou a Congregation : a holy and fantt ifiedfellowfhip , feeding alwayes >ts brethren together,under
Thebrcidof htswtngs.^ and at his '
abU : which feedcth you with the bread of life and underfianding, with
Rxi)lh"' '^'
^'"^^' ^""^ ^^""-^
°f ^'-^"^ ^'^^'-^ '^' ^'""" °f^^^ Living God.
°'
l^tth underflandirgthat y)u mayknow the will of your Father which is in Heaven^ andh^iaw-
tng hint, be obedient which is the (.oncliifiou of your vocation. Shake not off" therefore the yokj of
eb:dtenii.trjl Obedience, Icafi you piH Away alfo the Cup of underftandin* , andfo know ntt the will of your
f'''i"">f'""">- Father.
But my thinksth^joa are fiarved , your guts are fhrunkap : your bones andfinewes are withered.
yyhat is the canfc thereof ? H^hen received you the bread of the Lcrd ? fvheit received you nourijh-
mtnt ? Q yoH oflittle faith : and le[fe underfianding you erre, and runne aflray : you are blind,yom
follow not the will of your Father : %eturn, Tijturn, andfay wit hin yourfelves ,
Q.mopiBniteH- O eternal God and loving Father ,
great is thy care and mercy
'euu/jmquc"* over us , which being ledaiTray (with Satan and the fpirit of dark-
nLnf^f'^ ncfle) haft brought US home: which being blind haftfet open be-
fore our eyes : (our eyes alfo opened) the true path and line of un-
.
derftanding : Happy are we whom thou loveft fo deerly : and unto
whom the care of our health is fo dear : We will therefore praife
thy
(0^ true relation ofDr, Dec his ABions,withffirits, &c. 4 13 V^
— ' ~" — , —I.*- ——
_
,
*-.- - 1 —
»
thy Name, and return from our errors : vvc will acknowledg our
finnes , and follow thy Commandements : for thou, O Lord, art
onely juft and true , and thy mercy is everlafting : Thy Lawes are
fweet, and thy love and kindneffe mighty amongft us, Holy, Holy,
Holy Lord God of Zcbaoth y all honour praifeand glory be nnto
thee for ever.
A Allien.
,,;,,» Jftcr/trvhile Tremrfi a^niK.
£. K. He is gone.
^ Nocc, I read the premiflcs to Tr- ?ncci , in Latin , which fecmcti to us to be wonderfully pl-
thyjand CO the purpore,&c.
JE. K. He is here againe.
'URIEL ,,,.» \\z.\\c\iV\xcz\. give ear vntomjTxioid.
Stay a while.
A Hereupon Fr. P:icci did kneel on both his knees. Pranclfcsa
URIEL »,.,. True it is, thittt as tky fptrit moved thee ^ i'o Gjd hath called thee to the P»«;.
partaking and undeillandirgot his will to be fulfilled in punifliment and wTatii againlt the fal-
fhood and deceit of the eaith. Ar,d therefore hath Cod in his great love and exceeding mercy cal~
led thee arnay from the Somes »f the Accurfed , andfrom the way of tinrighteitiffieffe : wherein
ifthoHfollorvhtminfJmflicityofCoKfcience-, and rightetufr.ejfe (the wo, kj of faith) thcujhalt
he confirmed: for If.^j unto, thee^ J willpower my vetigeance upon the whole Farth , aid I will
chaffcyt her th her imq-aty , and in the midiefi- tf her pride^ J will llirow her dawn head-long^ and .
jhe jhall triumph f:o t;.'ore .-. And hecanfe thou huft hurnbled thy felf^ my fptrit fhaU be with thee, Judiclicrn'Mh
and thoft fljalt if'tderftar.d. And tins wicked Monger , that (itceth in the Holy Temple, and (In- pet a domo
neth againft the Highsli , iTiall be thrown down head-long with his pride: And he fliall be chalHlcd ''ff-
and corrcfl-cd witri thc-mourhof you two ; Foratihe houleof the Lord Judgment mult begin. ^ihSiServm.
ji>!dthe rebelling ionnz mtffi be fcourgedbefjre the wkktd ihvznt be punijhed. JFear not^ IvfUl
put umo jour words , fl'teugt h *nd power ; And if he hear you not , but firetch forth his hands a-
gainft yoy. , / wdl rain fire and brimflone frem Heaven : and hu dwelling places [hall (Ink^ And
the Ldke^tPrat fha/l remain , (hall bear witnejfe againft himfor evermore : Lift up thy heart there
fore , and defpife the iVorld ; Fight with her manfully, and be not overcome. Moreover, ack»(>w-
ledgthy finnes, andfly unto the Lord. Seekjout his Houfe , and eat of his bread: for thou haft
much need of it.
Thefeeds that thou hathfown abroad ,
gather up again , leafi thou be punifhedfor the fins ofthj
Brethren.
Thy Soule ftandeth deare before the Lord ^ which is the caufe that he hath mercy upon thee .,
which jatth ttmo thee , If thou be obedient before the Lord ^
follow the in^ruEtions and difcipline
of the half (jhofi : ar.d do the workj of righteoufnefs and Charity , my Spirit jhall refi upon thee,
I h.ivefaid,
K.E. He is gone.
A I read over the lall parcel in Latins to Francis Pucci: after he had in very penitent fort
thanked God ,' coii'^eflcd himklfan oftender,as he was here noted, &c.
E.K. He is here again.
URIEL. ,.,.^ Totir Penance and Devotion premifed , The bleffing of God the Father , the
Son, and the Ho'y Ghoft, in his everlafitng truth and light , comfort you , bleffeyoit, and be
merciful Ufto you.
A Amen.
URIEL. »,,,. Extingue lumen : Nam decedo.
A Deo noitro Omoipotenti , xcctno Lucis & Veritatis Authori
fitomniskus, gratia aftio, honor & gloria , nunc &
fine fine. Amen.
Anno 1*585 Augufli 6 P R A G £.
Adionis P//m^Mpofl:erior pars.
Videns, {E,K.) nubera jam recefTifle confpexit : ut fupra U R I E L I S caput ( quafi in a^re )
Vldentcs olim,
alium vidu Angelum: cuius pars inferiior, nube igneacontinebatur. Capitis veri capilli , circa "?"' ^j*^-"'*
414 <5>^ ^^^^ Relation of Dr. Dee his AUionsyWithjjiritsJ^c.
humcros Ipaiii , & brachia nuda apparebant. Dexcra auteni Librum tenebat , quadrata figura , teg-
Bime, ( quafi jgnico, lubicuiidoque colore, ) vclatim : Folioiiim vero exterior tnargo , albicans
erar, Septemrctinaeulis, quafi tocidem feris , clauflis cfTc , liber vidcbatur. Atquc fuper retinacu-
lorumora, figilla quafi aurea, imprefia comparebaiu. Et fuper fingulisfigillis, littera; infcriptse
fingularcs. Super pi imo E , liip. 2 M, fiip. 3 E, lup. 4 T, lup. 5 T, lup. 6 A, lup. 7 V. .'oc| nsi (
„... tyicci^e lilrum htitic , & z'critas luce m*gis cUrefcat '
Et lux , veritatt , fiat vdiidn.
S^t^efi tibi pote^AS dmdh & aferiendt hunc Librnm^ O^xndo, & (Ji^H»dis. v-
URIEL. »,,„ Gratia tibi,Rex Cceli, & :errX5qui fuirtj,es, & venturus esjhinc enim Judiciun
M-retricis.
E. K. Jam accipit librum URIEL, Htrifqne fiexis genibns.
URIEL. .,»»,GauiJece, o Tosfilii homini , levatecorda veltraCoelum verfus, Sccretaenim
Deipandunuir : & veibumejusex caiceribuseniiflum c(K Gaudete,6 vos Filii Dei ,
quia Spititus
veritatis & Huclli/^cncia: inter vos exiBit: Gaudete, 6 vos, qui de iandiiario eftis , quia fapiemia
& intclligeiuia replebimini. Gaiidete, 6 tu domus _7<«co^ , quia jctm tua finira ert vifitatio, atque
Kicipic vihtatio tcia. Quatuor vcnti tc unacoUigent : & conculcatum redificabis mirum. Tibico-
habitabi: fpoLllis. Et,eece, juiavJt Dcmirus, &: noii te invadent impietaccs; nequeSpiritus AI-
tifluni ate rcccdct. Vciiimj Patrom tuorum oUa quietem naucifcentur : & tu ipfe zterna hueris
vita. Sanguis innocentum , ateabluetur: &nd dies mukos pcrnitentia te affligcs. Tuncquidem
Agnus, in medio piatcaium, (tabit , oHieruiakm: Edidtaque pioimilgabit populo tuo, civibuf-
que tuis.
Omnis Nationcs ad domum Davidis .confluent matres, fuos infoimabunt infantis, iis ycrbis
:
Pracvaluit ventas : atque Dei nomcn, tuus erit vigil, 6 Civitas.
£. K. Jam^ omnia ^ nuhe alba ^ opplcta funt.
URIEL. .,,,,<J\UhiJtlei:tium^ vubisve/o , ad tempore exigHtimintervallHm ^quiesefie,
E. K. Ex ocidis meis prorfm e<vanHere prorfits.
A Nota. Intercaab ipfo Angelicofeimonc ,
prifcriptain Latinurnrccitaviconveifa, legendo
expedite, ipfi Domino Fraxctfco Fuccio , pixtereaabiter pauca locutuslum, deCa-
lumniiS , contra noiiras adioncs talcs oraculatis, &c.
E. K. Iteriwt hie mihi apparet \lne\ ^ atque in Cathedra fedet
Chryftallina cum Libro illo , in fuo gremio : dextra autem , illam
tenet 'virgam Geometricam : ^finifiray illam Philofophiam i/itreamy
Ht prim.
URIEL. .,„, Cum mihi fit conceffa poteflas, &cum meo miniderio fit adjunfta reritas
;
(undc lucis & veritatis lumfactusplenus ) vellras cgoapcnam oculos , atque vobis ipfam cloquar
veritatem; uc incrtem illam mokm tenebraium vellrarum, et profundi ignorariia:, cxcuterepo-
fitis , ctinlucccumpatribus vertrisambularc. Voci igitur mcaedijigenter przbereaurem, & intra
cordium vefiroium liquorem , di6la imbibatis mea. UtvcftrcE intelligcntiaE fuccus , vigorem reci-
pere polTi: : & vos ipli florere politis cum acceptabili veritatc , veluti fervi elcdi , et Miniftri
A L T 1 S S I M I.
Totus mundus in maligno pofitus eft , aperta Sacanc fa£tus d\ officina , ad terrx mercatorcs
omni abominanda: impiccatis generc dccipiendum. Aft, quid vofnefa(9i cftistaliumnierciumfub
meicatoresgaruli ? velmendaciorum et doftrirac falfx, in publicum vedlarii : jEltiraatifnevos,
levis momentincgotiumeflcScripturaium Divinarum & Mylteriorum lenfuni, judicium et teme-
ritatialligare veltrarum imaginationum ? nihili rem eflefiatutis, in judicio fedeie contra fpirituna
Dei , nullum illi conccdendo locum , nifi vcftro ex prxicripco ?
Vobifne licet, coram Filio Dei , intcgros dies, immo injuftos confumerc annos , cumfiliis
Satane mendaci fobole , & mundi deccptoiibus ? Adeone penitus in abominationis officina mvof-
met contuliftis ut Dei filio , futuri advcntus fui tcmpus prxfcriberc vclitis , Prophetarumque fuoi-um
dcfcenfus : tcmpoiifque teimlHum, in,quo ipfe terram erit vifitaturus ?
./l/y/fx nihil loquiaufuseiat , nifiab oieDei.
Prophcti Legem non explicabaiit , fed Dei vox.
Pilius D^: i propria lua non eli locutus verba ,
quatenus Caro erat , fed verba patris fui.
Dikipuli ejus, nihil, nifi ex Spiiitu fandlodocuerunt.
Audetifiie ( igicur ) vos, vobis docendi aflumere munus , aditaque fecrcta AltilTiini panderCj mi-
nim'e ad id admifTi, vocative ?
Dicitc mihi , Mercaturamne defeiuittis, vcftrarumque pecuniarum (fraude partarum) fupputatio*
nes, ut verbi Dei efletis Doftores ?
An non pudet vos , ante docere ,
quam ipfi intelligatis ?
Immb an non vos pudet feducere, prius.quaia domum rcdiicerc novericis ?
Hypocrjtscltisp JcSpiritulanitoYacwi,
"
Mcndacw
(^trm 9^elauon o/Dr. Dee his ABions^ mthj^irits^ occ. 41^^
Mendaces effe dcveniltis, & ipfius Chiifti ininiici, & llii lancti Spiiitus»
Fortaflis dicitis, ex Scripturarum Le£tionc, incclligentiam comparamiis earundcm.
Aft mihi rel'pondeatis; ciijus fpiritus aiixilio, banc vobis compaiaiis jntelligenciam ?
^uis vobis apparuit Angclus ? vel ex quo Cotlo , veftram recepiftis inftrutftionem^
Fieri potett, quod, ex Spiricu tando dicetis.
O rtuke tu niodicjeque intelligentix ! iion intelligis tu, quod Spiritus fanflus Ecclcfix Pxdagogn^
ert, intcgri grcgis, & congregadonis ChriHi >
Pfoiiide f\ muIritudinisPrcdagogus eft , fcquitur , quod Dodrir.a aliqua ,
quam Spivitus fantSlaJ
docct, inrtm^li), documcntuin, live intcUigenna iicmulcitudinis.
Atqiii, qux hominum mukitudo, tux e(t intelligently ?
Vel Cujus es tu Congregation is
.''
Aliccr d/fpfrjionis. Dicifnc, dilperius alicujus tc unum cffe : Falfumnarras, fugitivus es.
Vcriim, eccc, re doceo : Errorque tiius ante tuam conftat facicm.
j^uicuiique ad Scripturam jntelligentiam pcrvenict , conari debet ad illaiumintelligentiampriyc^
nirc,f cciiiiduir. Ordinationem,& Traditionem fpiritualcm.
Aft ex qua fpiritunli traditione, nadus es tu intclligentiam ?
,
Vel juxta quam Ordinationeui , tibi eft apertiis Sci ipturaii:m fenfus ?
Dices ( torlan ) ex lanctis Patribus, informacum efle te , &per eundem fpiritum pcrqueindo"
rcbciit illi, tuam te eflc confccutum intclligentiam.
Diccrc lie quidcm potcs, vciiiin non te lie taccre certum eft.
5uiscnimantic]uorumPatrum, rationem copiilavit vetbo Dei, vel Scripturam intelligentiam >
Ethnicoruniaftrinxit difcipliiix ?
Tibi dico, quo i antiqui Patres , Clirifto chari erant > & cceleftium vilionum , conrolationumque
Cccleftiura participes : qux vihones Caleftelque confolationcs non illos docebant novam Scriptura-
rum expolitionem , fedconhrmabant, luceque illuftrabant myfteria Spirkusfancti, perApoftolos
decla;ata, qui Eccklia: ipfi lua poluere fundamcnta; quicquid igiturabantiquisPatribus difcerc
poftls , ab Apoftolis dilcis , & quicquid ab Apoftolis intelligis , habes id quidem , a Spiritu lancto,
;:d li iplos Patres exponas tuo fenlu modoque , & non juxta fenlum Apoftolorum , ccrte Spiritual
iaiictum non habes, led Ipiritum mendacii.
Hurailem, igKur,tcmet prxbeto, & coram Domino procidas, rationem femoveas,Dominoque ad-
haeireas, laborclque verbum ejuldem intclligere, ex Spiritu fuolancto : quern Spiritum fanctum, omni
ex .'lecelficate i:ivenire dcbes, atque invenies mvilibiU Eccleha ul'que ad m.undi finem. ?
Pcrfpicue tibi dicam, ( ut Veritas potenter in luce appareat ) quicunque Dei contrarius eft volun-
tati-> qui liix eft cradita tcclclisB per Apoftolos quidem publicata , per Spiritum fanctum enutrita , 8c
mundo unpeitita, 5i per Petrum^d ^oOT«OTaadicta,8c per eundem ibidem cxprelTa, ab ejuldem fuc-
ceiroribiis retcnta atque I'uftentata eft : Hie idem Deo Scveritaci fuse contrarius eft.
LmherHs fuorum lecepic mercedera.
^alvintts iuam.
Reliqui omnss quo:quot erraverunt, & fponte in devia concurrerunt,{eparando feipfos ab Ecclefia
& Congrcgacione Chnfcij obftinate & Diaboli (patris fui) inftinctu , mercedem fuam rcce-
perunt'
Contra quos filius Dei judicium pronunciabit, dicendo .•
Itc Deceptorcs tn gehennx igncm,Patri veftro & filiis illius,ab exordio praeparatum.
Inter vos iplobinlurgitisaflerendo, Papam Antichriftumeffe ( hoc enim nomine ilium infioni-
tis ) horn J ceie malus effe pollit, atque a lua excidere vocatione , verumtamen Antichriftus efle
nunquan poteit.
Ancichnftus enimillecft, qui filius eft Diaboli , homo quidem ex carne & fanguine natus ex
impia & hau-iuknca meretricc , qui populos feducet tumidufque fui patris potentia , Deorefiftecia
Terra inter homines, quemadmodum pater ejus in Caelofecerat mter Angclos i prorfus dcnegando
Dei Ominpo-.entiam leqlie illi opponendo,
O vosftuitiSc exiguiintelligentix, quum Apoftolis Cceliconcredabanturclaves : (quafi dice-
res) eadein Chriiti Jefu filii Dei viventis , authoritas & poteftas ad hominemcondonanda pcccata,
& ad pcccatorcs CceIo excludcndos , &quum * eifdem Apoftolis, vade poft me Satana j etiamdi- s -,, , . >
cebatur, non tautaeltis intcUigentiaut in Altillimi hxcintrolpicerevalcatismyftena. c. D
Si Dei filius tfti comm^ndabat tum etiam reprehendebat Difcipulosfuos, cur non pcftit igitur
Epifcopus , & bonus & malus cenferi? Si hincconfequatur , bonum malumque Epifcopo inefle
poff:- ,
pari racionc interripolfit authontatisEpifcopalis rationem , a bono malove illo non pendere,
fed ipiius ad Epiicopi vitam hoc bonum maliimve fpcdtare ft bonus fit , fux bonitatis metet beneficium;
fin malus fit , mendax eft ; lua enim illi contrana eft doitrina. Proinde , fi
,
propter hominum
peccata Deus permilerit , .mukos in fpiritu * zAfitnU federe in loco fan6lo,id quidem propter pec- * ^a j, ^
cacav-ltraeir, & rebelkm naturam , utfupplicium recipiatis : & non obfcura vel tenebrofa ejus
nerct Ecclefia.
Aperiteicaqueoculos veftros&intelligite, & Ecclefix adhasrkatis, amore ipfius Ecdefiac, 85
non hominum. Ncque Ecclefiam contemnacis ,
propter hominum iniquiratis.
'
Verutm
4i5 ^trmrelation of Dr. Dee bis AUionsjmth^mts^,
Verum coUa lUi fubmutaus faiifto jugo &; nrdlnationi ,
quae vos duett ad lUam Congtcgationcm
quae gubcrnator per Spiritiim Dei, in qua intcUigetis fecrcta Libri Dei, explicata elle juxuknfum
aiuiqiioium vellioium Panum : qucrum innlhgentia crat dignitus Spititus Saudi.
Noil pd:eflis a vobis ipfis authoritatemrccipere , Miiiic authoritas nihil facerepotefl is.
I(|circ6 cum vcrtra autlioruas niiUa fit , cur Ecdelia opcia Adavc intra vcrtras arripuis manus
?
MaUfidcipof-
^^^^ quidem res eil , ?cfipuuarura aliqucm c^uxrere intclhgcntiam -.
atque alia d\ Scripturas
'^'
dpccrs, kcuiidum intcUigcntiain fuam. ^u enim docec, ex authori:ate docer : led authorita-
tem li non habcat ufurpator five iiuiulor cfi.
Fiacr: s m: i
, Conliderate vofmct ipfos bene , & conl'deiatc vos pueros efle , & quod yedrl juris
. noalKiskdalicni. Nihiligitur faciadsquafiex vobis ipfis: lcdinhllaris( ut piieri boni ) vcrtigijs
Mauisvijlbx-, qux Matcrpuia Vugoeh , &llmpcr a Paradetifapientiainfoimatur, qucm vobis
( puciis ejus ) cxhibere cibv.m debet ; & quo vos modo educare atque inlhuerc.
Simplicius mukum vakt & obedi:ntia, ccttum elt, coram Domino; All curioJitas Diabo-
luscCt.
XaJi.7.*\i.C ^,, non Icgillis quid lanif^orurapanis, iion fit ante canes proj:cicr.dus?
*^'"'*^'
Peuicaisvolmc: txarainctis,utnim canes fitis, nee ne.
Videtc utrum vita vcftrafani^a fit, opera vcllra lei'Va & julh ; patientia vcfcra multiplex; affli-
Ciio vckra, magna propter Dominum.
Si volinct ipVos , inhocftatuefle, minime d:prelicndacis ,
pueri non clcis; fi pueri haudfitis,
noneftis filii
•
filnliihaud fitis matrcmnon habttis ; fin veio matrcm nonhabet, devoiatoreselHs
illius panis qui fihis dcbetur, canini , iafeafMi, & contra Deum eltis.
Ill veUi i ig\tur judicium Icatus vcs iph deiccndatis.
Vox h.*c in- Tatcr Confiderate, per Deum Creatieitis^
Strlpumt mul- Filim Confideiate, per Deum Redempti elcls.
iHm ttjiuta.
Spirit M S- Confiderate ctiam, rtli-Hi ekis Spirituali Tutcli & conlblationi Dei.
QUI Deus ex vobis coi.grcgationcm ordinavit, landamSc fandificatam Iccictatcm, palccntem
lemper fimul tanquam fratrcs , Tub alis i'uis & infiia menla ; qui vos palcit vita & intcUigentiac panas;
«orpore (nimii urn) & languine Jefu Chrifci filii Dei viventis.
InteUiocntise autcm pane vospafcit, utpatiis vefcii voluntatem intelJigatis ,
qui in Cctlis efc
;
O'jcdicntia ut illi quum novcritis, obcdientcs fa^is; quse ebedientia vekrx vocationis finis ift.
Nullo i'^'icur modo obedientiae jugumexcuciatis, de fimul eciam Calicem intelligentia: a vobis
repellatis; atque ea ratione Patris vdcri voilatcat voluntas.
Scd judicio meo famclici eltis , vcl'cra contiada Tunc inteltint , oflanetvique mariekunt.
Qiiz hujus rei caul'a eft ? quando ilium Domini pancm rccepilcis ? quando nutrimemum accepifcis?
6 vos modics fidci & intelligentiae minoris trratis , & derii curricit. Cocci eltis ,
patris veltri , non
obt:mpci atis voluntati ; rcdice , reditc &: intra vofmet ipios talia dicatis.
O fempiternc Deus, Scbeni^ne Pater, magna cciie eltciiia mifericordiaque tua crganos, quo*
ind;:vi3aiflospcrSaiaiiam, Siipiritum tcncbrarum leduxifii domurnj & nobis coecis praepoluilci
( vilu eciam nobis reki:uco ) vcram Icmicam lincamque recram uuclligentii. O nos laelices , quos
tibi cam charos habcs ; &c quorum Talus canct tibi cuiS elc. Nomen proindc tuum , laudibus cclcbra-
bimus ; acanolcris levertemur erroritus. Pcccata conficebimur noi'tra, 8c prScepta obiervabimus
tua. .S^uoniam tu Iblus , oDominc, jukus & verus cs, & milericordia tua iterna elc. Leges tuat
ilia VIS linn, cc per amans cuabcnignicas inter nosvalida tic. Sanctus, SanccuSjDominusDeusZc-
baoch. Honor omnis laus et gloria cibi detur in p:rpecuum.
A tyiinen.
UK I EL d^adicotra^faBotemporiifpaiionvertam.
E. K. Abiit.
A Noca.
A Interim fr^w//ti? /'«c"ahxc (qux Anglicc dictata rcccpimus) Latine recitabam. Nolil-
que ncrvofa valde, nolli i fque accommoda infcicutis vidcbancur.
E. K. Iter urn ilium adeffe 'Video.
URIEL. ,,,„ F.ancilce attemis anri(>t*s , vtrb;i excipi-u mc*.
S I S T AT I S PAULttLUM. ^
A Hiacl^atim, FraficifauTuccitu i fcJe Ilia g^nibus utiifquc (quafi Dfo fupplex ) terrain
pcccbat.
LIR IE L. „.,. Vcium quidem efc ( uttuus te alias commune fecit fpiricus )
quod Deus tevo*
cavit uc particeps &c intcUigens elles voluntatis fui explcndx , in vindida & ira lua cxercenda, contra
terrae falhLatem&traudcm. _ _ ^
Atque banc ob caufinn , ex magno fuo amorc , & immenla naifeticordia fua avocavit teDcus a
filiishominum , Deo inviforum, Scab injuliitixtramicc.
In qua tua vocatione , fi ilium imiteris , in tu3C confcientir fimplicitate , & jurtitia ( qux hdei
funt opera ) confiimabcfis. Tibi enim dko, vifidiitaui meam eftlindam fupcr univeifara terrain
atque,
^^true 9^etation of Dr. t)tthbAUms, mthj^irits, &c. 417
atque illam cattigabo in iniqiiitatc lua , SC in lux liiperbic lumiiiD gradu il!am praicipicem podernam;
ncque uUra criuniphabir.
E: quia tc dcmififum humilanqus exhibuifti Ipiritus meus tecum crit , & intelligcntiam tu con-
fcquens.
Et mondrum hoc impium , quod inTempIofanftofedet, &contra Altifl^mum peccat , pr«ci-
picabicurcumCuperbialua, Atque ex ore utnufquc vdlricaliigabitur & corrig:tur. Judicium enim fp,»l'"'
a Uom-) Dei inchoan debet , H rtlius rebcllis prius flagclliscxdi debet ,
quam impius puiiiri fervus,
'^
"^ ®
Ne timjacis, V-i^ris enim verbis, vires & poc:nciam adjungam.
Etveltra li contemnat verba manuique luas contra vos ex:rat : de Cab ignis acque fulphurij
dcmittam imbrem, & Palatia cjuldem in tcrram delcendent: lacufciue ibidem rcmanens contra
ilium cell i:n )nium dabit perpetuum.
Erigas igicur cor tuum mundumque defpicias . & contra ejufdem vcriliter pugna , nequeabeo-
•
dem v means. x , yi ^'1
Tua paexreaconfitearispeccata: &ad Dominum confugias , iliius perquirito dcm^um , &de
illius pane comedas : eoenim multumtibi opus eft.
Ec lemina qua: Iparlim feminaiii , iccolligas: ne forte tu pocnas tuas , ob fratrum tuorum
pcccata.
Ammi tua Deo chara eft J
atque idcirco milciicordia crgate movetur, tibique dicit, fi coram
Diomino obediens appareas: atque lequaris inftiuctiones & difcfplinam Spiritus l'an<5^i facialquc
opera Jultiax & Chantatis, Ipiritus mcus liiper te requiefcet.
Dixi.
£. K. Abiit.
A Ex Anghcis diAatis iftis ultimis Latine eundem exprefli Icnfum , Domino Tr. Puccio^ yalde
devoco humili , & prxmiffa agaol'centi & acc^anti, &c. .
E, K. hcrum mihi confpicnHs eji.
UR ItL. „.». Prxmiffa veftra tam pocnitentia quam devotione , BenediftioDei Patris
Filii,& Spiritu lantiii,in lua fempiternaveritateluceque vos confoletur, vobifque benedicat,* vobis
mirerxordiam impertiat copiolam*
A Aracn.
• Ex A^ieftCt qif^erat dieyeneriSfSeptcmhr 6. l^?$, Pra^*,.
EatVaccins^Htfromifflsferfciendisp'OvidcMt' . ^
tAt cor habeat fincertimreEiitmqHe. Jlnimi vox.
Jmmo fitfe frefrias detergat calietas.
,
Inter eu ndem auttm aHoquatHr mortua arhnfin^ de Domino vtnturo.
ytmbulet cnm mMitibiu ut ttliejus aitdire pejjlt.
Tunc revertA$ftr ut (juad reliquum tfi sd implere fojfit*
Atcjui dico proprios tergat caliceos,
; A Vos oro ut lUam nobis explicate phrafem yclicis obfcuram,
Qififlagellaturipfefentit. jttlgeric* vi.f
Angelica vox. ,.,+» Reli(jui {jejmiivefiri) diet\ non hie compUhmtHr , fed in iHit vi£iiiti
ebeb/tt ^ in qmbtts Romx operari DeeretHm efi mihi.
It LIBBR
tviV
41 8 ^Atrue relation cfDr. Dee his ABions. mtb^iritf,8<.c.
LIBER RESURRECTIONIS.
Vraga , Aprilis 30.
Padum , feu Foedus Sabbatifmi.
Threbone
oaobZ I i
Venimus c
Septcmb. 14.
I <( 85. ^ ^" L^itio 2 9 Exilii Bscrttum contra »os exih * C<tfare Rod.
'
\ In Angufto 8, Reverfionis fermifsio D. Rolenbergio, ottinente Ht 4d[u4 vtMittntHt*
cMtracHlnnty &faUummem»randmntnferfetfiHm.
S f.iiT.ltood at the end of the Galery by his Chamberjlooking over into the Vineyard
he fccmcd to lee the little man the (jariin&r , in all manner of behaviour and appa*
rel , who is the chiefvvorkman or over-feer of Mr. Carpio his workmen in the fame
Vine-yard. Heleemedvery handfomly to prune feme of the Trees: at length he
approached under the wall by E.K. and holding bis face away-ward he laid unto
him, Qnafo dicM Domttto DoClori quodvemat adme. And fo went away as it were cutting here
and there the Trees very handfomly, and at length over the Cherry-trees by the houfe on the Rock ift
the Garden he lecmed to mount up in a great piUer of fire.
E.K. bade his Wife to go, and fhc who waS in the Garden. She came up, and brought hirti
word, Nobody,
E. K. then came to me and faid , I think there is fome wicked fpirit that would allude me , and
he told and faid to me , as is before noted. Then faid I , I will go into the Garden, and bade E. K.
come with me. We went down that way which diis Creature did go: but nothing we faw , went
to the Banqueting-houfe in the Vine-yard , but that place pleafed us not:fo,we went along in the way
by the cl iff fide, and.fat down on the bank by the great pyle of Vine-ftakes lying in the very South end
of the Vine-yard. And we had not fat there halfa quarter of an hour, but lefpyed under the Almond-
tree, and on the South-fide of it , being the We(krly Almond-tree , that is i: which 1$ itandmg on
the Wcfcerly fide of the ftraight path which leadeth from ths North toward che South in the- Vine-
yard, lefpyed ( Ifay ) like ajheet affaire rvhite paper lying tojfed to and fro in the wind. *'
I rofe
J*-<Sfd_;,-.^..H:to ic , and ( to the prayfe of God his truth and power ,) there I f«und three of my Book*
" lying, which were loililigendy burnt the tenth day of April laft.
1 The three Books were , Enoch his Bookj
2 The 48 Cloves tyingelicit.
5 And the third was the Book ofmy gathering of the thirty Aires, and entitled i/^#r^«V»f//
terrejiris attxHH & viEloria.
Thereupon S. K. comming to me , I fell on my knees with great thanks yeilding to the God
Almighty, and fo did £. AT. whofe mind and body were mervailoufly aftedted at the fight of the
" faid Books, having no fliew or figne that ever they had been in the firc,neither by colour or favour,
*^ orany thing wanting.
And aher we had let halfan hour under the fore-faid Almond-trce« prayfing God and wondring
at the Miracle. 'Suddenly appeared by us the felf-fame Gardiner like pctfon , but with his face fome-
what turned away, and nothing thereof to be adjudged as oiAvt the cufteme is. He faid , Kell/y
follow mc , £, K, went, and I fat IhU. awaiting his rcturnf
Thk
(^true T^elatJon o/Dt. Dee his A&ms, mthjointsy &c. 4!^
This Gardiner went before £.A'. and his feet fecmcd noc to couch che ground by a toot hei^hc,
A*8d as he went before H. /^.I'o the doofcs did feemc to open before him, he led him uptheg'eac
rtairs on the left hand by the Vineyard door,and fo in at his oWn Chamber door where £iA',hatl) tiis
new Study, and then the door goinp out ot that to the kairs opened of it fclf, and h" wentup thofe
ftairs, & at length brotight htm to the Furr.Ace mouth where all the Bockj (tnd, papers had been b^irKt
the 10 dayofthti April, And ccmirg thither, there the fpiritual Creature didfecm to let one of his
feet on the poft on the right hard without the Furnace mouth,and with the other to if cp to the Fur-
nace mouth, and foto reach into the Furnace ( the bricks being now plucifcd away which Hopped
the mouth of the Furnace ,all fnvirg one brick thick )and as he had reached into the furnace there
appeared a great \^^'-, as it there had been a window in the back of the Furnace,and alfo to £. K. the
hole which was no: greater then tlie thickntfs of a brick unllopped,did fecme now more then three or
" four brick thicknds wide, and f* over hi^ fiooulder backji'.irst he did reach to E.JC."!! tue refl ofthe
^^
fiandiyig Books, excepting the Book^out cftvhieh the lafi y^ttidnwas {•«/, and Fr. Pucci his Recan-
*
' tati '«, alfo to E. K. appeared tn the Furnace all the reji of the papers vhich were mt m then dc
'^ livered out
.
. ,
That being done, he b.-ide E.K go, and faid he. (hould have the rcfl afterward.He went before in a
little fiery cloud, and E. K. followed with the Books ui dsr his arm all along the Gallery , and came
down the (fairs by Fr. Pucct his Chamber door ) and then his guide letc£. K. and he brought me the
B^oks unco m/ phccuiuieich: Al nouJ-cree.
-j- Pragdi,
1 5 8(5 Aprills 3 o LT^t-ij- even.
Mane cuca 8.
A Prccibiis quibuldamfuilsadDeum, Sigi-atiispro miraculoHefternoa^is, petebamHsjam
.
,a Deo confilium fuum quidde ilfo miraculo nobis clFec faciendum ulterius,&c.
Et quid laciemus cum Domino Roftnbergto •, an ilium debeamus admittere adamicitiam
noHram & fcrdus fandum ? quid de ejus oblatis ardibus, &c.
£.iC. A voice comnieth down right before me faying.
^„ ^, tw,, /\ * c
E. K. Who IS this fVilliam} '^'^"'""^^
.n.«W.ll,am. AApaufe ^ ^ '"'Pf « K to be the Lord ^^A^^.r^-
^
Thou William of Rofenberg. A A greater paule
. This day in the Bloud of the Lamb , do I pronounce forgivenefs ofjinnes , upon thee : Mndfor a
figne ani token : Thy lines [hall be opened, and thy feed fhall be multiplyed upon Sarth
''therefore take itnte thee tt Sheep .f
that is yet a Lamb ^ andfpoile not the fiock_of thy pior neigh[^
kaftr^"^ ' »
ft/ZW, behold^ if thcti turn thyfelffrom the North ^ and afcend unto the Holy t^ountaifiy ^
.[and] I will hereafter make " Covenant vdth thee. But take heed , thou defpife me not.
Blejfed are thife that are comforted of me , for their firengthis from above. For whofoever it
rebuked of the fptrit of truth , ihall with time perifh as ajhadow.
yis it not faid ^ iftkyeyeojfendthee, cafi htm out ^ I fay untothee alfo, yea ., though thy head
tffend , CAp htm alfo awaj. The anfiab/e fVhifperings avd wordly Polltcies offuchas are the
trmces of the World., are they not known unto mee ?
tO yoH Hypocrites ! jou Itttle of underflandiug, and tf left faith , how far are you in love with
thetVorld , and her pomp , with the fiejh and her lightnefs or wantonnefs , with the Divel and
his damnablefubtiltj ! Purge your honfes-, and purge your Kingdomes , if yttt will fiir up the
Co^Jtltf"!'
Lord to firengthtn you. Curfed itthat Nation, that defiled her felf with the fociety offuchas
are Bayards. "But wo, wo , be u»ie htm that Ruleth not according to the length of his'
brtd'e.
7 he chaff eft his Empire ard Kingdom y behold it remAineth ^ thefather fweptitnotoitt^nei-' Vtlmpcrio^^,
ther dot h the Son lift up his hand for the name ofthe Higheji. **" '^'S'o ^o- '
O you Hypocrites , you are faithlefs ^ far you fulfil not four charge!
%ThoH hup , yet time to awal^ , thoM mayft yet be acceptable,
'
Time yec,
'
Thy don,gs let them be a fudge between thee and me,
!^ Magna paufa, A '
Vox .„., Behold y I have given thee unto Rofenberg, him alfo have laiven ftntothee^. ^^^ ^°'^^ *"
JVho-foevcr therefore canfidereth not the giver [hall be called to account and that Inarply.
expounded m
In the yeareM'^ J will fend out my vifitation that the ends ofthe world may be k»own, andthat queft"
Jufiice may apveare tn the garments of her unmeafurable honor, ^„„g g j^ 1
/« the mean feafon , I will blefs you abundantly with all the gifts andfeeds ofnature. See there- ^(ofier keac
fore,, that y»H work.') and labour that your hands may bring ftrth fruit , the incrtafe #/(As A'»'i^«
«
lord. . T>:m,
,
^'-^
li a •
Six
42:o ^true rcUtim oft)t, pee bis ABims^ mtbj^mts.Scc.
iex A6iior,es
julure & Sub-
buthum.
Fox 7.
which Fiyday.
* From good
Fryday.
Our Heaven-
ly Kalendcrof
fix moneths
/\ftion.
The reft red
Books to be
nioft clofcly
kc-t until the
fix'h Adien.
Dowiiii mhi-
cuiiim fab fi-
lm 10 til te-
W:ndum,
willielmm 2
Refenberg.
faciendus efl
confdus fuo
tempore.
Omnia rcliqxi
reflituentuf
qiiie igni com-
mltiehnfitttr.
E.K. and A
together.
Adam cf Ne»-
hoitfe Lord
Chancelor.
Six AB:ions joufljAll haiic : the [eventh is the Sahbath of the Lor As , twAfrtm this Any {hi»g^
apart of the time) beginM»g from * Fryday lafi celtbmtedy as the memorial of him through
jvhom I fpeak^unto jou , which fitfered upon the Croffefor jour %edemptt»n , ttntil the day com$
ofthefixth Aianeth-, yottfhallmt preliuTie to aske any vilkacion ofhim that fpeaketh rvtthyou. And
fo the fixih Moncth (die laft day eufMiKg)[hall alwayes bej»Hr day of AElton.
§ Vwcciis di-filed-, ar.dfhall not be partaker oii\\ziQ(-i:f.s\CM-!iiion%tocom-i : but jhall depart from
yoK, and be ready as the LsrdjhaH find him , and as he fhall be warned of you. Notreithfianding
myfptrit (kaU not depart from him. and I will open his nndnflanding that he may convert many. Far
the World mtifi he f^tiified with tejltmony as well of his lifc,<« the recantation & profejfed DoHri^se.
A We lack(6 Lord)his recantation written by his oath hand,I cannot find it i^ cHe Books re!iorcd.
Thofe Book.s let them be f^pt ofthee , as ccmmftted tt»to thy cnjiody by me. And fee that they
be fiever opened until tbe fix th yiSltontocome.
See alf) , thtt yoH dtfclofe not my hand amongjt yo» , leAJt I then rife tip againjt yott.
For, behold^ yoit are yet in the PVtlderneffe . 1 herefore, befilent.
ZJ"to Will in m , nottvithfianding ( hereafter ) all things may be knoivn , a?!d made manifeft.
Ifany man fcek^you ^ elfe^ yoH know him not.
For yoH live within the filence ofthe Htghejt^
The red chat wancech , fhall be reitored unco you : even unto the leall and laft letter.
Ltve , therefore , together as in th e hands ofyour Proteilor.
And doubt not y but that I will be merctfrtl unto htm that is ftck^threugh his infirmity : yea ^
and unto his generation as I have promifed. And the Jinne which remaineth in his Fathers hottfe ,
and m his hotsfefor m^n] generations^ 1 wtll mercifully blat out.
1>o!ibt not, my peace(which am peace^ the beginning and the enditig)fhall alwayts he amongfi you.
A We read all and had long difcourfe a What fhall I fay unto Rofenberg of your prefent
of all) and at laff, I asked thus. merciful dealing and intent toward him.
Vox ,„,, That, which isfaid ofhim, that , fay thou A unto him.
Move no more qttefitoHs.
A Beiicdicitc Domino omni^ opera ejus, laudate ilium omnes Creaturae ejus : laudent ilium
Angeli ejus , laudent ilium S'andi ejus : ilk iblus e(t Omnipotens, ille folus efl Sanctus , ille
Pioteccornorcn, Illuminator & Confolatoriiofterefc. Cinguliomnis honor & gloria, t/imen.
MEMORANDUM.
IjSd. Afay I. ,
On May day after diiine-- 1 went over the water ( being brought to the water lide in the Lord
Rofenberg his coach , and Jacobus Menfchick with me) unto the Lord Rofenberg his GardenSjand
lodging by the water-fide, whether became to me by appointment. To whom when I had read in
Latin ( eA-?ew/>or^) the things that concerned him, I asked bimw'hat he had done, fince the time
ot my being with huai , chat I may tlie better undcrttand thefe words fpoken to him and of him.
He told , that he had often prayed , fince unto God for tlie forgiveViefs of his fins, and to open
his eyes how he might fcrve him ; and to make it to be evident unto him whether he is to marry or
no, and whcre,oriii what fiock or kindred. And if it were his divine Will,that he might receive com-
fort and inftructian by me,and thatthefe and fuch macters,and fcmewhat earnefdy he had prayed alfo
forhisMr. thcEmpi;rc)ur, thathe might bend himfelf to enjoy God hisfavour,yea,for hisown mar-
riage and amending of his loolc life, while he yet fat at dinner this day at the Archbifhops table , his
heart and thought did come very much upon ir, &c.
At thefe his woids Irejoyccdmuch to perceive the doing of the Highcft, in the hcarin" of his
prayerfaithfully prayed & ihatthe anfwcrwhich Iread untohim was ibfilty apply cd unto his prayer
as he alio himfelf, did perceive with great comfort and fpirjtual joy. He entreated much that I would
pray to God that the Empercur might be rcfcorcd to the favour of God,as he was when 1 declared my
mellagc unto him from the Higlicft, 1 aiifwered, that whaifoever the God of Heaven and Earth fhould
appoint me to lay or do unto his Majefty , I mofc willingly rejoyce in the faithful doing o*- it : and
that it was my duty (asa Chrj/hai') topray for hisMajcfty : but I fliould not make my promifeof
my prayer to be heard, but would hi^-hly rejoyce if his Imperial Majelfy would fo ufe himfelfin God
his judgment, as might be meriiorK us m the fight of oui Redeemer.
Such words and matters as this padcdbetwtcn us. And he fa id that he would in all points, fulirl
i^otum &pro. the advice and warning of God, in this Adion cxpreffcd,& would marry a Maiden as he was willed.
mi(fum Wil- And this day did acknowledge, & account himfelf a happy man. And as concerning our mutual bond
^'/I'c-'/'i!'?'
' ^^ ''^^ mtanes ot each being given to the other by God of Heaven and haith, he vowed and promifed
htmiie!^"
"' ^'"^ he would regard Km all points tothc bcft of his skiland power, &c.
Thele and other luch good I'eeds for the feivice of God being fown between us; he went towards his
1 alace in the Court , aad 1 to the vv'ater-fide, and fo over to the Coach awaiting for me, and fo came
home. God be prayfed,
MEMO-
(o>f true relation ofDr.Dee bis ABions,mthffmts, &c. 4 17
MEMORANDUM.
The Lord Rofenherg fcnt Mr. Jttcolf (.MeKfchil^Wizh this Letter unto me.
'Mngnifcu Domino Joanni Dee ad mantis proprks.
^ tSKddgmjice Bomine^VaterObfervandds&CharijJjm^.
T Etatusfumin hisquimihidixiftis. Cognovi enim quoniam exaudivit deprecatiorem meaci pi"
*^us pater & mifericors Dominus. Itaque maximo pere dcfiJeravi ut qyam lepifTime ea mihi legc-
rc, perlcgere & Temper ab oculos habere poflim : per amoreni Dei oro • ut faltem eorum ,
qui mihi
perle<^a& ad me pertinent vcrborum mihi tranfmittas dcfctiptioncm : Nontantiim mihi muhura
gratificabi:ur, led & conlolabor plurimum,
Obfccro priterea Dominmn vellram, alFidue pro me orarc velit , utconfirmet hoc Deus quod o-
peratus eft in nobis : Sidirigat omnia confilia, opera, adioncs, imuio & cogitationes notiras ad
laudem & gloriam fani^ilTimi noftrisTui , commodum multonim, & animx noftrae lalutem. Neque
definat, pro amore fuo paterno, quo me (uti fpcro) Dominatio vc(tra proiequitur me , I'emperin
omnibus quae prohonorc Dei &commodo veHroame fieri ScdebentScpoffunt, admonere& fioni-
ficare. Remfummopcre mihigratum&expcftationi meidignam & conlentancam faciet. Etcum
his, me commendo luis prascibus &: orationibus, rec non paterno fuo amori 3c cordi. Optim^ vale~
atMagnifica Dominatio veHra Dominica ,Cantate, ^nno 1 585.
Filius & Amicus veftcr ex animo
yyHhelmut %^ ManU propria.
"B^go ut melius intelligat 'Vomtnatio vejtrtt
edtjfte fcripta fu»t> & conjlderetflus mtntem
tneum cjuam verba- Q^xia miht in uft mn fiiit a
mnltis annis LinguA Ldtina j (^ nemini in hAt
re cofifidere volo-
NOTE.
I had tranflated this Sun'day morning , the fame parcel of the former Aflion into Latin for thfi
Lord Rofenberg , which he then fcnt for ,
jump at the time , when 1 had finifhcd it : And fo I
fen: it him inclofed in a Letter.
LMay 6. Being Tuejday, I entred my Journey tovvard Valkenavf Glaffc-houfc , and Leiffig
LMart.
There are divers Valkenaxvs , one by Egrcy or ElhegeH^ not far from Carls Bath, weftward firotn
Trage about 1 8 Bemi[h miles , an other in Behem , about 1 1 or 1 2 miles from Tragc, northerly, a
mile from Krehit^, and two miles from Liep, and a mile from KAmnitx^.
NOTE.
May II I came to Leip^^, on Sunday the li ol M^J •> and was at Peter Hans SvfArtz Wis
Houfe lodged. I found Lafire>3ceOverto» ,
(with much ado} an Englifti Merchant: to whom my
wife (the laft year) had iTicwcd no htde friendflup to himfelf , and Thomoi his partners fervant , in
the time of his lying (ick incur Houfe, &c. zt Prage ; He came from England at Mid-lent , he
conic ffed that f<i»»o;ji5/ my icTvant had been oftentimes with him, at his Houfe, and that he did
think that he would come with the next Ships after his comming ftomEugUfdj then to come within
16 dayes.
I perceived by his diverfe exprefle fayings , that he was but a hollow friend unto me , and feemed
'
half afraid to deal either with me, or my man.
There, alio I found a courteous Gentlerpan called Mr.Francis Evers.ih: Lord Evers his Sortne of
the North. And of ali other matters omitting the rehearfal in thefe Records , (thole matters I mean
which ziLeipJich and in this Journey happened notably unto ma, orldid myfelf) one Letter
which I wrote to the Queen of EngUndhei Secretary, the-Right Honourable Sii F'^ancis jyal^ng'^
ham^ asfoUowethi
Kight
4"i i (?-v^ ^^«^ RelitionofDt. Dec ^ix AQiQnSyWitbfpriUy&i^^
Jl/e«^ Honorable SIR. . . -^v* ^ .
ALbcit I have (almoft) in vain come a hundred miles i(rj:oin
Frage to this Leipfich Mart) hoping either to meet my Servant
there, with anrwei" to riiy former Letters, fent in Noi>emher
laft to her Majefty (when alfo l wrote unto your Honor, and divers
other). And fo with Ipced from this Lt'/j>//<:/j to have fent agaiq,
moft fpeedily as occafion iTiould have ferved. And now, I find, iieji-
thiir fervant, neither Letter from him, neither word of mouth : yet
all this notwithftanding : and whatfoever the hindrance or dela^
hereof be (whether the keeping back of my Letters from her Msl^
jefty, or the manifold and importune, moft weighty affairs publick
hindrin^or delaying her Majefties moft gracious , difcreet and w;fc
fefolution herein : or what other occafion elfe hath and doth caufq
this long and wonderful delay of anfwer receiving. All this not-j
withftandin^, 1 thought good, before I let up to my Coach, to vi-^
Citl and moft humbly to falute your Honour very faithfully, dutiful-
ly and fincercly, with great and the fame good will , that my l^cpp,
ter^^"foine'''yeers fince written to your Honour ,
(butt hen,, .,4j
ftnmbling block unto your Honour and other , for the ftrang-
neflb of the Phrafes therein ) doth pretend, fo it is, right Honoura-^
ble, that the merciful providence of the Higheft , declared in his,
great and abundant graces upon me, and mine, is fo wonderful and
mighty, that very few, unleife they be prefent witneffesjcan believe-
the lame. Therefore how hard they are to be believed, there where,
all my life and doin2;s were conftrued to a contrary fenfe : and^
procelfc of death contrived and decreed againft the Innocent^ wbo^^
can not eafily judg. ^^_ _,;^;^
1 am forced to be brief. That which England [u(^e^ed, was alio
here, for thefe two yeers, almoft (fecretly) in doubt, in queft-ion,
in confiiltation Imperial and Royal , by Honourable Efpics, fawn-
ing about me, and by other, difcourfed upon,, pryed and peered
into.' And at length, both the chief Romifli power 3 and Imperial
dignity, are brought to that point, refolutely, that ,
partly they are
iorry^ of their fo late reclaiming their erroneous judgment againft
U5 and of us , and feek means to deal with us, fo as wee might fa-
vour both the one and the other : And partly to Rome is fent for a?
great Authority and Power as can be deviled, and likewife here, all
other means andwayes contrived, How, by force, or for feare,they
may^'inake us glad to follow their humours. But ail in vain , .for,
force humane we fear not : as plainly, and often, 1 have to the Prin- /
ces declared : And otherwife then in pure verity, and godlineiTe, wc
will not favour any (my words may fecm very marvellous in your ,
Honours ears : But mark the end , wee have had (and (hall have to
di^altwith no babes) I have full oft and upon many of their requefts
and
~^Atrtie relation o/Dr.Dec bis j^&iom.mthflirifs, &c, 4I5
and queftions , referred my felf to her Majefties ani\ver , thus, in
vain, expeded. Nuncifus Jpofiolicn-s ,
(Gcrmanicm Mala Spina)
after his yeers fuit unto me to be acquainted with me, at Iciigth had
fuch his anfwer, that he is gone to Komc with a flea in hi? eare, that
diquieteth him, he terrifieth the whole State Romifh and Jeluitical:
fecretly they threaten us violent death, and openly they fawn upon
ds. We know, the Aing of Envy, and tl^e fury of the Fear in Ty-
tannical minds , what defperate attempts they have and do often
undertake. But the God of Heaven and Earth is our Li jhtXeader^
•and Defender. To the Worlds end, his mercies upon us, will bread
his Praifes, Honour and Glory. Thus much very rhapfodically, (yet
faithfully) tan^itam diBitm Japientz, I thought good to commit to
thefafeandfpeedy conveyance of a young Merchant here called
Lawrence Oi>erton : which if it come to your Honours hands be-
fore my Servant have his difpatch,! (hall or may by your Honour be
jtdvcrtized. Your Honour is fufficient from her Majefty to deal and
proceed With me, if it be thought good. But if you make a Coun-
cil-Table Cafe ofit, Ojiot homines, tot fententix. And my Coraif-
fion from above is not lo large : Qjti poteji capere^ capiat.
Sir, I truft, I fhall have Jufcice for my Houfe , Library , Goods,
and Revenues, &c. Do not you difdain, neither fear to bear favour
liinto your poor Innocent Neighbour. If you fend unto me Mafter
Thomas Diggs , in her Majcfties behalf , his faithfulnefle to her
^ajefty , and my well liking o-f the man , (hall bring forth fomc
ifncce of good fervice. But her Majefty had been better , to have
fpent or giVeh away in Alms , a Million of Gold , then to have
loji fame opportunities paji. No humane reafon can limit or deter-
mine God his marvellous means of proceeding with us. Hee hath
made of Sitnl (E K.} a Fanl : but yet, now and then, vifited with
a pang of humane frailty. The Almighty blefle her Majefty both
in this World, and eternally : and infpire your heart with fome con-
ceiving of his mercilul purpofes, yet, yet, not utterly cut ojfFfrom
her Majefty, to en)oy
i From Leij^fich this i^of May 1 58^,
-bTUv.r. at Peter Hans Swarts Houfe.
,>^\;t; .
Xpnr Honours faithful wel-wiUer to ufe and
_ .
."^'i'
^ command for the honour 9f God and her
m • >- Majejiief hefi fer^^ice^
1 - v> ::::or7
JOHN DEE.
*To the right Honourable Sir Francifr
Wallmgham Kmght , hermoji ExieHeftf
Majejiies Trincipsd Secretary^ m^fmguUr
good Friend and.F.^\rqny^,Xi\,^.;,
4 14 ^-^ ^^^^ Relation of Dr. Dee his ABiovs^opitbfpritSi^c,
lUuflriff. &- Magnif, D. mei Colendijfmt.
Encdi^lio Dei Patris & mera gratia & mifericordia per unicum
Imeritum Jei'u Chrifti , illuminatio Spiritus San£i:i , conhrmet
nos cum omnibus Chriftianis, qui magno cumzelo ,
propter
gloriam ejus , cruccm , tribulationcm ,• & praefentionem a ranci-
do atque putido Icorto Bahylonico ^ in turbulentiffimo hujus mundi
Oceano patimur , ut excmplo Jtlu "Chrifti qui eft in Patre , virtu-
te & auxilio Spiritu S! hjec omnia perferre patienter valeamus ad
nominib liii eloriam Sc animarum noftrarum lakitem. Amen.
Mirum fortaflis videbitur Dominat V. quod ignotus ad ignotos
fcribo imputabitis bonam hujus culpx partem juftiilimo dolori,
quern ex rumore Ipaiio, &adme delato propter D. V. concepi
:
mirari enim non Talis poil'um pertinax ftudium beftix iftius Babilo-
nice ,
qux nihil intentatum relinquit, nullum non movendo lapi-
dem ,
quo hominibus vcftraj nationii' prsecipue piis & amantibus i
Dei noa folummodo nocere fed & funditus perdere ftudet. Elapfo
enim undecima die hujus mentis Legatus Pontiticius Libellum ftip- '
plicationum ut vocant) Ca;f. Majeftati obtuht quo D.V, Nicroman- | (
cise &: ahis artibus, prohibitisinliuiulat , ahifque calumniis graviter '
accuiat copias hu)us hbelli habere potuiflem , fed nimis fero hac dc ^
re ftim certior fadus, ncc tutum &: abfque fufpitione eft qui ilium ex ^
Italico in Latinum fermonem tranftuht petere. Quare c^in hgec t
omnia vana a p. K ut hominibus Chriftianis & Philofophjs^ certo J
fciam Epiftolam hanc cum tenendi turn admonendi c^uta exararc
j
libuit ut promptiores & paratiores JD. V. ad jelpondendum ofFeh- n
dant. Pcto itaquc ut co an|mo fufcipiatis quo fcripta! eft fcilicet (
Chriftiano integro & candidQ.Valet€ meque preeibus veftris Chrifto (
commcndate.
Ante aliquot dies tranfmifijjem D.V, hitteras fed D. ^.,\ .,.
;H^
V.peregrx profeSias cffe mihi fgnificatnm fiiitpofi' 'j^Wty, fl
quam antcm a fer'vitore generofo D.a Bikeifiem cog- Hd'
nofiffem (Ferdinand© Harnik) D.V. banc noftram re- flS
Miffe patriamjintcrmittere nonpotm qiiin illnd quod Julius Afcanius/*;- l|^^
'vejirum intereffit Jcire litteris tjiis fignificarem.
^'""^ ''
V^deman.
1
5
llluftriir. & Ma^nif. .D. Joanni Dee 8c
hdwardo F, &:c. Dominis & amicis
meis colendiflTotiCil ti?. "l . .ti iHtii«<iH v.ljjvt -jc*.
Rceived of Mr. Kelly on Friday before Whir-
G•
Ix I L
f(
•>•'-<';
funday, after, my return from F^i/j^ew^n?. i^S'^il^'^-^-'^'^
"^-^i;
Mr. if e//y received this on Thurfday before'-^' \5^.'jii i
Whitfontide, 2'i May i^fiC.
i^v. dU'.
^
lUnJirif-^
($^tme Relation ofDr, Dee bis ABions^ JPithjpirifSyScc, 415
Illnftriffiffio Principi id>' Domino Domino Wilielmo Uifino heredi-
tarto Domino Indite Domm a Rofenberg, Domino in Grommavv
Equiti anrei 'Z/ellerijCx[3ivex Majejlatu intimi confihi Conjiliario^
(^ in Regno Bohcmix fnprcmo Bitrgra'z^io, (^c. Domino ^ Pa>^
trono mco Colendijjimo.
ILlnftridlmc Piinceps , nihil mihi gratias a Magnifico Domino,
Schonbcrgio narrari potcrau,quam vcftram Celficudinem prolpera
interim frui valetudine , Dum ego vaiio, diverfo, Sc intricato
quodam fueram ja£iatus itincre, per montes, per valles , per fylvas
denfiHimas, per apertos campos, &: per nivem profundam, &: nobis
fere inperviam : Et (temper tamen nos protegente altiillmo) tan-
dem fani , falviqiie illefis tarn cquis quam curru Celfitudinis ve-
ftrse , reverfi lumus. Pro quo profpero luccefluj fummas Altiflimo
agimus gratias, 8c .Veftrae Cellitudini mfinitas a nobis deberi fate-
mur. Dum abium contra nos nefcio quid falfi incipit jfte ApoUolicus
Nnncim vel leviter nimiii credere, &tcmere conqueri, vel a feipfo
excogitare pervcrfx. Vers fi ita pcrgant(habito jam noftri^pcr bien-
nium experimento fatis accurato)iIli quidemjqui pietate& fapientia,
(faltem vulgares) deberent fuperarc homines omnes, omnium homi-
num femet declarare maxime invidos, malitiofoSjperverfos/anguinis
humani appetentes , fuperbos , innocentum carnitices, Sc piorum in
Chiifto Calumniatores exitioibs,&:c.Vere (dico) cogemur pulverera
ex calceis noftris excntere, & alias in mundi partes nos conferre. Et
nifi veftrx Celfitudinis haberemus eam quam debemns confiderati-
onem : Et nifi nos iplos veftrx Celfitudmis praefidio quocunqne ar-
mato (quafi) minntos exiftimaremns ( prater illud invincibile , Dei
Opt.Max. agmcn invifibile) ftatim abire ex hoc regno conarcmun
Curare etiam debet (ua.Cxfarea Majeftas, ut aliquo modo, Sc citif-
fime,perrpedum toti huic Regno effe poffit^nos duos non folum vera;
Catholicos efle,fed ctiam verae pietatis & pacis ChriftiangCjefle aman-
tidlmos. Per literas iiias non eft opus ut plura efFundam, fpiritus mei
fervore quodam. SeddiligentiiFime & circumfpediflTime refpiciamus
nos utrique, meftimabile Dei^quod nobis utrifque contulit Donum.
Sumus enim quafi tres. Scd in uno Deo5unus quafi vir efle debemus.
Myfterium hoc notate I. D. E. K. W. R. Nam qui me habet, habet
Sc E. K. Sc quern ego meum habeo, ille etiam ipfius mei£.iC. cen-
fendus eft effe. Omnipotens ille Deus qui cunfta creavit, veftram II-
luftrilTimam Celfitudinemi fuse divinse Juftiti3e,8<: Glorias Comimni-
ftrum Sc co-operatorem nobis con)ungat Sc diutiflime confervet.
Pragx, Maii a6j Anno 158(5.
lUitjiriJlpme Celfitudinis <vejlrxjidelif'
fimm in Chrifto Seri>itor.
-, Joannes Dee.
^ •
Kk
412. ^J^ truerdamn ofDu Dee his JElionSy mtbjpirits,8^c.
InfiSiiJpmx Totentiffimeque facrx fux Caefareac Majejiati
Hungaiise, Bohemia, C^c. Kegi, d^c. (^c.
P|Er aliquot )am hebdomadas , Invi^liffime &: Gratiofifllme Cae-
fary aures noftras circunifonabant riimores vaiii, quafdam con-
tra me, &: Ibcium meum, prxparari accufationes graves & ex-
itioias ; Veftra^que Sacrje Cxjarex Ma)eflati ofFerendas fore vel jam
oblatas clfe : Et prseterea Sacram Veftram Cxfaream Majeftatem,
quorundam perfuafionibus,poene eo perdudani effe, ut aliquam ma-
lam, &nobis periculofam,de nobis conciperet opinionem.Veftrae igi-
tur Sacrx Cxfarex Majeftati humillime ibpplicamus ut (Authorita-
te lua CsE/.ne^,interpo{ita(illius,cu)ufcunque contra nos exhibit! li-
belli, copiam, accurate & verbatim exfcribi, nobilque tradi,manda-
re,gratiole dignaretur,Sic enim noftris refponfis adaccufationis con-
tra nos coniidx collatis articulos, citiffime Sc clariffime intelliget fua
Sacra Ma)cftas Cxfarea, quid in prxmiffis, cum Juftitia, ad Dei ho-
norem & Rcipublicx Chudhnx utilitatem , arbitrari, vel ftatuere
pofllt aut debcat. Et de hoc certifllmi nos fumus,favente Deo,(quod
adhuc, ct nimis diu, aliquorum negligentia , et contra noftram vo-
luntatem, Veftram Sacram Cxjavem latet Majeftatem.) Nos cum
VeftratSacrje Cxfarex Ma)eftatis perfonae , turn Reipublicae Chri-
ftianx, per Vos longe utiliores, gratiorefque effe poflbjquam omnes,
et quotcunque hie noftri praefentes adverfarii : vcluti ipfa docebit
Veritas fi poenesVeftrae Cxfarex Majcftatis aures proprias,eum poffit
habere favorem , ut gratiofe audiri queat Deus Opt. Max.Sacrara
Veftram Cxfaream Majeftatem fua Divina abundantiflime illuftret
gratia abrachioque fuo extento, contra, Chrifti atrocillimos hoftes
Imperatorem reddat triumuphantilTimum
Amen.
•
Mail 2S, 1586
Sacrx Vefirx Majejiatis
Caefareae
Hnmilis ^jidelis Seri^itor,
adVeifromo'vendamgloriam
Joannes Dec»
Jn'i'iSiijpmx potentijjemeqne Sacrx fux Caefareae
Majejiate Hungariae, Bohemix, (^c.Kegi, d>c. ^c.
Domino meo CUmentiffimo ^Fatroiio incomparabili
ad manns proprias
^ expeditijjime
Bdhr
(tj^true 9\elatm ofJ^r, Dee bis A&mr, mthj^irirs, &e. 4 17
EDlor goflronger lirbor bortraitter fraiindtj^ifeflnmcloifl: mir claf-x,
brtifjlainjtt i^omon^Darauf'z.ichnnt fondon fronclron Gottesdionop
behoriit ganuott'vornomany In fnmma craf'x, Dwvid fraibt
ift rvaar , Mirabilis Deus in fan£lis fuis Deus liVacI , ipfe dabic
virtutem & fortitudinem plcbi fuae, Benedidus Deus.
Difo Vitrfolgiing wirds Inon ,
(obgottcoill) In Iror wolfart oor-^
richon und don Lonidon In Irom fpot.
Dentibus fuis frement , & contabefcent deliderium peccato-
rum pcribit.
Dom gtitton Jimgon Gorrn Ci'viUor got foinrm horrn 'vndficjfolbjl:
orl\pnam.^ J{an afn foel'vnd Crib gohol^ontvordon. Daf-z. Vborig
crollen coir cHmtadtlich brld Vorrichton , Interim , So brotts Ichj
fic bon moiu ^ angon , Jnm fermindtlichjion Jnbo grnojpn , ^a-
diirim trouots graiicott Ina^ Juofforirof/^ Darbinbcgott Jljimt i/nf'i,
Von Nanafa In arigk^iiL
Datum inEyle Kaudmit'z, don 2^ Maii, Anno 1586*
Des form trrnoer
fraitndt
Wilfclm Moimaigne handfz*
Horrn Lafpar mn Schonbnrg attff Foplifx. Uoinom Vartranotrd
gutton froimdo In folbjihandog.
Cito
Cito
Cito
Cito
Cito
K k ft
Sowdet
4 1 8 ^true relatm c/Dr. Dee his ABions^ la^ithjointsJkc,
^
SOrvder Kumefchenn Kayferlichen auch Jh Hungern nflds3e*
horn Koninhchon Mapt i/nfors^ allor guadigjion horrn cropen
DoBori Joanni de Dee Engellandorn , anformoldon , D<«/x.
Iro Mapt jaufru, jondorn 'vrgeblkhcn , bodenckjichon *vndt hilli-
chcn I'rfacbonjont fchlojj'on fom fno'vndt dio fomigon In Joror
Mapt , tnnig Kuch Bohem fo woll ah' andorn dorofolbrvn Pomp
Kanchofi , Inirjiant gumbombon i/ndt Landon longer nicht Induldon
nach jidugiifn Hiordtiff fo fun nun Jorar Mapt Endlichor orille
i>ndt tnijler heurhlich Daf'Xj chrfichjambt foinom Worbe tindorn,
q;mdalloti don foyinpeHy fo rvoU als foinem Conforten <vndt Jugetha-
nen boy <vormedanp Iron Mapt tritjien <vfinachl'uf'z>lichenn jira^and
'vngiiad , Innerhali dm Negt nachoniandor <yolpomdon fechs Z/agen,
alhie or hcve , fund fichalf'x.balet daranff' 'vrn hinnon , anfforhalbge-
dachtor Jorar Mapt Koningraich Behannb ^vnis andoror Joror Mapt
'
Koningj^aich , Curfianthtimbay <vndt Cainder begebo dijeilben Dnr-^
chanf'x, Jiin KuJtJ^tigmedr 'Nucbfufforror Danimenjiveyternicht be"
fufiden nach betrejien laffe Davtit auf-x, den lafll laffalba 'vn Into a-
dar den feympen auch doiipy Jnie Jupethaury^ 'vngrhorfamblicfay v
horganpen croiirdo Irr Mapt Inn trujion einfchon 'vndt Stra^\ fofie
lirber i/ormitton fchont/roltoft nicet Vernrfacht tpordoun , Wolton In
Mapty Ime Juondtlicher Nachrkhtung , mcbt porgen. Ef-z. bofz.fefe
attch Hie ran Iror Mapt foruftor Willey fvndt mainug. Decretum'in
Confilio Imperatorix Majeftatis fecretiori. Pragc xxix Maii , flnno
Lxxxi/i.
E. Waldtnons Sayleldt.
Mynflhik.
Dacret DoSior Johann de Dee Iror Mapt Koniglich Bohomh fo woU
als andors Iror Mapt Lander ftreamboy.
DoBori Joanni Dec
offerendnm
I recei'ved this the 30 day of Msiy,
*
Anno i 58*55 Mane hora nona^
By one of the Chancery Clerks,
The Copie of the Emperonr his Decree , of our Banifhment
out of his KingdomeSy Dnh^doms^ ^c, with onelyftx dayes
warning.
^trnereUtm ofDr.Dte bis ABiom,mthffirits, &b 429
aXfino 1586 18 Jn»i( wErphurdia Thuringix, (jnoy lilHjhiJftmut Dominm Kokuhtx"\\x%
wi/ifrrff JoannemCarpioncnKrJ «w , cum Uteris fuis, (^ maxime ttt de uxorefrttnya ^ Deiin-
telligeretvolHntatfm^ &de alitsre(;ns-,&c. Egovero jamCzKd\xeraminHc?L\3. y C^ Erphiir-
dix erat D.Edn^idoYitkus. ^iiifuper quafliomhm & petitiomifalHafirtjfu^ijufuseratdivi-
nitus Chartam mftadam fttpcr Altare , ante Sacerdotem Miffarn celehrantem ponere , auod & /\
fecit, 0fiM & die fttpra fcriptis , mur.e i» LMonaflfrio}A\nov\sOrdims S. Francifci , jar^r /wr^w Admoniiio.
6&q Monacho Setitort Mijfam Celebrame. €t fimta Afifa , h<ec qu£ feqmtur in Charta invenie-
bantur pulchre fcripta. Sed die feijueme , pofiejuam exfcrtpta erant pro Illuftytffimo Tiincipe Tempore exird
fiatim gvanneri or»nes4ine£ & liter*, nihilqne tntlla (^harta, pofl vifthle permaujit &c. tiejlri.
Nations ten aeomnes vocatae in Judicium, coram Tribunal fiabunt. Populus enim rebcllis)
nJmiumque hujus mundidcditusvoluptati, meijamdudum ira fuioiis irricitus tabefcic : Itaquod,
neque ad (iniliram neque ad dextram led ad voluiitatem mcam perinplendam , declinandum eft.
Beacus ilk qui mihi maadatilquc pa:i is inei obediens eft & perleverantia dccoratus,
Maledidlusautem, qui mendax opcribus , pcrdicas verLum meum : quia I'candalo mulcis erir,
& ignomtnis p"cis Evangelu mci.
tgote ^«/fWOTf( quia manusadjunxifti mihi) Davidem zdColtatha jugulandumconftituijc
coiiltuuendo invexi.
Mundaigituradgloriammcamutcrc , &corpi:stuum erigc in me,ad juftitiammeam in fede de-
bica coUocaiidam , &iupeibiam iniquifTimatn turpiflimamque (illorumqui pofucruntfedcmmeam ,
in fcabelLim pedem blalphcmia: & abominationis ) ad penitus turn conculcandum , turn eradi-
candam.
Beams enim eris in fordtudine manus & fpiritus mei,quia audite preces tuas. Noli igitur tempftt
viptationis tu£ negligere : icd fremezelo & indignatione aceiima, & conjunftam tuis parietibus ,
Tirgmcm inuxoremaccipe ,
paracam lumbis & feiietftuti tuae illamque amandodilige, 8c diligcnio
fove , ut mea in te & in ilia benediditio pollicita manifcfta fiat.
CaVeporro, nequostibimauxilium paravi , feivos meos, velnegligentia veltlmiditatetua,
alioruir. lie panaris ex manibustuisveltanquamoves ab ovilituo, malis attibus & iniquicaitc, eiipi,
<2u»s enim irtud lurripiet quod datum dl a me f
Cogita igitur & vigilando cura •, quod hadtenus lefum eft.
Fnngarn iiamque trsnum Satanz & inimicis veftris.
Benedi6tio PaCris & Spiritus mei , & conlblatio a mc ( cui fubjeda eft omnis poteftas ) fit tecum
8£ lupra tc.
A peccatis denique monitus ccffa ut cum mecum loqucris , vita tua fit luminc 8c gratia mca
fufiuka.
MEMORANDUM.
Berememhredth^t Mr. Francis Pucci Florentine, whom at mjr going to Lt'ipGch I left w opir ., * „,;,
hfife at Prage ,
in the meanefpaee had been at Frankford upon Mene , awL went from Prage ahom rpucd.
the fame d^y that the Bishop ofVhzzm^tinnc'vis h\po^o\\cn% dtA exhibit to the Emperom a Itbel Amox^ti.
ugainft us ofmefi horrible untruths, &c. At his going from Prage he had that Nuncius bleffirtg^ Mm e.
&c. In the meanefpace , and after his return to Prage a^ainit happened fo^ that the lo of May
lafi I I received the Emperours commandment , 1 , my Companion , anii all mine to depart within
fix dayesout of^idiOzaudconfiqHentlyoHt of all his Kingdomes , Dukedomes and Lands, JVhich
we did , and were csme to Erphurd in Thuringa , tnd femetimes to Caffcl whether we had rermvedi
our goods andfamily by reafon theSenators o/Erphurd wauldgive at no leave to hire any honfe there
as both by the Lord Schonberg »» the name of the Lord Rolenberg, Iwas ajfayed, with repulft
received , and alfo again by me and E. K. proved^ July 7, 8, p, i o, 1 1, 1 2, i J j I4» Anion Tuef-
day ( the I'^thdayofjune) T>aSlor Cmiz brought upwardfrom the Stnat that they would not grans
our Rrqneft-^yer notwithjlandingiif the LordV^Qiznh^xg would againfend unto them i» the matter^
they would ihtnk^better upon the matter, &c.
Now remember that Francis Pucci came to Erphurd c« Thurfday after lur fupptr , July 10 ( ftilo
novo) on horfe-back^on a horje which he had bought at Mawnberg-/<»/re, ^c.
July the nth he dtfcourfed with EtK.andme, that he thought we might] obtain favour to re-'
turn to Prage agam if we would.
-- That he had found this Nuncius Apoftolicus more courteous then Malafpina j ofwhom he reported
alfoy that ts was credibly informed that he was fore offended that wegave him no more honourable
- title in our fpeec' st to htm , then ReverendifTiraa Vcftra Paternitas.
This Pucci /) -med the dtfcourfe of his talkjo perfwade us to thinkwefl of this Epifcopus Placen-
tius that he was charitsble towards us, and forrow that we werefo uucourteoufly HJed,that he meant
mthingelfe inhtsftne 10 the Emperour againf M^but that wemightbe examined , and rhoubdng
found
430 <o>^ true Relation ofDr. Dee his ABions^witbj^iritSy^c.
foundfanlty^ wejhonld be lent to Reme^ but after that he had begiinto move againft us, that hefound
jhe Emperour more eagerIj bent againft us, than he himfelt was,
N or S.
The Lord 2^/c»i'«'>'^told us that when he did (inourbehalf ) advifethe Emperour of his error
committed in our extermination, that the Emperour anfwered'that \!c\\i NHnctiu from his firft
Audience did urge fo vehemently againRus, and alio the Pope had fen: commandment by Let-
ter to him to deliver us and fend us to Fome , that he was forced in manncrto do as he did. But
jt the commandcmcnt or his Decree were to be made again, that it fhould not pafl'e > or if this
Nuncius ,^p .ftolicm had not lent this Decree away to R»me , that he fhould not fend itj&c. This
I note in rcfpcd of the contrariety '\n\.\\z Nhucim aflcrtifon, and the Emperours, of carlo hard
ufage.
The forcfaid eleventh day of July, the forefaid fr./'«m to prove this his intended perfwafion
of the Nufcini good meaning toward us, and to make us beleeve that great benefit would enfue our
going to Rome, did bring forth unto us a writing of his own hand which he read unto us , and at the
hearing of it we muled much for many caulcs 1 asked him then why the NHncius- had not fublcri-
bcd this writing. It is all one faid he for that ; Hath he heard this read (quoth 1,) yea, that he hath
heard me read this three ieveial times t arife unto him (laid he ; ) And ifyou like of it laith he,
wherein his power ferveth hiin not to performe as much as is fpccified in the writing , he will make
and ufe meancs'tohaveitfromhis Holindfe; well, laid I, take a copy hereof Mr. Kelly, farlwas
riding toward Salfeild about a houfe getting ; Thereupon faid he, contented , but I thiak it meetcr
to lave and keep the original it ftlf laid £. K, Well, laid rucci , and io the original vvas delivered
to B. K,
NOTE.
After 10 of the clock the fame Friday , being the eleventh day of this moncth , after break-faft
I rid toward Sa/feild about the houfe ot the Earl Jll/ert of Sw'Hrtz.enherg, &t.
But after 1 was out of £rjf«r<i until my return again, I was fo lore vexed in mind to think of
Pucci his return to our company , as wellfor his unqniet ngtHre in difptitations 3 as for his blabbing
A bile efourfecrets nithout our leave, or well Itkjng , or a»y good doing thereby; m\\Qt in God his fer-
viee , or our credit, but rather the contrary, enluing albeit not ot his intent, but by either his undjl-
Afpie. c'.eethandlingof it, or of his undue hearers of him, 8:c. Andallofor his Houfhold behaviour, not
•
acceptable to our wives and family , and alfo becaul'e we were warned thai hefl^ould be eat sfffrom
our company,&c. And chiefly, now to conhdcr that he had laid /«c/)^^<i« for us with our mortal
enemy, co entrap us by fair fawning words, which by no meancs the Emperour would confent to do
before by his authority , but rather to put us out of his Kingdomes, &c. And imagining that he was
a mighty Explorator upon us, for this Nttncitts sApofiolictu -, and his adherents, that now he
might perceive what we had done hitherto , what we were doing, and what we intended to do,
and conlidcnng that he urged at our hands in anlwer to the former writing , wherein alfo lay a trap
for either in not anfweving it, orrefufingto grant fome points of it, or in our confenting to the
whole , this Naneim would put matteragainlf us to our great difadvantage. Thus being tormented
in mind in my abfcnce,how we might be rid of this Vr> Pucci^^ quiet and honefJ meangs,! devifed
to write to this Nuncius to know if this writing were of hiscontriving onely, or of /"xrc/his contri-
ving onely,or joyncly,or if at the lealitHe writing were according to his will,and oflcrumo us,ardfo
to fend him away ; wherein he could make no rcfulal,! intending not to make him privy of the con-
tent of my Letter ; And in the mean (pace of his abfcnce I hoped that fome good way and better
meanes woi'.ld appear or fall out , whereunto we might trulV,&c. Thus I note my imaginations and
dilcourfcs in the time of mv abience.
I returned to Erfhurd July i 3.. hera 5. a meridie.
I found Fr. T/rec; defirous to have anlwer to the forcfaid writing > and very much peifwading
this Roman voyage , ufing arguments out ot our anions , as that God laid we fhould go to Rome,
in a certain monechs fpace ; That we ought to obey the Roman Bifhop, and to love him, &c. I re-
plycd and raiJ,that he was not to urge Godupon any hu faymgs to «*,buttorcferre all to his moft free
dilpofition, his will was to be done and not GUIS , God was not bound tous,&c. He anfwered ve-
ry vehemently , and often, that T)eus eft nobis obligatiffimus, & Dens dixit nos tturcs Romam, e?*
fgo credt & cvedam, & aliter non credam mflmiht Detu dixerit m» nobis,&c. Well, (quod we)
God hath delivered unto us his meaning in that phrafe , which we alfo dcvifc you of, that it is not
meant (by the fpeech) that we fliall corporally goe to Rome , and fo I brake ott that his reafoning
;
And told him that we metvailcd chat he flioulduige this Roman Voiagc fo violently and eagerly
more then we; It appertained unto us as.Binch as to bim, ice. The fame day I told him that he had
heretofore ofiended God with his curiojity incur ajfaires ozhcrviife then appertained unto his cal-
ling, and he may well remember his repentance therein , and his foigiveneffe obteined, But that
novf
<^trHerelatimofI)rJ)tthisABionS:,wiihffmts,^c. 43S
novv he had oflfended much more in cuiiofity, and half in confpiracy againli us vvi:h ourmortrj
enemy this N»»ciHs ylpofialiciu , upon whoixihe did fawn, in whofe favour he is , wh >
j ynedi
counfaileth with him in our afttiires , who dare prefcribe us whar we have to do in fa w.ighcy af-
faires as our Journey to R^'Wf, whohach framed a bill, accufing us coufufcdly of HcrefiCj and wick-
ed Magick , both falfely in one pare , and dangerous to life , and infamous a: the lea(t in the otheri
and hereto reqaircth, urgcth, and in manner in God his name argnethby our a^T! ions pafl, obedi-
ence. And therefore he hath feparaced himfelf from us, and hath fee himfclf .ig.-iin(t us, &C.
With great vehemency he laid , He intended nothing , but well to us , and tvas Exploratorwith
this Nhucius for our behaU'; We require none (Ihidi) neither we need any , for God fecth a!l,and
doth all , for our benefit) if wc will coufiantly love and lerve him ; To be brief, he would
Teem to be worthy to be thought well of for his zealous good will and fidelity to us ward , in all his
doings and layings ; The truth whereof Gcd kncweth , towhomwc commit the cade between him
and us.
The Copy of the wiiting before fpccified.
C/D. Johannes Dee, D. Eduardus Kcllcus , & Fr. Puccius, volent hx Romam, m co;:fi:rtint
ctim SummoTontifice de flits Revelaiionil^fts-, vener^fUes cum tan^uam J*?«ft; Petri Succejforerri
& Ckrifti in terris l^icariuvt Illufi ^ Reverend. Spfcopus Placeiuinus Afojro/icin Nu>u:hs apiid
Qxi^xtam MajefiAtcm .^
d*hit Hits Lit'eras commcndathnis .,
ut per totuw tier, & Komx^ h^?»a-
tiiJfiTHe famnmcjue charttAte trallentur ^ & tiifats iiecejfuatihm jttvcntttr ; Acfraterea nuihori^
tate »/ifoftolicAah[»lveteos cy Ithenedit ab omni culpa & poena, qtiAm weriti effent in vita ante
iiiia , eh artes Magicas exercttatas, l-arefes-, falfafeji.'e opir.iones ah eis fp'trfai , a/it fi^as , vtrbi-i
at(t fcriptis, ant aliis rattonthns ; oh libros prohibitos Icilos ant fcriptos , Jive ob alinA quodvis
crimen, chjks accnftri ant argnt pojfcKt inforofaniio Incjutfttionis, am irtforo qttod Couteiiciofuni
vacant; ant incjHovis alio foroT^omificia ditionis : Neqais ob ullnm peccatum attt fcelets cjitan-
tnmvis atrox ,
quod iHi adntiftrim ame hoc iter fufcepcHm, eis HMqtutm facejjere negotium , ant
molefius ejfe poffit, aat itllo modo inqnirere , ant ipfos accttfare prefamat.
For the better ground of any manner of anfwcr making hereunto I asked the fame Fir. 'Ppscci ,
after fupper,on Tuefday the 1 5 of Jtfljf, (forafmuch as I had framed a Letter for anfwer to the pith of
the Letter or writinghere recorded)whetherthis Letter were written and lent to us by the confent of
this Nuficifss Apoftoltctts , to know our anfwer in,orno. He feemed to be unwilling now diredly to
affirm the Nuncmt confent.We replycd that he had already told us that he had read it thrice over to
the faid JV«M(r/»« , and that he liked well of it, and did mervail that now he would make ftrange
to affirm the fame again , feeing I had now , (according to his purpofe) written a plain and perfect
humble anfwer to the fame Letter , and much more matter , true and needful lor this Nuncins to
know. Well, laid he , Eatenus tx ejus confenfn efi, fi velitis ire Romam , ea prafiare conabttHr,
qUa ift eifdem literis cotttifientHr,&c. Well,faidl, (in Latin alwayes you muftunderiland my talk
with him in the fame fence here in Englifti recorded ,if he mean well unto us, and in charity unfeign-
ed; he will notbe offended with my ani'wer ; The Copy whereof doth cnfue.
JUnJiijpmo Keverendijpmoque DominoJ)omino Epifcopo Placen- xheWr-
imo apud Fotenti^inmm ^ In'viBijfimum Romanorum /;«_ 'caption of
peratorem Rodulphum , ejus nominis Jccnndtttn^ Apoftolico without.
Nuncio, Domino mihi (iti Cbriflo) Colendijfimo.
Ilkftrifinw & Keverendipme Domine , mihi Cok/H
dipme.
I
N Nomine; SancSae Bcataj & Individus Trinitatis, vcftram IlluAratiffimam Remember Fr,
RcvcrcndiffiraainqucDominationcra , caquavirum Chriftlanumdccctanimiaffc-^^'^^*''^!"^"
ftionc&humilitatcfaluco, non prcfuraptionc aliqua , vcftris manibns oculifvc i- h!"eor'is kfpr
ftas raeas obcrudens litcias , fed ex iltius NhkcU vejlri verbis admonitus , non gracas in » icther bag
folam, fed (fcie) CKpcdatat fore: hafcc aliquot , baud invitus , exaravt lincolas.
^j^'j'J^'/^''^''*
Quibus cum non potcto, 40 annorum continuum & ai;dcntiffimurn vitx mccurfum',nd icid/to
in limatioris quara vulgaris vcritatls Philofophicas in dagationc tranfaftum , dcfcribc- b^ !^="«^d
tc 5 (vcl adurabrarc faltcm) fatis prcfcnii noftro effe pQ§c inftituco, fi prrefcnti return 'j'ng of'',}!?'/'''
meia- Book.
• •
•
-.?i.
45 2- <?^ true Relation of Dr Dee his ABions^withfprits,S>Lc,
oactaraorphofi , &admirandaenegotiorum noftrorumadiioni, uidumquc circuitioni
multiplici , aliquid cxprimam quod maximc quadrct.
• ^b Anno
Divinicus ante aliquoc annos informati, & dcindc ex AnglU A cvocati, non fo-
i^8i, lum fordflima Dei Omnipotemis manu , &miraculofc, ex rriultis magnifque evafi-
i^ /i»ac,i 583. mus maris pcriculis: ied cciam ex variis hominum fraudulends &nuculcmis contra
nos, & vitamnoftranaconfiliis & conacibus, libcrati hadcnus , cidem Deo neflro
gratias laudcfquccanimus mcnte grata, mcnie laeca, mcntc profc^o Chriftianze, Ca-
iholica? , Ap(>ftoliccqi]c Rchgionis amantiffima , & (Dei nos confirmante gratia)
tcnaciflimafutura. Afteccc,tacncn,quiejufdcm noftiarpicmatris (Sandx EcclcfisE
Cacholicaf) leeiiimi ctiam ccnfcmurcflcfilii, nos, fratrcs fuos, inomni modcftia,
qaictc,pacc,&civilijuftitia, inter illos, Sc coram illis , Pr-»^rfConverfantcs, fubito,
inexiliumquoddam , five extcrminium, C<e/4r<<» cmitti nnandato procurabant nulla,
nobi 5 nulla proifusj ncqucprivatim, ncquepuWicedcclarata tam violcnii mandatij
caulafedvulgari folum, &aulica relatione nobis fada intelliximus exlibclio quo-
dam, per vos, facra: C'fjarea Majcftati cxhibito , conflatam contra nos fuifle maxi-
mam Cdfark indignationem,&quaficxcandcrccntiam : undeexCanccllaria Bokemica^
• A»w,i^i6. aceibKTmium ad nos (facrje fua; C-epy*?* Majcftatis nomine) miflTum fit * mandatum
3« Man.
(^jjHj j^ ccdcm exprcfls , cjuldcm mandati caufa , vel ratione Icgitima) ut infra tunc
fcx proximos fcqucntcs dies , Ego, confers mcus , uxotcs noftrx , liberimci omnesa
immo & ipfc infans nofter Michael {Pragenfis natus, & baptizaius) atque ad raairis
adhuc pendens mamillas 5 famuli etiam mei , &ancill2c, mcidcniquc omnes , &do-
meftici, cxipfaFM^a, atque itaconfequcntcr, cxuniverfo regno 5o/7<rw;<e , & aliis
quibutcunqnc facrae Caftrcx Majcftatis Regnis 5 Ducatibus , & terris , migrarcmus,
nunquam cafdcm revcriuri , fob tcrribilis infligcndsepoenie pcriculo. Nos autcm,
nulla intcrpolita mora, hucmandato C/c/4rw hdeliter & humiliicr obedirc nofmet
accinximus: Bonaquc noftra mobilia , a pcrcgrinationis neftr^e fuppelkdilem , tam
libratiamquamdomeflicam , in duos magnos currus conici curavimus : Reliquorura
noftrorum bonorum , partem unam , amicis dedimus , & pauperibus difperfimus &
diftnbuimus; Partem autcm, dc facie terrx, (propter caufas Deo non ingratas) pri-
•^««», ijstf.
^jg^ antcexitum iftumncftrum , pernosdcletam effc fciatis: Aft optimum partem,
xoAinu.
DivjnojufTu, dccima die /f/'r//« (quando ctiam, dc tota hac afflidione , & pcrfecu-
tionenoftra, Cc^Lisadhucfuturiscramis divinituspra:moniti.) Ignis lucuUntiifimis
fln^mti cemmifimus : qumac ilia , cju(dem optima partis , qua; nullus unquamna-
lurJis vulgarifquc ignis poccrat iajdcrc vcl conlumere , vifibih trgdtci mmprio^ ex
ipfisfurnmsflammisinDivinam, Angclicamvc invifibikm rccipitbantur Cuftodi-
am. Aftlibrorum DivinorumThcfaurusmaximus , tunc, & ibidem (duorumadhuc
vivcmiumtcftium diligenti opera,) ab ipfis flammis in cineics tavillamque converfus
eft totus : renovationcm , reftaurationcm , & quafi tcgcnerationem vel rcfur-
re^ioncm quandam, perDivinam manum , opportuno recepturus tempore Sacel-
lum -J
Dcniquccum altari quod omnipotcnti Trinitaticonfecrandum fore cupicbamus,
(media ex parte abfolutum) intadtum reiinquimus. Ego vero, cum confortc meo,
uxoribus noftris , liberismeis, &reliquis exulibus, five cxtcrminatis noftris RhedUj
tribus avcifli, tranlmigrationcm banc, nobis injuniflam , dicpracfinita ingicffi fu-
Xfl»o, ijstf. *Tius. Atque nondum ex Imperii iJ(?w4»/ finibus cgreffi , iiagrcffus noftros difponi-
/«»//4. mus , &, deca;tcro(Deo favcnte & gubcrnante) difponemus: ut toti orbi Chriftiano
elaroapparcrcpotcric ,
paticntct nos haec (qualiacunque) tolerate poflc, autfaltem
vellc: & paratiflimos eftcnos, Reddere Dcoqux Dei funt, ScCaftri , quxfunt
Cafartf. Obedicntifllmos etiam nos cffe , & humillimos facro hnCtx Catholics Ec-
clefi«filios, &fummi Pontificis Romani, &aliorum Ecclefiafticorum Praefulum
Catholicorum •, in Chrifto & propter Chriftum tam clfe obfcrvantes & fore ,
quam
ipfc qui Judex futuruseft vivorum & mortuorum , varriis nos effe modis haudraro
admonuit. Vcftrje vero Illuftriflimc, Rcvercndiifimequc Dominationi, hoc a Deo
optamusbonum, utpcrfecundas vcftras (detota caufa noftra) meditaiioncs, noftra
Jnttocentia , finceritaiis , & fidclis (coram Deo & hominibus) in ilia Republics Bohe-
»»/V4convct(ationisnoftrar, jufta habeatur ratio: Me^quchoneftjefamx, cxiftima-
tioniiquc (fine qua, ncvivcrc quidcmcupio) cafiac in integrum rcftiiuiio: ut talis
poft*
(^trne relation o/Dr.Dee bis ABions^withffirits, &c, 4}
pofthaccfleindiccturindubitate, qualis (antcvcftrum C<</<r^tf Majcftati cxhibitum
contra noslibellum,) pcrjoannos, (&plurcs)in omnibus (poenc) Chnftiani orbis
tam Academii', quam Rcgnis& Provinciis (ex Dei immcnft Bonitatc, gratia abun-
dantiflima & fingulariprovidentia) cxticifTc, baud obfcuris confirmari poffic tcftimo-
niis. Exhiis igitur paucis, Hiftoricc ipfius vcritacis fcintillis , Veftrx Illuftriffim*
Rcvcrcndiflimcque Dominationisprudentia, magnum fibi lumen aliccrc fivcacccn-
dercpotuit: ad nos, noftrorum animorumaffc(5iiones,noftrorum ita mirabiiium & ad-
huc incrcdibilium negotiorum progrcffum & ftatum dijadicandum , &dcniqucdc
ipfotucuro horum omnium cxitu, baud Icvcs (ibi contcxcndasconjcduras : Cum
nos.cxfoloDcoOmnlpotentc, &vero&vivo, in omnibus noftris pendcamus, &
ab ipfo dirigamur & protcgamur. Cui foil, nos ipfos, noftraquc omnia , Anima*, cor-
poris & Forcunse nuncupata Bona, tanquam Holocauftum, quotidianis noftnshu-
millimis & fpontancis offcrimus precibus. Cui dcniquc foli fie omnis laus, hQnor,glo»
ria, &: gratia rum Adio, nunc &fcmpcr. jime».
P^tae Erphurdiae, Anno 1586, die 16 Julii.
Fidclis (in Chrijio , d^ propter Chrijinm)
^er'vnlm.
Joannes Dee.
/^
This Letcsr being written, and read unto E, K. and of him well liked fur the quiet and modetl
courle tlierein kept , otherwile (as he faid to Fr. Pitcct) then he could have ufcd : or had ul'f d in a
Letter which now he had allovTritcen : but now would not fend , thinking that my forelaid Letter
might fiiftlce for our cafe , he talked with Fr. Pucci of this Letter , which fr, Pmcci faid he would
gladly (ee and read , which £. /^T. told him th«t I was minded not to let him read it: Then faid
he, that he would not carry it : Hereupon in talk with Fr. Pucci ^ fpeaking of this Letter, I told
him that I had written a Letter with fufficientanfwer in general to the JV«w/>« requeft and offer by
liim in writing brought to us , and in lumme told him the chief contents of the Letter. Then faid
he, whereas jou write of the Books burnt , why write you not unto him of the recoverj of them,M
J MOW perceive i>jf pn both , that the) are reftored ? And it fliall be a dilgrace to you if the Nnnci-
iu fliall und^rlland more by other, then by your felf . Thereof have I no care, Quodfcrifji, fcriff^
and I know the truth of my writing : And they are not all reftored that I know of: And whatlo-
cvcr he hath at tny hands he may be affurcd is true : whatfoevcr he fhall otherwifc hear , the Record
thereof cannot be fo good , unleffe, our Record confcnt thereto ; Then laid he, vfhy write you ef
thof: Bookj httrmngy being done before your camming away : It is as if you wrote backward. Have
you no care Mr. Pucci^ tor the method of my Letters faid I, and I faid farther , it is told me that
unlefle you lee my Letters you Will not carry them , you fhall pardon me for feeing of them , the
content I have iufficiently told you : and if you will not deliver them , I can ga them delivered di-
vers wayes, or I may omit the fending of thcmi and write fuch a Letter to the AT^wc/w that I had
written anlwer to hisrcquefts, andofetfentby fr, Pucci; Buthcwould notbringthe faid my
Letter, unLfl'e he might have a fight of it himlelf. At the length by farther difcourfe with S. K. he
became rtfulvcd tog -)c with the letter, and (by£. A", his order) he was to receive 50 Dollars of
"^ohn Carpioy that he fhould not be delfitutc of money at Prage. Fifty Dollotj;
NOTE.
This day, Francis Pncci laid to us both > how can you doubt of my fidelity toward you ( whom
I love as my own life, ) and againli this Monfter of %omt^ whom my chief defireis, and long puccl inltdeii-
hath been, that he may be overthrown, &c. Again,confider, what fidelity, obedience, and reye- tit mamjejii/^
Tcncehehath promifed to the Pope, and this Nuneita , as the writing broughtby him, and fo fore /(w* /aft*,
and many waycs u'.g^d by him, for us to accept ot , can fpecific.
Theiefore Fr. is talfc to the Pope, or us, or both,or raQi,fooIifh,blind , &c. And (as our fpiritual
S-hoolmailer , divsrs times termeth liini) leprous : Therefore I commit this his doings to the judg-
ment of God : But alio it is greatly to be remembred and noted that he now alfo dilcourfed again
with £. K. as concerning the Birth of Chritt , that it could rot be proved by the Scriptures , that
Chiilt came of the line ofDavid , unlefle he were begotten of the aftual copulation of Jofephf
with (.Mary, and 'aid that , becaule it was the gift of the Holy Ghoft , that at Jofeph his firftand
onely carnal copulation with ^^r7,Chrilt was conceived ; Thcicfore fhe was accounted (in man-
L 1 ner>
434 ^true relation ofDr. Dec his ABions^withf^irits.^c.
Videlicet that net a Virgin according to the Jews doftrine : which his herefie when I heardyl trembled for the hor-
is m;raculous rour of fo manifeft an herefie again(t evident Scripture .^/V^o concipiet & virgo j>ariet,&c.SiC againft
ihiiVngoia nwny other moliplainandfufficient Authorities both of Scriptures, and alio Hiftoriesot our Lady
piimocu/nviio
her examination made by Women , and that fhe was found a Virgin, &c. And at her conception
csngfelfii con-
^^^ anfwer to the Angel ; ^ia virum Mon cognovi, &c. (^ Anteqitam convcnirtnt ,
juventa efi in
uterohahnsde fBiritufar,ilo^&c.
N O T E>
It is evident hereby that this Pucci is very leprous, both in this Herefie (what other he is infe(5t-
cd widi; God he knowech)and alfo the former infidelity proved.
i:. On fhurfday 17 July Fr.Pucci entred his Voyage toward Prage with my Letter to the Ntneitt
AfofioUcM^ and with Letters to John Cmrpio from £. iC, and with my Letters inclofed to the Lord
Rofenberg. And wc entred our journey toward Ctiffd > but that night we rode onely three miles, to
Cotha^onr horfcs were fo ill that we hire<i,and therefore fending them back again the next day , we
hired a Coach, &c.
POSCRIPTUM.
Remember ttet Fr- Pncci, the morning before his going required of me our Letters Teftimonial
toourfriends, of his fidelity toward us. What needeth that (faid I)for as muchasyour deeds were
as well known to them as to us, your own confcience to your felf may ferve abundantly. But our
friends divers, who have warned us of you, and have marvelled why we would fuffer you any longer
in our houfc and company, would neither credit our Letters as yet in this cafe. And would alfo con-
demne us of light judgment, or great blindnefs to judg the caufe between you and us.
But tmly I obferved m him, now, a more proud prefuming over us then hitherto, before , when he
was fore rebuked, for over-crowing us, fo as he began to do.
Prxfumpth, I Novvhefaid, he had as great authority as we to publifh any of our Secrets, at hisdifcretion.
2 That he ought to eat bread with us.
^ That he underltood our Books ot Ailions better then we.
4 That he needed not our confent or counfail to deal with the Pope his NunciM : he did it by his
duty general, ot Charity, Sec.
5 He offered to order the Nuficitti^znd the Emperor to the reclaiaiing of the Decree made a§ainft
USj&C
NOTE.
Confider what this may import , that the Decree couching him, being one of my houfhold com-
pany, and of them that then did appertain tome , and whole name he is not affraid one way and
* ^'^« f''''?- another way not abal'hed to * thrulf himfelf into the whole body of our Revelations , as a princi-
tu.71 Ulim de
p^j
^^\\ry^^
or Receiver of them. By the firft he ought to be afraid of the danger of the Decree which
\miino &c t>a°'^-'l us, unlefs h: is affured of their good will who have fhcwed themfelves our mortal enemies,
or el(e fon\e other caufe emboldiied him tofomc other purpofe , &c. by the fecond he might be a-
ftaidof fo great prefumption,being but a 7'>'«^'»t'<'w'" 5 not yet allowed of , and to us known to be
cut off.
I. Dt ^^' '^^'^" points I cannot decipher and judj»e, but referre them to the profound wifdome and high
providence of God, wherefore and how tarre he hath admitted him to be privy of our Aftions, -and
lo a^itnefs to fome purpofes fftjficient. All things be to the honour and glory of God- Amen,
SVfagnifice Domine,
LESiis tins Uteris fui miratus qtiod inteUigerem te illiU'S ejje o-
pinionis (^fententix^ me apud Cxfarem ttbi ac conforti tuo of.
jiciis mcis nonparitm ohfitijfe ,
qnod fciam ita me ^ religione
d^ Jiatura comparatum , ut omnibm quam maxime cupiam prodefTey
nemiiti ant obejfe. Onod autcm prajiiterim quod mei erat officiij mihi
vitio <vertinofz debet, detentm aim inter fttmmumVontilicem , ^
Caelarem, merm fim interpres^ non (video quid in hoc i;efiro negotio
Jpr^Jiare pojpm : Confulo antem , ut 'vejiram innocentiam , de fide
Catholtca Jenfum , <^' de Angelorum con<verfatione ^ ajfijientiay
qnam 'vijibdem habere dicitis , juxta Concilii Lateranenfis in
uudecima Sejpone decretujn^ coram Summo Pontijice (^ Sede Apo-
fiolica dedncatis , ^ ita exponatis nt non pojfit cniqnaM ejfe dn-
binam
^trne relation o/Dr.Dee his /d&iom,mthfpirits, &c. 435
bium quid fentiatiSj qnififede Jpoftolica approbafite , fides into ah
omnibHS Angelicis affertionibm 'z/eftris , prxfiari pojpty <^ turn de-'
mum C^ obtreSiatoribm^ fi qui [nut y ora obilitdentur. Nee nt arbi-
tror gra've fvobis 'videbitur conjilinm ft;enmyfi enim ea 'vobis eji infide
Catholicapiiritas atqne confiaiitia^ ea in prxfenti Angelornm commii-
nione finceritM^ 'vitx integritas^c!^ innocentia^ nt afferitis : Me etiam
tacente occafionem quxntis declarandx 'veflrx fidei <^ bonitatis, C^
hac una ratione honori 'yejiro (cujjfs 'vos rationem habendam dicitiSy
^ cui tantiim ahefl quod per me aliqitid fit detraSiiim^ nt ilium etiam
fro 'z^iribm quantum officii mei ^ injunSli muneris ratio patietur,
fcvere fim paratm^nt Domino Piiccio pluribns dixi) ^ omnibm 'vi-
tx commodis 'vel maxims confuletis. Dem oratia fua 'vos ita reoat^
lit Angclorum con'verfationein in Ca^lis aliquando habere pofjitis.
Fa!e?ra.gx , die 28 Jnlii 1586.
Magnific. D.V.
Ex Corde in Clrifio frater
Philip. £p//c«?p//^i" Placenti-
iius Nuncius.
Magnific. Domino Joanni Dec, Anglo, ^c.
^ Oraculum Divinum.
MZJlta fnnt flagella prxcepta mea negligentium /.Mw/^/^/ex-
que furor hominibus propriis confidentibn^ 'viribm. Hi enim
contemptores fangninis <^ Kegni mei fortitudinis, Gigantes
faBi fiuntj ad omnem abominationem mnltiplicandam. Sed ego Sum
qui jum, qui pofui in Fatre Solium 'verbumquc ad faciendum inter-
ris Judicium : qui in ultima Tuba percutiam illos , ut coaSii recog-
nojcant ijias meaSy ^ ad ovile proprium redeant. Pcribit Ecclefix
C^ populi IniquitaSy ^judicabitur in gladio. Tu i/ero Culielme,»/^-
num in tempore extende opportuno, prout a me informaberisj C^ ^^g-
num, (taBo ^ morientc nequijpmo^ adjunBum indue : Inunxi enim
te infortifpma dextra mea, ad faHum ilium Prophetam , d^ Goliath
\^
forte Mahometanos ^Turcot'^ extirpandum ttt intelligat Terra ju-
dicium a 'Na'Xjareno Crucifixo me. Sunt qui cribarent te : fed male-
diSii funt machinantes in te malum. Fac bonum , c^ utere creaturis
meis ad gloriam meam Docui Kelleum, inquiete, hac noSie, de cxte"
ris, qux ab illo difces. Spiritus mem habitet in 'yobis.
7>*^o«^, ft/fy«# 1589- <J\{en[>s Augujtifine.
Wheti Mr. Kelly was' gone from m; ac Salfeild toward Behemia , and in the mean fpace tbeEni-
5>T0ur liad "ranted to the Lord Rofettterg licence for us to return into BehimtA , :o any of hijS Lord-
''
LI J fliips,
45^ ^yi ^^^^ relation ofDr. Dee his Anions, vntbjointsJ^c.
fhips, Towns, Cities, Catties, &c. This was delivered written by fpiritual and divine BKanes , and
the writing yet remaineth in my Lord his hands, out of which 1 copyed this for the order of our
Hiliory fomewhat making plain.
Francifcus Puccius frxjiantijfnnis ac Deo dileBis ifiris D D.
Joanni Dee C^ Eduardo Kelleo generofis Anglis, majoribus in
Chrijio fratribns , d^ ipj^-^ tanqnam fatribns colendis , precatttr
gratiam <^ pace?ft a Deo patre /icjiro, ^ a Domino Jefn Chrijio,
Amen.
EX quo a vobis difccftl, toto illo itinerc, quodo6Vodiebus con-
feci , vendito Lipfix cquo, haud parum vexatus fuit meus fpi-
ritus, dum animum mccum volveiim, quot modis Satanas divi-
num opus retardare &: noftiam coi juiiftioiiein dirimere, adhibitis
exterioribus &: interioribus machinib &:aimis, tentavcrit, & adhuc
tentaie non ccffet. Ncquc enim poffum, riifi ab eo, agnofcere affla-
tus illos diffidentic, lumtres ab invidis hominibus, fpaifos, fufpitio-
iies nobis in)e£i:as, abique certis iiidicii'^, adverfus ridem non Icvibus
aigiimentis probatam, atque hu^uimodi impedimenta & oftendicu-
la, quibiis curium noftrum impcdite ac landam amicitiam, divinis
aufpiciis, inter nos coeptam, cohvellcre ac labefa£iare, malignusille
fpiritus aggrcffus eft. Itaquc, in ilia luda, ne ullo modo manus illi
darem, aut fatifccrem , dccrevi me, magis ac magis, munire certa
fide in Dpum, ac fpe promilllonum c]\iSy quas ilium fervaturum non
dubito, tUm precibus frequentioribus magis inftare, apud fummum
patrem, ut nos qiiam primum donare velit illo fpiritu , quo noftri
humeri montibus ferendis, ut ille inquit, pares evadent i ad haec au-
ftcriorcm vitam iiiftituerc nee menfa? lautas amicorum adire , fed
panem doloris folus comedere decrevi , ne fim meliore conditione
quam vos^qut tantopere affiigimini^nt benigniffimus Dominus quam-
primunijvos in integrum reltituat, atque ad Tolita colloquia piaque
excrcitia nos una rcvocet, & eventu confentaneo fuis fandifllmis di-
clis, (ingulos noftrum exhilaret. Hanc viam fequcnti Dominus mihi
Ipem facit fore , ut vobis & aliis facilius meam fideni probem , 8c
multas tentationes vitem qux apud hujus mundi homines facile nos
invadunt. Ideo, niii neceflltate urgentc, autcommunibus negotiis,
familiaritatem omnem & convi£ium cum aulicis fugio , Si me hoc
modo minus incptem precibus gentio, mcamque vitam & mores in
dies emcndare conor, ne videar omnino indignus ea fchola , in qua
Doiiiinus me erudire dignatus eft, nee interim cum Publicano, illo,
precari oblivifcor, uc Dcus propitius fit mihi peccatori.Vos non du-
bito me veftris votis & fupplicationibus juvabiris, ut vocatione mese
rcfpondeam, & in opere Domini vobis adjumento &: confolationi
efle poflim : Si. benignifllmus ille pater prppediem hoc adverfo ven-
to
(^true Relation ofDr. Dec bis ABiom, mtffirirsy &c. 43^
to ignem fuum magis excitari curabit, ac nos majoii, quam unquam
antea ,
^ucunditate recrcabit. Ac de his hadcnus. Quod veio ad
noftra negotia attinct h perveni hue die 24 Julii, fub vefperam, ac
ftatim adivi lUnftriJjrwHm Dominnm Nnficinm , cui veftras tradidi, ,
quas Iseto vultu accipere vifus eft : fed colloquendi non fuit otium,
cum, parata coena ,
jam difcumbcre vcUct. In pofteriorem Diem
igitur re)e£ius, ad Dontinnm Carpionem me conferebam , cum didici
eum ad vos Milium,quatiiduo ante, hinc difcefliffe.Dolui admodum
cum non clle mihi obviam factum , tum ratione veftrarum , turn
mcarum litciarum ,
quoniam fafciculum quendam ad me quoque
terebat. Sed quod maxime me torqucbat crat cura de littcris i^«-
ilrijjimi Domini Kofenbergu^ quas fciebam inclufas Domini Carpi-
onis Uteris, nee cas apcrire,aut alii traderc audebam, cum diferte ef-
iet, fcriptum illud ad manm prcprias.Dum itaquc occafionem qucro
Si expedo, ca fcfc obtialit, quam mox audietis. Reverfus fequenti
viie, ad lllujiri^imum Domhnim Islnncmm, invenio apud ilium Jefni"
tarn Italnm^ qui mihi fuit a confefllonibus : blande ab ambobus ac-
cipior, federc jubeor, a Jefmta nomine candoris Sc ingenuitatis,non
parum laudoi.Tum lupide moncorab lUnJtnjpmo Domino 'Nuncio ut
ipli adfim, in conv^ertendo Jefmta ille(is cnim erat qui cum ipfo ex-
poftulaverat,quod nimis facile mihi dedlflet : tejiitnonia triumphafi"
tis Ecclcfix non fubjici jndicio ntilitantts.) Refpondeo me fecifle
quod in me erat ut docerem eum prgeferre Coelum terra; , ac tribu-
nal fuperius inferiori^ fed cum id mihi fninime fucceflet, ejus effc, fua
do£lrina &: autoritate, hominem de fentcntia ilia dejicere lUnjirijfi^
inns Dominm Nnncim haud gravate,noftram fententiam,hac in par-
te, probat, Sc exemplis confirmat, atqne ita conclndit^ nt flatnat cer~
titudinem <vidcntis ^ audientis Dominnm , .ant ejus angelum , non
pendere a probalione Ecclefiajiica, ncqjie ah illo ejfe rationem repetefi"
dam jux rcvclationis.^ dam nihil pnblici mttneris exercere audet : fed
fi incipiat palam profit eri^fe a Deo doSiitm d^ mijfitmj ita nt non ip-*
fiHs foliim , fed aliorum qnocpie interfu , fcire quo jpiritn agatiiVy
tunc Ecclefi-aJiiiOKitm mitnns ejfe y illius jpiritnm examinare i^ pto-^
hare, neqne ipfnm jure poffe examen hoc detreSiare, licet fuas reve-
lationes eis fubjicere minime teneatur. Nam fi ordinaria autoritas
cumadmiferat, bene habebit , nihilque turbarum excitabitUr: fin
per injuriam aut infcitiam aliquam , aut per aliam hujufmodi cau-^
lam, rejicietur, fuum erit appellarc Supcriorem Dominum , qui ip-
,
fum miilt,quo fuum fcrvum & Legatum defendat, aut ordinario Ju-^
dice commonefa6:o, aut alia ratione : quod probabat decreto La»
teranenje Concilii, cujus mentionem facit in fuis Uteris i ac praeterea
hiftoria S. Francifci^ qui primum expulfus ab Innocentio Fontifi<:e^ ,
mox revocatus fuit , cum per quietem apparuiffc Pontifici pannofus
'
ilk, qui Ldteranenje templum fuis humeris fulcirct. Addcbatprxtc-^
rea viros Dei non effe folitos detcrreri una aut altera rcpulfa, & hoc
43^* <?-^ ^^^^ ^^tation of Dr. Dee his ABions^mtbfprhs^^c,
repellendi modo, dicebat Praeiules aliquando ufos efle, ut probarent
fpiritum &: conilantiam eorum qui res novas magnafque propone-
rent. Ego vero inquam, ut \vxc ita fe habeant , Vos haEietJiis publi-
cum munus exercete noti tcutaffe-, C^ intra pri'vatos parictes^ fnmma
modejiia 'vos continuijj^c. Turn ille, longiori ambitu vcrborum, fie de
vobis diflcrint, ut ex veftris verbis Sereniffimum Folofiix Rcgem, ad
invi^liffimum Cxfarem , Sc ad Illulb-iffimum Legatum Hij^ankuni^
jam conftare diceret, vos aliquid amplius quam privatum moliri: Ac
Summo Pontifici, Tcdcnti in ipecula llipcr totam ChriftianamRcm-
pablicam potuille merito iuipe£tas cfle vcftras pcrfonas , hoc modo
Principum animos, &: interiores aularum receffus fcrutantes : Idque
ratione vcftr^e Regnae, infcnfiillmie Apoftolicge,fedi3& cum ipfo T«r-
ca confpirantis, necnon jpintus familiares habcntis ac praeterea ra-
tione veftrx fummx pcriti^e, in artibus &: fcientiis reconditis, quibus
facile plebi & imperitis imponi poteft. Cum enim fitis magni Aftro-
logi, dicebat illc, be facile vobis lie habere gencfes principum, nec-
non Magicas artcs calleatis, haud difficultcr polTetior bonorum y^«-
gelormn nomine^ ca propoz/erc^qux a Ipiiitu Ecclcfiic hofte manarent.
Ideo Summum Pontihcem, (cui duo, ill) Principes iunt maxime ob-
fervandi, urpote qui inter Haereticos vivant & rcgnent) prudenter
feciirc,qui jufferit, ut in veftros mores & doflrinam inquireretur.Ac-
cidille autem praeter ejus poftulatam & voluntatcm, ntj indiBa cau-
fa, expelleremmt. Se vero vicem nollram dolere, & paratum efTe ad
curandum, ut vos jultilicare poflltis, idque fibi efle in votis, non fe-
mel afferint Quapropter hortatus eA me, ut ad lllHJirijfirnitm Domi-
num Kofeubergium contenderem,atque iplius bonam propenfionem,
erga vos,ei fignilicaremj Nam ille a Summo Pontitice facile impetra-
bit, ut caufa veftra hie cognolcarur, & {i ille vobis faverit, ut hade-
nu« fecit, le quoque adfuturum vobis omnibus officii?, ac primum
fore, qui ie veftris genibus obvolvaty/ tales eritis ,
quale s 'vos non-
viilli prxduatit. Ego igitur re(3:a ad lUufirif. D. Kofenbergium. Sed
quatcr redeundum mihi fuit, antequam admitterer. Die 27 tandem
adinidls, expofui meum ftudium,erga vos reique veftras,ac quomodo
IllnJi.D.l^Hficim A^cdus ergavos eiret,ac tandemoravi utnon defere-
ret patrocinium Be defenfionem illam, quam {u{ce^'i{[et peregrinornm
pn'f/t/jpmornm, qui a Caefare minus bene informato ad Caeiarem me-
lius informatnm ,
provocarcnt , ac fuam innocentiam, Dei & ho-
minibus, probatam cuperent. Hie humaniter refpondit : Vos non ad-
modum fibi notos ciTc :
fc bis cumfcuiore^ femel tantnm cum juniore
coUocutnm , jndicajfe z>os doSios cj^' pios, <^' prxclaris donis infirn-
6ios : exiftimare vobis hoc accidifie mala aliqua relatione cui incom-
modo a res principum funt obnoxiae : veftrum efle id aequo animo
ferre:non fe poenitere quod vobis faverit, & fi fcirit quid potifllmum,
afe, pcteretis, daturum operam, ut veftris votis refponderetur.Tunc
mihi vifum eft nonnulla dicere de optima fpe ,
quam de ipfo conce-
pifletis,
i
(^true 9{elation ofDr. Dee bis A&ions, mth^irirs, &c. 439
pifTetis , &: quomodo me non dimiieratis line Uteris ad ilium : Sc<i
erant inclufaj faiciculo D. Jvan. Carpionis^ quern ftatim protuli,
atque eo inftante ac rcfpondente D. Carpionem non aegre laturum
fi ipfi dediflem^tradidi fafcicylum cijqui dixit fe per otium lefturum
^
ac, lequenti die, mihi refponrurum. Difcedo igitur ab illo ad Illuft.
D. NnnciHm, atque otium na£l;us,tum per me, tum per Uluft. Lcga-
tum Florentimtm ,
pluribus cum eo agere inftituo, de infigni injuria,
fobisfaBa: ex^ono quantopore laboraveritis, ut confidere pofTetis,
apudCatholica Templa,&: quam inhumaniter, in hofpitiis & civita-
tibus ratione hujus pr;^)udicii C^Jarei , tra6]:aremini, doceo quam
lordido 3^ anguflo loco vcftras farnilias reliqueritas , ita ut veftram
fupelle6:ilem, & libros explicare nequi vcritis i Moneo, ut Domini
Dec )am grandis natu, aut potius fenis, & nihil tale ha6:enus pafll
vicem doleat j ejus erumnas non tanquam fimplicis hominis confide-
randas effe, cum vir fexagenarius, quatuor tenellis fuaviflimirqiie li-
beris (quorum major feptimum annum vix exceflcrit) ac diledifli-
msE conjugi adjundi;^, longe gravius affligatur , ratione uxoris fuse
Icdiruma; foeminse, Sc pignorum chariflimorum, quam fui ipfius , o-
ftendo quanto ofFcndiculo hoc futurum fit Catholicis Anglis , ac
ceteris , & quanta anfa prxbeatur haereticis, invehendi in Ecclefia-
fticum ordinem : declaro periculum imminens ordini illi, fi forte De-
us facultatibus veftris ad eos ple£lendos eorum inimicos armari per-
mitteret : Demonftro Deum alias, per liaelitas hxreticos Catholi-
cos Jndneos punire confueviflc : ac denique declaro, quam abfur-
dnm fit iios indiBa caujfa cottdemnari, fi id meriti fitis : quanto ab-
furdius, fi non meriti fitis quicqnam tale : abfiirdiffimum vero, cum
a Catholica Ecclefia honor potius vobis deberetur : Ac cum non
petatis nifi ut vobis vos purgare liccat , nihil magis confentaneum
rationi excogitari, nuUo alio modo errorem admifium emendari,
atque hoc negotium bene dirigi & redintegrari poffe. Hie mihi le-
git veftras literas, id eft D. Dee^ fedde rebus, ambobus vobis, ali-
quo modo, communibus : dicit fe non credere ea , quae de divinis
monitis & miraculis, in illis, continentur, petit ut ipfe declarem ob-
fcuriorem locum de libris combuftis ; audit a me tejlimoninm ocnla-
turn de illis concrematis, d^ quomodo 'vobis audi^erim eos ejje ca'li-
tus refiitutos, ac deniqueconcludit in illis Uteris eife multa lauda-
bilia, multa admirabilia, multa itidem incredibilia i fed cum non
fint Deo impofilbilia , fe fufiinere affenfum, nee velle quicquam
certi, re non penitus explorata, pronunciare : vobis tamen refpon-
furum humanitcr, ac daturum mihi literas ,
quod fecit poftea die
28, quas literas ad vos, cum hifce, mitto. Et quia legendi eas mihi
fecit copiam,/^fzx jejunias ^frigidas miht effe 'uifns , hand dijfi^
mulo Tamen quia mentionem aliquam mci facit, tanquam hominis
cum quo fufiusde fuo animo,erga vos, egcrit,vifum eft mihi accu-
rate ic particulatim exponere^ quid inter nos a£lum di^uijjve fit, ut
vcrb'a.'
^4o (
^true Relation of Dr. Dee his Anions,withfprits.d^c.
verba cum fadis conferrc poffitis , & pro vcftra prudentia & pic-
tate, confilium capere, &: fi operae precium videbitur refcriberc.
Quantum enim ex e)us Termonibus coUigo, videtur ipli neceffarium
novum mandatum, a fummo Pontifice, ^ntequam quicquam vobii-
ciim agati nee fc fciipturum dicit de vobis Komam^mCi ^nus fetalis
qttodab ejus fanBitate capitis : utpote qui, in hac caufa, fuerit
mcrus interpres, inter Pontificem Sc C^farem > nee poflit, nifi verbis
iui Domini quicquam promittere & ftatuere. Idcirco, quantum vi-
dere poffum, res diutius protrahetur quam vcllemus, nifi Dominus
nofter & Pontifex ccekftis, alio modo, nobis providerit. Die 28 &
29 invcni llluft. P. Kofenbergium tam occupatum, utadmitti non
potuerim, fed per cubicularium fignificavit, le valde cupere ut collo-
quercmur, itaque rcdircm die 30. Interim fui rurfus cum Illuftrif-
fimo D. 'NunciOy mox ditceffuro ad Saniii Caroli Monailerium, ubi
commorabitur quamdiu hi eftus fsevient. Et cum commodo ceci-
diffetj in coUoqucndo, vifum eft, mihi interrogare hominem,an pro-
baret mesim fententiam de difcernendo ex certis notis Sc terminis ve-
rum verbum Dei a fifto & f ucato , cum poffit angclus malus tranf-
formare fe in angelum lucis & Apoftata falfi, non raro, fe transfigu-
rent in Apoftolos Chrifti. Dicebam enim duo mihi videri necefl'aria,
ut hoc judicium rite fiat, primum quidem, in homine audiente, bo-
na propenfio&: animus bene affeiius ad Creatorem,totufque exei ita
pendens, ut nihil antiquius habeat quam ei placere , & qui de ejus
benignitate atque veritate non dubitet erga eos, qui ad ipfum con-
fugiunt, ut bonum fpiritum hauriant. Deinde in fermone, nomine
Dei propofito, requiri eas proprietates, qux tantum authorem de-
ceant h quas graphice defcribit Panlus, cum dicit, f^i'vu^ eji enim
fermo Dei ^ eiHcax , c^ penetrabilior omni oladio ancipiti, d^ per-
ttngens ufqae ad di'vijionem anima ac jpiritus^ compagmn quoque ac
vieduUarum, d^ dtfcretor cogitatioNum C^ intentionnm cordis^ <^ non
eji nlla creatnra in'vifibilvs in confpeSlit ejus. Cui adftipulatus Deus,
7f,-.ij,i8,i,. qui apud Jeremiam diciV^Propheta qui fomnium habet^femnzHm nar-
retyCt qui 'verba mea habetyZ^erbamea narret.Qjtid paleis cum tritico}
dicitDominHS.Nnnqitidnon 'verba meafuntqnafi igms}dicitDominm,
quafi vtalleM-s conterens petram} Concludebam igitur,hominem Deo
fidentem, excfficacitate & ardore illo,quo afficilepercipit,deprehen-
dcre Icrmonis Dei veritatem. Nam vox lupi & alieni paftoris non
poteft permovero veram ovem, ut ipfum diu fequatur, & banc efle
regulam ,
qua judicarem divinas fententias a non divinis , diftingui
poffe : Ille probabit meam fentcntiam,atque addidit, fine bono ftu-
dio auditorum,non apparereefficacitatemdivinorumfermonum, ut
conftat ex Chrifti hiftoria. Dum enim fimplices IfraelitCj dicebanti
NunqHidfic loqmttus eft homo^Sc fimilia de Chrifti do&:nn3i^Pharifdef
Be perverfi Sacerdotes cum deridebant & contcmnebant. Tunc ego,
ii contingeret igitur, ut cum congredicinur, fieret ad tc verbum Do-
mini,
I
(^true relation ofDr. Dec bh Mions,withffirks, &c. 441
mini, num hujufcemodi regula utercris. Hie illc inquit, cum poffet
accidere , ut mihi de hac re judicandum effet , nolo hoc tempore,
meam fentcntiam dcclarare, Ted hujufcemodi ratio non mihi mala
videtur. Ex quibus verbis nefcio quid mihi vifus fum adorari minus
candidum, quam in re tanta, opus cflet. Scd Dei efto judicium de
ejus interiori lenfu. Ego, bona tide, colloquia noftra expolui , ut
vobis ufui effe poflint, ratus hoc vobis gratum, ticut toret mihi fi ve-
ftro locoeffem. Rcverlus die 30, ad llluft. D. Kejciibergmm vidi
eum tandem exeuntem, ex cubiculo, ad quofdam nobilcs , et dixit
fe tantopere diftridum efTe , ut mecum colloqui non poffet. Sicut
cuperet. Ego vero, inquam me S- Cellltudinis monitu, toties rcver-
fum expc£i:are ejus reiponium, et an vobis relcribere vellct. Tunc
ilk inquit prius tecum coUoqucndum eft mihi, itaque, (ut ejus ver-
bis utar) habeas patientiam, aliquot dies donee ego pro te mittam,
et fie me dimifit. Docui igitur Vcncejlanm cubicularium noftras x-
des, qui dixit ie optime callere locum, ac, fuo tempore , memorem
fore mei, cum Dominus me accerfet. Expeftans igitur au,t re pon-
lum Illuftriillmi D. Kofenbcrgii^ aut aliquid aHud dignum veftris au-
hbuSj non viium eft mihi id vos exprcffum nuncium mittere : Mo-
nente prxlertim Domino Se'vcmbergio , vobis effe paratis neicio
quas sedes in oppido Naitn ^ ia Comit2itu Suarrebnrgcnfij & ut ex-
pedarem reditum Domini Carpionis^c^uem propediem reverfurum
iperabat, ne fine magna caufa atqueincertus de loco veftrse fedis,ad
vosliteras dirigerem. Igitur non parum folicitus de vobis Sc de redi-
tu D.CarpomSj temel ad minimum in die, ejus xdes adeo,atque in-
terrogo fi quid de illo fignificetur , nee quicquam, per multos dies
audio.Tandem de diei 2 Angufli fcifitor Y^Millernm an ahquid mi-
hi de amico, dicere poffit. Reipondet fe quoque expedare hominem,
atque admodum mirari tarn diuturnam moram, praefertim cum D.
Cregorhts^ qui in ipfo Carpione ad vos venerat, fit triduo ante rever-
fus. Ego is,itur, qui nihil prius de D. Gregoni aut itinerc aut redi-
tu noveram, ad ilium refta contendo. G^///«tfejuscontubernahs hu-
maniter me admittit, jubet expe^iare D. Dodorem, et ad ilium ac-
cerfendum currit. Sed cum diutius moraretur , ego jam dilceffurus,
video D. Gregorium feorfum cum ipfo colloquentem ^ etmetorvo
vultu intuentum. Saluto ilium &: gratulor reditum, ac demum de
vobis incorrogo. lUe refpcndet fe nihil quicquam de vobis aut re-
bu? veftris fcire , nee vobifcum fuiffe. Tunc ego ahquantuluni
haereo , ac tandem dico, fi noht quicquam dicere me aequo animo
laturum , fed jam mihi conftarc eum vobifcum fuiffe : Ille Itoma-
chatur veftrumnomen , ac totius mundi fallacias 8c impofturas : di-
cit fua fibi effe curae , non veftra vos multa quidem promittere, kd
parum praeftare , nefcire fe quare conqueramini : fe per fefqui an-
num, vana ipe la6:atum, vobis ad ha;fiffe , ut aliquod c minoribus
veftris arcanis dirceret,nec quicquam aUcujus momenti percepiffe.
M m Hie-
44^ ^-
>yf true Relation of Dr. Dee his AUions.with'fftrity^cy
Hie ego : an parviim tibi vidctur arcanum illud contra lucm vene-
rcani ? Ulc vero, Tubridens, a £>. ScontOj\n(\mt , longe praeftantio^
rem habeo. Dcnique, his omiflls, librnm mcum Pt^/c/Z^' repeto r IT-
le ncgat ie habiiilie interrog.ita quo audiverim ^ ac me laudante D.
D<?e,ille rurfus negat fe vidilici nili forte,inquir, ex-manibus D. Se-
'venbergiij vis dicere librum neicio qucm fine titulo : ac dcniqiie dp
reftituendo nulla m Ipcm facit. Ego qui cum iiio verba commutare
nollem, abeo : ac puerum veftrum Staniflattm^ in atrio ofFendo,& ab
illo intelligo , vos Erfordiam ufque cum D. Gregorio & D. Carpione
venillcjante oftiduum . D. Carpioncm illinc Bamberga.m did Qyiigcndda
neicio quas pecunias,profe6^um', fe cum D Gregorio^ hoc vciijflc.In-
terrogo an literal aut aliquod verbulum, a vobis, ad me, ferreti rc-
fpondct, nihil prori'us, quia forte putabant, inquit, tc hie non effe:
(c poft triduum aut quatriduum ad vos reverfurum.Laudo ejus con-
filium, & conftantiam in fcrviendis Dominis, ac docco meas aedes^ne
fine meis Uteris ad vos veniat : promittit fe non difccffurum, me in-
falutato D.Gregorins interim pcTcipit, me cum eo colloqui , atque
iratus (quantum ex voce clamantis judicare polTum) puerum revo-
cat. Ego, cogitabundus, difccdo. Die quintodecimo hujus menfis,
tandem na£tus fervulum vefirum Stafiiflaiimjin locolibero, eum ac-
euratiusde vcflris rebus ac ftatu examino , atque non fine magna a-
ninii mei voluptatc, audio vobis conccffas ciU ampliores aedes.lUuft.
D.Langra'vium prxftantiflimo D. Dee multum tribuere ut favere,
& fummo Deo pro tanto munere magnas gratias ago,atque puerum
ad meum cubiculum duco oftendoquc illi litcras ad vos paratas, nc
fine iplis ad vosrevcrtatur. Sed paulo poftea pater Carpionk me mo-
net, le velJe ante noctem , ad vos unicum exprclfum mittere & ut
fcribam li vcJim : nam fe a D. Kelleomomtnm hoc mihi fignificarc:
ingentes gratias ago D. helleo c^iu mei non fit omnino oblitus , &
hsec, perhunc quern vobis fpero hdem nuncium , fignificare ftatuoi',
fcripturui, rurlus per Stanijlaiim^ fi operae pretium videbitur.
Oro vos atque obteftor per Deum ilium vivum,qui Autor eft no-
ftrae amicitiae, & qui difcrte praeccpit ut nos invicemac mutuo ame-
mus, ne oblivilcamini mei cum datur vobis occafio invigendi me per
literas aut per inter nuncios, & reddendi me ccrtiorem de ftatu ve-
ftrarum noftrorumque rerum \ nam ego certevcftri non oblivifcar,
& officia mea id teftibuntur,non folum coram Deo,fed etiam coram
omnibus hominibus. Si vcftcr rcditus aliquandiu differetur , invifam
vos "proximo mcnfe Scptenibri^ longe enima vobis vix vivere poffuni,
immo \\ proprie loqucndum fit , me vitae taedct : Ac pra;fens agafld
de nonnuilis rebus quas fcribere minime decet.
Jam elapfi fiint 1 8 dies ex quo llluftrifllmum 'Nuncium Apofioli-
cum non vidi, & Cum fatis fupcrquc fatisfccerim obedientiaE,non ad-
ibo ilium, nc verba nobis dare fitbi tam facile fore perfuadeat. Ofien-
dit literas D, Dee Legato Vcneto d^* Florentino ^ uterine mihi
fum"
i^trHe9{elation ofDt Dee his AUiom, mthj^iritSy &c. 445
fummopere cos landdrvity dixit que fibi <z>ifus difertas grat/es^ <^pliif-
qnam i>nlgaris jfiritus^ d^ vpiffint exemplum illamm , fed caro of-
ferre non potcram, &: dubito ne Illuftriftimus 'Nuncim cas tuppri-
mat 5 namhaudoblcurej innuit/e timere 'vejintm congrejfum prx-
fertim ^quitm (^ rationale^ Sc id quaererc videtur, ut vobiibiim aac-
re poffit more tiijp- ^^c- D. Joan. Carpia^ nondum revcrtitur, Sc D.
Rojenbergim eras dicitiir diiccffarus Sc ncfcio an lecupcrare potcro
litcras ad cundcm Carpionem^ in quibus dc pccuniolis illi. ajjebatur,
fi dubicatii ne illc diutius quam par lie , lolutionem dilicrat quxlo
curetis, ut aliquo alio modo mihi profpiciatur. D. ab Ojp, per ao
(dies, non vidi, ac Jeiuitis palam dixi & dico quandocunque occafio
fe ofFert, i/ohis futinm ab ipfis injlgnem injuriam^ cos plm pendcre ab
\ anlis terrejiribus quam a calejii : timire collationem ofqiiam cum 'z/o~
his^ac JHX caufx annnm hand obfcnrc r//J//^erc,itaque jam ium cis mi-
nus gratus.
Saluto uxorem D. Dee le£ii{llmam foeminam , ac mihi non mi-
nus quam matrem venerandam i nccnon conjugem D./CeZ/eirarum
exemplum juvenilis fan^Htatis , caftitatis , atque omnium virtu-
tum. Saluto omnes j alios veftros domefticos landos vofquc in-
primis D.D. Joan. & Ed. defidcrabilia mihi nomina foehces ac bea-
tos in Domino cupio ac pcecor. Quantum tribuam & tribuere de-
beam veftris precibus noftis,eis oro atque obfecro me apud D.Deum
juvetis ut vocation! meae refpondeam, & curfum meum hilari animo
ac firmo corpore perficiam.Sanfiiflimus ille pater, qui nobis jam luf-
citavit paftorem ilium magnum D. Jefum filium fuum mox reverfu-
rum ad lubigendos omnes innimicos ejus fub pedibus fuis, atque cx-
tremam manum impofiturum renovationi rerum , nos omnes fuo
fpiritu fovcat ac recreet,ut Lati adventum ejus praeftolari,atque nu-
ptialibus voftibus , lampadibufque accenfis ornati , ipfi occiyrrcre
poflimus. Praga xif Kal. O^ob. M.D. Lxxxv.
Idem Dominationibus i/ejirk addiBijfitts
Atque ex animo frater
PUCGIUS
Pr.€ftantijpmJ6 ac Deo dileBis t/irk D.D.
Joannes Dec. ^ Eduardo Kelleo Gene
rofis Anglis, ac Majoribus in Chrijio fra-
trtbm^ mihi, tanqnam fatribus coleTidiSy
Mw 3 ^^t
r444 ^^^^^ relation oft>r. Dee his ABims, mtbjoints. 8ic.
MgnificcDotnine;8i u:i pater amandlTimc& oblcrvande nonminori etiam defiderio teneorvi-
dendi & de multis coUoqucndi cum Magnifica dominature veftradc cujus crga me & fide, & a,morc
nunquam dubitavi nee dubicarcpoflum pott prandiumhora commoda ego illam accedam. Deus fua,
gratia fcmper nobis adfic.
Vefter ex animo, GuilielmHs propria manu.
Febr. lO. 1587, ftil&novo. Trehone.
Poftridc reditus llluftriffimi a Vienna ad TrehonMm',
4- ^
Sir,My hearty commendations unto you defiring your health as my own ,
my Lord was exceeding
glad of your Letters, andfaidnow Ileehc lovcth me , and truly as faras I perceive he loveth^is
heartily. This Sunday in the Name of the Bleffed Trinity I begin my Jourpey , wherein I com-
mend me unto your prayers, defiring the Almighty to fend his fortitude with me. I commend me
unto Mrs. Dee a thoufand times , and unto your little babes : wifhing my felf rather amongft you,
then elfewherc, I will by Gods grace about twenty dayes hence return, in the mean leafon all com-
fort and joy be amongrt you
;
)Trage, ICoHT affnrcd attdint'
\\!! iLu^yii mo'veable friend.
KThomas Kelly.
^ 1? iT H
tl^rancis Gariaud. >went with him. £• Ivelly.
.Ferdinando Hern)\. j
To the Right PTorjhipfu/,
and his ajfuredfriend Mr.
John Dee £Jquire , give
theft,
CMagnifleii Domino^
'^
'Domino Dee.
Received of Lo^iowe;^ in the High-way by P/^fz,, in the middle way between New-hoftfe and
Trehn^ as I was comming ivom New-houfe .^ whither I went to have met my Lord as he came
itomVtenna : But Arch-duke £r»*/? was occafion (as was thought) that they rfiould go to Prtige
by Triegle , being the more even, although not the next way : I received them on Friday the 6 of
Februarj^ and they weredeiiyetedhimat P^-i^g* onSunday was afeven-night before > being the
25 oi January^ novo ftHo.
5wff£rfrt I commend me unto you. hoping in God that you are in good health, as I and my
children, withallmy Houlholdamhere, I praifc God for it j I have none other matter to write
unto you at this time.
I being at New-honfe from Trebone, (to go to underftand wliich way my Lord Rofenberg ^ould
go from Vten to Prage and when,) and this Letter being in the lame day brought from Pritge,
my wife fent ZrO^owci^with it, toward me, andlo without i'/<«f«. Town in the High-way he
gave it me.
-J-
Trehone in Bohemia,
Vtjitationu Secunda , A^io infiitutA,
Anmiiit
^ Prcces ad Diem fudi , and declared that we here and now prefented our felves, as in obe-
DkiaSep- dience, according to the /imeprefcribed of fix Moneths end, hnce the laftgood Friday: I craved
icfibris. pardon of all our ciTors and mifdecds 5 fince the laft time of his vifiting us , and now requefted his
pje Veneris aid and dircdion hence-forward to walk profpcroufly, according to the well pleafing of his divine
jrxn menfis Majeltie ; and that he would grant unto JViUiAm Rofenberg^ E, K. and me his graces , fo abun-
'l-isante%af^hii
'^^"^^7 > that in US his honour might be increafed , and glory advanced mightily and trium-
'imeridiehora phantly,&c.
*• E. K. Here is a round fire like a Sunne.
^'^^ ttf*f» Frigida pr<eparatio. ,
Frigida oratio.
Frtgidam hoc exiguntrefjf&nfum.
Jitvtrffufe tAmtn Guli^lmo,medi4tortm& agnHm, refpondere paratHmy fsnfHlite,
(^true 9{elation ofDr, Dee bis Actons, n?ithj}irirs^^c7~44^
E. K. He is gone now.
A Tu juftus es Dominc, & nos impii : tu CznSius cs Domine, & viae :\ix immaculacy : nos ncc
orare, neque nos prsparare fine tuoauxilioSc gratia unquampoffiaius: Tuam igitiir A)b;sccnccdas
gratiam, Sc de tanto errore lioltro dignam 3g:te pocnitcni: a;ii, ut agiuim5& mediacorem nolhiim om-
ri tempore nobis inveniamus propuium ex tua chm:ncia , "illius m.-iuis, & Ipiritus cui Sandi afflatu
conlolatorio^ Amen.
Cui,Trino Scuni, Deovcro, ScOmaiporcntij ;ic fempiceriius honor; liu-; pcrcr.nis, <k"\ou3.
pcrpetiia. Jmtn>
*» I I I
..11. .--—-.— _ _
—
,
^
—
. _ ^
i.
^ ^
=
+ Xfehonc^ A^ia Secu»d4 ex fefcm.
'Anno 1586.
O3ob. 14. Tuefday. UMane- pofi Joli^ ertum.
'
Circa 7. Trecthns fftfis^ gr^tiifque aElis fra mifericordiis 1)i' t^jinitii erga n»s tarn in prxd. -
pittatiotte
(J
:intinex$cutioKey ifipatriit, inmAri , & in hue pcreq^rinatwae ^ O* pro libirM'.one no-
firtiexmanibHs hofltHM inVxzotri^extlio., &profna continna tute.'a •,& pro rcdnHfoKe nojlr^
cnm honore& gloria initio^ tidq-Aietem &fecitritatem £•««» Williclmo Rorciibcrgiojy<«w«
lehamusqitidiffe pottjfimum nobis propouere velit ex ftiu m^'ficrtus -^ & quid de [^iiccio ejfet Jla-
tHcndum , cjtiid de & operihw Pt:'ilo[ophicis j.'txta ejtis propoJitfUft, ($" (jttioL de errore
inpraEiica nuper faEiafit jiatuendum^ &c)tiidprxtereAnobisiar,i&pr£CtpHefic^afiendnm, ()•
ad Wilhhelmum vacanditm paratos , >:os ejfc luxta Dei bencp[acit^tn:^&c,
A I had let up KjVIenf/tm foederis^ with the appurtenances , and had let the Angelical Scone m
the frame oF Gold on the Table , oncly £. K, and I being in the goodly Ittrh Ciiappel next my
Ch amber, appointed to our ufcs.
A voice .^» I^it hint come.,thAt is t3 come.
A I went tor the Lord Rofenberg^ whom I t'ouad in his Oratory of the Church hearing ofMaffe:
And he came with me and ("at in his place.
E. K. I fee a great plain like unto a field , as though it were a ^jf»i
Mile over , in the end of it there is a great high rotten Tree , all
the grafle is as though it were withered and burned , there com-
''mcth a beam as of fire from Heaven , and lighteth upon the Tree,
now there commeth water out of the root of the Tree , as though
it were a Sea, and fpreadeth all the plain over : And the Tree open-
eth and there commeth a Man out of it, his hair hangeth down
unto his girdle ftead,his garment covereth him down from his fhoul-
ders, and hangeth behind him down upon the water.
The earth hath now drunk up all the water, and the Man ftan-
deth upon the dry ground.
All the place is full of green graffe about a cubit high.
Now the Man is out of light.
It feemed to be as beyond and without the Stone.
The Vifion is clean dif-appeared.
^ I expounded this Vilion in Latin to the Lord Rofenberg.
E. K. In the middeft of the Stone feemeth to ftand a little
round thing like a fpark of fire , and it increafeth , and ieemeth to
be as bigge as a Globe of 20 inches Diameter, or thereabout.
Vox .„..„ lVobeMntothemirld.^wobeHntotheiyorIdyaKdlVvrldltn^s : Wo he unto JOH So>ines
cf men,for joft are withered , and b.hold the field of the Lord bringeth yon not forth : Joh are de
filed, and bemg defiled, joh defile alfo the beauty of jour Se^t : A^d behold, behold, behold, (/ ,
,
fay,) you that are the King and Princes of the Earth tjed andknit together ttfonone flemme, you
are allrotten and barren , behold, yon brii^g forth no fruit • but even as the graffe that vnithereth^
he is a dif-glory to the place, even fe, are you that is graffe , ofyourfituatioH and drvclUng, f)r be-
hold, you have no leaves, mucblejfe fruit : m, xvo, wo, unto finch a generation , rrhich lacketh
ntoifiure, and thefire ef comfort : 7 hefi-imme that carrieth you is the Seat and hd) place, which
alfo is contaminated, tyfndlo, behold, (as it were) withered; tfhlmejfe be hidden whereupcn i^c us [annus
jmjtatid y how wicked are thofc thst are governed by you , how wid^^ "re youy and how abomina- cjtr.mi/iatuu'
44^ ^^^^^ r^t^tion ofDr. Dee bis AUions^ mtb^irits^SLC,
hie : hevf fuli of corruption are joh that fiand vnithout all beauty^ moi^itrc, or comfort : The
time fhallcomt rA/tr f/>f ^lowfr 4»(imiiih: of God which here fpeaktthamongft you, in che fire and
fpinc ot his hply truth fhall came down from ahove^ from Heaven^ from the Seat of comfort , from
the evtrUfliKgThrone^ aidjhailftilldowfiy not into p», nor atnongft- yot*{fory»u fhafl l/e rooted
out, ) ^Ht into theftemme and into the root rrhich is the helj place, and the houfe of comfort : y^nd
l>ehold, the power of God, (of him that fpeakjth) (hall be mi^htj, firong , and of iiffirtirt porter:
So that likf a hf^oman rviih (^hild, (he \ha!lhrin^ forth in the Church of ^od, a man^ clothed with
« white ji;arment : which is JUSTICE uiii'potced , which rriay walk^with trifi^ite p$wer {and
m the Garment of holtveffe and beauty^') y.pon the abundance of graces-, and the waters bf comfort^
which Jhall flaw out of the holy Seat.
And behold, 6 you Sonnes of men- yon [kail be full of underflanding , and of the fpirit of tfif'
dome , and the grace of God , {*f him that fpeaketh with yon) [hall beplemtful andfirong amongjt
yoit : So that yoH [hall fpring, and beatit'fie the Earth and the Boufe of Chnjl : ^nd beheld, tht
h\"\\crhou<^hcs,and mighty branches jhall lofe their vcrtHe ^ and be cafl down, becattfe thej have
placed themfclves upon the outward rotten Stock^y to the di[honour of htm that hath called them:
and there \hAllno more firength or i/ert»e be amongfl you : b:it you fhall be fubjeH to verity, and be
^uando Hie- ctmrouhd with an iron rod, by him that came out , and walked on the waters : Then^all be peace
rufalendef- andrefi'. Then (hall HierufAlem defcend.
eeadet.
^ j^ Now is all dif-appearcd away oiu of fight.
A I lead thi touner parcv:! in Latmc to the Lord '\njenberg-
A Paufe.
A Tu jiiHusc? Dxjminc, & Judicia tui vcr3,tuomnipotens6 Deus nolier, Jcbrachiotuo nuUus
rcfiitercp >ceft. Vcm,6 DominC)& confolare nos veiitate & JuHitia.
£. K. Now he is returned again in the form he went away in.
A red croffe commeth over it, pure red, fo yellowi(h.
A Paui'c.
^dizinnitrc- So that the Name of the God ot RighteoufncfTe , and of his Sonne Chrift fliallbe magnified in
jemijii) >n
tj^„e: § And h, behold, bf my fetf, I[wear that after a few Moncths the umz expired; I will
/inglix iutuYt.
j^^if^^ ^^^ breaks the half placcy fo that there Oiall be no abomination in it.
,j^^'j_
§ And behold, the ends of the tVorldfhall be opened-, and all peophfh-tUrejoyce in the Crtfft and
Tiui mnv.di Name of the Lamb.
de-rtinuuy. § But [irfl commeth terronr to all fiations. § Wo^ wo, the/efore be unto jou, o yoit Kings and
TerriiiiitpyiM. Princes of the Earth \ he that hath eares let him hear.
Andlo, behold -y
this day lam defcended, and my prontife is upon him that hetreth M'
aimngfi you.
,
,.. Let him mitigate therefore fhe fragility of humane reafon-, and give me a dwelling place by
r'sbaz
faith: far f willthisdaymak.e a ^avenant with him , ft that my Name and Spirit fhall not de-
part from his Houfe.
Xofenberz (hall
e^"'' w^''' ^ ^^^'^^ promtfed him I am, and I will bring to pajfe : what it he-, or who is he that
fjilj. laughrth me to fcoin , that {if he repent not) receivtth not his reward ?
And moreover, I will appea r to him hereafter, and he fhallbe partaker of the caleftial myfiery,
if my Name be exalted in him.
Andbeho'd-) he fhati often fall, but hefhall rife agaifs, andjhallperfcvtre untethiend.
E. K. It is dif-appeared.
A Legi ultimamhanc particulam Latine ipfi Principi Rofenbergio.
A Paufe. »
E. K. In lapidejietit fcriptitm. Afcer an hour.
A Wc removed not, butlat ItiUand difcourK'd partly upon the prcmiires, and partly of Englanis
mifcry tocome.
K. K. There appcarcth a little white cloud , like the end of a
cloud , with a dark image of a face of three in one : fometimes ap-
pearing three, fometimes one.
The end of the white cloud doth wave up and down before the
,. , . face.
this Kingdom. Vox ex latere lapidis Thefefour Moneths, letVJ i\\i!Lm(for afmuch as i»himlyeth)abfiain
Of the firft, from Prage , for he [hall deceive thofe that are deceivers.
y>de ^4. 1 587 Two winds (hall arifefrom the Earth within thefe next yeares in this Kingdom ; /« the firfi let
AaitneKehm-
himfitfiill: In the fecond let him arm himfelfi and refifi wlhVi&ory,
Mm. 16,
t. il.
j^J^trnerelarm ofDt.Dec bis A&iem,n^ithfprits, Sec:' ^'47
bni. K' There appcareth a Wood,a great Wood on the left hand"
fey a River : There be two like Hawks, whereof one is white , and
the other is black : The one is on a bough in the water, that is the
yack, the other on a withered bough on the land.
L"''"A great Bear commeth out of the Wood. '"",
. ^^ .
.. ,,„ f.isp,mui.
Now he runneth toward them, he catcherhtheblack one in the*
water,and fwalloweth him, and ftandeih up upoa his '
hinder leg?
'
Now he goeth to the other, and fliakcrh him in his mouth, and Aan-
deth up on his hinder legs : and hath pulled off both his Wings, he
returneth into the Wood again , the body of the white lycth on*
the ground. Now he turneth his feet up.
Now he ftandeth on his legs again.
He followeth the Bear the fame way he went, he would lift up
hiinfelf as if he would fly, but he cannot.
All this Wood, Bear, and two Fowles are vanillied.
•- £. A; Below ftandeth a great Cafi:le,at the foot of the Hill on
which that Wood did ftand, down in a valley from the Hill goeth a
great high Bridge of Stone long (in fight) about ten Englifli miles
long.
Befide the entrance, on the right hand of that Caftle, is like a
piai, with motions coeleftial in it, of Sunnc and Moon.
Now commeth a Bear ,
(black as the other) a very 2;rca|?mon- .r r
ftrous Bear. The Bridge quaketh under him as he pafi'eth it toward ''w-
the Caftle he roareth, lookingtoward the Caftle. I^e fteppcth up to
the Dial, and taketh the Moon out of it, and tearcth it all in pieces
with his teeth. The Caftle falleth , and the bridge where he ftand-
eth is broken. The Caftle is all in ruine.
The Bear ftandeth upon the edge of the bridg,andbeholdeth the
ruine of the Caftle down into a pit as it were.
Now he goeth back and the biidg falleth down after him.
Now the Wood appearech again, and he goeth into the Wood.
Now that Vifion is all vaniihed away.
Vox .,.,., Totcfiy-fli l^ortlj fee^agaxnft wifac fione l^acci Ltth fpHrncd.
My Peace and bUffing he uwn Jo;'..
JE. K. Now all is gone away.
A Gloria, bus, honov, Benccii0.^io & Jubilacio fic Deo Patri, Deo filio, & Deo Spiritui lanilo :
ficut erac in piincipio , & nunc;& in fcmpicerna Ixculotumlscuia. <iAmen.
Spiritu principaji confirma nos Deus, Deus nolter confirmet nos Deus,Omnipo:ens, Scinpitcrns
vive & vere. ^me», Amen^ Amen-
(Jf-f £ M &'EiA N nil M.
Anno I 5 8(5. Oilobrh Die ^ ]> a meridie, pojt novas cum Fr. Puccio turhas & rixat ,
prop-
\e.r pecamas cjttascHptebat a mbis habere^ ex /ibera/ttate, & in tiomtae Dri, ctr t:zi(^iiam a fervtf
©« C^noaab Ed.vardoKlho ta^eju^.m nb Edwardo Kcll:o , «5X [ A ^- E. K j cn>?clnftMUS
(adfcandAl.\ntHlraevitarMquAiff;coatraKosfparferat& exco^itavertit ^ propter pecunias e'tis
80Q Florenorum, Dee cbUtas & redditas per tiitim, &prim recufatiu tjnando nos Hit folvere pa-
rati eramM,& 6 X o Dncatos ilU exhibHiwHi coram Deo, m inde acciperet ^uod fnum ejfe iudica^
bat.) Concl!*Jtmtts ini^ftamy (ctmbonafp^ , (jUidnonofcHdcremHs Deur^) ameillum^ coramte-
JiibHs-, expottere numerUTK^oc ¥loteno\um: &ft ftbi debetiaffereret .^
qvodrecipert pofet^fi vel-
let', fin vera negaret%oo Florenos, a>it aliqitam fibi ancbis deberi pecaaiam , Tuftc & idetiam
sorxm tefiibtis pronHMtatum volebamnSj tefiimovio, & chirogrttpha civjcripto natamfdcerc tempo-.
Hhm &{acts opportHftiis.
"
"^ '
^J^rue Relation of Dr. Dee his Aaions,witbfprits,^c.
"
tx Arcol-vimiis mtur ad Primatts Domum. , & coKVocMts aliquot Ctvibusfrimmis, Sacerdo-
tefedme, & aU^mt fcr>b,s Illnftru fHmmiPrtf,c,fis (D<7W*«i Rolenbergu) duos magno* faccos
Jcuniarum exrolluirr.us, & ex (ubi duo mill .a ducatorunn, & pr3:t-.ca pluves quam 4O0 Dolen numc-
rabaiKur lupra meiilam, 800 Fl ^icni : Et 'DtUmntMt Hit propofna {<j^odfupertHsa»mu-v>) pecnnias
Accipere cLenws crat , fed ,lle volmt [ubfcrtbne,[e accepijfc in nonnne Dei , & a noh^ tanc^uam
AfervisDei. Nos vero protefi^bamttr ms nutlo mode recipere t»ms, ut aD^o hoc »obts ejjctin-
iLanrndiccremHS, »t Hit illas proponeremw pecu»iai, velaccipicndas,velrecufA^.ias abtllo : Sed
tamnm ad evitrnd^i magna & multafcand^U cotitra nos, ill 'aw tbvdim bbcro commn-
tere arbitrto , Ht ill & dtcat ,
^nod dU videretur melim , & ilh ejjer gr Ac
cepit erjro pecumai, nytmeravtt, & indecfi coftfcyifttfm Chirogrpahum mam [cnbe fummt
fnntt}ts (Pauli Woltgi prAfenits cum diverfn uftibm, <jnt [na mmtna fubfcrtpferunt , Mtf/tpfo
Chtrographoapparepotefi. ,. t ww
t-
•
r c 'Deo aratia! a/ramus. Speramm emm^ melton nos jam qHtctefrtiimos : & ma-
t ranCllCUS
„,j ^r^^; i,l,g^g^ ^t e]M U^igna venenata &i»qttieta Dem tllum convertat : & tlli
Puccius. fit propittHs , Aique dixit mbn fe velie mnc mwifirtim facial^ fn* dtvinx Maje-
ftati Htilem in
4" frebone. oyinno 1587.
'Die 5 Jamarii ai. mane hor. 9.
A TcmpusbeneplicJu,etUempusopporcunum
Neceffltas Mon habet Legem.
A In nomine pauis & F.& SS.&c Pater nolier,&c. Omnipotcnsfempiterne vere & uneDeus in
^Amouxxmm C.E.K.UmzxJoaKKesDce^vata^d.^c.
ANocbvoruponprelumprion (O Lord) buc with tear and love toward thee we are ready to
hear thv will , as conceinino the 5Wand Ccmmandtmcnt , now at Vrage m this moneths be-
"innm^^ made to £. A'. Webelecvc and hope it«/o/;/;<r, and that thou wik not tempt us, or lutter
us to beVemptcd m lb wc.ghry a cale, And therefore being not perkaiy into, med in r^.y. ty.o ounces
of poivder E TC Knowedr not how to do/eeing at his return hither he miiTcth an half«u>ice thereof
whe^hec n'lali he ot the refidue make up that halt ounce wanting, or no ? we will or dare propound
to make agy compleat adion : but therein reterre all co our Parliament daycs, or principal ofdinary
aftionsaffigned.
tJ[{orainterpsfua,partehor£\.
E. K. Here appear Letters if I could read them , thus they arc.
.,..» Aliii!,'ta.& a me. . n it 1 J
E. K. They icem white Letters — of greemfli yellow coloured
figures, in every figure one of the four words,in all being 1 2 letters.
E. K, Now they be gone.
r . . •
A I undediand that the hrft part of that my Propcficion is touched m anfwer oi Mtht ,
that il,
to God, the fervicc required is to be done : and ita ^ * w^ , fo is the mcffage or commandment
from the fame our God.
A Mora intcrpoficahorar parte i.
j r r
E K. Now is here other writing, thus, Clanatte, clauj^junt.
. A I underhand not this well, if it mean no more to be taken out of the Powder,or what elfe.
Now appear over the former words, other words, as thus,
Ceffate
E. K. Over Clandite;is Cepte.thc other words 1 cannot read yet.
E. K. Over claitfa funt appeareth di'vtmm popofitnm fibi ad
hnc non conjiat. , a.
A <2u .Tigimrtibi funt, &ite, nobis funt acceptiffima.:& per tc,& propter te.ut nobis injunfta
faGiamuscuurajoDcuSjnobisparatiffimumpraebeasauxilium! „ i-.
•
. «r
Tibi Creator! Redcmpton, & Sandificatori noftro, fit omnis Laus, Honor, & Gioria ,
nunc «
icmpcr) Amtn.
Ad Omnipotmtis Trinitatis Laiidm, Honorem, &Gloriam.
^Kdyfieriornm Divinorum memorabilia mi dies
quartus Aprilis^ Anno 15 87, dicatafuit,
^
Trebom
Atrue delation of Dr. Dee /m Mionf, with Spirits, (3cc.
•
prtores ad
''Reichftem,
mi(fM.
'587- ACTIO TERTIA.
Trebona Cjeneralis,
A. ryOjl freces adVeuMy &,recitatim Catalogum ilium, petitioHutu nojlrarum ad emietH. ^prUu 4'
X quievimus divina expedantes confilia, monita,& oracula.
'
M^ne circa
8.
Magna paufa.
A tandem accept literas * iitraff, iUvfirifJimi Powim'Rofenbergiije^' recitavi coram * lUas cum
VeojUteJM obedientia, htintiUUftf & defiderium, coram Veo & Angela ejufdem conxeflata ejfent. I'^-^ff^jho-
Alia adhuc paufa, five Mora faCta, fed non lo7iga. nibtu^ilUs
E.K. There feemeth a black Curtain of Velvet, to be drawn from
one fide of the Stone to the other. The Curtain is full of plights.
There feemed alfo one to have defcended from above, (a good
way behinde the Curtain) and fo to go behinde the fame Curtain.
Alia paufa.
Vox Happy is he, whofe minde thirfietb after the kjtowledge of fvch things at are fpiri-
tual, and Celejlial, offtich things as are in the everlajiing place and glory of him that if, and tfMy
andjhallhe forever : for unto him helongetb reji in theharvefiof the Highefi, and comfort in
thenii.^ji of many worldly forrows. For unto him, thus faith the Lord, the Lord of Re(i, Thou
baji rendred my blood again, with comfort unto mt, and haji made a blood of eternal reji unto thy
felf for ever. Afcend therefore and dwell with me, and receive eternal comfort : for unto fuch
- behngeth the Kingdom of my Father ; for lam* Zebaoth unto aU fuch as truft in me. But be- * Reau'iei
bold, the earth hringeth not forth my mighty praife, becaufe of the wickfdnefs that aboundeth in all ceffatio fah-
mankjiide : Neither have I manji fuch children amongH the fans of men as I have jpok^n of be- batum-,&C'
fore ; for why ? Jhe Giants of this world are a jiumbling block, unto the poor people, and unto Sabbath.
their fubjeSs : forlo, behold, behold ! (I fay) vile and bafe things (for that they are mifufed)
are become gods within their houfes : fo that,Goldand Silver, precious Stones, and [oft Apparel,
jphich were wont to be brought out of their houfes to garnifh mine withaU, are become their gods,
and the Idols of their dejirudion: for, who is be that exalteth not himfelf in hit rtcbes, andde-
•fiifeth me that was the Author of them ? Where is he that loveth not his wife and children, pomp
and wo. Idly glory, more than the fetting in ordtr of my little fioch^, or the preferment of my
glory ? fyho (I fayJ is he, that maketh not more of himfelf than of me ? Woe be untoyou that
fo do : and woe be unto the generations that Jhall foUowyou.
^. Be merciflil unto uSj O God of Mercies.
O wretched and miferable mankind, look, look in and upon thy felf. Haft thou
made thy felf? or when thou art afflifted, canft thou remove thine own affliftion ? Haft
thou any thing of thy own, which my Father hath not given thee, through me, in one
"provident and eternal will? Canft thou hide thy felf where I cannot fee thee ? or canft
thou do that which lieth hid from me ? Look again upon thy felf, and confider what pa-
rents, and root thou hadft thy beginning in Nature : behold, they and their fathers are
become the duft of the earth ; even fo fhalt thou do. And even as of them is a ftraight
account of life required, even fofhallit beof thee : for, I that made thee, and gave thee
fcreflt/b, made thee partaker and ufer of my creatures, led thee in and out, gave thee the
Sun to Ihine upon thee, and the Moon as the mother of your radical moijlure. I that lifted
thee up, either to the honour of a King, or Magiftrate, and made thee agovernour over
thy brethren, will at laft take a ftraight account of thee, how thou haft ufed thy felf to-
vrards me, and where thou haft advanced my Name in fuch things as I have lent thee :
'And be right fure, that thou (halt pay, even the uttermoft farthing. Woe be unto thee,
if thou make not a juft account ; miferable (halt thou be forever, if thy deferts condemn
'
thee. Therefore while thou haft time and fpace,look, look up unto me ; for I am the Well
»f comfort, and the God of peace ; the true reward of rightcoufnefs toall (uch as faithfiiUy
lovl and truft me.
ranfa.
A. I read this over Oh how comfortable are thefe leflbns ! Give us and confirm
unto us thy graces andblelTingSjO God, to do thy bleffed will herein, and in all our duty
toTfardthec whatfoever.
^ Aaa E.K..
% A true ' [{elation of Dr. Dee h'u Alhons^ vpith Spirits^ (Sec.
E.K. Now the voice feemeth to come from him who flandeth be-
hiiidc the Curtain.
Magna. Vattfa.
WiViam the fon of Vrfwe, the Lord talkerh with thee this clay, faying, Wilt tliou that
I buy a Kingdom for tiiee with gold or lilver ? Wilt thou that the Kings and Princes of
the earth Ihall laugh the Almighty God of the heaven and earth to fcorn ?
Have I at any time preferred (tuch as trult in me) to the government of my pcoplej by
giving them the excrements of the earth?
Lotik down upon my ferv'ant Abraham.
Look down upon his children.
Call to remembrance my fervant David.
Set Soljmon before thy eyes.
The Kingb^ and Princes of Judab and of Jerusalem,
Conlldcrwich ihy felf the emailing of the twelve : The government and ftate of fuch
as have been Princes ainongfi the flock Chriltiau.
Havethey been hired or promoted t Have tky been lifted v.f hy me ftith f^old or filver,
cr fuch [ikf trumpery^ :be Monjiers of xheeurth ? In neccflicy, to pay Tribute the fifh miui-
ftred, vvlierewithail Tribute might be paid according to cuilom.
In the calling of ^ir<i/.'rfw, multiplication of feed was promifed j which ^was to be a
nuilticu lein people, mighty and great upon the face of the earJi.
David vwb b. o ight in (ihe lealt of his brethrer.) even to be King of Ifraely not by the
niuLiaide of precious ftones, gold or lilver. A Sling he haJ, a Satchel with a few ftones.
SoLvt n was commanded lo build me a Temple, without any fum or ftint. The Apoftles
.went from place lO place, intending to teach ; neuher earned they gold or lilver, but
oiicly a Itripor bag prepared for their common viftualsand nounftiment.
Many Princes and Kings have puLlilhcd my Name, without any promife made unto
them troii; heaven.
NoLwiiliftandiiig, unto^<!r<ii&<r7« I have plenty, as his necellities required: and unto
hischluiv; , a-i ua^. iiinuej.
Uiuo Duvid, being Kuig, riches followed his State : and unto his fon Solomon, plenty
bo li at lioiuear.dabioaJ, to Luild my Temple.
Unio the Apoides I gave (in the time of the calling of piy people) the fpirit of under-
fiar.uiir, whereby they uiiuei Hood and had power to teach : And untoluth aslhetched
out Liicir iiaiiJs for my name, I have abundantly givenj and it hath been faithfully,aud
for the love of me taken in hand.
jB lievc Jhereiore with Abrahant^zmivilth his children.
Bung thy ling and bag before the people of the Lord againft Goliah.
Endeavor thy lelf with Solonten, to build a Common-wealth, wherein I will be exalt*
ed, as the icrvant of the Son of God, and as his follower.
Go forward, as thy own power and ability Ihall ferve thee : For thus faith the Lord
of Hofts
:
Thou haft nothing but what thou haft received of me : neither thou, neither thy
father.
Provide therefore, of that thou haft, which is mine : that is to fay, of that which thy
power can txtenaunto, in thine own faculty and liches, to fhcw thy goodwill and ready
endeavours in fuch things to be brought to pafs, as thou haft IcaineU of me : That is to
fiiy, Neglefl: not the time of this thy vilitation, neither delpife this Kingdom wherein
thou fti.ilt reign, for in fodoing I uwell with tiiee for ever, and with thy pofterity which
fhall be(in me) mighty, j When thou art entred into it, whatfoever Ireafure ihere is in
viy bo' fe^ :.r ammgiiyouy Take it, ufe it.
The ufe of Make thee a Iwordof it with two edges, that with the one thou maift cut off the ba-
the Powder, ftaids head, and with the other build up the Monuments and the houles of cleanlinefs,
„ ., codlinels, andunderftanding : That the Eaft ai;ain may flounfh, and that I may make
K> um ovt/c- TIC \ c 1 I, '
Tu o ent Hoc , from the Sun-riling to his "oini: down.
the half well ) ^" "^'^^ mean fealon, ftiall the Powder which thou haft tobemultiplied,tf fxtf«(/f<f,<«ii
IV. R. hath IS (^
multiplied with them tbtt are fctfrt- prcp«f,that it may be apt for thy ufcs,and the ftrength-
to be mulci- x^nins; of thy faith.
plied. { The one half of it thou flialt keep, as the perpetual remembrance of me, even thou
Cacfarired- ^and thy pofterity.
funt Caefi- J Unto him that is thy head, do thy true obedience : although hit heart be burdued *-
• '•f. (gaittjt thee, and thirjhth after thy deJiruSien.
TheL.So^- )
t"^ j\i a. f^*"" behold, thy enemy that feeketh to devour thy Soul, ccafeth not to lay mts for tket,
iiiaUcr
° *
^^''^ *'"'*" '""''^ beetme odious t« common pofle. But the time (hall Ihortly come, when thou
flialc
A tru9%elcition of Dr. Dee his JBions, mth Spirits, 6cc.
Aith. Now in the place of thofe fquarc marks, I fee two Lions,
tha one very cxaiTtly, and gaping. About the upper brim of the Stone
they appear : and the Lions feet be waxen greater and greater.
I fee another man from the brcaft upward. 1 can fee no hair on his
head.
I fee a great company of {cn^ and their garments skirts fomewhat
above their ankles : and they are like womens kirtles wich gards about
them.
I fee another man without a doublet, in hi -
fhirt, and with a white
Cloke about him, hanging his hands down by his fides.
A. NoUiing elie efteemed or judged to be ftiewu in the Stone, by the Childe, wecea-
fed that Excrcile, and committed all to Gods mercies.
A. On't'iurfday and Friday^ I determined each of them two dayes that the Childe Afrilii i^.
fhall thrice in the day be put to the Exercife, and each time repeat the Prayer prefcnbed
thrice.
A. In the forenoon I brought the Childe to the Exercife, and he faid as followeth. I.
I fee two men with Crowns of gold upon their heads : their appa-
rel is black and white. I cannot fee their feet. Their taces are white,
their eyes ar^ black like fpots of ink.
There appear now two other, without Crowns : of the which one
jftandeth whole before, and of the other I fee nothing but the head,
which ftandeth behinde the firft. - .
I fee not any with Crowns now. The apparel of him is white
that I fee.
I fee no hands of him. I fee nothing now.
The fsnares and pricks appear again as yefterday.
And I doubted it was fomethuig of the Glafs it f«lf: as there were in it certain
white fpots.
An hour we were at the praftife.
A. The fecond Exercife before Dinner. After the Prayer thrice faid, &C. JL
Arth. I fee the fii ft fquare lines and pricks, white and black : the
pricks for the moft part be all white, but fome are black, and the lines
all white.
I faw, even now, fome of thofe fquares made Lions : but now there
appear none.
The fquares are now turned alfo into other fhapes, which I cannot
well declare.
Now the Letters be gone, and the fquares do appear again.
The fquares are 'gone, and a word is there.
The letters are clearer then they were : for all the lines and letters
do appear white.
There appeareth a B, with a fquare, with four black pricks in it.
It is gone.
Now fome of the fquares are come amongft the letters B D O.
Under the B appeareth a little e thus a backward.
The
6 Atrue ^Retatlon of Dr. Dee his Actions^ with Spirits, d^c.
The letters as if one had cut them in the glafs B D O
Here appeareth a Caftle with little pinacles like a Church.
Now It is s;one.
B a this appeared and fuddenly is gone.
Now there appeareth a young man with a white doublet, and his
arms by his fide, and a B before him againft his doublet. He hath a
black br'ard and a white face. I fee no hair on his head : his beard
is a li'-tJe
He is now changed : he hath on his doublet breaft, on each fide
three black lines.
He is gone, and another is come in his place, with a white leather
doub'cr, and a grey cloke like Han'^ of Glc^ats his cloke. He i^ gone.
The fii ft young man is come again, and hath now on the one fide
of his doublet ~ on the other fide, thus :
Now I fee only two ftrokes overthwart all the doublet^but he hath
no head that I lee.
Either his h°ad is come again, or dCe another man, that hath two
lines and two p i:ks a^ he had.
The jis^ht of the candle did feem to ihine fuddenly on his face, and
po away again. It did nqt fhine on his doublet, but onely on his
face and his head.
There is now another mnn come in,who holdetb up both his hands:
the upper part of his fleeves are whice,and the half towards his hands
black.
The fi fi: man i^ here fiill. Now he hath no arms.but a B before his
doub'er. but no lines, but only on each fide two pricks in ftead of the
lii.cs, rhu : :
Thefe men came amongft the fquares fuddenly before I was aware.
Here ; ppear not fo many as were here.
Here r? now but fix fquares, and one man. I fee no farther of
the man but to rhe wafte of his doublet.
The man appeareth notfo biim to my fight as he did, his head is
no bigger than the mark in the margent.
in. The third Exercjfe after Dinner.
Arth. Whereas I fiid before there was fome of the fquare figures
wanting : Now I finde that they are all here again, as many as they
were at my firfl: feeing.
In lifting up the Stone, and bringing it doyvn again, the fquares do .
all feem like B B of the Roman letters.
A. Mi^na mora. •
Arth. I (ee now B A. It is now vanifhed away, after three Pater
nofter times faying. R a appeareth, but I cannot fee clearly the foot
of the R. Now it is gone
Xo I fee a thing all white in this form, and a little o before it. It
would
A true "Relation of Dr. Dec his AUions^ mth Spirits, ^c. 5
(halt have jufticeagaiiift him. See therefore that thoiifmite; fee, I fay again, that thou Juflre *-
fniite him, for JulHce is the hand of the Higheft punifhing fiich as offend, either againft^^^y? fonlt.
him or his Innocent. /»/? c'^.
Thcfe that now come unto thee, have brought thee a great Clufter of grapes, even as 'i h; lord
big as they can both carry : aniongft the which, nocvvithfranding there are many rotten. Czorck
But behold, the foolilhncfs from above fhall appear uii'dom before them, when their *^'^'^'^"'^''^''S'
wifdom (hall become foolifhiiefs before me, and before themfelves. ^ He aliu-
Round about thee thou Ihalt receive alliJbnce , and many hearts (hall be made "lad
'^"^ ^"- ^'^^
in thee. "
TT^Va
As for my Treafures to be opened. To hmi that defileth my Seat, and the Sword of fo°. the chil-
Jmbce. drenol Ilrad
To him that harboureth abomination in his own houfes, and Ii(tneth unto wicked To the quc-
cbunfel. (tion of
Unto him which, hath defpifed me, which is accurfed of me, (hall none of my Trea- Branden-
fures be opened. b rgh fend-
I have judged him, and it (hall appear (hortly. i^g to.
That which is C<pn give \ix\to Cdcfar j and chat which is mine, unto the Houfe of my ^-(P-^^dft
onour. Anuutoi:-
Be obedient (as the fervant of God) unto thy Superiours : and whileft thou niaift, di-
"^'^^'*"* I"'
ligentiy do Jultice. Thy Country (hall receive fuch remembrance of thee, as (hall never r*^'- "^
be rafed from the face of the earth: until the fire come downfrem heaven consuming all things,
^uhjsye^ali-
Be fuir of, hiunility, and abandon pride. ^,^'^ n^
^ ,^,"
Bow down thine ears nnco the poor. ^, portia.
Be often forry forthy dayesmii-fpenr.
Hoi
Be (trong for ever in me.
A-
Vdufa.
But behold, I am even he, the Lord o(Ja»emy
Wife.
Ke!eo£gro;o
Our mutual
participadiig
one with
another.
Thy wife is even at the door of ficknefs
health.
E.K.
As unto thee, Barrennefs dwelleth with thee, becaufe thoudidft negleft mc, and take Ed K- uxor
a wife unto thy felf * contrary unto my commandment : for neither young nor old,rich fierilisiUl
nor poor, are refpefted wich me •, but what I will have done, is juft, and whofoever doth erat-
it not, is privily (if he be not openly) punilhed for his offence. Therefore thou (halt t At y^/<jrr-
ha ve the womb which thou had barren^ ana fruitleji unto thee, becaufe thou haft tranfgre(red ^•^kfi^'S 85.
that which I commanded thee.
Be it unto thy brother, as his fervice, truft, and confidence hath been in me, and to- DeThoma
wards me.
Lay your hands to work, and your bodies unto labour, and participate c»e with an-
cthtry as IS commanded yoa.
That the blelTing which I have promifcd you may go forward in you i and that your(
labour may bring forth good fruic.
The fourteenth day hence (hall this Aftion end : I« which day you JhaU once again af- jg yipnlh
femble your fcivei here together. And now behold I fay unto thee, unto thee, that li^A futuradie
thy eyes opened, and thy ears made perfeft, which ha]i been exalted by tb$ fight of the Saturm.
heavens, why doll thou call upon me, dcliring to tf wade free. £.ir.toldme
Is It a burthen unto thee to be comforted from above ? O fooli(hman ! by how much t^ar he had
the heavens excel the earth, by fo much doth the gift that is given thee from above, ex- ^'1 ^)\° Lent
eel all earthly trcafure. Notwich(tanding, becaufe that Manna is loathfom unto thee, P'^**'' once a
behold what is faid unto thee this day.
leaft^tV t he
7hou art wade free ; neither (halt thou any time hereafter be conjirained to fee the judgment ^j_^j
*
ef the higheli, or to hear the voices of the heavens. ^ore ^^^^
But thou art a ftunibling-block unto many. dealing to
Notwithftanding, my Spirit (hall dwell with thee ; and in the works of thy hands thou skfy.
fiialt receive comfort.
And the power which is ^ivf« thee of feeing, (hall be dimini{hed in thee, and (hall Arthur I)<e
dwell upon the firil-begotten Son of him that ftteth by thee, a< I have * before faid. .•. Prague
In the mean feafon (hall he be exercifed here before me, until the time come, that his <»««.i58j.
eyei (hall be opened, and his ears receive fajfage towards the higheli.
And thele fourteen dayes lliall it be a time unto thee of chufing or refuling.
For [will not caft thee away, neither out of my houfe, unlefi it belong of thy own igno- Un\ctR,&f»
ranee, and wilf'd d^ffifmg of my great benefit.
If thou therefore be weary of it, the fourteenth day hence, bring hither, and lay be-
fore me I he Powder which thou haft, for thou haft offended me. Of- 1 falfc Jieward, in takjng j^e PewdeT
put of that w'eich it not thine ^W/i.
* A a a 2 I will
^ Atrue 'Relation of Dr. Dee his JBtoru, ivith Spirits^ 6cc.
.i>. . I —— ^.— .1. ,.— - - I.. — .
-III.. ..I —.. , . 1 11. .iiiii n «»
I will no longer dally with you, but will give unto you according unto your works.
A. O God be merciful unto us, and deal not with us according to the wickednefs,
frowarduefs, and blindnefs of our hearts. Amen.
Oratio fro
ylrthftro
cjU4 in exer-
citilsfti^suti
debet mjfl'f
CIS'
NOTE.
A. T "fPon this former part of the Third Aftion General, where my firft begotten Son
\_J[ (namely Anfrr) was alTigned to the Miniftry of feeing and hearing, in place and"
ttead of E.K. if he would utterly refvfe the ^ame office (hitherto by him executed, and by
him to be executed, uucil the fcven aftions general finiftied) And that the fame Childe
and Son, in the mean fpuce (that is to fay, between the day of the part of Aftion recei-
ved, and the end of the fame: determined to be fourteen day es after) fhould be exercifed
before GoJ. I thereupon thinking that E. JC. woidd, ftiould, or belt could inftruft and
dirfeft the Childe in that exercife, did alwayes await, that E.K. would of himfelf call the
Boy CO that Exercife with him ; and fomuch the rather, becaufe hefaid, that he was very
ghd now that he p'mhlkave a Witnefs of the thivgs jhewed and dtclaredhy ^iritual Creatures:
And that he would be more wdling to Jo what ihould be fo enjoyned to him to do, then
if oncly he himfelf did fee, and that for divers caufes. But when E. K. faid to pie, that
I ihould exercife the Childe and not he, and that he would not, I thereupon appointed
with my felf to bring the Childe to the place, and to offer him, andprefent him to the
fervice of Seeing and Skrying from God, and by Gods aifignment, and of the time ©f
fourteen daycs yet remaining, being the 15, 16, 17 dayes of April, and next before the
iS day, (the day alFigned to end the Aftion in) to have the Childe exercifed in them. And
thereupon contrived for the Childe ciiis order of Prayer enfuiitg.
T)ie Mercuriifummo mane die Aprilis 15. anno 1587. T^rebona,
In the Name of God the Father, of God the Son, and of God the Holy
Ghoft. Amen.
Glory be to God the Father, God the Son, and God theHoly Ghoft;
As it was in the beginning, isnow, andever ftaJlbe, world without
end. Amen.
O Almighty andEverlajiing, the true and living Ged, have ntersy, pity and compafion m my
futkcr John Dee, and on me Arthur Dee; who being now called hither by thy afftgnment,
amnowkerefrefntandr^adym all humility, obedience and faithfulnefi, to ferve thy Divine
Miiieity, with aL t^'e gifts and graces which thou baji hitherto endued me with ; and with all'othef
which of thy rnofi h^'imi'ifvl and fatherly mercy, thou wilt henceforward hejlow upon me. Lighten
(therefore) Al,nighty God^ mine eyes, and open thou mine ears ; ^icken, InfiruU and Con-
firm in yae, and unto me, my difcretion^ judgement, undtrjiand/ng, memory, and utterance, that
I rytay he a true and fir fee: Seer, Hearer, heclanr and Wiinefi of fuch things which either im-
mediately of thy T) IV im Ma]e!iy, or mediately by the ministry of thy holy, mighty, and faithful
Angels pall be manifelhd, 'declared or Jhewedunto me, now, and at all times and occaftons, for
the advancing of thy Fraife, Honour and Glory. Amen.
Hereupon, ^fiw/H/«j morning, (the 15 of this ^pri/) I brought the Childe to the
holy Table, being in order of the furniture thereto belonging, and fet before him the
Stone in the frame, (my firft fanftified Stone) and caafed him on his knees, to fay the
forefaid Prayer. And I alfo piaid to the Childs hearing, other Prayers to God for the
purpofe ill hand : and at his coming to look and fee in the Stone,
There appeared to him (as he judged) divers little fquare figures, with pricks, and di-
vtrs other figures and lines, which I caufed him with his own hand to imitate upon a pa-
per with pen and ink.
The hues were white, and fome of the pricks alfo, but other of the pricks were black,
as of ink.
Arth. Two old men with black beards, and with golden Crowns
upon their heads, do appear. One is now gone : this holdeth hrs
hands before him like a Maid.
Arth.
A trtte^R^ation cf Dr. Dee his Actions^ Mtth Spirits^ &c.
would Teem to bs as an X and an o. In is vani/hed away.
e B An EngliHi licrlc c, and a Pvoman great B.
It is gone before I can be aware.
SB now appcareth. B by himfelf: it appcareth followins; S B
thus SB B.
N appcareth by the laft B, in order following, thus SB B N.
I can fee no more now but the S B the B and N.
f B appear. c B is here now. B by himfelf, with two great
white pricks before it, appear. The pricks wax dim.
The man flandeth amongil: the fquares and letters in the midft of
them. .] This now appeareth. The 4 little pricks be gone.
There appeareth like a B and a d joyning to it.
A circle appeared with a black prick in it-and two white pricks af-
ter. An n, two ftrikes, and two white pricks after. The n is white
and the p: ick within the n black. ua appeared, and quickly went
away. Two long ftrikes by themfelves, white. The two pricks
black, and the crooked line white. Four white pricks by themfelves.
Two black. Two long white ftrikes and a prick. A round circle
whitc,and a black p; ick in it. A white prick by it (^£\L A little prick
as it were blotted, and a ftroke by it all white. The crooked lines
white,and the pricks black. Two white pricks by themfelves. Two
long white ftrokes. lo Thefe both white.
Here appeareth the thing like the Caftlc, all white.
The pricks black, the Imes white. A little Englifh o by it felf.
Four white ftrokes. The man is here in the midft of the things, as
beiore I told. Four white pricks.
Note : All the (hews are within the uppermoft quarter ofthe
ftone, as where A with the prick.
Like a figure of 2 all white. Two little black pricks,, and the
ftroke white. They are now gone. D o appeareth all white.
X o appeareth all white. B e appeareth white. Two o's joyned
like a figure of 8 all white. A great Roman white S by it felf.
B Bu Thcfe appear white. A white prick by it felf. An Englifh
little t white. Two lines white.
Mora magna. So we ended.
A. God enrich us with his Truths.
The end of Jhurfdajs third Eicercife.
o
Friday Morning.
I.
The Prayers on both parts being faid.
Arth. I fee not the fquares, lines, pricks, and thofc other thingi
which I was wont to fee firft.
Mora, hors vnim.
Aftar
- -
. - ,._ , .
- ' - .
'
^
8 Atrue Illation of Dr. Dee his JBiom, mth Spirits^ (5cc.
After I had tarried an hour, and had had no evident fhew : as I asked the boy dili-
gently again, he faid that he had from the beginning feen thus _
h b
Alio there appeared X o all white. Do the o joyneth to the D.
Fiat voluntas Dei in fiialuce & veritttte, ad e]uf nominis laudew, bomrem;gloriar». Amen.
Friday. T I.
Treces •
Mora hort unius Jpatio.
Nulla ojlenfto toto illo tempore.
/i. Bemdiaio, viifericordia & Pax, Dei, & Domini noftri Jefu Christ, fit fuper ncs^ &
nobifcum : nunc & in fempiterna fdCulorum fxCula. Amen.
Friday 3. a meridie.
Mora Magna.
Mult£ faB£ preces erant, & invitati illi fideles Dei fervi quia tXiaru auxilia fua polliceban-
tur mcejjttatiqttocumque tempore. Etfi mora magna & admiranda ; & apparitio nulU
faCfa eft puero ipfu
Thurfday a A- tandem mirabili forUina^ five fato divim acceffft ad ms Dominus E.K- & qtu feque-
n.eriU.'e ch- batttur notavi.
„ , , r . t- 1 1 . •
r^ 3. A. He fare down by tis : and Arthur yet ftanding before me at the Table, bemg co-
vered after the beft manner, but onely the Stone being fet thereon j He asked ifany thing
appeared: We anfwered No, albeit I have called oftentimes, and have prayed carneftly
that forae of our former accounted friends might ftiew themfelves to the boy, as Madi^
mi, II, Is, and chiefly Vriel, bccaxife as he WM firji -which appeared to the ]oyning of E.K.
Vr'el. and me together : fo he might be alfo the Direftor in the tranflating of E. K. hit office to Ar-
thur. Then faid he, I marvel if you had no apparition here : for Ifomewhat thinking
oi Arthur ^nd his proceeding in thefeat of skrying,came here into thegallery,andlheard
you pray : and opening the window, I looked out, and I faw a great mmiber going in
and out of this Chappel at the little hole in the glafs window. I faw Madimi, II, and
many other that had dealed with us heretofore,but fhewed themfelves in very filthy order;
and Vriel appeared, and ']ujUfied all to be of God, and good : And therefore I wonder if
here you have no (hew : perhaps there is fomewhat, but Arthur feeth it not.
A. True it is : and how fliouldl help him herein, feeing I cannot yet fee or skry >
E. K. I will come and fee if there be any thing.
A. I pray you do. [Note: and fo E. if. looked towards the ftone, and he by and
by faid. Here appeareth fomewhat, and pointed to ^rt^;/r, where : and asked him if he
faw any thing, and he faid No. Then faid
E.K. I lee like a white Marble fquare table or book lying on a
wooden desk..
A. I pray you Sir take the pains to look and difcern what is here fhewed.
E.K. I fee written upon that book,
Beata, qu£ perpeccatitm viihi, domum corruentem & hominibus integram reddit.
E.K. Now a leaf of that book is turned open, and there is writ-
ten on it, but I cannot rcade it yet. Now I fee it.
Egofum qui dedi 6" daturuf fum vobit legem : ex qua mortalibm perpetua requies &
jelicitas fit ventura.
E.K. Now another leaf is turned over, and appeareth written,
Eftote ergo tales, quales me meofque decet, & rati coram vie ambulate.
E.K. Now turneth over the leaf of it felf.
Ne populus efuriens & fitiens, negligentia ^ obftinatia veftra vel mat vel faltem.
E.K. Now the leaf turneth.
Fro tempore, alimento careat.
E.K. Now the desk and book or table is gone.
A. Note : By and by after, while E.K. did look into the Itone, he faid,
E.K. 1 fee a hand appear, a very great one, white, with the fingers
Ipred abroad. E-K.
A true 'delation of Dr. Dee his JBions, mth Spirits, &c. p
E. K. The hand is gone, but there remaineth writing.
Videbitis & aiidietif hrevi omnes. Si interim.
E. K. It is as if it were upon the fide of a white Globe afar off. Sight and
The Globe turneth fo fwiftly that I cannot well read it.
\"mifcd.
Aniyni ad weliora compoti.
E. K. The Globe turneth fo fwiftly that. I cannot read it till it
ftand ftill.
Sefe wibi & nieit.
E. K. Now again the Globe is turned moft fwiftly.
(^YiUorum more) fubjicient. Si vera (per nieipfum loquor & jure) alieni & vagabundi
aim vobifntet ipfn difimperitis non oculo , fed corpcri, immo omnibuf membris , cafiu &
ruina paratur. §uales enim in futuro eritis^ vobit ux fcivetit nuUo modo licet : Majors
enim a fnperifntortalibus, pr£ foribm funt , quotidieque infi ant guamvelprima , vel fe-
ciindo etatit modulo fueruiit. ^i aures, erigat •. Cui inteUeBus^fapiat. Omnta. peccata
apud me poftpont'.ntur huic. infaniens propter meyfapiat ; Immo ndulteriza'm propter me^
in fempiternum benedicetur^& premio afficietur celejii.
E. K. Now the Globe is gone.
A. Gloria Fatri & Filio & Sfiritui fando i
erat in primipio & nunc ^ &femper & in fecula
feculorum. Amen.
So we left off.
zABionis Tertia altera pars, 1587-
* Saturday
,,,,_, AprilisiS.
Ttecei ad Deum Omnipotentem , profua. veritatenthit impartiema^ ad mmmu]uo UU'
demjbonorem & gloriam.
A. Note ^rtfewr was fet to the ftone, but nothing appeared ; E.K. had brought the
powder with him as he was bidden to do. Then I defircd him to apply himfclf to fte as
he was wont. And fo he did.
E. K. Here appear all in the ftone that appeared yefterday unto
me in the air in that moft diforderly and filthy manner. They are in
the like apparel as yefierday.
A. O God confirm us in thy truth for thine own honour and glory, andfufferusnotto
be overcome with any temptation, but deliver us from all evil now and ever.
E. K. There appeared Madimi, II. and the reft : And fo they
are here •, but now all the reft are gone , and onely Madimi remain-
eth.
Madimi openeth all her apparel,and her felf all naked^ and fiieweth
her fiiame alfo.
E. K. Fie on thee, Devil avoid hence with this filthinefs,&c.
Mad. Inthe Name of God^why finde you fault vitb mee ?
A. Becaufeyouryefterdayes doings, and words are provocations to fin, and unmeet for
any godly creature to ufc.
Mad. JVkat is fin ?
A. To break the Commandement of God.
Mad. Set that down, fo.
Mad. If the felf-fame God give you a new Commandement takjng away the former form
cf fin which he limited by the Law; What remaineth then?
A. If by the felf-fame God thdt gzsctht'L^vi to Mofes ^ and gave his New Covenant by
Chrift, who fealed it by his bloody and had his witnefTes very many, and his Apoftles in-
ftruaed by his hcly Spirit , who admoniftied us of all cleanncfs in words and works, yea
and in thoughts, if by the fame God, hofe former Laws and DoQrinti be abrogated^znd that
* B b b fufficient,
lo A true 'Relation of Dr. Dee Im AUtons, mth Spirits^ 6c c.
Jiirtic;eiii: {"lifficiciu proof and tejitMcny may be had that it u the fame God : Then nniit the fame God
piontand be obeyed : For only God is the Lord of Lords, King of Kmgs, and Governour of all
tefiimony
to be had
hctein.
E K She knccleth , and holdeth up her hands.
Mad. Ihe Laws < God, and of h'uSon Chriji, \Ulliil.-ed by the tejiimony of his Vifciples and
A.Aptivi- Ci.ngrtgax'ion , and^y the force and fewer of hit holy Sfirit , are not in any particular voca-
ledgc grant- uon abrogated, but rather confirmed.
cdilothnoc p^y oftintimes it falleth out , that God being offended at the wick^ednefs of any man, or of fonts
abrogate a
^^^^ frivate, fendeth down his Sprit of Death, infeUing and temping another mans minde , fo
Law,tuc ^^^j. ^^ licomith void of Keafon, and rifeth up againji him, w'.'om God is offended with, and jiri-
dotn n*^"^' .^
^^(^ jy^yy,^ j-Q ^}j(H f,g dyeth. This, before man, is accounted fn .
before Cod tt (hall be imputed unto
the lawiii i: hiyn for righteoufnefs, Evenfo whatfoever the Spirit of God teacheth us from him , though it ap~
lelf other- par fin before man, is righteoufnefs before hm.
^,fe/ 'j'herefore affureyour felves , that whatfoever is. Ccen and heard amongft you, is from above,
» Arthur and is a fgn and tejiim.ny evenihisday before you; for Irhat touched thySon,^ might alfo have
v?as!m:ten taJ^'n (<yfay his breath.
in a 1 wound _j;„f o,yoiuare of little underjianding : But behold I teach you.
and EK. jIj^j ^„^to thofe that are acccounted righteous (through the good will of God) fin is
lawonein :^,j^jy. punifhsd, but not as unto the wicked. For whatfoever you have done unto other
a loriR white
jj^g^^^gyenthe felf-fame (hall light upon you , but happy is he that receiveth notjujitce through
^^T^"s *^'^ terror of malediCiion, but through the grace and mercy of God.
thouehhe The Apojile 'Pnu\ abounded in carnal lu^ : he wm alfo offenfive unto hit brethren fo that he
wouW imice defpaired, and was ready to have left his vocation,untill the Lord did fay imto him , My
him. He was vtercy and grace fufficeth thee.
very fick tor Beleeve me, that we are from above.
the time. JFhich conftdered : C.nfider alfo, 7hat Ofyiu cannot comprehend the heavens, fo Ukewife can
jud.ce. ygJ^ ^^t compre'iend the wifdome of God, which faith, I will be merciful unto whom I lift; and
S.fau/ k- ^nto whom Iwillnot,! have noneinftore : Foolifh is he tha.- askeih why ?
r ^"^H A - -^"^ behold I fay mto yuu,Stum[[e not againft God. Who he is that mad- y u?Who is he that
I
hath given you power to look-up towards heavejt ? lou are foAs ^ and of little underjianding:
The'wifdom This day faith Gi^d unt you,
of Gcd ot us B'holdyou are become free : Do that which ntojl pleafeth you ; Tor behold, your own reafon
n comprc- rifeth up againft my wifdome.
hcnfible. '^ot content you are tobeheires,' butyou would be Lords, yea Gcds, yea the J' dg,ers of the
heavens : Wherefore do even my u liji, hut ifyou forakj the way taught you frm ab ve, behold
evil Ihall enter into your fenfes,and abom'mic'ion fhal dwel before your eyes,as a recompence,
unto fich as you have done wrong unto : Andyour wives and cbildren,jhall be carried away before
yourface,
A. The Almighty God of heaven and earth be my comfort , as Idefire comfort in his
fervicei and give me wifdome as I defire it for his honour and glory. Amen.
_ ^, E.K.I fee a white pillar; and upon the pillar,! fee four heads.
TheChty- •
i i 11 J u •
u 1/1
fialirtc pillar Shee tieth the pillar round about with a lilt.
The four heads are like on tv/o heads, and on two Wolves heads.
Now there Cometh a thing like a white Crown of Chriftal, and
flandeth upon all our four heads. The heads feem to be inclofed by
the necks within the pillar.
Now flic taketh the pillar and goeth up with it.
Now fhe bringeth an half Moon down , and written in it as fol-
loweth.
Injujlum nihil quod ]ujium eft Dec.
Now flie goeth round about upon a thing like a Carpet ; fhe gocth
now beyond where is an Orchard; flie cutteth branches of two trees,
and fliee fecmeth to infert them,or grafFthem into another.
Now fhe goeth into a black place behinde the wood, and bringeth
a thing with her in a chain : An ugly thing like a Devil.
Mad Behold, feeft thou this : wherewithal! thou thoughteft to overthrew, and ntoft infeS,
thou art utterly overthrown, and (halt never return again.
E.K. Now he leapeth, and the ground openeth, and he Enketh in
:
and
A true delation of Dr. Dee hu Atlions, mth Spirits, ^d ti
and there lecmeth a Ttink of brimftone to come to my Nofe from
the pit.
Now the grafts are all grown in the tree, as If they were all of
one tree.
Now (he comctli out of that orchard. Now flic gocth round about
the orchard, and leavcth a darknefs like a cloud round about the or-
chard.
Mad VifMe xo God, hut invifible to wan.
E.K. Now flie cometh again upon her Carpet.
Beh'Jdyif you rcjif? not God, but flnit out Satan (jhrovgh unity afnongffyou) thus it it faid Unky.
unto you, Affewhk your felves together every feventh day, that your eyes 77: ay be opened, and An offer of
that you may inid(rjiand by hiw that fl.'all teach you, what the fecrcts of the holy books (deli- V"^^^ 7^^
vered you) are : That you may become full of undeiftaudiiig, aud in knowledge above "^
l° if
common men.
taught the
And in your works go forward, and detraft^no timCj that you may alfo have fruit, books^recei-
Unto Jrii;i<z»« I will be merciful forever, according to my promife. But I will buy vcd.
him no Kingdom, after the manner of man, with money. But what I have determined The' holy
unto him, ihall happen inito him : And he lliall become mighty in me. •
booksddi-
^ Arid this Powderwhich thou haft brought here, is appoinredfor a time by God, vercd.
and cannot be ufed until then, without offence. Happy is he that heareth my words Our works
this day : and happy is he that underftandeth them. - togoon.
But if you deny the Wifdome of the Highcft, and account us his MefrengerSjCrea-"l ^'^^
^^'''^
tures of darknefs. Jhis day you are made free.
'
j ^ojeriberg.
And look^ that y ,u lay uf all things that u ^oken of from above j and whatfoever hath^
The powder
been taught you, (at nfell the bookj *t inliruments.J > rr
Toujhall Jhortly have to do again with tbe cruelty of the Emperour, and the accurfed) Qmniarepv^
Bi(hop. ^lendo.
Whereunto, if you go forward with God, you JhaU be taught to anfwtr. If you leave ojf, Caefar &
gf foon M yiu hear of it be going into Germany, lejlyou ferijh before then. fapa ^revi
I have no more to fay untt you, but my fwiftnefi is from above. nos inf'fl*'
E.K. Now flic maketh her (d^ ready, &c. {^«^
'^'"""
Mad If my friendjhip liks you not, I befeech God fend you as good will, M I Qn foffer')
iear towards you.
I have not one word mere given me to j^ea}{.
E.K. Now flie is gone.
A. I was glad that an offer was made of being every feventh day to be taught the fe-
*
crets of the books already delivered unto us : Thinking that it was eafie for us to per-
form that unity which was required to be araongft us four ; underftanding all after th£
Chri.iian and godly fenfe. But E.K. who had yefterday feen and heard another meaning
of this unity required, utterly abhorred to have any dealing with them farther, and did
intend to accept at their hands the liberty of leaving off" to deal with them any more :
which his undcirtanding,as it was ftrange and unpleafant unto me,fo I earncftly requefte4
to be relblved therein in manner as followeth.
At the fame time and in the fame place this enfued.
NOTE.
A. Upon Mr. Kelly his great doubt bred unto me of Madinii her words yefterday, fpo-
kcn to hmi, that we two had our two wives in fnch fort, as we might ufe them in common^ it was
agreed by us, to move the queftion, whether the fenfe were of Carnal ufe (contrary to the
law of the Commandment) or of Spiritual love, and charitable care and unity of
niindes, for advancing the lervice of God.
E.K. Upon a Scroll, like the edge of a Carpet, is written,
» 'De utroq-^ loquor,
A. The one is exprefly againftthe Commandement of God : neither can I by any
means confent to like of that Doftrnic. And for my help in that verity, I do call down
the power of Almighty God, the Creator of heaven and earth, and all the good Angels,
(Tiis faithfiil Miniftcrs) to alfift me in the defence of my faithful obedienc* to the law of
theCofpel, and of his Church.
Agiji me, Cbriii. Jffiii me, Jefu. Jjjiji me, holy Spirit.
* Bbb 2 E.Kv
12 Atrue ^Relah on of Dr. Dee his JHions, mth Spiritsy 6: c.
E. K. it appeareth written upon a white Crucifix , as followcth,
M^^ gratia, major eil mandate. Gratia emrn hec meaeii. Jit. komi nil lis infa7iis c^ncedere-
tur beatitudo : Et que ita diCia funt, Vel fmt^velkodie libert.is I'obk re\Utintur. Amen
dico vobifj quia fi dicereyn homint; Eos, &fatrem Jifgula, &nonfaCeret^ filius ej\ f;c~
cati & murtis. Omni;"., eiiini, polIlL ilia 8i Hcita func fuperis. Neque magk cdioftt
funt pudenda iUk^ quam mortalium quorumcumque vultiis.
Ita enim fiet.ffurim cumfilioQquod magk abfurdum ejiyopdabitur. Et oriens cum occidente^
Meridies qiteque cum fepentrions coadunahuntur.
E. K. Now it is vaniflied,
A. Hereupon we were in great amazement and grief of mirnJe , that fo hardjand (as
it, } et fcenied unto me) fo impure a Doftrine, was popounded and enjoined unto us of
tliemjwhoml alvvayes (from the beginning hitherto) did JK^ge and ejleei7t, undoubtedly^ to
be good Angels : And had unto E K. offered my foiiliK a fawn, to difcharge E.K. his credit-
ing of them , as the good and faithful Minifters of Almighty God. But now, my heart
was fore afRifted upon many caufes : And E.K. had (as he thought) now, a juft andfuf-
ficient caufe, to forfake dealing with them any more. As his prayer to God of a long
time hath been(asinthe former part of this Aftion may appear.)
After our going out of the Chappeljand at our being at dinner, when we four (whofe
heads fo were united , in a pillar mewed, as is before {ec down , I found means to make
feme little declaration of our great grief fmine chiefly) now occafioned, eitherto try us,
or really tobeexecuteif, inthecomi^aon and indifferent ufing of Matrimonial Afts a-
? niongft any couple of us four : Which thing was ftrange to the women : And they hoped
of fdme more comfortable iffue of the caufe. .And fo we left off.
After Dinner, asE. if. was alone, there appeared unto him little creatures of a cubit
high : and they came to the Still where he had the fpirit of VV ine diftilling over out of
a Retorto : Andoneof them (whofe name they exprcfled Bf«) faid that it was in vain fo
to hope for the beft fpirit of the Wine : And ihewed him how to diftill it , and feparate
it better. And moreover how to get oyl of the fpirit of Wine, as it burned in the lamps:
And began to ask E.K. what Country-man he was? And when he had anfwered an
Englijh-man, he asked then, how he came hither ? he anfwered by Sea: Then faid he.
And who helped you to pafsthe marvellous great dangersof the Sea.Andfo took occalion
to fpeak of the benefits which God had hitherto done for us,very many.And this Ben./aid
than among very nwny other thing?(as Mr. E.X.told me on Saturday night after Supper
5c»wastbe holding on his talk almoft till two of the clock after midnight) 7hat he it wot that deliver-
dtliveier of ed iiim,er gave unto hk hands the pwder. And alfo he faid either than or the next day at
the powder the furthelt,that tinleafi he would be conformable to the will of God in this laft Aftion
to £.A'.at declared , that he would take thevertue and force of the fowder from it : That it Ihouldbe
the digging
unprofitable: Andthathejhotdd become a beggar.
in England,
^j^^j ^^ me alfo he faid that I did evil to require froof , or teftimony now , that this laft
le°ft co"d;
J^o^rine was from God Almighty,and faid that I ihould be led prifoner to Ronie,Scc.
tionally".
''
^^ to\do( England, and faid. That about July or November her Majefty fticuld from
QK£/.' heaven be deftroyed ; and that about the (iime time the King of 5^ciM ihould dye. And
K.fhi. ^hat this prefent Pope at his Mafs Ihould be deprived of life before two years to an end.
And that another (houldbe Pope, who fhould be Decimus quintiu of his
name ; And that he would begin to reform things, but that fhortly he (liould of the Car-
dinals be ftoned to death. And that after that there fhould be no Pope for fonie
years.
Englf.ud' Of England he faid. That after the death ofour dear Queen, One of t^e houfe 0/ Auftria
viade mighty by the King of Sfain kk death^ Jhould invade and conquer the land, &cc. He faid.
One (now abroad) (hould at MUford-haven enter , and by the help of the Britan^ fubdue
the faid Conqueror : And that one Morgan a Britaii Jhculd be made King of the Britans,
and next him, one KowlaHd,Scc.
He faid alfo. That this fr<?wc;f Garland was an efpy upon us from the Lord "Treafurer of
Tr. Garland
]^^^ia,jd And that Edward Garland is not his brother : And that fo the matter is agreed
.1 between them,0"c.
That my Lord Kofenberg fhould be in danger of poyfoning for thefe certain months
to come.
Enochs That my Tables of Enoch, were in fome places falfly written.
Tables. OfAntichriit he fpake, and of his appearing.
Antichrift. Of £/y and E??or/.' coming out of Paradife : And o( Sz'int John EvartgeHft,thtit he dyeU
Ely, Enoch, not, hut mPathmos had hk invifible being : And that he it was, who did gisc Julianne
Johannes Apoftata his deaths wound.
Evangelijta Yit laid alfo that he hath at divers times preached vifibly frncc the time tf hi invifibU
li ate entrcd.
- He
A true^B^ation of Dr. Dee his ABions^ mth Spirits, dec, 13
^ He confirmed the words of the great Famine and Blood-flied that fhould come
fliortly.
He iaid that on every (ide of uSj people fhould be flain, but that we fhould fby the Di- God our
vine proreftion) efcape. Protcaor.
He faid that Ihortly this Francis Garland fhould go into England : And that we fhould t- ^^^''^^^'^
he foit for. But that it were beji torefufe their calling m home. IT'^'].
f"^{'
He faid that there were four other , who were made alfo privy of GoJ his myfteries as ^^'" ^ ^^'"
•II n, \ i ^ -n
r J J jing home.
we were, with w horn we mould meet at Rome. ^,-^
He faid that Mary and one more in Ens,land. lliould fee the wonderful days to come. ,:.„, L^J.^
... il-llr- '
P^^ IJOrtt/»
Mitdimi appeared to uim there alio. mvflcrio-
The fanie Ben went once away mounting up in a flame of fire : and afterward upon j-f^rn.
occalion of asking him fome\vhatj he came down fo again. Mt^ry my
And of the manner how to draw the oyl of the Spirit of wine being burnt, he brought old Maid,
thither the initiuments of two filver difhes, whelmed one upon another with an hole paf- Ben.
ling through the middle of them both, and with fponge between them : in which the
oyl would remain, &c.
After ail thefe, and many other things told me by thefame Mr.E.fC. we departed each About 2 of
to his bed, where I found my wife awake, attending to hear fome new matter of me from the clock at-
Mr. Kelly his reports of the apparitions, continued with him above four hours, being elfe f'^f
mid-
alone, I then told her, and faidj J<?;«e, I fee that there is no other remedy, but as hath '}'. ^^U
been faid of oiw cro (i-}7iatching, foit mufl needs be done. ^"' ^
'
Thereupon fhe fell a weeping and trembling for a quarter of an hour : And I pa-
cified her as well as I could ; and fo, in the fear of God, and in believing of his Admo-
nilhment, did perfwade her that fhe lliewed her felf prettily refolved to be content for
God hk fake and bii fecret Purpofes^to obey the Admonifhment.
£i. Note, Becaufe I have found fo much halting and untruth in E. K. his reports to ^p^// 20.
niemade, of the fpiritual Creatures, where I have not been prefent at an Aftion : and
becaufe his memory may fail him, and becaufe he was fubjeft to ill tempters, I believe
fo much hereof as fhall by better trial be found true,or conformable to truth.
A. Note E.K. had this day divers apparitions unto him in his own Chamber,
ancUjiflruftions in divers matters which he regarded not^ but remained flill in his purpofc
«/ utterly difcrediting thofe Creatures, and not to have any more to do with thein. But 1
among divers apparitions he noted this of one that faid unto him.
...... Joya Enoch hit Tables. '
:
Give every place hit running number
.
E.K. What mean you by places ?
Ihe fquares. Which .
done , refer every letter in thf "Iable to hk number , , and
ft read what I will, for this U the laft time I will admonifliyov.
"''
E.K. Amanitandcth m the Aii;ma fiery Globe of my hcighth,
accompanied with fome hundred of Puppets : on the one fide of
him ftandeth a woman, and about her are four Clouds all white.
The
14- Atrue'B^lationof Dr. Dee/;« ABtons, mth Spirits, &c.
The man upon a white Triangle a /hewed thele Numbers with
fpaces, as you lee following.
228
409
174
272——
1
225
356
131
a5i—
403
—
A. I perceive
that com-
nionly one
is to be aba-
ted of the
number.
4P
218
410
603
149
173
175
U7
^73
41(5
226
441
2<5I
586
83
132 -
253
V7
39
304
[401
4P5
592
35^
(5i8
20
501
5P7
4^^^
$P7
502
119
264
312
24
338
411
* <
603
604
150
414
3P^
467
53
59
68
418
444
355
4P7
20
116
287
604
610
480
182
p8
401
4P5
30(5
473
517
363
H7
271
3^7
89
II
46
267
228
331
_£7
2(5^
244
400
^3
75
17^
586
545
iS
Jl?
'
25
17
P3
52
5"
'75
170
46
607
17P
141
22
403
370
97
243
80
552
295
163
418
i!i
222
150
253
3P5
538 -
4^
55
7
123
433
'51
285
335
621
544
352
295
3P5
254
42^3
214
261
5P
4P4
517
116
103
405
HZ
25
606
152
418
82
320
491
390
414
366
239
182
4<5o
"^
175
'7'
73
490 418
620 214
53
32
.t
196
224
96
188
«5I2 331
20 136
358
290
335
244
408
•7^ 452
-340 424
'P5 97
3H
495'
284
>
A. Note
:
A true "B^ation of Dr. Dec his J&ions^ nith Spirits, Sea ly
A. Note : When E.K. had fliewed me this Note, I by and by brought fortli my book
of E«of?' his Tables, and found the four letters r t b d to be the four firft letters of the
four p rincipal fquares landing about the black Crofs : and that here chey were to be pla-
ced ocherwife than as I had fet them. And in the firft placing of them together, I re-
member that I had doubt how to joyn them j for they were given apart each by 'them-
felves.
Secondly, I found out the 4 Charafters ; Hiving they were inverfei fomewh.it, and
one of them clofed : wherof I found none like,but very near. Thefe Churafters were of
every fqua re one.
Thirdly, I did take thefe numbers contained between the lines (fome more and fome
fewer) to be words to be gathered out of the Table of letters : fo many words as were
diftinft companies of numbers ; it is to wit, 41.
Hereupon we began to number the fquares wherein the letters flood in Enochs Tables
as I had them, but we could noi exaftly finde the words, but fomewhat near. Hereupon
being tired, anddefiroiis to know the fenfe of that Cypher, we left off till after fupper,
and then we affayed again : but we could not bolt it out, though we knew very near
what was to be done by the inftruftion of a jpiritual Voice, now and then helpin" us to-
ward the praftife.
At length E.K. fpai willed to go down into his Chamber, and I did remain ftill at our
Dineing Table till his return,which was within an hour or fomewhac more. And at his
return this he brought in writing.
r z I 1 a f a y t 1
p a t a oa d
V
p t d n I m 24
a r d z a i dl3 a 1 a m a a bco r m e b b 48
c n s a r c y a V b t gc on xm a 1 g m 72
t I t t z p a c c n h odd I ale a 96
s 1 g a s m r b z n b P a t ax I V s. p s n 120
f m n d a t d I a r I s a a 1 xa a r V r I
S 144
r I b a h a z p I m p h a r s I g a I 1 16S
t n a b r V 1 X g a s d m a m g I o I n I I r X
0 192
1 I I tT P a I a I 1 a a d n g a t a pa 5' 216
a b am 00 a C V c a P a I c I d X p a c n 24O
ai a c t T n p r n t n da z n z 1 V a a s a
264
c a n ma g t r r I I I dp n s d a s pi 3 28S
s h I a I r a p m z X X r I n h t a r n d i
J
b a z a r p h a r a d np a t d a n a a
B
n 536
V n n a xo p s n d n 1 ag e b a V a 2
En 360
a I g r u n m a g g p a m n V g m d n m n
384
r p m n 1 ng b e a I a piste d e c a p 9r 40S
r s n I z I r I e m V s cm I 00 n a m 1 o x §.
3 432
I z I n re Z I a m h I V a V s g d 1 V r lap •
456
mo r d I a 1 h c t g a I p t e a a p d c e 480
c a n c h I a s m t X s V a cN r z I r z a 504
a r b I Zm I I 1 p
.
z s I d a 1 n r z fm 528
p an a I am s m a P d a 1 t t d n a d 1 re 552
d 1 op I n I a n b a d IX m n s I s
p 576
r X pa c S I Z I X P od X z I a p a n I i 600
a X t I r V a s t r I m r g a n « q a c r a r
# < « • . tht,
1 6 Jtrue "Eolation of Dr. Dee his ABionSy vp'ith Spirits^ dec,
The black^Crof, it right , and needeth no Mending. But thus much I do ^ to let thee
rnJerHand, that thou wayeji conf^der thy felfto be a man : And beneath this underHanding^ un-
Irfs thou fubmit all into the hands of God , for his fakes vho elfe leaving you^ all ttal^ed, pro-
videth in hk creatures to hit own gl.ry.
Cara tihi uxor,carior tibi fapientia,chariUimiftibi ego fmn.Eledus tremis^^hefitandt
feccof : Noli igitur adgeniim,& carmen fapere; fed obtetnpera mihi : duQor enim Turn fum &
autorfpiritus omnium. Rec omnia a me funt, & Itcita vobis.
J ttdmonijhyou as the children of God, to confideryour vocation, and the love of God
rewards you; and net to prefer your reafon before the mfdome of the higheji,wbofe mercy it fo great
tcwardsyou. That you are chofen from the number of men to walk with him, and to un-
derftand his myfteries , and with all to execute his juftice and praife throughout the Na-
tions and people of the earth. Confider that if he finde you obSlinate, the plagues ofhaynous
finners,and contemners of the gifts of God Jhall fall uponyou , to your great overthr019 : 1hit is
the laji time of your trial. Therefore jhew your felves lovers of him that hath led you, and co-
vered you with a mighty Jhield : Orjhortly look, for the reward offuch, at have contemned the
Wifdome and Majejty of the Highejl.
I Raphael, counfel you to mah^ a Covenant with the Higheft , and to ejleem hit wings
more then your own lives,
^. When E.K. had brought me thefe things , I greatly rejoyced in fpirit, and was ut-
terly refolved to obey this new Doftrine to us, peculiarly , of all people of the world en-
joyncd. Aud after fome little difcourfc and conference hereof, wc went to bed, this
Jprill's 20. 2©. day of April, at night.
Aprilis 21.
A. Thus, am I refolved, O Almighty God, as concerning the cafe, fo hard to flefti and
blood, to be refolved in, thus : And thus I defire, that we all four,might with one niinde
and confent, otFer and prefent unto thee, this writing as a Vow, Promife,and Covenant,
if it fo pleafe thy divine majefty to accept it.
W''EE four (whofe heads appeared under one Chryftalline Crown, in one pillar uni-
ted, and iuclofed) do moft humbly and heartily thank thee,0 Almighty God (our
Creator, Redeemer and Sanftifier) for all thy mercies and benefits hitherto received, in
our perfons, aud in them that appertain unto us : And at this prefent, do faithfully and
fuicerely confefs , and acknowledge , that thy profound wifdome in thit 7noJi new and
firange doiirine (among Chriftians ) propounded, commended, and enjoyned unto us
four only, is above our humane reafon , and Chrijiian Jrofejjitn to like of : For that in out-
ward fhew of words, it feemeth to us exprefly to be contrary to the purity and chaftity,
which of us, and all Chriftians, thy followers, iscxa£Uy required. Notwithftanding,we
will, herein, captivate, and tread under-foot all our humane timorous doubting of any
inconvenience , which (hall, or may fall upon us, or follow us in this world, or in the
world to come, in refpeftor by reafon of ourimbracingof this Doftrine, liftened unto,
of us, as delivered from our true and living God, the Creator of heaven andearth; who
only hath the true original power and Authority of fins releafing and difcharging :
And whofc pardoning, and not imputing of lin unto us, through our lively faith in the
moft worthy merit, and precious blood of the Lamb Immaculate, ftiedfor us, is and fcall
be our juftification and falvation. We, therefore (according to bleffed Raphael his coun-
fel laft given) moft humbly and Imcerely require thy Divine Majefty , to accept this our
Covenant with thee ( for that, thy merciful promifcs made unto us , may be to us per-
formed ; and thy divine purpofes in us and by us, may be furthered, and advanced and
fulfilled.) That, as we acknowledge thy divine wifdome and grace offered unto us in
this thy laftmyftical Admoniihnient : And dort moft earneftly will us to accept the fame,
as lawful and] IIji with t^ffjWhich'Admouifhment ftandeth upon two parts : That is to wit,
upon our true Chriftian charity fpiritual between us four, and alfo upon the Matrimo-
nial licenceand liberty, indifferently among us four to be ufed : So we the fame four
(which hereunto will fubfcribe) covenant with thy Divine Majefty , upon the two prin-
cipal refpcfts before reheai-fed, truly and unfainedly to accept and perform hencefor-
ward amongft us four, in word,thought and deed , Chriftian charity, and perfeft friend-
fliip,and all that belongeth thereto : And as for the Matrimonial-like iiccuce,and liberty,
we
A true "B^ation of Dr. Dee bis JBions, i»ith Spirits,dca * ly
vvc accept and allow of ir, andpiomife unto thcc (O our God) to fulfill tlicfamejin fuch
fort, as flit godly are pemiitted to fulfill, and have been by divers teftimonics com-
mended for, and by Divine doftrine willed to fulfill, in Matrimonial converfation,when-
foever thy motions and allurements (Matrinionial-likeJ (hall draw and perfwadc any
couple of us, Befceching thee, as thou art the onely true Almighty and Everlaftin^
God, Gireator of Heaven and Earth, Thou wile, in thy infinite mercies , not impute it
untousforfin, blindnefs,rafhnefs, or preftmiption , being not accepted, done, or per-
formed upon carnal lult, or wanton concupifcence; But by the way of Abrahaw-liye
faith and. obedience., unto thee, our God, our Leader, Teacher, Protcftor and Juftifier,
now and for ever. And hereunto we call the holy Heavens to be witneflTes , for thy ho-
nour and glory (O Almighty God) and our difcharge, now and for ever. Amen.
1 Edward KeUy by good and provident (according to the Laws
and ordinances of God) determination and confideration in thefe
former A6i ions, that is to fay, appearings, fhevvs made, and voyces
uttered, by the within named in this Book , and the refl whatfoever
Spirits have from the beginning thereof(which at large by the Records
appeareth) not only doubted and difliked their infinuations and do-
(51 rine uttered, but alfo divers and fundry times ( as coveting to eif-
chew and avoid the danger and inconvenience that might either by
them, their felves, or the drift of their dodrine enfue , or to my
indamagemcnt divers wayes, happen) fought to depart from the ex-
ercifes thereof : and withal boldly ( as the fervant of the Son of
God) inveighed againft them ; urging them to depart, or render bet-
ter reafon of their unknown and uncredible words and Speeches de-
livered \ and withall often and fundry times friendly exhorted the
Right Worfhipful Mafter JOHN DEE (the chief follower thereof)
as alfo in the Records appeareth, to regard his fouls health, the good
proceeding of his wordly credit (which through Europe is great) the
better maintenance to come of his wife and children , to beware of
them,and withall to give them over : wherein although I friendly and
brotherly laboured, my labour feemed to be loft and counfel of him
defpifed , and withall was urged with replies to the contrary by him
made, and promifes, in that cafe, o'f the lofs of his fouls health, if they
were not of God : Whereunto upon as it were (bme farther tafte of
them, or opinion grounded upon the frailty of zeal, he ceafed not al-
fo to pawn unto me his foul, &c. which his perfwafions were the
chiefand onely caufe of my this fo long proceeding with them : And
now alfo at this inftant , and before a few dayes having manifeft oc-
cafion to think they were the fcrvants of Sathan , and the children
of darknefs , becaufc they manifeftly urged and commanded in the
name of God a Do&inc Damnable , and contrary to the Laws of
God, his Commandements , and Gofpcl by our Saviour Chrift as a
Touchftone to us left and delivered , did openly unto them diflike
their proceeding, and brotherly admonifhcd the faid Worfhipful,
and my sjood friend Mr.jOHN DEE to beware of them : And now
having juft occafion to determine what they were , to confider all
C c c thefe
1 8 Atrue %clatwn of Dr. Dee his JHicm, mth Spirits, 6cc.
thcfe things before mentioned by me,and wiicly to leave thenij and the
rather becaufeoi themrelves,they (as that by their own words appear-
eth) upon our not following that Do61rine delivered, gave unto us a
§luietm eji , or pafport of frecdome : But the Books being broupjit
^'^^r/'"' forth*, after fome difcourfe therein , after a day or two had, and
their words perufcd fpoken heretofore, did as it were (bccaufe of the
poffible verity thereof, Deo enim omnia fn?2t poffibilia'^ gave us caufe
of further deliberation : fo that thereby, I did partly of my (cl^, and
partly by the true meaning of the faid Mr. DEE in the receiving of
them, as from God :, and after a fort by the zeal I faw him bear unto
the true worfhip and glory of God to be ( as that was by them , pro-
mifed) by us promoted, defcend from my lelf , and condefcend unto
his opinion and determination, giving over all reafon, or whatfoever
"^'^^
for the love of God : But the women difliked utterly th'ii la/1 Do-
^rine, and confultingamongftthemfelves gave us this anfwer , the
former a6lions did nothing offend them but much comforted them :
and therefore this laft,not agreeing with the reft (which they think to
be according to the good will and wholefome LawofGod) maketh
them to fear, becaufe it exprefly is contrary to the Commandement
of God : And thereupon d^firing God not to be offended with
their ignorance,required another a6}ion for better information here-
ini in the mean, vowing, fafting, and praying , Mrs. DEE hath cove-
An aftiou nanted with God to abftain from the eating of fiih and ileffi until!
required |^jg Divine Majefty fatisfie their mindes according to his Laws efta-
men.^^^° bliflied , and throughout all Chriftendome received. To this their
requeft of having an a^lion, I abfolutely anfwer , that my ftmplicity
before the Highcft is fuch as I truft will excufc me : And becaufe
the fumme of this Doftrine, given in his name , doth require obedi-
ence which I have (as is before written) offered , I think my felf dif-
charged : And therefore have no farther caufe to hazzard my felf
any more in any adion. Wherefore I anfwer that if it be lawful for
them to call this Do6lrine in queftion , it is more lawful for me to
doubt of greater perril •, confidering that to come where we are ab-
folutely anfwered were folly , and might redound unto my great in- Ajj
convenience. Therefore befeeching God to have mercy upon >|H
me , and to fatisfie their Petitions, doubts and vows , I finally an- ^
fwer , that I will from this day forward meddle no more herein.
11. of April, 1587.
By me
EDWARD KELLY.
Aprilis
A true delation of Dr. Dee hu JBions, mth Spirits^&:c.
*
.
p
Aprilis 24. Trebona, ^Ff'' m
1 I rndav.
Friday
W^i
Rayeis to God Jiiade in rcfpeft of this ftrange and new doftrine, requiring his
Divine Majcfty to be merciful unto us, and tpgive us vvifdom and faith that we
may herein pleafe him ; and that we cannot finde how we may do the thing required,
tfiwgcoMtr^ry totheLawsof Mo/f^, Chrift, his Church, and of all Nations. Therefore
feeing God is wot coKtr/irjr to hinifelf, we delired that we might not be contrary to him
or his Laws, &c.
A. Not long, lo, there appeared a great flame of fire in the principal Stone, (both
ftanding on the Table before E.IT.) which thing though he told me, I made no end of my
Prayer to God. And behold, fuddenly one feemed to come in at the fouth window of
the Chappel, right againftE.K. (But before that, the ftone was heaved up an handful
high, andfet down again well, which thing E.K. thought did lignifie fonie ftrange mat-
ter toward.) Then after, the man that came in at the window feemed to have his nether
yarts inacloud, and with fpred-abroad arms to come toward E./C, At which fight he
ihrinked back fomewhat, and then that Creature took up between both his hands the
|fo«e rfwi fr/z»« «/ go/^, and mounted up away as he came.. E.K. catched at it, but he
could not touch it. At which thing being fo taken away, and at the fight thereof E.K.
was in a great fear and trembling, and had trfworrw cordis for a while. 5ut I was very
glad and well pleafed.
«^ Here appeareth afire in this other floncalfo, and a man in the fire, with flaxen h^ir
hanging down upon him, and is naked unto his Paps j and feemeth to have fpots of
blood upon him. He fpake, and faid as followech.
If I had intended to have overthrown youy or brought yontoconfufiofi, or fuffered youto he Clr^liuS'
lei into tmipation beyond your Jheugth and pover, then had the Sets long ago fwalhwed
yoy. Tea, there had net a foul lived amongfi you.
But the law and tidings (to mankinde') of glainefs, are both grounded in wf, I am the Be- The Law &
ginning and the Ending : And behold, happy it he that delighteth in me, for in me is truth and die Golpd.
underjianding. Whatfoever you have received, you have received of me ; and without
me you have received nothing. Behold, I my felf was even the figure of mifery and
death for your fins. JVhy (therefore') difdainyou to be figured after me ? I will gather the
four quarters of the earth together, and they (hall become one.
And as I have made you the figure of two people to come, and amongft them, the a. andE./T.
executors of my Juftice : Ho likswife have I fanSified you in an holy Ordinance, giving you a figure of
the firft fruits of the time to come. Happy is he that is * Serpent in the vildernefs hanged ^^^o people
'Up upon the Crofs, being the will and figure of my determination, and Kingdom to come : I am ^° ion'C.
'even in the doors ; and I will overthrow all flejh. I will ho more delight in the fons of men.
^ Contrary to my felf, I tetch you nothing. A. »Heanf-
For this Doftrine is not to be publifhed to mortal men : but is given unto you, to wcreth to a
nianifeft your faith, and to make you worthy in the fight of the heavens,for believing in phrafe of my
me of your vocation to come. prayer or
'therefore I fay unto you, Ktjoyce, send he not careful for ta morrow : for I, even I, have d^rcourfe,
provided for you : Sin no more. T"'* "0<itrin
Behold ! None of the Orders, either of Heaven or Earth, are armed to open their mouthes in '*i^°(^"^^
vty Name, teaching er opening this DoUrine, tinlefs it were of me, for I am the Firfland the j^'^^'L ^°
Laft. And I wiU be Shepherd over aU, that the Kingdom tf'my Father may come, and that my j^fote]
Spirit may be upon all flerti, where there JhaU be no law, nor need of light : I my felf am their
^^^^ pakor
lanthorn for ever.
_ ^^^ ur.Hru o-
And behold,! will be as a Rock between you and the teeth of Leviathan, which feek- ^j^.
cth tofet you afundsr^ and to bring you toconfufion. Co>iatus Di-
And I am, and am holy, and holtnefs it felf : Out of mectmethno unclean thing. tkoll.
For even at the time of Mofes wm wonderful to all the Gentiles, even fo fliall thofe days Mofes.
to come be unto the Nations and Kings of the earth. I am a law for ever. And behold,
power is given unto me from above : And I have vifited the earth, tni have thrown my curfe Sterility]
vponher : And lo, Jhe fhall become barren. Terra.
He that fajieth and frayetk doth hut that vhich is commanded : He that alfo fulfilleth n^
wiU, is pniified before me : for who if he that raifeth up, or who is he that cajleth down ? Tea,
even lit is that have tak^n you four Trees out of the forreji of the world, and have covered The jhew cf
ytu hitherto with my wings. And behold, this that is^ tai^n away fliall be rejiored again to you 4 trees,what
with more power. And Might fball be in ir, and a brejiplate unto you, of Judgement and '.tmeaneth.
Knowledge. ^'^T^'
^
And if there he any of ytu that feekfth a Miracle at my bands,3.nd believeth in my words, ^^miinmor
let him or her frefcnt themfelves here the next Monday, with the refl, and he (Ijall perceive that ^«*"»*»"»»
/ wmthe Judge of Abirani» and the Cod of Abraham : Walk before me as the fons of my "^'
C c c 2 Father,
* 20 Atrue 'Relation of Dr. Dee his Jdwm, ntth Spirits^ 6c c.
Father, in all rig'atroiifneft. And. fo.low you that which you call uniighceoiihicfs even
wich gladnels : jor I can make you whiter then [now.
Our unity of Your unity and knitting together is the end and confummation of the beginning of
vvhacimpor- my harveft. I will not dally with you, hn I will bt mighty in de^d amongH you. And to, I
tancc u !S ;
ffiU jhortly open your eyes, and you jhalt fee: And I will pj, ARISE, and you Jhall g*
efi fi'iis fx- q;ix. What I am, I am,
fftiT^" E.K. The flame and all is dilappeared.
'The ancient A. Gloria P:itri, & Filio, & Sfirttui Sando, ficut erat iiiprinci^io,& nunc, & in fem-
token ar.d ptema f^culorum fdcula. Amen,
watchword p V"
vs: Ar'.fe-) ^''^"^ ^ft^""' ^^^^ ^^^ ^*^^y ^^^ "^ ^^ ^'^^ ^ ^"^ ^^^^^ ^^^" ^™°^ ^'^ ^"^ Ao^n
come and fee uuto all his parts, his privities and thighs.
my ]iidge- Deo Omnipotenti, Mifericordi & Kegi feculorum fit onmit lam, honor & gloria, nunc &
r//e/iis. femper. Auien.
J.D. E.K. J.D. J.K.
'u4pri/is I?. T^-w-
J ££ {-Q^jj. ^vvhofe heads appeared under one Chryftalllne Crown, and in one pillar
«»«.I587. \\/ united and enclofed) do molt humbly and heartily ihank thee (O Almighty God,
our Creator, Redeemer and Sanftitier) for all thy mercies and benches hitherto recei-
'
ved in our own perfons, and in them that appertain unto us : And at this prefent do
faithfully and lincerely confefs and acknowledge, that thy profound wifdom in this moft
new and Ihange Doftrnie (among Chrillians) propoimded, commended and enjoyned
inito us four onely, is above our humane Ktalbn, and our Cathohck Chriftian Profeiriou
to like of: for that, in outward Ihew of words, it feemeth to us exprefly to be contrary
to the purity and chaftity which of us and all Chriftians^thy followers) is exaftly requi-
red. NotwithftandmgjWe will for thy fake herein captivate and tread under foot all our
huiKanc timerous doubting of any inconvenience which fhall or may fall upon us, or
follow us (in this world, or in the world to come) in refpeft, or by reafon of our era-
bracing or ihis Doftrine, liftued unto of us, as delivered from thee, our true and living
God, the Creator of heaven and earth, who onely haft the true original power and au-
thority of fins releaiing and dilcharging ; and whofe pardoning, or not imputing of lia
unto us,thiough our lively faith in the moft worthy Merit and precious Blood of thy Lamb
immaculate, filed for us, IS and ftiall be our Juftificarion and Salvation. Wc thcrerore,
AprHli 2o. (according to bleffed Raphael his counfcl lately given) moft humbly and lincerely i e-
riocte pro-
'
quire thy divine Majefty to accept this ourCovenant with thee (to the intent ihat all thy
ffiBda. merciful and gracious promifes made unto us four, and any of us, may be to us perfoi in-
ed : and alfo that thy divine purpofcs in us, and by us, may be furthered, advanced and
fulfilled) That as we acknowledge thy divme wifdom and giace opened unto us in this
thy laft myftical Admonilhmcnt of univerfal uniry to be between us : And doftmoft in-
ftantly and carneitly will us to accept and life the Tame, as both myltically moft needful,
and alfo lawful and juft with thee : (which Adiiiouilhineutftandei.h upon two parts ; that
is to wit, upon true and confummate Chriftian Charity between us four unviolably to be
kept. And alfo upon the New Macrimoinal-like licence and liberty indifferently amongfl
us four to be ufed :) So we the fame four above-named (which hereunto will alfo fub-
fcribeour Names) do this day Covenant with thy Divu.e Majefty ('jeiides all other re-
» Before at fpefts, chiefly upon the two principal intents and refpefts * before here reherfed) truly
ihismaik. andunfeignedly to accept and perform hcncefoi-wardamongft us four (in word, thought
and deed, to the uttermoftandbeft of our power) a perfeft unity, and with incompa-
rable true love and good Chriftian Charity, fnendlhip, imparting and communicating
each unto other, all and whatfoever we have or fhuU have hereafter during our lives.
And as for the Matrimonial-likc licence, we accept and allow of it : And piomife unto
thee (O our God, the Alniigliiy, Creator of heaven and earth) to fulfil the fame in fuch
fort as the goJly are permii ted to fulfilj and have been (by divers teftimonie'>) commen-
ded for, and by divmeDoftnne willed to, fulfil in Matrimonial-like converfation, when-
focver chy motions and allurements Matrimonial-likc ihall draw and perfwadc any couple
of us ther*:unto : Btfeechingthee, as thou art the onely, true Almighty and everlafting
God, Creator of heaven and earth. Thou wilt in thy infinite mercies not impute it unto
usforhn, blindnefs, raftinefs orprefumption; being not accepted, done or performed of
us upon carnal luft, orwanton concupifcence, but by the way of Ahraham-Ukc faith and
obeaience unco thee our God, our Leader, Teacher, Proteftor and Juftifier, now and
for ever. And hereunto we moft humbly and faithfully require thy Divine Majefty to be
ourwitnelb: Andmoreover we call thy holy Angels, aud to bear record for thy honour
and
A true %rlation of Dr. Dee his ABions^ r^tth Spiriti^^c. «r 1
and glory, and tor ourdifchaigc, now and for evei-. And for a further confiinuTiatiou
of this New Covenant on our behalf, (by thy will and perniilTion) made with thtc (the
God of heaven and earth) we the fame four Hrrt notified, and particularly and vulgarly-
named J oif^w Pr'f, E^M'^rri /Cf//fj, Jane T>ee, and Jone Ke/lejj have faithfully, obediently.
Willingly -and wittingly fubfcribed our Names wkh our own hands day of Mrfy,
Jmo i-^^y. In TreboM C3.i\le.
A:\A finally, as thou haft warned us (O God) that this doftrineand doings fhould un-
to no mortal man elfe be difclofcd^ but among us onely the above-named four to be
kst^t w'*Jt fecrct : and haft faid, that whofoever of us ftiould by any means difclofe the
fame, a; d he alfo or fhe to whom the fame fliould be difclofed, (hould prefently and im-
niediatcly be ftrucken dead by thy Divine power : So we all and every of us four do re-
c^ueftihce moft carneftly, and Covenant with thee as our God, that fo all this doftrine
and doing may be kept moft hid and fecret ; and alfo that thefudden and immediate bo-
dily death may light and fall on the difclofer, and on him or her to whom the fame do-
ftnne or doing any manner of way fhall be difclofed or known. Amen, Amen^ Amen.
John dee.
Note and remember. That on Sunday the third of May, Ann.\'^%j. (by the new ac-
count) I John Dee,Edward Kelley^znd our two wives,covenanted with Gocl,and fubfcribed
the lame, for indiffoluble and inviolable unities, charity and friendftiip keeping between
us four, and all things between us to be common, as God by fimdry means willed us to
do. Ad Vet honorem^ laudetn & gloriam in fide & ohedieniie- FaQum ejio, Anun.
1587. Inbona, in the fine Chappel. ^^tllk^,,
a Meridte.
A. 'TpHe forefaid Covenant being framed by me JohnDee^ as near as I could according
X to the intent and faith of us required, to be notified and declared by the works
of unity both fpiritual and corporal. Now it was by the women as by lur [elves thought ne-
cejfary to nndcrjiand the will of God and hit good fleafure, IVheiher thit Covenant utii form of
w rds ferjor»!ed, is and will be acceptable, and according to the well liking of his Divine
Miijefty : And that hereupon, the aft of corporal knowledge being performed on both our
paris. It will pleaie his Divine Majefty to fcal and warrant tinto tu moji ctrtainly andjpee-
dily all hii Divine, Merciful and bountiful Promifes and Blejlings ; and alfo promifcs us wif-
dome, knowledge, ability and power to execute his juftice, and declare and demonftrate
his infallible verity amongft men, to his honour and glory.
Hereupon E.K. and I went to the Chappel to the South Table. a. To thi-s intent I
prayed to the Almighty God, Creator of heaven and earth, fatherly, favourably and
mercifully to regard the finglenefsand ftraits of my heart, defiring him to encreaie the
faith, and to open the eyes of my heait, that I may fee Ofera digitorum & miralilia ejus,
nobit ftcuti neceffaria, for his fcrvice and glory, and for the confufion and overthrow of his
enemies. Amen,
I read over the Covenant (yerbntim') before the Divi-.c Tilajefty, and his holy Angels.
Taufa \hor(e,
E. K. Here appeareth Madimi.
As a thing like a head with three eyes cometh upon her head, and
one of the eyes feem to come one into another.
Mad Pepgijiis.
A. Pepigimuf.
Ratumeft: fernmftte fjtnt vobit omnia communia.
Beiy Hon hommis eftete : Promiffa qu£ funt^ fojjidtte : Vobit dejlinata, vera funt ;
Mternus fum.
E. K. She is gone.
E.K. My thought an infinite number of fpiritual Creatures ftood
afar off bchinde her like as in an half Moon.
^. im qui JEtcrnus elf Omniptens^Safiens^Bonus, Verus, Mifericors,&rerum omnium Crea-
tor^ Redemptor no\ler & Illuminator omnium (lumine vero Collujiratorum') Sit omris gratianm
fiSio, laui. benedidio, honor & gloria : Nunc & in fmfiterna fdCulorum fjicula. Amen.
treiiontg.
* 22 Atrue ^iation of Dr. Dee his ABionSy mth Spirits^dcc,
Ouaji Chri-
fins.
1587. Tnhona.
Wedncfday
morninj;
M.i'-i 2C.
Jcfut.
Figuration
All chings
one*
ACovenar.:
9otentld
mAgn-i eX
dto futuri.
Figures.
PK(ces di V'^mlnum Crfatorem CxU & ttrrr, &c. Then as conccniing thcCovenaiit
which was made fuhfcribedand delivered in , but the next day required again of Mr.
E.K. and in his wifcs name to put out his name, 8cc. But when he had it , he cut it into
equal parts; keeping that half wherein his fubfcription and his wifeswerc , and deliver-
ed unto me, the other half but after a few dayes deiired to have the fight and reading of
both together; and then he kept the other part from mealfo : But afterward Aftf^zwi did
with her finger draw on the two papers make them whole again, &c. and then jhe gave the print
of mj CharaQers, and [aid a red Circle jhould alwayes appear in the Stone to all mens
lightjt^c.
E. K. There is here a great Globe of fire hanging in the top of
the Stone i and in the Globe a man ftanding with a purple Robe
like Chrift, I cannot well pei ct ivc his face.
Jf^ho fitteth upon the Chzrubins, a.i\d it carried abroad with their wings ; Who if be
that it lifted up in thun^ers^ and in the v >yce tf many waters exalted and magnified through
the power of a Seraphin (which is the fowr of hiv: that made him? ) JFho it he that jlretcbetb
out hit arms and intbracth ail Things ? Who it he that it not, and it ? JFb: is he that numbretb
the Stars Of the letters of a- V.lumn^ ? r entrctb down inu the waves ? In the multitude of
hit wonders who is he that katbmreth kit JVhelps there , where the Sea gUdeth, and kjepeth them
in Chains, till the day 0^' hit jWetch-forib potrer come .f IF'^o it he that mah^th hit habitation in
the Sun, or fi'Jeth the Mo'^n mth ap.'rpftualKivers' JVho it hethat hath mude Winter and Sum-
mer, times and ffjfons I. IFbo^ it he th^t it the Lord of all beaHs and fowls .? JVho it he that hatk
tnad,' you of nothtnt ? evn he it it that haihkdycu cut, even he it is that hath carried you
to theSc.K even he it it, th.it h.-rth ^'ptyo'.fleeping , and pnfervedyou wakJHg : Even be it if
that hath tyed his thunders underneail your and hath hArnijljedyou.
JVixb t'^eJVhn-'.ecDind of ven^r'anc? azainll the people of Ethan , yea even be it it (I fay)
that it, 071 J liveth fvr ever ^ and hath provided yon ai the chiefejl reapers, yea and over-feers of
bit harvcsi, w'-ich hath ;niede.yon d pramjfc ;_ 7hat the Kings of the earth (hall be inriched byyou,
and bath.mad.^you free •''rsm aii men ,- dgamix the day when you jhall fee me. But Oyou of In tie
faith atid undevji/irtdip^, 0; I fcy.yojii of little faith and underjianding , how long will you b»
your own maiiers, nay your owr fi^-vants, how long do you'contemn , the profound and unfpeaV-
able fiOods of my w fd<.:m, and fore-knowledge inyou.
H010 long (i fay ) wi^you run after your own imaginations and contemntheprefent counfels
which I giveyou,hindring the power that it ready to fall uponyov,0 yon of little faith and undtr-
Jlandin'T.
Behold I haV'- prepared a bajtkft for yoUf and have brought you even unto the doers; but be-
cavfe you fr.teli not the fealiyou difdahi to enter, happy it he that entreth in through me : For I
am the very gate to all felicity and joy, and without me it nothing .- Are you more dtfereet then
I am wife / or more hsnil than I cm holy f Kighteoiifnefs,and righteoufnefs it that,which it re-
warded with honour, Beho'd I made all things. Is it not contrary to Naturf, that the lights of
heaven lloild nattd : IVhy therefore at the prayer <•/ the Carpter callyou upon the Sun in my name;
Ca'ui>!Z (I fay) upon my name did the Sunjiandftill. Kebukf him therefore if he hath done a-
wifi\ orteachhim, why he fo uhv'ed Nature, Oyou wretches, I fay unto you, you are the lafi of
the beginning of the times to com.-, fo figured by my determination and eternal purpofe : And
heho.'dihe Son and Moon Ihali ijandjiill , evenat your \0ycci3 and the MountainsjhaU bring
themfelves together before the face of man, at your commandement, that the people and Kings
of the earth may fay, Lo this is the finger of him tTiat hath created all things.
Be therefore obedient and full of faith.
And fee that all things be one amongftyou, andcleave not afunder, lejl Itakf vengeance
uponyoujfov behold Sathan hath power to call you afunderjbut a little hejliould-
be faithful therefore, and provident, be watchful, and take heed for you have made a Covenant;
and behold it it written before my face in heaven, even a* whatfoever I have fpoken unto you,
is laid up in my treafures. T'ake heed that you run neither to the right hand,neither to the left;
but that yuu caji away your felvesfo- me : As I bumbled myfelfto death, wherein the unity be-
tween my Congregation and me , WJs before my Father perpetually fealed, whereby I am alwayes
prefent with fucii as ^.at their truft in me. Even fo m the Eajl and the lF'eft,the North,and the
South,E{!iU and ]dcoh.Jhall be gathered together through the. power I will give you,and united
for ever in the Kingdome of my Father which is to come , in one holy and eternal fel-
lovvlliip,fo beyou contented alfo to be the figures of the things that are tocome by you, that it
may be a perpetual teftimony before the heavens, and before men, ofyour perfeif and found faith:
And thou J even thou that hafi core in peeces tvc/i thn morning again thit Covenant which thou
.halt
A true "Ration of Dr. Dee bu Actions^ mth Sfiriti,6zc,
*
^
hit ji made with y>ie. Behold the timeJhall come that ihoii llialt be torninpeeces thy fdf, and I will
turn even my f,ice away from thee for a time .- And even at thou hafi ohjiinately and iznorantly,
blafphenied the company of my holy mcibg<:r»,even fjjhal! the people of the earthlbjlinatclj
and ignorantly throw thee out from Town to Town : And even as thou haji done unto me, evtn
fo Jhall tnen do v.nto thee. But becaufe t!iy miiuHe was inwardly never to forfak^eme, even fo
Jhalt thou never be forfakjn ofme^ but I will return again unto th,c. And now behold^ thou liaft
made a bargain^and behold thou thinkelt co take thee up a new dwelling place,and thou
Ihalt not dofo : But who fo receiveth thee into hk houfejball as truly as I am , both he and
his family fink down into the very lake of hell. But before thou enter in,! vvill by dreams
and YiiionsTP;?r« /?i»2; therefore run n'jt abroad : Takf heed of the Tempter, Thou made a Co'
venant with me, which thou canft not in breaking ofthe papers put out ; for my regifter is
eternal : And thofethat bear witnefs before me are the compafs of my wing«.
And lo behold Carpio hath for hii former intent of fepirating you , cut off the day of his
Father, and is become fatherlefs : Behold ft ey/lhortly ihall his mother perilhalfo.
A'ld, if heveakei; he attempt any farther , I will throw the vengeance of Jiidice upon
him, that he fliall be a laughing flock to the people amongft which he was born : Wo be
unto them that rifeth up againft me.
After a while I come again.
E. K. I thought we fliould have nothing elfe, but
£i. 1 read this over to E.K.
E. K. He is here again.
He that pawneth * hkfoulfor me, lofeth it not , and he that dyeth for we ,
dietbto eternal life. Behold you ^jall both as Lambs be brought forth before
vien in your Utter dayes , andfl^aUbe overthrown and fain , and y$ur bodies
tojfed to and fro : But I will revive you again, and will be full of power :
And you Jhall be Comforted with the joyes ofyour brethren , for I have many
that fecretly ferve me ^ and whenyou have (hewed your obedience, thefecond
day after , come here again before me ; for I will lead you into the way of
Knowledge and VnderjHnding : And Judgement and Wifdome JhaUhe upon
you , and 'Jhall be rejiored unto you : And you Jhail grow every day , wife and mighty The fecret
in mee. ieivants for
E. K. He is gone : and in going he made a Crols (toward us) of /°^.;.„,^
blefllng.
Kerum ewni Creatori OmnipoXenti, Mifericordi & Jujio, Domino nojiro & Deo nojlro,
jit omnklaiu, honor, gloria, gratiarum actio & Jubilatio : Nunc &
in fempiterna f^culorum fxCula. Amen.
lean, and byourtwoConfents , and at the requeft of Jane ^•" unto the women.
And Mr.E.K. hereupon faid to his wife. That bis boots were now put off, and changed his pu.r-
fofe ofgoing away with Ctlv^xo now. God confirm his minde in all goodpurpofes according
to the welLplealing ofthe Higheft. Amen.
•••••• A As I, and E.JT. walked out at the new flairs, into the new Orchard-
ward along the little River to view the fmall fi(h , and returning to the fore flairs again,
E.K. faw twain as high as my fon Arthur fighting by the River fide with fwords3 and the
one faid to the other, thou haft beguiled me : Then I at length, faidunto them , Can I
take up the matter between you ? one faid yea that you can : in what is it quoth I ? Then
faid he , I fent a thing to thy wife by my man , and thit fellow hath tak^en it from him. Thejr
fought fore.and at length , he that had it was wounded in the thigh, anditfeemed to
bleed. Afterward he that was wounded , did bring a yellow fquare thing out of his bo-
fome; then I gueffedittobe my Stone that was taken zviay.The other faid unto him,let it be
carri^^ijfuddenly he feeniedto have been out of light,and to be come again; hethreatned
theotherthat had wounded him, and faid he would be even with him. Theother faid,
Ha\T thou laid it under the right pillow of the bed where his wife lay yejlernight.
At length they both went ('one after another) into a little Willow tree bpdy on the
right hand next the new flairs into the garden ; the tree feemed to cleave, or open^ and
they to go in.
Hereupon we wentaway: And I coming to mv Chamber,foifnd my wife lying upon her
bed (where I lay yefternight) and there I lifted up the right pillow , upon which Ihe lay
refling herfelf (being not well at eafe) And in manner under her flioulders there I found
my precious Stone, that was taken away by Madimi : Whereat E. K. greatly wondred,
doubtrng the verity of tlie ftcw. But I and my wife rejoyced,tkanking God.
* This was faid becaufe I had
parwnedmy foul, upon my a-
vovichins^ the ibiritual cca-
tui-cs which have d:alt wih
uSjtobe of God and good:
which my bargain E- K- had
by woid & wiicin^i dildain-
fully charc^td J and of late
threacncd mewirhall.
er poie::'
tia iff Deo.
Carpio,
Friday
afternoon
alsoiic four of
che clock.
Lap; d.'s
fnnEli re-
ftitHtio*
Saturday
z^ Atrue %elatwn of Dr. Dee his AUiom, mth Spirits, 6cc.
Saturday May 25. Mane circa p. \
PReces ad Deum fimdebantury&c And then we icqucfted that the aft of obedience per-
foi nied (according to oiu- faith conceived of our vocation, from the Almighty and
Eternal God of heaven and earth) might be accepted : And that henceforward we might
be inftrufted in the underftanding and prafticc of vvifdomej both fuch as already we have
received fome introduftions Myftical,andalfo of all other what the Almighty God Qiall
deem meet for us to know, and execute for his honour and glory, e^-i:.
A E. K. 'iodX, Ten and Inkf, and wrote the requeji here adjojned; and he read it to me, and
he requeftcd me to read it to the Divine M'tjefiy ; and fo I did , and hereupon we tpaited
both to thefirji my prayer andfo thif Fttiticn, the Divine anfwer,
£. Oninipotens fenipiterne, vere 6" vive Deus mittof lucem tiiam & veritatem twam tit ipU
Hos ducant & ferducant admonteWy fancium Sjon , ex hac vaUe miferia & ad Celejiem tuam
Jerufalem. Amen.
E. K. From the beginning of this our coming, there appeared a
purple Circle as big as a ftar in the Circumference of thje holy Stone,
which ycfterday was brought again: And that it fliould fo be, Madimi
had forewarned E. K. when /he /hewed it unto him , when alfo /he
gave the prints of the letters of the backfidc of the bottomc of the
gold frame of it.
*
E. K. There appeareth here a great man all in bright
Equus alius
j^afj^^fg fitting Upon a white horfe : he hath a fpear all fiery in his
left hand , he now putteth into his right hand ; he hath a long fword
by his fide : he hath alfo a target hanging on his back, it feemeth to
be of /i:ecl : It hangcth from his neck by a blue lace^it cometh up be-
hind him as high as the top of his head. The horfe is milk white
,
all /luddcd with white : a very comely horfe it is. The man is in com-
pleat harnefs,the top of his helmet hath a /harp form.
Upon his Target , are many Cherubins , as it were painted in
Circles : there is one in the middle : About it as a Circle with fix in
it, and then a Circle with eight , and then a great Circle with ten in
^'"*- it, and in the greatcfl: are twenty j and about the Circle of twenty
are feven parts : at each of which points is a Cherubin \ Their
faces be like burning gold , their wings be more brighter and as it
were their wings coming over their heads do
Cherubitt.
j^Qj. fQuch together. His horfe is alfo harnifhed before and be-
hind. The horfe legs behind are harnifhed as with boots mar-
veiloufly contrived,for defence as it were of his hinde legs.
E. K. He is ridden away , he feemeth to ride through a great
field.
E. K. Here is now come Madimi.
E. K. She is gone into the field, that way which he rode.
E. K. Here is another, like a woman all in green.
E. K. Here cometh another woman : All her attire is like beaten
goldi, /he hath on her forehead a Crofschry/lal, her neck and brea/l
are bare unto under her dugs : She hath a girdle of beaten
gold flackly buckled unto her with a pendant of gold down to the
ground.
J am
J true 'l^ation of Dr. Dee his AWonSyMBtth 6pims,6cc, * 25
la.M^jjffi^'Dtiughier of Fcrtitvie^ and raviftjed every hopr, from mj youtk For behold^ I
Atn Viidf^^nding, and Science dweUeth hi me ; and the heavens offreR me, they covet and defire
we tvit : inpni:e appetite: few or none tliat are earthly have imbraced me, for I am Jhadoffed
wnbthK' Circle of the Stone ^ and covered with the morning Clouds. My feet arf fwifter than
tke winds, and my hands are fweeter than the inorning dew. My garments axe from the beginning.^
and. my dwelling place is in my felf. 'the Lion knoweth not where I wal\ , neither do the heajis
tf the field underfiandme. I am dejioured, and yet a virgin : 'I funHifie, dnd am not fmcti-
'
fied. Happy is he that inibraceth me : for in the night feafon I am fwect, a-nd in the day full of
fleafure. My company is a harmony of many Cymbals, andmy lips fweeter than health it felf,
I am a harlot for fuch at ravi(h me, dnd a virgin ygitb fujoh as kjtow me not ; For lo, I am loved
»f many, and I am a lover to matfy ; and as many of copte unto me as they fhould do, have enter-
tainment. Purge your jireets^O ye fons of men, and Wiijh your houfes clean j ma}^ your felves
holy,and put on rigbteoiifnefi. Cafi out your old firumpets, and burn their clothes; ahftain
from the compiiify of other wAm,?n that are defiled, that arefluttifh, and not fo handfome and
beautiful oi I, and then will L conte and dwell amoHgl} you : and behold, Iwdl bring forth chil-
dren unto you, audtheypAllbetbeSonsof Comfort. I t^ill open rirv 'r.irnietixs.. ^ni iandna."
kfd beforeyou, that your love may be more enfiamed toward me,
Aiyet,Iwalk^ mtla Clouds; as yeiy 1 am carrried with theWinai, anA cannot dejcendtmto
yon for tke mvltitude of your abominations, and th^e filthy loathfomnefs of your dyviUing places.
Behold til efe four, who ishe that fhall fay. They have finned ? or unto whom /hill they jj,g ff.,,j^^
make account ? Not unto you, O you fons of men, nor unto your children : for unto /v. E-K. I'.K.
the Lord beloiigeth the judgement of his fervants. •
& I a.
Now therefore, let the earth give forth her fruit unto you, and let the Mountains forfake \ blcfsin;?
their barrennefs whereyour footjiep JhaU remain. Happy is he that falutetb you, and curfed is he foro;;:dience
that holdith up hit hands againil you. And power Ihall be given unto you from .henceforth a' cording
to relifl- your enemies : and the Lord (hall ahvayes hear you in the time of your troubles. ^'^ laicn.^
And I atKletit unto you to play the harlot with you, and am to enrich y»u with the f^oils of other
v>reparare
men, Frefare for me^ for I come portly. Provide ymr Chambers for me^, that tihey.fnay be ''nosnntde-
fweet And cleanly ; for I will tmkf A dwelling-place amongH you »and I will be common with Iffnra.
the father and the [on, yea and with all them that truly fuvourethyeu : for nty youth is in her S'^l'-itat'.o
flowers^ and my jireagth it not to be extinguijhed with man. Strong am I abnve and belm,there-. prima,
fore provide for me : for behold, I now falute you, and let peace be amongff yon ; for I am the
Daughter of Comfort. Difclofe not my fecrets unto women, neither let themunderjtand Secrecy from
how f»eet 1 ar», for all thirds belongethnot to every one. I come unto you again^ v;omen^
E. K. She is gone along that green fieJd alfo.
^o I read it over to our great comfort.
A. We nio:ft humbly and heartily thank thee, O God Almighty, the onely fountain
of WifdGme,^owcr, and all goodnefs : Help us now and ever to be faithful and fruitful
fervams to thee^ for thy honour and glory. Amen.
E.K. The field appeareth a very level ground,covered with pretty
grafs even to the brinks of the It is bright if the Sun light,
but i Tee not the Sun, but the clear- sky over it.
c^. Vanfa ftmihora univs.
E,K. Now cometh the horfeman, and rideth by into i^& field, and
fo doth Madimi. Now cometh the third, and To goeth away into
the field.
Now cometh Die that was left here ; flie ftandeth flill : fhe hath
^^^f^"^
-
a book in her hand covered; (as it were) with Mofs three inches at the
head;, and four inches longs, and a finger thick : it hath no Clafps i
jtis plain.
Pitufa.
7be fourth hoirr after dinner, repair hither again: And whttfoever ycu- fhtW feade-out of
this book, receive it kjteeling upon ymr kftees j and fee that you fufftr no Creature female ^"^'7
^^^
to enter within this place : Neither Jhall the things that he opened unto you^ be revealed un- ^'*' " "
Ko your wives, or unto any Creatureas yet : for I will lye with you, a while^- and. yg\{ IhtU
f rceiv^e ^at I amfwett and full of Comfort, and that the Lord is at hand, and that he mil
fcortiy vikt the earth, and all his whole Provinces. ^ .
D d a E,K,
2 6 Atrue ^Relation of Dr. Dee his ABions^ mth Spirits, dec.
X)om:riHi
propf ejl-
E. K. She turneth her felf into a thoufand /liapes of all Creatures
:
and now fhe is come to her own form again.
She hangcth the Book in the air.
Give God thanks, and fo depart.
A. All laudj thanks, honour and gloiy be to oui- God, our King and Saviour, now
«nd ever. Amen.
1587. Saturday the fame day.
AFter Dinner, about four hours, or fomewhat lefs we reforted to the place.
A voyce to E.K. Kneel towardthe Eart ; fo he kneeled at the table of Covenant,
with his face toward the Eaft; and I at my table oppofite to him.
A In the Name of God the Father , God the Son, and God the HoiyGhoft.
.
A»ten.
Re&efapere & inteUegere doceto nos ( Vominiu) nam fapentia tua^totum efl quod qu£rmnf
Da verbuin tuum inorem\\ro & fafknxtimxuam in cordibus nojiritfige.
E. K. The Book remaineth hanging in the ayre.
A voice Kelly, I know it is troublefome for thee to kneel : Sit. Fiufa magna.
A , So E.K. rofe from kneeling, and did fit.
E. K. Now flie is here, that laft advertifed us.
She taketh the book and dividcth it into two parts : and it feem-
eth to be two books : the half cover adjoyning to one, and the
div^ed! other half cover bel6nging to the other, the fides with the covers-are
towards me.
...... JFifdome if a piercing beam, vehich it the center of the fpiritual being of the holy
Spirit, touching from all parts from whence the Divinity fendeth it out : and is proper to
the foul, or unto fubjUnces , that have beginning,but no ending ; fothat, whatfoever (hall have
end, can never attain unto that which it called. iVifdome : Neither can things that are fuhjedta
the fecond death, receive anyfuch influence , becaufe they are already noted , and marined with
the feat of dejlruClion. Happy ii he whom God hath made a vejfel of falvation ; for unto him be-
Ad imit^t- ioHgetb ioy, and a crown of reward : Adam (your forefather and firft parent) inrefpe&of hit
»iemDei" creation, that isto fay, inrefpeB of his imaginative compofition received no pength, but by the
failaserat' Holy GhoH-^for the foul of man is free from allpafjions and affeCiiom, until it enter into the body
unto the which it is limited :
fo that, being neither good nor bad (but apt unto both) he is left^
iy Divine providence and permijjion joyned together to the end of the one, or the other: But
•fpherefoever wifdome dweHeth, it dwelleth not with the foul , oi any property thereof, hut according
to the good will of God, whofe mercy concurreth on every fide into him , and takfth up a manfion
therein; to utter out, and manifeji his great goodnefs : And even oi the heavens are glorified con-
tinually with the Spirit of God : So is the ful of man glorified, that receiveth fandificatiott
thereby; for no man is illuminated, that is not fandified : neither it there any man perfedly fan-
Hified, that is not illuminated. I fpeak^ this (my brethren) for that youjhaU 7«;-
derfiand,that no man did, or can ever attainto wifdom ( that per felf wifdome which I jpeal^
The 'con-
ceiving the
expofuion
of our for-
mer books.
The good
will of God.
Adam his
knowledge.
The Apo-
Ifles.
We.
of) without he become a Center in his foul unto the mercies, and good will of God comprehend-
ing him , and dwelling in him , therefore lift up your eyes and fee. Callyour wits together , and
mark^my words. To teach you, or expound unto youthe my^eries of the Bookj thatyou have al-
ready received , if not in my power , but in the good will of God, after whofe Image I am :
Which goodwill of God, is the defcending of his holy Spirit abundantly upon you,
and into you, opening all your fenfes , and niakjng you perfeS men: for Adam underflood by
that grace, and his eyes were opened fo that he faw and l{new all things that were
to his underflanding : So have all thofc more and lefs, that have been counted wife, received the
gifts of the Holy Choft , which fetteth the foul on man fo on fire that he pierceth into all
things, and judgeth mightily. The ApolHes which knew even the thoughts of men,
underrtood all things , becaufe the holy Spirit>made a dwelling place in them : even fo
fliall it happen unto you : Foryou are the chofen of this laft dayes, andfuch aslhall be
full of the blejjings of Cod, and hit Spirit fliall refl with ym abundantly. Mark^therefore what
I have to fay umo you.
T
A true delation of Dr. Dee his JHions, mth Spirits^dcc. ^ zy
A hundred dayes are limited unto you during the which time , you (hall every feventh, pre-
feiit your felvcs in this place, anJ you fhalllaud and praifeGod. And behold I will be ^" hundred
jtrefent amotigfiyou. ''^i« limited
• And before thefe dayes faf>, when power if given me fo to do, I will enter out of this Stone un- ^^'''^ ^"^
uyoii andyou fliall eat up thefe two bookj, both the one and the other : and wif- nZf^ ,i
dame pall be divided betwcenyou, fi/fficient to each man. apparition.
ihenjhallyour eyes be opened to fee and underftand all fucli things as have been written un- The undcr-
to you, and taught you from above. But beware ye tul^eheed, that you dwell within your Handing of
felves, and keep the fecrets of God, untill the time come that youfhall be bid SPEAK : fucluhiiiRS
for th;H lljall the Spirit of God be mighty uponyou; fo that it pall be faid ofyou, LO were as have bc-
nor thde, the Sorcerers , and fuch as wei e accounted Vagabonds ; Other fomepall fay,
|oic time
Behold let us take heed J and let us humble ourfelves before them : for the Lord oi"
'^^'^^ '''^'i*
Hoalls is with them. ™"=> '"y
And you (hall have power in the Heavens, and in the lower bodies : And it pall be
j;|ij^j1'
taught you at all times inwardly,f^'^M what belongeth to the hearts of men : T'henpjt thou
[„^t,ii
E.'K. have a new coat put on thee , <r«i /t /?;^// be all of one colour. Then palt thou a. ''1^ Power to be
have power to open that book , which God hath committed unto thee i
but ufe your felves given us.
4K men, yea evin thenreynember fuch as may receive the mercies and grace of God : And let all VtaeaElio-
peace and unity be amongft you: For even as the Sun lookfth into all things from above,{o (hall new d».i583
you into all the creatures that live upon the earthyw the one ofyoupall have his menfis die.,
lifted, and pall enter into the fnirth or fifth heaven, for unto him that if w>orW/y °f his divers
kjiowledge be given; and unto him that hath been patient , pall greater things defcend. Not- ipoctedcoat.
withjianding both fufficiently fati)fied:In the meanfeafon,Thc feventh day hencc,pahhou hving ^°^'^ ^"a
in fuch things, as the Lord hath given thee : And in this place they (hall be difpofed ac- £('^™^g'^'
_
cording to the knowledge that is given me : And herein thou haji ^leafed the Lord; ^<'*"
the 4th. and
that thou haft dealed ftreight, and according to brotherly meaning. 5th.heavea.
A- Now Cometh the time that the Whorepallbe called before the Higheji,and the tenth Month a OLord I
hence, pall the Turk and the Mofcovite make a perpetual league together, and in the thirteenth thank thee
month, (l>all Poland be affaulted , with theTartarians, and pall be fpoyled : yea even unto that thou
the very ribs,fo that in the fxtecnth month they (hall fall all together from Chrift : And the haiiacccptcd
hand of God (hall run in vengeance , vengeance, even through this Kingdome, and through my patience.
Germ:n\y,and into Italy ; and in the 23. Month Kome pall be deftroyed , fo that onejione pall ^J.f^^" i°-
Kot be left jianding upon another, and vengeance (hall be on all the earth, and fear upon
^f £,T°1*!»
dlpeople,for the Lord ii gone out againif them : They eat and drink, and fay, Let us be
^^^^ ^ ^j^
J
*
merry : tf^o be v.nto them, for the kjiownot the time of their vifitation. For lo Jujiice palt vifit
powder.
them and tread them under foot : And even this Kingdome pall dure for a while 5 that is to fay, ^
This wickfdtriumph. And behold in the North pall rife that Monjler , and pall pafs forth with Menfeio.
many Miracles, but yon feeing all thefe things (JmU be at quietnefs untill fuch times as it (hall forte menfe
be (aid unto them, Revenge. Happy is he that is not partakjr of the love of fuch tK pall be pro ann.erit.
vexed theje latter dayes. AProphcfis
E. K. She is gone. PoSd^*
A. I read thefe over to E. K. To his great comfort. Mcfife 16,
...... Maks "'^^fd., I have m more tofay •
Bohemia.
Gcrmania.
£,.I>eonojlroOmnipotentj, yatri,Filio, & Spiritui fanHofitomnis laufgratiarum adiOp honor Italia.
gloria & Imperium nunc & in fempiterna. fjeculorum fecuU. Amen. ^^.'5^9'
Antichrtfiiu
Untill.
Revenge.
D eld 7 Magnifid
*zS Atrue %elatwn o/' Dr. Dee his JBiom, mth Spirits, 6cc.
I
MAgnificiviri fraires ^ AtnictChariJJ'. Hodiehora 9. ante meridiem ijia
mihiaUatif. funt liters a Domino Schombergio, qn£ datte funt 5 Mar-
cii, & debebat jamdevcniffein manus meas antea. Ex qttibus intelligo ip-
fum dim Domino Holek expertare rejponfnm Munfterbergii. ^andoquidem
Omnipotens ille omnium rerum moderator^ (^ reUor vos delegaverit ad hoc mi"
tiijicrium ^ opus perficiendum. Ego nihilfcio quid agendum^ nee nllttmmeum
eonjilium eo accedere poteji^ i{t dil^onere aliquid pojjim^ fciam aut "velim^, nifi
quod fapientijfimo iUi moderatori vifnm ftierit. Proinde omnia vobis tranf-
mitto^ Orate fedulo^ & quod placuerit JltiJJimo e^ Potntijjimo Domino hoc
fiat^ & me ctiam in omnibus informate e^ in tantis libenter ohedire cupio ^
volo : Etitanolimneq--, diem ijiam pratermittere quin jiatim rnrfus ad vos
tranfmittam. Interim vos ^ meipfum Dei omnipotentk bonitati immenf^que
mifericordi£ commendans. Dat. Cromovis, i6Marciij Aitno 1587.
Fejier amicus ^ frater^
Cuilielmus manu propria.
Magnificis viris Domino Joanni Dee & Domino Edvardo KeUeo &ad
manus proprias.
1587. Recepimus tandem Trebons Aprilk 2. l<ios enim a Reichftenio ahi^
veramus ^ rediveratnus anteqnam <r<^Reichftenium nunciusvenit.
MAgnifici Domini Chariffimi amici & fratres, ad literasveftras nihil re- J
fpondere potui, quandoquidem per fuas mihi literas D. Schomberg^
*
de fuo & focii ipfius a . . . . tu fignificaveras, Toluiprimum qux mihi ....
necentur audire. Et fi aliqua nova effent vel non audita, dominationem
veftram magnificam denuo certiorem reddere. Haeri noftu folus ad me ve-
nit D. a Schomberg. relifto focio in monafterio meo. Coronienli dimidium
ab hinc milliare, & denegotiis mihimulta expofuir, dequibus uci intellexi,
cxipfo& Rom. veftris Mag. fignificaverit, Uti potui intelligcre, fatis cir-
cumfpefte 8c provide ncgotia funt tradtata ufq^ hue, & fpero etiam fideli-
ter ; Ad omnia ifta refpondi, prout fepiffime a me intellexiftis, Scnuper e-
tiam literis quae illi dicenda putabam Dom. veftrs fcripfi. Tota res vide-
tur conlifterc in adjuvandis aliquibus perfonis pecuniarum aliquo auxilio,
& prout 6c fcriptum five .... memoriale mihi tradidit, quod tranfmitto
Dom. veftris perlcgendum 8c confiderandum, 8c poft,mihi remittatur oro.
Chariffimi Domini fcitis quse fit vohmtas Domini, proxima a&io O' ali<e,
(mihi videtur) annuunt ipfosadjutandos, fiat fecundum ipfius cujus omnia
lunt voluntate 8c inifericordiffima difpofitione 8c expediantur eo celerius,
prout cum Domino ££/z)4r(^(? locuti fumus. Ipfi refpondeant Domino altif-
fimo8c potcntiffimo defide quam ipfi prsftabunt, fin vero alitervifumfue-
rit Omnipotenti Domino fiat ita. Rogo Dom. veftras Magn. quam amantif-
fime piis fuis ad Deum orationibus 8c mediis a Domino vobis traditis 8c con-
ceffis promovete, 8c adjuvetis Domini Dei noftri opus 8c voluntatem ex-
cqui.
^^
Socius remanfit inmonafterio, ut fupra didlum, 8c conclufi cum Domino ^^^R
Schombergio^ ut neqj videam neq; traftem cum illo, certis de caufis, quaaJ^Hl
vobis fignificabit, 8c a me etiam intelligetis ; tamenut eo fit melius conten-
"^^
tus de duobus vel tribus millibus tallerorum ipfi procurabitur ad qu»dam fi-
bi neccflfaria comparanda in lucio fperat ipfum bene fore contentum pro
tempore raodo cstera qu^ majora funt propter reliqua ut fupra fcripfi pro-
curentur.
Ego
A true "Relation of Dr. Dee bis AUions^i^hh Sfirits^dcc, * ip
Ego nonfum ab Iniperatore vocatus, fedmeam dealiquibusexpetivit fua
Majcftas fententiam cle quibus refcripli ut decuit.
DeactioneintcllexiDom. veftrasparatas ad prsfcriptum diemeffe velle,
bene eft. Semper nos paratoseflcdecet &convenit , Ipfe benigniffime quse
in nobis dcfunt, fua mifericordia 8c dementia incnarrabili perficiat ; Placet
jnihi fententia Dom. veftrarum 8c qux initio 8c in prooemio adionis propo-
iierevelletis, deque me informabitis, ad hoc me componam & expeftabo
humiliter refponfum.
^te fropoficfida putabafu Jtitllafunt alia ni^iilla.
1. Si Imperatoxde rebus Tolonick a mcquicquid fcifcitari vellet, aut fu-
fpicionealiqua de me concepta aut fingendo libi aliquid ^uomodo me gerere
debeam.
2. Si Imperatorde fucceflioneRegnihujus pro fratre aliquid traftare vel-
let quomodomegerere debeam.
3. Si eleftio Polo?iica fucceffura (it, quid de bonis meis paternis difponat
Dominus, Sc mihi quid faciendum.
4. Debeo-nede negotioP<7/<;«7coaliquacumEled:ore JSr^wt/ewiKy^iro aut
aliquo Principe Imperii confidenter conferre, velnon. Cum quibus, quan-
do8c quaratione.
5. Similes aliquisconducendus8cquando.
6. Si Pontifex aut Imperator de perfonis Dom. veftrarum vellet aliquid
attentare, vel eas iterum re/e^tfrejVelquovismodo perturbare, quid agendum
8c ipfis refpondendum.
7. Si de Thefauro nobk concredito aliquid Caefari fit communicandum,
quando, quantum, Sc quomodo.
8. Si Imperator mea opera uti vellet proagendis Comitiis in JUoravia &
Silejiay fi hoc fufciperemunus debeam.
L'ecseteri humiliter fupplicentut meita difponeredignetur altiffimus ut
fibi foli placeara 8c ferviam fideliter & conftanter ad fui nominis xternam glo-
riam Sc ReipubliccE Chriftianx falutem.
Si Dom. veftrx putant aliqua omittcnda, aut quae ofFendere pofTentper
amoremDeiorOj bene confiderent : omittant aut emendant pro fua piecate
8c prudentia.
Unuu^ eft quod omifi de propofitionibus ; Quod conftitueram in animo de
Thefauro Domini mihi benigne conceffo aliquas fundationes, hie in pa*
tria ifta conftituere. Deus fcit mentem meam quern nihillatet. Si placet
hoc meum mifericordiflimo Domino propofitum vel non.
Et pr^fertim fi mihi alio (divina ita difponente gratia) fitcommi^randum,
vellem patria mea cognofcat, 8c tota pofteritas quod amaverim illam, 8c
optime de falute ip forum 8c pofteritatis fenferim.
Dat. Cromovi£ fsria 5 . poft Pafcha, Anno 1 587.
Vejier ex animo, &frater ^ amicm
^mceruf
Cuilielmus manu propria.
In
^
^o '
Jitrue ^B^lation of Dr. Dee his ABionSy with SpiritSydcc.
In nomine Patiis, &: Filii, Sc Spiritus Sandi. Ameji.
Gloria Patri, & Filii, & Spiritui San£lo : ficut crat in principio Sc
nunc Scfemper &: in feciila fcculorum. Amen.
In JBione Tertian ^roponenda,
I . T~^£tf OMnJpotenti^ Tatrj^ Filio ^ Spiritui SanUo^ offerimm nos humili-
'
\_^ mi^pariitos ad, Divina. Oracnla^ tnonitti^ injirudfiones^ informattonesy
^ alia qu£cunq'-y in hac generali Aifione^ Jufcipienda, intelligcnda^ e^ exe-
quenda, qu£ J'ua Diviria Majejioi^ pro fua. gloria & nojira confolationc
maxitna fore, pr<eviderit C^ decreverit.
2. Huf/uliter requirimus, art hie plenariah^c tran^tgetur A&io : velannO'
bis ad Cromoviaiiij cum necejjarik nojirjs rebus ^ (^ quibus illis quidem^ pro-
peranditm fuerit.
5. Has noji'ri Domini Rofenbergii Hu^fiiones 12 generates, d^ alia qua-
cnnq'-^in eijdem particulariter continentHr, htimiliter offerimuj, tarn ejus qiiam
iioflro 7iomine, ilia d^ talia expeHantes rej^onfa qu£ (j^ qualia a fede Maje-
ftatk Divin<€, in fuorum fervorum confnUationibus procedere, ^ olim ^
femper folent.;
. 4. Et quia in eifdem ^acjiionibus, nulla faUa ejl mentio de ufn pulverk
que»/ jibi divinituf conce/jum habet^C^ aliquotiesprius diclum fuerit, quod in
hac A0ione, informaretur deillim pulvcrk ufu^nos, jam humiliter illam de~
jideramm informationem.
'
S* Et f'iW ioctraordinarius ijle vehemens favor Atofchovitici Trincipk erga
jneincognttum jam eft mihi (^ multis alik conteJiat/0, d^ manifejius, (ago
Geo Optimo Maximo gratiof quantas pojjum maxitnas) d^ quia incertus fum
ad quern finem Deui ilium ejus favorem erga me, dirigere veiit : humiliter peto
C^ mihi a te (Omnipotens DeusJ informatio detur de ijio fine, d" voluntate
tttain hac parte, C^ quo modo ejufUem Nuncifs reffondere debeam, ft qui jaf»
venerint de c£ter<)
.
6, An non debeamus nofmet dijponere, (nt alias, aliquoties prdtmonitum eji^
tit hic, lapidem Phlofophorum ex methodo Dunftani conficiamus : qu£ me-
thodur, quia mihi non conjiat, f^peme haUenus fecit videri quaft in hoc labors
•tardum,otiofum, vel ignavum : Vbi, contra,, quam ejl paratus animus meus
d^ manus d>" pedes d^ omnes vires tarn animi quam corporis mei, Tu nojii, Tuq^
j(:0 Dcuf) 'tejifs ejio meus.
-.' 7. ilia Praxis, cum poculo ferreo, canali vitrea,^calce d^c. nondum nobig
fuccedit'-) idcirco, ad illius quoq\ Conclujlonis veritatem praBicam obtinen-
dam, libenter fciremus, quid eji quod nos ha&enus impedivit, vel quid nobk
dceji, adveram intelligendam, d^ perficicndam praxim tilam.
y. Thomx Y%.c\\t\decumbentis valetudinem d^ fanitatem, tibi (O Deus)
commendamus, d^ fupplicamus , nt illi, nobijque propitius ejjf'e velis : il~
lufaq'-ftfahnm dt falvum nobis reddcre d^ confirmare digneris adnominis tui
laudcm, honorem d^ gloriam^ ex fideli ejufdem pojihac jervitio, d^ officio :
erga divinam tuam Majefiatem. ATncn.
9,:Jpa9na, uxor Ed: Kellei nj^flri^ Omnipotenti Divin<e Majejiati tus
fupplicatpcrme, d^ ego humiUm'e (ejufdem ]o:\.i-\n£ nomine) tibi (o Deus)
fupplico, nt illi velis ejje mifericors, clemens d>" bemgnus'^ d^ itt ejus multi-
plices ad te preces pro ftecunditate cum hoc ejus marito obtmenda, paterna re-
Jpicias charitate : d^ ut illi hoc contnbuere velis gaudium, d^ cpi.tfi jui fide-
lis fervitii (erga hunc fuum maritum) premium, ut prole per cundem d^
^cHm eodem gaudere pojjit beata : rejpice qu^Jumus banc nojiram pttitionem,
nt a htnltis dim pits ftemtnis c^ viris eandem accepjjii, d^ etiam concef-
m
I
— : ^___
Jtrue "Relation of Dr. Dee hU Mions, mth Spirtts^^c. ^-
^j
ftjii petiti(Pnem Mifericordijfime Pater, per Filium tuum, Dominum fiofintnt
jefiim Chrifliim. A men
.
lO. rfOv/ea]an3. (o Dens') hnmilime gratias ago, qtiod ha&cnus t^m cle-
menier €^ pie illam liberaverk a fita; radicalis infirmitatis contagione c
contra quam & medicinam facere, me docn/Jii : & nte ut faceremadjuvijii,
faciteque earn virtHtem concejjijiz, ut ilia remedii optati nohk pr^eberet figna^
qualianojira imperitia magis J^erat ej'e bona d^ certa _,
quam reBa ratiene
dijitdicarepoteji, hoc igitur fymptona egefiionis fanguinolentx quid fit ne-
fcimns, an morbi alterius indicium, an di6f£ Medicine adhitc in fna vir-
tnte ^ efficacia procedentis, operatic. Tuuw (O Deits) ne dedigneris impar-
tiremiht confilium : ^ de jfuxn illo freqtienti, ex ejufdem Janx anribhs, li-
benter audire vellemut remedium aliquod.
De AnglisE & Regina ejufdem Jiatu^ Ji aliqnid fcire nobk expedit, li-
benter andiemus.
^ 3 ^ A true Relation of Dr. Dee his JHwm, mth Spirits, dec.
^^>^^4?^^^^'^^^^^-'^^^^^^^^^4f^4?^4p4?^^^^^^^^^^^4?^^^^^^^^^^^^
London^ At Mrs, (joodman her houfe.
Martii 20 a merlde hora 4. \
JESUS
OmnipQtens fempiteriie (3c une Deus.
Mlnm lucem tuam & veritatem Utam, ut iffa. me ducat & prducat ad montem fanSum
tuum & Tabernacula. Amen.
...... I am blejfed Raphael, a hlejfed mejfenger of the Almighty^1 gm fent of- God , -ffho is
hUffed for evermore. Anicn.
John Dee, / am fent of God for thy comfort firft to certifie thee than jhak overcome thU thy
infirmityJ
and vhen thou art ftrong in body, as God in hpt goodnefs will Mtnk^e thee , THEN thou
{halt have all made known unto thee of fuch things being not come to pafs as have been
before fpoken of, hecaufe that thoujheuldeji ta}{e comf«n in God^ that thou art not left from the
comfort of Gods bleffed creatures. Noyp God hath fent me at this time whereby thoujhalt be fa~
tiified, THAT when thy hod,y is able to abide the time of my fervice from God to be de-
livered unto thee by me il/jp^«e/ : "Xhy friend '^ohn^ontojsytt livethJ but his time is lively
to be port,
Ask^ at your will-
A O God, I am beaten into a great attempt, to make the coanfel privy, ofmy
beggary, and to offer the Earle of Salisbury*, fuch my duties as I may perfeft to his con-
tents How ftandeth this with your good liking ?
A. Spiritual,
"ihou (halt have friends J in thy fuit 3 and thou Jhalt have foes, hut through Gods
A. Spiritual, ^
mercies, thy friends , pall overcome thy foes and thoupalt fee hew thafGod in his goodnefs will
wor'k, mightily in his power for thee,
troceedinthy fuit fojhortly (K thoucanfi finde'thyhealth inbody able : And for thy health vfe
thy own skill, that God hath, andpall guide thee withall to thy good and perfeft receiving
of thy perfect health.
^ Of the blood, not coming out ofmy Fundament, but at a little,as it were
a p'n hole of the skin.
Raph. that the which thou hadft nh knowledge to help thy weakjtefs , God tn his mercies did
fend thee therein prefent help, the which bta only for that iffue thou couldeji not have lived.
And for the Cure and thy help, the fame God will work, with thee in thy heart and minde fo, that
itfi/all be known unto no man, but by Gods merciful goodnefs delivered mto thee,fuch wayes and
means as (hall be thy help, and refiore thee to health again. This God of his mercy hath fent me to
deliver thisport meffage, hecaufe of thy weakftefs. Thou art not ftrong to indure them, there-
r. -,
/"'^ f"'^P ^ Gods goodnefs to let youto underjtand that after the tenth day of April , / will then
LiOj appear again, and thoupalt underfiand much more what Gods will and his pleafure U to be done
in Gods fervices , andfor your good,and fofer this littleport meffage, 1 have declared unto you
the will of JefusChriff .•
Andfo for this time , In the Name of the moft higheft Creator
and maker of Heaven and Earth, 1 do now return at hit will and commandement, and I am
ready at dl rimes when he pall commani mto appear to thy comfort. Hit Name he praifed
tvermore. Amm^Amen.
£>, Amen.
Friday
A true^'R^aUon of Dr. Dee his Aciions^with Sfirits-,Scc. * 22
Friday 24, Martit hora p \
LJt
,Eus in adjutorium fiolhum intendas V. D. R.R. ... Zebaith ihe Omni-
fpotent God be praifed for evermore, hk holy Name be glorified. Now John Dee , I Ra-
phael am n w come at Gods pleafure^and at his commandemcnt to fpeak^witht'.ee^and mak^ kjtown
vnto thee as far forth as in my power lieth to fpeak^Godhathfent me to declare unto thee.- the caufe
of thy defire now at this time, John Dec, as thou art an earthly man , if thou doji defire to have
help from God of fitcb things m earthly men cann t he without while they have time here in thif
mortal life, thou defirejl to have kjiowledge as concerning things hid , the wHch I Raphael have
no delight, neither pleafnre infpeakjng of any fuch earthly matter, or eanhly cafes. But my de-
light is in the Almighty, and in his wifdome. But notwithjianding at this recjueji, and thy inward
defire in God to be certified of this treafure , the which thefe two men whom thou kjtoweji do fpeak
of,thiy ever had a ttme appointed of Godfor it,and it was not ufed accordingly as they fhould have
done. Now this fecend time-, becaufeyou have a defire to have kelp and kjiowledge at the hands of
the Almighty, I Raphael do command thee and thofe men whom thou kjiowejl, that they fl:all not
intermeddh,or to takf it in hand before the tenth day o/Jamiary be paji, f,r if they do they (hall
not prevail, for that is a time that God hath beji appointed for the faid purpofe, andf^r the quiet
enjoying of it ; fo tv'nn that day is paii, then let th-m in the name of God enter into that wor'\
And ifihey will be fuch men <w they ought for to be, and as Gods will is that theyfliould be, to dea]
faithfully and truly one with the other in deed and in word, God will thenblefs their good purpofe
and bring it to their head wf en they (liali take in hand to open the earth, God -will prefently at that
in-tant tbenfufer their good purpofe to tal^e effed , and the matter to be effeUed and had, fo that
they Jhall not be put of, if they (hall he are or fee any thing that they fl^all difli^e , but fafely to
Jiand in the hofe,and craving at Gods hand to have that good help to be a warrant between them
and all hurt and danger -whatfcever may hehapfen,and fo overcome. I fay. If they will faithfully
fray unto God with their whole truji in G ed, God will hlefs their good fuccefs, if they be otherwife
then ji ^.ood never jlir, and their good fuccefs will be againji them. So I Raphael have made
kjiown unto thee Gods purpofe in thit thy requejl.
f
For this I have faid.
John Dee, /Raphael, did make kjiownunto this defire of that fecret , and that great gift
that gave vnto thee in fuch order and manner as thou kjiowefi: where thou hidji it , and that never
asyet had\i the kjicwtedge and the wifdome that God will give thee as Concerning that, and
tnany mo fuch 7<nto thee : So this rare-gift being taken away from thee by them
thou kjioweji, by taking thy key , end fo taking of it from thy keeping, it was the will and purpofe
of God,tJiat I Raphael jhould give fuch .. . that thou (fjouldefl have knowledge ... of the fame,
ihoujhalt takf fuch courfe .... thou mayeft obtain it again, and whenthou haft it, thou (halt
pnit into the fame cheji again , and commit it into the- cujhdy and keeping of thy very friend
John Pontoys , and he jhall,and will deal faithfully and friendly with thee in keeping the fame
until fuch time as by that ... the which thou k^toweft is promifed unto thee , that thou fhalt re-
ceive the perfeB widerftanding vf the hid kjiowledge and fecrecie of God that is not as yet made
k^own unto thee, and as hath been faid, fofljalt thou have fuch wifdome delivered unto
thee by me Ra phael that jhall come in fuch . . . and order as hath been late made known unto thee
for thy good in fucbjhort and fpeedy time to he performed, and fo thus much I have made k*iown
unto thfe, as God hath in jiore for thee to be performed.thus much 1 have now faid,and given thee
cunning to keep it in fuch maner as hhave fpok^n, or elfe thou wilt be difappointed ofthat,and . . .
it will hide (uch purpofe as God will have come to pafs,fo in his mighty power command me to come.
I have for this matter fini(hed ; If thou have any thing fpeedily, ask^ in ... for I am to depart.
John Dee, If thou wilt have all thy caufe then ... . as thou muftjhew unto thy likjng and
hers what thou hall drawn,and crave for good ajfijiance it ... of . .. defiring his help, and . .
.
unto her the difeafe. . . .to go to fuch men xhatfhoald give thee further inftruBion thy beft as I have
faid to fl.'ew untn her that thou haft done and he will ... in thy cafe unto
and Canterbury, and fo the faith Jhall triumph injhort time, and if this be
^ Jnlii 9. hora. 4. a meridie.
. A. After my Prayers for a qiurter of an hour, a Voice faid, pvefimsnfier
I am Raphael whofe voice thou doft hear : Tomorrow morning tit nine of the clocks God Three Kings
will fend me to thy fight. in Kings-
A. So with thanks to God I ended. » ftrecc.
y E c c Mittifs
*
7± Atrue ^lation of Dr. Dee his AUions^ with Sfiriti^dac.
Fr'd^y ths <^. MhXM lucem tuam & vahatnn xuaniyqua nos ducant & ferducant ad montent fandiim
io7.';/,V, tuuni 6' cxlejiiatutitabernacula. Amen.
hoi-.-.^,.
Barth. As for you, the Creator of God doth appear.
£^. Benedicluf qui venitin nomine Domini HaUeluia.
, . Bkf^td be God the father, and God the Son, and God the holy Ghoj}. AU honour
and pffer be aferihed unto the living God for evermore. _
Amen. a. Amen.
John Dee, I am Raphael, one of the blejfed and ektt Angels of the Almighty; and at hk
will and hi^ gcod pleafure, he hath commanded me to appear here at this time, to fet forth the tfill
and pleaflire of the Almighty God.
John Dee, my meffage that I have at this time to deliver unto thee, k of great force, m that
GoA would have thee t:j do. And where,w it was fiid at my laji appearing at this beholdery that
I would appear again, and now it hath pleafed God to fend me to perform and make kjtown ac-
cordingto that which wm then faid, that all things before promifed (hould be made plainly
known what Gods will is to be done in all that hath been before faid.
Now I do mak/ kjfown unto you the plain meaning and underjianding thereof.
Firii th u haii been promifed the fecret kjiowledge and under^landing of the Fhilofophers Stone,
of the Book of St. Dimftans, to have the kjtowledgeof them.
It is ftnte a long time, as thou kjiowefi to mans reafon, and to the mindc of man, a. few years
is with man thought to be big , andnow God hath been thy kseper, and wo;r chiefiy created thee,
and hath fuffcred thee to have time to live unto this age : and furthermore, thou doji lik^ vnto thy
Nativity, and confidering thy great age that the conrfe of Nature for age, if lik^'ly, by thy rea-
fon, to takf place. BUT J >hn Dee, thou d H well remember unto whom,in the holy Scriptures,
thatGodin his mercies did adde and put to fifteen years longer than the time was fet him : So
think^not but God in his 7verci-^s will be as great unto thee. And now to come to the matter where-
by to let thee to utiderjiand why thou badd not thus thi^fe rare gifts and promifes performed unto
thee, it was the will of God to hjep them away.., and to fuffer the heart of thy fupreme head and
governour, '.nder God, to behardmd agaiajl thef, that thou art no better account made of unto
him, hut to he fuch an one that doth deal with Devils and by Soreery., as you commonly term them
Witchcraft : and who dath, and who haih informed him, to be thus evil and hardly informed a~
gain^ thee, but only the Devil, mid by the hatred of thy fecret enemy whom thou kjioweji (Salif-
bury I mean"^ and all m:ilicf and emmies that he can by hit Devils, Maferien, Hermcloe, the
four wicked ones,the which are uCCoun:ed the four Rulers of the Air,whofe names 6f OrieSjEgym,
Paynini, and Mayrary : Ihey he the Devils that he dcth deal withall, that he through their en-
ticing and hifj he ihinkfth' to be pleafant and good wifdom that he receiveth at their hands ; That
he and his Devils do feek thy overthrow in all good things, and doth and (hall, fo far forth
as God will fuffer the-!", fe\all the malice and hindrance in all good caufes to be done to thy
good. Therefore now John Dee I am to let thee to underft and plainly what Gods will and his
great pirpofe if to have thee to do, although it may feem hard to thy good likjng, conftiering as
thou doji think,i the weak^ejj^of thy body, and courfe of age .- yet notwithjlanding, that fame God
that hath benthyfrotecor and keeper until this prefent time of years, that fame merciful God
Jhall keep thee, and make thee able to perform thinn^s that pall be made kjtown unto thee ; for God
will not beliow fuch rare gifts as I have before faid, amongst thofe which be unworthy of fuch great
blefffngs from the Almighty. For God will not bejlow Pearls amongH thofe that will not believe nor
underjiand that God hath any fuchhlefftngs to bejhw upon men : for I fay vnto thee, John Dee,
that if God ffjould or would befiow thofe blejJiMgsuponthee, even at this prefent, or at any time
to be Ihortly performed and delivered unto thee : Then, except that thou fliouldH make
all things plainly kjtown of Gods fee rets delivered unto thee, unto thy fupreme head under
God here upon earth,and likewife thy enemy to be partaker in thefefecrets andgreat gifts ofGod,if
thou wouldU not perform as much unto them,as God (hould give wifdom unto thee,there?n,thy life
would and Jhould, by the envy and malice of thofe wicked ones,and by thy great enemy thou fhoiddff
jpeedily be cut off from this life, but God will net have it fo. So if thou wilt do as G»d (hall
command thee by this meffage, thou fhalt have all thc(e.meffages, promifes and wifdom, both for
t^r Fhilofophers Stone, the book of S.Dunftans,tie fecret wifdom of that Jewel that was de-
livered, as thou knowefi, in what maimer it is plainly kjtown unto thee.
So now it is the will of God to fuffer thy fupreme Head his heart to be hardned againft
thee; and likfwife for thy great enemy for his wickfd injirudions againii thee,God doth fuffer it fo
to be, even ,h Pharaoh his heart was hardned againii the children of God, fo jiandetk the mat-
ter againji thee with them. If is the will of God fo to fuffer it to their great account that they
(hall have to makf, when it jhall pleafe the Almighty that that time (hall be, that they muHreiider
unto God their accounts. Now John Dee it is the will of the Almighty to fend we Raphael te
deliver unto thee this Mt^dge, the which will fcem unto thee to be very hard : ^^frf* t/'OM
art the fervant of God, and one whom God doth favour and love (^although the world by wicked
enemies doth hate thee) willingly and obediently follow that courfe the which God in hii mer-
cies at this time Jhall makf kjtown unto thee.
Thou
A true "Eeiatmi 0/ Dr. Dee his Mtons, mth Sptrtts,i^c, ^f,
^5
Thoirihak (if t'liolivvi'lc obey the comnumdment of God,bv me made know ntimo thee)
take a long journey in hand, and go where thou (halt have all rhefe s;rea; mercies of God
performed untotlice, and God will jheyp thecM great favour tn the fight of God, m ever he did
Jhev unto jo[\:^h,whowjif Id into bondage.as thou knoweji, and in allh^iwfnfmment and trou-
bles G d was with him,and delivered him .-
So,if_thou wilt follow tha commandment from God de-
livered mto thee ly we Raphael,r/;rft thou Jhalt not, doubt,nor waver in thj mind^hut Cod will be
mercifnl unto thee^bah in this life and in the life to come ; and think^God wiu not command thee t
j
takffuch ajournyin hand, but that he doth know that if beji for tkee, and he vi'iW preferve thee,
Jiftdkeep tlieeinihyjourny.^«i/ thou (huh find inthyjourny, that God fhall and will deal wer-
cifuliy wi.h thee mfind.')t^ caCco( the infirmity of the ftone, thatthe Ani^els of God Jhall di-
reft thee in thy he»rt and »:ind, how thou Ihalc ule thy body, to the health and comfort ot thy
ftrenglh. And when th.u art at thy joiirnies end amongtt fuch friinJs ^nondthefeas as thou
kjtowejl^Godjhall and will raife thee as faithful friends (jj- now I have [aid bef re') m JoCcph had,
fo ftalt ihoti be favoured with God and man ; for hit the will and'purpfeof Godto have thee
to be obedient unto t'^is the which I do make k^nown unto ther,becaufe thou jhopldii n t remain here,
to be beholding unto tliofe that are thy mortal enemies, and had rather to hear of thy end,
th.iH othsYwifi to hear o^' thy well-doing, or any good to be d ne unto thee by any man ; it if a. grief
and a lp:ghcin headand mind unto them, that thou Ihouldftcome to any help, or thui^s
necLlHuy for mans Wic here upon earth,tke which man cannot be without. And John Dee, I am
f» cow»w>j^ thee, that folhonly as thou canlt by all meauspollible, fee thy things hi order,
for ty lViirienjhiJ>,and in all other caufs of worldly affairs. *, And for maintenance to further
thy j'jurny God wiu mo^i gracioufly raife thee up fome good friends to be helping unto thee^tfiat thou
7}iaiit have maintenance intky journy. AndthyViry friettd John Pontoys jhalihy Gods favour Joh^ fon-
come homc,andhe Ihail andwill be a great aid iinto thee,t perform this courfe thi which God by tcys.
7ne hath com na idedt'-'ee to undertake : T^at where thou doji lit) now in wan, and to be beh Iding
unto thofe, wbj do not love th:e, neither in heart do wijh thee well -,
fo God would have thee to be
where thou In It do hnn fervice,tf?»ii God wiUgive thee long days in fu diing^and frdfiLing this bis Lon" life.
Co»imandment andwillby me Raphael,i^fw/«^'t meJJ'agel a»i at God> wiU andhn pi afure plainly
to ,}iake known unto thee,that it it hn will to have t .<ee to folLwthis c.urfe, in which God will havs
thee to enttr into. Not fearing nor miitruiiingthe we-Aknefa of chy body, butth..t God will pre-
serve th, e for t'-'at ttme,as (hall be hit go d will and pleafure, that thou Jhalt have life here in thit
w rld,tote jf merciful a God to deliver thee from all nuns a>,d dangers, and from all infirmities,
even with us ni'/ch h alth m thou haji had in this time as thou haji liVcd thuf many years \ fo God
Will ha ve thet to follow ''if will in this direi ion,and then thou Jhalt have all things aforefaid per-
formed unio thee, and thou (halt then have fich favour^ that thou fhalt behold his bleffed Crea-
tures with }hefe thy mortal eyes : an I if thou wilt perform to the uttermoji of thy power this meff.tge
fro'v G d ly me delivered •, Then G d will in hif mercies perform all that is promifed unto thee.
And exctjtt thou wilt he willing and d"ttful fo much us in thee lieth to make gtod thit, the which I
have through Gods meam declared what courfe thou muji take ; and if thou doit 't noi^then God
Will not no more fnd unto thee,to the beholding of any mum earthly eyes,any of his t
leffed Creatures,
therefore I command thee from God,as I am his faithful Muiifter and bleffed Angel of God,that
thou (houldsl not doubt to take this journy in hand,for God will te with thee and for tliee,and his a Si Dens
bleffed Angels yfe^rZ/tf thy comfortyevenas the Angel of God was the comfort unto young Tobias i« lobfcum
hif journey^fo God will deal with thee in thine. And fo I have delivered unto thee what God will quis comra,
have thee to do. ""s.
It if the will and favour of Godto give the dfmuch underftandingof Gods mercies towards
thee yet for to come, as ever mortal man had delivered luito him by any fpiritual Creature
from God. So now I have fully ended my meffage. Therefore, fee that thou John Dee be as ready
to perforin it to the greateji of thy power,as lovingly ingivingGod thanks for this meffjge delivered,
becavfe I would have thee to be fuch an one as jhall not endhit dayesin reproach, and rejoycing of
thy enemies,hut thou Jhalt have time and days to live, that when thoudieji, and Jhalt depart thit
world^thou (halt die with fame and ynemory to the end, that fuch an one was upon the earth, Mir*cul**
th.,t God by him had wrought great and wonderful Miracles in hisfrvice. Andthus to Gods h'i~
fiour and h^ glo^y-,1 have ended my meffage^ yielding unto Godall honour, andpraife, and tha>ikj
for all his blejjings,and hif great benefits bejiowed upon his Creatures, both now and for evermore.
Amen. Bleffed be God in all hif gifts,and holy in all his wrkj. Praifed be God. Amen,Amen.
A. Amen.
A. Now, O God, as I have willingly yielded unto thy will and commandment of un-
dertaking a Journey : fo I befeech thee that it may ftand with thy good pleafure to no-
tifieunto me the Country, Region orCity unto which thou wouldft have me direft my
courfe from hence-forward.
^. Nothing appeared.
A Voice ...... A Voice In the Name of God, te morrow at ten of tbecUck..
^. So be it. T
A. All thank«:, praife and glory be to God the Father, God the Son, and God the
holy Ghoftj now and for ever. Amen.
E e e a A Note
3 5 Atrue Relation of Dr. Dee his JBions, mth Spirits^ 6cc.
A Note to be confideied.
Mr. Scclejlone^.
In the houfe at the breaking up of the place were thefe : James
Bolton.^ Lettice Gojlwich a Maiden, Cook and Dairy-maid.
TOl{fiorv the houfe and place therein where it is '-^ or if it be in many pla-
ces divided, which they are.
Or if any other be privy of it, who may give any evidence.
And whatfoever may make this a perfeft work, to Mr. Ecclejioaes rea-
fonable contentment, moft humbly and heartily I befeech God to make
known now unto us, and fo the praife and thanks due to God for his mer-
cies,to thebeft of our power to be yielded unto him.
Saturday, fuliiii, horaio, ante meridiem.
Note J
In the Original two Schedules are pinned acrofs this page.
The firji Schedule. To enquire.
^He Name of the place whether I am to dire^ my total Journey.
(I}au I ha',
i
I
j_ 2. whom Jl^all I have in my company heftdes John Pontoys.
3. fVhat of Patrick Sanders.
4. fVhat of my daughter Katherine.
5. what of my jianding Bookj and other appurtenances,
what of Mr. Bardolf to go with me^ Or,
Of Mr. Dortnall his Companion .<=*
6. what Jloallmy Son Arthur do^ to his help and comfort in his intended
travel ?
7. shall not I at any time return hither into England again ?
shall 1 make account to keep fome title of enjoying my houfe at my
return .«'
(i5\dr. Eccleflone his QaJLj.
Junii 27. 1^07. The fecond Schedule.
THe. Name of my Houfe is Ecclefton of Ecclefton, the mans Name whom
I fufped is Thomas Webfter Carpenter, of the age under fourty, not
more, within the County c/ Lancafter.
The place was in a falfe Roof adjoyning to a Chimney called New Chamber
chimney.
Edward Eccleflone.
Thomas Webfler the Thief,
Note.
A true %damn of Dr. Dee his Mions^mth Sfirits,dcc, ^37
Note : There being a Figure in a fingleleaf of paper,
and the fame having no direftion where it fhould be
placed, I thought beft to place it here, the page im-
mediately aforegoing making mention of one IVebJier
a Thief, and here being words which (if I mi/Hkenot)
relate to fuch a bufiners,i?« unquam rccnperabitur, whe-
ther that was ftoln fhall ever be recovered '>
and, in
quo loco jam eji^) In what place IVebJter the Thief is at
prefent.
1. Significat Domina
Afcetidentif & oitav£,
reciiper/irf poffe.
2. Applicans per fed
cum receptione , recu-
pertri pijfe fignificat,
fed Cum difficultate ali-
qua.
4. Nota locunty&fig-
mm eji : & An-
cilltt vel fxmina. aliquti
conftderandit ejt.
4. Lummariafefe mu-
tuo refpicientia^mnpofi-
erdum fore denotat 5.
& ntaxime Can Domi-
nui medii crli carpere
7. fexali radio refpic'uit
fed interim 7'. domum
comburat.
. JESUS
A Domino faftum eft iftud & eft mirabile in oculis noftris. Ex ftercore
erigit pauperem ut coUocet eum cum principibus populi fui. AmcH.
Mittas (O Deus) lucem tuam & veritatem tuam, ut ipfa nos ducant5mi-
rabiiem in me fac mifericordiam tuam, & fapientiam tuam in corde
meo figas.
A Voice. T ^w Raphael tto jljffl^, if you will have int/^o appear, proceed ht hajie, for God
X hi'th appoiiitedme great fervice to do.
A. In the Name of Jefus, we defire your anfwers and inftruftious to thefe Articles
here (lightly noted.
I. Kaph. In theN<trne of Jefus Chrift, /Raphael am now fent unto you to deliver unto
you your quejiion fo far forth at God his will and pleafure is to command me, and I muji make
a fl}ort continuance with you, for I have fervice of God commanded me in hafie to be done, in
his bleffed Name I am come to fulfil his will in your defires, and therefore in hit Name go on.
I. ^. The name of the place.
Raph. John Dee, thou haji been a Traveller, and Godhath ever yet at any time provided for
thee in Jill thy Journeys, fo much Gods favour and his mercies is fuch toward thee, that this thy
requeji and defire to be hjiown^ What Country is beft fof thy good ; God hath referred it to
thy own will to make choife, in what Country or City thou hajl thy beji minde unto ; and when
thou haji made thy choife, if it be Gods Ukjng, and to thy good, it (hall be direfted unto thee ;
otherwife,if it jhall be made kjiown that fame ether place Jhall be better for thee : Therefore
takf thy own choife and likjng.
A.
Raph. John Dee, he that hath commaniei thee to takf this Journey in hand^ke will provide
for thee in Germauy,or any other Country wherefoever thou goeji. Therefore let thy good will and
Ukjng be in placing thy felf, if thou wilt be near unto England or far off.
A. Whether is beft, I know not.
Raph. I have, faid, that wherefoever thou wilt, God doth prize thy willing defire, to fulfil
that God doth command : think, ^«t ^hou fatisfie and reji in takjng thy own choife^ God will pro-
vide for thee, whither and to what City thou hd\i a minde or will to ejiter into, and always Gods
good Angel (hall hold thee, and ever give thee to underfiand, what and where (hall be ever
beft for thy good liking, when thou art there. Therefore take no care, he, that Almighty will
provide for thee, that thou Jhalt be fo governed with his goodnefi, that all fhall ftand well
with thee.
a. A. Whom (hall I have In my company befide John Pontoys ?
3, 4. Raph. John Dee, thou of thy felf dofi beji kflow that witlxout thy daughter ; thou
canjl
* :^S yitrae ^/ation of Dr. Dee bis Mitons, mth ^firits^dcc.
caniiHcftewithuithir: and l/kjwfs God hiith pnt tkce a v.rj koneft and well-dij^o[ed yovng
vian to go vith thee in thy Journey. Aiul for John Pontoys, he fhall be one, as tliy greattlt
comfoit iiridCi.t-ciaUyd, next uiko the Almighrj. And for any o\her elfe, it is at thy own
s^ood Will and tpeti-liking whom thou will c':iife to viak^ fit thy ptrpfe for neceffary ,.f:Sj for
'hdps about thet; Servimcs I mean.
5. i. VVhac of my landing tooks, and other appurtenances >
RapLi. )()hn Dee, thott haji jpokj-n already of a very good courfe to fnd them away^ nor all
at once but fo"e at one t!7»e, and font e at another, and God ffjal! andwill giv.' thee good
J-hn Ton- fuccef th rein: andlet thy friend John PontoySj let him provide fur all fitch furfofes., and fo
toys. jhahthou dowdl.
A. A^ I Ivave been heretofore hindred of many of good purpofes fulfilling, fo per-
chance the K.in^ will nor be vvilHng novv to grant me licence to pais over i'ea.
Ra ph. He Jhall and will gr.m' thee licence.
6. s. For my Son Ar.hiir, do to hishelp and comfort in his intended travel.
Rapli. U th) Son do bk:' ^is courfe to travel, he fl.
all m the mean while do well, for thy fak^',
heinz a father unto hi-y,God will favour Hni. And when thou art in Jlace where God harh com-
nti^Hded thee to g ,in ihoit ruvie after thy being iherc^thou Jl.alt he able to dohimgo' d^in h::![/.
iH'S, htm for fiich things m h: now wanteth, and then thou Jhalt tak^ him near unto thee, fo that
he may have a comfort of t^y fatherly help, andthou to have comfort of his well-doing: and fo
for this I have certified thee.
7. ^. Shall not I at any time return hither into Engl.tnd again t
Pvaph. 1 hou jhalt he better able in health and jtrength of thy body to come into England a~
gain, it thou wilt : but thou fl^alc fee and perceive thy felf fo mercifully provided fr, t'-'ut
thou wilt have but little minde or willingnef to come into England again, fucb pall Gods great
mercies be towards thee.
A. Then I perceive that I fhall not make any great account of keeping my hoiifc at
Mortlak^ for any my return hither.
Mr. Ecclejlon his Cafe of his money taken away by one Thomiu Welficr, &c.
Raph. Thoii dcjl taf{e an hard matter in hand. This man Thovm<> W^h&cr had it, anli
hath it in his keeping as yet, but he will not yield that he hath it. And for Eccleiton to
deal by extremities with him, he jhall prtvatl little, he Jhall not thereby obtain his purpjfe. But
by friendly dealing with the farty, and in proffering hint to be a partaker with him, he mjy
yield unto Ecclefton. But otherwife^ the matter will grow hard. I would from God advife
thee, John Dee, to enter as few of thefe matters as may be, for this will not be compnffed, ex~
cept that he jhall proceed into the m^s houfe according unto Law ; tnd then he jhall entangle
hinifdf into trouble, and for the thing never the better : but, as I have faid, by friendly deal-
ing he way yield, and fo far forth as it jhall pleafe God^ I will work by Gods favour to
make him yield. And thus much J have faid, and let it fuffice.
It doth remain as yet in a Coffer that is fomewhat of a white colour, hut he will, if he he
ftirred he will then remove it, and hide it in the ground in a little Parlour that he hath. And fo
I have fpokfn and anfwered thee at this time, as concerning
A. Money 1 had lent mcfrom the Emperour by HansBiK- I marvel that it is not yet
come hithei.
Raph. For that, John Pontoys will maks known unto thee, all to thy good. And in
whofe Name,and in his whofe Power I came, fo now again I return to that place,to the which in his
mercies bring all hit hlejfed Creatures, yielding all honour and praife unto his holy Name, I
end. Amen, Amtn.
A- Amen.
[^ day of fi4[)i^ hora ii 2*
A. A ^ ^ ^^^^ ^^ Dinner with Bartholomew Hickjnan, my Daughter, Patrick^ and Themns
f\ Jurner, about the end of the Dmner Bartholomew heard a Voice, faying, T#
morrow half an hour after 9 of the clock, give your attendance to know the Lords ple«-
fure.
A. As near as I remember, fo he faid, orto chat cffcft,
1^07.
A true delation of Dr. Dee his Mions, with Spirits. ^c, ^ ;9
1^07 fuliii$, hor.^U ante meridiem.
JESUS
In nomine Del Patris, & Filii & Spiritiis Sanai. Amen.
Mittas iHcemtnam & veritaUmtnam.r'ipenttam 6^ ommmodumauxi-
luim Utnm, Domine Deus, ut tibi Jerviawus funite, fiddtter & con-
Banter omnibus diebus vit£noUr£. Amen.
garth The Creature.
^Nihemmeof him that created me Raphael, and all ^e hleSfed Creatures and li}^mje m
YhltZrZade aU the world, and all thtngs theretn contained : Jefi.s Chnft «/^^ gnat good- Jef.s Ch.fi
«JL7mn. -^ at h^ wl and fo I am hound at hU wiU to return, when h. fleafure .. M
God hilb jem ine jor javt:niyj>*^ .,
if^ are mt hr me to enter into, neither
itrmy^ucb^A<^oit\tit)xtAiaaajj^^i^^tv^<,
and doti, .ppoint to Jt^.W hii
x,t.r,MP •
and he, the party the owner to have his money again, in fo port time of may vc
SSl" ;/ tpt^.L Lo le Almighry. GodW.W have the whole matte, made known .
mination ,
J^l'^^^^ 7.";"°Li [.rrow ; and fo the tarty the owner (haU fo come by his goods Y'^ld.
pM,tbroughGodsbel^,to^^h^^^^^^^^ ^^ j have
aeain. And now I have '^»\f^^rc(l youinasa
j j^r.iar.d. bv Gods help (hall
C
yfithfi
'
"1; If It (hould not offend then I wot^d gladly know the fum of the Tieafure,
Ruph. Twothoufandandahalf, and odde money.
A. How, in £!oldandlilver> , . ,
,
Raph. Moretbenthree^artsthereof
'\^'X'..,^^.^
^. Voft humbly and heartily
J^^\^"Viv t "/4 7c «ce;;;«V 'the entring into the courfe
of thy Journey ^
««^ ^'^^^'i^''{f "'ij/S^^^^^ >«erde. n;.k? *fc^e anfwer, ^ .r^-y,
wy vuay, v.^». ^<.. ,- --^ V -
com'^ort vnto Godi honour, m maKui^ ui n^^ ^^^.^•^
jb/ive made kiiQwn unto thee ; /ra^fe I »«^-
^
^
^o Atrue ^Relation of Dr. Dee hk Altwru, mth Spirits^ dec.
A
John Dee, God duth knbw aU this that thou doji jpeak^ of. In few words, to end many
di, he will fo direa thy wayes in ending fuch troubhs, as jhall be to thy good atid fpeedy
words, he wi
jinijhing
A
A
John Pontoys, before fuch time of thou flyalt have any great caufe to ufe hit aid, and fur-
theremore, God fvill fo wori^for thee in the heart of hit Majin {whtnrheis Factor jor") Stapers
I mea}i,that Sta\n'rs JhaU with all the aid and help that he canto further thy good proceeding.And
fo God in ell cafes will thus gracioufly deal with thee. And now is wy full time to depart in
Gods peace, and to ferve him from whom I came, his mighty N'lme, •
A. I fearing his fiidden departure, did earncftly urge at his hands, to know the truth
of Johiits his hiitory : and fo half unmannerly did interrupt his fpeech with my que-
ftion.
howmany he had dejiroyed : and I brought hijn through Gods power home again, and delivered
him in health vnto his own parents. And thm wiich I have mfdi thee plainly to underftand with-
out any doubting to the contrary. And f now once again I da depart. All honour and glory to
the everlajiing God, both now and for evermore. Amin, Amen.
A. Amen.
17 fuly.
AFter dinner {horam circiter
4 JJ) as Bartholomew and I talked of divers of my doings
with Mr. KeHey^ a. Voice produced this to Bartholomews hearing.
A Voice I, John Dee, I Live heard you all this while.
Ihou (halt be able to do, and to fee, and Xo underftand more than all this as thouhaft /pollen
of, according as God hath prniifed thee.
A. Blefledbe his holy Name, and his mercies be magnified oil me, to the honour of
his holy Name. Amen.
A. Note Upon occafion of further talk and jfffcfc of wy Jewel that was brought,
I asked Bartholomew if ever he had feen it fince it was fet in gold ; and he thought that he
had not feen it : Whereupon I went fpeedily to my Cheft, unlocked it, and took it out,
and imdid the Cafe, and (ec the Stone in his due manner.
And by and by did Raphael appear in the Stone, and in voice faid thus, as fol-
loweth :
Raph. Inthe Name of Jefuf Chrift, I am Kzj>h^e\ whofe voice thou didH hear right now.
And now, in Gods holy Name, for thy good, and for thy comfort, I have, now, here, in thi^ Pearl
entred PoflTellion, in token hereafter to be that blejfed Creature, to be obedient unto Gods Com-
mandment, to (erve thee at all times^ when thou art placed in thy Journey, which God hath
Dei do- I
commanded thee. And likjwife thou (halt have the book from whence this came. And that
V''a"'a
^ ^"'^ which thou haji in keeping, Qthe which thou doft mak;: account of no better but duft') Then it
/' *, ' ' (hall be turned tothe right ufe, fronvwhence it was : and to that good purpofe, that Godhath
^ '
ordained for to do. And now it was the will of God, that I (l.'Ould ff'ea\ unto thee a few words
of this good comfort to be performed. Fraife God, honour his holy Name, for his great ble^ings
now and for ever; That it did pleafe the Almighty to fend me to your prefence, into'kfn of his
love, for his great mercy. And fo now, in his Name I go again into the prefetice of the Almigh-
ty, whofe Name be ever praifed, with all his eleil Angels, and all the bleffed Creatures of Gody
and all the bleffed Creatures upon earth, praife his Name for evermore. Amen, Amen.
A. Amen.
A. O Lord God, moft humbly, heartily and finccrcly I honour thee, praife thee, and
cxtoll thy mercies, and moft loving kindnefs, for thefe, and all other thy graces and
bleflings on me. Accept, O God, my hearty thanks, and enable me foto thank thee, a«
may be a moft acceptable facrifice unto thy Divine Majefty. Amen, Amettj Amen.
iSOj:
A true "Ration of Dr. Dee /;« JBionSyVfith Spirits,dcc» * 4i
idoy. Se(t,$, hora^U eS\dorl;la{.
Mitte Incemtuam & veritatemtnam Domine, qua nos ducant c^ per'
dncdftt ad montem fan&um tunm df^ ad cteleffia tna tabernaaila.
Amen.
Barth. He is in the Stone now.
Benedilius qui venit in nomine Domini.
OMoji merciful Lord and Savitur Chriji Jeftu, who it and tp.w the Creator and Redeemer
of Mankjndty and of all hit blejfed Creatures. In bis power I Raphael am now come at
hit will and commandmenty and fo likfwife at his good fleafure I muji then return at fucb time
Of be hath commanded me. "- • '
John Dee, in the Name of the Mojl Higbeji, I am come tt deliver unto thee tih my
Mefj'age, the which God in his goodnefi hath commanded me.
Firfi, I Raphael am fent of God at this time mofi chiefly to fut thee in that good remem-
hranse of my laji appearing to your frefence, to let thee to underjiand, that loo}{, what courfe
God iit his mercies did fet then down, what way thou fhouldU ta\e to enter into this Journey,
the which God in his goodneji is mofi willing that thou jhouldfl enter into. For, John Dee,
God hath detlaredy and made manifefily kjiewn unto thee at my lafi appearing, what fervice
Cod would ufe thee untOy and all fuch purpofes that were the lafi time Ipekfnof, jhallbebyGodi
favour and his merciful good gift performed unto thee : and fear thou not, but God will
fafely help and prefcrve thy body in thy Journey, to that end, that thou fhouldeft be
in tha t place wherein thou mighteft have time to enter into all fuch fervice as God hath
by me ma'de known unto thee. For^ John Dee, fuch hath Gods mercies been in fuffer-
ing wicked men to prevail againft thee, and they have and do make a fcom qf thee here
in this thy Native Countrey : So it is with thee as it was with Chrifi and his Apofiles^ being
mofi cruelly ufed in their own Native Ctuntreys ; fo John Dec, God hath fnffered thofe wic-
h^ed men to pluck thee down in worldly affairs, the which jhould be maintenance for thee and
for thine^ and without fuch maintenance mancannot be without^ while he is here in this vale of
Mifery. Such wicked men have mofi cruelly ufed thee, even as Job by Gods fufferance, who
fuffcred the Devil to prevail againfi him : yet Gods mercies be fo great unto theey that although
they Qmofi wickedly") have robbed thee of thy poffeffion, yet God would not fufer thofe wicked
ones by any of their malicious praUices to prevail in any wife to hurt thy body, as Jobs wm :
For if they Qirough their wicked purpofes) could have wrought fuch cruelty againfi thee, thou
bad^ not been a man living here upon earth until this time. So John Dee, thou dofi kfiow who
k thy mortal enemy, who, rules next unto your earthly King.
A.
Why thou maift well kpow, for I have made it kftown before time unto thee, that he is not thy
friend, though thou hafi not offended him in any wife, 'therefore, beeaufe that this thy Na-'
tive Countrey is not a place fit for Gods purpofes in his wifdome to be beftowed upon thee
here, Therefore at my lafi Meffage, God did fend me to maks kifwn unto thee, whether he
would have thee to go, t;b<it t^ere tfco« mightft bc a man ; and that man, whom God hath
appointed to make his Wifdome known : for thou art that man whom God hath cbofen, that
(acctrding'y Jt it was p/^ jifjtfr^rfj
J "that itb" mortal man in flefli, but onely £«oc^, had
orfhall have the like wifdome made ifiown, plainly to be underftood by any man, or
thou thy felf (halt underfiand and receive at the hands of the Almighty. Tberef. re it is bit
will and purpofe of God, that he would have thee in that Countrey, for this thy Native Coun-
trey is not worthy of gifts that thou (halt receive at the hands of God, to come, and
to be made known unto thofe which be not worthy of fuch great gifts of Gods wif-
dome, to come amongft thofe that be unworthy.
Therefore, John Dee, in all thefe matters the which in favour at thii time made kjlOT»H
unto thee, the ektef and greatefi caufe of this my coming unto thee , is to ma^e the matter
plainly known, that God in his mercies would have thee with all diligence that thou canfi poffibly,
to hajle thee to that Countrey where Cod doth ctmmand thee, and at my lafi bting here thou
Fff hiftiffJ^
_ ±'2. Atrtiv^lation of Dr. Dee bis AHions^ vpith Spiritsyd^c.
kjtcwejT what w<K r»y M^jfugei therefore do thy diligence to fulfil it at thou canji^ and God
will pt hk great helps vnto thee, in ilrengtkning of thy io'ly, aud otherwise, which jhtill le
to thy "cod. Anil thou being once in that flace vrhere God wovld have thee to he^ thou Jhouldsl
well prceive and f.ainJy underjland, that God tcill we/f mercifully work^ with theg for thy
good i« performins all fiich promifes, the which hath 'ie:n loth at the lajl time and at tha
time made kjtown unto tkee.
John Dee, I do fut thee inremewhrancej that whereas thou didii fjy, that thou hadU a
tortionof money feittkee from the Em^eroiiT unto thee; I tell thee, that the Devil in work:-
ing in the heart of one of thy enemies (^Cook^ I mean) did feek fome wajcs by his falfe
imuortant ill fpeeches, in moft falfe manner, unco one that did in fomewhat lee the Em-
perourto imderftand, what he had molt falfely, to thy difci edit (as he thoiighr) to
hinder thee, that thou Ihouldft not come to any help or credit at the £mperGur> hand.
tut John Dee, be of good comfort. The Empcrourof all Eniperours will be thy comfort,
and aid thee, and evermore p«r down thy enemies, that the Emperour (that thou (ficuldil
have received that fortion of) it jhaU be fo with thee, th.n be Ihall have more need of
thee, in fvchwifdowe ,k Gtd jhaU deliver unto thee; for tbcu f.-alt have no need of bi»t, but
oncly to keef good will and friendfhif betwixt hi^ and thee, in Jhewing thy felf friendly vnt9
him, M God Ihall hereafter give thee plainly to unieriiand.
Now, John Dee, I have made known unto thee what Gods will it in this wy meffage. JhU
ii the greateji andthetnoji frincif/U caufe, why God hath fmt me unto thee at this pefent
time. And now I have through Gods mercies delivered this hit Commandment unto thee : and
for this J have now (aid and finijhed.
A. BlefTed be the Almighty God, now and for ever.
Gladly I would have nnderllood how much the portion was which the Eniperour
would have Tent me.
John Dee, let it go, and fpeal{ no farther of it : for thou maijl be joyful, whereas it it
[aid unto tb::e, that he (hould have need of thee, and not thou of kini. therefore reafon no
more in that matter^
A, As concerning Mr. Ecc/fjJoM,
John Dee, in few words 1 aniwer thee. He hath dealt with the -parties in thofe affairs, hut
the ctJief -party wilt not,as yet, yield anything to be made k>iowM, hut doth \tuhbornly and jioutly
jiand in his own defence : ^«i Got/^ Cre/Jtr^rw have wrought with him, and nothing be will
(as yet) yield unto, except that thofe Creatures JhouU deal fo cruelly with him, of it were to
pull him apieces ; this it hit wicked ttubbornnefl. But God will bring the matter to light ; but
Ecclefton hath not dealt fc in the matter as Ik might have doHe,he it too to/lack^in hit wn caufe.
Therefore if the fault be in him, then do not blame the Creatures of God. For God could (as
you vcr}' well do know it) command that faid Treafure to be brought : but he will not
have it lo to be, becaufe it fliaU come by other means among men : So God hath a great care
and purpofe to do all for your ;<^ood, to k/ep matters out of blame and (lander of the world.
Of it might come topaffe, if it jhould come by any other wayes, but by this plot whi'h it laid down
to decline. And when it is the will of God that it pall be delivered, God will fo perfor:-,} it,
i-' man will do as he fhoiild do, in all reverend manner towards God-ward. And fc n-jte l
let yvu to perceive, and to k^now, that it it not of yet obtained,
i\. Whether hath the other party confeffed any thing ?
Raph. He hath n.t of y^t yielded openly ; but he hath in fecret manner prrfwaJed hit fel-
low, that the matter might be made known unto Ecclefton, in confeffing of all the whole maittr,
hut the other will not yet yield : but it were better for him to yield at the fir f, then to tarry
any longer, the leffe would be hit punifhment from God therein. And fo I let you to uHderjia,nd,
that you JhaU give God bit time to work^ in that matter at hit pleafure, and then JhaU it be to the
good of the ownerJ
and of you Ukewife. And mif^l'b/fx'e faid.
If.
r„„-^. As concerning the bereaving me of n^^oifji^oods,! would gladly undcrftand who
jiath my filver double gilt bell-Salt, and othoi- things here of late conveyed from
niee.
Raph. John Dee, Tbit is the wiU and purpofe of God to command thee, although thou
dojl fuffer wrong becaufe thy goods be fo takjn away from ^bee, yet Gods will it fuch, that be
wiU havethee tobe a p;ace-maker in this Cf^ufe : foritispaft help to have it again : But as
thou art a mortal father, fo ufe that matter as a father, for thy fon had it, although he
would not, neither will confef! it. Andlikjwife for fuch things of late miffing about this boufe,
thou fhalt hereafter at plainly kjtow who had them, and how they Wire gone, a! thou doji plainly
Mtderjiand fi,r thy Salt, hut thou Jhalt jiay and proceed no further, till fuch time Of I Ra-
phael fl^all jS'f'tK further of it, for God will have all things to he dene Well, and to his le^
itkjng. So for that J have now [aid.
A.
A tme%elatm r/ Dr. Dee hts /iBwns^\htth Spinti.dcc, "^^^
A.
John Dee, it if in ihe hanh of God and h;s power to fend thte fticb helps as thou do{l feek^of
ifceTreafure to be brcu'^ht unto thee, but God will not have it fu to he, the while thou air in
this place ( England 1 ynean') fcrGod wiu not have thee to come into any difdnin^ or flander
might tak^e fomr advantage againiitheitt^ hut be content with that little that car.be made of thy
right in the CoUfdge matters. And. further-more^ thou ih alt fee that Cod wiU [end thee {oonfnte
fuch fmall helps by mun, that thou (halt have fonie feeling of hetf^ to help thee whither thou
Jhouldji go ; and ther'^ ore I Knphzelhave nowfaid.
A . . . • Jofan Poutoys.
JohnDee,id'Kor to: much inq«ifttive,butwhatfJ.'aU be b.ft toyctir liking in any gondcatif-what"
foeveryou or he l! al tiink^g :od to be done for your giod, God will put his ajfutance and help that
yoH (f:aU perctiv. Cods favour therein. And thus much I have faid : at G-ids Commandment 1
came., andfo on hts ymrcifuU goodn ff^., and his po^er, I mufi prefently depart.
A. . . Bartholomews leqiieft of G orge Sherman hiscarneft ofc and dreaming of Tieafiirc
to be under the lo'indation of the wall called De la pry wall, a Niiniy in times paft with-
in half a mile of Northamptott, Sir JVilaam late his houfe is within that wall in three
pares.
Jhat man may lawfully have it, if he tak^ heed inthe breaking of the the three places^ for ^qo.
it kf^rthe greateji part under the bottom of t'^e wull, and many roots of thorns and trees t' at
wiVlet and hinder the wrking for it, if be di^ jtotviovk much as Hope as you can, to go under
the roots, the which he may wed and lawfully do. So doing, he way well ootain hu furpofc ; and 200.
n.w you have plainly inderji.od the truth.
"the one part of that Trea'ure was laid by an old Nun, that was of that hovfe, at t^^at time,
and cne that w^ts her brother, and the other waf laid even at the fame time, that the fuyne
travel the which you took^ the la\i duy faving one, to kjtow of that battel, 11 was hid at the jame
time by one of the Lords that was there killed^ and fo it hath remained ever fince, the one place
Moreeafier to come rft then the other, hvt with the favour of God,aHd inhis mercy,xh^t good for-
tune to be dellred<?t ^rf)t/e( fcfl«<^, it may be had andcomp.ffed by ihe (aid pany. Andfo
710W 1 hnve yrtude ihe matter known vnto you. And now m the name of the Alniig'ty,andmcrci-'
fuL Go^, at whufe will and pleasure J came, fo now I depart in Gods peace. lhem:rrcies of God
be up nyoT, both for this life, andfor that which is to come, his name be glorijyedfor evermore
Amen, Amen.
A. Amen.
160 J, Munday 7. Sept. hora 7.
A. 'T""'His morning as Bartholomew had intended to be going homeward in the morning,
g and I not intending to move an aftion now, but committed all to God, Bartholo'
mew was fpoken unto by Raphael.
. . . . . Command John Dec to come up into tkii place.
B^nbolo-
i^. ... In the name of Jefus, and to the honour and clory of the moft blefTed Trini-
ty. A»ien.
JI&
Mittas omnipotens fempitern; & ?/;?.» "Dew lucem tuam & 9eritatem tuam, qu£ nosducant
&perd'icant ad montemfanaum tiium & cxleftia tuatabernacula. Anien.
Barth. .... He is here.
A . . . . Benedicius ell, qui venit in nomine Domini. Amen.
The Almighty God be bleffed and praifed of all good creatures, give praife unto his
holy name, for evermore. Amen.
John Dee, / <z)« the fan)e bleffed creatureKz^hztX, that did appear the la^ day but ort" itt
this place, I am at the commandment of the mo\i highejl to come unto your prefen-e at t' it time,
iecaufe thou fhouldeji very well know that I Ka^h-de\ avi very ready at all times, to come, wh-n
God Ihall command me ; but John Dee, I have no long mejfage, at this time, f r thou haft Go is
full purpofc and his will, in what he would have thee to enter into, and beca'J-- that thou Ihalt
X'ell kjtow tl^at even now at your departing, the one from the other, it hat'^ pleafed God to fend me
to let thee to underjiand that for this time no wore matters ( as concerning what thou art taught )
JhaUuot C at thu time ) »o more bejpoken of, untiU fuch time m God jhaJl appoint, at your next
meeting and con)iiig to.^ft/.'f>-, f/jrft tZ-vw, if ttfr^^e /i?ry t/>iKg, that if not dene of you, fo far
forth as it if in your power to fulfill it, if any fuch default in you be, I will then put you in remem-
brance of it, and help you in any tiding which yov jhall dotibt of : and if you have any quejiionor
demand to asi^tf me, even mw,l am very ready in few words to anfwer you, and then in hit
F f 2 ftame^
mew.
4^ Atrue Ration of Dr. Dee his JBions, mth Spirits.dcc,
name, who hath fetit me ( that it the Almighty^ I niuji return therefore, if you have to ask,
do it-
^ As concerning Mr. John of the Ifle of Man^his pitiful cafe hath moved
my compaflion.
Raph John Dee, ajfure thyfelf, that as thoudoft moft heartily, with a good faith inGcd,
that thou wightejibe that man wherein God will tnofi viercifully help hit dijlrejfed cafe, therefore I
anffver thee^tkatOod hath, and he will hear thee, to thy comfort therein, and to the great com-
fort of the man whom that caufe doth belong unto. God will mercifully help thecaufe fojhortly, as
his will and pleafure it to be done in it. So much I have faidfor this.
^ I thank God moft heartily for his fo great mercies.
A . . . . John Pontoys, my great friend, earnelHy delireth to know his good Angel.
Raph John Dee, /or % pJ^e he J};all kjiow hit good Angel, but let it not be with him
hereafter to have a. pride ininind, that God hath made known unto him his good angel, for no
wan Uponthe face of the earth can have a better then he hath,for Uriel it kit appointed Angelfrom
hit birth to thit day, and fojhall eontinue with him to the appointed time, that God will take h;t
life away infeparatinghit foul from kit body, for Uriel hath been under God hit deliverer forth
of many dangeri, andfohejhall be hit defence under God to hit lifes end. And for thit, I have
made the matter plainly k^;own unto you. Frocede.
A . . . . Secondly, John Pontoys is defirous to know the end of the Polifh troubles.
Raph John Dee, in few words, for that matter, I anfwer thee. Thofe troubles wUlfcme-
what end to hit loffe 5 but it fl^all be no great matter, fo that God will work, the cafc that it jhall
end to hislikjng. And tkus much for this I have faid.
A.... As concerning the man and the Treafure, lam defirous to know whether
he will be content to afTign his title to Bartholomew, upon fome portion thereof delivered
unto him ; and what other he hath made acquainted with the matter ; and whether it
may not by Gods good liking be fet up without digging.
Raph ... . John Dee, in all this I hear thee, and I k.now thine intent herein. That man may
be reasonably ruled, hut yet ke will not put over kit title thereiu; but he hath ^. that bekjiowrng
how the matter dothji and with him, and fo much Of hedothkjtow, he hath wade them tokjiowiH
much as himfelf: Therefore affure thy fe If that ke Jhall be ruled, and that it jhall not be ^ he will.
If he will not be ordered in fuch fort and good cou.ncel as IKA\t\ize\(k all give unto thit Bartholo-
'
niew at that time, that then hefhall have no part of it, but I certifie you that he will be ruled ;
but onely the others, which I have made kjiown unto you, they will not come to fo good courfe in the
matter as he will, 'therefore let it rell, I will direU Bartholomew in the matter which jhall be to
hitgood, or elfe it Jhall not come to kit hand, the which you have to kjiow of. And for this, now I
have faid.
John Dee, it it the will and purpofe of God, that it (l<al! come by breaking of the ground, be-
caufe that Cod will have all things done well, that no difcord may break, out betwixt the parties
hereafter. And fo now in Gods name I have faid.
A.... Mofthumbly I thank and praife Almighty God for his infinite mercies and fa-
vour , befeeching him to aflift mc evermore. Amen.
A . . . .John Pontoys would fliortly fall to work fomewhar, to win fome help for mony by
diftillations and Alchymicall conclufions, till we were ocherwife holpen, and we are ut-
terly vmable to provide things neceflary for lack of fufficient proviliou of money.
Raph Trouble not thy felf ( as yet ) with thefe caufes.
A . . • If Captain Langham will lend me an hundred pounds or more, as he prom ifed
me, forwhich my fervant P<Jtjijd^expe£l:eth his performance at this hour.
Raph. ...Not Qinfuch time) t V T OV GOOD.
Note. Jofcw Dff, that is the plain meaning, wherein it is faid, not to do thee good, becaufeit
will befomething too long ( for thou art ready for it, if it were now, therefore with all
haft, fo much as is in Gods will to be done in it, it (hall be haftened forward to do thee
good.
And now I have plainly fpoi^n unto thee in this cafe , my time appointed of God is at,
hand-
Ihn Po». John Dee, thonhafl fulfilled two quejiions, as concerning fohi\ Pontoys, look-in thy Note,
toys note.
Jokn Pont. Oh that 1 might be fit to ferve you xnBartholomews abfence.
Raph John Dee, In the name of the moji higheji I anfwer thee, to this hit defire wherein
he doth crave at the hands of Cod, for to obtain the fight of hit bleffed creatures ; but hereafter
it Jhall be wwiitf known unto thee what God will do for kim in that hit defire. And now, all
power and glory be given to the Almighty who hath made heaven and eart,h, his name be magnified^
and praifed everlajiingly. Amen, Amen.
A . .. . Amen.
A.. . . All praife, all thanks, all honour and §,\ory be yielded unto God of all his
Creatures, now and for evermore. Amen.
£^. John
A true %^lation of Dr. Dee h'ti JBiottf, mth Spirits^ d<c, * ^y
John Pontojs note, which he wrote, and left on my ftudy tabic, j.^eptemb. TheNocc.
// it mayftani with the will and have of the Almighty , whofe name be bleged for tver^
A.
viiuie.
more.
I would defire to know
1. My proper Angel.
2. The end of the Polifii troubles.
3. Othat I might befit tofcrve you in Bartholomews ih^encc.
Vnder John Pontoys Note the which isfoTPed over^ is thus zpritten^
The place of Bafel
in the Map of
Eurofe.
To the left or next fide
2 foot, and about
4 inches
^
Bafel
City
o
•to the edge of the Map below
4 foot and a finger
from Bttfet,
I. A Kney vah ndgadeth adneyox vah^naxh gettifeh ah orza vaU gemntah^ oh gedvam on
_/\ zembahnohhitd vomfah oldru amfh/tnots admancha nonfah vamfas ornad, alphol an~
ditK orzadah vos aufohhanfahvoh adma. wha notma, goth vamfed aigcs oufeple oudemax orzan,
unfa onmah vndahra goufah goh tiahad Na.
2. OxarVar^nol pan f'tmpas OS <il pans orn.'j audfu alfaph oncha, cofdam onzTLgofa natma-
jyiatatP waxjoluah von ganfe pacath olnoh vor nMquah loth adnay nonfah oxanfah Valsnodax
v'andquefh Ian findquat OX ardanh onzabel ornuich donquin ajUnax arfahels ontipodah onivah
nofch als tuaut quts, ar mad notgals.
3. VanxanXquah ondreb ah vrh quanchah orn^andvahloh^ audah ?tol fan, fedmah-zvgeh ah
nhm\cidim^-ii^e.t i.rdomfh^ oxah gethol val axel authaih gorfan vax parfah vort lanq audam-
ffah getheolj urchan nahadah oxemhles armax loxhaty vos antaxby orfe vaxy alnoth, other ntals ol~
nah geXhom Vardamach, allfa.
4. Orgeth or pafquah omzadahvorts^an'renodahvarfava oncb aldumph, auget onfavatgalta,
oXh arveth ax pa gefne ovad ax orttey aldiinibigcs, Vofcomph aize ax, orzad audah goji ajioh
tiadah VorteSy ajiniah noXefima gothnuxhad omza, gexh alteXh ox degaxh ouda voxa gemnache ad~
iiv duufa ah alii arfah.
5. Orthaxhohgaji ardoh ntax varmahdoxh novamq lath^ advat GoxhatH^ ardrivoh ajhmagel
arpageX ajieth arde obza^ oh (ya") gem va pala biiiida orfat nahah odmazen andulphel, ox am-
brajf h oxah geth nor uanifah genok daqueth ah ajina, oh xuto'', alfah goth necor andeoh neo al-
da nah.
6.Venlah oha demageus oufanfah^ paphah olemiieh, e&adcha lax ornah vor adnie ox Vajlrnah
grelabazna^gamnacho ajiniah ochado laudridah V'.m fah^ liigho iahat nabfcham nohads vandifpa-
ro^amod a-rtdroch alpoh zuml loh afnah gonfageph aldeh to dah vax orb afnis gad av dan fe qua^
deo, dath vax nogra'r vox fghat Mon.
7. Ami olbah gaLpalohindhd. gau^nn-iagenCzh olio var fe darfah goh albvmielamacapa-
loth who nad veflah vors jrdnj imnony afqvamraxh als vafinah genda loggahtih afimv.
8. Amah notah lax van Ivhoh d.fniaphi ol eapraminacah oxandahvah gemveloriphi-
tonpha actamplahnoftapha ormaxadahahar orzemblizadmah panchefelogedoli afchah ol-
tnah ledoh vaxma.
9. Cans na C;>p Ian feda ax nor vorta vo. Las pral onfa gem gemah noph gazo na von faulfa
milrudg anf I unfa pah vort velfa or alda viax nor adroh femnch oh vandefqual olzah nolpax pa-
hahlqth r nx rv vanfar glniinaph gath ardot ardri axa nob gaga leth arde maxa.
10. CiirfaliMabah vophch alps arfordvord vanfax oriox nabax gemnepoh laphet foda nax vsnt-
lalnams arfieth alloah H'phirt lauda noxa voxtaf ardno androch labvtageth njfu almaglo ardet
nalbar vanfe darXo vorts parfun ur unrab vorgadeth l-.tb orzenax vomreb gelpha, Icgar ornem-
hla ox ar vah fu.
11. Ziinchevmachafeph, olzaminoah Valf;;buiaah nodeliganax orfapnago daifagna-
pha nobliblitliaimtpyth arfepolimitautons Jembiiinimur leboge axpar oniaza oldaxar-
dacoah.
12. Semno ah al ehi do a cha da Selpagmodah a da hu ba mi ca noh dam pha gli af cha
nor ox om pa mi na pho. lemp, na, gou, fa, pha nc co al pha af pa- ge mo cal. na
tu rage.
13. Sen gal fe quar nif fa glau fur tad ormaca oxinodal ge brah nop tar na gel vom na
chef pal ma cax arfe(i afdon fadg afc Ian fau che dah nor vi car max coh zmn bla xan-
pha ad geh do ca ba ah.
14. Ar gem na e a pal fax, ocn'idohzh caf pigan alpuh gagah loth zzlCa. bra dan go fa
pax vol fan quef tan o«if<JpW oj^ic/ii or zy la pa a chra pa ma les ad ma carpah o;ic(z/pi on
da pa, gem na de vor gufe.
15. Lax gaus fa par fat lajieah lor adah nox ax ardephes mufou andoh gvmzi vor fab liboh ad
m C'd^A\oU gaho larva nox ax oho Ian fynpab noxuVriah fepbah Ittfaz oldgalfax notxaph *x
vernoc arpos arJa zent zuhah, lothor zm Ivbab vom xa da phi ca no.
16. Afibtaphe ondah Vor ban fanp'.>ar pa loth agno jam nefrob aw algors vrrabah geitfeh aide
ex nah vors purbljx amphicaf) nojirohh admadg or napfv afmo Ion gamphi arbel nof amphi oh
fembelob afchi nar laffdx las doxa pra gem a fefirox amphi nax var fenibleh.
17. Angefeforcapacdd onz adq ochadah olzab vor nah orpogographel al fa ^em na ca pi
coh. Ul da pa porfah «<ixor 2/OK/ii rous Erbauf lab dun zaph algadef loh gem vorta ob
amph a. hoha za. vaxorza lepteh oxorneoh ah va dv na ca.pi ca lodox ardnab.
Fi:Niis.
s,
I
i
Ill
