{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1829__bernard___light_on_masonry.pdf","mytitle":"Light On Masonry","mylang":"de"}
LIGHT 0N MASONRYS
A cou.zc-non dr Au. Till
MOST IMPORTANT DOCUMENTS
on 'ran sUlJlc'r or
QQEUUDAREVB -
B882 ¢E£l0U<l! 12
~
_
'
IMBRACINB V
THE REPORTS OF THE WESTERN COMMITTEES
`
IH RELATION -ro 'ru
_
ABDUOTIOI OP WTLLIAH MOBGAI,
'PROCEEDINGS OF CONVENTIONS, ORATIONS, ESSAYS, Sac. Sm,
WITH
ILL THE DEGREES OF THE ORDER CONFERRED IK AKAS'I`ER'S LODGE.
1| written by llsptzin Vllliln lnrglul;
ALL THE DEGREES CONIEIIRED DT `I:lE ROYAL ARCH CHAPTER ,
AID GRAND ENCAMPHENT OF KNIGHTS TEMPLARS,
WITH TI-IE APPENDANT ORDERS,
.ls published Du flu Uuuuntion uf Sending m|nu,hel.| at Ln hy, my 4 uw 5, ill-
ALSO,
`
A REVELATION
or
`
'2£II tg: Mums cunfzrnu in run Enngz uf iberfzrtinn.
AND
!IFTEEN DEGREES OF A STILL HIGHER ORDER,
WITH
SEVEN FRENCH DEGREES:
MAKING
FORTY-EIGHT DEGREES OF FREE MASONRY
YIM .Nates nil Criilcd luurkl.
BY ELDER DAVID BERNARD,
or wuuuw, ssmzsn; co. 11. 1. _
Olee ll Indlmts Secretary In the Ludgs at Pliaotion; and Secretary ol the Clnvnuu
uf Blending lllanl, hald It Ls lay, July 4 uni 5, 1%.
"infhmhuuthilgoovml fha! IRIIIMK lcnuoals/1, qdhil tlattlllllotbe l'lmn."
1'
And :ld |o Mah mo ur mumun go span flu Inn top."
'
Inu Christ.
A
UTIOA.
wunnu wnums, rm:-ru, anrlsnn snzmr.
1829.
.1
......_...l.....---
Q' ¢Q»
K 0.
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, T0 WIT;
i
B: rr nnmusznen, that on the thirteenth day of April. in the fifty-third year of
the Inde endence of the United States of America., A. D. 1829, David Bernard, ot
the said q)istrict, hath deposited in this oflicc the title of a boolg, the right whereof he
claims as Author, in the words following, to wit:
"Light on
Masonry: s collection of all the inost important documents on the
"subject of Speculative Free Masonry: embracing the Reports of the Western
"'Gummit|.ees in relation to the abduction ol' William Morgan, Proceedings of Con.
"
ventions, Orations, Essays, Sic. &c With all t.he degrees of the order conferred
"in a Master's Lodge, as written by Ca tain William Morgan; all the degrees
"
conferred in the Royal Arch Chapter and (grand Encampment of Knights Templsra,
"
with the
apgandant orders, as published by the Convention of Seceding Masons,
"
held at Le ny, July 4 and 5, 1828. Also, a revelation of all the degrees conferrqi
"
ia the Lodge of Perfection, and fifteen degrees of a. still higher order, with seven
"French degrees: making forty-eight degrees of Free
Masonréy.
With notes and
"critical remarks. By Elder David Bemard, of Warsaw, enesce Co. N. Y.
"once an Intimate Secretary in the Lodge of Perfection; and Secretary of thc
"
Convention of Seceding Masons, held at Le Roy, July 4 and 5, 1828
U '
For there ta nothing covered that shall not be revealed, and hid that shall not be knowm'
' And what ye hear in the su- that preach ye upon the house tops! Jesu Christ."
hx cowronmirr to the Actofthc Congress ofthe United States, entitled "
An Act
for the encouragement of Leaming, hy securing thc copies of Maps, Charts, and
Books, to the Authors and Proprietors of such copies, during the times therein men-
1ioned;" and also to the Act entitled "An Act supplementary to an Act entitled
'
Al Act for the encouragement of Leaming, by securing the copies of Maps, Charts,
and Books, to the Authors and Proprietors of such copies, during the times therdn
mentioncd,' and extending the benefits thereof to the arts of Designing, Engraving,
and Etching, historical and other prints." _
R. R. LANSING,
. [lark Q/` the Distnkt hurt ofthe United Shree, far thc
'
Northern Dirtrirl gf New Terk.
HAllVARD`
uwsvensm
LIBRARY
P55 g l9i'l} 5
i)_) -1 1" N
____V I
PREFACE.
THE tbllowing documents are compiled with the design of sc-
curing them from the grasp of Masonic power; advancing the
cause of truth and justice; preserving the rights and liberties ot
our country; promoting the glory of the Redeemer's kingdom;
and saving souls from destruction.
During several years the compiler was a member of the Ma-
sonic fratemity. While he regarded the ceremonies ofthe order
with disgust, and its oaths with abhorrence, he supposed that
there existed principles in the institution which were
pure and
and holy. In the peculiar providence of God, he was led to in-
vestigate the subject; he found it wholly corrupt; its morality, a
shadow; its benevolence, selfishness; its religion, infidelity; and
that as a
system it was an
engine of Satan, calculated to enslave
the children of men, and pour contempt on the Most High.
In the immolation of Morgan, he saw the fate of Masonry-
° * * * * 'Its fall
Determined, and its hapless crew-involved
In' that dark deed of death 'contagion spread
Both of its crime and punishmentz'
He saw the hand of God inscribing on its mystic pillars, 'Menc
Tekel, Upharsin;' and
'From amidst them forth he 'd
Long way through hostile scom, which h:l:ustAin'd
Superior, nor of violence fear'd ought;
And with retorted scom his back he tnm'd
On' that proud -ruin.: 'to destruction doom'd E'
Since that event he has been impelled by duty to
and his God, to hazard his property, character, and life, nifexer-
tions to overthrow an institution which has arisen'among the
nations in power and glory, and like mystic Babylon made them
'drunk with the wine of her fornicationl'
'Here will he stand and brent him to the shock,
Till he or Denmark flls.'
-&........¢.-..»-»-__.-- _ ..
iv Paenen.
From the unwearied exertions of the brotherhood to suppress;
the light and impede the progress of truth, in relation to their out-
rages of September, 1826, and the revelations of Free Masonry
made by Capt. Morgan and a Convention of Seceding Masons,
he has thought of no
way in which he could do so much for the
advancement of the _cause of liberty and truth, as to embody in
one volume all the documents pertaining to the secrets of the in-
stitution; the recent violation of our laws and liberties by the
Masonic fratemity; the proceedings ot' Anti-Masonic conventions;
essays; orations; and remarks on the principles of the order-all
of which are
eminently calculated to give light on Masonry. He
believes that such a work is important, not only for t.he present
crisis, but or the benefit of posterity. He hopes it will receive.
that patronage to which it may be entitled. Should he, however,
after 'hiding the pelting of the pitiless stom1,' hear only murmm-s
of disap robation from the world, even then he will be cheered
in the fulllillment of duty, by the 'still small voice' which whispers
'I>ea¢e:'
'As when a wretch from thick polluted air,
Darkness, and stench, and suifocaturg dumps,
And dungeon horrors, by kind fate discharged,
Climbs some fair cninencs, when: ether pnre
Surrounds him, and Elysian prospects rise,
His heart exults, his spirits cast their load 5
As if new born, he triumphs in the change.
So joys the soul, when from inglmblw aims,
And sordid sweets from feculence and forth,
Oi' tiu terrestrial, set at large, she mounts
To reason's region, her own element,
'
Breathes hopes immortal, and affects the skif~:=.'
1
4 'f ._
1' -*
_li..'_ _.___ __
_i
INTRODUCTION.
IN justice to myself] I cannot present this work to the public,
without a brief exhibition of the facts which have led to its publi-
Catton.
Soon after I commenced the service of Christ, Free Masonry
was commended to my attention as an institution from heaven;
moral, benevolent, of great antiquity, the twin sister of Chris-
tianity, possessing the patronage df the wise, the great, and good,
and highly important to the ministers of the Lord Jesus. Wish-
ing to avail myself of every auxiliary in promoting the glory of
God and the happiness of my fellow men, I readily received the
three first degrees. My disappointment none can know, but those
who have, in similar circumstances, been led in the same path of
folly and sin. I silently retired from the institution, and for three
years was hardly known as a Mason. I was not, however, with-
out my reilectious on the subject. I considered what I had taken
as frivolous and wicked; but was unwilling to believe that there
existed no substantial good in the order; and this idea was
strengthened from the fact that many of my friends of a
higher
grade in Masonry taught me, that what I had received was not the
'magnum bonum' of the institution, but that this was
yet to be
attained. Not being able to advocate its cause from the know-
ledge I had derived of its principles, and supposing that the obli-
gations I had received were
morally binding, I could not say 'pro
nor con' concerning it, without a violation of my conscience.
With these views I embraced an offer to advance into the higher
orders of mysticism, and rea:-hed forward to attain the desired end.
In the reception of the Chaptoral degrees, my embarrassment in-
creased. When I came to the oath of a Royal Arch Mason, which
obligates to deliver a
companion, 'right or
wr¢mg,' I made a full
stop and objected to
proceeding: I was then assured in the most
positive terms, that all would in the end be explained to my full
satisfaction. But no such explanation took place. 'I Kought I-
Is this Free Masonry? Is this the ancient and honorable institu-
tion patronized hy thousands of the great and good? Upon
my suggesting some queries to a Masonic friend", he gravely iri-
f0rmed me that the first seven degrees were founded on the Old
TU5tm8BI,' and
Agere
but a shadow of
c
good things to come; *lla*
v
vi
'
rnrnonucriox.
if I wished to arrive at perjbction, I must proceed to the sublime
and ineffable degrees. These assurances, the awful oaths I had
taken, with their penalties, and the vengeance of this most power-
ihl institution, combined to deter me
fromrenouncing it as evil.
After much deliberation, hoping to find something in the higher
orders to redeem the character of the institution in my estimation,
I entered the lodge of Perfection and took the ineffable degrees.
Ahont this time I'1Bal'll6d that William Morgan was writing
Masonry for publication. My informer was than a Baptist minis-
ter inhighstanding, and a
Royal Arch Mason. He remarked
that Mor:ga.n's writing Masonry was the greatest piece of depra-
vity he ever knew; that some measures must be taken to stop it;
that he would be one ofa number to put him out of the way; that
God looked upon the institution with so much complacency, he
would never
bring the perpetrators to light; that there had already
been two meetings on the subject; and that he expected there
would be another on that day; and finally attempted to justify his
murder from Masonry and the word of God!
This conversation took place in Covington, (where I then liv-
ed,) tive weeks before Morgan was murdered; and I should at
this early period have informed him of his danger, had I not uu-
derstood that he was on his guard and prepared for a defence.
The next week I left home for my health, and was absent some
weeks. I returned on the 16th _of September, and soon leamed
that Morgan was
kidnapped and probably murdered! I conversed
with the Masons onthe subject, and they justqied both his ub-
duction and murder! I now read the first production of Elder
Steams on
Masonry with peculiar interest. I also examined the
Monitor and other Masonic writings, and reflected deeply on the
nature and tendency ot' the institution. I rompared the murder
of Morgan and the conduct of the fratemity in relation to his ab-
ductionhwith the oaths and principles of the order, and became
fully satisfied that to continue longer with the institution was not
my dirty. I expressed my opposition to its principles and the
reeehtconduct of the fraternity in a free and open manner, which
caused much excitement among the brotherhood. A meeting of
the lodge in Covington was soon called, the object of which was
to 'concertmeasures for an agreement among thefraternity, in
what they should say in relation to their outrages, and to attend
tomembers who were disaifected with their proceedings. I atv
tended i`or.thepnrpose of freeingmy mind., When the lodge was
duly opened and the. subject introduced, I' arose and in the most
decisive manner
disapproved the_conrl11ctof_the fraternity, in their
violation-of civil aol morallarz. The meetiugyas longaudrhnw
INTRODUCTIDNZ
"
- gg
viblyinterestingl Tlla true spiritof the institution was
peculiarly
manifest, especially towards me. For the introduction of Elder
Stearns' book, and the honest expression of my sentiments, I was
mont shnmefully abused. The milder of Morgan was justihed,
and every thing saidtbat was calculated to barrow up the feelings
of a
patriot or Christian. Elder A***'*, a Knight Templar, be-
ing present, boldly asserted 'that if he should see any man
Masonry, be should consider it his duty to take measures to stop
him; that as cities and churches bpd their laws, with a
right
to inflict their penalties, so Masons had their laws, with the
right to inflict the penalties to them; and that the lodge was the
place totry a Mason-that if Morgan had been writing Masonry,
and his throat was cut "iivom ear to ear, his tongue torn out by
the roots, and his body buried beneath the rough sands of the
sea, at low water mark, where the tide ebbs and flows twice
intwenty-four hours, he could not complain in not having jus-
tice done biml' Amen, Amen, Amen, was the audible response
around the room.
At the next meeting of the lodge, by request ol' the Master,
I attended- Here a scene passed which language cannot de-
scribe! Several hours were occupied in, abusing and making
charges against me, the principal of which were, I had spo-
ken against the institution. Many questions were asked and
insults offered me. I told them frankly I had spoken against
the principles of the- order; thot the right of opinion. the free-
dom of speech, and the liberty of the press, were
privileges
given to me by God; puichased by the blood of' my fathers;
that I had inhaled them with my First breath, and I would only
lose them with my last; that if they could remove
my objeg-
tions to the institution, which I then exhibited, well-if nor,
they could expel ine; but il' they proceeded to farther abuses,
they must suffer the consequences. ill y objections were not re-
moved; andl requested permission to withdraw. Soongfrer I left
them they expelled and immediately commenced a
|3195 wicked
persecution against nie. The pwfmsed ministers oti yhrht, infi~
dels, and drunkards, from Buffalo to Albany, were 'united to
destroy my character! I was admonished by oral and cpisgqs
lary communications *to be on my guard, to carry arms;,_,p;rl§1,
so great- was
my personal danger, that my friends ivonlitgnjgf-
sulfer me to ride alone from one town to anothen* In
`
* Let the reader remember that the compiler of this workfriihu
I
Masonry in October, 1826-was the first Mason who declared open' _
tility to the institution subsequent to the abduction of Morgan; a
'
/N
will not be surprised in learning that his life wus in jeopardy! _` I
'-,,__..._
viii
`
mrnonucriou.
thgy 'opposed my interest, deranged my business, pointed -me
out as an unworthy and vicious vagabond, an
object of con-
tgmpt/ and 'transferred this character after meg' and it would
seem that they intended to do it 'during my natural lifel' The
united efforts of the fraternity to injure me, have, however,
proved unavailing. _
-
I soon became convinced that the peace oi' society, the sal-
vation of my country, the present and eternal happiness of my
fellow men, and the glory of God, required the destruction of
the institution. To accomplish this, I was contident but one
effectual method could be adopted, and this was to make e
full disclosure of its secrets. To this end I then exerted my-
selti After an
interchange of minds with some of the patriots
of Batavia and Le Roy, a convention of Masons opposed to
the institution was called, to meet on the 19th of February,
1827. This convention was composed of about forty, who
after having deliberated upon the principles ofthe order, and
binding nature of its obligations, resolved to make a revelation
of its mysteries. They confirmed the 'lllnstrations' ol' William
Morgan; published the oaths of twelve degrees ofa higher order;
appointed a committee to prepare all the degrees which could
be obtained for the press; and adjoumed to meet on the 4th
of July liillnwing.
The committee, with much labor and expense, had all the
degrees conferred in a Royal Arch (hapter, lncanpment of
Knights Templars. and orders of the Holy (,ro>s, ready, and
presented them to the convention on the 4th and 5th of July,
which declared them correct, and ordered them to be published
to the world.
The degrees of Mark, Past, and Most Excellent Master,
were obtained from Mrs. Morgan, as written by her husband;
the Royal Arch. from an
agent of the comnittee, (a Royal
Arch Mason,) as given by Jeremy L. Cross, the Grand Lecturer
of the United States; and those of the lpcampment and Holy
Cross, from a
Knight-of the Thrice Illustrious Order, as tran-
scribed from a copy as
given the Encampment at Le Roy, by
the Grand Commander at Utica.
'
In consequence of the zeal manifestedsby the fratemity to
'stifle the excitement, I conceived that much good might be
done by a
compgation
of the most important documents in
relation._to the su ject. By the advice of many friends, and
under the patronage of a
county and state convention, I under~
took the work.
'
While preparing ai for the pmss,1°i»aanea from the highest
-
'
'H
1NT1wDuc'1 rox. ix
autlwrily thirty-three of the sublime and ineffable degrees, all
of which, I Know 'ro BE conascr, and I give them to the
world 'verbatim et literatum.'
But am I justifiable in pursuing this course? Wiil the law of
God approve the violation of such solemn oaths? Passing by the
arguments which might be adduced from the fact that the obli-
gations were 'taken without a
previous knowledge of their cha-
racter-the assurances that they were not to interfere with my
political or
religious sentiments, when they are diametrically op-
posite to both--that I swore
fealty to a professedly ancient, moral.
benevolent, and righteous institution, when it proves to be 'mo-
dern, corrupt, selfish, and unholy.'-I rest the question upon tht-
principles of moral obligation by which I expect to be judged, and
by which I must stand or fall. Are the oaths of Free Masonry,
then, congenial with the duties which I owe to God and my fellow
men? If they are, I most certainly am bound to keep them; it
not, to break them. By the principles of moral obligation I am
required to promote God's glory, and the best_ good of the uni-
verse.
My swearing to love God and my neighbor does not
enhance the obligation at all; for it says, 'Thou shalt love the
Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with als.
thy strength and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as`thysel£.T
It says this to the sinner and the ,saint-to the man who has swom
and to him who has not sworn, it is alike infinitely bhiding on
all. It cannot be increased nor diminished--it can
require no
more-it can receive no less. If Iswear to love God and keep
his commandments, the oath is binding, because
moral obliga-
tion made these requisitions before I took the oath, 'and the oath
and moral obligation are in perfect harmony. If I swear to vio-
late the command of God; for instance, to kill my neighbor, I am
bound to break my oath; for the Divine law says, 'Thou shalt noi
kill,' and my swearing to violate the command does not, cannot,
render the obligation void. Moral obligation requires me to keep
such secrets and such only as are calculated to promote God'r=
glory and the best good of commuinty; and my swearing does noi
effect the obligation at all. It also requires me to reveal thost-
secrets, the keeping of which have a tendency to mar or
prevent
His glory and the best good of my neighbor; and my swearing to
keep them does not, cannot, render the obligation void: for in-
tanoe, if I had sworn to keep secret the intention of a
highway»
man to rob my neighbor's house and murder his family; to keep
secret a plot again t my country, the government of which is
lbunded upon the principles of truth and justice; to keep secret a_
grand conspiracy formed by a
powerful society, the object o'
X INTRODUCTION.
which was, like that of the Illuminati, to abolish government and
social order a.nd extinguish Christianity--as the keeping of these
secrets vould be prejudicial to the interests of my neighbor, to
the safety of my country, and the glory of God, the principles of
moral obligation would require me to reveal them. If l had sworn
to assist the robber, to unite in the plot, or
conspiracy, my refus-
ing to act in either case, simply, would not fulfil the duties which I
should owe to my neighbor, my country, or
my God. So I did
not make known the intention of the robber, expose the plot, or
reveal the conspiracy, l should be guilty of a violation of moral
obligation. I
It will not be necessary here to inquire whether the oaths to
keep the secrets of a brother, with or without exception, to deli-
ver a
companion 'right or wrong,' to 'take vengeace on the trai-
tors of Masonry] 'to sacrifice all those who reveal the secrets of
the order,' are in harmony with the Divine law-but whether the
principles of moral obligation require the keeping or
revealing
of Masonic secrets?
'
'
It will readily be admitted that the existence of the institution
depends upon the keeping of its secrets inviolate. It will follow,
then, that if the existence ofthe institution is necessary, or has a
tendency to promote God's glory and the well being of society,
the principles of moral obligation require me to keep its secrets,
and by revealing them I a.m-guilty of moral perjury! And on the
other hand, if the institution is comipt, has an evil tendency, is
opposed to the order and well being of society and the glory of
God, I am under moral obligation to break my oaths, and reveal
its secrets to the world, that it may come to a.n~ end. My refirs-
ing to meet with or support the institution, is not sudicient; I
must renounce fealty to the order, reveal its secrets, oppose its
inliuence, and use my exertions to destroy it, or I am
guilty of
a violation of moral obligation.
Let the reader carefully and thoroughly examine the following
documents and he will discover that Free Masonry, as a
system,
is dark, unfruitful, selfish, demoralizing, blasphemous, murderous,
anti-republican, and anti-Christian-opposed to the glory of God
and the good-of mankind; and hence that the compiler in burst-
ing asunder the bands of the fraternity and publishing their
secrets to the world, is doing no more than is required by the
principles of moral obligation-is but fulfilling the duties which
he owes to God and _his fellow men.
Davin Baumann.
Wa1~saw, .Hpril 1, 1829.
¢i§_.;|
--......._......_..._.._........n|___,,,,`_`
_the cause of civil liberty throughout the worl .
Rl00 A'.l'IONB.
1'he Baptist Church of Chris! in Warlatp, Genesee
County, .Ni
Qin tht @b:i§tian Quhllt.
As Elder David Bernard i- tb- iul publishing a book entitled 'Lice-r ou lthsomtrf
which we deem highly important for the purity md advancement of the Redeemer's
kingdom; and an we are sensible, from the persecution he has already received, as
well as from the nature of the subject, that many aspersions will bo thmvm upon his
character, to impede the righteous inlluence which the tnith should have upon the
public mind; we deem it our
duty to state, that from the most hiz ly accmlited docu-
ments, we can vouch for the
puriay
of his moral character From his intancy to the
time he professed Christianity-o his moral and Christian conversation from this
period, until he became a member of this church; and that during nearly two years
he has been the regular and
approved pastor among us; that he is a minister of the
Genesee Baptist Association, in good standinz; and we cheerfully and unanimously
recomniend him as a man of strict integrity, uublemished moral character, and faifll-
ful servant of the Lord Jesus.
Executed by order and in presence of the church,
this fourteenth day of March, A. D. 1829.
SAMUEL SALSBURY.
JONATHAN F_ HIBBARD'
Deacons ofthe Church.
JOHN TRUESDELL, Church Clerk, protein.
RBSGLUTION of an Anti-Masonic Convention of Genesee county, held at
Bethany,
July 33, l828, in favor of this work, 'Wuuttus the title and prospectus ofa booll
entitled 'LIGHT on Masozutt,' &c. Sze. has been read to this convention-Tliere-
fore, Resolved, That for the advancement of light and tmth in the gnat and holy
cause of Anti-Masonry, and for the good of futurc generations, we deem it of the
highest importance that such a work be published; and from our knowledge of the
talents. character, intelligence, and zeal, of Elder David Bernard, we believe hina
to be eminently qualified for such an undertaking; we therefore solicit him to perse-
vere in the work without
delay,
as such a work is
worthy
of the patronage of the
friends of liberty and religion t roughout the whole civilize world. I
'CEPHAS A. SMITH, Secretary!
'ROBERT EARLL, jun. President.
RlS'1Ll11'lnN of the Anti-Masonic New York State Convention, held at Utica,
August 4, 1828, in favor of this work 'WBlnEAS the title and prospectus of a
book entitled 'LIGHT Ol MAi0NRY,, Etc. kc. by Elder David Bemard, has been red
to the convention, and entertaining the fullest confidence in the integrity, zeal, and
ability
of the compiler, and being deeply
impressed
with the importance of the pro-
pose publication, to the Cause of tmth an
justicefTherefore, Ruolued, That
we recommend the compiler to proceed without delay in the publication of his book;
and we recommend it to the attention and atronage of all the friends of truth and
'JAMES HAWKS, President.
'THOS. C. GREEN, S tie ,
SETH A. ABBEY, "mf
' ' 5°
,,..
1*
"'
-4-~.. -..._ _-_ _ __
»-»-p-1
0
TABLE 0F CONTENTS.
LIGHT on MASONRY.
DESCRIPTION Ol' ClRE)10N1ES
U5ED_lN COHFERRING DEGREE OF
Entered
Apprentice
. . . . .
Fellow Ura . . . .
Master Muon . .
Mark Master . . . .
Past Master . . . . .
Most Excellent Master . .
Royal Arch .... t . . .
Knight of the Red Cross . . .
Knight Templar and Kt. of Malta
Knight of the Christian Mark, and
Guard of the Couclavé . . .
Knight of the
Holy Sepulchre . .
The Holy and hrico Illustrious
Orderdf the Cross . . . .
Secret Master . . . . . .
188,
Perfect Master . . . .
186,
Intimate Secretary . . . .
189,
Provost and Judge . . . . .
Intendant of the Buildings, or Mas-
tcrinlsrael . . . . . . .
Elected Knight of Nine . . . .'
Elected Grand Master, or Illus~
trious Elected of Filieen . . .
Illustrious Knight or Sublime Knight
Elected . . . . . . . .
Grand Master Architect . . .
xmgm of me Namh Arch _ _ .
Grand Elect Perfect and Sublime
Mason . . . . .~ . . .
Knight of the East and West . .
Knight of the Eagle, am¥Sovereign
Prince of Rose Croix`de Heroden
Grand Pontitl' . . . . . . .
Venerable Grand Master of all
Symbolic Lodges, Sov. Prince
o
Masomg,
Master Advitlam,
or Grand 0ntit1` . . . - .
Knight ofthe Royal Axe, or Hache,
(hatchet) . . . . . . .
Chiefof the Tabemacle . . .
Prince of the Tabernacle . . .
Knight of the Brazen Serpent . .
Prince of Mercy, or Scotch Trini-
tarian . . .... . . .
Sovereign Commander of the Tem-
ple at Jerusalem . . . . .
Knight Ade t of the Eagle, or Sun
Knight of itdosh . . . . . .
Pqe
13
42
58
87
107
114
IM
144
155
166
170
173
210
210
211
191
194
196
199
201
201
202
205
212
220
233
235
242
244
245
248
250
251
255
273
Prince of Jemsalem . . . . .
Prince of the Royal Secret . .
-
.
Sovereign Grand Inspector G cneral
FRENCH Dmcnuas.
Elu de Pcrignnn ......
Le Petit Architect .... .
Grand Architect, or Compngnon
Ecossois . . . .... .
Le Maitre Ecossois .....
Chevalier de l'Orient , . _ .
Le Chevalier Rose Croix . _ .
Chevalier Prussien .....
countries neronrs, convex-
TION
PROCEEDINGS, DBATIONS
ESSAYS, ETC. ETC.
Narrative of facts relating to ab-
duction of William Morgan, Src.
Saratoga Baptist Convention Pro-
ceedings ........
Address to honest Masons . _ .
Le Roy Seceding Masons' Conven.
-i
Anti-Masonic Convention
1-
Adjourncd Seced. Masons'
Convention-with Declaration
New York Legislature Proceedings
Hon. J. Cr:try's Speech in Senate
Herbert A. Read's, Esq. Oration at
Le Ro
Utica Anyii-Masonic N. York State
Convention Proceedings _ . .
T. F. Talbot's, Esq. Speech at
Utica ...... . . .
Eli Bruce's (and others) Trial for
Consgracy
. . . ._ . . .
B. B. otchkin's Candid Ap al
11-
Answerto 'Five
Great Questions .....
APPENDIX.
Depositions of sundry persons-
and other documents-dise'los-
ing many important particulars
relative to the kidnapping Of '-11°
unfortunate Morgan: with G02
vemment Proclamationl, Src. 814%
Page
535
538
5113
290
293
293
302
307
317
322
337
328
373
413
418
452
431
443
460
478
490
502
514
527
unsomos.) . _ . _
-,_,}-""`
A_..,|_11i.______.. _ .__ _._ .r,_ __.__l-~-*""""/V
*gm
-.>
<
1
1
dli;._._..-._ .__
____
LIGHT ON MASONRY.
*A DESCRIPTION of the ceremonies used in opening a
Lodge of
Entered Apprentice Masons; which is the same in all the up-
per degrees, with the exception ofthe difference in the signs,
due-guards, grips, pass-grips, words and their several names;
all of' which will be given and explained in their proper places
as the work progresses.
One rap calls the lodge to order; one calls up the Junior and
Senior Deacons; two raps call up the subordinate officers; and
three, all the members ofthe lodge.
The Master having called the lodge to order, and the officers
all seated, the Master says to the Junior Warden, 'Brother Jun-
ior, are they all Entered Apprentice Masons in the southl' ./Ins.
'
They are, Worshipful] Master to the Senior Warden, 'Bro-
ther Senior, are they all Entered Apprentice Masons in tho
west? .dna 'They are, Worshipful! The Master then says,
'
They are in the east;' at the same time he gives a
rap with the
common gavel or mallet, which calls up both Deacons. Master
to Junior Deacon, 'Attend to that part of your duty, and inform
the Tyler that we are about to open a
lodge of Entered Appren-
tice Masons; and direct him to tyle accordingly.' The Tyler
then steps to the door and gives three raps, which are answered
by three from without: the Junior Deacon then gives one, which
is also answered by the Tyler with one; the door is then partly
opened, and the Junior Deacon delivers his message, and re-
sumes his situation, and says, 'the door$ tyled, Worshipful]
(at the same time giving the due-guard, which is never omitted
when the Master is addressed.) 'Ihe Master to the Junior Dea-
con,
'
By whoml' .Hns. '
By a Master Mason without the door,
armed with the proper implements of his otlice.' Master to the
Junior Deacon, 'His duty therel' \
./Ins. '
To keep off all cow-
ans and eave-droppers, see that none
pass or
repass without per-
*The first three Degrees in Masonry here published, are as written |32
CBPL William Morgan: and as conferred in the Lodges in the western P'*'§'i
ef New York.
B
_ru
______,x
_,_,4.._-----'
14 ucnr ON nusonnv.
mission from the Master! [Some say without permission from
the chair.], Master to Junior Deacon, 'Brother Junior, ~your
place in the lodgel' ./Ins. 'At the right hand of the Senior
Warden in the west.' Master to Junior Deacon, 'Your business
there, Brother Junior?' ./Ins. '
'To wait on the Worshipful Mas-
ter and Wardens, act as their proxy in the active duties of the
Lodge, and take charge of the door.' Master to Junior Deacon,
'The Senior I)eacon's place in the Lodgel' Aus. 'At the right
hand of the Worshipful Master in the east! [The Master, while
asking the last question, gives two raps, which calls up all the
subordinate oflicers.] Master to Senior Deacon, 'Your duty
there, Brother Senior? ./Ins. 'To wait on the Worshipful Mas-
ter and Wardens, act as their proxy in the active duties ofthe
Lodge, attend to the preparation and introduction of candidates
-and welcome and clothe all 'visiting Brethren,' [i. e. furnish
them with an
apron.] Master to Senior Deacon, 'The Secreta-
ry's place in the Lodge, Brother Senior? ./ina. 'At the left
hand of the Worshipful Master in the east' Master to Secre-
tary, 'Your duty there, Brother Secretaryl' ./Ins. 'The better
to observe the Worshipful Master's will and pleasure, record the
proceedings of the Lodge; transmit a
copy of the same to the
Grand Lodge, if required; receive all monies and money bills
(rom the hand of the Brethren, pay them over to the Treasurer,
and take his receipt forthe same.' '1`he Master to the Secreta-
ry, 'The Treasurer's place in the Lodgel' ./ins. 'At the right
hand of the Worshipful Master.' Master to Treasurer, 'Your
duty there, Brother Treasurer? dns. 'Duly to observe the
Worshipful Master's will and pleasure; receive all monies and
money bills from the hands of the Secretary; keep a
just and true
accounbof the same; pay them out by order of the Worshipful
Master and consent of the Brethren.' The Master to the Trea-
surer, 'T he Junior Warden's place in the lodge, Brother Trea-
surerl' Jlns. 'In the south, Worshipful! Master to Junior
Warden, 'Your business there, Brother _Junior?' ./ins. 'As the
sun in the south at high meridian, is the beauty and glory of the
day, so stands the J
llw0I` Warden in the south, the better to ob-
serve the time; call the crafts from labour to refreshment; super-
intend them during the hours thereofi see' that none convert the
hours of refreshment into that of intemperance or excess; and
call them on
again in due season, that tlkéjworshipful Master
may have honor, and they pleasure-and profitftherebyf Master
to the Junior Warden, 'The Senior Warderfs place in the lodgel'
./2118. 'In the west, Worshipful? Master to the Senior War-
den, 'Your duty there, Brother Seniorff' ;/ins. 'As the sun sets
v
4*--Adil--.....» .»- »-`»'~-1 -n-_-L.---1-»~ -_...-nan!!-.k¢.¢..
uour ON misonnr. 15
in the west, to close the day, so stands the Senior Warden in the
west, to assist the Worshiptiil Master in opening his Lodge; take
care of the jewels and implements; see that none be lost; pay the
craft their wages, if any be due; and see that none
go away dis-
satisfied! Master to the Senior Warden, "l`he Master's place
in the Lodgel' ./ins. 'In the east, Worshipful.' Master to the
Senior Warden, 'His duty therel' Jlns. 'As the sun rises in the
east to open and adom the day, so presides the Worshipful Mas-
ter in the east to open and adorn his lodge; set his crafts to work
with good and wholesome laws; or cause the same to be done.'
The Master now
gives three raps, when all the brethren rise, and
the Master, taking off his hat, proceeds as follows: flnlike man-
ner so do I, strictly forbidding all profane language, private com-
mittees, or
any other disorderly conduct whereby the peace and
harmony of this Lodge may be interrupted while engaged in its
lawful pursuits, under no less penalty than the bye-laws, or such
penalty as a
majorityof the brethren present may see fit to in-
flict. Brethren, attend to giving the signs! [Here lodges dit-
fer very much. In some
they declare the lodge open as tbllows,
before they give the signsz] The Master (all the Brethren imi-
tating him) extends his lett arm from his body I0 as to form an
angle of about forty-five degrees, and holds his right hand tra-
versely across his left, the palrris thereof one inch apart. This
is called the first sign ofa. Mason-is the sign of distress in this
degree, and alludes to the position a candidate's hands are plac-
ed in when he takes the obligation of an Entered Apprentice Ma-
son. The Master then draws his right hand across his
throat,
the hand open, with the thiunb next to the throat, and drops it
down by his side. This is called the due-guard of an Lrlered
Apprentice Mason, (many call it the sign,) and alludes tothe
penalty of an
obligation. (See obligation.) The Master then
declares the Lodge opened, in the following manner: 'I now de-
clare this Lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons duly .opened for
the despatch off business! The .jenior Wartkn declares it to the
Junior Warden, and he to the Brethren. 'Come, Brethren, let
us
pray! One of the following prayers is used:
Most holy and glorious God! the great Architect of the Uni-
verse; the giver of all good gifts and graces: Thou hast promis-
ed that "
Where two or three are gathered together in thy name,
thou wilt be in the midst of them, and bless them." In thy name
we assemble, most humbly heseeching thee to bless us in all our
undertakings; that we may know and serve thee aright, and that
all our actions may tend to*thy glory, and our advancement 111
knowledge and virtue. And we beseech them 0 L°'d G°d' "i
,_ ..__-
...._-
..»......
J
16 LIGHT ON MASONRY.
bless our present assembling; and to illurnine our minds through
the influence of the Son of Righteousness, that we
may walk in
the light of thy countenance; and when the trials of our
proba-
tionary state are over, be admitted into the temple not made-
with hands, etemal in the heavens. Amen. So mote it be.
.Hnother prayer, as
o_/len used at opening as
closing. »
Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell
together in unity; it is like the 'precious ointment upon the head
that run _down upon the beard, even Aaron's beard, that went
down ta the skirts of his garment: as the dew of Hermon, and as
the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion, for there the
Lord commanded the blessing, evermore. Amen. So mote it
be
`
The lodge being now open and ready to proceed to business,
the Masterdirects the Secretary to read the minutes of the last
meetingfwhich naturally brings to view the business of the pres-
Gm.
If there are any candidates to be brought forward, that will be
the first business attended to. I will, therefore, proceed with a
description of the ceremonies used in the admission and initiation,
of a candidate i the first degree of Masonry.
A person wishing to become a Mason must get some one who
is a Mason to present his petition to a lodge, when, if there are
no serious objections, it will be entered on the minutes, and a.
committee of two or three appointed to inquire into his charac-
ter, and report to the next regular communication. The follow-
ing is the form of a
petition used by a candidate; but a
worthy
candidate will not be rejected for the want of formality in his pe-
titio -
r
To iige Worshipful Mastei`Wardens a.nd`Brethren of Lodge No.
-, of Free and Accepted Masons.
The subscriber, residing in -_-, of lawful age, and by oc-
cupation a , begs leave to state that, unbiassed by friends,
and uninliuenced by mercenary motives, he freely and voluntari-
ly offers himself a candidate for the mysteries of Masonry, and
that he is prompt to solicit this privilege by a favorable opinion
conceived of the institution, a desire of knowledge and a sincere
wish of being serviceable to his fellow creatures. Should his pe-
tition be granted, he will cheerfully confomn to all the ancient es-
tablished usages a.nd customs ofthe fraternity.
(Signed) A. B.
At the next regular communication, (if no very serious objec-
tion appears against the candidate,) the ballot-boxes will be pass-
--
' "L" f
-----._.,_._.._ ,....¢».`,.__._..._..._, _ *_
LIGHT os nusosar. 17
ed; one black ball will reject a candidate. The boxes may be
passed three times. The Deacons are the proper persons to pass
them; one ofthe boxes has black and white beans, or balls in it,
the other empty; the one with the balls in it goes before, and lin'-
nishes each member with a black and white ball; the empty box
follows and receives them. There are two holes in the top ofhis
box with a small tube (generally) in each, one of which is black,
and the other white, with a partition in the box. The members
put both their balls into this box as their feelings dictate; when
the balls are received, the box is presented to the Master,
Seniodk
and Junior Wardens, who pronounce clear or not clear, as .
case may be. The ballot proving clear, the candidate (if pres-
vnt) is conducted into a small preparation room adjoining the
lodge, he is asked the following questions, and gives the follow-
ing answers. Senior lteacon to i/andidate,lf'jl)o you sincerely
rleclare, upon your honor before these gentle1n§;h,that, unbimsed
by friends, uninfluenced by unworthy motives, you freely and vo-
luntarily offer yourself a candidate for the mysteries of Masonryt'
./Ins. 'I do.' Senior Deacon to candidate, 'rio you. sincerely
declare, upon your honor before these gentlemen, that you are
prompt to solicit the privileges of Masonry, by a favorable opinion
conceived ofthe institution, a desire of knowledge, and a sincere
wish of beingserviceable to your fellow creaturesi' ./Ins. 'I do.'
Senior Deacon to candidate,* 'Do you sincerely declare, upon
your honor before these gentlemen, that you will cheerfully con-
tbrm to all the ancient established usages and customs of the fra-
tcmity?' .H/as. 'I do.' After the above questions are proposed
and answered, and the result reported to the M aster, he says,
'Brethren, at the request of Mr. A. ll. he has been proposed and
accepted in regular tbrm. I therefore recommend him as a
pro-
per candidate for the mysteries of Masonry, and worthy to par-
take ofthe privileges of the fraternity; and in consequence of a
declaration of his intentions, voluntarily made, I believe he will
cheerfully conform to the rules of the order( 'l`he candidate,
during the time, is divested of all his apparel (shirt excepted)"und
furnished with a pair of drawers, kept in the lodge for theluise of
candidates; the candidate is then blindfolded, his lelt foot burr-.
li
-
*
The reader will here leam one reason why those who enter a
lodge,
never come out, until they have taken adegree. The Candidate is made to
promise upon his honor that he will "conform to all the ancient established
usages and customs of the fratemityf' hence let him be ever so much op-
bpgcsid'to t}l§fce|ier£(qnie:;'of ipitiation,
or the oath of the
degreeivhe;
cannot gc-
or ees un is romise. Should he, however* ee constrain-
ed to violate his word, th: creiixasiom, and, if necessary, thiithrcats Dflh'
.master and brethren compel)him to go forward.
B2
-&»»&¢.....,_... --
IS v
LIGHT ON MASONRY.
his right in a slipper, his left breast and arm na.ked, and a
rope
called a cable-tow round his neck and left arm, (the rope is not
put round the arm in all lodges) in which posture the Candidate
is conducted to the door where he is caused to give. or the con-
ductor gives three distinct knocks, which are answered by three
from within, the conductor gives one more, which is also answer-
ed by one from within. The door is then partly opened and the
Junior Deacon generally asks, 'who comes there? who comes
there? who comes therel' The conductor, alias the Senior Dea-
con, answers, 'A poor blind candidate who has long been desir-
Ms of having and receiving a
part of' the rights and benefits of'
this Worshipful lodge dedicated (some say erected) to God and
held tbrth to the holy order of' St. John, as all true fellows and
brothers have done, who have gone this way before him.'-`I` he
Junior Deacon-then asks, 'Is it of his own free will and accord
he makes this request? is he duly and truly prepared! worthy and
well qualified? and properly avouched fort' All of which being
answered in the affirmative, the Junior Deacon to Senior Dea-
con; 'By what tiirther rights does he expect to obtain this bene-
fitl' ./Ins. 'By-being a man, free bom, of' lawful age, and under
the tongue of good report.' The Junior Deacon then says, 'since
this is the case
you will wait till the worshipful Master in the east
is made acquainted with his request, and his answer returned;'
the Junior Deacon repairs to the Master, when the same ques-
tions are asked and answers retumed as at the door; after which,
the Master says, 'since he comes endowed with all these neces-
sary qualifications, let him enter this worshipful lodge in the name
of the Lord and take heed on what he enters.' The candidate
then enters, the Junior Deacon at the same time pressing his
naked left breast with the point of the compass, and asks the
candidate, 'Did you feel any thingl' .Hns. 'I did;' Junior Dea-
con to candidate, 'what was itl' ./ins. 'A torture.' The Jun-
ior Deacon then says, 'as this is a torture to your flesh, so
may
it ever be to your mind and conscience, if' ever you should attempt
to reveal the secrets of Masonry unlawfully) The candidate is
thenconducted to the centre ofthe lodge, where he and the Sen-
ior Deacon kneels, and the Deacon says the following prayer.
"Vouchsafe thine aid, Almighty Father of the universe, to this
our
present convention; and grant that this candidate for Mason-
ry may dedicate and devote his life to thy service, and become a
true and faithful brother among us! Endue him with a compe-
tency of thy divine wisdom, that by the secrets of' our art, he may
be the better' enabled to display the beauties of' holiness, to the
honor of thy holy name. So mote it be. Amen!"
»- »
"-'
'
*
-d -lun.-. ___.¢.»..__._._ _..4.,-.r.¢.__
x.xGu'1' ON nusonmv. 19
The Master then asks the candidate, 'In whom do you put your
trustl' ./Ins. 'ln God.' The'Master then takes him by the right
hand and says, 'Since in God you put your trust, arise follow your
leader and tear no
danger.' The Senior Deacon then conducts
the candidate three times regularly round the lodge, and halts at
the Junior Warden in the south, where the same questions are
asked and answers retumed as at the door.
As the candidate and the conductor are passing round the room
the Master reads the following passage of scripture, and takes
the same time to read it that they do to go round the lodge three
times.
_
"Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell
together in unity! It is like the precious ointment upon the head,
that ran down upon the beard, even _aron's beard, that went
down to the skirts ot' his garment: as the dew of Harmon, and as
the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion; for there
the Lord commanded the blessing, even lite tbr ever more."
The candidate is then conducted to the Senior Warden in the
west, where the same questions are asked and answers' retumed
as before, from thence he is conducted to the Worshipful Master
in the east, where the same questions are asked and answers re-
turned as before. The Master likewise demands of him, from
whence he came and whither he is travelling. The candidate an-
swers, 'from the west and travelling to the east.' Master in-
quires: 'Why do you leave the west and travel to the easté' ./ins.
'In search of light.' Master then says, 'bince the candidate is
travelling in search of light, you will please conduct him back to
the west fiom whehce he came, and put him in the care of the
Senior Warden, who will teach him how to approach the east,
the place of light, by advancing upon one upright regular step, to
the first step, his feet forming the right angle ofan oblong square,
his body erect at the altar before the Master, and place him in a
proper position to take upon him
*e
solemn oath or
obligation of
an Entered Apprenhce Mason! he Senior Warden receives the
candidate, and instructs him as directed. He first steps off with
the left foot and brings up the heel of the right into the hollow
thereof; the heel of the right thot against the ancle of~the left, will
of course form the right angle of an oblong square; the candidate
then kneels on his left knee, and places his right foot as to form
a square with the left, he turns his foot round until the ancle bone
is as much in front of him as the _toes on the left; the candidate's
left hand is then put under the Holy Bible, square and compass,
and the right hand on them. This is the position in which if CHU;
didate is placed when hé takes upon him the oath or obl8°"°" °
v
_,
_,_ _
F-
20 LIGHT ON Masoxnr.
an Entered Apprentice Mason. As soon as the candidate is plac-
ed in this position, the Worshipful Master approaches him, and
says, 'Mr. A. B. you are now placed in a proper position to take
upon you the solemn oath or
obligation of an Entered Apprentice
Mason# which I assure you is neither to eH'ect your religion nor
politics, if you are
willing to take it repeat your name and say af-
ter me;' [and although many have refiised to take any kind of an
obligation, and begged for the privilege of retiring, yet none have
made their escape; they have been either coerced, or persuaded
to submit. There are thousands who never return to the lodge
after they are init.iated.] The following obligation is then admin-
istered.
"I, A. B. of my own free will and accord, in presence of Al-
mighty God and this Worshipful lodge of Free and Accepted Ma-
sons, dedicated to God and held forth to the holy order of St.
John, do hereby and hereon most solemnly and sincerely promise
and swear, that I will always hail, ever conceal, and never reveal
any part,.or parts, art, or arts, point, or points of the secrets, arts
and mysteries of ancient Free Masonry, which I have received, am
about to receive, or
may hereafter be instructed in, to any person
or
persons in the known world, except it be atrue and lawthl bro-
ther Mason, or within the body of a
just and lawfully constituted
lodge of such, and not unto him, nor unto them whom I shall hear
so to be, but unto him and them only whom I shall tind so to bc,
after strict trial and due examination or lawful information. Fur-
thermore, do I promise and swear that I will not write, print,
stamp, stain, hugh, cut, carve, indent, paint, or engrave it on
any
thing moveable or innnoveable, under the whole canopy of heav-
en, whereby, or whereon the least letter, figure, character, mark,
stain, shadow; or resemblance ot' the same may become legible or
intelligible to myself or any other person in the known world,
whereby the secrets of Masonry may be unlawfully obtained
through my unworthiness. To all which I
do most solemnly and
sincerely promise and swear, without the least equivocation, men-
tal reservation, or selt` evasion of mind in me whatever; binding
myself under no less penalty, than to have my throat cut across,
my tongue torn out by the roots, and my body buried in the rough
* In many lodges this is put in the fonn of u.
question, thus:
"are you
willin to take an obligation u Jon on that does not ettect 'our ohtics or
tl V l Y _
5 P
religion7" The promise "to conform," made before
entering the lodge, the
"assurance that the oath is not to interfere with their political or religious
principles," and the manner the obligation is administered,-only two or
three words being repeated at a
time, consequ ntly not fully understood;
'are among the
reasons which have led many gent and good men to take
oaths incompatible with the laws ot God and our country.
~ .¢-.4.- - .
4-__ ,.
..._.,_
f'
'
W
'
Lrcm' ON Mssonmv. 21
sands of the sea at low water mark, where the tide ebbs and flows
twice in twenty-four hours; so help me God, and keep me stead-
fast in the due performance ofthe same."*
After the obligation the master addresses the candidate in the
following manner: 'Brother, to you the secrets of masonry are
about to be unveiled, and a
brighter sun never shone.lustre on
your eyes; while prostrate before this sacred altar, do you not
shudder at every crime? have you not contidence in every virtue?
May these thoughts ever inspire you with the most noble senti-
ments; may you ever feel that elevationoi' soul, that shall scom a
dishonest act. Brother, what do you most desirel' sins. 'Light.'
Master to brethren, 'Brethren, stretch forth your hands and assist
in bringing this new made brother from darkness to light! The
members having formed a circle round the candidate, the Master
says, 'And God said, let there be light. and there was
light' At
the same time, all the brethren clap their hands, and stamp on
the floor with their right foot as
heavy as
possible, the bandage
dropping from the ca.ndidate's eyes at the same instant, which,
after having been so
long blind, and full of fearful apprehensious
all the time, this great and sudden transition from perfect dark-
ness to alight brighter (if possible) than thetneridiarr sun in a mid
summer day, sometimes produces an
alarming effect. I once
knew a man to faint on being brought to light; and his recovery
was quite doubtful for some time: however, he did come too. but
he never retumed to the lodge again. I have often conversed
with him on the subject, he is yet living, and will give a certificate
in support of the above statement at any time if requested.
After the candidate is brought to light, the Master addresses
him as follows: 'Brother, on
being brought to light, you first dis-
cover three great lights in masonry bythe assistance ol` three less-
er, they are thus explained; the three great lights in masonry are
the Holy Bible, Square and Compass.1' The Holy Bible is giv-
* It is frequently said by Masons that tho "penalties of masonic oaths are
nothing; that no one is bound to inflict them, and that if Morgan was put
to death by Masons it was not done in contbrmit to masonic law." Bur if
one part ofthe oath is nothing another part is
nothing by the same nrle. Any
Mason, therefore, IS at liberty to reveal masonry without
exposing
himself
any more than he would ifthe oath was never administered. Buti the
Tin-
allies are not to be inflicted, why did
they kill Morgan-and why is rr a-
son swom that he will "uae his most decided endeavors, by the blessing of
God, to bring such person (the person who violates masonic law) to the
most;
strict and counruu runrsrrmsnr agreeable to the ancient rulu.s.ud usages ot
the fraternity?
1 The Holy Bible is here said to be given to Masons u |. nrle and guide for
their faith and practice. But lwould ask, if I-'ree Masonry is the
same among
all nations (ss is declared by masonic writers) how this is possible, whf" W
L_?
-1:-ir;
22 _LIGHT ON MAsoNaY.
en to us as a rule and guide for our faith and practice; the Square,
to square our actions, and the Compass to keep us in due bounds
with all mankind, but more especially with the brethren. The
three lesser lights are three buming tapers, or candles placed on
candlesticks, (somesay, or candles on pedestals,) they represent
the Sun, Moon, and Master of the lodge, and are thus explained.
As the sun rules the day and the moon govems the night, so ought
the Worshipful Master with equal regularity to rule and govem
his lodge, or cause the same to be done; you next discover me
as Masterof this lodge, approaching you from the east upon the
Hrst step of masonry, under the sign and due-guard ot' an Entered
Apprentice Mason. (The sign and due-guard has been explain-
ed.) This is the manner of giving them, imitate me as near as
you can, keeping your position. First, step OH' with your left
foot and bring the heel of the right into the hollow thereof so as
to form a square.' [This is the first step in masonry.] The fol-
lowing is the sign of an Entered Apprentice Mason, and is the
sign of' distress in this degree; you are not to give it unless in
distress.
`
[It is given by holding your two hands traversely across
each other, the right_hand upwards and one inch from the lef`t.]
The following is the due-guard of' an Entered Apprentice Mason.
[This is given by drawing your right hand across your throat,
the thumb next to your throat, your arm as high as the elbow in
ahorizontal position] 'Brother, I now present you my right
hand in token of brotherly love and esteem, and with it the grip
and name of' the grip of an Entered Apprentice Mason! The
right hands are joined together, as in shaking hands, and each
sticks his thumb nail into the third joint or upper end of the fore
finger; the name of the grip is Boaz, and is to be given in the fol-
lowing manner and no other; the Master first gives the grip and
word, and divides it for the instruction of' the candidate; the ques-
is a well known fact, that but a small part of the human family are in pos-
session oi] or know any thing about, the Bible? And if the Bible is receiv-
ed by Masons as a rule of faith and practice, why do they use a
square and
compass? In not the Bible sudicient?
The truth is, masonry is not the same among all nations, only in some re-
speets, and these are, the f`undn.rnent:il principles ot the order. The appen-
dages ofthe Institution differ according to the peculiar feelings and senti-
ments ofthe ople among whom it exists. Hence in America, in a reli-
gious point ogiew, it has existed with difficulty: masonic writers have been
at a loss what to say on the subject, and in their extremity, one has called it
'religion,' another the 'hand-maid oi`religion,' a third the 'twin-sister of chris-
tianity] and a tburth that it was
simply an Institution of 'morality and bc-
nevolence.' To please the christian the Bible is introduced,-to satisfy the
infidel, the square and com ass are added; the name of Christ is expungcd
from passages quoted, and the work ol' the Holy Ghost rejected, and all done
in such ax manner, that but tbw see the foul and monstrous imposition.
..-41.-»..__..-nn
Lrcx-|'r ON Mnsoivnv. 23
tions are as follows: The Master and candidate holding each oth-
er
by the grip as before described, the Master says, 'what is thisl'
./Ins. 'A grip! Q. 'A grip of whatl' dns. 'The grip of an
Entered Apprentice M ason.' Q. 'Has it a namel' dns. 'It
has.' Q. 'Will you give it to mel' Avis. 'l did not so receive
it, neither
can I sp impart it.' Q. 'What will you do with itl'
Jlns. 'Letter it ,or halve it.' Q. 'Halve it and bcgin.' ./Int.
'You begin.' Q. 'Begin you.' .dna 'BOB Q. 'AZJ ./Ins.
'BOAZ.' Master says, 'Right, brother Boaz, I greet you. It
is the name of the left hand pillar ofthe porch of king &`olomon's
Temple-arise, brother Boaz, snd salute the Junior and Fenior
Wardens as such, and convince them that you have been regular-
ly initiated as an# Entered Apprentice Mason, and have gut the
sign, grip, and word? 'I`he Master returns to his scat while the
Wardens are ehmining the candidate, and gets a lamb-skin or
white apron, presents it to the candidate and observes, þÿ'l ¬rothcr,
lnow present yo1 with a Lamb-skin or white apron; it is an
emblem of innocence, and the badge of a Mason; it has been
wom
by kings, princes, and potentates of the eanh, who have nev-
cr been ashamed to wear it; it is more honorable than the dia-
dems of kings, or pearls ot' princesses, when worthily worn; it is
more ancient than the Golden Fleece or Roman Eagle; more
honorable than the Star ard Garter; or any other order that can
be conferred upon you at this, or any other time, except it be in
the body of a
just and liilly constituted lodge; you will carry it to
the Senior Warden in the west, who will teach you how to wear
it as an Entered Apprentice Mason] The Senior Warden ties
the apron on and turns up the flap instead of letting it tall down
in front of'the top of the apron. This is the way Entered Ap-
prentice Masons wear, or ought to wear, their aprons until they
are
advanced. The candidate is now conducted to the Master
in the east, who says, 'Brother, as
you are dressed, it is neces-
sary you should have tools to work with; I will how present you
with the working tools of an lflntered Apprentice Mason, which
are the twenty-tour inch gauge and common
gavel; they are thus
explained:-'Ihe twenty-four inch gauge is an instrument made
use of by operative Masons to measure and lay out their work,
but we as Free and Accepted Masons, make use of it for the more
noble and glorious purpose of dividing our time. The twenty-
tour inches on the guage, are emblematical of the twenty-four
hours in the day, which we are taught to divide into three equal
parts, whereby ve find eight hours tbr the service of God, and a
worthy distressed brother; eight hours for our usual vocations;
and eight for relieshment and sleep; the common gavel is an in-
24 LIGHT 0N MASONRY.
strument made use of by operative Mason to break off the cor.
ners of rough stones; the better to fit them for the builders use, but
we as Free and Accepted Masons, use it for the more noble and
glorious purpose of divesting our hearts and consciences ofall the
vices and superfluities of life, thereby fitting our minds as
living
and lively stones, for that spiritual building, tlfat house not made
with hands, etemal in the Heavens* I also present you with a
new name; it is CAUTION, it teaches you as
you are
barely in-
structed inthe rudiments of Masonry, that you should be cautious
over all your words and actions, particularly when before the ene-
mies of Masonry. I shall next present you "ith three precious jew-
els, which are a L1sTENxNG mn, a sn.EN'r ronqfs, and a FAITH-
FUL nmrvr.
'A listening ear teaches you to listen to the in|tructions of the
Worshipfiil Master; but more
especially that you should listen to
the cries of a worthy distressed brother. A silent tongue teaches
you to be silent while in the lodge, that the peace and harmony
thereof may not be disturbed, but more
especially, that you should
he silent before the enemies of Masonry, that the craft may not be
brought into disrepute by your impmdence. A faithful heart teach-
cs you to be faithful to the instructions of the Worshipful Master at
all times, but more
especially, that you should be faithful and keep
and conceal the secrets of Masonry, and those of a brother when
given to you in charge as such, that they may remain as secure and
inviolable in your breast as in his own, before communicated to
you. I further present you with check words two; their names are
TRUTH and UNION, and are thus explained. Truth is a divine at-
tribute, and the foundation ofevery virtue; to be good and true, is
the first lesson we are
taught in Masonry; on this theme we con-
template, and by its dictates endeavor to regulate our conduct;
hence, while influenced by this principle, hypocrisy and deceit are
unknown among us, sincerity and plain dealing distinguish us,-and
the heart and tongue join in promoting each other's welfare, and
rejoicing in each other's prosperity.
Union, is that kind of friendship, which ought to appear conspic-
uous in every Mason's conduct. lt is so closely allied to the di-
vine attribute, truth, that he who enjoys the one, is seldom desti-
* Let it no longer be said, that "Masonry is not a religious Institution."
But while we assert that it inculcates a system of religion, we atiirm that it
is not the religion of Jesus. There are in the world many religions, but all
are false save one, and that is, ofthe Bible. Any system which professedly
teaches a
way to Heaven, is a
system ofreligion: but that which points out a.
path, without n, crucified Saviour and the sanctifying influences of the Holy
Comforter, is not only false, but in direct hostilit ,
to the true God, and the
souls of men! Such a religious system is that ofyhlasonry.
<
..¢ .
.._,_.._.,| _ __V_
A
*maui* ON Mnsormv. 25
ture of the other. Should interest, honor, prejudice, or human de-
pravity, ever induce you to violate any part of the sacred trust we
now
repose in you, let these two important words, at the earliest in-
sinuation, teach you to put on the check-line oftruth, which will in-
fallibly direct you to pursue that straight and narrow path which
ends in the full enjoyment of the grand lodge above; where we
shall all meet as Masons and members in the same
family, in peace.
harmony, and love; where all discord on account of politics, reli-
gion, or
private opinion shall be unknown, and banished from with-
in our walls.
'Brother, it has been a custom from time immemorial to demand,
or ask from a newly made brother something ofa metalic kind, not
so much on account of its intrinsic value, but that it may be depos-
ited in the archives of the lodge, as a memorial that you was here-
in made a Mason;-if small trifle will be suilicient;-any thing of
a metalic kind will do; if you have no
money, any of a me-
talic nature will be suilicient; even a button will do.' [The can-
didate says he has nothing about him; it is known he has nothing.]
'Search yourself? the Master replies. He is assisted in search-
ing, nothing is found; 'perhaps you can borrow a trifle,' says the
Master. [He tries to borrow, none will lend him-he proposes
to go into the other room where his clothes are; he is not permit-
ted.-If a
stranger, he is very much embarrassed; Master to can-
didate, 'Brother, let this ever be a striking lesson to you, and teach
in a like pennyless situation, to contribute as
liberally to his reliel
as his situation may require, and your abilities will admit without
material injury to yourself or family! Master to Senior Deacon,
'You will conduct the candidate back from whence he came, and
invest him of what he has been divested, and let him retum for fur-
ther instruction. A zealous attachment to these principles will
ensure public and private esteem. In the state, you are to be a
quiet and peaceable subject, true to yoiu' govemment and just to
your country; you are not to countenance disloyalty, but faithtillly
submit to legal authority, and conform with cheerfulness to the
government of the country in which you live. In your outward de-
meanor be particularly careful to avoid censure or
reproach. Al-
though your frequent appearance at our
regular meetings is ear-
nestly solicited, yet it is not meant that Masonry should interfere
with your necessary vocations; for these are on no account to be
neglected: neither are you to sutfer your zeal for the institution to
lead you into argument with those, who, through ignorance, may
ridicule it. At your leisure hours, that you may improve in Ma-
sonic knowledge, you are to converse with well informed brethren,
C
_,._._
you, if you should ever see afriend, but more especially a
brotheri
26 'LIGHT ON MAsoNm'. ,
who will be always as
ready to give, as you will be to receive in-
tbrmation. Finally, keep sacred and inviolable the mysteries of
the o1'der, as these are to distinguish yon from the rest of the com-
munity, and mark your consequence among Masons. If, in the
circle of your acquaintance, you find a
person desirous of being
initiated into Masonry, be particularly attentiveenot to commend
him, unless you are convinced he will conform to our rules; that
the honor, glory, and reputation of the institution may
beiirmly
established, and the world at large convinced of its good effects.
The work of the evening being over, l will proceed to give a de-
scription of 'the manner of closing the lodge. It is a very common
practice in lodges to close a
lodge of Entered Apprentices, and
open a lodge of Fellow Crafts, and close that, and open a Master
NIason's lodge, all in the same evening.
Some brother generally makes a motion that the lodge be clos-
ed; it being seconded and carriedz- _
The Master to the Junior Deacon-'Brother Junior,' [giving
one rap which calls up both Deacons,] 'the first as well as the last
care ofa Masoni' /Ins. 'To see the lodge tyled, Worshipful)
Master to the Junior Deacon, 'Attend to that part of your duty,
:md inform the Tyler that we are about to close this lodge of En-
tered Apprentice Masons, and direct him tyle accordingly] The
Junior Deacon steps to the door and gives three raps, which arc
answered by the 'I`yler with three more; the Junior Deacon then
gives one, which is also answered by the Tyler by one. Tlxe_Ju}i-
ior Deacon then opens the door, delivers his message, and resumes
his place in the lodge, and says, 'the door is tyled, Worshipful!
Master to Junior Deacon, 'By whomi' AHS. 'By a Blaster ma.
son without the door, armed with the proper implements of his oil
lice.' .
Master to Junior Deacon, 'His business there? ./ins. 'To
keep offall cowans and eaves-droppers, and see that none pass or
repass without permission from the chair.' Master to Junior Dea~
con, FYour place in the lodge, Juniori' ./Ins. 'At the right hand
ofthe Senior Warden in the west.' Master to Junior Deacon,
'Your duty therei' .Hns. 'To wait on the Worshipful Master and
Wardens, act as their proxy in the active duties of the lodge, -and
take charge of the door.' Master to the Junior Deacon, 'The
Senior Deacon's place in the lodge? Jlna. 'At the right hand of
the Worshipful Master in the east.' Master to Senior Deacon,
'Your duty there, brother Senior? .Hua 'To wait on the Worship-
ful Master and Wardens; act as their proxy in the active duties ot'
fhq lodge; attend to the preparation and introduction of candi-
dates; receive and clothe allfvisiting brethren.' Master to the Sen-
ior Deacon, 'The Secretary's place in the lodge? sins. "At
-¢.._..m.__. __... ,
_,L
--_-¢...._.¢.,..,__
V
meer os Mssosnrs 27
:cout left hand, Worshipful! Master to Secretary, 'Your dat)
there, brother Secretaryl' Jlns. 'Duly to observe the Master's
will and pleasure; record the proceedings of the lodge; transmit
a copy of the same to the grand lodge, if required; receive all
monies and money bills from the hands of the brethren;
palylthem
over to the Treasurer, and take his receipt for the same.' aster
to the Secretary, 'The Treasurer's place in the lodgel' dns. 'A1
the right hand ofthe Worshipthl Master.' Master to Treasurer.
'Your business there, brother Treasurerl' Hua. 'Duly to observf-
the Worshipful Mast/sr's will and pleasure; receive all monies and
money bills from the hands of the Secretary; keep a just and ac-
curate account of the same; pay them out by order of the Wor-
shiptiil Master and consent of the brethren] Master to the
Treasurer, 'The Junior Warden's place in the lodgel' dns. 'In
the south, Worshipful?
»
Master to the Junior Warden, 'Your
business there, brother Juniorl' Ans. 'As the sun iii the south,
at high meridian, is the beauty and glory of the day; so stands the
Junior Warden in the south at high twelve, the better to observe
the time; call the crafts from labor to refreshment; superintend
them during the hours thereoi§ see that none convert the purposes
of refreshment into that of excess or inte rance; call them on a-
gain in due season; that the Worsbipfulnaeaster may have honor,
and they pleasure and profit thereby/ The Master to the Junior
Warden, [I wish the reader to take particular notice, that in clos-
ing the lodge, the Master asks the Junior Warden as follows:-
'The Master's place in the lodgel' and in opening he asks the
Senior Warden the same question,] 'The Master's place inthe
lodgel' Ans. 'In the east, Worshipful! Master to
`
Warden, 'His duty therel' Ans. 'As the sun rises in the
open and adorn the day; so
presides the Worshipful
'i
;~z»;';V
-
,Ji ;
p
_
east, to open and adom his lodge; set his crafts to
worltf p
'
_:Q-»
and wholesome laws, or cause the same to be done.' - *I* _
3
the Junior Warden, 'The Senior Warden's place in the
Ans. 'In the west, Worshipful.' Master to Senior " _
'Your business there, Brother Seniorl' Aus. 'As the sun IBN nr
the west to close the day, so stands the Senior Warden in the west
to assist the Worshipful Master in opening and closing the lodge;
take care of the jewels and implements; see that none be lost; pay
the craft their wages, if any be due; and see that none
go away dis-
satisfied! The Master new
gives three raps, when all the breth-
ren rise, and the Master asks, 'Are you all satisfiedl' They an-
swer in the affirmative, by giving the due-guard. _
"
A
Q
" ' "
Q'
Should the Master discover that
any declined it; inqllifl'
isimmediately made why it is so; and if any member is dissatisfied
28 LIGHT ON MASONRY.
with any part of the proceedings, or with any brother, the subject is
immediately investigated. Master to the Brethren, 'Attend to giv-
ing the signs; as I do, so do 'you give them downwards# [which is
by giving the last in opening, first in closing. In closing, on this
degree, you first draw your right hand across
your throat, as here-
in before described, and then hold your two hands over each other
as before described. This is the method pursued through all the
degrees; and when opening on any ofthe upper degrees, all the
signs, of all the preceeding degrees, are given before you give thc
signs of the degree on which you are
opening.] This being done,
the Master proceeds, 'I now declare this lodge of Entered Ap-
prentice Masons regularly closed in due and ancient form. Brother
Junior Warden, please inform brother Senior Warden, and request
him to inform the brethren that it is my will and pleasure that this
lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons be now closed, and stand clos-
ed until our next regular commimication, unless a case or cases
ofemergency shall require earlier convention, ofwhich every mem-
ber shall be notified; during which time it is seriously hoped and
expected that every brother will demean himself as becomes a
Free and Accepted Mason.' Junior Warden to Senior Warden,
'Brother Senior, it is the Worshipful Master's will and pleasure
that this lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons be closed, and stand
closed llllal our next regular communication, unless a case or cas-
es of emergency shall require earlier convention, of which every
brother shall be notified; during which time it is seriously hoped
and expected that every brother will demean himself as becomes
a Free and Accepted Mason.' Senior Warden to the brethren,
'Bret.hren, you have heard the Worshipful Master's will and plea-
-
: communicated to me by Brother Junior' so let it be done
'
,
"
'g 'to the Junior Warden, 'Brother Junior, how do Masons
fi
up _g n s
part? Ans 'On the square Master to the Junior
a' 1
'
»
°
F
"
_f__,_~ ' Aus. 'On the level.' Master to Senior Warden, 'How
"
l-
,
i'
'
9 9
_ .1
'
k ' nior'Wardens, 'Since we meet on the level, Brother Jimior,
I
7
'
part on the square, Brother Senior, so let us ever meet and
part in the name of the Lord.' Here follows a prayer, sometimes
used. Master to the Brethren, 'Brethren, let us pray.'
'Supreme Architect of the universe! accept our humble praises
for the many mercies and blessings which thy bounty has conferred
upon us, and especially for this friendly and social intercourse.-»~
Pardon, we beseech thee, whatever thou hast seen amiss in us
since we have been together; and continue to us
thy presence, pro-
tection, and blessing. Make us sensible of the renewed obliga~
tions we are under to love thee supremely, and to be friendly to each
other. May all our
irregular passions be subdued, and may wg
,
i
=,<,_eq;q
/
-
_ þÿ..fj' ¬"'
»
,_
-1, _,
_
'
»
"i` rg '_,..
'-
.1-, __ -_ _
,_ ,
-4
'
_'A ;_~ __ 'Sgr
'~ "`
wg". T
'
-1
,J
_
LIGHT ON Masomw. 29
Gaily increase in faith, hope, and charity; but more
especially in
that charity which is the bond ofpeace, and perfection ofevery vir-
tue. May we so
practice thy precepts, that, through the merits of
the Redeemer, we may finally obtain thy promises, and find an ac-
ceptance through the gates, and into the temple and city of our
God. So mote it be. Amen.'
A Benediction, oflener sued at closing, than the preceding Prayer.
'May the blessings of Heaven rest upon us, and all regular Ma-
sons! May brotherly love prevail, and every moral and social vir-
tue cement us. So mote it be. Amen.
After the prayer the following charge ought to be delivered; but
it is seldom attended to; in a majority of lodges it is never at-
tended to.
Master to Brethren, 'Bretbren, we are now about to quit this
sacred retreat of friendship and virtue, to mix again with the world.
Amidst its concerns and employments, forget not the duties which
you have heard so
frequently inculcated, and so
forcibly recom-
mended in this lodge.-Remember that around this altar you have
promised to befriend and relieve every brother who shall need your
assistance; You have promised, in the most friendly manner, to
remind him of his errors, and aid a reformation. These generous
principles are to extend further: Every human being has a claim
upon your kind oflices. Do good unto all. Recommend it more
"especially to the household of the faithful." Finally, brethren,
be ye all of one mind, live in peace, and may the God of love and
peace, delight to dwell with and bless you.'
In some
lodges, after the charge is delivered, the Master says,
'Brethren, form on the square.' When all the brethren fomx a
circle, and the Master, followed
by; every brother,
[Except
in us-
ing the words,] says, 'And God said, let there be lig t, and there
was light' At the same moment that the last of these words drops
from the Master's lips, every member stamps with his right foot on
the floor, and at the same instant bring their hands together with
equal force, and in such perfect unis_on with each other, that per-
sons situated so as to hear it, would suppose it the precursor of
some dreadful catastrophe. This is called 'the slwrk.'
Having described all the ceremonies and forms appértaining to
the opening of a
lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons; setting
them to work; initiating a candidate, and closing alodge; I will
now proceed to give the Lecture on this degree; 'It is divided
into three sections. The lecture is nothing more or less than a
recapitulation of the preceding ceremonies and forms by way Of
question and answer, and fully
éaxplains
the same. In facf-» *ll*
»
2
LIGHT ON MLSONRY.
ceremonies and forms (generally masonically called the work)
and lecture are so much the same that be who possesses a
knowledge of the lectures cannot be destitute of a
knowledge
of what the ceremonies and forms are. As the ceremonies used
in opening and closing are the same in all the degrees, it is
thought best to give the whole one insertion; it being the sin-
cere wish of the writer, that every reader should perfectly under-
stand- all the formulas of the whole masonic fabric, as he then
will thereby be able to form correct opinions of the propriety or
impropriety, advantages or
disadvantages of the same.
First Section of the Lecture on the Fira! Degree of Masonry.
Q. From whence came you as an Entered Apprentice Mason?
A. From the holy lodge of St. John at Jerusalem.
'
Q. What recommendations do you bring?
A. Recommendations from the Worshipful Muster, Wardens
and Brethren of that Right Worshipful lodge, whom greet you.
Q. What comest thou hither to do?
A. To learn to subdue my passions, and improve myself in
the secret arts and mysteries of ancient Free Masonry.
Q. You are a Mason, then, I presume?
A. I am. .
Q. How do you know that you are a Mason?
A. By being often tried, never denied and willing to be tried
avam.
DQ. How shall I know you to be a Mason?
A. By certain signs, and atoken.
Q. What are signs?
A. All right angles, horizontals, and perpendiculars.
Q. What is a token? ,
-A. A certain friendly and brotherly grip whereby one Mason
ma know another in the dark as well as in the light.
'
é. Where "gas you first prepared to be a Mason?
A. In my heart.
Q. Where secondly?
A. In a room
adjacent to the body of a just and lawfully con-
stituted lodge of such.
Q. How was you prepared?
`
A. By being divested of all metals, neither naked nor clothed,
barefoot nor shod, hood-winked with a Cable Tow* about my
neck, in which situation I was conducted to the door of the
lodge.
'
-
Q
Q. You being hood-winked how did you know it to be a door?
'
*Three miles long,
__
_..¢-...__
--|_.._,______, I H
_
LIGHT ON nusonnr.
31
A. By first meeting with resistance and afterwards gaining
admission.
Q. How did you gain admission?
A. By three distinct knocks from without, answered by the-
same from within.
Q. What was said to you from within?
A. Who comes there, who comes there, who comes there.
-
Q. Your answer?
A. A poor blind candidate who has long been desirous of hav-
ing and receiving a
part of the rights and benefits of this Wor-
shipful lodge dedicated to God, and held forth to the holy order
of St. John as all true fellows and brothers have done, who havi-
gone this way before me.
`
Q. What further was said to you from within?
A. I was asked if it was of my own free will and accord l
made this request; if 'I was
duly and truly prepared worthy and
well qualified; all of which being answered in the atiirmative, I
was asked by what further rights I expected to obtain so
great a
favor or benefit.
Q. Your answer?
A. By being a man, free born, of lawful age and well recom-
mended. -
Q. What was then said to you?
A. I was bid to wait till the Worshipful Master in the east was
made acquainted with my request and his answer retumed.
Q. After his answer retumed what followed?
'
A. I was caused to enter the lodge.
Q. How? . _
A. On the point of some sharp instrument pressing my naked
left breast in the name of the Lord.
Q. How was
you then disposed of'I
A. I was conducted to the centre of the lodge and there caus-
ed to kneel for the benefit of a prayer. [See page 18.]
Q. After prayer what was said to you?
A. I was asked in whom I put my trust.
Q. Your answer?
A. In God.
'
,
Q. What followed?
A. The Worshipful Master took me by the right hand and said,
since in God you put your trust, arise, follow your leader and fear
no danger.
Q. How was you then disposed of?
A- I was conducted three times regularly around the lof.lg"
_,Qui-.» --
B2 mam' ox snsosnr.
`
and halted at the Junior Warden in the south, where the same
questions were asked and answers returned as at the door.
Q. How did the .Iunior Warden dispose of you?
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Senior Warden in
the west, where the same questions were asked and answers re-
turned as before.
Q. How did the Senior Warden dispose of you?
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Worshipful Master
in the east, where the same questions were asked and answers
retumed as before, who likewise demanded of me from whencel
came and whither I was travelling.
Q. Your answer?
A. From the west and travelling to the east.
Q. Why do you leave the west and travel to the east?
A. In search of light.
Q. How did the Worshipfiil Master then dispose of you?
A. He ordered me to be conducted back to the west from
whence I came, and put in care of the Senior Warden, who taught
me how to approach the east, the place of light by advancing
upon one upright regular step to the first step, my feet forming
the right angle of an oblong square, my body erect at the altar
before the Worshipful Master.
Q. What did the Worshipful Master do with you?
A. He made an Entered Apprentice Mason of me.
Q. How?
A. In due form.
Q. What was that due form?
A. My left knee bare bent, my right forming a square; my
left hand supporting the Holy Bible, Square and Compass; I took
n me the solemn oath or obligation of an Entered Appren-
e Mason. [See page 2O.]
`
Q. After you had taken your obligation what was said to you?
A. I was asked what I most desired.
Q. Your answer? A. Light.
'
Q. Was you immediately brought to
light?
I was. Q. How?
};rBy
the direction of the Master and assistance of the
bret en.
Q. What did you first discover after being brought to light?-
*
A. Three great lights in Masonry, by the assistance of three-
esser.
Q. What were those three great lights in Masonry?
A. The Holy Bible, Square, and Compass.
Q. How are they explained?
"""'i"` *"""'*@- -sinh-,;.¢_.___ ___"_~________
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 33
A. The Holy Bible is given to us as a
guide for our faith and
practice; the Square to square our actions; and the Compass to
keep us in due bounds with all mankind, but more
especially
with the brethren.
'
'
.
Q. What were those three lesser lights?
A. Three burning tapers, or candles on candle-sticks.
Q. What do they represent?
A. The Sun, Moon, and Master of the lodge.
Q. How are they explained?
A. As the Sun rules the day and the Moon governs the night.
so ought the Worshipful Master to use his endeavors to rule and
govem his lodge with equal regularity, or cause the same to be
done. ~
Q. What did you next discover? ,
A. The Worshipful Master approaching me from the cast, un-
der the sign and due~guard of an Entered Apprentice Mason,
who presented me with his right hand in token of brotherly love
and esteem, and proceeded to give me the grip and word of an
Entered Apprentice Mason, and bid me arise and salute the
Junior and Senior Wardens, and convince them that I had been
regularly initiated as an Entered Apprentice Mason, and was in
possession of the sign, grip, and word.
Q. What did you next discover? .
A. The Worshipful Master a second time approaching me from
the east, who presented me with alambskin or white apron, which
he said was an emblem of innocence, and the badge of a Ma-
son; that it had been wom
by kings, princes, and potentates, ol'
the earth, who had never been ashamed to wear it; that it was
more honorable than the diadems of kings, or pearls of princess-
es, when woithily wom; and more ancient than the Golden
Fleece, or Roman Eagle; more honorable than the star or
garter, or
any other order that could be conferred upon me at
that time, or
any time thereafter, except it be in the body of a
just and lawfully constituted lodge of Masons; and bid me can'y
it to the Senior Warden in the west, who taught me how to wear
it as an Entered Apprentice Mason.
Q. What was
you next presented with?
A. The working tools of an Entered Apprentice Mason.
Q. What were
they?
A. The twenty-four inch guage and common gavel.
Q. How were
they explained?
A. The twenty-four inch guage is aninstrument made use ol
by operative Masons to measure and lay out their work; bnt we
as Free and Accepted Masons are taught to make use of it for
34 Linux' on nusomur.
the more noble and glorious purpose of dividing our time; the
twenty-four inches on the guage are are emblematical of the
twenty-four hours in the day, which we are
taught to divide into
three equal parts, whereby we find eight hours for the service of
God, and a worthy distressed brother; eight hours for our usual
vocation, and eight hours for refreshment and sleep. The com-
mon
gavel is an instrument made use of by operative Masons to
break off the comers of rough stones, the better to fit them for
the bui1der's use; but we as free and Accepted Masons are taught
to make use of it for the more noble and glorious purpose ot'
divesting our hearts and consciences of all the vices and super-
fiuities of life, thereby fitting our minds as
lively and living
stones for that spiritual building, that house not made with hands.
vtemal in the heavens. ¢
Q. What was
you next presented with!
A. New name.
Q. What was that? A. Caution.
Q. What does it teach?
A. It teaches me as I was barely instructed in the rudiments
of Masonry, that I should be cautious over all my words and
actions, especially when before its enemies.
Q. What was you next presented with? <
A. Three precious jewels.
Q. What were they?
'
A. A listening ear, a silent tongue and a faithful heart.
Q. What do they teach?
A. A listening ear, teaches me to listen to the instruction ot'
the Worshipful Master, but more especially that I should listen
to the calls and cries of a
worthy distressed brother. A silent
tongue teaches me to be silent in the lodge, that the peace and
harmony thereof may not be disturbed; but more
especially that
I should be silent when before the enemies of Masonry. A faith-
lhl heart, that I should be faithful to the instructions of the Wor-
shipful Master at all times; but more especially that I should be
lhithful and keep and conceal the secrets of Masonry, and those
of a brother, when delivered to me in charge as such, that they
may remain as secure and inviolable in my breast, as in his own
before communicated to me.
. What was you next presented with?
Check-words two.
'
What were they?
Truth and Union. <
Q. How explained?
A. Truth is a divine attribute, and the foundation of every vir-
_;.._..¢-._.._,_-As`___,________ _
_ A
LIGHT ON II.tSONRY» 35
tue. To be good and true are the first lessons we are taught in
Masonry. On this theme we contemplate, and by its dictates
endeavor to regulate our conduct: hence, while influenced by this
principle, hypocrisy and deceit are unknown amongst us; sincer-
ity and plain dealing distinguishes us; and the heart and tongue
join in promoting each others welfare, and rejoicing in each oth-
ers prosperity.
Union is that kind of friendship that ought to appear conspicu-
ous in the conduct of every Mason. It is so
closely allied to
the divine attribute truth, that he who enjoys the one, is seldom
destitute ot' the other. Should interest, honor, prejudice, or hu-
man depravity ever influence you to violate any part of' the sacred
trust we now repose in you, let these two important words, at the
earliest insinuation, teach you to put on the check-line of truth,
which will infallibly ,direct you to pursue that strait and narrow
path, which ends in the full enjoyment of the grand lodge above,
where we shall all meet as Masons and members of one
family;
where all discord on account of religion, politics, or
private opin-
ion, shall be unknown and banished from within our walls.
Q. Wliat followed?
A. The Worshipful Master in the east made a demand of me
of something of a metalic kind, which, he said, was not so much
on account of its intrinsic value, as that it might be deposited in
the archives of the lodge, as a memorial that I had therein been
made a Mason.
Q. How did the Worshipful Master then dispose of you?
A. He ordered me to he conducted out of the lodge and in-
vested of what I had been divested, and returned for further in-
structions.
Q. After you returned liow was
you disposed of?
A. I was conducted to the north east comer of the lodge.
and there caused to stand upright like a man, my feet fomiing ai
square, and received a solemn injunction, ever to walk and act
uprightly before God and man, and in addition thereto received
the following charge. (For this charge see page 25.)
SECOND SECTION.
Q. Why was
you divested of all metals when you was made a
Mason l
A. Because Masonry regards no man on account of his world-
ly wealth or honors; it is therefore the internal, and not the ex-
temal qualifications that recommends a man to Masons.
Q. A second reason?
A. There was neither the sound of an axe, hammer, or any
other metal tool heard at the building ot' king Solomon's temple
36 _
LIGHT ON' MASONRY.
Q. How could so stupendous a fabric be erected without the
sound of axe, hammer, or any other metal tool?
'
A. All the stones were hewed, squared and numbered in the
quarries where they were raised, all the timbers felled and pre-
pared in'tlie forests of Lebanon, and carried down to Joppa on
floats, and takenfrom thence up to Jerusalem and set up with wood-
en malls, prepared for that purpose; which, when completed, every
part thereof fitted with that exact nicety, that it had more the resem-
blance ofthe handy workmanship of the Supreme Architect of'
the universe, than of human hands.
Q. Why was you neither naked nor clothed?
A. As I was an object of distress at that time, it was to remind
me, if ever I saw a friend, more especially a brother, in a like
distressed situation, that I should contribute as
liberally to his re-
lief as his situation required, and my abilities would admit, with-
out material injury to myself or family.
Q. Why was
you neither barefoot nor shodl
'
A. It was an ancient Israelitish custom, adopted among Ma-
sons; and we read in the book of Ruth conceming their mode
and manner of changing and redeeming, and to confirm all things,
a brother plucked of his shoe and gave it to his neighbor, and that
was testimony in Israel. This then, therefore, we do in confir-
mation ofa token, and as a
pledge of our
fidelity; thereby signi-
fying that we will renounce our own will in all things, and bc-
eome obedient to the laws of our ancient institutions.
Q. Why was you hood-winked?
'
A. That my heart might conceive before my eyes beheld the
beauties of Masonry.
Q. A second reason.
A. As 1 was in darkness at that time, it was to remind me that
I should keep the whole world so
respecting Masonry.
Q. Why had you a Cable-Tow about your neck?
~
A. In case I had not submitted to the manner and mode of
my initiation that I might have been led out of the lodge without
seeing the form and beauties thereof
Q. Why did you give three distinct knocks at the door?
A. To alarm the lodge, and let the worshipful master, war-
dens and brethren know that a poor blind candidate prayed ad-
mission.
Q. What do those three distinct knocks allude to? _
A. A certain passage in Scripture wherein it says,
'
ask and it
shall be given, seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be open-
ed unto you.'
'
Q. How did you apply this to your then case in Masonry!
-A--.-has-.__ _ ___ *__V ____ A _
....._;_
LIGHT ON MABONRY. 37
A. I asked the recommendations of a friend to become a Ma-
son; I sought admission through his recommendations and knock-
ed, and the door of Masonry opened unto me.
Q. Why was you caused to' enter on the point of some
sharp
instrument pressing your naked left breast in the name of thc
Lord? ~
_
A. As this was a torture to my tlesh, so might the recollection
of it ever be to my flesh and conscience if ever I attempted to
reveal the secrets of Masonry unlawfully.
Q. Why was you conducted to the centre of the lodge and
there caused to kneel for the benefit of a
prayer?
A. Before entering on this, or
any other great and important
undertaking, it is highly necessary to implore ablessing from
Deit .
Q? Why was
you asked in whom you put your trust?
'
A. Agreeable to the laws of our ancient institution, no Atheist
could be made a Mason; it was therefore necessary that I should
believe in Deity; otherwise, no oath or
obligation could bind me.
Q. Why did the Worshipful Master take you by the right
hand, and bid you rise, follow your leader, and fear no
danger?
A. As I was in darkness at that time and could neither foresee
nor avoid danger, it was to remind me that I
wasin the hands ot'
an affectionate ti-iend, in whose fidelity I' might with safety con»
fide.
Q. Why was you conducted three times regularly round the
lod e'I
'
rg. That the Worshipfiil Master, Wardens, and brethren might
see that I was
duly and truly prepared.
Q. Why did you meet with those several obstructions on the
wa Z
A. This, and every other lodge, is, or ought to be, a true rep-
resentation of king Solomon's temple, which, when completed,
had guards stationed at the east, west and south gates.
Q. Why had they guards stationed at those several gates?
A. To prevent any one from passing or
repassing that was not
duly qualified.
Q. Why did you kneel on
your left knee and not on your right.
or both?
A. The left side has ever been considered the weakest part of
the body; it was, therefore, to remind me that that part, I was
then taking upon me, was the weakest part of Masonry, it being
that only of an Entered Apprentice.
`
,
Q. Why was
your right hand placed on the Holy Bible, Square-
and Compass, and not your left, or both?
D _
_
.-1. .
38 near on Masounv.
'
A. The right hand has ever been considered theseat of fideli-
ty, and our ancient brethren worshipped Deity under the names
of Finns; which has sometimes been represented by two right
hands joined together; at others, by two human figures holding
each other by the right hand; the right hand, therefore, we use in
this great and important undertaking, to signify, in the strongest
manner possible, the sincerity of our intentions in the business
we are engaged.
Q. Why did the Worshipful Master present you with a lamb-
skin, or a white apron?
A. The lamb-skin has, in all ages, been deemed an emblem of
innocence; he, therefore, who wears the lamb-skin, as a
badge of
a Mason, is thereby continually reminded of that purity of lif`e and
rectitude ofconduct, which is so
essentially necessary to our gain-
ing admission into the celestial lodge above, where the Supreme
Architect of the universe presides.
-
Q. Why did the Master make a demand of you of something
of a metalic nature? -
A. A! I was in a
poor and pennyless situation at the time, it
was to remind me if ever I saw a friend, but more
especially a
brother, in the like poor and pennyless situation, thatl shouldcon-
tribute as liberally to his relief as
my abilities vould admit and his
situation required, without injuring myself or
family. »
Q. Why was you conducted to the northeast corner ofthe lodge,
and there caused to stand upright, like a man, your feet forming
a square, receiving, at the same time, a solemn charge to walk
and act uprightly before God and man?
A. The first stone, in every masonic edifice, is, or ought to be,
placed at the northeast corner; that being the place where an En-
tered Apprentice Mason receives his first instructions to build his
future masonic edifice upon.
'
THIRD SECTION.
Q. We have been saying a
good deal about a
lodge, I want to
know what constitutes a
lodge?
'
A. A certain number of Free and Accepted Masons, duly as-
sembled in aroom, or
place, with the Holy Bible, Square, and
Compass, and other masonic implements, with acharter from the
grand lodge empowering them to work.
Q. Where did our ancient brethren meet before lodges were
erected?
A. On the highest hills, and in the lowest vales.
Q. Why on the highest hills, and in the lowest vales?
A. The better to guard against cowans and enemies, either as-
.,........§.;,__._......,,_., AA- ..._._____ _,___-_'__
uct-rr on Mnsounv. 39
cending or descending, that the brethren might have timely notice
of their approach to- prevent being surprised.
What is the form of your lodge?
An oblong square.
Q. How long? A. From east to west. Q. How wide?
A. Between north and south.
Q. How high? _
A. From the surface of the earth to the highest heavens.
How deep?
From the surface to the centre.
Q. What supports your lodge?
A. Three large columns or
pillars.
Q. VVhat are their names?
A. Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty.
Q. Why so? A. It is necessary there should be wisdom to
contrive, strength to- support, and beauty to adom, all great and
important tmdertakings; but more
especially this of ours.
Q. Has your lodge any covering?
A. It has; a clouded canopy, or
starry-decked heaven, where
all good Masons hope to arrive.
~
Q. How do you hope to arrive there?
A. By the assistance of Jacob's ladden*
Q. How many principal rounds has it got? A. Three.
Q. What are their names? ~
A. Faith, Hope, and Charity.
Q. What do they teach?
ki
A. Faith in God, hope in immortality, and charity to all man-
`nd.
Q. Has your lodge any furniture?
A. It has; the Holy Bible, Square, and Compass.
Q. To whom do they belong?
A. The Bible to God; the Square to the Master; and the
Compass to the Craft.
Q. How explained?
A. The Bible to God; it being the inestimable gift of God to
man, for his instruction to guide him through the rugged paths ot'
life: the Square to the Master; it being the proper emblem of his
ofliee: the Compass to the Craft; by adue atwntion to which,
* The ladder which Jacob saw, undoubtedly represented the way of life
and salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. The rounds in that ladder;
the several stops He took in the great work of redemption. The angels of
God are sent forth, through this medium, to minister unto them who shall be
the heirs of salvation; and not upon the principles of faith, hope, and charl-
1}', which are graces wrought in the hearts of christians by the Holi' SP'"l'
40 Lxcnr on ivnsormv.
we are taught to limit our desires; curb our ambition; subdue our
irregular appetites; and keep our passions and prejudices in due
bounds with all mankind: but more
especially with the brethren.
Q. Has your lodge any ornaments?
A. It has; the Mosaic, or
chequered pavement; the indented
tessel; that beautiful tesselated border which surrounds it, with
the blazing star in the centre. V
Q. What do they represent?
A. The Mosaic, or
chequered pavement, represents this world;
which, though chequered over with good and evil, yet brethren
may walk together thereon and not stumble:-the indented tessel,
with the blazing star in the centre, the manifold blessings and
comforts with which we are surrounded in this life; but more es-
pecially, those which we hope to enjoy hereafter:-the blazing
star, that prudence which ought to appear conspicuous in the con-
duct of every Mason; but more especially, commemorative of
the star which appearedin the east, to guide the wise men to
Bethlehein, to proclaim the birth and the presence of the Son ot'
God.
Q. Has your lodge any lights? A. It has; three.
Q. How are
they situated? s
_
A. East, West, and South. ,
Q. Has it none in the North? A. It has not. Q. Why so?
A. Because this, and every other lodge, is, or ought to be, a
true representation of king Solomon's temple, which was situat-
ed north of the ecliptic; the sun and moon, therefore, dartingtheir
ray from the south, no
light was to be expected from the north;
we, therefore, masonically, term the north a place ot' darkness.
Q. Has your lodge any jewels?
A. It has;--six: three moveable and three immoveable.
Q. What are the three moveable jewels?
A. The Square, Level, and _Plumb.
Q. What do they teach?
A. The square, morality; the level, equality; and the plumb,
rectitude of life and conduct.
Q. What are the three immoveable jewels?
A. The rough Ashlar, the perfect Ashlar, and the Trcssle-
Board.
Q. What are
they?
A. The rough ashlar is a stone in itsrough and natural state;
the perfect ashlar is also a stone made ready by the working tools
of the Fellow Craft, to be adjusted in the building; and the tres-
sle-board is for the master workman to
draw his plans and designs
upon. .
---
-----AA---- ~»--ull___.._
LIGHT ON nusonnr. 4
Q. What do they represent?
A. The rough ashlar represents man in his rude and imperfect
state by nature; the perfect ashlar also represents man in that
state of perfection to which we all hope to arrive, by means of a
virtuous life and education, our own endeavors and the blessing
of God. In erecting our temporal building, we pursue the plans
and designs laid down by the master Workman on his tressle-board;
but, in erecting our
spiritual building, we
pursue the plans and de-
signs laid down by the Supreme Geometrician of the _universe in
the book of life; which we, masonically, term our spiritual tres-
What do they represent! .
Chalk, Charcoal, and Earth.
.
Vlrhy so? A. There is nothing freer than chalk; the slight-
est touch of which leaves a trace behind: nothing more fervent
than heated charcoal; it will melt the most obdurate metals: no-
thing more zealous than the earth to bring forth.
Q. How is your lodge situated? A. Due east and west.
Q. Why so?
A. Because the sun rises in the east and sets in the west.
Q. A second reason?
A. The gospel was first preached in the east, and is spreading
to the west.
Q. A third reason?
A. The liberal arts and sciences began in the east, and are ex-
tending to the west.
Q. A fourth reason?
A. Because all the churches and chapels are, or ought to bc,
so situated.
Q. Why are all churches and chapels so situated?
A. Because king Solomon's temple was so situated.
Q. Why was king Solomon's temple so situated?
'
A. Because Moses, after conducting the children of Israel
through the Red Sea, by divine command, erected a tabemacle to
God, and placed it due eastand west; which was to commemo-
rate, to the latest posterity, that miraculous east wind that wrought
their mighty deliverance; and this was an exact model ot' Solo-
mon's temple: since which time, every well regulated and gov-
erned lodge is, or
ought to be, so situated.
Q. To whom did our ancient brethren dedicate their 10118057
. D2
_.f
. Because king Solomon was our most ancient Grand Master.
Q. To whom do modem Masons dedicate their lodges?
A. To St. John the Baptist, and St. John the Evangelist.
Why o?
I
Because they were the two most ancient christian patrons
of Masonry; and, since their time, in every well regulated and
governed lodge, there has been a certain point within a circle,
which circle is bounded on the east and the west by two perpen-
dicular parallel lines, representing the anniversary of St. John thc
Baptist, and St. John the Evangelist, who were two perfect par-
allels,-as well in Masonry as
christianity; on the vertex of which
rests the book of the holy scriptures, supporting Jacoh's ladder.
which is said to reach to the watery clouds; and, in passing round
this circle, we
naturally touch on both these perpendicular paral-
lel lines, as well as the book of the holy scriptures; and while a
_Mason keeps himself thus circumscribed. he cannot materially
err.
Thus ends the first degree of Masonry; and the reader, who
has read and paid attention to it, knows more of Masomy than
:my Entered Apprentice in (`hristendom, and more of this degree
than one hundredth part of the Master Masons, or even
Royal
:rch Masons; for very few ever attempt to leam the lectures, or
oven the obligations: They merely receive the degrees, and there
stop, with the exception of a few who are fascinated with the idea
of holding an oflice: they sometimes endeavor to qualify them~
selves to discharge the duties which devolve on them in their re-
spective odices. The oiiices of Secretary and Treasurer, are,
by some, considered the most important in the lodge, particular-
ly where there is much business done.
I will now introduce the reader to the second degree of Mason-
ry. It is generally called passing, as will be seen in the lecture.
I shall omit the ceremonies of opening and closing, as
they are
precisely the same as in the first degree; except two knocks are
used in this degree, and the door is entered hy the benefit of a
pass-word: it is Shiboleth. It willbe explained in the lecture.
The candidate, as before, is taken into the preparation room.
and prepared in the mannerfollowing: All his clothing taken oft,
except his shirt; furnished with a pair of drawers; his right breast
bare; his left foot in a
slipper; the right bare; a cable-tow twice
round his neck; semi-hood-winked;' in which situation he is con-
ducted to the door of the lodge, where he gives two knocks, when
the Senior Warden rises and says, 'Worshipful, while we are
peaceably at work on the second degree of Masonry, under the
4-I-__ -_ar-»_ .-~ , ._ _._......_.
J--4---.__-a1 __¢.,
p
'
LIGHT on Misounr.
"
43
influence of faith, hope, and charity, the door of' our lodge is
alarmed? Master to Junior Deacon, 'Brother Junior, inquire
the cause of that alarm.' (In many lodges they come to the
door, knock, are answered by the Junior Deacon, and come in
without being noticed by the Senior Warden or Master.) The
Junior Deacon gives two raps on the inside of the door. The
candidate gives one without, it is answered by the Junior Dea-
con with one; when the door is partly opened by the Junior Dea-
con, who inquires, 'who comes here? who comes herel' The
Senior Deacon, who is, or
ought to be, the conductor, answers,
'A worthy brother, who has been regularly initiated as an Enter-
ed Apprentice Mason, served a
proper time as such, and now
wishes for further light in Masonry, by being passed to the degree
of Fellow Craft' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, 'Is it ofhis
own free will and accord he makes this requestl'_ ./ins. 'It is.'
Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, 'Is he duly and truly prepar-
edi' ./Ins. 'He is.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, 'ls he
worthy and well qualifiedl' .Hue 'He is.' Junior Deacon to
Senior Deacon, 'Has he made suitable proficiency in the preced~
ing degree? ./Im. 'He has' (Very few know any more than
they did the night they were initiated; have not heard their obli-
gation repeated, nor one section of the lecture; and, in fact, a
very small portion of Masons ever leam either.) Junior Deacon
to Senior Deacon, 'By what further rights does he expect to ob-
tain this benefitl' Jim. 'By the benefit ofa pass-word.' Jun-
ior Deacon to Senior Deacon, 'Has he a
pass-word?' .Hns. 'He
has not, but I have it for him.' Junior Deacon to Senior Dea-
con, 'Give it to mel' The Senior Deacon whispers in the Junior
Dcacon's ear, 'Shibolel/L' The Junior Deacon says, 'The pass
is right; since this is the case, you will wait until the Worship-
ful Master in the east is made acquainted with his request, and
his answer returned.' The Junior Deacon then repairs to the
1VIa,ster, and gives two knocks, as at the door, which are answer-
ed by two by the Master; when the same questions are asked,
and answers retumed, as at the door. After which, the Master
says, 'Since he comes endued with all these necessary qualifica-
tions, let him enter this worshiptiil lodge in the name of the Lord,
and take heed on what he enters.' He enters; the angle of the
square is pressed hard against his naked right breast; at which
tlirue, the Junior Deacon says, 'Brother, when you entered this
lodge the first time, you entered on thc point of the compass
pressing your naked left breast, which was then explained to you-
You now enter it on the angle ofthe square, pressing your naked
right breast; which is to teach you to act upon the aquarewlih all
ll.-_ _,______ __
._~._.
'
_._
44 LIGHT ON MASONRY.
mankind, but more especially with the brethren! The candidate
is then conducted twice regularly round the lodge, and halted at
the Junior Warden in the outh, where he gives two raps, and is
answered by two, when the same
questions are asked, and an-
swers retumed as at_ the door; from thence he is conducted to the
Senior Warden, where the same questions are asked and answers
returned, as before; he is then conducted to the Master in the
east, where the same questions are asked and answers retumed,
as before; the Master likewise demands of him, from whence he
came, and whither he was
travelling; he answers, 'From the west,
and travelling to the east.' The Master says, 'Why do you leave
the west, aud travel to the eastl' .dm 'In search of more light/
'I`he Master then says to the Senior Deacon, 'Since this is the case,
you will please conduct the candidate back to the west, from
whence he came, and put him in the care of the Senior Warden,
who will teachdlim how to approach the east, 'the place of light,"
by advancing upon two upright regular steps to the second step,
(his heel is in the hollow of the right foot, on this degree;) his feet.
tbrming the right angle of an
oblong square, and his body erect at
the altar before the Worshipful Master, and place him in a
proper
position to take the solenm oath, or obligation ofa Fellow Craft
Mason] The Master then leaves his seat, and approaches the
kneeling candidate, (the candidate kneels on
the_right knee; the
left forming a square; his left arm, as far as the elbow, in a hori-
zontal position, and the rest of the arm in a vertical position, so
as to form a square; his arm
supported by the square held under
his elbowz) and says, 'Brother, you are now placed in a proper
position to take on
you the solemn oath, or obligation, of a Fellow
Craft Mason, which I assure you, as before, is neither to affect
your religion nor
politics; if you are willing to take it, repeat your
name, and say after me:'-
'I, A B, of my own free will and accord, in the presence of
Almighty God, and this Worshipful Lodge of Fellow Craft Ma-
sons, dedicated to God, and held forth to the holy order of St.
John, do hereby and hereon, most solemnly and sincerely promise
and swear, in addition to my former obligation, that I will not give
the degree of a Fellow Craft Mason to any one of an inferior de-
gree, nor to any other being in the known world, except it be to ff.
true and lawful brother, or brethren Fellow Craft Masons, or with-
in the body of a just and lawfully constituted 'lodge of such; and
not unto him nor unto them whom I shall hear so to be, but unto-
him and them only whom I shall find so to be, after strict trial and
due examination, or lawful information. Furthermore, do I pro-
mise and swear, that! will not wrong this lodge, nor a
brother of
"'°°""'°"' "'°'*- ~
--I »--=-_._._..inn»..
*wp-vy--
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 45
this degree, to the value of two cents, knowingly, myself; nor suf-
fer it to be done by others, if in my power to prevent it. Fur-
thermore, do I promise and swear, that I will support the consti-
tution of the Grand Lodge ofthe United States, and of the Grand
Lodge of this state, under which this lodge is held, and conform
to all the bye-laws, rules, and regulations of this, or
any other
lodge, of which I may, at any time hereafter, become a member,
as far as in my power. Furthermore, do I promise and swear,
that I will obey all regular signs and summons, given, handed,
sent, or thrown to me by the hand of a brother Fellow Craft Ma-
son, or from the body of a just and lawtiilly eonstituted lodge of
such; provided it be within the length of my cable-tow, or square
and angle of my work. Furthermore, do I promise and swear,
that I will be aiding and all poor and pennyless brethren
Fellow Crafts, their widows and orphans, wheresoever disposed
round the globe, they applying to me as such, as far as in my pow-
er, without injuring myself or
family. To all 'which l do most
solemnly and sincerely promise and swear, without the least hesi-
tation, mental reservation, or self~evasion of mind in me whatev-
er; binding myself under no less penalty than to have my left
breast tom open, and my heart and vitals taken from thence, and
thrown over my left shoulder, and carried into the valley of Jeho-
saphat, there to become a prey to the wild beasts of the field, and
vultures ofthe air, if ever I should prove wilfillly guilty of violat-
ing any part of this my solemn oath or obligation of a Fellow
Craft Mason; so keep me God, and keep me steadfast in the duo
performance of the same.' 'Detach your bands, and kiss the book,
which is the Holy Bible, twice.' The bandage is now
(by one ot'
the brethren) dropped over the other eye, and the Master says,
'Brother, (at the same time laying his hand on the top of the can-
didate's head,) what do you most desire? The candidate answers
after his prompter, 'more light' The Master says, 'Brethren,
form on the square, and assist in bringing our new made brother
from darkness to light; and God said, let there be light, and there
was
light.' At this instant all the brethren clap their hands, and
stamp on the iloor, as in the preceding degree. 'l'he Master says
to the candidate, 'Brother, what do you discover different irom
beforel' The Master says, after a short pause, 'You now dis-
cover one point of the compass elevated above the square,' which
denotes light in this degree; but as one is yet in obscurity, it is to
remind you that you are yet one material point in the dark, re-
specting Masonry.' The Master steps elf from the candidate
three or four steps, and says, 'Brother, you now discover me
as
il
Master of this lodge, approaching you from the east, under the SUI"
|#;
_
~_|..¢n.». _ _
__ , .»-.--
46 3
LIGHT ON MASONRY.
'
and due-guard of a Fellow Craft Mason; do as I do, as near as
you can, keeping your position.' The sign is given by drawing
your right hand flat, with the palm of it next to your breast, across
your breast, from the left to the right side, with some quickness,
and dropping it down by your side; the due-guard is given by rais-
ing the left arm until that part of it between the elbow and shoul-
der is perfectly horizontal, and raising the rest of the arm in a ver-
tical position, so that that part of the arm below the elbow, and that
part above it, forms a square: this is called the dueguard of a
Fellow Craft Mason. The two given together, are called the sign
and due-guard of a Fellow Craft Mason, and they are never given
separately; they would not be recognised by a Mason, if given
separately. The Master, by the time he gives his steps, sign,_and
due-guard, arrives at the candidate and says, 'Brother, I now pre-
sent you with my right hand in token of brotherly-love and confi-
dence, and with it the 'pass-grip and word of a Fellow Craft Ma-
son.' The pass, br more
properly the pass-grip, is given by tak-
ing each other by the right hand, as though going to shake hands,
and each putting his thumb between the fore and second finger,
where they join the hand, and pressing the thumb between the
joints. This is the pass-grip of a Fellow Craft Mason; the name
of it is Shiboleth. Its origin will be explained in the lecture-the
pass-grip some give without lettering or
syllabling, and others give
it in the same way they do the real grip. The real grip of a Fel-
low Craft Mason is given, by putting the thumb on the joint of the
second finger, where it joins the hand, and crooking your thumb
so that each can stick the nail of his thumb into the joint of the
other. This is the real grip ofa Fellow Craft Mason; the name of
it is Jachin; it is given in the following manner: Ifyou wish to
examine a
person, after having taken each other by the grip, ask`
him, 'What is thisl' ./I. 'A grip/ Q. 'A grip of whatl' ./9.
'The grip of a Fellow Craii Mason/ Q. 'Has it a namel' JI.
'It has.' Q. 'Will you give it to mel' .H. 'I did not so receive
it, neither can I so impart it.' Q. 'What will you do with itl'
./1. 'I'll letter it or halve it.' Q. 'Halve it, and you beginl' ./2.
'No; begin you.' Q. 'You beginl' ./1. 'J A.' Q. 'C H I NZ'
./Q. 'J A()HIN.' Q. 'Right, brother Jachin, I greet you.'
After the Master gives the candidate the pass-grip and grip, and
their names, he says, 'Brother, you will rise and salute the Junior
and Senior Wardens as such, and convince them that you have
been regularly passed to the degree ofa Fellow Craft Mason, and
have got the sign and pass-grip, real grip, and their na.rnes.' [I
do not here express it as
expressed in lodges generally; the Mas-
ter generally says, 'you will arise and salute the Wardens, &c.
'
.
- _._a_..n_. ..-.__-»__._... .._.. L,
_
,
LIGHT O!! NASONIIY. 41
and convince them, Src. that you have got the sign, pass-grip, and
word.' It is obviously wrong; because the first thing .he gives is
the sign, then the due-guard, then the pass-grip, and their na.mes.]
Wrhile the Wardens are the candidate, the Master gets
an apronand retums to the candidate, and says, 'Brother, I now
have the honor of presenting you with a lamb-skin, or white apron,
as before, which I hope you will continue to wear with honor to
yourself] and satisfaction to the brethren; you will please carry it
to the Senior Warden in the west, who will teach you howto wear
it as a Fellow Craft Mason] The Senior Warden ties on his
apron, and tums up one corner of the lower end of the apron, and
tucks it under the apron string. The Senior Deacon then con-
ducts his pupil to the Master, who has, by this time, resumed his
sent in the east, where he has, or
ought to have, the floor carpet
to assist him in his explanations. Master to the candidate, 'Bro-
ther, as you are dressed, it is necessary you should have tools to
work with; I will, therefore, present you with the tools ofa Fellow
Craft Mason. They are the plumb, square, and level. The
plumb is an instrument made use of by operative Masons to raise
perpendiculars; the square, to square their work; and the level,
to lay horizontals: but we, as Free and Accepted Masons, are
taught to use them for more noble and glorious purposes; the
plumb teaches us to walk uprightly, in our several stations, before
God and man; squaring our actions by the square of virtue; and
remembering that we are travelling on t.he level of time to that un-
discovered country, 'from whose boume no traveller has retumed.'
I further present you with three precious jewels; their names are
faith, hope, and charity; they teach us to have faith in God, hope
in immortality, and charity to all mankind." The Master to the
Senior Deacon, 'You will now conduct the candidate out of this
lodge, and investhim with what he has been divested/ After he
is clothed, and the necessary arrangements made for his recep-
tion, such as
placing the columns and tloor carpet, if they have
any, and the candidate isreconducted back to the lodge, as he en-
ters the door, t.he Senior Deacon observes, 'we are now about to
return to the middle chamber of king Solomon's temple.' When
within the door, the Senior Deacon proceeds; 'Brother, we have
worked in speculative Masonry, but our forefathers wrought both
in speculative and operative Masonry. They worked at the build-
ing of king Solomon's temple, and many other masonic edifices;
they wrought six days; they did not work on the seventh, because
in six days God created the heavens and the earth, and rested on
the seventh day. The seventh, therefore, our ancient brethren
consecrated as a day of rest;: thereby enjoying more frequent OP#
_ .,_|__
46 Lien-r on masosar.
portunities to contemplate the glorious works of creation, and to
adore their great Creator.' Moving a step or two, the Senior
Deacon proceeds: 'Brother, the first thing that attracts our atten-
tion, are two large colums, or
pillars, one on the left hand, and
the other on the right; the name ofthe one on the left hand is Bo-
az, and denotes strength; the name ofthe one on the right hand
is Jachin, and denotes establishment; they collectively allude to
a
passage in scripture, wherein God has declared in his word, 'In
strength shall this house be established! These columns arc
eighteen cubits high, twelve in circumference, and four in diame-
ter; they are adomed with two large chapiters, one on each, and
these chapiters are omamented with net work, lily work, and
pomegranates; they denote unity, peace, and plenty. The net
work, from its connexion, denotes union; the lily work, from its
whiteness, purity and peace; and the pomegranates, from the
exuberance of its seed, denotes plenty. They also have two
large globes, or balls, one on each; these globes, or
halls., con-
tain, on their convex surfaces, all the maps and charts ofthe ce-
lestial and terrestrial bodies: they are said to be thus extensive,
to denote the universality of Masonry, and that a Mason's chari-
ty ought to be equally extensive. Their composition is molten,
nr cast brass; they were cast on the banks ofthe river Jordan, in
the clay-ground between Sucooth and Zaradatha, where So-
lomon ordered these and all other holy vessels to be cast; they
were cast hollow; and were four inches, or a hand's breadth thick;
they were cast hollow, the better to withstand inundations and
conflagrations; they were the archives of Masonry, and contained
the constitution, rolls, and records." The Senior Deacon having
explained the columns, he passes between them, advances a
step
or two, observing as he advances, 'Brother, we will pursue our
travels; the next thing that we come to is, a long, winding stair
case, with three, tive, seven
steps, or more. The three first al-
lude to the three principal supports in Masonry, viz: wisdom,
strength, and beauty; the tive steps allude -to the five orders in
architecture, and the tive human senses; the tive orders in archi-
tecture are, the Tuscan, Doric, Ionic, Corinthian, and Compo-
site; the five human senses are, hearing, seeing, feeling, smelling,
and tasting; the three first of which, have ever been highly essen-
tial among Masons: hearing, to hear the word, seeing, to see the
sign, and feeling, to feel the grip, whereby one Mason may know
another in the dark as well as in the light. The seven steps al-
lude to the seven sabbatical years; seven years of famine; seven
years in building the temple; seven golden candlesticks; seven
wonders of the world; seven planets; but, more especially, the
-Annu-..._ ___
_____ _,
_ _
»
LIGHT ON MASONRY.
49-
several liberal arts and sciences, which are
grammar, rhetoric.
logic, arithmetic, geometry, music, and
astronomy; for this, and
many other reasons, the number seven has ever been held in high
estimation among Masons?
Advancing a few steps, the Senior
Deacon proceeds; 'Brother, the next
thing we come to, is tho
outer door of the middle chamber of Solomon's temple,
which is partly open, but closely tyled by the Junior Warden)
[It is the Junior Warden in the south who represents the Tyler,
at the outer door of the middle chamber of king Solomon's tem-
ple;] who, on the approach of the Senior Deacon and candidate.
inquires, 'who comes here? who comes herel' The Senior Dea-
con answers, 'A' Fellow Craft Mason! Junior Warden to Sen-
ior Deacon, 'How do you expect to gain admissionl' ./Ins. 'By
a pass, and token of a
pass.' Junior Warden to Senior Deu-
con, 'Will you give them to mel' [The Senior
Deacon, or the
candidate, (prompted by him,) gives them; this and many other
tokens, or
grips, are
frequently given by strangers, when first in-
troduced to each other. If given to a
Mason, he will immediate-
ly return it; they can be given in any company unobserved, even
by Masons, when shaking hands. .H pass, and token ofa pass;
the pass is the word Shibboleth; the token, alias, the pass-grip, is
given, as before described, by taking each other by the right
hand, as if shaking hands, and placing the thumb between the
fore finger and second finger, at the third joint, or where they
join the hand, and
'
pressing it hard enough to attract attention.
In the lecture it is called a token, but generally called the pass-
grip. It is an undeniable fact that Masons express themselves
so
diH`erently,- when they mean the same
thing, that they frequent-
ly wholly misunderstand each other.]
After the Juriior Warden has received the pass Shibbolelh, he
inquires, 'What does it denote? ¢H1l3. 'Plenty.' Junior War-
den to Senior Deacon, 'Why sol' .Hua 'From an ear of corn
being placed at the water-ford.' Junior Warden to Senior Dea-
con, 'Why was this pass institutedl' _/ins. 'In consequence of
a quarrel which had long existed between Jephthah, Judge of Is-
rael, and the Ephraimites;' the latter of whom had long been Q
stubbom, rebellious people, whom Jephthah had endeavored to
subdue by lenient measures, but to no effect. The Ephraimites
being highly incensed against Jephthah, for not being called to
tight and share in the rich spoils of the Ammonitish war, assem-
bled a
mighty army, and passed over the river Jordan to give
Jephthah battle; but he, being apprised of their approach, called
together the men of Israel, and gave them battle, and put them
to flight; and to make his victory
iréore
complete, he ordered
-»¢,,.,,_
50 LIGHT ON nnisonnv.
guards to be placed at the different passes on the banks of thc'
river Jordan, and commanded, if the Ephraimites passed that
way, that they should pronounce the word Shibbolelh; but they,
being of a different tribe, pronounced it Sibboleth; which trifling
defect proved them spies, and cost them their lives: and there
fell that day, at the different passes on the banks ofthe river Jor-
dan, forty and two thousand. This word was also used by our
ancient brethren to distinguish a friend from a foe, and has since
been adopted as a proper pass-word, to be given before entering
any well regulated and govemed lodge of Fellow Craft Masons.
Since this is the case, you will pass on to the Senior Warden in
the west for further examination! As they approach the Senior
Warden in the west, the Senior Deacon says to the candidate,
'Brother, the next thing we come to, is the inner door of the mid-
dle chamber of king Solomon's temple, which we find partly open,
but more closely tyled by the Senior Warden;' when the Senior
Warden inquires, 'Who comes here? who comes herel' The
Senior Deacon answers, 'A Fellow Craft Mason.' Senior War-
den to Senior Deacon, 'How do you expect to gain admissionl'
Jim. 'By the grip and word.' The Senior Warden to the Sen-
ior Deacon, 'Will you give them to mel' They are then given
as herein before described. The word is Jcwhin. After they
are given, the Senior Warden says, 'They are right; you can
pass on to the Worshipful Master in the east.' As they approach
the Master, he inquires, 'Who comes here? who comes herel'
Senior Deacon answers, 'A Fellow Craft Mason.' The Master
then says to the candidate, 'Brother, you have been admitted in-
to the middle chamber of king Solomon's temple, for the sake of
the letter G. It denotes Deity; before whom we all ought to
bow with reverence, worship, and adoration. It also denotes ge-
ometry, the fifth science; it being that on which this degree was
principally founded. By geometry, we may curiously trace na-
ture through her various windings to her most concealed recess-
es: by it, we may discover the power, the wisdom, and the good-
ness ofthe grand Artificer of the uniuerse, and view with delight
the proportions which connect this vast machine: by it, we
may
discover how the planets move in their different orbits, and de-
monstrate their various revolutions: by it, we account for the re-
turn of a season, and the variety of scenes which each season dis-
plays to the discerning eye. Numberless worlds surround us,
all formed. by the same Divine Architect, which roll through this
vast expanse, and all conducted by the same unerring law of na-
trire, _,A survey _of nature, and the observations of her beautiful
proportions, first determined man to imitate the divine plan, and
»i¢¢-lin-'~ M-
`
---»--~-----......_...._»._.,.. .gg-___
"'
'
._
Al»..... .~,_
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 51
study symmetry and order. The architect began to
design; and
the plans which he laid down, being improved by experience and
time, have produced works which are the admiration of every age.
The lapse of time, the ruthless hand of ignorance, and the devas-
tations of war, have laid waste and destroyed many valuable mon-
uments of antiquity, on which the utmost exertions of human gen-
ius have been employed. Even the temple of Solomon, so
spa-
cious and magnificent, and constructed by so
many celebrated
artists, escaped not the unsparing ravages of barbarous force.
The attentive ear received the sound from the instructive tongue;
and the mysteries of Free Masonry are
safely lodged in the re-
pository offaithful breasts. Tools and implements of architec-
ture, and symbolic emblems, most expressive, are selected by
the fraternity, to imprint on the mind wise and serious truths; and
thus, through a succession of ages, are transmitted, unimpaired,
the most excellent tenets of our institution' Here ends the work
part of the Fellow ()raft's degree. It will be observed that_ the
candidate has received, in this place, the second section of the
lecture on this degree. This course is not generally pursued,
but it is much the most instructive method; and when it is omit-
ted, I generally conclude that it is for want of a
knowledge ofthe
lecture. Monitorial writers, (who are by no means coeval with
Masonry,) all write, or
copy, very much after each other; and
they have all inserted, in their books, all those clauses of the
several lectures which are not considered by the wise ones as
tending to develope the secrets of Masonry. In some instances,
they change the phraseology a little; in others, they are literal
extracts f`rom_ the lectures. This, it is said, is done to facilitate
the progress of leamers, or young Masons; when, in fact, it has
the contrary etTect. All lecture teachers, (and there are
many
travelling about the country, with recommendations from some
of their distinguished brethren;) when they come to any of thosc
clauses, will say to their pupils, 'I have not committed that; it is
in the Monitor; you can learn it at your leisure! 'I`his course oi'
procedure subjects the learner to the necessity of making his own
questions, and, of course, answering monitorially, whether the
extracts from the lectures are literal or not. Again, there is not
a
perfect sameness in all the Monitors, or they could not all get
copy rights; hence the great diversity in the lectures as well as
the work. The following charge is, or
ought to be, delivered to
thc candidate after he has got through the ceremonies; but he is
generally told. 'It is in the Monitor, and you can leam it at your
lcisure.' 'Brothcr, being advanced to the second degree.of` Ma-
sonry, wc
congratulate you on your preterment. The intemala
.
4...
_
-
_._.
.n -»».'__
52 ,
LIGHT ON M.ASONBY¢
and not the external, qualifications of a man, are what Masonry
regards. As you increase in knowledge, you will improve in so-
cial intercourse. It is unnecessary to recapitulate the duties
which, as a Mason, you are bound to discharge; or
enlarge on
the necessity of a strict_adherence to them, as
your own
experi-
ence must have established their value. Our laws and regula-
tions you are strenuously to support; and be always ready to as-
sist in seeing them duly executed. You are not to palliate or
aggravate the offences of your brethren; but in the decision ot'
every trespass against our rules, you are to judge with candor,
admonish with friendship, and reprehend with justice. The stu-
dy ofthe liberal arts, that valuable branch of education, which
tends so
eifectually to polish and adom the mind, is earnestly
recommended to your consideration; especially, the science of
geometry, which is established as the basis of our art. Geome-
try, or Masonry, originally synonymous terms, being ofa divine
moral nature, is enriched with the most useful knowledge; while
it proves the wonderfiil properties of nature, it demonstrates the-
more important truths of morality. Your past behaviour and
regular deportment, have merited the honor which we have now
conferred; and, in your new character, it is expected that you
will conform to the principles ofthe order, by steadily persever-
ing in the practice of every commendable virtue. Such is the
nature of your engagements as a Fellow Craft, and to these du-
ties you are bound by the most sacred ties.'
I will now proceed with the lecture on this degree; it is divid-
ed into two sections.
M
SECTION FIRST.
Q. Are you a Fellow Craft Mason?
A. I am-try me.
.
By what will you be tried? A. By the Square.
.
Why by the Square? r
. Because it is an emblem of virtue.
What is a
Square?
An angle extending to ninety degrees, or the fourth part ot
a circle.
Q. Where were you prepared to be made a Fellow Craft Mason?
A. In a room adjacent to the body of a just and lawfully con-
stituted lodge of such, duly assembled in a room, or
place, repre-
senting the middle chamber of king Solomon's temple.
Q. How were you prepared?
A. By being divested of all metals: neither naked nor clothed-
barefooted nor shod; hood-winked; with a cable-tow twice round
_...gn-¢-.|.....___
LIGHT on ussonnr. 53
my neck; in which situation I was conducted to the door ofthe
lodge, where I gave two distinct knocks.
Q. What did those two distinct knocks allude to?
_
A. The second degree in Masomy; it being that on which l
was about to enter. V
Q. What was said to you from within?
'
A. Who comes there, who comes there.
Q. Your answer?
A. A worthy brother, who has been regularly initiated as an
Entered Apprentice Mason; served a
proper time as such; and
now wishes for further light in Masonry, by being passed to the
degree of a Fellow Craft.
Q. What was then said to you from within!
A. I was asked if it was of' my own free will and accord I
made this request; if' I was
duly and truly prepared; worthy and
well qualified; and had made suitable proficiency in the preced-
ing degree: all ot' which being answered in the affirmative, l
was asked, by what further rights I expected to obtain so
great
a benefit.
Q. Your answer?
A. By the benefit ofa pass-word.
Q. What is that pass-word? A. Shibboleth.
Q. What further was said to you from within?
A. I was bid to wait till the Worshipful Master in the eaStWa>
made acquainted with my request, and his answer returned.
Q. After his answer was retumed, what followed?
'
A. I was caused to enter the lodge.
Q. How did you enter?
A. On the angle of the square presented to my naked right
breast, in the name ofthe Lord.
Q. How were
you then disposed of'l ,
A. I was conducted twice regularly round the lodge and halt~
ed at the Junior Warden in the south, where the same
questions
were asked and answers retumed, as at the door.
Q. How did the Junior Warden dispose ofyou?
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Senior Warden in
the west, where the same questions were asked and answers re~
tumed, as before.
Q. How did the Senior Warden dispose of you?
_
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Worshipful Master
1" 91° 685% where the same
questions were asked and answers
returned, as
before; who likewise demanded of me from whenvv
I camo, and whither I was
travelling,
Q~ Your answer?
E2
, 4
_iinéngg-ft*-as _ -.-»-_._ _
--
""""
' ri
54 LIGHT ON nnsonxw.
A. From the west, and travelling to the east. V
Q. Why do you leave t.he west, and travel to the east!
A. In search of more
light.
Q. How did the Worshipful Master then dispose of you?
A. He ordered me to be conducted back to the west, from
whence I came, and put in care of the Senior Warden, who taught
me how to approach the east, by advancing upon two upright
regular steps to the second step, my feet forming the right angle
uf an
oblong square, and my body erect at the altar before thc
Worshipful Master.
Q. VVhat did the Worshipful Master do with you?
A. He made a Fellow (Iraft Mason of mc;
~
Q. How? A. In due form.
Q. What was that due form?
A. My right knee bare bent; my left knee forming a
square:
my right hand on the Holy Bible, Square, and Compass; my left
arm
forming an angle, supported°by the square, and my hand in
at vertical position: in which posture I took upon me the solemn
oath, or
obligation, of a Fellow Craft Mason. [See page 44 for
obligation. ]
Q. After your oath, or
obligation, what was said to you?
A. I was asked whatl most desired. -
Q. Your answer? A. More light.
Q. On being brought to light, what did you discover different
li-om before?
A. One point of the compass elevated above the square, which
denoted light in this degree; _but as one point was
yet in obscuri-
ty, it was to remind me that I was
yet one material point in thc
dark, respecting Masonry.
Q. What did you next discover? '
A._ The Worshipful Master approaching me from the east, un-
der the sign and due-guard of a Fellow Craft Mason, who pre-
sented me with his right hand in token- of brotherly love and con-
ridence; and proceeded to give me the pass-grip and word of n
Fellow Craft Mason, and bid me rise and salute the Junior and
Senior Wardens, and convince them that I had been regularly
passed to the degree of a Fellow Craft, and Ind the sign, grip, and
word, of a Fellow Craft Mason.
'
Q. What next did you discover?
A. The Worshipful Master approaching me a second time from
the east, who presented me a lamb-skin, or white apron; which.
he said, he hoped I would continue to wear with honor to myself
:md satisfaction and advantage to my brethren.
Q. What was you next presented with? ~
v
.
_,
.un_._ .__
___ __ I
.
._...._,...__._, _.gi-¢¢...|1...._ __ _,_
uonir on mnsoiinr. _
55
A. The working tools ofa Fellow Craft Mason.
Q. Vlrhat are they?
A. The Plumb, "Square, and Level.
Q. What do they teach? [I think this question ought to bc,
'How explained?']
A. The plumb is an instrument made use of by operative Ma-
sons to raise perpendiculars; the square, to square the work; and
the level, to lay horizontals: but we, as Free and Accepted Ma-
sons, are taught to make use of them for more noble and glorious
purposes. The plumb admonishes us to walk uprightly, in our
several stations, before God and man; squaring our actions by
the square of virtue; and remembering that we are all travelling,
upon the level of' time, to that undiscovered country, from whos(-
bourne no traveller retums.
'
Q. What was you next presented with?
A. Three precious jewels.
Q. What were
they?
A. Faith, Hope, and fharity.
Q. What do they teach?
A. Faith in God, hope in immortality, and charity to all mun-
kind.
Q. How was
you then disposed of?
A. I was conducted out of the lodge, and invested of what l
had been divested.
SECTION SECOND.
Q. Have 'you ever worked as a -Fellow Craft Mason?
A. I have, in speculative; but our forefathers wrought both in
speculative and operative Masonry.
Q. Where did they work?
A. At the building of king Solomon's temple, and many other
masonic edifices.
Q. How long did they work? A. Six days.
Q. Did they not work on the seventh?
A. They did not.
Q. Why so? A. Because, in sk days God created the heav-
ens and the earth, and rested on the seventh day; the seventh day.
therefore, our ancient brethren consecrated as a day of rest from
their labors; thereby enjoying more
frequent opportunities to con-
template the glorious works of creation, and adore their great
Creator. _
Q. Did you ever retum to the sancturn sanctorum, or holy 0*
l0l;¢S»I0§king Solomon's temple?
_
.
id.
1
_..:U\-¢h- ._
--- -.
50 . LIGHT ON MASONRY-
Q. By what way?
A. Through a
long porch, or alley.
Q. Did any thing particular strike your attention on your rc~
tum?
'
A. There did; viz:-two large columns, or
pillars, one on the
left hand, and the other on the right.
`
Q. What was the name of the one on the left hand?
A. Boaz, to denote strength. _
Q. What was the name ofthe one on the right hand?
A. Jachin. denoting establishment.
Q. What do they collectively allude to?
A. A passage in scripture, wherein God has declared in his
word, 'In strength shall this house be established)
Q. What were their dimensions?
A. Eighteen cubits in height, twelve in circumference, and
four in diameter.
Q. Were they adomed with any thing?
A. They were; with two large chapiters, one on each.
Q. Were they omamented with any thing?
A. They were; with wreaths of net work, lily work, and pome-
granates.
Q. What do they denote?
A. Unity, Peace, and Plenty.
Q. Why so? A. Net work, from its connexion, denotes un-
ion; lily work, from its whiteness and purity, denotes peace; and
pomegranates, from the exuberance of its seed, denotes plenty.
Q. Were those columns adomed with any thing farther?
A. They were; viz:--two large globes, or balls, one on each.
Q. Did they contain any thing?
A. They did; viz:-all the maps and charts of the celestial
and terrestrial bodies.
Q. Why are
they said to be so extensive? .
A. To denote the universality of Masonry, and that a Mason's
charity ought to be equally extensive.
Q. What was their composition? ,
A. Molten, or cast brass.
Q. Who cast them?
A. Our Grand Master, Hiram Abilll
Where were they cast?
On the banks ofthe river Jordan, in the clay ground between
Succoth and Zaradatha, where king Solomon ordered these, and
'all other holy vessels to he cast. ~
Q. Were they cast solid or hollow? A. Hollow. »,
Q. What was their thicknessl
Q.
A.
.»~.¢s~.;___-.__,_ __, __ ____ _.a
,
. LIGHT ON MAIONRY. 57
A. Four inches, or a hand's breadth.
Q. Why were they cast hollow?
A. The better to withstand inundations 8: conllagrations; were
the archives of Masonry, and contained the constitution, rolls,
and records. t
Q. What did you next come to?
A. A long, winding stair case, with three, tive, seven steps, or
more.
Q. What do the three steps allude to?
A. The three principal supports in Masonry; viz:-wisdom.
strength, and beauty.
'
Q. What do the tive steps allude to?
A. The tive orders in architecture, and the tive human senses.
Q. What are the five orders in architecture!
A. The Tuscan, Doric, Ionic, Corinthian, and Composite.
Q. What are the five human senses?
A. Hearing, seeing, feeling, smelling, and tasting; the first
three of which have ever been deemed highly essential among
Masons; hearing, to hear the word, seeing, to see the sign, and
feeling, to feel the grip, whereby one Mason may know another
in the dark as well as in the light.
Q. What do the seven steps allude to? -
A. The seven sabbatical years; even
years of famine; seven
years in building the temple; seven' golden candlesticks; seven
wonders of the world; seven planets; but more especially, the
seven liberal arts and sciences; which are, grammar, rhetoric,
logic, arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy. For these,
and many other reasons, the number even has ever been held in
high estimation among Masons. _
Q. What did you next come to?
A. The outer door of the middle chamber of king Solomon's
temple, which I found partly open, but closely tyled bythe Jun-
ior Warden.
Q. How did you
gain
admission?
A. By a pass, an token of a
pass.
Q. What was the name ofthe pass? A. Shibbolelh.
Q. What does it denote? A. Plenty.
Q. Why so?
A. From an ear ofcom
being placed at the water-ford.
Q. Why was this pass instituted?
A. In consequence of a quarrel which had long existed bc-
tween Jephthah, Judge of Israel, and the Ephraimites; the latter
of whom had long been a stubbom,rebellious people, whom JOPh'
thah had endeavored to subdue by lenient measures, but t0 W*
.4
.*,-lan... __ _
_.A-l»..n... --_
-*"""'
"
____
5S LIGHT ON UASONBY.
effect. The Ephraimites, being lighly incensed against Jeph-
thah for not being called to fight and share in the rich spoils ofthe
Ammonitish war, assembled a mighty army, and passed over _thc
river Jordan to give Jephthnh battle; but he, being apprised oi
their approach, called together the men of Israel, and gave them
battle, and put them to flight; and, to make his victory more com-
plete, he ordered guards to be placed at the different passes on
the banks of the river Jordan, and commanded, if the Ephraim-
ites passed that way, that they should pronounce the word Shibbo-
lelh; but they, being ofa ditferent tribe, pronounced it Sibbohth;
which trifling defect proved them spies, and cost them their lives:
and there fell that day, at the different passes on the banks ofthe
river Jordan, forty and two thousand. This word was also used
by our ancient brethren to distinguish a friend from a foe, and
has since been adopted as a
proper pass-word, to be given be-
fore entering any well regulated and governed lodge of Fellow
Craft Masons.
Q. What did you next discover?
'
t
A. The inner door of the middle chamber of king Solomon's
temple, which I_ found partly open, but closely tyled by the Sen-
ior Warden.
Q. How did you gain admission?
A. By the grip and word.
Q. How did the Senior Warden dispose of you?
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Worshipful Master
in the east, who informed me that I had been admitted into the
midgle
chamber of king Solomon's temple for the sake of the let-
tcr .
Q. Does it denote any thing?
A. It does; Darn:-before whom we should all bow with rev-
erence, worship, and adoration. It also denotes geometry, the
titih science; it being that on which this degree was principally
tbunded. _
Thus ends the second degree of Masonry.
THE THIRD, OR MASTER MASON'S DEGREE.
The traditional account of the death, several burials, and re-
surrection of Hiram Abitl, the widow's son, (as hereafter narrat-
cd,) admitted as facts, this degree is certainly very interesting.
The Bible informs us, that there was a person of that name em-
ployed at the building of king Solomon's temple; but neither the
Bible, the writings of Josephus, nor any other writings, however
ancient, of which I have any knowledge, furnish any information
respecting his death. It is very singular, that a man, so celebrat-
'
.é-AL¢
LIGHT ON ausonav. 59
cd as Hiram Abit?was, an arbiter between Solomon, king of Is-
rael, and Hiram, king of Tyre, universally acknowledged as the
third most distinguished man then living, and, in many respects,
the greatest man in the world, should pass off the stage of action,
in the presence of king Solomon, three thousand three hundred
grand overseers, and one hundred and fifty thousand workmen,
with whom he had spent a number ofyears, and neither king So-
lomon, his bosom friend, nor any other among his numerous
friends, even recorded his death or
any thing about him.
A person, who has received the two preceding degrees, and
wishes to be raised to the sublime degree of a Master Mason, is
(the lodge being opened as in the preceding degrees,) conducted
ti-om the preparation room to the door, (the manner of preparing
him is particularly explained in the lecture,) where he gives three
distinct knocks, when the Senior Warden rises and says, 'Wor-
shipful, while we are
peaceably at work on the third degree of
Masonry, under the influence of humanity, brotherly love, and
affection, the door of' our
lodge appears to be alarmed.', The
Masterto the Junior Deacon, 'Brother Junior, inquire the cause
ofthat alarm.' The Junior Deacon then steps to the door and
answers the three knocks that have been given, by three more:
(the knocks are much louder than those given on
any occasion,
other than that of the admission of' candidates in the several de-
greesz) one knock is then given without, and answered by one
from within, when the door is partly opened, and the Junior Dea~
con asks, 'Who comes there? who comes there? who comes
therei' The Senior Deacon answers, 'A worthy brother who has
been regularly initiated as an Entered Apprentice Mason, passed
to the degree of a Fellow Craft, and now wishes for further light
in Masonry, by being raised to the sublime degree of a Master
Mason) Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon,"Is it of his own free
will and accord he makes this requesti' .Hns. 'lt is.' Junior
Deacon to Senior Deacon, 'Is he worthy and well qualified?
./ins. 'He is.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, 'Has he made
suitable proficiency in the preceding degrees? .Hua 'He has.'
Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, 'By what filrther right does he
expect to obtain this beneiiti'
`
./his. 'By the benefit of a pass-
word.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, 'Has he a
pass-'word?'
./Qns. 'He has not, _but I have got it for him.' The Junior Dea-
con to Senior Deacon, 'Will you give it to mei' The Senior
Deacon then whispers in the ear of the Junior Deacon, '7hbal
Cain, '
Junior Deacon says, 'the pass is right. Since this is
thc
case, you will wait till the Worshipful Master be made acquaint-
ed with his request, and his answer returned! The Junior Des-
ls...-<i.. H,
1. Ana., ,.-
60 'LIGHT ON MASONBY»
con then repairs to the Master, and gives three knocks, as at the
door; after answering which, the same questions are asked and
answers returned, as~at the door; when the Master says, 'Since
he comes endued with all these necessary qualifications, let him
enter this worshipful lodge in the name of the Lord, and take
heed on what he enters.' The Junior Deacon returns to the
door and says, 'Let him enter this worshipful lodge in the name
of the Lord, and take heed on what he enters.' In entering, both
points of the compass are pressed against his naked right and left
breasts, when the Junior Deacon stops the candidate, and says,
'Brother, when you first entered this lodge, you was received on
the point of the compass pressing your naked left breast, which
was then explained to you; when you entered it thesecond time,
you was received on the angle of the square, which was also ex-
plained to you; on entering it now, you are received on the .two
extreme points of the compass pressing your naked right and
left breasts, which are thus explained: 'As the most vital parts of
man are contained between the two breasts, so are the most val-
uable tenets of Masonry contained between the 'two extreme
points ofthe compass, which are, virtue, morality, and brotherly
love.' The Senior Deacon then conducts the candidate three
times regularly round the lodge. (I wish the reader to observe,
that on. this, as well as
every other degree, the Junior Warden is
the first of the three principal oiiicers that the candidate passes,
travelling with the sun, when he starts round the lodge; and as
he passes the Junior Warden, Senior Warden, and Master, the
first time going round they each give one rap; the second time,
two raps; and the third time, three raps. The number of raps
given, on those occasions, are the same as the number ofthe de-
gree, except the first degree, on which three are given, I always
thought
improperly.) During the time the candidate is travelling
round the room, e Master reads the following passage of scrip-
ture, the conductor and candidate travelling, and the Master
reading, so that the travelling and reading terminates at the same
time: 'Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while
the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt
say, I have no pleasure in them; while the sun, or the moon, or
the stars be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain; in
the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the
strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because
they are few, and those that look out of the windows be darkened,
and the doors hall be shut in the streets; when the sound of the
grinding is low, and he shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and
all the daughters ofmusic shall be brought low. Also, when they
l**°*"'~~-"°-'~---- -»
--1°-°*--»_ , A
LIGHT ON KASONRY. 61
shall be atraid of that which is high, and fears shall be in the way,
and the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a
burthen, and desire shall fail: because man goeth to his long
home, and the mourners go about the streets: Or ever the silver
cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be
broken at the fountain, or the wheel at the cisssm. Then shall
the dust retum to the earth, as it was; and the spirit return unto
God who gave it.' The conductor and candidate halt at the Jun-
ior Warden in the south, where the same questions are asked and
answers retumed, as at the door; he is then conducted to the
Senior Warden in the west, where the same questions are asked
and answers retumed, as before; from thence he is conducted to
the Worshipful Master in the east, who asks the same questions
and receives the same answers, as before; and who likewise asks
the candidate, from whence he came, and whither he is travelling?
.£. 'From the west; and travelling to the east.' Q. 'Why do you
leave the west, and travel to the eastl' J. 'In search of more
light.' The Master then says to the Senior Deacon, 'You will
please conduct the candidate back to the west, from whence he
came, and put him in care of the Senior Warden, and request
him to teach the candidate how to approach the east, by advanc-
ing upon three upright regular steps to the third step, his feet
forming a square, his body erect at the altar before the Worship-
thl Master, and place him in a proper position to take upon him
the solemn oath, or obligation, of a Master Mason.' The Mas-
ter then comes tothe candidate and says, 'Brother, you .are now
placed in a
proper position, (the lecture explains it,) to take upon
you the solemn oath, or obligation, of a Master Mason; which 1
assure you, as before, is neither to affect your religion nor
poli-
tics. lf you are
willing to take it, repeat your D3-IHC, find Say all
ter mez- ,
'I, A B, of my own free will and accord, in' presence of Al-
mighty God, and this Worshipful Lodge of Master Masons,erect-
ed to God, and dedicated to the holy order of St John, do hereby
and hereon, most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear, in
addition to my former obligations, that I will not give the degree
of a Master Mason to any one of an inferior degree, nor to any
other being in the known world, except it be to a true and lawfut
brother, or brethren, Master Mason, or within the body of a
just
and lawfully constituted lodge of such; and not unto him, nor un~
to them, whom I shall hear so to
be, but unto him and them only
whom l shall find so to be after strict trial and due examination, or
lawful information received.-Furthermore, do I promise and
swear that I will not give the Master's
wmird,
which I shall heff-
11 _ , _- »l~...
62 LIGHT ON MASONRY.
after receive, neither in the lodge, nor out of it, except it be on
the five points ot' fellowship, and then not above my breath.
Furthermore, do Ipromise and swear, that I will not give the
grand hailing sign of distress, except I am in real distress, or for
the benefit of the craft when at work; and should I ever see that
sign given, or the word accompanying it, and the person who
gave it appearing to be in distress, I will fly to his relief at the
risk of' my life, should there be a greater probability of' saving his
lif`e than of' losing my own. Furthermore, do I promise and
swear thatl will not wrong this lodge, nor a brother of' this degree,
to the value of one cent, knowingly, myself, nor suffer it to be
done by others, iffin my power to prevent it. Furthermore, do I
promise and swear that I will not be at the initiating, passing, and
raising a candidate at one communication, without a
regular dis-
pensation f`rom the grand lodge for the same. Furtbennore, do I
promise and swear that I will not be at the initiating, passing, or
raising, a candidate in a clandestine lodge, I knowing it to be
such. Furthermore, do I promise and swear that I will not be at
the initiating of an old man in dotage, a
young man in non-age,
an Atheist, irreligious libertine, idiot, madman, hermaphrodite,
nor woman."' Furthennore, do I promise .und swear thatl will
not speak evil of' a brother Master Mason, neither behind his back,
nor before his Face, but will apprize him of all approaching dan-
ger if` in my power. Furthermore, do I promise and swear that
I will not violate the chastity of a Master Mason's wife, mother,
sister, or
daughter, I knowing them to be such, nor sufibr it to be
done by others, if in my power to prevent it.1' Furthermore, do
I promise and swear thatl will support the constitution of the
grand lodge ot'the state of;-, under which this lodge is held,
and conform to all the by-laws, rules, and regulations of this or
any other lodge of which I may at any time hereafter become
a member. Furthermore, do Ipromise and swear that I will
obey a.l! regular signs, summons, or tokens, given, handed, sent,
*Masonry professes to bring mon to heaven, and yet it denies its blessings
to a large majprity of the human family. All the fair part of creation, to-
gether with the old, young and poor, are
exempted. How unlike the glori-
ous
gospel of the Son of God! In this there is no restriction of persons; the
high and low, rich and poor, bond and free, male and female, are all one in
Christ Jesus.
`
TI ask the candid reader if' thi# is morality or benevolence? If a Mason
was sworn not to violate the chastity of' any woman, it would have more the
appearance of virtuous principle. But would a Mason's oath restrain a man,
who would be guilty of such crimes? If masonry inculcated the true princi-
ples of morality the f`ruit would be manifest, l have been acquainted with
many Masons, but never knew one made better b masonry; but on the con-
tflrxyilnumbcrs, who, through its dcmornlising influence have been rendered A
W0 css.
lln_....¢........ _
_ ,
_,_-.-_,___ *___ _____
__A
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 63
or thrown, to me from the hand of a brother Master Mason, or
from the body of a
just and lawfully constituted lodge of such,
provided it be within the length of my cable-tow. Furthemiore,
do I promise and swear that a, Master Mason's secrets, given to
me in charge as such, and I knowing them- to be such, shall re-
main as secure and inviolable in my breast as in his own, when
communicated to me, murder and treason excepted; and they left
to my own election. Furthermore, do I promise and swear that
I will go on a Master Mason's errand, whenever required, even
should I have to go barefoot, and bareheaded, if within the length of
my cable-tow."' Furthermore, do I promise and swear that I will
always remember a brother Master Mason, when on my knees,
offering up my devotions to Almighty God. Furthermore, do l
promise and swear that I will be aiding and assisting all poor, in-
digent Master Masons, their wives and orphans, wheresoever
disposed round the globe, as far as in my power. without injuring
myself or
family materially. Furthermore, do I promise and
swear that if any part _of this my solemn oath or obligation be
omitted at this time, that I will bold myself amenable thereto,
whenever infomied. To all which I do most solemnly and sin-
cerely promise and swear, with a fixed and steady purpose of mind
in me, to keep and perform the same, binding myselfunder no less
penalty, than to have my body severed in two in the midst, and di-
vided tothe north and south, my bowels bumt to ashes in the centre
and the ashes scattered before the four winds of heaven, that there
might not the least track or trace of remembrance remain among
men or Masons of so vileand perjured a wretch as I should be,
were I ever to prove wilfully guilty of violating any part of this
my solemn oath or
obligation of a Master Mason. So help me
God, and keep me steadfast in the due performance of the same.'
The Master then asks the candidate. 'What do you most de-
sirel' The candidate answers after his prompter, 'more light!
The bandage which was tied round his head in the preparation
room, is, bylone of the brethren who stands behind him for that
purpose, loosened and put over both eyes, and he is immediately
brought to light in the same manner as in the preceding degree,
except three stamps on the tloor, and three claps of the hands are
given in this degree.-On being brought to light, the Master says
to the candidate, 'You first discover, as before, three great lights
in Masonry, bythe assistance of three lesser, with this difference,
i
*Literallyaropo several yards in length, but m stically three miles: so
that a Master Mason must go on a brother Master hdasoms errand whenev-
er
required, the distance of three miles; should he have to go barefoot and
barelieadcd. In the degrees of knighthood the distance is forty mile!-
64 near ON mtsonnv.
both points of the compass are elevated above the square, which
denotes to you that you are about to receive all the light that can
be conferred on you in a Master's lodge) The Master steps back
from the candidate and says, 'Brqther, you now discover me as
Master of this lodge, approaching you from the east, under the
sign and due-guard of a Master Mason! The sign is given by
raising both hands and arms to the elbows perpendicularly, one on
either side of the head, the elbows forming a square. The words
accompanying this sign in case of distress, are, 'O Lord my God,
is there no help for the widow's son.' As the last words drop from
your lips you let your hands fall in that manner, best calculated to
indicate solemnity. King Solomon is said to have made this ex-
clamation on the receipt of the information of the death of Hiram
Abifil Masons are all charged never to give the words except in
the dark when the sign cannot be seen. Here Masons differ very
much; some contend that Solomon gave this sign, and made this
exclamation, when informed of Hiram's death, and work accord-
ingly in their lodges. Others say the sign was given; and the ex-
clamation made at the grave when Solomon went there to raise
Hiram, and of course they work accordingly; that is to say, the
Master, who governs a lodge, holding the latter opinion, gives the
sign, Src. at the grave,'when he goes to raise the body, and vice
versa. The duehguard is given by putting the right hand to the
left side of the bowels, the hand open, with t_he thumb next to the
belly, and drawing it across the belly, and let it fall; this is done
tolerably quick. After the Master has given the sign and due-
guard, which does not take more than a minute, he says, 'brother,
I now present you wit.h my right hand in token of brotherly love
and affection, and with it the pass grip and word.' The pass-grip
is given by pressing the thumb between the joints of the second
and third fingers, where they join the hand, and the word or name
is Tubal Cain. It is the pass word to the Master's degree. The
Master after giving the candidate the pass-grip and word, bids him
rise and salute the Junior and Senior Wardens, and convince them
that he is an
obligated Master Mason, and is in possession of the
pass-grip and word. While the Wardens are
examining the can-
didate, the Master retums to the east and gets an
apron, and as he
returns to the candidate, one of the Wardens, [sometimes both,]
says to the Master, 'Worshipful, we are satisfied that br. ---
is an
obligated Master Mason.' The Master then says to the
candidate, 'Br0ther, I now have the honor to present you with a
lamb-skin, or white apron, as before, which, I hope, you will con-
tinue to wear with credit to yourself, and satisfaction and advan-
tage to the brethren; you will please carry it to the Senior War-
--
,,,_, mann-, _
`
'
,____,¢
"
`
`
LIGHT on nusouav. 65
den in the west, who will teach you how to wear it as a Maste,
Mason!
The Senior Warden ties on, his apron, and lets the flap fall down
before in its natural and common situation.
The Master retums to his seat, and the candidate is conducted
to him. Master to candidate, 'Brother, I perceive you are dress-
ed, it is, of course, necessary you should have tools to work with;
I will now
present you with the working tools of a Master Mason,
and explain their uses to you. _The working tools of a Master
Mason are all the implements of Masonry indiscriminately, but
more especially the trowel. The trowel is an instrument made
use
of by operative Masons to spread the cement which unites a
building into one common mass; but we, as Free and Accepted
lVIasons, are taught to make use of it for the more noble and glo-
rious purpose of spreading the cement of brotherly love and aflec-
tion; that cement which unites us into one sacred band or
society
of friends and brothers" among whom no contention should ever
exist, but that noble _contention, or rather emulation, of who can
best work, or best agree. I also present you with three precious
jewels; their names are
Humanity, Friendship, and Brotherly
Love. Brother, you are not yet invested with all the secrets of
this degree, nor do I know whether you ever will, until l know
how you withstand the amazing trials and dangers that await you.'
'You are now about to travel to give us a specimen of your
fortitude, perseverance, and fidelity, in the preservation of what
you have already received-Fare you well and may the Lord be
with you, and support you through your trials and di!iiculties`.'-
[In some lodges they make him pray belbre he starts.] The
candidate is then conducted out of the lodge, clothed, and re-
tums; as he enters the door, his conductor says to him, 'Brother,
we are now in a
place representing the .nmcturn sfmctarum, or ho-
ly rj holies, ol' king Solomon's temple. It was the custom of our
Grand Master, Hiram .bii'I, every day at high twelve, when the
crafts were from labour to refreshment, to enter into the sanclum
sanctoru/n, and offer up his devotions to the ever
living God.`-
Let_us, in imitation of him, kneel and pray.' They then kneel
and the conductor says the tbllowing prayer. 'Thou, 0 God,
kuowest our down sitting and up rising, and understandest our
thoughts afar ofii shield and defend us from the evil intentions of
our enemies, and support us imder the trials and afilictions we
are destined to endure, while travelling through this vale of tears.
Man that is hom of a woman is of few days, and f`ull of trouble-
He cometh forth as a flower and is cut down; he fieeth also_ as 51
Shadow, .and continueth notl Seeing his. days are
_determHC'l-
F2
~
,
.a
66 morn- on msonnr.
the number of his months are with thee, thou hast appointed his
bounds that he cannot pass; tum from him that he may rest, till
he shall accomplish his day. For there is hope of a tree if it be
cut down, that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch
thereof will not cease. But man dieth and wasteth away; yea,
man giveth up the ghost, and where is he? As the waters fail
from the sea, and flood decayeth and drieth up, so man lieth
down, and riseth not up till the heavens shall be no more. Yet,
O Lord! have compassion on the children of thy creation; ad-
minister unto them comfort in time of trouble, and save them
with an
everlasting salvation. Amen-so mote it be.' They
then rise and the conductor says to the candidate, 'Brother, in
further imitation of our Grand Master, Hiram Abiti, let us retire at
the south gate.' They then advance to the Junior Warden
(who represent Jubela, one of the rut}ians,) who exclaims, 'Who
comes here'!' [The room is dark, or the candidate hood-winked.]
The conductor answers, 'Our Grand Master, Hiram Abitll' 'Our
Grand Master, Hiram Abilfl' exclaims the ruflian, 'he is the very
man I wanted to see; (seizing the candidate by the throat at the
same time, and jerking him about with violence;) give me the
Master Mason's word, or I'll take your life.' The conductor re-
plies, 'I cannot give it now, but if you will wait till the grand
lodge assembles at Jerusalem, if you are worthy, you shall then
receive it, otherwise you cannot! '1`he rutiian then gives the
candidate a blow with the twenty-four inch guage across the
throat, on which he fled to the west gate, where he was accosted
by the second ruflian, Jubelo, with more violence, and on his refu-
sal to comply with his request, he gave him a severe blow with
the square across his breast; on which he attempted to make his
escape at the east gate, where he was accosted by the third ruf-
fian, Jubelum, with still more violence, and refusing to comply with
his request, the ruiiian gave him a violent blow withthe common
gavel on the forehead, which brought him to the door, on which
one of them exclaimed, 'What shall we do, we have killed our
Grand Master, Hiram Abilfl' Another answers, 'Let us
carry
him out at the east gate, and bury him in the rubbish till low
twelve, and then meet and can-y him a westerly course and bury
h1m.' The candidate is then taken up in a blanket, on which he
fell, and carried to the west end of the Lodge, and covered up
and led; by this time the Master has resumed his seat, (king
Solomon is supposed to arrive at the temple at this juncture,) and
calls to order, and asks the Senior Warden the cause of all that
confusion; the Senior Warden answers, 'Our Grand Master, Hi-
ram Abili, is missing, and there are no plans or designs laid down
°§"l-L-» --'---- »
--_ _nnndinr-r»..|
LIGHT on nnsonnr. 67
on the tnssle-board for the crafts to pursue their labor.' The
Master, alias king Solomon, replies, '0urGrand Master missing!
our Grand Master has always been very punctual in his atten-
dance; I fear he is indisposed; assemble the crafts, and search
in and about the temple, and see if he can be i`ound.' They all
shulile about the lloor a while, when the Master calls -them to or-
der, and asks the Senior Warden, 'What success! He answers.
'We cannot find our Grand Master, my Lord.' The Master then
orders the Secretary to call the roll ot' workmen, and see whether
any of them are missing. '1`he Secretary calls the roll, and says.
'I have called the roll, my Lord, and find that there are three mis-
sing, viz : Jubela, Jubelo and Jubelum.' His Lordship then
observes, 'This brings to my mind a circumstance that took place
this morning-twelve Fellow-Crafts, clothed in white gloves and
aprons, in token of their innocence, came to me, and confessed
that they twelve, with three others,' had conspired to extort the
Master Mason's word from their Grand Master, Hiram Abitf, and
in case of refusal to take his lite-they twelve had recanted, but
feared the other tbpe had been base enough to carry their atro-
cious designs into execution. Solomon then ordered twelve Fel-
low-Crafts to be drawn from the bands of the workmen, clothed
in white gloves and aprons, in token of their innocence, and sent
three east, three west, three north, and three south, in search of
the ruflians, and if foimd, to bring them forward. Here the mem-
bers all shuflle about the Hoor a while, and fall in with a
reputed
traveller, and inquire of him if he had seen
any travelling men
that way; he tells them that he had seen three that moming near
the coast of Joppa, who from their dress and appearance were
Jews, and were workmen from the temple, inquiring for a
passage
to Ethiopia, but were unable to obtain one, in consequence of an
embargo which had recently been laid on all the shipping, and had
tnmed back into the country.
The Master now calls them to order again, and asks the Sen-
ior Warden, 'What success.' He answers by relating what had
taken place-Solomon observes, 'l had this embargo laid to pre-
vent the rutlians from making their escape;' and adds, 'you will
go and search again, and search till you find them, if possible; and
if they are not found, the twelve, who confessed, shall be consid-
ered as the reputed murderers, and' suffer accordingly.' The
members all start again, and shuflle about a while, until one of
them, as if by accident, finds the body of Hiram Abiii, alias the
candidate, and hails his travelling companions who join him, Mid
while they are humming out something over the candidate, the
three reputed ruilians, who are seated in a private comer Heal' ll"
.4-
ML _ _.an-ge.-J. -
°"
`
H
GS LIGHT on nusouar. __
candidate, are heard to exclaim in the following manner--first,
Jubela, '0, that my throat had been cut across, my tongue tom
out, and my body buried in the rough sands of the sea at low
water-mark, where the tide ebbs and flows twice in twenty-four
hours, ere I had been accessary to -the death of so
good a man as
our Grand Master, Hiram Abitll'
The second, Jubelo, '0 that my left breast had been tom open,
and my heart and vitals taken from thence, and thrown over my
left shoulder. carried into the valley ol`Jehoshaphat, and there to
become a
prey 'to the wild beasts ot' the field, and vultures ofthe
air. ere I had conspired the death of so
good a man as our Grand
Master, Hiram Abifll'
The third, Jubelum, 'O that my body had been severed in two
in the midst, and divided to the north and south, my bowels bumt
to ashes in the centre, and the ashes scattered by the four winds
of heaven, that there might hot the least track or trace'of` remem-
brance remain among men, or Masons, of so vile and peijured a
wretch as I am- Ah, Jubela and Jubelo. it was l that struck him
harder than you both-it was I that gave the fatal blow-it
wasl that killed him outright! The three I-`ellow-(`rat`ts who
had stood by the candidate all this time listening to the rutlians,
whose voices they recognized, says one to the other, 'V hat shall
we do, there are three of them, and only three of usl' 'It is,' said
one, in reply, 'our cause is good, let us seize them;' on which
they rush Forward, and carry them to the Master, to whom they
relate what had passed; the Master then addresses them in the
ibllowing manner:
('l`hey in many lodges kneel, or lie down in
token of their guilt and penitence.) 'Well, Jubela, what have
you got to say for yourself'-guilty or not guilty 'l' Am. 'Guilty,
my Lord.' °Jube/o, guilty or not guilty ?' ./fins. 'Guilty, my
Lord.' 'Jubelum, guilty or not guilty Z' Ana. 'Guilty, my Lord.'
The Master of the three Fellow-traits, who took them, 'Take
them wiwtflt the west gate of the Temple, and have them execu-
ted according to the several imprecations of their own mouths]
They are then hun'ied oft' to the west end of the room. Here
this part ofthe farce ends. The Master then orders tilteen Fel-
low-Urafts to be elected from the bands ot' the workmen, and
sent three east, three west, three north, three south; and three in
and about the temple in search of their Grand Master, Hiram
Abill, [In some lodges they only send twelve, when their own
lectures say fifteen were
sent,] and charges them if they lind
the body to examine carefully on and about it for the Master's
word or a
key to it. The three that travelled a
westerly course,
Come to the candidate and finger about him a little and are called
I
'
-----.-|.¢.¢.-1,_____,__§i__ ____¢__ _
Lraur ON lusomur. 69
to order by the Master, when they report that they have found_
the gravéof their Grand Master, Hiram Abitll and on moving the
earth till they came to the body, they involuntarily found their
bands raised in this position, showing it at the same time; it is
the due-guard of this degree; to guard their nostrils against the
offensive eiiluvia which arose from the grave, and that they had
searched carefully on and about the body for the Master's word,
but had not discovered any thing but a faint' resemblance of the'
letter G on the left breast. The Master on the receipt of this
information, (raising himselt,) raises his hands three several
times above his head (as herein before described) and exclairns
twice, 'Nothing but faint resemblance of the letter G! that is not
the Master's word, nor a
key to it. I fear the Master's word is
forever lost! (The third exclamation is different from the 'others-
attend to it, it has been described in page 64.) 'Nothing but a faint
resemblance of the letter G ! that is not the Master's word nor a
key to it. '0 Lord my God, is there no help for the widow's
son!' The Master then orders the Junior Warden to summon a
lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons, and repair to the grave to
raise the body of their Grand Master, by the Entered Apprenti-
ce's grip! They go to the candidate and take hold of his fore
finger and pull it, retum and tell the Master that they could not
raise him by the Entered Apprentice's grip; that the skin cleaved
from the bone. A lodge of Fellow-(lrafts are then sent, who act
as before, except they pull the candidate's second finger. The
Master then directs the Senior Warden [generally] to summon a
lodge of Master Masons, and says, 'I will go with them myself in
person, and try to raise the body by the 1laster's grip, or lion's
paw.' [Some say by the strong grip, or the lion's pam] They
then all assemble round the candidate, the Master having declar-
ed the first word spoken after the body was raised, should be
adopted as a substitute for the Master's word, for the govemment
of Master Mason's lodges in all future generations; he proceeds
to raise the candidate, alias, the representative of the dead body
of Hiram Abiiil He [the candidate] is raised on what is called
the five points of fellowship, which are foot to- foot, knee to knee,
breast to breast, hand to back, and mouth to ear. 'l`his is done
by putting the inside of your right foot to the inside of the right
foot of the person to whom you are
going to give the word, the
inside of your knee to his, laying your right breast against his,
your left hands on the back of each other, and your mouths to.
each other's right ear, [in which position you are alone pennitted
to give the word,] and whisper the word .Mah-lwhfbone. Th¢
Master's grip is given by taking hold of each other's right hand,
11",-_._ _ _ ..n-.»..~----
70 mom* ON nusomw.
as
though you were going to shake hands, and sticking the nails
of each of your fingers into the joint of the Other-'s Wrisfwhere it
tmites with the hand. In this position the candidate is raised, he
keeping his whole body stifl§ as
though dead. The Master in
raising him is assisted by some of the brethren, who take hold of
the candidate by the arms and shoulders; as soon as he is raised
to his feet they step back, and the Master whi pers the word
.Mah-hah.-bone in his ear, and causes the candidate to repeat it,
telling him at the same time that he must never give it in any
manner other than that which he receives it.-I-Ie is also told that
.Mah-hah-bone, signifies marrow in the bone. They then separ-
ate, and the Master makes t.l1e following explanation, respecting
the five points of fellowship. Master to candidate, 'Brother, foot
to foot, teaches you that you should, whenever asked, g0 OH tl
brother's 'errand if within the length of your cable-tow, even if
you should have to go barefoot and bareheaded. Knee to knee,
that you shouid always remember a Master Mason in your devo-
_tion of Almighty God. Breast to breast, that you should keep
the Master Mason's secrets, when given to you in charge as
such, as secure and inviolable in your breast, as they were in his
own, before communicated to you. Hand to back, that you
should support a Master Mason behind his back, as well as be-
fore his face. Mouth to ear, that you should support his good
name, as well behind his back as before his face.'
After the candidate is through with what is called the work
part, the Master addresses him in the following manner: 'Broth-
er you may suppose from the manner
you have been dealt with
to night, that we have been fooling with you, or that we have
treated you different from others, but I assure you that is not the
case. You have, this night, represented one of the greatest men
that ever lived, in the tragical catastrophe of his death, burial, and
resurrection; I mean Hiram Abiii, the widow's son, who was slain
by three rutlians,'at the building of king Solomon's temple, and
who, in his intlexibility, integrity, and fortitude, never was sur-
passed by man. The history of that momentous event is thus
related. Masonic tradition inform us, that at the building of
king Solomon's temple, fifteen fellowicrafts discovering that the
temple was almost finished, and not having the Master Mason's
word, became very impatient, and entered into a horrid conspira-
cy to extort the Master Mason's word from their Grand Master,
Hiram Abifli the first time they met him alone, or take his life,
that they might pass as Masters in other countries, and receive
wages as such; but before they could accomplish their designs,
twelve of them recanted, but the other three were base enough to
_ ,sa
A
p
'
-~'-»--- --'V-» _...___-l|B|;.._., _, _......a..._ ___
LIGHT ON Mseonnv. 'Il
carry their atrocious designs into execution. Their names were
Jubela, Jubelo, and Jub¢lum.' ,
'It was the custom of our Grand Master, Hiram Abifi, every
day at high twelve, when the crafts were from labour to refresh-
ment, to enter into the Sanctum Sanctorum, and offer his devo-
tions to the ever living God, and draw out his plans and designs
on the tressle-board for the crafts to pursue their labor. On a
certain day, [not named in
any of our traditional accounts,] Ju-
'bela., Jubelo, and Jitbelum, placed themselves at the south, west,
and east gates of the temple, and Hiram having finished his devo-
tions and labor, attempted (as was his usual custom,) to retire at
the south gate, where he wa.s met by Jubela, who demanded of
him the Master Mason's word, (some say the secrets of a Mas-
ter Mason,) and on his refusal to give it, Julzata gave Mm a vio-
lent blow with a
twenty-four inch guage across the throat; on
which Hiram fled to the west gate, where he was accosted in the
same manner by Jubelo, but with more violence. Hiram told
him that he could not give the word then, because Solomon,
of Israel, Hiram, king of Tyre, and himself; had entered into a
solemn league, that the word never should be given, unless they
three were present; but if he would have patience, till the grand
lodge assembled at Jerusalem, if he was then found worthy he
should then receive it, otherwise he could not; Jubelo replied in
a very peremptory manner: 'If you do not give me the Master's
word, I'll take your life;' and on Hiram's retilsing to give it, Ju-
belo gave him a severe blow with the square across the left breast;
on .which he fled to the east gate where he was accosted by Jube-
lum, in the same manner, but with still more violence. Here Hi-
ram reasoned as before ; Jubelum told him that he had heard his
cavelling with Jubela and Jubelo long enough, and that the Mas-
ter's word had been promised to him from time to time for a
long
time; that he was still put oft, and that the temple was almost fm-
ished, and he was determined to have the word or take his life;
'I want it #so that I may beable to get wages as a Master Ma-
son, in any country to which I may go for employ, after the tem-
ple is linished, and that I may be able to support my wife and
children.' Hiram persisting in his refusal; he gave Hiram a vio-
lent blow with the gavel, on
the forehead, which felled him to the
floor and killed him-they took the body and carried it out of the
west gate, and buried it in the rubbish, till low twelve at night,
(which is twelve o'clock,) when they three met agreeable to ap-
pointment, 'and carried t.he body a
westerly course, and buried it
at the brow of a hill, in a grave, dug due east and west six feet
perpendicular, and made their escape. King Solomon coming
ll
V
i
'
'fr
_
'°
.Lr-
.
-'-'-
,ap ,.
-,,_._ .
,.».~_,, _
-A-L »
72 -
ucnr on nusormv.
up to the temple at low six in the morning, (as was his usual
custom,) found the crafts all in confusion; and on inquiring the
cause, was infomied that their Grand Master, Hiram Abitl, was
missing, and there was no plans and designs laid down on the
tressleboard, for the crafts to pursue their labor. Solomon or-
dered search to be made in and about the temple for him; no dis-
covery being made, he than ordered the. secretary to call the roll
of workmen to see if any were missing; it appearing that there
were three, viz: Jubela, Jubelo, and Jubelum: Solomon observed,
'This brings to my mind a circumstance that took place this mom-
ing. Twelve Fellow-Crafts came to me dressed in white gloves
and aprons, in token of their innocence, and confessed that they
twelve with three others, had conspired to extort the Master Ma-
son's word from their Grand Master, Hiram Abifi, and in case ot'
his refusal, to take his life; they twelve had recanted, but feared
the other three had been base enough to carry their atrocious de-
signs into execution.' Solomon immediately ordered twelve
Fellow-Crafts to be selected from the bands of the workmen,
clothed in white gloves and aprons in token of their innocence,
and sent three east, three west, three north, and three south, in
search of the ruflians, and if found, to bring them up before him.
The three that travelled a
westerly course, coming near the coast
of Joppa, fell in with a
way-taring man who informed them that
he had seen three men pass that way that moming, who, from
their appearance and dress, were workmen from the temple, in-
quiring for apassage to Ethiopia, but were unable to obtain one
in consequence of an embargo which had recently been laid on all
the shipping, and had tumed back into the country. After mak-
ing further and more diligent search, and making no further dis-
covery, they returned to the temple and reported to Solomon the
result of their pursuit and inquiries. On which Solomon directed
them to go again and search until they found their Grand Master,
Hiram Abifi, if possible, and if he was not found, the twelve who
had confessed, should be considered as the murderers; and suffer
accordingly.
`
The retumed again in pursuit of the rutlians, and one of the
three tliat travelled a
westerly course, being more weary than the
the rest, sat down at the brow ofa hill to rest and refresh himself;
and in attempting to rise, caught hold of a sprig of cassia, which
easily gave, and excited his curiosity, and made him suspicious of
a deception; on which he hailed his companions, who immediate-
ly assembled, and on examination, found that the earth had been
recently moved; and on
moving the rubbish, discovered the ap-
pearance of the grave; and while they were
confabulating about
{
-o;'";5_§#E'
,
~| _
LIGHT on nusoxvav. 73
what measures to take, they heard voices issuing from a cavem
in the clefts of' the rocks, on which, they immediately repaired to
the place, where they heard the voice of' Jubela exclaim, '0! that
my throat had been cut across, my tongue tom out, and my body
buried in the rough sands of' the sea, at low water mark, where
the tide ebbs and flows twice in twenty-four hours, ere I had been
accessary to the death of so
good a man as our Grand Master,
Hiram Abifli'-on which, they distinctly heard the voice of` Jubc-
lo exclaim, '0! that my left breast had been tom open, and my
heart and vitals taken from thence and thrown over my left shoul-
der, carried into the valley of' Jehoshaphat, there to become a
prey to the wild beasts ofthe field and vultures of the air, ere I
had conspired to take the life of' so good a man as our Grand Mas-
ter, Hiram Abifii'-when they more distinctly heard the voice of
Jubclum exclaim, '0! that my body had been severed in two in
the midst, and divided to the north and the south, my bowels
burnt to ashes in the centre, and the ashes scattered by the four
winds of heaven, that there might not remain the least trace of' re-
membrance among men, or Masons, of so vile and peijured a
wretch as I am, who wilfixlly took the lif`e of so good aman as our
Grand Master, Hiram Abifll Ah! Jubola and Jubelo, it was 1
that struck him harder than you both! it was I that gave him the
fatal blow! it was I that killed him out
`
ht !'-on which,,they
rushed forward, seized, bound, and carriedntgem before king Solo-
mon, who, after hearing the testimony ofthe three Fellow Crafts,
and the three ruflians having plead guilty, ordered them to be tak-
en out at the west gate ofthe temple, and executed agreeably to
the several imprecations of' their own mouths. King Solomon
then ordered fifteen Fellow Crafts to be selected from the bands
of the workmen, clothed with white gloves and aprons, in token
of their innocence, and sent three east, three west, three north,
three south, and three in and about the temple, in search of the
body of our Grand Master, Hiram Abifii and the three that trav-
elled a westerly course found it under a
sprig of cassia, where a
worthy brother sat down to rest and refresh himself; and on re-
moving the earth till they came to the cofiin, they involuntarily
found their hands raised, as herein before described, to guard
their nostrils against the offensive efliuvia that rose from the
grave. It is also said, that the body had lain there fourteen days;_~
some say, fifteen.
'
The body was raised in the manner herein before described.
carried up to the temple, and buried as
explained in the olosingk
clauses ofthe lecture. Not
tate
third part ofthe preceding hi?-
v__,_.»
_,pun--r
» -_, _n..-.|~, A->"'*"""" "'
/-1
'74 incur on nusonnr.
tory of this degree is ever given to a
candidate. A few general,
desultory, unconnected remarks are made to him, and he is gen-
erally referred to the manner of raising, and to the lecture, for in-
formation as to the particulars. Here follows a charge which
ought to be, and sometimes is, delivered to the candidate after
hearing the history of the degree.
.Hn address to be delivered to the candidate after the history has
been given.
'Brother, your zeal for the institution of Masonry, the progress
you have made in the mystery, and your conformity to our
regu-
lations, have pointed you out as a proper object of our favor and
esteem.
`
'You are bound, by duty, honor, and gratitude. to be faithful to
your trust; to support the dignity of your character on
every oc-
casion; and to enforce, by precept and example, obedience to the
tenets of the order.
'In the character of a Master Mason, you are authorized to
correct the errors and irregularities of your uninformed brethren,
and to guard them against a breach of fidelity.
'To preserve the reputation of the fratemity unsullied, must be
your constant care; and, for this purpose, it is your province to
recommend to your inferiors, obedience and submission; to your
equals, courtesy and affability; to your superiors, kindness and
condescension. Universal benevolence you are
always to incul-
cate; and, by the regularity of your own behaviour, aH'ord the
best example for the donduct of others less informed. The an-
cient landmarks of the order, entrusted to your care, you are
carefully to preserve; and never suffer them to be infringed, or
countenance a deviation from the established usages and customs
of the fraternity.
`_ 'Your virtue, honor, and reputation are concemed in support-
ing, with dignity, the character you now hear. Let no motive,
therefore, make you swerve from your duty, violate your vow, or
betray your trust; but be true and faithful, and imitate the exam-
ple of that celebrated artist whom you this evening represent; thus
ytiu will.render yourself deserving the honor which we have con~
fdrred, and merit the confidence that we have reposed,'
"Here follows the lecture on this degree, which is divided into
llltw Sections. ~
I
'
.
dh ml
_
_
°*
--°"'¢'°~f--.......¢u»".._._. .
,_
_
_.»......._. ¢,._;¢... -'--'- '
`
1|- _,
....¢
~
/
'LIGHT on ivrssormr. '75
SECTION FIRST.
'
Q. Are you a Master Mason?
A. I am;-try me, prove me; disprove me if you can.
Q. Where were you prepared to be made a Master Mason?
V
A. In a room adjacent to the body of a
just and lawfully consti-
tuted lodge of such, duly assembled in a room, representing the
sanctum sanctorum, or
holy of holies, of king Solomon's temple.
Q. How were
you prepared?
A. By being divested of all metals; neither naked nor clothed;
barefooted nor shod; with a cable-tow three times about my na-
ked body; in which posture I was conducted to the door of the
lodge, where I gave three distinct knocks.
Q. What did those three distinct knocks allude to?
A. To the third degree of Masonry; it being that on which I
Was about to enter.
Q. What was said to you from within?
A. Who comes there, who comes there, who comes there,
Q. Your answer?
'
A. A worthy brother, who has been regularly initiated as an
Entered Apprentice Mason, passed to the degree of Fellow Craft,
and now wishes for further light in Masonry, by being raised to
the sublime degree ofa Master Mason.
Q. What further was said to you from within?
`
A. I was asked if it was of my own free will and accord I
made this request; if I was duly and truly prepared; worthy and
well qualified; and had made suitable proficiency in the preced-
ing degrees: all of which being answered in the aflinnative, I was
asked, by what further rights I expected to obtain that benefit.
Q. Your answer?
A. By the benefit of a pass-word.
'
Q. What was that pass-word? A. Tubal Cain.
Q. What next was said to you?
A. I was bid to wait till the Worshipful Master in the east was
made acquainted with my request, and his answer retumed.
Q. After his answer was returned, what followed?
A. I was caused to enter the lodge on the two extreme points
ef the compass, pressing my naked right and left breasts, in the
name ofthe Lord.
Q. How were you then disposed ofI
A. I was conducted three times regularly round the lodge, and
ljralted at the Junior Warden in the south, where the same ques-
rlons were asked and answers retumed, as at the door.
Q. How did the Junior Warden dispose of you? _
A. He ordered me to beconducted to the Senior Warden in
_gn-
76 LIGHT ON MABONRY.
the west, where the same questions were asked and answers re-
tumed, as before.
Q. How did the Senior Warden dispose of you?
A. l-Ie ordered me to be conducted to the Worshiptixl Master
in the east, where the same questions were asked and answers re-
tumed, as before; who likewise demanded of me from whence I
came, and whither I was travelling.
Q. Your answer?
A. -From the west, and travelling to the east.
Q. Why do you leave the west, and travel to the east?
In search of light. _
Q. How did the Worshipful Master dispose ofyou?
A. He ordered me to be' conducted hack to the west. from
whence I came, and put in care of the Senior Warden, who taught
me how to approach the east, by advancing upon three upright
regular steps to the third step, my feet forming a square, and my
body erect at the altar before the Worshipful Master.
Q. What did the Worshipful Master #J with you!
A. He made an
obligated Master Mason of me.
A
Q. Howl A. In due fonn.
'
Q. What was that due form?
A. Both my knees bare bent, they forming a square; both
hands on the Hol Bible, square, and compass; in which posture
I took upon me the solemn oath, or
obligation, of a Master Ma-'
son.
Q. After your obligation, what was said to you!
A. What do you most desire.
Q. Your answer?
A. More light. [The bandage round the head, is now
drop-
ped over the cyes.] _
Q. Did you receive light? A. I did.
Q._ On being brought to light, on this degree, what did you first
discover?
A. Three great lights in Masonry, by the assistance of three
less, and both points of the compass elevated above the square;
which denoted to me that I had received, or was about to receive,
all the light that could be conferred on me in a Master's lodge.,
Q. What did you next discover?
A. The Worshipful Master approaching me from the east, unl
der the sign -and due-guard of a Master Mason, who presented
me with his right hand in token of brotherly love and confidence,
and proceeded to give me the pass-grip and word of a Master
Mason, [the word is the name of the'pass-grip;] and bid me rise
and salute the Junior and Senior Wardens, and convince them
A-.
þÿ`;` ¬.""'%-..,._...||undn-n..__
'
LIGHT ON MASOKRY. 'fl'
thatl was an obligated Master Mason, and had the sign, pass-
grip, and word. ( Tubal Cain.) .
Q. What did you next discover?
A. The Worshipfhl Master approaching me, a second time,
from the east, who presented me with a lamb-skin, or white apron;
which, he said, he hoped I would continue to wear with honor to
myself, and satisfaction and advantage to the brethren.
Q. What were you next presented with?
A. The working tools of a Master Mason.
Q. What are they?
»
_
A. All the implements of Masonry indiscriminately, but more
especially the trowel. g
.
'
Q. How explained?
-
A. The' trowel is an instrument made use of by operative Ma-
sons to spread the cement which unites a
building into one com-
mon mass; but we, as Free and Accepted Masons,`are taught to
make use of it for the more noble and glorious purpose of spread-
ing the cement of brotherly love and affection; that cement,
which unites us into one sacred band,. or society, of brothers,
among whom no contention should ever exist, hut that noble emu-
lation of who can best work, or best agree.
Q. What were
you next presented with?
A. Three precious jewels.
'
Q. What are they?
'
A. Humanity, Friendship, and Brotherly Love.
Q. How were
you then disposed of?
A. Iwas conducted out of the lodge, and invested of what I
had been divested, and retumed again in due season.
SECTIQN SECOND.
Q. Did you ever return totliye sanctum sanctorum, or
holy of
Jioliea, of king Solomon's temple?
`
:_
A. Idid.
Q. Was there any thing particular took place on-
your retum?
A. There was; viz:-I was accosted by three mtlians, who ,de-
manded of me the Master Mason's word.
Q. Did you ever give it to them? '
`A. I did not, but bid them wait, with time and patience, till ,dig-
grand lodge assembled at Jerusalem; and then, if they were found
worthy, they should receive it; otherwise, they could not.
_
Q. In what manner was
you accosted?
A. In
attempting to retire at the south gate, I was accosted
by one of them, who demanded of me the Master Masonfs word,
and, on
my refusing to comply with his request, be gave me a blow
G2
-,L
"limit-¢'..-ndiih.--=-_-.IG-4 "'°"`
l '
78 LIGHT ON Masormv.
with the twenty-four inch gauge, across my breast; on which I
fled to the west gate, where I was accosted by the second with
more violence, and, on my refusing to comply with his request,
he gave me a severe blow, with the square, across my breast; on
which I attempted to make my escape at the east gate, where I
was accosted by the third with still more violence, and, on iny
retiising to comply with his request, he gave me a violent blow,
plvitb
the common gavel, on the forehead, and brought me to the
oor. _
-
Q. Whom did you represent at that time?
A. Our Grand Master, Hiram Abitl, who was slain at the
building of king Solomon's temple. _
.
Q. Was his death premeditated?
i
A. It was;-by fifteen Fellow Crafts, who conspired to extort
from him the Master llason's word; twelve of whom recanted;
but the other three were base enough to carry their atrocious de-
signs into execution.
Q. What did they do with the body?
'
A. They carried it out at the west gate ofthe temple, and bu-
ried it till low twelve at night, when they _three met agreeably to
appointment, and carried it a westerly course from the temple,
and buried it tmder the brow ofa hill, in a grave six feet due east
and west, six feet perpendicular, and made their escape.
Q. What time was he slain?
-
A. t high twelve at noon, when the_crat`ts were from labor to
refreshment.
'
`
'
Q. How came he to be alone at that time?
A. Because it was the usual custom of our Grand Master,
Hiram Abifi, every day, at high twelve, `when the -crafts were
.from labor to refreshment, to enter into the sanctum sanclarum,
or holy of holies, and offer up his adorations to the ever living
God, and draw out his plans and designs on his tressle-board for
the crafts to pursue their labor.
'
-
Q. At what time was he missing? _
A. At. low six in the moming, when king Solomon came upto
'the temple, as usual, to view the work, and found the crafts all
in confusion; and, on inquiring the cause, he was informed that
their Grand Master, Hiram Abiff, was missing, and no plans or
designs were laid down on the tressle-board for the crafts to pur-
sueftheir labor.
Q. What observations did king Solomon make at that time?
A. He observed that our Grand Master, Hiram Abiii, had al-
ways been very punctual in attending, and feared that he was in-
»*t|.|.u._n__1._ ___ _ _______¥_____'___-i_ A V
"ml "L
l0¢|i|..,..-_-:Lui-»_.., _.»l»i.,,
'
-*'**'
Liour ON Mssonav. 79
C
disposed, and ordered search to be made in and about the tem-
ple, to see if he could be found.
Q. Search being made, and he not found, what further remarks
didking Solomon make?
A. He observed he feared some fatal accident had befallen our
Grand Master, Hiram Abiff-that morning twelve Fellow Crafts,
clothed in white gloves and aprons in token ot` their innocence,
had confessed that they twelve, with three others, had conspired
to extort the Master Mason's word from their Grand Master, Hi-
rain Abifl, or take his life; that they twelve had recanted, but fear-
ed the other three had been base enough to carry their atrocious
designs into execution.
Q. What followed?
' `
A. King Solomon ordered the roll of workmen to be called, to
see if there were any missing.
Q. The roll being called, were there any missing?
A. There were three; viz:-Jubsla, Jubelo, and Jubclum.
Q. Were the ruflians ever found?
A. They were.
A
Q. Howl A. By the wisdom of king Solomon, who ordered
twelve Fellow Crafts to be selected from the bands ot' the work-
men, clothed in white gloves and aprons, in token of their inno-
cence, and sent three east, three west, three north, and three
south, in search of the rutfians, and if found, to bring them for-
ward.
Q. What success? _
.
A. The three that travelled a
westerly course from the tem-
ple, coming near the coast of Joppa, were infomied, by a
way-
faring man, that three men had been seen that way that morning,
who, from their appearance and dress, were workmen from the
temple, inquiring for a passage to k thiopia; but were unable to
obtain one, in consequence of an
embargo which had recently
been laid on all the shipping, and had turned back into the
country.
Q. What followed'!-
'
A. King Solomon ordered them to go and search again, and
search till they were found, if possible; and if they were not found,
that the twelve, who had confessed, should he _considered as the
reputed murderers, and suffer accordingly. -
»
Q. What success?
i
A. One ofthe three that travelled a westerly course from the
temple, being more
weary than the rest, sat down under the brow
of a hill to rest and refresh himself; and in attempting to rise#
caught liold ofa sprig of cassia, which easily gave way, and CX'
J;
80 uczrrr ON nnsounr.
_
cited his curiosity, and made him suspicious of a deception, on
which he hailed his companions, who immediately assembled;-
and, on examination, found that the earth had recently been mov-
ed, and, on moving the rubbish, discovered the appearance of a
grave; and while they were confabulating about what measure
to take, they heard voices issuing from a cavem in the clefts of
the rocks, on which they immediately repaired to the place, where
they heard the voice of Jubela exclaim, 'Ol that my throat had
been cut across, my tongue tom out, and my body buried in the
rough sands of the sea, at low water-mark, where the tide ebbs
and Hows twice in twenty-four hours, ere I had been accessary to
the death of so good a man as our Grand Master, Hiram Abiffz'
-on which they distinctly heard the voice of Jubelo exclaim, 'Ol
that my left breast had been tom open, and my heart and vitals
taken from thence, and thrown over my lett. shoulder, carried to
the valley of Jehoshaphat, there to become a
prey to the wild
beasts of the field, and vultures of the air, ere I had conspired to
take the life of so
good a man as our Grand Master, Hiram
Abiffz'-when they more distinctly heard the voice of Jubelurn
exclaim, 'O ! that my body had been severed in two in the midst,
and divided to the north and the south, my`bowels bumt to ashes
in the centre, and the ashes scattered by the four winds of heav-
en, that there might not remain the least track or trace of remem-
brance among men or Masons, of so vile and perjured a wretch
as I am, who wilfully took the life of so
good a man as our Grand
Master, Hiram Abifll Ah! Jubcla and Jubelo, it was I that struck
him harder than you both! it was I that gave him the fatal blow!
it was I that killed him outright?-on which they rushed forward,
seized, bound, and earned them up before king Solomon.
Q. What did king Solomon do with them?
A. He ordered them to be executed agreeably to the several
imprecations of their own mouths. V
Q. Was the body of our Grand Master, Hiram Abifl, ever tbund?
A. It was.
`
'
Q. Howl A. By the wisdom of king Solomon, who ordered
fifteen (in some
lodges they say twelve) Fellow Cratts to be se-
lected from the bands of the workmen, and sent three east, three
west, three north, three sduth, and three in and about the temple,
ip search of the body.
_
Q. Where was it found?
A. Under that sprig of cassia where a worthy brother sat down
to rest and refresh_himsel£
Q. Was there any thing particular took place on the discovery
of the body?
,,_ ..nl~.nLn_-.».-....».An1|Li,,a,___.;_u¢-l-l.|_ ___4`_
LIGHT ON IABOHRY.
'
B1
A. There was; viz:-on removing the earth till they came to
the coflin, they involuntarily found their hands raised in this posi-
tion, to guard their nostrils against the offensive etlluvia that rose:
from the grave.
Q. How long had the body lain there?
A. Fourteen days.
Q. What did they do with the body?
A. Raised it in a masonic form, and carried it up to the teln~
ple for more decent interment. _
Q. Where was it buried?
A. Under the sanctum sanctomm, or
holy of holiel, of So-
lomon's temple, over which they erected a marble monument with
this inscription delineated thereon:-A virgin weeping over a
broken column, with a book open before her; in her right hand a
sprig of cassia; in her left, an um:-Time standing behind her,
with his hands infolded in the ringlets of her hair.
Q. VVhat do they denote?
A. The weeping virgin denotes the unfinished state of the tem~
ple; the broken column, that one of the principal supporters of
Masonry had fallen; the book open before her, that his memory
was on perpetual recoi'; the sprig of cassia, the timely discove-
ry of his grave; the um in her left hand, thathis ashes were safe-
ly deposited under the aanctum sanctorum, or
holy of holiea, of
king Solomon's temple; and Time, standing behind her with his
hands infolded in the ringlets of her hair, that time, patience, and
perseverance will accomplish all things. 1
`
SECTION THIRD.
Q. What does a Mastei-'s
lodgehgpresentl
A. The sanctum sanctorum, or
lwy of holies, of Solo-
mon's temple.
'
Q. How long was the temple building?
A. Seven years; during which, it rained not in the day time.
that the workmen might not be obstructed in their labor.
Q. What supported the temple?
'
A. Fourteen hundred and fifty-three columns, and two thou-
sand, nine hundred and six pilasters; all hewn from the finest
.Parian marble.
Q. What further supported it?
i
A. Three grand columns, or pillars.
. What were
they called?
.
Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty. i
What did they represent?
"'
The pillar of wisdom represented Solomon, king of ISl'a°l~
¢,_-__ ...-..§;.._, ...._,.
S2 _
LIGHT ON MASONBY.
whose wisdom contrived the mighty fabric; the pillar of strength,
Hiram, king of Tyre, who strengthened. Solomon in his glorious
undertaking; the pillar of beauty, Hiram Abilli the widow's son,
whose cunning craft and curious workmanship beautified and
adomed the temple.
'
1
Q. How many were there employed in the building of
Solomon's temple?
A. Three Grand Masters; three thousand, three hundred Mas~
ters, or overseers of the work; eighty thousand Fellow Crafts;
and seventy thousand Entered Apprentices: all those were class-
ed and arranged in such a manner, 'by the wisdom of Solomon,
that neither envy, discord, nor confusion were suffered to inter-
rupt that universal peace and tranquillity that pervaded the work
at that important period. .
Q. How many constitutes an Entered Apprentice's lodge?
A. Seven; one Master and six Entered Apprentices.
Q. Where did they usually meet?
A. On the ground floor of king Solomon's temple.
Q. How many constitutes a Fellow CraR's lodge?
A. Five; two lflasters and three Fellow Crafts.
'
. Where did they usually meet? -
In the middle chamber of king Solomon's temple.
How many constitutes a Master's lodge?
Three Master Masons.
`
_
Where did they usually meet?
'
. In thesanctum sarictorum, or holy of Iwlies, of king Solo-
mon's temple.
'
Q. Have you any emblems on this degree? 4
A. We have several, which are divided into two classes.
Q. What are the first class? _
A. The pot of incense; the bee~hive; the book of constitutions,
guarded by the Tyler's sword; the sword, pointing to a naked
heart; the all-seeing eye; the anchor and ark; the forty-seventh
problem of Euclid; the hour-glass; the scythe; and the three
steps usually delineated on the Master's carpet, which are thus
explained:-The pot of incense is an emblem ofa pure heart,
which is always an acceptable sacrifice to the Deity; and as this
glows with fervent heat,- so should our hearts continually glow
with gratitude to the great and beneficent Author of our existence,
for the manifold blessings and comforts we
enjoy. The bee-hive
is an emblem of industry, and recommends the practice of that
virtue to all created beings, from the highest seraph in heaven to
the lowest re tile ofthe dust. It teaches us, that, as we_came
into the world rational and intelligent beings, so we should ever
...Q,.».¢.»...¢..»¢.....¢,-|.n|nn__.___
LIGHT ON HASONRY. S3
be industrious ones; never sitting down contented, while our fel-
low creatures around us are in want, when it is in our
power to
relieve them, without inconvenience to ourselves. When we take
a survey of nature, we behold man, in his infancy, more
helpless
and indigent than the brute creation; he lies languishing for days,
weeks, months, and years, totally incapable of providing suste-
nance for himself; of guarding against the attacks of the field, or
sheltering himself from the inclemencies of the weather. lt might
have pleased the great Creator of heaven and earth, to have made
man independent of all other beings; but, as
dependence is one of
the strongest bonds of society, mankind were made dependent on
each other for protection and security, as they thereby enjoy bet-
ter opportunities of fulfilling the duties of reciprocal love and
friendship. Thus was man formed for social and active life, the
nobleit part of the work ol? God; and he, who will so demcan
himse f as not to be endeavoring to add to the common stock ot'
knowledge and understanding, may be deemed a drone in the
hive of nature, a
useless member of society, and unworthy of our
protection as Masons. The book of constitutions, guarded by
the Tyler's sword, reminds us that we should be ever watchful and
guarded, in our thoughts, words, and actions, particularly when
before the enemies of Masonry; ever
bearing in remembrance
those truly masonic virtues, silence and circumspeclion. The
sword, pointing to a naked heart, demonstrates that justice will
sooner or later overtake us; and, although our
thoughts, words,
and actions _may be hidden from the eyes of men; yet, that all-
seeing eye, whom the sun, moon, and starsobey, and under whose
watchful care even comets perform their stupendous revolutions,
pervades the inmost recesses of the human heart, and will reward
us according to our merits. The anclwr and ark, are emblems
of a well grounded hope and well spent life. They are emblem-
atical of that divine ark which safely wafts us over this tempestu-
ous sea of troubles, and that anchor which shall safely moor us in
a peaceful harbor, where the wicked cease from troubling, and
the weary shall find rest. The forty-seventh problem of Euclid:
-this was an invention of our ancient friend and brother, the
great Pythagoras, who, in his travels through Asia, Africa, and
Europe, was initiated into several orders of priesthood, and rais-
ed to the sublime degree of a Master Mason. -
This Wise philosopher enriched his mind abundantly in a
gene-
ral knowledge of things, and more
especially in geometry,~or Ma~
sonry; on this subject he drew out many problems and theorems:
and, among the most distin `shed, he erected this, which, in the
joy of his heart, he called ureca, in the Grecian language Slé-'""
84 mens on nusonav.
"
fying, I lawefound it; and upon the discovery of which_he is aid
to have sacrificed a hecatomb. It teaches Masons to be general
lovers of the arts and sciences. The hour-glass is an emblem of
human life. Behold!! how swiftly the sands run, and how rapidly
our lives are drawing to a close. We cannot without astonish-
nav-at behold the little particles which are contained in this ma-
ciine; how they pass away almost imperceptibly, and yet to our
srlrprise, in the short space of an hour they are all exhausted.
Thus wastes man! to day, he puts forth the tender leaves of
hope; to-morrow, blossoms, and bears his blushing honors thick
upon him; the next day comes a frost, which nips the shoot, and
when he thinks his greatness is still ripening, he falls, like autumn
leaves, to enrich our mother earth. '1`he scylhe is an emblem of
time, which cuts the brittle thread o life, and launches us into
etemity. Behold! what havoc the s the of time makes among
the human race: if, by chance, we should escape the numerous
evils incident to childhood and youth, and, with health and vigor,
arrive to the years of manhood, yet withal we must soon be cut
down by the all devouring scythe of time, and be gathered into thc
land where our fathers had gone before us. The three steps, usu-
ally delineated upon the Master's carpet, are emblematical ofthe
three principal stages of human life; viz:-youth, manhood, and
age. In youth, as Entered Apprentices, we
ought industriously
to occupy our minds in the attainment of useful knowledge; in
manhood, as Fellow Crafts, we should apply our
knowledge to the
discharge of our respective duties to God, our
neighbors, and our-
selves; so that, in age, as Master Masons, we may enjoy thehap-
py reflections consequent on a well spent life, and die in the hope
ot' a glorious immortality.
Q. What are the second class of emblems?
'
A. The spade, coflin, death-head, marrow bones, and sprig of'
cassia, which are thus explained:-Thelspada opens the vault to
receive our bodies, where our active limbs will soon moulder to
dust. The cojin, death-head, and marrow bones, are emblemati-
cal of the death and burial of our Grand Master, Hiram Abiti, and
are worthy our serious attention. The aprig ofcassia is emble-
matical of that immortal part of man which never dies; and when
the cold winter of death shall have passed, and the bright sum-
mer's 'morn of the resurrection appears, the Son of Righteousness
shall descend, and send forth his angels to collect our ransomell'
dust; then, if we are found worthy, by his pass-word, we shall en-
ter into the celestial lodge above,
wsire
the Supreme Architect
of the imiverse presides, where we sh see the in the ,beau-
ty of holiness, and with him, enter into an endless etemity.
i
41----nil*-._. ,;._..,._____- ...',_,=_.
LIGHT ON insoNnr. 85
Here ends the three first degrees of Masonry, which constitutv
a Master Mason's lodge. A Master Ma.son's lodge and a
chap-
ter of Royal Arch Masons, are two distinct bodies, wholly_ inde-
pendent of each other. The members of a chapter are
pnvilegped
to visit all Master Masons' lodges when they please; and may be,
and often are, members of both at the same time: and all the
members of a Master Mason's lodge who are Royal Arch Masons,
though not members of any chapter, may visit any chapter. I wish
the reader to understand that neither all Royal Arch Masons nor
Master Masons are members of either lodge or
chapter; there are-
tens of thousands who are not members, and scarcely ever attend.
although privileged to do so.
A very smallproportion of Masons, comparatively speaking.
ever advance any further than the third degree, and consequently
never get the great word which was lost- by Hiram's untimely
death. Solomon, king of Israel, Hiram, king of Tyre, and Hi-
ram Abifl, the widow's son, having sworn that they, norneither ol
them, woull ever give the word, except they three were
present:
(add it is generally believed that there was not another person in
the world, at that time, that had it;) consequently the word wu~
lost, and supposed to be for ever; but the sequel will show it was
found after a lapse of four hundred and seventy years; notwith-
standing, the word .'VIah-hah-bone, which was substituted by SOE--
omon, still continues to be used by Master Masons, and no doubt
will, as
long as
Masonry attracts the attention of men; and "tl:-
word which was lost, is used in the Royal Arch degree. Winn
was the word of the Royal Arch degree, before they found th:
Master's word, which vas lost at the death of Hiram rlbifil aim
was not found for four hundred and seventy years? Were tht-in
any Royal Arch Masons before the Master's word was fbund? l
wish some masonic gentleman would solve these two questions.
The ceremonies, history, and the lecture, in the preceding de-
gree, are so similar, that, perhaps, some one of the three might
have been dispensed with, and the subject well understoodldy
most readers, notwithstanding there is a small difference betweer.
the work and history, and between the history and the lecture; _`
I shall now
proceed with the Mark Master's degree, which"
Past Master's, and the Most Excellent Master's, are lodges ot
Mark Master Masons, Past Master, and Most Excellent Master;
yet, although called lodges, they are called component parts oo
the chapter. Ask a Mark _Master Mason if he belongs to tin-
chapter; hewwill tell you he does, but that he has only been mark-
ed. _
It is not an uncommon thing, by any means, for a chapter:
"
H
'i
lf
the first degree in the chapter. The Mark Master's degree," thi-
86 -
LIGHT ON Masomir.
confer all four of the degrees in one
night, viz: the Mark Mas~
ter, Past Master, Most Excellent Master, and Royal Arch de-
grees.
~
'
~»ooo-~
~
TEST-one AND` wonn.
'The following "Test-Oath and Word" were inventedand adop--
ted by the "Gmnn Loves" ofthe state of New-York, at their
session~in June, 1827, for the purpose of guarding against Book
Masons. They are given in a Master's lodge.-They were ob-
tained from a
gentleman in high standing in society, and among
Masons, but afriend to Anti-M asonry. He was a member of the
"Grand Lodge," and present when they were
adopted.
A person, wishing to be admitted into the lodge, presents him-
self' at the door; the Tyler, (or some brother from within,) de-
mands, or asks, 'Do you wish to visit this lodge?' The candidate
for admission, says, 'lf thought worthy! Tyler. 'By what are
you recommended? ./im. 'By fidelity] Tyler says, 'Prove
that;' at the same time advances and throws out his hand, or arm,
-to .an angle of about forty-five degrees obliquely forward, the li d
-open, and thumb upward. The candidate then advances, and 3;-
oes the back of his left hand, against the palm of the 'I`yler's right
hand-still extended-puts his mouth to the Tyler's car, andi
whispers, L 0 S, and pronounces, LOS.*'
`
-
'r1:sT~oA'rn.
__ 'I, A B, of my own free will and accord, in the presence of
Almighty God, solemnly and sincerely promise and swear, that I
will not communicate the secret test-word, annexed _to this obliga-
tion, to any but a true and lawful Master Mason, and that in the
'body of a lawful lodge of such, in actual session, or at the door oi'
a
lodge for the purpose ot' gaining admission;-under the penalty
of being for ever
disgraced and dishonored as a man, and despis-
ed, degraded, and expelled as a Mason]
`*
This word is an inversion of SOL, the Sun, and is very applicable as a
masonic test; the light of Masonry being fast rctrograding towardsits na-
tive darkness!
fi
1 R §_'l1_.
.l£.:§ 1-fil
4
ii
_
1
i
.
-
5
-~ ~--4 -_.___
r-rv* _
wh
f
Y
A REFVELATION
__ FREE MAsoNRY,
As published to the world by a C onvention of Seceding Masons,.held at Le
_Roy, Genesee county, New-York, on the 4th
:gd
5th of Jul-y, 1828: con;
taining a true and genuine devehopment ofthe ode of initiation, and also
-of the several lectures 'oi' the following degrees; to wit:-in the Chapter,
Mark Master, Past Master, Mont Excellent Master, and Royal Arch.
In the Encarnpment, Knight of the Red' Cross, Knight Templar, Knight ot"
Malta, Knight of the Christian Mark, and Guards of the Concluve, and
Knights ofthe Holy Sepulchre.
In the Ancient Council of the 'l'rinirt ,
denominated the Holy and Thrice Il-
lustrious Order of' the Cross, the illustrious, Most lllustrious, and Thricu-
Illustrious degrees. _
,
'
'f': .'
-no QM
I
V
` i
L
.g
FDURTH, on MARK 'MASTER'S DEGREE.
"Ceremonies used in opening' a lodge of .Mark .Master ./Vfasomz.
-One rap calls the lodge to order; one calls up the lunior and
Senior Deacons; two raps call up the subordinate officers; and
three, all the members ofthe lodge. The Right Worshipful Masé
ter having called the lodge to order, and all being seated, the Right
Worshiptiil \/[aster says to the Junior Warden, 'Brother Junior,
are t _ g
all Mark Master Masons in the southl' Junior Warden
answ , 'They are, Right Worshipt'ul.' R. W. M. 'I thank you,
brother! R. W. M. 'Brother Senior, are they all Mark Master
Masons in westl' Senior Warden, 'They are, Right Wor-
shipful/ R. W. 'They are in the east.' At the same time
gives a
rap with the mallet. which calls up both Deacons. _
R. W.
M. 'Brother Junior, the first care of a. Masonf' "['o see the
lodge tyled, Right Worshipt`ul.' R. W. M. '
ittend to that part
v
of your duty, and inform the Tyler that we are about to a, _
lodge of Mark Master Masons, and direct him to tylra
ly.' Junior Deacon steps to the door and gives Your raps
"
are answered by four without by the Tyler-the »lunior__l)§f§'gh'iiA
then gives one, which is answered by the Tyler
door is then partly opened, andthe Junior Deacon then,dieh'$Qr§
his message, and resumes his station, gives the due-gu¢§\ilf5Y"»'
Mark Master Mason. and says, 'The door is tyled, Right
i
WG?
V
s . _v
V
p
~
T.
_
N' _
,~¢.,
»'\°--»~
" ""`
;,~.&
SS
'
LIGHT ou nusormr.
shipt`ul.' R. W. M. 'By whom? Junior Deacon, 'By a Mark
Master Mason without the door, armed with the roper implements
of his office! R. W. M. 'His duty therel' D. 'To keep ofi
all cowans and eaves-droppers, see that none pass or repass with-
out permission from the R. W. M.' R. W. M. 'Brother Junior,
your place in the lodgel' J. D. 'At the right hand of the Senior
Warden in the west.' R. W M. 'Your business there, b er
Juniorl' J. D. 'To wait on the R. W. M. and Wardens, tas
their proxy in the active duties ofthe lodge, and take care ofthe
<loor.' R. W. M. 'The Senior Deacon's place in the lodgel' S.
9. 'At the right hand ofthe Right Worshipful Master in the east.'
R. W. M. 'I thank you, brother] He then gives two raps with
the mallet, and the subordinate oliicers rise. R. W. M. 'Your
duty there, brother Seniorl' S. D. 'To wait on the R. W. M.
and Wardens, act as their proxy in the active duties _of the lodge,
attend to the preparation and introduction of candidates, and wel-
come and clothe all visiting bretbren.' R. W. M. 'The Secre-
tary's place in the lodge, llrotherJunior'!' J. D. 'At the left hand
of the Right WorshipfuL Master in the east.' R. W. M. 'I thank
you, brother. Your duty there, brother Secretaryl' Secretary,
'The better to observe the R. W. Master's will and pleasure; re-
cord the proceedings ofthe lodge; traiismit the same to the grand
lodge, il' required; receive all monies and money bills from the
hands ofthe brethren, pay.them over to the Treasurer, and take
.his receipt for the same
'
R. W. M. "1 he '1`reasurer's place in
the lodgel' Sec. '
'xt the right hand ofthe R. W. M.' R. W.
M. 'I thank you, brother. Your duty there, brother Treasurer?
Treasurer. 'Duly to observe the R. W. Master's will and plea-
sure; receive all monies and money bills from the hands of the
Secretary; give' a
receipt for the same; keep a
just and tr ac-
count of the same; pay them out by the order of the R. . M.
and consent of the brethren.'* R. W. M. 'The Junior Over-
_
~*
Supposing that, in the United States, there are 500, ered Appren~
rice, 400,000 Master, and 200,000 Royal Arch Maso also, 10,000 Knights;
and that they all paid the usual fees, for the
deg:-og?the amount would he
tl1= enormous sum ol' 11,250,000 dollars; the yearly interest of which, at 7
per ct. is 787,500 dollars; which sum, (allowing 100 dollars to each individ-»
ual,) would support 7,875 persons.
"
.
¢
_
Now, I ask, do Masons, by their charities, support this nrunber of poor in
the United States? Do they support one tenth part of that numberl Sup-
posiug they do; is it necessary to
give 10 or 50 dollars, for the pnvrlege of
.-ontributing 1, 5, or 50 dollars masomcally? Must the prwrle e of being Br
charitable man be bought with gold? How many there are wgb have _ren-
dered themselves incompetent to bestow charities, by theirapqyirgibrudpdi
attendance on, masonic secrets and ceremonies! If all the money
flié degrees of Ma.sonry,was applied to cliuritalilq purposes, thc subject
'
`,
i
'
1
`
'
':.'- PJ; 1--
....._..._...._._~ ..<_.__,_~ ._,- _.=»,g,f».»,;~=1~i. ~
8
LIGHT 0N KASONBY. 89
seer's place in the lodge, brother Treasureri' Treas. 'At the
right hand of the Junior Warden in the south, Right Worshiptiih'
R. W. M. 'I tharik you, brother. Your business there brother
Junior Overseeri' J. Overseer. 'To inspect all materials brought
up for the building of the temple; approve or disapprove of the
same; and, if approved, pass it on to the zienior Overseer for fur-
ther inspectionf R. W. M. '1`he .enior Uverseer's place in
the lodgel' J. Overseer. 'At the right hand ot' the benior VI ar-
den in the west, tt. Worshipful! R. W. M. 'I thank you, bro-
ther. Your business there, brother enior Overseerl' Senior
Overseer. 'To inspect all materials brought up tor the building oi'
the temple; and, if approved, pass it on to the Master .Overseer
at the east 'gate for further inspection? R. \\ . M. "1he' Master
Overseer's place in the lodge, brother enior Overseerl' r enior
Overseer. 'At the right hand ofthe Right W orshipthl Master in
the east.' R. W. M. 'I you, brother. tour business
there, brother Master Overseerl' Master Overseer. "Io assist
in the inspection of all materials brought up tor the building ofthe
temple; and, if
diipproved,
to, call acouncil of my brother Uver¢-
seers.' R. W. L 'the Junior t\rarden's place in the lodge,
brother Master Overseeri' ru. Uverseer. 'In the south, R. W.',-
R. W. M. 'I thank you, brother.¢r tour business there, -brother.
Juniori' . Warden. '.is the sun in the south, at high meridiari,"
is the beauty and glory ot the day; so stands the
.iunitaii-A; 5?
bor to refreshment; superintend them during the
see that none convert the hours of retreshmtnt into
temperance, or
excqs, and call them on again in @Q;f'
that the R. W. M. may have honor, and they pleasure°'ang£,» ; _- 3-3'
thereby! R. W. M. 'The benior V\aruen's place in tl1e_lndge2;*,{
J. W. 'In the west, Right Vtorshiptiih' it. Vt. M.
you, brother. Year duty there, brother i eniorl' ben. j\\&O1j$H-If
'As the sun sets in the west to close the day; so stands the L enf f
in the south, the better to observe the time; -.all the ei," -._ " ;
'
" `: : '_,'
.
~
,
A
-
I
sr
,_
°
.
__ ;:_:f ;,'.-
ior Warden in the west, to assist the night Worshiptiil 1L'astér5i>g`,
opening and closing the lodge; take ca.e of the jewels and
_
,
~
ljf
'
ir--,. i,
would appear diiferently; but, it is principally devoted to the ere¢~tion,o -`f_ j' 1?
sonic
tem'ples,-support
of the grand lodges, and for refres/mam! for At _
crafts; an ,
I think I may add, for their support in 'lnkmapping and f,_|ii=¢iei;£*f~»`
(If I had not been informed, from what I believe to be good autliority,»thi»&
the grand lodge of
'
this state had:
recently, psince the abduction of Morgaiéf
appropriated
5000 dollars to the wantsio the crafts, and had put that sum'
into t e hands
tg
a 'committeef to be disposed of by them as their judgment
should dictate, aving a reference to
the.Hdnappers and murderers of Cap!-"
Morgan, I should not have added
thifast
remark.)
`
,.
.
, ,
_
t
_
2
-
..»¢»,..;1I;3.f.. ...mn __ ,
»»--
`*~"'*'
90 LIGHT ON HASONIHZ
plemsys;
see that none be lost; pay the craft their wages, if any
be- du ,
and ee that nene go away dissatisfied] R. W. M.
'The Master's place in the lodgel' S. W. 'In the east, R. Wor-
shipful! R. W. M. 'His duty therel' S. W. 'As the sun ris.
es in the east, to open and adomthe day; so presides the R. W.
M. in the east, to open and adorn his lodge; set his cralito work,
and govem them with good and wholesome laws, or cause the
same to be done.' R. W. M. 'l thank pu, brother! Gives
three' raps with the mallet, which calls up all the brethren, takes
off' his hat, and says, 'ln like manner, so do I, strictly prohibiting
all profane language, private committees,-,or any other disorderly
conduct, whereby the peace and harmony ofthis lodge may be in-
terrupted, while engaged in its lawtiil pursuits; under no less pen-
alty than the by-laws enjoin, or a majority ofthe brethren present
may see cause to inflict. Brethren, attend to giving the signs!
The R. W. M. (all the brethren imitating him,) extends his left
arm from his body, so as to form an angle of about forty-five de-
grees, and holds his right hand transversely across his left, the
palms 'thereof about an inch apart. This is
filled
the first sign
of a Mason-is the sign of distress inthe first gree, and alludes
tb the position a candidate's hands are placed, when he takes the
obligation of an Entered' Apprdntice Mason; he then draws his
right hand across his throat, the hand open, with his thumb next
his throat, drops it down by his side. This is called the due-
guard of an Entered Apprentice Mason, and alludes to the penal
part ofthe obligation. Next he places thepalm of his open right
hand upon his left breast, and, at the same time, throws up his
leil hand, and so extends his lelt arm as
Q foml a
right angle:
from the shoulder to the elbow it is horizontal; fron; the elbow
the tip ofthe finger it is perpendicular. 'l`his is the sign and
due-guard of a Fellow Craft Mason, and also alludes to the penal
part ofthe obligations, whim# is administered in this degree. Af-
ter' this, the R. W. M. draws his right hand across his bqwels,
with his hand open, and the thumb next his body, and drops it
,down by his side. This is the sign, or
due-guard, of a Master
Mas rn, and, like the others, allude to the penalty of this degree.
He then throws up the grand hailing sign of distress: this is giv-
en' by raising both hands and arms, to the elbow, perpendicularly,
one on each side ofthe head, the elbows forming a square, his
arms then drop by his side; .he then clutches the third and little
fingers of his right, hand, with his thumb extends, at the same
liine, his middle and fogéylln ers, brings up his hand such a
inanner as to have the( side 1§`the middle finger touch i'irn,_of
the right ear, then lets it drop, and, as it falls, brings the oiifiiisrrl
,._...¢»¢¢n.-at ~.:....|.¢|nn.L_ __
'__....||l1in..-_.¢|`__
LIGHT ON IAIONBY.
"
91
side ofthe little linger of the left hand, across the
wrigofthe
right, then lets them fall by his sides. This is the sign, or due~
guard, of a Mark Master Mason, and also alludes to the penal
part of the obligation in this degree. Here it is proper to remark,
that, in the opening of any lodge of Masons, they commence
giv-
ing the signs of an Entered Apprentice, and go through all thc
signs ofthe different degrees, in regular gradation, until they ar-
rive to the one which they are opening, and commence at the sign
ofthe degree in which they are at work, and descend to the last
when closing. After going through all the signs, as above de-
scribed, the R. W.
Mlfulares
the lodge opened, in the follow-
ing manner:-'I now eclare this lodge of Mark Master Masons
duly opened for the despatch of business;' Senior Warden de-
clares it to the Junior Warden, and he to the brethren. The R.
W. M. then repeats a
charge: 'Wherefore, brethren, lay aside a.ll
malice and guile,' Src. Src. (Monitor, page 76.) _
The lodge being opened and ready for business, the R. W. M.
directs the Secretary to read the minutes of the last meeting, which
generally brings tg view the business of the present. lf there arc
any candidates to'be brought forward, that is generally the first
business. A Master Mason, wishing for further light in Mason-
ry, sends a petition to the chapter; nd requests to be advanced to
the honorary degree of Mark Master Mason; il' there is no seri-
ous
objection to the petition, it is entered on the minutes, and a.
committee of several appointed to inquire into his character and.
report to the next regular communication; at that time, if the com-_
mittee report in his favor, and no serious objection is rnadeaggiinst
him otherwise, a
motion is made that the ballot pass; itf carried,
the Deacons pass the ballot boxes: these boxes are the sameqas'
in the preceding degrees. When the balls are received, the _
box
is presented to the Right Worshipful Master, Senior and Junion
Wardens. R. W. M. 'Clear in the west, brother bcntprl' S.
W. 'Clear, R. W.' R. W. M. 'Clear in the south, brother Jun-
iorl' J. W. flear, Right Worshipful] R. W M. says, 'Clear
in the east.' This being the case, the candidate is accepted; but;
if there is one black ball in that *end of the nox which has tho
white tube., and the Senior~y_V'aM'en pronouncing 'not clear,"',all
stop, and inquiry is made, and the ballot passes again; and, if
blacked a third time, the candidate is rejected. lt being other-
wise, the Senior Deacon, who is the candidate's conductor, pass,
es out of the lodge into the adjoining room,-.where the ,candidate
is in waitimgand there the conductorisfurnished 1 Qiiall ob-
long square, six inches long-theizandidate is presented iviill U-
large white marble key stone, weighing, probably, _twenty g0UHdS~
92 Lrcnr ON Misormr.
and is _
ered, by his conductor, to take it by the little end, be-
tween s first and second fingers and thumb of his right hand.-
The door is then opened without ceremony, and they passdirect-
ly to the Junior 0verseer's station at the south gate, which is no-
thing more than the Junior Warden's seat, and the conductor gives
four raps, with his block of dmbcr, on a
pedestal in front ofthe
Junior Overseer's station. J. 0. 'Who comes herel' Con-
ductor. 'Two brother Fellow Crafts, with materials for the tem-
ple.' J. 0 'Have you a
specimen ofyour labort' Uonductor.
'I have.' J. 0. 'Present it.' The conductor then presents the
piece of timber before described; the Junior Overseer receives it,
:md applies a small, trying square to its different angles, and fthey
agreeing with 'the angles of the' square, he says,
'
fhis is good
work, square work, such work as we are authorized to receivei'
Retums the block of' timber, and turning his eye upon the candi-
date, asks, 'Who is this you have with you'!' bonductor 'A bro-
ther Fellow ()raf`t.' J. 0. 'Have you a
specimen ot' your labori'
Can. 'I have '
J. 0. 'Present it.' The candidate then presents
the key stone; the Junior Overseer receives
ig and applies his
square to all its angles. and they not agreeing with the angles of
the square, he says, 'Wliat have you here, brother? this is neither
an
oblong nor a
square, neither has it the regular mark of the craft-
upon it, but ti-om its singular form and beauty I am unwilling to
reject it; pass on to the Senior Overseer at the west gate, tor fur-
ther inspection! they then pass on to the :enior Uverseer's
station at the west gate, which is the Senior Warden's seat, and
gives tour raps, as before, on the pedestal which stands in front
-ofthe :senior Overseer. S. 0. 'Who comes,here?' Lon. 'Two
brother Fellow ljrafts, with materials for the temple.' S. 0.
'Have you a
specimen of' your labori' (Jon 'I have.' S. 0-
'Present it.' The conductor, as before, presents the block of
timber; the Senior Overseer applies his square to it, and finding
it agrees with the angles of his square, says, "l his is good work,
square work, such work as we are authorized to receive: who is
this you have with youl' Con. 'A brother Fellow Lraft
'
b. 0.
'Have you a
specimen of' your laborl' Can. 'I have.' S. 0-
'Present it.' '1'he candidate their presents the key stone, and he
applies it, but not fitting, he says, 'This is neither an
oblong_I1Qr 8-
sqnare, neither has it the regular mark ofthe craft upon it; it is a
curious wrought stone, and on account of its singular form and
beauty, I am unwilling to reject it: pass on to the Master
Uver-
seer at the east gate, for fu er
inspection.' They pass to his
station at the east gate, and e four raps. `Master Overseer.
'Who comes herel' Conductor. 'Two brethren Fellow UraRS,`
with their materials for the temple.' M. Overseer. 'Have you
|
,_
._A-¢.¢~_l-A-.m_»..
_-¢-a..-.-».__ ,,_gh i,_' ,` -A-_
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 93
specimen of your labort' Con. 'I have.' M. Overseer. 'Pre-
sent it.' The conductor presents his billet of wood to him, and
he applies his square to it, and, like the other Overseers, says,
'This is good work, square work, such work as we are authorized
to receive: who is this you have with youl' Lonductor. 'A bro-
ther Fellow Crat`t.' M. Overseer. 'Have you a specimen of your
labor?' Can 'l have.' M. 0. *Present it.' (It ought here to
he remarked, that, when the candidate is presented with the key
stone, and takes it between his thumb and two lingers, it hangs
suspended by his side, and he is requested to carry his work
plumb; and the conductor good care to see that he does
it, by the time he a.rrives at the Master Overseer's station at the
east gate, and when the Master Overseer says, 'present it,' the
candidate is extremely willing to hand over the key stone to him
for inspectioni for, by this time, it becomes very painful to hold
any longer' the stone which he has in <
huge.) 'lhe Master Over-
seer
having received the key stone, he applies his square to the
different angles of it, and being found not to be square, he, like
the other Overseers, says, "l his is neitheran oblong nor' a square,
neither has it the regular mark of the craffupon it.' He then
looks stemly upon the candidate, and demands, 'Is this your
work? (lan 'It is not.' M. Overseer. 'Is this your mark?
(Jani 'It is not.' M. O. 'll here did you get itl' Can- 'I pick-
ed it up in the quarry! M. O. 'Picked it up in the quarry? Y-hls
explains the matter; what! been loitvring away your time iiiii
whole week, and now brought up another man's work to impose
upon the Grand Overseers! this deserves the severest punish~
ment. (Motions the candidate 'to stand aside.) Brothers Jun-
ior and Senior Overseers, here is work brought up for inspection
which demands a council.' 'lhe Junior, Senior, and Master
Overseers then assemble in council. M. Overseer, presenting
the stone, 'Liid a Fellow (raft present this to you for inspection,
brother Juniorl' J. 0verseer.~ 'A Fellow 1, raft came to my of-
fice and presented this stone for inspection; I exanined it, and
found it was neither an
oblong nora square, nor
neither had it the
regular mark of the craft upon it; but, on account of its singular
form and beauty, I was
unwilling to reject it, and ordered it to
the Senior Overseer at the west gate, for further inspection.' M.
Overseer. 'Brother Senior, was this stone presented to you for
inspectionl' Senior Overseer. 'It was; I know of no use for it
in the temple: I tried it with the square, and observed it was nei~
ther an
oblong nor a square, neither had it the regular mark _of thc
craft upon it; but, on account of its singular form and beauty» 1
was unwilling to reject it, and, therefore, directed it to -the MuS¢<=If
94
`
mam' an nnsonnr.
Overseer at the east gate, for further inspection! M. Overseer.
'It was also presented to me for inspection; but I do not know of
any use which it can bein the building.' Sen. Overseer. 'I know
of no use for it.' Jun. Overseer. 'I know of no use for it.' M.
Overseer. 'Brother Senior, what shall we do with itl' S. Over-
seer. 'I-Ieave it over
among the rubbish! The Master and Sen-
ior Overseers then take the stone between them, and, after wav-
ing it backward and forward four times, they heave it over in such
a manner that the one
letting go while the stone is
aniving at the
highest point, it brings the stone in a
quarterly direction over the
other's left shoulder: the Junior Overseer, being stationed in a
suitable position, at this moment receives the stone, and carries
it away into the preparation room. R. W M. 'Brother Senior
Warden, assemble the craft to receive wages' At this command
the brethren all arise, and form a
procession single file; the can-
didate is placed at the head of the procession. and when station-
ed, is told, that 'the last shall be first, and the first, last.' 'I`he
procession being formed, they commence
singing the following
song: 'Mark Masters all appear] &c. (see Monitor, page 82;)
and, at the same time, commence a circular march (against the
course of the sun,) around the room, giving all the signs during
their march, beginning with that of lintercd Apprentice, and end-
ing at .that of llark Master. They are given in the following
manner: the first revolution each brother, when opposite the R.
W. gives the first sign in llascnry. The secon-l revolution,
when opposite the llaster, the second; and so on, until they give
all the signs to that of Mark Vlaster. While the ceremony is go-
ing on in the lodge, the Senior Grand Warden procures a suffi-
cient number of cents and passes into the preparation room, and
opens a lattice _window in the door which communicates to the
lodge room, and vhen the craftsmen arrive to the Mark Master
Mason's sign, each one of them, in their last revolution, puts his
Qhand through the window in the 'door and gives a token, (this is
given by shutting the third and little fingers, extending the fore
and middle fingers, and placing the thumb over them in a suita-
ble manner to receive the penny, or
cent;) and receives a
permy,
or cent, from the S. G. W. Matters are so timed in the march,
that when they come to that part of the song which says, 'cau-
tion them to beware of the right hand,' it comes the tum of the
candidate to put his hand through the aperture of the door, and
receive his penny; but not
being able to give the token, he is de-
tected as an
impostor, and the S. G. W. instead of giving him
his penny, seizes him by the hand and draws his arm full length
through the door, and holds him securely, exclaiming, at the Seine
C
LIGHT ON Miisounr. 95
time, 'an impostorl an impostorl' Others who are in the room
with the S. G. W. cry out, 'Chop MT his hand! chop olfhis handl'
At this moment, the conductor steps to the candidate and inter-
cedes warmly in his behaltl (jon. 'Spare him! spare himl' S.
G. Warden. 'He is an impostor. He has attempted to receive
wages without being able to give the token. 'l he penalty must
he inflicted! Con. 'He is a brother Fellow t ratt, and on con-
dition tliat you will release him, I will be responsible that he shall
be taken before the Right Worshipful Master, where all the cir-
cumstances shall be made known; and, if he condemns him, 1
will see that the penalty is inflicted! S. G. Warden. 'On these
conditions, I' release him.' The candidate is released, and tak-
en before the R. W. Master. (ion. 'This young Fellow t raft
has brought up work for inspection, which was not his own, and
has attempted to receive wages lbr it; he was detected at the
Senior Grand Warden's apartment as an impostor, and I hecame
responsible, on condition of his release, that he should appear
before the R. W. and if, after a fair trial, you should pronounce
him guilty, that I should see the penalty ol`an impostor inflicted
upon him.' R. W. M. 'Brother Junior Overseer, did this man
bring up work to your station for inspectionl' J. Overseer. 'He
did. I inspected it, and observed that it was neithér an oblong
nor a square, n|ither had it the regular mark ot' the craft upon
it; but, on account of its singular form and beauty, I was unwil-
ling to reiect it; therefore, I ordered it passed to the Senior Over-
seer's station at the west gate, torlirrther inspection? R. W.
M. 'Brother Senior Overseer, did this young man bring up work.
to you for inspectionl' S. O. 'He did; and I, for similar rea-
sons olfered by brother Junior Overseer, was unwilling to reject
it, and ordered it passed on to the Master Overseer at the east
gate, for further inspection." R. W. M. 'Brother Master Over»
seer, did this young man bring up work to you for inspection?
'He did. I inspected the work, and observed that it was neither
an
oblong nor a
square, neither had it the regular mark of -the
craft upon it: I then asked him if it was his work. He admitted
that it was not. I asked him where he got it; he said hepick-
edit up in the quarry. I rebuked him severely for his attempt
to impose upon the Grand Overseers, and for loitering away his
time and then bringing up another man's work for inspection. I
then called a council of my brother Overseers, and we, knowing
no use for the work, hove it over
among the rubbish.' R. W. M.
'Senior Grand Warden, did the young man attempt to receive
wages at your apartmentl' S. G. W. 'He did, and I þÿd0i ¬L"°'1
him as an impostor, and was
about to inflict the pem-ky, bv* the
iL-
AA4_.-.L__ ----i-L-1-~'~ """"°""' '
96 uear on misomw.
'conductor becoming responsible, that, il' I would release him, he
f h R W and if found
'would see the impostor taken be ore t e . '. ,
. . _
,
guilty, that the penalty should be indicted. I released him. R.
W. M. 'Young man, it appears that you have been loitering away
your time this whole week, and have now brought up another
man's work for inspection, to impose upon the Grand Overseers,
and what is more, you have attempted to receive wages for labor
which you never performed: conduct like this deserves prompt
punishment. The penalty of an impostor is that of having his
right hand chopped offl This young man appears as
though ho
deserved a better Fate, and as
though he might be serviceable in
the building of the temple. Are you a Fellow Cratti' (Jan. 'I
am
'
R. W. M. 'Can you give us
any proof of itl' Candidate
givesthe' sign of a Fellow Graft. R. W. M. 'He is a Fellow
Craft. Have you ever been taught how to receive wagesl'
Candidate. 'I have uot.' R. W. M. 'This serves, in a measure,
to mitigate his crime. If' you are instructed how to receive wa-
ges, will you do better in future, and never again attempt to im-
pose on the Grand Overseers, and, above all, never attempt to
receive wages for labor which you never performedl' Candi-
date. 'I will.' R. W. M. 'The penalty is remitted '
The can-
didate is then taken into the preparation room, and divested ol'
his outward apparel, and all money and valualies; his breast
bare, and a cable-tow four times round his body: in which con~
rlirion he is conducted to the door, when the conductor gives
four distinct knocks, upon the -hearing of which, the Senior
YVarden says to the R. W. 'While we are
peaceahly at work on
the fourth degree of' Masonry, the door of our
lodge appears to
be alarmed.' R. W. M. *Brother Junior, see the cause of that
alaf'm.' The J. W. then steps to the door and ansvers the alarm
by four knocks, the conductor and himself each giving arxntlivr;
the door is then partly opened, and the Junior Warden then asks,
'Who comes there?' Conductor. 'A worthy brother, who has
been regularly initiated as an Entered Apprentice, served a
pro-
per time as such; passed to the degree ot' Fellow Craft; raised
to the sublime degree of a Master Mason; and now wishes fur-
ther light in Masonry, by being advanced to the more honorable
degree of Mark Master Mason! J. W. 'Is it of his own free
will and accord he makes this requestl' Conductor. 'It is.'
g.
'
! '
4
'
9
W. 'Is he duly and truly prepared? Conductor. Hers. .
WV. 'Has he wrought in the quarry, and exhibited specimens ol
his skill in the preceding degreesi' Conductor. 'He has.' J.
W. 'By what further right, or benefit, does he expect to obtain.
this favor!" Con. 'By the benefit oi' a pass word.' J. Vl.
-..
_"__-1" _ __.
,Q-_"_
-%A__.-... 3 _
_J-...»-_». .
LIGHT ON KASONBY. 97
'Has he a pass wordi' Con. 'Hehas not, but I have it for him.'
J. W. *Give it me.' Conductor whispers in his ear, 'JOPPA.'
J. W. 'The pass word is right. You will let him wait until R.
W. M. is made acquainted with his request, and his answer re-
tumed.' The Junior' 'Warden returns him to the R. W. M.
where the same questions are asked and answers returned, as at
the door. The R. W. M. then says, 'Since he comes endowed
with the necessary qualifications, lethim enter inthe name ofthe
Lord, and take heed on what he enters. (Previous to the can-
didate's entering, one of' the brethren who is best qualified for
the station, is selected and furnished with an
engraving chisel
and mallet, and placed near the door, so that when the candidate
enters, it is on the edge of an
engraving chisel, under the pres-
sure ofthe mallet. As this is the business of no
particular offi-
cer, we have, for convenience, styled him executioner.) Bro-
ther, it becomes my duty to put a mark on you, and such a one,
too, as
you will probably carry to your grave! Places the edge
of the chisel near his left breast, and makes several motions with
the mallet, as though he was about to strike upon the head off the
chisel. Executioner. 'This is 'a painful undertaking; I do, not
feel able to perform it, R W ; (turning to the R. W. M.) this
task is too painful; I feel that I cannot perform it: I wish the R.
W. would selcl some other brother to perform it in my stead!
R. W. M. 'I know the task is unpleasant, and a painful one;
but as you have undertaken to perform it, unless some other bro-
ther will volunteer his service and take your place, you must prof
ceed.' Executioner. 'Brother, (calling the name,) will you vol-
unteer your service, and take my placei' Brother. 'l cannot
consent to do it;' (after several solicitations and refusals.) Ex-
ecutioner. 'R. W. no brother feels willing to volunteer his ser-
vices, and I declare I feel unwilling and unable to perfonn it.'
þÿ_ ¬.
W. M. 'As no brother feels disposed to take your station, it
ecomes your duty to perform it yourselfl' Executioner, (tak-
ing his station,) 'Brethren, support the candidate; (several take
hold ofthe candidatez) brother, (naming some physician, or sur-
geon,) will you assisti' Doctor, (stepping up,) 'Brethren, it
becomes necessary that we have a bowl, or some other vessel,
to receive the blood! A bowl is presented, having the appear-
ance of blood upon it, and is held in a suitable position to receive
the blood; the surgeon places his finger on the left breast of the
candidate, and gives counsel where it would be adviseable to in-
flict the wound. The executioner then places the edge of the
chisel near the spot, and draws back the mallet, and while malt
ing several false motions,
qays, 'Operative Masons make use 01
--
98 Licirr ON Mssonnv.
the engraving chisel and mallet to cut, hew, carve, and indent
their work; but we, as Free and Accepted Masons, make use oi'
them for a more noble and glorious purpose;-we use them to
cut. hew, carve, and indent the mindg' giving, at the instant the
last word is pronounced, a severe blow with the mallet upon the
head of the chisel, without the least injury to the candidate!" The
candidate is then conducted four times round the lodge, and each
time, as he passes the station of the Master, Senior, and Junior
Wardens, they each give one loud rap with their mallet; the
Master. in the mean time, reads the following passages of <
crip»
ture--Psalm cxviii. 22. 'The stone which the builders refused is
become the head stone of the corner.' Matt. xxi. 42.` 'Did ye
never read in the scriptures, the stone which the builders reject-
ed, the same is become the head of the corner?' Luke xx. 17.
'What is this, then, that is written: The stone which the builders.
rejected, the same is become the head ofthe comer?" Actsiv.
ll. 'This is the stone which was set at nought of you builders,
which is become the head ofthe comer.' The reading of them
is so timed. as to be completed just as the candidate arrives at
the Junior Warden's post; here he stops,and the same questions
are asked and answers returned, as at the door; the same
pass-
es at the Senior Warden and Master, who ord s the candidate
to be conducted back to the Senior Warden miie west, by him
to be taught to approach the east, by four upright regular steps,
his feet forming a square, and body erect at the altar; the candi-
date then kneels and receives the obligation, as follows:-
~
"I, A B, of my own free will and accord, in presence of Al-
mighty God, and this Right Worshipful Lodge of Mark Master
Masons. do hereby and hereon, in addition to my former obliga-
tions, most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear, that I
will not give the degree of a Mark Master Mason to any one of
an inferior degree, nor to any other person in the known wnr
except it be to a true and lawful brother, or brethren, of this des
gree; and not unto him nor unto them, whom I shall hear so to
be, but unto him and them only, whom I shall find so to be, after
strict trial and due examination, or lawful information given;
Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that I will support the
constitution of t-he General Grand Royal Arch Chapter of the
* This is supposed to be the most interesting art of the degree; and is
made so, by the pains taken to frighten the candidate. If the Hour, bowl,
chisel, and mallet are bespattered with blood, or something which resembles
it, and the 'executionei-' acts his part well, `the candidate must necessarily
feel very
uneasy
during the
ceremony:-This generally gives 'great satisfie-
tmn tn the brot erhood, und is often the subject of their secret discourse for
weelis afterwards.
'
ann-nm.._......a_ -..;....m..._ ____ ,_,,g,,,,,,,
i
...nql
\-
LIGHT ON' HASONBIU 99
United States of America, also the Grand Royal Arch Chapter
of this State, under which this lodge is held, and conform to all
the by-laws, rules, and regulations of this or any other lodge of
Mark Master Masons, of which Imay at any time hereafter be-
come a member: Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that I
will obey all regular signs and summons given, handed, sent, or
thrown to me from the hand of a brother Mark Master Mason,
or from the body of a
just and legally constituted lodge of sllh,
provided it be within the length of my cable tow: Furthermore,
do I promise and swear, that I will not wrong this lodge, or o.
brother of this degree, to the value of his wages, (or one penny)
myselt§ knowingly, nor suffer it to be done by others if in my
power to prevent itz* Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that
I will not sell, swap. barter, or exchange my mark, which I shall
hereatter choose, nor send it a second time to
pledge until it is
lawfully redeemed from the first: Furthermore, do l promi e and
swear, that I will receiyea brot.her's mark when offered to me
requesting a favor, and .grant him his request if in my power;
and if it is not in my power to grant his request, I will return him
his mark with the value thereof; which is half a shekel of silver,
or quarter of a dollar. To all of which I do most solemnly
and sincerely promise and swear, with a fixed and steady pur-
pose of mind in me, to keep and perform the same, binding my-
self under no less penalty, than to have my right ear stnote od;
that I may Rrrover be unable to hear the word, and mv rl,¢il1f,l'iand
chopped od; as the penalty as an
impostor, if I should ever pmvé
wilfully guilty of violati _
any part of this my solemn oath, or
obligation, of a Mark lighter Mason. So help me God; and
make me steadfast to keep and perform the same." "Detach
your hand and kiss the book." l A
3 The Master then produces the same key stone, concerning
'which, so much has already been said; and says to the candidate;
'we read in a
passage of cripture,' Rev. ii. 17. 'to him that
_overcometh will Igive to eat of the hidden manna, and ,will give
him a white stone, and in the stone anew name written, which
no man knoweth save him that receiveth it.' 'He then presents
the stone to the candidate and says, 'I now
present you with a
white stone, on which is written a new name; we
give the words
that form this circle; (the letters are so
engraved on the stone as
to form a circles) the initials are `H. '1`. W. S. S. T. K. S.
'
Hi..
ram
Tyran, Widow's Son, sent to King Solomon. These placed
in this form were the mark of our Grand Master, Hiraml Abidl
At present they are used as the general mark of this degree. 81111
in the centre of them each brother places his own individual
_,,.
100 near ON 1vrAsoNar.
mark) The stone is then removed and the candidate still re-
mains on his knees at the altar, the Master then' takes the jewel
containing his mark from his neck and presents it to the candid-
ate-requests ofhim some favor, such as the loan of five, ten, or
twenty dollar . The candidate having left all his money and
valuables in the preparation room, answers, 'I cannot do it; I
have no
money about me:' and offers to retum the mark to the
Mister, but he refuses to take it, and says to the candidate, 'have
you not just swom that you will receive a brother Mark Master's
mark when offered to you, requesting a
favor, and if not in your
power to, grant the favor, you would retum him his mark_with the
value of it? Is this the way you mind your obligations? Here I
jpresented my mark with a
request for a small favor; you say you
-cannot grant it, and offer to retumsmy mark alone? Where is the
-quarter of a dollar you have sworn to retum with iti' The can~
didate, much embarrassed, answers, 'I cannot do even that. I
have no
money about me. It was all taken from me in the prep-
aration room.' The Master asks, 'are you quite sure you have
monel' Candidate answers, 'I am; it is all in the other room.'
Master, 'you have not examined; perhaps some friend has, in
pity to your destitute situation, supplied you with that amount un-
known to yourself? feel in all your pockets, and if you find, after
a'thorough search, that you have really none, we shall have less
treason to think that you meant wilfully'to violate your obligation!
'file candidate examines his pockets and finds a
quarter ofa. dol-
llar, which some brother had slily placed there; this adds not a
Rittle to his embarrassment; he protests he had no intention of
concealing it; really supposed he had none about him, and hands
it to the Master, with his mark. The Master receives it and says
to the candidate, 'Brother, let- this scene be a
striking lesson to
you; should you ever hereafter have armark presented you by
si worthy brother, asking a favor; before you 'deny him, make _dil-
igent search, and be quite sure of your inability to serve him;
perhaps you will then find, as in the present instance, that some
unknown person has befriended you, and you are really in a bet-
'ter situation than you think yourself' The candidate then rises
and is made acquainted with the grips, words, and signs of this
degree. 'I`he pass-grip of this degree is made by extending the
right arms and clasping the fingers of the right hands, as one
would naturally do to assist another up a
steep ascent; the pass-
word is 'Joppa;' the real grip is made by locking the little fin-
gers.of the right hand, bringing the knuckles together, placing
the ends of the thumbs against each other; the word is, "Mark
well? The signs have been described. After the grips, words,
4- <__,_..;-¢I»n1¢_¢s.n,,.;;.m.¢1_». ___-»-||inf¢¥. ..n.L,
uoxrr on msosnv. 101
and signs are
given and explained,(see lectures,) the Master says,
'Brother, l now present you with the tools of a Mark Master,
(here he points them out in the carpet. or in the chart,) which are
the chisel and mallet; they are thus explained; the chisel morally
demonstrates the advantages of discipline and education; the
mind, like the diamond in its original state, is rude and unpolish-
ed, but as the effect of the chisel on the external coat, soori.pre-
sents to view the latent beauties of the diamond, so education
discovers the latent beauties of the mind. and draws them forth
to range the large field of matter and spare. to display the sum.
mit,ol` human knowledge, our
duty to God and man. "l`he mal-
let morally teaches to correct irregularities, and to reduce man to
a proper level; so that by quiet deportment, he may, in the school
of discipline, learn to be content. What the mallet is to the
workmen, enlightened reason is to the passions; it curbs ambition,
it depresses envy, it moderates anger, and it encourages good
dispositions, whence arises' among good masons that comely order,
'Which nothing earthly gives, or can
destroiy,
4 <
The soul's calm sunshine, and the heart elt joy.'
The W. Master then delivers the following charge to the cane
didate, which completes the ceremony of advancement to this
degree. (For the charge, see Monitor.) A
_
CEREMONY OF CLOSING A LODGE OF MARK MASONS.
'
The Worshipful Minster says, 'Brother Junior Warden, as-
semble the brethren, and form a procession for the purpose of
closing the lodge.' The brethren then assemble and commence
a circular march, singing the song. 'Mark Masters all appear,'
(see Webb's Monitor, page 82,) with the same
ceremony as des-
cribed in another part of this degree. Alter the song is complet-
ed, the brethren compare the wages they have received. a- d find-
ing that all have received alike, (one penny or cent,} the begin
to murmur among themselves, some
pretending to think the]
ought to have more, as
they have done all thc lahdr-¢they finally
throw down iheir wages upon the altar,'declari1lg if they CillX)0¢
be dealt justly with, they will havehona. The Wors~
Master calls to order, and demands the cause of the confusion.
Some brother answers,_ 'Worshipful, we are not satistiedwlth tho
manner ,of paying the workmen; for we tind those who have
done nothing, and even the candidate just received, is paid
gust
as much as we, who have borne the heat and burden of the `_ay,
Master says, 'it is perfectly
right.;
Brother- 'It oanmt N "Sm
2
ng _ _..._
' r
"
--...__ _._
.
"'
1
102 ucur on Misomnr.
_...it ig very unreasonable '
Master. 'Hear what the law says on
this subject! He then reads the following parable, Mat. xx. 1,
16: 'For the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that isa
householder, which went out early in the morning to hire labor-
ers into his vineyard. And when he had agreed with the labor-
ers for a penny a
day, he sent them into his vineyard. And he
went out about the third hour, and saw others standing idle in the
market-place, and said unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard;
and whatsoever is right, I will give you. And they went their
way. Again he went out about the sixth and ninth hour, and did
likewise. And about the eleventh hour he went out, and found
others standing idle, and saith unto them, Why stand ye here all
the day idle? they say unto him; Because no man hath hired us.
He saith unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard; and whatso-
ever is right, that shall ye receive. So when even was come,
the lord of the vineyard said unto his steward, call the laborers,
and give them their. hire, beginning from the last unto the first.
And when they came that were hired about the eleventh hour,
they received every man a
penny. But when the first came,
they supposed that they should have received more: and they
likewise received every man a
penny, And when they had re-
ceived it, 'they murmured against the good man of the house,
saying, These last have wrought but one hour, and thou hast
made them equal unto us, which have borne the burden and heat
of the day. But he answered one of them; and said, Friend, I
do thee no wrong: didst thou not agreegwith me for a penny!
Take that thine is,_and go thy way: Iwill give unto this last
even as unto thee. Is it not lawfulffi' me to do what I will with
pine own? Is thine eye evil because I am good? So the last
shall be first, and the first last; for many be called, but few chos~
en.' (We leave it for the public to judge, with what consistency
king Solomonjn his day, could introftuceip passage of the New
Testament, written long after, to settle a dispute arising among
his workmen. They will observe that many passages of the
New Testament are introduced in this and the following degrees,
,pretended to have been organized at the _building of the temple.
We .make no
comments.) The brethren then declare them-
selves satisfied; the signs are given from Mark Master ,down to
ti?
Entered Apprenticemnd the Master declares the lodge clos~
0 .
~*"'°'°""""'°'~~'-~» -
_...insane-¢.u_...._......n..i. -
_ _
LIGHT ON Mssozmr. _
103
Lectures on the 4th, or .Mark Mastei"s degree.
SECTION FIRST. .
Q. Are.you a Mark Master Mason! Ji. I am; try incl
Q. By what will you be tried? _/1. By the engraving chisel and
mallet. Q. Why by the engraving chisel and mallet? ./9. Be-
cause
they are_the proper masonic implements of this degree.
Q. On what was the degree founded? ./9. On a certain key
stone which belonged to the principal arch of king Solomon's
temple. Q. Who formed this key stone? JI. Our worthy
Grand Master, Hiram Abitll Q. What were the preparatory
steps relative to your advancement to this degreel .H I was
caused to represent one of the Fellow Craft, at the building ot'
king Solomon's temple, whose custom it was, on the eve of ev-
ery Sixth day, to carry up their work for inspection, Q. Why
was you caused to represent these Fellow Crafts? ./1. Because,
our
worthy Grand Master, Hiram Abifl, had completed this key
stone, agreeable to the original plan, and before he gave orders
to have it carried up to the temple, was slain by three ruflians, as
already represented in the preceding degrees; and it so happen-
ed that on the eve of a certain sixth day, as the craft were
carry-
ing up work for inspection, a
young Fellow Craft discovered this
stone in the quarry, and from its singular form and beauty,_supf
posed it belonged tosome part ot' the temple, carried it up for
inspection. Q Who inspected it? ./1. The Grand Overseers,
placed at the east, west, and south gates. Q. How did they inf
spect it? .H. On its being presented to the Junior Overseerpt
the south gate, he observed that it was neither an
oblong or a
square, neither had it the regular mark of a craft uponit; but;
from its singular form and beauty was
unwilling to reject it, there-
fore ordered it to he passed to the Senior Overseer at the west
"gate, for tiirther inspection; who, for similar reasons, su6'ered it
to pass to the Master Overseer at the east gate, who _held con;
sultation with his brother Overseers, and they observed
þÿ~as¬;p§
fore, that it was neither an
oblong or square, neither hailfitf he
regular mark of the craft upon it; and neither of them Abbipg
Mark Master Masons, supposed it ot' no use in the buildi =}irid'
hove it over among the rubbish. Q. How many Fellowqaiatts
were there engaged at the building of the temple? ./2. ,Eighty
thousand.
"
Q. Were not the Master Overseers liable to he fitn-
posed upon by receiving bad work from the hands ot' such a
vast
number of workmen? J). They were not. Q. How was this
-imposition prevented? ./2. By the wisdom ot' king _Solorr°"=
,_.¢-._ __ .
"~*
104 LIGHT on Mxsonmzf
who wisely ordered, that the craftsmen who worked, should
choose him a
particular mark and place it -upon all his work; by
which it was known and distinguished when carried up to the
building, and it' approved, to receive wages. Q. What was the
wages of a Fellow Craft? .H. A penny a day. Q. Who paid
the craftsmen? ./2. The Senior Grand Warden. Q. Was not
the Senior Grand Warden liable to be imposed upon by impos-
tors, in paying off sdch a vast number of workmen? ./Q. He
was not. Q. How was this imposition prevented? .H. By the
wisdom of king Solomon, who also ordered that every craftsman
applying to receive wages, should present his right hand through
a lattice window of' the door of the Junior Grand Warden's
apartment, with a
copy of his mark in the" palm thereof; at the
same time giving atoken. Q. What was- that token? (This
was betbre explained.) Q. What did it allude to? ./9. To the
manner
oflreceiving wages; it was also to di tinguish a true
eraf¢Sman,lff<».n an impostor. Q. What is the penalty on an im-
pastor? ./Q. To have his right hand chopp d ofll
7
SECTION SECOND.
__Q. Where was
you prepared to be made a Mark Master Ma-
son? ./1. In the room adjoining the body of a
just and lawfully
constituted lodge of such, duly assembled in a
room, or
place,
representing a work shop that was erected near the ruins ot' king
Solomon's temple. Q. How was you prepared? ./i. By being
divested ol' my outward apparel and all money; my breast bare,
with a cable tow four times about my body; in which situation I
was conducted to the door ot' a
lodge, where l gave four distinct
knocks. Q What do these four distinct knocks allude to? ./2.
To the fourth degree of Masonry; it being that on which I was
about to enter. Q. What was said to you from without? -0.
Who comes there? Q. Your answer? ./Q. A _worthy brother,_
who hasbeen regularly initiated as an Entered Apprentice. serv-
ed a
proper time as such; passed to the Fellow Craft; raised to
the sublime degree of a Master Mason; and now wishes further
light in Masonry, by being advanced t-» the more honorable de-
gree of a Mark Master Mason. Q. What further was said to
you from within? oi l was asked if it was of my own free will
and accord, I made this request; it I was
duly and truly pre-
pared; worthy and well qualified; had wrought in the quarries,
and exhibited specimens of my skill and
proficiency in the pre-
ceding degrees; all of' which, being answered inithe .!=;$ri§at'ive,
1 was asked by what lhrther right, or benefit, I
þÿexp§'i;§"j"§d;§ain
this favor. Q. Your answer? _/9. By the bendiikg
, ~. -
L.'=.*f.~r;~,~
.
'
._4.' ; »'_.,_ in-"f_ _
. .
/ .
1
;m.=»lr>v _
fr.
'
e ~
._.'-r,
'
,_..¢4A¢._, .1
L_L_L=
LIGHT ON MABONBY. 105
word. Q. What was that pass word? A. Joppa. Q. What
did it allude to? -.H. The city of Joppa, the place where the
materials were landed, for building king Solomon's temple, after
being prepared in the forost of Lebanon, and carried there on
floats, (by sea.) (Masonic tradition informs us, that the banks
of this place are so
perpendicular, that it was impossible to as-
cend them without assistance from above, which was effected by
brethren stationed there, with this strong grip; [this has been ex-
plained,] which, together with the word Joppa, has since been
adopted as a proper pass to be given before entering any well
regulated lodge of Mark Master Masons.) Q. What further
was said to you from within? ./1. I was bid to wait till the Right
Worshipful Master in the east, was made acquainted with my
request, and his answer retumed. Q. When his answer was re-
turned, what followed? ./1. I was caused to enter the lodge.
Q. On what did you enter? ./1. On the edge of the engraving
chisel, under the pres ure of the mallet, which was to' demon-
strate the moral precepts of this degree, and make a deep and
lasting impression on
my mind and conscience. Q. How was
you then disposed of? .H. l was conducted four times regularly
round the lodge, and halted at the Junior Warden's in the south,
where the same questions were asked, and answers retumed as
at the door. Q. How did the Junior Warden dispose of you?
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Senior Warden in the
west, where the same questions were asked and the same-an-'
swers returned, as before. Q. How did the Senior Warden _dis-
pose of you? JI. He ordered me to be conducted to the Right
Worshipful Master in the east, where the same questions were
asked and answers retumed, as before; who likewise demanded
of me, from whence I came, and whither l was
travelling. Q.
Your answer! A. From the west, and travelling to the east.
Q. Why do you leave the west, and travel to the east? './1. In
search of light. Q. How did the Right Worshipful Mastendis-
pose of you? .H. He ordered me to be conducted back _to the
west, from whence I came, and put in the care of the -Senior
Warden, who taught me how to approach the east, the 'place ot'
light; by advancing upon four upright regular steps, to the fourth
step, my feet forming a square, and niy body erect at the altaré
before the Right Worshipful Master. Q. What did the Righi
Worshipful Master do with you? .H. He made a Mark Master
Mason of me. Q. How? Ji. In due form. Q. What was
that due form? A. Both knees bent, they forming a square, boil!
my hands on holy bible, square, and compass, my body being
erect; in whi posture I took upon -me the S0l0m' °°»*l'»'°' °bl"
'
I
_
_
,
.
'
_
'
t
_s___|'q
_
_.-»-
-
106 uour ON Masormr.
gation of a Mack Master Mason. Q. Have you that oath, or
obligation? ./1. I have. Q. Will you give it me? .H. I will,
with your assistance. (Here, as in the preceding degree, you
repeat, after the Right Worshipful Master, I, A B. Src. See
obligation, age 98.) Q. After your oath, or obligation, what
follows? Information was brought that the temple was al-
most completed, but the craft was all in confusion for want of a.
certain key stone, which none of them had been instrumentalto
make. Q. What followed? .£l. King Solomon believing in
contidence, that our worthy Grand Master, Hiram AbitI§ had
completed this key stone agreeable to the original plan, ordered
inquiry to be made among the Master Overseers, if a tone bear~
ing a
particular mark had been presented to them for inspection;
and on inquiry being made, it was found that there had. Q.
What followed? A. King Solomon ordered search to be made
for the stone, when it was found. and afterwards applied to its in-
tended use _
Q. What color was the stone? .H. White.
Q. What did it allude to? ./1. To a
passage in scripture, where
it says; 'To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden
manna, and I wiil give him a white stone, and in the stone anew
name written, which no man knoweth saving him' that receiveth.'
Q What was that new name? A. 'I`he letters onthe stone and the
initials of the vords for which they stand, viz-H._ T W. S. S.
T. K. S. Q. Of what use is this new name to you in Masonry?
Mi. It was the original mark of our
wnnhy Grand Master. Hiram
Abiilf and is the general mark of this degree, and the letters
form the circle, in the centre of which, every brother of this de-
gree places' his particular mark, to vhich his obligation alludes.
Q. What followed? ./1. I was more fully instructed with the se-
crets ,of this degree. Q. Of what do they consist? ~l. Of signs
and þÿt0k ¬nS-Q- Have you a sign? ./Q. l have. Q. .What is it
called? ./1. Heave over. Q. What does it allude to? Ji. To
the manner of heaving over work that the Overseers said was un-
fit for the temple; also, the manner the key stone was hove over.
Q, Have you any other sign? 3. I have, (at the same time
giving it.) Q. What is that? .'?. The iluc-guurcl of a Mark
Master Mason. Q What does it allude to? ..'1. `l`o thc penal~
ty of my obligation; which is, that my right ear should he smotc
oil; that I might forever be unable to hearthc word, and my right
hand be chopped oil; us the penalty of an impostor, if I should
ever prove wilfully guilty of revealing any part ol' my obligation.
Q. Have you any further sign? ..H. I have. Q. What is' that?
_/1.-The grand sign, or
sign ol' distress. Q. What doesit' allude
rn? ./I. To the manner' the Follow (Traits carry their work up
" .
_
...h.,.,..'..».G0ogle,. 'g
Liam' ON 'M.soNnY. 107
to the temple for inspection; also the manner I was taught to
earry my work, on
my advancement to this degree. Q. Have
you any other sign? J1. I have not; but I have a
token, (gives
it to him.) Q. What is this? ./I, The pass-grip of a Mark
Master Mason. Q. What is the name of it. JI. 'Joppa.' Q.
What does it allude to? ./2. The city of Joppa. Q. Have you
any other token? Jil. Ihave. Q. What is this? .H. The real,
grip of a Mark Master Mason. Q. What is the name ofit?
.H. .Mark well. Q. What does it allude to? Jl. To a
passage
of scripture, where it says, 'Then he brought me back the way
of the gate of the outward sanctuary, which looketh toward thc
east, and it was shut; and the Lord said unto me, son of man,
mark well, and behold with thine eyes, and hear with thine ears,
all that I say uu'o thee concerning all the ordinances of the house
of the Lord, and the laws thereof, and mark well the entering in
nf the house,'with every going forth of the sanctuary! Q. Who
ibunded this degree? ./1. Our three ancient Grand Masters.;vi:k
-Solomon, king of Israel, Hiram, king of Tyre, and Hiram
Abifll Q. lVhy was it founded? ./l. Not only as an
honorary
reward, to be conferred on all who have proved themselves mer-
itorious in the preceding degrees; but to renderit impossible for
a brother' to suffer for the immediate necessities of life, when the
price of his mark will procure them. Q. A brother, pledging his
mark, and asking a favor, who does he represent? ./9. Our wor»
thy Grand Master, Hiram Ahill, who was a poor man; but on
account of his great skill and mysterious conduct at the building
of king Solomon's -temple, was most eminently distirrguiéltedf-
Q._ A brother receiving a pledge, and granting a
favor, néliiirri
does he represent? .H. King Solomon, who was a rich
renowned for his benevolence. »
_
gg
'
.: ,j
.': L. 1, q'
_
~, 4. "'-"Nl-'
.
-£00091 _'yi
THE_ PAST MASTER7S
This degree is very simple, although Monitor writers sayinpizlf
'about it. It is necessary that a Master Mason should take this
degree, before he can, constitutionally, preside over a
lodge of
Master Masons, as Master of it; and when a Master Mason is
elected Master of a
lodge, who has not previously receivedtho
Past Master's` degree, it is then conferred upon him, often with-
out any other ceremonies than that of administering the_obliga~
tion.
'
_
'~
_
.
'
_
' ' '
that the
This-lodge IS
opened and closed, rn the same manner
..
"
'I . ¢ ' ~
»»...|-lu. _
.
_
=,,...-__4...__.
108 LIGHT ON nusounv.
lodges of the first three degrees are; the candidate petitions, and
is ballotted for in the same manner, but he is received into the
lodge in a
very different manner. He is conducted into the lodge
without any previous preparation, when the presiding oiiicer ris-
es and says, 'brethren, it is inconvenient for me to serve you any
longer, as Master of this lodge. I wish you would select some
other brother for that purpose.'» The candidate is nominated, the
usual forms of ballotting for otlicers are then dispensed with, and
a vote of the lodge is taken, by yeas' and nays. The candidate
is
`
elected, and generally refuses to serve, but he. is, eventually,
prevailed on to accept; whereupon, the presiding oliicer ad-
dresses the.Master elect in the words following, viz: 'Brother,
previous to your investiture, it is necessary thatiyou assent to
those ancient charges and regulations, which point out the duty
of a Master of alodge.
~
1. You agree to bc a good man, and true, and strictly to obey
the moral law.
2. You agree to he a
peaceable subject, and cheerfully to con-
form to the laws of the country in whi'~h you reside.
3. You promise not to be concerned in any plots or
conspira-
cies against government; but patiently to submit tp the decisions
of the supreme legislature.
4. You agree to pay a
proper respect to the civil magistrate,
to work diligently, live creditably, and act honorably by all men.
5. You agree to hold in veneration the original rules and pat-
rons of` Masonry, and their regular successors, supreme and sub~
ordinate, according to their stations, and to submit to the awards
and resolutions of your brethren, when convened, in every case
consistent with the constitution of the order.
'
6. You agree to avoid private piques and quarrels, and to guard
against intemperance and excess. _
7. You agree to be cautious in carriage and behavior, cautious
to your brethren, and faithful to your lodge.
8. You promise to respect genuine bretl'n°en, and discounte-
nance impostors, and all dissenters from the original plan of Ma-
sonr .
'
.
9?You agree to promote the general good of society, to cul-
tivate the social virtues, and to propagate the knowledge of the
arts. ' ~
10. You promise to pay homage to the Grand Master, for the
_time being, and to his otficer when duly installed; strictly to con-
form to every edict of the Grand Lodge or
general assembly of
Masons, that is not subversive of the' principles and ground worlg
,of Masonry. '_ 1
~
t
_
¢»-nl~-- ----
_
Lioar ON nssonnr. 109
11. You admit that it is not in the power of any man, or
body
of men, to make innovations in the body of Masonry.
12. You promise a
regular attendance on the committees and
communications of the Grand Lodge, on
receiving proper notice,
and to pay attention to all the duties of Masonry on convenient
occasions.
`
13. You admit that no new lodge, can be formed without per-
mission of the Grand Lodge, and that no countenance be given
to any irregular lodge, or to any person clandestinely initiated
therein, being contrary to the ancient charges of the order.
14. You admit that no person can be regularly made a Mason
in, or admitted a member of, any regular lodge, without previous
notice, and due inquiry into his character.
15. You agree that no visitors shall be received in your lodge
without due examination, and producing proper vouchers of their
having been initiated into a
regular lodge.'
The presiding officer then asks the Master elect (candidate)
the following question; which he must answer in the affirmative.
Q. 'Do you submit to ,these charges and promise to support
these regulations, as Masters have done, in all ages, before you?
./Q. 'I do.' The presiding otlicer then addresses him. 'Brother
A B, in consequence of your cheerful conformity to theycharges
and regulations of the order, you are now to be installed Mas-
ter of this degree; in full confidence of your care, skill and ca-
pacity, to govern the same. But previous to your investiture, it
is necessary you should take upon yourself' the solemn oath, or
obligation, appertaining to' this degree; if you are
willing to take
lt upon you, you will please to kneel before the altar, when youf
shall
receive the same.' (Here lodges differ very materially,~
but this is the most prevalent mode of proceeding.) The can~
didate then kneels on both knees, lays b0¥ll hands on the Holy
Bible, square, and compass, and takes the following oath, or ob-
ligation:-'I, A B, of my own free will and accord, in presence
of Almighty God, and this Worshipful lodge _of Past Master
Masons, do hereby and hereon, most solemnly and sincerely
promise and swear, in addition to my former obligations, that I
will not give the degree of Past Master Mason, or
any of the se-
crets pertaining thereto, to any one of an inferior degree, nor to
any person in the known world; except it be to a true and lawful
brother, or brethren, ,Past Master Masons, or within the body of
a just and lawfully constituted lodge of such; and not unto 'hitrx'
or unto them whom I shall hear so to be, but unto him and them
only, whom I shall find so tube, after strict trial and examination,
or lawful information.
Furthiimore,
do l promise. and swean
'_
_
_
J.....
-
-..,_-».... . _.L -
-
11C LIGHT ON MASONRY.
thatl will obey all regular signs and summons, sent, thrown,
handed, or given, from the hand of a brother of this degree, or
hom the body of a just and lawliilly constituted lodge of Past
Masters, provided it be within the length ofmy cable-tow. Further-
more, dol promise and swear, thatl will support the constitution
of the General Grand Royal Arch Chapter of the United States of
America, also, that of the Grand Chapter of the State of-_-
under which this lodge is held, and conform to all the by-laws,
rules, and regulations of this, or any other lodge, of which I may
at any time hereafter become a member, so far as in my power.
Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that Iwill not assist, or be
present at the conferring of this degree upon any person, who
has not, to the best of my knowledge and berie regularly receiv-
ed the degrees of Entf-red Apprentice, Ifellow Urati, Mister
Mason, and Mark Master, or been elected Master of a regular
lodge of Master Masons. Furthermore, do I promise and swear,
that I will aid and assist all poor and indigent Past Master Ma-
sons, their widows and orphans, wherever dispersed round the
globe, they applying to me as such and I finding them worthy,
so far as in my power, without material injury to myself or fillli-
ly. Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that the secrets of a
brother of this degree, delivered to me in charge as such, shall
remain as secure and inviolable in my breast, as they were in his
own, before communicated to me; murder and treason excepted,
and those left to my own election. Furthermore, do I promise
and swear, thatl will not wrong this lodge, nor. a brother of this
degree, to the value of one cent, knowinglymyself, nor suffer it
to be done by others, if in my power to prevent it. Furthermore,
do I promise and swear, that I will not govern this lodge, nor
any other over which I may be called to preside, in a haughty,
arbitrary, or impious manner; but will at all times, use my utmost
endeavors to
preserve peace and harmony among the brethren.
Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that l will never open a
lodge of Master Masons, unless there be present three regular
Master Mason , besides the Tyler, nor close the same, without
giving a lecture, or some section, or part of a lecture, for the in-
struction of the lodge. Furthermore, thatl will not, knowingly,
set in any lodge where any one presides, who has not received
the degree of Past Master. (This last point is, in many lodges,
entirely omitted. :In some, the two last.) All which, I do most
solemnly and sincerely promise and swear, with a fixed and
steady purpose of mind, to keep and perform the same; binding
myself under no less penalty, than to have my tongue split from
tip to root; that I might for ever thereafter, be unable to pro-
'
°~'--H nn-»n|.¢_....'_
,_
LIGHT ON MASUNRY. 111
nounce the word, if ever I should prove wilfully guilty of viola-
ting any part of this, my solemn oath, or
obligation, of a' Past
Master Mason. So help me God, and make me steadfast to
keep and perform the same.'
The obligation being administered, the candidate rises,* and
the Master proceeds to give the sign, word, and grip of this.de-
gree, as follows. The sign (sometimes called the
due-guard,)
is given by laying the edge of the thumb of the right hand in a
vertical position, on the centre of the mouth, high enough to touch
the upper lip. The word is given by taking each other by the
Master's grip, and pulling the insides of their feet together, when
the Master whispers the word, Giblemfl' in the car of the candi-
date., Then they clap their left hand on each other's right ami,
between the wrist and elbow, disengaging, (at the same moment,)
their right hand from the Master's grip; they each seize the left
ann of the other with their right hands, between the wrist and el-
bow, and, (almost at the same instant.) yielding their left hand
hold on each other's right arm, and moving their left hands with
a brisk motion, they clasp each other's right arm with their left
hands above the elbow, pressing their finger nails hard against the
arms: as
they shift their hands from place to place. the Master
says, (in union with these movements,) 'From grips to spans, and
from spans to grips, a twofold cord is strong, but a threefold cord
is not easily broken.' The Master then conducts the candidate
to the chair, and, as he ascends the steps, the Master says, 'Bro-
ther, I now have the pleasure of conducting you into the oriental
chair of king Solomon;' places a
large cocked hat on his head,
and comes down to the front of the newly installed Master, and
addresses him as follows:--' Worshipful brother, I now
present
you with the furniture and various implements of our
profession;
they are emblematical of our conduct in life, and will now be
enumeated and explained as
presented/
'
[`he Holy Writings, that great light in Masonry, will guide
you to all truth; it will direct your path to the temple of happi-
ness, and point out to you the whole duty of man. The -Square
teaches to regulate our actions by rule and line, and to harmon-
ize our conduct by the principles of morality and virtue. Thc
Compass teaches to limit our desires in every station; thus rising
* In some lodges, the
Master taltes the
_candidate by the Master's grip,
and says, 'Brother, you will please nse,' assisting him. »
1 There is much diversity of
opinion, among Masons, respecting this word:
some insist that Giblem is the nght word; others, that Gibelum is the righl
gggzftlie latter word was rejected because it was used by 'Jachin and
_#-
...s...........__,,,,,....._ ,
~ ~-
112 LIGHT on ivuisomzv.
to eminence bymerit, we
may live respected, and die regretted. The
Rule directs, that'we should punctually observe our
duty; press
forward in the path of virtue, and, neither inclining to the right or
to the left, in all our actions have eternity in view. The Line
teaches the criterion of moral rectitude; to avoid dissimulation in
conversation and action, and to direct our
steps to the path that
leads to immortality. The book of constitutions you are to search
at all times; cause it to be read in your lodge, that none
may pre-
tend ignorance ofthe excellent precepts it enjoins. Lastly, you
receive in charge the by-law of your lodge which you are to see
carefully and punctually executed.
'I will also present you with the mallet: it is an emblem of
power. One stroke of the mallet calls to order, and calls up the
Junior and Senior Deacons; two strokes calls up all the subor-
dinate olticers; and three, the whole lodge! The following charge
is then delivered to the newly installed Master, (alias, candidate,)
by the fomier Master.
'Worshipful Master, being appointed Master of this lodge, you
cannot be insensible of the obligations which devolve on you, as
their head; nor of your responsibility for the faithtiil discharge of
the important duties annexed to your appointment. The honor,
usefulness, and reputation of your lodge, will materially depend
on the skill and assiduity with which you manage its concems;
while the happiness of its members will be generally promoted,
in proportion to the zeal and ability with which you propagate the
genuine principles of our institution. For a pattem of infonna-
tion, consider the luminary of nature; which, rising in the east,
regularly diffuses light and lustre to all within its circle. In like
manner, it is your province to spread and communicate light and
instruction to the brethren ofyour lodge. Forcibly impress upon
them the dignity and high importance of Masomy, and seriously
:idmonish them never to disgrace it. Charge them to practice
out of the lodge, those duties which they have been taught in it;
and, by amiable, discreet, and virtuous conduct, to convince man-
kind of the goodness of the institution; so that, when any one is
said to be a member of it, the world may know that he is one to
whom the burdened heart may pour out its sorrows-to whom dis-
tress may prefer its suit-whose hand is guided by justice, and
his heart expanded by benevolence. In short, by a diligent ob-
servance of the by-laws of your lodge, the constitution of Ma-
sonry, and, above all, the holy scriptures, which are
given as a
rule and guide of your faith, you will be enabled to acquit your-
self with honor and reputation, and lay up a crown of rejoicing,
1¢¢_;¢....._. __...i...|n§h|»
lim.. _ _ .__. ,......_ .-»--
LIGI-IT ON IIABONRY. p 113
which shall continue when time shall be no
motzefilj The Mas.
ter then says to the newly installed Master, '_
`
_yyigaye you' to
the government of your lodge.' He then re to'~§'seat, and,
after a moment or two, rises and addresses the candidate, (now
in the chair as Master;) 'Worshipful Master, in consequence of
my resignation, and the election of a new Master, the seats of
the Wardens have become vacant. It is necessary you should
have Wardens to assist you in the govemment of your lodge.-
The constitution requires us to elect our oiiicers by ballot, but it
is common, on occasions of this kind, to dispense with those for-
malities, and elect by ayes and noes; I move we do so on the
present occasion/l The question is tried and carried in the all
firmative.
~
The Master has a
right to nominate one candidate for otlice,
and the brethren one. Here a scene of confusion takes lace,
which is not easily described. The newly installed Worsiiip/ul
is made the butt for_every worthy brother to exercise his wit up-
on. Half a dozen are up at a time, soliciting the Master to
nominate them for Wardens, urging their several claims, and de-
crying the merits of others with much zeal; others crying out,-
'0rder, Worshipful! keep crderl' Others propose to dance, and
request the Master to sing for them: others whistle, or
sing, or
jump about the room; or scuffle, and knock down chairs or bench-
es. One proposes to call from labor to refreshment; another
compliments the Worshipful Master on his dignified appearance,
and knocks off his hat, or
pulls it down over his face; another in-
forms him that a
lady wishes to enter. If the Master calls to or-
der, every one obeys the signal with the utmost promptness, and
drops upon the nearest seat; the next instant, beibre the Master
can utter a word, all are on their feet again, and as noisy as ever:
finally, a nominal election is_eB`ected, and some prudent member,
tired of such a ridiculous confusion, moves that the lodge be
closed; which being _done, the poor, (and, if a
stranger,) much
embarrassed candidate, has his 'big hat taken from him, and is re-
duced to the ranks; but, for his consolation, the Worshipful Mas-
ter informs him that the preceding scene, notwithstanding its ap-
parent confusion, is designed to convey to him, in a striking man-
ner, the important lesson, never to solicit, or
accept any oliice, or
station, for which he does not know himself amply qualified. , _
The LECTURE on the fifth, or Past Master's degree, is di-
vided into live sections. The first section treats of the manner
* This char is fre tl omitted when conferrin the d on a 011'
didate; but noir,
whiiiiefeihyinstalling a Master of 3 lodgdgnie
2
.»
114 mcnr ON nusounr.
of constituting a lodge of Master Masons. The second, treats
of the ceremony of installation, including the manner of receiv-
ing candidates to this degree, as
given above. The third treats
of the ceremonies observed at laying the foundation stdnes of
bli tru t T
pu c s c ures. he fourth section, ot' the ceremony observ-
ed at the dedications of Masonic Halls. The fifth, of the cer-
emony observed at funerals, according to ancient custom, with the
service used on the occasion. All the sections of this lecture,
are printed in full in Webb's Monitor, from the 83d to the 125th
page; except such part of the second as relates to the induction
of candidates, and the ceremony of opening and closing. ,
It ought to be here remarked, that the statement above is strict-
ly correct. It includes all the ceremonies ever used in confer-
nng the degree of Past Master; but the ceremonies are more
frequently shortened by the omission of some part of them; the
presenting of the 'various implements of the profession] and
their explanations, are
often dispensed with' and still more ofte
, n
the charge. By comparing this with the 2d section as described
by Webb, the reader can see the whole ceremony of installing
olficers, on all occasions.
-lwf; »
MOST EXCELLENT MASTER'S DEGREE#
.H description of the ceremonies used in opening a
lodge of
, .Most Excellent Masters. »
The lodge being called to order, the Most Excellent Master
says, Brother Junior, are
they all Most Excellent Masters in the
southl' J. Warden. 'They are, Most Excellent! Most E l-
xce
lent Master. 'Brother Senior, are they all Most Excellent Mas-
ters in the w tl'
GS S. W. 'They are, Most Excellent! Most
Excellent Master. 'They are in the east; (gives one rap, which
calls up both Deacons.) Brother Junior Deacon, the first care
of a Masonl' J. D. 'To see the door tyled, Most Excellent."
M E M 'Attendt th
. . . o at part of your duty, and intbrm the Ty-
lei' that we are about to open this lodge of Most Excellent Mas-
ters, and direct him to tyle accordingly! J. D. steps to the door
and gives six knocks, which the Tyler answers
with six more:-
* 'Be ye not called Rabbi; (which is Master:) for one is your Master,
even Christ, and all ye are brethren) M tt
_
a . xx1n.8. Do ministers of the
gospel, who are 'Moat WW8k1P_f!d,' and 'Mort Excellent Jtfq.n¢r,¢,' obey this
command?
Al~,.._.._..~..4-..».- """"""' " »
»-»&|»..t.-¢__,__A.jns-¢._.-f°*'-
`
mom* os mrsorinr. 115
J. D. gives one more, which the Tyler answers with one;-the
door is then partly opened, when the Junior Deacon informs the
Tyler that a
lodge of Most Excellent Masters is about 'to be
opened, and tells him to tyle accordingly; and then retums to his
place in the lodge, and says, 'Most Excellent Master, the lpdge
is tyled.' M. E. M. 'By whoml' J. D. 'By a Most Excellent
Master Mason without the door, armed with the proper imple-
ments of his otlice.' M. E. M. 'His duty therel' J. D. 'To
keep off all cowans and eaves-droppers; and see that none
pass
and-repass, without permission from the chair.' M. E. M.
'Your place in the lodge, brother Junior" I D 'At the ri ht
hand ot' the Senior Warden in the west. Most Excellent' il.
E. M. 'Your duty there, brother Juniorl' J. D. 'To wait on thc
Most Excellent Master and Wardens, act as their proxy in the ac-
tive duties ofthe lodge, and take charge ofthe door.' M. E. M.
'The Senior Deacon's place in the lodget' J. D. 'At the right
hand of the Most Excellent Master in the east.' M. E. M. 'I
thank you, brother. Your duty in the east, brother Seniorl' V
S.
Deacon. 'To w 't th M
` `
al on e ost luxcellent Master and ll ardens;
act as their proxy in the active duties of the lodge; attend to thc
preparation and introduction of candidates; and receive and wel-
come all visiting brethren) M. E. M. 'The Secretary's place
in the lodge, brother Seniorl' S. D. 'At the left hand of the
Most Excellent Master in the east.' M. E. M. 'I thank you,
brother. Your business there, brother Secretaryl' Sec. 'The
better to observe the Most Excellent M aster's will and pleasure;
record the proceedings of the lodge, and transmit a
copy of the
same to the grand chapter, if required; receive all monies and
money bills from the hands of the brethren; pay them over to the
Treasurer, and ta.ke his receipt for the same.' M. L. M. "1 he
Treasurer's place in the lodgel' Sec. 'At your right hand, Most
Excellent' M. E. M. 'I thank you, brother. Your duty there,
brother Treasurerl' Treas. 'The better to observe the Most Ex-
cellent Master's will and pleasure; receive all monies and mon-
ey bnlls from the hands of' the Secretary; keep a
just and true ac-
count of the same; pay them out by the order of the Most Lx
cellent Master, and consent of the bret.hren.' M. E. M. 'The
Junior Warden's place in the lodgel' Treas. 'ln the south, M.
Ilxcellentf M. E. M. 'I thank you, brother. Your business
in the south, brother Juniorl' J. W. 'As the sun in the south, at
high meridian, is the beauty and glory of the day; so stands the
Junior Warden in the south, the better to observe the time of high
twelve; call the craft from labor to refreshment- superintend them
during the hours
thereof; see that none conveit the hours °f f°'
-24
~ 'l ' A*
_,ill|».,,_. .-.--U»l¢nd-°»....._.-u..,.._- ...___----'*"*"
116 mehr ON masormv.
freshmeat into that of intemperance, or excess; call them again
in due season; that the Most Excellent Master may have honor,
and they profit thereby/ M. E. M. 'The Senior Warden's
place in the lodgel' J. W. 'In the west, Most Excellent! M.
E. M. 'I thank you, brother. Your duty in the west, brother
Seniorl' S. W. 'As the sun sets in the west, to close the day;
so stands the Senior Warden in the west, to assist the Most Ex-
cellent Master in the opening of' his lodge; take care of' the jew-
els and implements; see that none be lost; pay the craft their wa-
ges, if' any be due; and see that none go away dissatisfied/ M.
E. M. 'The Most Excellent Master's place in the lodge?' S. W.
'In the east, Most Excellent' M. E. M. 'His duty in the east,
brother Senior?' S. W. 'As the sun rises in the east, to open
and adom the day; so presides the Most Excellent Master in the
east, to open and adom his lodge; to set his craft to work; gov-
ern them with good and wholesome laws, or cause the same to be
done.' (In some lodges the foregoing ceremonies are omitted.)
M. E. M. 'Brother Senior Warden, assemble the brethren round
the altar for the purpose of opening this lodge of' Most Excel-
lent Master Masons/ S. W. 'Brethren, please to assemble
round the altar for the purpose of' opening this lodge of' Most
Excellent Master Masons.' In pursuance of this request, the
brethren assemble round the altar, and form a circle, and stand in
such a
position as to touch each other, leaving a space for the
Most Excellent' Master; they then all kneel-on their left knee,
and join hands, each giving his right hand brother his left hand,
and his lef`t hand brother his right hand; their left arms upper-
most, and their heads inclining downward: all being thus situat-
ed, the Most Excellent Master reads the following portion of'
scripture: Psalm xxiv.-'The earth is the Lon=l's, and the fulness
thereofi the world, and they that dwell therein. For he hath
founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the floods. Who
shall ascend into the hill of' the Lord? and who shall stand in his
holy place? He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who
hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfiilly. He
shall receive the blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from
the God of' his salvation. This is the generation of' them that
eek him, that seek thy face, O Jacob. Selah. Lift up your
heads, O ye gates; and be ye lifted up, ye everlasting d00l'S§ 8-Hd
the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of glory?
The Lord, strong and mighty; the Lord, mighty in battle. Litt
up your heads, 0 ye gates; even lift them up, ye everlasting doors;
and the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of glo-
ry? The Lord of hosts; he is the Kingof glory. Selah' The
inlL¢.¢_._..
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 117
reading being ended, the Most Excellent Master then kneels,
joins hands with the others, which closes the circle; they all lift
their hands, as joined together, up and down six times, keeping
time with the words as the Most Excellent Master repeats them,
one, two, three; one, two, three This is masonically call<~d bal-
ancing. They then rise, disengage their hands, and lift them up
above their heads with a moderate, and somewhat graceful, mo-
tion; cast up their eyes, tuming, at the same time, to the right,
they extend their arms and then suffer them to fa.ll loose and
nerveless against their sides. This sign is said, by Masons, to
represent the sign of astonishment, made by the queen of Sheba,
on first viewing Solomon's temple. The Most Excellent Mas-
ter now resumes his seat, and says, 'Brethren, attend to gving
the signs,' The Most Excellent Master then gives all the signs
from an Entered Apprentice Mason, up to the degree of Most
Excellent Master; in which they all join and imitate him. M.
E. M. 'Brother Senior Warden, you will please to inform brother
Junior, and request him to inform the brethren, that it is my will
and pleasure that this lodge of Most Excellent Master Masons
be now opened for despatch of business, strictly forbidding all pri-
vate committees, or profane language, whereby the harmony ot
the same may be interrupted, while engaged in their lawful pur-
suits, imder no less penalty than the by-laws enjoin, or a
majori-
ty of the brethren may see cause to inHict.' Senior Warden.
'Brother Junior, it is the will and pleasure of the Most Excellent
Master, that this lodge of Most Excellent Master Masons be
now opened for despatch of business, strictly prohibiting all pri-
vate committees, or
profane language, whereby the harmony of
the same may be interrupted, while engaged in their lawful pur-
suits, under no less penalty than the by-laws enjoin, or a majority
of the brethren may see cause to inflict.' J. W. 'Brethren, you
have heard the Most Excellent Master's will and pleasure, as
communicated to me
by brother Senior-so let it be done.'
CEREMUNIES OF INITIATION.
The lodge being now opened, and ready for the reception ot'
candidates, the Senior Deacon repairs to the preparation room,
where the candidate is in waiting, takes otf his coat, puts a ca-
ble-tow six times round his body, and, in this situation, conducts
him to the door of the lodge; against which he gives six distinct
knocks, which are answered, by the same number, by the Junior
Deacon from within: the Senior Deacon then gives one knoCl§»
and the Junior Deacon answers
by giving one more: the door IS
then partly opened by the Junior Deacon, who sayS» 'Wh° °°meS
.as-.»....-, M
..,,_rr
-----
113 Lrcr-rr on Misormv.
therel' Senior Deacon. 'A worthy brother, who has been regu-
larly initiated as an Entered Apprentice Mason; passed to the
deg-ree of Fellow Craft; raised to the* sublime degree of Master
Mason; advanced to the honorary degree of a. Mark Master
Mason; presided in the chair as Past Master; and now wishes
for further light in Masonry, by being received and acknowledged
as a Most Excellent Master) Junior Deacon. 'Is it of his own
free will and accord he makes this requestl' Senior Deacon. 'It
is.) J. Deacon. 'Is he duly and truly preparedl' S. Deacon.
'He is.' J. Deacon. 'Is he worthy and well qualifiedi' S. D.
'He is.' J. D. 'ilas he made suitable proficiency in the preced-
ing degrees? S. D. 'He has.' J. D. 'By what further right,
or benefit, does he expect to obtain this favorl' S. D. 'By the
benefit of a pass word.' J. D. 'Has he a
pass wordl' S. D.
'He has not, but I have it for him.' J. D. 'Will you give it to
me?' S. D. whispers in the ear of the Junior Deacon the word,
'RABBONIJ (In many lodges, the Past Ma.ster's word, 'GIB-
LEM,' is used as a pass word tbr this degree, and the word,
'Rabboni,' as the real word.) J. D. "1`he word is right; since
this is the case, you will wait until the Most Excellent Master in
the east, is made acquainted with your request, and his answer
retumed.' J. Deacon repairs to the Most Excellent Master in
the east, and gives six raps, as at the door. M. E. M. 'Who
comes herei' J. D. 'A worthy brother, vho has been regularly
initiated as an Entered Apprentice Mason; passed to the degree
of Fellow Craft; raised to the sublime degree of' a Master Ma-
son; advanced to the honorary degree of' Mark Master Mason;
presided in the chair as Past Master; and now wishes for further
light in Masonry, by being received and acknowledged as a M ost
Excellent Master.' M. E. M. 'Is it ot' his own free will and
choice he makes this requestl' J. D. 'It is.' M. E. M. 'Is he
duly and truly preparedl' J. D. 'He is.' M. E. M. 'Is he
worthy and well qualifiedi' J. D. 'He is.' M. E. M. 'Has
he made suitable proficiency in the preceding degrees? J. D.
'He has.' M. E. M. 'By what further right, or benefit, does he
expect to obtain this favori' J. D. 'By the benefit of' a pass
word.' M. E. M. 'Has he a pass word'!' . J. D. 'He has not,
but I have it for him.' M. E. M. 'Will you give it to mel' J.
Deacon whispers, in the car of the Most Excellent Master, the
word, 'RABBONIJ M. E. M. 'The pass is right; since he
comes endowed with all these necessary ql8lifiC8~¢i0lS, let him
enter this lodge of Most Excellent Masters, in the name of the
Lord.' The candidate is then conducted six times round the
lodge, by the Senior Deacon, moving with the sun. The first
'°'°°-I- -A-¢|`........|_
`l ,..,_,_
LIGHT ON mssounr. . 119
time they pass round the lodge, when opposite the Junior War-
den, he gives one blow with the gavel; when opposite the Senior
Warden he does the same; and likewise when opposite the Most
Excellent Master. The second time round each gives two blows,
the third, three; and so on, until they arrive to six. During this
time, the Most Excellent M aster reads the following passage ol'
scripture:-Psalm cxxii. 'I was glad when they said unto me,
Let us
go into thedlouse ot" the Lord. (Iur feet shall stand with-
in thy gates, O Jerusalem. Jerusalem is huilded as a city that
is compact together: lrlhither the tribes go up, the tribes of thc
Lord, unto the testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name
of the Lord. For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones
of the house of David. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: they
shall prosper that love thee. Pea@e be witln thy walls, and pros-
perity within thy palaces. For my brethren and companions'
sakes, I will now
say, Peace be within thee. Because of the
house of the Lord, our God, I will seek thy good] 'i he reading
of the-foregoing is so timed, as not to be tiilly ended until the
Senior Deacon and candidate have perfonned the sixth revolution.
Immediately after this, the Senior Deacon and candidate arrive
at the Junior Warden's station in the south, when the same ques-
tions are asked and the same answers returned, as at the door;
(who comes here! Src.) 'ihe Junior \ arden then directs the
candidate to pass on to the enior l ardcn in the west, for fur-
ther examination; where the same questions are asked and an-
swers returned, as betbre. 'i he
'
cnior ll arden directs him to
be conducted to the Right '`or~.i1ip£iil Master in the east, for fur-
ther examination.
'
'l_ he lt. VI. Master asks the same questions
and receives the same answi-is as betbre. He then says, 'Please
to conduct the ca.ndidate back to the west, from whence he came,
and put him in the care ol' rho enior Vw aiden, and request him
to teach the candidate how to approachthe cast, by advancing up-
on six upright regular steps to the sixth step, and place him in a
proper position to take upon him the solemn oath, or obligation,
of a Most Excellent Master M ason.' '1`he candidate is conduct-
ed back to the west, and put in care of the tienior Warden, who
informs him how to approach the east, as directed by the Most
Excellent Master: The candidate kneels on both knees, and pla-
ces both hands on theleaves ot' an opened Bible, square, and
compass. The Most Llxcellent Master now comes forward, and
says, 'Brother, you are now placed in a
proper position to take
upon you the solemn oath, or
obligation, ot' a Most Excellent
Master Mason; which I assure you, as before, is neither to affect
your religion, or politics. If you are willing to take il, f¢P""'
_ __A
s»»¢¢.a~..r_, _.......;,___;_ , -»».-t..__,_ _
,__--*li*-'
120 LIGHT ON MASONRY.
your name, and say after me.' The following obligation is then
administered.
'I, A B, of my own free will and accord, in presence of Al-
mighty God and this lodge of Most Excellent Master Masons,
do hereby and hereon, in addition to my fomxer obligations, most
solemnly and sincerely promise a.nd swear, that I will not give the
degree of a Most Excellent Master to any of
gn inferior degree,
nor to any other person, or
persons, in the known world, except
it be to a true and lawful brother, or brethren, of this degree, and
within the body of a
just and lawfully constituted lodge of such;
and not unto him nor them whom I shall hear so to be, but unto
him and them only whom I shall find so to be, after strict trial
and due examination, or lawful `nformation. Furthermore, do I
promise and swear, that] will fnbey all regular signs and sum-
mons, given, handed. sent, or thrown to me from a brother of this
degree, or from the body of a
just and lawfully constituted lodge
of such, provided it be within the
length of my cable-tow, if in
my power. Furthemiore, do I promise and swear, that I will
support the constitution of the General Grand Royal Arch (hap-
ter of the United States of America; also the Grand Royal Arch
Chapter of the state of ---1-, under which this lodge is
held, and conform to all the by-laws, rules, and regulations of
this, or any other lodge, of which I may, at any time hereafter,
become a member. Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that
I will aid and assist all poor and indigent brethren of this degree,
their widows and orphans. wheresoever dispersed around the globe,
as far as in my power, without injuring- myself, or family. Fur-
thermore, do I promise and swear, that the secrets of a brother of
this degree, given to me in charge as suchj and I knowing them
to be such, shall remain as secret and inviolable in my breast as
in his own, murder and treason excepted, and the same left to my
own free will and choice. lfurtherrnore, do I promise and swear,
that I will not wrong this lodge of Most Iixcellent Master Ma-
sons, nor a brother of this degree, to the value of any thing,
knowingly, myself, nor suffer it to be done by others; if in my
power to prevent it; but will give due and timely notice of all ap
preaches of danger, if in my power. Furthermore, do I prom-
ise and swear, that I will dispense light and knowledge to all ig-
norant and uninformed brethren, at all times, as far as in my pow-
er, without material injury to mysel£ or
family. To all which, I
do most solemnly swear, with a fixed and steady purpose of mind
in me, to keep and perform the same; binding myself under no
less penalty than to have my breast torn open, and my heart and
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 121
vitals taken from thence, and exposed to rot on the dunghil, if
everl violate any part of this my solemn oath, or
obligation, of a
Most Excellent Master Mason: so
help me God, and keep me
steadfast in the due performance of the saJne.' 'Detach your
hands and kiss the book.'
-
The candidate is now requested to rise, and the Most Excel-
lent Master gives him the sign, grip, and word appertaining to
this degree. The sigh is given by placing your hands one on
each breast, the fingers meeting in the centre of the body, and
jerking them apart as though you were
trying to tear open your
breast: it alludes to the penalty of the obligation. The grip is
given by taking each other by the right hand, and clasping them
so that each compress the third finger of the other with his thumb.
(If one hand is large and the other small, they cannot both give
the grip at the same time.) It is called the grip of all grips, bg-
cause it is said to cover all the preceding grips. The Most Ex-
cellent holds the candidate by the hand, and puts the inside of his
right foot to the inside ofthe candidate's right foot, and whispers
in his ear, 'RABBONI.' In some lodges, the word is not giv-
en in a whisper, but in a low voice. After these ceremonies are
over, and the members seated, some noise is intentionally made,
by shuffling the feet. _
`
M. E. M. 'Brother Senior, what is the cause of this confu~
sionl' S. W. 'Is not this the day set apart for the celebration ot'
the cape-stone, Most Excellent? M. E. M. 'I will ask brother
Secretary. Brother Secretary, is this the day set apart for thc
celebration of the cape-stonel' Secretary, (looking in his book,)
'lt is, Most Excellent! M. E. M. 'Brother Senior W arden, as-
semble the brethren, and form a procession, for the purpose of
celebrating the cape-stone.' The brethren then assemble, (the
candidate stands aside, not joining in the procession;) form a
pro-
cession double file, and march six times round the lodge, against
the course of the sun, singing the following song, and giving all
the signs from an Entered Apprentice to that of Most Excellent
Master. When opposite the Most Excellent Master, the first
time they march round the lodge, each member gives the first
sign of an Entered Apprentice, and preserves it until he nearly
arrives opposite the Most Excellent a second time, then givesthe
second sign, and continuesit in the same
manner, and so of all
others, up to that of this degree,
sayiiig,
_
_._
, 5 ,___,_.,r..A,.,, ,.
.~
~"""'-'
122 noni' ON Masormv.
'All hail to the morning, that bids us rejoice:
1'he temple's completed, exalt high each voice,
The cape-stone is finished-our labor is o'er,
The sound of the gavel shall hail us no morc.
'To the power Almighty, who ever has guided
The tribes of old Israel, exalting their fame;
To Him, who hath governed our hearts undivided,
Let's send forth our vows to praise his great name,
'Companions, assemble on this
aoyful day,
(The occasion is glorious,) the ey-stone to lay;
Fulfilled is the promise, by the ANCIENT of Dns,
To bring forth the cape-stone with shouting and praise.
The key-stone is now produced and laid on the altar. V.
'There is no more occasion for level or
plumb-line,
For trowel or gavel, for compass or squa.re:*
Our works are conrpleted, the ark safely seated,'f
'
And we shall be greeted as workmen most rare.
'Names,- those that are worthy our tribes, who have shared
And proved themselves faithful, shall meet their reward:
Their virtue and knowledge, industry and skill,
Have our approbation-have gained our good will. 4
I
'We accept and receive them,1 Most Excellent Masters;
Trusted with honor and power to preside
Among worthy craftsmen, where'er assemble,
The knowledge of Masons to spread far and wide.
'ALMIGHTY JEHOVAH,|| descend now and fill
This lodge with thy glory, 0111* hearts with good will:
Preside at our meeting, assist us to find
True pleasure in_ teaching good will to mankind.
'Thy wisdom inspired the great institution;
Thy strength shall sup ort it till nature expire:-
And when the creation shall fall into ruin
ns beauty shall rise through the mist ofthe swag
* Here the brethren divest themselves of their jewels, sashes, sprang, sw,
i The ark, which had been carried by two brethren in the procession, is
here laced on the altar.
I these words the candidate is received into the procession.
~|| Here all kneel in a circlereund the altar.
§ At the time the ark is_placed on the altar, there is also hgedvqn if ¢
pg;
of incense, to which firé ll communicated by the Most Ehcellent Master,
just as the last line of the
songrissung: this pot to contain incense, is some
times an
elegant silver urn; ut if the
lodieistoo poor to aflbrd that, a
common tem-pot, with spout and handle bro en od; answers every purpose:
--for incense some pieces of paper are dipped in spirits of turpentine.
O
.....¢||a|&»._.._ `._....¢n|»nht-._ _"jg
LIGHT ON MA SDNBY. 128
The members now all join hands, as in opening; and while in
this attitude, the Most Excellent reads the followingpassage of
scripture:-2 Chron. vii. 1-4. 'Now when Solomon had made
an end of praying, the fire came down from heaven, and consum-
ed the bumt-offering and the sacrifices; and the glory of the Lord
filled the house. And the priests could not enter into the house
of the Lord, because the glory of the Lord had filled the Lord's
house. And when all the' children of Israel saw how the fire
came down, and the glory of the Lord upon the house, they bow-
ed themselves with their faces to the ground upon the pavement,
and worshipped, and praised the Lord, saying, FOR HE IS
GOOD,* FOR HIS MERCY ENDURETH FOR EVER!
The members now balance six times, as before; in opening, rise
and balance six times more, disengaging themselves fiom each
other, and take their seats; the Most Excellent Master then de-
livers the following charge to the candidate:-
'Bno'rrrnn, your admittance to this degree of Masonry, is a
proof of the good opinion the brethren of this lodge entertain of
your masonic abilities. Let this consideration induce you to be
careful of forfeiting, by misconduct and inattention to our rules,
that esteem which has raised you to the rank you now
posses .
'It is one of your great duties, as a Most Excellent Master, to
dispense light and truth to the uninformed Mason; and I need
not remind you of the impossibility of complying with this obli-
gation without possessing an accurate acquaintance with the lee.,
tures of each degree. .
'If you are not already completely conversant in all the de-
grees heretofore conferred on
you, remember, that an
indulgence
prompted by a belief that you will apply yourself with doublé
gghgence
to make yourself so, has induced the brethren to
aggept
'Let it, therefore, be our unremit
"
A
stud to
'
degree of knowledge add informatioiimai shali, enaliiiglfylbiiTdciili:
chafge with
þÿI;l1;>P|;ii¬3'l
the
prarious dutiesincumbent on you, and to
preserve uns ie e tite now conferred u o
Excellent Master.'
n
you of a Mimi
After this a motion is made, b some of the members
the lodge. This motion
being aivccepted and received, iii;$22
Excellent says, 'Brother Junior Warden, you will please assem-
* At the words "for He is good
"
the M t E ll t M
' '
priest of the chapter, kneels and jbins band)dwi$(fh;riest;aihidyvd1li(i|:¢|iurgel:
Rauf" °°"°°"t
"Pe W°\'d5» "For He
izdgood,
for his mercy endureth for ever/`
NK UHIGS, each time bowing their he s low towards the floor.
4i...._._ ,_
_
»3"""""`
'M
124 LIGHT ON Masonnr.
ble the brethren round the altar, for the purpose of closing this
lodge of Most Excellent Masters!
`
The brethren immediately
assemble round the altar in a circle, and kneel on the right knee,
put their
left arms over and join hands, as before; while kneeling
in this position, the Most Excellent reads the following Psalm:-
Psalm cxxxiv. "Behold, bless ye the Lord, all ye servants of the
Lord, which by night stand in the house of the Lord. Lift up
your-hands in the sanctuary, and bless the Lord. The Lord that
-made heaven and earth bless thee out of Zion.' The Most Ex-
cellent then closes the circle as in opening, when they balance
six
tunes, rise and balance six times more, disengage their hands,
and give all the signs downwards, and declares the lodge closed.
þÿ- ¬¢00>-
ROYAL ARCH DEGREE.
All legally constituted bodies of Royal Arch Masons are call-
ed Chapters, as
regular bodies of Masons of the preceding de-
grees are called lodges. All the degrees ,from Mark Master to
Royal Arch, are given under the sanction of Royal lrch Chap-
ters. A person making application to a Chapter for admission,
is understood as
applying for all the degrees, unless he states in
his application the particular degree or degrees he wishes to re-
ceive. If you ask a Mark Master if he belongs to a Chapter,
he_wil1 answer yes, but has only been marked. lf a
person
make application for all the degrees, and wishes to receive them
all at one time, he is frequently balloted for only on the mark de-
gree, it being, understood, that if accepted on that, he is to re-
ceive the whole. The members of 'Chapters who have received
all the degrees, style each other companions; if they have not re-
ceived the Royal Arch degree, brothers. It is a
point of the
Royal Arch degree 'not to assist, or be present, at the confening
of this degree upon more or less than three candidates at one
time.' If there are not three candidates present, one or two
companions, as the case may be, volunteer to represent candid-
ates so as to make the requisite number, or a team as it is tech-
nically styled, and accompany the candidate or candidates through
all the stages of exaltation. Every Chapter must consist of a
High Priest, King, Scribe, Captain of the Host, Principal Sojour-
ner, Royal Arch Captain, three Grand Masters of the Veils,
Treasurer, Secretary, and as many members as
may be found
convenient for working to advantage. In the lodges for confer-
ring the preparatory degrees, the High Priest presides as Master,
l.»m.....___
in
meer on uuorrar. |25
the King as- Senior -
Warden, the Scribe as Junior 'Warden, the
Captain oi' the Host, as Marshal, or Master of ceremonies, the
principal Sojoumer, as Senior Deacon; the Royal Arch Captain,
as Junior Deacon; the Master of the first, second and third Veils,
as Junior, Senior and Master Overseers; the Trelsmer, Secretary,
and Tyler, as officers of corresponding rank. The chapter is
authorised to confer the degrees by a charter, or warrant from
some Grand Chapter. _ 1.
The members being assembled, the H' h Priest calls to order
and demands of the Royal Arch Captain all present are R. A.
Masons. The Royal Arch Captain ascertains and answers in the
atiirmative. V
The High Priest then directs him to cause the Ty-
ler to be stationed, which- being done, the High Priest says,
'Companions Royal Arch Masons, you will please to clothe, and
arrange yourself for the purpose of opening the chapter! The
firmiture of the chapter is.then arranged, the companions clothed
with scarlot sashes and aprons, and the officers invested with the
proper insignia of their respective otiices, and repair to their prop-
er stations. The High Priest then demands whether the chapter
is tyled, and is answered the same as in a lodge. The stations
d duties of the otiices are then recited, (see lecture, sec.
lst.)
'Adler the duties of the officers are recited, the Priest directs
the captain of the host to assemble the companions at the altar.
The companions form a circle about the altar, all kneeling on the
right knee, with their arms crossed, right arm uppermost and hands
joined, leaving a space for the High Priest, who reads the.t`ollow-
ing passages of scripture, 2d These. 6-18. f, Now we com-
mand you, brethren, that ye withdraw yourselves, from every
brother that walketh disorderly, and not after t.he
tidition
that ye
have received of us, for yourselves know, how ye ght to follow
us, for we behaved not ourselves disorderly among you, neither
did we eat any man's bread for nought, but wrought with labor
and travail night and day, that we
might not be chargeable to*
T
`
of you; not because we have not power, but to make ourselgel
an ensample unto you to follow us. For even when we were
with you, this we commanded you, that if any man would not
work, neither should he eat For we hear that there are some,
which walk among you disorderly, working not at all, but are bu-
sy-bodies. Now them that are such, we command` and exhort,
that with quietness they work and eat their own bread. But ye,
brethren, be not weary in well doing. And if any man obey not
our word, note that man and have no company with him, that_he
may be ashamed. Yet count him not as an enemy but admonlslr
him as a
brother. Now the
Log;
of peace himself; P" Y°"
"" | I
_.A`_'___ _,,, .,,..-»-.3-Aa. _
»- ~-rc.
126 use-r on masomtr.
peace always. The salutation of Paul, with mine own hand,
which is the token, so I writ.e.' `(The reader is requested to com-
pare this with the scripture»--he will observe that the name of the
Saviour is intentionally left out.) The High Priest then takes his
place in the circle. The whole circle then balance with their arms
three times three, that is, they raise their arms and let them fall
upon their-knees three times in concert, after a short pause three
times more, and after another pause three times more. Then all
break into squads ot' three, and raise the living arch.
`
This is
done by each compa.nion's taking his left wrist in his right hand,
and with their left hands, the three grasp each other-'s right wrists,
and raise them above their heads. This constitutes the living
arch, under which the Grand Omniiic Royal Arch word must be
given, but it must also be given by three times three. In opening
the chapter this is done in the following manner. After the three
have joined hands they repeat these lines in concert, and at the
close of each line raise them above their heads, and say, 'As
we three did agree, the sacred word to keep,' 'And as we three
did agree, the sacred word to search/ 'So we three do agree, to
raise this Royal Arch.' At the close of the last line they keep
their hands raised, while they incline their heads under them, a'
the first whispers in the ear of the second the syllable J A H, e
second to the third, B U H, and the third to the lst, L U N.
The second then commences, and it goes round again in the same
manner, then the third; so that each companion pronounces each
syllable of the word.* They then separate, each repairing to his
station, and the 'High Priest'declares the chapter opened.
The LECTURE of the ROYAL ARCH degree is dividedin-
to two sectio . The first section designates the appellation,
.number and slstion, of the several officers, and pointsout the pur~
pose and duty of their respective stations.
Question. Are you a
Royal Arch Mason? .Hnswen I am that
I am.1' Q. How shall I know you to be a R. A. Mason? H. By
*There is agreat difference in the manner of giving the R. A. word in the
dilferent chapters. Sometimes it is given at the
oplening,
as above stated,
sometimes they commence with the word GOD, eac one pronouncing a let-
ter of it in succession, until they have each pronounced every letter of the
word, then the word JEHOVAH, a syllable at a time, and then the word
JAHBUHLUN, as described. There are also
chargers
in which the latter
word is not known, and there are others in which t e word is not given at
all at opening.
1'I au run I aug' is one of the
peculiar
names of Deity, and to use it,
as above, is,_to
say
the least, taking t e name of God in vain! How must the
humble disciple o Jesus feel when constrained thus to answer the question:
Are you _a Royal Arch Mason? _
f
c
_...-lr -_
-----l|_r5¢¢¢¢.q_,__ '_,;_ _
r.roa'r ou Masovar. 127
three times three. Q. Where was you inode a R. A. Mason?
Ji. In a just and legally constituted chapter of R. A. Masons,
consisting of Most Excellent, High Priest, King, and Scribe,
Capt. of the Host, Principal Sojoui-ner, Royal Arch Captain, and
the three Grand Masters of the Veils, assembled in a room or
place representing the tabernacle erected by our ancient brethren,
near the ruins of king Solomon's temple. Q. Where is the High
Priest stationed, and what are his duties? ./1. He is stationed in
the sanctlim sanctorum.. His duty with the and Scribe, to
sit in the Grand Council, to form plans and give directions to the
workmen. Q. The K.ing's station and duty? .d. At the right
hand of the High Priest, to aid him by his _advice and counsel,
and in his absence to preside. Q. The Scribe's station and duty?
./1. At. the left hand of the High Priest, to assist him and the'
King in the discharge of their duties, and to preside in their ab-
sence. Q. The Captain of the Host's station and duty'! .4. At
the right hand of the Grand Council, and to receive their orders,
and see them duly. executed. Q. The Principal Sojourner's sta-
tion and dutyl JI. At the left hand of the Grand Council, to bring
the blind, by a
way that they know not, to lead them in paths they
have not known, to make darkness light before them, and crooked
things strait. Q. The Royal Arch Captain's station and duty?
./3 At the inner Veil, or entrance of the sanctiln sanctorum; to
guard the same, and see that none
pass but such as are duly qual-
ified, and have the proper pass words and signets of truth. Q.
What is the color of his banner? ./1. White, and is emblematical
of that purity of heart and rectitude of conduct, which is es-
sential to obtain admission into the divine sanctum sanctorum
above. Q. The stations and duties of the three Grand Masters
of the Veils! ./1. At the entrance of their respective Veils; to
guard the same and ee that none pass but such as are
duly quali-
iied and in possession of the proper pass words and tokens. _
Q.
VVhat are the colors of their banners? ./I. That of the third,
scarlet, which is emblematical of fervency and zeal, and the ap-
propriate color of the Royal Arch Degree. It admonishes us to
be fervent in the exercise of our devotions to God, and zealous in
our endeavors to promote the happiness of men. Of the second,
purple, which being produced by a. due mixture of blue and scar-
let, the former of which,.is the characteristic color of the sym-
bolic, or three first degrees, and the latter, that of the Royal Arch
degree, is an emblem of union, and is the characteristic color of
the intermediate degrees. It teaches us to cultivate and improve
that spirit of harmony between the brethren of the symbolic de-
grees, and the companions of the sublime degrees. whish °h""I'l
Q ,___.»a»,,._
.klhqnalh -».¢-l¢*|3°ll|*hl-""
°"°°'°"""` ""'°' "
`
;i
128 LIGHT DN MASDNBY.
`
ever distinguish the members of a society founded upon the prin-
ciples of everlasting truth -and universal philanthropy. _Of the
first, blue, the peculiar color of thethree ancient or symbohcal de-
grees. It is an emblem of universal friendship and benevolence,
and instructs us that in thrmind of a Mason, those virtues should
be as expansive as the blue arch of heaven itseltl Q. The treas-
urer's station and duty? ./9. At the right hand ot' the Captain of
the Host; his duty to keep a
just and regular account of all the
property and funds of the chapter placed in his hands, and ex-
hibit them to the chapter when called upon for that purpose.
Q. The Secretary's place in the chapter? A. At the left of the
principal Sojoumer, his duty to issue the orders and notifications
of his superior oflicers, record the proceedings of the chapter prop-
er to be written, to receive all monies due to the chapter, and pay
them over to the Treasurer. Q. Ty|er's place and duty? ./2. His
station is at the outer avenue of the chapter, his duty to guard
against the approach of cowans and eaves-droppers, and suffer
none to pass or repass but such as are duly qualified. The sec-
ond section describes the method of exaltation to this sublime de-
gree, as follows: 'companion, you informed me, at the commence-
ment of this lecture, that you was made a R. A. Mason in a just
and legally constituted chapter of Royal Arch Masons!
'
Q. Where was you prepared to be' made a R. A. Mason? A.
In a room adjacent to the chapter Q. How was you prepared?
A. In a
company ot' three, I was hoodwinked, with a cable-tow
seven times around our bodies; in which condition we were con-
ducted to the door of the chapter, and caused to give seven dis-
tinct knocks, which were answered by alike number from within,
and we were asked 'Who comes therel' Q. Your answer? Three
brethren, who have been regularly initiated as Entered Appren-
tices, passed to the degree of Fellow Craft, raised to the sublime
degree of Master Mason, advanced to the more honorable degree
of 'Mark Master, presided as Masters in the chair, accepted and
received, as M. Excellent Masters, and now wish for further light
in Masonry, by being exalted to the more sublime degree of Roy-
al Arch Masons. Q. What was thensaid to you? A We were
asked if we were duly and truly prepared, worthy and well quali-
fied, had made suitable proficiency in the preceding degrees, and
were properly avouched for. All which, being answered in the
athrmative, we were asked by what furtherright or benefit we ex-
pected to obtain this-favor? Q. Your answer? A. By the ben-
etit of a pass word. Q. Had you that pass word? A. We had
not, but our conductor gave it for us. Q. What was then said to
Yea? A. We were directed to wait with patience, till the~Gmnd
.gn-¢n&__.»¢. ....§ __,_ __ L
LIGHT ON NASONBY. 129
Council could be informed of our request and their pleasure
known. Q. What answer was retumed? A. Let them eater
under a
living arch, and remember to stoop low, for he that hum-
bleth himself shall be exalted. Q. Did you pass under a living
gpchl
A. We did. Q. How were
you then disposed of'l A.
e were conducted to the altar, caused to kneel, and take upon
ourselves the solemn oath, or obligation, of a Royal Arch Mason.
Q. Have you that obligation? A. Ihave. Q. Will you give it
me?
A. I, A B, of my own free will and accord, in the presence ol'
Almighty God, and this chapter of R. A. Masons, erected to God,
and dedicated to the holy order of St. John,* do hereby and hele-
on, most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear, in addition to
my former obligations, that I will not give the degree of Royal
Arch Mason to any one of an inferior degree, nor to any other bc-
ing in the known world, except it be to a true and lawful compan-
ion Royal Arch Mason, or within the body of a
just and legally
constituted chapter of such, and not unto him or unto them whom
I shall hear so to be, but unto him or them whom l shall find so
to be, after strict trial, due examination or
legal information receiv-
ed. Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that I will not give
the Grand Omnitic Royal Arch word, which I shall hereafter re-
ceive, neither in the chapter nor out of it, except there be present
two companions Royal Arch Masons, 'who, with myself, make
three, and then by three times three, under a
living arch not above
my breath. Furthermore, that I will not reveal the ineffable
characters belonging to this degree, or retain the key to them in
my possession, but destroy it, whenever it comes to my sight.
Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that I will not wrong this
chapter, nor a companion of this degree, to the value of any thing,
knowingly myself, or suffer it to be done by others, if in my pow-
er to prevent it. Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that I will
not be at the exaltation of a candidate to this degree, at a clan-
destine chapter, I knowing it to be such. Furthermore, do I
promise and swear, that I will not assist or be present at the ex-
altation of a candidate to this degree, who has not regularly re-
ceived the degrees of Entered Apprentice, Fellow Craft, Master
Mason, Mark Master, Past Master, Most Excellent Master, to
the best of my knowledge and belielf Furthermore, thatl will.
not assist or see more or less than three candidates exalted zu,
one and the same time. Furthermore, that I will not assist or bc
*Or as it is at this time given in some chapters, 'to the honor of 001' U"-
vicnt patron Zerubbabclf ,
**»|.n» »-¢ ¢.-_ ._.,
_ -_--ns _,
.._.|
.» »-»»-l'
M
__-P
130 LIGHT ON MAEUNBY.
present at the forming or
opening of a Royal Arch Chapter, un-
less there be present nine regular Royal Arch Masons. Further-
more, dol promise, and swear, that lwill not speak evil of a
companion Royal Arch Mason, neither behind his back nor before
his face, but will ,apprise him of approaching danger if in
mg
power. Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that I will no
strike a companion R. A. Masdn in anger, so asto draw his blood.
Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that I will support the con-
stitution of the General Grand Royal Arch Chapter ofthe United
States of America, also the constitution of Grand Royal Arch
Chapter of the state under which this chapter is held, and con-
form to all the by-laws, rules and regulations of this, or
any other
chapter of which I may hereafter become amember. Further-
more, do I promise and swear, that I will obey all regular signs,
summons, or tokens given, handed, sent or thrown to me, from the
hand of a
companion Royal Arch Mason, or from the body 'of »
a
just and lawfully constituted chapter of such, provided it bewith-
in the length of my cable-tow. Furthermore, do I promise and
swear, that I will aid and assist a
companion R. A. Mason, when
engaged in any difliculty; and espouse his cause, so far as to ex-
tricate him from the same, if in my 'power, whether he be right or
Wrong. Also, that I will promote a
companion R. A. Masonfs
political preferment in preference to another of equal.qua.li(ica-
tions.* Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that a companion
. A. Mason's secrets, given me in charge as such, and I know-
i them to be such, shall remain as secure and inviolable in my
breast as in his own, murder and treason not
¢:cceptcd.T -Further-
more, do I promise and swear, that I will he aiding and assisting
all poor and indigent R. A. Masons, their widows and orphans,
wherever dispersed around the globe, so far as in my power, with-
out material injury to myself or
family. All which lmost sol-
emnly and sincerely promise and swear, with a firm and steadfast
resolution, to perform the same, without any equivocation, mental
reservation, or self-evasion of mind in me whatever; binding my-
self under no less penalty, than that of having my skull smote
ofi, and my brains exposed to the scorching rays of the sun,
shouldl ever
knowingly, or wilfully, violate or transgress any
part of this my solemn oath, or obligation, of a Royal Arch Ma-
*This clause is sometimes made a distinct point in the obligation in the
following fonn, viz: Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that _I V
will vote
fora
companion
R. A. Mason, before any other of equal qualiicritions; and
in some c apters, both are left out of the
oblnpatron.
'
_
_Tin some chapters this is administered. Al the secrets of a
fcompanlqn
without exception. Q _-
,gas-n-Q-,¢ _
__,
1
_...Q
LIGHT ON MASONBY. 13]
son. So help me God, and keep me steadfast in the performance
of the same.
Q. After receiving the obligation, what was said to you? A.
We were told, that we were now obligated and received as R.
A. Masons, but as this degree was
infinitely more
important than
any of the preceding, it was
necessary for us to pass through
many trials, and to travel in rough and rugged ways to prove our
fidelity, before we
could be entrusted with the more
important
secrets of this degree. We were further told, that, though we
could not discover the path we were to travel, we were under the
direction of a faithful guide, who would 'bring the blind by a way
they know not, and lead them in paths they had not known; who
would make darkness light before them, and crooked things
straight; who would do these things, and not forsake them.' (see
Isa. xlii. 16.) Q. What followed? A. We were caused to trav-
el three times round the room, when we were again conducted
to the altar, caused to kneel and attend to the following prayer.
(See this prayer, Monitor, p. l34.) Supreme Architect of uni-
versal nature, who, by thine Almighty Word, didst speak into
being the stupendous arch of heaven! And for the instruction
and pleasure of thy rational creatures, didst adom us with great-
er and lesser lights, thereby magrhfying thy power, and endear-
ing thy goodness unto the sons of men: We humbly adore and
worship thine unspeakable perfection! We bless thee, that, when
man had fallen from his innocence and his happiness, thou didst
leave him the powers ol' reasoning, and capacity of improve-
ment and of pleasure.* We thank thee, that, amidst the pains
and calamities of our present state, so many means of refresh-
ment and satisfaction are reserved to us, while travelling the
rugged path of life; especially would we, at this time, render
thee our
thanksgiving and praise for the institution,'as members
of which we are, at this time, assembled, and for all the plea?
sures we have derived from it. We thank thee, that the 'few
here assembled before thee, have been favored with new induce-
ments, and been laid under new and stronger obligations of virl
tue and holiness.T
'
May these obligations, 0 blessed Fatherl;
have their full effect upon us. Teach us, we pray thee, the true
* If Masonry was congenial to christianity, this prayer would read very
ditferently; it would read thus:-'We bless thee, that, when 1-mm had fgllgn
from his mnocence and happiness/ thou didst send thine only Son, the Lord
Jesus Christ; to make a
ropitiation for our
sins;-to renovate our hearts
'and save us from the wrath)to come.
'
1 How stupid must be that man, who supposes that his moral obligations
can be increased by the taking of masonic oaths?
A-»-.||u.___ __
-
_.¢.|§ahs,--.»....-»--»-»- _-»--
- -
'_'
132 'LIGHT ON MASONBY~
reverence of thy great, mighty, and terrible name.
Inspire us
with a firm and unshaken resolution in our virtuous pursuits.
Give us grace diligently to search thy word in the book of na-
ture, wherein the duties of our
high vocation are inculcated with
divine authority! May the solemnity of the ceremonies of our
institution be duly impressed on our minds, and have a
happy
and lasting effect on our lives! 0 thou, who didstaforetime ap-
pear untu thy servant Moses in a
flame offire out ofthe midst of
a bush, enkmdle, we beseech thee, in each of our hearts, a flame
of devotion to thee, of love to each other, and of charity to all
mankind! May all thy miracles and mighty works, till us with
thy dread, and thy goodness impress us with a love of thy holy
name! May Holiness to the Lord, be engraven upon all our
thoughts, words, and actions! May the incense of piety ascend
continually unto thee, from the altar of our hearts, and hum day
and night, as a sacrilice of a sweet smelling savor, well pleasing
unto thee! And since sin has destroyed within us~ the first tem~
ple of purity and innocence, may thy heavenly grace guide and
assist us in rebuilding a second temple of reformation, and may
the glory of this latter house be greater than the glory ofthe for-
mer! Amen, so mote it be.
Q. After the prayer what followed? A. We were again caus-
ed to travel three times round the room, during which the follow-
ing passage of scripture was read, and we were shown a
repre-
sentation of the bush that burned and was not consumed. Exo-
dus iii. 1-6. Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father-
in-law, the priest of Midian; and he led the flock to the hack
side of the desert, and came to the mountain of God, even to
Horeb. _'ind the angel ot' the Lord appeared unto him in a flame
of fire out of the midst of a bush; and he looked, and, behold,
the bush burned with lire, and the bush was not consumed. And
Moses said, I will now turn aside, and see this great sight, why
the bush is not burned. And when the Lord saw that he turned
aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush,
and said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here am I. And he
said, Draw not nigh hither: put od' thy shoes from off thy feet;
for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. Moreover
he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the
God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face;
for he was afraid to look upon God. Q. What followed? A.
We again travelled while the following passage was read. 2
_
"'
Here, again, we see the cloven foot ol' the institution! The Bihle is re-
jected, and the 'book of nature' is
reccivetyas the rule of faith and practice.
_...g-|»..._.______'___________-____
~
'
.__i|u-~»4- --
-in;`____...¢;_
uonr on nnsormv. |33
Chron. xxxvi. ll-20. Zedekiah was one and twenty years old
when he began to reign, and reigned eleven years in'Jerusalem.
And he did that which was evil in the sight ot' the Lord his God,
and humbled not himself before Jeremiah the prophet speaking
from the mouth of the Lord. And he also rebelled against king
Nebuchadnezzar, and he stiffened his neck, and hardened his
heart fiom turning unto the Lord God of Israel. Moreover, all the
chiefof the priests and the people, transgressed very much after all
the abominations of the heathen; and polluted the house ofthe
Lord which he had hallowed in Jerusalem. And the Lord God of
their father sent to them by his messengers, rising up betimes
and sending; because he had compassion on his people, and on
his dwelling place. But theymocked the messengers of God,
and despised his words, and misused his prophets, until the wrath
of the Lord arose against his people, till there was no
remedy.
Therefore he brought upon him the king of the Chaldees, who
slew their young men with the sword in the house of their sanc-
tuary, and had no compassion on
young men or maidens, old
men, or him that stooped for age; he gave them all into his hand.
And all the vessels ot' the house of God, great and small, and
the treasures of the house of the Lord, and the treasures of the
king. and of his princes; all these he brought to Babylon. And
they burnt the house ot' God, and brake down the wall of Jeru-
salem, and burnt all the palaces thereof with fire, and destroyed
all the goodly vessels thereotl And them that had escaped from
the sword carried he away to Babylon; where they were servants
to him and his sons, until the reign of the kingdom of Persia.
At the close of this there was a representation of the destruc-
tion of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar, and the carrying cap-
tive of the children ot' Israel to Babylon. We were seized.
bound in chains, and confined in a
dungeon.
Q. What followed? ./I. We heard rejoicing, as of good news;
the proclamation of Cyrus, king of Persia, was read in our hear-
ing. [Ezra, i. 1-3.] 'Now in the first year of Cyrus, king
of Persia, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Per;
g sia, that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and
put it also in writing, saying: Thus saith Cyrus, king ot' Persia.
the Lord God ot' heaven hath given me all the kingdoms of rhé
earth, and he hath charged me to build him an house at Jerusa-
lem, which is in Judah. Who is there among you of all his peo.
ple? His God be with
hi?
and let him go up to Jerusalem,
which is in Judah, and buil the house of the Lord God ot' Is-
rael, which is _in Jerusalem.' Q. What was then said to you?
A. We were unbound and
reqlpfsted
to go up to Jerusalem tO'
¢_,_- _.__
-~
_>,,. -Q.; ._ -nu-.
~"""°'°' "`
134 LIGHT ON MLSONRY.
assist in rebuilding the temple, but objected, as we had no pass
by which to make ourselves known to our brethren. Q. What
followed? A. The third chapter of Exodus, 13 and 14 verses,
were read to us: 'And Moses said unto God, Behold! when I
come unto the children of Israel, and shall say unto them, the
God of your fathers hath sent me unto you, and they shall say
to me, what is his name? what shall I say to them? And God
said unto Moses, I AM THAT I AM: And thus thou shalt say
unto the children of Israel, I AM hath sent me unto you.' We
were directed to use the words, 'I am that I am,' as a pass word.
Q. 'What followed? A. We arose to go up to Jerusalem, and
travelled over hills and valleys, rough and rugged ways, for ma-
ny days; during which time, as we
stopped occasionally to rest
and refresh ourselves, the following passages from the Psalms,
were read in our hearing for our consolation and encouragement.
[Psalms cxli. cxlii. cxliii.]
Psalm cxli.-'Lord, I _cry unto thee: make haste unto me;
give ear unto my voice. Let my prayer he set forth before thee,
as incense: and the lifting up of hands as the evening sacrifice.
Set a watch, 0 Lord, before my mouth; keep the door of my
lips. Incline not my heart to any evil thing, to practise wicked
works with men that work iniquity. Let the righteous smite
me; it shall be a kindness: and let him reprove me; it shall be
an excellent oil. Mine eyes are unto thee, 0 God the Lord; in
thee is my trust; leave not my soul destitute. Keep me from
the snare which they have laid for me, and the gins of the work-
ers of iniquity. Let the wicked fall into their own nets, whilst
that I withal escape.
Psalm cxlii.-I cried unto the Lord with my voice; with my
voice unto the Lord did I make my supplication. I poured out
my complaint before him; I showed before him my trouble.-
When my spirit wa overwhelmed within me, then thou knewest
my path. In the way wherein I walked, have they privily laid a
snare for me. I looked on my right hand, and beheld, but there
was no man that would know me; refuge failed me: no man
cared for my soul. I cried unto thee, 0 Lord; I said, Thou
art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living. Attend
unto my cry, for I am brought very low; deliver me from my
persecutors; for they are stronger than I. Bring my soul out of
prison, that I may praise thy name. ,
Psalm cxliii.-Hear my prayer, Lord, give éar to my sup-
plicatjonsz in thy faithfulness ans me, and in thy righteous-
ness. And enter not into judgment with thy servanh for in thy
sight shall no man living be justified' For the enemy hath _per-
`
mv
's.'d,.
s
'uour ON Mssomtr. ,
135
secuted my soul; he hath made me to dwell in darkness. There-
.fore is my spirit overwhelmed within me; my heart within me is
desolate. Hear me
speedily, 0 Lord: my spirit fhileth: hide
not thy face from me, lest I he like unto them that go down into
the pit. Cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the moming;
for in thee do I trust: cause me to know the way wherein I
should walk, for I lift up my soul unto thee. Bring my soul out
of trouble, and of thy mercy out off mine enemies: for I am thy
servant! _
At length we arrived at Jerusalem, and presented ourselves at
the First Veil of the Tabernacle.
Q. What was there said to you'l A. The Master of the First
Veil demanded of us, 'who comes there? who dares approach
this outer Veil of our sacred Tabernacle? who comes herei' Q.
Your answer?
`
A. Three weary travellers from Babylon. They
then demanded of us who we were, and what were our intentions.
Q. Your answer? A. We are your own brethren and kindred,
of the tribe of Benjamin; we are the descendants ot' those no-
ble familie of Giblimites, who wrought so hard at the building
of the first temple, were
present at its destruction by Nebuchad-
nezzar, by him carried away captive to Babylon, where we re-
mained servants to him and his sons, till the first year of Cyrus,
king ol' Persia, by whose order we were liberated, and are now
returned to assi t in rebuilding the house of the Lord, without
expectation of fee or reward. Q. What further was demanded
of- you? A. The pass word, 'I am that I am.' After giving
which, the Master of the Veil, assured of his full confidence in
us as
worthy brethren, commended us for our zeal, and gave us
the token and words to enable us to pass the second Veil. Q.
What are
they? A. The token is an imitation of that which Mo-
ses was commanded to exhibit to the children of Israel, casting
his rod upon the ground it became a serpent, and putting forth
his hand and taking it again by the tail, it became a rod in his
_hand. The words are these, 'Shem, Ham, and Japhet.' Q. What
followed? A. We were conducted to the second Veil, where
the same questions were asked and answers retumed, as before,
with the addition of the pass words and token given at the First
Veil. Q. What followed? A. The Master of the Second Veil
told us that we must be true and lawful brethren to pass thus far,
but further we could not o without his pass and token, which he
accordingly gave to us. aswhatare they'l` A. The words are
Shem, Japheth, and Adoniram; the token is putting the hand_ in
the bosom, plucking it out again, in imitation of the second sign
which Moses was directed to make to the Israelites, when pulhng
I
.nn.- .»
4
'-
_-.q"r7r°~~ ___...=..».-_
136 uonr on nusonav.
his hand into his bosom and taking it out again, it became lep-
rous as snow. Q. How were you then disposed of? A. We
were conducted onwards to the Third Veil, when the same ques-
tions were asked and answers returned, as before, with the addi-
tion df the token and words last received. Q. What followed?
A. The Master of the Third Veil then gave us the sign, words,
and signet, to enable us to pass the Fourth Veil, to the presence
of the Grand Council. Q. What are the words, sign, and sig-
net? A. The words are Japheth, Shem, Noah; the sign, pour-
ing water upon the ground, in imitation of Moses, who poured
water upon the ground and it became blood; the signet is called
the signet of truth, and is Zerubbabel. It alludes to this pas-
sage, 'In that day, I will take thee, O Zerubbabel, my servant,
the son of Shealtiel, and will make thee as a signet; for I have
chosen thee.' [See Haggai, chap. ii. ver. 23.]
Q. What followed? A. We then passed to the Fourth Veil,
where, after answering the same questions, and giving the sign,
words, and signet, last received, we were admitted to the pres-
ence of the Grand Council, where the High Priest made the
same demands as were made at the Veils, and received the same
answers. Q. What did the High Priest further demand of you?
A. The signs from Entered Apprentice to Most Excellent Mas-
ter in succession. Q. What did he then say to you? A. He
said we were truly three worthy Most Excellent Masters, com-
mended us for our zeal and disinterestedness, and asked what
part of the work we were
willing to undertake. Q. Your an-
swer? A. That we were willing to undertake any service, how-
ever servile or
dangerous, for the sake of forwarding so
great and
noble an undertaking. Q. What followed? A. We were then
fumished with a
pickaxe, spade, and crow, and were directed to
repair to the N. W. corner of the ruins of the old temple, and
commence removing the rubbish, to lay the foundation of the
new, and to observe and preserve every thing of importance and
report to the Grand Council. We accordingly repaired to thc
place, and after laboring several days, we discovered what seem-
ed a rock, but on striking it with the crow, it gave a hollow sound,
'and upon closer examination, we discovered in it an iron ring,
by help of which we succeeded in removing it from its place,
when we found it to be the key-stone of an arch, and through
the aperture there appeared to be an immense vault curiously
arched. We then took the stone,l repaired to the Grand
Council, and presented it for their inspection. Q. What did the
Grand Council then say to you? A. They told us that the stone
contained the mark of our ancient Grand Master, Hiram Abitf;
----»»--~-
-ss...-__ _I
-in-na. _-».. ,_ _-.__
_.,...--»----""'"'
'
LIGHT ON MASONRL' 137
that it was truly a fortunate discovery, and that without douhttbo
vault contained things of the utmost consequence to the craft.
They then directed us to repair again to the place, and continue
our researches. Q., What followed? A. We returned again
to the place, and agreed that one of our number should descend
by means of a. rope, the middle of which was fixed lirmly around
his body, and if he wished to descend, he was to pull the rope in
his right hand, if to ascend, that in his left. He accordingly
descended, and in groping about, he found what appeared to be
some ancient jewels, but the a.ir becoming offensive, he pulled
the rope in his left hand, and was
immediately drawn out. We
then repaired to
the Grand Council, made our
report, and pre-
sented the articles found, which they pronounced the jewels of
our three ancient Grand Masters, Solomon, Hiram, and Hiram
Abifil They commended us
highly for our zeal and fidelity, as-
sured us that it was a fortunate discovery, that it would probably
lead to still more important ones, and that our disinterested per-
severance should not go unrewarded. They directed us to re-
pair again to the place, and make what further discoveries lay in
our power. Q. What followed? A. We again returned to the
place, and let down one of our
companions, as before. The sun
having now reached its meridian height, darted its rays to the in-
most recesses of the vault, and enabled him to discover a small
chest, or box, curiously wrought; but the air becoming exceed-
ingly olfensive, he gave the sign and was immediately drawn out.
We immediately repaired to the Grand Council, and presented
our
discovery. On examination, the Grand Council pronounc-
ed it to be the ark of the covenant, which was deposited in the
vault by our ancient Grand Master, for safe keeping. On in-
specting it more closely, they found a
key with which they open-
ed it. The High Priest then took from it a book, which he open.
ed, and read as follows; (Gen. i. 1-3.) 'ln the beginning God
created the heavens and the earth. And the earth was without
form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep:
and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. And
God said, Let there be light: and there was
light.' [Dent
xxxi. 24-~26.] 'And it came to pass, when Moses had made
an end of writing the words of this law in a book, until they
were finished, that Moses commanded the Levites whichhare the
ark of the covenant of the Lord, saying, Take this book of the
law, and put it in the side ofthe ark of the covenant ofthe Lord
your God, that it may be there for a witness against thee.' [Ex.
xxv. 21.] 'And thou shalt put the mercy-seat above, upon the
ark, and in the ark thou shalt
ppt
the testimony that I shall give
2
_,_,._.--
t38 LIGHT ON Masomlr.
thee.' He then declared itto be 'the book of the law; upon
which the Grand Council, in an ecstasy of joy, exclaimed three
times, "Long lost, now found, Holiness to the Lord;" at the
same time drawing their hand across their foreheads. Q. What
further was found in the ark? A. A small vessel containing a
substance, which, after the Council had examined, andthe High
Priest again read from the book of the law, [Ex. xvi. 32-34,]
he pronounced to be manna. 'And Moses said, this is the thing
which the Lord commandeth: lill an omer of the manna to be
kept for your generations, that they may see the bread where-
with I have fed you in the wilderness, when I brought you forth
from the land of Egypt. And Moses said unto Aaron, take a
pot and put an omer full of marina therein, and lay it up before
the Lord, to be kept for your generations. As the Lord com-
manded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the testimony, to be
kept for a token.' The High Priest then took a rod from the
ark, which after he had read the following passage, |_Numb. xvii.
10,] 'And the Lord said unto
Moses, bring Aaron's rod again
before the testimony to be kept for a token,' he pronounced to
he Aaron's rod, which budded and blossomed as the rose. Q.
Was there any thing further found in the ark? A. There was u
key to the ineffable characters belonging to this degree, as follows:
ji: X beginning at top of this diagram at the left hand angle;
A B CDEFGH I J KLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
_I ;|L.ULhf. HUEILE l7l|dFl'F/V<</A>>
The
utiper
left hand angle without a dot is A; the same with a
dot is , &c.' V
Q. What further was said to you? A. The High Priest read
the following passage: (Exodus vi. 2, 3,) 'And God spake un-
to Moses, and said unto him, I am the Lord, and I appeared un-
to Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, by the name of God
Almighty, but by my name Jehovah was I not known to them.'
He then informed us that the name of Deity the divine Logos,
or word, to which reference is had in John i. 1, 5. 'In the be- -
ginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word
was God; the same was in the beginning with_God: all things
were made by him, and without him was not any thing made that
was made: In him was life, and the life was the light offmen:
And the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehend-
eth it not.' That this Logos, or word, was
anciently writtendn-
ly in these sacred characters, and thus preserved from
J `
eration to another. That this was the true
masonic worxgwhieh
_
Ain_=.|u`=¢.;
A- ',_',& ..__J'*L`
_____,,f
,
mem on msomvz. |39
was lost in the death of Hiram Abitf, and was restored at the
rebuilding of the temple, in the manner we had at that time as-
sisted to represent. Q. What followed? A. We were remind-
ed of the manner in which we had sworn to give the R. A. word-
yvere instructed in the manner and finally invested with the all:
important word in due form. Q. What is the Grand Royal Arch
word? A. JAH-BUH-LUN.* Q. How is it to be given? A.
Under a
living arch by three times three, in low breath, (see des-
cription of opening a chapter.) Q. What followed? A. We
were
presented with the signs belonging to this degree. Q. Will
you give me those signs? Answered by giving the signs, thus;
raise the right hand to the forehead, the hand and arm
horizontal;
thumb towards the forehead, draw it briskly across the forehead,
and drop it perpendicularly by the side. This constitutes the due
guard of this degree, and refers to the penalty of the obligation,
The grand sign is made by locking the fingers of both hands to-
gether, and carrying them to the top of the head, the palms up-
ward, alluding to the manner in which the brother who descended
into the vault, and found the'arlr, found_ his hands involuntarily
placed to protect his head from the potent rays of the meridian
sun. Q. What followed?
'
A. The High Priest then placed
crowns upon our heads, and told us that we were now invested
with all the important secrets of this degree, and crowned and re-
ceived as
worthy companions Royal Arch Masons. He then gives
the charge, (see Masonic Chart, pa. 1 13, or Webb's Monitor, 149.)
The second section of the lecture on this degree states
mi-g
nutely the ceremonies and forms of exaltation, (as the confer-
ring of this degree is styled,) but there seems to be some
pans
which require explanation. The principal sojoumer conducts
the candidate, and is considered as
representing Moses con~
ducting the children of Israel through the wildemess. He'-is
usually dressed to represent an old man, bowed with age, with a
mask on his face, and long beard hanging down upon his breast;
is introduced to the candidate in the preparation room
by the
name of Moses. On entering the chapter, the candidates are
received under a
'living arch;' that is, the companions arrange
themselves in a line on each ,side of the door, and each joins
hands with the one
opposite to himselfl The candidates enter-
ing, the conductor says; 'stoop low, brothers! we are about to
enter the arches; remember that he that humbleth himself, shall
be exalted: stoop low, brothers, stoop lowl' The candidates
*This
gpestion
and answer do not belong to the lecture, but are inS¢11¢°
to show e word plainly and unencumbered with ceremonies-
; __
_._;» ff-'-nnvnui;
" '
140 LIGHT ON MA!0NBY»
seldom pass the first pair of bands, or, in other words, the first
arch, without being so far humbled as to be very glad to support
themselves on all fours. Their progress may well be imagined
to be very slow; for, in addition to their humble posture, they
are obliged to support on their backs, the whole weight of the
living arches above. (Who would not go slow?) The conduct-
or to encourage them, calls out occasionally, 'stoop low, bro-
thers, stoop lowl' If they go too slow to suit the companions,
it is not unusual for some one to apply a sharp point to their .bo-
dies, to urge them on; the points of the pasteboard crown an-
swers quite well for this purpose. After they have endured this
humiliating exercise as long as suits the convenience of the com-
panions, (and if they are not reduced to a more humble posture
than all fours, they come off well,) they pass from under the liv-
ing arches. Surely, after this, they must stay humbledfor IW.
The candidates next receive the obligation, travel the room, at-
tend the prayer, travel again, and are shown a
representation of
the Lord appearing to Moses from the burning bush. This last
is done in various ways. Sometimes an earthen pot is filled
with earth, and green bushes sét round the edge of it, and a
candle in the centre; and sometimes a stool is provided with holes
about the edge, in which bushes are placed, and a bundle of rags,
or tow, saturated with oil of turpentine, placed in the centre, to
which tire is communicated. Sometimes a
large bush is sus-
pended f'rom the ceiling, around the stem of which tow is wound
wet with oil of turpentine. In whatever way the bush is prepar-
ed, when the words are read, 'he looked, and behold, the bush
burned with fire,' Ste. the bandage is removed from the eyes of
the candidates, and they see the lire in the bush,* and, at the
words, 'Draw not nigh hither; put off thy shoes,' Src. the shoes
of the candidates are taken od; and they remain in the same sit-
uation while the rest of the passage is read to the words, 'And
Moses hid his face; for he was afraid to look upon God.' The
bandage is then replaced, and the candidates again travel about
the room, while the next passage of scripture is read. [See
* This is frequently represented in this manner: When the person read-
ing comes to that rt where it says, 'God called to him out of the midst of
the bush, and &c. he stops reading, and a
person behind the bushes
calls out, 'Moses, Moses;' the conductor answers, 'Here am I:' the person
behind the bush then says, 'Draw not nigh hither;
put
off th shoes from off
thy feet; for the place whereon thou standest is ho y ground? ghglshoes
are
then
sliggg oi; Moreover, I am the God of Abraham, the W
`
of Isaac,
and the of anob.' The
person
first reading, then says, 'And Moseshid
his face; for he was afraid to ook upon Gad) A¢,¢h¢,¢ wdjiue ymhge
is placed over the candidates' eyes.
I
_nA¢u»_. __ _
_
.~
I
>/LIGHT ON MASONBY. 141
I
Lecture.] At the words, 'and brake down the walls of Jeruig-
lem,' the companions make a tremendous crashing and noise, by
tiring pistols, overturning chairs, benches, and whatever is at
hand; rolling cannon balls across the floor, stamping, Sic. Etc.
and in the midst of the uproar, the candidates are seized, a chain
thrown about them, and they are hurried away to the preparation
room. This is the representation of the destruction of Jerusa-
lem, and carrying captive the children of Israel to Babylon.-»
After a short time the proclamation of Cyrus is read, the candi-
dates are unbound, and start to go up to Jerusalem, to assist in
rebhilding the temple. The candidates, still hood-winked, are
brought into the chapter, and commence their journey over tho
rugged and rough paths. They are
literally rough paths, sticks
of timber framed across the path the candidate must travel, some
inches from the floor, make no comfortable travelling for a per-
son blindfolded. But this is not always the way it is prepared;
billets of wood singly, or in heaps, ladders, nets of cords, &c.
&c. are all put in requisition to form the rough and rugged paths,
which are intended as a trial of the _fdelity of the candidates.
If they escape with nothing more than bruised shins they do
well. They have been known to faint
away
under the severity
of the discipline, and occasion the worthy companions much
alarm. Alier travelling the rugged paths till all are satisfied,
they arrive at the first Veil of the Tabemacle, give the pass
word, and pass on to the second, give the pass words, and pre-
sent the sign. This, it will be recollected, is in imitation of the
sign which Moses was directed to make to the children of Israel.
He threw his rod upon the ground and it became a serpent; he
put forth his hand and took it by the tail, and it became a rod in
his hand. The conductor is provided with a rod, made in the
form of a snake, and painted to resemble one. This he drops
upon the floor, and takes up again. They then Pass on to the
next Veil, give the pass word, and make the sign, (put the right
hand in the bosom and pluck it out again;) pass on to the next
-gives the pass words, and .make the sign, (pour water upon the
ground;) and are ushered into thd presence of the Grand Coun-
cil. The Veils are four in number, and of the same color as the
banners of the three Grand Masters of the Veils, and that ot'
the Royal Arch Captain, blue, purple, scarlet, and white, and
have the same references and explanations. (See Lecture.)
The Grand Council consists of the M. E. High Priest, King,
and Scribe. The H. Priest is dressed in a white robe, with 8
breastplate of cut glass, consisting of twelve pieces to represent
the twelve tribes of Israel, an apron, and a mitre. The King
.41-_ ~ .""
hs ,,_.
.
142
'
LIGHT ON MASON`RY»
`
wears a. scarlet robe, apron, and crown. The mitre and crown
are generally made of pasteboard; sometimes they have them of
the most splendid materials, gold and silk velvet; but these are
kept for public occasions. The mitre has the words, 'Holiness
to the Lord' in gold letters across the forehead. The Scribe
wears a
purple robe, apron, and turban. After having satisfied
the Grand Council that they are true brethren, and stated their
object in coming to Jerusalem, the candidates are directed to
commence the labor of removing the rubbish of the old temple
preparatory to laying the foundation of the new. 'For the pur-
pose of performing this part of the ceremony, there is in or rfear
the chapter a narrow kind of closet, the only entrance to which
is through a scuttle at the top; there is placed over this scuttle
whatever rubbish is at hand, bits of boards, brick bats, Src. and
among them the key stone. After the candidates are furnished
with the tools, (pickaxe, spade, and crow,) they are directed to
this place, and remove the rubbish till they discover the key stone.
This they convey to the Grand Council as stated in the lecture.
After the Grand Coimcil have examined it, they pronounce it to
be the work of the Grand Master, Hiram Abifl, and direct them
to return and prosecute their researches, not doubting they will
make many importht discoveries. The candidates return and
let down one of their number by a rope-he finds three squares,
is drawn out, and all proceed with them to the Grand Council.-
The G. Council inspect them and pronounce them to be the three
ancient jewels that belonged to the three ancient Grand Masters,
Solomon, Hiram, and Hiram Abiflf The candidates then return
to the vault and let down another of their number. Here, let it
be remarked, some chapters, for the purpose of lightening the la-
bors of the candidates, call in the aid of machinery. A pulley
is suspended over the vault, and tho candidate is exalted from
the bottom at the tail of a snatch block, the one last let down
finds at the bottom a small chest, or box; upon which he gives
the signal to be drawn out: he no sooner discovers the box, than
the air in the vault, in the language .of the lecture, 'becomes ex-
ceedingly oH'ensive.' This is strictly true; for at the moment he
takes up the box and is preparing to ascend, fire is communica-
ted to a
quantity of gun-powder at his feet, sp that by the time
he arrives at the top, he is so
completely suffocated with the fumes
of the powder, that he is almost deprived of the power of.
respi-
ration or motion. The box is carried to the G. Council, and pro-
nounced to be the ark of the covenant. lt is opened, and a Bible
taken out, and some pa sages read from it. .
(See Lecture.) One
word respecting the representation of the ark. It ought to be a
,¢.¢u-.___
near on
uqqhmv. 143
splendid box covered with gold, and"srnne of them are really
elegant; but the chapter must have such as it can afford: if it is
too poor to procure splendid furniture, cheap articles are made
to answer; for an ark, 'if the funds are low, a plain cherry or
pine
box will answer,;lmd sometimes a
cigar box is made the humble
representation of"the splendid ark, made hy divine command, of
shittim wood, and overlaid with pure gold. The H. Priest takes
then from the ark a vessel containing something to represent man.
na. This vessel is of'various forms and materials, from an
elegant
silver urn to a broken earthen mug; and the substance contain-
ed is as various as the vessels in which it is deposited; such as
a bit of' sugar, a
piece of cracker, or a few kennel of 'wheat.
Which ever is used, the H. Priest takes it vut and gravely asks
the King and Scribe their opinion of it; they say they think it is
manna. The High Priest then looks at it intently and says, 'it
looks like manna;' smells it, and says, 'it smells like manna;' and
then tastes it, and says, 'it is manna.' The H. Priest then takes
from the ark a hit of an apple tree sprout, a few inches long,
with some withered buds upon it, dr a stick of a similar length
with some artificial buds upon it, which, after consulting with
the King and Scribe, he pronounces Aaron's rod. He then takes
out the key tp the ineffable characters and explains it. This key
is kept in the ark on four distinct pieces of paper. The key is
marked on a square piece of paper, and the paper is then divided
into four equal parts; thus:-the outside lines rep- ,
resent the dimensions of' the paper, the inside ones
are the key, and the dotted ones, the section that is
'
l
'
l '
made of the whole for the purpose of keeping it se- -
| -
1 -
cret, should any graceless cowan ever
get possession
of the sacred ark, and attempt to rumage its contents. The oth-
part of the key X is made on the back of the same
piece bf pa-
per, so that on
putting them together, it shows equally plain. It
is said that these characters were used by Aaron Burr, in carry-
ing on his treasouahle practices, and by that means made public;
since which time they have been written and read from lef`t to
right. After the ceremonies are ended, the High Priest informs
the candidates, in many or few words, according to his ability,
that this degree owes its origin to Zerubbabel and his associates,
who rebuilt the temple by order of Cyrus, king of Persia. He
informs them that the discovery of the secret vault and the ines-
timable treasures, with the long lost ward, actually took place in
the manner represented in conferring this degree, and that it is
the circumstance upon which the degree is principally founded-
Thc ceremony of closing a chapter is precisely the same as at
Q*
.,
9-
144 uqggi. on nnsonar. _ _
opening,to the raising of MJ living arch. The companions join
hands by throes, in the same manner, and say in_ concert, with
the same ceremony, 'As we three did agree, the sacred word to
keep,' 'As we three did agree, the sacred word to search,' 'So
we three do agree, to close this royal arch.' They then break
without giving the word, as the H. Priest reads the following
prayer: By the wisdom of the Supreme High Priest may we be
directed, by his strength may we be enabled, and by the beauty
of .virtue may we be incited, to, perform the obligations here en-
joined upon us, to keep inviolable the mysteries here unfolded to
us, and invariably to practice all those duties out of the chapter,
which are inculcated in it. (Response) So mote it be. Amen.
The High Priest then declares the chapter closed in due form.
þÿ- ¬0I0>-
KNIGHTS OF THE RED CROSS.
At the sound of the trumpet the line is formed. Master of
Cavalry to the Sir Knight Warden, 'when a council of Knights
of the Red Cross is about to be formed and opened, what is the
tirst carc?' Warden, 'to see the councilchamber duly guarded.'
M. C. 'please to attend that part of your duty, see that the sen-
tinels are at their respective posts, and inform the captain of the
Guards that we are about to open a council of Knights of the
Red Cross for the despatch of business! Warden, 'the senti-
nals are at their respective posts, and the council chamber duly
guarded! M. C. 'are all present Knights of the Red Cross?'
Warden, 'they are.' M. C. 'attention, Sir Knights, count your-
selves from right to left-right files handle sword-draw sword-
carry sword--right files to the left double-second division for-
ward, march, halt-right about face.' Sir Kt. Master of infant-
ry, accompanied by the sword bearer and Warden, 'please inform
the Sovereign Master that the lines are formed waiting his pleas-
ure.' At the approach of the council the trumpet sounds. M.
C. 'form avenue: (the council passz) the Sovereign Master pas-
ses uncovered: recover arms, poise arms.' Sovereign Master,
'attention, Sir Knights; give your attention to the several signs of
Masonry: as I do, so do you! [The Sir Knights give the sign
from the tirst to the seventh deg'ree.] Sov. M. 'draw swords-
take care to advance and give the Jewish countersign-recover
arms: take care to advance and give the Persian countersign-
recover arms.' Sov. M. to Sir Knight Master of the Palace,
'advance, and give me the word of a Kt. of the Red Cross: the
qi'
l
Qunguni _
a _._,_ I.
uonr on mssonar. 145
word is
'
ht-receive it on
your len." The word is then
around: r§'hen it anrives at the Chancellor he says, 'Sov. M. of
the Red Cross, word has arrived! Sov. M. 'pass it on to me;
[he gives it to the Sov. M.] Sir Kt. the word is right' Sov. M__
to Sir Kt. Chizncellor, 'advance, and give me the grand sign, grip
and word of a Kt. of the Red Cross: it is right-receive it on
your left! [The word passes around as before, as will hereafter
be explained, and when arrived at the Master of the Palace, he
says] 'Sov. M. the grand sign, grip and word have arrived.'
'Pass them on to me: Sir Kt. they are
right. Left face-depog.
it helmets-centre face--reverse arms-to your devotions. [the
Sir Kts. all kneel andrepeat the Lord's prayen] recover ni-mg-
left face-recover helmets-centre face-right about face-to
your posts-march.' r
FIRST SECTION 017' LECTURES.
lst. Are you a
Knight of the Red Cross? That is my pro-
fession. 2d. By what test will ybu be tried? By the test of
truth. 3d. Why by the test of truth? Because none but the good
and true are entitled tothe honors and privileges ofthis illustrious
order. 4th. Where did you receive the honors of this illustri-
ous order? Ina just and regular council of Knights of the Red
Cross._ 5th. What number compose a council? There is an
indispensable number and a constitutional number. 6th.
'
What.
is the indispensable number? Three. '7th. Under what circum-
stances are they authorized to form and open a council of Knights
of the Red Cross? Three Knights of the Red Cross, being al-
so Knight Templars, and hailing from three different command-
eries, may, underthe sanction of a legal warrant from some re-
gular Grand Encampment, form and open a council of Knights
ot' the Red Cross for the despatch of business. 8th. What is a
constitutional number? A. 5, 7, 9, ll, or more. 9th. When
composed of 5, 7, 9, ll, of whom does it
consist? A. Sover-
eign Master, Chancellor, Master ol' the Palace, Prelate, Master.
of Cavalry, Master of Infantry, Master of Finance, Master of
Despatches, Standard bearer, Sword bearer, and Warder. l0th._
`Warder's station in the council? A. On the left of the Stand-
ard bearer in the west. llth. His duty? A. To announce
the approach of the Sov. Master; to see that the Sentinels are at
their respective posts, and the council chamber duly guarded.
12th. Sword benrer's station in the council? A. On the right
of the Standard bearer in the west. 13th. His duty? A. To as-
sist inthe proteetion of the banners of our order: to watch all.
signals from the Sov. Ma ter, and
are
his orders duly exe¢1¢¢¢l»~
.4-¢»
.»|¢_.
146 mom' on nusonar.
14th. Standard bearer's station? A. In the west. 15th. His
duty? A. To display, support and protect the banner of our
order. 16th. Why is the Standard bearer's station in the west?
A, That the brilliant rays of the rising sun, shedding their lus~
tre upon the banners of our order, may encourage and animate all
true and courteous Knights, and dismay and confound their ene-
mies. 17th. Station of Master of Despatchesl A. In front
of the Master of the Palace. 18th. His duty! A. To ob-
serve with attention the transactions of the council; to keep a just
and regular record thereof, collect the revenue, and pay the same
over to the Master of Finance. 19th. Station of the Master
of Finance? A. In front of the Chancellor. 20th. His duty?
A. To receive in charge the funds and property of the council,
pay all orders drawn upon the treasurer, and render a
just and re-
gular account when called for. 2lst. Station of the Master of
infantry? A. On the right ofA
the second division, when separ-
ately formed; on the left of the whole when formed in line. 22d.
His duty? A. To command the second division or line of in-
fantry, teach them their duty and exercise; also to prepare all can-
didates, attend them on their journey, answer all questions for
them, and finally to introduce them into the council chamber. 23d.
Station of the Master of Cavalry? A. Onthe right of the first
division when separately formed, and on the right of the whole
when formed in line. 24th. His duty? A. To command the
first division or line of Cavalry, teach them their duty and exer-
cise; to form the avenue at the approach of the sovereign Mas-
ter, and prepare the lines for inspection and review. 25th. Pre-
late's station? A. On the right of the Chancellor. 26th. His
duty? A. To preside in the Royal Arch council; administer
at the altar; to offer up prayers and adoration to Deity. 27th.
Station of Master of the Palace? A. On the left of the Sov.
Master in the East. 28th. His duty? A. A
To see that the
'proper officers make all due preparations for the several meet-
ings of the council; to take special care that thecouncil cham-
ber is in suitable array for the reception of candidates, and the
despatch of business; to receive and communicate all orders is-
sued by` the Sov.' Master, through the ofiicers of the line.
29th'. Chancellor's station? A. On the right of the Sovereign
Master. 30th. His duty? A. To receive and communicate
all orders and petitions; to assist the Sov. Master in the discharge
of his vari§us duties, and in his absence to preside in thecouncil.
3lstLK 'Sovereign Master's station? A. In the east. 32d. His
duty. To preside in the council; confer this order of Knight-
hood upon those whom his council may approve; to preserve in
_....¢...a.._aal~»-_...__
`...'_
naar on misoivav. 147
violate the laws and constitution of our order; to dispense justice,
reward merit, encourage truth, and diffuse the sublime principles
of universal benevolence. Sov. Master. 'Sir Knight Chancel-
lor, it is my will and pleasure that a council of Knights of the
Red Cross be now opened," and to stand open for the despatch of
such business as may regularly come before it at this time, re-
quiring all Sir Knights now assembled, or who may come at this
time, to govem themselves according to the sublime principles of
our order. You will communicate this to the Sir Kt. Master of
the Palace, that the Sir Knights present may have due notice
thereof, and govem themselves accordingly! [The Sir Knight
Chancellor communicates it to the Sir Knight Master of the Pal-
ace, and he to the Knights.] Sov. Master: 'return arms; right
about face; to your posts; march; centre face; Sir Knights, this
Council is now open for the despatch of business.'
SICOND SECTION OF LECTURES-
lst. What were the preparatory circumstances attending your
reception to this illustrious order? A council of Royal Arch Ma-
sons being assembled in a room adjacent to the council chamber,
I was conducted to the door, where a regular demand was made
by 2, 3, and 2Q 2d. What was said to you from within? Who
comes there. 3d. Your answer? Companion A. B. who has
regularly received the several degrees of Entered A rentice
PP
Fellow Craft, Master Mason, Mark Master, Past Master, Most
Excellent Master, and Royal Arch degree, and now solicits the
honor of being regularly constituted a
Knight of the Red Cross.
4th. What was then said to you? I was asked if it was of' iny
own free will and accord that I made this request; ifl was wor-
thy and well qualified; if I had made suitable proficiency in the
foregoing degrees, and was properly vouched for: all of which be-
ing answered in the affirmative, I was asked by whatfiirther right
or benefit [expected to gain admittance. 5th. Your answer?
By the benefit of a
pass word. 6th. Did you give that pass
word? I did with the assistance of my companions. [Here the
Royal Arch Word is given as described inthe Royal Arch de-
gree.] 7th. What was then said to you? I was then directed
to wait with patience till the- Most Excellent Prelate should be in-
formed of my request and his answer returned. Sth. What was
his answer? Let him be admitted. 9th. What was
you then in-
formed? The Most Excellent Prelate observed, that the coun-
cil there _assembled, represented the grand council convened at
Jerusalem, in the second year of the reign of Darius, King of
Persia, to deliberate on the unhappy state of the fratemity dw'
148 Lronr on Mnsormr.
ing the reigns of Artaxerxes and Ahasuerus, and to devisesome
'means to obtain favor of the new
Sovereign, and to gain his con-
sent to proceed in rebuilding their new
city and temple. 10th.
What followed? The Most Excellent Prelate then informed me,
that if I was desirous of attending the deliberations of the coun-
cilat this time, it was
necessary that I should assume the name
and character of Zerubbabel, a prince of the house of Judah,
whose hands laid the foundation of the second temple, and whose
hands the Lord had promised should complete it. llth. What
followed? The Most Excellent Prelate then read a lesson from
the records of the Fathers, stating the impediments with which
they were troubled by their adversaries, on the other side of the
river, and the grevious accusations which were
brought against
them before the King. 12th. _What followed? My conductor
then addressed the Most Excellent Prelate, thus: Most excellent
Prelate, our
Sovereign Lord, Darius the King, having now as-
cended the throne of Persia, new hopes are
inspired of protec-
tion and support inthe noble and glorious undertaking, which has
been so
long and so often interrupted by our adversaries on the
other side of the river; for while yet a
private man, he made a vow
to God, that should he ever ascend the throne of Persia, he would
send allthe Holy vessels remaining at Babylon back to Jerusa-
lem.* Our Most Excellent and faithful companion Zeruhbabel,
who was formerly honored with the favorable notice and friend-
ship of the Sovereign, now offers his services to encounter the
hazardous enterprise of traversing*the Persian dominions, and
seeking admission to the presence of the Sovereign, where the
first favorable moment will be seized to remind the King of his
vow, and impress on his mind the almighty force and importance
of truth; and from his known piety, no doubt can be entertained
of gaining his consent, that our enemies be removed farhence,
and that we be no longer hindered or
impeded in our noble and
glorious undertaking. 18th. What was the Most Excellent
Prelate's reply? Excellent Zerubbabel, the council accept with
gratification and joy your noble and generous offer, and will in~
ve t you with the necessary passports, by means of which you
will be enabled to make yourself known to the favor of one coun-
cil wherever you may meet them; but in an undertaking of so
much importance, it is necessary that you enter into a solemn ob-
liguiqn, to be faithful to the trust reposed in you. 14th. What
fqllgwgdl The Most Excellent Prelate then invested me with
* This is not found in the scripturespnd is
contra?
to gn pmlgbilit _._
:Add
thou not unto his wand lest he reprove thee an thou be feande liar."
rev. 80, 6.
_
-°h~4|"*`¢¢l-n_n____,....._.....r...___________ia_..:. 4.;2ln¢.:...t _ _.gn .4
LIGHT ON MABONHY. 149
a sword, to enable me .to defend myself against my enemies, and
said he was ready to administer the obligation.-15th. Did you
consent to that obligation? I did in due form. l6th. What was
that due form? Kneeling on my left knee, my right foot forming
a
square, my body erect, my right hand grasping the hilt of my
sword, my left hand covering the Holy Bible, square and Com-
pass, with two cross-swords thereon, in which due form I took
upon me the solemn oath and obligation of .Knight of the Red
Cross. 17th. Repeat the obligation.
'I, A B, of my own free will and accord, in the presence ofthe
Supreme Architect ofthe Universe, and these witnesses, do here-
by and hereon, _most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear,
that I will always hail, forever conceal, and never reveal. any of
the secret arts, parts or
points' of the mysteries appertaining to
this order of Knight of the Red Cross, unless it be to a true and
lawful companion Sir Knight ofthe 0rder,°or within thebody ofa.
just & lawfulcouncil of such; & not unto him or them, until by due
trial, strict examination or lawful information, I find him or them
lawfully entitled to receive the same.-I furthermore promise
and swear. that I will answer and obey all due signs and regular
summons, which shall be sent tome from a regular council of
Knights of the Red Cross, or given to me from the hands of a
companion, Sir Knight ofthe Red Cross, if within the distance of
forty miles; natural inlirmities and unavoidable accidents only ex-
cusing me.-I furthermore promise and swear, that I will not be
present at the conferring of this order of Knightbood upon any
person, unless he shall have previously regularly received the
several degrees of Entered Apprentice, Fellow Craft, Master
Mason, Mark Master, Past Master, Most Excellent Master, and
Royal Arch degree, to the best cf my knowledge and beliell-
I furthermore promise and swear, that [will not assist or be pres-
em at the forming and opening of a council of Knights of the
Red Cross, unless there be present at least five regular Knights
of the order,_or the representatives of three different Encamp-
ments, acting under the sanction of a
legal warrant.-I further-
more promise and swear, thatl will vindicate the character ofa
courteous Sir Knight of the Red Cross, when wrongfully traduc-
ed: that I will help him ona lawful occasion in preference to any
brother of an inferior degree, and so_ far as truth, honor and jua-
tice may warrant.-I furthermore promise and swear, that I will
support and maintain the by-laws of the council of which I may
hereafter become 'a member, the laws and regulations of the
Grand Encampment under which the same may be holdem ¢°'
gather with the constitution and
oiginances
of the General Grand
2
`
_...QL ._, _
--4°
*"ll»~-_ ,.».s._.__,_...-n-sian ,_
»-»-'
150 LIGHT ON MASONRL
Enoampment of the United States of America, so far as the same
drall come to my knowledge--to all which I do most solemnly
promise and swear, binding myself-under no less penalty than
of having my house torn down, the timbers thereof set up, and
I hanged thereon; and when the last trump shall blow, that I be
forever excluded from the society of all true and courteous Kts.
should I ever wilfully or
knowingly violate any part of this sol-
emn obligation of Knight of the Red Cross; so help me God, and
keep me steadfast to keep and perform the same.*
18th. What followed? The Most Excellent Prelate then di-
rected me to rise and be invested with a
countersign, which _he
informed me would enable me to make myself known to the
friends of our cause wherever I should meet them, and would en-
surelme from them, succor, aid and protection. [Here the Ma.s»
ter of Infantry, who is the conductor, gives the candidate the
Jewish countersign: it's given under the Arch of steel, that is,
their swords elevated above their heads, forming a cross, each
placing his left hand upon the 'otber's right shoulder, and whis-
pering altemately in each other's ear, the names of Judah and
Benjamin] 19th. What followed? The Most Excellent Pre-
Iate then invested me with a
green sash, as a mark of our parti-
cular friendship and esteem: you will wear it as a constant memo-
rial to stimulate you to the faithful performance of every duty,
being assured that the memory of him who falls in a just and vir-
tuous cause, shall forever flourish like the green bay tree. 20th.
What followed? I then .commenced my journey, and was fre-
quently accosted by guards, all of which, by means of the coun-
tersign I had received, I was enabled to pass in friendship, until
I arrived at the bridge, which was
represented to be in the Per-
sian dominions: on attempting' to pass this bridge, which I found
strongly guarded, the lifersian countersign was demanded, and be-
ing unable to give it, l~ was attacked, overpowered, and made
frisoner. 2lst. What ibllowed? After rernonstrating in vain
against their violations, I told them I was a prince of the house
of Judah, and demanded an audience with their sovereign. 22d.
What was the answer' You are a prisoner, and can obtain an
audience with the sovereign only in the garb of a captive and
slave. 23d. Did you consent to this? _I did; being firmly per-
suaded, that could I by any means gain access to the presence of
the sovereign, Ishould be able to accomplish the object of my
*By this tremendous imprecation-the candidate of his "own free will and
accord" volunteers (in case of n
violation,) to come forth to the resurrection
of damnation, and receive the sentence, "depart thou accursed into everlast-
ing tire prepared for the devil and his angels! _
»------~ -___
-A-a¢.` 4
LIGHT ON MASONHY. 151
mission. 24th. What followed? They than deprived me of
my outward apparel, sash and sword, and having confined my
hands and feet in chains, the links thereof were of a
triangular
form, they put sackcloth and ashes on my head. 26th. Why
were the links of the captives chain of a triangular form? The
Assyrians having learned that among the Jews the triangle was an
emblem of the Eternal, caused the links of their chainsto be
made of a
triangular form, thinking thereby to add to the mise-
riei of their captives. '26th. What followed? lwas conducted
to the door of, the council chamber, where the alarm being giv-
en by 4X2, the warder appeared and demanded, 'Who comes
there?' _
27th. What answer was returned? A detachment of
his majesty's guards having made prisoner of one, who reports
himself to be prince of the house of Judah. 28th. What was
then said to you? l was asked from whence I came. 29th.
Your answer? From Jemsalem. 30th. What was then de-
manded of you? Who are
you. 3ls;. Your answer? The
first among my equals, a Mason, and free by rank, but a
captive
and_slave by misfortune. 32d. What, was you then asked? My
name. 33d. Your answeri Zeruhbabel. 34th. What were
you then asked? What are
your demands. 35th. Your answer?
To see the sovereign if possible. 36th. What was then said
to you? I was then directed to wait with patience until the sov-
ereign Master should be informed of my request, and his answer
retumed. 37th. What was that answer? That the necessary
caution should be taken that I was not armed with any hostile
weapons, and that I should then be admitted. 38th. How were
you then received! The guard being drawn up on the right and
left of the throne, swords drawn, two of them placed at the door
with swords crossed, under which I was permitted to enter, my
face covered with my hands, 39th. How were
you then dis-
posed ofl Iwas conducted in front of the sovereign Master,
who received me with kindness and attention, and listened with
patience to my request. 40th. What did the sovereign 'Master
then observe to the council? That this Zeruhbahel was the friend
of his youth, that he could neither be an
enemy nor a spy. 4lst.
What followed? The sovereign Master thus addressed me,
'Zeruhbabel, having now
gained admittance into our presence, we
demand that you immediately declare the particular motives
which induced you, without our
permission, and with force and
arms, to pass the lines of our dominionsl' 42d. Your answer? Sov.
Master, the tears and complaints of my companions at Jerusalem,
who have been so long and so often impeded in the noble and
glorious undertaking in which they were permitted to °l18°3° by
.ig _.mq|¢.»,¢_, ,__-A-va... _
~
~°'
`
'
152
'
morn' ou nusonav.
our late sovereign Lord Cyrus the King; but our enemies having
made that great work to cease by force and power, I have now
come up to implore your majesty's clemency, that you would be
plea <ed to restore me to favor, and grant me employment among
the servants of your household. 43d. What was the sovereign's
reply? Zerubbabel, I have often rellected with much pleasure
upon our early intimacy and friendship, and I have frequently
heard, with great satisfaction, of your fame as a wise and accom-
plished Mason, and having myselfa
protound veneration for that
ancient and honorable institution, and having a sincere desire to
become a member of the same,I will this moment grant your re~
quest, on condition that you will reveal to me the secrets of Free
Masonry. 44th. Did you consent to that? Idid not. 45th.
What was
your reply? Sovereign Master, when our Grand Mas-
ter Solomon, King of Israel, first instituted the Fraternity of Free
and Accepted Masons, he taught us that truth was a divine attri¢
bute, and the foundation of every virtue: to be good and true is
the first lesson we are
taught in Masonry. My engagements are
sacred and inviolable; I cannot reveal our secrets. [fl can ob-
tain your Majesty's favor only at the expense of my integrity, I
humbly beg leave to decline your royal protection, and will cheer-
fully submit to an honorable exile. What was the sovereign's
reply? Zerubbabel, your virtue and integrity are truely commen-
dable, and your fidelity to your engagements, is worthy of imita-
tion: from this moment you are free-my guards will divest you
of those chains and that garb of slavery, and clothe you in suit-
able habilments to attend me at the banquet hall. Zerubbabel, you
are free: guards, strike off those chains: and may those emblems
of slavery never
again disgrace the hands of a Mason, more
particularly a
prince of the house of Judah, Zerubbabel, we as-
sign you a seat of rank and honor among the princes and rulers of
our
assembly. 47th. What followed? The guards being drawn
up in the court yard, the warder informed the sovereign Master
that the guards were in readiness, waiting his pleasure. 48th.
What followed? He then ordered the guards to attend him to
the banquet hall. 49th. What occurred there? *After having
participated in a liberal entertainment, the sovereign Mute! 1101
beinginclined to sleep, and many of the guard having retired, he
amused himself by entering into cgnvefgatign with some of his'
principal ohicers and friends, proposing certain questions to them,
and offering a
princely reward to such as should give the most
reasonable and satisfactory answer. 50th. What questions were
*
Swfbe Arwyrhalhooks, 1, auim,omp¢ensa4.
_ .;.§';"*- -limi.-
.».u.na»nll=1--=
1
_-|lA._,,_,,, ,......-...»_ _: _,
_-
__,
LIGHT ON MA ONRY. 153
proposed? Among others, 'which was the strongest, wine, the
king, or woman?' 51s!. What answers were returned? The
Chancellor said wine was the strongest; the Master of the Pal-
ace said the king was the strongest; but I, being firmly persuad-
ed_ that the time had arrived in which I could remind the king of
his vow, and request the fulfilment of it, replied that women
were stronger than either of the former, but above all things truth
heareth the victory. 52d. What followed? The king being
deeply struck with the addition I made to the question, ordered us
to be prepared with proper arguments in support of our respect-
ive propositions on the day following. 53d. What followed?
On the day following thc council being convened at the sound of
the trumpet, the Chancellor was called upon for his answer, and
thus replied, (see templar's chart.) 54th. What followed? The
Master of the Palace_thus replied, (see templar's chart.) 55th.
What followed? I then being called upon for my defence, an-
swered as follows, (see templar's chart.) 56th. What followed?
The king being deeply struck with the force of the arguments I
had used, involuntarily exclaimed, 'Great is truth, and mighty
above all things: Ask what thou wilt, Zerubbahel, and it shall be
granted thee, for thou art found wisest among thy companions]
57th. Your answer? (see templar's chart.) 58th. What fol-
lowed? The sovereign Master thus addressed me, 'Zerubbabel,
I will punctually fulfil my vow: letters and passports shall be im-
mediately issued to my ollicers throughout the realm, and they
shall give you, and those who accompany you, safe conveyance
to Jerusalem, and you shall be no longer hindered or impeded in
rebuilding your city and temple, until they shall be completed!
59th. What followed? The Sov. M. then invested me with a
green
sash, and thus addressed me, 'This green sash, of which you were
deprived by my guards, I now' with pleasure restore to you, and
will make it one ol' the insignia of a new order, calculated to
perpetuate the remembrance of the' event which caused the re-
newal of our friendship; its color will remind you that truth is a
divine attribute, and shall prevail, and shall forever flourish in im-
mortal green. I will now confer on you the highest honor, in our
power at this time to bestow, and will create you the first Knight
of an order, instituted for the express purpose of inculcating the
almighty force and importance of truth? 60th. What followed?
The sovereign Master then directed me to kneel, and said, by
virtue of the
h%h power in me vested, as the successor and rep-
resentative of arius, king of Persia, Inow constitute you a Kt-
,of the illustrious order of the Red Cross-(at the same time lay-
ing the blade of his sword, irst upon the right shoulder, the" "I"
'
_..._
154 LIGHT on Masosnv
on the head, and then upon the left shoulder of the candidate.)
61st, _What followed! The sovereign Master then directed me
to arise, and presenting me with a sword thus addressed me, 'this
sword, of which you were deprived by my guards, I now restore
in your hand, as a true and courteous Knight: it will be endowed
with three most excellent properties-its hilt be faith, its blade be
hope, its point be charity: it should teach us this important les-
son, that when we draw our swords in a just and virtuous cause,
having faith in God, we may reasonably hope for victory, ever re-
membering to extend the hand ofcharity to the fallen foe: sheathe
it, and sooner may it rust in its' scabbard, than be drawn in the
cause of injustice or oppression! 62d. What followed? The
sovereign Master then invested me with thePersian countersign.
63d. Give it? This countersign is given like the Jewish, ex-
cepting this variation, it is given over instead of under the arch
of steel. The words are Tatnai Shethar-boznai, Ezra, v, 3.
64th. Who were they? They were governors of Persian prov-
inces, and enemies of the Jews. 65th. What followed? The
sovereign Master then invested me with the Red Cross word.
66th. Give it? (Each placing his left hand upon the other's
right shoulder, at the same time bringing the point of the swords
to each other's left side, in which position the word libertas is giv-
en.) 67th. What followed? The sovereign Master then in-
vested me with the grand sign, grip and word of Knight of the
Red Cross. 68th. Give them?-The grand sign is given by
bringing the thumb and finger of the left hand to the mouth, and
carrying it oil' in an oblique direction-the grip is given by inter-
lacing the fingers of the left hands-the word is veritas. The
sign, grip and word is given under the arch of steel. 69th. How
do you translate the word? Truth. 70th. To what does the
sign allude? To the blowing of the Trumpet uponthe walls and
watch towers of the council, but more particularly to the obliga-
tion, 'that when the last truihp shall sound, I shall be forever ex-
cludedfrom the society of all true and faithful Sir Kn'ights.' 71st.
:flirt
is the motto of our order? 'Magna est (Veritas it prevale
it.
*
Great ls truth and it will prevail.
iiinuéu--__
'
mour on msonav. 155
`
KNIGHT TEMPLAB AND KNIGHT 0F HALTA-
lst. Q. Are you a
Knight Templar? A. that is my title,
Q. 2d. Where were you created a
Knight Templar? A. In
a
just and lawful encampment of Knight Templars. 3d. What
number composes a
just and lawful encampment of Knight Tem-
plars? There is an indispensable number and a constitutional
number. 4th. What is an indispensable number. Three. Iith.
Under what circumstances are they authorised to form and open
an Encampment of Knight Templars? Three Knight Templars
hailing from three ditferent commanderies, may, under the sanc-
tion of a charter, or warrant, from some regular Grand Encamp-
ment, form and open an
Encampment for the despatch of busi-
ness. 6th. What is a constitutional number? Seven, nine, elev-
en, or more. 7th. When composed of eleven, of whom does it
consist? .
Warder, Sword bearer, Standard bearer, Recorder,
Treasurer, Junior Warden, Senior Warden, Prelate, Captain
General, Generalissimo, and Grand Commander. Sth. Warder's
station? On the left of the Standard bearer in _lie west, and on
the left of the third division. 9th. His duty? To observe the
orders and directions of the Grand Commander: to see that the
sentinels are at their respective posts; and that the Encampment
is duly guarded. 10th. Sword bearer's station? On the right of
the Standard bearer in the west, and on the right of the third divi-
sion. 11th. His duty? To assist inthe protection of the ban-
ners of our order; to watch all signals from the Grand Command-
er, and see his orders duly executed. 12th. Standard bearer's
station in the Encampment? In the west, and in the centre of the
third division. 13th. His duty? To display, support, and protect
the banners of our order. 14th. Why is the Standard bearer's
station in the west? That the brilliant rays 'of the rising sun,
shedding their lustre upon the banners of our order, may encour-
age and animate all true and courteous Knights, and dismay and
-confound thtir enemies. 15th. Recorder's station inthe Encamp-
ment? In front ofthe Captain General. 16th. His duty? To
observe with attention the order of the Encampment; keep a
just
and regular record of the same; collect the revenue, and pay the
same over to the Treasurer. 17th. Treasurer's station in the
Encampment? In front of the Generalissimo. 18th. His duty?
To receive in charge all funds and property of the Encampment;
'pay all orders drawn upon him, and render a just and faithful ac-
count when required. 19th. Station of the Junior
Warden in
lthe Encampment? At the south west angle of the tnanglef and
..-
.
_#Al-1
'
gg;-..l.é_.. ..__.-4...-u... --~~ -»-A
"
156 LIGHT ON MLBON.BY»
on theleft of the tirst division. 20th. His duty? To attend to
all poor and weary pilgrims travelling fiom atiir; to
accompany
them on their joumey; answer all questions for them, and finally
introduce them into the asylum. 21st, Senior Warden's station
in the Encampment? At the north west angle of the triangle, and
on the right of the second division. 22d.' His duty there? To
attend on pilgrim warriors, travelling from afar; to comfort'and
support pilgrims penitent, and, after due trial, to recommend them
to the hospitality of the Generalissimo. 23d. Prelate's station
in the Encampmentl On the iight of the Generalissimo. 24th.
His duty there? To administer at the altar, and oH`er up prayers
and adorations to the Deity. 26th. Captain General's station?
On the left of the Grand Commander. 26th. His duty? To
see that the proper oliicers make all suitable preparations for the
several meetings of the Encampment, and take special care that
the asylum is iii a suitable array for the introduction of candidates
and despatch ot' business; also, to receive and communicate all
orders from the Grand Commander to the oflicers of the line.
27th. Generalissimrfs station? On the right of the Grand Com-
mander. 28th, His- duty? To receive and communicate all
orders, signals, and petitions, and assist the Grand Commander
in the discharge of his various duties, and in his absence to gov-
ern the Encampment. 29th. Grand Commander's station? In
the east. 30th. His duty? To distribute /alms, and protect
weary pilgrims, travelling from afar; to encourage pilgrim warrie
ors; to sustain pilgrims penitent; feed the hungry, clothe the
naked, bind up the wounds of the atllicted; to inculcate hospitali»
ty, and govem his Encampment with justice and moderation.
SECOND SECTION OF LECTURES-
lst. What were the preparatory circumstances attending your
reception into this Illustrious Order? I was conducted to the
chamber of reflection, where I was left in silence and solitude, to
reflect upon three questions which were left with me in writing.
2d. What were your answers? They were satisfactory to the
Grand f lommander; but, as a trial of my patience and persever-
ance, he enjoined upon me the performance of seven years' pil-
grimage, clothed in pilgrim's weeds. 3d. What followed? I was
then invested with sandals, stall; and scrip, and commenced my
tour of pilgrimage, but was
soon accosted bya guard, who de-
manded of me, 'who comes therel' 4th. Your answer? A poor
and weary pilgrim, travelling from afar, to join with those who oft
have
gone before, and offer his devotions at the holy shrine. 5th.
What said the' guard? Pilgrim, I greet thee; gold and silver have
_ . ._.Ap.._ ..
LIGHT 'Ol MABDNRY» 151
I none, but such as I have give I unto thee. 6th. What followed?
After having participated in the relieshments, (which is a
glass of
water and a cracker,) the guard took me by the hand, and thus
addressed me: 'Pilgrim, hearken to a lesson to cheer thee on
thy
way, and insure thee of success.' 7th. What followed? Lesson
read. (See Templar's chart.) The guard. then took me by the
hand, and said, 'Fare thee well! God speed thee on thy way.'
Sth. What followed? I still pursued my pilgrimage, but was often
accosted by guards, from whom I received the same friendly
treatment, as from the first. 9th. Where did your term of pil-
grimage endl At the door of the asylum, where after giving the
alarm by 3X3, the Warder appeared and demanded, 'who comes
therei' 10th. Your answer? A poor and weary pilgrim, travel-
ling from afar, who, having passed full three long years ofpilgrim-
age, now craves permission, if it shall please the Grand Com-
mander, forthwith to dedicate the remaining four years to deeds
of more exalted usefulness, and if found worthy, his strong de-
sire is now to be admitted to those valiant Knights, whose well~
earned fame has spread both far and near for deeds of charity
and pure beneficence. 11th. What were
you then asked? What
surety can
you offer that you are no
impostor. 12th. Your an-
swer? The commendations of a true and courteous Knight, the
Junior Warden, who recommends to the Grand Commander the
remission of the four remaining years of pilgrimage. 13th. What
followed? The Grand Commander then addressed the Most Ex-
cellent Prelate:--This being true, Sir Knight, our Prelate, you
will conduct this weary pilgrim to the altar, where having taken
an obligation always to be faithful to his vow, cause him forth-
with to be invested with a sword and buckler, that as a
pilgrim
warrior, he may perform seven years' warfare, as a trial of his
courage and constancy. 14th. What followed( The Senior
Warden then detached a party of Knights to escort me to the al-
tar, where, in due form, I took upon me the obligation of a
Knight
Templar. 15th. Wha,t was that due form? Kneeling on both
knees upon two cross swords, my body erect, my naked hands
covering the Holy Bible, square, and compass, with two cross
swords lying thereon; in which due fonn I received the solemn
obligation of Knight Templar. 16th. Repeat the obligation.
'I, A B, of my own free will and accord, in the presence of
Almighty God, and this Encampment of Knight Templars, do
hereby and hereon, most solemnly promise and swear, that I will"
always hail, forever conceal, and never reveal any of the secret
arts, parts, or
points appertaining to the mysteries of this orfief
of Knight Templars, unless it be to a true and lawful comP""'°°`
.¢»-»...- _
158 Liana* on
masorzar.
Knight Templar, or within the body of a
just and lawtiil Encamp-
ment of such; and not unto him or them, until by due trial, strict
examination, or lawful information, I find him or them lawfully
entitled to receive the same. Furthermore, do I promise and
swear, that I will answer and obey all due signs and regular sum-
mons, which shall be given or sent to me from regular Encamp-
ments of Knight Templars, if within the distance of forty miles-
natural infirmities and unavoidable accidents only excusing me.
Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that I will help, aid, and
assist with my counsel, my purse, and my sword, all poor andin-
digent Knight Templars, their widows and orphans, they making
application to me as such, and I them worthy, so far as I
can do it without material injury to myself, and so tar as truth,
honor, and justice may warrant. Furthermore, do I promise and
swear, that I will not assist, or be present, at the forming and
opening of an
Encampment of Knight Templars, unless there be
present seven Knights of the order, or the representatives of three
different Encampments, acting under the sanction of a
legal war-
rant. Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that I will go the
distance of forty miles, even barefoot and on frosty ground, to
save the life and relieve the distresses of a worthy Knight, should
I know that his distresses required it, and my abilities permit.
Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that I will wield my sword
in defence of innocent virgins, destitute widows, helpless orphans,
and the Christian religion. Furthermore, do I promise and swear,
that I will support and maintain the by-laws of the Encampment
of which I may hereafter become a member, the edicts and regu-
lations of the Grand 'Encampment imder which the same may be
holden, together with the laws and constitution of the General
Grand Encampment of the United States of America, so far as
the same shall come to my knowledge.-To all this I most sol-
emnly and sincerely promise and swear, with a firm and steady
resolution to perform and keep the same, without any hesitation,
equivocation, mental reservation, or selflevasion of mind in me
whatever, binding myself under no less penalty than to have my
head struck oh' and faced on the highest spire in Christendom,
should I knowingly or wilfully violate any part of this my solemn
obligation of a Knight Templar. So help me God, and keep me
steadfast to perform and keep the same!
17th. What followed? The Most Excellent Prelate directed
me to arise, and thus addressed me:-'Pilgrim, thou hast craved
permission to pass through our solemn ceremonies, and enter the
asylum of our
encampment: by thy sandals, scrip, and stall; I
judge thee to be a child of humility: charity and hospitality are
»-
-A-._.;_.._ ._
.___
-
<-
H
'Lrcrrr on nnsonav. 159
the grand characteristics of this magnanimous order: in the char-
acters of Knight Templars, you are hound to give alms to poor
and weary pilgrims travelling from afar; to succor the needy, feed
the hungry, clothe the naked, and bind up the wounds of the af-
Hicted. We here wage war the enemies of innocent vir-
gins, destitute widows, helpless orphans, and the Christian reli-
gion.* If thou art desirous of enlisting in this noble and glori-
ous warfare, lay aside thy staff and take up the sword,
mantiilly thy way, andswith valor
running thy course; and may
the Almighty, who is a strong tower and defence to all those who
put their tnist and confidence in him, he now and ever
thy de
fence and thy salvation.' 18th. What followed? Having laid
aside my staff and taken up the sword, the Most Excellent Pre-
late continued:-'Having now taken up the sword, we
expect you
will make a
public declaration of the cause in which ou will
wield it.' 19th. Your answer? I wield my sword in defiance of
innocent virgins, destitute widows, helpless orphans, and the
Christian religion. 20th. What was the Prelate's reply? With
confidence in this profession, our Senior Warden will invest you
with the warrior's pass, and under his direction, as a trial of your
courage and constancy, we must now assign you seven years of
warfare-success and victory attend you. (This pass word is
Maher-shalal-hashbaz, and' is given under the arch of steel, as
has been described. 2lst. What followed? I then commenced
my tour of warfare, and made professions of the cause in which
I would wield my sword. 22d. Where did your tour of WHEIU
end? At the door of the asylum, where, on giving the
3X4, the Warder appeared and demanded, 'who comes 'there?'
28d.v Your reply? A pilgrim warrior, travelling from afar, who,
having passed tixll three long years of warfare, is most desirous
now, if it should please the Grand Commander, to be admitted to
the honors and rewards that await a valiant Templar. 24th.
What was then demanded of you? What surety can
you give
that you are no
impostor. 25th. Your answer? The commen-
dation of a true and courteous Knight, the Senior Warden, 'who
recommends to the Grand Commander th¢Hemission -of the four
remaining years of warfare. 26th. What was then demanded?
By what further right or benefit do you expect to gain admittance
so the asylum. 27th. Your answer? By the benefit of a pass
word. 28th. Give it. (Here the warrior's pass is given, as be-_
*
Says God, 'They that take the word, shall perish with the sword'
'The wrath of man workath not the righteousness of God#
'The weapons ol' our warfare are net carnal'
1
_ __
~»-»'~-
`
`
I
A
F
,
160
`
_mesa ou ngasosar;
fore described.) 29th. -Whatiwas then said to you? I -W88 di-
rected to wait with courage and constancy, and soon an answer
should be returned to my request. 30th. What answer was ne-
turned? Let him be admitted. V
31st. What did the Grand,Com-
mander then observe? Pilgiimnhaving gained admittance-to our
asylum, what profession have you new to make in testimony of'
your fitness tothe received a
Knight among our number.
»
32d.
Your answer? Most Eminent, I new declare intruth and sober-
ness, that I hold no
enmity or hatred against a
being on earth,
that I would not tieely reconcile, should I find in him a corres-
ponding disposition. 33d. What was the Grand Cou1mander's
reply? Pilgrim, the sentiments you utter are 'worthy ofthe cause
in which you are engaged; but still we must require some strong-
er
proofs of your faithfulness: the ,proofs we demand are, that
you participate with us in tive libations; this being aecomphshed,
we will receive you a
Knight among our number. 34th. What
were die ingredients ofV
the libntionst Four of them were taken
inwine and water; andthe fifth in pure wine. 85th. What was
the first libation? To the memory of Solomon, king of Israel.
36th. What was the second libl&i0ll? To themernory of Hiram,
king ot' Tyre. 37th. What was the third? To-the memory of
Hiram, the widow's son, who lost his life in defence of his .integ-
rity. 38th. What followed? The Grand Commander then ad-
dressed me: Pilgrim, the order to which you seek to unite i
1011!-
seli; is founded on the Christian religion; let us, then; attend 'to
l lesson fiom the holy evangelist. a39th. What followed! The
Most Excellent Prelate then -read a lesson, relative to the apos-
tacy of Judas Iscariot. (See 'I'elRplar's chart.) 40th.
What
followed? The Grand -Commander then addressed me:
"
'Pilgllllls
the twelve tapers you see around the triangle, correspond in
E
herewith the disciples of our Saviour while on earth, one of iy_
fellhy transgression, and betrayed his Lord and Master; and U8
a constant admonition to you always to persevere in the paths of
honor, integrity, and truth, and as a
perpetual memorial of the
apostaey of Judas Iscerint, you are required, by the rules oi'
our
order, to extinguish one of those tapers; andletit ever
you, that he, who can basely violate his vow and betray his trust,
is worthy of no better fate than Judas Iscariot.' (Thqcandldatlr
extinguisher one of the tapers; ire triangle is placedin the cen-
tre gf the poem, on whichsre twelve burning candles; between
each candlestick, a glass of wine; in the centre of the triangle is
placed a coffin, on which are the Bible, scull, and cross-bones.)
415; What followed? The relics werethen uncovered, and the
Grand Commander thus addressed me: 'Pilgrim, you here behold
'I'
LIGHT ON IIIASONBY- 161
-an emblem ot' mortality resting on divinity,-a human scull rest-
ing on the holy' scriptures; it is to teach us that, among all the
trials and vicissitudes which we are destined to endure while pass-
ing through the pilgrimage of this life, a firm reliance on divine
protection, can alone aiibrd us the consolation and satisfaction
which the world can neither give nor take away.' 42d. What
followed? The Most Excellent Prelate then read a lesson to me
with respect to the bitter cup. 43d. What followed? The Grand
Commander took the scull in his hand, and pronounced the fol-
lowing soliloquy: 'How striking is this emblem of mortality, once
animated like us, but now it- ceases to act or think; its vital en-
ergies are extinct, and all the powers of life have ceased their op-
erations; and sudi, my brethren, is the state to which we are all
hastening: let us, therefore, grateliilly improve the remaining
space of life, that, when our weak and trail bodies, like this me-
mento, shall become cold and inanimate, and mouldering in se-
pulchral dust and ruins, our disembodied spirits may soar aloft to
the blessed regions where dwells light and life -etemal.' 44th.
.What followed? The Most Excellent Prelate then read a lesson
relative to the crucifixion. (See Templar's chart.) 45th. What
was the fourth libationl Tothe memory of Simon, of (Jyrene,
the early friend and disciple of our Saviour, who was
compelled
to ,bear his cross, and fell a martyr to his fate.* 46th. What fol-
lowed? The Grand Commander then addressed me: 'Pilgrim,
before you can be permitted to participate in the fifth libation, we
must enjoin on
you one
year's penance as a trial of your faith
and humility, which you will perform under the direction of the
Junior and Senior Wardens, with the scull in one hand and a
liglitf
ed taper in the other; which is to teach you' that with faith and
hu flity you should cause
your light so to shine before men, that
`, seeing your good works, may glorify our Father which is_in
eai/en.' 47th. What followed? I then commenced my tour of
penance, and passed in a humble posture through the sepulchre,
where the fifth lesson was read by the Senior Warden, relative to
the resurrection. (Here the ascension of the Saviour is .repre-
sented on canvass, which the candidate is directed to look at; at
the same tiipe the Sir Knights sing a hymn.) After the hymn the
Prelate speaks as followsz- _
g
y ,
'I am the resurrection and the life, saith the Lord; he that ber
lieveth on me, though he were dead, yet shall he be made alive;
*
There is no evidence in existence that 'Simon, the Cyreneanf was I
friend or disciple of Jesus, or that he fell a
martyr to his fate. This 55| in'
swcr, then, is absolutely false! -
'
,
02
.
_
_
w _ _..n»-»...._-
-
E
I
.
162 :near os msosar.
and whosoever liveth and 'believeth on me, shall never die. Pil-
'm, the scene before you represents the splendid conclusion oi
ii; hallowed sacrifice, otfererl by the Redeemer of the world, to
propitiste the anger 'of an o!`ended Deity. This sacred volume
informs as that our Saviour, after having suiered the pains of
death, descended into the place of departed spirits, and that on
the third day, he burstthe bands of death, triumphed over the
grave, and, in due time, ascended with transcendent majesty to
heaven, where he new sits onthe right hand of our
Heavenly Fa-
ther, a mediator; and intercessor tor all these who have faith in
him. I now invest you with arfeniblemof Wat fdth: (at the
same time suspends From his neelra black cross:) it is also an
emblem of our order, which you will wear as a constant memori-
al, for you to imitate the virtues of the immaculate Jesus, who
died that you might live. Pilgrim, the ceremonies in which you
are new engaged, are 'calculated deeply to impress your mind, and
I trust will have a happy and lasting efect upon your eharactu.
You were first, as a trial of your thith and humility, enjihed to
perform seven years of pilgrimage; it represents the great pil-
grimage of life, 'through which we are all passing: we are all wea-
ry pilgrims, anxiously 'looking forward to that asylum, where we
shall rest from our labors, and -be at rest for ever. You were then
directed, as a trial of your courage and constancy, to perfomi
seven years' warfare; it represents to vouthe constant warfare
with the lying vanities and deceits of this world, in which it is
necessary for us always to he engaged. You are now
perform-
a penance as a trial of yourhumility. Of this-our Lord and
Saviour has left us a
bright example. For though he was the
Etemal Son of God, he humbled himself to be born of a wo-
lnan, to endure the pains andalllictions incident to human
ug;-E,
and finally to sutliar a crueland-ignominious death~upon the :
'iris also a trial of that faith which will conduct' you safely over
the dark gulf of everlasting death, and land your enliauehised
spirit in the peacelhlabodes of the blessed. Pilgrim, keep ever
'in your memory this awihl-truth; you 'know not 'how soon you
'maybe called upon to render an account=to that-'Supreme Judge,
'from whom not even'lhe most minutemct of your'ilife'is'hiddent
ihr although you now stand erect irrall the strengtlrof manhood
'and pride of beauty, in=a few shortmoments you may become a
1|litle'and'lifeless corpse. This moment,~evenwhilefI-ymspeak,
the
uzgel
of death may receive the fatal mandate to strike~yon
Kam e roll `of existence; andthe friends who novl'sqri'pti;id"you,
`may be called upon to perform the lan-s=d.d 'w ?; u p fig;
the earth a banquet for worms, and this fair ~ -t *_ 'M' *ffm ,
`
'
'I
;~t_»
-
_
'
_
LIGHT GN MASQ!!-Y. _
163
relic you now hold in your hand. Man tlmt is born of s woman,
is of few dmys and full of sorrow; he cometh up and is cut down
as a iiower; he ileeth as a shadow, and cimtinueth not. In the
midst of life, we are in death; of whom may we seek for snccor
but of thee, 0 Lord, who for our sins art justly displeased. Yet,
0 God most holy, thou God most mighty, O holy and most mer-
ciful Saviour., deliver us from the pains of etemal death:-I heard
a voice from heaven, saying unto me, write from henceforth,
blessed are the dead diein the Lord; even so, saith the Spir-
it, for they rest from their labors: be ye also ready, and rest as-
sured that a firm faith in thertruths here revealed, will afford you
consolation in the gloomy hour of dissolution, and ensure you
ineiable and eternal happiness in the world to come-Amen and
amen.
e
48th. Where did your tour. of penance end? It has not yet
ended; neither can it end until this mortal shall put on immortali-
ty: forall men err, and all errorneeds repentance. 49th. Were
you then permitted to participate in the fifth libation? I was.
.50th. Wfherei
l
Within the asylum. 5lst. How gained you ad-
mittance there? Alter having passed my year of penance, I re-
tumed to the door of the asylum, where, on
giving the alarm, the
Warden appeared and demanded, 'who comes therei' 52d. Your
answer? Pilgrim penitent, travelling from afar, who begs your
permission here to rest, and at the shrine of our departed Lord,
to offer up his prayers and meditations. 53d. What was then
demanded of you? What surety can he offer that he is no -imf
pastor. 54th. Your answer? The oommendation of two true
and courteous Knights, the Junior and Senior Wardens. 55th.
What was then demanded of you? By what further right or bene-
fit I expected to gain admittance. 56th. Your answer?
`
By the
_benefit of a pass word. 57th. Did you give that pass rvordt I
did not; my conductor gave it for me. 58th. Give it. Golgo-
tha: (it is given as before described.) 59th. What was thensaid
to you? Wait with faith and humility, and soon ananswer shall
be retumed to your request. 60th. What was the answer of the
Grand 1Commander!~ilThat I should be admitted. Glst.
-
What
did the Grand Commander then demand? Who have you-there
in charge, Sir Knight. 62d. What answer was returned? A<_pil-
grim penitent, travelling from afar, who, having passed his
'
toni;
of penance, seeks now to participate in the fifth libatiornlthereby
to sealids fate. 63d. What did the Grand Commander then ob-
serve? Pilgrim, in ti your request, andrecei" . ou a
Knight among our ngiiillmlertld can
only offer you a reghabit,
coarse' diet, and severe duties: il; on these conditions, you are
A
`
_...__ » -
.AL- -Gills-np....h -¢-»||li¢¢». ~-»...__, __
-
>
164 moan# on nusonnr.
i
still 'desirous of enlisting under our banners, you will advance and
kneelat the base ot' the triangle. 64th. What did the Grand
Commander then observe? Pilgrim, the fifth libation is taken, in
the most solemn and impressive manner; we cannot be too often
reminded that we are born to die: and the fifth lihation is an em-
blem `of that bitter cup of death, of which we must all sooner or
later partake, and from which even the Saviour of the world, not-
withstanding his ardent prayers and solicitations, was not ex-
empt. - 65th. The Grand Commander asked me if I had anyre-
pugnance to participate in the fifth libation. 66th. Your answer?
I am willing to conform to the requkements of the order. 67th.
What followed? I then took the cup (the upper part of the hu-
man scull,) in
my hand, and repeated after the Grand Command-
er, the following obligation: "I`his pure wine I now take in testi-
mony of my belief in the mortality of the body and the immor-'
tality of the soul,-and may this libation appear as a witness
against me, both here and hereafter,-and as the sins of the world
were laid upon the head of the Saviour, so
may all the sins com-
mitted by the person whose scull this was, be heaped upon my
head, in addition to my own, should I ever- knowingly or
wilfully
violate or transgress any obligation that I have heretofore taken,
take at this time, or shall, at any iiiture period, take in relation to
any degree of Masonry, or order ot' Knighthoodf* So help me
God.' 68th. What was this obligation called? The sealed ob-
ligation. 69th. Why so? Because any obligation entered into,
or promise made in reference to this obligation, is considered by
Knight Templars, as more binding and serious than any other
special obligation could be. 70th. What tbllowedl The Most
Excellent Prelate then read the sixth lesson, relative to the elec-
tion of Matthias. (See chart.) 7lst. What followed? The
Generalissimo thus addressed the Grand Commander:-'Most
Eminent, by the extinguished taper on the triangle, I perceive
there i a vacancy in our Encampment, which I propose should
be filled by a choice from among those valiant Knights, who have
.sustained the trials and performed the ceremonies required by our
order.1' 72d. What followed? The Grand Commander then or-
~.1_
~
* The candidate here not only imprecates the damnation of his own soul,
for his own sins, but also for the sins of another, which is a double dmma.
tion;-and all this in case. of a violation of any oath in
Masonry; As, for
instance, if he 'speaks em! of a brother Master Mason, behind 's back or
before his face;' or 'wrongs him out of one cent;' or 'suffers it. to be done by
eghefg, if in his power to prevent it:'-he is to be doubly damned! H
1 This lesson is to_be found in Acts, chap. i. 21-26. This of the cere-
nmny there consists in the mockery of electing by lot the who may
- I
.gn-an.-_._ ,___
-
'
.:,....i&|i-nl.
'
LIGHT ON UABOIBY. 165
dered the letsto be given forth, wlieh being done, I was elected,
and the Grand Commander thus addressed me: 'In testimony of
your election as a companion among us, and ot' your acceptance
of that honor, you will
re-light
that extinguished taper; and may
the Almighty lift upon you e light of his countenance, .and pre~
serve
you from thllingf 73d. What followed? The Grand Com-
mander then directed me to kneel, and said, by virtue of the high
power in me vested, as the successor and representative of Hugh
De Paganis, and Geoffrey, of St. Omers, 1 now dub andcreate
you Knight Templar, Knight of Malta, of the holy order of St.
John, of Jenlaiem. [This is repeated three tiinos, at the same
time laying the blade of his sword first upon the right shoulder,
then upon the head, and then upon the left shoulder of the candi-
datef] 74th. What followed? The Grand Commander then pre-
sented me aswotd, and thus addressed me: 'This sword in your
hand, as a true and courteous Knight, will be endowed with three
most excellent qualities; its hilt be justice impartial, its blade be
fortitude undaunted, and its point be mercy: and let it teach us
this important lesson, that we should ever be assured of the jus-
tice of the cause in which we draw our swords, and being thus
assured, we should persevere with the most undaunted fortitude,
andetimlly, havingsubdued our enemies, we should consider thenr
no longer such, but extend to them the most glorious attribute ot
G0d'sfmercy.' 75th. lWhati`ollowed'l The Grand Commander
gtbon communicated to me the due-guard, the penitent's pass, and
.theigmnd -sign, grip, and word of Knight Templars. 76th. Give
the due-gxard. [_The sign is given by placing the end ofthe right
thumb under the ohin.] '77th. To what does it allude? To
the penalty of my obligation; to have my -head struck od' and
placed upon the highest spire in Christendom. 76th. Give the
penitentfs pass, It is .given as before described; the word is
Gdgdhi. 79th. What does tins word dude to? A
,~j w
80th. Give the grand sign. This signin given by placing your-
self in a situation, representing the crucifixion of Christ.
To what does- this sign allude? To the manner in whidh'$H£
Saviour expired upon the cross, and expatietedthe sins ol! this
8Bd. Give the
`
and word. The grip is ivan by
.tnrlacing the fingers of right and left band, with the iingersdf
the right and lefthan& of the candidate, which forms a cross.-5
be a
awp:-er,
dmnkprd, or Deist, as an apostle of the LORD and Saviour,
Jesus C `st!
Di lomas of this degree may be seen which, 'in the name of the
H°'-T
'and glnmvrnn 1'l|Xf1'1,* recommend bearer as a true and fdlhfill "I
flier bf JG!! Christ! ~ ~
4
_
an;-;.. _.__
166 _
.LIGHT GN Ul|°HBY.
83d. What is the word? Immanuel. [This word is given at the
time ofgiving the grip, and is the name ofthe grip.] 84th What
does the grip teach us? That as our fingers are thus strongly in-
terlaced, so should the hearts of Knight Templars he firmly 'in-
terlaced in friendship and brotherly love. 85th. What is the
motto of our order? Rex regum, et Dominus dominorum. 86th.
How do you translate it? of kings, and Lord of lords.
KNIGHTS OF THE CHRISTIAN MARK,
AND ammns or 'run concnavrz.
This conclave is governed by an Invincible Knight of the Or-
der of St. John of Jerusalem, a Senior and Jlmior Knight, six
Grand Ministers, Recorder, Treasurer, Conductor, and Guard.
Opening.-'Sir Junior Knight, are all convened 'in a secret
place, and secured from the prying eye of the profane?
-
'We are, I-nvinciblef -
-
'
'
'Sir Senior Knight, instruct the Sir to alaenialein form
for the purpose of opening this Invincible order.'
The members kneel onhoth knees in a circle, eachwith Hs
right hand on his heart, his left on his forehead.
Prayer.-'Etemal source of life, of light, and perfection, Sn-
preme God and Govemor of all things, liberal dispenser of every
blessing! We adore and magnify thy holy name for the many
blessings we have received ti-om thy hands, and acknowledge our
unworthiness to appear before thee; but for the sake and in the
name of thy atoning Son, we
approach thee as lost and undone
children of wrath; but through the blood of sprinkling, and the
sanctification of the Holy Ghost, we come imploring a continua-
tion of thy favors, for thou hast said, that he who cometh to thee
through faith in the Son of thy love, thou wilt in no wise cast out;
therefore, at the foot of the cross we come, supplicating pardon
for our
past offences, that they may be blotted out from the hook
of thy remembrance, and be seen no more, and that the remain-
der of our
days may be spent as hecometh the followers of the
Holy One of Israel; and graciously grant that love, harmony,
peace, and unity may reign in this council; that one spirit may
animate 'us-one God reign over us-and one heaven receive
gs, there to dwell in thine adorable presence, for ever and ever.
men.
The Invincible Knight takes the Bible and waves it four times
DVS! 1115 headn Silyillg, 'REX REGNANTIUM, ET DOMI-
_ipmulnhm
LIGHT on Mlsolnv. 167
NUS DOMINANTIU"M;'* 'kisses it and passes it on his right:
it goes around until it come again to the Invincible Knight, who
opens and reads, Matthew, v. 3-12, 16.
,Always interlaee the fingers of the left hand, draw you sword
and present it to the heart, and say, 'Timmuz Tovtrumsrnz I
pronounce this convention opened in ample form. Let us
repair
to our several stations, and strictly observe silence? Prepara-
tion.-The candidate is shown into the antichamber by the con-
ductor, who clothes him in a gown ot' brown stuff; and leads him
to the door of the council chamber where he knocks twice, six,
and two;-2, 6, and 2. Junior Knight. 'Some one knocks for
admission, Invincible Knight? Invincible. 'See who it is, and
make report! J. K. (goe to the door, and report.s,) 'One that is
faithful in good works, wishes admission here.' Iwo. 'What good
works hath he performedl' .L K ~
'He hath given food to the
hungry, drink to the thirsty, and clothed the naked with a
gar-
ment' Im). 'Thus far he hath done well; but there is still much
for him to do. To be faithful in my house, saith the Lord of
hosts, filled with love for my people. If so, let him enter under
the penalties of his symbolic obligation/ He enters, makes signs
tmtil he arrives at the altar, there kneels. Vow.-'I, A B, do
promise and vow, with this same volume clasped in my hands, that
I will keep secret the words, signs, tokens, and grips of this or-
der of Knighthood, from all but those Knights ot' tit. John, ot'
Jerusalem, who have shown a Christian dispositioni' to their fel-
low men, are
professors of the Christian iaith, and have passed
through the degrees of symbolic Masonry; and thatl will protect
and support, as faras in me lies, the followers of the Lord Jesus
Christ: feed them, if hungry; give them drink, if thirsty; if na-
ked, clothe them with garments; teach them, if ignorant, and ad-
vise them for their good and their advantage:-All this I promise
in the name ot' the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost;
and, if I perform it not, let me be Ausrusms Msaizurusl
ANATHEMA
MARANA'1`HAll'I
v
*
This phrase is probably intended to he translated 'King of kings, and
Lord of lords.' We infer this from its being subsequently thus written in
plain
En lish, although we know of no rules that would authorize a trans-
ation.-it Le Roy Gaz.
1' 'Shown a Christian disposition) Now, reader, remember that this de-
claration is rmde under oath, often by men, who, so far from being
'g1l'0fB95'
ore of the Christian t`aith,' are Deists, and hesitate not to avow t e fact
publicly.
idnathema .Mmmatha is a
phrase used once in the scriptures; it Bis"°15°"
'nccursed at the coming of the Lord.'-Ed. Le Roy G42-
.-
_
-lui;
168 LIGHT OU UAIORIY.
The Invincible interlaces the fingers of his left hand
with those of the candidate, wholays his right hand on his heart.
The Invincible Knight draws his sword; thefSenior Knight does
the same; they cross them on
the back of the candidate's neck,
and the Invincible Knight says, 'by virtue of die high power in
me vested, by a bull of Hia Holiness, Pope Sylvester# I dub you
a Knight of the Christian Mark, niember of the Grand Council,
and Guard of the Grand Conclave.' The Invincible Knight then
whispers in his ear, 'Tammuz Touliumeth.' The Knights come
to order; the Senior Knight takes his seat; the candidate continues
standing: the conductor brings a white robe; the Senior
says, 'thus saith the Lord, he that believeth and eudureth to the
end shall overcome; and I will cause his iniquities to pass from
him, and he shall dwell in my presence for ever and ever.'|' Take
away his filthy garments from him, and clothe him with a
change
of raiment. For he that overcometh, the same shall be clothed
in white raiment, and his name shall be written inthe book of life,
and I will confess his name before my tiither and his holy angels.
He that hath an ear to hear, leLhimfhea.r what the Spiritsaith lm-
to the true believer. Set ye a fair mitre upon his head, place a
palm in his hand, for he shall go in andout and minister before
me, saith the Lord of hosts; and he shall be adisciple of that rod
taken from the branch of the stem of Jesse. For a branch has
grown out of his root, and the Spirit of the Lord hath rested upon
it; the spirit of his wisdom, and might, and righteousness is the
girdle of his loins, and faithfulness the girdle of his vine; and he
stands as an
Insignia to the people, and him shall the Gentiles
seek, and his rest shall be glorious. Cause them that have charge
over the city to draw near, every one with the destroying weapon
in his hand.' The six Grand Ministers come forward from the
north with swords and shields. The first is clothed in white, and
has an inkhom by his side, and stands before the Invincible
Knight, who says, 'Go through the city; run in the midst thereof
and smite; let not thine eye spare, neither have pity: for they
have not executed my judgments with clean hands, saith the Lord
*
'His Holines , Pope Sylvester! Must not s Protestant have some
quaims
of _conscience in thisrecognition of the authority of 'the man of sin.'
2 T ess. iir. 4.
iLet the reader imagine this scene passing before his eyes. 'The candi-
date continues standing?-he may regard the LORD Jesus ll an
impostor,
and his religion as a
cunningly devised fable;--his face may be marked with
intemperaneer-yet the Senior Knight puts on him the 'white robe,' and
gravely says, rn the
language
of the word of GOD, (Rev. iii. 5; Zech. iii.
1-8; lsn. xr. I-5; Eze .
1x.:) 'Thus saith the LORD, he that bdieutband
emmrdb tnllle md,' &.a
' `
p _
1
'lk-gg-
|
"°°°'-and-.......»....4.....¢_ _
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 169
of Hosts! The candidate is instructed to exclaim, 'Wo is me,
for I am a man of unclean lips, and my dwelling has been in the
tents of Kedarand among the children of Meshec. Then he
that has the inkhom by his side, takes a live coa.l with the tongs
from the altar, and touches the lips of the candidate, and says,
'If ye believe, thine iniquities shall be taken away, thy sins shall
be purged: I will that these be
clean withthe branch that shall be
given up before me. All thy sms are removed and thine iniqui~
ties blotted out. For I have trodden the wine press alone, and
with me was none of my people: For behold, I come with dyed
garments from Bozrah, mighty to save. Refuse not, therefore,
to hearken; draw not away thy shoulders; shut not thine ear that
thou shouldst not hear.' The six ministers now
proceed as if
they were about to commence the slaughter, when the Senior
Knight says to him with the inkhom, 'Stay thine hand; proceed
no further until thou hast set a mark on those that are faithtiil in
the house of the Lord, and trust in the power of his might. Take
ye the signet and set a mark on the forehead of my people that
have -passed through great txibulation, and have washed their
robes, and have made them white in the blood of the Lamb,
which was slain from the foundation of the world.' The Minis-
ter takes the signet and presses it on the candidate's foreheadt
He leaves the mark in red letters, 'King of kings, and Lord Q/
1o'rds.'* The Minister opens the scroll, and says, 'Sir Invincible
Knight, the number of the sealed are one hundred and forty and
four thousand! The Invincible Knight strikes four, and all the
Knights stand before him. He says, 'Salvation belongeth to our
God, which sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb.' All the
members fall on their faces, and say, 'Amen. Blessing, honor,
glory, wisdom, thanksgiving, and power, might, majesty, and do-
minion, be unto our God, for ever and ever, Amen.' They all
cast down crowns and palm branches, and rise up and say, 'Great
and numberless are
thy works, thou King of saints. Behold, the
star which I laid before Joshua, on which is engraved seven
eyes,
as the engraving of a
signet, shall be set as a seal on thine arms
-as a seal 'on thine heart; for love is stronger -than death; many
waters cannot quench it: If a man would give all the treasures of
his house for love, he cannot obtain it: It is the gift of God
through Jesus Christ, our Lord.'
'
j
Charge.-'Invincible Knight, I congratulate you on
yoiirQha'y-
* The reader is requested to turn to the
following passages: .,Isa. vi.
51 xliii.15 din" 3 12-14 xii,L6-v13s
Ps. cxx. ; sa. ,
an u. 1- ; Rev, vm ;
-
,
, ,
-
xv. 3; Zech. 9; Songs of Solomon, 6, 7. The impious:p_ 1110" 'f
those passages is incapable of defence or excuse. 'M
P
,_
_ _......¢. .
-¢_.¢.- -......,
_
170 near os nusouar.
ing been found worthy to be promoted to this honorable Order ot'
Knighthood. It is highly honorable to all those worthy Knights,
who, with good faith and diligence, perform its many important
duties. The 'honorable situation to which you-are now advanced,
and the illustrious oilice which you now till, is one that was much
desired by the first nobleman of Italy, but ambition and jealousy
caused his Highness, Pope .Hle.randcr, to call on his ancient tiiend,
the Grand Master of the Knight of St. John, of Jerusalem, to
guard his person and the Holy See, as those Knights were known
to be well grounded in the faith, and zealous followers of the'Lord.
The members of the guard were chosen by their countenaucea,
for it is believed that a
plain countenance is an indication of the
hem; and that no stranger should gain admission and discover
the secrets ol' this august assembly, this Order of the Christian
Mark was conferred on those who went about doing good, and
following the example of their Illustrious Master, Jesus Christ.
Go thou and do likewise# ~
.Motto.-°Christus regnat, vincit, triumphatf* R.ex,reguantium,
et Dominus dominantium.'
Israel on the left breast, a triangular plate of gold, seven eyes
engraved on one side, on the other the letter G in the five points.
*
Christ rules, conquers, triumphs.-Ed. Le Roy Gaz.
W
£0003-
KNIGHTS oF THE HOLY SEPULCHRE.
'
Hiatory.- St. Helena, daughter of Caylus, king of Britain,
consort of Constantine, and mother of Constantine the Great, in
the year 296, made a journey to the Holy Land in search of the
cross of Jesus Christ. After levelling the hillocks and destroy-
ing the temple of Venus, three crosses were discovered. It was
now ditiicult to discover which ot' the three was the one sought
for by her. By order of his Holiness, Pope Marcellinus, they
were bome to the bed of a woman who had long been visited by
sickness, and lay at the point of death; she placed her hands up-
on the second cross first, which rendered her no service; but when
she laid her hand upon the third, she was restored to her former
health. She instantly arose, giving gloryto God, saying, He was
wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities,
the chastisement of sin was
upon him, and with his stripes we are
healed, and God hath laid on him all our iniquities. On the spot
where the crosses were found, St. Helena erected a
stately church,
¢......-_--au. ...___
mem' on Misomzv. 171
one hundred paces long and sixty wide; the east end takes in the
place where the crosses stood, and the west, of the sepulchre: by
levelling the hills, the sepulchre isabove the lloor of the church,
like a grotto which is twenty feet from the floor te the top of the
rock: there is a
superb cupola over the sepulchre, and in the aisle
are the tombs of Godfrey and Baldwin, kings of Jerusalem. In
302, St. Helena instituted the Order of Knights of the Holy
Sepulchre of our Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ. This Order
was confimied in 304, by his Holiness, Pope Marcellinus; they
were bound by a sacred vow to
guard the Holy Sepulchre, pro-
tect pilgrims, and fight infidels, and enemies of the cross of Christ.
The city of Jerusalem was rebuilt and omamented by Elius
Adrian, emperorof Rome, and given to the Christians in 120.
The Persians took it from them in 637; and in 1008 it Rell into
the hands of the Turks, under whose oppressions it long groan-
ed, untif Peter the Holy steered" the westem princes-to release the
distressed church, and in'1096, Godfrey and Baldwin untiirled
the banner of the cross, and expelled the Turks. He was to
have been invested with the royal wreath of majesty, but he thought
it not meet to wear a crown of 'laurel when his blessed Saviour
had wom a crown of thoms. Yet for the common
good, he suf-
fered himself to be called the king of Palestine. ,
Description, Qc.-The Council must represent a Cathedral
Church, the altar covered with black, upon which must be placed
three ,largei candles, a cross, and in the centre a scull and cross
bones. The Principal stands on the right side of the altar, with
2. Bible in one' hand, and a stall' in the other; soft music plays,
and the Veil is drawn up, and discovers the altar; the choir say:
,
'Hush, hush, the heavenly choir,
_ They cleave the air in bright attire:
See, see, the lute each angel brings,
And hark divinely thus they sing:- _
»
'To the power divine,
'
All glory be given,
By man
upon earth,
And angels in heaven)
The Priest steps before the altar, and says, 'Kyrie Elieson;
Christe Elieson; Kyrie Eliesom* Amen: Gloria Sibi Dornino!1'
I declare this Grand Council opened, and ready to proceed to
business.'_ The Priests and Ministers take their severalstations
and observe order. The candidates being prepared, he alarms
* 'O Lord, have
mercy;
0 Christ, have mercy; 0 Lord, have mercy-' .
3* 'Glory to the Lord mselll'
l'>-*i-.s-»---ip. _
--I----m
""°-*LN
-T
172 LIGHT on uasomrv.
at the door by seven raps, and the Prelate says to Verger, 'See
the causeof that alann, and report.' Verger goes to the door,
and reports, 'Right Reverend Prelate, there are seven brethren
who solicit admission to this Grand Council.' Prelate says, 'On
what is their desire founded?" Verger. V
'On a true Christian prin-
ciple, to serve the church and its members, by performing the
seven corporeal works of mercy, and to protect and guard the
Holy Sepulchre, from the destroying hands of om' enemies?
Prelate. 'Admit them that we may know them, if you please?
They are then admitted: Prelate says to them, 'Are you followers
of the Captain of our salvationl' Verger says, 'We are, Right
Reverend Prelate.' P. 'Attend, then, to the sayings of our Mas-
ter, Jesus Christ.' Thou shaltlove the Lord, _thy God, with all
thy heart, with all thy mind, with all thy soul, and with all thy
might. This is the first great commandment, and the second is
like unto it; thou shalt love thy neighbor as
diyself: on these two
commandments hang all the law and the prophets. The Verge:
and Beadle hold the Bible on which the candidates place their
right hands. Vow.-'I, A B, in the name of the high and undi-
vided Trinity, do promise and vow to keep and conceal the high
mysteries of this noble md invincible Order of Knights of the
Holy Sepulchre, from all but such as are ready and willing to servo
the church of Christ, by acts of valor and charity, and its mem-
bers, by pertorming all the corporeal works of more ; and that,
as far as in me lies, I will defend the church of the lloly Sepul-
clrre from pillage and violence, and guard and protect pilgrims on
their way to and from the Holy Land; and if I perform not this,
my vow, to the best of my abilities, let me become inanisahu.'*
Interlace your lingers with the candidate, cross your arms, and
say, 'De mortuis, nil nisi bonum.'T Prelate says, 'Take the
sword, and travel onward-guard the Holy Sepulchrb-defeat our
enemies-unfurl the banner of our cross-protect the' Roman
Eagle-return to us with victory and safety) The candidates
depart--go to the south, where they meet a band of Turks-a,
desperate conllict ensues-the Knighufare victorious; they seize
the crescent, and return to the cathedral in triumph, and place the
banner, eagle, and crescent before the altar, and take their seats.
(22d chap. St. John, read by Prelate.) Then the choir sing,-
'Creator of the radiant light,
Dividing day from sable night;
'
Who, with the
light b
`
ht origin, '
"
The world's creation begin! -
Prelate then says, 'Let our
prayer come before thee, and let
*
'Dead.' i 'Gonceming the dead, say nothing but good."
'
...L_ .._.,..4._ .
LXGHT ON MASONRY. 173
our exercise be acceptable in
whsightf
The seven candidates
kneel at the foot of the altar. e Prelate takes the bread, and
says, 'Brethren, eat ye all of this bread in love, that ye may learn
to support each other.' 'He then takes the cup, and says, 'Drink
ye all of this cgp to ratify the vow that ye have made, and leam to
sustain one another' The Prelate then raises them up by the
grip, (interlace the fingers,) and says: 'lst, Sir, I greet thee a
Knight of the Holy Sepulchre; go feed' the hungry: 2d, Give
,drink to the thirsty: 3d, Clothe the naked with a
gamlentr 4th,
Visit and ransonythe captives: 5th, Harbor the harborless, give
the orphan and widow where to lay their heads: 6th, Visit and
relieve the`sick: 7th, Go and bury the dead.' All make crosses,
and say, 'In nomini patriafilio et spiritus sancto: Amen.' Prelate
says, 'Brethren, let us recommend toeach other the pmgtige 01'
the four cardinal virtues; prudence, justice, temperance, fortitude/
Closing.-The Knights all rise, stand in circle, interlace their
fingers, and say, 'Sepulchmm.' Prelate then says, 'Gloria patri,
et filio, et spiritui sancto.'* Brethren answer, 'Sicut erat in prim-
cipio, et nunc, et semper et in secula seculorum.1' Amen.'
Benediction.-'Blessed be thou, 0' Lord, our God! Great
first cause and Govemoi of all things! thou createst the world
with thy bountifinl hand, and sustained if by thy wisdom, by thy'
goodness, and by thy mercy! It cometh to
pass` Seed- time
and harvest never fail! It is thou thatgivest every good and per-'
feet gift! Blessed be thy name for ever and everi' To examgl
ine a
Knight of the Holy Sepulchre; he holds up the first Fing§i"'
of the iight hand, Knight holds- up the second; you then hold tip'
the third, and he shuts up hislirstz this signifies three persons in"
one God. L
~ -
*
'ary to the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit!
`
1' 'As it
vvas in the beginning, is now, and shall bc, world without end.'
_
<one-
THE HOLY AND
THRICQILLUSTRIOUS
ORDER OF THE
* CRQSS, UA LED A COUNCIL.
Diploma qfa
Corgp. ofthe .llncient Council ofthe Trinity.
mio Cr. sea Cont. 896.
°
C F Tm: Aucianr Council. or 'ras
M' C _ TRINITY, av 'rnsm success-
S A
-
C ons in 'ras Uurrr-an Srurss
_
A 0 P or Amsnxca. _*r
STQ`ALLBER'l', To every Knight Companion of the Holy'2l1'i
Thrice Illustrious ORDER OF THE CROSS: Be it known
,ra .
o
' e
, ~.
' '
._.---f--»- °~
_*__-I /pg-nnéa- _
174 rrosr on nusomtv
"nm you, that, with regard to unquestionable vouchers, we have
confirmed the Induction of the Knight Templar Mason into the
Cgumgils of the said Order of Knighthood, and herein do war-
rant him as s worthy and ILLUSTRIOUS Companion thereof:
and hoping and conliding that he will ever so
demean himself as
to conduct to the glory of I. H. g.* the Most Holy and Almighty
GOD, and to the honor of his
MARK, we do recommend and
submit him to the confidence of _all those throughout the world,
who can
trulyand deserveiilgsay, 'I am a Christiam' and that no
unwarrantah e benefits s arise from this Diploma, and we
charge all concemed, cautiously and prudently t3 mark the bear-
er on the mystic letters therein contained, and to regard only the
result, in its apphcation and privileges. -
Done out of Council, at Le Roy, in the county of Genesee,
and state of New-Yoiik, of these U. S. A. August lst. 1827.
Sir
Comnrrmmrxons, Sovsnsmn Pnarscr.
Sm Kmorrrs Com'Ns. Sm J. H. C. MILLER,
Ac1~'o. Pm-lr.
The officers and council all. in their places." The Most Illus-
trious Prefect addresses the Most Wortly Provost thus: 'Most
Worshipful Provost, whatis the o'clockl' Most Worshipful Pro-
vost says, ridmg and facing the east, at the same time raising his
mark in his right hand, 'Most Illustrious Prefect, it is now the first
hour of the day, the time when our Lord suffered and the veil of
the temple was rent asunder, when darkness and constemation
was spread over the earth, when the confusion of the old cove-
nant was made light in the new, in the temple of the cross. It is,
Most Illustrious Prafect, the third watch, when the implements of
Masonry. were broken--when the flame, which led the wise men
of the east, reappeared--when the cubick stone was broken, and
the _
word was given.' Most Illustrious Prefect says to Worthy
Herald, 'It is my will that this house of God be closed, and the
remembrance of those solemn and sacred events, be here com-
memorated: make this, Worthy Herald, known to the Most Wor-
,shipful Prdvost, in`due and ancient form.' The Worhiy Herald
bows and approaches the Most .Worshipful Provost, where he
bows thrice, faces about and
gives
a blast with his hem, and' af-
»ter the Knights have tiled out y threes without the door, except
the Worthy Senior Inductor, he does his errand, viz: 'Most Wor-
shipful Provost, it is the sovereign will of Count Alhertus, of Per-
#
The letters I. H. S. are theinitinls of the Latin words, 'Jesus Hdminum
Salyatorl (Jesus, Saviour of men.). 'v '
_..._-_ ...... .
mom' ox nulosnr. 175
gamus, that this house of God he closed, and that those solemn
and sacred events in the new covenant be here commemorated:
you will observe this.' The Worthy Herald bows, and the Most
Worshipful Provosg rises and addresses the Worthy Sen. Induc-
tor thuss 'It is the will of the Most Illustrious Prefect tha here
now be opened a Council of Knights of the Cross: what therein
becomes your dutyl' Worthy Senior Inductor says, 'To receive
the commands of my superiors in the order, and pay obedience
thereto-to conduct and instruct my ignorant pass-brethren; and
to revere, and irfculcate reverence in others, for the Most Holy
and Almighty God.' The Most Worshipful Provost rises fierce-
ly and says, 'By what rigit do you claim this dutyl' Worthy S.
Inductor says, 'By the right of a sign, and the mark of a sign.'
Most Worshipful Provost says, 'Will you give me a signl' Wor-
thy Sen. 'I could if I should! The Most Worshipful Provost
then partly extends both arms, pointing downwards to an
angle of
39°, with the palms open, and upwards, to show they are not sul-
'lied with
iniquity and oppression, and says, 'Worthy Sen. Induct-
or, you may give |t.' The Worthy S. Inductor then looks him
full in the face, and 'with his fore finger touches his right temple,
and lets fall his hand, and _says, 'This is a
:EM
Most Worship-
ful Provost says, 'A sign of whatl' Wo y S. Inductor says,
'£ye, a
sign of whati' Wor. Pro.' says,_ 'A penal sign! Wor.
S. Inductor says, 'Your sign is--' Most Worthy Pro. says,
'The last sign of my induction) Most Worthy Pro. says, 'But
you_have the mark of a sign.' Worthy S. _Inductor says,°' 'The
sign whereof my mark is a,mark, I hope is in the Council above.'
Most Worthy Pro. says, 'But the mark--{ Worthy S. Induct-
or
says, 'Is in my bosom.' Ther pon he produces his mark in
his left hand, and with the fore iingr of his right on the letter S,
on the cross, asks, 'What's thatt' Most Wor. Pro. says, 'Lisha.'
Wor. Pro. puts his finger on the letter H, and asks, 'What is thisi'
Wortliy S. Inductor says, 'SJxa.' Worthy S. Inductor then puts
his-finger on the letter I, and asks, 'What is thisl' Most Wor.
Pro. says, 'Baal.' 'Whht, then, is your markl' Worthy S. In-
ductor_ says, 'Baal, Sha.-Lisha;?'* I am the Lord.' The Most.
Worshipful Provost then says, 'You are my brother, and the duty
is yours of ancient right; please announce the Council open!
The Worthy Senior Inductor steps to the door and _gives three
raps, and is answered by some
Knight from without, who is then
admitted, and the Worthy S. Inductor gives the conditional sign,
(which is by partly estending both arms, as before described;) the
*
'Lord of the,three.' ,
"fi
In
_...-L
0
178 nronr on msosnv.
Kni ht answering by putting his linger to his right temple as be-
foreg The Worthy S. Inductor
then addresses the
Cll8$,%:\lSI--
'Most Illustrrous Prefect, a
professing brotherls within e oun-
cil by virtue of a
sign! Most Illustrious Pyfect says to Wor-
thy Herald, 'Go to this professing brother, and see'h|m marked
before the chair of the Most Worshipful Provost; conduct him
thither, Worthy Herald! The Worthy Herald says to
the Knight,
'Worthy Sir, know you the sacred cross of our Counclll'
says, 'I .am a Christian! The Worthy Herald then says, 'F ol?
low me.' When arrived before the Most Wor. Yrorthe Worthy
Herald says, 'Most Worthy Provost, by order of the ll/lost Illus-
trious Prefect, I here bring you to be marked a professing brother
of the cross/ 'The Most Wor. Pro. says, 'Worthy Sir, know
you the cross of our Councill' Knight says, 'I am a Christian!
The Most Wor. Pro. says, 'No more.'
OBLIGATIONS OF THRl(1E,lLLUSTRlOUS KNIGHTS OF THE
CROSS.
'
FIRST 0BLlG~TION~
'
You, Mr. --, do now,_ by your honor, and in view'ol` the
power and uniou of the Thrice Illustrious Order of the Cro ,
now first' made known to you, and in the dread presence of ti
Most Holy and Almighty God, solemnly and sincerely swear and
declare, that, to the end of your life, you will not, either in con-
sideration of' gain, interest, or honor, nor with good or bad.de~
sign, ever take any, the least, step or measure, or be instrumen~
tal in any such objecq to betray or communicate to
any person,
or
being, or number of the save, in the known world, not there-
to of cross and craft entitled, any secret or secrets, or ceremo~
ny or ceremonies, or
any part thereof appertainiug to the order
and degree known among Masons as the Thrice Illustrious Or-
der of the Cross. That you will not, at any time or
times what-
ever, either now or hereafter, directly.or indirectly, by letfer,
figure, or
character, however or
by whoever made, ever com-
municate any ofthe information and_ secret mysteries heretofore
alluded to. That you will never speak on or upon, or breathe
high or low, any ceremony or secret appertaining thereto, out of
council, where there shall not be' two or more
Knights compan~
ions of the order present, besides yourself, and that in a safe and
sure place, whereby any opinion, even ofthe nature and general
principles ot' the institution, can be formed by any other person,
be he Mason or otherwise, than a true Knight companion of the
cross; nothing herein going'to interfere with thepmdent practice
.
_
in-|»->-~l._;_ lun.
I
1
_.nt
I
LIGHT ON MAIOIBY. 171
of the duties enjoined by the order, or arrangement for their en-
forcement.
2. *You further swear, that, should you know another to vio-
late any essential point of this obligation, you will use your most
decided endeavors, by the blessing of God, to bring such person
to the strictest and most condign punishment, agreeably to the
rules and usages of our ancient ti-eternity; and this by pointing
him out to the world as an unworthy vagabond; by opposing his
interest, by deranging his business, by transferring his character
after him wherever he may go, and by exposing him to the con-
tempt of the whole -fraternity and the world, but of our illustri-
ous order more especially, during his whole natural life: nothing
herein going to prevent yourselt§ or any other, when elected to
the dignity of Thrice Illustrious, from retaining the ritual of the
order, if prudence and caution appear to be the governing prin-
ciple in so
retaining it, such dignity authorizing the elected to be
govemed by no rule but the dictates of his own judgment, in re-
gard to what will best conduce to the interest of the order; but
that he be responsible for the character of those whom he may
induct, and for the concealment of the said ritual.
3. Should any Thrice Illustrious Knight or
acting odicer of
any council which may have them in hand, ever require your aid
in any emergency in defence of the recovery of his said charge,
you swear cheerfully to exercise all assistance in his favor, which
the nature of the time and place will admit, even to the sacrilice
of life, liberty, and property. To all, and every part thereof, we
than bind you, and by ancient usage you bind yourself, under the
no less infamous penalty than dying the death of a traitor, by
having a spear, or other sharp instrument, like ss our divine Mas-
ter, thrust in your left side, bearing testimony, even in death, of
the power and justice of the mark of the holy cross.
SECOND 0BLlGA'.l'l0N¢ I
"Mr. --, before you can be admitted to the light and benefit
of this Thrice Illustrious order, it becomes my duty, by ancient
usage, to propose to you certain questions, not a thing vainly
ceremonial; but the companions will expect true answers: they
will concern your past life,snd resolutions for the fixture. Have
you given me without evasion or addition your baptismal and
family names, and those of your parents, your true age as far as
th; Tslégg
this
obliggtiiplllrzaonnexionavglg,
the
lpenslty,
it will
h:f
can te swears y :sing to ring one who _
* 0
the obligation, tothe punishment of lhsving a
sprr, ordther shsrp °'*""
ment, thrust into his left side,' as the Ssvlour st
`
crucifixion!
ilu. .-_-1-3.-..__¢...---¢-»;¢,....
"'4" .
178 LIGHT ON MABONBY.
within your knowledge; where you were educated, where you
were bom, and also where was your last place of residence? or
have you not? 'I have.' It is well. `
2d. Were your parents free and not slaves? had they right
and title in the soil of the earth? were
they devoted to the religion
of the cross, and did they so educate their family? have you
searched the spiritual claims of that religion on
your gratitude
and your aH`ections? and have you continued steadfast in that
faith from choice and a conviction of' your duty to heaven, or from
education? 'From duty and choice.' This also is right.
" `
3d. Have you ever upto this time lived according to the prin-
ciples of that religion, by acting upon the square ol' virtue with all
men, nor defranding any, nor defamed the good name of any,
nor indulged sensual appetites unreasonably, but more
especially
to the dishonor of the matrimonial tie, nor extorted on, or op-
pressed the poor. 'I have not been guilty of these things! You
have then entitled yourself to our highest confidence, by obeying
the injunctions of our Thrice Illustrious Prefect in Heaven, 'of
doing to all men even as you would that they should do unto you.'
Mr. -, can you so continue to act, that yearly on the anniver-
sary ofiSt. Albert, you can solemnly swear for the past season
you have not been guilty ofthe crimes enumerated in these ques-
tions? 'By the help of God I can."f Be it so, then, that annual-
ly, on the anniversary of St. Albert, you swear to these great
questions; andthe confidence of the Knights Companions of the
ordeg in you, rests on 'your being able so to do.
4tha For the future, then,'you promise to be a
good man, and to
be governed bythe moral laws of God and the rules of the order,
in always dealing openly, honorably, and above deceit, especial-
ly with the Knights companions ofthe order. 'I do.'
Sth. You promise so to act with all mankind, but especially
with the fraternity, as that you. shall never be justly called a bad
paymaster, ungrateful, a liar, a rake, or a libertine, a man care-
less in the business of
`
your vocation, a dmnkard, or a
tyrant.
'I do.'
'
'
6th, You promise to lead a life as
upright and just in relation
to all mankind as
you are capable otl but in matters of diference
to preserve the interest ot' a companion of the order; ofa com-
panion's friend for whom he pleads, to any mere man of the
world. 'I do.'
`
*
The word of
GOD'sayl, 9 Chron.
`
36, "There is no man which sin-
neth not,"but each Knight swears
annuvdily on the amiiversary of St. Albert,
that during the past year he has acted on the square ot' virtuevith all man;
that he 'has not defrauded any nor defamed the good name of any,' in short.
that he has done to all men as he would that they should do unto him.'
...__ .L_ I.
t
LIGHT os nusounv. 179
7th. You promise never to engage in mean party strife, nor
conspiracies against the government or religion of your country,
whereby your reputation may suffer, nor ever to associate with
disbonorable men even for a moment, except it be to secure the
interest of such person, his family or friends, to a
companion,
whose necessities requife this degradation at your hands. 'I do.'
Sth. You promise to act honorably in all matters of otlice or
vocation, even to the value of the one third part of a
Roman pen-
ny, and never to take any advantage therein unworthy the best
countenance of your companions, and this, that they shall not, by
your unworthiness, be brought iutodisrepute. 'I do.'
THIRD OBLIGATION.
I do now, by the honor and power of the mark of the Holy and
illustrious order of the Cross, which I do now hold to Heaven in
my right hand as the earnest of my faith, and in the dread pre-
sence of the most holy and Almighty God, solemnly swear and
declare, that l do hereby accept of, and for ever will consider the
cross and mark of this order as
my only hopez* thatl will make it
the test of faith and fellowship; and that I will effect its objects
and defend its mysteries to the end of my days, with my life and
with my property-and first, that in the state of collision and mis-
understanding impiously existing among the princes and pilgrims,
defenders and champions of the Holy Cross of Jesus our Lord,
now as embled in the land and city of their peace, and consider-
ing that the glory of the Most High requires the greatest and
strictest unanimity of measures and arms, the most _sacred union
of sentiment and brotherly love in the soldiers who there thus
devote themselves to his cause and banner, I swear strictly to
dedicate myself, my life and my property for ever hereafter to his
holy name and the purposes of our mark, and to the best interest
of all those who thus with me become Knights of the Cross: I
swear for ever to give myself to this holy and illustrious order,
confiding fully and unreservedly in the purity of their morals and
the ardor of their pious enthusiasm, for the recovery of the land
of their fathers, and the blessed clime of our Lord's suderings,
and never to renounce the mark of the order nor the claims and
welfare of my brethren.
2d. And that the holy and pious enthusiasm of my brethren
may not have slander or
disgrace at my hands, or the order be
*
'Consider the cross and mark of this order as
my only hope.' The em-
didate swears t.hen to trust the etemal salvation of his soul, not on the 66191
of the Saviour, but 'to the cross and mark qf this order !' .
He dedicates IIIIDBGIIZ his life and his property to his holy nl-mv, (Ch""')
and the purposes of 'our markl' What are those Pl1'P050|?
_.gs-».
'
_;¢..¢. _ ..l||» t,. .
180 Liam' ON mssonav.
injured by my unworthiness, I swear for ever to renounce
tyranny
and oppression in my own person and place, whatever it may
be, and to stand forth against it in others, whether public or
pri-
vate; to become the champion of the cross, to observe the com-
mon good; be the protector of' the poor and unfortunate; and
ever to observe the common rights of human nature without en-
croachment, or permitting encroachment thereon, if in my power
to prevent or lessen it. I will, moreover, act in subordination
to the laws of my country, and never countenance any change in
the government under which I live, without good and answerable
reasons for so doing, that ancient usages and immemorial cus-
toms be not overturned.
3d. I swear to venerate the mark as the wisdom and decree
of Heaven, to unite our hands and hearts inthe work ofthe holy
crusade, and a -
an encouragement to act with zeal and eflicacy,
and I swear to consider its testimonies as the true and only pro-
per test of an illustrious brother of the cross.
4th. I swear to wear the mark of this order, without any the
least addition, except whatl shall be legally entitled to by induc-
tion, for ever, if not without the physical means of doing so, or
it being contrary to propriety; and even then, if possible, to wear
the holy cross; and I swear 'to put a chief dependence for the
said worthy and pious objects therein.
5th. l swear to
put confidence unlimited in every illustrious
brother of the cross, as a true and worthy follower of the blessed
Jesus, who has sought this land, not for private good, but pity,
and the glory of the religion of the Most High and Holy God.*
6th, I swear never to permit my political principles nor per-
sonal interest to come counter to his, if forbearance and brother-
ly kindness can operate to prevent it; .and never to meet him if
Iknow it, in war or in peace, under such circumstances that I
may not, in justice to myself, my cross, and my country, wish
him unqualified success; and if perchance it should happen with-
out my knowledge, on being informed thereof, that I will use
my
best endeavors to satisfy him, even to the relinquishing my arms
and purpose. I will never shed a brother's blood nor thwart his
good fortune, knowing him to be such, nor see it done by others
if in my power to prevent it.
'7th. I swear to advance my brother's best interest, by always
*Here is a stretch of charity alto ether unprecedented. It would cer-
tainly require the credulity of a cbifd to believe that every man, who has
taken
f.IllB_d0%'8¢,
'is a tme and worthy follower ol' the blessed Jesus#-but
;(;;;Z61|.'§
in t e presence of the great Jnnovan, to do this, is an act of mad-
""""'°""" "'
>---~_._....._.; ,..4.»--nnsillile-,___-*n.
LIGHT on MASONRY.
18]
supporting his military fame and political preferment in opposi.
tion to another; and by employing his arms or his aid in his vo-
cation, under all circumstances where I shall not suffer more
by
so
doing, than he, by my neglecting to do so, but this never to
the sacrifice of any vital interest in our
holy religion, or in _thc
welfare of my country. _
Sth. I swear to look on his enemies as
my enemies, his friends
as my friends, and stand forth to mete out tender kindness or
vengeance accordingly; but never to
intrude on his social or do-
mestic relations to his hurt or dishonor, by claiminghis privileges,
or by debauching or
defaming his female relations or friends.
9th. I swear never to see
calmly nor without earnest desires
and decided measures to prevent the ill treatment, slander, or de-
famation, of any brother Knight, nor
ever to view
danger or tho
least shadow of injury about to fall on his head, without well and
truly informing him thereofi and, if in my power to prevent it,
never to fail, by my sword or counsel, to defend his welfare and
good name.
10th. I do swear never to prosecute a brother before those
who know not our order, till the remonstrances of a council shall
be inadequate to do me justice.
11th. I swear to keep sacred my brother's secrets, both when
delivered to me as such, and when the nature of the information
is such as to require secrecy for his welfare.
12th. I swear to hold myself bound to him, especially in ati
fliction and adversity, to contribute to his necessities my prayers,
my influence, and my purse.
13th. I swear to be under the control of my council, or, if be-
longing to none, to that which is nearest to me, and never to de~
mur to, or
complain at, any decree conceming me, which my
brethren, as a council, shall conceive me to deserve, and enforce
on my head, to my hurt and dishonor.
14th. I swear to
obey' all summons sent from any council to
me, or from any Most Illustrious Knight, whether Illustrious
Counsellor for the time being, or by induction, and to be govem-
ed by the constitution, usages, and customs of the order without
variation or
change. -
15th; I swear never to see nor
permit more than two candi-
dates, who, with the Senior Inductor, will make three, to be ad-
vanced, at the same time, in any council where I shall-he; nor
shall any candidate, by suffrage, be inducted without 'ts unani-
mous vote of the illustrious brethren in council; shallany
council advance any member, there not being three
HIIISIYIUUS
Knights, or one Most Illustrious and four Illustrious Knights °f
Q
»-;_.,__ _.urn
,_.
--- 4-
182 LIGHT ON MASONRY.
the Cross present, which latter may be substituted by Most Il-
lustrious Induction; nor yet where there shall not be a full and
proper mark of the order, such as usage has adopted to our al-
tar, of metal, or other durable and worthy material, contained
within the apartment of council, as also the Holy Bible; nor will
I ever see a council opened for business, without the ceremony
of testing the mark, exercised on the character of every brother,
prayers, and the reading of the 35th Psalm of David; nor will I
ever see, consent to, or countenance, more than two persons of
the same business or calling in life, to belong to, or be inducted
and advanced in, any one council of which I am a
member, at
the same time; nothing therein going to exclude members from
other parts of the country, or from foreign parts, from joining
us, if they consent formally and truly to stand in deference and
defence, first, of their special bar-brethren in the council, nor to
prevent advancements to till vacancies, occasioned by death or
removal. To all this, and every part thereoi,'I do now, as be-
fore, bythe honor and power of the mark, as
by an honorable
and awful oath, which contirmeth, all things in the dread presence
of the Most Holy and Almighty God, solemnly and in truth,
bind and obligate my soul; and in the earthly penalties, to wit,
that, for the violation of the least matter or
particle of any ofthe
here taken obligations, I become the silent and mute subject of
the displeasure of the Illustrious Order, and have their power
and wrath turned on m head, to my destruction and dishonor,
which, like the nail of jul, may be the sure end of an
unworthy
wretch, by piercing my temples with a true sense of my ing;-ati-
tude-and for a breach of silence in case of such an
unhappy
event, that I shall die the infamous death of a traitor, by having
a spear, or other sharp weapon, like as
my Lord, thrust in my
left side-bearing testimony, even in death, of the powerof the
mark of the Holy and Illustrious Cross, before I. H. S. our
Thrice Illustrious Counsellor in Heaven, the Grand Council of
the good.-To this I swear. _
;...-._ _,...¢.,._..
ues)
THE ELEVEN INEFFABLE DEGREES,
'
conraaazn nv rua
Lopez: or rnamonou.
V
<ua>-
`
SECRET MASTER. .
Opening.-Master. 'Br. Adoniram, are
you a Secret Master'l`
dns. 'Most Perfect, I have passed from the square to the com-
pass; I have seen the tomb of our Resp. Master, Hiram AbiH`,
and have, in company with my brethren, shed tears at the same!
M. 'What is the hour?' A. 'The dawn of day has driven away
darkness, and the great light begins to shine in this lodge.' M.
'If the great light is the token of the dawn of day, and we are
all present Secret Masters, it is high time to begin our labors:
give notice that I am about to open a
lodge of Secret Masters.'
Master knocks 7 with his hands, which is repeated by the breth-
ren; and then makes sign of admiration, which is answered by
the brethren.
`
Reception.-The candidate is led to the door of the lodge,
where the Mast. ot' Cer. knocks seven times. Adonirarn comes
and repeats the alarm on the inside, and opens the door, and
says, 'Who is therel' 3113. 'A br. who is well qualified, wishes
to receive the degree of Secret Master.' Adoniram reports to
the Master, and requests that he may be introduced. Master
consents, on condition he vouches for his integrity, zeal, and
good conduct. He is led in, and advances to the altar; his right
knee on the floor; head bound, as if blinded; a
great light in the
right hand.
'
Obligation.-' 1. Secrecy. 2. Obey orders and decrees of
Council of Perfection, of Jemsalem, under penalty of all the
former degrees.' (The foregoing is the oath in substance.) Atl
ter the obligation, the Master takes a crown of laurel and olives,
and says, 'My br. you are now received as a Secret Master.'
[See Monitor.] Sign-that of silence. .
After giving the words and signs, the Master sa s,
't}0»,m.Y
brother, pass the brethren and then attend to our
I
won.
V _s.|...-»;.»_,__ ,
..»._¢¢_, ,,_. ..
'*"'
184 LIGHT ON MAEONRY.
LECTURE.
iQ, Are you a Secret Master? A. I am, and glory in it. Q.
How were you received? A. By being passed from the square
to the compass. Q. Where were
you made? A. Under the
laurel and olive tree. Q. In what place were you received?
A. In the sanctum sanctorum. Q. -Who received you? A.
Solomon and Adoniram, the Inspector. Q. In entering the S.
S. what did you perceive? A. The character of the divinity.
Q. What did you see besides? A. The great circle, in the midst
of which is enclosed the blazing star, which blinded me with re-
spect and admiration! Q. What signify the Hebrew characters
in the triangle? A. Something above the knowledge of a hu-
man being, which cannot be pronounced. Q. Why not, since
we are inthe lodge? A. Because I have seen the great light
darting its rays without knowing it myselfi Q. What enclosed
the great brightness? _A. The ineflirble name of the Great
Architect of the universe. Q. Who was the iirst that saw it?
A. Moses-and he read the pronunciation thereof, from the Su-
preme Being onthe mount, when he appeared unto him; and, by
a.law of Moses, it was forbidden even to he spoken, unless in a
particular manner, by which means it was lost. Q. What did
you perceive more? A. Nine other words in Arabic characters.
Q. Where were they placed? A.. In ,the nine beams which come
from the blazing luminary. Q. What did they signify? A. The
nine names which God gave himself, when speaking with Mo-
ses on Sinai-He made him hope that his future issue should
one day know his real name. Q. Give them to me with their
significations. A. '* * * 'ff *
which compose 888 letters, and enclose 72 names, which are tak-
en as names of the Divinity of the angels' alphabet, or cabalis-
tic tree. .Q. What signiiies the circle that surroundsthe trian-
gle? A. It represents the eternity of the power of God, which
hath neither beginning nor ending. Q. What doth the blazing
star denote? A. A meteor which ought to guide us to the divine
Providence. Q. What is signified by the letter '-,' in the cir-
cle of the blazing star? A: * * * * * *
by * *
is meant Gen; by * * * is meant man, who may become
great by perfection; and '* "f *
*_ is a Hebrew word and
signifies _thanks to God for his supreme power; it was the first
word that was pronounced by our common
parent when, at his
risin ,
he saw Eve. Q. What is
siganified bythe five beams of
the glazing star? A. The five- or ers of architecture, which
were used in the construction of the temple. Q. What did you
see more in sanctum sanctorum? A. The ark of alliance;
-1-`4__ __,_._..-_-.. sr.-.
_
LIGHT on Masosnv. 165
the golden candlestick of seven branches; the table of bread of
proposition. Q. Where was the ark of alliance placed? A. In
the. middle of the S. S. under the blazing star. Q. What did
the ark of alliance, with the blazing star, represent? A. As the
ark was the emblem of alliance which God had made with his
people, and was put under the shadow of the cherubims' wings,
so is the/circle which encloses the triangle in the blazing star, an
emblem of the alliance of br. Masons. Q. 'What form was the
ark? A. An oblong square. Q. Of what was it made? A.
Ot' shittim wood, covered within and without with pure gold, and
covered with a golden crown, and borne with the two cheruhims
of gold. Q. What was the name of the crown? A. Propitia-
tory, or the place that served to appease God's anger. Q. What
did it contain? A. The tables of laws which God gave to Mo-
ses. Q. Of what were they, and what did they contain? A.
They _
were of white marble, and contained the ten command-
ments in Hebrew characters. Q. What are those command
ments? AL The decalogue engraved by the finger of the Al-
mighty. The first table contained the four divine_ command-
ments; the second, the six human, which served to regulate all
the duties of man to man. Q. What use was made ofthe table
of shew bread? A. To place thereon the twelve loaves of
bread of proposition, which ought always to be in the presence
of God as he had ordained it to Moses. Q. Of what were the
loaves? A. Of pure fine flour. Q. How were they placed?
A. Six on the right hand and six on the left, forming two heaps.
Q. What was placed over them? A. -A very pure and bright
cover. Q. Why so? A. ln order that they should remain a
monument of the obligations made to God. Q. What was the
name of the S. S. in Hebrew? A. Dabar. Q. .What doth that
word signify? A. Speech. Q. Why was it so called? A. Be-
cause the Dxvmrrr, in a peculiar manner, resided there and de-
livered his oraclesz-
A. When Moses received the order from Gov to construct the
ark, he made choice of Bezaleel, of the tribe of Judah, the son
of Aaron and Mary, the sister ot" Moses, and of Aholiab, the son
of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, the most leamed of' the peg-
ple; the populace testified so much forwardness in the work,
and offered, with so much joy, to carry it on, that Moses gave
notice, by the sound ot' the trumpet, that he did not want any
more. They began to work according to the model that God
had given to Moses, which also served for the number to be pla-
ced in the Tabernacle to serve for sacrifices. Q. What is meant
bythe seven branches
og
the candlesticks? A. The seven plan-
_
2
_
.
,
~
.»1-__. `.,_,_...¢, ____.,.. ...-.¢|..________, __
_..._-_._
ISG LIGHT ON MASONRY. _
ets. Q. What was on the top 'ot' 'the branches? A. A lamp
on each, looking east and south. 'Q. Of how many parts was
the candlesticks of seven branches composed! A. Ot' seven
parts. Q. What is signiiied bythe En: that is in our iodget. A.
An only eye that enlightens us. Q. How did they go up to the
galiery ot' the temple? A.' By a staircase, fixed on the wall on
the north side. Q. VWhatwas the name of that staircase? A.
Cochleus;-which signifies 'in the form of a screw! Q. How
many doors were there in the S. SJ A. Only one on the east
side, which was called 'Zizon,' which was covered with rangings
of purple, azure, hyacinth, and gold, supported by four columns.
Q. What did those columns represent? A. The four elements.
Q. How old are you? A. 3 times 27, and accomplished 81.
Q. Give the pass word? A. * ° *
Close.-Q. 'Br. Inspector, wbat's the o'clock?' A. 'The end
of day.' Q. 'What doth remain to doi' A. 'To practice virtue,
to ily vice, and to remain in silence! Q. 'Since nothing re-
mains to do but to practice virtue and ily vice, let us enter into
silence, that the will of God may be accomplished: it is time to
rest. Br. Inspector, give notice 'that I am about to close this
lodge bythe mysterious number/ Insp. says, 'The Most Per-
fect is about to close this lodge byHhe mysterious number-.' All
ciap seven, as in opening, and lodge is closed.
PERFECT MASTER.
A table before the Master, covered with black, and strewed
with tears.- Adoniram was chosen first of the seven, to replace'
Hiram AbiH§ and he constructed the tomb and um of H. A.-
Stokin first found the body of H. A.
Opening.-Q. 'Br. Insp. is the lodge well tyied, and are we
all Perfect Masters? A. 'R. W. and R., we are.' Q. 'Givenc-
tice that I am going to open a lodge of Perfect Masters# (done.)
Ado. knocks 4 with an iron; Stokin in the west, 4; and a Br. in
the south, 4; and a Br. in the north, 4, and then all make the
sign of 'admiration' together! Ado. says, 'Br. Stokin, what is
the clock? Ans. 'It is 4.' Ado. 'Then it is hi h time to sit the
workmen at labor, give notice that a
lodge of lgertbct Master is
open] Stokin. 'The lodge is open!
Reception.-Candidate i omamented with the dress and jewel
of a Secret Master. Master of ceremony knocks four onthe
shoulder of .Inspector and says, 'There is inthe antichaniber a
_,¢»---
"~
---;..»..-a.-A-|.i\
g
Lienr on ussounr. 187
Secret Master desirous of being raised to this degree) The
Insp. reports to Master, who says, 'Is he worthy and well quali-
fied to receive this degree? (Yes.) Mast. 'Let him be intro-
duced according to an ancient due i'erm.' Insp. orders Master
of' Cer. to go and instruct candidate; he goes and examines him
on his fomier degrees, pats on his neck a
green cord, and holding
it in his left hand, and his sword in his right, leads him to the
door and knocks 4. lnsp. repeats this within, and says to the
Master, 'Someone knocks) Mast. 'See who it is.' Insp. or-
ders Tyler to open the door, a.nd see who knocks, and alter the
Tyler has repeated to the Master of Cer. he acquaints the Mas-
ter, who orders him to be introduced and led to the south side of
'the tomb, at the head of the lodge, where he stands as a Secret
Master. Mastersays, 'My Br. what do you demandl' Ans.
'To be received to the degree of Perfect Master.' He is then
addressed thus: 'It is my,' dsc. (se'e Monitor.) The lnsp. then
takes him by the cord and leads him four times round the lodge,
then malreshim kneel, after which he passes by the tomb on Qgch
side of the two columns; (crossed:) in crossing, he steps from
one to the other, still with the sign of a S. M. he is placed oppo-
site the altar, his right knee a little bent and takes the Osmos-
rron. 'lst. Seoreoy. Penalty:-being dislwnored, and the
penalties oi' all those of my former obligations, Amen; Amen;
Ames; Amen." Mast. draws the cord from his neck, saying;
'I now draw; dsc. (see Monitor,) Signs.
History.--Solomon had been informed that the corpse of H.
A. had been already found and deposited in the lower end of the
temple and pleased to be able at least, to gather the precious re-
mains of so
good a men; he ordered the noble Adoniram, his G.
Insp. to make the funeral as .pompous as possible and the breth-
ren to attend in white gloves and aprons, forbidding at the same
time,that the marks of blood spilled in the temple to be effaced
until vengeance should be taken.-Adoniram being Grand Mas-
ter, Architect and chief of the workmen, presented a plan oi' n
superb monument to be raised to his memory, of black and white
marble, which was finished in nine days. The heart of H. A.
was taken enclosed in an urn on the top ofan obelisk which was
placed near the west end of the temple alittle on the north side
to show that his murderers had tint put him under some rubbish
in aditeh before they carried him to the place where Stokin
found him. The heart in the um
waspierced with a sword, and
every person qualified went to testify his grief until vengeance
was complete. The heart was enclosed in an obelisk, covered
'
;nh-.
L _
4».,.__. .__-un. .._.
_~ ,_..-.. _-___
188 Liolir OH msollr.
with a triangular stone. on which were the letters, B. M. I. en-
graved in Hebrewcharacters.
With a sprig of cassia on the top, his body was buried in the
middle of the great hall, in an
apartment separated from the tem-
ple, where Solomon used to keep a chapter and confer with Hi-
ram, king of Tyre, and Hiram Abitf on the craft. Three days
after the ceremony of burial, Sol. went with his court to the tem-
ple, and all the workmen being ranged as at the funeral, he di-
rected his prayer to God, examined the tomb and canopy, repeat-
ed the letters on the triangle, and the letters engraved in the
centre, then lifting his eyes and his hands towards heaven, he
said, with joy in his heart, 'It is accomplished and complete by
the sign of admirationl' The brethren also raising their eyes
and hands towards heaven, leaning their heads on their shoul-
ders, Ste. -
LECTURE g
_
Q. Are you a Perfect Master? A. I have seen the circle and
square placed on the top of the two columns across. Q. Where
are
they placed? A. In the place where was deposited the
body of our resp. H. A. Q, What did they represent? A. .The
two pillars which I came to when'I was made a Perfect Master.
Q. What was the design of Solomon in instituting this degree!
A. To encourage the brethren with a reverential love, and to
excite them to an inquiry who were the bloody assassins of H.
A. A. Suspicion being entertained that they were among the
workmen, Sol. ordered a great muster of them, when 3 were
found missing and supposed to be the persons. Sol. then order-
ed a Mason to erect a superb obelisk at the west end of the tem-
ple, and to enclose in an um on the top thereof, the heart of H.
Abifi, well embalmed,.of which none knew except the P. M.
This was
accordingly done, and was to remain there until ven-
geance should be taken. A sword appeared tobedriven through
the urn, as a token of the desire of the brethren to take ven-
geanceon the assassins. The body was found in a
place sepa-
rate from the temple, where Solomon kept his chapter. Q. What
is signified by the square stone in the centre ot' the circle, and
also what is signified by the letters on the square stone! A. The
secret word ofa Perfect Master. Q. Pmnounce it. A. '--.°
Q. What does it signify? A. The name of Goo, as known by
us. Q. How were you received a Perfect Master? A. On the
point of a spear to my heart, and a halter around my neck. Q.
Why sol A. To make me remember, 'rnar snounn as.iNs'raU~
Mnunr. IN mr DEATH if I revealed any ofthe secrets I!!! Q.
'
*
-'°""°°""'*°--_-...A _._ ."...,.., __..
.....¢"¢L4.ub»-e-|-t.¢lh|4..t ...r-H.
LIGHT OU UABONBY. 189
How manysigns have you? A. 0ne by five. Q. Why so. A.
In remembrance of my tive points of entrance. Q. Whichor
what are they? A. The four terms of entrance into the temple,
and the filth of admission? Q. What is represented by the tomb
you passed over at your admission? A. The burial of H. Abiif
in the valley. Q. Why is it situated northeast from the sanctu-
ary? A. To teach us men should be undetiled before they en-
ter the sanctum sanctorum. Q. What is signified by the rope
which comes from the tomb to the temple? A. The rope of
green with which the brethren raised the body- of H. A. before
they putit into the coin. Q. There is a further reason. A.
The virtue of goodness that should link us to the temple. Q.
Why were you examined in the former degrees before you were
admitted? A. To see if I were perfect in them before I went
any further? Q. What is your color? A. Green. Q. Why 0?
A. To signify, that by flourishing in virtue, I might expect to
make progress in my last degrees. Q. What is signified by the
two pyramids in the lodge? A. Egypt, from whence the Syri-
ans
sprung. Q. What does the jewel represent? A. That a
Perfect Master should measure his conduct by the exact rule ot
equity.
Close by 4 times 4.
-im)
INTIMATE SECRETARY.
»
Opening.-Solomon knocks Btimes 9, which is repeated by
Hiram of Tyre, and then all the brethren who are
,supposed to
he Perfect Masters. They kneel, make signs, repeat the 'word'
thrice,then rise,take their swords and go out of the lodge.
Solomon having first appointed acapt. and lieut. of the giiards,
with directions that they take care of the lodge, and see that
none approach without permission, and that all the guards ob-
serve their duty.
'
Reception.--Candidate being in the antichamber, the captain
of the guards orders two or three of them to take from him his
hat, sword, and the decorations of a Perfect Master, and then to
place him by the door, (partly open) with his hands across, in
the attitude of listening. The guards make a little noise, on
which Hiram of Tyre, tuming his head, sees the co'wana,lifts his
eyes to heaven and says, 'Oh heavens, there is a listenerl' S01-
says, 'it is impossible as there are guards without! H. T- With-
out reply makes to the door and drags the can. by the hands in-
-Qn-... ..
an¢p=»-_...___ ._
.»>-
"""
190 LIGHT ON lllasoruw.
to the lodge, crying, 'Here he is.' Sol. 'What shall we do with
him? H. T. (his hand on his sword,) 'We must kill himl'
Solomon quits his place and' lays hold of H. T. and says,
'Stop, my brothers' then knocks on the table, the guards enter
and salute the lodge. Sol. 'Take this prisoner and secure him,
and let him be forthcoming when called forl' on which they
go out with the prisoner, leaving Solomon and Hiram of Tyre
for some timein private and low conversation. Sol. knocks onthe
table again, and the guards return with the prisoner ia the midst.
By a signal from Solomon they advance near the foot of the
throne and take seats. Sol. then says to can. 'I have by my
entreaties prevailed on the king of Tyre, my worthy ally, whom
your vain curiosity has offended, to remit the sentence of death
which he pronounced upon you. I have not only obtained your
pardon, but have gained his consent, to receive
you
an Intimate
Secretary to the alliance we have contracted. o you promise
to keep inviolate the secrets entmsted to you in this degree, and
will you take an obligation for that purpose, in the most solemn
manner? (Yes.) Solomon causes him to kneel.
Obligation.-'1st. Secrecy. 2d. Obey mandates and decrees
of the G. C. of P. of Jerusalem. Penalty-body dissected,
bowels taken out, heart cut in pieces, and the whole thrown to
the wild beasts ofthe iieldl' Solomon raises the can. and ex-
plains the Carpet. 'The window in the clouds represent the
vault of the temple, and the letter I, which you see therein, is the
initial ofthe name ofthe G. A. ofthe Uni. The door represents the
great gate, by whichthey entered from the palace: the tears are
emblematical ofSolomon's chamberofaudience for Masons,in the
palace hung with black, and hither he used to retire and lament
the unhappy fate of Hiram Abifi, and here he was when Hiram,
king of Tyre, came to visit him.' 'I receive you, my brother, an
Intimate Secretary, on your promise of being faithful to this order
which you have just now entered, as was the great man whose
place you are now to supply. _The color of your ribbon is in-
tended to remind you of his blood, the last drop of which he
chose to spill, rather than betray bis secrets; we hope, therefore,
that your fidelity will be proof to every trial, and that the sword
with which we arm you will be a
weapon of defence, to guard
you from the attacks that might be made on you to extort those
secrets, which we are now
going to confer on you,' &c. &c.
LECTURE.
Q. Are you an Intimate Secretary! A. I am. Q. How were
you received? A. By curiosity. Q. What danger did you risk?
,
"
""-~>-anna-_ .... _|nnn~.|».........
LIGHT or ULSONRY. _I9I
A. The loss of life. Q. What was done to you after you were
apprehended? A. I had sentence of death pronounced on me,
and was delivered into the hands of the guard. Q. Were they In-
timate Secretaries or Perfect Masters? A. I was then ignorant
thereof, but my resolution and integrity convinced me that I was
the first that was made an Intimate Secretary. Q. What are the
pass words? A. *' * "" *
Q. What -is the grand
word? A. * * " *
Q._ What were
you before
you were examined and received an I. S.'l A. A favorite of
Solomon. Q. Of what province? A., Copentister. Q. How
many governments did Solomon give to Hiram for the materials
he supplied him with, in the building of the temple? A. Thirty.
Q. Where were you received? A. In Solomon's apartment,
lined with black and lighted with 27 lights. Q. What doth the
letter I. signify, which you saw in the window? A. * °
* *
Q. What does that word signify? A. It is the third
name of Deity, and signifies, give thanks to Him, the work is
done. Q, What is signitied by A and two P's, in the angle?
A. * ' "' *
Q. Why is'this lodge lighted with 27
lights? A. To represent 2700 candlesticks Sol. made for his
temple. Q. What doth the great door in the carpet represent?
A. The door of Solomon's palace. Q. What is signified by the
triple triangle you wear? A. The 3 theological virtues, faith,
hope, and charity. Q. There is another interpretation? A.
Sol. H. and H. K. of Tyre. Q. What is the hour? A. It is 9.
Lodge closed by 3 times 9, as in opening.
-¢G"0}-
PROVOST AND JUDGE.
Opening.-Master. 'Br. Wardens, are we well tyledl' A.
'Thrice lllustrious, we are.' Master. 'Where is your Master
placedl' A. 'Every where! M. 'Why so?' A. 'To superin-_
tend the workrnen,_ direct the work, and render justice to
every
'man.' Q. 'What is the hourl' A. 'Break of day,-8 o'clock,-
2 and 7.' Master knocks 5 quick and slow-separate-which is
repeated by the Wardens. Mast.. 'lt is break of day,-8 o'clock,
-2 and 7; it is time to proceed to work.' This is repeated by
the Wardens. Brethren clap hand 4 and 1: Master says, 'The
lodge is openl'
Reception.-The Master of Cer. leads the candidate to the
door and knocks 4 and 1, which is repeated by the Wardens and
Master from within. Master orders a brother to see who 15
.x-.___ .
J* ,....r,
.
""
192 mom' on misonrar.
'
there; after the brother has inquired, he says, 'A brother who
wishe to be passed to the degree of Provost and Judge.' Mas-
ter sends word to Master of Cer. to examine him well and then
introduce him in ancient form. Master of Cer. leads him and
places him between the Wardens. .S. Warden orders him to
kneel and say '--,' and puts a naked sword in his hand and on
his left shoulder, Master says, '--,' and S. W. raising candi-
date, leads him seven times round the lodge, each time he passes
the Master he gives a
sign, (beginning with Entered Apprentice;)
he is then led to the altar, and there addressed by the Master.
(See Monitor.) 'I now intmst you with the key of the place,
where is kept the body and heart of Hiram Abiti, as also the box
in which is kept the plans ofthe temple; and you are
now_to give
us assurance that you will never discover the place where the
body is interred.' (He promises and takes the following oblis
vation.' ~
°
obugfrrsrn..-_'ist secrecy. 2.1. 1 win justly and im really
regulate all matters of difference between brethren; I wilinimejust
and equitable to all the world, as I am constituted by this lodge
to render justice. Bd. I will pay due obedience to the mandate
of the Grand Colmcil of Perfection, of Jerusalem, and govem
myself by their regulations! Penalty-that of all the former
degrees. Candidate rises, and the Master gives him a blow with
the sceptre on each shoulder, saying, 'By the power with which I
am invested, I constitute you a Provost and Judge over all the
works and workmen of the temple, and I decorate you, 'in this
character, with the golden key, suspended by a red ribbon, which
you are to wear in the form of a collar; this apron is trimmed
with the same color; the red denotes the order of the Mason,
and the pocket in the centre is to carry your plans for the pon-
struction of the temple. _
.
E
LECTURE.
Q. Are you a Provost and Judge! A. I am, and render jus-
tice to all the workmen without distinction. Q. How were you
introduced into this lodge! A. By 4 and 1 distinct knocks. Q.
What is signified by 4 and 1, separate? A. The 4 represents the
four frontstof the temple, and the 1 signifies the temple of Gen.
Q. Whom did you meet with in your road? A. A Warden, who
conducted me to the west. Q. What was done with you there?
A. The S. W. made me kneel on my right knee, and say '-.'
Q. What answer was
given to that? A. The Thrice Illustrious
-* * 'lf
Q. What is the signification of these words? A. The
tirst signilies 'kneel,' and the second 'rise.' Q. What was next
.H ___.._.__~ ___
WWW
_LIGHT ON
rusounr. 193
done? A. He made me a Provost and Judge. Q. What did
he deliver to you? A. A golden key to distinguish this degree.
Q. For what purpose is this key? A. To opena small ebony
box, in which were
kept the plans for constructing the temple.
Q. What is meant thereby? A. That a Provost and Judge only
knows where this box is, as well aswbere the heart of Hiram
Abiif lies. Q. What is the pass word? A. * *
Q. What
is the signiiication of that word? A. It is the name of.
the first
Grand Warden, Prince Harodim., and the eldest of the Provosts
and Judges, whose care it was to _superintend the 300 architects
of the temple. Q., What did you perceive in the lodge? A. A
curtain, behind which was
suspended a small ebony box enriched
with jewels. Q. What did this box
cpnt;in?I
A. All the de-
s' s. Q. Did ou see
any th' else . saw
atnangl`e in
tilgencentre of theyLodge in which was "G. A." Q. What is
meant by these two letters? A. "Grand Architect." Q. ,What
more did 'you see? A. A balance in equilibrio. Q. What is
meant thereby? A. That equity of judgment, which is our
par-
ticular duty, be` nominated to decide all differences among the
workmen. Q.uWhere was the heart of Hiram Abiif deposited?
A. In an um of gold upon the top of an obelisk. Q. What is
signified by the two letters X and I? A. '*
3* *
the seat oi
the soul. Q. What is signified by the letters I. H. S., with the
sprig of cassia? A. * * * *'
Q. In what place were
you received? A. In the middle chamber. Q. What was your
duty? A. To perfect the tomb of Hiram Abiiii Q. What did
the Thrice Illustrious invest you with upon your initiation? A.
With a white apron, lined with blood red color, and in the centre
of which was a
pocket with a red and white rose. Q. What was
its use? A. To carry the plans in, that they might be laid out on
the tressle-board, as
regular designs for the workmen. Q. What
is signified by the red and white rose? A. The red denotes the
blood of Hiram AbiH§ and the white, the innocency and tmth of
the *' *' *F
Q. What was the intention of Solomon in fomi-
irig this degree? A. To preserve order amongst the workmen.
Joabert, being honored with the intimate confidence of Solomon.
received a new mark of distinction. Solomon first created Tito,
Prince Harodim, Adoniram, and Abda, his father, Provosts and
Judges, and gave them orders to initiate Joahert, his favorite, in.
to the most sacred mysteries and to give him the keys of all the
buildings, which were enclosed in a small ivory box, suspended
in the sanctum sanctorum, under a rich canopy. When Joabert
was first admitted into that sacred place, he was struck with 031.
mlration and awe, and falling on his knees pronounced. """"'"' »
_
,__._4
p
__
,J-».,__ -+-. -
--~'
'r-- "rn
A
194 LIGHT UN MABONBY.
Solomon, seeing him prostrate, said to him --, and gave to him
the balance as a badge of his ofliee. '
Clan.--Q. What is your age?
-'
A. 41imes 16. Q. From
whence canie you?
I
A. I came and am going every where. Q.
What is the o*bl6ckl 'li 'Break ofidays-8 'o'clock-2 and 7.
Q. How so? A. Because, as
Provostand Judge, Imust be
ready to render justice at alltimes. 'The lodge is elosed as it'is
opened.
' ' "" '
'
~" ~
`
_
A
INTENDANT' OF _THE _B`UILDINGS,.
'
'
, _
03.
1
LIASTERINISBABL, .
*
Solomon is in the east, 'Ilito inthe west, and Adoniram in the
south. .
y
A
Opening.-Soiomdn. "l'ito, are we
tyledt'
Tito. 'Most Pu--
iggant, we are.' Q. _'What is it o'clock
'
J. 'Break of day.'
Solomon strikes tiv on the altarfwith his scerzatre, which is re-
peated by Tito and iidoniram. '
vSol<nmm. 'As it is break of day,
it is time to work.' (The lodge is open.) All /the' brethren
strike five together, and make the sign of surprise and admiration.
_Receptiomf-.Ma.s1er. 'Brother
Tito, how shall we repair the
loss of our worthy Hiram Abifl`l_ You know had the oma-
ments of fthe, secret chamber in,charge,
whiclrcontailtled
the
holy ark, which was to assure the Israelites of the perfec `on, _of
the most Holy God. A
Hc is now takeil from us
by a most hui-rid
crime; of our craft, and we ,are thei-eh deprived;of our most re-
spectable chiet§` now, iny illustrious drother, see if _you are
able
to give me advice-in this important matter.'
`
"
y
Am. 'Most Puissant, the method I would propose would be to
create one chief from the five orders of architecture, in order to
iinite _all abilities, and endeavor to finish the work of the secret
chamber of the third story.'
.Masten 'Your advice is good; and to convince you of' my
readiness to follow it, I a oint you, brethren, to inspect the con-
dition of this business. _
Excellentbrethren, let Adoniram go into-
the middle chamber, 'and see if he can find a chief of the five
orders of architecture.' _`
Adonirarn goes, arid finding Joabert, says, 'Are there here any
chiefs of the five, orders of architecture? Joab. 'I am, the in-
`i.rbdiictor;' ./ldon. 'My dear brother, have ou zeal to a ply
yourself with attention to that which the Most I'i1issa|it`shallh'c~
'»-¢_..n. ..¢-......».-
--;Ln»-¢-f~¢- _
_L-L_ __ _-ll
1 _
uonr on muoivnr. 195
quest of' youl'
V
Joab. 'I,hnye, and will with all pleasure comply
with the request of the Most Puissant, and raise this edifice to
his honor and glory,' .Hdom 'Give me the signs, words, md
tokens of the preeeding degrees! Adonifalll knocks at the dqm-
of the lodge Was, five, and seven- One of the brethren with.
in answers the alarm," and asks what is wanted. dm. 'There
isone here who is to be employed in the works of the middle
cbarnberi The door is opened, and Adoniram, griping the can-
didate by the token of --_-, brings him before the altar, md
lays him down. ,
Tito stands behind, puts the sprig of casein in
his hand, and he takes the obligation. 1. Secrecy. 2. 0bedi_
ence to the orders and decrees of the Grand Council of Princes,
of Jerusalem. Penalty.-Body severed in two, and bowels uk.
en out, when the candidate says, 'Amen.' Tito covers his body
with a red cloth, and relieves him by the token, and with his hand
to his elbow, raises and planes him on a stool, when he is thug ad-
dressed by the Master:-1-'My dear brother, Solomon, tg
carry to the highest perfection the work already begun, oujl it
necessary' to employ five chiefs of the five orders of gtchitgcmyg;
and he gave command of them to Tito, Adoniram, and his
father, being well assured that their zeal would be exerted to the
utmost in to perfection the works of the middle cling).
ber,
'
We, therefore, Hatter ourselves, my brother, that you
contribute all in your power to the some end. The situation you
have just been in, resembles that of a dead man, and you being
relieved from it, signifies our hope that you will repair the loss of
our respected Hiram Abitli having so bright an-
T
le befhre
you, that you will endeavor to show the- same éijn.
tempt of death, sooner than discover any of the secrets. Iwill
now raise you in the same manner he was raised under the sprig
of cassia.' The candidate is raised, and Tito gives him the signs,
£okens,a»nd words. ,
;.,»,¢ _
,
.,
V
' H _,Q
`
LECTURE.
'
_
.lite youan lntenduynt of the
Build,i.n§s? All have mgdg
the tive steps of exactness; Ihaye penetra ed the inmost part of
the temple; and I have Seen the great light, in thi middle of which
were three mysterious letters, or characters, in Hebrew, without
knowing what they meant. --
.Q , 'How
camveaiou
to be received?
A. By ac, 0,7216
'
_mx
'
D0 Q, _ were
'
.
ed? A.
'll5i>"p61'i'hgi>Ji|1E`to rig theltrkrless irrwhich I v¥§;|,r;(id'l,o
Pf<>°'4f° we 9 t £9 K9 ,ste mr beam and rezvlsre my vn-
derstanding. Whitt PECIU were you introduced? A. In tr
piacefull of wonder and beauty, where truth and wisdom;-es1gi§~»
-i...,__ ~
.»»¢_ ,_, ....¢¢;_ *___ _ _`,.._
~
" *
196 LIGHT ox Masonar.
Q. What was your duty?~ 'A. To superintend the work. Q-
Why were you made to walk backward and forward in the lodge?
A. To show ine, that, in advancing to virtue, I should set humani-
ry in opposition to the pride so natn'al to us. Q. What
signify
the letters
* * * in the centre of the triangle? A. *
if * * * which are expressive of the wisdom of God. Q.
What is meant by the -, inthe middle of the blazing star in the
lodge? A. his the initial of that ineB`able>name. Q. What is
signified by the circle in the triangle? A. It teaches the immen-
sity of God, without beginning or
ending. g
What is signified
by the four letters * *
_in the circle? A. The divine attri-
butes of the Deity., Q.'What are the principal attributes? A.
Beauty, wisdom, mercy, omnisciencefeternity, perfection, jus-
tice, tendemess, creation;' which together make the square of 9.
Q. Why were you barefoot at your admission? A. Because
Moses was barefoot when he saw the burning bush. Q. What
did the tive knocks represent? A. The five points of felicity.
Q. What did they produce?
'
A. A Warden, who conducted me
five times round the temple, and supported me. Q. What did
you see there? A. The
holy
name inthe blazing star. Q. Why
had that star no more than ve
rays? A. To denote the five or-
ders of architecture, made use of in the building of the temple;
the five points of fellowship; the five senses, without which a
man cannot be perfect; the tive lights of Masonry; and the tive
zones of the world inhabited by Masons. Q. What is the name
in the .centre of the star? A. * *' * * *
or the sacred
name. 'Q Why is blueand gold so
peculiar to this degree?
A. *` * * *
Q. Do you continue still in darlmess? A.
The morning is light,'a.nd the blazing star is my guide. Q. What
is your age? A. 27. Q. What numbers have you marked?
A. 5, 7, and 15. Q. Explain them? A. Five points of felicity,
seven golden candlesticks, and tiReen Fellow Crafts, who joined
H. A.inthegrave.
'
r
'
¢
Close.--Q. 'What's the hourl' A. _'Seven at night) Q. 'My
brethren, after having practised the five points of felicity, it is
time to repose and refi'esh.'
`
The Master knocks 5, which is re-
peated by the brethren, 5, 7, and 15, and the lodge is closed.
__
'
ELECTED'KNIGHTS or NINE.
For the form of the lodge, see'Monitor, and in addition, the
brethren have their knees crossed, and their heads reeli
'
on
their right hands. Master. 'Brother Stockin, are wa an E ct~
_...¢a¢....¢»_..__-a§-m »- -..-
-slim 4».|#»~
LIGHT on MAsoNm'. 197
e¢],-Knight of Ninel' ./Ins. 'One cavem received me, one
lamp
gave me light, and one
spring refreshed me.' Q. 'What is the
hourl' .H. 'Break ot' day.' Master knocks S and 1, Stockin re-
peats it, and then all the brethren, with their poniards; and the
Master declares the chapter open. _
_
Reception.-Master of Ceremonies leads the candidate to the
door, and knocks 8 and l. The Master orders the candidate to
be admitted. He is conducted to the west, a.nd placed behind
Stockin. Master. 'What do you wishl' ./9. 'To be admitted an
Elected
'
ht.' Q. 'Have you cou e eno h to reve the
death oflygig' Master, Hiram Abitft' 'I hli%e.' Q. ligtgyou
have, you shall be shown where one ot' his murderers is conceal-
ed-a stranger has shown the place to me, and if you have forti-
tude, follow the stra.nger.' The candidate is blinded, led to the
cavern, and seated on the stone. The Master ot' Ceremonies
says, 'Be of good courage, I ani going to leave you, but shall not
belong absent; and utter l am
gone, you must take the bandage
from your eyes, and drink some ot' the water you will lind before
I retum.' Candidate is left alone, and the door is shut. The
Master of Ceremonies retums, and orders him to take the poniard
in his right hand, and the head in his left, and he thus goes alone
to the door ot' the lodge, where he kicks 8 'and 1. Master of
Cer. within, says, 'what do you wishl' .H. 'An Intendant ofthe
Buildings demands to enter
the chapter.' Q. 'Have you finished
your time, and satisfied your Masterl' J. 'I have
had the hon-<
or of performing a
feat for the honor of the craft, which will, I
hope, entitle me to this degree] Master of Cer. repeats to Stock-
in, who repeats to the Master, and he orders the candidate to be
admitted. He advances by 8 quick, and 1 slow, steps, holding
the poniard elevated, as if to strike. The ninth step brings him
to the altar, where he falls on his knees. Master observes him,
and says, 'Wretch, what have you clonel Do you not know that
by this rash act, you have deprived me of the pleasure of devot-
ing the villain to condig-n punishment? Stockin, let him be put
immediately to death! At this word, all the brethren, falling on
their knees, intercede for the candidate, observing to the Master,
that his offence arose from zeal, and not from any intention of de-
priving the Master of the pleasure of punishing the villain. This
pacities him, and he orders Stockin to stop, and tell the candidate,
'that he shall be pardoned this second time, but beware of the
third.' Stockin takes the head and poniard from the candidate,
and places the poniard at the foot, and the head at the top, of the
altar. The candidate is still on his knees, and all the brethren-
standing round, as it' to
strik<§-he
takes the obligation.--'L I
2
¢
__
_,....~
.L_ _-4...-, .~--|»--¢-vn¢-
'
195
'
near on Masormr.
do solemnly swear, in the presence ofAlmighty God, that-Lui!
adipga the assassination of our worthy Master, Hiram Ahiili not
only onthe murderers, hut also on all, who may betray the secrets
qftbia degree; and furthermore, that I will keep and protect this
order with all my might, and the hrethren, in general,with~ all my
power; and furthermore, thatl will obey the decrees of the Grand
Council of Princes, of Jerusalem; and, if ~I violmefthia, my ob-
ligion, I consent to be struck with the dreadful poniard of sam
gteance, now presented to me, and to have my head cut oil; and
stuck on the highest pole, or pinnacle, in the eastern part of the
world, as a monument of my villanvl Amen! Amen!" Amen!
Amon!
'
Master raises candidate, and says, 'Some time after the death
of Hiram AMB; and before Solomon had been able to discover
the traitors who had' murdered him, a
great assembly of Mas-
tem,' as in Monitor, to the words, 'Who had only time to pro-
nounce ---, (vengeance is. takea;) immediately after which,
Joabert, beingthirsty, and perceiving a
spring of water, he drank,
and then slqmt until. the rest arrived and awoke him. Onbehold-
ing the bloody scene, they all exclaimed ----!< Joabert then
acquainted them wit.h`wha.t. had happened, and they envied him
'for having alone avenged the death of- Hiram Abidl Adler hav#
ing refreshed themselves at the spring, Joabert., cut of the head,
and divided the body into four quarters, whichwere hunt, and
the ashes scattered in the air, so as that they might be dispersed
to the four winds of heaven., and; to the corners of the-earth.
Then, taking the poniardand head, Joabert said ---! and
returned to Jerusalem. (See Monitor.)
Joahert was afterwards highlyfavored of
`
Solomon, who con-
ferred on him and the others thimdegree of Elected 'KlllgM,'&l§
then gave them the following signs:
" ' * '
'
y LncTUan.
'
Q. Are you an. Elected _Knightl A. One cavem.l ltnewyend
entered. Q. What did you see there? A. A lightgaponiardi
andthe traitor Akirop. Q. What did you ,do with theml A.
The light to light me, the poniard. to- revenge, and the
apriigtp
refresh me! Q. Wherewere you admitted!" A. In the audi?
ence chamher of Solomon. How marlyfwermelectedl
`
A.
Nine, including myseltl Q. From what l]l]ll'lllQ5'll6lQ they
e}e¢tgd1. ~
A. 99. Q. For what purpose? ~
A¢."1ld:~rovenge-the
death of Hiram Abifcl Q. Where.did<you tind<him1'. 'A. `InZthe~
bottom ofacavem, near a
burning bushin aeleft; near the coast
of Joppa.. Q.- Who conducted you there? A. A;.strangorx~" Qs
A _
Q
K
*"- ---» _.._;-i..,.4_. _
»..m__.¢1.;.»l ~ .
I-"I-nn... _nan-L-anus#--..._,_...--|_ .
-___ -
~"
LIGHT on nusonu. 199
Wlm way did you travel tothe aivernl A. By dark, intricate
roads. Q. In what manner' didtlw Elected Knights march? A.
Darkness often obliged them to put theirhmds before their eyes,
to prevent their being put out; from the ditliculty of the roads
they were obliged to cmss their legs, this is the reason the
Elected' Knights sit in that manner in the Q. What is
mem; by the dug you see-inthe carpet of the lodge? A. The
sagacity- ofthe stranger who conducted them to the cavern. p Q.
What does the color of black denote in this degree? A. Giiefl
Q. What remains to be done? A. Nothing, because every thing
is accomplished? Q. Give me the pass word? A. '----,'
(all the signs given.) Qv. Whatftime did you go in search of
the assassins? A. At break of day. Q. When did you retum?
A. At- night. Q- Whit' is your age? A. Eight and one, ac-
complished. _
Close.-Q. VVhat is the time? A. Evening. The Master
knocks 8 and 1, which is repeated by all the brethren. He then
gives the sign, which is answered by all. Ha thenvsays, '_._,`
and the rest, 'Vengeancej and the lodge is closed. -
ELECTED GRAND MASTER,
. on ,
ILLUSTRIOUS ELECTED OF' FIFTEEN.
~
Opening.-Master knocksfthree times five. The Inspector
repeats it, and the Mfaster declares the lodge is open.
Reception.--The candidatehas a headfin his hand, and isled
to the door ofthe lodge by the S. W. who knock|'3= times 5, and
-the Inspector goes to the door, and demandswho is there? Upon
which the S. W. says, 'An E. Knight, who isdesirous ofjoining
the other Knights in finding the other two assassins, and to he
admitted among the elect fifteen, the Inspector shuts the door
and reports to the Master; who givesorders' for hisf admission,
and he is taught to make I5 steps inatriangular' form, which
brings~him to the altar: The brethren all-stand round with'pon»
~iards, and' interlacing their hands before-tlvsir foreheads witlrthc
palms presented -toview, and"tHey-ask-pardewfur the candidate,
Master. 'Why do you ask pardonl' Ana. 'Because they are not
guilty.' Master. 'Why do you ask pardon for a person who is
not guilty?' ./ina. In order to qualify him to become a
Grand
Master Elect! Master. 'Is he well qualified? Am. 'He ts.'
é.»-
'
200 Liam' on Masomzr.
Jllaster. 'Kneel,~ brother, the'Grand Mastcr Elect here present
desire me to admit you a member 'ef this degree; will you take
the solemn :obligation to keep the secrets inviolable?' ./ins. 'I
.
,
.
will.
Obligation.-The penalty is, to have the body opened pen
pendicularly and horizontally, and exposed to the air for eight
hours, that the flies may prey on-the entrails, also, to have the
head cut 08' and laced on the highest pinnacle in the world, and
to be 'ready to irylict the same
penalty on all who disclose the se-
crets ofthis degree!!! Master raises the candidate and gives the
signs, Src. (For history, see Monitor.) 'Solomon determined
that their punishment should he adequate to their crimes, and
when the day of their execution arrived, they were
brought forth
at 10 o'clock, A. M. and were executed, and were bound, neck
and middle, to posts in the most public place, with their arms
extended; and their bellies were cut open by the executioner,
lengthwise, and across, and in this position they remained until
6 o'clock in the evening, so that the flies might prey on their en-
trails; their heads were then cut off and placed on spikes with that
of -
-, on the east, west and south pinnacles of the tem-
ple, under which they had committed their crime.
Q .
`
LECTURE.
Q. Are you a Grand Master Elect? A.~ My zeal and works-
have produced me that honor! Q. How were you received? A.
By Solomon himself; in his apartment. Q. When and for what
purpose? A. At the time ne sent me, together with my compan-
ions, to find out the two as assins! Q. How came they to be
discovered? A. By the diligence of' Bengabee1, Solomon's
intendant, in the province of Cheth. Q. Who carried Solomon's
letter to the king Morihahl A. Taheal. Q. How many did he
send on this occasion? A. 15. Q. Give me the sign, token,
and word?
S'Given.) Q. VVhat do they allude to? A. That I
shall always e
ready to inflict the same
punishment, .on all who
shall betray the secrete of this degree.
»
Close.-Q. At what hour did the assassins expire. Their
execution was at 10 o'clock, A. M. and at 6 in the evening, ven-
geance was
accomplished! Q. .May all traitors meet the same
fate!!! Master knocks 15, which is repeated first by the lnsp,
then by all the brethren, and the lodge is closed.
h¢|>-- .|»...._.¢la-AL.
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 201
ILLUSTRIOUS KNIGHTS,
on ,
SUBLIME KNIGHTS ELECTED.
ening.-Master knocks 12 times at equal intervals, which
ishepeated by the Grand Inspector only. _
Master. 'What is the
hour? G. I. 'l2.' Master. 'It is time to improve our labors
by the greatest of lights, l pronounce the Grand Chapter open.'
Reception.-Candidate is introduced by Master ofCeremonies,
who knocks 12 at the door, which is answered by Master within,
then by the' Grand Inspector, who goes to the door and demands
'who is therei' Master qf Cer. 'A Grand Master Elect of 15,
who is desirous of being admitted to this Grand Chapter of Illus-
trious Knightsz'-This is repeated to the Master who orders him
to be introduced. He must be decorated as a Grand Master
Elect of 15. He is lirst led to the Grand Inspector who eaam-
ines him in all his former degrees. Master. 'Comp. Gr. Insp.
what does this candidate desirei' Gr. Imp. 'To be admitted to
the degree of Illustrious Knight. Masta. 'As a remembrance of
his zeal and labor, I will admit him.' Master to can. 'l uppose,
my brother, you only wish to become an Illustrious Knight, from
interested motives! _
dns. 'My first view is, doing my duty,
which I have donefat my own expense, to punish all traitors; and
now I request this honor as a remembrance) Master. 'Advance
and take the obligation.
Obligation.-'lst. Secrecy. 2d. To be charitable! Penal-
ty.-'The body cut in quarters.' The Master raises the candi-
date and gives the signs, &c.
Close.-Master. 'You have this day received pay from the
workmen, who have performed well, and you are worthy of the
name you bear, from the strict attendance to promote peace and
harmony, and to animate the laborers with cheerfulness! Mas-
ter knocks 12, which is repeated by the Grand Inspector, and the
lodge is closed.
bp
3
GRAND MASTER ARCHITECTS.
Opening.-Master knocks 1 and 2, which is repeated by the
Grand Warden. Q. 'Are you a Grand Master Architect? -H.
-I know the use of évcry mathematical instnnnent! Q- 'Wim
._.L__4_-L_L._..
-'-
'
""'_°
202 LIGHT 08 UA!0NB.¥
are they] A. 'A square, a single compass, a
compass with four
points, a rule, a lime, a
compass of perfection, a quadrant, a level,
and a plumb.' Q. 'Where were you made and received? J.
'In-a white place painted with flames! Q. 'What do these sig-
nifyl' A. 'The purity of heart, and zeal that should be charac-
teristic of every good Mason Architect! Q. 'What does the
star in the north signify in this degree? -H; 'Virtue, which ought
to be a guide to every good Mason, as the north star is to mafi-
ners.' Q. 'What is the hourl' ./1. 'A star appears for break of
day.' Master. 'Let as work, I declare this lodge open.'
Reception.-Candidate introduced by 1 and 2, and led
once round the north star, is made to advance 3 square steps and
then takes the same. obligation as that of, Illustrious-Knights; he
then rises and is made to recede 3 steps backward, which brings
him between the Wardens, and the. Grand Warden gives him
the sign, token, and word. (For history, see Monitor.)
Close.--Master knocks 1 and 2, which is followed 'first by the
Grand Warden, than by all the brethren; alter this they all salute
the Master, and the lodge is closed., A
I
r
-1000>
`
,
THE DEGREE
OE
'
KNIGHTS or THE NINTH ARCH
Solomon knocks 9, (! !! ! ! ! !!!) Hiram of Tyre repeats,
the Grand Junior Warden calls to order, and then he and the
rest of the brethren knock the same.
'
The two kings give signs
of admiration, first to each other and then to the brethren, by
whom it is repeated. 4
The two kings kneel at the pedestal, Sol-
omon rises, then. raises H. T. after which brethren kneel at the
pglestal, by order of Solomen.-Q-Solomon says, 'l declare this
c ter open.' _
,
_
V
'
_ Ecccption.-Previousto the reception the vault and _f-he pedes-
tal are darkened and the trap door is opened, the candidate or
candidates, (if more than one,) are introduced into the room
over the trap door. Two
hreglrgz
at least, being with candi-
dates as guards, one of which emands, 'The favor of being ad-
mitted tg a_d aeof,'K
'
e ch' o ac, ount of his
zeal, and his heging`regulx?igrl}§td&fdu'ilfAdrie degrees!
He is answered from below that at present it is not possible, but
that may iuust pray to God for periiiiiision. p' The
guarvdf retire,
and
their make the request, to which the satne answer 1
rettrm-
4....¢~...L..___,|
uexrr on susosnv. 303
ed. They repeat this the third time. Thexrthe G. J. Warden
asks ifthey are willing to descend into the lower abyss in search
of great treasurel' (dns. "Yes.') A rope is then tied round
one 'of the #candidates to let him down into the vault. He is
fold if be sees any thing on being lowered down, ~he»is to shake
the rope and he 'will be raised; he is 'then twice lowered and
raised, the third timethey give him a
burning taper and- on his
being let down this time, one who is concealed below, blows out
the taper and one from above throws down some
pieces ol' stone
and mortar, and the candidate heholds the pedestal, (uncovered)
He is to fall on his lknees with all below, around the pedestal.
Candidate continues in this posture, if 'there are more than one
candidate, until -all are let down. The G. J. Warden tells him
or them that in this posture they are to take that inviolable and
secret obligation.
'
"05ligation.-I do promise and vow,'in the most solemn man-
ner and in the presence of the mostholy and puissant and most
terrible, just' and merciful God, that 1 will double my assiduity,
zéal'and' love i`or»my fellow-brethren whohave-taken this degree
of K. A. "I"promise further-never to assist at the initiation of
any brother into this degree, nor to give my consent that he be
initiated, ~unless he shall regularly 'have received all the forego-
'irig degreesfin a just and regular lodge, and unless he shows a
charitable 'disposition1for_Masonry, 'and also obtains a
permission
from underlthedidnds and sealsof the oflicers of a just and regu-
lar lodge, accordlngfto faucient laws. I furthermore promise
never to give
`
to any-anumber less than 3, and those to be well
examined, this degree unlesslwhemauthori ed for that purpose
by a particular patent, and with aview of constituting a
lodge of
K. A. Masons-which-I-will»never consent to be holden within
25 leagues ofone already regularly constituted. .I.further- prom-
ise carefully to observe and pay due obedienceto all ithe laws,
rules and regulations, festsblished and appointed by this K. A.
oChapter'as alsotolreep inviolable the secrets communicated in it.
'Ifurtlierrnore promise' that I-will not debaueh, any female 'related
tofabrother, 'knowing them to be' such. Allfthis I- promise under
the penalties of my former-obligations, and in case of failure,
~that 'my body may be exposed 'to the beasts of the forest as 9,
prey, so God maintain me in my present obligation. (For his-
tory of this degree see Webb's Monitor, 2d part, chapter 10.)
'When the treasure, which had been found inthe ground, was
produced (to Solomon and H, »T.) they fell on theirknees, gave
the sign ofadrniration and exclajmeil'*G-,= is a good man!' 'Atl
ter G-,-JJ-and'S. were introduced to:the second vaultand re-
I
in-1|¢.....,__ s, -L¢».;. ..,.¢_ *_',, _, __-ns.. ..
-
' '~
e
204 ,
mom* on Masonyiw.
geiving alllthe honors of this degree, Solomon explained to them
the sacred word, which was
engraved on the golden platewhich
was the true name of the Most High, but that it had been already
much corrupted as had -already been observed. The principal
ages of Masonry were 3, 5, 7, and 9, which by calculation made
81, or the cube of 3. I ,shall give you the different methods of
pronouncing the words precious to the Arch we are now
treating
ogclassed according to the above numeral.
3 5
-
All powerful. -
It is what it will be.
3 -
Divine light. 5 -
God himseltl
3 -
Striking light. 5 --
Eternal God.
7 -
O thou who art eternal. .9 -
God of mercy.
7 -
Sustain us, 0 God. 9 -
My trust is in God.
'7 -
God of lights. 9 -
The grand name.
This last is the application' known only to those who have
been admitted to the sublime degree of Perfection, which in due
time, will also bo communicated to you. From the corruption of
of the grand word spring the -
of the Moors, the Jupiter of
the Romans, and others of like nature. The true name was visi-
ble in the temple, at the time St. Jerome llourished, written in
the ancient Samaritan characters, and is still preserved in the
heart of every good and faithful K. A. Mason. This mysterious
word is covered by 3 signs, 3 tokens, 3 covered words, and 3
pass words which will all be particularly explained to you in the
lodge of Perfection. The three now elected took an oath before
God, never to pronounce his sacred name, nor even to admit to
this sublime degree, any Mason, until he gave suiiicient proof of
his zeal and attachment, and promise to use the same ceremonies
of initiation, in order to commemorate the mysterious history of
the divine Delta, and the B.g, B.h, and where the Almighty caused
the ancient patriarch to promise that he. would never fully pro-
nounce his sacred and true name.'
`
The number ofthe grand and sublime elect, Src. (as in Mon-
itor, to the word 'Perfection,') where this last mentioned lodge
was holden, 9 Knights of the N. A. styled the 9 arches which
led to the sacred vault. The most ancient stood in the arch
next to the vault, and so on in regular procession, and none were
permitted to pass but those who were qualified, giving the `pass_
of each, viz. ' "' ' * * A
And at the sacred vault the pass word ofthe --
pronounced
three times. Appertaining to this degree are two signs and one
token, besides the before mentioned passes. For charge, see
Monitor, and it concludes thus, 'I shall now conclude with ex-,
horting you, my brothers, who have been made acquainted with
_,.¢|-»;..a_.
C
LIGHT ON HASONRY. 205
the mode of contemplating often on the grand mysteries, to en-
deavor by your zeal and constancy, to receive the ultimate de-
gree of Moral Knowledge. y
LECTURE.
Q. In what place are we? A. In the centre of the most holy place
on earth. Q. By what meansdid you gain admission? A. By divine
providence. Q. Explain that. A. I wrought in the ruins of the
ancient temple of Enoch; I penetrated through 9 arches under
ground and finally found the Delta, containing the name which
God had pronounced to the patriarchs. Q. What is the Delta? A.
The triangle of gold, enriched with precious stones and affording
great light, and upon which was
engraved by Enoch that great and
mysterious name, Jehovah. Q, Do you know the true pronun-
ciation of that word? A. I do not, and it is only known to the G.
E. P. and S. Masons. Q. Who are
you? A. Iam what I am;
my name is --. Q. What is your quality? A. A K. of
R. A. Q. How are you received in this quality? A. By the
two kings, Solomon and Hiram, king of Tyre, in company with
my brethren, Joabert and Stokin, as a reward of my zeal and
constancy. Q. Give me the sign, token and words, (given.)
Q. Have you any thing else to desire? A. I have, the Ultimate
Degree of Masonry, and eternal happiness.
Close.-Q. What is the time, brother J. G. Warden? A. It
is evening. Q. Acquaint the brethren that I am going to close
this R. A. L. by the most powerful and mysterious number.
Solomon strikes 9, which is repeated by the K. T. by the G. J.
W. and otlicers, and the rest of the brethren. J. W. calls to
order, on which the two kings and all the brethren give the signs,
tokens, and words, and Solomon says, 'This R. A. L. is closed,
with all its honorsl'
`
THE DEGREE OF PERFECTION
_
OR
GRAND ELECT PERFECT AND SUBLIME MASON.
(For description oflodge, titles, <5-c. sae .Monitor-.) Delta and
appearance of the buming bush, under which are ruins, and be-
fore the Master a broken pedestal, lights are arranged according
to the several stages of Masonry, viz. 3 behind J. W.-5 behind
S. W.-7 in the Isouth, and 9 behind the Master. When the
candidate wishes for
admissiog
tothe vault he gives the follow-
* ,__ _ ql ,|__ ..... .;. f
"""°""/*I
A
205 L1G<l'r' on lnsoalr. _
ing pass word, viz.--§`irstly ----s, secondly 2-=-, thirdly ---;
pass word repeamed thrice.
®¢1|i15--°MGSt¢T-
'Most Venerable Wardens, are we well
tyledl' ns. 'R. W. and -Must Perfect, we are.' Master. 'Let
us ray.' (See Monitor.) .Most Perjict. 'Venerable brother,
S. what brings you herel' ./ins. 'R. W. and M. P. the love
of Masonry, myobligation, and 'a desire for perfection! ~
Q.
'What are the propertiesand qualities for acquiring itl' J. 'The
two first lead to the third and are three to happiness) Q. 'What
have you brought herel' ./1. 'A heart zealous in virtue and friend-
ship.' Q. 'What is 'the disposition 'of an E. P. and S. MJ' A.
'To have a heart divested ot' jealous revenge and iniquity, and
always ready to do good and keep his tongue from calumny, and
detraction.' Q. 'How are you to behave in this place?' A. 'With
the most profound respect.'
'
Q. 'Whence comes it, my brother,
that men of all ranks and conditions are in this place, and are
termed brethren together, and are all equal?' ./Q. Because that
sacred and ineffable name puts us in mind, that there is one infin-
ity, that is superior to us all! Q. 'Why is respect paid to that
trianglel' A. 'Because it contains the name of the G. H. of
the universe.' Q. 'What are youi' A. 'I am 3 times 3, the
perfect number of 81, according to our
mysterious number.' Q.
'Explain that.' ./2. 'I am a G. E. P. and S. M. my trials are
finished, and it is now time I should reap the fiuit of my labor.'
Q. 'What is the hour?' .4. 'High twelve.' Q. 'What do you
understand by high twelvef' ./I. 'That the sun has gained its
meridian height, ahd darts its rays with the greatest force on this
lodge, which is the time we should avail ourselves ot; to profit
by his' influence? Q. 'Venerable Sen. Warden announce that
I am about to open this lodge of P. M. by the mysterious num-
ber of 3, 5, 7, and 9.' S. W. obeys-J W. strikes 3, S. W.
5, and Master 7-silence follows-Master calls to order and
gives 3 strokes, on which the~brethren give the first sign; he then
gives 3 other strokes and the second sign is given, and so on
until the third sign is given. Master. 'Ven. br. S. W. this lodge
of 'Perfect Masons' is open.' J. W. announces it to brethren.
Master gives sign oi? admiration, which is firstrepeated by J. W.
and S. W. and then by all the brethren. Master salutes the
lodge with the first sign,which is answered by brethren. Breth-
ren cover their heads and seat themselves.
Reception.--Candidate is in preparation room separated from
the lodge by along narrow
passage, with all the omaments of
his former degrees. Master of'Ceremonies directs him to knock
3, 5, and 7, at the first door of the passage, and -to give the
.
nerr on nsorur. 207
first pass word to &e first. guard, who says 'pass;' at the middle
door he gives the second pass word to the second guard who
says 'pass;' at the door ofthe sacred vault he gives the third pass
word, and knocks 3, 5, 7, and 9, which are answered from
within, alternately, by the J. W., S. W. and Master, who says,
'Br. G. J. W. who knocks thereinthe manner ofa Grand Elect,
Perfect and 'Sublime Masont' J. W. goes and says, 'Who is
there?' Master of Cer. answers, 'A K. of the R. A. who is
~
desirous of arriving at Perfection, and being admitted to the se-
_cond vault! J. W. reports, and Master says, 'Admit him ac-
cording to ancient form." The door is opened and the Master
of Cer. and all the brethren presenting swords to his breast, and
thus place him between the two Wardens, when he give the
sign of admiration to the Master. Silence follows for two min-
utes. Master. 'What do you want here, my brotheri' ./ina.
'M. R. G. P. [ask the perfection of Masonry# .Mautevu 'Resp.
br. do you consent that he shall be admittedf' (Adirmative by up-
lifted hands.) Master. 'My brother, before you are initiated into
our sacred mysteries, you must answer the following questions,
otherwise you must be sent back until you are better qualified?
Q.) 'Are you a Mason? ./9. 'My brethren all know me as such!
Q. 'Give me the sign, token, and word,' (candidate gives those of
an Entered Apprentice.) Q. 'Are you a F. C.?' Ji. 'I have the
letter, -
and know the pass, --.' Q. 'Give me the pass,
sign, token, and word.' (Given.) Q. 'Are you a Master Ma-
son?' .H. 'I know the sprig of -cassia, and what it means.' Q.
'Give me the pass, sign, token and word.' (Given, *' *
* *
*.) Q. 'Are you a S. MJ' ./9. 'I have passed from
the square to the compass, and have seen the tomb of our resp.
H. A. and have shed tears on his grave! Q. Give me the sign,
token, and word/ (Given.) Q. 'Are you a Perfect Master?
JI. 'I have seen the two circles and two perfect squares placed
on the two colunmsvacrossf Q. 'Give me the sign, token,.aud
pass wofd.' (Given.) Q. 'Are you an Intimate Secretaryt' ./9.
'My curiosity is satistied, but it nearly cost me my life.' Q.
'Give me the sign, token,'and word) (Given.) Q. 'Are you a
Provost and Judge?" ./1. 'I render jiistice to all workmen with-
out distinction.' Q. 'Give me the sign, token, and word.' (Giv-
en.) Q. 'Are you an Intendant of the Baildingsi' ./Q. 'I have
made the five steps of exactness; I have penetrated the inmost
part of the temple; Ihsue seen the great light in which were the
three mysterious letters, in Hebrew characters, '---,' the mean-
ing of which is unknown to ne! Q. *Give me the sign, token,
and word.' (Given) Q. 'An you an 'Elected Knight? -5-
,,.._ _.`-
-lf-4--l$t|>i~ _L,_..-»-hs|.,.._....1,_..¢»».._,__,.`_
1
-"'"* "'
208 LIGHT OU MASOIRY.
'One cavem received me, one
lamp gave me light, and one foun-
tain refreshed me.' Q. 'Give me the sign, token, and word.'
(Givem) Q. 'Are you a_ Grand Master Electf' A. 'My zeal
and labor have procured me that honor.' Q. 'Give me the sign,
token, and word.' (Given.) Q. 'Are you an Illustrious Knight?
_/1. 'My name will inform you.' Q. 'Give me the sign, token,
and word.' (Given.) Q. 'Are you a Grand Master Architect?
./1. 'I am skilled in mathematical sciences and know the attri-
butes?' Q. 'Give me the sign, token, and word.' (Given.) Q.
'Ara you a K. of the R. Aft' ./9. 'I have penetrated the bowels
of the earth, through 9 arches, and have seen the brilliant trian-
gle! Q. 'Give me the sign, token, and word.' (Given.) Q.
'What do you desire further, my brother?' -0. 'To_be exalted to
the Degree of Perfection !' Master makes a
sign of admiration,
and says, 'Retire, my brother, God will permit that you receive
what you so earnestly desirel' Master orders Master of Cer. to
take candidate out till he shall be wanted. When he has retired
the Most Perfect says, 'Brethren, you are still of the opinion
that this Knight of the R- Arch shall be admitted to the Degree
of Perfection? (The brethren signify their assent by uplifted
hands.) The candidate is ordered to be admitted by the myste-
rious number. The Master of Cer. places him below the Wars
dens, and the Master says, 'Does your conscience, my brother,
accuse you of committing any offence against your brethren,
which may render you unworthy of -this degreel' ./Ins. 'It does
not.' Several other questions, designed to ascertain his honor
and fidelity, are proposed, on which he is informed of the utility
and importance of this degree, which will prepare him for futu-
rity, &c. &c. 'I'he Master requests Master of Ceremonies to
teach the candidate to walk 8 quick, and 1 slow, steps to the
Master, with the sign of Elected Master on him, he kneels and
takes the obligation. The following are the parts of the obliga-
tion.
'
~
lst. Secrecy. 2d. To conceal the laws and regulations of
this degree. 3d. To assist brethren in sickness with his counsel,
purse, and arms. 4th. Not to assist in making a brother of this
degree, unless he shall be`of good moral character, and who has
been an oilicer of some regular lodge, and to receive him by
virtue of a
power granted by proper authority. 5th. To endeavor
on all occasions to observe strictly, 'duties to God and commu-
nity. The Penalty is, 'To have the body cut open, and the
bowels torn out and given to the vulture for food l l' The can-
didate remains on his knees, while the Master of Cer. brings
thehhod and trowel, and the Master annoints his head, lips, and
LXGHY 08 MASONRY. 209
left breast, with the holy oil whieh anointed David and the wise
Solomon. The Master says, 'I stamp you,' Src. (See the Mon-
itor to the charge.) 'The matters which I shall now confer on
you will perfect you in the study of Masonry. There are three
signs, three
guard words, and three pass words, which belong to
this degree, esides the mysterious word.' (Master here gives
them to candidate.) After this the candidate receives the charge
as
printed in the Monitor. '
`
LECTURE.
Q. Who are you? 'A. I am a Grand, Elect, Perfect, and Sub-
lime Mason, and nothing is unknown to me. Q. Where were
you admitted to this degree? A. In a place where the light of
the sun or moon was not necessary. Q. Where is that place
situated? A. Under the holy of holies, in a vault called the sa~
cred vault. Q. Who received you in that sacred place! A.
The wisest and most powerful of kings. Q. How did you en-
ter? A. Through nine long arches. Q. How did you gain
admission? A. By three knocks. Q. What did they signify?
A. The age of the Entered Apprentice, and the number of
Elected Knights, who penetrated the bowels of the earth and
took from thence the inestimable treasure. Q. What was
pro-
duced by the three knocks? A. Five other knocks. Q. What is
their signilication? A. The age of the Fellow Craft, and also
the number of the Grand Elect when the treasure was first
placed in the arch. Q. What were their names? A. Solomon,
Hiram, G. J. and S. Q.
'
What followed these tive knocks? A.
Seven other knocks. Q. What do they signify? A. The age
of the Master Mason, the seven expert brethren chosen to re-
place one, and the seven years the temple was
building. Q.
What answer was
given to these seven knocks? A. Nine other
knocks. Q. What is signified by those nine knocks? A. The
age of the Perfect Master. Q. What did they produce? A._
The opening of the ninth vault, and I penetrated into the most
holy place in the world, where I heard pronounced, the word
'pIenty,' in Hebrew dialect. "Q, What is signified by the three
lights behind the Master? A. The three Fellow Crafts, who
slew Hiram Abiflf Q. Who were they? A. The three brothers
of the tribe of Dan. Q. How do you enter the Lodge of Pe;-._
fection? A. With the character of virtuous firmness and con-
stancy- How do you stand in the lodge of Perfect Masons!
A. In an attitude of surprise. Q. Why so? A. Because Mo-
ses stood so when be saw God; Solomon and Hiram stood so
WIND the precious treasure was
brougbt'bet`ore them tram tht?
SZ ~
'
ya.-~-
_,.»..¢ _
-iq., _ 4.-.,».
*V
210 r.|on'r on uasomw.
vault ot' Enoch. Q. What are the tools of Grand Elect Masons!
A. The shovel, .crow, and pickaxe. Q. How long were the
Israelites in bondage in Babylon! A. 70 years.
Close.-Master. 'Acquaint the Wardens that I am about to
close this lodge by 3, 5, 7, and 9.' This is announced bythe
S. and J. Wardens, who knock 3, 5, 7, and 9,'and give the
sign. ./lfaster. 'Ven. br. Wardens, resp. oflicers of' this lodge
of Grand, Elect, ,Perfect and Sublime Masons, I charge you to-
retire in peace to practical virtue, and live always impressed with
a just sense of _duty that the G. A. of' the universe, may always
be present with us.
May hebless us and all our
yorks.'
'
Lodge is closed by 3, 5, 7, and 9.
V
. -<w||»-
SECRETS OF THE
LODGE OF PERFECTION. f
The following are the Signs, Tokens, and Words ol' the three
first ineffable degrees, conferred in the Lodge of Perfection.
SECRET MASTER.
The Worms in this degree, are 'Shaddai,' 'Adonai,' and 'Ju-
ha.' The Pass Word is 'Zizon.' .
The Sion is given by placing the two fore fingers ofthe right
hand on the lips. This is answered by placing the two fore fin-
gers of' the left hand on the lips.
A
The Tons, is to join hands as in the Masters Grip, then
move_ hands to the elbows and give a
grip, at the same timecross
the legs. T
PERFECT MASTER.
The Wonn in this degree is 'Jeoa.'
There are three S1eNs. Tllb first is given by placing the
palm of the right hand on the right temple, at the same time
stepping back with the right foot, after which bring the right foot
to its first position. The second is that of' admiration. Raise
the hands and eyes to heaven, then let the arms fall across the
belly and look downwards. The third is to advance the toes ot'
the right feet, (that is of' both persons,) until they meet, bring
the right knees together, place the hands on the heart, then bring
the hand towards the right side. »
`
......¢_....».___
*lg
LIGHT DN MASONRY. 211
INTIMATE SECRETARY.
`
The Gnu' in this degree is that of a Mark Master, given on
the _five points.
The Piss Wonns are, 'J oabert' and 'Zerbel.' ,
The .Mysterious Word is 'Jova.'
'
The first Sign is to clinch the right hand, then draw it from
the len shoulder to the right hip. The second is to cross the
arms, then let them fall on the right hip.
Gsm.-Join right hands, and reverse them thrice, repeating
at each time one of these words, 'Berith,' 'Neder,' 'Shelsrnothf
No-re. Should the reader wish to know the reasons
why dl the Signs,
Grips, end Words ofthe higher orders are not published, he may beinfoi-med
that our
object in publishing this work, is not to loam men how they can
obtain admittance into the 'Secret 'Cha.mbers;' or should they wish, 1°
Pdm
themselves upon the fratemity ss members of the 'Mystic tic,' but to
enlight-
en the community into the ceremonies, oaths, and principles of the institu-
tion. It is to these, he 'would direct their attention, for these are
they by
which the world must judge of its merits; and by which, it must stmd or
fall. They are, however, all in possession, and should it be deemed neces-
sary, they shall be given to the public, 'without money and without price."
t~|».,_,____...
(219)
_
THE DEGREE
'
_
c.u.Lnn _
'
IKNIGHTS OF THE EAST AND WEST .*
Form of the Grand Council.-The Grand Council of
of the East and West, must be hung with red and sprinkled with
gold sms. In the east of the Council Chamber must be a can-
opy, elevated by seven steps, supported by_f`our lions and four
eagles, and between them an angel, .or Swuphim, with six wings.
On one side of the throne there must be a
transparent
the sun, and on the other side, one of the moon; below them is
stretched a rainbow. In the east there must be a basin with per-
fume, and a basin of water, and a human 'scull. On the south
'side there must be six small canopies, and- on the north side tive,
elevated by three steps, for the Venerable Ancients, and opposite
the throne, in the west, are two canopies, elevated by five steps,
for the two Venerable Wardens, who act in this Council as Grand
Oflicers, or Wardens. A full Grand Council must be composed
of twenty-four Knights. On the pedestal there must be a large
Bible, with seven seals suspended therefrom.
`
The Venerable Master is called 'All Puissantg' the Wardens,
and the twenty-one other brethren, are called 'Respectable An-
cients? If there are more brethren present, they are styled 'Re-
spectable Knights# and are placed north and south, behind the
small canopie .
The first canopy, at the right side of the Puissant, is always
vacant for the candidate. A11 the brethren are clothed in white,
with a zone of gold round the waist, long white beards and gol-
den crowns on their heads. The Knights, in their ordinary hab-
its, wear a broad white ribbon from the right shoulder to the left
hip, with the jewel suspended thereto. They also wear a cross ot`
the order, suspended by a black ribbon, round their necks. The
'All Puissant' has his right hand on the large Bible on the pedes-
..l-
* lt is an act
ogdiustice
due to those who have received the higher der-
grees in the Unit States,
especially
those of 'Knights of the Eng; mi
West,' and tint of 'Knight of t e Sun,' to observe, that a general obligation
was administered, applying to all the highest degrees; and that this, of
elourse,
precluded any previous knowledgeot' the nature md tendengy ¢t5
it om.
_¢._.,.,
mend: ou nusosar. 213
tal with seven seals. The draft (or carpet,) ot' the Council, is
an heptagon in a circle--over the angels are these letters; B. D.
S. P. H. F. In the centre, a man clothed in a white robe, with
a
girdle of gold round his waist-his right hand extended, and
surrounded with seven stars-he has a
long white beard, his head
surrounded with a
glory, and_a twoedged sword in his mouth-`
with seven candlesticks round him, and over them the following
letters; H. D. P. I. P. R. C.
The Jswat. is an heptagon of silver-at each angle, a star ot'
gold and one of these letters, B. D. S. P. l-I. G. F. in the cen-
tre. A lamb on a book with seven seals-on the reverse, the
same letters in the angles, and in the centre, a
twoedged sword
between a balance.
'
The Araort is white, lined with red, bordered with yellow, or
gold; on the flap is painted a twoedged sword, surrounded with
the seven holy letters-or the apron may have the plan of the draft
painted on it.
To open.-The All Puissant, with his right hand on the Bible
sealed with seven seals, demands, 'Venerable Knights Princes,
what is your dutyl' ./Ins. 'To know if we are
secure! .HU
Puissant, 'See that we are sb.' ./Ins. 'All Puissant, we are in
perfect security.' The All Puissant strikes seven times, and says,_
'Respectable Knights Princes, the Grand Council of Knights Ol
the East and West is open; I claim your attention to the business
thereoll' AHS. 'We promise obedience to the All Puissant's
commands.' They rise and salute him, when he returns the com-
pliment and requests them to be seated.
Receptizm.-The candidate must be in an antichamber, which
mustbe hung with red and lighted with seven lights, vhere he is
clothed with a white robe, as an emblem of the purity of his life
and manners. The Master of Ceremonies brings him barefooted
to the Council Chamber door, on which he knocks seven times,
which is answered by the All Powerful, 'who desires the youngest
Knight to go to the door, and demand who knocks. The Mas-
ter of Ceremonies answers, 'Itis a valiant brother and Most Ex-
cellent Prince ot` Jerusalem, who requests to be admitted to the
Venerable and All Puissant.' The Knight reports the same an-
swer to the All Puissant, who desires the candidate to be intro-
duced. The 'Most Ancient Respectable Senior Grand Warden'
then goes to the door, and takes the candidate by the hand, ahd
says, 'Come, my dear brother, I will show you mysteries worthy
the contemplation of a sensible man. Give me the sign, token,
and word of a Prince of Jerusalemz' after which the candidatv
kneels on both knees, about six feet from the throne, wht!!! th'-=
1»4*-l.._.¢._. -"I-ann. __ ..¢-`_.t mn..
»
""'"""'°"`
A
1
214 LIGHT on lusorrav.
'Most Ancient Respectahle Senior Grand Warden' says to him,
'Brotber, you no doubt havealv/ays bome in memory the obliga»
tions ol' your former degrees, and that you have, as far as in' the
power of human nature, lived agneeably to theml' Candidate.
'I have ever made it my study, and, I trust. my actions and life
will prove it.' Q. 'Have you particularly regarded your obliga-
tions as a 'Sublime Knight of Perfection# 'Knight of the East
and Prince of Jerusaleml' Do you recollect having injured a
brother in any respect whatsoever? Or have you seen or known of
his being injured by others, without giving him timely notice, as
far as was in your power? I pray you answer me with candor.'
Can. 'I have in all respects done my duty, and acted with integ-
rity to the best of my abilities! The All Puissant says, 'You
will be pleased to recollect, my brother, that the questions which
have now been put to you, are absolutely necessary for us to de-
mand, in order that the purity of our Most Riespectable Council
may not be sullied; and it behooves you to be particular in your
recollection, as the indispensable ties which we are
going to lay
you under, will, in case of your default, only increase your sins
and serve to hurl you sooner to destruction, should you have de-
viated from your duty:-answer me, my dear brother? Can. 'I
never have.' The All Puissant says, 'We are happy, my bro-
ther, that your declaration coincides with our opinion, and are re-
joiced to have it in our
power to introduce you into our society.
Increase our
joy by complying with our
rules, and declare if you
are
willing to be united to us by taking a most solemn obligation!
Can. 'I ardently wish to receive it, and to have the honor of be-
ing united to so
respectable and virtuous a society! The All
Puissant orders one of the Knights to bring an ewer containing
some perfume, a basin of water, and a clean white napkin to the
_candidate-who washes his hands. The All Puissant repeats
the six first verses of the 24th Psalm. Then* the candidate is
brought close to the foot ef the throne, where he kneels on both
knees, and placing his right hand on the Bible, his left hand be-
tween the hands of the All Puissant, in which position he takes
the following
'
Dbligation.-I, ---, do promise and solemnly swear and de-
clare, in the awful presence of the only One Most Holy Puissant
Almighty and Most Merciful Grand Architect of heaven and earth,
who created the universe and myself through his infinite good-
ness, and conducts it with wisdom and justice-and in the pres-
once of the Most Excellent and Upright Princes and Knights of
the East and West, here present in convocation and Gland Conn-
cil, army sacred word of honor and under every tie, both moral
_
J
_
--
-41._¢§¢___ , _-,1....~|...
LIGHT ol MLUUKRY. 215
,and religious, that I never will reveal to any person whomsoever
below me, or to whom the same may not belong, by being legally
and lawfully initiated, the secrets of this degree which is now
about to be communicated to me, under the penalty of not only
being dishonored, but to consider my life as the immediate forfeit-
ure, and that to be takmfrom me with all the tortures and pains
to be inflicted in manner as I have consented to in my preceding
de -ees. I further romise and solemnly swear, that I never will
fight or combat with my brother Knights, but will, at all times,
when he has justice on his side, be ready to draw my sword in his
defence, or against such of his enemies who seek the destruction
of his person, his honor, peace, or
prosperity; that I never will
revile a brother, or sulibr others to reflect on his character in his
absence, without informing him thereof; or
noticing it myself, at
my option; that I will remember, on all occasions, to observe my
former obligations, and be just, upright, and benevolent to all my
fellow creatures, as far as is in my power. I further solemnly
promise and swear, that I will pay due obedience and submission
io all the degrees beyond thas, but particularly to the Princes of
the Royal Secret and the Supreme Council of Grand Inspectors
General of the 33d, and regulate myself by their determinations,
and that I will do all in my power to support them in all justiliable
measures for the good of the craft, and advantage of Masonry,
agreeably to the Grand Constitutions.-All this I solemnly swear
and sincerely promise, upon my sacred word of honor, under the
penalty of the severe wrath of the Almighty Creator of heaven
and earth, and may He have mercy on
my soul, on the great and
awful day 'of judgment, agreeably to my conformity thereto.--L
Amen. Amen. Amen. .-
The All Puissant then takes the ewer filled with perfiimed aint.
ment, and anoints his head, eyes, mouth, heart, the tip of his right
ear, hand, and foot, and says, 'You are now, my dear brother,.re4
ceived a member of our
society; you will recollect to live up tg,
the precepts of it, and also remember that those parts of yourbb)
dy, which have the greatest power ofassisting you in good arena;
have this day been made holyl' The Master of Ceremonies (hell
places the candidate between the two Wardens, with the draftrlief
fore him. The Senior Warden says to him, 'Examine with-de;
liberation and attention every thing which the ALL PUIBSANT 'is
going to show you;'-after a short pause, he, the S. W., saysjeii
'Is there mortal here worthy to open the book with the
seals? All the brethren cast their eyes down and sigh. "Phe
Senior Warden, hearing their sighs, says to them, 'Venerable
respectable brethren, be not atliicted; here is a victim
(P0fl't1'f_'§
--1-»sQ|n»¢.`_.,,.;,_ n-|h|...|._. ,.»»-»¢..w..».a._._ -
»~
'_"`"`
`
215 LIGHT ON MABONRY.
to the candidate,) whose courage will give you content/ S. W1
to the candidate, 'Do you know the reason why the ancients have
n long white beardl' Can. 'I do not, but I presume you do.'
S. W. 'They are those who came here, after passing through
great tribulation, and having washed their robes in their own blood:
will you purchase such robes at so great a
pricel' Can. 'Yes; I
am willing.' _The Wardens then conduct him to the basin, and
hare both his arms-they place a ligature on each, the same as in
performing the operation of blood-letting. Each Warden being
armed with a lancet, makes an incision in each of his arms, just
deep enough to draw a drop of blood, which is wiped on a nap-
kin, and shown to the brethren. The Senior Warden then says,
'See, my brethren, a man who has spilled his blood to acquire, a
knowledge of our mysteries, and shrunk not from the trial !' Then
the All Puissant opens the lst SEAL of the great book, and takes
from thence a bone quiver, filled with, arrows, and a crown, and
gives them to one of the Ancients, 'and says to him, 'Depart and
continue the conquest.' He opens the 2d SEAL, and takes out a
sword, and gives it to the next aged, and says, 'Go, and destroy
peace among the profane and wicked brethren, that they may nev-
er
appear in°our Council.' He opens the 3d SEAL, and takes a
balance, and gives it to the next aged, 'and says, 'Dispense rigid
justice to the profane and wicked brethren! He opens the 4th
SEAL, and takes out a scull, and gives it to the next aged, and
says, 'Go, and endeavor to convince the wicked that death is the
reward of their guilt.' He opens the 5th San., and takes out a
cloth, stained with blood, and gives it to the next aged, and says,
'When is the time (or, the time will arrive,) that we shall revenge
and punish the profane and wicked, who have destroyed so
many
of their brethren by false accusations! He opens the 6th San.,
and that moment the sun is darkened and the moon sta.ined with
blood! He opens the 7th San., and takes out incense, which he
gives to a brother; and also a vase, with seven
trumpets, and gives
one to each of the seven aged brethren. After this, the four old
men, in the four corners, show their inflated bladders, (beeves'
bladders, filled with wind under their arms,) representing the four
winds; when the All Puissant says, 'Here is seen the fulfilment
of a.
prophecy; (Rev. vii. 3:) Strike not, nor punish the profane
and wicked of our order, until I have selected the true and wor-
thy Ma.sons!'* Then the four winds raise their bladders, and one
*
Compare the
foregoing with the 5th, 6th, and 7th chapters of Revela-
tion, and the reader will discover that the Au. Pmssm-r represents Jehovah
seated on the throne of heaven-also, the Lamb of God, opening the seven
seals. The Senior Warden represents the 'Strong Angel' proclaiming, 'Who
' `
'°"°°"*'""--..-.---»»l--_~_-...in»1lll~- an-AA _'_A
LIGHT on mssoaar. 217
of the trumpets sound, when the two Wardens cover the can..
didate's arms, and take from him his apron and jewel of the last
degree. The 2d trumpet sounds, when the Junior Warden gives
the candidate the apron and jewel of this degree. The 3d tmm-
pet sounds, when the Senior Warden gives him a long white
beard. 'I'he 4th trumpet sounds, and the Junior Warden gives
him a crown of gold. The 5th trumpet sounds, and the Senior
Warden gives him a girdle of gold. The 6th trumpet sounds,
and the Junior Warden gives him the sign, token, and words.
The '7th trumpet sounds, on which they all sound together, when
the Senior Warden conducts the candidate tothe vacant canopy.
[This ca.nopy, it will be recollected, is at the right side of the All
Puissant, who represents Jehovah. The sounding of the seventh
trumpet, and the conducting of the candidate to the canopy, is a
representation of the end 0f~ the world, and the gloriticatiou of
true Masons at the right hand ot' God, having 'passed through
the trials of Free Masonry,' and 'washed their robes in their mon
blood!'--If this is not antichrist, what is? CoMP|LnR.]
Origin of this degree.-When the Knights and Princes were
embodied to conquer the Holy Land, they took a cross to distin-
guish them, as a mark of being under its barmers; they also took
an.oath to spend the last drop of their blood to establish the true
religion of the Most High God. Peace being made, they could
not fulfil their vows, and, therefore, returning home to their re-
spective countries, they resolved to do in theory what they could
not do by practice, and determined never to admit, or initiate, any
into their mystic ceremonies, but those who had given, proofs ol'
friendship, zeal, and discretion. They took the name of Knights
of the East and West, in memory of their homes and the place
where the order began; and they have ever since strictly adhered
to their ancient customs and forms.
'
In the year 1118, the first
Knights, to the number of eleven, took their vows between the
hands of Garinus, Patriarch and Prince of Jerusalem, from
whence the custom is derived of taking the obligation in the same
position.
LECTURE.
Q. Are you a Knight ot' the East and West? A. I_am. Q.
What did you see when you were received? A. Things that were
is worthy to open the book,' Src. The aged brethren, and the four old men
with bladders, the angels of God with power; and Masonry claiming its
faithiill adherents as the servants of God, the 144,000 who were sealed in
their foreheads, and of whom it is said, 'These are they which were not de'
filed with women; forthe are virgins. These are they which follow the
Lamb,' &c. See Rev. 14tiichaptcr. T
_Arn-...-~.._ ..¢-4...~.- . »»- »~»»
2lS Lrorrr on nusonar.
marvellous. Q. How were you received? A. By water, and
the etfusion of blood. Q. Explain this to me? A. A Mason
should not hesitate to spill his blood for the support of Masonry.
Q. What are the omaments of the Grand Council? A. Superb
thrones, sun, moon, perfumed ointment, and a basin of water.
Q. What is the figure of the draft? A. An heptagon within a
circle. Q. What is the representation of it? A. A man vested
in a white robe, with a
golden girdle round his waist-round his
right hand, seven stars-his head surrounded with a
glory, a
long
white beard-a twoedged sword across his mouth, surrounded
by seven candlesticks, with these letters; H. D. P. I. P. R. C.
Q. What signifies the circle? A. As the circle is finished by a
point, so should a
lodge be united by brotherly love and affection.
Q. What signifies the heptagon? A. Our mystic number, which
is enclosed in seven letters. Q. Vlfhat are the seven letters? A.
B. D. W. P. H. G. S.; which signifies Beauty, Divinity, Wis-
dom, Power, Honor, Glory, and Strength. Q. Give me the ex-
planation of these words? A. Beauty-to adom: Divinity-
that Masonry is of divine origin: Wisdomf-a quality to invent:
Power-to destroy the profane and unworthy brethren: Honor-
is an indispensable quality in a Mason, that he may support him-
self in his engagements with respectability: Glory-that a
good
Mason is on an
equality with the greatest prince: and Strength-
is necessary to _sustain us. Q. What signifies the seven stars?
A. The seven qualities which Masons should be possessed of:
Friendship, Union, Submission, Discretion, Fidelity, Prudence,
and Temperance. Q. Why should a Mason be possessed ot'
these qualities? A. Friendship--is a virtue that should reign
among brothers: Union-in the foundation of society: Submis-
sion-to the laws, regulations, and decrees of the lodge, without
murmuring: Discretion-that a Mason should always be on his
guard, and never suffer himself to be surprised: Fidelity-in ob-
serving strictly our
obligations: Prudence-to conduct ourselves
in such a manner that the profane, though jealous, may never be
able to censure our conduct: and Temperance--to avoid all ex-
cesses that may injure either body or soul. Q. What signifies
the seven candlesticks, with their seven letters? A. Seven
crimes, which Masons should always avoid; viz: Hatred, Dis-
cord, Pride, Indiscretion, Perfidy, Rasbness, and Calumnyii Q.
What are the reasons that Masons should particularly avoid these
crimes! A. Because they are incompatible vith the principles
*
Compare the explanatibn of the seven stars and seven candlesticks, as
given above, with that in thc word of God. See Rev. i. 20.
1
~
--°--- - -~-L _ »
........._._.n__..._...._¢.»¢-n»__,......hilgl,~-...,l|....
LIGHT
'
ON HABOIBY. 219
and qualities of a good Mason, who should avoid doing an
injury
to a brother, even should he be ill treated by him, and to unite in
himself all the qualities of a good and an
uprigjht
man. Discord
is contrary to the very principles of society: ride prevents the
exercise of humanity: Indiscretion is fatal to Masonry: Perjldy
should be execrated by every honest man: Raslmess may lead us
into unpleasant and disagreeable dilemmas: and Calumny, the
worst of all, should be shunned as a vice which saps the very
foundation of friendship and society. Q. What signifies the
twoedged sword? A. It expresses the superiority of this degree
over all others that precede it. Q. Are there any higher degrees
than this? A. Yes; there are several. Q. What signifies the
book with seven seals, which none but one can
open? A. A
lodge, or council, of Masons, which the All Puissant alone has a
right to convene and open. Q. What is enclosed in the lst
seal? A. One bow, one arrow, and one crown. Q. What in the
second? A. twoedged sword. Q. What in the third? A. A
balance. Q. Whatin the fourth? A. Death's head. Q. What
in the fifth? A. A cloth stained with blood. Q. What in the
sixth? A. The power to darken the sun, and tinge the moon
with blood. Q.
'
What in the seventh? A. Seven trumpets and
perfumes. Explain these things to me. A. The bow, ar-
row, and crown, signifies that the orders of this respectable coun-
cil should be executed with as much quickness, as the arrow flies
from the bow, and be received with as much submission as if it
came from a crowned head, or the chief of a nation. The sword,
that the council is always armed to punish the guilty. The bal-
ance is a
symbol of justice. The sxuu. is the image of a bro-
ther who is excludedfrom a
lodge, or council !!.' This idea must
make all tremble, when they recollect the penalties they have im-
posed on themselves under the most solemn obligations ! [Why
tremble, ii, as some
say, the penalties are not to be inflicted?-
Cmnpilen] The cloth. stained with blood, that we should not
hesitate to spill ours for the good of Masonry. The power of
obscuring the sun and tinging the moon with blood, is the repre-
sentation of the power oi' the superior councils-in interdicting
their W0rkS, if they are
irregular, until they have acknowledged
their error and submitted to the mles and regulations of the craft
established by the Grand Constitutions. The seven
trumpets, sig-
nify that Masonry is extended over the surface of the earth, on
the wings of fame, and supports itself with honor. The perfumes
denote that the life of a good Mason should be, and is, free from
all reproach, and is perfumed by means of good report- Q~
What age ale
you? A. Very ancient. Q. Who are you? A~
#K-An. -Quin -
-an-.
220 LIGHT ON MLSUNRY
I am a Patrician: (i. e. of Patmos.) Q. Whence came you!
A. From Patmos. End of the Lecture.
To close.-Q. What is the o'clock'l A. There is no more
time. The All Puissant strikes 7, and says, 'Venerable Knights
Princes, the council is closed.' 'l'he two Wardens repeat the
same, and the council is closed.-Finia.
-m>
THE DEGREE CALLED
KNIGHT OF THE EAGLE, AND SOVEREIGN
PRINCE OF ROSE CROIX DE HERODEN!
Form qf admission.-When a brother wishes to receive this
high degree, he must produce his `¢-ertificate of Knight of the
East, Prince of Jerusalem, and Knight of the East and West.
The following articles must be read to him, to which he must
agree before he can be received. lst. He must present at the
door of the chapter the following petition, and must kneel while
one of the brethren reads it. 'Brother 1, who is a Knight of
the East, Prince of Jerusalem, and Knight of the East and
West, begs leave to represent to the Sovereign Chapter the ear-
nest desire he has, to arrive to the Sublime Degree of Rose
Croix, the point of Perfection of Masonry, and that you will be
pleased (being at present assembled,) to admit him among the
number of Knights, if he is found worthy. And your petitioner
shall never cease to make vows to Heaven, for the prosperity of
the order and the good health ol' all the brethren.' After the pe-
tition is read the candidate must sign it. 2d, The candidate
must remain on his knees, at the door ol' the chapter, until the
answer is thrown to him on the door by a
Knight, when he rises
and reads it. In the answer he will find the day appointed for
his reception, and the name of the Knight, who is to give him the
necessary instructions. The Knight who is named in the an-
swer, directs the candidate to procure three pair of gloves, (one
pair of which must be women's,) and two sticks of fine sealing
wax for the seals. He also directs him to present to each of the
brethren, one pair of meu's, and one
pair of women's gloves, and
two sticks of sealing wax. 3d. He must make a donation of at
least -
dollars
to the Superior Lodge, Chapter, or Council ot'
*ln _this work there are
two degrees, entitled 'Knight of the Eagle and
Sovereign Prince of
ROB6_C'01l.' The above is given as conferred in Eng~
land, Scotland, and America; the other is conferred in France.
LIGHT ON HASONRY. 221
the Sublime Degrees, which must be done before he is received,
and may be appropriated either to
defray the expenses of the
order or be given to the poor- He must also present to the
lodge three white wax candles for the Master, and two to each
ofthe Knights, at his reception, previous to his entering into the
third apartment. 4th. He must solemnly engage on his honor,
never to reveal the place where he was
received, who received him,
nor those who were present at his reception. 5th. He solemnly
promises to conform to all the ordinances of the chapter, and
keep himself uniformly clothed as far as he is able. 6th. He
must promise to acknowledge his Master at all times and in all
places; never to confer this degree without permission, and to
answer for the probity and respectability of those whom he pro-
poses. 7th. That hewill be extremely cautious in granting this
degree, that it may not he multiplied unnecessarily. If the can-
didate promises to perform these requisitions he may be admitted.
Title ofthe Order.-This order, which is the ultimatum of Ma-
sonry, has different titles. It is called Rose Croix from the rose
on the cross of the jewel, being emhlematicnl of the Son of
G-od, who is compared to a. rose
by the evangelist. Knight of
the Eagle, because of the eagle represented in the jewel. Knight
of the Pelican, emblematical of the Son of God, who shed his
blood for the great family of mankind. De Heroden, because
the first chapter of this degree wa held on a mountain of that
name, situated between the west and north of Scotland, and
where there is at this day the superior lodge and residence of the
Sovereign Grand Chapter. They meet in an old castle belong-
ing to the Knights of the_Rose Croix. It is from this circum-
stance that three fourths of the lodges of England took the name
of the Rose Croix de Heroden, and the other fourth the name of
Rose Croix, Knights of St. Andrew, because the first Masons of
Scotland made a procession every year on the festival of that
saint; and because it is the day of their regular constitution,
which has induced many to call it St. Andrews, which also is in
commemoration of the troubles of that country. The form of
the true jewel being lost, they substituted the cross of St. An-
drew, though the ceremonies of this degree have no connexion
with that jewel. They are yet worn in the lodge of Cologne, sus-
pended to a red ribbon in the form of a collar. In Berlin to a.
green ribbon; they also wear it to a button hole.
Jewel.-The jewel of this degree is a
compass of gold extend-
ed to 22 1-2 degrees. The head of the compass is a covered
rose, the stock ofwhich comes to a
point. In the middle ofthe
compass is a cross,
tg;
foot of which rests on the middle
--»--l»|;~._... »-una..-_A ..
-f -I*-
--v
222 LIGHT 015 KASOHIY-
ef the circle, and the head touches the head of the com-
pass. On one side an eagle, touching a quarter of the circles,
the wings and the head reclining. On the other side a
pelican
picking its breast to nourish its young which must be in a nest
under it." On the head of the compass must be a crown. Onthe
circle must beengraved on one side, the Knight in hieroglyph-
ics, on--the other side the pass word. The jewel must be of
gold; the eagle and pelican of silver. lt is worn to a collar of a
bright red color, of at least three inches broad, edged with black;
a rose at the lower end and a black cross on each side. The
Knights must wear this jewel in every lodge, and announce
themselves at the door as Knights ol` Rose1Croix, that they may
receive the honor due to them. .
./iprona.-For the first chamber, white leather lined, and bor-
dered with black, three red roses
placed triangularly on the flap;
at human scull with two bones placed across each other,
also on the tlap. At the bottom of the apron must he a
globe,
surrounded by a serpent, and on the pocket ofthe apron a large I.
for the second chamber, red lined and bordered with the
same. ~
On the middle of the tlap must be embroidered, a triple
triangle, with three squares within three circles, an I in the mid-
dle, which forms the jewel of the second chamber. On each
side of this mustbe embroidered two compasses; the point ol'
one stands in one square ofthe circle, and the other stands on
o triangle. with the point down.
Jewel and Order.-For the fret chamber, a broad, black rib-
bon from the left shoulder to the right hip, (three inches broad.)
On the breast a small cross of red ribbon; below this must be a
red rose, and a small rose of black below this, to which must bc
suspended a
gold cross.
For the second chamber, the order and jewel of' this degree.
Clothing of the Knights, Jewels, and Titles of the Ojieersf-
All the brethren must he dressed in black clothes, with their
swords on. The Master must be decorated with a brilliant slcr
of seven points, which he wears on his breast over his heart.
ln the middle must be a circle and in its centre the letter G.
The following three words must also he engraved within the cir-
cle around the G.; Fsrrn, Hors, Crum:-rr. The Master is
called, 'Evan Most Panracr Sovnnmcm' The Senior War-
den wears a triangle, and is called, 'Most'Excelleat and ,Perfect..'
The Junior Warden wears the square and compasses,-one above
the other, and is called, 'Most Excellent" and Perfect! The
brethren are called, 'Most Respectable Knights Princes of Ma-
scns.'
`°*--~- »
--n-- .__._......s __._;._..,-.._.._..
Liam* ON lasossr. 223
First apartment.--The lirst apartment is a representation of
Movrrr Canvanr. It must be hung with black tapestry, md
lighted with ~thirty»-three yellow wax candles, in three candlesticks
of eleven branches each. There must be three columns of six
feet high, and on the chapiter of each must be wrote one of the
following words, in large characters of gold; FAITH, Horn,
Cnamrv. These columns may serve as candlesticks. At the
east end of the chapter there must be a hill or bank raised to
represent Mount Calvary, upon which must be placed three
large crosses, and upon each a human scull and two thigh bones
across. In the front of this must be the altar covered with black,
on whichmust stand a cross and two yellow wax candles, light-
ed. Beliind the altar must be ablack curtain to intercept the
view of the Mount. It must extend to the top of the chapter
and be made to open in the middle, and be drawn to each side.
The .Master must be sealed on the last step of the altar, having
a small table before hint, on which is a
lighted wax
candle, a Bi-
ble, square and compasses, and triangle. There must be no
chairs or benches in the chapter, but all the brethren must be
seated on the floor. All the brethren must were over their black
clothes, a white satinohasuble, bordered with black ribbon, two
inches in width. A red cross, two inches in width, must reach
from the top to the bottom of it. It must be made as the chasu-
ble of a Catholic priest which he wears over the alb, when cole-
brating mass. .
Second apartment.-The east end ot' the second apartment
must represent, in transparent painting, the resurrection of Jesus
Christ, the Saviour of mankind; over which must be a brilliant
triangle surrounded with glory. The hanging must be of trans-
parent painting, representing the light blue ether of the sky, in-
terspersed with glory. The altar must be splendidly decorated
and illuminated with transparent lights. There must be no can-
dles in this apartment, as all the light must be received through
the transpareuces. No other figure must be painted on the hang-
ings but the representation- of our -Saviour at the resurrection.
At the least, and behind the hangings, at some little distance,
must be an organ or a band of music.
Third apartment.-#On the hangings of the third apartment
must be represented, in transparent paintings, all the horrors
~wliich»1oeaHach't0 the idea of Har.r.,'or of a
place fomied for the
punishment of.the worst of crimes; such as human figures and
monsters with convulsedmuscles, engulfed in flames, Src. Src-
On eachside of" the door a human skeletonywith an
arrow in
their hands. Each apartment must be separate, only'connwilng
with a narrow door.
3--¢lh_.._ nn-»~.'.._. ..-.QL nu*
224 mom' oN~ nuisonnv.
To open.-M 'My Perfect brothers, Knights Princes of Ma-
gens, assist me to open this chapter.' The Wardens repeat the
same one after another. "The Master then knocks~3, 4, which
is repeated by the Wardens.
M Most Excellent and Perfect Wardens, what is our care?
S. W Most Wise Perfect and Sublime Master, it is to ascer-
tain whether the chapter is well covered, and all the brethren
present are
Knights ofthe Eagle and Rose Croix.
M. 'Convince yourselves, my Perfect brethren, one from the
south and one from the north.' This the Wardens do by de-
manding from each brother, in rotation the sign, token, and word,
alter which they give an account to the Master, who says, 'Most
Perfect Senior Warden, what is the o'clock?'
S. W. The moment when the vail of the temple _was rent;
vhen darkness and consternation covered the earth; when the
stars disappeared and the lamp of day was darkened; when the
implements of Masonry were lost and the cuhic stone drew
blood and water; that was the moment when the great masonic
word was lost.
'
M. Since Masonry, my brethren, has sustained so
great a
loss, let us
employ ourselves by new works, to recover the word
which was lost, for which purpose let us open the chapter of
Rose Croix.
S. W. My brethren let ns do our duty; the Sovereign Chapter
of Rose Croix is open. J. W. repeats the same, after which all
the Knights bend their right knees to the altar, repeating the
same words seven times, a short interval between the 6th and 7th.
.M. What is the cause of our
assembling here, Most Excellent
Senior Warden?
`
S. W. Ever Most Perfect and Sovereign Master, the propa-
gation of the order and the perfection of the Knight of the East,
who demands to be received among us. The brethren then
proceed to ballot for the candidate.
Reception.-When the candidate has given satisfactory an-
swers to all the conditions proposed to him, he must be placed in
the chamber of aanacrron, which must be painted black, with
a small table in it with a Bible and several human bones on it.
The only light is received from a candle or lamp placed in the
scull of a human skeleton. The Master of Ceremonies goes to
the candidate and decorates him in the attributes ofthe last de-
gree he has received, and also with his sword and white gloves
on. He then says to him, 'All the temples are demolished; our
tools are
destroyed with our columns; the sacred word is lost,
notwithstanding all our precaution; and we are in ignorance of
,.;_..-_
._¢`_,___
mem' on rusonnr. 225
the means of recovering it, or of knowing each other. The or.
der, in general, is in the greatest constemationl Will you assist
us in recovering the wordl' The candidate replies, 'Most cheer.
fully.' The Master of Ceremonies says, 'Follow me, if you
pleaseg' when he conducts him to the door of the chapter,
wbereon he knocks as a Knight of Rose Croix. The Senior
Warden demands, 'What do you want" Bm. 'It is a brother
Knight of the East and West, who is 'wandering inthe woods
and mountains, and who, at the destruction of the second tem-
ple, lost the word and humbly solicits your aid and assistance to
recover it.' The door is opened and the candidate is introduced.
All thebretbren are seated on the floor, the right hand on their
necks, their left covering their face, their heads down, their
'elbows on their
knees, and their jewels covered with black crape.
The Master is in the same position at the table. The Senior
Warden knocks as a Rose Croix, and announces him to the
Master, who says, 'My brother, confusion has come on our
works, and it is no
longer in our power to continue them; you
must perceive from our
looks and the constemation which pre-
vails among us, what confusion reigns on the earth. The vail of
the temple is rent, [at this moment the black curtain is withdrawm]
the light is obscured and darkness spreads ever the earth; the
flaming star has disappeared, the cubic stone sweats blood and
water, and the sacred word is lost; therefore it is impossible we
can give it to you, nevertheless it is not our intention to remain
inactive: we will endeavor to recover it. Are you disposed to
follow us?' ./Im. 'Yes l am.' Master says, 'Brother Wardens,
make the candidate travel for 33 years, to learn the beauties of
the new law,' [which is reduced to 7 times round the lodge.]
The Wardens lead him slowly round the lodge, and when he
passes before the altar he must
kneel'and when passing in the
west he bends his right knee, they make him observe the col-
umns and repeat the name of each as he passes them. After he
has performed this ceremony, the Wardens knock one after the
other and announce him to the Master, who says, 'My brother
what have you learned on your journey?' `./Ins. Ihave leamed three
virtues by which to conduct myself in future, Faith, Hope, Char-
ity; inform me if there are
any others? Master. 'N o, my
brother, they are the principles and the pillars of our new mys-
tery. Approach near to us and make an
engagement never to
depart from that faith. The brethren rise. The candidate
kneels on the last step of the altar and places his hands on 1110
holy Bible and takes the following obligation.
-
D
~
_"___,¢;z..
_-0""""~
_
M¢¢~ » ~él*'-. .iQ *
'
226 _
Lronr ox masormr.
Qbligation.-I -
do most solemnly and sincerely promise and
swear, under the penaltyof all my former obligations, which I have
taken in the preceding degrees, never to reveal either directly or
indirectly, the secrets or mysteries of Knight of the Eagle, Sove-
reign Prince of Rose Croix, to any brother of an inferior de-
gree, nor to any in the world besides, who is not justly and law-
fully entitled tothe same, under the penalty of being for ever
deprived of the true word, to be perpetually in darkness, my
blood continually running from my body, to suflbr without inter-
mission, the most cruel remorse of soul; that the bitterest gall,
mixed with vinegar, be my constant drink; the sharpest thorns
for my pillow; and that the death of the cross may complete my
punishment, should I ever infringe or violate in any manner, or
form the laws, and rules which have been, are nov,_or may be
hereafter made known or
prescribed to me; and I do furthermore
swear, promise and engage on my sacred word of honor, to ob-
serve and obey all the decrees which may be transmitted to me
by
the Grand Inspectors General, in supreme council of the 33d de-
gree; that I never will reveal the place where I have been receiv-
ed, nor' by whom I was received, nor the ceremony used at my
reception, to any person on earth, but to a lawful Prince of Rose
Croix; that I never will initiate any person into this degree, but
by a lawful patent obtained for that purpose, either from this
chapter, or from a superior council: so
help me God, and keep
me steadfast in this my solemn obligation. Amen. He kisses
the Bible. The Master says, 'My brethren, all is accomplishedl'
The brethren all place themselves on the floor and cover their
faces with their hands, except the Wardens who continue with
the Master, and the candidate whom they deprive of his apron
and order. 'The Master invests him with the chasuble and says,
'This habit, my brother, Qaches you the uniformity of our man-
ners and our belie£ and will recall to your recollection the prin-
cipal points of our
mysteries. The black apron with which I
invest you, is to mark our sincere repentance of those evils
which was the cause of all our misfortunes, and it will also serve
to show you tho e who are in search of the true word; the ribbon
is the mark of our constant mouming, till
W2
have found it.
Pass to the west and assist us to search for it. The Wardens
conduct him to the west. The Master knocks 6 ani! 1, as a
Knight. The Wardens repeat it. All the brethren rise and
place themselves inthe sign of the good pasture. The Master
demands, 'Brother Master Wardens, what is the motive of our
assemblingl' Ana. The loss ofthe word, which, with your assis-
tance, we hope to recover. Q. What must we do to obtain it?
1
_._..»-..._.....___ _
_-|a».ln...|»-ll
LIGHT ON MLIONlY» , 227
./im. To be fully convinced of the -three virtues which are the
basis of oui' columns and our principles. Q. What are
they?
./2. Faith, Hope, Charity. Q. How shall we find those three
columns! ./1. By travelling three days in the most profound
obscurity. The Master says, 'Let us travel, my brethren, from
east to north, and from west to sonth.' All the brethren travel in
silence, bending their knees as they pass the altar in the east,
and go 7 times round. At the third time,of` going round the
Master passes to the second apartment; at the fourth time, the
W'ardens; at the Gfth time, all the officers; at the sixth time, all
the brethren; at the seventh time, the Master of Ceremonies
stops the candidate and says, 'You cannot enter unless you
give me the word. The candidate answers, 'I am in search of
the word, by the help of the new law and the three columns of
Masonry.'
`
During this time the brethren in the second apartment take
oH` their black decorations, and put on the red, and also uncover
their jewels. The candidate knocks on the door, and the War-
den for answer, shuts the door in his face. '1`he master of
ceremonies says, 'These marks of' indignity are not sufficiently
humiliating, you must pass 'through more
rigorous proofs, before
you can find it.' He then takes offthe candidate the chasuble and
black apron, and puts over him a black cloth covered with ashes
and dust, and says to him, 'I am going to conduct you into the
darkest and most dismal plabe, from whence the word shall tri-
umphantly come to the glory and advantage of Masonry; place
your confidence in me.' He then takes him into the third apart-
ment, and takes from him his covering and makes him go three
times around, (showing him the representation of the torments
ofthe damned,) when he is led to the door of the chapter and the
Master of Ceremonies says to him, 'The horrors which you have
just now seen, are but afaint representation oftlwaé you shall suf
jér, you break through our laws, or
injfdnge thepbligation
you have ta]cen.'* The Master ofCeremonies kfnottlgiuon the door
of the chapter, and the Warden reports tothe
Master,`who orders,
him to go and see who knocks. The Master 'of Ceremonies
_
'
_wers, 'It is a Knight, who, after having passed through the
st
profrarnd
and' difficult places, hopes to procure the real
Y* This certainly caps the climax, and renders the institution of Masonry
complete. The torments '.a5 'tho damned, the awful punishment which thc
Almighty inflicts on the
violin`&§i6f` his righteous law, is but a
faint emblwl
ofthe punishment which Masonry here declares, shall be inflicted on
the vial?
tors ofmasonic law, on those
Whgrare guilty riaynfmction
of mnson1c°obl-
gat1onZ 1 ! ~
_
_
.
'
_,A-4-
-A-» _'u;._._ _
,
_._",,.h, _Kp V
.L _.__
""""'4_-
228
'
LIGHT ON MASONRY.
'
word as a recompence for his labor.' The Wardens, give an ac-
count 'to the Master, who says, 'Introduce him to the west of
the chapter with his eyes open.' The Wardens bring him in and
then cover him again with his vail. Master. 'From whence
came youl' Candidate. 'From Judea! Master. 'By what
road have you passed? Candidate. 'By Nazareth? Master.
'Who conducted youl' Can. 'Raphael.' Mast. 'What tribe are
you oft' Can. 'Of the tribe df Judah.' Mast. 'Take the initial
letters of each of these words, and tell me what they forml' Can.
'J , N, R, J.' Mast. 'My brethren, what happiness! the word is
recovered; give him the light! The vail is taken oil, and all the
brethren, striking with their hands seven times, cry, 'Hosanna in
the highest; on earth peace, good will towards men !' The music
immediately 'plays the following anthem, which is devoutlysug
by all the Knights.
' `
`Q
ANTI-IBM.
Grateful notesfand numbers bring,
While the 'name of God,' we sing:
Holy, holy, holy Lord,
Be thy glorious name adored.
Men on earth and saints above
Sing
the great Redeemefs love.
Lo , thy mercies never fail,
Hail, celestial goodness, hail!
While on earth ordained to stay,
Guide our
footsteps in thy way:
Mortals raise our voices high,
Till they reach'the echoing sky.
After thc anthem is sung, the Master says to the candidate,
'Approach, my brother, I will communicate to you our
perfect
mysteries? The Wardens conduct him to the Master, who says,
'I congratulate you, my brother, on the recovery of the word,
which entitles you to this degree of Perfect Masonry. I shall
make no comment or
eulogium on it. Its sublimity will, no
doubt, be duly appreciated by you. The
impression which, no
doubt, it has made on
your mind, will convince you_that you
were not deceived when you was informed that the ultimatum qt'
masonic perfection, was to be acquired by this d . It cer-
tainly will be a source of very considerable satisfac n to you,
that your inerit alone has entitled you to it. And I hope, my
brother, that your good conduct, your_ Seal, your virtue and dis-
cretiou, may always render you deserving of the high honor
which you have received,sand I sincerely wish, that your lifo
may long be
preserved, to enable you to continue an useful
LIGHT ON uasomzv. 229
member, and an ornament to our
society.' [Here follow the
signs, token, and words.] The Sovereign Master then says,
'Go, my brother, and make yourself known to all the
members ot'
the Sovereign Chapter, and return again! The candidate goes
and whispers in the ears of the Knights the pass word; he then
returns, and kneels before the altar. All the brethen place their
right hands on him. The Senior Warden [I presume it should
read, 'The Sovereign Master,'] takes the ribbon, to which is
suspended the true jewel uncovered, and says to him, 'By the
power which I have received from the Sovereign Chapter oi'
Rose Croix de Heroden, l receive and constitute you Prince
Knight ofthe Eagle, Perfect Free Mason de Heroden, under the
title of the Rose Croix, that you may enjoy, now and for ever
all the privileges, prerogatives, and titles attached to that sub-
lime degree, as virtue and humanity are the thundation of it. I
hope, my brother, never to see
you dishouor the ribbon with
which you have been iuvested,and which a. Perfect Mason should
never quit but 'at his death.'
LECTURE.
Q. Are you a Knight and Prince of Rose Croix? A. Most
Wise and Perfect Sovereign, Ihave that happiness! Q. Where
were you received? A. Ina chapter where reigned decency and
humility. Q. Who received you? A. The most humble of all,
Q How were you received? A. With all the formalities requi-
site on that great occasion! Q. »How were you presented to the
chapter? A. Of my own free will and accord. Q. What have
you seen on entering the chapter? A. My soul was in ecstacy
at the sight of our ineffable mysteries and the silence which
reigned in_ the lodge; and the situation of the Knights gave me
a high idea of what was
going to be communicated to me. 'Q.
What did they do with you afterwards? A. They made me travel
for 33 years. [This number of ears alludes to the age of the
Saviour when he was crucitiedj Q. What did you learn in
your travels? A. I leamed the name of the three columns
which support our edifice, and as they are three great virtues,
they are the foundation of this degree. Q. When your journey
was over,' was your labor, pains, and work finished? A. The
Most Wise? ordered me to
'
be conducted tothe altar, and there
to kneel in the pre ence of 'Him, before whom all nations bow,
and to take a most solemn obligation, which I did with as
much respect as possible, my heart was penetrated with what I
was
saying, with a firm resoluti9n_of observing the same.
What was
don;
with you after that? A. I was clothed with
._ _,fx-
_
___,_.¢......»
--
.ln->.r.. .Z_Y__..
230 near on maaonar.
marks of grief and repentance, and was taught the reason there-
o£ All the Kinghts then made a
journey, by which we
passed
from misery to happiness; the dark and obscure road by which
we travelled, was overcome with fimmess, and we received a a
recompence the object of our desire. Q. What was
you seeking
for in this joumey? A. The word which was lost, and which
our perseverance enabled us to recover. Q. Who gave it to
you? A. lt is not permitted to any person to give it, but having
reflected on what I was seeing and hearing, I found it myself
with the help of him who is the author ofthe word. Q. Give it
to me? A. I cannot; ,
interrogate me. Q. What country are
you of ? A. Of Judea. Q. Where have you passed? A. By
Nazareth. Q. What was the name of your conductor! A.
Raphael. Q. What trihe are you ofI A. The tribe of Judah.
Q. I am not better instructed. A. Most Wise, enable me to
assemble the initial letters of each word, and you will find the
subject of our joy and our mysteries. Q. J. N. R. J. Jesus,
Nazareth, Rex, Judea. A. It is very just, Most Wise. Q. Did
they give you any thing else? A. The pass word, and the signs
and tokens to make myself known. Q. Give me the first sign.
A. (By giving it.) Q. What do you call it? A. The good pas-
ture. Q. After having given you all "this, what did they do with
you? A. The Most Wise and the Knights constituted me
Prince Knight of the Eagle, Perfect Mason, under the title of
Sovereign Knight of Rose Croix, and decorated me with the
ribbon and jewel, and gave me the explanation of them, after
which I made myself known to all the Knights, and took my
place in the chapter. Q. What was done with you afterwards?
A. The Most Wise made an exhortation, after which the busi-
ness of the chapter was
gene through and a convocation made for
the next, and the chapter was closed in the usual form.
'
To close.-The Most Wise knocks seven times on the 'step of
the altar. The Wardens repeat the same. The Knights rise
tip. The Master asks the following questions:-'Most Excel-
lent brother Senior Warden, what's the o'clock'l' Ji. 'The mo-
ment when the word was recovered; when the cubic stone was
changed into a mystic rose; when the tiaming star appeared in
all its splendor; when our altars resumed their ordinary form;
when the true light dispelled darkness, and the new law becomes
visible in all our works! Then the Most Wise takes the charity
box to distribute to the ordinary servants, or the brethren, who are
innecessity. After which, he demands if any of the Knights
have any thing to oii`er for the
good of the order and this chapter,
and says, 'Brother Wardens, give notice that this chapter is going
to be closed.' This done, they knock the same as the Master,
'
-
una* "'°°-"r-°""" '-»
---4"*'*-*~»-4-r-Q.;-¢Jl~».~..wli
LIGHT ON MASONBY. 23
and make the ordinary acclamations. The Master leaves his
place, makes his obeisance, embraces all the Knights, and says,
'Profound peace.' All the brethren do the same. The Most
Wise then says, (having first saluted with his mallet,) 'My breth-
ren, this Sovereign Chapter of Rose Croix is closed; let us do
our duty.' They all exclaim Vivat. The Master says, 'Let us
go, my brethren, and make the rellection which our work re-
quires; let us
go, and retum in peace! The brethren take the
buckles out of their shoes, and wear their shoes in the form of
slippers. The only banquet, or
ceremony, of the table, used in
the chapters of Rose Croix, is the following, which is indispen-
sably necessary, being in commemoration of the repast of our
Saviour, which he gave at Emmaus, when he made himself
known to his disciples after his resurrection.
The Most Wise orders the youngest Knight to go and prepare
every thing for their repast; he goes into an
apartment appropri-
ated to this purpose, and covers the table with a white cloth, and
places thereon a loaf of white bread in a
plate in the centre of a
triangle, formed with three candlesticks, in which must be candles
of white or
yellow wax. He then takes to the Master, wands of
six feet high, who rweives them and retums them to the candi-
date, who presents one to each Knight. They then follow the
Master to the banquet, where they place themselves round the
table, and standing with their heads uncovered, except the Mas-
ter, who puts on his hat after prayer.
Rrayer.-Sovereign Creator o all things, who provides for all
our necessities and wants, bless this food of which we are now
going to' partake, that we may receive it tbr thy honor and glory,
and for our satisfaction and refreshment. Amen. _
'I`he Master breaks the bread and takes a piece}then passes `it
to thosright for the rest; and when they are all provided, they eat
it. The young admitted Knight brings a
goblet of wine which
he places in the middle of the table. The Master takes it, and
makes the sign of the Rose Croix, drinks, and presents the gob-
let to the brother next to him, who drinks, and passes it round till
it comes to the Master again, who goes with all the Knights, and
throws what is left into_ the fire, being all kneeling on one knee,
in the manner 'of making an
offering:-they all rise, when the
Master embraces them, and says, 'Pucs an aivrorm ¥ou;' they
answer, 'Be it so: ./1m¢n.' They go tothe other chamber, where
they put their buckles in their shoes and retire.*
.._.....-
* The youngest Knight is to clea.r'the table, and, during the whole þÿ¢°l' ¬~
mony of the repast, the most. profound silence is to be observed. N0 B°l'~
vants can he employed in this otlice, as all the brethren are °¢l"*|- 1° °°'"°
.
__
_....._~
snnn... _4......_-,_ ...__t ...t
""
232
'
nicer on mssormr.
~
The feast of this chapter is on Shrove Tuesday, which cannot
be dispensed with; andif there is but one
Knight in a
place, he
must absolutely perform the ceremony of this festival, that he
may reunite himself in spirit with his brethren, who do the same.
If he is travelling on the road, and meets a brother, they are
obliged to go to some convenient house to celebrate it.
Ordinances.-The Knights of the Rose Croix have the privi-
lege of holding the mallet of the Master in all lodges; but if they
do not choose to receive it, they place themselves at the side of
the Master, taking rank of all the otlivers. If the Master, through
ignorance of his quality, does not make him that polite oder, he
must seat himself on the floor, at the column of the Entered Ap-
prentice. When a
Knight signs a masonic paper, he must atlix
his rank to his signature, and also seal it with his coat of arms;-
c. s. P. D. R. G. or K. 0. P. of R. c.
llll
Where there is a
regular chapter, they must assemble, at least,
six times a year; viz: The Annual Feast--Shrove Tuesday-
Tuesday after Easter-The Day of Ascension, and All Saints'
Day; exclusive of two Grand 'Festivals of St. Johns, which can-
not be dispensed with. In a Constituted Chapter, there must be,
at least, three, till the number becomes greater; then officers
are elected as in other lodges. The election is made the Tues-
day after Easter, when they enter into their charge, and the for-
mer otficers are to render an account of their proceedings for the
year past. _
They are
obliged to be charitable to all the poor, particularly
to all distressed Masons. They must visit the prisoners. If a
Knight falls sick, they are
obliged to visit him, and pay particular
attention that»he wants for nothing which they can
supply him
with. On the death of a
Knight, he shall be decorated with his
ribbon and jewelround his neck, and his funeral shall be attend-
ed by all the Knights, clothed in all their orders, if it can be done
without causing reflection on the order; after which, a
chapter
shall be opened. The brother who succeeds him, shall wear his
jewel, covered with black crepe, for three days. In the French
Chapters it is usual to keep the anniversary of his death, and pro-
nounce an eulogy_on his virtues.
It is forbid, under any pretext whatsoever, for one brother to
fight, or combat, with another. No brother can absent himself
chapters they eat a roasted lamb, but it must have the head and feet on,
which are cut od' in the chapter and thrown into the tire, as an
otfering, be-
fore any one eats: Here there must be on] one knife and one goblet, but no
bottle; but this ceremony has been aboiished-the first being only made
use of! .
-
J
C'l--<-°-4-A-~ 1°-»-».¢»-_M-in... A.. -
_Licwr ON uasormr. 233
from the chapter, unless in case of sickness, or other good and
sutiicient reasons, of which the chapter must approve. _The
chapter 'must only be lighted with wax candles, or sweet oil.-
Finis.
'<uo>-
GRAND PONTIFF,
`
on
SUBLIME SCOTCH MASONRY.
Decorations of the Lodge, Titles, Q-c.-The hangings of this
lodge must be blue, spread with gold stars. The Master of this
'lodge goes by the title of Thrice Puissant: he is clothed in a
white satin robe, and sits on a throne under a blue canopy, behind
Which, in a niche, is a
transparent light, sutlicient to light the
lodge. The Thrice Puissant holds a sceptre in his hand. There
is only one Warden, who sits opposite the Thrice Puissant in the
west, and holds a golden stall' in his hand. All the rest of the
brethren are clothed in white robes, and have the title of Faithful
and True Brothers. They all wear a blue satin fillet round their
foreheads, with 12 golden stars embroidered thereon.
The draft (or carpet,) of the lodge, represents a square city,
or celestial Jerusalem, descending on clouds from heaven, to
crush the remains of _the present Jerusalem, or a three headed
serpent, or
hydra, in chains, representing the wickedness of the
infidels yet remaining there. This celestial Jerusalem has twelve
gates, three on each side. In the centre of the city is a tree which
hears twelve different kinds of fmits, The present Jerusalem
undemeath, seems
`
to be tumed upside down, and the celestial
Jerusalem appears to crush the three headed serpent. On one
side of the draft you see a
high mountain.
To open the lodge.-The Thrice Puissant strikes 12, at equal
distances, and then demands the following questions:-Q Bro.
ther, what's the o'clock? JH. The hour foretold. Mast. 'Fai¢_h.
tiil brethren, the whole is ALPHA, OMEGA, and EMANUEL: Let
us work.' Then the Warden knocks 12, as
above, and
says _,
'Faithful brethren, the lodge of cmd Pontitf is open!
' '
Form of reception- The candidate must be decorated with
the attributes ot' Knight of the East and West, a blue satin fillet
with twelve gold stars, tied round his forehead, before he enters.
He is immediately introduced into the lodge, when the Warden
places him on the top of a
mopyntain,
and asks him, 'Brother,_ do
2
_
__
..>, .._...
mlb---ni.. --, _.nl-.i._.,_ _ _
--».¢-- --an-»
'
v
284 LIGIT ON HASOHBL ,
you detestniat is pertidious? Do you prosuse that you will break
all communications, correspondence, and friendship with those
who are sol' The candidate answers, 'I promise and swear!
Then~ the Warden leaves the candidate, and comes down the
mountain backwards, and goes to the celestial city, and with a
surveyor's chain measures the four sides of it, when he goes to
the candidate again, and tells him, 'Brother, that city (pointing to
it,) measures 12,000 furlongs each side.' He then takes the
candidate by the hand, and both come down backwards. He
places him before the draft, facing the Thrice Puissant. After a
minute's silence, he makes him take three square steps towards
the chained serpent, then one step on each side ofthe three heads,
he then kneels three times with his right knee, holding, at the
same time, his right hand horizontally towards the Thrice Pais-
sant. [This ceremony is instead of an obligation] The Thrice
Puissant orders lim to retreat .three steps, which again brings him
to the bottom of' the draft, where the Warden gives him the sign,
token, and word. The order is a broad red ribbon, with twelve
golden stars embroidered thereon. It is wom from the right
shoulder to the left hip.
The jewel is a square of gold; on one side is engraved ALPHA,
on the other, OMEGA.
'
LECTURE.
Q. What are you? A. I am a Sublime Grand Pontifll Q.
Where have you received this degree? A. In a place where there
is neither sun nor moon to light it. Q. Explain this to me? A.
As the Grand Pontiff never wants any artificial light, the faithful
and true brothers, the Sublime Grand Pontiffs, do not want riches
or titles to be admitted into the Sublime Degrees, asthey prove
themselves worthy of admittance by their attachment to Mason-
ry,-the faithful discharge of their several obligations.-their vir-
tue, and true and sincere friendship for their brethren in general.
Q. What does the draft of this lodge represent? A A square
city ot' four equal sides, with three gates on each side, in the mid-
dle of which is atree, which bears twelve different kinds of fruit.
The city is suspended as on clouds, and seem to cnish a three
headed serpent. Q.
Eaplain
this to me. A. The square city
r esents ancient Free asom-y, under the title of Grand Pon#
[iwwhich comes down from human to replace Hu ancient temple,
which is represented by the ruins and the three headed serpent
imdemeath. Q. How comes Masonry to have fallen into ruin,
since we are bound to
.support
it, and are attached to it by our
obligations, which cannot e
equivocal? A. It uae .sodoeroedin
v
-
---- ----~.--_ -....._......¢...._., -.n-n»._.¢._..-al*
LIGHT Dl' MABOIRY. %
old times, which 'ae lain _/hon the mritis a
ofSt. John, when we
bww to have bmi the jiret Muon who lik! a Lodge of .P¢(f¢¢.
tion. Q. Where does St. John say»this? A. In his revelation,
'where he speaks of Babylon and the celestial Jefulalem. Q. Whgt
signifies the tree, with the twelve dilferent fruits, which stands in
the centre ofthe square city? A. The tree of life is placed there
to make us understand, where the meets of life areto be fond; md
the twelve fruits signify that we meet in awry month to iyulmd
ourselves mutually, and sustain each other against the attacks of
our enemies. Q. What is the meaning ofthe satin fillet with the
twelve golden stars, which the candidate wore round his forehead?
A, .It procures those who wear it an entrance into our
lodge, as
it likewise procures the entrance ofthose who wear it, into the ¢¢'.
lestial Jerusalem, as St. John himself informs us. Q, "fhg is
the meaning of the twelve golden stars on the fillet of the eaudi-
date, and on those of the brethren? VA. They represent ghe
twelve angels, who "watched at the twelve gates of the celestial
Jerusalem. Q. What signifies the blue hangings, with the gold-
en stars thereon? A. The blue is the symbol of lenity, fidelity,
,and sweetness, which ought to be the share of every faithful and
true brother; and the stars represent those Jltasons who have gig.
en
proof of their attachment to the statutes and rules of the order,
which, in the end, will make them deserving of entering into the
celestial Jerusalem. Q. What age are you? A. I reckon no
more. Q. What remains for you to acquire? A. The sublime
truths of the degrees above this. Q. What is your name? A.
Faithful and tme brother. ,
To close.-Thrice Puissant. 'V`hat's the o'clock'l' Wggdm,
'Thrice Puissant, the hour accomplishedf Thrice Pais. 'Alpha
and Omega: let us rejoice, my brethren! He then strikes 12,
which is repeated by the Warden, and the lodge is closed.-Finis.
»
-6000>
VENERABLE GRAND MASTER
OF ALL SYMBOLIC LODGES,
inberetnu isrtftees of Masonry,
MASTER ADVITIAM, OR GRAND PONTIFF.
Decorations, is-r. This lodge must be decorated with blue
and yellow. The .Grand Master sits on a throne, elevated by
nine steps, under a canopy, before it is an al-tar, on which is 1a
sword, bible, compass, square, mallet, Src. as in the §Y'"b°li°
Lodges. Between the alter and the south is M=Mll°°"°k Will'
_
------
-.»- -nun. _
A...»»,__ _-._ ..».
--"'"
l'
v
835 ucnr os nusoaav. ,
nine branches, whichis always lighted in this There are
two Wardens in the west. The Grand Master represents Gyms
Artaxerxes, wearing his royal ornaments and a
large blue and yel-
low ribbon crossing each other.
'
-
To Qian--Grand Master. I desire to open the Lodge. He
then descends to the lowest step of the throne, and when he is
assured that the lodge is tyled, he knocks 1 and 2 with his mallet.
Each Warden repeats the same, which makes 9. Gr. Master.
'Where is your Master placedf' War. 'ln the east.' G. M.
'Why in the eastl' War. 'Because the glorious sun rises in the
east to illumine the world.' -
G. M. 'As I sit in the east, I open
this lodge, which is repeated by the Wardens! Then all the
brethren clap with their hands 1 and 2. _
Reception. 'I`he candidate represents Zembbabel, who enters
the lodge by himself, without being introduced, decorated with
the jewels and badges of the highest degrees he has taken. The
Wardens take him by the hand and place him in a blue elbow
chair, opposite to the Grand Master, who demands from him all
the words from an Entered Apprentice up to a Gr. Pontitli and
after he has satisfied the Grand Master, and is found worthy to
hold a
sceptre, they make him travel nine times round the lodge,
beginning in the south, and then by nine square steps he advan-
ces tothe throne, and walks over two drawn swords, laid across.
There must be a
pot with burning charcoal close by _the throne,
that the candidate may feel the heat ofthe fire while taking the
obligation, in doing which, he lays his right hand on the bible,
which is covered by the Grand Master's right hand, and then-
takes the following obligation.
Obligation. l, -_-
do most solemn] and sincerely swear
and promise under the penalties of all my liormer obligations, to
protect the craft and my brethren with all my might, and not to
acknowledge any one for a true mason, who was not made in a
regularly constituted and lawful lodge. I furthermore do swear
that I will strictly observe and obey all the statutes and regula-
tions ofthe lodge, and that I never will disclose or discover the
secrets of this degree, either directly or
indirectly, except by
virtue of a full power in writing, given me for that purpose by
the Grand Inspector or his deputy, and-then to such only as
have been Masters of a
regular lodge:-All this I swear under
the penalties of being for ever despised and dishonored by the
craft in general. He then kisses the bible. Here follows the
signs, token and word.
One word is--1-which signifies, 'I am what I am.' This
is also the name of the man who found the cavern where thelion
'H-ah.._ __
_.,,_;_,___ ,_ >_~..-_
_
your on MABGNRY. 237
hid, who kept in his mouth the key ofthe
ark of
alliance, which
was lost. The second word is -_, which is the name of
him who fought the lion in the cavern. The lion had a gold col-
lar round his neck, on which was
engraved the word Jechson.
The rest is an enigma to you, as it is only known to the Sublime
Princes ot' the Royal Secret; a degree which you cannot receive
unless you crush the serpent of ignorance. The third word is
--, which was the name of him who laid the first fhundation
stone of the temple, rebuilt by the Princes of" Jerusalem. The
Jswat. is a triangle, on which is engraved Szcasr, and is suspend-
ed by u broad blue and yellow ribbon.
LECTURE.
Q. Are you a Grand Master ot' all Symbolic Lodges? A.
They know me at Jerusalem to he such. Q. How shall I
know that you are a G. Master of all Symbolic Lodges? A.
By observing my zeal in rebuilding the temple. Q. Which way
did you travel? A. From the south to the east. Q. How of-
ten? A. Nine. Q. Why so many? A. In memory ofthe G.
Masters who travelled to Jerusalem, Q. Can you give me their
names? A. Their names are Esmus, Zlnunluam., Puscm,
Josnus, Euan, Tovana, Homes, Nsnzmias, and Mncmss.
Q. Whatare the pass words? A. * * * * * * * * *
Q. What object engaged your attention most, when you first en-
tered the lodge of Grand Masters? A. 'I`he candlestick, with
nine branches. Q. Why are the nine candles therein always
kept buming in this lodge? A. To remind us that there cannot
be less than nine Masters to form a Grand Master's lodge. Q.
What were your reasons for wishing to be admitted and received
in this lodge of Grand Masters? A. That I might receive the
benefit of the two lights I was unacquainted with. Q. Have
you received those lights, and in what manner? A. In receiving
first the small light. Q. Explain this. A. When I was receiv-
ed by steel and fire. Q. What signifies the steel? A. To re-
mind us of the steel by which our Most Respectable Chief; Hi-
ram AbifI§ lost his life, and which I am swom to make use ot;
whenever I can revenge that horrible murder on the traitors of
Masonry. Q. What means the fire? A. To put us in mind that
our forefathers were purified by fire. Q. By whom was
you reh
ceived? A. By Cyrus. _
Q. Why by Cyrus? A. Because it
was he who ordered Zerubbabel to rebuild the temple. Q. What
did you promise and swear to perform when you received this
degree? A. I swore that I would see the laws, statutes, and reg-
ulations strictly observed in our lodge.
'
Q. What was your BNHS
238 ucar on misouav.
before you received this degree? A. Zerubbabel. Q. What is
your name now? A. Cyrus. Q. What means the word, Ani-
mani? A.' 'I am that I`am,' and it is also the name of him who
found the lion's den. Q. Why is the lodge decorated with blue
and yellow? A. To remind us that the Ersann. appeared to
Moses on mount Sinai, in clouds of gold and azure, when He
gave to his people the laws of infinite wisdom. Q. Where do
you find the records of our order? A. ln the archives of Kil-
willin, in the north of Scotland. Q. Why did you travel from
the south round to the east? A. In allusion to the power of the
Grand Architect of the universe, which extends throughout all
the world. Q. Why did you -.sash your hands in the fourteenth
degree? A. To show our innocence. Q. Why is the history of
Hiram Abitf so much spoken of? A. To put us
always in mind
that he chose rather to sacrifice his life, than reveal the secrets of
Masonry. Q. Why is the triangle, with the word secret on it,
considered as the most precious jewel in Masonry? A. Because
by its justness, equality, and proportion it represents our redemp-
tion. Q. By what mark was the place discovered, where Hiram
Abiff was buried by his assassins? A. By a sprig of cassia,
(say granate.) Q. For what reasons do the Master Masons in
the Symbolic Lodges, speak of a
sprig of cassia? A. Because
the Sublime Grand Elected descendants of the ancient Patriarchs
did not think proper to give the real name, or truth, of M asonry;
therefore, they agreed to say that it was a
sprig of cassia, because
it had a strong smell. Q. What are the reasons lor the different
knocks at the door to gain admittance? A. To know and be
assured that they have passed the different degrees, which num-
ber we must understand. Q. For what reasons do we
keep our
mysteries with such circumspection and secrecy? A. For fear
there might be found amongst us some traitorous villains, similar
to the three Fellow Gratis who murdered our chief; li iram Abilli
Q. What is the reason that the Grand Master of all lodges is
received with so much honor in the Symbolic Lodges? A. Those
homages are due to their virtues, as Princes of Masons, whose
firmness has been shown on so
many occasions, by spilling their
blood in support of Masonry and the fraternity. Q. Why do we
applaud with our hands? A. ln that manner we express _our hap-
piness and satisfaction at having done a good action. and render-
ed justice. Q. What reflections occur, when contemplating the
conduct of Solomon? A. That a wise man may err, and when
he is sensible of his fault, corrects himself by acknowledging
that fault, whereby he claims the indulgence of his brethren. Q.
Why do the Symbolic Lodges take the name of St. John, ofsle-
'-
n-_..._ ..-L-......-.5
ucnrr on nusormr. 239
rusalem? A. Because in the,time of die crusades, the Perfect
Masons, Knights, and Princes communicated their mysteries to
the Knights of that order; whereupon it was determined to cele-
brate their festival annually, on St. John's day, being under the
same law. Q. Who was the first architect that conducted the
works of Solomon's
mmm!
A. Hiram Abifli which signifies
the inspired man. Q. o laid the first stone? A. Solomon
cut and laid the first stone, which afterwards supported the tem-
ple. Q. Was there any thing enclosed in that stone? A. Yes;
some characters, which were like the name of' the Grand Archi-
tect of the universe, which was
only known to Solomon. Q.
What stone was it? A. An agate, of a foot square. Q. What
was the form of itl A. Cubical. Q. At what time ofthe day
was the stone laid? A. Before simrise. Q. For what reason?
A. To show that we must begin early and work with vigilance
and assiduity. Q. What cement did he make use of"! A. A
cement which was composed of the finest a.nd purest flour, milk,
oil, and wine. Q. ls there any meaning in this composition?
A. Yes; when the Grand Architect of the universe determined
to create the world, he employed his sweetness, bounty, wisdom,
and power. Q. What is the reason why the number 81 is held
in such esteem among Princes of' Masons? A. Because that
number explains the triple alliance which the Eternal operates by
the triple triangle, which was seen at the time Solomon consecrat-
ed the temple to God; and also that Hiram Abiff was 81 years
of' age, when he was murdered. Q. Was any thing else per-
ceived at the consecration? A. A perfume which not only filled
the temple, but all Jerusalem. Q. Who destroyed the temple?
A. Nebuchadnezzar. Q. How many years after it was built?
A. 470 years, six months and ten days after its foundation? Q.
Who built the second temple? A. Zerubbabel, by the grant and
aid of Cyrus, king of Persia. It was finished in the reign of'
Darius, .when he was known to be a Prince of' Jemsalem. Cy-
rus not only gave Znausanar. and the captive Masons their lib-
erty, but ordered all the treasures of' the old temple to be restor-
ed to them, that they might embellish the second temple, which
he had ordered Zerubbabel to build. Q. What signifies the jew-
el of the Right Worshipful Grand Master of' all lodges being a
triangle? A. He wears it in remembrance of' the presents given
by monarchs and the protectors of the order, in recompense for
their zeal, fervor, and constancy. Q. What way have you trav-
elled to become a
Right Worshipfiil Grand Master of' all
and Grand Patriarch? A. By the four elements. Q. Why l'Y
the four elements? A. 'To put us in mind of this world» w<1"'°
1
____
__
__
*_* __ A_ »-Id|up¢~» .....-A§_._.|¢...., »-
'
»
240 nerr on nnsoruw.
troubles in which we live; to cleanse ourselves tiom all impuri-
ties, and thereby render ourselves worthy of perfect virtue. Q.
Where was the lodge of' Grand Masters first held? A. In the
sacred vault, east of the temple. Q. Where is that lodge held at
present? A. All over theworld,-agreeably to the orders of Sol-
omon, when he told us to travel and to spread over the universe,
to teach Masonry to those whom we should find worthy of' it, but
especially to those who should receive us
kindly, and who' were
virtuous men. Q. What did Solomon give you to remember him
at your departure? A. He rewarded the merits of' ull the work-
men, and showed to the Chief Master the cubic stone ofagate,
on which was engraved, on a
gold plate, the sacred name of' God.
Q. How was the agate tone supported? A. On a
pedestal ofa
triangular f`orm, surrounded by three cross
pillars, which were also
surrounded by a circle of' brass. Q. -hat signifies the three
pillars? A. Strength, wisdom, and beauty. Q. What was in
the middle of' the circle? A. The point of exactness, which
teaches us the point of' perfection. Q. What else did Solomon
give you? A. The great sign of admiration and constemation,
by which I am known by a brother. »He also put a
ring on
my
finger, in remembrance of` my alliance with virtue, and loaded us
with kindness. Q. Why have you a sun on the
jewel of per-
fection? A. To show that we have received the _/ull light, and
know .Masonry in its perfection. Q. Who destroyed the' second
temple, which was finished by the Princes of Jerusalem? A.
Pompey began its destruction, and king Herodes the Great fin-
ished it. Q. Who rebuilt it again? A. King Herodes repent-
ing the action he had unjustly done, recalled all the Masons to
Jerusalem who had fied, and directed them to rebuild the temple.
Q. Who destroyed the third temple? A. Trro, the son of the
emperor Vespasian. The Masons, who, with sorrow, saw the
temple again destroyed, departed from Rome, after having em-
braced the Catholic religion, and determined never to assist in
constructing another. Q. What became of' those Masons after-
wards? _
A. They divided themselves into several companies
and went into different parts of Europe, but the greatest part of
them went to Scotland, and built a town which they called Kil-
willin: at this time there is a lodge there, bearing the same name.
Q. What happened to them afterwards? A. 27,000 of' the Ma-
sons in Scotland determined to assist the Christian Princes and
Knights, who were at that time at Jenxsalem, in a crusade f'or the
purpose of
_taking the Holy Land and city from the infidels who
.were then m possession of` it; and they accordingly obtained
leave of the Scotch Monarch. Q. What happened most re-
...»..u;.._1.¢.....
LIGHT ON MABONB.Y¢ 241
markable to them? A. Their bravery and good conduct gained
them the esteem and respect of' all the Knights of St. John, of
Jerusalem. The General of that order and the principal oflicers
took the resolution of being admitted into the secrets of Mason-
ry, which they accordingly received, and in return they admitted
them Scotch Masons into their order, by the name of Rosa
Cnorx, or Pauoau. Q. What became of those Masons after-
wards? A. After the crusade, they returned and spread Mason-
ry throughout all Europe, which flourished for a
long time in
France and England; but the Scotch, to their great praise be it
spoken, were the only people who kept up the practice of it. Q.
How came it again in vogue in France? A. A Scotch noble-
man went to France and became a resident at Bordeaux, where
he established a
Lodge of Perfection from the members of the
lodge in 1744, in which he was assisted by a French gentleman,
who took great pleasure in all the Masonic Degrees. This still
exists in a most splendid manner. Q. VVhat means the fire in
our lodge? A. Submission, purification of' morals, and equality
among brethren. Q. What signifies the airl A. The purity,
virtue, and truth of this degree. Q. What does the sign of' the
sun mean? A. It signifies that some of us are more enlightened
than others in the mysteries of Masonry, and for that reason we
are often called Knights of' the Sun. Q. How many signs have
you in this degree of' Grand Pontifli which is Grand Master of'
all lodges? A. lst, The Sign of' the Earth, or
Apprentice; 2d,
of' Water-Fellow Craft; 3d, of' Terror-the Master; 4th, of`
Fire; 5th, of' Air; 6th, of' the point in view; 7th, ofthe Sun; Sth,
of Astonishment; 9th, of' Honor; 10th, of' Stench, or
strong smell;
11th, of Admiration; 12th, of' Constemation.-End of the lec-
ture.
To close.-The Grand Master says, fMy brother, enter into
the cave of SILOL-W0l'k with Grand Roi-'ADAM-measure your
steps to the sun, and then the great black eagle will cover you
with his wings, to the end of what you desire, by the help of' the
Most Sublime Princes Grand Commanders.' He then strikes l
and 2, makes the sign of the four squares, which is repeated by
the Wardens and the lodge is closed.
The EXAMINATION of' a brother in the foregoing degree, is as
f'0llows:--
'
Q. From whence came
you? A. From the sacred vault at
Jerusalem. Q. What are
you come to do here? A. Iam come
to see and visit your works and show you mine, that we
may work
together and rectify our moral , and, if possible, sanctify the pr0°
fane-but only by pemiission of a Prince Adept, or Prince of the
W _
l|"-l1i.___, _-¢».b-,., ,-..»_.___,...»....,_
.-
242 1.ran'r on uasonmr.
Royal Secret, (if one is present.) Q. What have you brought!
A. Glory, grandeur, and beauty. Q. Why do you give the
name of St. John to our lodge? _
A. Formerly all the lodges
were under the name of Solomon's lodge, as the founder of Ma-
sonry; but since the cnisades we have agreed with the Knights
Templars, or
Hospitallers, to dedicate them to St. John, as he
was the support of the Christians and the new laws. Q. "hat
do you ask more? A. Your will and pleasure as you may find
me worthy, obedient, and virtuous.
-¢l¢0|-
KNIGHTS 0F THE ROYAL AXE OR HAC , (HATCHETJ
SOMETIMES CALLED
GRAND PATRIARCI-I, BY THE NAME OF
PRINCE OF LABANUS.
This meeting is called a
College. .
To open.-The Chief Prince says, 'To order, brethren;' which
is answered by the Senior and Junior Grand Wardens in the same
words. After some silence is observed, the Chief Prince holds
up both his hands, the fingers and thumbs extended as wide as
possible, and says, 'The trees of Lebanus are grown up and fit
to cut;' on which all the brethren hold up both their hands in the
same manner, then let them fall on their thighs, in allusion that
they are cut down, in order to be used for holy purposes; viz: lst.
They were used for the building of Noah's ark: 2d. They were
used for the construction of the Ark of Alliance: 3d. For the
use of Solomon's temple. The Chief Prince then says,
Noah, .
The answer to these Japheth,
Bezaleel, words are made by the Eliab,
Sidonians, Senior Warden. Lebanus.
degree was established on the. three abovemen-
tioned occasions, the cutting of cedar for holy purposes. The
explanation of the letters on the Axn, or Jnwnr., will teach you.
L, on one side of the handle, is Lebanon: S, on the top, Sol-
omon: AB, on the same side, Abda: A, on the same side, Adon-
iram: C, on the same side, Cyrus: D, on the same side, Darius:
X, on the same side, Xerxes: Z, on the same side, Zerubbabel:
A, on the same side, Ananias.
On the other side of the axe are the following initials:-S. on
the blade, Sidonians: N. on the top of the handle, Noah: S. on
_ ____
._ c.-_ ,
1;-_..4u§i|*.nL.,
LIGHT ON MLSONRY. 243
do. Shem: C. on do. Chum: I. on do. Japheth: M. on do. Mo-
ses: B. on do. Bezaleel: E. on do. Eliab.
`
The said axe, or jewel, must be crowned, and should be of
gold, and must hang on the breast to a ribbon of the colors ofthe
rainbow. It may also be worn from the right shoulder to the left
hi .
PThe Sidonians were always very zealous for the holy enter-
prises; before the deluge, they employed themselves in cutting
cedars from mount Lebanon for the construction of Noah's ark,
under the conduct of Japheth. The descendants of them, like~
wise, cut cedars from mount Lebanon, that were grown up again,
for the construction of the ark of the covenant; and their posteri-
ty also-cut in the same forest, under the conduct of Prince de
Heroden, for the construction of the first temple ot' God, by the
orders of Solomon. The Samaritans assisted in bringing the
timbers down from the mount to the seaside, to be transported
from thence to Jop a.
'
Those zealous dlescendants have since been employed to fell
the timbers of the mountain, for the construction of the second
temple, by the orders of Cyrus, Darius, and Xerxes, under the
direction of Zerubbabel. This celebrated nation formed on the
said mountain colleges, or
meetings, and always in their works
adored the Great Architect of the universe. They had the same
signs, and their different words were taken from the different in-
spectors and conductors; as Noah, and his three sons. Noah
being the chief, and his sons the conductors and ancient patri-
archs, we owe the knowledge of these events in succession of
time since the deluge.
In the earliest ages of time, colleges were established on the
mountain, for the constmction of the ark of the covenant, and in
some ages after, the same colleges were held for the construction
of Solomon's temple. That wise king ordered a small palace to
be built on mount Lebanon, which, when finished, he used to go
to see what progress the workmen had made in hewing and squar-
ing the cedars. Thus by their example, we
preserve, with the
greatest respect, the names of those venerable patriarchs, and
also the memory of the Sidonians. The of the jewel
form an abridgment of this interesting history, as well as the fig-
nre of the draft. The college is closed in the same manner as it
was opened.
.-»¢h»-n.. ...A-is '1§_ ._.
""""
~7
244 Liam* on Masounr.
CHIEF OF THE TABERNACLE.
Decorations of the Lodge.-The hangings are
principally
white, supported by others of red and black here and there, ac-
cording to the taste of the architect. At the bottom of this hall
is a sanctuary, separated from ,the upper part by a
balustrade,
and by a red curtain on
every side. In the sanctuary there is
placed the throne over a platform, upon which you enter by sev-
en steps. Before the throne is placed a table covered with a red
cloth-upon the altar is laid the Holy Bible and a poniard.~ Be-
side of the throne there is the sax of annurtca, crowned by a
cnonv, in the centre of which is seen God's name, ( mn* )
and at the sides the sun and the moon. To the right of the lirst
altar and a little further upwards is the altar of sacrifices; (Holy
court.s,) In front to the left, is the altar of perfumes. In the
west, two chandeliers, of five branches, arrayed in a
pyramidial
fomi. In the east one chandelier, with two branches.
The president is seated on the throne, and the Wardens before
the altar. During receptions there is a dark apartment with an
altar in the middle, over which is placed a
light and three human
skulls. In front of the altar there is a ,human skeleton.
'
Titles.-The presiding otlicer is styled, 'Gunn Sovsnmcu
S.acmr|c:n.' ln the French lodge he is styled, 'GRAND Cou-
Masnsm' The Wardens, 'HIGH Pau:s'rs;' the others, 'L¢vites.'
The lodge is styled an 'Hierarz-hy.' In France it is called, 'Sove-
reign Council! The Chief represents Aaron, the Wardens, his
sons, Eleazer and Ithamar. The candidate represents Hamar.
He should be introduced covered, hat on, sandals on his feet and
linen small clothes on. Hour of opening is when the descend-
ants of Hiram came to the sacrifices. Of closing-when the
sacrifice is consumed, knocking 7 blows, by 6 and 1. The
candidate knocks and repeats the following
Obligation.-I, -
do promise and swear never to reveal the
secrets of this degree to any person in the world, except he has
acquired all the preceding degrees, and then, not unless within
the body of a Sovereign Council of this degree of Chief of the
Tabemacle, regularly holding its authority from some legally es-
tablished Supreme Council ofthe 33d degree: nor will I be pres-
ent, or aid, or assist at the communicating them, unless with the
abovenamed authority, regularly obtained. And incase I should
violate this my sacred obligation, I perjure myselfl I consent that
the earth should he opened before my eyes, and that I should be
engulfed (swallowed up,) even to my neck, and thus miserably
.
'~-- - ~ »
s. ,_ ;¢_ _,___ _.._,.|ck____-n»...'L.¢$..nulha. is..
Licar on nusomtr. 245'
perish. To the fulfilment of which, may God preserve me in
my senses. Amen. In token of your sincerity in this obligation
you will kiss the Bible. (Nadab and Abihu, Aaron's two sons,
were punished in this manner for their crimes. Numbers, 3d ch.)
Dress.-The Chief, or Grand Sacrificer, wears a
large red
tunic, over which is placed another of yellow, shorter than the
first and without sleeves. Upon his head is a mitre of gold cloth;
upon the front is painted or embroidered, a
Delta, with the inef-
fable name. About this dress he puts a black sash with a silver
fringe, from which hangs (by a red cockade,) a
poniard. This
sash is wom from lelt to right. The two
High Priests, or Wm-_
dens, have the same dress, with the exception of the Delta upon
the mitre, which they do not use. The Levites wear white tunic,
tied with a red belt, with a
gold fringe. From this belt, by a
black cockade, is suspended a thurible, (censor,) which is the
jewel of this degree.
.dpi-on.-The apron is white, lined with deep scarlet, and bor.
dered with red, blue, and purple ribbons. In the middle, it has
a gold chandelier of seven branches, and on the flap a
myrtle in
violet color. The jewel, which is a thurible, is sometimes worn
from a broad sash of yellow, purple, blue, and scarlet ribbon,
from the left shoulder to the right hip.
-f000>-
PRINCE OF THE TABERNACLE.
Decorations of the Lodge Rooms.-This lodge consists of two
apartments, the first of which proceeds directly into the second,
and is called the vestibule , where the brothers clothe them-
selves. lt is ornamented with the different attributes of Free
Masonry. The second apartment is made completely circular, by
means ofthe suit of hangings. The decoration of this room va-
ries agreeably to the three points of reception. In its middle, is
placed a chandelier, with seven branches, and each branch with
seven lights; in all forty-nine lights.
dpparel.-A blue silk (taffeta, or sarcenet,) TUNIC; the collar
of which is decorated with rays of gold, representing a
glory.
The surplice is sprinkled with gold stars. Upon the head, a
close crown, encompassed by stars and surrounded by a Delta.
The sash i a broad watered scarlet ribbon, worn as a
collar, or
as a sash from right to left.
./Ipron.--The apron is white bordered with crimson. In the
French lodges, white, lined with deep scarlet, and ,bordered
with green. On its middle is painted, or embroidered, in red, 8
representation
ia;
the tabernacle. The flap is sky blue-
2
he-H1-.`L ___ ..aa¢»,_ _
_,in _,_
;..-_
246 mom on msonnf.
Titles.-This assemblage is called a 'Hma.ncnr.' The Chief
Pfinge is called, 'Mosr PowsnruL.' There aretlmee Wardens
styled 'P¢»w¢fj`ul,'--the first placed in the south-the second, in
the west-and the third, in the north. The olicers of this hie-
rmghy represents Mosns, the giver of the law,-Anon, the Chief'
P|'l8Sl,-BEZALEEL, the son of Um,--Anonnis, the son of Am-
ssnncu. The candidate represents Enaizaa, who succeeded
Amon in the duties ofthe tahemacle. -
'
To open the Hierarchy.-Jlfoses. 'Powertiil, are we well tyl-
ed and in perfect security; and are allpresent, Princes of the
Tabernaclel' Aaron. 'We are, Most Powerful, insecurity; and
all resent, are regular Princes of the Tabemaelel Mom.
'Whxat is the o'clockl' ./larva. 'It is the first hour of the lint day
ofthe seven, for building this hierarchy. It is the first ofthe day
of life, and the sweetness ofthe seven! Jlloees. 'Since it is so,
give notice that I am about to open this Sovereign Council of
the hierarchy! Aaron. 'Bezaleel and .Hholiab repeat' The
Chief Prince gives 6 equal and l loud raps, and the wll1}6D8'l|l
repeat them, one after the other,
:hen
Moses says, 'I declare
this Soverei Council dul o ne .
_
Farm of iggception.-Tlx tqndidate is first washed in water,
as in Exodus, 25th chap. from lst to 40th verse. He is brought
to the altar by six equal and onelnng steps, when he kneels and
takes the followin
'
0bligoti¢m.-I,g;- do promise and swear that I will never
reveal to any person in the world whatever, the secrets of' this
Degree of Prince of the Tabernacle; and that l never will con-
fer fthem, nor aid, or assist in conferring them on any person, or
persons, 'by my presence, or otherwise, except under an
authority
regularly obtained from so/me
'Supreme Council of the 33d De-
gree, which has 'been constitutionally established, giving full
power so to do. Tha! 'I will stand to, and abide by, all the laws,
rules, and regulations 'which belong to this degree, or
may regu-_
larly emanate from the Supreme Council ofthe 33d Degree, un-
der which we are now
acting; and in case I should violate this
sacred obligation, I consent to be stoned to death, (as St. Ste-
phen was,) and that my .body be lell to rot afbove ground,-depriv-
ed of burial. For the faithful performance of which, may the
Almighty Architect of the universe preserve me. Amen. In
token of your sincerity in this obligatienyou will *kiss the hook.
The Chief Prince approaches him (he still ~kneeling,) 'with a
hyd of oiliami atrowel, 'arid thas proceeds:--'I anoint, Eleazar,
My 'right sur, éky Hgh! eye, and lllyright thumb, with the holy
¢il,<ia'¢uIcen=of'Hq]fbv»ng sqnuN|ed`1i'om'¥h¢ _foibies of'tI|e worhi,
- ,,
.._,_ ....,,__, _..._ ~.__ (s.._.._..¢|nsn~_ .t
Q _ ~
LIGHT ON Mssomtr. 247
and to set thee apart of well doers in this tabernacle qf clay; to
be raised at the great and arqful day afjudgment, as a
shining
monument qf God's glory, in the house not made with hands eter-
nal in the Heavens!
D
Jewel.-The jewel of a Prince of the Tabernacle is the letter
A, ih gold, worn from a collar of broad crimson ribbon.
'
History.-The history of this degree may be found in the or-
ders which the Almighty gave to Moses and to the children of
Israel, to depart from Egypt and go to the promised land, and
there to build him a tabernacle. Exodus, ch. 25.
Table Ceremony, observed by the Chiefs and Princes of the
Tabernacle. The table is round and the sictuals are not placed
on it, but successively presented to the brothers in turn, who are
served each to his taste. In the middle of the table is a cluster
of inflamed hearts (painted,) and some incense-there must not
be but seven lights on the table.
Manner of Toasting. First Toast. The MAl|'rEa ays, 'The
warm mid-day of our solemnities, invite our inclinations to neu'
libutions. .
Let us charge.--'Powerful brother Junior Warden, what con-
tinuation of success do you announce to us?' J. W. answers
according to the ritual. Jun. Warden. 'Powerful brothers War-
dens, and you Powerful brothers of the hierarchy, let us cele-
brate the grandeur of the glorious destiny which associates us.
Iirink off the cup at one draught)
Second Toast. The Mosr Powaiunu., or Chief Prince says,
'The warm
mid-day of our solemnities invite our inclinations to
new lilmtione.
'
Let us
charge.-'Powerful brother Senior Warden, what is
the houri' Sen. Warden, (From the ritual answers.) C. P.
'How do you combine talentsi' (Answer by ritual.) C. P.
'Where are our brothersi' S. W. 'The Sovereign Master ot'
the universe directs them in the lodge, and preserves them in the
hierarchy! C. P. 'Powertixl brothers ofthe Hierarchal Lodge,
I give you the health of all Free Masons, elected, or to be elect-
ed, for the unity of the seven and of three.
Third Tbast. The Chief Prince orders to charge the censors
agreeably to the ritual and says, 'Powerful brothers, let us drink
to the health ofthe President of the United States, and to all in
authority. May the Sovereign Grand Master of the universe fill
them and us with his joy and prqwertyf The hour of closing is
the day of life and of tranquillity. .March--6 equal, alll 1 |°"g
steps; in all seven.
-Auehn-¢..._.-Au-¢._...,....a-...»-.
"
248 LIGHT ON MASONRYW
_
HIEBOGLYYHICS OF THIS DEGREE-
'BC DE FGHIJ KLMNOPQRSTUVXYZ
maaafsvvyyvvvsaaaseaaxvss
<nh00|»
`
KNIGHTS OF THE BRAZEN. SERPENT.
Decorations of the lodge.-The hangiugs are red and blue.
Over the throne there is a transparency, on which there is seen a
burning bush, and in the middle the name, "mk In the cen-
tre of the lodge there is a mount, elevated by tive steps, in the
form of a truncated cone. One torch or
great taper, alone en-
lightens the lodge.
'
,
Titles.-The lodge is called the court df Sinai; the Chief
Knight is called, 'Mosr Powsnrur. Gunn MAs'rsa;' the War-
dens, 'Ministers, first and second;' the Orator, 'Pontw`;' the
Secretary, 'Grand Inquirerg' and the other brothers, 'Knighlsf
There is also an 'E.caminer;' and they style the candidate a
'Traveller,' &c. He ought to be loaded with chains to the
weight of 30 lbs. at least. These heavy chains denote that this
degree has reference to the deliverance 'of the captives. The
lodge represents the front of Moses' tent, where he waited upon
(gave authority) to the Israelites, who came to prefer their com-
plaints and grievances. The arch over head, sprinkled with
stars, and the single light, represents the sun. The officers rep-
resent Moses, Aaron, and Joshua, the candidate an lsraelite in
chains, upon his march,
Norm. The pleasure ofbearingthe yokel`orourbrothers,rememberin that
they are our equals, and that the same arrow ca`nnot wotmd us all; shotdd de-
termine us in receiving this degree. We should also be animated by the Di-
vihe
Sgrit,
to avenge our country; to make our mysteries respected and to
carry e law of the Most High to the four quarters ofthe universe.
.Hppm-el.-A red collar, upon which is painted, or embroider-
ed, the device, virtue and valor.
Jewel.-The jewel is a serpent entwined upon the environs .of
a cross pole, in form ofa T, about which are the Hebrew charac-
ters, UP" which signify, 'One who shall live.'
This is the image which Moses is said to ,have ~
erected in the camp of the Israelites. Numbers, 21st
ch. 6th ti. &c. which possessed the virtue to heal the
bites of serpents which molested them in the desert.
It was afterwards preserved in the temple, with much t
careful attention: but as it came in process of time to
þÿ..........»..-_...._-»n|».~---A"j|lh-
Liana' on MASDNRY. 249
be an object of idolatry with the Jews, Hezekiah, king of Judea,
commanded to take it to pieces, and full of indignation called it
'Ne hush ton, (Eneus surpens, brazen serpent,) old copper to
be melted up,' sordid stuff The French write the word 'N echus-
chthare,' vhioh at the same time signiiies, 'Brazen, creeping,
prophccyingf because of the superstition of the Jews in consult-
ing the oracles. -
Hours of opening.-The court is opened at l_ o'clock, and is
closed at 4 o'clock. March-Nine serpentine steps. Knocks-
Nine blows; 'tive slow, three hurried, and one by itselfl
Obligation.-I, --
do solemnly promise and swear in the
presence of the Almighty God, the Grand Architect of the uni-
verse, that I will never reveal the secrets of this Degree of
Knight ofthe Brazen Serpent, nor by my presence, aid or assist
in revealing them to any person or persons whatsoever, unless
the candidate shall have taken all the preceding degrees. in a
regular manner, nor without a
legal authority. I now swear al-
legiance and true faith. In case I should transgress this my sol-
emn obligation, and thus perjure mysem I freely consent to have
my heart eaten by the most venomous
ofserpents, and thus to per-
ish most miserably; from which may the Almighty Creator of the
universe guard and defend' me! In token of your sincerity you
will kiss the Bible. '
V
.Apron-Is white, bound with black tears; upon the flap is :L
triangle, in a
glory; in its centre the Hebrew letter, 1| Some-
times the Jswni. is embroidered, and on the breast of' a broad wa-
tered white ribbon, worn from the right shoulder to the left hip.
History.--The history of this degree is drawn from the Bible.
Numbers,ch. 2lst. When God, to punish the Israelites for their
wickedness, sent into their country, serpents, which should de-
vour them. They came to Moses with their grievances and
confhssed their faults. Moses invoked the Almighty for them,
and God ordered him»to fasten a fiery serpent upon a
pole, that
all the Israelites who might have been bitten, should turn and
look upon it and be made whole. The signification of the jewel
is this; when Moses made a brazen serpent, and placed it upon a.
pole, as God had ordered him, and it came to pass that every one
bitten, looking upon it and pronouncing the word, 'Holati,' (I
have sinned,) was immediately made whole.
I
l
|n»»-l§ld-¢-.-- __.¢.`,__" _
__,,,,,_ ___,
250 morrr on nusonar
PRINCE or MERCY,
OR
'
SCOTCHITRINITARIAN.
Decorations ofthe lodge. The hangings are
green, supported
by nine columns, altemately white and red, upon each of which
is an arm of a chandelier, sustaining nine lights, forming in all
eighty-one lights. The canopy is green, white and red; under
which is a green colored throne. The table before the throne
is covered with s cloth ofthe same color. Instead of a Hiram,
the Most Excellent Chief Prince uses an arrow, whose plume is
on one side green, and on the other side red, the spear being
white and the point gilded. By the altar is a statue which rep-
resents "Truth," covered with the aforesaid three colors. This
statue is the palladium ofthe order. _
Titles.-This Chapter is styled the "Third Heaven." The
Chief Prince is called "Most Excellent." Besides the two War-
dens and accustomed otlicers, there is a "Sacr|;]icer" and a
"Guard ofthe Palladium."
The Chief Prince represents Moses; Senior Warden, Aaron;
Junior Warden, Eleazer; the candidate, Joshua.
./Ipporel.-The Most Excellent Chief Prince v/ears a large
tricolored tunic, of green, white and red; and on his head a
crown of lace, surmounted with 9 points.
./Ipraqi.-Red, bordered with while fringe; upon its contre is
painted or wrought s white and green triangle. In the centre is
a heart, and on it the letter T1 The lisp is sky blue, (some-
times green.)
Jewel.-The jewel is an equilateral triangle of gold, and in the
centre a gold heart. Upon the heart is engraved the letter U
It is worn from a broad tricolbred ribbon. The collar is green,
white and red.
Age.-Eighty-one years is the age ofa Prince ofMercy.
March.-Three equal steps beginning with the left foot.
Knocking.--Fifteen blow by three, (ive, and seven.
Obligation.-I,- do promise and swear in the presence ofthe
Grand Architect ofthe universe, and this respectable assembly,
and by the most sacred of obligations, that I never will reveal the
secrets ofthis sublime degree of Prince of Mercy, to any person
or persons whatsoever, in the world, except they have received all
the degrees below this in a correct manner, and o thereby I shall
know him to be regularly entitled to the same. I furthermore
promise and swear never to entrust this degree § any person,
nor assist at any reception unless I or they shall have been or are
..._ _._
...aa-` "_-
uGn'r ON Masollv. 251
authorized by a
particular permission or warrant for that purpose,
from some Supreme Council, of the 33d degree, regularly and
constitutionally established, to whose authority, laws, rules and
regulations, I now swear true fhith and allegiance; and in that
case I promise and swear, never to give my consent before I
have been plainly informed of the life, manner and moral ofthe
candidate. Should I violate or transgress this, my solemn obli-
gation, l consent to be condemned, cast out and despised by the
whole universe. And may the Supreme Architect of Heaven and
earth, guide, guard, and protect; me, to fulfil the same. Amen.
Amen. Amen. In token of your sincerity, in this obligation,
you will kiss the Bible.
LECTURE. .
Q. Are you a Prince of Mercy? A. I have seen the gnu(
light, (Delta,) and our Mosr EXCELLENT, as well as
yourself, in
the 'Tnirmr Anuancn' ofthe 'BLOOD OF JESUS CHRIST(
of which you and I have the mark. Q. What is the triple alli-
ance? A. It is that which the ETIRNAL made with Abraham by
circumcision; that which I-Ie made with his people in the desert,
by the intercession of Moses; and that which He made with mor-
tals, by the death and suffering of our Saviour, Jesus Christ, his
dearly beloved son.
'
1-nsxocnvrutcs.
ABCDEFGH IJ KLMNOPQRS'l"U VXYZ
L>\ rf ll Dir/rl /W/*%1=CP'°0i*§4®¢lD@¥7l4t-lltioo
-1000>
SOVEREIGN COMMANDER
, or 'run
o
TEMPLE AT JERUSALEM.
Decorations ofthe lodge.--The hangings are red, ornamented
with black columns; upon each of which there is an arm (or
branch,) holding a
light. The canopy and throne are red, sprin-
kled with black tears. In the centre' of the lodge there is a
chandelier, with three rows of lights, in all making twenty-seven
ligllm. thus arranged:-twelve on the lowest tier ot' branches,
nine on the second, and six on the third or uppermost tier; tv/QU'
ty-seven otherjglits are placed upon a
rounxrle,
8b01f Whlch
the Commanders are seated in council ofthe rf-
.F
1 v ,
__-»...~., - ». ,_9 ~
252 LIGHT ON MASONBY. »
Titles.-This council is styled a courr. The Grand Com-
mander, 'ALL POWERFUL., In some courts he is styled, 'Mos'r
I|.i.us1'n|oUs,' and' 'Mosr VALIANTR The Wardens are called,
'Mos'r Savannas CouMANnsas.' »
Jpparel.-The 'All Powerful' is clad in a white tunic, and
over it a
Knight's mantle, of red, lined with ermine skin. (In
France the robe is blue.) Upon his head he wears a crown of
lace.
_/Ipron.-Flesh colored, lined and edged with black. On the
.flap there is a teutonic cross, (the cross of the order,) encircled
'by a crown of laurel. Beneath it, upon the tlap, there is a
key.
All these omaments are done in black. The gloves are white,
lined and bound with black. (In France with red.) The sash
or military scart] is white bound (edged) with red, worn round
the neck, from which hangs the jewel. Upon its two sides are
embroidered in red, the four crosses of the Commanders. Be-
sides, they wear a red sash, bordered with black, put from the
right shoulder to the left hip; from which hangs a cross ofa
Commander of enamelled gold.
Jewel.-The jewel is a
golden triangle, upon which is engrav-
ed, in Hebrew, the sacred word mf!!
Knocks.-Twenty-seven blows with the dat of your sword, hy
12, then by I2 and 3. The candidate passes three times round
the room, Hours ofopening.-10 o'clock. Hours ofclosing.-
4 o'clock. '-
'
Obligation.-I, 1
in the presence of the one Almighty and
only tme God, the Grand Architect of the universe, and of this
Venerable Court of Grand Commanders of the temple, do, of
my own free will and accord, most solemnly and sincerely vow,
promise, and swear, never to reveal the secrets of this degree
which I am now
receiving, to any person or
persons below me,
except in a court lawfully holden, with a warrant or
authority
from some regularly established Supreme Counciltof the 33d
Degree, empowering me, and them with me, to work in this Sub-
lime Degree. I furthermore promise and swear, that I never
will confer, nor assist in conferring this degree, upon any person
who has not, in a
legal and regular manner, taken all the forego-
ing degrees of Free Masonry. .I furthermore promise and swear,
that I will pay due regard and submission to the Supreme Coun-
cil, under whose authority we are now acting; and thatl will nl-
ways govern myself by their laws, rules, and regulations, so far
as the same shall come to my knowledge, and will do all in my
POW" ff'
°"PP°fi£em,
for the good ofthe crnf nd the advan-
tage of Free M nry, agreeably to the
constitlxinsof the or-
"
as
_:_A ._ _ ___ ______.-n4.4n __.._ -=ldlul;,,___
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 253
der. To all this I solemnly swear, under the penalty of having
the several -w-mths of ./llmighty God inflicted on me; and may He
have mercy on my soul in the day of judgment, agreeably lo my
performdnce of this sacred obligation." Amen. Amen. Amen.
In token of your sincerity you will kissthe Bible. Here follow
the signs and tokens.
`
Norn. It is improper to confound this order of Grand Commander of the tem-
ple, 37th degree of Sublime Free Masonry, with that of the Knights ofSt. John
of Jerusalem, better known by the name of Knights Templars, the immediate
successors of the Ancient Knights of the temple. This Military and Reli-
gious Order exists at this day; in
spite ol' the abolishment pronounced by
Pope Clement the V. It is known, that, since that time, the Bull has been
annulled. ~
The Grand Master, James D. Molay, before his death, chose a
successor, who has transmitted his powers to the actual Grand Commander,
through an unintermpted series of Chiefs of the order, celebrated for their
many titles of respect and valor. Among these Chiefs are recorded many
Princes ofthe house of Bourbon. The Knights of the temple ou ht not then
to be considered as an order of Free Masonry. Nevertheless, gram the ex-
ample of their predecessors they fraternize [hold fellowship with] the Free
Masons, and visit them under the title of Brothers oi' the Order of the East,
but they are wanting in the masonic rites.
'
<é000>-
THE KEY OF MASONRY.
'
PHILOSOPHICAL LODGE.
KNIGHTB ADEPTS or 'rim EAGLE on sUN.~>
This Council must be illuminated by one single light, and
is enlightened by one divine light. Because there is one
single light that shines among men, who have the happiness of
going from the darkness of ignorance and of the vulgar preju-
dices, to follow the only light that leads to the celestial truth.
The light that is in our lodge, is composed of a
glass globe
filled with water and a
light placed behind it, and therefore ren-
ders the light more clear. _ The glass of reflection, the globe,
when it is lighted, is placed in the South.
Robe and Sceptre.-The Grand Master or Thrice Puissant,
is named 'FATHER ADAM,' who is placed in the east, vested in a.
robe of pale yellow like the morning, He has his hat on, and
in his right hand a sceptre, on the top of which is a
globe ot'
gold; the handle or
extremity of the sceptre is gilt. The rea-
*This degree should be read by every Christian. It is a
dagger, aimed
at the heart of Christianit ! The language in which it is written, is low,
and ome parts d ult to lie understood. _
1 *I
254 LIGHT ON MA SONRY»
son that Father Adam carries the globe above the sceptre in
this council is, because he was constituted 'Sovereign Master of
the world' and created 'Sovereign Father ofall mem' He carries
a suN suspended by a chain of gold around his neck, and on the
reverse of this jewel of gold is a
globe. When this degree is
given, no jewel or
apron is' wom.
' '
There is only one Warden who sits opposite Father Adam in
the west, and is called Brother Truth. He is entitled to the
same ornaments as Father Adam ; and the order that belongs
to this degree is a broad white watered ribbon worn as a collar,
with an
Eye of gold embroidered thereon, above the gold chain
and jewel of the sun. The number of other oflicers is seven ;
and are called bythe name of the cherubims as follows; ZAPHRIEL,
ZABRIEL, CAMH-:L, Umm., lllll('l-IAEL, ZAPHAEL and GABRIEL.
These ought to be decorated in the same manner as the Thrice
Puissant Father Adam. lf' there are more than that number ofthe
Knights ofthe Sun, they go by the name of SYLPHS, and are the
preparers of the council and assistants in all the ceremonies or
operations of the lodge. They are entitled to the same jewel,
but have a ribbon of a
fiery colour tied to the third buttonhole
of their coats.
'
To open the Grand Council.-Father Adam says, 'Brother
Truth what time is it on Earth 'l' Br. Truth. 'Mighty Father,
it is midnight among the profane or cowans, but the sun is in its
meridian in this lodge! Father ./idam. 'My dear children, prolit
by the favor of this austere luminary, at present showing its light
to us, which will conduct us in the path of virtue and to follow
that law which is eternally to be engraved on our hearts, and the
only law by which we cannot fail to come to the knowledge of
pure truth? He then makes a
sign by putting his right hand on
-his left breast, on which all the brethren put up the first finger
ofthe right hand above their heads, the other fingers clenched,
showing by that, that there is but one God, who is the beginning
of all truth ;-Then Father Adam says, 'This lodge is opened.'
Form ofReception.-After the council is opened, the candidate
is introduced into an antechamber where there are a number of
Sylphs, each with a bellows, blowing a
large pot of Ere, which
the candidate sees, but they take no notice of him; after he is
left in this situation two or three minutes, the most ancient of
the Sylphs goes to the candidate and covers his face with black
crape. He must be without a sword, and is told that he must
find the door of the Sanctuary, and when found, to knock on it
six times with an open hand. After he
`
finds the door and
knocks, brother Truth goes tothe door, and having opened it a
I u
~»-~-'---»-=--~_L.___-....`_,_ ___,~..-_ ,___,___,,,.,,,_,` _ ,¢ ,
_*'°-°"'1h|¢»-1-».-.»¢-»-|lu;_ -»~_ _ ; _
.,_.i_»-
LIGHT on nusonar. 255
little, asks the candidate the following questions, which he an-
swers by tbe help of the Sylphs; Q. 'What do you desire 'l'
./Q. 'l desire to go out of darkness tosee the true light, and to
know the true light in all its purity? Q. 'What do you desire
more 'l' ./1. 'To divest myself of original sin, and destroy the
juvenile prejudices of error, which all men are liable to, namely,
the desires of all worldly attachments and pride.' On which
brother Truth comes to Father Jidam, and relates what the can-
didate has told him, when Father Adam gives orders to introduce
the candidate to the true happiness.-Then brother Truth ops-ns
the door, and takes the candidate by the hand, and conducts him
to the middle of the lodge or sanctuary, which is also covered
by a black cloth, when Father Adam addresses him thus 1-
'My son, seeing by your labor in the royal art, you are now come
to the desire of knowledge of the pure and holy truth, we shall
lay it open to you witho'ut any disguise or covering. But before
we do this, consult your heart and see in this moment if you feel
yourself disposed to obey her, (namely tmth,) in all things which
she commands. If you are
disposed, l am sure she is ready in
your heart; and you must feel an emotion that was unknown to
you before. This being the case, you must hope that she will
not be long to manifest herself to you. But have a care not to
defile the sanctuary by a
spirit of curiosity, and take care not to
increase the number ofthe vulgar and profane, that have for so
long a time ill-treated her, until Truth was obliged to depart the
earth and now can' hardly trace any of her footsteps. But she
always appears in her greatest glory without disguise, to the true,
good and honest Free Masons, that is to say, to the zealous ex-
tirpaters of superstition and lies. [By a caretiil perusal of this
degree it will be seen. that by 'superstition and lies] is meant the
true religion.-Ecl.] ~l hope, my dear brother, you will he one of
her intimate favorites. The proofs that you have given, assures
me of every thing l have to expect of your zeal, foras nothing now
can be more a secret among us, I shall order brother Truth, that
he will instruct you what ypu are to do in order to come to true
happiness) After this discourse of Father Adam, the candidate
is unveiled and shown the form of the lodge or council, with-
out explaining any part thereof Brother Truth then proceeds
thus, 'My dr-ar brother, by mouth, holy truth speaketh to you,
but betore she can manifest herself to you, sh.. requires of you
proofs in which she is satisfied in your entrance in the Masonic
Order. She has appeared to you in many things, which you
could not have apprehended ofcomprehended without her hisfls'
tance ; but now you have the happiness to arrive at the brlllwll
.,.
_,_a_
256 Licaw os nrssonnv.
day, nothing can be a secret to you. Learn, then, the moraluse
that is made ofthe three first parts of the fumiture, which you
knew after you was received an Entered Apprentice Mason; viz:
Bible, Compass and Square. By the Bible,you are to understand,
that it is the only law you aught to follow. lt is that which
Adam received at his creation, and which the Almighty' engraved
in his heart. T/tis law is called natural law, and shows positively
that there is but one
God, and to adore him only without any sub-
division or interpolation. The Compass, gives you the faculty
oi' judging ibr yonrself§ that what ever God has created, is well,
and he is the sovereign author of every thing. Existing in him-
self, nothing is either good or evil, because we understand by
this expression, an action done which is excellent in itself, is
relative, and submits to the human understanding, judgment to
know the value and price of such action, and that God., with
whom every thing is possible, communicates nothing of his will,
but such as his great goodness pleases# and every thing in the
universe is governed as he has decreed it, with justice, being able
to compare it with the attributes of the Divinity. I equally say,
that in himself there is no evil, because he has made every thing
with cxsctness, and that every thing exists according to his will ;
consequently as it ought lo be. The Qistance between good and
evil with the Divinity, cannot be more
justly and clearly compar-
ed than by a circle formed with a
compass; from the points being
reunited there is formed an entire circumference; and when any
point in particular equally approaches or
equally separates from
its point, it is only a faint resemblance of the distance between
good and evil, which we compare by the points of,
a
compass
forming a circle, 'which circle when completed is God!
Square.-By the Square we discover that God who has made
every thing equal, in the same manner as
you are not able to dig
a body in a quarry complete, or perfect; thus the wish of the
Eternal in creating the world by aliberal act of his own, well fore-
saw every matter that could possibly happen in consequence
thereof; that is to say, that every thing therein contained at the
same time ol' the creation was
good.
Level.-You have also seen a level, a plumb, and a rough stone.
By the level you are to leam to be upright and sincere, and not
to suffer yourself to be drawn away by the multitude of th/e blind
and ignorant people; to be always firm and steady to sustain the
right ol' the natural law, and the 'pure and real knowledge of that
truth which it teacheth. f
Perpendicular and rough stone,-By these you o t to un-
derstand that the perpendicular man, made polished y reason;
and put censure away by the excellence of our Master.
`
-
»--»~,...-..._
_...,_._h_,_.¢-is.ih»-.|;..4hiIlI-H
`
LIGHT on Mssounr. 257
,
Trestle-board.-You have seen the trestle-board, _to draw plans
-on. This represents the man whose whole occupation is the art
of thinking, and employs his reason to that which is just and rea-
-sonable. t
_
Cubic stone.-You have seen the cubic stone, the moral of
which, and the sense
you ought to draw from it, is to rule your
actions, that. they mightbe equally brought to the sovereign good.
Pillars.-The two pillars teacheth you that all Masons ought
to attach themselves firmly to become an omament to the order,
as well as to its support-as the pillars of Hercules formerly de-
termined the end of the ancient world.
`
_
Blazing star.-You have seen the blazing star, the moral sense
of which is, 'a true Mason perfecting himself in the way of truth,'
that he may become like a
blazing star which shineth equally
during the thickest darkness, and it is useful to those that it shin-
eth upon, and who are
ready and desirous of profiting by its light.
The first instructions have conducted you to the knowledge of
Hiram Abifi, and the inquiries that were made in finding him out.
You have been informed of thewords, signs, and tokens which
,were substituted to those we feared would have been surprised,
but of which they afterwards leamt, that the treacherous villains
had not been able to receive any lrrwwledge of; and this ought to
he an example and salutary advice to you, to he always on your
guard, and well persuaded that it is didicult to escape the snares
that ignorance, joined to conceited opinion, lay every day against
us, and thereby to overcome us; and the most virtuous men are
liable to fall, because their candor renders them msuspecting;--
-but in this case, you ought to be firm, as our
Respectable Fa-
ther, Hiram, who chose rather to be massacred than to give up
what he had obtained.
This will teach you that as soon as truth shall be fixed in your
heart, you ought never to consider the resolution you should take,
you must live and die to sustain the lighl, by which we
acquire
the sovereign good; we must never
expose ourselves to the con-
versation of cowans, and must be circumspect even with those
with whom we are the most intimate, and not to deliver up our-
selves to any, excepting tho e whose character and behaviour
have proved them brothers, who are
worthy to come and appear
in the sacred sanctuary, where holy tmth deliver-g her grades,
You have passed the 'Sec#ret' and 'Perfect .Master;' you have
been decorated with an
'ivory key,' a
symbol of your distinction;
you have received the pronunciation of the 'incfable name' of the
Great Architect of the universe, and have been placed at the first
balustrade of the sanctuary; you have had rank among the Le-
X2
__u»_ -.
_-.,..... _ ,__
»-'-
A
253 LIGHT oN Masbltitf.
vites, after you knew the word 'Z1zoN,' which signifies _a 'balug.
trade of the Levites,' where all those are placed as well as
yum-.
sell] to expect the 'knowledge of 'the most sublime mysteries.
Cofn and rope.-In the Degree of Perfect Master, they have
shown you a
grave, a coliin; ahd a 'withe rope,' to raise and de.
posit the body in a sepulchre, made in the form of a pyramid, in
the top of which was a triangle, within which was the sacred name
of the Ernamr., and on the pavement were the two columns of
Jachin and Boaz laid across. »
Ivory key.-By the 'ivory key' youare to understandthat you
cannot open your heart with safety, but at proper times. By the
corpse and grave is represented the state of man, before he had
known the happiness of our order!
Rope.-The rope to which the cohin is tied, in order to raise
it, is the symbol of raising a unit, as you have been raised from
the grave of ignorance to the celestial place where truth resides.
Pyramid. -The pyramid r resents the #nie Mason who raises
himself by degrees, till he reacehea heaven, to adore the sacred and
-unalterable name of the Eternal Supreme.
Im-:Myra Sscmzrnv. This new
degree leads you near to
Solomon and honor, and after you redoubled your zeal, you gain-
ed new honors and favors, having nearly log; your life by gm-iosi.
ty; which attachment to Masonry/ gave you the good qualities of
your heart, and which found you 'grace and led you to the flngen.
dant of the Buildings,' and where you saw a
'blazing sta.r,' a large
candlestick with seven branches, with altars, vases, and purifica-
tion, and a great brazen sea.
'
Blazing star.-By the expression of 'puri/icatiom' you are to
understand that you are to be cleansed from impiety and preju-
dice, before you can acquire more of the sublime knowledge in
passing the other degrees to be able to support the brilliant light
o reason, enlightened by truth, of which the blazing star is the
ure.
Candlestick and seven branches.--By the candlestick with sev-
en branches, you are to remember the mysterious number of the
seven Masters who were named to' succeed one, and from that
time it was resolved that seven Knights 'of Masonry, united to-
gether, were able to initiate into Masonry, and show them the
seven gifts of the Etemal, which we shall give you a
perfect
knowledge ol; when you have been purified in the brazen sea.
Brazen Sea.-You have passed from the 'Secret' and 'Perfect
"Master' to the 'Intimate Secretary,' 'Provost and Judge,' and
'Intendant of the Buildings! In these degrees, they have show-
ed you an 'ebony box,' a 'key suspended# a 'balance,' and an 'in~
flamed um.' _
...__
_...__ .-.o...¢-,.._~.dAi_- ._ ...| _-_ .-i..-Li-- .~¢.
..i|l_.g.`__,__,#,___
LIGHT 0N MA SORRY- 259
Ebony boss--The 'ebony box' shows you with what scrupulous
attention you are to keep the secrets that have been confided to
you, and which you are to reserve in the closet of your heart, of
which the box is an emblem. And were
you to redect on the
black color of said box, it would teach you to cover your secrets
with a thick veil, in such a manner that the profane cowans can-
not possibly have any knowledge thereoil
Keys-The key demonstrates that you have already obtained o
key to our
knowledge and part of our
mysteries, and if you be-
have with equity, fervor and zeal to your brothers, you will arrive
shortly to the knowledge and meaningof our
society, and this in.
dicates the reason of the balance.
Inflamed um.-By the 'iniamed um' you are to understand,
that, as far as
you come to the knowledge ofthe Royal md Sub-
lime Art, you must, by your behaviour, leave behind you, in the
minds of your brethren and the vulgar, a high idea of your vip
tue, equal to the perthme of the buming urn.
°
Two kings.--In the degree of 'Intimate Secretary/ you have
seen and -heard two kings, who were entering into their new alli-
ance and reciprocal promise, and of the perfection of their grand
enterprise. They spoke of the death of Hiram Abitf, our
Excellent Master. You saw guards and man's overseer, and
very near of being put to death for his curiosity of peeping. You
also heard of the prospect of a plan called the vault, to deposit
the precious treasure of Masonry, when the time should be ful-
filled, and you afterwards became a brother. The conversation
of the two kings, is the figure and report that our laws must 'hold
with the natural law, which forms a
perfect agreement with thc
conveniences, =and promises to those who shall have the happi-
ness to be connected to you in the same manner and perfect alli.
ance, they will afterwards come to the centre of true knowledge.
Tears.-The tears and regret of the two kings are the emhlim
of the regret you ought to have, when you perceive a brother de--
part fiom the road of virtue.
°
The man
pe ing.-By the man you saw peeping, and who was
discovered, an?seized, and conducted to death, is an emblem oj
those who come to be initiated into our sacred mysteries through a
motive of curiosity; and, so indiscreet as to divulge their obli-
gations, ws ,mn nounn 'ro owns 'rmzm DEATH, Ann nun
vsnoamcs ON 'ma 'rnaisou av 'run nasraucrion or ran
rnuronlll* Let us pray the Etemal to preserve our order from
*
Since the immolation of William Mor an and the publication of his
'Illustrationsf Masons have boastingly said, 'lf tho penalty of our laws ii
¢$'¢lh§n»--\,_ .--Lam., _
_,,_`
_.L_ -»-iii"
'
260 Lmnr ON mssounr.
such an evil you have hereof seen an
example, in that degree to
which you came, by your zeal, fervor, and constancy. Inthat
degree you have remarked, that, from all the favorites that were
at that time in the apartment of Solomon, only nine were elected
to avenge the death of Hiram Abiif ; this makes good, that a
great many are often called, but few chosen. To explain this
enigma;-a great many of the profane have the happiness to di-
vest themselves of that name to see and .obtain the entrance in
our sanctuary, but very few are constant, zealous, and fervent to
merit the happiness of coming to the height and knowledge of the
sublime truth. t
Requisitions to make a
good Mason.-If you ask me what are
the requisite qualities that a Mason must be possessed ot, to come
to the centre of tnith, I answer.
you, that you must cmsh the head
of the serpent of ignorance. You must shake of the yoke of in-
fant ~ejudice, concerning the mysteries of the reigning religion,
whicirworship has been imaginary, and only
(founded
on the spirit
of pride, which cn/vies to command and be istinguished, and to
be at the head of the vulgar, in rejecting an exterior purity, which
characterizes a
false piety, joined to a desire of acquiring that
which is not its own, and is always the subject of this exterior
pride, and unalterable source
of many disorders, which being
joined to gluttonness, is the daughter of hypocrisy, and employs
every matter to satisfy carnal desires, and raises to these predomi-
nant passions, altars, upon which she maintains, without ceasing,
the light of iniquity, and sacrifices continuallyojferings to [uru-
ry, voluptuousness, hatred, envy, and perjury. Behold, my dear
brother, what you must fight against and destroy, bjvre you can
come to the knowledge of the true good and sovereign happiness !
Behold this monster which you must conquer-a serpent which WE
¢l¢l¢-Ui 03 U" 51101 fhlli is Gdvred by the idiot and vulgar under the
name
of RELIGION ! !! [Here, indeed, the principles of
Masonry are
taught with all plainness; and if the reader has here-
tofore been blind to the nature and tendency of the institution,
methinks he can see them now! Here the Christian beholds his
blessed Christ rejected-himselfcharged with the basest crimes-
condemned as an idiot-his worship imaginary-his religion
founded on the spirit of pride, the daughter of hypocrisy-a ser-
pent, a monster, an idol detested by Masonry! !! Edito'r.]
Svlvwm, king Hiram, and St. John the Baptist.-In the De-
death, no one is bound to
inflict it.' But Masonry says, 'We are bound to
rake vengeance onthe treason by the destmctwn ay' the tm¢or;' 'we are bound to
cause his death!!!'
'
'
e
-_ .--»- A-in-s...... .,,, _i--..___ ___
.
LIGHT DN nnsormr. 261
grces of 'Elected of Fifteen, illustrious Knights, Grand Master
Architects, and the Royal Arch,'* you have seen
many things
which are only a
repetition of what you have already examined.
You will always find in those degrees, initial letters enclosed in
diferent triangles, or Deltas. You have also seen the planet
Mercury, the chamber called 'GABAON,' or the 'Timm H1-:.4vi:N;'
the 'winding staircase'-the 'ark of alliance'-the 'tomb of Hiram
Abilii' facing the ark and the um-the precious treasure found
by the assiduous travellers-the three zealous brethren Masons-
the punishment of the haughty Master Mason, in being buried
under the ancient ruins of Enoch--and finally you have seen the
figures of Solomon, and Hiram, king of Tyre, and St. John thc
Baptist. _
3. I. I. I.-By the 3. I. I.' I. you know the three sacred names
of the Etemal, and 'mount Gabaon,' (Third Heaven,) which you
came to by seven degrees which compose the winding staircase.
The seven stars represent the seven principal and different de-
grees to which you must come to attain the height of glory rep-
resented by the mount, where they formerly sacrificed to the Most
High! When you arrive to~that, you are to subdue yourself in
your passions, in not doing any thing that is not prescribed in our
laws _
By the planet Mercury, you are taught continually to mistrust,
shun, and run away from those, who, 'by a false practice, maintain
commerce with people of a vicious life, who seem to despise the
most sacred mysteries; that is, to depart from those, who by the
vulgar fear, or have a bad understanding, and are ready to deny
the solemn obligations that they have contracted among us.-
When you come to the foot of our arch, you are to apprehend
that you come to the 'SANCTUM SsNc'roRUm.' You are not to
return, but rather to persist in sustaining the glory of our order,
and the truth of our laws, principles, and mysteries, in like man-
ner as our
Respectable Father,'Iliram Abiii; who deserved to
have been buried there, for his constancy and fidelity. We have
also another example in the firmness of 'GALAAD,' the son of
'SOPHONlA,' chief of the Levites, under Sumam, the High Priest,
as mentioned in the history of perfection. Learn in this moment,
my dear brother, what you are to understand by the ligures of
Solomon, Hiram. king of Tyre, and St. John the Baptist. The
two first, exert you, by their zeal in the royal art, to follow the
sublime road of which Solomon was the institutor, and Hiram, Of
'I'yre, the 'support/er;' a. title legitimately due to that king, Wh°
*
Knights ofthe Ninth Arch.
O
l|l¢ll»..»_...... ~nh»-ln... ._--. ._-¢.._,.;.a|'*'°""""
'__
M-
262 Licnr on nusonnr.
'
not only protected the order, but contributed with all his might to
the construction of the temple, (tixmishing stone from Tyre, and
the cedars of Lebanus;) which Solomon built to the honor of the
Almighty.
V
'l`he third, or 'St. John the Baptist) teaches you to preach
marvellous of this order, which is as much as to say, you are to
make secret missioris among men. which you believe to he in a.
state of entering the road of truth, that they may be able one
day to see her virtues and visage uncovered.
Hiram ./ibiff, was the symbol of truth on earth. 'Jubelum
Akirop' was accused bythe serpent of' ignoranceywhich to this
day raises altars in the hearts of the profane and fearful. This
profaneness, backened by a fanatic zeal, becomes an instrument
to the religious reign, which struck the first stroke in the heart of
our dear Father, Hiram A bill§ which is as much as to say, un-
dermined the foundation of the celestial temple. which the E ter-
nal himself had ordered to be raised to the sublime truth and his
glory.
The first stage of the world has been witness to what I have
advanced. The simple, natural law rendered to our first fathers
the most uninterrupted happiness; they were in those times more,
virtuous, but soon as the 'monster of pride' started up in the air,
and disclosed herself' to those 'unhappy mortals, she promised to
them every seat of happiness, and'seduced them by her soft and
bewitching speeches; viz- 'l hat 'they must render to the lltemal
Creator of all things, an adoration with more testimony and'more
extensive, than they had hitherto done,' Src. 'Ibis Hrniu with
an 'hundred hea¢I.9,' at that time misled, and continues to this day
to mislead men, who are so weak as to submit to her empire; and
it will subsist, until the moment that the true elected shall appear
and destroy her entirely.
The Degree of 'Sublime Elec-ted,' that you have passed, gives
you the knowledge of those things which conducts you to the
true and solid good. The grand circlerepresents the
j
immensity of the Eternal Supreme, who has neither
y
beginning nor end. _
,
/
The triangle, or Delta, is the mysterious IT
G figure of the lltemal. The three letters you
G
see signify as follows:-G, atthe top of the triangle,
,iii 'the grand cause
of the .Masons:' the S, at the left
hand, the 'submission to the same orden' and the U, at the right
hand, the 'union that ought to 'reign among the bretha-em' which
altogether make but one
body, or equal tigure in a.ll its parts.-
This is the triangle called 'equilateral.' The great letter G,
_
Ln...-_ .A.....J-
)- P
Lrerrr ON xusonnv. 253
placed in the centre of the triangle, signifies 'Great Architect of
the universe/ who is God; and in this ineffable name' is found all
the divine attributes. This letter being placed in the centre ot' the
triangle, is for us to understand that every true Mason must have
it profoundly in his heart. _
'
There is another triangle, on which is engraved, S.
B. and N. of which you have had an
explanation in a
/
preceding degree. This triangle designs the connex- S Bk
ion of the brethren in virtue. The solemn promise
L4*
they have made to love each other; to help, succor, and keep
inviolably secret, their mysteries of the perfection proposed, in
all their enterprises. lt is said in that degree, that 'You have
entered the Third Heaven, that means
you have entered the place
where pure truth resides, since she abandoned the earth to mon-
sters who persecuted her.'
The end ofthe Degree of Perfection, is a
preparation to como
more clearly to the knowledge of true happiness, in becoming a.
true Mason, enlightened by the celestial luminary of truth, in
renouncing, voluntarily, all adorations, but those that are made
to one God, the Creator of heaven and earth, great, good, and
merciful.
The Knights of the East, the Princes of Jerusalem, and
Knights of the East and West, are known to us, in our days, to
be Masonry renewed. and all of them lead us to the same end ot
the celestial truth, which is to say, finished.
The Knights of the 'White and Black Eagle] and the Sub-
lime Princes of the Royal Secret/ and 'Grand Commander! are
the Chiefs of the great enterprise of the order in general. End
of brother Truth's harangne. .
Father Adam then says to the candidate, 'My dear son. what
you have heard from the mouth of Truth is an
abridgement of
all the consequences of all the degrees you have gone through, in
order to come to the knowledge of the holy truth, contracted in
your last engagements. Do you persist in your demand of com-
ing to the holy brother, and is that what you desire, with a clear
heart?-answer me.' The candidate answers, 'I persist.' Then
Father Adam says, 'Brother Truth, as the truth persists, ap-
proach with him to the sanctuary, in order that he may take a
solemn obligation, to follow our laws, principles, and morals, and
to attach himself to us forever! Then the candidate falls on his
knees, and fathvr Adam takes his hands between his own, and
the candidate repeats the thllowing obligation three times.
Obligation.-I --
promise in the face of God, and between
the hands of my. Sovereign, and in presence of all the brethren
_', #--...__
¢°a¢nlq¢ /sn"
.
_-uh-as .41-H. ------
*°"
'
§»-A?
264 r.1crrr on mssonav.
now present, never to take anns against my king, directly or in-
directly, in any conspiracy against him. I promise never to re-
veal any of the degrees ol` the Knight ol' the Sun, which is now
on the point of being intrusted to me, to any person or
persons
whatsoever, without being duly qualilied to receive the same; and
never to give my consent to any one to be admitted into our
mys-
teries, only after the most scnxpulous circumspection, and full
knowledge ol' his life and conversation; and who has given at all
times full proof of his zeal and tervent attachment for the order,
and a submission at all times to the tribunal of the Sovereign
Princes ot' the Royal Secret. I promise never to confer the de-
gree nf the Knights of the Sun, without having a permission in
writing from the Grand Council ot' Princes ot' the Royal Secret,
or from the Grand Inspector or his deputy, known by their titles
and authority. l promise also and swear that I will not assist
any. through my means, to form or raise a lodge of the Sublime
Orders, in this island, (or in America as the case
may be,) 'with-
out proper authority! I promise and swear to redouble my zeal
for all my brethren, Knights, and Princes, that are present or ab-
sent, and ifI fail in this my obligation, [consent for all my hrethren,
when they are convinced ot' my infidelity, to seize me, and thrust
my tongue through with a red hot iron; to pluck out both my
eyes, and to deprive me ol' smelling and hearing; 'to_cut ofl` both
of my hands, and expose me in that condition in the field, to be
devoured by the voracious animals; and it' none can be found, I
wish the lightning ot' heaven might execute on me the same
vengeance. O Goo, maintain me in right and equity. Amen.
Amen. Amen.
After the obligation is three times repeated, Father Adam raises
the candidate, and gives him one kiss on his forehead, being the
seat of the soul. He then decorates him with the collar and
jewel ol' the order, and gives him the following sign, token, and
word. * ' * ' -
After these are given, the candidate goes round and gives
them to every one, which brings him back to Father Adam. He
then sits down with the rest of the brethren, and then brother
Truth gives the following explanation of the Philosophical
Lodge.
Sun.-The sun
represents the unity of the Eternal Supreme,
the only grand work of philosophy.
3 S. S. S.-The 3 S. S. S. signifies the Stiletto, Sidech, Solo,
or the residence of the Sovereign Master of all things.
Thue candlestieks.-The three candlesticks shows us the
three degrees of fire. .
`?7
ucnr on msonnv. 265
Four triangles.-The four triangles represent the four ele-
ments.
'
Seven planets.-The seven planets design the seven colors
that appear in their original state, from whence we have so
many
different artificial ones.
Seven cherubims.-The seven cherubims represent the seven
metals, viz. gold, silver, copper, iron, lead, tin, and quick silver.
Conception in the moon.-The conception or woman, rising in
the moon, demonstrates the purity that matter subsists of, in order
to remain in its pure 'state unmixed with any other body, from
which must come a new king, and a revolution or fullness ot'
time, filled with glory, whose name is Annan-psr.
Holy Spirit.-The Holy»Spirit, under the symbol of a dove, is
the image of the Universal Spirit, 'that gives light to all in the
three states of natnre;'and on the 'animal,' 'vegetablef and 'min-
erol.'
Entrance of the temple.-The entrance ofthe temple is repre-
sented to you by a
body, because the grand work ot' nature is
complete as gold, portable and fixed.
Globe.-The globe represents the matter in the prijenal state;
that is to say, complete.
'
Caduceus.-The caduceus -represents the double mercury that
you must extract from the matter; that is to say, the mercury fix-
ed, and. from thence is extracted gold and silver.
Stibium.--The word stibium signifies the antimony, from
-whence, by the philosophical fire, is taken an alkali which we
empty in our
grand work. End' ofthe philosophical explanation.
Then _father Adam explains the
`
`
MORAL Lonnn. ,
_ _
Sun.+The sun
represents the divinity of' the Etemal;'for as
there is but one sun to light and invigorate the earth, so there is
but one God, to whom we ought to pay our
greatest adoration.
3 S. S. S.--The 3 S. S. S. teaches you that science, adorn-
ed with wisdom, creates a holy man.
Three candlesticks.--The three candlesticks are the image of
-the life of' man, considered in' youth, manhood, and old age, and'
happy are 'those that have been enlightened in these ages, by the
light of truth. _
Four triangles.-The four triangles 'show us the four princi-
'pal duties that create our tranquil life; viz: Fratemal love among
men in general, and particularly among brethren, and in the same-
dogree with ns.
2dly. In not having any thing but for the USS
and advantage
pf'
a brother. 3dly. Doubting of every matter
___
..-
`
_
_
,_-n
...-.a_ __
A
1..L
.i _
»
~'
.Tw
266 LIGHT on msonav.
that cannot be demonstrated to you clearly, by which an attempt
might be' insinuated as
mysterious in matters of religion, and
hereby lead you away from the holy truth. 4thly. Never do
any thing to another that you would not have done unto you;
The last precept, well understood and followed on all occasions,
is the true happiness-of philosophy.
Seven planets.-The seven planets represent the seven prin-
cipal passions of man.
Seven ckerubims.--The seven cherubims are the images of the
delights of the life: namely, by seeing, hearing, tasting, smelling,
feeling, tranquillity, and health.
Conception.-The conception in the moon shows the purity
of matter, and that iiothing can be impure to the eyes of the Su-
reme.
p
Holy Spirit.-The Spirit is the figure of our soul, which is
only the breath of the Eternal, and which cannot be soiled by the
works of the body. f _
Temple.-The ,temple represents our
body, which we are
obliged to preserve by our natural feelings.
Figure of aman.--The figure is in the entrance of the temple,
which bears a lamb in his arms, and teaches us to be attentive to
our wants, as a shepherd takes care of his sheep; to be charita-`
ble, and never to let slip the present opportunity of doing good,
to labor honestly, and to live in this day as if it were our last. .
Columns ofJach/in and Boaz.-The columns of J. and B. are
the symbols of the,strength of our souls in bearing equally, mis-
fortunes, as well as success .in life.,-.
Seven steps of the temple.-The seven
steps of the temple are
the figures of the seven
degrees, which we must pass, before we
arrive to the knowledge ofthe true~God.
Globot-The -globe represents the world which we inhabit.
Lua: ex tenebris.-The device of 'Lux ex tenehris,' teacheth
that when man is enlightened by reason, he is able to penetrate
the darkness and obscurity, which ignorance and superstition
spread abroad.
River.-The river across the .globe, -represents the utility of
the passions, that are as necessary to man, in the course of his
life, as water is requisite to the earth, in order to replenish the
plants thereof
`
Cross surrounded.--The cross surrrounded by two serpents,
signifies that we must watch the vulgar prejudices, to be very
,prudent in giving any of our knowledge and secrets in matters,
especially in religion. End ofthe moral explanation.
if-f~ -
-- W... .,
Lili- ._
.¢....,__,_. _
|»._.»|.' -~ '-
` .
`
Liam' on masonav. 267
rursrcu. axri.Azu'rron.' (ln Lecture.) 1
LECTURE.
'
Q. Are you a Knight of the f
Sun? A. I have mounted tho
seven principal steps of Masonry; I have penetrated into' the
bowels ofthe earth, and among the ancient ruins of Enoch, found
the most grand and precious treasure of the Masons. lhave
seen, contemplated and admired the great, mysterious, and thr-
midable name, engraved on the triangle; I have broken the pialar
of beauty, and thrown down the two columns that supported it.
Q. Pray tell me what is that mysterious and formidable name?
A. I cannot unfold the sacred characters in this manner, but sub-
stitute in its place the grand word of mn' Q. What do
you understand by throwing down the coluinns that sustained the
pillar of' beauty? A. Two reasons;-lst. When the temple was
destroyed by Nabuzaradam, general of the army of Nebuchad-
nezzar, I was one that helped to defend the Delta, on which was
engraved the ineffable name; and I broke down the column; of
beauty, in order that it should not be profaned bythe infidels.
2d. As I have deserved, by my travel and labor, the beauty of
the great 'ADONAI,' (Lord,) the mysteries of Masonry, in pass-
ing the seven principal degrees. Q. What signifies the seven
planets? A. The lights of the celestial globe and also their in-
iiuence, by which every matter efists on the surface of the earth
or
globe. Q. From what is the terrestrial globe formed? A.
From the matter which is formed by the concord of the four ele-
ments, designed by the four triangles, that are in regard to them,
as thc liiur greater planets. Q What are the names ofthe seven
planets? A- Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, and
Satum. Q. Which are the four elements? A. Air, (ire, earth. and
water. Q. What influence have the seven planets on the four
elements? A. Three general matters of which all bodies are
composed-life, spirit, and body; otherwise, salt, sulphur, and
mercury. Q. What is life or salt? A. The life given by the
Etemal Supreme, or the planets, the agents of nature. Q. What
is the spirit or sulphur? A. A tired matter subject to several
productions. Q. What is the body or mercury? A. Matter con-
ducted or refined to its form by the union.ol` salt and sulphur, or
the agreement ol' the three govemors of nature. Q. What are
those three governors of nature? A. Animal, vegetable, and
mineral. Q. What is animal? A. We understand in this life,
all that is divine and amiable. Q. Which of the elements serV0
for his productions? A. All the four are necessary, _afI1°"S
which, nevertheless, air and fire are predominant; and it is those
I'
,».._¢.,_..
-
~-*
.*i
268 Lrorrr ON nmsortar.
that render the animal the perfection of,
the three govemments,
which man is elevated to by one-fourth of the breath of the Di-
vine Spirit, when he receives his soul. Q. What is the vegeta-
ble? A. All that seems attached to the. earth reigns on the sur-
face. Q. Of what is it composed? A. Of a generative life,
formed into a body, whilst it remains in the earth, and is purified
by its moisture and becomes vegetable, and- receives life by air
and water; whereby the four elements, though different, co-ope-
rate jointly and separately. What is the mineral? A. All
that is generated and secreted rn the earth. Q. What do we un-
derstand bythis namel A. That which we call metals and demi-
metals and minerals. Q. What is ittbat composes the minerals?
A. The air penetrating by the celestial influence, into the earth,
meets with a
body, which, by its softness, fixes, congeals, and
renders the mineral matter more or less perfect. Q. Which are
the perfect metals? A. Gold and silver. Q. Which are the
imperfect metals? A. Brass, lead, tin, iron, and quicksilver.
Q- How come we bythe. knowledge of these things? A. By
frequent observations and the experiments made in natural phi-
losophy, which have decided to a
certainty, that nature gives a
perfection to all things, if she has time to complete her opera-
tions. Q. Can art bring metal to perfection so fully as nature?
A. Yes; but in order to this, you must have an exact knowledge
of nature. Q. What will asslt you to bring forth this knowl-
edge. A. A matter brought to perfection; this has been sought
for under the name of the philorophcfs stone. Q. What does the
globe represent? A. An information of philosophers, for the
benefit of the art in this work. Q. What signifies the words,
'Lux ex tenebrisl' A. That is the depth of darkness you ought
to retire from, in order to gain the true light. Q. .What signifies
the cross on the global A. The cross is the emblem of -the
true elected. Q. What represents the three candlesticksl A.
The three degrees of live, which the artist must have knowledge
to give, in order to procure the matters from which it proceeds.
Q. What signifies the word 'Stibium?' A. It signifies antimo-
ny, or the first matter of all things. Q. Wlmt signifies the seven
degrees? A. The different effectual degrees of Masonry which
you must pass to come to the Sublime Degree of Knights of the
Sun. Q. What signifies the diverse attributes in those degrees?
A. lst. The Bible or God's_law, which we ought to follow.
2d. The compass, teaches us to do nothing unjust.
3d. The square, conducts us
equal to the same end.
4th. The level, demonstrates to us, all that is justand equitable.
The perpendicular, to be upright and subdue the veil of
Pljeju ice.
ns 4._ _..._ ....--an-'-...;.--tlh~.4-noni.
LIGHT ON
MASONRT- 269
6th. The trestle-board, is the image ot' our reason, where the
functions are combined to elfect, compare, and think. V
7th. The Rough Stcme, is the resemblance of our vices,which
we ought to reform., -
Sth. The Cubic Stone, is our passions, that we
ought to sur-
mount.
9th. The Columns, signify strength in all things.
10tl. The Blazing Star, teaches that our hearts ought to be
as s. clear sun, among those that are troubled with the things of
this life. '
t
1 lth. The Key, teaches to have a watchful eye over those who
are contrary to reason.
'12th. The Box, teaches to keep our secrets inviolably.
13th. The Urn, leams us that we
ought to be us delicious
perfumes. t
~
f
14th. The Brazen Sea, that we
ought to purify ourselves, and
destroy vice. .
15th. The Circles on
thcT1-iangles, demonstrate the immen-
sity ofthe divinity under the~symbol of truth.
16th. The Poniard, teacheth the step 'of the elected, many
are called, but few are chosen.to the sublime knowledge of pure
truth.
17th. The word .Hlbra-est, signifies a
king full of glory, and
without blot. » ~
lSth., The word ddonai, signifies Sovereign Creator of all
things.
'
~
'
l9th.. The Seven Cherubima, are the symbols of the delights
of life, known by seeing, hearing, tasting, feeling, smelling,
tranquillity, and thought. ,
Q. What represents the sun? A. It- is an emblem of Di-
vinity, which we ought to regard as the image of'God. This
immense body, represents the infinity of God's wonderful will,
ns the onlysource of light and good. The heatrof the sun pro-
duces the rule of the seasons, recruits nature, takes darkness
irom the' winter, in order -that the deliciousness ot? spring might
succeed.-End of the Physical Lecture. <
'
»
GENERAL LECTURE' IN THIS DEGREE.
Q. From whence came you? A. From' the centre of the
earth. Q. How have you come from thence? A. By rcilec-
tion, and the' study ot' nature. Q. Whohas taught you this?
A. Men in general who are blind, and' lead others in their blind-
ness. QJ Whatdo you understand bythisblindnessl' A. Ido
not
understandto beprivy to their rnysterics; but I understand.
o
'
M-L
.-.¢n¢.|»--
-4¢""""°
"
'nl--uln-as-... _As-an-».. _
_.¢| ..¢..,_
270 nicer on nusouar.
under the name of blindness, those who cease to be ardent, after
they have been privy to the light ofthe spirit of reason. Q. Who
are those? A. Those who, through the prejudices of supersti-
tion and fanatacism, render their services to ignorance. Q.
What do you understand by fanatacism? A. The zeal of all
particular sects, which are spread over the earth, who commit
crimes, by making offerings to fraud and falsehood. Q. And do
you desire to rise from this darkness? A. My desire is to come
to the celestial truth,'and to travel by the light of the sun. Q.
What represents that body? A. It is the figure of an only God,
to whom we
ought to pay our adoration. The sun
being the
emblem ot' God, we ought to regard it as the image of the Di-
vinity; for that immense body represents wonderfully, the intini-
ty of God. He invigorates and produces the season, and re-
plenishes nature, by taking the horrors from winter, and produces
the delights oi' spring. Q. What does the triangle, with the sun
inthe centre, represent? A. It represents the immensity ot' the
Supreme. Q. What signifies the three S. S. S ? A. Sanctitas,
Scientits, and Syrentia, which signify the science accompanied
with wisdom, which make men holy. Q. What signifies the
three cimdlesticksi A. Itrepresents the courses of life, consid-
ered in youth, manhood, and old age. Q. Has it any other
meaning? A. Yes, the triple light that shines among us, in
order to take men out of darkness and ignorance into which they
are
plunged, and to bring them to virtue. truth, and happiness, a
symbol of our perfection. Q. What signifies the four triangles,
that are in the great circles? A. They are the emblems_ ot' the
four principal views of the life of tranquillity, &c. lst. Fraternal
love to all mankind in general, more particularly for our brethren,
who are more attached to us, and who, with honor, have seen the
wretchedness of the vulgar. 2d. To be cautious among us ot'
things, and not to demonstrate them clearly, to any who are not
proper to receive them; and to be likewise cautions in giving
credit to any matter, however artfully it may be disguised, with-
outa. self-conviction in the heart.f 3d. To cast from us
every
matter which we
perceive we may ever repent of doing, taking
C810 Of I-llil m0'&l precept, 'To do to every one of your fellow
creatures, no more than you would choose to be done to.'
4th. We ought always to confide in our Creator's bounty, and
ato pray without ceasing, that all our necessities might be reliev-
ed, as it seems best to him for our advantage; to wait for his
blessings patiently in thislife; to ,be persuaded of his sublime
decrees, that whatever might fall, contrary to our wishes, will be
attended with goodconsequences; to takehis chastisements pa-
.; A.a.._.&.L¢s.ih-
ucr-rr on ussonnr. 271
tiently, and be assured that the end of every thing has been done
by him for the best, and will certainly lead us to etemal happi-
nesshereafter. Q. Teach us the signification of the ,seven
planets which are enclosed in a
triangle, that forms the rays oi'
the exterior circles, and enclosed in the grand triangle. A. The
seven planets, according to
`
philosophy, represent the seven
principal passions of the life of man; those passions are very use-
ful when .they are used in moderation, for which the Almighty
gave them to us, but grow fatal and destroy the body when let
loose, and therefore it is our
particular duty to subdue them.
Q. Explain the seven
passions to us? A. lst. The propagation
of species.
e
2d. Ambition of acquiring riches. 3d. Ambition
to acquire gloryin the arts and sciences among men in general.
4th. Superiority in civil life.. 5lh. Joys and pleasures of society.
6th. Amusements and gaieties of life. '7th. RsuoxoN.*
Q. Which is the greatest sin of all that man can commit,
and render him odious to God and man? A. Suicide and Hemi-
cide. Q. What signifies the seven cherubims, whose names are
written in the circle, called the 'First Heavenl' A. They repre-
sent the corporeal delights of this life, which the Etemal gave to
man, when he created him, and are, seeing, hearing, smelling,
tasting, feeling, tranquillity, and thought. Q. What signities the
figure in the moon, which we regard as the figure or image of
conception? A. The purity of nature, which procures the holi-
ness ofthe body; and that there is nothing imperfect in the eyes
ofthe Supreme. Q. What signifies the ligure of the columns?
They are the emblem of our souls, which is the breath of life,
proceeding from the All Puissant, which ought not to be soiled
by the works ofthe body, but to be firm as columns. Q. What
does the figure in the porch, which carries a lamb in his arms,
represent? A. The porch ornamcnted with the columns of Ja-
chin and Boaz, and surmounted with the grand I, represents our
body, over which we
ought to have a
particular care, in watching
our conversation, andalso to watch our needs, as the shepherd
his flock. Q. What ,signifies the two letters I and B, at the
porch? A. They signify our entrance in the order of
ksonry;
also the firmness of the soul, which we
ought to po om the
hour of our initiation; these we ought to merit, before we can
come to the sublime degrees of knowing holy truth, and we ought
_
to preserve them, and be firm in whatever situation we
may bein,
gmt knowing whether it may return to our good or evil inthe pas-
'
sage of this life. What signifies the large I in the triangle, on
the crown of the portion? A. That large I, being the initial Of
the mysterious name of the Great Architect of the Universe,
`
*
Mind this.
_...__ .»-»-4" ~"
s-lin.; ,.~ 1,-..._
_
..., _..»
"
272 ucxrr on mssonar.
whose greatness we should always have in our minds, and that
our labors ought to be employed to please him; which we should
always have in our view, as the sure and only source of our ac-
tions. Q. What signities the seven steps, that lead to the entry
of the porch? A. They mark the seven degrees in Masonry,
which are the principal, which we ought to arrive ~to, in order to
come to the knowledge of holy truth. Q. What does the ter-
restial globe represent? A. The world which we inhabit, and
wherein Masonry is its principal omarnent. Q. What is the ex-
planation of the great word, Adonai? A. It is the word which
God gave to Adam, for him to pray by; a word which our com-
mon father never pronounced without trembling. Q. What sig-
nifies Ltn: ez tenebris. A. A man made clear by the light of
reason; penetrating this obscurity of ignorance and superstition.
Q. What signifies the river across the globe? A. It represents
the utility of our
passions, which are necessary to man in the
course of his life, as water is necessary to render the earth fer-
tile; as the sun draws _up the water, which being purified, falls on
the earth and gives verdure. Q. What signifies the cross, sur-
rounded by two serpents, on the top of the globe? A. It repre-
sents to us not to repeat the vulgar prejudices; to'be prudent, and
to know the bottom of the heart. In matters of religion to be
always prepared; not to be of the sentiments with sole, idiots, and
the lovers of the mysteries of religion; to avoid such, and not in
the least, to hold any conversation with them. Q. What signifies
the book, with the word Bible written in it? A. As the Bible is
differently interpreted, by the different sects, who divide the dill
ferent parts of the earth: Thus the true sons ol' light, or chils
dren of truth, ought to doubt of every thing at present, asrnys-
teries or
metaphysics: Thus all the decisions of theology and
philosophy, teach not to. admit that, which is not demonstrated as
clearly, as that 2 and 2, are
equal to 4; and-on the whole 'to adore
God, and him only; to love him better than yourself; and always
to have a confidence on the =bouaties?and promises of our Crea-
tor, Amen. Anien. Amen. _
To close the council.--Q. (By Father Adam,) Brother Truth,
what progress have menmade on earth, to come to true happiness?
A. (By Brother. Truth,) Men 1
have 'always tbllen onthe vulgar
prejudices, which are nothing but falsehood; very few have' strug-
gled, and less have knocked-at the door of this holy place, to at-
tain the full light ot' real truth, which we all ought toacqiiire.
Then says Father Adam, 'My dear children, depart' and go
among men, endeavor to inspire them with the desire of knowing
holy truth, the pure source of all perfection; Father Adam then.
`
.
' "
'-
*Q »- ---an .;i~»|-¢li"*~> '
LIGHT on masomw. 273
puts his right hand on his left breast; when all the brethren raise
the first finger of the right hand, and then the Council of thc
Knights of the Sun is closed, by seven knocks.
10009-
r
KNIGIIT
OF KADOSII.
Chapter of the Grand Inspector of lodges, Grand Elected
Knight of Kadosh, or the White and Black Eagle. The Chief'
is the Thrice Illustrious Frederick king of Prussia, under the
title ot' Thrice Illustrious Knight, Grand Commander.
_Opening of the chapter.-The chapter of the Grand Elected
must becomposed of five brothers, every one vested in this de-
gree. They must be all dressed in black, with white gloves.
The order, a broad black ribbon, worn trom the lett shoulder to
the right hip; to which hangs the attribute of the order, being a
Red Cross; the same as the Teutonic Knights used to
wear, in
the -middle of two swords, a cross, like a St. Andrews. N0
aprons are worn.
~
In this chapter there are no decorations, nor
any emblem, as
the curtain is entirely drawn. There isnothing figured on the
ground but the mysterious ladder, which must be covered until
the candidate has taken his obligation. Observe this well; you
are never to admit a
person to this eminent degree, unless you
have full proof of his fidelity. Of the five brothers who com-
pose this' chapter, two must be with the candidate in another
apartment, until he is introduced, the other three remain in the
chapter to assist in the reception. In a distant place, a
Knight
of Kadosh cannot imitate another brother in this eminent de-
gree, unless hehas a. proper power or patent from an
Inspector
General or a
Deputy Grand Inspector, under his hand and seal;
and when a
reception is made, the Grand Commander remains
alone in the chapter with the candidate, and must be so situated
that the candidate cannot see him, as he is not to know who in-
itiated him. ~
Form of opening the chapter.-Q. Illustrious Knight, are you
elected? A. Thrice Illustrious Knight, Grand Commander, I
am. Q. How cams
you to be elected? A. Fortune decided
for me. Q. What proof can you give me of your reception?
A. A cavern has been witness of it. Q. What did ou do in
the cavem? A. I executed my commission. Q. lilave yOU
penetrated further? A. Yes, Thrice Illustrious Grand Com-
mander. Q. How shall I believe you? A. My name 15 Kmghf
bln--lin-¢..__... ---M _ _,
1-»
""' "
H i
,T
214 LIGHT ON MASONRY.
of Kgdosh; you understand me? Q. What's the o'clock? A.
The hour of silence. Q. As it is so, give me the sign, to con-
vince me of your knowledge, 1-
on which they all draw
their swords, when the Grand Commander knocks one, very hard,
on the table before him, and says: lllustrious Knights, the chap-
ter is open. As soon as the Knights with the candidate in the
antechamber, have heard the one blow infthe chapter, by which
they know the-'chapter is open, one of them comes and knocks
one on the door, one in the chapter goes and opens the door and
asks what he wants! He replies, that a servant Knight demands
to come to the degree of Grand.Elected, as'he has all the de-
grees and qualifications of Masonry which are
necessary; which
being reported to the Thrice Illustrious Commander, who says:
Illustrious Knights, can we admit this Free Mason among us,
without running any risk of indiscretion from him? The other
two Knights then answer, we swear and promise for him. Then
the
Thrice lllustrious Grand Commander approaches and they
ta e each other by the hand, and take the following obligation to
each other:-' We promise and swear, by the living God, always
supreme, to revenge the death of our ancestor, and which ot' us
that should in any manner commit the most light indiscretion,
touching the secret of our order, shall safer death, and shall
have his body buried under the throne ol' this lllustrious Assem~
bly; so God protect us in our
design, and maintain us in equity
and right,' Amen.
Form of reception.-A short time after the two Knights with
the candidate, have heard the loud rap of the Grand Commander,
to open the chapter, they both take their hands, and after one of
them has been at the door, and when they think the Grand Com-
mander has finished the necessary business, -they introduce the
candidate and leave him in the hands ol' the Grand Commander,
and all four retire to guard the door of the entrance, and every
other door ofthe adjacent rooms, (if any.) The reason ol' their
leaving the chapter is, that no person ever assisted at the recep-
tion of a
Knight Templar. When the candidate enters the
chapter, he prostrates his face to the ground, when the Grand
Commander, behind the curtain, reminds him ol' the principal
points ol' Masonry, from its beginning, to the epoch of the as-
sassination of' Hiram Abitf; Solomon's desire of punishing the
traitors, in the most exemplary manner; the method he took in
disposing the Masters who went in search of the three villains,
in order to execute his vengeance; he repeats to him the zeal,
constancy and ferveney ol' Joabert, Stokin and Jnhelum, who,
after the most painful search, (by Solomon's order,) had the hap-
»
f_.r.|liH-...»ll=-ah: A
LIGHT ON MASONRY| 275
piness of finding among the ruins ol' Enoch's temple in the Ninth
Arch, the precious treasure of the Perfect Masons, &c. Etc. &c.
He continues to remind him of the liminess ofthe Grand Elect,
and Perfect Masons, at the time of the temple's destruction,
when they passed through the enemy, at all risks, till they ob.
tained an entrance into the sacred vault,to (ind the pillar of beau-
ty, that they might, by etfacing the ineffable word, hinder its be-
ing exposed to the profane. He then reminds him of the sev-
enty-two year's captivity, and the clemency of Cyrus, king of
Persia; who, by the request of Zerubbabel, not only gave the ls-
raelites their freedom, but ordered that all the treasure of thc
temple, takenby Nebuchadnezzar, should be restored to them,
in order to decorate the new temple, which he ordered them to
build to the infinite God, and created them Knights. Then he
repeats the clemency of Darius to Zerubbabel, (at the head of
the embassy from Jerusalem to Babylon,) with their complaints
against the Samaritans, who refused to contribute to the sacriti-
ces of the new temple, according to the proclamation of his pred-
ecessor, -Cyrus, in favor of thc Knights of the east; when they
received Darius' letters to all the _governors of Samaria, &c.;
how the embassadors were received on their return to Jerusa-
lem; and elected princes bythe people. He then reminds him,
that after this, the second temple destroyed, how the most
zealous Masons united under chiefs, and worked to the reforma-
tion of manners, and elevated in their hearts some spiritual edi;
tice, and rendered themselves worthy by their works. They'
were more
particularly esteemed and distinguished in the time
of Manchin, who was the most remarkable among them. A
great many others embraced Christianity, and communicated their
secrets to those Christians, whom they found had the good quali-
ties of it, living in common, and forming themselves as one fam-»
ily; which shows how the brilliant order of Masons sustained
themselves until the sixth age, and how it fell into a state of leth-
argy, after that; notwithstanding which, there have been always
found some faithful Masons; which is clearly proved by the bril-
liant manner in which the order of Masonry was received, in the
year of 1118, when eleven Grand Elect and Perfect Masons,
the most zealous, presented themselves to Garinous, prince of
Jerusalem, Patriarch and Knight Mason, and pronounced their
promises between his hands. They taught him the succession
of the time, and progress to the time that the princes went to
conquer the holy land. The alliance and obligations that were
formed between those princes, was, that they would spill the last
:drop of their blood, in order to establish in Jerusalem, the W°"
__
.l£;¢._ ._ .¢|.»
'
216 Liam' on Mssonnr.
ship of the Most High. He informs him, that the peace which
took place after these wars, hindered them from accomplishing
their design, and therefore, have continued in theory, what they
had sworn to do practically, never admitting in their order, only
those who had given proofs of friendship, constancy and discre-
tion. In line, the Illustrious Grand Commander, makesa gene-
ral history in genealogy, of the Masonic order, its progress, its
decline, and the manner how it was sustained, till the epoch of
the crusades, and until the historical circumstances, that has
given occasion to the degree which the candidate expects; a de-
gree, that will give him a perfect knowledge of the' precedent
degrees, and the manner how Masonry has come to us; aft/er
which, the candidate takes the following obligation, his right
hand on the Bible, his left hand between the hands of the Grand
Commander.
Obligation.-I promise and swear, never to reveal the secrets
-of the Grand Elected Knights of Kadosh, or White and Black
Eagle, to any person. I swear to take revenge onthe traitors of
Masonry; and never to- receive in this degree, none but a broth-
er who has come to the degrees of Prince of Jerusalem and
Knight of the Sun, and then only by an authority given to me by
a Grand Commander or
Deputy Inspector, under his hand and
seal. I promise to be ready at all times to conquer the Holy
Land, when I shall be summoned to appear, to pay due obedi-
ce at all times, to the Princes of the Royal Secret; and if§I
fail in this my obligation, I desire that all the penalties of rrly
former obligations may be inilided on me, Amen. He kisses
the Bible, and rises. Then the Grand Commander proceeds
and says, 'My dear brother, he who has bestowed this degree on
you, which you have now aspired to, and who is described in this
place, as Grand Commander, and Grand Inspector of all lodges,
and Grand Elected, is sensible of the importance of the secret
already confided in you; it is, therefore, necessary to recommend
a circumspection, and also to observe to those who take 'the name
of Knights of the White and Black Eagle, and Kadosh, to be al-
ways attentive, and not to give the leastsuspicion 'relative to
our
mysteries, order, progress and end of Masonry. The im-
prudence and indiscretion of many brothers, has given-a know-
ledge to the world of many of our emblems, by which Masonry
has greatly suffered, and will be repaired with difficulty. Their
indiscretien has caused -the loss and retreat of many Puissant
brother , who would have been an ornament and support of our
lodge. Such indiscretion in this degree, my dear brother, would
be without any recovery, as there areno more emblems; when
»
-.a__, _ _
-
--its-s.
LIGHT ON MASONRY» 277
every matter, shall be discovered, and disclosed- to you, that will
give room for some events, of which, you will see the conse-
quences, when you shall have heard all my instructions. The
word which our brothers place at the end of their obligations, viz.
Jmen; signifies this is ina more, that shall be no more; this shall
be again. This ought no longer to be a secret to you, who are
going to have an explanation of the origin of Masonry, and what
has occasioned the society.
,
Truth penetrates the cloud and the shade, which we can leave,
to come to the knowledge of what we were before in quality of
Knights of Kadosh, White and Black Eagle, and what we are as
Symbolic Masons, and what we can be by the destruction of our
enemies ; Let us
pray. Prayer.-0 most etemal, beneficial
and all gracious, great Architect ,of the universe; we from the se-
cret depths of our hearts, offer thee a
living sacrifice. We be-
seech thee to inspire our enemies with a
just sense ofthe evil
they have done us, and from their having o conviction of their
wrongs, they might stone for their manifold injuries, which doth
not belong to us thy servants to redress ourselves, but by their
eyes being opened we might be reconciled, and by a
hearty
union
take possession ofthose blessed lands where the original emple
was first established, where we might be gathered into one band,
thereto celebrate thy holy praises once more on the holy mount,
_in whose' ,bowels was
deposited thy ever glorious, respectable,
ever blessed, ,and awful name. Amen. Then the veil is taken
from the floor, and he continues, 'Learn that the slightest indis-
cretion, will infallibly undermine us and throw us into an horrible
abyss, where we should see buried the whole order of Masonry,
the remains of an illustrious and Glorious Order. By its hero-
ism, in favour of the unfortunate, how great it has been in the
time when its power, authority and riches were arrived to the
highest pitch, when the distinguished birth of those who were
members of it, celebrated its glory. It was not less so in its
tragic end, when
lay
the noble firmness of these knights who
appeared in the mi dle of irons, frames and torments. What
can we think of the prophecy of James DeMolay, and which
W8-9 verified 8¢00liding to his prediction. What respect ought we
not to have, for the courageous zeal ofthose, who have kept the
precious remains of an order which the blackest treason, envy,
and the most atrocious malignity has not been able to extin-
guish ! What hatred ought not we to have, to those usurpers who
occupy the; wealth and dignity of this order! They cannotbe
regarded but only as a powerful enemy, theashes of which ought
,to renew
tha;
unfortunate period, when the members of th?
-.-».....' ._ ...__
'*"'
___
278 LIGHT ON MASONBY.
knights shall be' increased,»so that they shall be able, under the
auspices andconductof aGrand and Powerful Commander, to
retake the possession of all the wealth and dignity which did be-
long to them formerly, and is now held by those who have no
other title, this day, but injustice and malignity.
Thisis not said, my dearbrother, to intimidate those who have,
as well as
yourself, aspired to this degree which we are
going to
confer on
you this day, or to inspire them with an ardor or
indiscreet zeal, for they ought every one to wait the time in si-
lence, to become essential; and it' the trust is the moreauthentic
mark of sincere friendship, they ought to wish to augment the
number of the Knights, and fear to confer this degree, with too
much confidence, on an
ordinary friend, lest his discretion should
not be so sure as
your own. You remember, my dear brother, the
obligation you have taken between my hands, at the beginning
of the ceremony-and to render you the justice you deserve, I
have too good an opinion of you to fear the least indiscretion' in
you, concerning the first notions I have given you of this last
degree of Masonry. lf in this discourse you have made any
remark that would keep you fiom pronouncing the obligation
or vow we are obliged to take from you, before we can
give you
greater knowledge ofthe degree of 'Grand Elected Knights of
Kadosh,' consult yourself and see if you are disposed to pene-
mte farther, rand fulfil exactly all the points of the obligation
you are going to pronounce with mc, in' order to link you lo us
jbr eww' 'IFhere is a pause for some time.
'
Nora.-If the candidate is afraid torengage in,`or hesitates
to pronounce the fitrther obligations, the Illustrious Grand
Commander, without going further, sendshirn out, and closes
the chapter. In regard to the notions- which the candidate
might have already, the obligation which he has already taken,
will assure us ot' his discretion. Ili on the contmry, he per-
sists in, going further, and will take the obligation, the Grand
:Commander continues the ceremony in the following manner :+-
The ,candidate kneeis at the feet of the þÿ`Grand' ¬omrnander,
puts his right' hand on the Bible, and his leftbetween' the hands
ofthe Grand Commanders-when in this- posture, the Grand"
Commander SHyS, 'You swear and pi'or|iise't:o me, on tlintyou
hold rnostldeurand sacred, lst, To
practice'the' works of'corpo~
real mercy, td live and die inyour rekg~ion,*fand' never declare to
any man who
received you, or assisted your reception in this
-*Suppose the neligionof the
candirl|.teis_pl¢, and hezbdeqnes-convinced
of his error, what shall _he do? He must either live and die contendingfor
.that he knows to be a he or break his masonic oath !
`
-¢-- -
---
-~=-nr-U' ~,-_»~.4n|n;J§¢.alj
LIGHT QN MASONRY 279
sublime degree.' The candidate answers, 'I promise and swear;'
then the -Grand Commander says, 'say with me, 'IsedhaIad,'
which heropeats. 2dly. 'You promise and swear to have candor.
in all your actions, in consequence never to receive in this de-
gree, any brother who is not yourmost intimate friend, and then-
hy the consent of two Grand Elected Inspectors, if to be met
with, or by a patent _given you for that purpose ;' the candidate
answers, 'I promise and -swear! He thca repeats 'Scharlabaci
3dly. 'You-premise and swear at all times to possess a sweet-
ness of mind, as much as you are capable, .to love and cherish
vour brothers as yourself, to help them in their necessities, to
hisit and assist them vhen they are sick, and never draw arms
againstthcm on any pretence whatsoever! .élnsf 'I promise and
swear'-say with me, '.Moleck.' 4th. 'You promise and swear
to regulate your discourse by truth, and to keep with great cir-
cumspection and regard the degree of the White and Black Ea-
gle or Kadosh.' He answers, 'l promise and swear;' say with me ,
'Emzmah.' 5th. 'You promise and swear that you will travel
for the advancement of heaven, and to follow at all times, and in
all points, every matter that y,ou are ordered _and prescribe, by
the Illustrious Knights and Grand Commander, to whose orders
you swear submissio n and obedience, on all occasions without any
v°estri::££ono.' He answers,»'I promise and swear# Say with me,
'Hamatch Sciala. 6th. 'Yon promise and swear to me, to have
patience in adversity, and you swear never to receive a brother
in this degree, on any pretext whatsoever, whose will is not free,
as religious monks and all those who have made vows -without
restriction to superiors! He answers, 'I promise and swea.r.'
Say with me 'Sabacl.' 7th= 'You promise _in the end, and swear
to keep inviolably secret, what I am
going to contide 'to you
-to sacrifice the traitors of.Masnm'y-and to look upon the
Knights of Malta, as our enemies-to renounce for ever to be in
that order, and regard them as the unjust usnrpers ofthe rights,
titles and dignities ofthe Knights Templars, in whose possession
you hope to enter with the help of the Almighty' He answers,
'I promise and swear.'
'
Then say with me 'Choe1nel,' 'Binah,'
'
Tabinah! After the candidate has pronounced the last word,
the Grand Commander relieves 'him and says, 'By the seven
conditions, and bythe power that is transmitted to me, which I
have acquired by my discretion, my untired travels, zeal, fervor
and constancy,. I receive you Grand Inspector of all lodges,
Grand Elect Knight Templar, and take rank a.m0ng the Knights
ot'
Iiadosh, or White and Black Eaglewhich we bear the name of,
I desire you not tot forget it.. It is indispensable f`0f ¥°"» my
-n-¢»4~§i»»|.__- . _--.-` V
280 LIGHT ON Mssosnr.
I
brother, to mount the mysterious ladder, which you see there, it
will serve to instruct you in the mysteries of our order and it is
absolutely necessary that you should have a true knowledge of it.
The candidate then assends the ladder, when he is on the seventh
or
highest step, and has pronounced the three last words, the
ladder is lowered, and the candidate passes over it, because hc
cannot retire the same way, as he would in such a case be obliged
io go back against which he has taken an obligation, not to re-
tire by the interests and views of the order, which is the reason
what the ladder is lowered and he passes over it. He then reads
'he words at the bottom of the ladder, 'Nc plus ultra!
»
.Q
Q3
\
I' _ <5
z 2 ! 1 5 g
Z; ll (_`hor~m<~l, llinah, '1`:1binnh. 4; l
Q? ¢
'S
7
3
7 7 "
f
Y
"A"_< f;_T ?
,
R8 Qwba l
i E
3 S 6»A :;-_`s_;;,9;,_____ l Q Q?
.,
G ,
|
E w
e- r
"'
_S :Ig l' Ilzunazcll Sciulu.
Eve og
gi li-
_
5
,_.--.
"Y, _ .
_,__ _
§
L11 1*
'
I 'v
llc S o T-11?P;'i'i22,';so
e x
°
vs_ V
ig; I _fl Illotock. il E
X
l _ll
M'
5
é-2 Qx
SCllZll'-lZ1~l)ll('.
vi
I
S' l 2,
Q lscd-ha-lad 2
&
ri '>W:>
`YY"`lf Tf.fJlTf:;l1lT:_1-1 G
'~<
S' s
PI lNc plus ultra. cl;
rs-
"=§-
Q
"I
h si
._
........,».». ;....»-u....~ .-._
lanllr- _
Lrcur on laasounv. 281
Then the Grand Commander embraces. the candidate, and
says to him, 'My dear brother, I am going to give you the sign,
token, and word, with the pass word of the Grand Elected and
Grand Inspectors, after I have given you the explanation of the
mysterious ladder which you have ascended and passed over,
without knowing the reason thereoll This ladder, my dear bro-
ther, is the- most essential and analagous to the history which I
shall recite to you. Like a ladder she is composed of two sup-
porters, which will give you a
just idea of the strength which
Philip Le Belle, (or the fair,) kingof France, had, in his union
with Pope Clement the VI. The reunion ofthe second suppox t-
ers, by the seven steps, givesyou a just idea of the seven condi-
tions that Philip, the fair, imposed on the archbishop, Bertrand
Got, to make him Pope, and the two supporters being united by the
seven steps or conditions, are the base of the union between the
King and this Pope. elect. The seven' steps are also a resem-
blance of the seven points of your obligation, which you have
contracted, and in the same manner Philip, the fair, made Ber-
Irand Got take; that by the seventh article, he swore the final
destruction ofthe Knights Templars; and inthe same manner, of
the seven points of your obligation, you swear to bear an
impla-
cable hatred to the Knights of Malta, and engage yourself to
endeavor their total destruction, in order to reclaim the rights and
dignities which they possess. Lastly, this moment, my dear
brother, is the time to instruct you in full, in the degree ofGran
Elected, and which gives us a true knowledge how Masonry
came to us. Attend to that painful story-you will easily make
the application yourself the more you are instructed.
The history.-After the death of Benedict the XI. who dicdJu-
ly 13th-, 1304, the cardinals met for the election ol' a new
Pope,
und formed themselves in tvo factions, French and Italians;
Philip, the fair, king of France, had then several views which
could be acccomplished without the assistance of the Pope, to
be elected; and as his partyjn the conclave fomented these divi-
sions to favor Philip's design, who taking advantage of these
circumstances, sent for Bertrand Got, then ,archbishop of Bor-
deaux, son of Bertrand, lord of Villandran, int the same diocese,
and in the conference which he had with him at a
pleasant coun-
try seat, near St. John of Angels, when he informed him of his
design, and the division in the conclave, which put it in his pow-
er to elect a Pope, and that he was disposed to favor him, pro-_
vided he would swear to perform seven articles, the seventh ot
which was, to be even a secret to him until the time for the exe-
cution of it
shozxld be ripe. Accordingly he revealed the Sl-Y HIS*
,
2
_
-..--
--
B-huhing. -.
___> .,¢|»-4
~
282 num* on nnsosnv.
articles which are foreign to our history, but the seventh, for the
exact performance of which, they both took the sacrament to
each other's promise; and Philip, the fair, took the brother and
nephew of Bertrand Le Got, as' hostages for the seventh article.
This king having found a man tit for his purpose to be the agent
for his revenge, caused him to be elected Pope, and promoted to
St. Peter's chair, in the year 1305, under the name of Clement V.
This Pope after his election established his see at the city of Ly-
ons, where his first care was to execute the six first conditions
which Philip had imposed on him. The time of declaring the
seventh being arrived, Philip did not delay in declaring to the
Pope, that by his oath he was to join him, to entirelydestroy and
exterminate the Knights Templars, te the extent of Christianity.
Here is what attracted the hatred of Philip the fair, and what
made him, take the barbarous resolution against them all.
Some time before the death of Benoit the XI. there was a se-
dition in- Paris, occasioned by Philip, who had coined some mo-
ney, which was
light, mixed with base metal, on which the popu-
lace were mutinous, who plundered and demolished the house
of Stephen Beribet, master of the mint. They went afterwards
to the king's dwelling and committed a
great deal of indecency,
so that every matter conspired an insurrection. The Knights
Templars (against whom envy had raised many powerful one--
mies,) were suspected to have been at the bottom of these outra-
s, although. without any foundation, and their ruin was deter-
mined by they king; for which purpose he sought the means of
obtaining assistance, when the most favorable opportunity odered
itself by the death of Benoit the XI. In order to put in his stead
a Pope, on certain-conditions, that should be- imposed on
him,
nothing was now wanting but a
pretence, for when force and au-
thority are inhand, every matter becomes easy; for which purpose
they prevailed on two abandonedmen with money, whose names
were Gerard Lalie and Benoit Mehuy. They proposed to them
to get admission among the Knights Templars, and when admit-
ted into their mysteries, to accusefthe whole order of thegreatest
crimes, which these two villains executed exactly. They desir-
ed to be received into the order, which was an easy matter, as
they had an honest exterior, titles, and apparent qualities, be-
sides a supposed credit at -court; Every one was in their favor,
and they were received; but it was not long before the Templars
repentedheartily of having 'lighted the tire brand, which was the
cause ofthe deplorable and tragic scene, in whichmostall ofthe
Templars were involved in one common destruction; for these
two wretches, soon, after their admission, accused the whole or-
~--~ _..._ n..-
1
~
Lxour on mztsoxrw. _ 233
der of the must dreadful and most exeerahle crimes, demanding
to be separated from them, for the unheard of terrible things
which were suggested. The treason is good, (he who commits
treasqn,) but the traitor is detestable, and they suffered the same
lot that was intended fbr the Templars, for they for their treach-
ery received the most dreadful torments, and were not suffered-
to liver They had been the instruments, or the cause of ven-
geance to the Templars, by their false accusations. Upon their
reports, the King, (who had lately aninterview with the Pope at
Potier,) took the surest measures to arrest all the Templars in_
his dominions in oneday, This waS done on the 13th of Octo»
ber, 1307, two years after the accusation of these two villains
was made. They seized on all their papers, titles, and treasures,
and most of their wealth, over which were
placed overseers and
stewards. King Charles, ol' Naples, in like manner, ordered all
the Templars in his province to be arrested. Those taken in-`
France were locked up in the'Castile of Melun, to waitfor their
trials. The Pope, at the same time, sent for their Grand Mas.
ter, $James=de Molay,' a native of Burgundy. Soon as he re-
ceived the orders of the Pope, he came to Paris with sixty Knights
of the order, among which was one Guy, brother ef the dauphin,
Deoienois Hague: de 'P¢ra1d¢s, and Theodore Bazillede Monan-
coart. They were all arrested and made tosuifer the most drcadfut
torments, in-orderto draw t`rom~them~acont`ession of the crimes
they were accused of, though without effect, as
they bore bray
ly every torment, rather than accuse themselves of thigii
which they wore innocenta. So that on no other proofthan that
of two infamous suborners, their trials were concluded, (it being
impossible to obtain the least evidence against them, as never
any person assisted at the making* ofa Templar.) They execu-
ted and humt alive fifty-seven in oueday; on the next fiftynine,
and so on, until they had completed almost their total destruc-
tion. They pardonednone, not even' those that served them in
-accusing the whole order, for as Templars they were imiuded
in the general sentence and burnt alive with the others!
Let the end ot' these unhappy wretches serve as u lessen gg
us, that we are not in- future tohe seduced by fine promises, and
initiate anybut those who have given us, by s long train oi' ser.
vice, proofs of themost solid worthiness, lest we might, by their
indisaretion, be dragged again with all the Knights ot' the Bleek
Eagle, or Kadosh, in a common fate. The Grand Master and
the three above mentioned brethren, were nevertheless not com-
prehended in the- tint execution. The Pope, for masons
which
-not historian has mentioned, kept the jllflgllmll ¢° l"""°m"'
rl-s-Mu-\........ A
,_J.._ ,,
"`
284 mem' on nnsonnr.
Most all ot' the Templars nt the time of this prosecution, (which
lasted till l3I4,) were arrested in all Christian states, but were
not all put to deaths Philipthe fair, was
continually hurrying the
Pope to make an end of James de Molay, the Grand Master of
his companions, (after having groaned nearly -seven years in pri-
son, overloaded with irons,) which was at last executed, when
they were burnt alive, the llth March, 1314, in the isle of Paris,
which moved to pity and tears, the numerous spectators, who
were present. They were steady, heroic, constant, and made
the most solemn vows ot" their innocence, which was afterwards
apparent, supported by an event extremely memorable. Jacque
or James de Molay, the Grand Master, seeing himself on the
scaffold ready to end his life in the flames, (after having lingered
in irons for several years, death in any manner was now a relief
to him, rather than to linger in prison in this uncertain world,)
with greatcomposure tumed himself and directed to God the
following prayer: '0h, Almighty and Everlasting God, who
knows thc innocence of the victims, who have 'been sacrificed for
several years, permit ~ns to reflect on the reproach and infamous
torments which you permitted J. C. to be covered with at his
death, to redeem ns from the slavery of our sins, td give an ,ex-
ample to the innocent, in teaching them, by his mildness, to suf-
fer without murmuring, the persecution and torments, which in-
iustice and blindness prepare for them. Forgive, O God, the
'
lse accusations and imputations, which have caused the de-
strudon ot' the whole order, of which your Divine Providence
had established me chief; and ii' you are
pleased to accept
the prayer which we now humbly offer you", permit, 0 God,
that one day these people may know the innocence of those
who have endeavored to live in thy holy t'ear_and love: we
wait your bounty and compassion,,tlw reward of the torment:
aml death we suffer, which we
ofa' to you inorder to enjoy your
divine presence in eeerla.sting,happina|s.f Then addressing him-
self' to the people, he said: 'Good people, who seo us
ready to
perish in the flames, you will be able to judge of our innocence,
tht I new summon
Pope Clement the K in arty days,-and Phil-
ip, the fair, in twelve months, to appear be ore the awful and tre-
mendous thrcne of the ever
living God, to render an account of
the blood they have wickedly ehedl' after which they were hurried
to execution, fearing n rescue from the populace. The predic-
tion of James de Molay was
accomplished, as
Pope Clement the
V. died the 19th of April, the same
year, at 'Rocquc .Moie¢,' on
the;Rhone, and Philip the fair, wi-thin twelve months at Fontain-
bI¢a¢¢_ The news of the persecution of the Knights Templars
---
.., ,,_.__.»i_,_ ,..;......._..-nu_~._,.e _-.tnlnhns .as-i»..i
Lrcnr ON Masomtr. 285
had already reached the Knights which were left in Cyprus, and
in the absence of their Grand Master had been overpowered by
the Turks, when they lost Acre, with several other strong places
in that island, and were` obliged to retire to the isle of Rhodes
and the adjacent islands. _
The prosecutions against them in
open council at Vienna, the lst of October 1311, when their or-
der was banished, their estates confiscated and left at the Pope's
disposal, who in the year 1312, gave a
part to the Knights of St.
John of Jerusalem, who at this day possess the greatest part ot'
their estates. This adversion makes to this day, a
part of the
obligations of the Grand Elect and Knights Templars. As the
number of them who escaped was very small, it rendered that
adversion the more powerful, they sought to increase their order
by admitting persons, in whom they believed and thought worthy
'ot' keeping the most important secret. Such they found among
the good and virtuous' Masons, whom Solomonhad distinguished
and favored, after the construction ot' the temple. The candor
and intrepidity which appeared among them in the greatest dan-
gers; their wisdom, union," charity, love, impartiality, firmness,
discretion and zeal, all led them to believe they could do no
_better than to unite themselves to them. Their fathers, protec-
tors, and supporter sought the favor to be admittedpinto their
society, and initiated into their mysteries. Those who were
newly initiated into their mysteries, were informed b _the Ma-
sons, who they were, and the barbarcus events they _ escap-
ed, and the resolutions they had taken, secretly to increase their
numbers, re-establish their order, and take possession again of
their estates. The Templars then otfered' their brethren, the
Masons, their assistance, in taking their revenge, and as a com-
mon cause to accept the tribute from them, ot' the most just grat-
itude and thankfulness. The Grand Elected Knights, and Prin-
ces Masons, approved their designs, accepted their oifcrs, and
agreed among themselves, instead of the character of their order,
which was a cross, to use the sign, token, and word of Masons,
and by the conformity of several analogies, (events in their his-
tory,) 'persuaded them that the differentsigns of Masons would
put them entirely under cover, against the maliciousness ot' such
as 'Gerard Labe,' or 'Benoit Mehuy,' should they undertake to
be admitted into the order, and that they should not entrust the
true secret to any but those whom they had tried, and of whom
they had the utmost confidence. After having made them pass
through the different degrees which we know in Masonry, ¢h°
birth of which was taken from the construction of SoIomon's
temple, until its destruction; characterised bythe most remark-
M~l1|hn., »--Lulu' ...
"° "
li
286 LIGHT ON M.soNR'.
able events, and by an event entirely analogous to the destruc-
tion ofthe Knights Templars, whom, as elects of Masonry, cri-
eth only to revenge the death of their Illustrious Grand Master,
und retake their possession. My dear brother, from the degree
of Master Mason that you have received, and from your having
learned to shed tears at the tomb of Hiram Abitl, have you not
been disposed to take vengeance? Did they not show you the
traitor, Jubelum Altirop, (or Abiram,) in the most dreadful col-
ors. Would it be exaggerating to compare the conduct of Phil-
ip, the fair, with his? and to compare the two infamous informers,
'Gerard Labe,' and 'Benoit Mehuy,' to the two villains who
joined Akirop, to murder Hiram Abilfl Do they not kindle in
your heart the same revenge which those Fellow Crafts deserv-
ed, and was executed on them?
The trials you have gone through, to learn the historical facts
ofthe ancient Bible; do they not serve to make an impression on
your heart and enable youto make a just application of the death
of Hiram Abitl, in comparing it with that of James de Malay?
By the degree of 'Elected Knights of Nine,' where your heart
was
disposed to revenge, you have been prepared to the impla-
cable hatred that you have sworn to the ,Knights of Malta, on
whom you ought to revenge the death of James DeMolay. As
a Grand Elected, you have acquired, by your proved discretion
in Symbolic Masonry, the light which leaves nothing more for
you to desire, than your submission to the Degree of the Sublime
:Princes ofthe Royal Secret, our Chief and Grand Elected ofthe
Order, who has bestowed on you this singular favor. This is, my
Most Illustrious brother, how, and by whom, Masonry is derived
and has been transmitted to us. You ought to see what it is,~to
enter to our lawful rights, vhich leads us to associate with men
whom merit, bravery, and good manners gives titles to; vhich
only hirthrights grant to the ancestors ,of the Templars. You
are now a
Knight, and on a level .with them; you have the same
hazards to run, as much from the side of envy as
persecution,
which you may escape by keeping carefully your obligation, and
secreting from the vulgar, your estate and what you are. _
Having attained to this degree of light, vhich you merit, and
the knowledge we have _of _your manners, we are persuaded that
our confidence towards you, will be suiicient ,to make you ap-
prehend, how important it is to you, not to be the cause of our
repenting your initiation. We know you too well, to have the
least doubt of you. We therefore did not hesitate to enlighten
you into the true interests of the order, and that by your uniting
yourself to us, with a smcere submission, will acquire that pets'
'
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 287
lhetion your zeal deserves. You are now in the rank of those
who shall be elected to the grand work. When once
your name
is in the urn of your election, the delicious perfumes of your ac-
tions will bring you to the true happiness of your desire, which I
wish you. Amen. Amen. Amen.
After this discourse the Grand Commander knocks one great
blow on the table, in order' to callthe four Knights to enter into
the chapter, who were out. After which the Grand Commander
finishes the reception, and gives the new
Knight the sign, token,
and word. He arms him and decorates him with the attributes,
and -communicates the name he must take in future, which is un.
common to all others, and is Knight' Kadosh, or
Knight of the
White and Black Eagle, instead of Knight Templars.
The JEWEL is aired cross, as' before described, but in the
room oi' that, now it-is a black spread eagle, with two heads sus-
fpended to a' broad order of fiery, bloody color, worn from the
left shoulder tothe right hip. The eagle, as if going to fly, with
a naked swordin his claws.
The brother who desires to `be better acquainted with the
tbregoing interesting history ofthe Knigh'ts'Templars, may eon-
sult the following authors, viz:-Villancus' History; History of
fall Orders, by Mnthai,"(in Paris;) History of Malta, by Verto;
,and an essay on Paris, by St. Foix;
_rp
LECTURE.
Q. Are you a Grand Elected? A. I nm, Thrice Illustrious
Knight. Qi Who received you in this degree. A. Aworthy
Deputy Grand Inspector, by the consent oi' two others. Q.
What wasydone with you? A. He created me Knight. Q.
How can I believe yon? AL. My name, which I leave, will con-
vince you. Q; What is your name? A. Kadosh, or Knight of
the Black Eagle. Q. Was any thiugelso done to you? A.
The Deputy Inspector-'adorned me with the habit, ribbon, and
jewelof the order. Q. Where have you received the prize of
your election! [have received it in'a'vet-y deep grotto, and in
the
silence ofthe night. Q; 'I'o'what'do you apply to? A. l
Ivorlcwith all m
nglght tmdstrength to niisean editlce' worthy
my brothers. hat progress have you made? A; I have
conquered the knowledge'ofthe mystérioushidder; Q. Ot' what
is tliatladder'composed'l' A'. Two supportersjand steps. Q.
What arefthe'names' of' the two supporters. A; O'Lebd1- Eloe,
-OI;¢re'Barwba¢. Qi What de'sigu,hnve these twosupportersft
A. The first is'the'°love'ot" God, andittie other the lovedfzour
_-neighbors. Q: Wtmrare the seven steps ofthe m>'S*°"°"S
'-
.
, _-._.u.¢..-_-...Lin .,.--
"
235 uarvr on Mssosnr. »
ladder? A. The virtues which l must practice, conformable to
my obligations. Q. Name them to me. A. Iaedhalad, prac-
tice or works of mercy. 2d. Schm-Iabac. Candor of our actions.
311. Moteck. Sweetness bt' character which all brethren must t`ol~
low. 4th. Emunah. Truth in discourse. 5th. Hamach Sciata.
Advancement to the practice of Heaven. 6th. Sabael. Patience in
adversity. 7th. Choemel,Bincih, Tabinah. Signifies thatwemust
be prudentto keep secret every matter confided to us. Q. What
are your ordinary pass words? AI Manchiu, a name ofthe Grand
Master most renowned among the Solitaries, known by the name
ot' Kadosh. Q. What signifies that name. A. Solitary or
sep~
arate. Q. What was the answer of the solitaries, when they
were asked to what they pretended? A. dbarekiah, Bechalget,
Jldonai, Talmid, Tehillatho Bephy; which is, I will bless God at
all times, and will praise him with my mouth. Q. Do_ they
never say any thing else? A. Yes, they say also, Begaherod, Sli-
becium, Hewcey; which is, I will assist the poor, and always sus.
tain them with all my might and power. Q. How comes the
cross surmounted with the eagle and the sword? A. That is,
that it shall remember to employ my sword, in the fullness of
time, under the banner of the black eagle, to support the order,
Q. Where did you work? A. Ina place of security, to re-estab-
lish secretly, the edifice mined by the
traitors._ Q. What sue..
cess do you expect from it? A. The right of virtue, the accord
of brothers, and the possessions of our forefathers, and ever-
lasting happiness, Q. Have you shed tears? A. I have. Q.
Have you wore mourning? A. Yes, Iwear it still. Q. Why do
you wear it? A. Because virtue is despised, and as
long as vice
reigns, innocence will be oppressed and crimes will be leti un-
punished. Q. What is it that will punish vice andreward vir-
tue? A. The Great Architect of the Universe alone. Q. How
so. A. To favor our designs and desires. [Here every brother
says three times, 'G_od t`avor»our designs.'] Q. Have you any
other name than Kaclooh, or Knight of the Black Eagle? A. I
have still the name of Adam to teach me, that from the most low
I must go to the most high. Q. Give me the sign of knowledge
against surprise. A. Here it is, [and he gives it in the follow-
ing manner. He puts his right hand on the heart ot' a brother,
in the same manner as with the poniard in the degree of 'Nine
E'lected,'-then give the token ofthe 'Grand Elected] and then
both strike the right knee.] Q. How came you to carryyour fin-
gers extended on your heart? A. That my tms! is God.
Q. How came you atier that to extend your hand? A. To show
£0 my brother that he is welcome to all in my power, and to me
_
-
»»- ..4 .__..._ . _
'iv
LIGHT on xgusounr. 289
.__/courage him to vengearm H+ Q, How came you to let your hand
fhll on your right kneel A. To show we must bend our knees
to adore God. Amen. End ofthe Lecture.
To close.-Q. What's the o'clock? A. The break of day
dimonstrqtes. Gr. Com. 'lf the break ol' day demonstrates, let
us departfor revenge/ After which the Grand Commander puts
his hand on his heart; then lets it fall on his right knee, which is
answered by all; then the Grand Commander embraces each.
and each other all arounrland then the chapter is closed.
V
'V cngeance is mine; I will repay, saith the Lord?
AA
.
_yr
G*
3
I
.
I
Q _
.__ -,..._, _g.A¢|.._ ,f.._.
if
(290)
FRENCH DEGREES.
'
im;
The following degrees, with some others, are conferred in France and in this
country as Honorary Degrees. The reader, perhaps, may not have been
apprised that the masonic systems of different countries vary much after
the Master's Degree.
-
THE DEGREE OF
A
"ELU* DE PERIGNAN."
Description ofthe lodge.-The room represents the cabinet ot'
Sonomos, hung with many colors, lighted bytwenty-seven lamps,
distributed by 3 times 9. Solomon, dressed in royal robes, sits
in the east-holds a blue sceptre, gilt with a luminous triangle
at the top, emblematical of bis wisdom, power, and benevolence.
Solomon wears gloves, adorned with a blank fringe, and his apron
(white,) trimmed with silver lace. Hiram, king of Tyr¢,is dressed
like Solomon, and holds a
large poniard in his hand.
Dress.-The brethren are clad in black. and wear a small
breastplate on the left side, on which is embroidered in silver a
death's head, a bone, and a
dagger across, surrounded by these
words, 'Vaincre ou mourir:' (Victory or death.) They wear a
black sash, four lingers wide, from right to left, with the same
word
`
. O h
` ' '
s on it n t e bottom is a black rose, from which is sus-
pended a
poniard. The apron is of white lambskin, lined and
trimmed with black. On the flap is a 'death's head,' with a bono
and a sword across. On the upper part of the apron is repre-
sented a
large drop, or tear, and on the sides and below eight
smaller tears; at the bottom, is a branch of cassia; the gloves are
white, bordered with black.
Officers.--The Master is styled 'Most Respectable/ and sits
in the east. The Wardens are
styled 'Vmerable;' one in the
south, the other in the north.
Ceremony of opening -.Master 'Brother S W are l
. . . . we wel
it ledl' S. W. 'M. R '
y . we are. M. 'Venerable S. W. as an
'Elu de Perignan,' do you know any thing besides the letters N
NJ' S. W. 'I know the letter P.' 'At what our iszi
*
Elu means 'Elec-t.'
'
°
h
_ ,,,___,__ _
..-ml*-f_,....l».
-Liam' ON MABONRY. 291
lodge of this degree to be openedl' S. W. 'At the commence-
ment of night, or the end of day.' M. 'What is the hour'l' S.
W 'The end of day.' Master knocks 3 times 9, gives the sign,
and says, 'Give notice, brother Wardens in the south and north,
that the lodge is opened.' (This is done.) After the brethren
are seated, Master says, 'Venerable brothers S. and J. Wardens,
is there any thing to beproposedl 'Master of Ceremonies' rises
and says, 'There is an 'Elect of Nine,' who wishes to leam the
mysteries of this degree! Master. 'Brother M. of C. go to the
candidate, examine him on his former degrees, and introduce him
in due and ancient form.' ~
Reception.--The candidate should be led through rough, bushy
places to the cavern, where is a burning bush; atter viewing this,
he is led into the lodge, dressed as an 'Elect of Nine,' (which is
in black,) and placed in the west, between the two Wardens,
Jllaster. 'What is your desirel' Candidate. 'To receive the
Degree of 'Elu de Perignanf
'
M. 'My brethren, do you be.
lieve this candidate to be worthyl' The J. W. and M. of U. re-
ply, _'We do.' JW. 'Brother M. of C. cause the candidate to
travel/ Candidate passes to the east, by the way of the south,
and retums ,again to the west; he then goes directly to the east,
and returns to
the west twice; he goes to the east, by the way of
the north, and retums again tothe west, and then goes directly to
the altar in the east, to take the obligation.
Obligation.-I swear and promise on my word of honor, on
the faith of an honest man, in the presence of the Grand Archi-
tect of the universe, and before this assembly, to guard and pre-
serve the mysteries of this degree, which has been conferred on
me, not only from the profane, but from all of an inferior degree,
under the penalties of all my former obligations; and I ponsent,
if I violate this obligation, to have my tongue torn out by the
roots. May God keep me in this, Src. Amen.
LECTURE.
Master. Do you, as an 'Elu de Perigna.n,' know any thing be-
sides the letters N. NK! S. W. Yes; I knawthe letter P. M.
What does that letter signify? S. W. It is the hitial ofthe name
of the stranger who discovered to Solomon where the ruiiian
Akirop, otherwise called Abiram, was concealed. M. Pro-
nounce the name. S. W. Perignan. M. How were you intro-
duced into the lodge? S. W. By 3 times 9. M. What do these
signify? S. W. The first 9 signifies, that I was one ot' the mne
elect, who were ,chosen to search for the assassin of our Respec-
table Master, 'Hiram Abitli' the second 9, .the number of Ma-
_
Q _ _
,¢¢-a.¢-._..- ............_.r...u1£-»---- t
292 Liam' ox muscular.
'
sous 'who searched for the body of Hiram Ablfli and the last 9,
the three gates -of 'the temple, the first Grand Masters, and the
time blows, struck by the three assassins, on the bo`dy of Hiram
A-hifi M. What do the letters A. K. and G. .on ~the carpet, sig-
-nifyl S. W. The narnesof the assassins of our
Respectable
Master, Hiram Abifil M. What were their names? S. W.
Alrirop, or Ahiram, Knmuvil, and Gravolet. M. How did they
station themselves to accomplish their design? S. W. Kurnuvil
was at the south gate, amied with the twenty-four inch gauge-
Gravolet at the west gate, armed with the square, and Akirop at
the east gate, armed with the gavel. M. How did the stranger
Perignan discover that Akirop was concealed in the cavern? S.
W. Perignan was at work by the light of a
burning bush, near
which was a cavem. His dog suddenly beganto bark, and look-
ing towards the month of the cavem, he saw a man who appear-
ed terrified, suddenly look out and immediately retire. Moved
by curiosity, Perignan entered the cavem. _ Akirop, finding him-
self discovered, threw himself at his feet, confessed his guilt, and
entreated -him to keep it secret, kissed his hand, and besought
him to procme him some food. M. Why did the stranger inform
Solomon of this? S. W. In obedience to a
proclamation issued
by Solomon, and that justice might be done. M. How long did
Perignan fumish Akirop with food, before he gave infer-mation to
Solomon? S. W. Seven days. M. Why did he not inform the.
king sooner? S. W. He was ignorant of the existence of the
proclamation, until he saw it at a
village where he went to pur-
chase food for Akirop and himself M. What isthe wond of this
degree? S. W. '.Maobon;' which signifies, 'Thanks to God,
the criminal is punishedl' M. 'What is the sign? S. W. To
make the motion of tearing out the tongue, with the hands ex-
tended. M. What is the answer to this sign? S. W. To lift
the eyes and hands to heaven, as if imploring mercy! M. From
what are these signs taken? S. W. Partly from my obligation,
and partly from the surprise which Akirop manifested when he
was discovered. M. What is the token? S. 1' .' To nt
the hand ton brother, who kisses it. M. To'what»does mo-
ken relate? 8. W. To the fact that Akirop kissed the hand of
Penignan, that he might induce him to be silent respecting his dis-
covery. M. What fisthe pass word? 'S. W. '.Hbimm;' which
signifies, Qmssassin' or 'mu1~0orer.' M. 'What was done wilt the
head of this rufiani S. W. Soioinon caused it to be emhalmed
and pihced onthe east pinnacle ofthe temple, with a. poniard just
belmrit, that it be seen thatflhe crime had been punished.
M. What was signified by the nine jndrneys, which you made
.9 f
,'.n.~-ll _
-
-~'-**-
A-lmii-"*~ '-'M-¢|"ih4u.»¢¢nn*| _J
---w
Liam' on uasowav. 293
before talringfthe
oblgtionl
St W. The nine days Akirop re-
mained concealed in crwern.
The lodge is closed by 8 times 9; that- is, twenty-seven knocks
~i
A T
mr; oceans or
"LE `PETIT* ARCHITEUF."
1)¢3¢-riptign, ¢§~c.--The carpet or floor, is an
oblong square,
drawn east and west, at the west end is a
triangle, containing ia
blazing star, in which is the letter G On the corner of the tri-
angle, are the letters S. U. G. The triangle is enclosed in a circle.
The lodge is hung withblack and lighted by twenty-one candles,
,eighteen of _which are placed by nine, in two chandeliers. The
throneis elevated on three steps, on one ide is an altar, on which ig
placed a Bible, compass, square, triangle and a chandelier, with
the three remaining lights and an urn, containing a
golden trowel
and a paste made ofilour, milk, oil and wine. 'I`he brethren weai- an
apron, lined and trimmed with crimson. The Master and brethren,
wear a broad crimson ribbon around the neck, at the bottom of
which the jewel is attached by a blue rose.
[The jewel is a tri-
ang=le,] The jewels ofthe odicers are worn within the triangle.
by the
Master.
The brethren are armed with swords V
and are covered. On the
hat isa crimson cockade. The Master represents 'So|.oMoN,'
and is called 'Powsarun Mas'rsa.' The Wardens are called.
'Respeclablcf and the brethren,
'
Venerable'
Opening.-Master knocks seven, (!!! !!!!) the Wardens re-
peat it. Master. 'Respectable brother Wardens, assist me in
opening this lodge of 'Petit Architect) Wardens give notice that
the Master isabout to open the lodge. .M. *Are we well tyledi'
S. W. 'We are, Vowerful Master." M. 'Respectable Wardens,
to prevent discovery receive from each brother the Sign, Word
and Token of thisdegree, and give them to me.' The Wardens
do this and say, 'The brethren are all Petit Architects! M
'Brother S. W. what is the hour '£' S. W 'The first instant, the
'
first hour, the first day, which the Grand Architect employed in
the creation of the universe!
'
M. 'My Brethren ; It is the first
instant, the first hour, the first day, in which the Grand Architect
employed in the creation ofthe universe. It is the first hour, the
first day, the first year, when Solomon commenced the temple.-,
The first day, the first hour, the first instant, for opening this'
lodge. It is time to commence our labors.' S. W. 'My br0¢ll°
fl*
Minor Architect.
A42
'#
l|1»1lnns»»>»';» -4sn-1,._____.m¢|r.»:»-»- -'
294 LIGHT ON HASOHBY.
ren it is thetint day, the first' hour, and the first instant when our
Powerful Master opens this lodge of Petit Architect; The e
of Petit Architect is open! The Junior Warden repeats »t e
same words. ,
Reception.-The candidate is placed in a room, lighted by a lit-
tle lamp placed on the lioor. The Master of Ceremonies leaves
him, and, entering the lodge, gives the key of the preparation
room to the Secretary and Treasurer, who go to the candidate
and receive his dues for the degree. The Master of Ceremo-
nies retums, and divests the candidate of all weapons, which are
carried into the lodge. He blindfolds the candidate, and ties a
rope with a
slip noose on his wrist, and leads him into the lodge,
giving the alarm, Src. as usual: he places him between the War-
dens, one of whom savs, 'Powertiil Master, the candidate is pres-
ent with us.' .Masta-r. 'My brother, this degree cannot be ob-
tained, unless you give us
satisfactory proof that you have not
been an accomplice in the death of our Master, Hiram Abitll-
To assure us of this, we
require you to
participate in a
symbolic
otfering of the portion of the heart of our
Respectable Master,
Hiram, which we have preserved since his assassination. You
are to swallow the portion whichwe shall present to you. Every
faithful Mason of this degree may receive it, but it cannot remain
-in the body of one who is perjured. Are you disposed to submit
to this proot`?' ./Im. 'Yes.' Master. 'Respectable Wardens,
cause the candidate to advance by three steps to the place where
the um is deposited, containing what is to he presented to himi'
1|;1`he
um is placed on the altazu] The candidate is brought by
ree
steps to the altar-he kneels on one knee-his right hand
resting on the triangle placed on the Biblel Master. 'Before we
admit you to this august participation, you must give us an assur-
ance of your fidelity. Are you willing to take upon you an obli-
gation belonging to this degreel' Jlns. 'Yes.'
Obligation.--1 promise, under the same
obligations which I
have already contracted, and in the presence of this august as-
sembly, to hold, guard, and conceal the secrets of this Degree ot
Petit Architect, and never to reveal them to any one of an inferior
degree, or to any other person, under the penalty of being depriv-
ed of that honorable burial which was given to our Honorable
Master. Finally, I promise to support Masonry with all my pow-
er, and to assist my brethren, as far as lies in my power. p
So
mote it i<e.
~
The Master taking the trowel, presents with it a
portion ofthe
paste to the candidate, who swallows it. Master. 'This mystic
oblation, which we partake with you, forms henceforth a tie so
A r ~.__--» .»:.r...._An-.~|»~. ..--n1»»--4-nn-»lJ
-.
`
_
_
_
_
Lrour on luonnr. 295
indissoluble that nothing canhreak it; say with me, and with all
the brethren--Wo to him who shall disunite usl' Master raises
the candidate and the Wardens conduct him to the west by three
steps backwards. Master. 'My brother, one thing which you
come here to leam is, that you ought never to refuse to confess
your faults; obstinacy ought to be banished from the heart of
every good Mason! -
The -Wardens seize the candidate, and place him on his hands
and knees, his face towards the door, nearly touching the 'blaz-
ing star,' and his mouth on the letter G. In this position, the J.
W. removes the bandage from his eyes, and the S. W. covers his
body with a black cloth; (covering his head so that he sees no-
thing except the star.)
Master. 'My brother, what doo you seel' Candidate. 'Tho
letter G, in a blazing stan'
'
.NL 'W'hat does that letter signifyl'
C. 'Glory, Grandeur, and Geometry.' M. 'Does it signify any
thing elsei' C. 'Yes;-»G=on.' .M. 'My brother, that is the
name of the Grand Architect of the univeme! Your position
represents that in which our Respectable Master was buried; that
is, his face towards the blazing star, his mouth on the letterG. en-
graved on a
golden plate of a
triangular form, which is emblematic
of three mystic angles united in one. The circle represents the
immensity of space, and also the space enclosed in the third part of
the temple, called the 'holy of ho|ies,' and in Hebrew, 'Heka.l.' Do
you promise us, that if, during the joumey you are about to make'
through the forests and mountains, you should discover any ac-
complices in the death of Hiram, you will arrest them at the haz-
ard of your lifel' JQYIS- 'Yes.' The Master lrnocks one, as a
signal to the Wardens to raise the candidate, to remove his bonds
:md cause him to make the tour of the lodge eighteen times,
[these are reduced usually to three, six, or nine;] by the way of
the north, south, and'east. When this is done, the S. W. an-
nounces it to the Master. .Ma.ster. 'Have you met with no ob-
stacles in your joumeyi' Candidate. 'No.' Master. 'It is with
much joy I proceed to recompense your zeal for Masonry, by
conferring on
you the rank of 'Petit L/1rchilect,' with the direction
of the works of the temple: Approach and leam the mysteries ol'
this degree.' The S. W. takes oil' the apron of the candidate,
which he throws on the floor, and causes the candidate to advance
to the throne by three steps, (of a Master Mason.) Master gives
the candidate the apron of this degree, saying, 'Your business
hereafter consists in architecture, and in completing the ornaltlenf-S
of the temple.' Master gives the candidate the cordvm J°"'°l»
and gloves, and says, 'We have in this degree one
Ui0Tdr
9 ¢°k°">
Lj~"¢|n»|-pt _,
296 noir on ausormv. _
and fm gigns-one of which is called the -'p||a's6ga,' became
none canmterthe lodge without it. It isgiven thu: Ogre
gays, 'Are you an Architeetl' at~the same time
placing his
right
hand on hisnghtlup, thethumbandforejinger bemgcloud, rais~
ing hiseyes to heaven, and makings motion as
though to retreat
backwsds. The other 'answers by doing the BUIIG thhrg on his
left hip, with his left hand, and saying, 'I am.' .
The other signin demanding, is made by carrying the right
hand to the heart, then carrying the hand diagonallyto the top of
the forehead, the thumb touching the forehead, forming a
triangle,
and then placing the arm across the helly. The answer is to car-
ry the right hand open to the right side, and making a movement
as if to retire, and placing the right foot behind the left, so as to
form a square. The 'token' is that of giving the 'Past Mastefs'
'tolren,' thrice pronouncing each time one
syllable ot' the word,
'Ga-ba-on,' (French;) Gib-e-on, (English) 'Go salute your
brethren, and retum to me.' After he has done so, Master says,
'My brother, aftertln death of 'Hiram,' the labors were lighter.
Solomon, willing to gratify the desires of the Masters, resolved
to choose another new Architect for the work. For this purpose
he assembled the most worthy Masters, distinguished by their
genius, capacity, and virtues, in the hall of his palace. By the
plans winch were presented to him, he ascertained that the first
part of the building was
perfected. He named some of these
'Masters 'Petit Architects' Their engagements were the same
which you have taken, and which entitle you to their rank. Long
may you enjoy this rank with honor to yourself' and advantage
to us!'
LECTURE.
The Master, giving the 'pass sign,' says, Respectable brother
S. W. are youa Petit Architect? S. W. Powertiil Master, lam.
M. In what place were you received? S. W. In the circle of
the square, and the holy of holies. M. What does that circle
signify? S. W. The eternity of the G. A. who hasneither be-
ginning nor end. M. What does the square signify? S. W.
The oblong square ofthe tombof Hiram. M. What is signified
by the holy of holiest S. W. The space within the triangle,
where the name of the G. A. is engraved. M. By what means
were you received as a P. AJ S. W. By the cement which was
employed in laying the stones of the temple. M. What cement
was employed? S. W. A mystic cement, composed of flour,
mikr, wine, and oil. M. Whatdoesthis represent? S. W. The
fieur represents goodnes ; the milk, gentleness; the wine, strength;
"A-L_- _¢.a..¢¢¥
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 297
the oil, wisdom:--qualities which distinguished our
Respectable
Master. M. How was he buried? S. W. His face to the cen-
tre, his mouth on the letter G. engraved within the blazing star.
M. In what place?
'
S. W. Behind the sanctuary. M. Did
Solomon suffer the death of Hiram to remain unpunished? S.
W. No. He named those Architects, who were
willing to engage
themselves by new promises, to
pursue his murderers. M. How
did the Architects pursue them? S. W. They travelled |-mind
mount Lebanon three times seven, visited the neighboring moun-
tains, and the most secret places, until they were discovered. M.
What was he called, who killed Hiram? S. W. Akin-op, or Abi-
ram; which signifies assassin, or murderer. M. How did you
come to this degree? S. W. By three steps forward and three
backward. M. In what have you been employed? S. W. In
perfect architecture, in composing and in forming the triangle,
placed in the tomb- of Hiram. M. Describe that work. S. W.
The midd-le contains the letter G. and the comets, the letters S.
U. G. M. What do those letters signily? S. W. The G. is the
initial of the word 'GOD;' the S. of the word 'Su.btninion;' the
U. of 'Uhion;' and the G. of the word 'Gomez:'-the grand word
said to be the first word pronounced by the first man. M. Have
you no other letters in your lodge? S. W. We have the letters
M. B. which signify the word which we do not pronounce aloud,
and which was uttered in raising the body of our Resp. Master;
and threeother letters of brass, incrusted on the border of his'
tomb. M. Give me those letters, with their signification. S. W.
They are M. A. S_ The M. signifies '.Moriah,' the name ofthe
mountain where the temple stood; the A. './1doni'ram,' or Hiram,
the Master; and the S. 'Stokin.' M. Were your labors confined
to the temple alone? S. W. No; I have traced a. circle by its
circumference, upon a
space which we term the holy of holies.
M. What does that circumference signify? S. W. The eternity
of the Supreme Being, which geometry represents to us under
that emblem. M. What are your marks? S. W. Two signs, a
word, a token. M. What do you call the token? S. W. The
double arch. M. Give me the 'pass word." S. W. Ga-ba-on.
(Gibeon, according to the English Bible.) M. Give me the
grand word. S. W. 'GoMsz.'
Closiufg-.-.M. 'My brethren, it is the last idstant, the last hour,
the last day which the Master of the universe employed in the
creation; it is the last instant, the last hour, and the last dly'
when Solomon wrought in building the ample; and the last in'
stant when Architects ought to labor. It is time for us to r~ep09¢-'
He knocks 7, which is repeated by the Wardens, and the Master
says, 'My brethren, the lodge is closedl'
-Q-¢|lu»¢...i_¢_ ......_,_,______ _,__ ___,_,
398 naar on masonar.
'ms DEGBEE or
"GRAND ARCHITECT,"
OR COMPAGNON ECOSSOIS.
The lodge is divided into two
parts, by a black curtain be-
hind the throne. Near the throne is the altar, on which is the
Bible, a double triangle, a square, a compass and a plan ofthe
temple finished. as far as the third story.
»
The whole lodge is
hung with red, adomed with hyacinth flowers, but the hangings
of the first apartment should be covered with a black' drapery,
which may be removed when the proper time arrives. This first
apartment is illuminated by twenty-seven lights, distributed by
3 times 9. The titles of the oflicers are the same as in the pre-
ceding degree. The carpet, or
flooring, only differs in having
the triangle double. The jewel is a double triangle formed with
a
compass and level, and contained within a
golden circle. The
head of the compass has a golden sun, whose rays touch the head
of the level. l'his jewel is worn
by a large red -cordon* from
left to right. ln the first apartment, when hung with black, the
cordon of the jewel is black ;but the instant the hangings are
changed, the cordon is changed also.
Serond _/lpartment.--( Used in the next degree.) Behind the
black curtain is an 'altar,' with masonic emblems painted on it.
it is erected on seven
steps and lighted with eighty-one candles,
placed in a triangular fomi. Above it is a transparent painting
representing a 'glory,' surrounded by seven celestial intelligences.
In the middle a luminous 'tria.ngle,'in which is written mul ; on
the edge of the cloud appear seven angel's heads. The ark of
alliance supported by two cherubims, covering it with their wings.
Before the ark is a lamb, reposing on a book sealed with seven
seals. Before the ark, on the right, is the brazen sea. On each
side ofthe room are
placed five urns, in the middle is the altar of
burnt offerings, the golden candlestick, and table of shew-breath
Opening.-The Powerful Master, seated on a moveable throne,
knocks 1, which is repeated by the Wardens, and Master says,
'Most Respectable Wardens, before the opening of this lodge of
Grand Architects, examine the brethren, and sée if' all the avenues
of the temple are
guarded) This is done, and J. W. says,
T. M. all the brethren present are G. A. and all the avenues of
the temple are guarded!
Master.-'Most Bespectable Wardens, assist me in opening
*
Collar. -
--_,as -n.. .--'*"
~
~
naar on
nssonar. 299
this lodge of G. A. Respectable S. W. what is the howl' The
response and the residue ofthe ceremony of opening, is the game
as in the degree of P. Architect.
-Reception.-The candidate being divested of all weapons, and
biinded and lead to the door, the Master of Ceremonies gives the
alarm ofthe P. Architect. The J. W. knocks, the alarm of this
degree, which is repeated by the S. W. and then by the Master.
J. W. says, 'Respectable brother S. W. some one knocks at the
door after the~ manner of a P. Architect !' S. W. 'Powerthl
Master, some one knocks at the door,' Src. Mast. 'Venerable
brother S. W. see who knocks) J. W. goes to the door, gives
the alarm of a P. A. which isanswered from without, and he asks,
'What is your desirel' .M. of C. 'Here is a br. P. A. who wishes
to be examined, that he may receive the degree of G. A. The J,
W. shuts the door and repeats to the S. W., who repeats to the M.
Master. 'Respectable brother J. W. demand his name, if he is
properly prepared, and has resolution to undergo the severe trials
as all G- A. have done, who have gone this way before him.' The
J. W. does this, and repeats the answers of candidate to S. W.
who reports to Master. Brethren all rise, and Master says, 'My
brethren, the second story of the temple according to the Supreme
orders-It isnecessary that it should be elevated another sto ,
which will be the height which it ought to have according to ge
designs given by the G. A. of the universe. The direction ol'
this part of our work has been reserved for the G. A. who is to
replace Hiram. The work ought to be deferred no
longer; it
must be completed before our next meeting. .It is necessary that
the Architect who presents himself, should make us
acquainted
with the justice of his plans, since none but skilful G. Architects
can
bring the temple to perfection. ls it your wish, my brethren,
that we should admit and examine him who is at the doorl' Breth-
ren assent by clapping hands three times. Master. 'Brother J. W.
cause
'
Moabon' to be introduced in due form.' Candidate is
led in, and placed in the west, his feet or toes on the points of the
square. Master knocks 1 for order; J. W. knocks 7, (alarm of
G. A.) this is repeated by S. W. and by Master. J. W. says,
'Powerful Master, you behold 'Moabon,' who fdesires to obtain
the degree of G. A.' Jllaster. 'My brother, the degree which
you desire to obtain, is one of high rank. The perfecting cf the
temple is a work of ,such importance, that we fear you will not
submit to the trials to which we
subject those whom we admit.
Yet the necessity of finding a
worthy successor to Hiram, renders
it necessary to prove those who think themselves capable of' filling
his place. It is necessary to make -the tour of the temple twenty-
u}._.-ann-».._._, _
.`...., ,...... _--
300 uoim on lssonnv.
seven times, which I have reduced to nine, for the purpose of exe
:gaining the work. It is also necessary to produce a plan drawn
with exactnes . You will presentthis to the G. A. who will
wlmmer you are worthy to replace Hiram, whom we, have lostl'
Master knocks 1, as a signal for the J. W. to lead candidate round.
the lodge; he also puts the plan in the hands ofthe candidate; he
travels as in the degree of P. A. J. W. knocks 1, and says,
'Respectable brother S. W. '
Moabon' has tinishedhis mysterious
travels) S. W. repeats this to the Master. Master. 'My bros
ther, what are thefruits of your travelsl' Candidate. 'Powerful
Master, I have brought a
plan of the .works of the temple, which I
am ready to present. for inspection! .Master 'My brother, pre-
sent it to me by three steps.' Candidate makes three steps, and
falls on one knee at the foot ofthe throne. Master receives it,
and after examining it, hands it to the brother next to him, who
passes it on; thus it returns again to the Master in the east, who
receiving it, places the hand ofthe candidate on, the square and
double triangle, placed onthe altar. The compass on his wrist,
ai sword is held above, and he takes the obligation. l
_
Obligation.-'I promise, under the same
obligations which I
have already taken, never to reveal the secrets of this degree of
G. A. to any one of an inferior degree, or to any other person,
under the penalty of being expelled tifom all our lodges. Amen!
Jllaster. 'Brother S. W. conduct the candidate backward by
three steps] In the west he is turned with his back to the east,
and is seated on a stool before the table, and then turned_ again
towards the east. Master. 'Do you persist in your determination
to keep our secrets inviolablyl' ANG. 'Yes.' Master. 'Brother
S. W. remove the veil of obscurity; 'Moabon' is worthy to be-
hold our labors.' (The bandage is removed from his eyesat the
stroke of the mallet.) Jllaster. 'My brother, it is with pleasure
we have seen you fullil the conditions prescribed to you. The ex-
actness of your planinduces us, to admit you among our number,
that with us
you may complete this vast and sublime edifice-
Approach, my brother, and receive the marks of distinction to
which your constancy entitles you!' 'We have in this degree, a
sign of demand, one of response, a token, and two words. The
sign of demand is made by placing the hands on the stomach so
as to form a triangle with the thumbs and fore fingers. This is
termed the 'summoning sign;' and the sign of responseis made
by carrying the two hands in the same fonn above the head. This
is the sign of distress, and is only to be used in danger. The
token is made by joining right hands and reversing them three
times. The word is 'Moahon,' givenhy pronouncing a_ syllable
~~ --»... ,-
.,__,.... ...rn .-.~ HA-
_-....¢hnn~
uour on ivmsonnr. 30]
each time the hands are reversed in the token. Pass word, the
same as the pass word of Fellow.Craii. Go, my brother, salute
the brethren, and return to me.' When the candidate has don¢~
this, he takes his seat in the west, and hears the lecture.
G
LECTURE.
M. Most Resp. S. W. are you a G. All S. W. Powerthl
Master, I have wrought in the third story ot' the temple. M.
Where were you received? S. W. In the middle chamber. M.
What is that chamber? S. W. The place where king Solomon
completed the plan of the temple with the Grand Architects. M.
How were you employed in the degree of G. A.? S. W. In
'building the third story, which was the top of the temple. M.
How did you merit this degree? S. W. By the perfection of the
designs which I presented to Solomon. M. What was your re-
ward? S. W. Two signs, n token, and two words. M. Give
-them to me. S. W. P. Master, give me the first and I will give
you the second. M. What are these signs called? S. W. The
first the' sign of demand, and the second the sign of distress, M,
Vlfhat does the first sign show, and why does it bear that name?
S. W That a
good Mason in distress, may depend on the assist-
ance of his brethren; also, that it is only to be given in the lodge
.or in danger. M. ,Give the token to your nearest brother. (Giv-
-en, saying Moubon.) M. What is the word you cannot pro-
nounce? S. W. The word given me
by Solomon. M. -What is
the other word? S. W. (Repeating the_ pass word ofthe Fellow
fCrai`t,) which is the pass word. What is your age? S. W.
'Twenty-seven years.
'
V
Closing-.e-.Master. 'Resp.. brethren S. W. and J. W. give no-
ftice that I am about to close this lodge of G. A.' (They do it.)
Master. 'What is the hour, brother S. W.?' S. W 'The last
instant, the last hour, the last day in which the G. ,A. of the uni-
verse was employed in creating the world; the last -instant, the
last hour, the lastday which Solomon employed in
constructing
the temple.' _ JlIaster.- 'Therefore it ought to be the last instant
of holding this lpdge; it is time to close, and repose ourselves!
Wardensrepeat this. Master knocks 27, andsays, 'My brethren,
_the lodge is closedl' ~
-Nora. The
apartmaglt
belliild the black curtain is not used in this degree,
but in that ot' 'Le M re Ecossoxsi
3.
Bs
G
_
____ '__'
.
,_ _
_
Itnliinlnlnnn- __-n-_.s - ,
el" -
302 mem*
`
os Mssomzr.
e
rm: unease or
LE MAITRE ECOSSOIS.*
Description, ¢§~c.-The two apartments mentioned in tire last
degree, are those used in this, except that, in the first apartment,
the altar is placed in the west between the Wardens, and in the
place of the first plan, one is used which represents the temple
complete, but destitute of any ornaments. V
Below the temple are
represented many working tools, and on the back are written the
names of those who have taken the degree, in the lodge; below
these names the word 'e:rcl¢uled' is written, for the purpose of bc-
ing filled up with the names of those who may have refused to
undergo the trials hereafter mentioned. Such a refusal excludes
the person for ever from all lodges of 'Maitre Ecossois,' and con.
sequently from all the degrees above it. Before the altar is a
stool, on which the candidate is made to sit, leaning his head on
the altar, at the time the hangings of the lodge are
changed from
black to red.
Titles.--Master--'.Most Puissant;' Wardens--'_Mo,q1 R¢¢p¢¢-
1abl¢;' and brethren-'.Most Honorable!
»
Opening-like that of the last degree.
'
Ret-eption.4Candi,date is prepared as in the degree of G. A.
except that he is not blinded. 'Master of Ceremonies' causes him
to sign his name on the back of the plan, without letting him see
the other side, and tells him that, if he wants resolution to under-
go the trials, he had better go no further, since, if he shows any
weakness, he will be for ever excluded. 'If he persists, the M.
of C. knocks at the door the alarm of a G. A. which is answer-
ed within by the alarm of this degree. He is led in and placed
in the west, facing the east, between the Wardens. The War-
dens give the alarm, which the Master answers and says, 'Most
Resp. Wardens, what do you desirel' S. W. 'Most Puissant,
here is 'Moabon,' who, tirll of zeal, strength, and courage, wish-
es to submit to all the trials which you may impose on him, to ob-
tain the 'Puissant Degree' of 'Superintendent Maine Ecossois.' '
.Masten 'My brother, we approve the zeal which induces you to
make this request, but you know not the sublimity of the degree
which you solicit. 'I'he temple is finished, and it only means ,to
complete the 'altnrs' and 'tnbemacles' which Hiram left unfinish-
ed, and of which he has furnished the designs. He is no mom:
it is necessary to have a successor who will, with honor and skill,
y-l .
`
*
Scotch Master.
1
. »
-
1 ,
""- »-- Y
_.au ~=- _s .,;.~..-A.. ..hL.|.__..uuH».__. -"sir-4........u¢l.
LIGHT ON MABONRY. 303
pursue and finish his designs. Are you capable of doing thisl'
Candidate. 'M. P. if zeal, labor, and constancy claim any right,
condescend to prove me.' Master. 'M. R. J. Warden, cause
the candidate to make the usual joumey by 3 times 27, and if the
designs which he shall submit to us, are worthy of being pursued,
we will proceed to the trials necessary to enable him to seo the
brilliant lightl' J. _W. gives the plan to the candidate, causes
him to travel, and then the Wardens knock, and the S. W. says,
'M. P. Moabon has fulfilled your orders, and wishes to present
his designs to you.' Master. 'M. Resp. J. W. cause him to
advance by three stepsz' he does this-the Master examines the
plan, and passes it to the brethren. Master. 'My brother, this
alone is not suliicient; there are other trials to be submitted to,
Do you persist in your first demandl' Candidate. 'Yes, M. P.'
.Master. 'Most Resp. J. W. cause the candidate to return to the
west, by three steps ba.ckward, that he may see his duty to be
firm in the path ot' virtue, notwithstanding the humiliations which
will be required of him!' When the candidate is placed in the
west, Master says, 'My brother, it is necessary to examine you
on the degrees which you have already taken! This is done, and
Master says, 'My brother, though you have passed through all
these degrees, you are not yet one of the most perfect. It re-
mains for you to behold the brilliant light, which is submitted to
the view of those only, who have been well tried. It is necessa-
ry that you should take an obligation, which is contained in the
paper which I present to you; read to yourself, and afterwards,'it`
you are willing to take it, read it aloud.'
Obligation.-'In the name ofthe Most High, who has created,
sustained, and guided me thus far in my life, I promise and swear
thatl will keep inviolably all the secrets, signs, and mysteries of
this degree, except it shall be in a
just and regular lodge of the
same; and if I shall violate this obligation, I consent that the
veins of my temples and throat shall be opened, and my body ex-
posed on the highest pyramid, in the open air, to the rigor of the
winds, the heat of the sun, the dews of the night, -until the blood
flowing gradually from my veins, my life shall be extinct through
loss of blood and famine. May the G. A. of the universe keep
me in this obligation. Amen.'
Master says, 'My brother, have you resolution to' pronounce
this obligation from your heart, in aloud voice, before this august
assemblyl' If the candidate refuses, the Wardens, placing the
points of their swords in his back, cause him to make the twenty-
seven tours of the G. A. and the eighteen of the P. A._ roi-md lille
room and then drive him out of the room. If the candidate con-
' -
..¢ ....-~-
--I
`
|-._.....¢¢,__,_` ____
_'hun ____,_
_
-
30-1 LIGHT 0N MASONRY.
scntg, he reads the obligation with aloud voice, and the J. W.
then bums it in one of the lights. When it is consumed, they all
clap hands thrice.
Master. 'My brother, since your zeal hasinduced you to per-
severe, we recognize you as
'Superintendent of the Tabemacles7
we are about to raise. You will succeed our Resp. Master, Hi-
rum; but before your honor is proclaimed in the east of the tem-
ple, let us render a tribute of respect to the memory of him whose
loss we
deplore in profound silence.' Master says, 'Civi,' and
knocks 1; all the brethren place one knee on the floor, and rest-
ing the head on one
hand,_remain silent. Master knocks 1, and
the Wardens place the candidate on his knees before the table,
his face covered with his hands and placed on the open Bible, so
that he sees nothing. The Wardens cross their swords onhis
neck. While he is in this posture, the black drapery of the first
apartment is removed, and the black curtain of the second drawn,
:ind all the brethren put on the red cordon when the change is
made; the Master knocks 1 for silence. He knocks again, and
says, 'Caki,' (rise.) Brethren all rise, and the Wardens raise the
candidate; as he rises, Master knocks 1, and all the brethren say,
'Hiram is dead, and 'Moabon' supplies his place.'
After a moment's silence, Master says, 'lt is with pleasure, my
brother, that we have proclaimed you a 'Superintendent Maitre
Ecossoisl' Approach and leam the mysteries of this degree?
Ho is caused to advance to the brazen sea, from which the Mas-
ter takes water with an urn, and, throwing some drops on the left
side of the candidate, says, 'Be purifiedl' He is then placed at
the foot ofthe throne, and the _Master, giving him the cordon and
jewel, says, 'This cordon and.jewel gives you the command over-
all other Masons of inferior degrees. (Giving the gloves,)
These gloves belong to this degree. We have in this degree
two signs, a token, and four words. The two first words are
'Ui-im' and 'Thummi~m.' The secret and incommunicable word
is 'mul , (JI-1HOVAll;) the word of Ancient Masters, which
had been lost! The password is ,'Zedidiac.' The sign is to
present the hands, forming aftfiadgle, at the top of the forehead,
saying, 'The triangle on thei forehead is my support? The an-
swer to this sign is made by placing the right hand on the eyes,
inclining the head, and bending the knee. The token is to take
the right hand (as in the degree of G. A. but in place of reversing
them;) three times, and giving mutually three light blows with the
four fingers joined, placing the left hand on the right shoulder,
saying, 'Virtue unites two hearts, two bodies, and two hands; and
the whole make but onel' Go, my brother, salute the Wardens,
find retum to the east for further instruction.' _
|»1¢-..-_
t.
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 305
LECTURE.
M. Most Resp. brother S. W. what do you know as a Mai-
tre Ecossois? S. W. Most Puissant, I know the grand light of
the third apartment. M. Where were
you received? S. W. In
the high- place.
i
M. What road did you travel? S. W. By that
of the' middle chamber, to the third apartment. M. Has not this
'third apartment another name? S. W. lt is named 'Gibeon,' and
is the high place where David and Solomon offered their burnt
aofferings, before the building of the temple. M. In what were
you occupied as a 'Maitre Ecossois?' S. W. In furnishing the
altars and tabemacles, and in completing the precious oma-
ments. M. What are those ornaments? S. W. The ark of al
liance and cherubims, the brazen table, the table of shew-bread.
the altar of burnt offerings, and the candlestick of seven branch;
es. M. What 'was above theark of alliance? S. W. The 'San-
KINAIL' between the cherubim's wings. M. Under what form
isthe 'Shek=inah' represented? S1 W. Under that of a lamb re-_
posing on a book sealed with seven seals. M. Of what wood,
was -the ark made! S. W. Of shittim wood, which is incorrupti-
ble, and it was covered with gold. M. What was its size? S,
W. Two cubits and a half lon , one cubit and a half broad, and
one cubit and a half highf M. Wllhat did the ark contain? S. W.
'.[`he tables of the law, Aaron's rod, and the pot of manna. M.
Give me the sign of that law. S. W. It is given by placing the
two hands on the head, the fingers extended, which -represents
the, ten commandments. M. ln what place was the ark made,
and by whom? S. W. It was made at Horeb by Bezaleel and
Aholiab. It was carried from Horeb to Moab, from Moab to
Shechem, afterwards to Shilo, from Shilo to the temple of Da-
gon, from thence to the house of Aminadab, then tothe house of
Obed Edom, afterwards to Kirjath Jearim, thence to`Jerusalem
and placed on Mount Zion, and afterwards to the temple on
Mount Moriah. M. Where were the ornaments placed? S. W.
The altar of burnt olferings was
placed before the door ofthe
tent of the congregation; The altar of incense was at the west
ond ofthe holy place of the tabernacle. The table of shew-bread
on the north, and the golden candlestick of seven branches on
the south. The ark itselfwas placed in the west end of the
most holyplace. M. What is represented bythe candlestick
of seven branches? S. W. The seven days of creation, includ-
ing the day of rest. 'S. W. How did you become acquainted
with all these things? 'S. W; By the designs which I pr¢S¢nted
to Solomon
izatter
a
dangerous journey- M. What wustihm S-»
B2~
-7.--.._»--.¢~.-..,
.-¢»u»...... .
""`
xo'
306 areas on ausomtr.
W. I made the tour of all the works of the temple, 3 times 27,
M. Was a sight of the brilliant light the reward of this labor.
S. W. No,M. P.; I was subjected to three trials. M. What
were those? S. W. The first, to make three steps backward, to
reach me firmness in the path of virtue under humiliations. The
second, to give an exact account of the progress which I had
made in Masonry, and in the practice of virtue. The third, to
make a
voluntary engagement which my heart approved, and my
,lips avowed. M. What did this engagement produce? S. W.
A tribute of respect to the memory of Hiram." M. What Rallow-
edi S. W. The word 'Civi,' which signides kneel. M. Did
the grief forthe death of Hiram continue long? S. W. After
seven minutes the word, 'Caki,' was pronounced, which signifies
rise. M. What followed that word? S. W. A surprise, splen-
dor, the brilliant light, and a
proclamation. M. What was the
surprise? S. W. My sight was struck with the view of scarlet
and hyacinth. M. Whatwas the splendor and brilliant light?
S. W. The Shekinah, and the glory of the G. A. M. What was
the use of the proclamation? S. W. To show that all my breth-
ren had selected me to replace Hiram and had declared me Su-
perintendent of all the works ofthe temple by the name of Moa-
hon. M. What does the luminous triangle represent? S.,W.
The glory of the G. A. of the-universe, and his three divineat-
tributes:
etemitywurisdom,
and power. What do the letters with~
in signify? S. . The name of 'Gon,' the sacred word of 'M.
Ecossois.' I4 shows us that Gon is the centre and source of
all light, and the only one who is able to know all
hinge.
M.
Why do the Maitre Ecossois wear the triangle? S. W. ecause
it is an emblem of the triple unity. M. What does the circle,
enclosing the triangle,
rewesent.
S. W. That Goo has neither
beginning nor end. M. V
hy is this jewel suspended by a Same
colored ribbon? S. W. To teach us the order with which we
should endeavor to destroy vice. M. In what place was your
iirst lodge holdgi S. W. Between three mountains inaecessa-
ble to the profane, in a
deep valley, where peaceyvirtue, and un-
ion, reign. M. What are those three mountains? S. W. Mt.
Moriah, Mt. Sinai, and Mt. Heroden. M. Where is Mt. Hero-
den situated? S. W. Between the west and north of Scotland, at
the end of the Sun's course, where the highest masonic lodge is
holden in that country, which has given a name to thisfdegree.
M. What do you mean
by a
deep valley! S. W. The tranquillity
which reigns in our lodges. M. What produces this tranquillity?
S. W. The preservation of ourrmarlrs unchanged. M. What
are the marks of a Maitre Ecossois? S. W. Two signs, a to-
_....... L...
i
. \
moat an susomu. 307
ken, and four words, of which one is incommunicable. M. Give
me the sign. (That of response is given.) M. Give the token
to your nearest brother. (It is given.) M. What do you call
that token? S. W. 'The perfect proof.' M. Give me the grand
word. S. AW. I will letter it with you. (Done.) M. What does
that word signify? S. W. The name of G. A. M. Givfe me
the two tirst words. (Given.) M. Give me the pass word.
(Zedidiac.) M. Why is the lodge purified before labor begins?
S. W. Atler the construction of the temple, the G. A. caused
tire to descend from Heaven to purity it, and to consume thg
bumt otfering. M. What is your age? S. W. As an
Appren-
tice, three years; as a Fellow Craft, tive; as a Master, nine; as a
Petit Architect, twenty-one; as a Grand Architect, twenty-seven;
as a Maitre Ecossois, eighty-one. _
Close.-Same as in Degree of Grand Architect.
'rua nnonsa or
KNIGHT OF THE EAST,
08
'Cl-IEVALIER DE L'ORlENT.' »
Description ofthe lodge.-For this degree two apartments are
necessary, situated on the same flour.
First .Qurrhnent-Is hung with green on the east, west, and
north sides, so as to leave a space of six feet between the hang-
ings and the wall. The space enclosed is an
oblong square. Ig
represents the apartment of Cyms, king of Assyria; the throne is
in the east, two arm chairs in the west, and the seats for the mem-
bersin the south. Behind the throne is 'a
transparency, repre.
seating the dream of Cyrus, (mentioned hereatlen) and above,
near the ceiling, is atriangular glory, and in it '}]$}1\,' (Jeho-
vah.) The glory rests on a luminous cloud, from which an ea.
gle is issuing, with a label in its beak, and on it the words, 'Give
liberty to the captives! Below appearNebuchadnezzar and Bel.
shazzer, loaded with chains. No carpet is placed in this apart.
ment, but that which supplies its place is along square, formga
by alittle wall of wood or painted cloth, one foot round, and half
a foot hi h. This little wall, commencing at the two sides of the
throne,»5sses by the feet of the brethren in the south; and ex-
tends td'the hanging in the west, so that the two chairs may be
within the long square; it is then continued the whole length ot'
---|~
"
303 Lionr on mxsormr.
the north side, until it reaches the east. At the four comers of
this wall, and also in the middle of the south and north, is a little
tover, one and a half feet higher than the wall. I n the west is
tho seventh tower, which divides both the wall and the hangings.
This tower should be seven feet high, and large enough to con-
tain n man. It has two doors, one within the lodge and one
without. At this last door are two sentinels, armed with spears
:md swords. They are in the six feet of space before named.
The residue of this space, from the north to the east, (where the
door of the second apartment is plnoed,) is occupied by a bridge
lighted by a lantem. At the entrance ofthe bridge it is guarded
by many armed men. The other end reaches to the door ofthe
second apartment. Water so
placed as to be agitated, is be-
neath the bridge, and represents the river Staburzania, (or Eu-
phrates.) ~
»
Second ./Ipartment-Represents the court of the temple, hung
with red. The carpet represents the furniture of the holy and
most holy places. _
Above the ark, the Shekinali, (symbol of the
presence of Jehovah,) represented by a lamb reposing on a book
sealed with seven seals. -
At the corner of the temple is the col-
umn Bouz, broken. The carpet is covered 'with black, which
is removed at the proper time for its being uncovered.
Titles, ornaments andjewels ofthe first apqrtinent.-Master-»
Cyrus, called Sovereign; Senior Warden-Nebuzaradan, called
First General; Junior Warden--Mithridates, called Second
General; Secretary-Chancellor; Master of Ceremonies-Grand
Master; Brethren-Knights. §
The Sovereign carries a Sceptre. All the othcers wear at
broad green ribbon, crossed, round the neck without any jewel.
The Wardens and brethren have naked swords in their hands,
and wear a
single ribbon (green,) from right to left without any
jewel. Apron, white, lined and bordered with green, without
any emblems.
Titles, ornaments, andjewela ofthe second apartment#-Master,
is called Most Excellent; Wardens, Most Powerful; Brethren.
Most Venerable; and candidate, Zeruhbabel. In passing from
the first apartment to the second they change the color greerrfor'
red. The cordon is rod, and at the bottom are resets ma
" '
the color of the preceding degrees, with one of green, for _W
*
of the East, and one of black for Knight of the Eagleer;
brethren wear a girdle of water colored silk, emhroider
gold fringe, sprinkled with 'death heads' and 'cross bo
the middle u representation, in gold, of a
bridge, on# fone#
the letters, L. D. P. The Master and otiioers wear *=? jewe
._
'gi l
i"L.
-
-isfpi
~
i`z-lf
"
`
"_
Q
....;. _ ._
._,..- ._
_ __.».-..._-¢.n..¢.-nQ--'A
I
`
LléH'I' on ussonsr. 309
suspended from the neck, and the brethren
_from the bottom of
the cordon. The jewel of'the Master is a triple triangle enclos-
ed in a circle. The Senior Warden wears
a 'square,' and the
Junior Warden, a 'level,' within the triple triangle. The other
oilicers wear the usual jewel in a triple triangle. The brethren
wear the triple triangle, crossed by two swords, the hilts resting
on the level. The jewels'are of gold; each brother has a trowel
sus nded from the strin of his apron.
Igiqiaration.-The cgndidate is to be clothed as a Maitre
Enossois; his hands bound with a chain, whose links are trian-
gular. This chain must be so long that he may use his hands.
He is informed that he represents Zerubbabel, and is to assume
the air of a captive. He is unarmed, andputs his hands over his
face, atthe door of the tower, where the guards search him (for
wea ons, before he is admitted. i
0;enin?g'.-Sovereign. 'My brethren, assist me to open a
lodge of Knight of the Sword." The Generals repeat this.
The Sovereign knocks seven, (! l ! l l !!) The Generals repeat
this. Sovereign. 'Senior General, see if we are well guarded,
and if we are all Knights of the South.' The General obeys,
and says, 'Sovereign'Master, we are well guarded from the View
ofthe profane and are all K. S.' Sovereign. 'What is the tiuwi'
S. General. 'This day completes the seventy years of captivity-'
Sovereign. 'Generals, Princes, and Knights, I have long since
resolved to liberate the Jews who are in captivity: I am weaned
with seeing t'hem.in chains, but before I liberate them I wish to.
consult yi# respecting a dream which I have had this night, and
which requires an
interpretation. I imagined I saw a ferocious
lion about to throw himself on me and devour me: his appearance.
terrified me, and I hastily looked for some shelter from his fury;
but at that instant I saw
my two predecessors, habited as slaves,
beneath aglory, which Masons designate by the name ofthe G. A.
ofthe universe. I was made tounderstand two words whichl saw
issuing from a
blazing star: they signified 'Liberate the captives#
and I understood if I did not do this, my crown would pass from
me to strangers. I remained speechless and confirsed, and sud-
denly awoke. From that instant' my tranquillity fled. lt re-
mains tbr you Princes to assist me with your advice on this oc-
casion 'P
'
~'.
During this relation the brethren look downwards, but when it
is ended they look at the S. Gen. and imitate him. The S. Ge"-
* Thi!
degreeis called 'Knight ofthe Sword,' and 'Knight ofthe Elllei' "S
well as
'Knight ofthe East' »
Q
'
_
_
.
___.r__...,
»-
'°'»~¢4n-¢¢...__. ~
....sL.- _
»-s..-._..-»
"P"
`
310 mens on msonnv. ,` ,
draws his sword, elevates the point, his arm
being extended be-
fore him. He then points it down to signify his agreement in
the opinion ofthe Sov.; he then directs its point upwards, to sig-
nify liberty, and remains in that position. Soo. 'Let the captiv-
ity be finished; Generals, Princes, and Knights, this L. of K. S.
is open.' The Generals, each in his place, repeat these words.
Reception.-The Master of Ceremonies leads the candidate to
the door of the tower, where he is thus interrogated by the guards.
Gen. 'What do you wish?' Can. 'I wish, if possible, to speak with
your Sovereign.' Gen. 'Who are you?' Cam. 'The first among
my equals, by rank a Mason, by misfortunes captive! Gm.
'What is your namel' -
Can. 'Zerubbabel.' Gen. 'What is your
agef' Can. 'Seventy years! Gen. 'What is the cause of this
application? Can. 'The tears and misery of my brel.hren.'
Gm. 'We will endeavor to make your request known to the
Sovereign! The guard knocks (ll ! !! ll) at the door of the
tower. This alarm is repeated; one by the J. General, two by
the S. General, and three by the Sovereign. The J. Gen. says,
'The guard knocks at'the door of the tower, in the manner of
a Knight ofthe Sword.' S. Gen. 'Sovereign Master, the guard
knocks,' Slc. Sov. says, 'Senior General, some one is to be
introduced. Be prudent! --
'In my present embarrassed
state the least advice is not to be disregarded! The Jun. Gen,
goes to the door of the tower, knocks, and it isopened. The
guard lays aside his spear, comes before the Sovereign, crosses
his arms, bows, and says, 'The Iirst -among Masons, his equals,
agedseventy years, wishes to appear before you.' Qc. 'When
he shall have been introduced into the tower of the palace, wo
will examine him.' The guard bows, retires, and makes the
candidate enter the tower which is closed on him. The Sove-
reign questions the candidatethrough the door, which is shut.
Sov. 'What is the cause of this applicationl' Can. 'I come to
implore the justice and benevolence of the Sovereign! V
Sov.
'F or what purposel' Can. 'That mercy may be shown to my-
brethren, who- have been in captivity seventy years l' Soo.
'What is your name?' Can. 'Zerubbabel; the first among my
equals, by rank a Mason, by misfortune a captive! Sov. 'What
is that mercy which you demand of me'l'- Can. 'That, under the
protection of the G. A. of the universe, the king will reS¥0l'B Our
liberty and allow us to retum and rebuild the temple' of our Goo.
Sov. 'Since motives so just have conducted you hither, you are
permitted to appear in our presence! The guards open the door
of the tower, and cause the captive to prostrrite himselifin the
west, (done.) Sov. 'Zerubbabél, I have, like you, lamented the
_
_.__.~_ ___. _ ___ _
_
,_ --un-_V ,
_
,...a.»-»¢.4|¢-
I
`
nerr ON ussounr. 311
severity of your captivity. I promise to grant you liberty in-
stantly, if you will communicate to me the secrets of Masonry,
for which I have always entertained the greatest veneration!
Can. 'Sov. Master, when Solomon communicated to us the first
principles of Masonry, he informed us that equality was its foun-
dation. Equality does not reign here; and your rank, your ti-
tles, and your court, are not admissible in the place where in-
struction is given in our mysterie . Besides, our exterior marks
are unknown to you; my engagements are
inviolable; I am una-
ble to reveal our secrets, and if liberty is to be obtained at this
price, I prefer captivity-' Sov. 'I admire the discretion and the
virtue of Zerubbabel; he deserves liberty as a reward for his
firmness! The brethren assent, by pointing their swords down-
wards, and then' upwards. Sov. 'Jun. Gen. cause Zeruhbabel
to undergo the seventy trial , which I reduce to three, viz. lst.
That of the body; 2d. That of his courage; 3d. That of his
mind; after which, perhaps, he may merit the favor which he
demands# The J. G. cau es him to go round the lodge three
times;--the first time, s small 'shell' is exploded; the second time,
he is examined to ascertain whether he persists in his demand;
the third time, he holds his hands at the top of his forehead.
After this, the J. G. knocks 7, and the S. G. says, 'What do you
wishl' J. G. 'The candidate has submitted to his trials with
firmness and constancy! Sov. 'Zerubhabel, I grant to you the
favor which you solicit, and consent that you shall be set at lib-
erty.' Sov. knocks 7, which is the signal at which the Generals
divest Zerubhabel of his chains. Sov. 'Retum to your own
country; I permit you to rebuild the temple, destroyed by my
ancestors; its treasures shall be sent to you before the setting of
thé sun; you shall be acknowledged chief over your brethren. I
ordain that all shall obey you in the countrytlieou which you
shall pass; that theyshall render you assistance as' it were
to myself; I will only exact a tribute from
YOIFOQKHITS,
five sheep, and seven rams, which I will receive ui§" "porch
ofthe new
temple; if I demand this, it is rather in remembrance-
ofthe friendship which I have promised you, than as a reward.
Approach, my friend.' The Generals place him at the foot of the
throne- Sw- 'I arm you with this sword, as a mark of your su-
periority over
your equals, 'I am persuaded you will employ it
only in their defence, and I create you a
'Knight of the_sword.'
"
In saying these last words, the Sov. strikes with ,his sword on the-
sholllders, and then raises him. He gives the candidate the apron,
`
and green cordon, which passes from left to right, md 5814> 'AP *"
'IN-fl? Ofmyfsteem, Ideeotateyou withan apron, Nd 8995, '*'h1°h'
_`_.4_
_,Y
`
312 LIGHT ON nusonnr.
`
I have adopted in imitation ofthe workmen ofyour temple. Tho'
these decorations are not accompanied with any mysteries, yet I
confer them on the princes of my court as marks of honor; hence.
fm-th you enjoy the same honor. I now commit you to the care
of Nebuzaradan, who will give you guides to conduct you in
safety to your brethren, in the place where you will found the
new temple-Thus I docreel' The S. G. leads the candidate
and places him in the tower, where he remains while the breth-
ren silently pass into the second apartment. Ailer they are in
order, the candidate is led behind the hangings to the bridge.
At its entrance he is opposed by guards, who rob him of his
apron and sash, and endeavor to prevent his passage; he at.
tacks, drives them oil, and arrives at the door of the second
apartment. The Master of Ceremonies knocks 7 at
the door;
[M. of C. accompanies candidate] When the brethren hear
the alarm, they detach the trowel fiom their aprons, and hold it
in the left hand, and the sword in the right. The Junior Gene-
ral knocks seven. This k repeated by Senior GeneraL Jun.
ior General. 'I hear a knocking at the door of the lodge, in the
manner ot' Knights ofthe Sword) Senior General. 'Most Ex-
cellent Master, some one knocks at the door of thelodge, in the
manner of Knights of the Sword.' Master. 'Most Powerful
brother Junior Warden, see who knocks.' The Junior Warden
goes, knocks, and opening the door, says, 'What do you wishl'
Candidate. 'I wish to see my brethren, that! may inform them
of my deliverance from Babylon, and that of the unhappy rem-
nant' of the fraternity, which has been freed from captivity.'_ J.
Warden shuts the door and reports to Master. Mastersays,
'The news which the captive brings is true. The seventy years
are
expired, and the day has arrived for-rebuilding the tennle.
Ask the captive his name, his age, and country, for fear of sur-
prise) Junior Warden knocks 7, and is answered; he opens
the door, and says, 'What is your namel' Candidate. 'Zamb-
babel.' Junior Warden. 'What is yourngel' Candidate. 'Sev-
enty years! Junior Warden. 'Where is your countryl' Cun-
didate. 'On this side of the river -Staburzanis, tothe west of As-
syria.' Junior Warden shuts the door, report to Senior War-
den, who reportsto the Master. Master says, 'His name is
Zerubbabel, his country lies on this side of the riser Stsburza-
nai, his age seventyysars; yes, mybrethseunhe captivity is end-
ed! The captive is truly .the Prince of the sovereign tribe which
is to rebuild the temple. Let him be admitted among ns and
acknowledged as the one who is to direct and assist our labors!
Junior Warden knocks, opens the door, and conducts the captive
'¢...._..._.;
*A -a_____, ,
LIGHT ON MASONRY» 313
to the west. S. W. 'Most Excellent Master, behold Zerubbabel,
who demands to be admitted into the bosom of our
fratemityt'
M 'Zerubbabel, give us an exact relation of your deli erancel'
Can. 'Cyrus gave me
permission to approach -the foot of his
throne, he was touched with the miseries of the iiaternity, he
armed me with this sword, for the defence of my brethren, and
honored me with the title of brother among his companions. He
finally granted me
my freedom, and committed me to the care ot
his faithful subjects, who conducted me on
my journey, and gg-
sisted me in conquering our enemies at the passage of the river
Staburzailai, where, netwithstandingour victory, welost the marks
of distinction, which had been given to us
by the king, our
deliverer.' M. 'My brother, the loss which you have met with
shows that the justice of our fraternity would not endure the tri-
urnph of pomp and grandeur, In decorating you with these hon-
ors, Cyrus was not guided by that spirit of equality, which has
always characterized you. By this loss, all the marks of disting-
tion received from that prince have disappeared, but you have
preserved those of true Masonry; but before I can communicate
to you those secrets, which, since our
captivity have been preserv-
ed among the remnant of our
fraternity, we must require of you
assurances that you have not lost the sentiments, or the know-
ledge of Masonry, during your servitude! Can. 'Examine me;
I am
prepared to answer! M. 'What degree have you received
in Masonryi" Can. 'That of Most Excellent Master.' M 'Give
me the signs;' (given.) M. 'Give me the grip;' (given.) M.
'My breiiren Knights, I believe Zerubbabel is worthy to parti-
cipate in our new
mysteries.' Thebrethren assent by elevating
their swords. M 'Most Powerful S. W. cause the candidate
to advance by three steps; and at the third, let him kneel at the
foot of the throne of the G. and S. Architect, where he will make
the engagements which we require.'
Obligation.-I promise, under the same
obligations which I
have contracted in the ditlereut degrees of Masonry, never to
reveal the secrets of the 'Knight of the Sword,' or Free Ma-
sons, to any one of an inferior degree, or to one who is not a
Mason, under the penalty of enduring a
captivity so
rigorous that
my chains shall never be broken, and that my body be exposed
to the beasts ofthe forest, and that a thunder bolt may dash me
to atoms, as an example to others who are indiscreet. So mote
it bel
The Master raises the candidate, and (while he and the breth-
ren are sheathing their swords) says, 'My brethren, the destruc-
tion of the
tangle subjected Masons to such severe calamities,
-c
_..---
.
-...L
314 LIGHT ON mAsoNaY.-
\ve have feared lest their captivity and dispersion, might have im-~
paired their fidelity to their engagements; for this reason, we have
been obliged, while rebuilding the temple, to remain in a secret
and retired place, where we
carefully preserve some ruins
ofthe ancient temple. We do not introduce any to that place,
unless we know them to be true and worthy Masons; not alone
by their signs, words, and grips, but also by their conduct; to
such we communicate our new secrets with pleasure, but we re-
quire as a
pledge, that they should bring with them some remains
or monuments of the ancient temple; those which Cyrus has given
to you are suHicient.' (While these last wordsare pronounced, the
captive is uncovered.) M. 'Most Powerful S. W. cause the candi-
date to recede three steps, that he may learn that we esteem per-»
feet resignation as a Masonic virtue.' Candidate stands in the
west, and Master says, 'My brother, the object of our labors is»
to rebuild the temple ofthe G. A. of the universe; this sublime'
work has been reserved for Zerubbabel. The engagements into
which you, with us, have entered, under that name, require you to~
aid us in rebuilding the temple in its splendor. The sword which
Cyrus has given you, is to he used in defending your brethren,
and punishing those who would profane the august temple which
\ve raise to the glory ofthe Holy One of Israel. It is on these
conditions you participate in our secrets.' The pass word is * 'F _
Go give the brethren of this lodge, the signs, grips, and words,
and return to me.' He goes by the north, and returns by the
south. M. 'My brother, after your deliverance, Cyrus had you
created a Masonic Knight, and 1 now present you with the trow.
el, the symbol of your new
dignity, that hereafter you may labor
with the trowel in one hand, and use the sword with the other, it'
the temple should ever be destroyed, for it is in that manner we
have proceeded to rebuild it. '
(Master gives the girdle, and says,)
'This scarf ought always to accompany you in all lodges; you
will have a mark of true Knighthood, which you acquired at the
river Stahurzanai, by the victory obtained over those who oppes-
ed your passaggl' (Gives the green rosette, saying,-) 'Thought
we do not admit among our ceremonies any of the decorations
given you by Cyrus, yet we are
willing to preserve their remem-
brance by a rosette of that color, which he had chosen, and we
allix it to your cordon.' (Gives the jewel,) 'This jewel is,;r
badge ol' the K. of the S.; may justice and equity. represented
by the sword, be your guidesl' (Gives the gloves,) 'We pro-
ceed to proclaim you a
'Knight of the Sword.' My brethren,
see that Zerubbabel shall hereafter rule the labors of Masqnryl'
They assent by saluting with swords. Candidate is then con-
- ~-
.-_-an-. -» .».-...._.......~..»-.;._-.a|$l||».....n1._i
ucur ON MASONRY- 315
ducted to a chair designed for him, the Master saying, 'My bro-
ther ascend the throne of the Sovereigns of' our
lodges; preserve
the triangular stone of this edifice, and mle the laborers as Solo~
"mon, Hiram of Tyre, and Joabert have done before youl' When
candidate is seated, the brethren sheath their swords; clap their
hands three times,icrying Zerubbabel each time, and then com~
mence the
LECTURE.
Master. Br. S. W. how'did you arrive at the eminent dignity
ol' the K. S.? S. W. By humility, patience, and frequent solic-
itations. M. To whom did you apply? S. W. To the great
king. M. What is your name? S. W. Zerubbabel. M. What'
is your country? S. W. Judea; I was born of noble parents, of
the tribe of' Judah. M. What art do you profess! S. W Ma-
sonry M. What buildings have you erected? S. W. Temples
and tabernacles. M. Where have you constructed them? S.
W. For want of ground, we build them in our hearts- M. What
is the name of a Masonic Knight? S. W A Mason, perfectly
free. M. Why perfectly free? S. W. Because the Masons se-
lected by Solomon for the work of the temple, were for theni-
selves and theirdesccndants, declared free from all tributes. They
also possessed the privilege of carrying arms. When the tem-
ple was
destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar, they were led captive
with the rest ol` the Jews; but king Cyrus kindly gave them per-
mission to build the second temple, under Zerubbabel, and de-
clared them free; since that epoch we bear the name of' Free
Masons. M. Was
the ancient temple distinguished for its beauty?
S: W.'It was the first edifice in the world for its richness and
grandeur. The court would contain 200,000 persons. M. Who
was the principal Architect of this building? S. W. Goo ,was the
first, Solomon the second, and Hiram the third. M. Who laid
the first stone? S. W. Solomon. M. At what hour? S. W.
Befor the rising of the sun. M. Why at that hourl S. W. To
teachus thatvinrthe service of the G. A. of the universe, we
should exercise vigilance. .M. What cement was
employed? S. W.
Ai mystic cement composed of flour, of milk, of oil, and of wine.
M. Explain the mystic signiiication of this. S. W. In forming the
first man, Goo employed his kindness, his wisdom, his power,
and his benevolence. M. Where was the first stone ofthe tem-
ple placed? S. W. In the middle of the chamber designed for
the sanctuary. M. How inany gates had the ancient temple?
S. W. Three; one at the east, one at the south, and one at~ the
north. M. How long did that temple stand? S. W. 470 years.
___ ___..¢¢a.-
-*P*
. A...
i _-S-lu.---».;., . ....-.»»... V
_
-- -¢-'_"'°"
7
316 LIGHT ON NASONRY.
6 months, and 10 days. M. Under what king of Israel was it
destro ed? S. W. Zedekiah, the last of the family of David.
M. Wliat is signified by the column Boaz, which you see bro-
ken? S. W. The confusion and injury arising from the recep-
tion ofan unworthy Mason. M. Why is the number 81 held in
veneration among Masons? S. W. That number is symbolic
of the three persons of the Divine Being, represented by the
triple triangle, by the square of 9, and the number 3. M. Why
were the chains of the Jewish captives of a triangular form? S.
The Chaldeans knew that the triangle was with the Jewish Ma-
sons, an emblem of the name of Gon; they therefore made their
chains of that form to inflict greater pain upon the captives. M.
Why were Masons forbidden to work in erecting profane edi-
fices? S. W. To make us remember that we are not to frequent
irregular lodges. M. What was the plan given by Cyrus, for
the new temple! S. W. 100 cubits in length, 60 in breadth, and
60 in height. M. Why did Cyrus order timber to be cut, in the
forest of Lebanon, and stones to be taken from the quarries of
Tyre, for the construction ofthe new temple? S. W. Because it
was necessary that the 2d temple should be entirely like the first..
M. Givo me the name of the principal architect of the second
temple. S. W. 'Bibot.' M. Why do the workmen carry asword
when they labor? S. W. Because, while they wrought with one
hand in bringing materials for building the temple, being subject
to invasion from their enemies, they held their swords in the oth-
er, to defend their labors and their brethren. M. Why is this
lodge enlightened by seventy tapers? -S. W. In memory of the
seventy years of the Babylonish captivity. M. Are you a K. S.'!
S. W. Look! (places his hand on his sword.) M. Give me the
sign. (Gives the second sign ) M. Give me the words and the
pass word. S. W. 'J udah,' 'Benjamin,' and 'Libertas.' M.
Give the grip to the J. W.; (given.) M. Where have you labored?
S. W. At the rebuilding of the temple. M. What hour is it? S.
W. The hour of commencing that work. M. My brethren, since
we have sutiicient time to rebuild the temple of the LORD, let
us remember these things in silence, It is time to repose.-
Brotbers S. W. and J. W. announce in the south and in the
north, that I am about to close this lodge of K. S.' It is an-
nounced. Master knocks 7, and the two Wardens repeat. _
Master. 'The lodge is closed; retire in peace.' The Wardens
repeat this, and the lodge is closed.
B. The letters on the girdle, L. D. P; Liberte de pas-
ser. .
-- -~_»s¢l|»---4h¢..J
LIGHT ON MASONRY. .
317
iLE CHEVALIER Ros!! CROIX."
Titles andjewels.-The lodge is called-'Sovereign 0hapter;'
The Master-'Mast Wise;' Senior Warden-'Most Respectable
_first
Knight
Wardem' Junior Warden-'Moat Reapectable second
Knight arden;'-the other odicers are called-'Most Respec-
iable. ~'
'
The jewel is a kind of quadrant, formed by a
compass and a
quarter circle. In the`middle is a cross on which is a rose, and
at the foot, a pelican feeding its young with blood. The jewel is
suspended from the neck, or from right to lett, by a red watered
ribbon.-This jewel is wom in all lodges, except in that called
'the tirst point of the Red Cross,' where the ribbon is black.
Observations on the degree.-Though this lodge is the 'Ne plus
ultra? of Masonry, and when one has received it, he has a
right
to assist in all others without being subjected to an
examination,
yet he ought to attend lodges which are free from all suspicion,
as such will only admit those who are well known and youched
for. It is necessary for receiving this degree, to have taken those
of the 'Elu,' the 'Ecassois' and the 'Knight of the East.' There
are three points or parts in this degree; two for reception, and the
third called the 'Mystic Sacrament,' which is only used at quar-
terly communications or on festivals.
Lodge Room-Is hung with red. In the east, in place of a
throne, is a
triangular altar, one side of which faces the west.
This is elevated on seven steps. Gu this is placed a 'transparen-
cy,' representing 'Calvary.' The two side crosses are plain,
but that in the middle has a nose and drapery interlaced and above
the`letters I. N. R. I.-Below, before thetr ansparency are bro-
ken columns. On the ruins of which, guards are
sleeping; and
in their midst is' seen a tomb, the stone of which is removed, and
at its mouth grave clothes are seen. There are three triangular
tables with a
light on each. One is placed at the right of the
altar in the east, at the foot of the steps. The two others
facing each other in the west. All this decoration is necessary
whenever a
chapter is opened. But the time of reception the
lod e is hung with black, Src. No furniture is used except that
in 'gre second point,' except three triangular columns placed east,
West and south, with a
transparent inscription on each; that is,
in the east, 'Faith;' in the south, 'Hope;' and in the west, 'Char-
ity." Two preparation rooms are
necessary, one containing 8
table and chair. The other is entirely dark.
*
Knights of the Rose Cross.
Cc2
.~ - _
-f""
"Y
»-ala-.,_- _V -___;n.»..»
uv-
3lS LIGHT ON M.ASONBY» ~
Opening. The "Mosr Wise" is seated on the 3d step of the
altar, his heed leaning on one hand, he knocks 4 (ll ! !) on the
triangular table near him and says 'Most Respectable first and se-
cond Knight Wardens, what is the hour? 'S. W.' The first hour'
of the day. Master. It is time to commence our labors Most Re-»
spectable first,and second Knight Wardens; request our
respecta-
ble Knights to assist me in opening this 'Sovereign Chapter of
R. C.' They obey. Master. 'Most Respectable lst and 2d Kt.
Wardens, are all the Knights in orderi' The Knights are un-
covered and ranged in two columns. S. W. 'They are, Most
Wise.' Master. 'My Brethren, I am overwhelmed with distress,
all is changed, the veil of the temple is rent, the columns of Ma-
sonry are broken, the cubic stone is sprinkled with blood, the
word is lost, and 'consummatum est.'
'
'Most Respectable lst
and 2d Knight Wardens. Examine each of your columns, and
see if by the aid of these Knights, some remedy for our distress
may not be found and report to me.' The Wardens go one to
the north column and one to the south, and in a whisper de-
mand the word of each Knight. lt is given in a whisper with-
out any sign; they begin with the west wing of each column, and
proceeding eastward, give the word tothe Master. They re-
turn to their places and Master says, 'Most Respectable lst Kt.
Warden; now the word is discovered, what remains for us to do?'
S. W1 'Most Wise, to respect the decrees of the Mosr HIGH,
to render homage to the Supreme Architect, and always to hum-
ble ourselves before him, whois able to reinstamp his image up-
OD 1S!' Master. 'Respectable Knights, you see the object of
our labors: my brethren, let us bend our knees before Him who
h&S given us our existencel' All rise; each one faces the east,
makes, the sign, bows and kneels on one knee, afterwards the
Master and all rise. Master and all clap hands seven times, say-
ing three times 'Amlu.' Master. 'Respectahle Knights,the Sove-
reign Chapter is open.' The Wardens repeat this.
Reception.--While in the press room, the candidate writes his
name, profession and the names of the degrees which he has re-
ceived; and also states that his age is thirty-three years. The
Master of Ceremonies leads him to the lodge door and gives the
alarm ofa Knight of the East; The G. Marshall within answers
it by that Of the R. Gross, and informs the J. W. that an alarm,
is heard at the door of the Sovereign Chapter. The Junior War-
den repeats it to the Senior Warden, who reports to the Master-
The Master orders the Junior Warden to see who knocks, when
the reportis made. The Master puts the question as to the admis-
sion of candidate. The brethren assent by clapping hands se-
""
"" '
'~-»--»»- _~.--»~
--»L..__....¢¢~s~~=~L..a » 4&:`~.
LIGHT on mssoruir. 319
ven times and crying 'I-Iouze,' thrice. After this, Master orders
G. Marshall to admit him. In the mean time the Master of Cere-
tilonies takes from himythe decorations of his former degrees,
puts a sword by his ide, and takes him by the hand. He is in-
troduced and placed between the two Wardens. (The Master
and brethren assume an appearance of sorrow.) The two Wur-
dens knock, and Master answers it. Senior Warden. 'Most
Wise, you behold a
worthy Knight of the East, who presents him-
self before the Sovereign Chapter, that he may obtain the favor
of being admitted to the most sublime degree of 'Rose Cross!`
Master. 'Worthy Knight, who are you?' Candidate. 'I am de-
scended from noble parents,_ of the tribe orf~Judah.', Master.
'What is your countryi' Candidate. 'Judea.'l Master. 'What art
do you profess?' Candidate. &Masonry.Z» `Master. *Worthy Kt.
you inspire me with esteem, but you see us overwhelmed with
sorrow. All is changed, the great support of Masonry is gone,
the veil of the temple is rent in twain, the columns are broken,
the most precious ornaments are removed, and the word is lost,
and we have no other hope of -recovering it, than what rests on
your courage. Will you employ itto aid usl Candidate.
'I will.'
Master. 'Will you give us an assurance by taking an obligation
that you will keep all our mysteries profoundly secretl' Candid-
-ate. 'I will.' Candidate kneels on one knee at the triangularta-
ble, near the Master, right hand on the Bible, a sword andicom-
'pass are laid on the same hand.
i
Obligation.-'ln the presence of these Respectable Knights, I
swear and promise on
my word as an honest man and Mason, that
I will not reveal any of the secrets of this .degree of Rose Cross,
under the penalty of being dishonored and banished from all lodg-
es, as
unworthy to associate with virtuous Masons: I pray God
to keep me steadfast. 'Master raises candidate and says, 'My
brother, you understand the importance ot' your obligation, it re-
mains for you to travel a
dangerous journey. The brother Kt.
Master of Cert-monies will make you know how you are to con-
duct yourself Brother Knight Master of Ceremonies, show
this worthy Knight the means
by which the word may be recov-
eredl' The Master of Ceremonies causes the candidate to walk
round the' chapter, showing him successively the columns ol'
'Faith,' 'Hope' and 'Charity.' After this the Master of Ceremo-
nies apprises the Master through the Wardens, that the candidate
has been properly instructed. Master. 'Worthy Knight, remem-
ber what you have learned and recollect we await your return
with anxiety. May you be prospered and restore peave and IIB-P'
piness to our mindsl' 'The Master of Ceremonies leads Out the
»
_..J..-4~'
Ain.-__ .,., _ ._m_... ._ . -----
_
320 naar on MASONRY.
candidate, and conducts him to the dark room and makes him go
round it seven times. In the mean time the black drapery of the
lodge (which covers the red) is removed and the decorations ap-
pear. Master of Ceremonies brings candidate to the door of the
chapter, gives the alarm as before, he enters and is thus ques-
tioned b the Master.
.Muslim 'My brother, from whence do you comet' Can.
'From the land
lst'
Judea.'
&I'hrough
what place have you
assedi' C. '
azareth.' .
'
ho conducted you'!' C. 'Ra-
iihaelf Jil 'Of what tribe are
yon?' C. 'Of the tribe of Judah.'
.M. 'Pronounce the initial letters of these four words,' (above the
cross, 'Jesus Nazaremus Rex
.ix;iacorum.')
M 'What word do
they form?' C. 'I. N. R. I.' _
'My dear brother, this is the
inscription which you see above the cross, it is the word which
we had lost, and which your zeal has recovered. Approach
the loot of this altar and receive the reward due to you.'-
Candidate kneels, and the Master, laying his naked sword on
his head, says, 'ln virtue of the power which I have received
from the Grand Lodge of Heroden, before this august assembly
of Knights, my brethren, my
eguals,
I admit, receive, and_con-
stitute you, now and from hence orth, a Knight and Prince ofthe
Eagle and Pelican, Pertect Free Mason of Heroden, under the
title ol`Sovcrcign ofthe Rose Cross, to enjoy the titles and pre-
rogatires ot"1'i-inces qf Perfect Masons,' wherever they are, with
power to hold a
lodge in lodges regularly assembled, and to
confer the different degrees!
'
Master raises candidate and gives him the cordon, word, sign,
and grip. The word 'Im~i' is given by lettering it. The sign is,
to cross arms on the breast and incline the body as if to kneel
on one knee. Grip. The two _brethren mutually place the right
hand on each other's right shqiilders, and the left hand on the
left shoulder, the arms
crossing alnd interlaced; one says 'Eman-
uel,' the other 'Pax vobiscum,f (Peace be with you. )' The mn-
didate gives the sign, grip, and word to the Wardens; he is then
placed in the south, where he makes an
offering of mercy, for the
use ofthe poor brethren, and then hears the lecture.
LECTURE.
Most resp. Kt. Wardens, whence do you come? S. W.
Most Wise, from Judea. M. Through what place have you
passed? S. W. Through Nazareth. M. Who conducted you?
S. W. Raphel. M. Ot' what tribe are you? S. W. Ot' the tribe
Judah. M. Pronounce the initial letters of those four words.
S. W. Most Wise, I cannot do it without your assistance. M
_._ ,
--_*r;`& _.¢_.¢¢._|
LIGHT oN masounv. 321
I
I. S. W. N. M. R. S. W. I. M. What do those letters
spell? S. W. 'Inri,' the sealed word of the Knights of the Rose
Cross. M. How were
you admitted to this degree? S. W. By
the three theological virtues, Faith, Hope, and Charity. M. What
can you give besides the word? S. W. A sign and a token. M.
Give me the sign; (given.) M. Give the token to one of our
Resp. Knights; (given.) M. Do you lmow the 'Pelicanl' S.
W. I do. M. What does it signify! S.,W. Among us it is a
symbol of the Saviour of the world, and of his perfect humani-
ty.* M. What is the object of the degree of K. R. C. S. W.
To lead us to respect the decrees of the Most High, to render
homage to the Supreme Architect, and always to humble us be-
fore him whois able to reinstamp his image on us. M. My br.
Knight, that is the object of every true Mason. My brethren,
let us kneel before him who has given us existence. Knights
kneel and rise as in opening.
Close.-.Master 'Most Resp. first Knight Warden, what is
the houri' S. W. 'The last hour of the day.' M. 'If it is so,
Most_ Resp. first and second'Knight Wardens, inform our hro-
ther Knights that it is time to close this Sovereign Chapter, and
to retire in peace!
The Wardens give notice. Master knocks 7; this is repeated
by the Wardens. All rise and face the Master, who gives the
sign; they do the same. All clap hands seven times and cry
'Houze,' thrice. Master. 'M. R. first and second Knight War-
dens, tbe Sovereign Chapter is closedi'
[N. B. The instant when the Sovereign Chapter is hung with
black, for a reception is called the 'first point,' the instant when
the decoration is changed or hung with red, is the 'second point'
of this degree.]
'
Third point of Rose Cross.-lt is after having held a
chapter,
as above described, that this ceremony is practical. On occa-
sions when this is to be done, the Master does not close thc
chapter, but only suspends the demand of 'What is the hour?'
The decorations in the same state. A table covered with white,
on which is a loaf, and a cup of wine, stands in the middle of the
room. On the table is placed a small paper on which is 'I. N.
R. I.' Each Knight holds a statfin his hand. They are rang-
ed in two lines from north to outh; the Wardens are at the head
and the Master between them. Master knocks, and gives notice
that the chapter resumes its power; the Wardens repeat th:-
The Master, followed by the rest, passes seven times around! G
=f
Why do they not also admit his perfect Divinity. .
In-amiga-nn-_.. _,_..s»A£... __
...»»&i¢...1.-» .
~
' ""
L_'
,,,_i___ ¢
Q.
I!
322 Licar ON Miisomw.
'
lodge, and then stops, facing the east, and makes the sign; he
breaks a small piece ti°om the loaf and gives it to the S. W. at
his right hand, who breaks a piece and passes it to his brother at
thetright hand, and in this manner it is passed on until it reaches,
at last., the J. Warden, who eats it. The Master takes the wine,
drinks, and passes it as he did the bread. Sen. Warden turns
to the Master who gives him the token, saying 'Emanuel.' ~
The
Sen. Warden replies 'Pax vobiscum.' When the cup has reach-
ed the Junior Warden he gives it and the token to the Master.
The Master shows the brethren that nothing remains in the cup.
He advances to the table, takes the paper, sets it on fire, and
casts it into the cup, where it is consumedf* he makes the sign,
and says, 'Consummatum est;' (It is finished.) Ai§r this, all the
Knights repeat the sign, and the chapter is closed as before de-
scribed.
;_..1.
'f
*Let the friend of Jesus read this again, and then answer the question,
'Can you fellowship Masonry?
~
-ilwi
THE DEGREE OF "NOAHITE/'
1
-
OR
"CHEVALIER PRUSSIEN."*
Origin and dignities.- The Grand Master, General of the
Order, whose title is 'Chevalier Grand Commander/ is Frederic
William, Knight of Pmssia. His ancestors, for three' hundred
years, have been protectors of this order. The Knights were
formerly known by the name of 'Noahites.' or descendants of
Noah. By the Pagans they were called the 'Titans,' who were
said to have attempted to scale the Heavens for the purpose of
dethroning Jupiter. But the Prussians, who acknowled e no
g
other Gov but the Supreme Architect ofthe universe, each year,
h
_
on t e night of the full moon of the month, March, celebrate the
confusion of languages and the dispersion of the builders of the
tower of Babel, one of the miracles ofthe Creator. That time
is the anniversary ot' that day of his vengeance.
It is for this reason, these Knights assemble on the night of
the full moon, in a secret place, to hold their lodges; and they
cannot initiate a candidate into the mysteries of this degree un-
less by the light ofthe moon. _
*Prussian Knight.
_,__,..._.______., ---i5il».=ndMlJ
LIGHT ON MASONRXZ 323
The Master of the lodge is called 'Chevalier Lieutenant
Grand Commander, the oliicers are a
Deputy Lieut., G. Com.,
Chevalier Master of Ceremonies, Chevalier of Eloquence, (ora-
tor,) Chevalier of the Guard, Chevalier Chancellor, Chevalier of
the Finances. The title, Chevalier Prussian Mason, is given to
ordinary Masons. The three oflicers, viz: lst, Lieut. Grand
Commander, 2d, Dep. Grand Commander, and 3d. Master ot'
Ceremonies,-must always be present when a
lodge is opened.
The 'Noahites' now called 'Prussian CllC'Zll(3l`S,7 are descend-
ed from 'Peleg,' the Grand Architect ofthe tower of Babel, their
origin being much more ancient than that of the Masons, do
scended from Hiram. In the time of the erusades, when thi-
ditferent orders of European Knighthood were established bv th e
Christain P|.ces leagued for the conquest ot` Palestine, the'Mzi-
sons descended from Hiram through their respect tor the 'N oah-
ites' who were in high esteem, wished to be made acquainted
with their mysteries. The Prussian Chevriliers were persuaded
none could be found to whom they could more properly contidc
their mysteries than to these descendants of lliram. Since that
period the 'Noahites' always require, therefore, that their candi-
dates should be Masters of the Order of Hiram. In the statutes
of this order, preserved among the archives of the king of Prus-
sia, it is expressly forbidden to any Prussian]Q`l|§hlier, tre-
rceive any candidate, unless he has given
pro '
`
this *z ;
capacity in the Order of Masters, descended . It-is
also necessary that he should prove that he has discharged the
duties of an otlice in some regular lodge. _
r
Disposition ofthe lodge.-The Commander is placed opposie
to the moon; the next four oH'icers before him, that they may bet-
ter attend to his orders. They have no fixed place, as a
sign that
a.Chevalier has renounced pride and glories in the practice of hu-
fmility, at all times. The room is enlightened by a large window,
so made as .to receive a feeble light from the moon.
According
to -.the statutes of the order, it is forbidden that the lodge should
behenlightenedrby
the rays of the sun, or those of any artificial
lig t.
Opening.-Commander knocks three gentle. blows at equal
distances. The Deputy Commander answers
by a single blow
on the hilt of his sword. Com. '0rder, Chevaliersl' He lifts
'his arms extended towards heaven, his face turned to the east.
where the moon
appears. The others do the same, and
the Com-
mander, after asking some questions from the lecture, says to the
,Deputy Commander, 'Announce to all the Chevaliers that the
,lodge is enlightened! 'This is done, and all resume their natu-
.
_
1;
:Quarles-__..¢» ...nah-u. _
_ -5..- _».--
2*
u
Q.
324 Lrcar on rnsoirnr.
ral animigg, The Chevaliers remain looking at the iirmament
until the candidate arrives.
'
.
Rwauion.-The candidate unarmed, his head uncovered, in
his ordinary clothing, has on the white apron and gloves of Mas»
ter Masons. The Master of Ceremonies, who is with him, gives
three light blows, at equal distances, at the door. The Cheva-
lier of the Guard replies by a single blow, in a whisper repeats
the alarm to the Commander, and by his order goes to the door,
opens it, and in a
whisper demands ofthe Master of Ceremonies
the sign, token, word, and pass word. He then closes the door,
and whispers his report to the Deputy Commander, saying, 'The
Chevalier Master of Ceremonies has answered well and demands
to enter.' The Deputy Commander repeats this aloud to the Com-
mander, who orders him to tell the Master of Cere'nies he may
enter if he is alone. Deputy Commander. 'He is accompanied
by a Master descended from Hiram, who has on a 'white apr'on,'
and 'white gloves." Com. 'In this case inquire of the Master
of Ceremonies, what this Mason, descended from Hiram, wants!
Deputy Cmnvnamlcr goes to the d00r, knocks l, which Master Of'
(`<>'¢>monies answers by tim-fx light, equal blows. The Chevalier
uf the Guard opens ir, and the Deputy Commander says to the
Master of C monies, "Kimi is your desirel' M. of C. 'Here
is 5 Mas
`
d iivmi Hiram, who wishes, if it is accord-
inérlfihe F the Chevalier Lieutenant Commander, to be
received a' Chevalier! Deputy Commander reports this
to the Commander, who orders him to let the Master enter, after
he has given the lrIaster's pass word.' When this is given, the
Master of Ceremonies lends the candidate into the lodge, and
causing him to go to the other door, within theflodge, by three
Master's steps. Com. 'Chevalier Master of Ceremonies, will
you vouch for the Master whom you present to mei' M. of C.
'I vouch for him that he is a Master descended from Hiram!
The_Commander quits his place, goes to the candidate, and de-
mands the Master's word; it is given as usual. Com. 'Cheva-
liers, I announce to you a Master Mason descended from Hiram,
who wishes to be received a 'Chevalier Prussian;' do you con-
sentl' The brethren, without saying a word, draw their swords,
and present their points to the body ofthe candidate. Through
the Master of Ceremonies, he replies, 'I continue my request, if
it shall be according to the pleasure of the Chevalier Lieutenant
Commander, and the Chevaliers of this lodge! Com. 'These
brave Chevaliers, with me, consent to your request, provided you
renounce all pride for the remainder of your life. Commence,
then, by performing an act of humiliation! The Master of Cer-
»»~-A-»
'
LIGHT GN MABONRIW 325
emonies and Deputy Commander conduct the candidate to the
feet of the Commander by three genutlections of the left knee:
having arrived there, he prostrates himself before the Command-
er, who orders him to kiss the hilt of his sword: the Chevalier ol'
Eloquence pronounces a discourse on the pride of the sons ot
Noah, and upon the humility of him who was sensible of his
fault. (Peleg.) During all this the candidate is kneeling on ons-
knee. He rises, and the Commander and all the brethren. with
their swords, give the sign of a Master Mason. tloinmzmtlm-
says to candidate, 'Do you promise on the iiiith of a Blaster Mu-
son descended from Hiram, to keep the secrets whichl shall con-
fide to you under these three conditions: lst. That you will nev-
er reveal any" our
mysteries to any descendant of Adam, unless
you know him to be a Mason: 2d. That you will be obliging and
kind to the charities of this order: 3d. That you will suffer no one.
even at the hazard of your life, to wear the jewel of our order,
unless he shall have made himself known to you as 'Chevalier
Prussian." Candidate says, 'I swear and engage under these
conditional'
Commander then gives a
history of the order, and, at itselose.
-says, 'You see, Chevalier, the grand secret of our order, which
is unknown to all but Chevaliers. I confer it on your
'
`
a-
sure, but wo to you should you violate your en _
'
j _
.
circumspect, and, on every occasion, practice hulhilltg" 'tlie
example of our Grand Architect! The brethren sheath swords,
and the Commander gives one to the candidate, 8.Ild"ifl$$i io
the third buttonhole of his vest, with a black ribbon, the jewel,
which is of silver, and orders him to lay aside the decorations ot
a Master descended. from Hiram, and he gives him those belong-
ing to this order. He wears the apron like a Fellow Graft. The
M. of Cer. directs the candidate to offer the gloves to the Com-
mander, who, having received them, gives him the sign, tobr,
word, andpass word, which the candidate gives to each ofthe
brethren on their presenting- him with their gloves.
Lodge, (i. e. one
forleeturing and P0&0ill|D£U;)` _
'
the cgndil
date cannot be instruntedwithouttthe aid of
` '
besides
that of the mnon,.the Chevalier-Lieutenant Gomnhmder, who is
the sole depository of the lecture, lB»\l|.fh0liZQd to hold a Felton*
Or-aft's table lodge; in which, however, only n frugal collation
can berintroduced, but noliqunrs. `
Close.--Commander strikeS,3, which Deputy Commander rm-
-swers by one blow. Com. 'Chevaliers Deputy .hieiltellhlll CDU'-
mander and
aialler
ref Cemmonies, give -notice to all the.Cheva~
n
|;»`_< 1 _.Pr
It being contrary to the statutes of this order, to hold a.Tahle
,S
826 LIGHT ON MASONRIH
liers present, that the lodge is darkened and it is time to retirel'
All the Chevaliers, standing in order, repeat thrice, in a melan-
choly tone, '-_,' and the lodge is closed.
Dress and jewel.-The apron and gloves are
yellow. The
jewel is an equilateral triangle, traversed by an arrow, pointing
downward. lt should be of gold, attached to a
large, black rib~
bon, passing from the right shoulder to the left,~ unless one wears
it at the buttonhole, then it is of silver. ~
.
Coq! of anna.-lst. Azure, moon of silver, and golden stars.
2d. Sable, triangle, and arrow of gold.
LECTURE.
Q. Who are
you? A. Inform me who you a d I will tell
you who I am. Q. Do you know the sons of oah? A. I
know three. Q. Who are they? A. Shem, Ham, and Japhet.
Q. What do these names signify? A. The initial letters are the
sacred word. Q. Give me thetolren. A. Behold! (embracing
three times.) Q. Give me the sign. A. I will: (given.) Q.
Give mi- the pass wnrfl. A. *` *` I* <
Q. D0 you know-the G.
A. of the tower of llnhf-1? A. His name was 'Peleg.' Q. Who
gave you his history? A. The Chevalier Lieutenant Command-
cr of G§evq§er'I'russinn. Q.
'
In what lodge? A. In a
lodge
whgyiiwjiyk-gave light. Q. Was no other light allowed?
A. No.~"` *'Was that edifice a commendable one? A. No; it
was
impossible to complete it. Q. Why was it impossible -to
complete it? A. Bc-cause pride was its first foundation. .Q.
Do you r~member the sons of Noah to imitate them? A. No;
but to avoid their fault, by having it before my eyes. Q. Where
does the body of Peleg repose? A. In a tomb. Q. Was he
rejected for his guilt? A. No; the agate stone declares that
God had mercy on him, because he humbled himselll Q. How
Us you received a Chevalier Prussian? A. By three genullec-
tions, after I had kissed the sword hilt of the Chevalier Lieuten-
ant Commander. Q. Why was you caused to make these genu-
-tlections? A. To make me remember, that, during my -whole
life, I
o|rgM ®e humility. Q. ~Why do Chevaliers wear
.a
triangle? memory of the -temple of Peleg. Q. Why
is the arrow represented as inverted? A. In memory ofthe ruin
'which came
upon the tower of Babel. r The apron and gloves
-are in memory of the laborers of the tower. The black ribbon is
a mark of grief Q. Did the laborers work day and night? A.
Yes; in the day by the light of the sim, and in the night by the
-'light of the moon.
'
V .
V
History.--The descendants of Noah, notwithstanding Gon
had appointed the bow in the clouds a sign ofthe covenant which
LIGHT on uasonnr. 327
he had made, that he would not gain destroy men by a universal
deluge, resolved to -build a tower sufficiently elevated to shelter
them from the divine vengeance. They selected, for this pur-
pose, a plain called Shinar, in Asia. Ten years after they had
laid the foundation of this edifice, God, u<'t:oi'¢liiig to the scrip-
tures, cast his eyes upon the earth, and sziw tht- pritlt- til' the _.ons
of men. He came down to confound tiwir r;i~li tltwigtis and
their language. It was for this reason the t iw.-r was Quilt-tl Bti-
bel, which signifies contiision. Some time ;it`<-r Nimrod, who
first established distinctions of rank antoitg mon, and ai~i~t»;rut<~tl
to himself' the reverence and worship due- to God, »t:ilt it
t-ity
called after the tower, Babylon; that is, th<- '('o:irt -.t'¢~<»itf`iisit»n_'
It was on the night ofthe full moon of Itliirch, that God wrought
this miracle.. The Noahites held their grand inuutiiig on tht:
night ofthe full m00n of March. Their oicltiiary meetings wt-rt;
in all the rest of the months, Only, howtfvtrr, wlitlii the moon was
full; no
light but that of the moon was ntlmittt-d in their lodges.
After their language was confounded, tht- \'0l'l(ZlICll, being obliged
to separate, each pursued his own course. i't-leg, who had sug-
gested the plan of this tower, and had het-n Grand Architect,
was the most culpable. He condemned liimsclf to a rigorous
penance. He retired to the north of Gcrimny, where he arriv-
ed, after having suffered great fatigue and pain in the desert
countries through which he passed, where no articles 'food
could be found, except roots and wild fruits.
H
3"
`
In that part which is now called Prussia, he constructed some
huts to shelter himself from the inclemf-nay ol' the weather, and
he also built a temple in the form of a triangle, where he enc1os-
ed himself that he might implore from God the forgiveness of
his sin.
In digging in the salt mines' of Prussia, in the year 553, there
was found among the rubbish, at the depth of' fifteen cubits, a
triangular foundation of' an edifice, in which was a marble col~
umn, on which the whole history was inscribed in Hebrew. At
the side of' this column, was a tomb of free stone, in which was
found a quantity of dust-and an agate stone, on which was this
epitaph; 'Here repose the ashes of our Grand Architect of the
tower of Babel. God showed him mercy because he humbled
himselfl'
These monuments are in the possession of the king of Prus-
sia. The epitaph does not declare that Peleg was the Architect
of the tower of Babel; but the history, which was on the ba8¢ of
the column, informs us that 'Peleg was the son of Ebel, wh°S°
father, Salah, was the son of Arphaxad, who was the son of Shem,
the youngest son of Noah.'
-ml -__
_.H
7*
(3233
pnocmnnums Ann nmsvnr
OF A ~
CONVENTION OF THB SARATOGA BAPTIST ASSOCIATION,
Containing Fifteen Reasons for their disfellowshipping Free Masonry.
naw .rr Mnxron, sarr. 12 AND 13, 1827.
Wednesday, September 12, 1827.
Agreenbly to the vote of thc Saratoga association, in June,
IS27, delegates from various churches composirQthe same, as-
sembled at Milton, to confer on certain grievance in reference to
active Free Masonry, intimated to the association, by the church-
es at Battenkill, and Milton.
Elder Seaman opened the meeting by prayer.
Deacon Child called upon the delegates to signify what church-
es were represented at this convention-which fumished the
il¥llll\`lllLI result.
.ilmslerflflm.-Timothy Crane, Waterman Sweet.
Batleizkill.-lilder Edward Barber, Richard Parker, Samuel
Hale, James Teil, Eber Crandall, William Henry.
liroadalbiu.-Elder Wm. Groom, John Tanner, Amos C.
(fornwcfll, James H. Sumner.
Burnllzills.-Nathaniel Jennings, David Schauber, Bradley
Morehouse.
Corinth.-Elder Benjamin St. John, lra Heath, John Eggles-
ton, Zira H. Coles. -_
Edinburgh.-Elias Manning, Eli Manning, Daniel Corey.
lst Galway.-Alpheus Moore, Daniel Ludlow, Ira Barberry.
2d Galway.-Elder Wm. E. Waterbury, Eli Smith, Asa Cor-
nell, Edmond Hewitt, Peter Wright, David Benedict, Samuel
Cook.
IGngsbury.--Chester Cook, Samuel Cole.
King-sborough.-Elder John Lathrop, Alexander Gloss.
Milton.-Elder Thomas Powell, GilbertWaring, Salmon-Child.
Silas Adams, Increase W. Child, Adam Swan.
JV'orthmrtpton.-Elder Aaron Seamans.
Saratoga Springs.--Wm. Wait., John C. Whitford, John A.
Waterbury.
Stillwater.-Sarnael Moore, David Newland, Daniel Manger.
Saratoga.--Elder Jonathan Finch, Wm. I. Smith, Reuben
Perry. p
nll..A.._u|¢il¢i
LIGHT on Masounv. 329
Jlforeah.-Pardon Elms, John W. Angle, Nathan Kingsley.
Total of the Saratoga association--16 churches, 55 del-
egates.
The convention being thus organized, Elder Seamans was
chosen moderator, Elder Powell, clerk.
,Invited delegates from other churches and associations to share
in our deliberations--accordingly Elder David Bemard read cre-
dentials of appointment as a delegate to this convention, from tive
churches, Elba, Le Roy, York, Middlebury, and Warsaw, and
took his seat: together with John Ford, John D. Lindsey, and
Peter 'I. Wamdell, delegates from the church at Northumberland.
Invited the brethren generally present, to share in all the privi-
leges of the n&ting, voting excepted.
'
The delegates from the church at Milton, expressed a desin;
that a spirit ot' Christianwisdom and moderation might character-
ize this meeting: and stated that their investigation of Masonrv
arose from complying with the vote ot' the association in 1825,
in relation to Battenkill church-that they utterly disclaimed any
hostility to Masons, and condemned that proscription ol' them in
general, which had prevailed in some parts of our state-and that
as men holding property by the same tenure, and possessing simi-
larunalienable rights with others, Masons were entitled to respect,
and fhlly qualified, when possessing integrity and talents, to hold
all civil offices of power and trust.
~
»
Adjoumed for 30 minutes. Prayer by Elder Finch.
Met pursuant to adjournment. Elder Wayland opened by
prayer. _
'
Written communications were read from the churches at Bat.
tenkill, and Milton.
Elder Bernard made some statements illustrative ol' his views,
and opposition to Masonry.
Brother Increase W. Child read to the convention, touching a'
part ofthe tendency of Masonry, the Sth chapter of Tovn's trea-
tise on that subject.
One ofthe brethren read several decided renunciations of Free
Masonry, made by persons formerly members of that fraternity,
and testimonies to the correctness of Wm. Morgarfs b00k_and
likewise letters addressed to the convention from sundry churches
in the westem parts of the state. In answer to an inquiry from
the chair, it appeared that nine of the churches here represented,
belonging to this association,) had expressed decisions approba-
tory ofthe viewsof the-churches at Battenkill and Milton, On the
subject of Masonry.
'
'
Appointed a
i:)ommitteeconsisting of Elders Finch, Grovm and
D2
L.-..aA».»-.. "'**~'-'--- _ _-...._..
-....._,
330 LIGHT on nusenar.
Waterbury, and brethren Increase W. Child, and James Taft, to
draft an instrument expressive of the views and decisions of this
convention and present it for consideration to-morrow.
Adjsumed until 9 o'clock to-morrow morning, requesting Elder
Henick to deliver a sermon at that hour. Prayer by Elder
Bernard. .
Thursday, September 13.
Elder Herrick preached from Isa. liv. 17.
The minutes of yesterday were read and approved.
The committee appointed to draft an instrument expressive oi'
the views and decisions of the convention, brought inthe follow-
ing report, which, after a second reading by sections, with the au-
thorities quoted in it, was adopted. O
Resolved, That this convention hereby approve ofthe conduct
pursued by the churches at Battenkill, and Milton, and further de-
clare--as we trust in the fear of God, and in accordance with his
revealed will-to the association, sister churches, and brethren in
general--that ve have no
fellowship for or with ,the institution oi'
Free Masonry. We thus declare:-»
`
1. Because Free Masonry professes to have its origin in, and
from God. 'This supreme and divine knowledge being derived
from the .Hlmiglity Creator to Adam, its principles ever since have
been, and still are, most sacredly preserved, and inviolably con-
cealed.-They (Masons) have the art of finding new arts, which
art the first Masons received from God.' Vid. Calcotty Disqui-
sition, Boston ed. 1772, pp. 89-90. ~
'It isno secret that Masonry is of divine origin.-In view, there-
fore, of the divine origin of ancient Masonry,' &e. Town's spec-
ulative Masonry, ed. 1818, pp. 37-175.
2. Because it professes to correspond with, and hear an affini-
ty to the ancient Egyptian philosophy. 'Our records inform us that
the ways and customs of Masonry have ever
corresponded with
those of the Egyptian philosophers, to which they hear einem'
atlinity.' Bradley, Albany ed. 1821, pp. 60. Monitor, 1805
od. pp. 38.
3. Because iz adopts a novel and unscrigtural maunerof in-
structing menin the doctrines, promises, andvconsolotions offthe
5°SP¢l-I and draws its leseonsof morality fromstoae hammers, mal~
lets,-cbisels, and other working tools. 'The tirstdegreo in Mason-
rynaturally suggeatsthatstate. ofamorsl darkness which bbgloom-
ed ,our world. On &e apostwy' of- our first comsson parent, not
rr gleam of light was left to cheer his despondingfmind. Seen,
however, the first kind promise was made. . _ .
Adamrwas, theres
forg, in _a, comparative sense, »till_.in.dar~lr»ass. . . _ Sachin the
as -.¢.i||»M.;~ .»- ».,||.h~l>» .
*_¢.
ment on _MASONBX3 331
'very nature of the first degree, that every observing candidagg is
led to view his moral blindness, and deplorable state by nature,
Under these impressions he enters on the second degree, which,
in view of his moral blindness, he is to consider emblematical ot'
a state of imprisonment and trial. Such was the second state of
Adam. Hence arises the idea of probationary ground. A due
observance of all former requisitions, and a sincere desire to make
advances in knowledge and virtue, open the way for the reception
of more light. . . ._
Having diligently persevered in the use of ap.
pointedmeans, the .third degree prefigures the life of the good man,
in his pilgrimage state. Although the true light has shinedinto
his heart, and he has experienced much consolation, yet he some.
times wanders into devious and forbidden paths. In th, ynidst of
such trials, he resolves to be faithful, and manfully gg yithsfand
temptations. He determines to pursue that sacred trust commit-
ted to his care, and therefore endeavors to escape with his life
to the great Ark of his salvation.... ln advancing to the fmmh
degree, the good man is greatly encouraged to persevere in the
ways of well doing even to the end. He has a name which no
man knoweth save he that receiveth it. It, therefore, he be re-
jected, and cast forth amongst the rubbish of the world, he knows
full well, the great Master Builder of the universe, ha
`
and prepared him as a
lively stone in that spiritual
heavens, will bring him forth with triumph, while
shouugtga-¢¢e,_
grace, to his divine Redeemer.... Hence opens the 5% degree,
where he discovers his election to, and his glorified station in the
kingdom of his Father. Here he is taught how much the chosen
ones are honored and esteemed by those on earth, who discover
and appreciate the image of their common Lord. This image
being engraven on his heart, he may look forward to those
mansions above, where a higher and more exalted seat has been
preparedfor the faithfulfrom the foundations of the world.... With
tlwse views the sixth degree is conferred, where the riches of di-
vine grace are
opened in boundless prospect. Every substantial
good is clearly seen to be conferred through the great atoning
sacrifice.... In the seventh degree, the good man is truly filled
with heartfelt gratitude to his heavenly Benefactor for all th
wonderful deliverances wrought out for him, while journeyiri;
through the rugged paths of human life. Great has been his re.
demption from the Egypt and Babylon of this world.... He
behblnk in the eighth degree, thafall the heavenly sojoumers will
be admitted within the veil of God'| presence; where they will
become kings and priests before the throne of his glory for ever
and ever.... Such, my brethren, in brief, is the moral and reli-
¢|» ,a¢.¢»-»4 -»...-ni|mr»___.¢_,...--.4-»,..»>»
""` `
*_
332 uaur on Mssosnr.
gious instruction derivcd merely from the order of Masonic
degrees! Town's Speculative Masonry, whole of 8th chapter.
'The twenty-four inch gauge-Free and Accepted Masons are
taught to make use of it for the noble and glorious purpose of
dividing our time. The common
gavel-we, as Free and Ac-
cepted Masons are taught to make use of it, for the more noble
and glorious purpose of divesting our minds and consciences of
all tho vices and superliuities of life, thereby fitting our bodies as
living stones for that spiritual building; that house not made with
hands eternal in the heavens. . . The chisel morally demonstrates
the advantages of discipline and education. _ . .The mallet morally
teaches to correct irregularities, and to reduce man to a
proper
level.' Free Masnn's Monitor, 1805 ed. p. 36-87.
4. Because it publishes to the world songs, Src. of such a
contrariety of character as to serve the purposes of profanity,
rcvclry, the worship of the true God, and heathen deities.
"Then from their high windows the heavens did pour,
Forty days and nights one continual shower,
Till nought could be seen but thewnters around, _
And irrtlxis great deluge most mortals were drowned,
Derry down,.down, derry down-
Sure ne'c|' was behold so dreadful a sight,
As the old world in such u
very odd plight,
For there were to bc seen all animals swimming,
Men, monkeys, priests, lawyers, cats, lapdogs and women..
Derry down, down, derry down."
id. .tliiman Rezon, p. 166.
p
"Glory to God on high, =
Let earth and skies reply, .
Vortl1y the Lamb."
Yicl. Masonic Minstrel, ed. 1816, p. 316, &c.' Also See Monitor.
5. Because it pretends that its religion and morality are the
same as those taught in the Bible. 'Our principles being drawn
from revelation do not require us to make the secrets of Mason-
`ry known.' Bradley, ed. 1821, p. 12.
'The principles of speculative Free Masonry have the same
co-etemal and unshaken foundation, contain and inculcate in sub-
stance the same truths, and propose the same ultimate end, as
the doctrines of Christianity taught by Divine revelation. This
is a position of very high import; yet the truth of it is not doubt-
ed by those who are
thoroughly versed in Masonic knowledge.
If we would give universal celebrity to-our institution, the world.
must be convinced that the foundation is laid in evangelical truth!
Town, ed. 1822, p. 13, 14.
- -
-
on- ,,.¢d;_ -»---»
_;_.i..
»
LIGHT or; nusonmr. 333
Because the ancient Egyptian philosophy, with its hyeroglyph-
ics and mysteries, and the religion of Christ cannot correspond
or bear affinity to each other.
'
'Beware lest any man
spoil you
through philosophy and vain deceit, after the tradition of men,
after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ? Cel. ii.
8. 'And have no fellowship with*the unfruitful works of dark-
ness, but rather reprove them. For it is a shame even to speak
of those things which are done of them in ,secret.' Eph. v. ll,
12
'
'Besides the public worship of the heathen deities-the Greeks,
the Egyptians, the Indians, and some others had recourse to a
dark and concealed species ol' worship, under the name of mys-
teries. . . None were admitted but such as had approved them-
selves by . .
perseverence in _ . .
initiatory forms. The votaries
were enjoined on
peril of instant death to observe the most pro-
found secrecy respecting every thing that passed. . . These mys-
teries were first invented in Egypt, from whence they spread in-
to most countries of Europe and Asia. The most noted, were
the Eleusiinian. . .
Bishop Warburton, who contends for high
honor in this primary institution, acknowledges that the myste-
ries of those deities being performed during nocturnal darkness
or in gloomy recesses, and under the seal of the greatest secre-
oy, the initiated indulged themselves on these occasions in all the
abominations with which the object of their worship was
suppos-
ed to` be delighted. In fact, the enormities committed . . _
became so intolerable that their rites were proscribed in various
countries. . . In proportion, therefore, as the gospel madeits pro-
gress in the world, the mysteries fell into disrepute, and together
with all the other pagan solemnities were at length suppressed?
Jones' Church History, Cone's ed. p. 10 to 13.
7. Because it perverts and degrades the meaning of scripture
passages, and by their use and application to Masonic ceremo-
nies, dishonors God the Son. t
'ln the honorable character of
Mark Master . . . while such is your conduct, should misfortunes
assail you, friends forsake you, envy traduce your .good name ....
yet may you have confidenceamong Mark Master Masons . . .
ever bearing in mind as a consolation and encouragement to hope
for better prospects, that the stone which the builders rejected
(possessing merit, to them unknown) became the chief stone of
the comer! Bradley, ed. 1821. p. -181.
"On the order of High Priest--of a
Royal Arch chapter--4110
followingpassages of scripture are made use of duringthe cere-
monies. A~nd Melchisidec, king of Salem, brought forth bfeld
:ind wine, and he was the priest of the Most High Godg- ~ '1`h0\
,)¢_.r_.¢¢n.._... A ., »-rr..- ,.;--»»~..__..»-¢-
1
334 moat' ON Mssoxmr.
'
nrt a priest for ever after the order of Melchisidec. And inas-
much as not without an oath he was made priest;'-Bradley, p;
232, sas.
'Laying the foundation stone of a monument in memory, of
Washington, in Baltimore, the grand chaplain read the following
ass es from the holy writ' s. *Thus saith the Lord God, Be-
holdiigayin Zion, for a fouixition, a stone, a tried stone, a
pre-
cious comer stone, a sure foundation. Judgn :ent also will I lay
to the line, and righteousness to the plummet. For behold the
stone which l have laid before Joshua, upon one stone shall be
seven eyes» Behold I will engrave the engraving thereof, saith
the Lord of hosts!
'
Appendix to Masonic Minstrel, by Veriton,
p. 432.
8. Because it unwarrantably and irreverently employs the name
of Jehovah, in the dedication of Masonic balls.
'In the name of the Great Jehovah, to whom be all h or and
glory, I do solemnly dedicate this Hall to Masonry) Masonic
Chart, ed. 1824, p. 79. Monitor, ed. 1825, p. 130.
9. Because it dedicates lodges, chapters, &c. to the St. John
and Zerubbabel.
'To the memory of holy St. John, we
deiiaicate
this lodge!
Monitor, ed. 1825, p. 104. 'To our Most xcellent Patron,
Zerubbabel, we solemnly dedicate this chapter) Masonic Chart,
cd. 1824, . 60 and 130.
10. Becihuse it authorizes the practice of religious rites, cere-
monies and observances, not commanded or countcnanced in the
New Testament; such as
observing St. John's days, wearinv
garments in imitation of those worn
by the Jewish High Priests?
making and carrying in procession, a mimic representation of the
ark of the covenant; making and wearing similar representations
of the breast plate; inscribjng on mitres, 'Holiness to the Lord;'
and sundry other ceremonies and observances.
In confirmation of these facts, we appeal to all who have wit-
nessed the celebration of St. John's days, masonic funerals, lay-
ing foundation stones in masonic order, &c.
11. Because it imposes obligations of a moral and religious
nature, which cannot be communicated to any other than Ma-
sons or candidates of the order, not even to brethren in thc
church of Christ. 'Such is the importance of our secrecy, were
no other ties upon our affections or consciences, than merely the
sense of the injury we should do to the poor and the wretched.
By a transgression ol' this rule,`wo are persuaded it would be suf-
ficient to lock up the tongue of every . . .
Mason, and lead him
solemnly to look in the heavens arid say, 'Set a watch, 0 Lord,
-_a.r.._.._...u
N
mom' ON masounr. 335
before my mouth; keep thou the door of my lips.' Every candi.
date for admission . . .
may be informed . . .that the obliga-
tion which he is to take is perféctly moral, and compatible with
the principles of Christianity. It cannot be criminal that we
make every candidate promise to keep the secrets of Masonry.'
Bradley, p. 11to 15, and Cabest's llsquisitions, Boston ed. 1772,
p. 46 to 54. .
12. Because it aiiixes new names and appellations to both
God the Father, and God the Son, and those which are immoral
and irreligious to men. 'The Great Architect of the universe,
. _ . Great Architect in Heaven, . . .
Supreme Architect, . . .
Grand Overseer, . . .
Supreme High Priest.' Bradley, p. 157
to 186. 'Supreme Grand Master! Cabest's Disquisition, ed.
1772, p. 156. 'Most Excellent, Most Worshipful, Prince of
Mercy,' Src. vide Monitor, Bradley, Src.
13. Because it amalgamates in its societies men of all religions,
professing to believe the existence of a Supreme Being of any
description, thereby defeating all its pretensions to the morality
and religion of the Bible, and napping the foundation of Chris-
tian fellowship. 'There is one
body and one
spirit, even as
ye
are called in one hope of your calling; one Lord, one faith, one
baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all, and
through all, and in you all.' Ephesians, ch. iv. ver. 5 and 6.-
'Masonry becomes an universal language; . _ _ the distant Chi-
nese, the wild Arab, and the American savage, will embrace a
brother Briton! Monitor, Albany ed. 1797, p. S and 9-into
the merciless hands of unrelenting Turks, . . . the shackles of
slavery are broken, through the interposition of a brother!-
Town, ed. 1818, p. 160.
14. Because it authorizes forms of prayer, accommodated to
_the prejudices of the Jews, thus rejecting the only Mediator and
way of access to the Father. 'O Lord, _ . .
enlighten us, we
beseech thee, in the true knowledge of Masonry, by the sorrows
of Adam, thy first made man; by the blood of Abel, the holy one;
by the righteousness 'of Seth, in whom thou art well pleased;
and by thy covenant with Noah, in whose architecture thou wast
pleased to save the seed of thy beloved, _number us not among
those that keep not thy statutes, nor the divine mysteries of the
secret Cabala; but grant . . . the ruler of this lodge may be
cndued with knowledge . . . to explain to us his secret myste-
ries as . . _ Moses did (in his lodge,) to Aaron, to Eleazen and
Ithamar, . . . and the seventy elders of Israel, . . _
Aww:
Lord? Ahiman Rezow, New York_ed. 1825, p. 93.
_--hug ,_-_
.
.¢.-..,,_,, ,,__,,.;» .:.mn-.._...
" '
336 LIGHT on MABOIBY.
15. Because it receives and adopts orders of Knighthaod
from Popery. 'Masonic degrees . _ . conferred in the Sublime
Grand Lodges in Charleston, S. C. inthe city of New York,
and in Newport, R. I....
Knight of the Red Cross, Knight
of Malta, Knight of the Holy.Sepulch'e, Knight ofthe Christian
Mark, Knight Templar, Grand Pontiti, . . .
Knight of the Bra-
zen Serpent, _ _ .
Knight ofthe Sun, . . .
Knight .ofthe Holy
Ghost' Masonic Minstrel, ed. 1826, p. 421.
And, whereas, we cannot fellowship Free Masonry for the
reasons assigned,
Resolved, That we do not fellowship our Baptist brethren, un-
less they completely abstain from the same.
We commit our doings in this matter, to Him who is head over
all things, blessed tor ever: praying him to correct and restore us,
(if we have erred) to the paths of truth, and (if we have not err-
ed) to give us wisdom and strength to maintain the truth as it is
in Him.
We commend our brethren and sister churches to the word of
His grace, which is able to build them up, and give them an inher-
itance among the sanctified. _
The delegates from the churches in Battenkill, Broadalbin,
Edinburgh, lst. Galway, Kingsborough, Milton, Northampton,
Saratoga, Northumberland, 2d. Elba, 2d. Le Roy, lst. York,
lst. Middlebury, and Warsaw, voted to accept the report.
Those from Amsterdam, Brunthills, Corinth, 2d. Galway,
Kingsbury, Saratoga Springs, Stillwater, and Moreau, conclud-
ed to waive expressing a decision, and to lay before their res-
pective churches the proceedings of the convention, in order to
have their voice on the same, prior to the next association.
Resolved, That the clerk prepare and forward the minutes and
report of this convention, for insertion -in the New York Baptist
Register; and procure a number of extra copies for distribution
amongst our churches, reserving me, to beread at the nextasso-
mation. g
Elder' Herrick closed the convention with prayer. _
AARON SEAMANS, Modnfglozj.
THOMAS Pownu., Clerk.
,_ .¢_¢. -
+
('
4.» 'V
->
g
-
(337)
A NARRATIVE
'Or 'run rAcTs AND cucuMs'rANcss RELATING T0 Tm: xiDNAr-
rms AND Pnssumnn xuunnsa or WILLIAM MonoAN, AND or
'rue ATTEMPT T0 CARRY orr
Quin C. MILLI-nn, AKD T0
BURN, on DESTROY, THE PRINTING orifice or 'rua LATTER,
ron Tun nmrosa or PREV!-INTING Tas PRINTING AND run-
LIBHING or A eoox ENTITLED, "lLt.usTnAT1oNs or MAsoN-
RY." Pnnnnnn UNDER Tan DIRECTION or THE ssv£nA|.
coivnvuvrans APPOINTED AT m:a'r|Nos or 'ran c1T|znNs or
'rms COUNTIES or GENESEE, LIVINGSTON, 0NTAa|o, MON-
xos, AND NiAoAnA, IN 'run STATE or New Yonx: w1TH_AN
ArraND|x, CONTAINING MOST or 'ma Dr-:i>osiTioNs AND oTi~1-
nn DocuMsNTs, T0 SUBBTANTIATE 'run STATEMENTS Nuns,
AND Drscr.os|No MANY PARTICULAR8 or THE 'rnANsAcT1oNs.
NOT INCLUDED iN THE NARRATIVE.
'
T
-¢qeQeg4¢»-
-
ADVERTISEMENT.
'The committees, upon whom their fellow 'citizens in different
-counties and towns imposed the duty of investigating the trans-
actions detailed in the subjoined narrative, were soon convinced
that it would be their duty to publish, as soon as should be prac-
ticable, an account of them. They were anxious to use all pos-
sible precaution to avoid errors in the statements. For that pur-
pose, three of their number visited Lewiston and Niagara in
March last, by which some unimportant mistakes were corrected.
and some further important information was elicited. It should be
noticed by the reader, that the transactions detailed, extended
over a distance of 170 miles; that the information is drawn from
various and distant sources; that the character of the conspiracy
is entirely new; that the committees have no means of acquiring
.information but persuasion, which often fails of success;_that their
investigation encountered almost every kind of opposition from
the parties concemed, and the numerous friends of those impli-
-cated in the conspiracy. Under all these emban-assments, they
trust that the candid part of their fellow citizens will attribute the
delay in the publication of this account, to the causes assigned,
and not to negligence or
improper motives. Good faith, and s due
regard to the course of public justice, require them, even
DOW,
to
withhold many facts and circumstances, until legal investigatlvns
are instituted
Eaéid
finished.
»»-.-, A
,~ _
pass)
INTRODUCTION.
I
The following narrative has been compiled with as much care
and accuracy as the circumstances would admit. It has been
frequently called for, and, as many may think, has been too long
kept back; but the causes ot' delay were such as the committees
could not prevent or obviate. We trust that it will be found to
contain a plain and unvamished statement, and that we have used
no harsh terms or extravagant expressions. The committees
have considered the duty of preparing it as one, the performance
of which they could not neglect, without disappointing the rea-
sonable expectations of a
large number of their respectable fel-
low citizens. The transactions detailed in the narrative, have,
in themselves, a character of such enormous
wickedness-they
exhibit such utter disregard of all those principles and rules of
conduct, which have, heretofore, been held sacred in all civilized
communities-their consequences seem to us so
entirely subver-
sive of the principles of our govemment, and so destructive of
our rights, that any attempt, on our
part, to comment upon them
appeared superfluous.
The general voice of the community has been heard already.
The free and enlightened citizens of our
country have not been
unmindful ofthe duty they owed to themselves, their country, and
their offspring.
We have not been left to act alone and unsupported. What-
ever
apprehensions some of us
might at first have entertained,
as to the extent of the enmity and violence we might he called
upon to encounter, in the prosecution of objects we had in view,
we were not long left in doubt or apprehension whether we should
receive the support of the virtuous part of our
countrymen.
Those objects were, lst-To aid in re-establishingthe authori-
ty ofthe laws, by the restoration of William Morgan to his coun-
try, his liberty, and his family.
2d. To aid in the discovery, exposure, and punishment of those
who had, by violence and fraud, deprived him of `l1is liberty, and,
as we now believe, of his life. '
Bd. The discovery and disclosure of the extent of 'the 'con-
spiracy, which, it was manifest to us, had been fotmed to' effect
:the unlawful objects of the conspirators. And,
45; The making known to the public, the 'principles and mos
' *'*° -
'-*""""*
_
LIGHT on uasosnr. 339
tives which appeared to have governed the conspirators, so far as
those principles seem to us in direct hostility to our civil rights,
and so far as those motives are calculated to prompt persons, un-
der their inliuence, to actions destructive of, and inconsistent with.
our free institutions.
The first of these declared objects, we
deeply regret to say,
we have failed to accomplish, and scarcely a
ray of hope enlight-
ens the dark cloud of guilt and mystery which impends over the
fate of our fellow citizen.
The probability that several hundred of our fellow citizens,
most of whom had, heretofore, maintained a
good character, had
conspired to effect the murder of a
helpless man, seemed to us
so shocking, so at war with that reverence for the life of our fel-
low creatures, which God himself has impressed upon the human
mind, so
decidedly in opposition to that general benevolence of
feeling which has distinguished our countrymen in particular, that
for many months, we resisted the supposition, of the bare possi-
bility of such a crime, with disgust and horror. 'We were un-
willing to believe that respectable men, would, directly or indi-
rectly, suggest or aid the commission of a crime which seldom
escapes punishment, or expose themselves to the disgrace which
any attempts, on their part, to bafiie investigation by secrecy or
silence, could not fail 'eventually to bring upon them. But we
have been compelled to feel the justice of the remark made to us
by one vell versed in the operations ofthe human mind:-"That
when the demon offanaticism is at work, there is no knowing
to what extent of mischief and turpitude he may lead his disci-
les."
P
The second object has been, in part, effected by the influence
of that high and holy regard to otiicial duty, which has operated
upon the public oficers, and grand jury of Ontario county, and
which is still manifesting itself by a faithful application of the
powers vested in them by their country. How far their honora-
ble example will be imitated in other counties remains to be seen.
The third and fourth objects, it is not intended to prosecute in
the following statement, excepting so far as
they may be of ne-
cessity brought into view, in the detail of facts which we purpose
to make.
We do not feel qualified, nor have we time, for the proper per-
formance of a
duty in which our fellow citizens, and those who
shall succeed us, are so
deeply interested. Time, the test of truth,
which brings to light the hidden works of iniquity, and exp0SeS
the unhallowed designs ofthe guilty, will contribute to unfold the
principles and motives which have prompted the crimes ot' fraud-
.a'-lb--;¢¢»
-
W
`
340 mam' on nusoruw.
nlgm arrests, by the abuse of civil process, riot, kidnapping, and'
perhaps murder, and which have induced so
many to sanction
them openly.
Those who have more leisure and more ability than ourselves,
may, and we have no doubt will, hereafter call the attention of our
lellow citizens to the questions, how far these principles are in
conformity with our
republican maxims-how far their influence
is calculated to cormpt and destroy the integrity of the human
mind-and how far the existence of the source fiom which they
are believed to emanate, is reconcilahle with the stability and
preservation of the constitution, and the enjoyments of our
rights
and liberties.
We trust we have no desire to give to the transactions we have
detailed, a
consequence which they do not deserve. Those ac-
tions cannot he imimportant, in which so
large a
portion of our
countrymen have taken so deep an interest. That they have done
so, we think is honorable to themselves, useful to their country,
and has been gratifying to us.
We have studiously, and we hope conscientiously, avoided
throwing the slightest imputations upon any one, however humble
his situation in life, when a correct statement of facts did not re-
quire it; and we have not- refused to disclose the names ot' the ac-
tors, when we had unexceptionable evidence of the parts they
have perfomed;_ We have disclosed things truly as
they have
come to our knowledge, without fear or favor.
_.L_ ,___ anna... .-|nu.....;.J
'Y'
'QV
cw)
'
A NARRATIVE, &c.
William Morgan was a native ofthe state of Virginia, born in
Culpepper county, in the year 1775 or 6, and a mason by trade.
Having by his industry accumulated a fund sutlicient forthe pur-
pose, he commenced business as a trader, or merchant, in Rich-
mond, in that state. _
During his residence there, in October 1819, he married Lu-
cinda Pendleton, the oldest daughter of the Rev. Joseph Pendle-
ton, of the Methodist counexion, and a respectable planter, re-
siding in Washington county. He removed from the state ot'
Virginia in the fall of 1821, and commenced the business of a
brewer, near York, in Upper Canada. The destruction of his es-
tablishment by tire, reduced him from a comfortable situation to
poverty, and rendered it necessary for him to resume his trade of
a mason: with that intention he moved to Rochester in this state,
where he labored at that business for some time.. From Roch-
ester he removed to Batavia, in Genesee county, where he work-
ed at his trade until a short time before he was carried away from
his home and his family, Sometime in the year 1826, rumours
were heard, that Morgan, in counexion with other persons, was
preparing and intended to publish a book which would reveal the
secrets of Free Masonry, and that David, C. Miller, a
pgipter
in the village of Batavia, was engaged in putting the work tothe
press. 'I'his rumor, like all others, in which the community at
large feel no interest, excited no attention from the respectable
part of it, who supposed that the publication, whatever it might
be, was intended as a catch-penny production, for the supply of
pedlars and hawkers. It was at last noticed by some of the cit-
izens, that an excitement of some kind, existed ainong certain.
persons in the village, in relation to the publication of the book,
which it was said Morgan was
engaged in compiling; and it was
at length openly avowed by a number of persons, who were nn-
derstood to be members of the masonic fratemity, that the sup-
pression of the work was determined on at all hazards. A large
number of the subscribers to Mr. Miller's paper suddenly with-_
drew their subscriptions, numerous suits were commenced
against him, to enforce the payment of small debts, and their col-
lection was prosecuted in the manner most calculated to distress
and embarrass him.
On the ninth day of August, 1826, an advertisement was
_in-
Serted in epuper printed in_Canandaigua, of which the followmg
is an exact copy.
E212
*|ll|=.,.. _ .».~._, x
l
342 LIGHT: 01| Masoimxf.
'NOTICE AND CAUTION.
'If a man calling himself William Morgan, should intrude him-
selfon the community, they should be on their guard, particular-
ly the Masonic Fnarnmvlrr. Morgan was in this village in May
last, and his conduct while here and elsewhere, calls forth' this
notice. Any information in relation to Morgan, can be obtained
by calling at the Masonic HALL, in this village. Brethren and
Companions are particularly requested to observe, mark and goe-
crn themselves accordingly.
Uj~Morgan is considered a swindler and a
dangerous mlm.
U1?There are people in this village who would be happy tbsee
this Capt. Morgan.
Canandaigua, August 9th, lS26.'
This notice and caution was immediately copied into the 'Spir-
it of the Times,' and the 'People's Press,' two newspapers print-
cd in the village of Batavia, and, as we are well assured, it was
inserted in many otherpublic papers, printed in the westem coun-
ties of this state.
We are assured also, and to some of the committee it isperson-
:=lly known, that about the same time that this notice appeared,
Morgan and Miller were industriously slandered, and abusive ep-
iihets heaped upon them, bya number of individuals who alledged
no
particular crimes against them, and with whom they were
not known to have had any recent connexions or collisions what-
ever, that were apparent to the public at large.
Miller declared to his particular friends that he was alarmed for
..is personal safety, and feared an attack upon his ofhce, and he
took mcamres to defend himself against secret or open violence.
What reasons he had for his apprehensions we do notthinkut ne-
cessary or
proper to state in this place, but the most careless ob-
server took notice that the reputed members of the masonic fra;
ternity had frequent assemblages, and very many strangers ap-
peared in, and disappeared from the village of Batavia, without
openly assigning any object for their visit, or appearing to have
any ostensible business to transact, and most of whom seemed
desirous of avoiding observation. About the middle of August,
man calling himself Daniel Johns, suddenly appeared imBata-
via and took up his lodgings at oneof the public houses; he soon
proposed associating himself with Miller in the publication of
'
b k and offered to advance any sum of money tha;
Morgan s oo , _
might be wanted; he was
accepted and received iIit0'fl'16ll" coma-
dence. _ _
_ ,_ _
_led
His history, and the object of his visit, were thus dctttl by
James Gauson, of Le Roy, formerly a member of the legislature
,»- ~
"`
/
v,
v
'
~, uaufr on ausonmv. 343
from the county of Genesee, and a Knight Templar, to a person
whose aflidavit of that statement is now in our possession. That
he was sent for from thirty miles beyond Kingston, to cheat or
take in Miller; that he wasa Knight Templar, and a cunning fel-
low, and had answered the purpose he was sent to accomplish:
for he had' got away part of the papers and cut the work into two
parts, so that Miller could not go on with it.*
On the 25th day of July, 1826, Morgan was committed to the
custody of the sheriff of the county of Genesee, at the suit ot'
Nathan Follett, and gave bail for the jail limits. He had been
sued' sometime before in the Supreme Court, for a considerable
debt due to a
gentleman of Rochester, and two of his then friends
had become his special bail, to wit: Nahum Loring and Orange
Allen. During the month of August, his family and himself
boarded at Mr. Stewart's in the crowded part of the village, but
thr the purpose of security and to avoid interruption, he, himself
spent most of the time in the upper room of Mr. John Davids'
house, some distance from his lodgings, and separated bythe Ton-
awanda creek from the business part of the town, On the 19th
ot' August, 1826, Johnson Goodwill, Kelsey Stone, and John
Wilson, residents of the village, but holding no official station,
accompanied by one Daniel H. Dana, a constable residing at
Pembroke, about fourteen miles distant from the village of Ba-
tavia, went together to Davids' house. They first inquiredirr
Davids' and _Towsley, the two men who were heads of the two
families that occupied the house, and being told they were not at
home, without asking for Morgan, or giving any previous notice
to the families, they rushed at once
up the stairway into the room
where he was writing, siezed his person and all the papers which
he was then busied in arranging for the press, and took him at
once to the county jail, without allowing him time or
opportunity
to procure other bail. _
-
We pretend not to state how far the sheriH` was a
party in this
transaction. He was observed to be in the company ofthe four,
and went with them to the bridge, where he appeared to stay on
the look out until they returned with Morgan, when he accom-
panied them to jail. Morgan remained in close confinement from
Saturday aftemoon until Monday morning, during which time he
received numerous visits from the persons who had interested
themselves in the suppression of the book. As soon as Morgan?
imprisonment was known to his friends, which was not more than
an hour after his capture, three of them made diligent search for
L*
See Appendix, No. 1, end ofthe volume.
_
r
'V
344 LIGHT ON MASONBY.
the sheritf in all the usual places of his resort, for the purpose of
olfering themselves as bail for him. They went three times to
his dwelling house, without being able to see him; they inquired
at the jail and sberifl"s omce for the jailer: neither sherif or jailer
was to be found until after 12 o'clock at night, when, of course, it
was too late to procure his release until Monday morning. On
the evening of the same Saturday, about sunset, the same John-
son Goodwill, and Daniel H. Dana, with Thomas McCully, re-
paired to the dwelling house of Mr. Stewart, where Morgan
boarded. They alledged, and we
presume they had an execution,
in which McCully was pla.intitl`, and Morgan defendant. McCully
inquired of Mrs. Morgan, whether Morgan had any property, who
answered, 'You know ve have none; we have got nothing since
we came from your house.' To a similar inquiry addressed to Miss
Stewart, she answered, 'She knew of none, but that they lodged
in an upper chamber.' Goodwill and Dana passed into the cham-
ber, leaving McCully below, and proceeded to rummage, without
permission or ceremony, among the trunks, boxes, drawers, and
every other place where it was probable that papers could be found;
they examined such letters as they found, and seized a small trunk
of Morgan's, which had a few papers in it, saying they would ex-
amine, and if they were of consequence to Morgan, they would
return -them. While Goodwill and Dana were thus employed
above stairs, McCully observed to Miss Stewart, who remained
with him below, 'That he should like to find property to satisfy
his execution, but that was not his principal object, he did not care
so much about that, as he did to get some
papers belonging to
Morgan] One of the chests or trunks was found locked. It
belonged to a
ledger in the house. His name was mentioned,
and McCully declared 'He did not wish to examine that, as he
was a Royal Arch Mason! After remaining in the house about
half an hour, they departed; and as they were leaving the house,
McCully or Goodwell said to Mrs. Morgan, 'We have just con-
ducted your husband to jail, and shall keep him there until we
find his papers.' That numerous individuals, in different and
distant parts of our
country, took a deep interest in the suppres-
sion of the book, we are not at liberty to doubt in the slightest
degree; and the intenseness oftheir anxiety,betrayed them, in very
many instances, into the avowal of intentions and feelings which
manifested how little they were
disposed to regard the laws of the
land, and the lives of their fellow citizens, if the violation of the
first, and the destruction of the second, should'become necessary
to effect that object. Some of the particular declarations of in-
dividuals from which we have drawn these conclusions, will he
Am. _
ua.
-'-'qi
'
mana' on masormv. 346
found in an appendix, with some of the authorities upon which
they are published*
After Morgan was taken away, the sheriff of the county of
Genesee avowed to Mrs. Morgan his belief that the real object:
of taking him away, was to coerce the surrender of his papers;
and he opened a
negotiation with her, by the aid of Nathan Fol-
let and George Ketchum, for the restoration of her husband,
upon condition of surrendering his papers to the Masons; and if
any doubts could have existed in our minds, of the anxiety to
suppress this work, and the determination to etfect it at all haz-
ards, they would have been set at rest by the atiidavits of Nicholas
G. Cheshro, and Edward Sawyer, read before the court which
sentenced them, of which copies will be found in the appendix.1'
On the 8th day of September, 1826, Nathan Follet, an active
member of the masonic fratemity, residing at Batavia, desired
James Ganson, who then kept a tavem at the village of Stafford,
six miles east of Batavia, to prepare a cold supper, or refresh-
ment, for between forty and fifty men, who, he said, would be
there that night. They accordingly assembled, and were headed
or commanded by a Col. Edward Sawyer, residing at Canandai-
gua. From the affidavit of Green, and other information re-
ceived, it appears that this mob, which was to act under the di-
rection of Sawyer, was to have been composed of persons from
several different and distant places, and some of them even from
Upper Canada. At a late hour of the night, the conspirators,
conducted by Sawyer, departed from Ganson's, and proceeded
to Batavia, for the purpose, as was avowed, of procuring the
manuscript papers, and printed sheets, and suppressing the
publication of Morgan's boolr, by breaking into the printing of-
iice, and, if necessary to effect their object, carry 06' Morgan
and Miller. What circumstances or occurrencesdeterred them
frdm proceeding to extremities, are not known, further than have
been derived from their own statements since, and the atlidavit of
Green.I They received information, it is supposed, of the fact,
that Miller knew of their intention, and had prepared to defend
the office with tire arms, and ofcourse concluded that their pro-
ject could not be carried into effect, without the risk and proba-
ble loss of some of their lives; and however anxious to prevent
the disclosure of the secrets of Masonry, they seem to have been
unwilling to sacrifice their limbs or lives in its service. At day
*
Appendix, No. 30.
-
1 Appendix, Nos. 8 and 9.
I Appendix, No. 16.
-
_,
346' ucar on nusoimv.
dawn they separated, and retreated from the village, without hav-
ing affected any thing. Part of them re-assembled at Ganson's
house, in Stafford, where Sawyer was branded as a coward for
not elfecting the object for which he had started.*
Miller occupied, as
printing offices, the second story ot' two
wooden buildings in the compact part of the village of Batavia,
nearly all of which consists of wooden buildings-the two offices
were separated by an alley about twelve feet wide. A family of
ten persons occupied the lower part ot' one ofthe buildings, and
Miller's assistants, six in number, al-ways slept in the upper
rooms. On the night of Sunday, the 0th of September, 1826,
the inhabitants of the village were alarmed by the cry of fire,
which proceeded from these otiices, but was soon
extinguished;
the fire was first discovered by bright flames bursting from under
the outside stairways, leading into the printing offices. On ex-
amination it was evident that the attempt had been made with
very minute preparations. Remains of straw, and cotton balls,
saturated with spirits of' turpentine, were lbund under the stairs:
a short brush was found, which had evidently been dipped in tur-
pentine; and the sidings ot' the houses were smeared with that
liquid. A short distance from the building a dark lantern was
found, lt will be manifest to every person who sees the situation
of the offices, and adjacent buildings, that if the fire had gotten
much -headway, a considerable portion ofthe village would have
been consumed. For some other information relating to the
different attempts on Miller's office, the reader is referred to. the
atiidavits of John Mann, and Thomas G. Green, contained in
the appendix. (No. 16, and 17.)
In March, 1827, the committee, on the affidavit of John Mann,
(to which the reader has been referred,) obtained a warrant for
the apprehension of Richard Howard, as the incendiary, and de-
spatched a
messenger to Buffalo for the purpose of arresting hil.
That no step should be tak n without due caution, they requested
a tiiend in Buffalo to examine into theafiizir, and instructed him,
that, if satisfactory proof existed that Howard was at Buffalo, on
Monday morning early, engaged in his usual occupations, he was
authorized to withhold theprecept. The friendto whom they
had written, chose to call in to his aid four others, who, after
much refiection, say they 'felt it to be right to advise the officers
not to arrest Howard, and had taken their measures with such
pmdence as they thought would prevent all knowledge of the
_* Sawyei,'and some others, have been indicted fbr this attempt, but their
trials have not yet taken place_
b
p
.__
-1-_
-_
'SV
- - -
_
LIGHT on MASONBY. 347
complaint from coming to his ears; that they had felt the more
confidence in that course, from the belief that Howard would not
leave the place, but would be found to answer the charge, if such
proof should thereafter be produced, as should warrant the pur-
suit of criminal proceedings against him.' A few days after re-
ceiving the letter of these gentlemen, the committee obtained sat-
isfactory proof that, about the time the attempt was made, Howard
had been ut Batavia, in secret consultation with a member of the
fraternity. A second officer was
despatched, with positive direc-
tions to arrest him for examination. But the officer, on his arrival
at Buffalo, was informed, by one of the gentlemen who had writ-
ten the letter, that the night after its date, (March 9th,) Howard
had' absconded, though they could not ascertain by what means
he had been alarmed. He has never since been heard of by ariy
member of the committee. The secrecy and celerity of his de-
parture-the active part he took in the conspiracy-and the facts
detailed inthe second affidavit of John Mann, will leave not much
doubt on the minds of the readers, that he feared an arrest on a
much-higher charge than that of attempting to set fire tothe print-
ing offices of Millerf*
On Sunday morning, the tenth day of Sept. 1826, Nicholas
G. Chesebro, of the village of Canandaigua, a hatter by trade,
and Master of the Masonic Lodge in that-place, and one of the
coroners of Ontario county, applied for, and obtained from Jefliey
Chipman, a justice of the pace, a warrant for the apprehension
of William Morgan, on a
charge of stealing a shirt and cravat,
'in May previous, from an innkeeper named Kingsley, who after-
wards deposed that he had no intention of enteringa complaint
against Morgan, until he was
prompted to it by Chesebro and his
associates. Having obtained the warrant, which was directed to
him as coroner, he called upon Holloway Hayward, a constable,
who, with Chesebro, Henry Howard, a merchant of Canandai-
gua, Harris Seymour, Moses Roberts, and one
Joseph Scofield,
took their departure from Canandaigua, on the moming of the
same day, in an extra stage, hired for the occasion by Chesebror
At Avon, the party were joined by Asa Nowlen, an innkeepcr;
at Caledonia, by John Butterfield, a store keeper; and at Le Roy,
by Ella G.'Smith: all of whom, as
Hayward has since deposed,
seemed to know that hehad a warrant against Morgan. The
*party proceeded to thevillage of Stafford, where they stopped t0
take supper at a public house then kept by James Ganson. Im-
mediately dftef their arrival at' Stafford, on Sunday even-illgv s'""
*
Appendix, No. 25. -
ADQJIIII--_
343 LIGHT ON masomtr.
ue] S, Buggy, a physician residing there, was introduced to some
nf the party, and informed that they, or the officer, had a wanant
for Morgan, and he was requested to mention that circumstance
to Nathan Follett and William Seaver, then Master of the Bata-
via Lodge, both residents of Batavia village, for which he imme-
diately started. The party having finished their supper were now
joined by Ganson, and started for Batavia. About two miles
from that place they were met by Dr. Butler, vho had some con-
versation, in a low voice, with Ganson, and communicated to him
the answer of Follett, _which was, that they should not come onf
Some of the party said they would proceed; they had come for
the purpose, and would go on. They concluded, however, that
it was not adviseable to proceed in the carriage, and most of the
party left it about a mile and a half east of the village, and pro-
ceeded on foot to Batavia, and the remainder retumed with the
carriage. The next moming early, Morgan was arrested and
taken to the public house where the party had slept. An extra stage
was procured for the return of the party,in which they left the
village with Morgan. Just as
they were about to start, Miller
came up and insisted that Morgan should not be taken away, as
he was in custody of the sheriff of the county for debt, and he,
Miller, was one of his bail. Miller, however,'was immediately
pushed aside by Danolds, the tavem keeper, who closed the door,
and Chesebro, having seated himself on the outside with the driv-
er, urged him to drive fast until he should get out of the county.
But the driver became uneasy, and stopped about eighty rods
from Danolds, refusing to proceed. He was, however, persuad-
ed to go as far as Stafford, where he was assured Ganson would
become his surety against all responsibility; and on his arriving
_at Stafford, Ganson accordingly gave him such assurances as in-
duced him to proceed. At Le Roy, Hayward, who held the pro-
cess, offered, as he afterwards said, to take Morgan before the
justice of the peace, who had endorsed the warrant, that he might
give bail if he chose. No such otfer was made to him in Bata-
via, where he might have found bail, and there was no reason to
uppose that he could have friends in Le Roy, to whom he could
apply in such an
emergency. He accordingly declined, saying,
that when he got to Canandaigua, he could convince Mr. Kings-
ley, the apparent prosecutor, that he did not intend to steal the
shirt and cravat. The party arrived at Canandaigua, fifty miles
east of Batavia, about sunset, and Morgan was examined by the
magistrate. Loton Lawson appeared as a witness on his behalf;
and made such statements as induced the discharge of Morgan,
To have procured his imprisonment for a
larceny, would, ati
....nh1"- ..
.-._
'
LIGHT on nu`sonm'. 349
course, have defeated the real object of the conspirators, because
his person would have been out of their control. As soon as
Morgan was thus discharged from arrest under the criminal pro-
cess, Chesebro produced a claim against him for a debt of two
dollars, due to one Aaron Ackley, an
innkeeper in Canandaigua,
with an authority to collect the debt on his own account. Mor-
gan admitted the debt, confessed judgment, and, seemingly aware
of the determination to detain htm, pulled off his coat, and desir-
~
ed the constable to 'levy on it, Or take it as.
security for the debt.
Hayward, the constable, refused to take it, and conducted Mor-
gan to jail, whore he was left ab01t ten o'clock,in the evening.
On Tuesday, the 12th day of September, about noon, a crowd
of men suddenly appeared in the village of Batavia, nearly all of
whom carried with them clubs, or sticks, newly cut, and resem_
bling one another, and, to all appearance, provided for the occa-
sion. The crowd assembled themselves at the house of l)anolds,
an innkeeper. To the oldest inhabitants of the village, almost
all of them were
strangers, and to this day the names of very
'few have been distinctly ascertained by us, although the whole
number thus equipped was sixty or seventy. They were mani-
festly selected forthe occasion, because their names and persons
were not known to the inhabitants of the village generally. No
motive for their sudden appearance was
assigned. Immediately
after this assemblage, Jesse French, one of the constables of the
county, repaired to Miller's printing office, and, in a rude and
violent manner, arrested him, alleging that he had a criminal
process, ora process in behalf of the people. After detaining
him in a room at Danolds' tavem about two hours, they put him
into an open wagon. Seven men, exclusive of the driver, all
armed with clubs, took their seats in the wagon, of whom
were unknown to him. French, the constable, ha
°
mounted
his horse, the whole mob proceeded to Stafford, awvillageabout
six miles east from Batavia. On arriving there, Miller was seiz-
ed by two men, and conducted to a room in the story of' a
stone building, ordinarily used as a masonic lodge room. In this
room he was guarded by tive men, who said they were
acting as
-assi tants to French, and under his orders. While thus secluded
and guarded, his counsel, with four or tive of his friends, arrived,
and the former, after some short detention, was permitted by
French to see him. The constable was then asked for a sigbb
or
description. of the warrant, by virtue of which he held Miller
ill 01Sl0dy; but he steadily refused to exhibit or describe it; but
still leil no doubt on' the mind of Miller or his counsel, that the
warrant was
in;
criminal proceeding, and at length avowed that
P
,
o
1
.1 _ _ .4-
"
.,_.. ._
_
350 r.rou'r ox masonrrr.
it had been issued by a magistrate at Le Roy. It should here
be stated, that, about three -days before the successive arrests of
Morgan and Miller, Daniel Johns, whose sudden appearance ar
Batavia has been mentioned, suddenly disappeared fi-om that
place. A short time after Miller's introduction to the lodge room,
at Stafford, this same Daniel Johns entered the room, hr
his hand a drawn sword, and walked, with largeand quick steps,
across the room, and, as Miller describes seemed anxious to
inspire terror into the captive. Miller, how ver, ventured to re-
inonstrate with him; having leamed, in some way which he can-
not recollect, that Johns was his prosecutor. Johns, however,
answered in a voice that faltered a little, 'Miller, I am
only doing
what I have been ordered to do.' During his detention in the
room, one of the guards told him, in language loud enough to be
heard by all in the room, that he was not to be tried at Le Roy,
nor to stop there, nor to be tried by an
ordinary tribunal; but was
going where Morgan was. Miller asked what tribunal; he repli-
ed, you will see. The others made no remarks in denial or ex-
planation, but he heard dne man say to another, Miller is nothing
but an Entered ./ipprmtice. To detail all the evasive falsehoods
and idle assertions, by which French and his coadjutors endeav-
ored to excuse themselves from proceeding with Miller to the jus-
tice's oilice at Le Roy, would be a useless waste of our own
time, and the patience ot' the reader.
It was manifest that the conspirators wished to consume the
time, until night should favor the completion of their projects, and
that to proceed to 'Le Roy was no
part of their plan, ii' it could
be avoided. 'But in the course of the attemoon, French, seem-
ingly by inadyertence, admitted that the process he had against
Miller, was, in fact, a
process-in a civil suit; and from that time
his resolution seemed somewhat shaken. About dusk the whole
crowd proceeded, with much noise and tumult, to Le Roy, four
miles, and, after many efforts on the part of French to prevent
him from so
doing, Miller got himself placed before the justice,
who had issued the warrant. French then gave directions to two
of his assistants, and disappeared. Miller staid in the office
about half'an hour, during which time the~Justice called forthe
constable and warrant, but neither constable, warrant, or plain-
tiff '
appeared, and the Justice informed Mr. Miller that he was
atliberty to go where 'he pleased. 'This wasabout nine o'clock
in the evening. 'It appeared from the docket of 'the magistrate
that a warrant had been issued against Miller, and one Jobn Da-
vids, on 'the oath, and at the request of Daniel Johns: John Da-
vids had been also arrested by the directions of French,~'but' the
r
'"'l-- »
-_.,.¢_..,A.-.-»....__s....;L,
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 35]
sheritT of the county informed them that he was in his custody on
the jail limits, upon which he was
discharged from the arrest.-
Miller having thus obtained permission to return, was
making the
best ofhis way to a public house, when French and Johns sud-
denly appeared again: The former endeavored to seize Miller
by the collar, and called loudly for help to retake the prisoner;
Johns asked if there was no person there who would help to se-
cure that man. But although attempts were made to regain
possession of
Miller,he succeeded in reaching a
public house;
and after another ineffectual attempt by French, and his associ-
ates, to prevent him, he returned late at night to Batavia, and re-
lieved his family from terror and alarm. That this lawless as-
semblage of men took place for the purpose of securing the ar-
rest of Miller, by virtue of a process never intended to be acted
upon, we shall take no trouble to show to the public. We have
conclusive proof from the exprc s declarations of those who led
the troop, and from various other sources, that one ofthe objects
they had in view was to pull down the otlice of Miller, if that
should be necessary for the purpose of getting possession ofthe
printed sheets and manuscripts of the expected book.
We are satisfied that their visit was expected by many decent
men in the village of Batavia, and their intention to pull down
the printing otltice of Miller, ifsuch a step should become neces-
sary to get possession of the printed sheets and manuscripts of
Morgan's book, has been repeatedly proved: And we are also
bound to declare, that some of those who were in the secret, dis-
approved of the design, and endeavored, by the exertion of their
personal influence, to prevent them from coming. We are not,
however, able to state, what it would give us satisfaction to state,
that any information was given to the magistrates, or 'other pub-
lic oilicers, or to any other respectable inhabitants ofthe village,
which would have apprised them of the intended outrage, and
justified them in requiring the interference of the civil or milita-
ry authority. It was a
singular circumstance, that on the day
when the visit of this mob took place, all the magistrates of the
village were called upon to attend as witnesses before a justice
of the peace, in an
adjoining town, and were actually absent
when they arrived, and continued so, absent, until they had de-
parted. We are satisfied that they were
regularly summoned to
attend as witnesses; and if the circumstance was not accident-
al, it ,_ '_ course have been known to the leaders ofthe mob
that 1
"
'ons on that day would not probably be interrupt-
ed
l
y 'terference on the part of the otiicial conservators of
:he peace. At the October sessions of the county courh James
¢
__, ._
,"_| g
_
----*A 4""`
°°' '
352 ucrrr on mssosnv.
Ganson, Jesse French, Roswell Wilcox, and James Hurlburt.
were indicted for a riot, and for assaulting and falsely imprison-
ing David C. Miller. Then trial took place atthe court of Oyer
and Terminer, held in April before judge Birdsall, in Genesee
county. French, Wilcox and Hurlburt, were found guilty, 'and
sentenced to close confinement in the county jail for different pe-
riods-viz: French for one
year, Wilcox for six months, andHurl-
hurt for three: Ganson was acquitted: two other indictmentawerc
found against him-one for a
conspiracy uvith Daniel Johns,
and George Ketchum, to obtain Morgan's manuscripts or printed
sheets: the other, for a conspiracy, with sixteen others, to dc-
stroy Miller's ofiice. On these he has not yet been tried.
On the trial, above mentioned, it was
proved, that on the mom-
ing of the 12th, before the party came to Batavia, at Stafford,
and in the lodge room, Ganson was appointed the leader or
cap-
tain of the expedition against Miller's oflice.
Supposing the reader to have perused the affidavit of Mrs.
Morgan, contained in the Appendix, we
proceed to mention that,
immediately after her retum, (i. e. not more than a few hours)
from her useless visit to Canandaigua, to her desolate home, the
same Thomas M'Cully, whomwe have mentioned before, called
on her, and said 'that he had been appointed by the lodge to pro-
'vide fbr the support of herself and her children, and had pro-
'vided board for them at a public tavern in the village;' the
same in which her husband had been detained after his arrest on
Monday moming, before he was
put into the carriage and taken
away. The unfortunate woman promptly answered, 'that she
should accept no assistance from 'the Masons] for she attribu-
ted to them, without any hesitation, the aiilictions she was suEer-
in .'
gitwill be seen by her statement that, on her way home, James
Ganson got into the stage at Le Roy, and assured her that he
was then on his way to Batavia 'to make arrangements for her
's1q:port.' He told her 'That her husband had not been killed,
'but that she must not be surprised if she did not see him again
'in a
year: and if she never saw him again she should be well
'provided for, and her children sent to school as soon as they
'were old enough.'*
About the first of March, 1827, Henry Brown, esqnire, of Batavia, said
to the Grand Commander ofthe Knights Templars Encamped at Le Roy,
called at Mrs. Morgan's lodgings, and exldbiged to the wqman with whom
She boa-rd¢d,a blg,¢0l1Nlillillg, as he said, silver dollars, which he professed
great anxiety to give to her without delay. Mrs. Morgan never sent for the
dollars, and they were taken away by Mr. Brown, but it is not knownte
what use -they were subsequently appropriated,
if
___
-.-
Lan... _,___
'
LIGHT 'os nnsouav. 358
Her distress of mind, and unprotected situation, did not fail
to excite the sympathy, and call forth the kind oilices of those
whose sensibilities were not blunted by vice or hatred to her
husband. To compel her, by dire necessity, to cast herself
upon the bounty of those who had almost avowed their agency
in producing thesudden calamity which had come upon her,
and had declared their certain knowledge that there was no
prohability.that~she would again have the support and protection
of her husband until after the lapse of a
year, if ever, could not
be tolerated. Her immediate wants -were provided for, and an
agent sent to Canandaigua to make inquiries into the fate of
her husband. He procured the infomation contained in the
depositions, No. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, which gave such an ex-
traordinary aspect to the transactions, that it was deemed abso-
lutely necessary tolay them at once before the public, at a meet-
ing called for that purpose, in the village of Batavia. The com-
mittee appointed at that meeting, published the notice contained
inthe Appendix, No. 12; and sent an agent to make inquiries
along the road from Rochester to Lewiston and Fort Niagara.
Hopes were for many weeks entertained that he was
merely
detained in confinement until the suppression of his book could-
be effected by terror or
negotiation: but week after week passed
away, and no correct information of him was received. In this
state of suspense and "anxiety, circumstances occurred which in
a
great degree destroyed all hopes of his being discovered, and
created the most unpleasant feelings in the community. It soon
became manifest to the committee of Genesee county, that seve-
ral hundred men had been actually concemed in different parts
of the transactions which had ended in his disappearance. Ma-
ny of them were men of high standing, and good general charac-
ters. Numbers ofthem, without hesitation, openly declared that
Morgan would never-be seen' again; men, who had fiequently
asked for, and obtained, the confidence of their fellow citizens,
unreservedly justified
tpe
conduct of those by whom he had been
kidnapped, and laughe at the eH`orts that were making to di cov-
er his fate. The distress of his wife was
spoken of with con-
temptuous levity in the streets.
'
Chesebro had assured the keeper of the jail at Canandaigua,
that
Dioxin
'had gone where Miller would never see him aga»in.'
James son
exultingly told a member of the Genesee com-
mittee,-rwhom 'he met in the streets of Rochester, that Morgan
-could have been rescued if he had been closely followed by
hisfri V
'
that if the committee 'could hang, draw; and quarter
'all the
n;`
that had a hand in it, they could 'aol Set him
F2
'
'
_,_,..4--I
'~
-
_-l¢l».~
354 mess on ntssontf.
'back-that he wunot dead, but
researchers
he would stagpat,
until God Almighty .rhoild cull for
'
.' Similar, all well me
thenticetod, declarations reached us from the neighboringtowns,
and from distant plsces; and a large number of citizens, who
were understood to be members of lodges, spolte of theoccur-
renee with e visible air of triumph. The members of the com-
mittee, as they walked the streets, were several times asked by
men who bed openly the conduct of lis kidnappers,
'Well, have you found organ yetl' ~
Various efforts were mode to deter some of them from acting, by
friendly remenstrances, byhintsofthe greet disedvsntagoit would
be to them, by saying they would rsise up numerous and power-
ful enemies. Many decent men ofthe order of Masons declu-
'ed, 'That eE'orts to learn the thtool' Morgan would be useless-
'tbat il' we could discover the guilty, we cordd not get them pua~
'ished; that they had acted lncording to their orders, and would
'be bome out-that their body had s right to desi with their own
'members according to &eir own laws--that if they hai done
'any thing with him, it was no one's business but their own."
They said that the men who hed determinedto suppress the
book, acted ha s. body, end in eoncert; were well organized, and
could act with elfect, end possessed the odices, tslentsand wealth
of the country; that they understood one another, and would pur-
sue with their vengeanoe all who should interfere with them.
Far from electing to think that Morgan had disappeared vol-
untarily, and for sinister purposes, or was collnding with his kid-
nappers to deceive the public, and excite attention to his book,
(the lirst pert of which was 'not then published, and did not ap-
pear for some weeks nll»erwards,) we heard not the slightest in-
sinuationof the kind. On the contrary, his abduction was
spo-
ken of es having defeated the publication; and we believe they.
in general, supposed that its suppression was accomplished; and
* Asimilsr declaration, in relationto the destruction ol' Millers ediee,
should not be omitted. Two of the justices oPthe peace, residing in the
village of Batavia, are eetive members of the masonic society. On the day
when Miller was taken away, they were, as before
relatgi attending ss wit-
nesses before s magistrate in Bethany. One of them d to s member
of the Genessee commit in the ese l' th th that "housed t
tee; pr nee o e o Q, no
'bs
surprised il] when he returned to fBstsyie, he found Mil.ler's ollice level-
'led with the ground! He asked them, 'if they, bei justices of the pesee,
'thought suoh proeeedings right!
.'W'hy,'
said meld? them, 'if you found
's run sbusing
Eur
mssrisge bsdgwrou d you have rsooursem law, or take
's cluburd best
'
brains out? This person still holds theolhoe which ren-
qer-; it hi; to preserve the pence of the county, and secure by
;='oEnir.snce
or nnpnsonrnent the persons of those who may thresten to
it. -
-_,_ _suns ,_-s ,
-
..|ms.....-. ,_ ,.l||n_, ,..4l¢;
w...-
-
IJGHT on MASONRY» 355
were extremely mortitied and disappointed when it made its ap
penance, with assurances from the publisher that the other parts
of the work had been finished by Morgan, and would certainly
be published! ~
We now resume our narrative in relation to the fate of Mor-
gan, after he had, as before related, been imprisoned in the jail
at Canandaigua.
»
The next evening after Morgan's imprisonment for the small
debt, soon after dusk, Loton Lawson called at the jail, and de-
sined to see Morgan, which, after some objections from the keep-
er, he was permitted to do. He proposed paying the debt, and
taking Morgan with him to his house, a short distance from the
village; Morgan seemedrwilling to be relieved, but expressed an
inclination to wait in jail until the next moming, and retired to his
bod. Attera short absence Lawson returned again; and having
procured a
carriage, and the assistance of a suflicient number of
men, he eventually obtained the consent of the jailer's wife, who
was acting in the absence of her husband, to the discharge of
Morgan, and he accordingly left the apartment in which he had
been confined, (Lawson holding him by the arm,) at about nine
o'clock in the evening. Almost directly in front of the jail he was
siezed by his supposed friend Lawson, and some other person,
and notwithstanding his struggles and cries of murder, he was gag-
ged, and led away from the jail. The cry of murder, and the
appearance 'of a
struggle in the street, excited a momentary at-
tention from the people living in the vicinity of the jail, and a man
ran out to ascertain what was the cause. The first person he
came up with was Col. Edward Sawyer, who, with Nicholas G.
Chesebro, was standing near by, spectators of the scene.-
When asked what was the matter, Col. Sawyer answered him
promptly, 'Nothing, only a man has been let out of jail, and has
een taken on a warrant, and is going to be tried.' Receiving
this answer from a person of good character, whom he knew, the
* The reader will readily perceive that their confidence in havin sup rese-
cd the Work, was not without plausible foundations. Ketchum hadohtain-
ed from Mrs. Morgan the original manuscript oi the threefirst degrees: (sec
her a$davit:) they were delivered to her by Miller for the u se of nego-
tiaztingwiththe fratemi for the restoration of her hlllbtlllx alxgrhe had no
further use tbr them. goodwill, Stone, and others, had surreptitiously got-
ten leveralof the sheets into their possession, when they broke into Morgsn's
room; and they, the same
evening, had ransached every place at his lodgingb
þÿWll ¬\'0
they could hope to find the manuscripts. Such parts of the unprllll'
ed work as were than completed, and had not been delivered to Miller, "'°"'
:xiao time concealed in a straw bed, in the room from which Mor?" "S
en.
0
_
.s ._-
356 near, on masonav.
man tamed about and declined to interfere. Sawyer's ownac-
cotmt of the transactions, and the part he took in it, will be seen
by the copy of his amdavit in the Appendix, No. 9. The car-
riage, alter having left Canandaigua, was next noticed at the vil-
lage of Victor: it was first driven into the open shed of a tavem,
kept by Dr. Thomas Beach, from thence into the yard of one
Enos Gillis, back ofthe bam, and out of sghtof the road, about
forty rods from the tavern of Beach. James Gillis here took from
his brother's stable a horse, which he mounted, and proceeded
on. The ostler was called on to get ahorse for Lawson, whom
he knew. James Gillis, who -then resided at Montmorency, in
Pennsylvania, a brother of Enos Gillis, was recognized at Victor
by several persons who knew him well, and was een the next
day on horseback in the vicinity: his participation in the transac-
tion will account for the assertion of George Ketchum, as stated
in Mrs. Morgan's affidavit, 'that a man had come from Pennsyl-
'vania, and had taken him away in a
private carriage! A com-
parison of these assertions and circumstances will enable the
reader to form some opinion of_
the extent of the conspiracy,
the ample preparations that had been made to etliact the object of
it, and the accuracy of the information possessed by albconcem-
ed in it, as to who were the principal managers. Gillis disap-
peared imlizediately, and has not since been seen in this state. He
was included in the first indictment found againsthawsoa, Saw-
yer, Chesebro, and others, but as
yet has not been arrested or
tried. Enos Gillis also soon atterwards left the country, and has
lately moved hisfamily away, and since, he was examined before
the jury in November, 1826, has always been absent from the
county at 'such times as it was probable he would be called on to
testify. After leaving Victor, the party drove to Rochester, 28
miles north westerly from Canandaigua, and reached Hanford's
tavern, about three miles below that place, a little after day light,
with horses very much fatigued. Hubbard, who owned and drove
the carriage, when applied to for information in relation to his
employers, and his journey, gave the extraordinary and incredi-
ble account detailed in the atlidavirof Mr. Fitch;* and when all
terwards examined on oath before the grand jury, his account
was
entirely the same: he has, however, been since indicted as a
conspirator, but has not yet been tried. Before the Canandaigua
carriage arrived at Rochester,a carriage belonging to Ezra Platt,
a
Royal Arch Mason, and a
livery stable keeper in that place, was
procured, and sent forward in advance of the Canandaigua care
*
Appenaix, Ns. 7.
°
_
A
9
..., _A-,~t _...._..,..
-
.`,-
LIGHT ON MABDNRY. 357
ri e, and stopt at some sequestered place, whileit was yetdark,
innate vicinity of Hanford's tavern. The Canandaigua carriage,
on its arrival at Hanford's tavern, was driven under a shed, op-
posite the house, before any of the party alighted. Two men
then got out of it, wentinto the tavern, and requested some grain
for their horses, and something to drink for themselves: they drank
at the bar, and took a bottle of gin and a
glass to the carriage.
One of the men remarked to the other, while standing on the steps
of the house, 'He was damned glad to get out of jail.' This ob-
servation attracted Mrs. Hanford's attention, as she suspected
from it that a
person, for whom one of her neighbors was bail, had
been spirited away from the limits, and she feared her neighbor
might be injured by it. The men came in soon, and said they had
not time to feed' their horses, and did not want the grain. All that
had, alighted returned to the carriage, except one, who remained
walking the piazza. This tavem stands at the intersection of the
Lewiston ridge road and the Genesee river road; and the carriage
drove out upon the ridge with the curtains all down: it was absent
nearly an hour, and returned with the curtains up, and a man on
a horse, (also belonging to the same Ezra PIatt,) riding before it.
This marrwas recognizedas being the same
person who had come
to the tavem and made inquiries for a
carriage of such descrip-
tion, and the direction it had taken, and who, upon being informed,
had immediately rode in the direction which he was told the car-
riage had taken; and the informant has declared that he recogniz-
ed the rider in the person of Edward Doyle, of Rochester, a
merchant* Hubbard deposed before the grand jury, that the
persons whom he took from Canandaigua left his carriage in a
secluded-place, a short distance from Hanford's, and entered into
* On the trial of Chesebro, Sawyer, Lawson, and Sheldon, for kidnapping
William Morgan, Burrage Smith and John Whitney were called as witnesses.
Both of them objected to answering any questions, because to do so would
criminate themselves: after being well instructed by the court as to the na-
ture of this privilege, they in substance deposed-That they were at Lewis-
ton on the 14th of September; that two or three da s before that day, they
went together from Rochester, (where they lived, and had families,) to Can~
andaigua, where they arrived about 3 o'clock, P. M. that they heard that
Morgan was injail at that place; that they saw Lawson in the evening; that
they heard Lawson converse that night about the taking away of Morgan, in
company with three or four others. Smith admitted that heilett Canandai-
gua the night Morgan was taken away, and as he said, robably about
8 o'clock. Whitney refused to sa at what time he had lefl Canandaigua.
because it wouldfcriminate him, and'the court decided that he was not bound
to answer the question. A few days after thetrial, these two',men abscond-
ed, leaving their families at Rochester, where they were
bo§llB§18°8°d 'T
'°`
gular business. They had before
enjoyed a
respectable standing in t-hit P °'°9~
and were generally considered thnvmg men.
...Au-_-.__ _,.s__
Y
» f- """
358 morn on msoxav.
the Rochester carriage, which proceeded along the ridge road.
It was next noticed at Clarkson, fifteen miles fulthefwest, about
nine o'clock in the morning. lt was an extremely warm day, and
the singularity of the circumstances, that the curtains were all
cloud in a warm morning, attracted attention-the carriage made
a short sto in the middle of the street, which also attracted some
notice. lic person alighted, except the driver, who went into
Baldwin's tavem, and then immediately proceeded onward.
The horses were exchanged about two and a half miles west
of Clarkson, at the house of one Allen, whose horses were taken
from the field for that purpose. Here, too, the carriage remained
closed, and no one alighted while the horses were changed. The
person who drove the carriage from Rochester to this place, as
soon as inquiries in relation to the transaction were set on foot,
left the country, and has not yet retumed. The carriage arrived
at the village of Gaines, about 12 o'clock, closed in the same
manner as at Clarkson; passed through the village without stop-
ping, and proceehd about one mile west of the village, where it
stopped in the road at a distance from any house. Elihu Mather,
of,
that place, took a
pair of horses belonging to his brother,
James Mather, and overtook the carriage, about one mile from
Gaines, where the horses were exchanged in the middle of the
road, and at a distance from any house. Mather himself then
mounted the box, and drove on, which circumstance excited ob-
servation, as he is a man of property, at the head of a
large tan-
ning establishment, and ot' course not accustomed to he seen in
such employment. On his retum, he stopped at Hughes' tavern
-said he had driven the carriage for his brother to Moi-ebouse?s
tavern, and added, 'I think I make a good stage driver, do I notl'
At Ridgeway, one Jeremiah Brown, supervisor of that town, and
lately a memberof the legislature, suddenly took his horses from
the field, where they were hitched to a harrow, led' them to the
nearest public house,`where they were fed, and then harnessed
them to the carriage, and mounted the box himselt,'and drove on.*
About, or
shortlybefore sun down, the carriage arrived at Wright's
tavern, nearly north of the village of Lockport, and, instead of
driving up to the door of the house, it was driven into the barn,
and out of sight. The persons who came with it, guarded the barn
and carriage in such a manner as to keep od' all persons from
seeing the carriage.1' A large number of men were seen assem-
bled at Wright's, some of whom appeared to be armed with
i
*
See note in the Appendix, No. 30.
i
_
1 Between the house and bam there was a large open shed, amplv sntii~
nent to cover many camagcs and horses.
'
f~_. ,-_un .__,n_.-..4n&--a
'
- ,
LIGHT Ol IABONRY. 359
clubs, and the horse of Wright was kept dlndingall night at the
post, saddled. Much whispering and clustering was observed,
and it was rumored or given out that they were collected for the
purpose of preventing the escape or rescue of a
prisoner, under
the charge of the people in the carriage. The next day a niece
of the innkeeper told one of the neighbors, that they hadprepared
supper for a number of Masons, and had received previous no-
tice to be ready for them. About 10 o'clock at night, the gate
keeper heard the carriage pass the toll house, distant a few rods
from Wright's tavern, very quietly, and supposing it was intended
to pass without paying toll, he went hastily to the door. On open.
ing it, he found Brown standing _in front of it, holding the toll
money in his hand, but the carriage had passed on
a short dis-
tance. Being well acquainted with Brown, he asked him familiar-
ly, 'What is the great hurry.' Brown answered nothing, and
immediately went to the carriage, which drove oil' with great
s eed.
"
PAbout sunrise, the next morning, the same carriage repassed
the gate, driven by Mather, the curtains up, and Brown, the only
passenger, asleep, or pretending to be so. Maxwell, the gate
keeper, asked the person driving, 'How far did you go last night;
did you go to Lewiston?' He answered, with a little hesitation,
'N o, not so far.' This, as relates to the carriage, was a false-
hood, as will be seen by the subsequent narration. The distance
from Wright's to Mollineu'x's tavern, in Cambria, is about six
miles, and from thence to Lewiston, is thirteen miles. About
11 o'clock at night, of the same 13th of September, Eli Bruce,
then and now the high sheriif of Niagara county, who resides at
Lockport, about four miles from the ridge road, arrived at Mol-
lineux's tavem, in company with the carriage driven by Brown*
It stopped in front of the house, the curtains being closed quite
round. Bruce went into the house and inquired for the landlord,
who was in bed. He was shown to his room by a hired girl, the
only person up. After a short conversation in private with the
landlord, Bruce called up his son, and desired him to put a 'r
of horses before the carriage, to go as far as Lewiston. .c
* A few minutes before Bruce arrived with the carriage, o man rode up, on
horseback, to the same tavem, and inquired for Col. Mollineux, a son of the
tavem keeper, and a member of the fraternity; and being told that he had
gone to Lewiston, rode offnt aquick rate eastward, and retumed with the mr-
riage. From this, and similar inquiries and occurrences at H|nford's, and
other places, the reader will observe how accurate was the infomation pos-
sessed by the cons irators, as to the time when the
carriage
would arnye at
places sixty miles distant from each other, and he may orm_somc opinion
ofthe extent of the conspiracy, and the number conccmcd in xt-
..- _._--'
'
~¢n»» _
__
I
360 naar ou masomnr. y
son expressed to Bruce his desire to drive himself, as the horses
were young, and he did not like to trust them with other persons:
Bruce objected to his doing so, and said he had a careful driver,
pointing to a man who he (young Mollineux) knew to be Jere-
miah Brown. The apparent hurry, and the circumstance that
Bruce was sheritfof the county, induced the girl to inquire of
Bruce what was the matter. He answered, 'You cannot know at
present) The carriage soon afterwards started for Lewiston,
driven by Brown, and Mather remained at Mollineux's. Brown
returned with the same carriage before day light, having trav_el-
led a distance of twenty-six miles in about five hours. The horses
were so much jaded that young Mollineux vas
very angry at their
usage, and, declared to a relation 'that Bruce should never have
his horses again to drive in that fashion?
Sometime in the night of the same 13th of September, the car-
riage arrived at Lewiston, 70 miles westerly from Rochester.
Bruce, and Samuel Barton of Lewiston, one of the stage pro-
prietors, went together into the stage office at Lewiston, and
Barton inquired of Joshua Fairbanks, (who kept the stage books,
and usually slept in the ollice,) what drivers were at home.
Fairbanks answered him, none but Fox, who was
asleep in an
adjoining rooin. Barton immediately called up Fox, and soon
left the office, followed by Bruce. When Fox went out, Bar-
ton told him to get up a carriage, and drive some gentlemen to
Youngstown. The carriage was accordingly got ready by Fox,
who drove it up to the front door of the tavern, called the Frontier
House, where he found Bruce waiting, who immediately got into
it, and told him to drive round the house into a back street, where
he drove accordingly, and found a carriage standing in the mid-
dle of the street, in front of Samuel Barton's dwelling house.
The horses had been taken from it, and the curtains were all
closed: he drove along side of that carriage, but remained on his-
seat. Here Bruce got out, and Fox then saw him and another
man assist a third man to get out of one carriage into the other;*
they then both entered the carriage, and Bruce told`Fox to drive=
*
Another witness deposed, that on the morning of the 14th September,
1826, he was up taking care of a sick person about one or two.o'clock; that
he_ looked towards Samuel Barton's stage bam; saw a carriage and horses
dnven near a carriage without horses; saw three men go tiom the standing
carnage, to the one with horses; one of the men appeared to have ahandlter-
chief around his head, and to be intoxicated, and was helped by the other
two. Sometime aherwards he saw aman in Lewiston, whom he believed was
the same he saw at the carriage: asked who he was, and was told it was Eli
Bruce: knew the driver at the time-it was
Corydon Fox: he stood about
100 feet from the carriage; it was a
bright moonlight
-
1
'
I
LIGHT ON MABONRY. 86|
nn. During all this time, as Fox deposed, not a word was said;
not even a whisper heard from any one of the three men. The
carriage then proceeded to Youngstown, a-distance of six miles,
during all which time, the same profound silence seemed to be
preserved by those in the carriage. At Youngstown, the car-
riage stopped by order of Bruce, in the street in front of the
house occupied by Col. William King; then Bruce got out, and
knocked at the door, and called up Col. King; the door was soon
opened, and a light soon after seen in the house, where Bruce
remained about fifteen minutes: during that time, the driver
heard something said by u
pierson
in the carriage, which appear.
ed to him a call for water; ruce appeared to hear the voice, and
replied, 'Yes, yes, you shall have somez' no water, however, was
brought to the carriage. King came out of the door, and wig),
Bruce got into the carriage, and Bruce directed the driver to go
on, when the carriage proceeded towards Fort Niagara; which is
about one mile distant from Youngstown. About eighty rods from
the Fort, near the grave yard, Bruce ordered him to stop, whid,
he did; but (as he said) still did not leave his seat, when four
persons left the carriage, and walked from it in a huddle (as he
expressed it) towards the Fort: when they had proceeded a. short
distance from the carriage, Bmce told him he might go back
about his business; and he (Fox) retumed with the carriage, to
Lewiston, empty.
The next day Fox mentioned the singularity oi' the circum-
stances attending his jaunt to Paul Mosher, a Mason; and told
him, he (Fox) thought he heard King say, as he came to the car-
riage, 'What, Morgan, are
you herel' Mosher being stmck with
the strangeness of the transaction, asked another member of the
lodge what it meant? who told him 'he believed it was
Morgan!
He made similar inquiries of another Mason, who told him 'it
was Morgan, for Bruce told him so.' In the forenoon of the.
same day, September 14th, Mosher saw_ Bmco at Lewiston, and
asked him why he was so
impmdent as to have the driver he did,
for he was not a Mason: Bruce answered that Sam (meaning
Samuel Barton,) was more in fault than he was, for he told him
to send a Mason. Mosher asked Bruce ifhe actually had Mor-
gan, who answered that he had. On the same day, S, Barton,
asked Mosher if Fox mistrusted that Morgan was in the carriage:
.him that Fox was telling the circumstance about the
then told him to say to Fog, if he knew any
V'
'
V keep it to himself, and hold his tongue, or he would
' ` '
`
; and at the lame time remarked to Mosher thai
_I
`b9
Eastbay
mm away, to blind that trans-
: _
1.4 _
.._....-.--|,..¢... ,paw _
, ..» ., . _
"
_
r
362 near os nnsomrr.
action; that Mosher being a Mason, ought to have been sent,
but having been called up in the night, in his hurry he did not
think."
'
Thus far we have positive testimony, sutlicient, we think, to
prove most satistitctorily that Wm. Morgan was, in the manner
we have related, conducted to the vicinity of Fort Niagara; and
here our direct and positive proof ends: but the facts and cir~
cumstances hereafter detailed, are authenticated by unquestiona-
ble testimony, and will be submitted to the reader that he may
draw such conclusions as he shall think they warrant.
The Fort at that time was
unoccupied, except by the keep-
er and his wife; and there is no
dwelling house near it excepting
a small ferry house, directly on the- bank of the river, occupied
by Mr. Giddins, who then occasionally entertained travellers,
and has had charge of the Fort from May, 1826, when the troops
left it, until August lst, 1826, when he surrendered it to the care
of the person who still has_ charge of it. The magazine is a
very~ strong building, the entrance to which is secured by two
doors: the first or outside door is usually fastened by an iron bolt,
secured from being slipped by a padlock; theinside door is made
of white oak plank, cased on the outside with sheet iron, and
was originally fastened by a large stock lock, nailed to a
large
piece of while oak plank, which had been nailed to the inner
side of the door, with wrought nails of a
large size. -Directly
opposite to the inside door is a thick stone wall, forming one
side of a stone portico, built around the inner door which opens
into the portion, and is furnished with a large wooden handle,
spiked on, to facilitate the pullingof it open. No light can en-
ter the building except from two very small windows, very near
the ridge of the root, elevated about Sheen 'feet from the floor.
The keys have usually hung in the open entry ofthe mess room,
a very large building occupied by the keeper. It will be seen-by
the atlidavit of Giddins,1' (who is a member of the masonic so-
cisty,) that he surrendered the- building to the present keeper on
the flrst of August, in perfect orden thattbe empty ammunition
hoxes were
ranged along the-walls at the distance of about a
foot from'them; that he recollects of no loose door being inside
of :the building, when he delivered it up to the present keeper,
and should not have considered it proper to leave that, or
any
other thing there, which did notpreperly belong toit; that it wa ,
asyusual, white washedlonthe inside, ahoutthe lstof May. lathe
month
of last,(l82'7,)tlri|building was visitedbyanurrlber
4* See Arssrlir, an extxaem from other atpiam. f1q>p¢uix,Na ss
Y
LIGHT os ausormv. 363
of gentlemen from different counties, who were members of the
committees appointed at meetings of the citizens; and in March,
1827, it was again examined by three of those who have signed
this narrative, for the express purpose of re-examination, and to
ascertain as far as possible, the accuracy of the opinion formed,
and the facts stated, by the person who first visited it for investi-
gation. It was tbund that one ofthe floor planks had been bro-
ken up; that part of the floor was covered with the loose door,
mentioned in the atiidavit of Mr. Giddins, on which were piled
a number of the empty ammunition boxes. The large stock -lock,
and the block to whichit was nailed, were found knocked ofi,
and marks on the door showed that they had been forced off by
striking on the upper edge of them; this was also evidenced by
the bend of the wrought -nails, and the appearances of the 'holes
from which the nails had been forced: this lock and block had
manifestly been thrown with great force, and very many times,
against the door, at the upper corners; and the blows had been so
continually repeated, that the door was bruised in two places, so
as to make it easy to pick splinters from the oak plank, which
was done by one of the visitors: a corresponding bruise was
found on one comer of the lock and block. Outside of the in-
ner door was found a
piece of wide pine board, one end of which
had been recently sawed in an
irregular line across to a
length
which made it reach exactlyfrom under the large handle on the out-
side of the inner door, to the bottom of the stone wall opposite,
and when placed in that position it effectually preventedthe inner
door from being pushed open from the inside, after the lock was
forced ofil The rust of the sheet iron was found on the edge of
the hoard; and corresponding marks were distinctly observed on
the door directly under the handle. ¢,. ,,
Neither Mr. Giddins, or the then keeper, could giveany ac-
count ofthe manner in which the lock had been taken oft, or the
bruises on the door, or
why the beardhad been used; and neither
of them recollected ever to have noticed these appearances be-
fore they were
pointed out at that time. Outside of the door,
and very near it, was found an ammunition box, which was
seen there in October previous, and the bottom of which was
covered almost two inches thick, with a substance that two per-
sons who then saw it, supposed to be human excrements. When
seen ~in~Mar¢h, the :bottom was clean, but one
ef the sides was
still, ltqiggigv From these circumstances, the persons who visit-
cd the place in March, were
perfectly satisfied, that after Grd-
dins had surrendered the care of the Fort, in August, S°mF P°"
son had been confined in the magazine, who had made violent
'?§"»
__ _,.....1 ~*-~-~f~
,ahhnq-__ __ ._»,|._r_4..,..,|,.,~.-,-»
"
364 LIGHT ON MABONB.Y.-
and reiterated elibrts to force his way out, and that these efforts
must have been attended with much noise. How far these ap-
pearances will account for the declaration of Barton, made on the
14th of September, that there was trouble at the Fort, the reader
must conjecture for himselti 7
'
Mr. Giddins was distinctly asked by one of the visiters in
March, whether he had not, on the night ofthe 13th of Septem-
ber, seen Bruce and King, and was not called up by them. He
declined answering the question, saying that when legally called
on, he would attest to all he knew. He was then told that his
declining to answer so plain a question, left on the mind of the
person who asked him, the inevitable impression that he had sem
them, and would probably make the same impression on the minds
of others-to which he made no answer or observation.
On the moming of the 14th of September, a
party of ladies
and gentlemen went into the steam boat, Martha Ogden, fiom
Youngstown to Lewiston, to attend the installation ofa chapter,
which was to take place that
day:
on board the boat was Bruce,
King, Mrs. Giddins, and other adies. During the voyage, one
of the ladies tiamiliarly asked Bruce what he meant by going
about at nights, and disturbing people, and calling up her hus-
bnnfl. Yes, observed Mrs. Giddins, they came too and routed
up my poor husband.
'
The certificate ofthe magistrate, and the atiidavit of Mosher,
were transmitted bythe Genesee committee to the governor, for
the purpose of obtaining his proclamation, otferinga reward for
the discovery of Morgan, or his murderers. On the suggestion
of his excellency, a regular complaint was made against Bruce,
and laid before him. Teobviate the charge, Bruce transmitted
to him atlidavits, impeaching the character of Mosher, and his
motives ot' action, but did not attempt to deny or
explain by his
own depositions, or that of any other person, the part attributed
to him; nor did he produce 'the deposition"ot`Barton, or Mollineux,
or
any other person, to show what was the 'occasion of the extra-
ordinary course he had pursued.°
`
A reverend clergyman, residing in the village of Lewiston, and
21 member of the masonic lodge, or
society, declared in Batavia
to the gentleman, at whose house he lodged, while attending the
synod in the month of September, 1826, that Morgan had passed
through Lewisbn on his way to Canada. -When requested by a
member of the Genesee committee to give vhat information he
*
We are oflicially informed that his c-xcellency has told the counsel of
Bruce that he shall expect a
latislinctory account of his proceedings on the
13th and 14th ot September, before he pronounces his acquittal.
s-; - --
-»»-A
nails-u
-¢
Y.
'
mens ON msonar. 365
possessed on the subject, he declared, that on the moming of the
14th of September, about ten o'clock, P. M. he was
going to
the house where the lodge was to meet, and heard some person
in the-crowd, assembled in front of the house, say that Morgan
had passed on th
`
htbefore to Canada, but he declined saying,
or did not mcollxlgho had made the assertion!
On the nightfof the 14th of September, 1S26, nine personsor-
dered supper at the house of Mr. Giddins, five of whom were
known to him. They all left his house at about eleven o'clock
at night; and he could not tell where they had spent the .rest of
the night. They did not lodge and were not seen that night at
either of the taverns in the village of Youngstown. The next
morning before day light, and between the hours of three and four
o'cloek, four of the five men designated by Giddins, and anoth-
er man, were seen by.Josiah Tryon, whose deposition will be
found in the Appendix, travelling on foot about two miles from
Lewiston, and about five miles from the house of Giddins, walk-
ing towards Lewiston, where three of them resided. One of the
other two resided at the Falls of Niagara, and one at Black Roclg.
On the afternoon of September the 14th, Samuel Barton told
Mosher, who was then in his employment, to borrow a saddle
andbridle, and put them on a horse as soon as possible, and bitch
him beside another horse, then standing under the shed. He did
as directed, and fo d that the latter horse appeared to have been
ridden very fast. Lgarton said to Mosher that 'he had heard
from the Fort, and must send a man down, for he was afraid
there would be trouble yet.' The two horses were rode off the
same aftemoon; one
by a Mason resident at Lewiston, the other
by a person whom he did not know. Next moming Mosher
asked Barton if there was any trouble at the Fort, to which Bar~
ton answered, 'I guess it is still enough now.'
It,is_known to many persons, that, in a letter written by one of
the gentlemen who visited Niagara, in January lasl, it was stated
that Morgan had been taken to the,_house of a member of par-
liament, residing in the .village of Newark, or Niagara, in Upper
Canada; This apsertion was erroneous, and~it occurred in part
fro haste, or want of care, in writing a confidential letter, and
in part from misapprehension of the information given by Wil.
liam Terry, of that place, who had received his information from
* How could such a report have gotten about in that place a few hoars-
atter the mysterious carriage leil. the front of Barton's house unless some
person knew the fact, or some circumstances were known whichcreated that
belief among some of those who had assembled there. Blrfl8° smlflh
John Whitney,
LotG¢; Lawson, Eli Bmee, were all at.Lewt|ton on that day.
2
.
_..-_---1"
'
-lih¢laa-,. _...1¢......
'
_
36| Liana' on Muontr.
one Stock*, lr¢0p06!lbl8 hllitl' living in |.ll8ibWl1. The ill-
tbrmaticn intended to be given by Mr. Terry, will be seen by
reading lideposiion, contained in the Appendix. The Mason,
before whom Morgan wa said to have been taken, is now un-
derstood to have been a Mr, M'Bride, a. member nf the provin-
cial parlinment. His letter, purporting to ben contradiction, cr
denial oi' the iitcts stated inthe letter tint mentioned, will he
found in the Appendix. Since the publication of these letters,
M'Bride and Stocking called upon Mr. Terry, in company of
Dr. Chapin, and in presence of a
large number of respectable
inhabitants of Niagara, for the purpose of explanation. At tlis
meeting Terry distinctly declared, 'Stocking you said that
M'Bride saw the man; that he was here onithisside the writenaud
'
he saw him.' Stocking, then acknowledged that hs had named
M'Bride. M'Bride appeared to drop his head and eyes, and
said, 'he did not see what right any man under heavens had tc
say that;' but did not deny that he said any thing of the kind to
Stocking, nor declare in any other way that hedid not see More
gan, or that he knew nothing ci' the transaction. We have been-
informed by those whose veracity we have no reason to question,
that the worthy and respectable gentleman alluded to in the let-
ter of M'Bride, as having slept that night at his house, has dis-
tinctly declared, that late inthe night alluded to, M'Bride- was
called up by a loud rap on the door, which awoke the lodgers,
who, with his wife, arose from bed, and looked out the window;
they saw two men near the house. M'Bride dressed himself;
and went nv/ay with them, and was
gone about half an hour,
perhaps ;more that on the next morning he did not mention or
explain the circumstance.
That after M'B|-ide had prepared his letter, and before its-
publication, he submitted it to the perusal ofthe same gentle-
men to whom he alluded: alter looking it over, his friend observ-
od in »substamce to M'Bride, 'Your letter does not amount to n
full denial; you do not say you did not see Morgan! M'Bride
replied, intimating thdt it was full enough. -
It will be readily perceived that the' assertions ofM'Bridein
his letter, 'that Morgan was not, on the night of the 14th ofTSep-
tember,`1826, at his house; that Morgan is to him an utter stran-
ger; that he never
exchanged a word"with him in his life; and
would not know him from the greatest stranger in existence?
may all be perfectly true, and yet are perfectly reconcilable with
the facts that Mor n was taken to the British side ofthe river,
and was seen, by Jgiridetand his onission to declare in lille!-
ter,. (and that, too, alter the observation of his li'iend,) and before
...¢...A _,_ ..
....__&Ae>_,-
_
r.ron'r os masozmr. 367
Mr. Terry, and his townsman, that he never saw
Morgan, and
had no knowledge of his abduction on the night of the 13th of
September, (not the l4th,) or
any other night, or day, or was
ap-
plied to, to assist in disposing of him, like the silence ofGiddins,
amounts to very strongpresumptive proof, that, in fact, he did, on
the night of the 13th of September, or morning ofthe 14th, have
nn interview" with some persons who he knew had Morgan under
their control, and, in fact, that he did see him.
About the lst of' November, and before the publication of the
Govern0r's first proclamation offering a reward for the discovery
of Morgan, and the conviction of his kidnappers, and before se-
rious appreherfsious of his murder was entertained, and before
any investigations had been made along the ridge road, a |-9.
spectable inhabitant of Niagara county, Sylvester R. Hathaway,
called upon a member of the Genesee committee, whom he met
at Lockport, and informed him 'that he had been for some time
past, working on the Wolland Canal; that a fiiend who resided in
Canada near the canal had a few days before called on him, and
exaotied a promise from him to goto Batavia, and communicate to
the committee that Morgan had* been taken to Fort Niagara, in
the night, put into the Fort, and detained there three or four days;
thattlmy tried to get the Masons on the Canada side to take him,
but they refused; that afterwards, two rufiians had taken him out;
and cut his throat, and tied his body to a rope and .stone, and
threw it into the lake; that he had been told so
by Masons, of
which society he was a member, and that he conscientiously be-
lieved it; that his name must notbe used, or given in, for ifit was
known that he had informed, he should fare no better.' The
messenger assured us that his informant was a
'grave respectable
man ofthe society of Friends, and not inclined to confide in, or
'to repeat idle tales, or
improbable stories. This communica-
tion was not made known even to the other members ofthe com-
mittees, nor any other person, exceptingthe governorof the state,
until some time after the examination took place in January, and
after two other accounts were
distinctly stated to us from other
sources, which did V
not differ from it in any essential partic-
ulars. _
AA physician, residing at or near Niagara, U. C. informed one
of his friends, that during the sitting of the court of that province
in September, a person called on him at the court house, and re-
quested him to attend as one ofthe counsel on Morgan: he said
to hisfriand, 'I did netgo, and I am glad ofit; for if I had gone:
I should have gotten into a d-d pretty scrape, for they muf-
dered Morgan at`terwards.' This communication was obtained
_
_.As
.__,_»-#han-ft. .,-,._._...._... .af -,,-Y-~-~-»
'
A
Y'
_
368 are nr on M/tsonar.
in writing, in March, 1827, from the
physician's friend, who is a
professional gentleman ofhigh standing at Niagara.
The communications made to Dr. Terry, and the letter of
M'Bride, (afecting to deny their correctncss,) will be found in
the Appendix# upon the contents of which some comments
have already been submitted.
Let the reader connect the various accounts received from
distinct and entirely separate quarters and persons, with the cor-
responding and authenticated facts detailed in this narrative, or
in the Appendix, and form, if he can, any other conclusion than
that which both parties of the visiters to Niagara for examina-
tion did form, and do not hesitate to declare; to wit: that the
persons who had Morgan under their conduct at Lewiston and
Ytmngstown, on the night of September the 13th, 1826, tookhim
over the Niagara river;,that some persons on that side knew he
was brought over and had an interview with his conductors; that
he was taken back and confined in the magazine at Fort Niagara;
and that a court or council of some kind was held on him under a.
pretext of masonic authority. Those of us who did make inves-
tigations at that place in January and March, think that no per-
son of common candor, whose mind is not blinded by prejudice,
or under the intluence of strong delusion-, can visit there, and
examine for himself, without forming similar conclusions.
But, again, it will be seen
by the reader that at the court of
Oycr and Terminer,held at Canandaigua in January, 1827, before
judge Throop, Lawson, Sawyer, and Chesebro, withdrew their
pleas of not guilty, which they had at a
previous court interposed,
and plead guilty, and that Sheldon was convicted after a trial.
The indictmentsagainst all,these men
chargedthem with having
kidnapped Wm. Morgan, and taken him out ofthe state of'New_
York, and out ofthe United States, and to placuunlmotm. They
were beyond any doubt, informed by the able counsellors, who
defended them, that the. uncertainty as to Morgan's fate, and
the probability of his having been murdered, would greatly en-
hance their punishment, unless they could show that they had
not participated in the murder of their victim, or been concerned
in the latter part of the transaction. Three of them, Sawyer,
Chesebro, and Sheldon, accordingly produced their depoeitiong,
to show how far they had acted. If these depositions can be relied
upon, both Chesebro and Sawyer, by their confession of guilty
to the charges contained in the indictments, vohmtarily exposed
themselves to punishment for the most heinous part of the crime
=~
Apptnau, No.
24 ma 21. ,
'
"'~ »
,.:;>_,._ _..
....a._._,.,..|s;,......
I-i-hn m|»;._, _,_,,,_,,. ,_ _ _
_______,,_,_,|_
__-num..
-tiene ON unsormv. 369
alleged against them; when, in fact, they had not participated in
that part of the wcrime charged! The court, however, seem to
have given credit to their depositions, and apportioned their
ppm-
ishment accordingly. But Lawson, it will be seen, gave no ac-
count whatever ofthe part he had performed, and left the court
and the public at liberty to form no other opinion than, 'that In
had been guilty of all that the indictment charged on him f' and
gave them not even his naked assertions to show 'that .Morgan
had not been immolatcd as a victim to their rage, or was than in
the land of the liringf* We know that he wa at Lewiston and
Youngstown late in the night of the 14th of 'September;' and
that on his retum he stopped at Wright's tavem, and left a
message
for a relation who then resided a short distance from that place. .
If Lawson had dared to depose that he had handed Morgan
over to the care or
custody of other persons, of whose subsequent
action he (Lawson) had no knowledge, (as Chesebro had done,)
that he had voluntarily absented himself, (as Sawyer pretended
to think,) that he had left him well, and knew not where he had
gone, that he was then residing at any place, or that he was then
alive, can it be believed that he would not have offered such a.
deposition, and thus entitled himselfto the lenity of the court, from
which Chesebro and Sawyer reaped such substantial fruits? Did
not these men, who were so anxious to reduce the measure of
their punishment, and so well informed as to the mode of elfect-
ing that object-did not they (unless they knew that Morgan was
dead) importune Lawson to depose to that effect in their behalf;
even if he was indifferent about exonerating himself from
the crime of being accessary (at least) to murder, which he must
have known his silence could not fail to make the community im-
pute to him? Nay, would they not have all gladly given to thc
court, and to their fellow citizens, any evidence in their power to
have shown that Morgan wasprobably alive, or that none of them
had been concemed in his death? If Morgan was then living,
could not Lawson have given a clue by which to trace him?
If no motive whatever, neither the desire to serve his associates
in guilt, nor the wish to diminish the measure of his own punish-
ment, nor a decent regard to the opinion of his fellow citizens, and
the feelings of his family, could induce him to venture on a dec-
laration, under oath, that Morgan was then alive, or might be for
aught he knew, who can doubt that he knew of his death? If he
" '
`
M
,squietly under such overwhelming ,suspicions of
A
_
H'QCCBlB8l'}' to murder, who can
suppose that Mflfgau
""=°"
,
S? ., ,
, ,.
'
See thepscntence of Judge Throop, in the Appendixi N°- ll'
..|.... _ ~---u-
_f___
310 uonr ou nusoxmr. ~
We have now laid before our fellow citizens the detail, or re-
port, which has been so often called for. If it has not been as
int esting as they had been led to expect, they must remember
tlmrfiwe did'not undertake to gratify curiosity, or give our own
speculations. We have given, as we
promised, 'A Narrative of
facts and circumstances# relating to transactions which have ex-
cited the eamest attention of the community. Those facts and
circumstances are evidenced by the depositions of credible wit-
nesses, or vouched for, by the distinct allegations (most of them
in writing) of men, entitled to our entire confidence for veracity
and integrity, to whom we can resort for legal proof, if called for.
Whether the conclusions which we have drawn are the legitimate
results of those facts and circumstances, our readers must of
course decide for themselves. Let them recollect that our exer-
tions (which have not been feeble ones) to trace Morgan beyond
Fort Niagara, have been unavailing; that the pecuniary rewards
offered hy the governor ofthe state of New York, and
govemor of
Upper Canada, have not elicitedjthe slightest information on the sub-
ject; that the governor's offer ofpardon, promisedinhis proclama-
tion at our request, has produced no eH'ect; thatno attempthas been
made, that we know of, by those so directly implicated to explain
or
deny the extraordinary conduct and occurrences which have
fastened such strong and well founded suspicions upon them; that
they have thus long set public opinion at defiance, and relinquish-
ed their claim to the good opinion of their fellow citizens, without
n
struggle to retain it; that five of them have absconded, viz:
James Gillis, Joseph Scofield, Burrage Smith, John Whitney,
and Richard Howard; that others have absented themselves from
their families, and the state, and continue absent, with a full
knowledge of the suspicions which rest upon them; that many of
the witnesses have suddenly disappeared, and cannot be traced;
that two of those who were called as witnesses before the grand
jury of Monroe county, at Rochester, to wit: Edward Doyle,
merchant, and Simon B. Jewet, attompy at law, refused to tes-
tify, because, as
they alleged, they could not do 80 truly, without
criminating themselves; that others have related stories on oath,
which are utterly incredible; and what inference can be drawn from
all this but that Morgan has been murdered, and thatgreat num-
bers of men, heretofore respectable, have been accessaries to' his
murder? Whether ALL who were concerned in his kidnapping
have been accessaries, or
consented to his death, we undertake
not to decide: But, whatever were the original designs or mo-
tives of those who were concerned in his disappearance; all ofthem,
who have not fully, frankly, and promptly explained the part they
an-......._._ ...|l..-1
T. F. TALBOT,
`
.
LIGHT 0U MASGNBY» 37|
are known'to have performed, have, we think, no
'right to complain;
iftheir fellow citizens in general regard them as accessaries to the
murder ofWilli'am, Morgan, and shall hereafter treat them accord-
ingly.
COMMITTEE.
GENESEE couun~rs.r:.`
'
THOMAS WRIGHT,
JQHN sanon/lN1~.
'
TRUMBULL CARY;
TIMOTHY rrrcn,
JAMES P. smrru,
LYMAN D. PRINDLE,
1-:LnAznR souruivonrrl,
WILLIAM xnvns,
JONATHAN LAY,
WILLIAM Davis,
HINMAN' HOLDEN. »
nocnzsrn committee.;
JOSIAH BISSELL, Jn.
F. F. BACKUS,
HEMAN NORTON,
FREDERIC WHITTLESEY,
TI~IURLOW' WEED, ,
~
SAMUEL WORKS.
A
VICTOR þÿ ¬0MMI'|"!'I¢l.
CHILI COMMITTEE.
ISAAC LACY,
WILLIAM PIXLEY,
BENJAMIN BOWEN,
SAMUEL LACY.
WHBATLAND COMMITTEE.
JorxN Ganimr,
TRUMAN nnsoN,
CLARK HALL.
BLOOHPIBLD COHIIIITTEII
RALPH wrtcox,
HEMAN CHAPIN,
BAN: nR.m1.Er,
JOSIAH ronrnn,
ORSON BENJAMIN,
~
JONATHAN BUELL.
_
SAMUEL RAWSON,
ELIJAII SEDGWICK, r.nwis-ron COBMITTIE.
SAMUEL EWING,
_
NATHAN JENKS, BATES COOK,
JAM-ES M. WHEELER, JOHN PHILIPS.
~
POSTSCRIPT. t
Vc had long expected to receive a statement, or deposition, from an cyc
witness, which, ve had good reason to suppose, would put an end to all
conjectures, as to the course that had been pursued, indisposing of William
Morgan, after his arrival at FortNiagara. Alter the narrative had been put
to the press we received the following statement, made to two members of
one of the
cdmmittees,lW'
a credible witness, a man of
dgood
character and
standin V, alloyal Arch ason, as from his own knowle ge, but who has
as
'yet declined giving _his deposition, because he has been called upon as
aw|t¢
ness, and expects to testifyincourt his knowledge of the matter. The statl
ment is as ti>llows:-
h
"After Mor an left the
carrie?
at the grave yard, he was taken
:gg s
bottom of the gill at the Fort. T e
ferryman was called up I!! *h°'§; aug!!
the charge of him. Here Morgan received-some WM", W|"¢h-h°
/
'_ ._....»-
..¢- Qlhlgns-¢_____ ,.
...¢-_ ._
,__,
-- ._.. .-¢-
"
F
372 maui' on nusormv.
for in from o|`CoI.
'
's, at Yo town. When takentothe boat he was
supported b two nilrzghe was
pigzned and hoodwinked; he was placed in
the boat andycarried te the Canada shore. On reaching that shore two ofthe
keepers left the boat; Morgan and two others remained on the beach, while
they (i. e. the two
tirst,?
went into the town. Those who were lett with the
boat., were directed to save the shore in the boat, if any person should ap-
proach
it without giving a signal which had been agreed upon. There was,
owever, no intrusion. The two who had gone into the town, rstnmed, all
ter an absence which might have been one and an halt, or two hours. The
time of,their absence seemed long to the informant, who waited with the
boat. Two other persons came _to the shore with them on their return: the
came near the boat, and held a consultation in a low tone of voice, which
the informant did not hear. When it broke up, all 'who had crossed from the
United States' shore, returned in the boat to the Fort. Morgan, as before,
upported from the shore
byéwo
men, taken into the Fort, and put into
magazine. This place had en had upon one or two days previons,as
one where Morgan could be lodged in case of necessity. This took place in
the moming of the 14th of September.
"
During that day
Morgan
made much noise; and in the course of the
day two messengers we sent. to Lewiston, where a chapter _was that day
installed, to procureaid to silence the noise. 'Some ersons came down to
the Fort from Lewiston, and produced stillness. On the evening ofthe 14th
ol' September twenty or
thirty persons came to the fort in the steam boat, or
otherwise, ali ofwhom soon sappeared, excepting about eleven; attera time
seven] ol' those last went away.
"buringcthe night several persons were together in the vicinity of the Fort,
-among w mthe fate or disposition of Morgan was discussed. This discggt
sion ended some time alter
rnidnighea
and
nothing
was decided upon. Th;
next evening a small number debat the same su ject with great animation,
'but came to no decision. Morgan was still in the magasine on the seven-
teenth, when our informant lett the
place
and did not retum until t.be
twenty lirst da of the same nionth, w an he found that Morgan had been
disposed oil 'lYhose who had Morgan in their custody, when he left the
place, gave him, on his retum, to understand that Morgan had been put to
death. That the interior of the magazine was put in order, and as our in.
formant was told had been examined by one or more persons from Lewiga
ton, who visited the Fort for that purpose, and all things were
pronounced
to
be in order; that the wnlls were closely looked over to see i Morgan hqgl
_'left any writings upon them; atier all which, a
man, or
perhaps two, wg;-¢
zguestgd
to traverse the shore of the lake, to see if any body should ilqt
ore.
`
_i
l
- ~
,;.. .....4..
*,?-7.-_.
T
(eva)
an QUUYUKQ
TO ALL HUNEST MASONS.
IN EIGHT NUMB!-zas.
.
____."____
N0. I.
To all honest Masons: ~
Brethren, when our institution, assail ed by its enemies as con-
taining principles derogatory to the laws of our
country, stands
tottering to its base, an inquiry into the principles of the iustitu-
tion becomes of vital importance. If I mistake not, we have
taken too much for granted, and, charmed with its high sounding
titles, have not scrutinized the fundamental principles which have
kept it in existence thus long with that caution which the irnpor.
tance of the case demands. When I speak of principles, I mean
not those published to the world in the Monitor and Chart, for no
society, however base, but exhibit to the world some degree ot
decency: but I' mean
by principles, the obligations and their ten-
dency upon the members, and also inquire whether the occur-
rences, which have made a blot on our
society which ages cannot
obliterate, and all the waters of the Atlantic can never wash away,
were not performed in strict observance of those obligations. A
free people, very justly alarmed at seeing the majesty of the law
trampled upon, have commenced an inquiry into the causes; and
I repeat, we must examine before the pillars of the temple fall
and bury us in its ruins.
According to Masonic tradition, our society was formed at a
very early age of the world, when there were no laws to protect
the weak against the assaults of the strong, but violence and out-
rage were the predominant features of the day; the arts and
sciences were very imperfectly known to any, and not known to
the great mass of the people. At such a time, it might have
been necessary that a
society he formed with a
strong bond of
union for the protection of its members, and a
repository for the
very imperfect arts and sciences. For such purposes a selfish
society, which should bind its members to aid and assist each oth-
erin preference to mankind generally, might have been as goof
as any that could have been devised. We need not rest upon
Masonic tradition alone, to support the antiquity of_0U1' 0fd°'-
Our forms
arg
ceremonies point conclusively to what is now em-
'
xr
_...__
.~-'
-..-Limb-_ a...
-_..,_'.... ,,_.._.
....
~
374 Lmnr os nusosnr.
phgnq'11, mlled the dark s. Theliiasonic soeiet is, ond
dispute, a selfish one; exclusively in view th; advifnytage
of the few who have bound themselves together for mutual bene-
fits. That this society should be useliil to its members, it was
necessary that some method ofcommunication should be devised;
hence our signs, grips, and pass words: and to preserve its selfish
purposes, its own peculiar method oi' communication must be
kept secret from the world; hence those barbarous oaths which
bind us to protect one another whether 'right or wrong,' and to
inlixse more deeply the minds of the new members, those degra-
ding scenes which we pass through, previous to our
taking those
obligations, were invented. I do not deny but such a
society was
necessary, where the only law was that of power., Thus we see
it was well adapted to the day of its birth.
But we live in a brighter and better day: mankind, emerging
by degrees from darkness and doubt, have arrived at a
period
when allrights of citizens are well known and secured. It, in
the Roman govemment, the exclamation, 'I am a Roman citizen,'
was a good protection, is not I am an American cidzen, a
pass
word which will admit us into the 'inner temple' of lieedom, or
the 'sanctum sanctorum' of liberty, where equal rights and pyivi.
leges are administered to all this American people, whether
or low, rich or poor? Can you point me to a single privilege oui
society guarantees to us, which, as
good citizens, ought to be
granted, that the laws of the republic does not? Any protection
that we may lawfully claim, which is not secured to us
by the
constitution and laws of our country? Not one, my brethren, in
the whole catalogue of our boasted privilege , which we can law-
fully claim, but what is secured to the lowest citizen of this coun-
try. There is, indeed, a protection granted which our laws do
not give; but it is a protection which we, as
good citizens, do not
wish. It is a
protection (as I shall in some- future number show)
to the designing, and, in too many cases, to those who have be-
come amenable to the laws of their countryf
-
What then, I ask, is the institution in this country! Millions
of dollars have been paid to support it in all its gaudy splendor.
It has, indeed, attracted the attention of people; yet no substan-
tial good, but much real evil has resulted from it. I have seen
the poor man, in his eagemess to become a member of our so-
ciety, part withhis last cow to pay the initiadon fee: I llaxe seen
'Che society in their meetings, devote the hard earned money of
their members to purposes worse than usele s. Does not the
frequent meetings of the society addict its members to idleness?
Ifear the JHDIOY W8-Nlelfs too frequent call 'from labor tow
-A
J.- .2... _
v_
mont on M/lsorxnv. 375
freslunent,' has created dissipation in many members, which will
end in wretchedness and despair. Brethren, when you consider
the enormous amount of money which has been expended to sup-
port it-the many evils that have resulted from it-the corruption
which is embosomed within it-will you not say its day of use-
iirlness is past, and you are contented to be nothing more than
plain American citizens, and look for no
support but what the in-
estimable laws of this republic grant to every one of its citizens!
'
A Mason.
NO. II.
To' all honest Masons:
Brethren, in my first number I attempted to show that our
society was adapted to the dark ages, and consequently could
not apply to the present age; and also, if it did apply, it had
become perfectly useless. I shall, in this number, show that
the titles given to the o$cers of our institution, have a
very
bad efliact upon republican principles. Our ancestors, oppress-
ed by the aristocratical principles of Europe, having endured
for a
longseries of years, the oppression of kings, lords, and
dukes, and no choice left them but slavery or
flight, resolutely
chose the latter, 'and breaking asunder the bonds which bind
friends together, and suffering the hardships of a tempestuous
passage, sat themselves quietly down in the savage wilds of
North America. No lords or dukes, no grand high priests, nor
grand kings were there, to extort the hard earnings ofthe labor.
ing poor; bound together by mutual wants, and asking no privi.
lege from others which they were unwilling to bestow, they here
sowed the lirst seeds of equal rights and privileges, which has
sprung up and yielded an abundant harvest; theyhere taught their
sons to prefer death to slavery. After the struggle of the revo-
lution, and no enemy near to disturb their deliberations, a
gov-
ernment was founded on' plain, simple, republican principles.
No high sounding titles found a place in the govemment; no
high priests were
exacting tythes; no
grand kings, with their
royal robes, were
demanding the adoration of the people. All
were reduced to a common level, and the man that held the high
est and most enviable station mortal ever held, was
simply styl-
ed, President of the United States. Such was the govemment
founded by a Washington, a Franklin, a Jefferson, and the pat-
riots of the revolution. Now let us examine our own institution,
and clearly ascertain whether it is established on as pure a basis
as that of our common country. If it is as pure and_W°n 8589?
ed to our circumstances, we had better ingraft with it 0\"'
P°l't"
-
_ *___
,
_,___ __
_...sinus-»\...,_-_.__,__,__ .,..__...
376 nicer on nxasonnr.
cal government; if not, and it does have a. tendency to inculcatc
aristocratical principles, then abandon Masonry and adhere to the
government established by _our ancestors; for it is true, that in
the various requirements of life we cannot fullil our duty to both
at the same time. The government was founded in open day
with all the light of heaven shining upon it, its principles open
and equal to all men. Masonry is the child of darkness, and
nothing but secrecy can sustain it. Its principles are partial, and
its ultimate aim is the benetit of the few at the 'expense of the
many. All its ceremonies are anti-social and anti~republican;
the titles given to its officers, I do not believe, are very republi~
can. I will rehearse them, that you may, with a
single glance,
see the bearing they may have on the pure republican.
In the Grand Lodge they have their Grand Lecturer, Grand
Junior and Senior Deacons, Grand Master of Ceremonies,
Grand Marshal, Grand Secretary, Grand Treasurer, Grand
Chaplain, Worshipful Grand Junior ahd Senior Wardens, Right
;IYorshipful Deputy Grand Master, Most Worshipful Grand
aster.
In the General Grand Royal Arch Chapter there is an Excel-
lent General Grand Marshal, Excellent General Grand Chap-
lain, Excellent General Grand Treasurer, Excellent General
Grand Secretary, Most Excellent General Grand Scribe, Most
gxcelllent
General Grand King, Most Excellent General Grand
i h riest.
'
The titles in the Grand Encampment are, Worshipful Grand
Sword Bearef, Worshipful Grand Standard Bearer, Worshipful
Grand Marshal, Worshipful Grand Recorder, Worshipful Grand
Treasurer, Worshipful Grand Wardens, Worshipful Grand Cap-
tain General, Worshipful Grand Generalissimo, Worshipful
eneral Grand Master.
What titles the Knights of Tutons,_`the Knights of Calatrava,
Knights ot' Alcantara, Knights of Redemption, Knights of Christ,
Knights of the Mother of Christ, Knights of Lazarus, Knights
of the Star, Knights of the Band, Knights of the Annunciation
of the Virgin Mary, Knights of St. Michael, Knights of St. Ste-
phen, and Knights of the Holy Ghost, gave to their otiicers I do
not know; but thus much Ido know, that every olhcer in the,
long catalogue of titles, had some emblem of royalty allixed to
him. This being the 0880, my brethren, and it being equally
true that the great end and aim of Masonry, is to create distinc-
tions among mankind, Gnd secure to the few the rights of the
tnany, will any of you blindly adhere to
Masonry when it comes
in contact with the least of those equal laws which were securvd
,. _.m._.. _
Lrerrr ou nusormr. 377
to you by the blood ofyour fathers? Ifyou will, then I must bid
farewell to you and Masonry; but before we
part let me ask you,
il, when you were young and your minds tmsullied with the aris-
tocratic trappings of Masonry, when your playful spirits were
buoyant, and your consciences void of offence; if then, when
you heard recounted the many attempts of the tyrants of the Old
World, to chain down and enslave your fathers, and to enforce
their unholy system of distinctions and divine rights of kings
upon them, and had heard enumerated the long sufferings and
manly firmness of your sires, in not only driving those tyrants
from their shores, but also their unequal and accursed principles
with them; did not, I say, your bosoms bum with a pure patrioti
iam which made you swear, that should the enemies of civil lib-
erty and equal rights, ever assail the fair fabric of freedom, your
blood should Bow as
freely in maintaining it, as your fathers did
to achieve it: -it so, then for heaven's sake abandon an institution
which has a direct tendency to contaminate the minds of almost
all who unite themselves with it, and insensibly steals away that
purity of sentiment, which alone can support a free, and equal,
and happy government.
'
'
*A
Mason.
---
Q
'
NO. III.
Tb all honest Masons:
Brethren, as a
general thing, secret associations are formed for
the purpose ofevading the laws, or for the overthrow of the gov-
ernment; ever since our
govemrnent was fbrmed, the people have
regarded them with jealousy. The patriots of the revolution,
after our
liberty was established, entered their solemn protest
against secret associations of every kind. All lawful purposes
need not the covering of mystery or
secrecy to sustain them.
Their views, principles and purposes being honest, are open and
can be examined by every freeman. No midnight meetings are
necessary for societies who have nothing but honest and honora-
ble objects to effect. But on the other hand, ifa society has un-
lawful purposes to effect, how can they effect them if their de-
signs are exposed? No band bound together for unlawful pur-
poses, but have their domes covered with the mantle of secrecy,
and the darkness of midnight protects their nefarious purposes.
It is not surprising that a free people, ever jealous of their rights,
should look with suspicion upon a society like ours, whose meet-
ings are held in secret and at the late hour of midnight- N0
one of the people are allowed to enter within. Nothing b"'
mystery
attepiis
them in their whole progress; they 8°|'"°"'l°d§°
H2
,.¢iiQ-n-n¢......-nh-hu-ant.-. _._ . --- ~~4----~"*"
`
J
v <
'
378 tram on Masontw.
they are bound by solemn oaths not to discover the nature of the
institution; and no one can but discover that the greatest facilities
are offered for unlawful purposes. If there had been no wrongs
committed by such a society, an
independent and free people
whose freedom had been purchased by the blood of their fathers,
and transmitted tothem under solemn instructions to preserve it,
even at the expense of lite, ought to lift their voice against it,
when they find it extending through the Union, embracing all the
ohicers ofthe land, and possessing every means of crushing, at
one blow, the proud and elevated title of freemen. But if a se-
cret society of itself will cause
suspicion when combined with the
actual evils which have been the result of such societies, 'we
cannot expect this free people will any longer suffer it to exist in
this country.
It is well known to all 'active Masons' and to persons gener-
ally, that in the dark conclave and secret meetings of masons,
have been planned conspiracies that haveeaused convulsions
w:-ich have been felt in every part of the govemment under
which they were bound to live as
good citizens. There has been
planned and executed deeds by them in their midnight conspira-
c' s, (1 cannot call such meetings by a more gentle term,) at
wiilch humanity has revolted. In France all was thrown into
confusion, and anarchy came near
ruling a
people striving for
1iberty, by the society of Free Masons. 'At one time consider-
ing they had all power, they threw off alldisguise and discovered
their real object. The candidate for the degree of Master Ma-
son had the following question put to him 'Brother, are you dis-
posed to execute all the orders of the Grand Master, though you
were to receive contrary orders from a
king, emperor, or
any oth-
er sovereign whateverl' In one instance, receiving a candidate
not as much infatuated as the others, they were answered 'No!'
'What, Nol' replies the venerable, 'are you only entered amongst
us to betray our secrets? Would you hesitate between the in-
terests of Masonry and those ofthe profane? You are_not aware
then that there is not one of our swords but is ready to pierce
the heart of a traitorl' Comment on such language is not ne-
cessary. I need not say more on the dangerous tendency of
Free Masonry. In France it is too well known to be soon for-
got by that people. But France is not alone in having her li-
berties invaded by Masons. It at one time came near overthrow-
ing the government of Germany, and those that were honest
Masons among them separated and forsook the institution. The
following is the language of a venerable Master of a
lodge in
Germany, pronounced at the dissolution of the lodge, and closing
it up for ever.
'
ual-rr on masonav. 319
'However holy our
mysteries may have been, the ledges are
new protitned and sullied. Brethren and companions, attired in
your mourning robes, attend and let us seal up the gates ofour
temple, for the profane have found means of penetrating into
them-they have converted them into retreats for their impiety,
into dens of conspirators. Within the sacred walls they have
planned the horrid deeds and the ruin of nations. Lodges which
serve as
hiding places for these cnnspirators, must remain for
ever shut both to us and every good citizen.' Brethren, ought we
not to adopt the language and actions of this venerable man? Ma-
sonry was considered in Spain, Portugal, and Russia, of such a
dangerous tendency, that it was put down by the strong arm ofthe
law. It is new disturbing the tranquillity of our brethren in South
America. In England, the king being Grand Master of all the
lodges, and all being sworn to obey his mandate,it is made subser-
vient to his own purposes, and consequently he suffers it to exist
in his government. But we need not go abroad for proof that se-
cret associations are dangerous; the proofis nigh, even at the door.
Passing by all the smaller transactions ofthe fraternity, and making
no mention ofthe perversion ofjustice by it in our courts, and its
intrigue at elections, another and hlacker transaction stares usin
the face. A deed has been committed in this country, on this Sa-
cred ground ofliberty, which ought to stamp with 'everlasting infa-
my and disgrace#the society by whose mandate the damning deed
was committed. A tree citizen has been deprived of his liber-
ty and life! And by whom? Did the light of day shine upon the
meeting which plotted the hellish deed? Was it the great body
of a free people which sanctioned a deed, without a
parallel, ex-
cept on Masonic record? No, my brethren. it was in the dark,
mysterious, secret, and midnight meeting of the ancient and
honorable fratemity of Free Masons, the damning deed was
planned; it was the Great Grand Worshipful "members which
justified the 'deep damnation of his taking ot`f!' Not by a few
individuals of the order, but by them as a
body, assembled in
their lodges for the purpose ofleaming his fate and planning the
destruction of others, and by their vote were the 'murderers of
Morgan justified Do you expect that our
society will be sup-
ported by a free and independent people? Were the causes
which produced a
separation of the then colonies and mother
country, more alarming than our
society in this republic, at this
time, and under the present circumstances? The great body of
freemen have been insulted for attempting to put it down; but
there have been no transactions which are to be so much feared,
as overthrowing the government of the United States: 'B the
._-¢.._, ,_
"'
"JA
v
-
380 naar on nnsonv.
f th fraternity for the last six months The im
transactions o e
`
~ -
h' h as a very just cause for
the declan
pressmentofseamen, w rc w
ation ol' war against Great Britain, bears no comparison with
this. ln that case they were impressed by a rival nation, and
we could defend manfully our rights. The cause was
open, and
met us in open day. On the 'other bald, thelate
an enemy
outrages were committed by citizens of -our common country,
h ther- members of a soci-
connected by oaths not to betray eae o ,
ety, whose meeting were in secret and whose ramiiications ex-
tended through the Union, holding all the omces of power, and
impiously saying the people could not help themselves: they
I1 I ased to their members, who were wolves
would do what t ey p e
in sbeep's clothing. Such a deed strikes the very foundation, of
'
'
' '
f
`
rful enough to
our liberty. If our society considers itsel powe
deprive one citizen of his liberty and life, you soon see it take
vreat strides and claim all power. Can it be
possible, my breth.
D
ren, that you will longer attempt to support a society, whichhas
not only become obsolete and useless and savors of aristocracy,
'tizen7 Rather come out
but is stained with the blood of' a free ci _
like good citizens and say it is worse than useless; and inasmuch
as nine or ten millions of people say they do not wish it to exist
in this republic, magnanimously say you will desert it and be
good citizens in common with all. This people will never satibr
the institution to exist in this republic; if they do permit it 'to as-
'
th n indeed are the
sume all its former power and grandeur, e , , y
slaves, and tit only for vassalage. A Mason.
NO. IV.
To all honest Masons:
Brethren, in all countries and under all govemments where se-
cret societies have existed, they have never failed to create dis-
trust among the uninitiated, and eventually to overtum all fair
principles. But the greater part of them have long since gone
to their graves; and all that have gone, sleep in disgrace. In this
country, no secret society has an existence, except that ot' Ma-
sonry; and with regard to this, an inquiry has gone forth, and you
might as well place your hands against the sun of a summer's
morning and stop its rising, as to stop the inquiry, or prevent the
downfall ofthe order. Some of you may believe, that, from the
many þÿti ¬S
which bind Masons together, and from their almost
united exertions to smother crime and distract public opinion, that
the cause of the people will ultimately go down, and you rise tri-
Umphant. If any of you who are honest, have fallen into this
error at this time, I sincerely pity you, You must be sensible,
4...
,I-
,,_
LIGHT ON NASONIIY. 381
at thisilate day, that all fair and honorable members ot' the insti-
-tution; men who were not concemed in the late disgraceful trans-
actions, in their incipient stages, nor parties to their succeeding
crimes; men who since have not done all in their power to palli-
ate and smother them, and paralyze the strength of the law, will
leave their hiding places and endeavor again to deserve the con-
fidence of their country. No matter how many kings and em-
perors you enroll on your tablets: no matter how many govemors
and judges are found in your halls, and are now exercising the
power of the country: no matter how many servile and con-
temptible editors are, either publicly justifying kidnapping and
murder, or are palliating Masonic crimes, or are, in the most de-
grading condition, peddlingtheir silly gingerbread stories: all in
this country, who support the Monster, must give place to others,
and your dark temple ol' crime and iniquity, tumble to the ground.
Tum your attention to old Peter, the hermit, and under him
trace your different orders of knighthood to their respective
founders. Follow them through their mad career of bloodshed
and slaughter- to the walls of Jerusalem, and there prepare to
weep over a scene of carnage and crime which beggars all de-
scription. »
Neither arms defended the valiant, nor submission
thettimorous. No age or sex was spared: infants on the breasts
were pierced by the same blow with their mothers who implored
for mercy: even a multitude to the number of ten thousand per-
sons, who had surrendered themselves prisoners, and were
prom-
ised quarter, were butchered in cool blood by the
magnanimous
founders of your illustrious orders. Long shall the fnends ot
humanity bemoan this unhallowed and blood-stained day; and
long shall the warm and smoking blood of murdered innocence
cry from the ground for vengeance.
Next, behold these holy and blood-stained hypocrites, in dark
conclave, plotting another feast of blood in the heart of Germa-
ny! See wretched France groan beneath their dark designs, and
bleeding at every pore. And, even now, and while I am writing,
behold our sister republic (Mexico) reel to its base, beneath a
wretchedconspiracy ot' York and Scotch Masons. When you
have done this, and when you have clearly sketched in 'the mind's
eye' thetgeneral outlines of this pretty picture, then sit down and
m
, Where is the author of Jachin and Boaz?
_
,
'
i
.of Vermont? Where is Murdock, of Rensse-
E '
is Morgan, and where are his lonely widow and
children! Alas! my brethren, this is a sorry and b|00d~
stained picture, and you, who are not satisfied with what M8S0n§
have already done, let your distorted eyeballs glare "P°" "' "nm
n---his-a.........&l-¢....__._ _
A. .an -
-
382 LIGHT Ol IAQKBY.
your carnivorous appetites are glutted with blood for once, and
alter that return to your dens of carnage and plot more mischiei
But to you, my honest brethren, who have seenenough of Sa-
tan's kingdom already displayed; and you, who love your country
more than Masonry, arise from this den of conspirators, and,
with minds unalloyed, feast your eyes on the edhlgent morn of
our
rising REPUBLIC, and I will vouchsam to my country that
you will never return again.
'
A Mason.
N0. V. t
To all honest Muon:
Brethren, having in my former numbers touched upon the
general principles ofthe order, I now shall ask you to
traverse with me, a more particular charge against the Masodc
order; which is that the uws or rnsonsv nl an er 'mal-
ssnvn, no ru-rnoarzs ran 'rnrrm or 'rua un or A nnnnsa
'OI THE IHATIIIITY GUILTY Ol' DIYULGIKG TBI SICIETB' 0|
mason nr. Startle not, my brethren, at this appalling
charge,
but
candidly follow me through my observations and proof must
here remark, that I could satisfy the most scmpulous of the or-
der, were I at liberty to write some of the hidden mysteries ot'
the diferent degrees, but shackled asl urn with theseabshrd
ties, enough can be shown, without violaing any of our princi-
ples, to convince that part of my bretllen whom I now address.
Now then to the subject. It is not denied, I believe, by any
Masons, that the
penalt&of
their obligations is death. [I shall
not, at present, refer to or '| illustrations, for I neither deny
nor
acknowledge that book.§"Almost all Hamas admitted this
in their assertions for three months alter the abduction of Mor-
gan, by sayi ,-that he (Morgan) had submitted himself to the
punishment Z? death, by revealing the secrets of I
believe that the most careful do not pretend to deny that such is
the penalty. But it is useless to remark further on this point, lbr
we do know that the penalty in that case is death, in tha most
shocking and barbarous manner. If then such is the penalty, was
it never intended to iniiict that penalty! It is absurd in the ex-
treme, to suppose that a society, ranking among it members such
illustrious personages, as we
pretend ours does, with all that pomp
and parade attached to it, with all our monarchial titles of Kings,
Grand and Sublime Masters, would attempt to make a
mockery
of laws which they call sublime and usefhl, tell a candidate if he
divulges the secrets he shall be put to death, and after the solemn
ceremonies are over, tell him we never intend to inflict IM!
penalty, but only meant to scare
you. Such a course would very
, hul-41.
__¢»,_..|l;..».,_,¢--A.»»., _
uoirr on nnsonav. 333
soon sink the institution into merited contempt. Why then bind
our members under penalt of death, to keep inviolate our se~
crets, if we never intended' to indict that penalty? What has
kept thousands from divulging the secrets long before now!
Would simply expelling them from the lodge have deterred them
from it! No! It was the well known fact that the laws and prin-
ciples of Masonry were such that they would be barbarously mur-
dered, or~in the -Masonic phrase executed. There are many ot'
the crit, who have-long since wished them known to the whole
world, and care not for expulsion, knowing full well that reveal-
ing the iniquities ofourdark conclaves would justify them in the
minds of an enlightened people. There is an another class who
have been expelled fiom the lodge, and out of revenge would, it'
they dare, write, print, stamp, Src. all the secrets of the order.
I repeat., then, it was a fact, whmh recent events fully prove,
that their lives would pay the forfeiture of such an act. The on-
ly question that can possibly be raised, is, that there is no
person
designated in our statutes to execute the traitor. But I think a
little reflection andexamination will obviate this ditiiculty. Pre
cedents of long standing in all well established societies and gov-
ernments, constitute law. Hence, in all legal proceedings, where
there is no statute direct to the point, they refer to former deci-
sions, and what has been done under similar circumstances. In
this case, then, if we have no express statute appointing-the exe-
cutive otlicer, (the manner of execution is pointed out explicitly in
the obligation,) when atraitor, if found, we must refer to what has
been done under similar circumstances by our society; and as
all former decisiom of law are more or less binding, by the wis-
dom or ignorance of the persons giving those decisions, so in
this case, we
ought to examine carefully the precedenh, Ind see
if they were .given by persons who were well lll&)l'ld'_ as to the
laws and Principles of our order. I will now refer you to some
of those precedents which do show conclusively that yéfue an.
thorized to execute any member of the
tiatemityéwho
so far loses
sight of his safety as to divulge the seeretslof-t oratt. These
precedents may be found in the 'F nee Mtlmllilonitorf .publish-
ed by Thomas S. Webb; ,and that no one may say the book is not
good authority, I will give you the vote of the Grand Royal Arch
Cha,pMI', which is 8.8 follows:
`
l
'-vw
.
Remind mooifnonlg, That this Grand Chapter recommend
the Free Masons' Monitor to the attention and study of all the
members of the tiatemity to whom the same may come.
'
A
.
~».,,;~..
.-
-LM#-. ,
».Hmos T. Jmcks, Grand SW!!-
_
1.
ang, _
V. ip.-,l,e»,:e', . .1 K
u,-3
~
V
_
*'
384 LIGHT ON MASGNRY.
The first precedent I shall give, may be found at page 242 of
the Monitor. It appears that several of the cr-att became, inthe
language of Masons, traitors. Six had ded Jerusalem. Solo-
mon published a particular description of all those who had made
their escape: shortly after, he received information that several
persons answering his description had arrived in the coxmtry of
Cheth, and believing themselves perfectly secure, had began to
workin the quarry of Bendaca. As soon as Solomon was made
acquainted with this circumstance, he wrote to Maacha, lingof
Cheth, to assist in apprehending them, and cause them to be°de-
livered over to persons he should appoint, to secure them and
have them brought to Jerusalem to receive the punishment due
their crimes. Solomon then elected fiheen Masters in whom
he could place the highest confidence, and among whom were
those who had been in the cavern, and sent them in quest of
the villains, and gave them an escort of troops. Five days were
spent in t.he search, when 'l'irbal discovered them cutting stone
in the quarry; they immediately seized them and bound them in
chains. When they arrived at Jenxsalem, they were imprisoned
in t.he tower of Achizer, and the.next morhing a
punishment was
inflicted on llaem adequate to their crimes. -
The next precedent which I shall cite, is found at page 239,
and is styled, 'Observations on the degree of Knights ofthe Ninth
.»rch,' called a chapter. _
This case is so
striking, and in many
parts, so similar to that of the Morgan case, I shall be more mi-
nute in description, and more profuse in extracts. That you
may realize it in its full force, I here will remark that this degree
was instituted by Solomon after the execution of the traitor, to
reward the zeal of the persons engaged in his execution, and to
"ive more
weight to their otiices, and impress the minds of the
Fratemity with the great danger of divulgirlg the secrets of Ma-'
sonry; the fumiture and dress of the chapter and members, were
of the bloodiest kind imaginable. I shall, therefore, give a de-
scription ofthe dress and fumiture.
'This chapter represents the audience chamber of Solomon,
and is to be decorated with white and red hangings; the red with
white flames. There are nine lights in.the east and_eight in the
west. The Master represents Solomon seated in the east, with
a table before him covered with black, and is styled Most Potent.
There is only one
_Warden in the west, who represents Stlockin,
(one ofthe execut1oners,) with ggvgn bmthy-en around him. All
the brethren must be dressed in black, and their hats _flopped
(Surely s Suitable dress" for assassins) with a broad black ribbon
fiom the left shoulder to the right hip, on the lower part of which
_. _
-..sn ..._-..i
_"uh-..--~tsr~"*----|)*.J
1,xcu'r on nusonnr. 385
are nine red roses, (an emblem that Masonic murderers shall be
highly valued and protected,) four on each side and one at the
bottom, to which is suspended a poniard. The aprons are white,
lined with black, speckled with snoop; on the flap, A m.oonY
.mm wrfru PoNu.RD; and on the area, A moon! ARM nounmo
nv THE HAIR A aLoonY nun. Near to the lodge is a small
dark place representing a cavern, in which is placed a lamp; a
-place representing a spring, with a basin to hold water; and a ta-
ble, on which are laid a PONIARD, and the representation of a
nroonr new _is Jusr sevsnnn mom Tun Bonv. Near the ta-
ble a
large stone to sit on, and below the lamp, in capital letters
is written, VENGI-IANCE.
The history of' this degree is as follows:-In the reign of So-
lomon, several ofthe workmen had been guilty of some crime ol'
an enormous nature, [What more enormous crime can there be
than to expose their impious ceremonies and bring to light their
internal deedsl] and made their escape from Jerufsalem. A great
assembly of' Masters had sat in consultation, [It has been swom
to, that '10 or 80 met at Stafford to consult on the Morgan case]
on the best means of discovering and upprehendingthem. Their
deliberations were interrupted by the entrance of n. stranger,
[Daniel Johns, the Canadian spy, suddenly made his appearance
at Staffordfl who demanded to speak to the king in private. Upon
being admitted, he acquainted Solomon that he had discovered
where Akirop, one of' the traitors, lay concealed, and oflered to
conduct whom the king should please to appoint to go with him.
This being communicated to the brethren, one Ann ALL request-
ed to be partakers in the vengeance due the villain. Solomon
checked their ardor, declaring that only nine should undertake the
task; and to avoid giving any offence, ordered all their names to
be put into an urn, and that the first nine that should be drawn
should be the persons to accompany the stranger. [They dc-
parted from this rule in the Batavia cases: for between one and
two hundred went For Miller.] At break of day, Joabert, Stockin,
and seven others, conducted by the stranger, travelled through
a dreary country. On the way, Joabert found means to learn
from the stranger, that the villain they were in quest of had hid-
den himself in a cavern not far from the place they then were; he
soon found the cavern,and entered it alone, where by the light of
the lamp he discovered the villain asleep, with a
poniard at his
feet. Inflamed at the sight, and actuated by an impatient zeal, h°
immediately seized the poniard and stabbed him first in the l1e°d
and then in the heart; he had only time to cry, Vengeance rr
lalifmr
:md
expiredi
When '-the other eight arrived and had fe 'es °
I
,.AM|.u.. -e-_._
386 Lreur on msonav.
ed themselves at the spring, Joabert severed the head from the
body, and taking it in one hand and his poniard in the other, he
with his brethren returned to Jerusalem. Solomon was at first
very much offended that Joabert had put it out of his power to
take vengeance himself in rnssancn ot, and as a warning to the
rest of the workmen to be faithful to their trust; (not their workg)
but by proper intercession was again reconciled. Joabert became
highlyjlwored of Solomon, who conferred upon him and his eight
companions the title of 'Elected Kn£ghts.'* Ought not the Grand
Lodge to confer upon the murderers of Morgan some new and
sublime degree of Masonry, with still more bloody emblems?
To show you, beyond the possibility ofadoubt, that this transac-
tion was in strict confonnity with principles of the order, I will
quote once more from page 243, where you will find the history
of the Illustrious Knights, which is as follows:--'After venge-
ance had been fully taken on the traitors mentioned in the fore-
going degrees; Solomon instituted this, both as a nnwann ron
'run ZEAL Ann rnraonrrv of the'Grand Masters elect ot' fifteen,
(the persons who took vengeance on the traitors,) and also by
their preferment to make room for other worrnv brethren (mur-
derers) from the lower degrees to that of Grand Masters elect of
fifteen. He accordingly appointed twelve of the fifteen to con-
stitute a Grand Chapter of Illustrious Knights, and gave them
command over tbetwelve tribes. He expressed aparlicular regard
for this order, and showed them the precious things in the taber-
nacle. Herefollowthe names of the twelve 'Illusfrious Kniglzlsf
Joabert, the man who assassinated Akirop and Stockin, and the
other zealous assassins, head the list. I-Iere,my brethren, I must
ask you to pause, ponder, and deeply reflect on the history here
given, and fate of Akirop: compare it, with all its bearings, with
the fate of Morgan, and then say, if you dare say it, that Morgan
was not executed according to the laws,-yes, the infemal laws of
Masonry. Why has a degree, instituted to keepin remembrance
the execution of atraitor, been kept in existence ever since, if not
to stimulate the brethren to a similar act, shoulda similar circum-
stance ever arise! Such a
degree is in existence at this day in
the United States--yes, in the state of'New' York-and it is pre-
posterous to suppose, that the members of that degree, assem-
bled in their bloody dons, with bloody aprons and representations
of the bloody head of a traitor before them, and seeing venge-
ance written in capital letters upoh the walls f f dark cavern,
and knowing Morgan was
writing the sec -, `," _
'
'
= =
. r
'
1 as
they would not, one and all, with all
þÿ» '§k`_M__,'; ¬'. " and
Stockin, arise in their wrath and strike tli ~- ,V
,M,Q_f heart.
`
*
see mumnionsor Masonry, by 'r. s. Webb, p. 12; '<fi =»- ed.1s1a
._ --J
'
._ af-,;~ yr;
rikku/-' »' if "
_ -'.-D .
_.It _
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 387
lf they were active members and believed their obligations bind-
ing, it ,was their duty to strike the deadly blow, deep and to the
heart, even as Murdock was so struck. I have heard Masons
blame those concerned in the recent transactions: some have
even said the murderers of Morgan ought to be hung. This my
brethren is wrong. If there is a blame to be attached any where,
it is to the institution. If these men were (irm supporters ofthe
order, they acted right, They expected the laws of the institu-
tion to support them in such an act, and that the members (ex-
cept tbe recreants) would justify them; and they had good grounds
for so
supposing. On the contrary, any member ot` the institu-
tion, being fully satisfied that Morgan was writing thc secrets of
Masonry, and did not immediately proceed to apprehend the vil-
lain, 'that he inight have a punishment inflicted adequate to his
crime,' neglected the laws of Masonry, and ought, in strict con_
formity to those laws, to be expelled as an
unworthy member,
Blame not those who acted in strict conformity to the laws of the
institution, but cast the blame where it is richly deserved, namely,
upon an institution which required of them such an act. These
men expected our
support; and when their trouble comes upon
them it is cowardly to say, punish them, the institution did not
require such an act. Thus,_rny brethren, we have gone through
this subject, and do see that those engaged in the late outrages
had ancient authority for so
acting. No one who candidly ex-
amines the cases here cited, but_will say that murder is authorized
by the Masonic institution, under particular circumstances. I
now ask you again, will you longer support such an institution?
--
A Mason.
NO. VI.
To all honest Masons: ,
Breth_ren¥'1`he great subject which agitates the people at
present, seems
every day of its existence to draw nearer to the
point which is to decide the destiny ofthe Masonic institution.
On the one hand it is contended that Morgan was carried oil'and
murdered by a few Masonic stragglers and outlaws; and that the
usages and customs ofthe order in no
way encourage or sanction
such acts; while on the other hand it is asserted, that those concern-
ed in the outrages were some ofthe first men ofthe order; andthat
the ancient usages and customs of the institution required such
acts at their hands. Ifthis be true, it requires no greatdiscernment
to discover that we have a
government within a
government; and
that either the C0~ltlltl0Il and laws of our country, 01' ¢h°S° °f
ancient Free Masonry must give away; and that if our gvvemmelll
is triumphant in the present conflict, Masonry must 8° d°""" f°f
ever.
_Mais _.-.An _,_ _
._
M
333 mcnr on masosnr.
Again, if the men concerned in the outrages were in no way
authorized or encouraged by the usages and customs of Free
Masonry, to kidnap and execute the traitor, and the principles of
the order in no
way come in contact with the constitution and
laws of our country, and are otherwise pure and wholesome, then
indeed Free Masonry may stand for ages. ln-order, therefore,,
to investigate this subject, it is necessary we should touch in n
slight degree upon some ofthe mysteries and principles ofancient
and modern Free Masonry. _
And first, my brethren, I shall have the hardihood to assert,
that before any of you ever entered a lodge, you pledged your
honor cheerfully to contbrm to all the ancient usages and customs
ot' the order.
'
_ _
After this you went farther-yo 1 entered the lodge and there
solemnly made oath not only to adhere to the ancient usages and
customs ofthe order, butto have your throat cut across, your
tongue torn out, and your body buried in the rough sands ofthe sea
should yon ever be wilfully guilty of divulging any ofthe secrets
of Free Masonry; and so on from an Entered Apprentii e in every
degree up to that of the Thrice Illustrious Order of Knights of the
L ross, you have solemnly swom to suffer some
penalty to be in-
Hi ted on your body, which if inflicted would take life, should you
ever be wilfully guilty of revealing any ofthe secrets ofeither or
all their degrees. Surely, the good Mason says, we have sworn to
suffer all these penalties, if we betray our trust. But the traitor
will not inflict them upon himself, and there is no one authorized
to indict them upon him. lf this be true, then indeed those
concerned in the Morgan case_were nothing but a Masonic ban-
ditti and murderers, and the institution in no
way to blame. But
I shall not, as readily as some do, stop exactly here. l shall go
alittle tnrther and inquire what the ancient usages and customs
are, which our honors and oaths are pledged to support. lt is a
fact I believe well known to all Masons, that Solomon was the
the great founder and pattern of ancient Free Masonry, and that
all the Grand Masters from his day down to this time, have one
after another, in regular srtceession, been considered the succes-
sors and representatives of Solomon; and the laws, usages and
customs which were establishedin his day ll Masons ever since
of both low and high degree have most religiously pledged their
honors and their solemn oaths and obligations always to observe
and maintain. To illustrate my ideas more familiarly on this
subject, suppose one ot' you were elected to preside over the
Masonic institution in the United States for seven years; that in
all the degrees from Entered Apprentice up to the higher and
L ua---1-»--as .¢..J..~.|_..h§||»..`|_'s-
`
-
near on mssomw. 389
sublimer station which you fill, and that all the ancient laws,
usages and customs of the order, were enforced upon the mind
with all the power and ingenuity which man could invent, as the
only means of preserving the institution from ruin and destruc-
tion. Suppose, at your installation, it
was required of you as the
presiding officer of the institution, to deviate in no instance from
the ancient landmarks and customs, but to preside with that
promptness and decision of character which will carry down to
future ages the secrets of the order, as pure and unimpaired as
they were given to you; and suppose, under all of these cir-
cumstances, and while you were at the head of the institution,
-and i_n the place of Solomon, a
messenger should arrive and in-
ibrm you that Morgan, a Royal Arch Mason, was
writing the
secrets of Masonry, and Miller, an Entered Apprentice Mason,
was absolutely about to publish them, even up to the Royal Arch;
and unless measures were immediately taken to bring the traitors
to condign punishment, the small streams which cause the mo-
ney for quarterly dues, initiations, and for the sale of charters, to
How. in such profusion from a thousand ways to the fountain head
would dry up; that in short they would publish the real and genu-
ine secrets of Free Masonry upto the arch, to the world, and
Masonry be ruined and undone for ever. What would you do?
Would you disregard your honor, your solemn oaths, and all your
admonitious at your installation; suffer the traitors under your
administration to publish the sacred and holy secrets of ancient
Free Masonry to the world, and the institution be ruined for
ever? Or would you rather have some little regard to your ho-
nor, your solemn oaths and admonitions? Look about you and
inquire what are the ancient laws, usages and customs ofthe
order which are every where so rigorously enforced upon the
candidate? What did Solomon do in the case of Jubela, Jubelo,
and Jubelum, where the ruilians attempted to extort the Master's
word from our
worthy Grand Master, Hiram Abifl`? How was
it in the case of the seven traitors that [led from Jerusalem?
And how 'was it in the case of Akirop? Surely in all these cases
Solomon appointed discreet Masons to seize the villains and
traitors, and to bring them before him; and 'he ordered punish-
ments to be inflicted on them proportionate to their crimes, ex-
cept in the case of Akirop, and there the Mason whom Solomon
appointed took the power into his own hands and executed the
traitor himself Solomon approved of this, and conferred on
the
executive-,oiicer new and lasting honors. How has it been with
all succeeding GIQIH Masters in cases of treachery, from Solo-
mon down
$0$0 this-'dayl Surely Masonic traitors have every.
-
~
l
is -'
.
-
-» -
1300 r.rcn'r oy 3LsoNxr.
'
where had those penalties inflicted upon them, which they had
sworn might be inflicted, were they ever
wilfully guilty of reveal-
ing any ofthe secret and hidden mysteries of Masonry. Would'
you not say,Sovereign Master, these are the laws, usages and cus-
toms ofthe order which we have all pledged all that is sacrcd on
earth or
holy in heaven clieerfully to conform to--therefore, I will
do in the Morgan and Miller case, as is required ol' me to do by
the order. I will do as all former Grand Masters have done in
similar eases. l will appoint discreet and subtle Masons to in-
flict upon Morgan and Miller, those penalties which they have
sworn to sudcr should they ever be wilfully guiltyof revealing
the secrets of' the order, and thereby save the institution of Ma#
sonry from everlasting disgrace and absojute ruin. Daniel
Johns is a discreet and subtle Mason, and what is more, he is
a
stranger in the country where the traitors reside: I will select
him as
my cbicl`cxecutive officer; and as all my Masonic sub-
jects have every where solemnly sworn, with their hands on the
Holy Bible, and in the presence of Almighty God, to obey all
due signs and regular summons, given, handed, sent or thrown to
them by the hand of a Master Mason,-I will furnish him with
some regular summonses requiring ofthem to obey him in what-
cvcr he may direct with regard to the traitors, and send him away
to the place where they reside; and I have no doubt a
punish-
ment will be inflicted rn them 'adequateto their crimes! When
you have gone thus far, Most Sovereign Grand Master Elect,
you have done your duty, and the remainder is left to the sub-
tlcty and cunning of Daniel Johns and all those to whom hemay:
give, haafl or send summons to assist him. Thus, my brethren,
the conclusion is irresistibly forced upon ns, that the institution
ni' Free Masonry does hold its members in the strong bonds of'
life and death; that our Sovereign Grand Master, as far as re-
gards the revealing of the secrets ot' the order, is absolute in
power. and all that are under him are bound to obey. This ac-
counts in the most satisfactory manner for what we have wit-
nessed in this part of the country fourteen months past; and this,
in my humble opinion, Masonically justifies all those who were
concerned in the abduction of Morgan, and the attempt on the
life of Miller.
Such being the facts, my' brethren, do you not discover that
the 'ancient laws, usages and customs of Free Masonry' are dia-
metrically opposed to the constitution and laws ot' our
country?
It' so, (and on this point there can be no doubt, for if the Sove-
reign Master had not been absolute in power, the traitors long
since wohld have swarmed like the locusts of Egypt,) ought. we
'
_s.,A&n-...gb
LIGHT on mssoynxf. 391
not as honest men and good citizens, with one accord, to rise in
the dignity of freeman, and like our fathers, tear asunder those
bonds which make us slaves, and tend to entail misery upon our
children? Our fathers were under solemn obligations to bc
fnithfulto the crown of Great Britain; but when they discovered
that an observance ot` their oaths and obligations which they had
taken, were detrimental to freedom and the rights oi man, they
with n manliness of spirit which all future ages will admire, tore
their bonds asunder, fought the monarch whom they were swom
to protect; established freedom for themselves, and as
they fondly
hoped, had entailed it upon their children. Why not we then,
when_wo become convinced that our obligations jeopardize our
lives, and make slaves of us, and endanger the liberties of our
children-why not we, l say, like our fathers, rend our bonds
asundcr; open the bowels of the beast, and expose to the scom
contempt of all mankind, the selfishness and sin that has there
been smothered so
long.- W
_
Do you think this would be unmasonic, and therefore we liud
better withdraw and say nothing about it, if we are
displeased
with it. Such advice I know is given every day in the streets,
but this was not the course pursued by our fathers-they not
only withdrew their oath and allegiance from thecrown of Great
Britain, but they turned about and fought her with n firmness of
purpose which always ensures success. Therefore, my breth-
ren, if you agree with me, that under existing circumstances it is
proper and necessary so for to disregard the Masonic obligations
as to make open and honorable war upon the monster,-then I
beseech you,by all the fondnessyou ever bore for the purity of our
govemment and the rights of mankind, to come out of that dark,
absolute, and bloody government of Fnee Masonry, which was
established in the dark and bloody ages of the world, and is hand-
ed down unimpaired, with all its honid rites and ceremonies.
And then, my brethren, when you have done this, instead of re-
treating into some dark garret, with a Tyler at the 'door with an
old rusty sword in his hand to guard it, and there under the black,
flag ot' iniquity and crime marching around the room and singing,
_
Mark Masters all appear'
i
Before your Grand 0verseer,- _
we in open day will hoist high in the air the star spangledhanncr
of our country that floated over the bloody field of our fathers,
and shout aloud in presence ofthe universe,
V
I V
I-IailColumbia, hlppyland,
'
,
,
`
_ Hail ye heroes, heaven born band; ,
1 ,
_
and`t'l1én'xnirch on, conquering and to conquer, (FW mm" "ly I
,
..|-nn.
-
392 main' on nusonar.
|nean,) until every dark and wicked rite and ceremony of ancient
Fuss Mnsouav, be driven far away beyond the borders of our
C0]l]ffy.` A MASON.
NO. VII. -
To all honest Masmw: »
Brethren-I again ask you to examine the charge made in No.
5; for the reported attempts to clear the institution of Masonry,
at the expense of the individuals engaged in the kidnapping and
murder of Morgan, calls for the serious attention of every' per-
sou who wishes to tix the blame where it deservedly belongs.
That the institution required those acts of its members, is as evi-
dent as
any proposition; and one would suppose, that, at this
day, there are none who would have the effrontery to deny it.
But, strange as this may appear, there are some who deny that
the laws and customs of Masonry do authorize the abduction and
murder of a Masonic traitor. '1'hey say, it is true I have swom
to suffer my throat cut
across, Src.; but I, nor no one else, have
sworn or promised to perfomi the execution: it is merely an im-
precation without meaning. Once more, I ask you to candidly
examine the laws of the order, and I am satisfied, unless you al-
low your prejudices to influence you, you will be fully satisfied on
that point. In the Free Mason's Monitor, at page 31,* the can-
didate is requested to answer the following questions:-'Do you
seriously declare, upon your honor, before these gentlemen,
(members of the lodge, who conduct him through the ceremo-
nies,) that you will cheerfully conform to ALL THE ANCIENT ns-
'ranusmzn usacas Ann cusroms or 'rns rnurznnirvl'-and
not until he has answered this in the aflirmative, is he allowed to
observe even the farm of the lodge. At page 46T is the first charge
a Mason ever receives; it is a
charge to a
newly initiated Enter-
ed Apprentice: he is there solemnly charged-'Iii in the circle of
your acquaintance, you find a
person desirous of being initiated
into Masonry, be particularly careful not to recommend him un-
Lsss na WILL com-can 'ro oun RULES., No matter how thir a
character he may sustain; you need not inquire whether he be a
believer in the sublime doctrines of Christianity-no matter if he
be the veriest infidel-the only question is, will he conform 'to
our rules]
'
In the charge to a Fellow CraR, at page 65,1 they thus address
the gandidater-'Ona Laws AND ancunnxons You Ana smas-
NUOUSLY T0 SUPPORT, AND an
.inwfnrs nmnv 'ro ASSIST in sna-
ING THEM DUI-Y
EXECQTED-' In the charge to a Master Mason,
at
page 74»|| the W0l'Sl11pful Master thus addresses the new made
*
Salem ed. p. 30. t<l°~ p. 44. Ido. p. 62. || de. p. 12.
--I-|.|._.....-»-o.. ~
_ .g;_._.
--a&\¢._.- .-....4____ _
,
_
----
-
'
Lxonr on mssonnr. 393-
Master Mason:-'You are now bound, by honor and gratitude;
to be faitliful to your trust; to support the dignity of your charac-
ter on-every occasion; and to enforce, by precept and example,
obedience to the tenets ofour order. The ANCIENT rnmnmsnx or
'run onnen iritrusted lu your care, you are
carefully to preserve,
and never
safer them to be infringed, or countenance a deviation
from the esnnnisnsn Usnons AND cUs'roMs
of the fralemityi
Before a
lodge can do any business, there must be granted to
them a charter; and the Master, in a solemn manner, is instruct-
ed what arethe duties of his oilice, by the Grand Master, or
some person representing the Grand Master. You will find all
these instructions at page 96* of the Monitor. The Master thus
addresses him: (the Master electz)-'Previous to your investure,
it is necessary that you should signify your assent to those AN-
cisnr oneness AND REGULATIONS, which point out the duties of
a Master of a
lodge! Among other charges is the followingr-
'You agree to hold in veneration the original rulers and patrons of
the order ofMasonry, and their regular successors, supreme and
rmbordinate, according to their stations! Page 1001*-"1 he Grand
Master then addresses the Master elect in the following manner:
Do you submit to these charges, and promise to support these
regulations, as .Masters hare done in all ages before youl' And
not until he, in the most solemn manner, in presence of all his
brethren and the officers of the Grand Lodge, pledged himself'
to do it, can he be vested with authority to govem a
lodge. At
page 152,I you find the same doctrine insisted upon, eamestly, in
a
charge to a
newly exalted Royal Arch Mason.
'We expect you will never recommend any candidate to this
chapter, whose abilities and knowledge of the foregoing degrees
you cannot _hilly couch or, and whom you do not frmly and t
onf-
flently believe will con orm to the principles of our order, and _/ul-
_fil the obligations of a
Royal Jlrcli .Mason.' Thus, my brethren,
wc find insisted upon, with an eamostnesswhich nothing but n
case of desperation can
urge, that we
support 'all the ancient
usages and customs of' ancient' Free .Masom-y. I wish you to
examine these instructions with care and candor, for I d consi-
der there is a
meaning cloaked under them, which, in the `cd
manner the degrees are
usually given, do not meet our view ut'
first sight. Why do they so
earnestly urgeus, from the tme'wo
step into 'the preparation room to t'o be initiated into tho
suhlime-I' `ste¥'ies of autlintered Ap entice, up to the time wo
are excl" _"to »thea"degree'ot"a R0 'Arch Mason, *°
"l'PP°'f
»usqg<byend custonis of'lhe fr¢nm»iry1'_
I "U
"°"_
shdvriyoixltlltal are some of the 'laws ot' MasonfY» "nd 'hcl' mos*
.
* Salem ed. p. 93. fdo. p. 97. 1 do. p- 146- _
.
394 r.mn'r ox nnsounr.
conclusively prove that the 'ancient usage and custom' of our an-
cient brethren was, to inflict on a Masonic traitor punishment ade-
uate to his crime.
q
The first law of Masonry which I shall give you, may be found
at page 20 of the 'Illustrations of Masonry# as given by Mor-
gan: how near it is to the obligations which you actually took up-
on you in the lodge, I leave you to judge. 'Furthermore, I do
promise and swear, that I will .not write, print, stamp, stain, hew,
cut, carve, indent, paint, or engraveit, (the secrets of Masonry,)
to any thing moveable or immoveable, under the whole canopy of
heaven, whereby or whereon the least letter, &c. may become
legible or
intelligible to myself, or
any person in the -known world,
whereby the secrets of
_Masonry may become unlawfully obta1n~
ed through my unworthmess: binding myself under no less pen»
ulty, than to have my throat cut across, my tongue tom out by the
roots, and my body buried in the rough sand.: of the sea, at lou-
roatermark, where the tide ebbs andjloaoa twice in twentygfour
houra.' One would suppose, if true, this was a
powerful law; 1
should wish for no
greater punishment., than the penalty of this
law to be inllicted on me. The next Masonic law I shall cite,
may be found at page 45 of the same work:-'Furthermore, do
I promise and swear, that I will support the constitution of the
Grand Lodge ofthe United States, and the Grand Lodge of this
state, under which this lod e is held, and conform toall the by-laws,
rules, and regulations of 56.9, or
any other lodge, of which I may
at any time hereafter become a member, as far as in my power.
Furthermore, do I promise and swear, 'run 1 wiu. can 41.1.
(no exceptions) nsootsn sions .mn summons, civnn, iunnsn,
SENT, on 'rnnown to me
by the hand of a brother Fellow Craft
Mason, or
from. the bod of a
just and lawfully constituted lodge
of such: binding myself' under no less penalty, than to hare my
le/I breast torn open, and my heart and oitals taken from thence
and thrown over
my le/I shoulder, and carried into the valley of
Jehosaphat, thereto become a
prey to 'wild beasts of the yield
and vulture: of the air, if ever I should prove wilfully guilty, &c.'
Stro r still, page 62, same work, obligation of a Master Ma-
*SOI
Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that I will sup-
the constitution of the Grand Lodge of the state of ---,
under which this lodge is held, and conform to all the by-laws,
rules, and regulations of this, or
any other lodge, of which I may
hereafter become a member. Furthermore, do I promise and
swear, that I Will UBEY ALL nscunsn sions, summons, on 'ro-
KENS» GIVEN HANDED, SENT, on 'rnnowu to me, from the hand
ofa brother' Master Mason, off,-om gh, bgdy Q/',, _img and lwfuya
- -.
__ ,__ _
....»-....._¢`
_
__'V_
/
LIGHT ON MASONRT. 395
constituted- lodge of such. Furthermore, do-I promise and swear,
that I will go on a Master Mason's errand, whenever required,
even should I have to go bare/bot and bareheaded: binding myself
under no less penalty than to have my body severed in the midst
and divided to the north and south, my bowels burnt to ashes in
the centre, and the ashes scattered before the four winds of heaven,
that there might not the least track or trace of remembrance re-
main among men or Masons, of so vile and perjured a wretch as 1
should be, were I ever to prove wilfully guilty] ¢§~c. Stronger and
stronger, and thus they continue to increase in all important parts,
up to the degree of Knights of the Holy and Thrice Illustrious
Order of the Cross, as many of us full well know. I have given
authority suflicient to satisfy any one, beyond the bare possibility
of a doubt, that every Mason, from the days of our founder, Solo-
mon, down to that of the murdered Morgan, who has 'received u
part of the rights and benefits ofa W'orshipful Lodge,' have been
bound by their honor, and the strongest obligations which man
could invent, to support 'all the ancient usages and customs# as
well as laws of ancient Free Masonry. One point only is want-
ing to establish the charge made in number five, that the ancient
usages and customs of our ancient brethren, was to execute any
Masonic traitor found among them. On this point proof is abun-
dant. As we all know, in the different degrees we have taken,
Masonic tradition inform us ofa number of instances of the kind.
No Fellow Craft Mason can forget the slaying of forty and two
thousand of the Ephraimites in one day; and that our ancient
brethren adopted the pass-word used on that occasion, as a
pro-
per pass-word to be given before entering any well regulated
lodge of Fellow Crafts. Every Master Mason must remember
the execution of the three Fellow Crafts, executed by order of
king Solomon. I will now, my brethren, show conclusively, that
the ancient usages and customs of our brethren, was to inflict on
the Masonic traitor a punishment due his crimes. Before enter-
ing on that point I would remark, that in all the ancient ceremo-
nies we
allcw the Master ofa lodge full and complete power; no
one can direct, but all must obey his mandate; and thus of the
Grand Master: all the subordinate ollicers are under his cornrol,
and must execute whatever he directs; equally so is it with the
presiding otiicer of the Chapter and Grand Chapter and General
Grand Chapter, who represents king Solomon, and according to
'ancient usage and custom] gives orders for the apprehension and
execution of Masonic traitors. I do not wish to be misund°r~
stood, for I well know that in all minor concerns, such as d|sP°S~
ing of the tirnds, &c. he is under controi et' the member# of Us
_
_
.
_ _
__
__
,.,.....-.-,._..._.._,_
Q
306 .LIGHT on masonnr.
V
lodge; bor! speak expressly of his power as derived from 'nn-
cient usages and customs! Thus, for example, all the subordi-
nate odicers say:-'You will wait until the Worshipful Master can
be informed n.nd his order given-It is the order of the Worship-
lbl Master-The Worshiptiil Muster ordered me, &c.;' showing
conclusively that the Master in all cases which refer to 'ancient
usages and customs of the fraternity' is absolute, and all the
brethren are sworn to 'obey all signs, summons or tokens, given,
handed, sent or thrown to them]
Ishnll first quote from p. 49 ofthe 'Illustrations,' where the Ju-
nior Wurden inquires of the considerate, why was this pass insti-
tuted? ./Ins. In consequence of a quarrel which had long existed
between Jepthn, judge of Israel, and the Ephraimites, the latter
of whom had long been n stubborn and rebellious people, whom
Jcptha had endeavored to subdue by lenient measures, but to no
etfcet. The Ephraimites being highly incensed against Jeptha, for
not being called' to tight and share in the rich spoils of the Ameri-
tish war, assembled a.
mighty army and passed over the river Jor-
dan to give Jepthu battle; but he being apprised of their approach,
called together the men of Israel and gave them battle and put
them to flight; and to make his victory more complete, he order-
ed guards to be placed at the different passes of the river Jordan,
and commanded if the Ephraimites passed that way, that they
should pronounce the word Shibboleth; but they being of a differ-
ent tribe, pronounced it Sibolcth; which trifling defect proved them
spies and cost them their lives; and there fell that day, at the differ.
cnt passes on the banks of the river Jordan, forty and two thousand.
This word was also used by our ancient brethren, to distinguish
a friend from a foo, and has since been adopted as a
proper pass-
wipqdé
to be given before entering any well regulated and govern-
e o ge ot' Fellow Craft Masons. ~ <
I am well aware you will say this is not directly to the point;
but
a very little reflection will show you that it has an important
beanng on this question. It is said to be a
proper pass word.
It is so
truly; the 'candidate hears of the slaughter of forty and
two thousand of the Ephraimites, to impress his mind of the great
danger of being
an enemy to Free Masonry. It has another still
more
important eating, and is in substance the some as to tell
the candidate, should you, or,
any number of you, tum traitors and
expose the
true pass-word, we can invent a new 'check-word,'
and armedwith the dirks of the Knights, can require of you, 'Say
now our new ch6¢krW°l'd;' and every man of you not having the
new °h°°k'"'°'d "h""` b° Slain; and the day may arrive when we
shall ako as great slaught _
' '
among!the EPhraimites.
er
among our enemies as did Jepha
~
shun.. 4-ss..
LIGHT on Mssoumr.
~
39;
This, my brethren, is no
trifling subject; the Grand Lodge has
seen fit, in the plentitude of' their wisdom, to invent a new
pass-
word, and no man can be admitted into any lodge under their
jurisdiction without he can
distinctly pronounce this new Shibbo-
/eth, (FIDELITY, the new pass word;) and when the time may
come when those who cannot pronounce it may receive the dead-
ly thrust, no one can tell. It carries also one other important
lesson with it: as Jeptha had full power to command the forces
of Israel to fight his battles, and invent anew pass-word to detect
his enemies; so has our Grand Master an undoubted right to call
upon every Mason under his jurisdiction, to turn out at his com-
mand and fight for the cause of' Masonry, and give the deadly
thrust to every one who cannot distinctly pronounce, Fidelity.
The next ,instance of Masonic execution I shall give, may be
tbund from page 80 to 82, and is a history of the death of our
Worthy Master, Hiram Abifl, and the execution ofthe three Fel-
low Crafts who murdered him. I am aware that some of the
brotherhood, like drowning men
catching at straws, will say this
was for murder and did not relate to the revealing the secrets of
Masonry. I only answer that my object nov is to show that if' a
person is found guilty of' a crime deserving death in the Masonic
order, our 'ancient usages and customs' give sufficient power to
execute him, and it is left to the successors of' king Solomon to de-
temiine whether he be worthy ofdeath or not; imd still farther, it' the
'ancient usages and customs' were to execute a member for doing
an act which he had not swom to refrain from, surely those same
'ancient usages and customs' would not allow a member to escape
punishment who by his oath had submitted himself' to be executed
should he commit certain acts: then if our 'ancient usages and
customs' are such that a
person can be executed when the repre-
sentative of king Solomon supposes he has committed a crime
worthy of death, they most assuredly will authorize the inflicting
a
penalty which the member has subjected himself' to, should he
reveal the secrets of' Masonry. I would farther remark, they
were executed 'agreeably to the imprecations of their own
mouthsz' then certainly any member according to the same rule
can be executed according to the 'several imprecations' they take
upon themselves in their obligations, when they swear in the pre-
sence of Almighty God and this Worshipful Lodge erected to
him,' that they will never reveal the secrets of' Masonry.
The substance of that history is as follows:-A number ofthe
workmen Of the þÿt ¬l¥lPl0
became dissatisfied, because they had
wrought long on the temple, and had not received the grand and
sublime word of' a Master Mason; wishing to
obtain iff *hai they
KK
A
__,..i»-u.~-- -- -
398 mass' on mssounr.
nigh't travel in fore' -
arts and obtain better
`
es, the accost-
ed Hiram and demalgldgd the word li-om himdmlle toldythem he
could not give it, unless there were three present, to wit, Solomon,
Hiram king of Tyre, and himself; but to wait with patience until
they were assembled in the Grand Lodge at Jerusalem, and if
found worthy they should receive it. But they wished not to wait;
and in their attempts to get it, they killed our Grand Master, Hi-
ram Abifll Solomon coming to the temple, as was his usual cus-
tom, found the workmen in confusion, and on
inquiring the cause
was told there were no designs drawnon the trestle hoard. After
considerable ceremony it was found Hiram was He then
orders twelve of them to go in search of him. They returned with
no distinct tidings, but related some suspicious circumstances.
He then orders them to go a second time, and return _with the mur-
derers. After some search, the murderers are heard lamenting
the act, and asking certain punishments inflicted on their heads
for the murderous deed. They were seized and brought before
king Solomon, 'who after hearing the testimony of the-three Fel-
low Crafts, and the three nitlians having pleaded guilty, orders
them to be taken out at the west gate of the temple, and there
sxscursn acconnmc 'ro 'rua ssvsnar. imrancrrious or
'mem own MoU'rus.' It is true that is not direct in point, so
far as the revealing the secrets was the crime, but conclusively
shows the power of punishing was vested in king Solomon. The
history of Akirop and the other six traitors, as given in No. 5,
comes
directly to the point in question. Here were six persons
executed by king Solomon, for some enormous crime; and from
the circumstances as recorded, there is no reason to doubt it was
for revealing some of the secrets of the order. Indeed, some
who have taken that degree, do not deny such to be the fact.
The execution of Akirop is no common execution: found resting
secure as he supposed, the executioner entered the cave; 'inflam-
ed at the sight, he seized the poniardend ,plunged it ~first in the
head, then in the heartg' not satisfied with this, he severs 1dl6l!Hll
from the body, and pouiard inone hand and the bloody
head in the 0|-her, he,-proceeds hack with his bloody trophies to
king S010m0n- Do you hear him condemning Joabert for his
bloody act? Does he-mourn the loss of Akirop? It-is true he
was at first displeased because he put it out of his power to take
vengeance l1iIl1B¢U§ in presence of all the craft, as a
warning to
them against such_an act; 'but so easily is he reconciled, that Joa-
bert is soon
received into favor, and new and distinguished ho-
nor; conferred upon him, 10 reward his 'zeal in an net 'at which hn-
irrapity would Bl12¢ld¢l'i Mid the bloody deed is to be keptin remeim
"' '
haw
»ah¢-u n-»-.--......;»i..¢- ...._.._.. .__ »
-
"
r.mn'r on MASONBY. 399
brance and transmitted down to the latest posterity, by institu-
ting a new degree of Masonry, and having the emblems and furni-
ture of it represent this same bloody act. The halls of their dark
cavern, to strike fear to the heart of those who would otherwise
become traitors, and to stimulate the zeal ofthaw who are deter-
mined to stick to the order at all hazards, are
painted to represent
the execution of Akirop in its full force. The candidate, on en-
tering t.his chapter, by the feeble light of one
lamp has represent-
ed the cavern where Akirop reposed. He sees the bloody po-
niard which struck the fatal blow; he sees the representation of
Akirop's bloody head, as just severed from the body, held by a
bloody arm in_an attitude. of exultation at the death of a traitor;
and some kind' brother, with his apron sprinkled with blood, points
to him, vnrwmncn, written in capital letters upon the walls of
the cavem. Should any person caught in the street be blind-
folded and carried into this chapter, and when brought to light,
see the bloody trophies scattered aboutthe cave, and the members
should crowd around him with their bloody dress,-instead of sup-
posing he had been introduced to the society of honest men, he
would rather conclude that demons of darkness had dragged him
down to the regions of despair. All things considered, my breth-
ren, it is not smprising that this society has existed thus long; for
who, under any govemment, where personal liberty is not as
safely secured as in this republic, would dare divulge the secrets
of Masonry. In the foregoing cases we see clearly what were
the 'ancient usages 'and customs of the fraternity' which we have
all pledged our honor, and have solerrmly swom to support.
There is one case more which I shall here cite, and I trust
show plainly, was performed in strict accordance with the 'ancient
usages and customs of ancient Free Masonry! I' shall refer you
to no book for this instance, for it is not written on
perishable ma-
terials, but with imperishahle characters, on the memory of every
true patriot in the United States; and the- bloody tale will be told
to their children, and transmitted downto all posterity, as a con-
vincing proof of the bloody _character of this ancient and lumara-
ble' society. I speak now of the Morgan case, the tragical scenes
of which are too well known in this section of the country to
need a full description. I shall only show the similarity between
this case and those I have quoted.
I- a.rn well aware, that from the difference of the government
under which the Morgan case was
performed, and that under
which the other Masonic executions were performed, that all OX'
actsimilarity could not exist, but where itvwas possible to foll°W;
the 'ancient usages and customs of theancient fratemxty h"V°
400 Licnr on MASONRY.
been copied so nearly as to show that those engaged in the Mor-
gau gage 'did carethlly preserve the ancient landmarks of the or-
dgr, gpmmitted to their care, and did not suffer them to be infring-
ed upon, nor sufer a deviation from the established usages and
customs of the fraternity/ more than was possible. In the case ot'
the murderers of our Grand Master, Hiram Abiii, as soon as Solo-
mon had leamed the case, he despatched a number ofthe craft to
apprehend the villains, that they might receive a
punishment ade-
quate to their crimes: they did find the murderers, and he ordered
them to be punished 'agreeably to the several impigecations of their
own mouths.' In the case of Akirop agreat assemblage ofMasters
was held, to consult on the best means of apprehending the traitor;
and after the consultation, Solomon ordered nine ofthe craft to ap-
prehend the traitor, and bring him to a
punishment due his crimes:
.they did find the traitor, but instead of bringing him back, they only
retumed with such bloody evidence as convinced all that the trai-
tor had been executed. In the case of the six traitors, who had
Red from Jerusalem, Solomon elected fifteen persons, 'in whom
he could place the highest confidence] and ent them in quest of
the villains, and gave them letters to different persons on their
way, 'to assist them in apprehending the villains.' Not knowing
the complete history of the Morgan case, we cannot follow it
with that minuteness We can the other cases, but we can discover
a most striking similarity between the cases; from which we, may
suppose, with confidence, they followed those cases in almost
every particular. Agreeably to the 'ancient usages and cus-
toms' of the fraternity, the person representing Solomon, our
former Master, should, upon hearing Morgan was publishing, and
Miller printing, the secrets of Masonry, appoint some judicious
person or
persons, ingwhose discretion and prudence he 'could
place implicit confidenee,' to ascertain the fact, and give him a
'summons;' and should such be the fact, to call for such assistance
as the case should require.. It is not in my power to say that the
person representing Solomony in the United States, did thus ap-
point a
person, thus qualified; but I well know that a
person call-
ing his name Daniel Johns, and unknown to any one in this
section, 'suddenly' made his appearance in Batavia, and by his
cunning and prudence, (which are well worthy the 'implicit colil'
fidence,' of the representatives of .Solomon,) gained admittance
into the printing otlice of D. C. Miller, and leamed the fact that
Morgan had written, and Miller was publishing the secrets of
Masonry, and did
actually call uponmany Masons to 'assist him
in
apprehending the Vll|l1lnB;' and some of our brethren have said,
(how true it is, I do not say,) that he had written orders to that
Cffect. It has also been swom to, that some of the leaders in
LIGHT ON MABONBY. 401
that transaction said he had been sent here expressly for that
purpose; but who sent him I cannot tell.
In the case of Akirop and the other six traitors, 'a great as-
sembly of Masters was held, in consultation on the best means
of apprehending the villains! It has been fully proved that a
large assemblage of Masons was held in Stafford, on the Sth of
September, and Dr. Butler has testihed, to consult on the best
means of stopping the publication of Morgan's book; and others
have said, il' no means could elfect it, to devise means to carry
off Morgan. What means were actually devised, can
only be
drawn from what transpired after the meeting: on the next Mon-
day, Morgan was taken from Batavia; on the next day, Miller
was violently torn from his family and brought to this place,
where, by the timely assistance of his friends, he was saved from
the fate allotted to Morgan, who was amidst the cries of mur.
der taken from Canandaigua and carried to the magazine of
Fort Niagara, a place as nearly representing the cave in which
Akirop was executed, as any that could conveniently be tbund,
and there probably murdered; but his murderers did not dare re-
tum with the bloody trophies of their vengeance to the person
authorizing the transaction. I cannot positively state that Da-
niel Johns carried with him such a summons as we have all sworn
to obey, whether given. handed, sent, or thrown, unto us; but we
all know that many obeyed some summons or
sign, by neglect-
ing their common- avocations and assisting in transporting him
beyond the reach ot' his friends; others, when called upon, took
their horses from their plough, to aid, and in other ways assisted
in getting him through a large tract of country, which nothing
can reconcile, unless they had a 'sign, summons or
token, given,
handed, sent or thrown to them,' which they had sworn to
obey.
I give one more reason for supposing the Morgan case`t0 bg
in strict conformity to the 'ancient usages of ancient Free Ma-
sonry.' On the morning they were going on this infemal errand,
many ol' them said they had sworn never to suffer the secrets of
-Masonry to be published, if in their power to prevent it, and they
could prfvent it by going to Batavia that day; others said they
had ancient- authority for this conduct in the Morgan case; and
one ofthe captains of the band, when asked for a reason, tool:
his Monitor and read the case of Akirop and the other six trai-
tors, as
given in No. 5, supposing that would suppress any
further inquiry on that point.
V
Whether Morgan suH`ered'a fate
similarto that of Akirop; or whether, according to the several im~
precations of his own mouth, he had his throat cut. 'len b"°"¢
:om open,
bodyipevered
in two, bowels bum# to mlm, "W" "ll"
K2
_
_,,__-.-nr
,nn-_.¢»|iQ»_a. -|....,..-q¢_ __ p .,_.. ...----
"S"
~t02 uonr on masonv.
scattered to tlwfbur winds of heaven, that there been more
tmceor remembrance among mea or.M|sons, ofso ed: and petjrtr-
ed e scratch as he uoc,' as well as those who were actually his
rnnrderers,-it is true, remains somewhat in doubt. But should
Masonry survive this tremendous shock, and assume all its lbrmer
powerand glory in some after age, our Monitor would disclose to
future generations the manner of his murder, and his murderers
occupy as conspicuous a place in it as does Joahcrt in the execu-
tion ol' Akirop; but should it he left until that time, I fear it will
never be known, for Masonry is now in the last convulsive ago-
nies of death. Let us now, my brethren, canddly review this
subject, for it is of great importance. It is fully proved ti-om un-
questionable authority, that before entering a lodge we are re-
quired to pledge our honor, and alter entering it we are
repeat-
edly charged to support all the ancient usages and customs of
ancient Free Masonry, and never sulferthe least deviation from
the established rules and customs of the fraternity. Morgan in
his illustration informs us that all Masons solemnly swear to obey
all signs, summons or tokens, given, handed, sent or thrown to
them, by a Fellow Craft or Master Mason, thereby establishing
a sure way to
carry into effect the 'ancient usages and customs'
ot' our ancient brethren; also, that should we divulge any of the
secrets of Hasonry, we will sutlbr death in the most cruel and
barbarous manner; establishing clearly that the law of Masonry
is to execute any member who shall divulge the secrets of Ma-
sonry. It is most conclusively shown, from unquestionable au-
thority, that the usages and customs of our ancient brethren were
to execute a Masonic traitor according to the 'several impreca~
tions of his own mouth,' or inflict a
punishment upon him ade-
quate to his crimes. It: is also clearly shown, that in almost
every particular, so far as the facts have come to light,that Mon-
gen was dealt with agreeably to the ancient usages and customs
of the fmtemity; therefore l do consider the charge made in Not
5 proved beyond the bare possibility of a doubt. 0ne doubt,
however, has been raised, and as it-comes from a sourcel high-
ly respect, I will answer it. It is said that the Masons of the
'present age are under no more obligations to- obey the laws- of
Solomon, than they are those of Moses; thereby admitting fully
that the laws of Solomon were such as have been
In answer, it might be said we are bound 'to obey all laws
which we have pledged our honors and oaths to support and no-
ver suffer a
donation from. I admit Masons are not boundin
their Masonic °HP"°"Y '°
Obey all the laws and advice Solomon
has given tothe sacred writings, any more than they are those
A-"L-.~--..._ ._ aaa" ~
..uu.;L
'
_
1, _
,.|;&.,,___t
Lien-r on mssomw. 403
which Moses has so given; but I do contend that all the Masonic
laws which Solomon, as Grand Master ot' the lodge, gave, are
as
binding upon us, lf we adhere to the Masonic institution, as
the laws of Moses are binding upon the Jews as tirm believers in
the Mosaic dispensation, and who suppose that all the customs
of the ancient Jews under Moses, their leader, are binding upon
them. But I will not pretend to say, that for following the an-
cient usages and customs of our ancient brethren, as
given to
them by Solomon, the wrath ot' heaven will be as
severely poured
upon our beads as it is upon the Jews; so that we be scattered
among all the nations of the earth, and become a
by-word and
reproach among men.
I will make a few more observations, and close this part of the
,¢ubject. I have addressed my numbers to all honest Masons.
Such I wish to examine this subject with care and attention. To
those who are
dupes to the designing part of' the fraternity, and
are blindly detemrined to adhere to the institution through 'thick
and thing' or to those who adhere to it because it has shielded
them from merited punishment, or
expect it will still aid them to
commit crime with impunity; or those who expect still to defraud
the lodges and chapters ot' their fimds, I have nothing to say-I
wish to address those who are honest, and who have honestly
supported, from the many borrowed morals which have been ad-
ded to Masonry to deceive the world, and not having frequently
'attended the meetings of their brethren, and heard the obligations
administered, and seen the ceremonies of Masonry, that no evils
have or can arise from Masonry, when its memb» rs
performed all
that is required of them by its principles. Such l would eamest-
ly request to examine this subject with all the care and attention
the importance of it deserves; we have slumbered too long upon
our posts; but let the cries of the murdered Morgan arouse us
from our slumber, and inquire by whom, for what, and by what
laws was he murdered? Atler thus examining the case, let us
honestly and fearlessly cast the blame of this murderous trans-
action where it actually belongs. Some of those men engaged
in the late outrages are well known to all of us to be men, in
other respects, of good character, who would shudder at the com-
mission of any crime. Then if they are murderers, what, I ask,
has made them sol Shall we, to save an institution groaning un-
der the blackestof crimes, make them common murderers and
vsgabonds of the land! They adhered closely to the ancient
usages and customs which we have all of us pledged our holwh
andhave solemnly swom in presence of Almighty God to svppvft-
I beseech you then, my brethren, come out manfIl||Y 'md "MW
r
._.__
¢-I-1|-nndsinnu-._,-. ...nr -».
404 near os ussosar.
some sympathy for them and their families; acknowledge it was
for adhering to an institution which has becomenot only useless,
but dangerous, that has produced this disastrous transaction which
has thrown this section of country in such confusion.
____
A Mason.
NO. VIII.
To all Honest Masons:
Brethren-In my former numbers I have fully shown that our
society was not only useless, but dangerous, in a republican go-
vernment-that the laws of Masonry authorized the murder of a
Masonic traitor who should divulge their secrets; I have also
shown that Morgan was executed in the same
way all.other Ma-
sonic traitors have been, as laid down by our best Masonic wri~
ters. I now auerl, and willprone, that the obligations which are
given in our Masonic lodges to their members, are not binding, mo-
rally, religiously, or
legally-but on the contrary, it is a
duly
from which no honest Mason will shrink, to absolve hcmselfjiom
all allegiance to Masonry, and expose to the scorn and contempt qf
all mankind their unlawful and blasphemous obligations. To as-
certain this point, let us inquire what is the nature of these obli-
gations. They are not oaths in a legal sense; lbr to constitute a
lawful oath it is necessary that the person administering it should
be legally authorized to do thus, and the person receiving should
swear to things within his knowledge; but in this case the person
administering our obligations derives no authority for it by any
law-the person swearing to perform the promise knows nothing
what will be required of him; therefore, they cannot be called
legal oaths. If not legal oaths, they cannot be any 'thing more
than mere simple conditional promises. I am ready to grant that
a promise made, (the maker of it knowing the subject matter of
the promise,) and the performance of the same
being lawful, that
the promise is morally binding. On the contrary, however, not
knowing at the time of making it the subject matter of the pro-
mise, andthe performance of it being unlawful, we are in no mau-
ner bound to perform the promise. The manner of administer-
ing the obligation is such that we cannot conceive even the na-
ture of the promises until after we have taken them, and time is
afforded to examine them. after going through a scene of non-.
sense and fright well calculated to confuse our ideas, we are re-
quired to kneel and say ailer the person administering the obli-
gations-only afew words are said at a time, and this in_ broken
sentences, in a manner in which no one can obtain a. correct
knowledge, even after hearing them administered: for example.
~---
-°-
mann*
'
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 405
the master says, requiring the candidate to repent:-I, A. B., of
my own free will and accord, in presence of Almighty God and
the Worshipful Lodge, Slc. N0
person can
possibly tell the bear-
ing which the obligations may have on his conscience or
duty to
his country, until he has had suflicient time to peruse and reflect
upon it. If after 'the ceremonies are
performed-and in his
cooler moments he can deliberately examine the nature and ac-
tual promise-he is satisfied that it does interfere with either his
'religion or his politics,' most assuredly he cannot he bound to
perfonn the same; and he only can determine for himself whether
it does interfere with his own individual duty to his God or his
country. We ought not therefore to judge too
severely those
who, considering them thus to interfere, throw them aside as null
and void; for men will construe the same passages differently;
and in this land of freedom the inestimable privilege of thinking
for ourselves, provided it does not interfere with the laws of our
country, is fully and perfectly secured to every citizen. That
you may fully understand the subject, and not rest on
my indi-
vidual assertion, I will give you the opinion of moral and reli-
gious writers on this subject. Paley, agreat Theologian,_and
one of the best moral writers of our ages, says, 'Promises are not
binding when the performance is unlawful. There are two cases
of this: one where the unlawfulness is known at the UNB of mil'
king the promise; the other case
[which is even stronger and
more applicable to Masonic promises] is when the unlawtulness
did not exist, or was unknown in the making of the promise.
When the promise is understood to proceed upon a certain sup-
position, and that promise turns out to be false, the promise is not
binding) Thus, when we are about to receive the obligation, we
are told it does not interfere
with our 'religion or politics.' Should
they interfere with either they certainly cannot be binding upon
any man receiving them. The examples which Paley gives in
his Moral Philosophy, it is useless to quote, as
they are familiar
with all of you. The Rev. Thomas Scott has written upon the
subject of oaths, and describes the nature of Herod's. He says
'Herod's oath was rash and profane in the extreme; and when it
was found to involve such consequences, it became absolutely
unlawful to observe it. He ought to have repented of his impiety,
and with abhorrence have rejected Salome's application. Rash
oaths are above all things to be avoided; but if men are mlangled
by them, they ought rather to infringe the sinful oaths than add sin
to sin and ruin to their own souls.' It is unnecessary to ¢l"°¢°
from other authors on this subject; for every one must at
PDCU
perceive the only crime there can be is in taking the 0b|l8""°"S»
-¢¢1"~lh-l»h»»_ .... _,
406 mei-rr ON
Masarmr.
Are the obligations which are administered in our different lodges,
chapters, councils, and encampments, of the nature of those de-
scribed by Paley, Scott, and others, as not binding! I shall give
a
part of the dilferent obligations; and should any Mason in the
United States dare deny that the quotations from these obligations
are not substantially correct, I pledge myself to prove them so
by competent witnesses, if such person will give his name to the
editors oi' the Le Roy Gazette, he proving that he has taken the
degree the obligation of which he disputes. In the Master Ma-
son's obliganon, as given by Morgan in his 'Illustrat.ions'-and no
Mason who regards his veracity dare deny the correctness of that
book-is the following:-'Furthermore, do I promise and swear,
that I will not give the grand hailing sign of 'distress except I am
in real distress, or for the benefit of the craft when at work; and
should I ever see that signgiven, or the word accompanying it,
and the person who gave it appearing to be in distress, I will fly
to his relief at the risk of my life, should there be a
greater pro-
bability of saving his life than losing my own. Furthermore, do
I promise and swear, that a Master Mason's secrets. given to me
in charge as such, and I knowing him to be such, shall remain as
secure and inviolable in my breast as in his own, when commmi-
cated to me as such, murder and treason excepted, and they left
to my oamelicitntinnl Thus, ands the solemnity of an oath,
shouldweeverseeabrothergivingthegrandhailingsignofdie-
tress, we are bound to ily to his relief, should there be a
greater
probability of saving his life than loosing our own. We are here
sworn
withoutany reservation; neither are there any distinguished
marks drawn about the kind ofidistressg the only question is, does
he appear in any kind of danger? Should he flee from the pn-
nishment due his crimes, we are swornto protect him, so
long as
there is more probability of saving his life than losing our own-
o. lawful promise, truly, in a govemment where the only safety
of our
property consists in affording our aid in the execution
of our laws. To show fully the force of this part of the obli~
gation, I will put a case which has too often been realized
since the establishment of our onnsn. A Master Mason com-
mits arson-is seen or suspected--the necessary steps are ta.
ken--an odicer attempts to arrest him--a Master Mason gives
him 'timely notice'-~(the reason for his so doing I will presently
explain)-and he attempts to flee--the oflicer closely pursues-~
perceiving a probability ot' receiving his just deserts, he at ven-
ture gives the grand hailing sign of distress-you, standing per-
haps in the door of your house, gee him 'give the sign" or it
being dark, 'hear the wonis accompanying the same,' you are
LIGHT on masonnr. 407
bound (if the oath is obligatory) to By to his reliei, rescue him
from the otlicer, and receive him into your house, and there de-
fend him so long as there is a
'greater probability of saving his
life than losing your own.' You do thus defend your criminal
brother; and the otlicer seeing he cannot execute the laws of his
country without endangering his life, at length desists and leaves
you in possession of your criminal brother. After the oliicer has
withdrawn from the contest, your criminal brother confesses the
crime, and tells you when, where, and how, it was committed,
and you become in possession of all the facts concerning it, At
length, supposing all is safe, you admit your brother to escape
from your house-the otiicer waiting without to execute his duty,
seizes the criminal, and he is brought to the trial--from the cir-
cumstances it is supposed he has entrusted you with all the facts.
You are called upon the stand and legally swom to tell the 'trut.h,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.' The question is-Did
your brother Mason tell you he committed the crime he is charged
with? What a situation are you placed in? Your criminal bro-
ther gave _the secret to you 'in charge as such, and you knew him
to he as such,' and you are swom 'that they shall remain as se-
cure and inviolable in your breast as in his own.' Should you
consider your Masonic obligation as
binding, you must necessa-
rily perjure yourself:, should you be a true patriot and supporter
of the laws of your country, it is true you will break your Ma-
sonic promise; but there should beno promise, especially -an oath,
which is in contradiction to the obligations we are under to our
country. I ask-Is it lawful to protect a criminal, and screen
him from the punishment due his crime?-Is it lawful to conceal a
crime committed against the laws of your countryl-Should you
do it, do you not become accessory alter the fact? and as such are
you not liable by law to be punished? A The promise made in the
Master Mason's obligation there is unlawful, and no one can for
a moment suppose he is bound by such obligation. In the same
obligation is the following:-Furt.hermore, do I promise and
swear, that I will not speak evil of»a brother Master Mason., Svc.;
but will apprize him of all approaching danger, if in my power. I
have before said that some Mason would give a criminal brother
timely notice-the reason has been explained; he has swom to
apprizehim of-ajqaroachiag danger. Should, therefore, any Ma-
son knowlis brotherguiltyof any crime,-and there is a
probability
ot' his be@~arreated,fhe is sworn,tn»app¢ize him ofhis danger.
The are kept in vitw through the 05°F de-
grees-; reached the Royal~Arch, theyeuppolv !°" U9
pnpdedfin full toassist than in their purposes r
Yw f° 3100
1|-»i|-»&»»»- mishap..
408 nicer on nusorvnv.
'
required to swear in the following manner:-'I<`ui1.hermore, do I
promise and swear, that I will protect a
companion Royal Arch
Mason, whether right or wrong! Throwing off all reserve, they
here tell us at once we must 'go the whole load,' and protect them
in any villauy whatever, and however guilty they may bc. Can
any Royal Arch Mason, ii' he has any regard for his Masonic
promise, sit on a jury where a
Royal Arch Mason is to be
tried for any crime, and bring in a verdict of guilty, vidien he has
swoan'to protect a companion, 'whether right or wrong-under
the no .less penalty than to have his scull smote off and his brains
exposed to the scorching rays ofthe sunl' Can he do justice to
a man who knows not our order, when his antagonist is a Royal
Arch Mason? Most assuredly he cannot! for he has sworn to
'protect a
companion of this exalted degree, whether right or
wrong.' It is absurd in the extreme, to urge such obligations
upon a person. We ure all bound by every tie which binds so-
cieties together, to dispense justice and equity whenever we are
called upon, either by the laws of our country, or as disinterested
persons, to decide any dispute which may arise in a
gqvemment
tbunded upon equal rights. There should be no distinction in
any case whatever. We are all, both hy' nature nndlaw,entitled
to every privilege ,which can be granted to any person; and to
mark outlines of distinction, and afford protection to one man in
preference to another, because he may belong to an order we are
unacquainted with, and can scientifically draw his hand across
his forehead in allusion to the penalty of this obligation, is con-
trary to every principle ol' virtue, morality, religion, or law; and
no obligation which requires us to do so, can
possibly be bind-
ing. The following outrageous and unlawful promise is con-~
tained in the same oath:-Furthermore, do [promise and swear,
that a
companion Royal ./inch .Moeon'a secrets, given me in charge
as each, and I knowing him to be such, shall remain as secure and
inviolable in my breast as in his mon, when communicated to me,
'MURDER AND TREABON NOT BXCEPTED. _
Paley says, 'Promises are not binding, where there is a
prior
obligation to the contrary.' Every citizen of the United States
is under a natural and paramount obligation to support the gov-
erpment which affords him protection. As good citizens we are
bound to afford every assistance to preserve the good order of
society, and aid in the execution of the laws. Therefore, we
must communicate to the proper authorities, all crimes which
come within our knowledge. Should we, by any means whatever,
know murder £0 hlve 'been committed, humanity, the laws ot'
God and man, all require us to communicate the same imme-
' `"
*"._- w- __
LIGHT ON MASONIIY. 409
diately, that the murderer may receive a
punishment 'due his
erime,' and the majesty of our laws be not trampled upon with
impunity. But as
Royal Arch Masons, we are sworn to conceal
the horrid crime of murder, provided the person committing it
should be a
companion Royal Arch Mason! What security have
we, if crimes of the deepest dye are to be committed and con-
cealed? The cries of murder may arouse us from our
sleep at
the silent hour of night--our villages may be wraptinflames--our
property stolen and destroyed-and the person committing these
flagrant crimes may escape punishment, it' he is so fortunate as
to be a
'companion Royal Arch Masonl' Should it, however, be
suspected by 'those who lmow not our order,'that a
'companion
of this exalted degree' had performed these diabolical acts, and
he should be brought to trial, a
Royal Arch Mason
sitting on th(-
jury is hound hy all they call sacred to clear him, 'right or
wrong]
land he will ofcourse escape punishment. But, should he be so
vmfortunate, however, as to have no 'companion Royal ArchMa-
son' on the jury, and he is found guilty of this crime by his lawful
peers, he sues a
Royal .flrch Governor for pardon; and the said
'Royal Arch Governor, ifhe supposes his Masonic oath
binding,
must, and will grant his petition. We have no
security for our
lives or property, while such obligations are administered and ad-
hered to. We have had a full demonstration of this fact, in the
unhappy fate of' Capt. William Morgan. A free citizen may he
torn from his family and his friends-deprived of his liberty and
life-and no punishment awarded to the villains performing so
hellish an act, (should they be Royal Arch Masons who commit-
ted the same)-and none but
Rpyal
Arch Masons be privy to the
circumstance; or a
Royal Arch ason who regards his Masonic
obligation as binding, may sit upon the jury to try the criminals.
But if so
dangerous in the case of individual property, or the
safety of' individuals themselves, how is their dangerous tendency
magnified, when even treasonis not excepted in their obligations?
We live under the best organized government ever formed; a
government dispensingits salutary influence equallyupon all-all
partaking, when administered in its purity, of its equalrights and
protection. But it may be overthrown and destroyed at
any time;
and should none but Royal Arch Masons know the existence of
the treasonable purposes, there can be mf remedy.
There is, perhaps, from three to tive hundred thousand Royal
Arch Masons scattered over the UnitedBtt¢es, possessing means,
ofcornmt1|iicatingtheii'QlaWs'aad olrjedtiidver any other society;
No inehnbhr of that degree hatsnds thing by þÿdilolo¢¥" ¬
M5-
ueasonahpi`j>u?ose#toi them _allitftllldifmeetingsgf'-§§t)lmg out,
`
I.
"
+
*ffl »
'
*J*
'A
».-anim;-..,..»_.. ..,. ,_ ,___ _
410 ucxrr ON Masoxnxu
~
iuduwments ol' ditferent kinds to each, there may be no suclt
number of them who will conspire with him to overthrow the only
republican government in the world. Should they thus agree,
what means do they possess to carry their designs into effect?
Possessinga key which has for ever (until of late) been unknown
to any but Royal Arch Masons, they can communicate without
danger; for should their letters be intercepted, none-but 'com-
panions of this exalted degree' can know its contents; and they
are sworn to protect them right or wrong; and 'murder and trea-
son' are not excepted in their oath ot' secrecy. That this may
not seem too much like fiction, I would remark, that in the cele-
brated conspiracy of Auron Burr, this same Royal Arch key was
used, and their characters, in his letters to_his coadjutors. How
can they be punished? None but 'companions of this exalted
degree] have any knowledge of their purposes, and they are
swom not to divulge it; and should any ol' them not enter the
conspiracy, they ure sworn to protect those who may, 'right or
wrong! l again ask, what safety have we for our lives, or liber-
ties, or government, if such obligations are administered and
adhered to? But so far from these obligations being binding, we
are ,bound by our prior obligations to the government, to absolve
ourselves from all allegiance to an institution administering them;
and to expose them tothe world.
I will now ask you 'to examine the obligation of the Holy and
Thrice lllustrious Order of the Cross:-'You runrnan swsan,
wan snouw You Evan Know A comrsrnos v|or.s-rs: ANY ns-
_ssnrian PART or
'rn|s_osuou'|oN, you wlu. Us: roun. Moss*
naclnen annsnons, sv 'mn nuassmo or con, 'ro same sucn
reason 'ro 'rne most s'r|nc'r AND conmcn runisnmsxvr, Actuar-
ann 'ro 'run Runes Ann Usmns or ous Ancient rnarnnnirv;
(See No. 7;) and thus, by inting him out to the world as an
unworthy and vicious eagabhiond; by opposing his interest; by dis-
arranging his business; by lrangferringphis character afier him,
wherever he may go; by exposing him to the contempt of the wlwle
fraternity and the world; but ofour illustrious order more especial-
ly, during his whole natural IW! That masterpiece of men, the
declaration of independence, declares that man pouesses cer-
tain inestimable rights; such as life, liberty,_and the pursuits of
happiness. The laws of our country guarantee to us the privi-
lege of following such pursuits as we please, in safety; and de-
clares it a
misdemeanor for any number ot' men'to conspire to
destroy the lawful pursuits of any person. Slanderis punishable
by heavy 5088- Mtmility, religion, and the best interests ot' so-
»t3iety, forbid US to d¢S!l'0y the reputation of any person ihatevcr,
,.... *_
r.rca'r ON m.isoNn'. 411
But has it come to this, that a set of men are combined to bring
to strict and condign punishment citizens of a free repub-
lic, for no offence against the law of' the land--f`or no oflencc
of the law of' God-for no offence against the equal rights ot'
mankind? What offence is recognisable by this band, worse
than a banditti, who attack not only the property, but the
reputation of' a man? It is the heinous offence of' telling thc
world, here are a horde of villains, self-created, bound together
by oaths to protect each other, 'right or wrong;' and that an hon-
est- man who disbelieves in their infernal principles, must be
branded with inf`amy. Is it lawful to punish 'strictly, and with
eondign punishment/ a man who has violated no law? And
how punish? 'By pointing him out to the world as an
'lL7l"ll'0'7`f]l;Il
mul 'vicious vagabond! We can here exclaim with emphasis,
'
Tell it not in Gath-publish it not in the streets of' Askelon'-that
in this land of liberty, where~we are daily boasting of our
supe-
rior advantages of` equal rights, we are fostering in our bosom a
set of' men possessing the spirit of' demons; who are sworn to
make a.
Vagabond of a man who does not subscribe to their hel-
iish tenets. No matter how fair a character he may have sus~
tained; no matter if the 'frost of' seventy wintcrs"has whitened
his head in the cause of' his Redeemer; no matter if his whole
life has been one continued act of' benevolence and good will to
mankind; still he must be pointed out to the vorld, by the fingers
of scorn, as an 'unworthy and vicious vagabond! Again, 'By
opposinghisinteresh' Not satisfied with destroyinghis reputation,
they must even oppose his interest in society. I had ever
sup-
posed that any individual had an undoubted right to advance his
political or worldly interest by all lawful means. Has he talent
andhonesty sufficient, he may aim at filling any office under the
government which he lives.
But this blood-stained few say, that if he has violated any es»
scntial part of our law, we will not allow him the privilege of' gain~
ing any interest whatever with his fellow citizens; however capable
he may be, he shall gain no influence in society, but shall be
forced to submit to become an outcast of' society; and to carry this
into fiill effect, the most palpable falsehoods are circulated. This
has been verified for sometime past; but of this more anon.
Again, 'By destroying his business! Not satisfied with destroy-
ing his reputation, the brightest jewel in his possession; not
satisfied with opposing his best interest in the world; but should
he after this be pursuing some lawful vocation-perhaps the
only
support for himself and f`amily-they swear to derange even GHS,
and turn him out upon the world, as a vagabond both in property
r__,_<. ae,-.mf
»
._ .,...
""
.ug LIGHT ON Masonnv.
and reputation. Freedom and equality indeedl "Bbast þÿl'i0'mOl' ¬
of our wholesome laws, and ot' the equality of our
government;
boast no more ot' the 'land ot' the brave,uud the home ofthe free,'
where every citizen can pursue his vocation in peace, if the com-
bination is yet in the bosom ofdur country, pretending to be the
most honorable and respected part of community, and swom to
take the bread from the mouth of honest industry, and to turn a man
destitute and dependent upon the cold charity of the world. Should
he be found in the street, sustaining the 'peltings of the pitiless
storm' and asking the charities of the world which are
given to the
meanest vagnbond, for some scant.y provision, even the 'crumbs
which titll from the rich man's table/ to support for a short time
rr. destitute but untbrtunatc family,7they are S\V()I'l'l to represent
him in such a view, that even ,this scanty provision cannot be
given him. What awful crime has he been guilty of; that the
common acts ofcharity cannot be administered to him? None:
no offence against the laws of his country whatever, has he been
guilty of; but on the contrary, he has ever sustained a good
character; but he supposed, and rightly loo, that the obligations
imposed upon him in the lodges, chapters, Src. were at variance
with tho best-interests of society; and he boldly steps forward,
und fearless of consequences, telis the world what are
truly the
Masonic principles. For this he must he deprived of every
privilege of citizenship; made an outcast from society; and his bu-
siness destroyed; while many n dishonest man, guilty of crimes
which, it' strictly punished, would gain him a residence at state
prison, is applaudedand held out to the world as deserving their
patronage; and too often do they receive the patronage and good
wishes ot' community, through the influence of this dark, myste-
ous, midnight, and hellish banditti. 'O shame, where is thy hlush.'_
,But still tiirther-#By transferring his character that is, the
character which they give him] after him wherever ie
may go#
The unhappy sufferer, satisfied that Jl/Iasonic vengeance will des-
troy every hope of gaining aisuhsistence for himself and those
dependent upon him, unless he becomes dishonest, seeks some
distant part of the community, and there hopes 'to avoid the Hend-
like malice of the brothcrhgod, and pursue his avocation in peace;
hut alas! oven this consolation is not left him. frhéj swear 'to
transfer his character after him wherever he
may of Not satis-
tied with traducing his character, destro ing his`b%iitiess, and op-
posing his interest in the immediate vichnity rpfdhifhe his over
supported the character of nn þÿh0l'l ¬Sf`éild
respei§t5ie'i:itiihn;' but
he must be utterly destroyed. With nitllice well7$@'¢ii|f\ing`th¢§ii|-
iemal spirits, they pursue their Masonib victim to 'thle 'uttermtist
_ ._ _._ _
1.101111 on nnsounv, 413
parts of the earth,' and destroy every vestage ot' hope. To carry
this into full and complete etlect, the council which receive him
require him to give his name, the names of his parents, the place
where he was born, where he was educated-in fact, a
descrip-
tion of every circumstance of his life by which he may betmced
through the world, is registered in their bloody annals. No hope
is left the unhappy fugitive, even in flight! He must be pursued
and ruined in reputation, and become a
vagabond and an outcést
of society, and n mark put upon him as indelible as that put upon
Cain by the hand of Omnipotence, through the influence ofan
unc-lent and honorable society. Finally, 'By exposing him to 11,5
oontempt ofthe wlzolefraternity and the world, but of our il[u_§4ri-
ous [illustrious imleedlj order, more
especially, during his »wh0l};
natural ll/`e.' If he has committed an error and becomescbn.
vinced of it, (no matter if he repent of his frailties in sincei-ity,)
no pardon can be granted him; he must he held out to the sconi
and contempt ofthe 'whole world, during the whole of his ndtu.
ral lit`e.' No consolation or inducement ol' reform can be found;
no mitigation of .Masonic vengeance can be realized, neither-iri
tlight or repentance. Conduct worthy, indeed, of a society
stylinv themselves 'ancient,, honorable, and the handmaid ot
D
religion]
A l"ASON.'
`
Nora. The foregoing eight numbers of 'A MASGN' were originallyplrb-
lished in 1828, in the Le Roy Gazette, Genesee county, N. Y. -
'
.
,_ ,
,
-~vlO0»-- _ ti,
CONVEIUTION or SECEDING masons:
"
'° ">¢»
,
_
1
Held at Ln Riot, February 19th md SOM, and July 4th and 5lh,,182§_,- .
A1 a convention of Free Masons opposed to secrét societies,
held at Lo Roy, in the county of Genesee, New York, on Tues-
day, February 19th, 1828-
.
The convention organized at one o'oloclt, P. M. and'E'ld9r
David Bernard, of Warsaw, addressed the Throne of Grace;
Leonard B. Rose, Esq. of Castile, was called to the chair, and
Elder David Bernardappointed secretary. Voted, That theBev.
James Cochrane, of Batavia, be requested to deliver an aildiiéss
tothe convention upon the subject of its present þÿ}i1 ¬QiDg.* '
*` Nesrl one earand a half had el od` sh
'
'
un'"Agri
of Williartiibiorgxn, before this oonveiilliin nvrlilfdliperiod
but few had the moral soumgd1o= openly dissent from the lf|sonie_institi~
tion, and denounce it' aowiclted and dangerem.. Those who dand $0$0 Qian()
in 'defence' of their conntry's rights, at the hazard of Masonic
wnvqgg
'
steppedforth
sinignitedjwxth
theirfoilowfcitissns in their noble
'
.'
-
_*.i.*..F.;;_ .~,,` V.-it- .._
._
_
_- -1"",-
___
_
..»...... ...y-
¢>ll|all-am. ._....`__
4
no
.
Q14 r.xen'r on nusonnr.
Mr. Cochrane then rose and delivered an address.
The object of the meeting having been stated, itiwas agreed
that the principles and obligations of Free Masonry be freely
discussed:-Therefore,
Voted, That the first obligation in Masonry be read. Mr. H.
A. Read read the obligations of an 'Entered Apprentice] as
published by Capt. William Morgan. The chairman addressed
the meeting on the binding nature of Masonic obligations. Mr.
S. D. Green, of Batavia, followed him on the same subject. Mr.
H. A. Read, of Le Roy, spoke largely on the principles and ob-
ligations ot' the order; he was followed -by J. Hascnll, Esquire,
on the same'
subject. The secretary then addressed the com
vention on the antiquity ofthe institution, showing that it was not
ancient; on the morality ofthe institution, showing that it did not
promote morality; on the benevolence oi' the institution, show-
ing that it was not benevolent; on the ceremonies ofthe institution,
es far as the Royal"Areb degree, showing that they were not only
degrading to human nature, but blasphemons; on the principles
af the institution, showing that they were opposed to Christianity;
and gave his reasons for believing it the duty ol' honest Masons
do expose its secrets and obligations tothe world.
'
_
1
Voted, That the second and third obligations in Masonry be
read. They were accordingly read, as published by Morgan.
Voted, That the fourth, til`tb,_sixth, and seventh obligations be
read, as submitted to the convention, in manuscript. They were
accordingly read by Mr. Read.
` `
Mr. Read then spoke very extensively upon the obligations oi'
Masonry-showing that they were diametrically opposed to good
§;vernn\ent,
and subversive ofthe principles ofjustice and good
er..
The convention then adjoumed until seven o'elock, P. M.
During the adjournment, Solomon Southwick, Esq- ot' Albany,
who had been invited to attend the convention, ahived totako
his seat as a member.
`
_L largeandrespectable concourse of citizens having convened,
and being anxious to see the than whom they coneidenedithe
r
V
v ~
'
_
' ' '
,
m an
þÿ$'¬I»I;.a..1'l*.i.E"°i`1'i'.'I.'I.E';f.'I.'i.'.?'..°.'.¥.f"¢'2!....'X.d"'i't"..'$".1".a1i1"'..
£::i=theha|ard.o£ everyt.bingsi¢Qr0no|t&h,top\1bli|h~|ll the lQ¢Nl! oi'
'the oi-da to the world;-¢t|u.t_this was _tba oel1lray-in- which this institu-
tigmot duknas»eon|d_ be destroyed.. eel our- eounq=n'red_ from ruin!
fllnuglmhoy wants' ID
ullibon-.&o\U»lh»1r.lud a
upset, iumqbt,and
H"'&i@ l*§ *fslith it f U
.T
'
_ V
'
~sni¢,..ia4»o»d~dh»~h'i»1~»amilf'
vita the mighty c°ndwt'4ll°¥ bravely fora-t ey A A
ggnqif
'
I
so--:innue-nail
-
` T
'W'
near on uasounr. 415
champion of their liberties, were admitted into the convention
chamber, when Mr. Southwick was introduced by Elder Ber-
nard. He briefly addressed them upon the subject of selllcrea-
ted societies in any government, particularly a
republican govern-
ment; reminded them with what jealousy the people of these
United States had watched the introduction of societies and
combinations anti-republican in their tendencies; and instanced
the decline ot' the Cincinatti society, composed of mdny of thc
veterans of the revolution; and the opposition to that article of
our federal constitution which authorizes secret sessions of Con~
gress, although they had not until lately become suspicious that
the Masonic institution had been all this while growing up amidst
them, with their indulgence, to subvert their liberties. He re-
marked that he had not the least anticipation of being ealled upon
to address his fellow citizens; that he was wholly unprepared,
and completely exhausted with his journey.
The citizens then departed, and the convention then re-orga-
uized. The following resolution was then passed unanimously.
`
Resolved, That. the book written by Capt. William Morgan and
published by Col; David C. Miller, entitled 'Illustrations of Ma-
sonry,' is a fair and f'ull~ exhibition of the three first degrees ot
speculative Free Masonry; that we solemnly and unequivocally
testify to the above, we cheerfiilly subscribe our names thereto.
We certify according to the degrees we have taken.
Entered .Hpprenticas-Platt S. Beech, Henry Peck, David C.
Miller.
Fellquf Crajl-George W. Blodgett.
.Master Masons-Leonard B. Rose, George W. Harris,James
Cochrane, Jonathan Foster, Edmund Badger, Orasmus Bowers,
Jason Gratten, James Gray, Benjamin Cooley, Enos Baebelder,
A. E. Hutchins, John Tomlinson, Samuel D. Green, Pelatiah
Dewy, kdsm Richmond, David Webb, John Ammock, James
Taylor, Williafn W.,Phelps, B. Bliss. ~ »
'
Mark .Master-Solomon Southwick. ' ~
Royal Arch ,Mason--Miles P. Lampson, David.Bern|l'd~
Knight qf
~
the Rod -Crocs--Richard Hollister.
thony 'oo|ey,
Copies-
A. Smith, .V t Hsseall, Hollis
Pratt,.Herb6rl»A. f
, da1lies~Bllld;J6h| Hawaii.
The »
obigltionsot? Mark. History Plltlullllfg Most Emul-
im .asf-¢1w.ney¢n.smn .ws .again ma.
[Seether inked, _F
_
inthe ¢nmp¢»ngJ=~
an rm, ,,,,,,, ,;-ff,, ,,.*-'° ,,......,,......t
_¢n§.5.._..._.._..-,__ ...E _
_
Knéihts Templar: and Iltuatvioua
Krligltbsg'
the Cf0|~|'!"'¢AD"°
416 near on mssoanm-
wag fggolvgd 'by all the Royal Arch Masons, thnttho foregoing
obligations are, according to our best recollections, substantially
true-and by the convention unanimously, that they are neither
legally, morally, or
religiously bindiag; and thatzthey be published
to the world.
'
The obligation of the Knights of the Red Cross, Knights, Tem-
plar, the
xaled obligation and obligations of the Thrice Illustrious
Order ot' e Cross, were then read. ,
See the obligations in the
degrees conferred in the encampment. _
After another short discussion, the knights present then unaxn-_
mously resolved, That the foregoing obligations are
substantially
conect--and by this convention unanimously, that they are nei-
ther legally, morally, or
religiously binding; and that they be pub-
lished to the world. t
The convention then adjourned to nine o'clock of the next day.
i
4
Lsonsan B. Rosa, Clan.
Dum Bsluunn, Sec. -
Wednesday, Feb. 20, 1828,
The convention met pursuant to adjournment.
In the absence ot' Messrs. Rose and Bemard, Solomon South-
wink, Esq. ot' Albany, was unanimously chosen chairman. Mr.
Richard Hollister was then unanimously appointed secretary.
The chairman addressed the meeting briefly, to the following.
etfectz ~
Gentlemen-I have a proposition to make, which is demanded
bywhat we owe to the character of our country, and the cause in
which we are
engaged. If it be true, as has been stated, that
William Morgan was incarcerated in the magazine of the foitress
of Niagara, it' was a prostitution of that bulsvark of our freedom
and independence unparalleled inthe historyof our country, or
in that of any other country pretending to the possession of civil
liberty. If done, it must have been done by or through the tacit
permission or direct agency of the person or persons having
charge of that fortress, as servants of the people of these United
States; and hence both the government and people owe itpto their
own dignity of character and the cause of civilliberty, to dis-
charge the guilty from their-service, if true; or to wipe 08] both
from the accused and themselves, the foul stain, il' the report be
false. For myself I know nodiing of the facts; but I have seen
'them stated under sanction oi' such names as command my full
confidence- I allude, gentlemen, to what is called the Lewiston
Convention; °"d°" °f which, though greatly abused, I believe
'to have been actuated by the purest of motives, _and torlesmn
ucnr ON Masonnr. 417
the gratitude ot' their country. They have made the report on
testimony satisthctory to themselves; and it is now due to the
character of our
country and its govemment, that tho charge be
investigated by those whose (if not exclusive) province it was in
the first place.
The chairman then moved the following resolutions, which were
unanimously adopted:
' '
Resolved, That a committee be appointed to draft a memorial
to Congress, on the subject ol' the prostitution of the fortress ot'
Niagara to the incarceration ot' William Morgan, a free citizen
of the United States, by persons calling. themselves Free Masons.
and without any legal authority for such a violence and coercion.
Resolved, That Solomon Southwick, James Ballard, John
Hascall, Herbert A. Read, Anthony Cooley, W. W. Phelps, and
Edward Badger, compose said committee; and that they sign the
memorial in behalf' of this convention. On motion,
Resolved, That a committee of titteen be appointed to
prepare
the degrees of Free Masonry above that of Master, for publica-
tion; and Elder David Bemard, Elder John G. Stearns, Solo-
mon Southwiek, Rev. Reuben Sanbom, David C. Miller, John
Hascall, Herbert A. Read, Richard Hollister, Samuel D. Green,
Oliver Forward, Edward Giddins, Judge Hinman, (of Pike, Al-
legany county,) William Perry, and W. W. Phelps, (of the state
of Vermont,) compose the said committee. On motion,
Resolved, That a committee of seven be appointed to draft a,
circular invitation to all Free Masons who are opposed to the in-
stitution of Masonry, and to secret associations in general in the
United States, to meet at this place on the 4th of July next; that
they prepare an address to be delivered on the occasion; and that
Solomon Southwick, John Hnscall, John Tomlinson, Herbert A.
Read, David C. Miller, W. W. Phelps, and A. P. Hascall, com~
pose said committee._
Resolved, That the editors of' the following papers be, and
they are hereby requested to publish the proceedings ot' this con-
vention, to wit--Republican Advocate, Western Advertiser, Buf-
falo Patriot, Jamestown Joumal, Western Star, Le Roy Gazette,
Livingston Register, Anti-Masonic Inquirer, Seneca Farmer.
Lake Light, Cazenovia Monitor, National Observer, Sandy Hill
Sun, Palladium ot`Liberty, New Jersey Union Telegraph, Indiana
and Jelferson Whig, National Intelligencer, and Georgetown Co-
lumbian; and all others who are willingto give the public inf`ormu~
tion u n this sub'ect.
P0 J
'
S. Sovrx-iwrcxv CIW"
Rlcnaitn Hor.Lrs1'aa, Sec.
-aalh..¢|_._ ¢,¢¢,, _
_ __ _M _
_
ms;
'
ANTI-HABONIC CONV`EN'l'ION
`
Of Un twelve western countless/`.MY, haldstLl.Ror,.M»a'¢h 611| ¢md7lh, 1828.
Ar a convention of delegates from tvvelvc counties, at the village of Le
Boy, on the 6th of
March, General Wuamn Wanswoa-ru, ofthe eoimty ot'
Livingston, was appointed preardent,_aad Doct. Mau-naw Baows, jun. ot' the
county
;t:1Moaroe,
and the Hon. Rosaar Faauiuo, of the county ot' Niagara,
a int secretaries.
"Fire
presidpztk
took the chair, and the following delegates presented cre-
dentials and their seats.
hom the county gf Chmlauquc.-Joseph White, jun., Abner Hazeltiae.
Erie.-Thomas C. Love, H. Rutgers Stagg, Willard Filmore, Henry E.
Davies, Calvin Bishop, Benjamin O. liivens, Aaron Parker.
.N"u|gm'a.-George H. Boughton, Bates Cooke, Robert Fleining, Asher Sax-
ton Asher Freeman. »
1
Genesee.-Samuel Warner, Amos Tyrell, Calvin P. Bayloy, Timothy Fitch,
Andrew Dibblo, David C. Miller, Edmund Barnes, Luther A. Baker, John
Hnsliall, Shubael Dunham, Daniel Woodward, Chauncey P. Smith, Martin
C. Coe, George W. Lay, Moses Taggart, Harvey Putnam; James Lathrop,
Leverett Seward, Amos'W. Mnzzy.
Orleans.--Benjamin W. Van Dyke, Chauncey Robinson. _
Monroe.-Matthew Brown, jun., William Groves, John G. Crandall, Zol-
ved Stephens, William B. Brown, Simeon M.
CoeglosephRandall, William
Garbutt, Joshua Howell, Thomas Bingham, Milton Shel on, Fredenck Wh.it~
tlesey, James K. Livingston, Thurlow Weed.
Livingston.-William Wadsworth, Andrew Arnold, Halloway Long, Tabor
Ward, S. M. Smith, Levi Sadler.
Wayne.-Israel J. Richardson, Robert Luze, Henry S. Gilbert, William P.
Richardson, Loammi Beadle, Charles S. Williams.
Ontario.-James Watson, J. Mason, E.llahs.Pe¢k, Isaac Lapham, Oliver
Heartwell, John Crandal.
Yates.-Alexander Parkman.
Seneca.-William Child, Aaron Davis, William Thompson, Charles Starrel,
Allyn Boardman, Elnathan Winans, .lacoh B. Farr, John Goltry.
Tlvmpkim.-H. Jerome, Jonathan Owen.
The objects of the meeting being ex lained by T. Fitch, Esq., it was, on
_motion ol Mr. Love, of Butfalo, resolved: That acommittee of one from each
county represented, be appointed todigest and report to the convention pro-
per questions for its deliberations; and the following
persons
were
appointed
said committee:-Messrs. Bazeltiae, Love Cooke, itch, Val;
Djrke,
Whit-
tlcsey, Ward, W. P. Riehardson, Heartwell, Psrkman, Child, an Jerome.
The committee appointed to report the subjects that ought to claim the
consideration of this convention, report:
That it is expedient to present an address from this convention to the peo-
ple of
the state of New
York, expressive of the views of this convention u
*ht* °"bJ¢°¢ °f FY" Masonry; and that a committee of ive be appoiaterlno
draft the same. _
That it is
erpedient that resolutions be adopted bythis convention, ex-
phrzrsive
of their V1¢W9§ Gnd that a committee of five be appointed to draft
same.
'_ - ~~=»- ..u...._..,».aa- ._.=|..a|dh-a.-»i1v-~
'
- -
._
near os msonav. 419
'Phat it is ex dient to present a memorial to Congress u n the s
`
the incarceratiiien of~a citizen in a fortress of the United
S'i:tes,'pr$i;e;tf35
an inquiry into the same.
That it is expedient to appoints General Central Committee.
That it is
expedient
to raise means for the blication and dissemination
ofliiht
and trut , relating to the character sndpplrinciples of Free
Masonry,
T at it is expedient that this convention recommend a State Convention
to be held at a suitable time and place, for the purpose of adopting more
general and etlicient means for the destruction of the Masonic institution,
The
xport
of the committee was
accepted, and the tbllowing gentlemen
appoin to carry its recommendations into eiliect: ,
_
Committee to draft an address to the people of tliis state.-Bates Cooke, Thur-
low Weed, William Thompson, Timothy Fitch, Horace Jerome,
To draft resolutions.-l"redenck Whittlesey, George W. Lay, A_ Hazeltingj
l. J. Richardson, Jonathan Mason.
To draft a memorial to the legislature.-Thomas C. Love, Il. W. Van Dyke,
John Haskell, Oliver Heartweli.
To draft o memorid to Congress.-James K. Livingston, William Groves,
Joseph White, jun., Edmund Barnes.
MI. Whittlesey, from the committee to draft resolutions, reported the fol.
lowing, which were unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That it is a peculiar feature of our free government, that all
measures should be open and amenable to public opinion; and that the exig,
tance of any society in this country, whose objects, principles, and measures,
are secret and concealed, is not merely useless but hostile to the spirit of our
free institutions. p
Resolved, That the bare existence of secret societies in these United States
just.iiy_tears,- jealousies, and suspicions as to their objects, in the breasts ol'
thc ummtiuted, which have a tendency to distract society and sow ill will and
dissentions in community. y _ _
Resolved, That the disclosures which have been made ol' the principles and
obligations of speculative Free Masonry, prove it to be an institution of dan-
gerous tendency-liable to be used
bg'
thc ambitious and designing as an en-
gine forexahing unworthy men, an
elfecting improper measures-placing
the citizen in a situation in which his duty to his coimtry must in many in-
stances conflict with his obligations to the fraternity-and weakening the
sanctions of morality and religion by the multiplication of profane oaths, and
'an irrevercritfarrrilisrity with
reliiious
lbnns and sacred things.
Resolved, That we
discover in t e
ceremonies and obligations of the hi hei-
degrees ot' Masonry, pnncipleawhichrleluged France in blood, and which
tend directly to the subversion of all religion and govemment.
Resolved, That the obligation in one of the degrees of Free Masonry to
fprotect a brother, 'right or wrong,' and to preserve his secret inviolate, even
in cases of murder and treason, has a
tendency to unnerve the arm of
jus-
tice, and to afford 'protection to the vicious and proiligate from the punish-
ment due to their crimes.
Resolved, That the tendency ofeueh obligations is to weaken the sanction
of virtue in the minds of the recipients, by making had men bold and un-
'blnshing to
trust the
historlyof
their crimesto the ears of a brother, and thus
'making them familiar wit iniquity, to the destruction of all correct moral
principles.
`
~Ruotoed,` 'l'hat -we viewthe impious peraonitication ot' the Deity, and the
irreverent introduction of the name of our blessed Saviour, and the Holy
Trinity, in Masonic meetings and ceremonies, with mingled pain and abhor~
rence; and that we
re§:d
the unhallowed substitution of the
Pmfnne °l'8l88
of Free Masonry for t Christian religion, as fraught with aww ln!" ln
~¢|»-_...__ . ..... ..._ __....
420 x.ron'r on Masoxnr.
the nge gfpoeiety and the truths of revelation, than open Deism or avowed
inlitllelity. '
_
'
_ _
`
Resolve?
That the outrages upon the liberty of one citizen, and upon the
libert an life of another, committed by Masons in these western counties,
atfordvhorrible pmol' of the sanguinary nature ot' Nasonicoaths.
Resolved, That the wide spread conspiracy of numerous Masons to plot
these outrages#-their attempts to stiiie investigation after they had been
committed-and to screen the actual otienders from the justice due their
rrimes-sutiiciently identities the institution with these enormities, and jus-
tifies ns in holding it and its supporters responsible for the same.
Resolaed, That an institution whose rites are impious-whose obligations
are blasphemous-and ii' observed in the spirit of their horrid import, must
necessarily lead to
perijury
and murder-an institution in one instance at
least stained with the b ood of one ofits members, byu crime which has in an
unequivocal manner received the sanction of the order, is unworthy to exist
in a free govemment; and that we
pledge ourselves to each` other and to the
world, that ve will use nll lawful and constitutional means to banish entirely
lrom our country that bloody relic of barbarism. °
Resolved, That those Masons who have tisclosed the horrid obligations
which bind the fratemity together, deserve the warmest gratitude of,their
tellow citizens; and that we will do every
thing
in our
power
to sustain them
against those persecutions which the nature o those o ligntions and the vin~
thctive character of the institution teach us to fear will be their lot.
Resolved, That this convention are satisfied, from the evidence adduced
liefore them, of the substantial truths of the Masonic obligations recently pub-
lished--and that the same be published to the world in connection with the
proceedings of this convention.
Resolved, That we regard the
public press as the sentinel of freedom, and
cannot but lament its entire subiugation throughout the Union to the con-
trol of Free Masonr . .
_
-
Resolved, That we :amestly recommend to the citizens ofthe several coun~
ties of this state to procure the establishment of free presses, whose editors
will fearlessly vindicste the rightsof its citizens. and laws of the land.
Resolved, Thats State Convention, to be composed of delegates 'from the
several counties of the state of -New York,
mural
to doublesthe number of
their representatives in the Assembly, be ca ed to meet at the village oi'
Utica, on the fourth day of August next, to take measures for the destruction
of the Masonic institution; for sustaining the
liberty of the press, and assert-
ing the supremacy ofthe laws; for protecting the rights and privileges of the
uitizens against the vindietive persecutions ofmembers of the Masonic society;
and to take into consideration such other business a.s the said convention
shall deem expedient in furtherance of such objects-and that it be and is
heriby
recommended to the different counties in this state to send delegates
to t e same.
Resolved, That a General Central Committee, consisting of five mem-
`bers, be appointed by this convention; and that it be and is hereby recom-
mended tothe ditferent counties to ap in-t Committees of Correspondence;
and report their names to the Generalpgentral Committee at Rochester.
Resolved, That the several towns in the county that have not already done
eo, be requested to
aplpoint
town Committees of Correspondence, and for-
ward their names to e Central Corresponding Committee.
Resolved, That it be and is hereby recommended to the several countieste
.raise funds for defraying the
expenses of publishing the proceedings of this
convention, and such 0tler publications as the General Central Committee
may think PFUPCI' 1° mth; and to defray the expenses heretofore incurred
i'°"""'°"°" ~"
__
LIGHT on arasonnv. 421
by the dit`l'erent committees in the investigation ofthe late outrages; and that
such funds be transmitted to the General Central Committee. -
Resolved, That the proceedings ot' this convention be si ed by the chair-
man and secretaries-and that five thousand copiesbe ubgghed in a
pamph-
let form for distribution, under the direction of the (general Central Com-
mittee.
Resolved, That SAMUEL Worms, Hsavnr En, Fnanzrucx F. Bscxes, Faso-
nrucit Wnrrnzssr, and Tnuizaow Wann, ofthe village of Rochester, be ap-
pointed o General Central Committee of Correspondence and Publication.
Mr. Davies, from the committee to whom was referred the subject of thc
charges made by Masons against the Morgan committee, made the following
report, which was read and adopted unanimously:
Whereas reports of the most malignant and scandalous nature have been
circulated by the Masonic fratemity, in relation to the members of the seve-
ral committees commonly denominated the Lewiston Committee, charging
them with having misrepresented facts in their possession, and with having
from sinister views created an unjust excitement:
And whereas this convention have had adduced to them the most satisfac-
tory and conclusive evidence that the said committee have fairly and impar-
tially conducted all their inquiries-thcrelbre,
Resolved, That the said Lewiston Committee are entitled to the thanks ol`
this convention for their patriotic and praiseworthy exertions in
exposing 10
the world the extensive Masonic conspiracy formed in this country, which
seemed to threaten the civil liberty of this nation; and that they merit, and
we trust will receive, the countenance and gratitude of every well wisher to
the pcrpetuity of our free institutions. _
Resolved, That all the newspapers in the Union friendly to the cause of ci-
villiberty, be requested to publish these proceedingss
Mr. Love, from the committee to draft a memorial to thc legislature on
the subject of unlawful oaths, made a.
report, which was read and adopted by
the convention.
'
Mr. Livingston, from the committee
ap(pointed
to draft a memorial to Con~
gress, reported the same, which was rea and adopted.
Bates Cooke Esq., from the committee appointed for that
(purpose,report
ed an address* the people of the state, which was read an adopted.
-
~»»D|9u»-
ADDRESS
'ro 'mn 1>r:oPLE or THE s'rA'rs OF NEW YORK.
Fellow citizens-The institution of speculative Free Masonry
has existed in these U. States, ever since the formation of our go-
vernment. Assuming to be the patron of science, the protector ot
morality, and the handmaid ofreligiou, it has been suffered to exist
without question or
suspicion. Its votaries have ever been enthu-
siastic and extravagant in praise of its character, principles, and
tendency. It is, in their own language, a
system not only beau-
titiil, but divine-whose principles are the purest morality; whose
objects are to inculeate universal benevolence and good Will
among the brethren; and whose operations have been an extended
system of holy and healing eharity,, , It is calculated, tl'°Y "Yr
MM
-ll¥llHn-..._ _ t... _._ - -._
422 monr on Misonnr.
°
m enlighten the ignorant-td reform the had-to protect the
weak-and to relieve the necessitousl We have seen
many good
mon, venerable sages, worthy patriots, and piousdivines, belong-
ing to this institution; and have suffered ourselves to be lulled
into security by the impression that such men could not lend their
countenance to an association whose principles were
dangerous
to society, government, or religion. Their principles have thus
been taken upon trust, and the institution has been sutfered to
exist ina community prone to suspect that where all is not open
all is not honest. lt is, perhaps, a
singular fact, that in ia free
govemment like ours, a govemment of opinion, operating upon
a people jealous of their rights and peculiarly suspicious and
jealous of any secret intluence, and of any thing that could bear
the semblance ofan insiduous encroachment upon their liberties,-
such an institution should have been permitted to grow and in~
crease in strength, without subjecting itself' to those investiga-
tions which the nature and spirit of our government are so well
calculated to encourage. Other secret societies have, after a,
brief existence, been frowned into oblivion, as
dangerous to a.
free govemment. It is owing, doubtless, to the circumstances
above set forth, and to the fact that many whom we esteem as
our fathers, brothers, and oonnexions, are members of this insti-
tution, that speculative Free Masonry has not shared the fate of
other secret societies. Some weight too may be attached to the
fact that most men of influence and political eminence-those
who are wont to take the lead in aB`airs that concem the govem.
ment-have themselves been high omcials in the institution, and
of course interested in its support. But whatever the cause
may
have been, it is certain that Free Masonry has been suffered to
exist and to extend itself in this free govemment, and that without
question or
inquiry. Addressing itself to the cupidity, the am-
bition, the vanity, or the curiosity of individuals, it has gone on
increasing like the fame of the classic poet, until it has become
wide spread in its influence, extended in its operations; and in its
multiplied mystic ramifications, it has become interwoven with
the very frame and fabric of society, and secretly connected with
all our institutions. A cool observer cannot but look back with
astonishment and see how secretly and covertly, and at the same
time how rapidly, it has spread itself through this Union-how
speciously it
has insinuated and connected itself with almost
every interest, 0lller_of a
private or public nature. In the foun-
dation of every public building we
have beheld the interference
of these mysilfr H-'¢lS°~l1B 'with their symbolic insigna; in every
public procession we have seen their daunting "banners, their
._ _
A.. __
,._
.,.a¢..¢._..,a;..¢._J;,_`,_. ,§__ __
Ii* _
J
_
-
ucirr on Masosnv. 423
rnuslin robes, and mimic crowns. In the executive of the state
we have beheld a
pmanboldingthe highest otiice in the order bound
to his brethren by secret ties, ol' whose nature, strength, and char-
acter, we knew nothing. We have seen our
legislature controlled
by majorities bound to the fraternity by the same ties. '1`he
ermine of justice we have seen worn
by men whose brows were
decorated with the gilded mitre of the order in their midnight and
secret meetings. We have seen others of this mystic tie em-
panneled a jurors to hold the balance 'of justice between a
brother and a
stranger to the order, and that brother capable of
communicating with such, his judges, by a mystic and symbolic
language unintelligible to his adversary. We cannot now but
be astonished that so much should have passed, and that no dan-
ger should have been apprehended. Perhaps it may have occa-
sionally occurred to some minds more than ordinarily watchful,
that some
designing men may have made use of the order as a
ladder to their ambition; that more than an ordinary share of
otlicial patronage was distributed among the brethren; that the
even balance of justice may, in some instances, have been made
to incline its scale in favor of a brother; that her descending
sword may have been averted from the head of a guilty member
by the broad shield off the order. But these suspicions, if any
such have been entertained, were partial, and the institution has
felt itself so
strong, that it has been supposed that it might safely
set at defiance every effort to pull it down.
The year 1826, however, introduced a new era in the history
of Masonry and ot' our country. From that year to the present
time, enough has transpired to show in a broad and fearful light
the danger of secret institutions. That citizen who will close
his eyes to this light, is criminally negligent to his own
rights
and the safety ot' this government. The order has been bold
enough to assume to itself powers which belong only to the go-
vernment of the land; and in the exercise of these assumed
powers has violated the liberty of one citizen and taken the life
of another, for an
alleged breach of obligations which our laws
do not recognise.
._
In September, 1826, Capt. William Morgan, a citizen oi' this
state, wasleized under feigned process of the law, in the day
time, in the village of Batavia, and forcibly carried to Canandai-
gua A
A
r
county. Capt. Morgan was
engaged in the pub-
which purported toreveal the secrets of Frei#
i
"
_
's contemplated publication excited the alarm Of
nba
"
C
'
,and numbers of its
members were heard 1° Say PM
it shun suppressed at all events. It is known that meetings
_...lids-_...f .
-
-
-»~
"`
124 LIGHT ON MASONRY.
of delegates from the ditTerent lodges in the western counties
were held to devise means for most effectually preventing the
publication. It is known that the matter was a subject of anx-
ious discussion in many and distant lodges. It is known that
thc zealous members ofthe fraternity were angry, excited, and
alarmed, and occasionally individuals threw out dark and des-
perate threats. lt is knovn that an
incendiary attempt was made
to fire the office of Col. Miller, the publisher of the book. That
this attempt was
plotted by Masons, and attempted to be carried
into execution by Masons. The gang who seized Morgan at
Batavia were Masons. They took him to Canandaigua; after
a mock trial he was
discharged, but was
immediately arrested
and committed to prison on a stale or fictitious demand. The
next night. inthe absence of the jailer, he was' released from
prison by the pretended triendship of a false and hollow hearted
brother Mason. Upon leaving the prison door he was
again
seized in the streets of Canandaigua, and notwithstanding his
cries of murder, he was thrust with ruiiian violence into acar-
riuge prepared for that purpose. At Batavia he had been torn
from his home-from 'his amiable wife and infant children. At
Canandaigua he had been falsely beguiled from the safe custody
of the law, and was
forcibly carried, by relays of horses, through
a thickly populated country, in the space of little more than
twenty-tour hours, to the distance of one hundred and fifteen
miles, and secured as a prisoner in the magazine of Fort Niagara.
This outrage necessarily required many agents-and to the
shame of our country enough Masons were found, and of these,
too, many who were bound by their oliicial oaths to protect the
liberty of the citizen and prevent the violation of the laws-who
readily lent their personal assistance, and the aid of their carriages
and horses, in the transportation of this hapless man to the place
ofhis confinement and subsequent death.
This was not their onlyoutrage. About the same time Col. Da-
vid C. Miller was also seized in Batavia, under like color of legal
process, and taken to Le Roy. He was also seized by Masons,
and accompanied to Le Roy by a ferocious band of Masons
armed with clubs. He was discharged from the process under
which he was arrested, and with lawless violence they attempted
to seize him again; but to the praise of the citizens of Le Roy,
and to some who were members of the Masonic fraternity, too,
be it spoken, _he was rescued, and suffered toretum to tttavin.
The avowed intention of Col. Miller's seizure was toiff *him
where Morgan waswand where that was
may be
from the imp10US declaration ot' one of the conspiratoxfsy' Jirnes
... .
_g._.,_ ___,_, ._____ _____, _
Q* .
L
_uorrr on Mssonnr. 425
.Ga.nson, for several years a member of our
legislature: that 'he
was put ughzre he would stay put until God should callfor him!
These acts of outrage and violence at length became the sub-
ject of inquiry. and excited the honest indignation ofa commu-
nity always alive to the rights of the citizen and the violation of
the laws. Committees of investigation were
appointed -in the dif-
ferent counties which were the scenes of this violence, with in-
structions to do every thing in their power to ferret out this crime
and trace it to the perpetrators. It was, however, perpetrated
under the cover of so much secrecy, that it was long before even
the course which had been taken with Morgan could be traced.
Certainly thecommittees did not commence their investigations
under the impressions that they should tind the fraternity impli-
cated in the transaction.. They were slow to believe, as the pulilic
have generally and very properly been slow to believe, that a so-
ciety which embraces among its members so
many worthy and
pious men, could have ever connived at so foul a crime. lt was
considered as a blot upon the escutcheon of Masonry; and Ma-
sons were publicly called upon to assist in the investigation of
this transaction, for the honor of the order, and to wipe out
the
stain. The committees soon discovered, with no little surprise,
that they could expect no _assistance from membersof the frater-.
nity. On the contrary, every obstacle and impediment was thrown
in the way. They found, the fraternity in a hostile attitude.
They found that they were made the objects of ridicule, threats
and detraction-that their motives were iinpugned, and their cha-
racters vilitied. Defeat, disgrace, and ruin, were confidently 'pre-
dicted to them; and certainly no means were spared to give to
these predictions the character of prophecy. These acts of _vio-
lence were made a
jest of-the excited feeling of the public was
ridiculed-their honest indignation was defied. 'l be courts have
been appealed to fbr justice; but in very few instances has jus-
tice been visited upon the heads of the offenders. The Masonic
oath was soon found to be a shackle upon the officers and minis-
ters of the law-the lips of witnesses were sealed by a
mysterious
and invisible influence, or
opened only in.the utterance of false-
hoods. Jurors were influenced in their verdicts by an obligation
more powerflil than their oaths as jurors. Many of the chief of-
fenders tied~.the.country;. and the crime yet remains in a
great
measure.nppunished,,and the violated laws unavenged.
~
When it
was,f0uq,d§that.the1law.s were too weak to vindicate their offended
majesty, the committees appealed to the legislature of this State
to institute an
inquiry into these outrages. Here, t00, If Was
found that the
ohlgigations
which bound members to the fraternity
M2
'
`
-mia-...» _ wa.--»
426 near os nnsomar.
were stronger-than their oaths to
:rapport
the constitution and the
laws-and here too they wore b ed and lett to seek such re-
dress as a few men could obtain against the united intluenee,
wealth, and the determined and persevering hostility of a
power-
M l
_ .
_
Wheniteametobeascertainedthatgreatnumbers ofthefra-
ternity had been long mgaged in devising means for suppressing
Morgsds book-when it became known that the subject was a
matter of discussion in many ditferent and distant lodges-when
it was also known that many individuals, all members ot' the fra-
ternity, and some high in civil otiice, were implicated as accom-
plices in the actual outrages-when the course pursued by mem-
bers of the fraternity generally, in relation to the investigation, was
marked--allcool people began to look tiirdier for the ori-
gin ofthe crime, and felt fully justified ~in identifying the Masonic
Institution with these outrages, and holding that responsible for it.
The matter began to assume a new complexion: the dangers
ol' secret societies began to flash across the minds of the reflect-
ing: here was a bloody text which atlbrded matter for feartirl
comment. The conviction became general that the safety of go-
vemment and religion, the rights of the citizen, and the impartial
administration of justice, required that this institution 'should be
banished from our soil. The freedom and boldness with which
the principles and tendency ofthe Masonic institution began now
to be discussed, encouraged many honest and conscientious mem-
bers ot` the fraternity who had heretofore been 'shackled by fear,
to renounce their connexion with the society, and to disclose the
nature of these secret obligations which bound them together.
Taking upon themselves those horrid obligations as
they do, ig-
orant of their nature and import, there rests no obligation upon
diem, either legal, moral, or honorable, to consider them of any
'binding force. On the contrary, the duty which they owe to so-
ciety a.nd their country, as citizens--the duty whichthey owe to
God and his church-loudly call upon them to divulge the princi-
ples of an institution so hostile to
government and religion. This
class of men are entitled to the gratitude ol' the public for their
disclosures, and have deserved and should receive the countenance
and support of every patriotic citizen, to sustain them against
every attempt to injure them, or defame their characters. These
obligations have been published to the world, and furnished farther
and weighty evidence of the tlangersof the Masonic institution:
with -the substantial truth of these obligations-and-that they are
_Slmh as are actually taken, we have every reason to~be-satisfied;
sadjt encourages us m the plbdgs which we have mutually given
_,K .1
-...A-._-A-1-n-r...._ _,,t_.. .u_1__,,,
"M
'
LIGHT ON MABONLY. 4211
to each other andto the world-that we will use our best endea.
vors to banish this relic of barbarism from our land. It, is upon
the subject of the dangers of the Masonic institution, fellow citi-
zens, that we desire to address you; alll we are anxious that you
should give the subject that consideration which its importance
demands. This is not an ordinary topic. It is not a question
whether this or that man shall be president or
governor-it is not
aquestion whether this or that line of measures shall be pursued
-but it is a question of immeasurably greater importance-g
question whether the rights of the citizen shall he held sacred-»
whether the laws shall be impartially administered--whether reli.
gion shall be duly reverenced. ,
It may besafely said that secret societies, in their best glmpeq
are useless in a free government; calculated to excite jeglougieé
and suspicions in they breasts of the uninitiated, which my lay
the foundation of dissentions and ill will. If their objects gg
honest and praiseworthy, there is no need of secrecy: hmggq-
needs no cloak, and deeds of charity seek not the cover of dm-k.
ness. Secrecy and concealment ever afford grounds ofsuspicion.
If; however, Masonry is only what it has ever been professed to
be, perhaps it might be safely left to the amusement of full grown
children; perhaps they might_be safely left to the enjoyment oftheir
mock dignities-their muslin robes-their pasteboard crowns-and
their
'
ded mitres. But when the obligations which bind them 'lo
vote or a brother bwrc any other person ofequal qaalifieotionsh-
to alwayssupport hisfmilitary fame andpolitscalprejarmeal in op-
position to another'--to aid and assist a'brother in ditiiculty, so far
as to extricate from the same, 'whether he be right or
wrong'-to
keep his secrets in all cases inviolably, 'murder and treason not
excepted] and these under no less penalties than a
torturing and
ignomiriious death-then it becomes a question of serious import,
whether such an institution can be tolerated in our free govem-
ment. By the force of these obligations a member can claim the
vote of a brother for any elective oiiice, in derogation of that
equality guaranteed to us by our constitution; and the brethren
thus elected, gradually obtaining the control of the executive, le-
gislative, and judicial departments of the govemment, can and
must dispense their patronage, in strict consonance with the obli-
gations of this mysterious fraternal tie: so that soon the govem-
ment, insaliitsbranches, must be controlled by the members of
the order: What guarantee is there for the impartial discharge
of 6 s, when the officer is shackled by such oblig1}¢0{1B?
we upon the conscience, the integrity
01'
J"Sf"§°
of such a inan? Is it his oath to support the constitution vf this
.-nil-n-»--._ ---¢.L_,_ ,
»-- »
-126 LIGHT ON MASONRY.
state and the United States? Is it his oath to fitithfully discharge
the duties of the office which he fills? He has taken a
previous
oath of more horrid import, and of paramount obligation, to which
all other oaths, all other ties, all other duties, must yield. He is
not a free man. He stands shackled and bound by invisible and
mysterious chains. He cannot do his duty to his country if he
would-he has a
duty to perform to the fraternity, under the sever-
oet penalties of Masonic vengeance. What guarantee have we
fbr the impartial administration of justice! A felon communi-
cates the mystic sign to a brother on the grand inquest-the ju-
ror's oath to screen no man fi-om fear, favor, or affection, must.
yield to the obligation to extricate a brother, 'whether hr be right
or
wrong? If he escapes not here, there is the same facility of
communication with _the jurors who are to try him-and strange
would it be if some of the brethren who have' found means to in-
sinuate themselves into every station, should not be found upon
the panel-and in a
panel where one stout and persevering nega-
tive prevents his conviction-or the judge who tries himmay re-
ceive the 'gr-and hailing sign/ and the purity of the ennine may
be sullied by the contamination of Masonic iniquity. lf all this
is not sufficient, the mystic signal may avail with the executive,
and the avenging sword of the law may beturned aside fiom the
execution of justice. Where is the security for justice between
man and man? Can a Masonic judge or Masonic jurors hold the
scales even between adverse parties, when one can
appeal f`or_as-
sistance through the medium of mysterious signals? 'I his is not
all. Witnesses who solemnly appeal to God to tell the froth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth, in what thi y-shall be called
upon to relate, maybe bound under obligations more awful, and un-
der penalties more severe, not to disclose the secrets of abrother.
Nof though it extend to the murder of a fellow being, or to treason
to the state. Is there then, fellow citizens, any safety in trusting
those persons who have taken such obligations .and believe in their
binding sanction, with any oflice in our
govemmenti ls there any
safety in committing our lives, our liberty, our
property, or our re-
putation to them, as
judges or jurors? Is any confidence to be
placed in witnesses who have bound themselves under such awful
obligations to keep the secrets of a brother? These obligations
strike at the very existence of our govemment-at the very foun-
;iati0Il
of Our rights-and at the impartial administration of our
aws.
This institution threatens not only dangerto government and
the cauB6 of JUS*-WP, but strikes at the basis of all morality and
religion. The obligation not to disclose the secrets of a brother,
"
"`»
--mt., _"__._ M-,
M A' -
LXGHT 0N MASONBY. 429
even in cases of murder and trcason, has a
tendency to invite
the confidence of a brother Mason, Under the sanction of this
oath, a bold bad man will notrfear to disclose the history of his
crimes to the ears ofthe virtuous, to the ears of even a minister
of the holy gospel, and, secure against detection, make an im-
pudent boast ofhis iniquities. 'l`his will make virtuous men fami-
liar with the detail of crimes, and contidants in criminal secrets-
and vice is- of it character so contagious, that one cannot evcn
listen to its history. or he familiar with its secrets, without some
danger of contamination-and that nice, delicate, moral sense,
which characterizes a virtuous man, must be gradually effaced, and
his principles of virtue must be in a
great measure rendered unset-
tled; Is Free Masonry the handmaid of religion? 'l`hat institution
in whose vrites and ceremonies the most touching portions ofthat
Holy Book, which holds out to us the promise of etemal lite, are
introduced in solemn mockery, and represented in the shape of
a miserable theatrical farce!-where a weak sinful mortal under-
takes to personify the Almighty God!--where the name of our
blessed Saviour and the Holy Trinity are introduced in a vain and
irreverent manner!-where the-belief of the immortality of tho
soul is pledged in n libation from the skull of a Masonic traitor!
-where the life eternal in the heavens is represented only as one
great lodge, and the Almighty is blasphemously typified as Grand
Master thereof! ls such an institution the handmaid of religion?
We think we are safe in saying that the frequent use of profane
oaths, the irreverent familiarity with religious tbrms and sacred
things, the blasphemous mockery of the name of the Triune God,
in the recesses of the lodge room, are more dangerous to the
cause of the benign religion of Jesus than open and avowed in-
fidelity. It is to be feared that many substitute and rely on the
religion of Masonry instead of the religion of Him who died to
atone for our sins; or if not, they come to the belief that all reli-
gion is only the farce which their impious ceremonies represent
it to be. It is time these delusions were dispelled. Masonry
nov stands before us in its naked deformity, stripped of its tinsel
ornaments and solemn mummery. It behaves us to take wam~
ing from 'the past, and receive instruction from the school of ex-
perience. We see in these disclosuresthe same
principles which
delugedr 4 i
_Q in blood, and were the cause of the dark crimes
'that distracted country during the
period ol' her
` °
`
i'
ry revolution. We see the same principles which go-
"
Illuminism in the last century and lighted hefpafhinrhar
fhril plot which would have substituted anarchy for
govemraenr
. is
and civil mle, and Atheism for the religion of the Cr0SS
4-Jhn»--..._ -
.-:., ._
430 Lrour on mssomir.
from the bosom of Free Masonry that this dark conspiracy or-i-
ginated. To the bosom of Free Masonry, every revolution and
conspiracy which has agitated Europe for the last fifty years,
may be distinctly traced, and the secret workings of this all per.
vading order can be clearly seen. The governments of the
world are to be awake to the danger. Russia has
suppressed the order in her own dominions: Spain has suppressed
it; and our sister republic of Mexico is exerting herself to crush
one of its hydra heads. Shall we alone look tamely on and use
no endeavors to check the spread of its contaminating principlesl
You ask how it is to be suppressed in this free government.
They confidently boast that it is not in the power of man to sup-
press it-that even this government itssm with all its power, can-
not do it. This may he true. But there is a power in this free
land, superior even to our govemment, and which guides, con-
trols, and directs it; and that power is public opinion. The laws
we have found too weak. Government may be too weak; but
there is a moral force in public opinion which must in this free
country crush every thing, however powerful, which is arrayed
against it. This opinion speaks in our public meetings-it
speaks from the sacred desk--itspealrs through the organ of the
press-it speaks through the ballot boxes, when Masons appeal
to you in this manner for support and countenance. This power,
fellow citizens, you have under your control. It is the only le-
gitimate and proper force that can be putin operation in this
emergency and in this country. This is a power for you to
wield-and in its exercise remember the warning voice of the
father of his country: to 'beware of all secret societies?
As the convention was about to adjourn, Mr. Thompson of-
fered the following resolution, which was unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That the thanks of this convention be presented to
our
highly respected fellow citizen, Gen. William Wadsworth,
the president of this convention, for his patriotic and able dis-
charge of the duties of the chair; and also to Doct. Brown and
Col. Fleming, as secretaries on this interesting occasion.
Wu.r.nm Wanswoma, President.
Mrrruaw Baown,
Ronnnr FL:-mine,
S°"°"m°s'
_
-_ 1
(431)
`
PROCEEDINGS
Of the Legislature of the State of New York, .March 19, 1825.
l
Inf Sanus.-A message from his honor the Lieutenant Go-
vernor was received and read, as follows:
,- To the Senate. ' I
Gentlemen-Among the duties devolved by the constitution
upon the, person administering the government, that of 'taking
care that the laws are
faithfully executed,' is, perhaps, the most
important. A large portion of the inhabitants of the state has
been for more than a year highly excited by the alleged forcible
and clandestine removal of a citizen, and by the uncertainty of
his fate. It is believed by many that he has been murdered, and
it is certain that if alive, he is held in captivity. The outrage
upon our laws has justly alarmed our fellow citizens in that part*
of the state, and has produced exertions such as
might have been
expected from fi-eemen conscious of their rights and determined
to maintain them, to develope the mysterious transaction, and to
bring the offenders to justice. As et their efforts have failed.
The rewards and inducements heretotlore proffered for a
discovery
have been unavailing. The trials and convictions that have ta'
ken place, have rather increased the mystery of the transaction-
The efforts of individual citizens, stimulated by a
patriotic zeal,
have not always been guided by discretion; and there is reason
to fear that they have sometimes tended rather to prevent than to
promote a judicial developement of the truth. It is publicly sta-
ted that a witness, while on his way to attend the trial of some of
the persons charged with a
participation in the original outrage,
has suddenly and unaccountably disappeared, and advertisements
offering rewards for his discovery have been extensively circula-
ted. If there be any foundation for this suggestion, it affords a
strong reason for the adoption of proper measures to quiet the
alarms of our fellow citizens. Under these circumstances, it has
appeared to me
important that such constitutional measures as
may be within the power of the legislature, should be adopted, in
order to facilitate the discovery and punishment of the offenders.
It is equally due to the violated majesty ofthe laws, to the 8PP"°'
hension of our fellow citizens, which never can or ought t0 be
satisfied until justice is obtained, and to those who have been or
-;..Al1»-¢l\.)L$- .,||d|_-a-» _
-
.432 ucnr on mssouav.
may he included in the general and
vague suspicions which are
always produced by such transactions. It is an
imperative duty
to me innocent, that those really guilty should be detected and
punished. _ _
Without intending to encroach upon the particular duties of the
legislature, I respectfully recommend, in accordance with these
views, that a law be passed authorizing the appointment of ea
competent person for the special purpose of investigating the al-
leged criminal transactions in relation to the removal of William
Morgan, and all the incidents connected therewith; that the pow-
ers of district attomies be also vested in him; that it be made his
duty to repair' to the places where the offences were committed;
to examine witnesses; to enter complaints; to cause witnesses
and parties implicated to be bound over to appear; to conduct all
criminal prosecutions which may be instituted; and to perform all
other acts and duties which shall be necessary to a fiill and fair
judicial investigation and determination of the alleged offences.
That our government is adequate to the punishment of crimes
and the protection of innocence, is the belief of all who are best
acquainted with its principles. Hitherto, justice has been admin-
istered without any arbitrary stretch of power, or
any violation of
constitutional principles by the constitutional authorities, and
without the interference of any private citizens not clothed with
public authority. By exerting the power of the government in a
constitutional manner, we can show that the present instance need
not form an exception to the general course of justice. AU ex-
perience teaches us, that designing men will be found ready al-
ways to avail themselves of a
strong and honest public feeling to
pervert it to their own selfish purposes. Any such attempts will
he most eliectually prevented by the interposition of the govern-
ment; because it will then be perceived that all individual inter-
ference will be unnecessary-then the public mind will be pre-
served from unnecessary agitation andprejiidice; fair and impar-
tial trials will be secured to those who may be accused; and the
course of justice will be uniform, steady, and effectual.. Calm
inquiry will succeed feverish conjecture; deliberate decision will
take the place of impatient prejudice; and the impartial, unbiassed
judgment of independent juries will vindicate the law and estab-
lish the vigor and efficacy of our institutions.
Albany, March 18, 1828. Nirninian Prrcnen.
March 21.--Mr. Spencer, from the committee on the judi-
ciary to whom was referred the message from the Lieutenant
Govemor recommending the adoption of legislative measures to
_
,,
__ _.____ AA _"_
.*____`;_u-_ L hp
_
. .
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 433
ensure the detection and punishment of persons concerned in the
forcible removal of' William Morgan, reported:
That from the facts and circumstances stated in the message
referred to the committee, and from general information, it ap-
pears that the transactions connected with the abduction of Wil-
liam Morgan, took place in the several different counties. The
testimony in relation to it must therefore necessarily be scattered
over those different counties, and over an extensive region of
country. Under such circumstances it is obvious that the Dis-
trict Attorney of any one county, from the litniterl scope of his
authority, would be incapable of connecting the various ramifica-
tions ofthe offence, and of collecting the scattered and disjointed
testimony, so as to bring it to bear in any one case. The neces-
sity of the employment of some competent person, whose autho-
rity would extend over all the counties which formed the scene of
the alledged offences; whose whole time and attention would be
devoted to the investigation; and who would concentrate the ne-
cessary information, seems manifest. The very circumstance,
that hitherto no judicial developement of the facts has taken place,
affords strong reasons to believe that it has arisen from the want
of united and connected efforts. The committee concur with the
Lieutenant Governor in the opinion expressed ,hy him, that it is
due *to the violated majesty of thc laws, and to the apprehensions
of our fellow citizens,' that all proper measures within the consti-
tutional power of the_ legislature should be adopted to secure z'
full investigation of the high-handed offence committed cn the
person of William Morgan; a fair and impartial trial of the persons
implicated; the detection and punishment of. the guilty; and the
acquittal and exoneration of the innocent-and they know of no
means so effectual as those recommended by him. The employ-
ment of the Attorney General for this purpose, would be wholly
incompatible with the duties of that ,ofiicer at the seat of govem-
ment, and with that attention which is requisite to the civil busi-
ness of the state. The committee have accordingly prepared a
bill providingforthe temporary employment of competent counsel,
according to the recommendation of the Lieutenant Govemor
which is herewith reported.
AN ACT to providefor [he employment ofcounsel_/br the purposes
therein mentioned.
The people of the state of New Yorkfrepresentcd in Senate and
Assembly, do enact as follows:
i
Sac. 1. The person administering the govemment of this Staff->
is hereby authorized to employ and appoint a competent P'-"SO"
NN _
.
_
._ ._ __
.-.A-I*-ll»»_....-¢.|,_.. . ...--......_
.
_
434 1.icu'r ox nutsdnnr.
of the degree ol' counsel inthe Supreme Court, whose special duty
it shall be,
l. To institute inquiries concerning the abduction of William
Mm-gan, and his late subsequently, and all the incidents con-
nected therewith.
2. To ascertain the witnesses whose testimony can establish
the commission of any crime against the laws of this state, in
and ofthe said transactions.
3. To cause such witnesses to be examined before the proper
magistrates, and to be bound over to appear before the proper
courts, in order to testify.
4. '1`o cause the necessary process to be issued for the appre-
hension of the persons implicated.
5. To assist in preparing any indictments that may be found
against such persons, and to prepare tbr the trial thereotl
6. To attend the trials of persons indicted at any court of Oyer
and Terminer or General Sessions of the Peace; and to superin-
tend and conduct such trials, with the like authority and in thc
same manner as the Attomcy General of this state: and
7. To peribrm all other acts and duties which shall be neces-
sary td u full and thir judicial investigation and determination ot"
the offences alleged to have been committed. by the persons so
indicted.
'
Sac. 2. The person so appointed is hereby vested with pow-
ers and authority of District Attornies, in the several counties in
which any such accusations shall be made; and shall be autho-
rized to attend any grand jury tbr the purpose of' examining wit-
nesses beibre them, but not to be present at their deliberations;
he shall have authority to issue subpoenas signed by himself, to
compel the uttendanco of any witness at any court of Oyer and
Terminer, or court of General Sessions ofthe Peace; which sub-
poenas shall have the same force and effect as it' issued by thc
clerks of such courts respectively, under the seal thereotl
Sac. 3. The expenses attending the execution of the duties
hereby imposed, shall be paid out ofthe treasury, on the order of
the person administering the govemment of this state, after being
audited by the comptroller.
Sac. 4. This act shall be in force until the first of' May, one
thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine, and no
longer.
.March 25.-A part of the day was spent in committee of the
whole, on the bill for the employment of counsel to
investigate
the facts in relation to the abduction and supposed murderof
William Morgan. The bill was
opposed by Messrs. Livingston
-»~1-4l-
LIGHT ON MASODZRY.
:ind Crary, and supported by Messrs. Spencer, Viele, Wilkeson,
and Allen; and was
passed by the committee. On the question
of agreeing to the report, Mr. Crary ollered an amendment, which
was previously lost in committee of the whole: that all the expen-
ses heretofore incurred by any person to eH`ect the objects con-
templated by this bill, shall be paid out of the treasury. Lost,
ayes 3, noes 23.
s
The ayes were, Messrs. Crary, M'Martin,
and Porter. »
The report of the committee was then agreed to, ayes 23, noes
3, as follows:
Ayes.7-Messrs. Allen, Benton, Dayan, Elsworth, Enos, Ha.
ger, Hart, Lake, M'Carty, M'Martin, Oliver, Porter, Schcnck,
Spencer, Stebbins, Todd, Throop, Tyson, Viele, Warren, Wheel-
er, Wilkeson, and Woodward: 23.
Noes.-Messrs. Crary, Livingston, M'Michael: 3. Adjourned.
.March 26.-Bill read the third time and passed: for the em-
ployment of counsel to investigate the facts relative to the abduc-
tion and supposed murder of William Morgan, ayes 24, noes 3.
(The noes were, Messrs. Crary, Livingston, and M'Michael.)
IN Assr~:Mnr.Y, March 19.--Mr. Childs presented a memorial
from delegates from several westem counties, assembled in con-
vention at Le Roy to take into consideration the effects, &c. of
Free Masonry. They say the oaths of that society are impious
and profane, Src. They pray that a law may be passed, declar-
ing that oaths administered by other than public otlicers under
the laws, are
illegal; and that their administration may be forbid
under a
penalty. After the memorial was read, it was referred to
a select committee, consisting of Messrs. Childs, Granger, and
W`ardvell.
./1111-il 2.-Mr. Childs, from the select committee to which
vas referred the memorial of the delegates from twelve of the
western counties of the state, on the subject of Free Masonry,
reported and asked le_ave to bring in a bill to prevent the adminis-
tration of extra judicial oaths. Leave vas
granted and a bill
brought in accordingly, subjecting every person taking or ad-
ministering an extrajudicial oath to fine and imprisonment-fine
not to exceed --$200,00, and imprisonment not to exceed six months.
[The following is the report of this committees] _
The select committee to which was referred the memorial of
the counties of Chautauqua, Erie, Niagara, Orleans, GQUESBB,
Monroe, Livingston, Wayne, Yates, Seneca, and To|nPl""S¢ On
the subject of extra judicial and Masonic oaths,
____
___ .__
-rngglgga... ..|..»..,.._ ._
436 LIUIIT ON nlrtsoxaf.
Rgpgyt--Tliat they have devoted to the subject of the memo-
rial, Ilia! diligent examination which was demanded by its intrin-
si¢ importance, magnified as it is by acts set 'forth in the memo-
,~g,,], In deliberating upon this subject, your committee have di-
rected their attention to the general character and consequences
oi' all oaths unsanctioned by the laws, as well as the particular
nature and policy ol' those set forth in the papers referred to in the
memorial. Under every form and character which human gov-
crn nezit has at any time assumed, the principle of responsibility
to higher power, however modified or
perverted, has been appealed
to as tiirnishing the foundation ot' the highest obligations which
<:oultl he imposed upon human nature. Most civilized govern-
ments have .ipproved the wisdom of resorting to an oath as a se-
czirity tbr the thitiiful discharge of otiicial duty; and all have
deemed it indispensable in the administration of justice. The
'
most sacred rights of society and individuals are
subjected to
its disgosai, and no vice could be regarded as more
alarming than
it pr-ictico which in tiny degree should have the effect to weaken
the obligation, or impair the confidence, which, not less by the
law than tho authority ofthe human beart,`is reposed in an oath.
Tue right to exact it belongs to the sovereign power of the state;
:md in most instances its etlicacy is attempted to be increased
by inilicting the severest penalties upon its violations. The du-
ties it imposes must be the same, whatever may he the form of
its administration; hut it is entirely obvious that reverence to the
being whose attention is invoked, not less than a regard to its in-
fluence upon the mind, demand that the occasion should be im-
portant and the ceremony solemn. The frequent, unauthorised
nnrl irreverent administration of oaths, has a powerful influence,
in the judgment of your committee, to destroy that religious sen~
sibility to their nature, and that scrupulous and conscientious rc-
gard to all their requirements, which alone entitle them to confi-
dence. Great and enlightened men have, with one accord, con-
tlemned the multiplication of oaths with or without the sanction
of law, as immoral and impolitic.
It' these very general considerations were not entirely satis-
ilrctory to your committee, the most unanswerable reasons for
abolishing extra judicial oaths, would be found in the character
and consequences of a certain description of' oaths as stated and
set forth in the memorial. The memorial has called the atten-
tion of the
legislature specilically to the abuse of the practice ot
administering oaths, as it is alledged to exist in Masonic socie-
ties; and subjoined the forms ol' obligations, as they are said to
l'0 udu1iniSt0l'0d in £110 different stages of advancement in that
:- _ ..»»»-|¢¢-
--1-'<~
LXGIIT QN M.tsoNn'. 437
society. When it is recollected that these oaths have been com-
municated to the public by members of that society highly ele-
vated and maintaining a fair character and respectable standing
in community, it is not perhaps unjust to believe those annexied
to the memorial are substantially correct.
They exhibit a per-
version of` the appropriate office of an oath, which strongly re-
commends the policy of a law prohibiting the administration of`
any 'extra judicial oath. These oaths could, by no
possibility,
enjoin the practice of a_ virtue not already commanded by reli-
gion and morality; and a literal observance ot' them would bind
the sworn individual under the severest penalties to the perfor-
mance otf acts forbidden by both. The etiicacy ot' these oaths
is illustrated by the petitioners, by ascribing to their injunctions
the outrage committed within a recent period upon two of' our
citizens, f`olloved by what is now
generally admitted to be the
murder of` one.
Whether the oaths referred to would authorize the commission
of the crime, when rightly/ understood, is deemed by your com-
mittee altogether immaterial. The petitioners represent, that
persons upon whom these oaths have been imposed, acting under
rv. belief of' their controlling power, have committed violence upon
the liberty ~of` one citizen, and upon the life of another; and that
no doubt can exist upon, that subject in the mind of any person
who has attentively examined and weighed the testimony disclos-
ed upon the trial of the several indictments which have grown
out of the abduction of William Morgan, an unoffending citizen
of` this state. If' there is reasonable ground for this belief-and
the circumstances which have been developed leavelittle doubt-
it is the duty of' government to adopt such measures as
may be
best calculated to prevent the recurrence of _an outrage so fla-
grant as that to which the petitioners havereferred, and which
so anxiously and painfully occupies the public mind.
The possibility that the obligations imposed by an extra judi-
cial oath may contlict with the duty which a citizen may be called-
upon to discharge, is conclusive in the minds of`your committee,
in favor ot' granting the prayer of' the memorialists. Although
the law would pronounce an extra judicial oath, and all its obli-
gations, nugatory, when in collision with a
legally administered
oath; yet, having done so, it is apparent that the individual must
_judge for himself of' the relative power of' conflicting obligations.
There is danger then that justice may be perverted, and truth fal-
sified, in courts created to develope truth and administer justice.
The suspicion that such may be the consequence, is sufficient, in
fthe judgement of your committee, to induce the legislature to K6~
_NN2
_.mill--naar. ...|-nut., ...__-____ _t...._ _ _ --
'"'
-n
438 LIGHT ON MASONRY.
move the possibility of it by a statute prohibiting all oaths not
authorized bylaw. The committee have therefore directed their
chairman to ask leave to introduce a bill. _
_
T. CHILDS, Chairman.
.dpi-il 4.-The house resolved itself into a committee ot' the
whole on the bill from the Senate for the appointment of a. com-
missioner to investigate the transactions relative to the abduction
of William .Morgan-Mr. Ruggles in the chair.
Mr. Gross moved to strike out the first section, or in other
words to reject the hill. He avowed himself a Mason; but
warned the house against partaking of the excitement which was
lhlt on this subject in the western part ofthe state, and underits
influence to pass a law which would hereafter, when the passions
ot' 'men become cool, subject the legislature to contempt. The
powers with which it was proposed to clothe this otlicer to be
appointed by the executive, were enormous; it would, in fact,
be establishing an inquisition in our state which would violate
the principles of our institutions, and involve the innocent with
the guilty in one common ruin. He believed Morgan was mur-
dared and murdered by Masons, but he would consider the con-
ferring of this inquisitorial power an
infinitely greater evil, and
more to be deprecated than even the murder of Morgan by de-
luded and wicked men. He was not disposed to condemn the
excitement which existed on this subject in the westem part ol'
the state; on the contrary, he was proud of it, for the hohor ot'
human nature; for a deed ol' the darkest dye had been perpe-
trated, and that by Masons, by members of a numerous fraten
nity; and it was honorable to the character of our citizens that
they should deeply interest themselves on the occasion; but it
became the legislature ofthe state of New York to act with cau-
tion and deliberation-to free themselves from the contagion ot'
this excitement-boldly to stem the current of popular feeling-
nnd to save
unimpairedthe principles of liberty, by refusing to
violate the principles of soundjurisprudence, and refraining from
setting a precedent ofthe most dangerous character.
Mr. Skinner hoped the motion to strike out would not prevail.
He urged that two years had now
elapsed since the perpetration
ot' this horrid crime; and all the ordinary means to bring to justice
the actors of this dark scene had proved unavailing. I-Ie con-
tended that this bill did propose to erect a new tribunal unknown
to our laws, but simply provided the means of investigation which
do not now exist. Nor was the precedent of sending a public
otlicer to attend to H1056 duties novel; as the Attorney General
_. un.. _.M .;.~'L-x. -»
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 439
was frequently required to attend in particular counties the prose-
cution of criminal offences, either of the requisition of the execu-
tive or one of- the judges of the Supreme Court. He thought
this an occasion which demanded extraordinary efforts for the
detection and punishment of offenders, to which the ordinary
course of judicial proceedings was
totally inadequate.
The speaker, Root, addressed the house in support ofthe mo-
tion to reject the bill. He alluded to various instances in the
history of' England, to show the effect of' popular excitement and
the injurious effect flowing from it. Admitting that Morgan was
murdered, he asked whether it was
right to change our course of
judicial proceedings on
that account. lf our laws were defective,
they should he amended; but when amended they should be
made to bear upon all offenders alike. He asked whether Mor-
gan, though .murdered by Free Masons, was entitled to more
commiseration than if he had been destroyed by a
highwayman?
Mr. Granger said that the excitement in the western section
ofthe state ou this subject was as much, if' not more, attributa-
ble to Free Masons, than to those who were
charged with carry-
ing on a crusade against Free Masonry. If Free Masons, and
those, too, distinguished men, had done their duty, this excite-
ment might have been checked. As to the delusion which is
supposed to prevail on this subject, he could say that amongst
those who felt a deep interest on this question, there were men
second to none in the United States, as the list of the names of
the delegation who attended the convention from whom emanated
the memorial to the legislature would show. He could not per-
ceive thc evil which was apprehended from sending a public agent
to investigate this affair, to collect testimony and drag offenders
to justice. He was not conscious how such a
proceeding en-
croaehed upon the fundamental principles of' government. The
comptroller had been vested with similar powers to investigate
frauds upon the canal. He regretted that the proposition made
last winter to send a
special commissioner ofthe legislature into
the section of the state where the outrage had been committed,
had not been adopted. If much good might not result from this
measure, it would have a
tendency to produce something like
quiet and harmony, when the people saw that the legislature did
not tum a deaf ear to their prayers. The people at the west were
not exactly crazy; but there is abroad in the community a feeling,
a
deep toned feeling, which is not to be trifled with-- it is not t0 be
scouted or
laughed at, but must be soothed and not aggravawd-
Mr.. i'
i
rhoof said he had hoped that the bill would have
asse `
"
'_ bate. Vhateverexcitementexisted clS0VlCYC»
'4
XQQ LIGHT ON MASONICY-
it ought not to be brought into action here; and to prevent every
thing like feeling in the house,l1e called for the question.
Mr. Emmet said he was a Mason, and as
yet he had no cause
to regret it. lie was decidedly in favor ofthe bill. If a crime
had been committed, whether by Masons or others, and the ordi-
nary process ol' the law was not sufficient to bring the offenders
to punishment, it was the duty ol' the legislature to atibrd every
facility to accomplish the end. He was inclined to believe that
this measure would have a tendency to allay excitement As a
Mason, he could not perceive any objection to the bill;_on thc
contrary, the very principles of Free Masonry bound him to do
all in his power to bring the perpetrators of the crime to punish-
ment.
Mr. Wardwell also acknowledged himself a Mason, and said,
when he first heard of this tragedy he was disposed to laugh at
the stories which were told, deeming them unworthy of notice,
:ind believing that there was not a Mason in this country so de-
luded and wicked as to commit so great a crime. He however
had changed his opinion, and now believed that Morgan had been
murdered, and murdered by Free Masons; and could he believe
that all Masons could act under similar delusions, he would not
only abolish all extra judicial oaths, as proposed by a bill brought
in on this subject, but he would abolish all Free Masonry, by
making it penal to attend a
lodge. This was not an ordinary
case of murder It was perpetrated by members of a numerous
fraternity; and it is said and believed that many Masons were
engaged in the transaction, and that several in different counties
combined and acted together in bringing about .the destruction of
the individual. If men under a mistaken sense ofduty had com-
mitted the crime, others under a similar delusion might be guilty
of similar oflences. A high degree of excited feeling existed on
this subject in the western part of this state; he therefore thought
that a public officer should be sent to make the necessary inqui-
ries on the spot, to elicit all the evidence that could be obtained,
and to bring the offenders to public punishment. The commis-
sion of the crime was without excuse or
palliation. There were
no principles of Free Masonry which require a man to act con-
trary to the dictates of morality and religion, and to run counter
to the principles ol' good order.
The question was taken on striking out the first section, and
lost, only seven rising in fitvor ofit.
Mr. Williams, after adverting to the forms which the bill pro-
posed to confer on this
special Attorney General, observed that
:he was not prepared to
give the bill his a sent; he
#wished
time
O
H
. .»_
_
,?&=
_
_
I"
~
~-
Y
r
- . :_ -_
_,,,___._ .
r-fm _
'
r
LIGHT ON nmsonnv. 441
to examine it; and with that view moved that the committee rise
and report, which motion prevailed, ayes 49, noes 21. Then
the house adjourned.
.Hpril 9.-Mr. Childs made the same motion as to the bill to
appointa commissioner to make inquiries in relation to the ab-
duction of Morgan, and the bill to prevent extra judicial oaths.
Carried, ayes 36, noes 36.
The house then vent into committee of the whole, Mr. Rug-
gles in the chair, on the said bills. The first section of the
former bill passed, when Mr. Gross moved an amendment
directing the payment of all expenses heretofore incurred by in-
dividuals in investigating this business. Mr. G. spoke some
time in opposition to the bill; hut ifit must pass, he hoped this
amendment would be adopted. So far as he could learn, the
western people did not want this bill to pass. Southwick's pa-
per and some western papers had condemned it. Mr. South-
wick was opposed to the bill in principle; and he believed it
would be incflicacious in its ends.
Mr. Childs said the people in the west had not called for this
bill-it was the offspring of th ieutenant Governor; but the
people wanted further investigatio .,_,___
Mr. Bryan said no body asked for compensation; wait till the
people who have endeavored to ferret out this business ask for
pay, before it is odered to them. f
Mr. Sackelt spoke against the bill. lf the law was insufii-
cient, let it be altered; but he was
opposed to making a
provision
for a particular case. The almost inquisitorial powers given to
this commissioner, he disapproved of
Mr. Chever spoke in favor of the bill. ";_
Mr. Speaker asked wherefore was this disposition to change
tho whole course of law. Is it because Free Masons have kill-
ed Morgan; (that is, admitting that he is killed, which is not cer-
tain, though conjectures lasten strongly on the beliefthat he is;)
and because by persecuting them it is hoped to get into power?
He spoke ofthe jury ofinquest which determined that the body
found at Oak Orchard creek was that of Morgan. When fanati-
cism, whether political or
religious, rages, we oftenfind men of
private worth hurried away by it, and doing acts of which in mo-
ments of reflection they would be ashamed. He did not wish
to derogate from the respectability of the western people; but
they could be led away by fanaticism as well as others. The
times of 1817, 1824, and 1825, sufliciently elucidate the truth of
this. He alluded to the cry raised against secret societies in
'
_..-L..., _
_._ _
..¢..__._...nHk» ---~
442 LIGHT ON MASONRY.
Europe, about the time of the French revolution, when so much
teeling was excited without cause. He adverted to the inquisi-
tion in Spain, where all Free Masons were considered as devils,
and were put to the torture and made to confess that they were
guilty of crime whether they-were or not-where a trial was
made ofthe mathematical question: strength of nerve and sen-
sibility of muscle given, required to knov what degree of torture
is necessary to make man confess himself guilty of crime. He
said that this tirading about secret societies and extra judicial
oaths, did not become sensible men; and they would not pursue
it, unless they were driven by political fanaticism. He did not
care whether Masonry were put down by legislative enactment
or not; but if it were put up or down by.such enactment, it would
be acting foolishly. All this cry is to get power or to retain it.
Some of the members were elected on the Anti-Masonic ticket;
and they came here and were compelled to cry. Morganize Ma-
sons! Morganize Masons! Away with him! Crucify him!
Crucify him! l`he excitement has been got up and fostered
and fanned to get into power. We did not make so much fuss
in Delaware county, a few years ago, when an Irishman killed
tvo`Scotchmen: we caught him, and hanged him.
`
This is made a political question. It is said that one of the
presidential candidates is a Mason, and that the other is not, and
theretbre the excitement must be kept up: that is all there is to
harp on. The six militiamen and ebony and topaz are worn
out. Une of the political parties-and I don't know how many
political parties there are in the state-but one of the parties de-
sire to keep up the excitement, in order to induce votes in favor
of the candidate vho is said not to be a Free Mason. And how
do they work it on theother side, in the party to which I belong,
but which party sometimes acts a little to silly. Why they show
themselves eager to hunt down Free Masons, in the hope that
they will get votes hy it. They cry, we don't approve of Masons
murdering Morgan; we are as eager to find them out as the other
party. They mean to be first in the chasegaud I dont know but
they will be first in at the death. Why should we
perform such
:1 foolish, silly act, to get votes next November, when many of us
do not much care which side we go on.
Mr. Johnson made some remarks against Mr, Gross' amend~
ment, and it was lost.
The whole bill then passed. When thc committee rose, their
report was agreed to, 82 to 17.
The committee of the whole then took up the bill to prevent
Qxtra judicial oaths.
'
.
gg
LIGHT ON ausonnr. 443
Mr. Speaker then moved to rise and report. Lost.
A motion to rise prevailed. ~
Mr. Emmet hoped that leave to sit again would be refused.
He wished to get rid ot` this ridiculous subject, for it was ridicu-
lous in the extreme, if not something worse. We have import-
ant business before us; and a
thing like this, of not a particle ot`
merit, should not be suffered to interfere with it.
Mr. Bucklin was willing leave should be given to sit again.
This bill was, he supposed, a part of the crusade against Free
Masonry. But they were ignorant of the institution who sup-
posed it would touch it; but it would touch a more important por-
tion of society; it would intertere vith a
long established practice
of Christian churches; and it' gentlemen were
willing to go on
with it they might. Adjourned.
.Hpril 12.-The bill authorizing the employment of counsel
forthe investigation ot` facts relative to the abduction of William
Jllorgan, and the incidents connected with that transaction, was
read a third time: a discussion ensued, in which several gentle-
men took a
part, and which occupied a
greater part ofthe morn-
ing session. The bill was
passed by a vote of 66 to 44. »
V
_
I »»|e°o¢»-
SPEECH OF THE HON. J0l-IN CRARY,
'
In the Senate of the State ot'N. York, March 25, 1828,
Un, I/tc prapasilianfor appointing im inquisitor in the case of William ./Uo1'g'an.
Mr. Chairman-The complaint is, that a citizen has been for-
cibly taken and held in captivity, or inhumanly murdered. This
awful act ot` violence was committed in September, 1826, upon
the person of William Morgan. He was seized by ruflian hands,
and taken against his will, in the village ot` Batavia, and carried
from thence to Fort Niagara; beyond which he has not been
traced; nor has he been heard ot` since that time.
The cause
assigned for his abduction and murder is, that he
was a Free Mason, and as such had disclosed the secrets of Ma-
sonry; and when we consider that the persons concerned in the
acts of violence committed upon him, were Free Masons-and
for such acts there is no other assignable reason, than that he
had published the secrets -ot` Masonry--the conclusion is, that for
such publication he has suffered death. .
The ostensible object ot` the bill under consideration is, to
provide for detecting the oifenders; and the question is, will It be
likely to have the effect?
`
;_.s-as-gn; -_;_»
-'
'
444 LIGHT or: Masosar.
`
It will be recollected that Morgan is considered a victim oi'
Masonid vengeance, and a martyr in the cause of liberty and his
¢°un¢ry_ This is a
reproach to the Masonic fratemity; and as
such they have tried to get rid of it, while the people have en-
deavored to fix it upon them.
A war thus waged, is not likely to terminate short of the poli-
tical- extermination of one of the parties. Is it then probable,
that this voluntary Masonic measure, at this very late day, will
restore harmony between them? Will it not rather be considered
as tantalizing the feelings of the people-especially as it is not
called for by them-and more particularly so, as theoffenders
have already escaped to parts unknown, and the fratemity are
charged with facilitating the escape?
Assistance was
prayed for last year, but refused by the legisla-
ture; and now, when a law to abolish extrajudicial oaths is prayed,
instead of granting it, we
give that which is not called for, and
refuse that which is. Thus treating the people like children that
do not know what is good for themselves.
All attempts to bring the perpetrators ofthe crime tojustice, have
hitherto proved abortive. Repeated trials have been had, but no
convictions have followed; and a general belief is now entertain-
ed, that the offenders have in more than one instance been borne
od' by the perjured testimony of their brethren. As the means
of discovering and punishing the offenders, the bill authorizes the
person administering the government of this state to appoint
some person, of' the degree ol' counsellor in the Supreme Court,
to repair to the west and institute inquiries concerning the ab-
duction of William Morgan. This is adding one to the number
who have for the last eighteen months been engaged in perform-
ing that service and duty. And is it any thing more? Can the
person thus authorized do any thing that has not already been'
done without effect?
Is it not then time to change the manner of proceeding, and if
we cannot punish for the. crime committed, prevent the fixture re-
petition of it? It would seem from the petition in the house, that
such is the conclusion of the people of the west: and when we
consider that the Free Masons of that region have met `in con-
vention at Le Roy; disclosed the secrets of the higher orders of'
Masonry, not known to Morgan; and publicly renounced Masonry;
and that a subsequent Anti-Masonic convention have, by their
memorial in the other house, suggested the remedy of prohibit-
ing extra judicial oaths as the most effectual; it is ditlicult to con-
ceive on what principle 'we are
proceeding on the hill under con-
sideration. Will it not be considered the contrivance of Masonry
A
_A...|...a__,,.u
Lxcnr on Mssonnr. p
445
to perpetuate the order; and thus, instead of allaying the excite-
ment, tend to increase it. The people will suspect rather than
confide in this state commissioner, after they have, both sepa-
rately and collectively, exhausted all the means which by this bill
is placed in his power. It is insulting to uppose that a
single
individual with the mandate of the legislature, can do what the
great body of the people have not been able to perform. The
people of the west are laboring under a deep-toned sense of 'in-
jury; and any preferred redress which is eva ive, will be consi-
dered as
sporting with their feelings. Whatever is done should
be to soothe, and not to aggravate, sufferings which are the most
excruciating, the most tormenting. i
Hitherto I have considered this question as between the Free
Masons who were concerned either directly or
indirectly in the
abduction and murder of William Morgan, on the one
hand; and
the people contiguous to the place where the catastrophe hap-
pened striving to bring the offenders to justice, on the other: But
there is another view of the subject, compared to which the fate
of William Morgan dwindles into a
point. His cause has be-
come that of the constitution and the law; and in that view I shall
now proceed to consider it.
When the future historian shall relate the fate of William Mor-
gan, he will pause and inquire for the persons concerned; but
when he is told the abduction was perpetrated in open day, in the
populous yet peaceful village of Batavia; and above all, when he
is also told the persons concerned have escaped detection; he
cannot but exclaim, how impotent are human laws, and how in-
etlicient the administration of justice, oven in the most civilized
part of the world! It cannot be denied but that our system of
jurisprudence is defective; there is a
power among us: it is a se-
cret invisible power, exerted by Free _Masons, which is above the
law. Virhile the order of Free Masons did not pervert public
justice, or interfere to prevent the apprehension and conviction of
offenders, their pretended mysteries, though they sought conceal-
ment, excited no alarm. _
The attribute of secrecy was accorded to the order, as a
pre-
rogative handed down from high antiquity and always claimed
and exercised; the pretence for continuing and perpetuating Free
Masonry has been the security,protection, and advantage, which
it afforded to the traveller and the stranger; while it has been sup-
posed `the order did not interfere with the duties of the citizen,
the politician, the statesman. 'Under such pretences, not C011-
trgdicted by appearances, it has hitherto been viewed Ylth COIH-
placency; its
mgmbers respected and esteemed. And it WGS not
Q 1
...L-Ilia-.;_.._--Jn-|. _
____ ..._..-
»°" '
°`
446 LIGHT ON LlASONRY»
until it was found that the obligations of the order had alienated
111539 belonging to it from their allegiance to the constitution and
the law' and the community began to suspect the imposition which
had been practiced upon them, and exert the supremacy of their
power to bring the kidnappers and murderers of Morgan to jus-
tice. On this occasion the people soon found their own impotence
and that ofthe laws when exerted
against Free Masons for the
abduction and murder by them of one belongingto the order.
It is this secret invisible power to which I am
opposed# a. power
exerted in the midst of us, from the horrible and tragical effects
of which, neither friends nor foes, not even the wandering stran-
ger can
escape.
'
By the common consent ofmankind, each individual has certain
absolute and unalienable rights: these are the right of personal li-
berty, the right of personal security, and the right of private pro#
perty: The great end and object of govemment should be to pro-
tect each individual in the enjoymentofthese rights: when that is
not done, the govemment must be defective either in the form or
in the administration. Public sentimentis the only test to deter-
mine whether itvbe done or not; and every thing depending on public
sentiment must 'be open and exposed to public scrutiny and ob-
servation.. Publicity, then, is and must be the redeeming prius
ciple of every system; without it the most perfect govemment
will be found in practice to permit every thing that is wrong, and
aB`ord no security for any thing that is right. That the order of
Free Masons has always required secrecy from those belonging
to it, is a fact that cannot be questioned. Il' for that they ought
to be condemned, they will not complain that it is done without
testimony. Let us then test the order by one of its cardinal priné
ciples, and see whether it is at variance with truth and justice.
Openness and honesty form the criterion by which the cha-
racter ot` every transaction relating to the atliairs of men is in-
vestigated and determined. 'Vice has always' shunned the light.
The concealment of the fact is evidence that the fact itself;
if it appeared, would disclose something that is wrong. Thus,
if a man be found with stolen goods in his possession, and he has
concealed or
attempts to conceal them, it is evidence that he re-
ceived the goods knowing that they were stolen. Aperson is
examined on a
charge of felony 'and concealsthe facts and states
what is not true: the conclusion is that he is guilty. A party in
a suit secretes' a
paper: the conclusion is, that if" ltwere produced
it would diS<=l0S¢
wipe facts against him which without it do
not appear; and thus It is that secrecy and concealment have al-
ways been
c0}lSld§1"°d HS
tantamount to ,deceit and falsehood. It
-»'°-
3.-c_,..,___._ gf.. ...___ _
L1GH'r ON Masortnv.
'
447
was so at the beginning; for after eating the forbidden truit our
§rst parents hid themselves from the presence of God.
If I have succeeded in showing that the first principle of the
order is wrong, it is not to be expected in practice that it can
ever become right; when the principle on which it is founded is
erroneous, it will practically proceed on the same
wrong ground.
If we take the wrong road at the commencement ot' our
journey,
the longer we travel it the farther we are from the place of desti-
nation. g
,
The ostensible objects of Free Masonry are benevolence and
kindness: but if it should appear that the real objects are
selfish-
riess and cruelty in disguise, no one not ol' the order will hesi-
tate to admit that it is time the veil was torn 05; and the society
exhibited in all its deformity. Names can never alter things; but
care should be taken, that things have their proper names. The
appropriate use of names is to represent things truly; but that
they do so, should never be taken for granted: For as often as
the despot has intended to lead the multitude captive at his will,
he has done it by the delusion of a name. If vigilance is the
price of liberty, the point at which it should lirst be exerted, is to
distinguish between names and things. To do so we must be-
come familiar with the thing itself] which we never can il' it is to
us invisible; and that I understand to be the precise character of
the order of` Free Masonry: and why is it so? men never act
witlrout a motive. Is it not then fair to conclude that these stolen
abuses are secret pleasures enjoyed at the expense of others
not belonging to the order?
'
'
Unity of action and design has always enabled those belonging
to the combination not only to protect themselves, but to oppress
others; hence it is that an act done by a conspirator is more hei-
nous in the eye of the law. and alarming to the community, than
if done by an insulted individual. But when impunity is added
to secrecy of design, it is then that we realize in imagination the
horrors which William Morgan must have indured when the mid-
night assassin stalked forth before his swimming eyes.
The entering of a dwelling house against the will ol' the occu-
pant, in the day time, is a simple tresspass; but when the same
act is done in the silent watches ofthe night. it is felony. Why
is it so? Can there be any other reason for it, than the helpless
condition of the tenant at that season destined by nature for si-
lence and repose?
Hence it is obvious that no other relation among men can be
just but that which places them on a footing of equality- That
which is not known to us can never be guarded °8a"'5t bY "S'
448 LIGHT ON MASDNBY.
It is by deceit or falsehood that distress and misery have been
communicated and extended far and wide among the human race;
and if deceit and falsehood be not descriptive of Free Masonry,
they are of its effect and operation upon the rest of mankind.
To illustrate: A witness that is interested is incompetent to tes-
tify: a
juror that has a bias upon his mind is disqualified from sit-
ting in judgment. But how can the one or the other be excluded,
when the fact of such interest or bias is not known to the parties?
It may be said that the bias which one Free Mason has in favor
of another is slight and trifling; admitted, and what follows! Do
we not know that whenall other things are equal the least item
inclines the scalel and it is by the influence of these impercepti-
ble trifles that every doubtful question is decided.
It has been said, that a man might as well be suspected, be-
cause he belonged to another church. But on what principle
does the argument rest? It must be upon the assumption that
there is no difference between Christianity and Free Masonry;
and will that be pretended by the most devoted friend ofthe or-
der? lt is suliicient for my purpose to mention one particular
about which there is no controversy. The obligation of secrecy
is enjoined according to the order of Free Masonry; while the Sa-
viour, at parting with his disciples, said unto them, "Go ye into
all the world and preach the gospello every creature."
'
The charge against Free Masons is not that they are all bad
men, or that they ought to be condemned because there are some
had men among them: But it is, that the order justifies indivi~
duals belonging to it, vho could not be justified bythe laws of so-
ciety. The conclusion, therefore, is against the order, not the
individuals belonging to it. The individuals may be good or bad,
like other men; their character must depend upon theinwalk and
conversation. It will not be pretended that individuals belong-
ing to any society are for that reason to be justified for any thing
they may do. The objection is, that the members of the Ma-
sonic society are not made amenable to justice like other men.
It is not that every Free Mason shall be condemned because he
is a Free Mason; but that the order screens men from punish-
ment because they are members of it. No matter who subverts
public justice, it is an offence which deserves reprehension and
punishment. j
But it may be asked, what have the order done!
I answer, they have justifed the xlnrurrsas and nrunnnnnns
of "TILLIAM Moacm.
This is a þÿS ¬l'l0|S
Charge; but it is believed to be supported by
the best cvidwce the nature of the case will admit. `Vhcn the
°"» ~ -~ - - ~
Y-A _._¢¢h|-=-._
user ou mssonnv- 449
conduct of men cannot be reconciled with their innocence, the
conclusion is that they are guilty.
'
Thesense of right and wrong is impressed by the Deity him-
self upon the heart of man. 'The effect of this impression will
naturally appear at the recital of wrongs; and when it does not,
the conclusion is that natural feelings are
suppressed.
-
The story of William Morgan is the most tragical, and calcu-
lated the most effectually to harrow up all our feelings and excite
all our sensibilities; and even to impel us
by an impuse not our
own, to seek the place of our martyr's sufferings and death, and
there avenge this most foul and unnatural murder.
But has the story had that effect upon those belonging to the
Masonic order? Will it be denied that as often as it has been
related in the presence and hearing of Free Masons, one has in-
quired, if the facts stated by Morgan in his book were true, did
not he deserve the fate he was
supposed to have suffered? An-
other has said, he is gone oil' and keeps out of the way to give
value to his book, and will retum when his fortune is made!
Others, though silent, have given a s ile of approbation, while
with inverted looks the countenance of all have indicated mys-
tery and concealment! And when a numerous body of men,
both separately and collectively, can suppress the strongest na-
tural emotions, is it not fair to conclude that such suppression
the effect of design? Thus much for the evidence of observ -
tion; and for the correction of it, I appeal to the most superficial
observer.
But the evidence against Free Masonry does not rest entirely
upon the unnatural looks and actions of individuals belonging to
the order, when Morgan's case is mentioned. There is another
fact imputing moral guilt' to the order itself, unless the maxim
that a man is known by the company he keeps, can be contre.
verted. It is this: that three persons belonging to the order have
confessed themselves guilty, and admitted they were concerned
in the abduction of William Morgan. We have occasionally
seen notices of expulsion, from which we are to conclude that it
is according to the discipline of the order to expel for some of-
fences; but we_ have seen no notice of the expulsion of bose
three persons; hence we are to conclude that the abduction of
William Morgan is not an offence according to the order of Free
Masonry!
'
It is not my object here to dilate upon the enormity of this
offence: It must be obvious to all, that the rightof personal li-
berty is of all others the most invaluable; and if the fate of
William
Morgag
had been less tragical, and instead of being pug
02
-.-¢_;-n __...... __ ,_.
..¢__,
--~'- »-""* ~
450 uenr on ansoN'n'.
to death he had obtained his liberty after a short interval, and had
been regtared to his family and friends; yet the odbnce would re-
mdn; and all those accessory to it, whether before or after the
fact, must be considered among the offenders. -
Can the order escape fiom this conclusion; and if they cannot,
what does it prove? Surely this, that the malignant pleasure of
Free Masons is, with the order itself a consideration paramount
to the rights ofindividuals, or the observance of the laws: and are
we not only to countenance in the midst of us their invisible power,
but the unjust and cruel exercise of it?
But that is a question Ineed not ask; for thetpower exists, and
has thus far been exercised, without our opposition; and it
remains to be seen whether it shall continue and triumph in spite
of it. Although the aggregate number of Free Masons bearshut
a. small proportion to the
greatbody ofthe community, yet it is not
to be controverted that t ey enjoy the ofiices of honor and profit,
while at the sametime they profess to take no
part in politics.
The places occupied by Free Masons in all parties, show how their
professions are to be understood; apparently they belong to no
party, that thereby they may he the better enabled to control the
whole. Hence it is that they are to be found at the head of every
party; that whatever patty prevails, the affairs of government may
beecondncted by Free Masons; which would not be the case, if
t ey were known to belong to any particular party. It is against
this gigantic power, with all its trappings, that we are to contend.
Itis true, we are neither armed nor disciplined for the battle; but
let us not despair; we have with us the moral courage, the physical
power, and the force of principle; and it is with pleasure that I
add, the best men are .every day renoimcing Free Masonry and
rallying around our standard. With such aid, although the con-
test may be long, the victory must be certain.
Let us not deceive ourselves: it is with rank and fashion, with
power and wealth, that we have to contend; and in such a contest
it is not to be expected that the selfish, thesycophantic, the sla-
vish, will ever embark; yet the cause is worthy of freemen -im-
pelled by the force of principle and the sense of injury; and such
only will engage. The exclusive privilege of individuals with
the prerogative of power, has held millions in bondage. Men not
knowing that they were hom free, and possessed-ofcertain equal
and unalienable rights, might content themselves to linger out a
miserable existence in servitude and chains. If we were of that
degraded and degenerate race, Free Masonry might' triumph here
as it has done in the old world and 'in the darkest ages. But as
we are free men,.with the gift of reason, and a knowledge of our
.4
~
1
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 451
rights, can our friends expect, or our enemies require, that wc
should countenance aninstitution founded inerror? But the ques-
tion still recurs, is it so.
As we hold the aflirmative, let us advert for a moment to the
mode of initiation, and the manner of conferring degrees, both
of which have now become public.
'l`he` candidate presents himself blindfolded and naked, with
the cable-tow about his neck, without any previous knowledge of
what he is to do, or what is to be required of him; and in this
helpless condition the dreadful oath _is administered and taken,
If the candidate should falter or hesitate, the ruflians on each side
of him holding the cable-tow which is about his neck, can in zt
moment tighten the' cord and extinguish him and his complaints:
And bow many noble spirits preferring death to degredation
have been thus dispatched, the world can never know! Is this
true? If it is not, it can be shown to be false by disclosing the
fact. If it should be said that this would destroy the order, by
revealing the mystery, then it follows that the secrets of Free
Masonry were with the order itself a consideration paramount to
the reputation of those belonging to it. If then they can live by
Free Masonry, we must try to live without it, and judge of it, as
we do of other things, from what we lmnw.
`
It is not to be questioned that worthy men have thus hydure!Sl
and imprisonment become Free Masons; and from the fact that
many have withdrawn themselves and for years declined associat-
ing with the order, it is evident that Free Masonry is held in dc-
rision by many and the better part of those belonging to the or-
der. Hence it is that the most corrupt institution is kept up and
continued by the worst of men: And from such continuance, what
is to be expected? Surely, if there be any antidote it must be
poison; if any remedy it must bedeath. _
For the violation of the Masonic oath, the most dreadful pun-
ishment is invoked; and every subsequent degree not onlyimposes
new and additional obligations, but is a
repetition of all the pre-
ceding ones. Hence it is that the compunctious visitings of con-
science, il` any, are stilied by the vile oath of profanity taken by
every member of the order: they cannot repent because they darc
not confess. Whatever crimes are
perpetrated, the conclusion is
and must be by the perpetmtors, that they had better go on than
to go back. 'Ihus poor human nature is perverted and left wi!h~
out the power of repentance or hope of redemption. _ _
If I amiight in the view l have taken of Free Masonryrlf IS
wrong in- principle as well as in practice. Various other views
might but I forbear. IfI am right, enough has been
I p __ __
_ ...__ ..._
452 r.ron'r on mssonar.
aid; if] am wrong, nothing that I could add would be of any
avail. But I cannot close these remarks without adverting to
those of my friend from Genesee, (Gen. Allen,) with whomlhave
so long and so
pleasantly travelled; and I must say it is with sin-
cere regret that I dilfer with him on this occasion; but I have high
authority for saying that every difference of opinion is not a dilfer-
cnce of principle.
we
PROCEEDINGS
Dj the Jldjaurned Convention of Sending Masons: held at Le Roy, July 4, 1825.
AT an adjoumed meeting ol' the convention of Seceding Ma-
sons, held at Le Roy, July 4, 1828. SoLoMoN Sournwrcx,
President, and DAVID Bauman, Clerk.
On motion, it was resolved, that the committee appointed to
draft a declaration of independence from the Masonic institution,
be requested to report. A. P. Hascall, from the said committee,
then reported the declaration.
On motion, it was unanimously resolved, that the declaration
be adopted and signed. ¢
,
nac1.AnA'rroN.
O
When men attempt to dissolve a system which has influenced
and govemed a
part of community, and by its pretentious to anti-
quity, usetiilness, and virtue, would demand the respect ot' all, it
is proper to submit to the consideration ofa candid and impartial
world, the causes which impel them to such a course. We, se-
ceders from the Masonic institution, availing ourselves of our na-
tural and unalienable rights and the privileges guaranteed to us
by our constitution ti-eely to discuss the principles of our govem-
ment and laws, and to expose whatever may endanger the one or
impede the due administration ofthe other, do offer the following
reasons for endeavoring to abolish the order of Free Masonry,
and destroy its influence in our govemment.
ln all arbitrary governments free inquiry has been restricted
as fatal to the principles upon which they were based. In all
ages of the world tyrants have foimd it necessary to shackle the
minds of' their subjects, to enable them to control their actions;
for experience ever
taught that the free mind ever exerts a moral
power that resists all attempts to enslave it. However forms of
government heretofore have varied, the right to act and speak
Without a
¢09tf°lllD8 PQWQI' has never been permitted. Our an-
cestors wlw ltllblbed principles of civil and religious liberty, lied
'°~---- --» »--»---
.I...__,_...._se.i.__
LIGHT 0N MLSONBY. 453
to America to escape persecution; and when Britain attempted to
encroach upon the tree exercise of those principles, our fathers
hesitated not to dissolve their oaths of allegiance to the mother
country, and declare themselves free and independent; and cxult-
ing millions of freemen yet bless their memories for the deed. A
new theory of govemment was reduced to practice in the forma-
tion of the American republic. It involved in its structure prin-
ciples of equal rights and equal privileges; and was based on the
eternal foundation of public good. It protects the weak, restrains
the powerful, and extends its honors and emoluments to the me-
ritorious of every condition. It should have been the pride ot'
every citizen to preserve this noble structure in all its beautiful
symmetry and proportions. But the principle of self aggrandize~
ment, the desire to control the destinies of others, and luxuriate
in their spoils, 'unhappily still inhabits the human breast. M any
attempts have already been made to impair the freedom ot' our
institutions and subvert our
govemment. But they have been
niet by the irresistible power of public opinion and indignation,
and crushed. In the mean time the Masonic society has been
silently growing among us, whose principles and operations are
calculated to subvert and destroy the great and important princi-
ples ofthe commonwealth. Before and during the revolutionary
struggle, Masonry was but little known and practised in this
country. It was lost amid the changes and contiision ot the con-
flicting nations, and was reserved for a time of protbund peace,
to wind and insinuate itself into every department of government,
and influence the result of almost every proceeding. Like man)
other attempts to overtum government and destroy the liberties ot'
the people, it has chosen a time when the suspicions of men were
asleep; and with a noiseless tread, in the darkness and silence ot
the night, has increased its strength and extended its power. N01
yet content with its original powers and influence, it has of late
received the aid of foreign and more
arbitrary systems. With this
accumulation of strength, it arrived at that formidable crisis when
it bid open defiance to the laws of our
country in the abduction
and murder of an unotfending citizen of the republic. So wicked
was this transaction, so extensive its preparation, and so
openl}
justified, that it aroused the energies of an insulted people, whose
cxertions have opened the hidden recesses of this abode of dark-
ness and mystery; and mankind may now view its power, its
wickedness, and iblly.
That it is opposed to the genius and design of this govemment.
the spirit and precepts of our
holy religion, and the welfare of so~
<-icty generally, will appear from the following consideratwllsr
__4|d|l»..__...._.._.¢... ,_
-..__
_...__ ...__.__...--_ .
454
~
morn- on misomzr.
It exercises jurisdiction over the persons and lives of citizens
ofthe republic. _
_ _ _
,
_
It arrogates to itself the right of punishing its-members for oil
fences unknown to the laws of this or
any other nation.
lt requires the concealment of crime, and protects the guilty
Bom punishment.
It encourages the commission of crime, by affording to the
guilty facilities of escape.
'
It affords opportunites for the comipt and designing to form
plans against the govemment, and the lives and characters of in-
dividuals. _
It assumes titles and dignities incompatible with a republican
form of govemment, and cnjoins an obedience to them derogatory
to republican principles.
It destroys all principles of equality, hy bestowing favors on
its own members to the exclusion of others equally meritorious
and deserving.
It creates odious aristocracies by its obligations to support the
interests of its members, in preference to others of equal qualifi-
cations.
'
, It blasphemes the name, and attempts a
personidcation of the
Great Jehovah.
It prostitutes the Sacred Scriptures to unholy purposes, to sub-
scrve its own secular and trifling concems.
It weakens the sanctions of morality and religion, by the mul-
tiplication of profane oaths, and an immoral familiarity with reli-
gious forms and ceremonies.
_It discovers in its ceremonies, an tmholy comminglingof divine
truth with impious human inventions.
It destroys a veneration for religion and religious ordinances,
by the profane use of religious forms.
It substitutes the self righteousness and ceremonies of Masonry
for the vital religion and ordinances of the Gospel.
It promotes habits of idleness and intemperance, by its mem.
bers neglecting their business to attend its meetings and drink
its libations.
lt accumulates funds at the expense of indigent persons, and
to the distress of their families, too often to be dissipated in riot~
ing and pleasure and its senseless ceremonies and exhibitions.
It contracts the sympathies of the human heart for all the un-
fortunate, by confining its charities to its' own members; and
promotes the interests of a few at the expense ofthe many.
An institution thus fraught with so many and great evils, is
dangerous to our goxemment and the safety of our citizens, and
_..,-...._. ttmnlt-A-M-»
LIGHT ,ON MASONBY. 545
is untit to exist among a free people: We, therefore, believing it
a duty we owe to God, our country, and to posterity, resolve to
expose its mystery, wickedness, and tendency, to public view-
and we exhort all citizens who have a love of country, and a ve-
neration for its laws, a spirit of our holy religion, and a
regard for
the welfare of mankind, to aid us in the cause which we have
espoused-and appealing to Almighty God for the rectitude ot'
our motives, we solemnly absolve ourselves from all allegiance
to theMasonic institution, and declare ourselves free and inde-
pendent: and in support ot' these resolutions, our government and
laws, and the safety of individuals, against the usurpations of al!
secret societies and open force, and against the 'vengeance' of
the Masonic institution, 'with a firm reliance on the protection of
Divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each ot.her,_ our_lives,
our fortunes, and our sacred honor.' ~ U'
July 4, 1828.
`
' "
Sigiwrs of the Declaration of Independence from the .Masonic Institution, adopiqi
-
at Le Roy, July 4, 1828.
i
suns.
nxsmxxcr. ao. or DEGIIIS,
Solomon Southwick, Albany, .
Four
David Bernard, Warsaw, Intimate Secretary
W. W. Phelps, Canandaigua, three
Issac B. Bamum, Perrington, _
_four
Cephas A. Smith, Le Roy, twenty~one or oakgcgggliiiggg
J. Van Valkenburgh, Prattsburgh, , _
-
three
Platt-S. Beach, Stafford, ,
-'
,» :
_
one
Elam Badger, Cazenovin, _
"
llrulree
Joseph Hart, Albion,
'
-
»r'_ °thur
Kneeland Townsend, jun Lewiston,
E, ._
.
three:
Anthony Cooley, Le Roy, ordgcjt-I:m,sE_(;::
John G. Stearns, Paris, three
Reuben Winchell, Lockport, _ three
Augustus P. Hascall, Le Roy, grlgfgflgxzriggi
Noble D. Strong,
'
Aubum, _ seven
J°"" """"» '~° *'°>'» <§'.if2'f§f'iiII.°E'§T,`§§
Robert Earl, jun. Attica, one
Thri ll
'
James Ballard' Le Roy' Ordesitgtlisgigmlsiz
Leonard B. Rose, Castile, three
Timothy C. Strong, Albion, four
WiHiam W goner, Lebanon,
three
John Aumozi, Le Roy, __ _
f°l1!
'
H0119
Herbert A. Read, Le my, .,,"r*§;'§§},,§'§Cm,,
W. Robinson,
'
Springwater,
""`°°
_..._-_.A»__., ,.
.mo --------- -~
I
456
~
LIGHT on nusonnv.
J Bulwc Springwater Two
Lzrnelsil-Guhk' };~;;;>n,
'
iss;
.hmg y, 1
~'
gn ,
Le Boy four
H:we, Gprhanl, »
mn
Samuel Pi þÿR-\f1g ¬WHy 9
Adm mclllnegéa, Le
Roy,
'
seven
George W. Harris, Batavia, three
Cooley, S¥»8§°0!\i, tlU'¢0
John Joslen, Wlwlllllnd, f-U89
A. r. Albright, Whwlwd, three
Fnyette Cross, Wheatland, illfw
Elms Cooley, Le Roy, three
Olney I-'. Rice, G0rlmm,_ lhrw
Wuren Kneeland, <
Sempronlus,
h ihreg
'
'
'
~
l reo regulnr an
'
B°Qb°'. f Hinsdale' 2 three honorary
B
"
l
'
Clarendon seven
Nm' B.
W
C
gsrfnmnl ¢l:_f°°
Truman J. ie '
'
'
'
Vlll8¢0_rl, WI'
E4wu»d'Giddi»; Rochester, seven
Abram Cherry,
'
Rochester, Bu
Ri¢hard Hglhgter, , Le my, f0\1fte6Il
Amos B. ungchini, Le
Boy, ,
'hfw
12:22
_ e e
y _
Dmiel
nnwli,
'
mr
.lomghgn ulow, Bethany, seven
Mm,
gpgglg,
,
. .
Bethany, three
Noah n
"
1 I
Albion, UW
crnpim
"
yi; 7 or ,
"
Nissan 0°-
Auygn |55 ;_;.::,_\ _
ff" Prattsburgh, ten
.1
'
` Attica, three
gr
'
_f _
~
;..,;,_ _`~,_ Bn-gg, three
'rt
gn gg; Barre, two
han K.
`
'
:fn "» 'i Bntavra, ihree
L
,
e M. Gates,
"
L43 R0y, WN*
David Reed, Hopewell, ¢l\l'¢¢
Willard Smith, Adams, Jedbrson co. twelve
Solomon Barker, Gates, \-lint
Orson Nichoson, ,
'
Albion, Orleans co. three
J. K. Brown, Barre SGW!!
Enos Bnchelder, Le Roy, *IBM
Stephen Robinson,
SYringwater,
three
Robert McKely, C arence, !W0
John Law, Le Roy, f0\l¥
glam SbFitcl§i gameswwn, Ch mu
`
me -
amestown, nu
que eo-
As:mT\1.rrl)er,
'
Jamestown, Chautauqua co.
Snmpel Ledyard, Pultneyville, three
JQh|j2Bmith, Wen P$ttsburgh,
-
three
A V .
F. esp P UIC ,
th|%
I Pike .zllegany co. three
Sun -
I
f»gl'09¥19| Bntsfeia, three
Chi 0* Bennington, three
Theodor; Hooker, Duchess co. ten
-
-.___uis.- »-
._ _._ __r..
_~._.¢i4Plh|-
Elijah Northup _
LIGHT ON Masonnv
Pine ,Plains Dmchcss
457
-
Five
Reuben Sanborin, Painted Post, seven
Jarvis Swift, Aubum, gh,-ee
David Snow, Covington, three
John Tomlinson, Staftbrd, ,
.ilu-eg
Nathan M. Mann Wales, Eric co. geven
Nathan Townsend, Batavia, Seven
Andrew Couse, Cazenovia, ilu-ec
Russel Waters,
'
Cazenovia,
Phlegmoncy Horton, Cazenoviu,
W. J. Edson, Batavia, two
David C. Miller, Batavia, one
Jatnes Rolfe, Elba, three
George W. Blcdgett, Le Roy, rwq
Uriah
Slaivton,
Le Roy, __ three
,Martin F 'nt, Vermont, =l
'
Darius Sprague, Vermont,
Joseph Cochran, Vermont,
Orcutt Hyde, Vermont, _
William Hyde, Vermont,
Phinehas Smith, Vemxont, ~
Limd Tarbox, _
Vermont,
H'
_
'
X Thrice lustrioug
H°u'S Platt' Le Roy'
1 Order of the Cross
Norman Bently, Guilford, seven
The convention then adjoumed until four o'clock, P. M. to
meet at the Presbyterian meeting house. y
i
Met according- to adjournment: Elder Bernard addressedthe
Throne of Grace. Solomon Southwick then delivered an address
in
'pursuance
ot' previous appointment. .J
` '
he convention then adjourned to meet at
thq,samE_;piace opp
the next morning, at eight o'c1ock; at which time' and place
convention was opened by prayer. ,
.
"
,-
"
`,
A number of communications was received by the con
'ention,
from persons residing in diiferent parts_ot` thisfstatc, andxalso in
the states of Vermont, Connecticut, Pennsyfvania, New Jersey,
and Maryland, stating that it was inconvenient attending at this
season of the year, and from so
great a distance, and requesting
'copies of the new declaration of independence, and other pro-
ceedings, forwarded to them lbr their sanction. Delegates from
ten counties in this state, attended the convention and signed
the declaration. The number of persons attending the conven-
tion was about eight thousand.
'
On motion it was then resolved, That the committee of fifteen,
-appointed at the last sitting ofthe convention, to prepare the up-
per degrees of Masonry, be requested to report.
The committee then reported the degrees from thc
þÿMaSl ¬r'S
to the Royal Arch, and including the Royal Arch, "'11'°l' "`°f°
Pr _
`
'I , _..._
.-an-..Q,.-. ,4>. -
458 LIGHT ON MASDNQY.
read: Whcrcupon, it was resolved by the Masons present
who had received these several degrees, that they are substan-
tially correct. lt was then resolved by the convention, that the
report of' the committee be accepted, and the said degrees pub-
lished to the world. [See the degrees in this book.]
_
The convention then adjourned for one hour.
Met pursuant to adjournment, and received the further report
of the committee ol' fifteen, as follows- The degrees of' knight-
hood, to wit, Knight of"the Red Cross, Knight Templar, Knight
of Malta, Knight of' the Christian Mark and Guard of' the Con-
clave, Knight of the Holy' Sepulchre, and the order of Illustrious,
Most Illustrious, and Thrice lllustrious Council of the Knights
of` the Holy Cross. They were then read and re olved by thc
knights present,'numbers of` whom had received these several
degrees, to be substantially correct: Whereupon it was
Resolved by tho convention, That the degrees be published
to the world. [Seo the degrees in this book.]
Resolved, That Solomon Southwick, David Bernard, Richard
Hollister, Willard Smith, Herbert A. Read, John Hascall, and
Samuel D. Greene, be a committee to prepare a
preface to, and
superintend the publication of, the
degrees adopted by this con-
vention.
'
~
Miles B. Lampson, Seth M. Gates, and A. P. Hascall, were
then appointed a committee to draft resolutions expressive of' thc
sentiments of' this convention.
' '
~
'The committee retired a short time, when Mr. Gates from
said committee reported the following:
`
Resolved, That however beneficial secrctsocieties may have
been considered in thedark ages of the world, as bonds oi' union
and shields of protection to the members against the violence of
the times; yet in this-enlightened age and country, where the pri-
vate rights and the civil liberty of' our citizens are
guaranteed by
a free constitution, and an impartial administration of justice,
they became not only useless to their members, but dangerous to
the
Hgovernment.
`
zsolved, That the order of Free Masonry is a system nf'
slavish despotism, calculated to break down the_pride and spirit
of freemen, and thus render them fit subjects of despotic power.
Resolved, That whatever may bc our
predilections 'for the
prominent candidates for the presidency, andpwhatever part we
as individuals may see fit to take in national politics,we consider
the overthrow and 'destruction of the iMasonic institution as
wholly disconnected therewith, and of vastly paramount impor-
tance-fthnt this convention would view with thc= most undissem~
-°-~¢...|u,,,;,_¢_,, ,
,
____ *_* ,__
g
.
r.x<;n1' on Mrtsonnr. 459
bled feelings oi' regret, any attempt to render the honest indigna-
tion existing against the institution subservient to
the views of
any of the political parties of thc day--that we unhesltatingly dis-
claim all intention of promoting party views or politicnl purposes.
Resolved, That the Masonic obligations, especially tho=e of
_the Knight of the Christian Marla and Guard of the Concluve,
and the `Knight-of the Holy Sepulchre, are ofthe most blasphe-
mons nature; and we cannot but deliver our sentiments in un-
qualified terms against them.
Resolved, Thatthe Committee 'ot' Publication be also n Central'
Corresponding Committee; and be authorized to convoke the (Jon-
vention ot' Seceding Masons, if at any time it shall he
deemed
expedient.
Resolved unanimously, That the thanks of this convention be
presented to Solomon Southwick, tor the masterly and eloquent
adclressdelivered yesterday by appointment of this convention-
anfl that to prevent the work from being garbled by the fraternity,
or its agents, he be requested to secure a
copy right and publish
the same.
'
_ _
Resolved, That the thanks oi' this convention be tendered to
the president and secretary thereof, for the assiduous and able
manner in which they have performed the duties dcvolving upon
'them during the sitting of the convention.
~
_
The same _being severally read and considered, were
unani-
mously adopted-ivhen the convention adjourned me die.
,
Nurs. The artillery oi' the tiaternity has been uncessingly diselinrgcu
upon the members of this convention. Mr. Child, the editor of the
Albany
Masonic Record, 'the only hebdomadal paper devoted to the cause ot Nia-
sonry in the United States) has more than intimated that they were n set
nt' vagabond book Masons, who would run together with no better views
than to get a
good _dinner free of
expense, and get decently drunk to boot,
by rcnonncing what they knew notlnng about. The same
gentleman, with
his usual regard for truth, politeness, and elegance of diction, memims them
ns a set of political demsgogues assembled to make or
adopt a mock imita-
tion of the original declaration of independence. The day, however, has
happily passed when such graeeless calnmniators canigain credence.
These men formed n convention, which, for talents and respectability, for
real worth and standing in community,~is rarely equalled in convcntiorial or
deliberative bodies. There are of 'those whose names
appear above, three
judges of county courts, seven ministers of the Gospel in regular standing in
their respective churches, three practising attornies at law, two physicians,
and four editors ot' newspapers, besides several justices of the peace and
postniasters. They are scattered through the westem part of the suite of
New York, and 'many of them are
extensively known. They need not even
this feeble tribute of res ect of thc compiler, to ,establish or promulgate their
eharacters. The bcnelicial etfects of thedoings ot' that convention will bc
experienced and duly appreciated, when their cnlumniatnrs shall quietly 10°
pose with the institution ot' Free Masonry in the tomb ot`t`orgetf11l1¢S5-
_J-_suqnnhg
_
--
un., __
_._
--1 --
<4eo;
ORATIUN
0F HERBERT A» READ, ESQ,
Pranouncczl at Le Roy, July 4, 1828, lo an assembly of one thottaandperwns.
We are ,assembled for no
ordinary purpose, and to celebrate
no common event in the history ofthe world. The object is no
less than to destroy an institution which has secretly fastened it-
self upon the republic; whose principles are at variance with the
first and unalienable rights of man. An institution, which, under
the garb of morality, teaches and encourages the grossest immo-
ralities. An institution professing to he the handmaid of religion;
whose ceremonies are blasphemiesand impiety,and which has been
emphatically the school of infidelity. An institution professing
to teach its members subjection to the laws of our country; but
which has set at defiance the laws both ol' God and of man-
destroyed the sanctity of domestic life-torn asunder the tender
ties of humanity-in a word, sacriligiously trampled upon the
dearest rights ot' American freemen; and to conceal its own im-
pious principles and blasphemous ceremonies, has stained its
kingly robes with the blood of a free citizen. Such, fellow citi-
zens, is the object ot' our meeting. The event we celebrate is
the birthday of n nation-the first dawn of the polar star which
shall guide all nations to the harbor of pure and legitimate tree-
dom-the redemption of a patriotic people from bondage: an
event unparalleled in the history of the world. To contemplate
the conduct of a brave and magnanimous people, who, at a time
when monarchy and despotism were the only governments in
existence, andthe strong arm ofpower was exerted againstthem-
in defiance of all the powers of kings and emperors threw oH` all
allegiance to tyrants: declaring that they were, and of right ought
to be, free and independent; and sealed the declaration with their
blood; and thus, upon the firm and immutable basis ot' equal rights,
established a free government. We are assembled to contem-
plate this stupendous work, and lay the foundation for the entire
overthrow of the Masonic institution. Heretofore the object has
been merely to celebrate it as a
day in which our fathers eman-
cipated themselves from foreign power: but we this day have
the twofold purpose of reverting back to that period, and to over-
throw all intemal enemies, that we may in very deed be disen~
thralled and redeemed from all things which impede the grand
and triumphant march of liberty. Who, among us, whose heart
..,.4. .-.__ .u-».f -_
LIGHT ON MASONBY. 461,
beats not high at such prospects? Who that has witnessed the
snrrounding gloom which has overspread this western section,
but now rejoice at the dispelling of the clouds, and the bright
prospect before usl As freemen jealous of your liberties, re-
joice in the anticipation of that day when the institution which
in its own damning deeds, and insulted the majesty of the laws,
shall be swept from our land andleave not a wreck behind." The
book of her mysteries will be opened-her hidden abominations
exposed--her profane altars will be overthrown-her noisy revels
will no longer greet our ears--her covers will be opened to the
gaze ofthe uninitiated: for her iniquities have called for retribu-
tive justice; The voice has not~been in vain. Freemen have
asserted their dear bought rights, and Masonry vanished like mist
before the'sun.,~ 1
A brief history of the eventful period we now celebrate, and
of the characters engaged in our revolutionary truggles, may not
be unnecessary to nerve our arms in defence of those principles
which our fathers so imanfully established hy their.sufl`erings and
privations. They were men stamped with the principles of liberty
by the God of nature. Driven from their homes and their land
of nativity by tho e who should.have -been their protectors, after
srlffering from the_ hardships of a
long tcmpestuous voyage, they
establishedthemselves in this western world for the enjoyment
of civil and religious liberty, the natural birthright of man.
Many
were the sufferings and»great the privationsthey were destined to
experience; but men who for the enjoyment of rational liberty had
deserted their l`ormer,,resideuce, and broken asunder the endear-
ing ties» of relationship, were not to be driven from their purpose,
nor baiiled in.their attempts by such trials.. They saw in pros-
pective the blessings which their labors would purchase, if not
for them, for future generations. This supported them in all their
trials, and stimulated-.to.greator exertions., Their labors were
.crowned with success. A new world sprang into existence, and
that liberty they had so ardently toiled for, richly compensated
them for theirsuliering.: Such characters as the settlers of North
America, arerworthy, our highest admiration. Amidst the hards
ships and sufferings of that period, they were not unmindful of
their descendants and the future inhabitants of the new world.
While struggling against the rigor of a. new climate, engaged in
repelling tlteattscks of their savage enemies, they laid a bro
and deepfnmdstion for the future civil and religious liberty
this westerncontinent. But soon the colonies had new diliicul,
ties to
encount¢;'~ 2
4991? 111° "WW 5'°5}"¥9%ti'l§"i°h?d' 'nd
P
¢ 1
,.< .
__________.~.
, _.».»...
-
4,
.A »»-;AJh;»-. 4-.. . ->»
has proudly bid defiance to the public opinion-#which has exulted'
»§§2 LIGHT ON MASGNRY.
(he war whoop had ceased to arouse them, and after suhduing
the wildemcss, agriculture, manufactures, and commerce, steadily
advanced. The colonies were in an
unparalleledstate of im-
provement, and exhibited a determination of actual independence.
The suspicion' and jealousy of the mother con-ntryfwas aroused,
and such acts were enacted as tended to paralyze the efforts ot
this enterprising country; burdens were imposed, tyrannical laws
enforced, and a course was pursued by the mother country which
had a direct -tendency to bring the colonies into actual depen-
dence upon and subjection to her authority. But that spirit which
had subdued the wildemess, repelled the savage foe, which had
in fact suffered all the difficulties of the new settlement for the
enjoyment of civil and religious liberty, was not to be crushed,
even in infancy, without an effort for preservation. Although
not all the actual settlers of this new world, yet the sufferings of
their fathers were fresh in their memory, andthey exhibited a de-
termination not to disgrace their noble sires. Long they suffered
from the oppression heaped upon them, before even a murmur of
complaint was heard; Encouraged hy such compliance, new
acts of oppression were enacted, and the old ones enforced with
new rigor. Yet still such was the deference they paid to Eng-
land, instead of repelling it with force and asserting their rights
at the mouth of the cannon, a remonstrance against those acts,
and a petition for redress of grievance, were the only measures
pursued bythe Colonies.
Supposing thisdeference to be sorvile stzbmission-that in their
destitute situation, without arms, without an army or a revenue to
raise or
support one, they were incapable of resisting theirsupe-
rior force: without the least regard for the. welfare of their awful
subjects, the mother country persevered in her course, and at-
tempted to subject the colonies ut all hazards and make them
subservient to her interest alone. In this they reckoned without
their host. The spirit of liberty had not forsaken the westem
world. Although they were
willingvto be dutiful subjects, they
'were unwilling to be slaves; The toils, sufferings, privations,
and conflicts which
they had already encountered and overcome,
'were not forgotten; neither were they to be in vain. After re-
monstrauce and petition had failed, then was aroused the spirit
'of their sires; then were
they willing to hazard their all- in defence
~of that freedom which they had so anxiously sought.- On the
_memorable 4th of July, 1776, appealing to -the' author of their
'éiistence and the God of armies for the rectitade offtheir con-
fdoct; they declared -themselves tiree and independent; pledging
'l!eir'lives, their tortunes, and their sacred honor, to support that
- -
. A..~.., ,e
._a..»h-nihkt...
`
LIGHT ON `1IASONRY¢ 463
declaration. What an eventful period was that when men, bear-
ing the impress of' the heavenly gift of liberty, threw oFt`all alle-
giance to the mother country, declaring the most powertbl nation
in the world, in war, enemies; inppeace, friends, The history is
too well known to require from me a minute detail.
A colony destitute of every means to carry on a þÿ\'3l`fi1l' ¬with-
out an army, arms, or ammunition, yet trusting to the righteousness
of her cause, unfurls the banners of freedom and invites her vo-
taries to rally round her standard and be fi-ee, or sacrifice their
lives in the conflict. The call was not in vain: the angel ot'
liberty had not taken his flight from the vorld. The patriotic sons
of America hear the call and leave all other concerns and fly to
the battle-tield. The conflict for independence was
long and
arduous; but liberty, civil and religious, was the reward of their
labors. The proud empire who refused to hear the remonstrance
of her children, wasrcompelled to acknowledge them of age and
capable of' governing themselves. The conflict over, and the
din of' battle no more heard within our borders, with rapid strides
dmerica. emerged from her former obscurity and took her stand
among the nations of the earth. Although scattering clouds at
times obscured the political horizon, they were soon dispelled,and
liberty with its cheering rays dispensed its blessings upon 'this
patriotic people. The arts and sciences dispensed their rich
blessings. Manufactures were encouraged; the fruits of the
soil amply repaid the husbandman for his labors, and every
sea was soon visited with the banner of' the United States.
Her settlements were extended, and the wildemcss- 'budded
and blossomed like the rose;' our country grew in strength and
teretold her future greatness. England, retaining her former jea-
lousy-justly fearing she might diminish the lustre of her crown-
saw the example she already set to other nations to throw oft' al»
legiance to sovereigns and be free-basely insulted our
flag and
infringed upon. the dearest' rights of' Americans. .The impress-
ment of American seamen. into the serviceof a
foreign power
was, and justly too, considered a suflicieutrcause to again appeal
to arms for #the protection of our privileges. The din ot' battle
again resoupdedllhrough our land, -.The horrors of war were
again experienced; but the proud monarch was again compelled
t.o»aelmellYlndge thamupremacy of Ainericalrarms, and to respect
the Anllicim flags, l10ll0¥'0il`Alll6'iGl wastadvaneed by this
==pp°»1r~bffvms» the just fighter were United sewn was
Qlbn-r'dr spmglédrbmnee wu- wavedfintliillmph,
and soompollqdto respect it. .Peace was
`
pygi'f¢fity»ofthernpub|iead»vaneed
Coolglu
Q
__
._ ..-»
-- ..¢_._¢... _...__
464 nerr on mrsonar.
While gba patriots ofthe revolution and the sages of America
were resting in security, proud of the triumphant march of free
principles and equal rights, supposing the free institutions of
America were fixed upon those inimitable principles which the
revolution of empires could never effect, a secret society was
slowly, but withn steady and determined step, possessing itself
with all the power and danger of monarchs. Although prover-
bially
'
jealous of their liberty and over watchftrlof open enemies
and threign powers, still they suffered at secret' cornbination.to~
increase in strength, numbers, and power, until it had become' the
most powerful combination in the world. The' Inquisition of
Spain, with all its terrors and power, possesses less means to
carry into execution its designs. Secret societies of different
kinds have at various periods attempted to arise; but the power-
tirl voice of public opinion has stopped their progress on the very
threshold of their existence. A society composed of the veterans
of the revolution, whose professed. object was to* continue those
otiices of kindness which had been so often administered intheir
struggle for independence, and-keep in remembrance those try-
ing scenes, created such jealousy, and called forth the energies
ofthe sages to such an extent, that the society soon dwindled
away. Although public opinion was so.
strong as to stop the
progressof such a
society, composed of members who had been
tried in the hour of adversity and had notbeen found wanting-
men ofeterling integrity and unyielding patriotism; yet the Ma-
sonic institution has so
arttirlly concealed its real principles, that t
it has extended itselfover. the Union, increased its members to an
,alarming number, accumulated funds to an enormous amount,
possessing means to learn its enemies, and power to punish them.
Although the production :of a
foreign power, and deriving its au-
thority from foreign lords, still the American republic has suffered
it to increase to its present gigantic size, until they openly boast
of possessing sutlicient' power of choosing the otiicers, and
directing the govemment of the United States. So powerful
does this society consider itself, that its members unhhrshingly
tell the citizens of America, 'You have a
secretrsociety- existing
among you whose power and influence is so great that-the govem-
ment itself cannot put it down; nay, the world hams, cannot
suppress it.' This is no picture of fancy; neithoraiidhhs shades
too highly colored. It is their own
insultingl A
Q biebmn,
openly declared and published to the world.;
what they conceive to be the powerand
permit me to extract from a
public address'
`
`
of
their devoted subjects on one of their festiverf "N ARS, da..
Scribing its pretended origin and its vast increase oftnumber, het
,
_._r...,
LIGHT os misonnv. 465
exclaims-'What is Masonry now! Itis powerful! It comprises
men of rank, wealth, ofrice, and talent, in power and out of power,
and that in almost every place where power is ot` any importance:
and it comprisesamong the other class ofcommunity to the lowest.
in large numbers, and capable of 'being directed by the eflbrts ol'
others, so as to have the force of concert throughout the civilized
world. They are distributed, too, with the means of knou ing each
other, and the means of keeping secret, and the means of co-ope-
rating--in the desk, in thelegislative hall, on the bench, in every
gathering of men of business, in every party of pleasure, in every
cnterprise,of govemment, in every domestic circle, in peace and
in war, among its enemies and friends, in one place as well as
another; so
powerful indeed is it at this time, that it fears nothing
from violence, either public or
private; for it has every moans to
loam it in season; to counteract, defeat, and punish it. The
power of the Pope has been sometimes friendly ond sometimes
hostile. V
Suppose now, the opposition of either should arousr,
Masons to redress its grievances. The Jesuits with their cun-
ning might call on the holy brotherhood, and the holy brotherhood
on the holy alliance, and they might all come, too, and in vain.
For it is too late to talk of the propriety of continuing or
suppress-
ing Masonry, alter the time to do so has gone by; so good or
bad the world must take it as it is. Think of it, laugh at it, hate
it, or despise it,.still it is not only what I have told you, but it will
coutinue to be-and U16 World in arms Cannot stop it-u powerful
jnstitutionf* ,
_
Such, fellow citizens, is the description of the induence and
power of the Masonic institution, by one of its orators, and pub-
lished to a public of freemen. An institution whose members
have been supported and protected by the laws of this republic,
until it assumes its present enormous
power, and now bids de-
tinnce to the govemment which has fostered them in its bosom,
and attempted to give the deadly sting. -Shall it be said that in
at free government which professes to distribute justice equally
upon all, whether high or low, rich or
poor, we have an institution
which, in the language ofa bravado, boasts that its strength is so
great that even the govemment itself is imable to put it down;
that it is too late to talk of the propriety of continuing or suppress-
ing Masonry; o good or had the world must take it as it is? Yes,
fellov;§lgl,,=~we have an institution within our borders and in
tha
`
U, composed -of citizens of a free govemmenb Whlch
proudly V
t that the`Jesuits with all their cunning, the P°P°» 91°
,
*Omtion of Brainerd, before Union Lodge, New London, C°""°°ll°"l»
June 24, isas.
__,.l|||¢¢._..._-_.__-¢,,_- _._ ,sl
"""
466 near ps mrtsoxnr.
combined force ot` European monarchs,»all concentrated; nay, the
world in arms, cannot stop its progress; that it will continue to bc
what it now is, a powerful institution. _
Freeman of America! have you been faithful guardians ofyour
liberties, to permit this institution to assume such powers? Are
you now faithtiil sentinels, and will you allow this soeiety to make
tiirther progress? This boast of ~theirs was not an idle tale, told
to amuse a few fanatical hearers, but was a true and taithful por-
trait ot` the power Masons actually believed their institution to
possess. This declaration was made and published to the world
in 1825, when it was unknown their force would require concen-
tration to possess the fosceof concert, throughout the civilized
world, to their proud institution. The disastrous events of Sep-
tember, 1826, show conclusively this was not the fancy of one
wild braiued member, but the opinion of the whole Masonic bo-
dy. _
They learned its enemy, and exercised the power to counter-
act, defeat, and punish it. The magazine ot` Niagara tells the
tale ot` their punishment; _but may Ileaven avert the disastrous
event ot' their countoracting all itsenernies. A brief history of
this institution," together with its professed objects, and u delinea-
tion ot` its true principles; may not at this time ~be- unappropriate.
'I'o deceive its votaries andallure the unsuspecting into its snares,
this institution attempts to trace its origin to the earliest period ot`
existence; that it was the gift of God, to man; that its regular or-
ganization wessfmnuted by men inspired of heaven to ameliorate
the condition of man, and smooth his path through his proba..
tionary existence. Some assert it to 'be the handmaid of religion,
given as an assistant to point man to his duty hcrc, and a sure
way ot` gaining admittance to the abode of happiness, or Masoni-
cally speaking, to the Grand Lodge above. -They have heaped
n mountain of pretensions upon it, and other no -proofs to support
their :assertions but Masonic tmrlitions, which are too absurd to
ho listened to in moments ot` reflection. Nay, so absurd are
many of their traditional histories, that the greatest devotee* to
Masonry has been compelledin his public addresses to pronounce
them as absurd, contradictory, and ridiculous; :so much so, that
the candidate can, from that.Holy Book upon which she requires
her members to swear allegiance, prove them to be deceptions of
the basest kind.
'
Aswell, sagysrhe, might' we believe that the sun
travels round the earth instead of the ~
earth round the sun, as
t0
beliete in 811156 þÿiD¢0lgl'll`lfl ¬S-Whl£l1
are
taught in the lodges,
[syrnbohc degrees.] Yet -so
successfully has 'she trumpeted
'*
See Da.cha's Oration, p. 43, Sovereign Inspector General.
_----»~ ~+,-- run..
LLGHT on Mismmr. 467'
tbrth her own praise, so
.completelyhas she shrouded herself in
mystery, that a
majority of her subjects .have been last to ascer.
tain her real origin; and for that very reason suppose she must
be ancient; and have claimed as her. supporters the kings of Is-l
rael, the prophets, saints, and apostles, for no other possible rea-
son than Masonry. has so instructed them. Masonry, it is true,
is ancient, as the laying of brick and stone to form a habitation for
man; but the supporters of speculative Free Masonry despise so
humble an origin for their mistress, and assert the word from
which their institution derives its name, means those initiated into
the sacred mysteries! Theytrue history of Masonry is this;-A
society of honest mechanics was formed with established rules to
govern themselves in contracting for work, and also for goveming
their apprentices and joumeymen, or Fellow Crafts. Every sym-
bol and article of clothing of the present day show this conclu-
sively. 7
Whence do they derive the origin ot' their apron, trowels,
pluinblines, gavel, Src. 'it' not from operative masons? What do
thousands of their members know of the technical terms of this
laboring class of men, such as the entablature, the plinth, thedie,
and surbaso? In the mouth of operative masons they have an im-
portant meaning; but-'in the.mouth ot' a. member of speculative
Free Masonry who is initiated into the sacred mystery, they
mean nothing.
A
In the years' 1716 and 1717 an atternptwas successfully made
to convert this system into speculative Free Masonry; and when
at length many of diflerentvtrades were admitted, they raised it
above its vulgar origin and attempted to load it with pretensions
of' honor and antiquity: 'the records and constitution were com-
mitted to the flames thatthey might not give a lie to their asser-
tions. -Three degrees only were then invented, and these were
in 1720» passed into the different nations having communication
with Great Britain. At this time her historians are capable ot'
giving the name ot' the 'Grand Master, the date of the warrant to
a year, and the place where it was sent.
'
Do they give the 'dates
ot' warrants or the operation of this society previous to this? They
are as silent as the grave from the days of king Solomon down to
1717.
'
Could they not have given the history with the -same ac-
curacy, previous? The first introduction of MasonryintoAmerica
was by a warrant granted by the Right'Honorable and Most Wor-
shipful Anthony Lord Viscount Montague, Grand Master, &c.
dated April 30, 1733; and the firstlodge ever held in America Was
in Bostcnpluly, 1733. This lodge granted ten warrants f'?1' °'h"
_____"_
ry" ;gC.flL
sf
.'»~ fr' lv.
~,
inf! ),,,_
,Y I
_
V{. _`
psi--....,._. ,_»._..A_.-q..- _._
A
"
"""°°*
LIGHT ON nusoxnr.
10,1555 in djfihreat parts ot' the colonies. Althoughlflasonie his-
tory was careful to give the days in which the lodges met in after
wus, yet her historians give no account of her progress for a num-
ber of years. In 1755 a
grant was given by another individual
to hold a
lodgein the same place ofthe former; so much was the
society in its. infancy at this time that no established nrle or or-
ganization was formed, and an
infringement was here made upon
their established customs. The next meeting of the society
which they give an account of was in December, l769,wheu, the
historian asserts, was celebrated the festival of the Evangelist
in due form. A period of thirty-six years has elapsed since the
formation in America of the society claiming relationship with the
apostles, ere they thought of commemorating the birthday of their
Christian panon. This is the first celebration of that day, within
my knowledge, on record. Little or no mention is made of the
progress of light until 1777, when a new lodge was formed. In
so little repute was the society held in that day, that it fell into
disrepute: once, no less than three -regular formations are men-
tioned. But in 1783 a committee was appointed to draft resblu-
tions explanatory of the power and authority of the Grand Lodge.
Thus we find, five thousand seven hundred and thirty-three years
after its prdended existence, a
society claiming Solomon, king of
Israel, for their Grand Master-and under whose patronage a re~
gular organization was -formed-a society which they pretend has
continued the same in every age; whose regular or constitutional
powers were not detinede-its powers were now established, and
Masonry slowly extended itseltl
'
Until the nineteenth century Masonry made but little progress
in America; but then is recorded its rapid spread over the United
States. Not a
village could make its appearance in -the wilder-
ness, but some Mason would establish a lodge, to give himself and
brethren an undue advantage over the common citizens. Al-
though the Masonic historians with minuteness relate the ,particu-
lars of the formation of the first lodge in America, giving the date
ofthe first warrant and the name of the individual granting the
same, with all his Masonic and civil titles, he -gives the name of
no one who stands as godfather to a chapter. No warrantvwas,
ever granted by any power to hold a
chapter in America. The
.Masonic history of this degree in this country is veryshort. It
commences by saying, 'Previous to 1797 no Grand Chapter of
Royal Arch Masons -was ever organized in America: previously
a
competent number of companions under the sanction of a Mas~
1er's warrant, exercised the right of Royal Arch Masons?
It cannot be unknown to -the public that a Master's warrant
-- -»--_*_ V-
_ "nil
LIGHT ON Misounvt _
`
469
cannot authorize work (as Masons say) beyond three degrees.
Yet a number of men, under the sanction of such a wanant, exer-
cise the authority ot' conferring four more
degrees than their war-
rant authorizes. Can it be possible that degrees founded in the
days of Solomon, which in its tradition traces events which oc-
curred at the building of the temple, which contains important se-
crets hid from the world for the period of _seven hundred years,
had no
regular form of government, no proper manner of confer-
ring its favors? The whole truth is, these degrees are an inno-
vation on what Masons call ancient Free Masonry. Its intro-
duction called forth animadversions from the warmest
supporter
of Masonry. The first formation, I believe, was of Horodim
Chapter, in 1787. Mr. Preston in his first editions makes no
mention of any degrees above the Master, but in his later he
mentions the formation of this chapter, and expresses fears for
the consequences of some modern innovations in 1\1asonry_...
Hutchinson's Spirit of Free Masonry, published in 1794, treats
of three degrees only; Ahimon Rezon, published in London,
1764, treats of three degrees; Jachin and Boaz, published in
1770, gives a true history of all Masonry then in existence, but
is silent conceming any degrees above the Master's. The book of
constitutions of Massachusetts, edition of 1792, which professes
to give a complete history of Free Masonry both in England and
Massachusetts, makes no mention of any degree in either coun-
try above the lodge of Master Masons; Laurie' history of Free
Masonry gives no
degree above the Master's, but says in the
constitution of the Grand Lodge ot' Scotland that all ancient St.
John Masonry is contained within the three degrees; Smith's use
and abuse of Masonry declares the same thing; the union of the
Grand Lodge of England with the dissenters, ratified in Loudon,
1803, declares all ancient Free Masomy contained the
lodges of Master Masons; the Free Mason' Library, .written
since, declares there are but four degrees of Masonry; Mr. Cdle,
the writer, says, 'This opinion accords not only with the senti-
ments of the oldest but bestinformed Masons with whom I have
conversed, but is
traceable
to written and printed documents in
my possession., T »=t`ollowing,degrees have been manu-
factured within a few gears past are mere elueiqhtory of the se-
cond, third,<.|md degrees! ¢,,H<-rllwn enumerates all the
dBg¥El .B\K$hBPt6l'. »
1 1-,~ _
'_ ,
'
,Atthe iigedhem IUQWIS -wrote; so mud! A-il!
adm , ehapterasbnbsgnnqsnifres ,"9m7?
þÿb\1t»|\s»t|\Q|h6$a!l~1h0fUQ!li»i1
*$l*s0f»dl0th'°° <10-
q_ _
l\.-¢»n-¢.....s__._- s-
""'
""""°
410 near on misounv. .
grees, their writers soon had the elfrontery to claim the highest
degrgeg as ancient. We soon found them enumerating the de-
grees of Masonry as high as
thirty-three, and in 18l6,they have
increased as high a
forty-three, and at this day they attempt t
claim ninety-six regular degrees in Masonry, and all them found'
ed in the days of Solomon; and some of them go back to the
antideluvian days without finding any mention of them until 1786,
or acknowledged as belonging to their system until 1797. The
truth is, too many of what they call the vulgar, and European Prin-
ces, and American aristocrats, could 'not meet upon a level with
the vulgar crowd; and in later days the managers have found it
to increase the Masonic funds, and consequently, their own in-
terest. Such, fellow citizens, is the brief but correct history ot'
Free Masonry.
lf this society has been presumptuous in claiming for herself
antiquity, no less effrontery has she exhibited in her professed
objects and avowed
"
privileges. Her members state V
that the
principles ol' speculative Free 'Masonry have the same co-etemal
and unshaken foundation; contain and inculcate the same truth;
and propose the same ultimate end as the doctrines of Chris-
tianity taught by Divine Revelations 'The pious will embrace
it as an
auxiliary to human happiness and a
guide toa blessed
immor'ta.lity.' 'Here [that is, in speculative Free Masomy] we
view the coincidence of principle and design between the Chris-
tian scheme and speculative Free Masonry, with that pleasing
admiration which satisfies inquiry, and clearly proves our
system
based on the rock of etemal ages.' 'Here [in a lodge room] we
are
taught all the combined and unspeakable excellencies of the
Omnipotent Creator. To adore that Divinity' whose goodness
and mercy are so
astonishingly displayed in the salvation of ma.n.'
'No moral character is regarded by the Divine Being with greater
complaisance' than a .Ma.son.' 'Masonry preaches the etemal
world manifested in the flesh! 'Masonry embraces the subject
matter of Divine economy.' -'Masonry presents to the mind the
co-equal and co-etemal existence of the adorable Trinity! Such
are the principles and avowed objects of Free Masonry. It is
by such palpablefalsehoods and great pretensions she has allured
thousands into her deceitfiil' snare., If such are indeed its prin-
ciples, who would not be a Mason? Who would not belong to a
society whose members are
regarded by the Divine with
the greatest complacency? It is with such pretensions as these
she has deceived the public and -been permitted-to extend he'r do
minions. S0 þÿP0W ¬l`fll
have been her bonds and such influence
has she exerted; that few in my former period of her existence
---A-n..f»-. ;~..¢»
LIGHT ON msounv. 471
have idared to deny her authority or
lay naked her hidden enormi-
ties. An opposition to Masonry by any number of her members
would have proved their inevitable ruin. She arrogated to her-
self the privilege of publishing her enemies to the world as unwor-
thy and vicious vagabonds; of deranging their business; and her
influence has been so great that she has been able to do it eflectu-
ally. Some few have attempted to divulge her true character-to
disrobe the harlot and expose her native ugliness to the common
gaze; but dearly have they paid for their temerity. But the strong
bonds which bound them to this moloch are broken. Men, trust-
ing to the tree institutions of their country for support, have dared
to brave Masonic vengeance and expose the secret cnormities uif
this dark conspiracy against the liberties of man; she has iilled
the measures of her iniquities; her crimes are of a scarlet die;
they have aroused insulted freemen to investigate her principles;
,she must pass the ordeal of public opinion; if her principles
:ire
compatible with our free institutions, she can still exist; but
should she prove to be a hypocrite, a base dissembler-if in her
secret places she generates the principles of discord, sanctions
the crimes_ of her votaries, exercises an undue influence in the
councils of the nation, she must fall, and receive the contempt of
:in insulted and much abused public.
That Free Masonry inculcates such principles as have been
quoted, the most cnedulous cannot but believe, should they inves-
dgate one
single moment. The same authors who so shame~
fully say she 'is in body ind substance the whole duty of man as
it moral being, and its precepts equally sacred and equally pre-
cious with Christianity;' that it inculcates the deep mysteries ol
the Divine Word, in whom all the fulness of the Godhead dwelt
iiodily;' say, 'the wandering Arab, the civilized Chinese, and the
native American; the rigid observer of the Mosaic law, the fol-
lowers of Mahomet, and professors of Christianity, are all con-
nected by the mystic union in one indissoluble band of ail'ection.'
How absurd that the Jew should meet in good fellowship with a
<ociety which teaches that in Christ the fulness of the Godhead
dwelt bodily, that the wandering Arab should unite with men in
precepts equally sat-red and precious with Christianity; andhow
delighted must the native of the forest be with all these Heavenly
principles taught in the Holy Bible, which has been to him a
sealed book, whose pages of inspiration he never understood, and
in whose precepts be never was instructed. Masonry bec0m0S
all things to all men, says a late author. 'This is the true Oha-
racter of the harlot: she loves every body dearly, and hun With
whom she cohabits, supremely; she also reveres the Blble IH
A .l=.ail|;¢¢».»;4¢»»-»-¢. -..._.¢»¢-_--_
---- -
"` '
""°""'*
472 LIGHT ON MASONR Y. ~
America, the Koran in Turkey; and the Shaster in India, as
equally worthy of acceptation, and revealing the whole duty ol'
man: she possesses the remarkable quality of being the same
thing and its opposite to any extent required! Instead of hearing
within the lodge the warning voice and theduty of man explained,
often is heard the noisy bacchanalian revels, occasioned by too
frequent calls from labor to refreshment. The true principles of
Free Masonry are not found in her Monitor, neither are
they pub-
lished by her orators. These are prepared for the public, who
are never admitted behind the scenes to view the actors in their
common apparel. They consist solely in her senseless ceremo-
nies and_ unhallowed obligations. To these, then, we
appeal.
Secret societies of any description should awaken the suspicion
of freemen living under a
govemment whose acts are
open to the
scrutiny of all its subjects; no society, however limited it may be,
should be suffered to be regularly organized with regular and sta-
ted meetings, whose objects are unknown. Such societies are
not the product of republican soil. They are the legitimate eotll
springs of' tyranny. The fomier reign ot' darkness and despotism
were effected by means of secret societies. To secret societies
can be distinctly traced the conspiracies which have convulsed
Europe. When a
society becomes so
regularly organized as to
defy the scrutiny of government, the public should demand an in-
vestigation oi' its principles. The Masonic society has become
regularly organized, possessing one grand governing power
which extends over the whole United States, with stated periods
of meeting; has elected its otlicers, who hold them for seven
years; and its real object ,is unknown to the public. It is also
divided into smaller govemments whose authority extends over
every part ofthe state in which the same is held, and again sub-
divided into lesser or auxiliary societies who exercise authority
over its own immediate members, but all subject to the controll-
ing power of the general grand society. Thus there is one
grand connecting link existing from a simple lodge to a Grand
Chapter, Encampment and Consistory; all pursuing one
grand ob-
ject, and that object unknown to all but those initiated into their
sublime mysteries. The members of this society are found in
every important station in the Union. ,In the legislative hall, on
the bench, in all the executive departments: in fact, distributing
among and commingling with us in all the scenes of life, and all
of them, in their own
language, 'capable of
being directed by the
efforts ot' others.' With such an organizat.ion,..|t|. nfxicers regu-
larly chosen, from
the 'Most Puissant Sovereignlgnspector Gone-
ral,' 'Deputy Sovereign of Sovereigns,' down to;the simple 'Wm-_
.-.¢"._ ,
-
___.-__..
LIGHT ON MA ONRY. 473
shipful Master and Wardens] they possess to an
alarming degree
the power to'-destroy any government, however pure or well forti-
fied. Although a rtiall minority, yet with such a
powerthl com.
bination, such facilities to concert its plans of operation, no
power
-could 'stop the progress of such a
conspiracy. In their own lan-
guage, the 'Jesuits with all their cunning mightcall on the Holy
Brotherhood, and the Holy Brotherhood on the Holy Alliance, and
they all might come too, and in vain, for the world in arms cannot
.
, j
sto lt. I A
such is the power of the Masonic institution, unassisted by
other' means than the regular distribution of power. _
But the
danger increases ten fold, when, in addition to her secret
meetings
she binds her members to silence, under no less penalty than an
ignominious and-inhuman death, to for ever conceal her dark
conspiraeies from the world. She possesses a mystic language
by which she can communicate all her wants and make known
her objects, unknown to and unperceived by those unacquainted
with her mysteries. Whence the necessity of an unknown lan.
guage, in a government providing for all th'e honest wants of its
subjects? Knaves and villains only need- a
mystic language.
Honest men need them not. But Masonry possesses them; and
it is one of her grand principles and most powerful engine to car-
ry into eti`ect her secret and unwarrantahle acts. She also
requires her subjects to swear
they will obey all regular signs of
summons, given; handed, sent, or thrown them by the hand ofa
brother, or from the body ot' a lodge or chapter; and conform to
all her rules and regulations: should she require her, summons
sent, she binds her members to perform this duty, should they in
its performance have to do it hareheaded, barefooted, and on
frosty ground. Thus distributed, and possessing such powers,
no government can be safe, should they arise and unite their
strength to overthrow it. Should her plans be concerted and
require the aid ol' her subjects, they must obey all her summons,
no matter what may be its import, and arouse the energies ofthe
brethren to bring them to the field of battle, or act as occasion
might require. They are swom to sound the alarm, to notify all,
should they do it barefoot and on frosty ground. Provision is
made in their code for the most extreme casevthat can
possibly
arise. So distributed are her members that her whole force can
receive the summons and concentrate before the government can
receive the alarm. But to cap the climax-of Masonic govem-
ment, she requires her subjects to solemnly swear to conceal the
secrets of a companion, murder andtreason not excepted; What
t`acilities'are~here offered to the ambitious! What safe8"°*`d "ll
_
QQ2 I
~rs this? In some desperate moment, smarting under wounded
,..-.T
474 Lrerrr on nnsosav.
avert the impending tempest? Without the least danger, a mem-
ber of this infernal institution can propose to citizens of this ties
government schemes of treason, should he do it with a
charge of
secrecy; for however disposed to support our free institution, his
bearers must remain tor ever silent, their lips. must be tb: ever
hermetically sealed. No punishment ean be awarded to so dar-
ing villains, should they confide the secrets only to worthy cem-
panions. No govemment was ever formed, so
powerful and
well organized for plans ot operation. Possessing such means,
well may she bid defiance to the 'world in armsi'
In this society can be distinctly traced the spirit of the Illumi-
nati; and from her were lighted those fire brands of discord which
-ravaged France in her revolution, and extinguished all rational
liberty. What security can we
possibly possess in our govern-
ment with such a
society? Should she be suffered to increase in
the same ratio for a few more
years that she has for the last ten
or fiheen, from her dark cavems and midnight conclaves would
issue some
despotic and ambitious (sesar, who, with wide spread
desolation, would destroy the labor of our fathers; and our cpun-
try, instead of the land of liberty and happiness, would become the
oppressed land of Masonic tyranny. lfsuch are nother objects,
why does she guard herself with such impenetrable barriers? Does
the benign Gospel, whose handmaid she styles herself, require
such secrecy and such impious oaths? Does the dispensation
-of charity require such regulations? Does the propagation of
-morality require such aid? No: the only reason for her shroud-
'mg herself in such impenetrable darkness and=mystery, is because
1rer 'deeds are evil, therefore she chooses darkness rather than
'light.' The only safety we can possess consists in the patriot-
-ism of her leading members, and this has been the great bulwark
of her defence. But has she not ambitious aspirants registered
-in -the archives of her lodge? Have we not seen the man who
has been elected to the second othce in the gift of a free people,
attempt the overthr'ow»of our
government? What security then
defeat, some powertirl and ambitious rnan may survey the mate
rials 'and concentrate the force ot' the imtitution toohtaiu the ob-
ject 'ot' his ambition. It-is=too 'powerful an engine-to be heit-in
'the hands ot' any manor setef men; and our~orvn.satety, our
legiance to our common country, the experience of past.ages,»d
unite in one loud ap|»ealito-tl:e- freeman of? America for the-total
*annihilation ot`~speculative1Free Masonry. t~
'
~
reountry,
however,'c§¢BP°
'59
*lirming dmgerfoti 'Hmm this_se-
ciety, -
she mculcates ~
those cf, g ,~1¢¢|¢|@
'
'
'
.shun _s
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 4'1§
infringe upon our dearest rights as citizens of' the elective fran~
chise. By requiring her members to swear as she does in some
chapters, to 'vote for a companion before any other of' equal
qualifications# to require under the sanction of' a barbarous oath,
to always 'support his political preferment in opposition to
any
other;' she places her own chosen children in every station of our
government; and they, after obtaining complete control of' thc
executive, legislative, and judicial departments. must and will
dispense their patronage upon the members of the institution,
which forms a
complete Masonic government-a government
within a
government. This secret influence' exercised in our
elections is a-source of great corruption, and attended with great
danger to the government itselfl The firm support, the main
pillar ofa republican government, is the free choice of' its rulers
given to the electors. But if' our rulers are. to be made in a
lodge
room, and all the brotherhood bound on oath to support such
candidates, then indeed is the choice taken from the people, and
eventually the overthrow ofthe free institutions will be the inevi.
table consequence. When her obligations require her subjects
to assist each other so far as to extricate them from any difficul-
ty, whether 'right or
wrong,' then are the fountains ofjustice pol-
luted, and the crime becomes sullied by Masonic influence. We
have no
security for the faithful administration of' justice, while
such obligations are administered and adhered to. A felon may
be arraigned for an offence against the laws of his country: ,should
he belong to thistsociety, no
punishment can be awarded him ade-
quate to his crime. Such has been the influence of Masonry
that few jurors have been empanneled without finding at least
one Mason upon it. No matter if a Masonic juror has taken an
oath a 'true verdict to find, according to evidence# he has taken
a Masonic obligation paramount to his civil one, and of much
more horrid import, to shield the culpritwhether right or
wrong;
but should this fail him, he gives the grand hailing, sign to the
executive, and the sword of'justice is averted. Neither have we
any security for the impartial administration of `nstice between
man and mam A_Masonic juror is bound to aid alxrotherwhether
right or wt-008% Will the sanctity ofa witness? oath to tell the 'truth,
the whole tm\h,'an¢l nothing but the truth] is'lost in his revious
oath to the secrets ot' a
companion, 'mf/rder mul,treason
MI GNOHQL' Supl; obligations- have aylirect tendency to ro-
moto Grin! of theuteopest-die.' It Qmboldens the criminal! to
mines
by-W in mn in mn
MINI- .owtvnrnom
`
_
'uw commi¢~'='i'P¢* =I"#*
m¢e|a»~»»tfwmaa»§as»ny-cw'"°"'<1def?" tf wma a»§as»ny-cw'"°"'<1 def?"
___ _
_
..-.`_ _A
-.___..»..-__ _ _,__,,
» -
'
sv
476 LIGHT on Masonar.
him ffgm communicating his designs: but in the present case he
runs no risk. Should he require an accomplice, he tinds a Mas-
ter Muon-he confides his intended crime to him; with perfect
knowledge he is bound by an oath to conceal the same, should it
be less than murder and treason. Should it exceed these, he
seeks a companion Royal Arch Mason. He communicates his'
intended purpose to him, requires-his aid: perhaps he finds a com-
panion who wiU not stoop to commit such acts; he readily an-
swers, Do as
you choose, but recollect you are bound to keep
the secrets of a
companion, 'murder and treason not excepted?
It necessarily familiarizes the young noviciate with the relation
of the most horrid crimes; and however honest he may be when
tirst caught in her snares, from the recital of actual crimes, he is
impressed with a belief that his oath of secrecy forbids his com-
municating the same. It emboldens him to commit crimes. ls'
it uncharilable to suppose that many of the corruptions which
have been committed by our law givers have been done by the
members of this society, under the sanction of Masonic obliga~
tions? The same facilities are offered for her subjects to effect
their purposes in the legislative hall as in the commission of
crime; and there are but too many who are
ready to accept of the
inducements she holds forth. In ordinary cases, the offer or ac-
ceptance ofa Ivribe would be attended with the fear of detection;
but in this case there is none, unless some members should con-
sider their obligation to their country paramount to all others.
An account ot' this kind is now registered on the journals of Con-
gress, when a bribe was olfered a member to assist in some'
monied concerns. This bribe was olfered under the sanction of
Masonry. The words were as follows:-'I give it you as a man
and a Mason. and hope you belong to that society! If one case
can be found where the exposition was made because the person
was not a Mason, or considered his duty to his country of more
consequence than that to Masonry, have we not reason to fear
that too many of the mysterious acts of our lawgivers spring*
from the same
corrupt source? Too much facility is olfered for
bribery and corruption in so
important a branch_of our govem-
ment. Fellow citizens! these are the true principles- of Ma-
sonry disrobed of all her pretensions. Is nota society, bound
by such ties and possessing such power, which "§Xél`0iS6d
such intiuence, of great danger to our republics! institutions!
Are you not bound by your love of country, and irc blood 0F
martyrs who fell in our
glorious revolution, to
'
" '
ftheliv
sires to S109 the Pf°gf°Ss, and entirely ever-:antigua mercy or
SP°¢ulative Free Masonfii Should you needkother facts tv
ML; _..AJ..._ ._4`
.
_*_
LIGHT ON mssomw. 477
stimulate you to such a
glorious act, review the bloody scenes ot'
September,~1826.' If you are deaf to the voice of reason, let
those transactions added to the conduct of this society since that
period, arouse you- to exterminate this hydra-headed monster.
You have seen the crime of kidnapping, arson, and murder, com-
mitted by members of this society, and under such circumstances
as leave no doubt they were the legitimate productions of their
laws. You have seen the public press, the palladium of liberty,
silent as the grave on these important subjects. You have seen
those guilty of such acts screened from punishment through Ma-
sonic inliuence. You have seen
your fellow citizens who at-
tempted to, investigate this transaction, and raised their voice
against them, visited with vindictive and malevolent persecution
by this society. All this you have seen; and are
you not prepared
to act on such an occasion? A fearful gloom has indeed been
spread around, but the prospects are
brightened. Freemen have
aroused to assert their rights. They have indeed boasted that
the govemment, the world in arms,is unable to suppress Masonry.
This may be so; but public opinion, stronger than the govem-
ment itself, is able to accomplish this glorious work. We wish
not to array the world 'in arms against them. It must be a blood-
less victory. Their principles are now
divulged. This day
commences-a revelation of all their unhallowed orgies. Men,
trusting to theprotection ol' an intelligent community, have com-
menced, and will disclose the utmost secrets of that blood stained
institution. To secure
victory, it is necessary that these revela-
tions be promulgated to the uttermost bounds of our country. A
knowledge ol' the facts is all that is requisite to assert the rights
of freeman. -
Finally, fellow citizens, in view of all that you have seen. in
view of the scenes of violence and iniquity, and of the lawless
usurpation of your rights, which have passed before your eyes or
come to your knowledge, act as freemen; fuliil your duties as the
possessors oi' this soil, which was once drenched with the blood of
your patriotic sires. Look upon the remnant of this invincible
band now before'you, whose hands, once nerved with almost su-
perhuman strength, are now trembling with age; whose heads,
now whitened with years, yet blooming with honors, are fit objects
of your veneration. Look uponthem, and read in their wrinkled
brows, as well as in the history of their bravery, the monition to
act as becomes their offspring; to conduct in such a manner,
that ere their bones are laid by the side of their compatriots, they
may behold the joyful earnest of their country's greatuees- RO'
Hect that not their eyes alone, but those who have g°l10 before
_.lim _ _.....|;._._ ,., _._ . .-._ ., ._ A -
Q-
473 mom' ON nnsonnv.
(hem, are upon you. Go to your homes; behold the companions
of your bosom and the offspring of your affections, and remem-
ber that they too are involved in the welfare of our land; and let a
l`ather's care and a husba.nd's love inspire your devotion to your
r;ountry's cause. Thus let us rellect-thus let us act-and heaven
will bless our endeavors-shall crown our land with blessing-
and earth shall know no nobler clime than ours. -
l
-»»»¢|9u»-
'
ANTI-MASUSIC STATE CONVENTIONQ
'
PROCEEDINGS
'Ville ./Inti-.Masonic .M Y. State Convention, heldat Utica, Aug. 4, 5, mtd6, 1828.
Ar aconvention of Anti-Masonic delegates from the different
counties of the state, held at the Baptist church in the village of
Utica, on the 4th of August, 1828, prayer by Deacon Jonathan
Olmstead, the following proceedings were had: The Hon. James
Hawks, of the county of Otsego, was chosen president, and
Thomas C. Green, of Saratoga county, and Seth Abbey, of Jef-
ferson county, were chosen secretaries.
`
The resolutions adopted by the Le Roy convention in March
last were then read. The following resolutions were adopted:
1. Resolved, That a committee of five be appointed to draft
resolutions expressive of the sense of this meeting in relation to
Free Masonry.
2. Resolved, That a committee ol' one from each county rep-
resented be appointed to report what measures ought to bc adopt-
ed to counteract the influence and destroy the existence of
Masonic societies.
'
3. Resolved, That a committee of live be appointed to prepare
an address to the people of this state.~
On the first resolution, the following persons were
appointed:
Theodore F. Talbot, T. Fitch, J. C. Morris, Alexander Sheldon,
James Dean.
On the second resolution, the following.persons were appointed:
Samuel Humphrey, Henry Parsoll, jun., Laban Hazeltine, Bus-
sell Waters, Thomas C. Love, H. A. Read, Alfred Guthrie,
James Percival, Thomas Beekman, Timothy Childs, George Da-
vis, Bates Cooke, A. McAllister, Calvin Peck, Nathan Pierce,
Gideon Hard, William Hawks, William Utter, Thomas C. Green,
Ansel Bascom, Thomas Lewis, Isruelil. Richardson, Morris F.
Sheppard.
'
p
'
_
On the third resolution, the following persons were appointed:
....-..<n....a......_.,
.r..~
`
LIGHT on Masonmf., 479
Timothy Childs, John C. Morris, Herbert A. Read, Frederick
Whittlesey, Bates Cooke. _
The following preamble and resolution were then adopted:
Whereas the title and prospectus of a book entitled 'Light on
Masonry, &c. &c.' compiled by David Bernard, has been read
to this convention; and entertaining the fullest confidence in the
integrity, zeal, and ability of the compiler; and being deeply im-
pressed with the importance of the proposed publication to the
causeof truth and justice, therefore
Resolved, 'I`hat we recommend the compiler to proceed with-
out delay in the publication of' his work; and we recommend it
to the attention and patronage of all the friends of truth and the
cause of civil liberty throughout the world. The convention ad-
journed till nine o'clock the next day.
_ Met pursuant to adjournment.
The reading of the Royal Arch degree being called for, it was
requested that Mr. H. A. Read perform thatduty, which was done
by him in a plain, clear, and distinct manner: also the Knights
of the Christian Mark and Guards of the Conclave.
Mr. Love, as chairman for the second resolution, reported as
follows; which report was adopted by the convention.
The committee appointed to consider and report what measures
ought to he adopted to counteract the influence and destroy the
existence of Masonic societies, in addition to the measures
already adopted, report,
1. That it is expedient to recommend to the people of the se-
veralcounties of this state to establish free presses in their re-
spective counties, and to place the same under the control of
discreet and competent persons who will fearlessly publish the
whole truth, in violation to the principles, obligations, and tendency
of speculative Masonry.
1
-2. That it is expedient to appoint an Anti-Masonic General
Committee for the state of New York, to whom the Anti-Ma-
sonic Central Committees for the several counties may report
themselves.
-
3. That it is expedient to recommend to the people of the se-
veral counties of this state, who have already appointed a Cen-
tral Committee, to appoint such and report themselves to the
General Committee.
4. That it is expedient to recommend to the people of' the se-
veral towns ot' this state to raise money by contribution, and
transmit the same through their respective county committees to
the General Committees, for the purpose of defraying the expense
that has already been incurred; and that it may become necessary
-'lid--.......;¢-L..._..»..¢¢..... is-A-.» -_
-........
430 naar on masomtr.
-
to ggpmd in the publication and distribution of facts and docu-
ment; exposing the outrages and iniquities ofthe Masonic insti-
tution.
5. That it is expedient to petition the legislature of this state to
prohibit the use or administration of extra judicial oaths.
6. That it is expedient for this convention in pursuit of the
good objects to be accomplished, wholly to disregard the two great
political parties that at this time distract this state of the Union,
in the choice of candidates for otlice; and to nominate Anti-Ma-
sonic candidates for Govemor and Lieutenant Governor.
7. That it is expedient to publish in a
pamphlet form the pro~
ceedings of this convention, together with such disclosures ofthe
secret ceremonies and blasphemous rites ofthe Masonic institu-
tion. as have been made to this convention.
Resolved, That the following persons compose the General
Central Committee of the state of New York:-Samuel Works,
Herve Ely, Frederick F. Backus, Frederick Whittlesey, Thur-
low Wied.
Resolved, That the address this day delivered by T. F. Talbot,
Esq. be published.
Adjourued until to-morrow, at eight o'clock.
Met pursuant to adjournment.
Resolved, That this convention nominate Fauscis GRANGEB,
of Ontario, as candidate for the oflice of Govemor of this state;
and Jorm Casav, ofthe county of Washington, for the o$ce of
Lieutenant Governor of this state.
Resolved, That the General Central Committee shall have au-
thority to notify the meeting of a state Anti-Masonic Convention,
to meet hereafter at such time and place as the committee in the
exercise ofa sound discretion shall designate.
Resolved, That this convention recommend the publication and
circulation of o book entitled Free Masonry, by a Master Ma-
son, &c.
Resolved, That thethanks of the convention be presented to
the Second Baptist Church and Society of Utica, for the kind and
generous offer ot' the house of public worship forthe purpose of
this convention.
Resolved, That the thanks ol' this convention be presented to
the president, for the able and impartial manner in- which he has
presided over the deliberations of this convention.-
Resolved, That the proceedings of this convention- be signed
by the president and secretaries, and published under the direc-
tion of the General Central Committee.
».»._¢|-U..- , _
Lmm on MABONRY; 481'
Blnlutim und Jlddmr sdnpudbytlie Anti-.llumie Slate Conomtion,lul¢lat
_
.
Um an the 4u», au., and sn mme, 1828.
-
Resolved, That in a~
republican government the existence of
nn institution exercising a secret and irresistible control ever
public opinion, is dangerous to the lights, and may be &ta,l ta the
liberties ofthe people.
' '
Resolved, That it is the right and the duty of the citizens of
these United States to use all lawful means to annihilate an institu.
tion which has-shown itself' capable ofcontriving, effecting, andin
a greatdegree eoncealingthe crimes of kidnapping and murder,
Resolved, That we will not give our
suiiiages to any member
of the Masonic fraternity who adheres to the institution, or
acknowledges the, binding .force ol'their wicked and blasphemoug
obligations; nor in any manner directly
<
or indirectly _promote
their election to any oiiee or plans -of public trust.
'
Resolved, That those members of the ,institution ,who have
eolrageously broken the shackles efliflasoary, and thus restored
themselves to the full enjoyment of the rights of freemen, have
setamexample-highly worthy ni' imitation, and have entitledthern-
selves to the apprnhation of their fehovncitizens.
Resolved, That this conventionfeel a
deep sense ofthe grati-
tude due to those resolute ,men who have torn the covering from
Free Masonry, and exposed her deformity and fvileness.
Resolved, That the control which Free Masonry has hereto-
fore exerted, and still does exert, oventhe liberty ofthe press, is
conclusive proof-that her existence nldintiuonee is irreconcilable
withrthe full possession and-enjoymentof ourcivil rights.
'Reaolood, That the power which liar nearly two yearsrpast
has bafiled every eH`ert:to discover and bring to justice the per-
petrators of outrage and murder, is fearfully and alanningly great:
it cannot be suffered to exist without the utmost danger to the
personal safety ofeveryi-citizen; and mustbe destroyed, or it._v,vill
destroy the government. _
Mr. Whittlesey, from the ooninxitteenppointed forthat purpose,
reported the following »a.ddtess,- which was read and unanimously
adopted: .
'
g
3\DI7RB$
-ro ras. cinzmes or 'rm-: siwra or NEW worm.
Fellow citakms-The 'principles and obligations of the institu-
tionof Free Masonry have, for more than a year past, been the
subject of deep and interesting investigation by citizens in cer-
tain portions of the state. This .institution has existed in this
country ever
sipioe
the foundation oi' the government. Profess-
n
M-ali-gn-. -.._-,
-
__..,.
r
_
,so boastful of power, and bound together by secret ties of whose
482 1.1cn'r 'ox 1n.¢so1t|u'.- _
ing to support morality and religion, to aid the govemment, and
to be the almonersof an extended s stem of charity, it was sol'-
fered to gain footing on our soil; With these high pretensions it
was admirably calculated to gain proselytes. The seal of se-
crecy which was wisely placed upon the lips of the uninitiated,
prevented anyexposure of the hollowness of these pretensiom
to the world; and the piety, the public reputation, or private worth
of every novice, were made to add to the character of an institu-
tion which he had ignorantly joined. With the rapid and un-
paralleled growth of our
country this institution extended itself,
and its numbers increased. The young and- thriving settlements
of tbe west have been made the threatre of itsextension; and
not a village in our fair endtlouizishing countryhas grown intoany
kind of importance, butthe onterptize of the brethren of the 1nys~
tic tie have established the secret empire ot' the lodge within it,
They have endeavored to identify themselves as much as
possi-
ble with eve thing of a
public er
imposing character.` At the
foundations 3our public buildings; at the commencement of our
great projects of intemal improvement; in the celebration of our
festal days, theyhave come forth with daunting banners, their
gilded insignia, their pasteboard crowns, md mimic rnitres, to
catch the breeze of 'popular favor-to impress respect for their
nlmost divine character, or a salutary awe -of their invisible
r.
-
.
P°'Ithe~curiosity, the cupidityythe vanity, and ambition of man,
haveedded to their numbers new and numerous votaries, until
this institution-has spread itself throughout our whole country;
has established a
lodge in every village and town in our wide arid
flourishing state;'has extended itsfamitications into every shape
of society; and has interwoven itself' in all our institutions. its
adopts may be found in the executive chair, in the legislative
hall, on the bench ot' justice, in every civil office down to the
very lowest and least inliuential known to our laws; yea, and
even in the sacred desk and among those who minister at the holy
altar. Their members had become an host; their influence had
increased to a boundless extent; and in the wantonness of their
invisible power they had dared to boast that the laws were too
weak, that the government was too feeble to check them; and
this society, so
strong in numbers, so boundless in influence, and
nature we know nothing; hold their meetings undercover of night,
and in this freedand guard the entrance of their secret conclave
with naked swords._ The citizens ofthese Unite_!i§tates should
he jealous of their hber;ies,.t'or they were bought fwltb the blood
'mal .s..,_..__ L
...._...m. ,
LIGHT OU HASGNRY. 483
ul` their fathers; (and we are but the immediate ollspring of thosr
who paid so dear a
priceg) they should watch every insidious en-
croachment upon their rights in whatever covert manner they are
assailed, for those- rights are the rich legacy from gsainted sires
entrusted to us to hand down unimpaired to posterity. And they
are wont to be jealous and watchful of such dear privileges, and
to resist promptly and firmly every encroachment, whether open
or covert, upon their rights; and it is surpassing strange that an
institution like Free Masonry, whose principles are unknown,
vhose obligations are secret, and whose meetings are held under
the cover of darkness, should have been suffered to extend itself
into such multiplied ramifications without even
suspicion or in-
quiry. The ,very genius and spirit ofour government are essen-
tially opposed to the existence of such institutions. Our fellow
citizens desire to see
every thing publicly discussed, and openly
submitted to the ordeal of public opinion; and are prone to
suspect that when all is not open all is not honest.
Other secret societies after a brief existence have been frown-
ed into disgrace by public opinion;but the Masonic institution has
grown with the growth of our country until it hasbecome sowan-
ton in its strength that it has dared to set at defiance every effort
to pull it down. It might have gone on to this day, still increas-
ing in strength, had they not ventured to inflict the penalties of
their secret obligations upon the person of a citizen of ourooun-
try. The history of the outrage upon William Morgan, it is not
important for us to detail at length. If not known to you now,
it may be found duly authenticated in the documents within your
reach. Suffice it to say, that in September 1826, he was seized
under color of legal process at Batavia, carried to Canandaigua,
confined in jail, released by a pretended friend, seized at the very
threshold of the prison, and with ruflian violence thrust into a
carriage and transported by relays of horses to the frontiers of the
United States, and confined in the magazine of Fort Niagara;
that he was there, after cool and maturedeliberation, inhumanly
put to death. Numerous individuals, and all of them Free Ma-
sons, were engaged in planning this outrage; numbers in differ-
ent and distant lodges were concemed and aided in it. 'Men of
respectability and character, some of them high in civil and mili-
tary office, assisted in the execution of this plan; and the outrage
and murder was
perpetrated to pay the penalty of the Masonic
oath. The rumor of these outrages alarmed the free citizens ol`
the vest. A freeman had been tom from his family and his home-
Thc liberties of the country has been violated in his þÿp ¬rS°Ui
and however insignificant that individual may havefbeen, lhtll
-Mirage... _ ..
434 Lions' on msouur.
violation must be stoned. Investigations and inquiries were
instituted, and then it is~l`ound thatthe whole Masonic iiatemity
W8!0(i|§|fb04» Theehsrantersof it, were
ahmod and viliiiod; their motives impugped; and vengeance de-
nounced againstthem. Every illlP@lilBDt thatthey could thru#
in the my of investigation wus done;overy obstacle which inge-
nuity could contrive was opposed to the inquiry. The public
press was overawedg its editors were threatened and denounced
ifthey ventured to breathe the least word in relation to those out-
rages. This course sled a broad and fearfirl light upon the trans-
action; I exposed Masonry in its true oolors, and taught all who
were not wiltitlly blind to look to the institution and not to n
few misguided men, as the authors of the outrage, and to hold
that and its principles responsible' for it.
The whole mutter began to assumes new
complexion. The
enormity
of the individual outrage, great as it was, began to he
overloo od in tho fesrtiil dangers which the redeeting began to
see were concealed beneath the mantle of secret societies. The
principles of an institution which had been heretofore thought to
contain something too sacred and venerated to he lightly a.p»
proudied, began now to he discussed with openness and boldness.
Its dsngerous principles bogus new to he commented upon, and
its evil tendency pointed out: msny ofthe honest and virtuous of
its members, emboldened by this freedom ofldisoussiop, made
further disclosures of the secret obligations; and the oatls which
hound the higher degrees togeher were made public. This was
a further sod fearful name of alarm. The citizens looked about
them and shuddered ot the progress of that dreadful poison which
had so
nearly approached the vitals ol' our liberties. Fellow ci-
tizens, we owe these men very much who have laid open this in-
stitution in its bus and naked deformity to the gaze of the world.
The truth of these disclosures hes been eveuohsd by so muy
names whose chaneters are above reproach for private worth
and virtue, end whose motives are shove mepieion, that on this
subject weave not at liberty teentertein a doubt. The persecu-
tions and vimlictive malice with whiehthe business, the prospects,
the reputations and characters of these men have been assailed,
furnish other evidence, tit' other were wanting, ofthe truth of the
obligation which inoukntes the 'poiutiq him outta the world as
an-unworthy sud visions rsgshouul, by opposing his interest, by
d°'lP8i\8 his bvlinslsf and his character utter him
'lherevsr he any go. hy ,him to the contempt of the
world during his whole netunsl liter' It should be our duty to
see that these desunoiutions fall -harmless. _These obligations
-_.
._»..¢~»¢i-ima-r4~.|mis
Liam' on Masounv. 485
are now before the world; and the whole method of proceeding
in the higher degrees will soon be. 'These contain the principles
and essence ot' Free Masonry. It is tothis subject, fellow citi-
zens, we wish to draw your attention. This is not a common
occasion or acommon topic. We have enlisted ourselves in sup~
port ot' no individual and ot' no
political party. We have con-
vened to take measures which shall secure the rights of citizens
sacred; an impartial administration ot' the laws; and a due rever-
ence for religion. We honostlfy conceive the spirit of Free Ma-
sonry is essentially opposed to these; and we wish to give you
timely warning of the dangers. It cannot be necessaryto go into
rw. detail of these dangers to convince you that they are real and
not imaginary. It would require but slight reasoning, one would
think, to convince you that secret societies in a free government are
in their best shape useless, it' not positively dangerous, Butvwhen
you are told that the obligations which Free Masons take upon
themselves bind them 'to vote for a companion before any other
person of' equal qualifications;' to always support his 'military
iiime and political preferment in opposition to another;' to aid
and assist a brother in diliiculty so far as to extricate him from
the same 'whether he be right or
wrong;' to keep his secrets in
all cases inviolably, 'murder and treason not excepted# and this
under the denunciation of the mosthorrid penalties which human
ingenuity could invent-you need no
argument to convince your
reason that such an institution is at war with the very genius and
spirit of' our free government; that it~is hostile to ali equal rights;
that it is a barrier to the impartial administration of justice; that
it is Qttal to the blood-bought liberty which has descended to us
from our sainted fathers. How easy is it for them 'under these
obligations to obtain -the control of every department ot' govern-
ment, and todispense their patronage. so that the whole constitut-
ed authorities of' the=lnnd, from the president's chair to the con-
st:ble's stafli shall"be vested in these brethren~ot` the mystic tie?
and will they discharge their otticial duties faithfully? will- they
regard their oaths. to support the constitution? will they regard
their oaths of otticei They cannot if they would: they are hound
by invisible chains; they are shackled by oaths of morehonsible im-
port; with sanctions more highly penal than any obligations which
bind a man to~his country, or to the due observance ol' her laws.
And what security have we- for the impartial adniinistrationot'jus-
tice? Theermine of the bench is eullied byMasonic contamina~
tion. _Thejurordsoath is buta ropeof sand`in com risen with
his obligation ,tu extricate n tl Brother *whether he if 'right or
wrong.' The
aiyénging eww! gfjustice is
stayedin thehands ct"
112 .
ig
'
'
, _ _..._ __
486 LIGHT 98 NUQNGY-
the executioner; and the power, in eonsononoe
with \h¢»een¢~o\0=.\w»tb¢ inwrond to snstoln guilt
trom the plmiilllllelll tltw ll! 'lm lllvs to his crimes. {|`he~wit-
nose, too, who lsylltiehend open the Holy Evsngeliet, and swears,
in the presalee of God and his fellow men, to tell the truth, the
whole truth, end. nothing but the truth, _cannot and dare not dis-
close the eeomts of a.hrother,»even though his honda have been
imbrued in hisown fetber'= blood, or ,madly plotted the min ot'
the country of his birth. Fellow citizens, is thispittune over-
drewnt have you not under your own observation,seeu.n\enrliers
of the fraternity elevated to ~0l'ice .in en inexplicable manner?
have you not seen the#course_ot` justice stayed, the guilty felon
eseeped by mepnsfor which you cannot account? It is time at
least that the principles of Free Masonry should he understood,
if they lead to the above results, as
they strike _at the very exist-
ence of government, at the very foundation of our rights, and at
the impsrtill of 004' lows.
The institution ii not more hostile to _govemrnent and thc
cause ot' justice, -then it istopposed to morality and religion.
Thu institution cannot bo -moral which encourages a criminal
cesideuoe, and which protects hy, ber obligations had men, and
incnloates tlsecoeceslmentof crime. The landmarks between
virtuenad vireure thusbrolses down, and that nice ,delicate mo-
ral sense which distinguishes u virtuous msn, is thus ,in a great
measure effaeed.
Freo Masonry too claims connection with the family ot' the
Cross, as n hsndmaid. She claims the Bible a principal light of
the lodge, placing it next above the square and compass. She
claims Lo be a guide to n blessedjnpmortality, hutseems shocked
at the- imputation of substituting ,darkness for the _gospel
light. Our mostdsngerous t`06i;$m those who are clad in our
own livery; and such n foe is.Free
Mosonry to Christianity. ln
_her ceremonies she poieonaies the Deity, seemin ly to honor,
but actually to mock the Most Hgh. She orduins iligh Priests
-of Jehovah for over after the order of Melchisideclgin contempt
_of _the Sonof God. to-whornfirloriejnspiration epplies this mys-
terious title. She- clothes her ofiioers in the regatta appointed by
the Most ,High for the house of Aaron, exhibiting with her
_aprons the holy garments of the ancient priesthood, the hed,
the breast plate, the robe, and thernitre with its inscription,%oLt-
Ness TO. 'mms Loan. Shonmskes the nrlr ot' the covenant, thc
consecrated utensils,nnd the treasures of the Holy of Holies, com-
mongmong the emblemsof her pretended mysteries. The sa-
cred symbols of m1m's regeneration through thc Holy Spiritvvf
- I
,
-v
\
1.7
_I
5
-~
-...A -_._ is f-.-uni. on-li
An-»-un--»
`
your on
uaaomtr. 487
Him who laid downhis life to save
sinners-are introduced in so-
lemn mockery at her midnight orgies. She claims some of the
apostles to have been patrons of her mysteries; and celebrates
their anniversaries. She lifts up her voice in unhallowed prayer
for 'a blessing on her assemblies, refusing to acknowledge the
name of the only Mediator. She teaches her pupils that walk-
ing on the square, and worthily wearing the white apron, the em-
blem of innocenee,they shall have admission into the grand lodge
above. She teaches to eircurnscribe our passions with the coin-
pass; and she does not, like Christianity, regardthe heart. She
teaches a selfish love for the brethren instead of an
enlarged phi-
lanthrophy to the human race; and in her higher degrees, hatred
to her enemies is inculcated, which is a doctrine not of Christ.
She places the Koran and the Shaster upon a level with the Bible;
but most of all, in all her ceremonies and rights slights the name
of the Lord Jesus Ghrist. Is this then the boasted handmaid oi'
religion? This institution in whose rites and ceremonies the most
touching and sublime portions of the Holy Book which holds out
to us the promise of eternal life, are
represented in the shape of
a miserable theatrical farce, and the Almighty God and his holy
angels, and the spirits of the blessed made perfect, are personified
by weak and sinful mortals? where the touching rites of our
blessed religion are mockedby vain men? where the name of our
sanctified Redeemer is omitted or introduced in an irreverent
manner? where the immortality of the soul is only alluded to, by
a foul libation fromthe skull of a traitor? where the life eternal in
the heavens is represented as one grand lodge, _and the Almighty
blasphemously typified as the Grand'Maste:'thereof? This. is
surely adrnirablyealeulated to cheapen. religion, and _to teach us
to rely upon Masonry instead thereof; or that all religion is only
the farce which their ceremonies represent itto be. These are
delusions, and ,it -is time theywere dispelled. Wehaye now the
lights upon which toact. Masonry stands now bef`ore`us in the
deformity of her nakedness., H,er ridiculous pretensions, her
tinsel .ornameutsand solemn
mummeriy
are now duly appreciated.
It is now .tiinetoarouse ourselves, an
give a check to the spread
of 'her principles before she .becomes too powerful for restraint.
You ,ask .wha,t,is.to be done with all tlhtfpvwer, the wealth, the
talents, and the 'influence of the fraternity.,
i
.You ask how can we
succesgfnllyresist it. There is one epgine,_and one only, which
can he successfully arrayed againsther, and that is public _opm1ou.
Public,9ppnion.is the law of this land. Government t3X|5t5,°l'l)'
byerthisopigiion. Publicrmen flourish only by this opm10H¥ Plibllf-'
measures are sustained by this opinion. Wears rw* Yet" '°d"'5'
'
,_._.`,»_.¢~
l
488 LlGHT on Allsottnr.
cd and enslaved, that public opinion will not bear down every
thing opposed to it. It is like the resistless wave of the ocean,
and will sweep away every barrier, however secured, which shall
oppose itself to it. This opinion speaks through the people; it
speaks in their meetings; it speaks for a time here; it speaks
through the press, however shackled it
may
be; and above all, it
speaks through the ballot boxes. This is t e only legitimate and
effectual expression ol' opinion in this land: these are the instru-
ments by which the people correct all evils. These means are
in our power, and they are the only constitutional means we can
use. It is idle to talk about any other expression ol' opinion than
the ballot boxes. Our public meetings, our resolutions, our indig-
nant expressions of disapprohation, will be
only ridiculed and
mocked at, if we do not use the means of enforcing it which tho
laws have put into ourvhands. Do you startle at a resolution
not to support any member ol' the Masonic 'fraternity for any
otlice whateverl Reflect' that they are bound 'to vote for a bro-
ther before any other person ot' equal qualifications# and to sup-
port his 'military fame and political prefcrment in opposition to
another;' that with them we have not those equal rights which the
constitution guarantees to ns. We cannot shut our
eyes to Ithe
fact that ambitious and designing' men have attached themselves
to this institution to obtain thereby that preferment to which their
merits might not attain iii'nny other way. Let this no longer be
:t
passport to oflice, and the institution has receivcdlts death blow,
and it will finally crumble into mint 'and sink into oblivion.
This is a measure which takes from them a large portion otl
their power, their intluence, and their consequence; and if we do
not deceive ourselves, will be found to be one ofthe most chee-
tive measures for the ,entire destruction ot' the order. Does this
measure look like prescription? 'Then is the conduct ol' every
party which has ever existed' prwcription, and all party politics
unjust and prescriptive. Ili it is considered fair and honorable
to shut out from otlice those who are in favor or
opposed to us in
any particular measures, then itcennot be deemed unfair or disf
honorable to attempt to shut out from office those who are sworn
to assist their brethren, to vote for them or aid them, 'whether
right or wrong,' and who have it by that means in their power to
trample upon our rights and to impede the impartial administra-
tion ol' justices Have the members ot" the fraternity enjoyed
our highest otiices so
long that they can claim any prescriptive
right to them? or is it the people who shall say whom they will
elevate to their otlices of honor and trust? We are not, however,
embarked in a cause _which seeks the elevation of one man or the
-_
..a_... _._.._,.... _...sr
LIGHT 05 l&A80NllY» 489
lopI<~>SSi0l1 of auotharr Neither is it. individuals with whom we
war. Our battle io with the institution and its principles; and we
should rejoice if those who were attached to it would eeme out
from among them and abandon the institution which we hold
dangerous to our liberties
We address you, fellow eitizemtas a body intrested especially
to devise measures for the destruction ot' this order, and to sug-
gest the means to be used to etliaat its entirebaniahment from our
free soil. Among the most ellioiont means are free presses.
We have seen, known, andfelt how the press has been shackled
and overawed, nay, almost literally hound in servitude tothe will
and wishes of this grasping fraternity. This slavish snbserviency
ot' the press has been one of the many means by which they have
attempted to control and direct public opinion, and perpetuate the
influence of their dangerous principles-. _
By means of the se-
cret and invisible influence which they have exercised over this
mighty engine, investigation has been stiiled, and the spread of
information checked; and, worse than all, falsehoods the most
gross have been palmed upon the public, and deceptions the most
base have been practised to sustain the tottering empire of their
lhlling order. This evil should be remedied, and those faithless
Sentinels should meet their punishment in the just indignation of
an insulted and deceived community. We earnestly advise that
means should be provided in every portion of the state, f0l' U16
communication of facts and correct information to the public.
Itccrtainly cannot be dangerousin this land to inbtust. an intelli~
gout people with a knowledge ot' theta sulicient to enable them to
decide with judgment upon the great question now at issue. It
is important also that an unity of action as well as community of
feeling should be established among the friends of our cause,
which we cannot doubt will be one great mean in eficting the
object we arednsimus of accomplishing. For this purpose. wo
have deemed it advisable to erect a common standard, around
which all may rally, and by nominating candidates for the two
highest oliices within the gilt ol' the electors of this state, to ap-
peal to them to say through the ballot boxes whether they will
sanction an inltitutipn whose principles are so thtal to our rights.
In selecting candidates for these distinguished stations, it was all
impoutantthat tbnabahnlald he taken who have shown by their acts
th|:="they~9deamrmascanse;;a higher and holier cause
tbiirn any
06: _
f<n|_a|apity mphsta, theda . In resenting you nm-
ctl»a"'*U55 If Ddlrio, as a czndidatg for Governvh and
WB*hg0h, 88 a 0Idid3l8 for Lieutenhnt Go-
vernor, We think we have selected such men. They l""'° l>0ll
_ __
_-.___ "_
miles- ..._..- -me-._ ____-.... .__
490 LIGHT ON MASONBY.
of them, from the earliest investigations of theprinciples of Free
Megqm-y, shown themselves the friends of our tmo rights; and
both ofthem have dared to stand forth fearlessly and boldly, at a
period when such a course was attended with no-little hazard, the
champions of civil liberty, and the avowed foes of secret societies.
The zeal, ability, and fearlessness with which they have respec-
tively advocated our cause in the halls of the house and the Senate
of this state, should embalmlhem in our hearts, and endear them
to our memories. Public sentiment has to these gentle-
men as our ablest champions; and we take pride in presenting
them to you as candidates for your sntfrages, to till the highest
otlices within your gift as citizens of this state. Go to the polls
then, tellow citizens; exercise that power for the destruction of the
Masonic institution which the constitution and laws have put into
your hands; and in the performance of that duty remember the
solemn waming of the lltther of our country, to 'beware ofall se~
4-ret sslfcreated societica' A
.
-
.hires Hnvxss, President.
Tnouns C. Gases, S
.
Sam A. Ansar, l °°'°m"°s° f
-
-...,|¢¢.....
~
srnacu or 'r. r. 'r.u.no'r, uso.
'
i .
In the .dntf-Masonic New- York Slate Convention, .August 4, 5, and 6, 1826.
'
Mr. Chairman-The opinions advanced in the resolutions
which I have offered on behalf of the committee appointed to pre-
pare them, although long entertained by a
large portion of our fel-
low citizens, may still, however, seem to others harsh and perhaps
not well founded. It becomes me, thereibro, to lay before the
convention some of the reasons which have conducted our minds
to the conclusions we have formed. A due respect for my fellow
citizens engaged in the same cause to which I have devoted
much of my time, has induced me to present these reasons in a
more formal shape than is usual, that I may not be supposed to
advance without due consideration, the crude and ill digested sug-
gestions of a heated imagination; andthat what shall be said may
not be mistaken or misrepresented without the powerto correct it.
It is not yet two years since a large portion ofour state was sud-
denly aroused from the peace and harmony in which they had long
reposed, bythe high handed and daring outrages 'cfs. body of men
whose objects and motives we were for some tim entirely unable
to -ascertain. It was, readily perceived°that'nd slight cause nor
°rdinary inducements Could have so entirely subdued that reve»
....t...n._,,_ , _.L ,_
k.,|,_|gpg'
'
Lieiir on nissoskr. 491
renee for the laws of our country. which had heretofore so uni-
formly distinguished our countrymen., . To discover the powerful
motives which impelled them on, has been thework of time and
perseverance. In this, as in most other cases, -tha discovery of
truth has been slow and progressive. Like the _approach of day
to the traveller on the mountain, slightindications of light-are dis-
cerned long before objects can be distinctly seen-and thus it
should' bei The mind requires .time to accommodate its powers
to the full perception of new and unexpected truths. We are
sometimes mortified and surprised at our own dulness, in not
having sooner discemed what now
agpears sutliciently plain to
our understa.nding; and we canwith di eulty discover the reasons
why we have so long been ignorant, when the means of knowledge
were at our command.
`
<
,
But if the discovery of truth in this instance has been slow, it
has atlast been complete-and Hill( Doubts and obseurities have
vanished like the mists of the morning hefore the rising sun.
What at first was conjecture, is now certainty. Did we at first
suspect that tbeiiniiuence of Masonry was not friendly to the true
interests of our country? we now know that it is directly hostile to
to our dearest nights. Did we at first entertain doubts whether
the existence of this secret association was
compatible with our
republican- institutional we now knowthat where.it flourishes true
tiberty cannot dwell. Did we at first merely fear that the obli-
gations of the members to ,each other might not always harmo-
nize with their obligations to their fellow citizens at large? we now
know that those obligations are utterly inconsistent with their duty
to themselves, their country, and their God. Did we at first sus-
pect that the claims of this society to be the friends of truth were
not well founded? =we now know that she is the fruitful mother of
delusion and oferror. If we then felt reluctant to admit her pre-
tensions to be rthe ,handrnaid of Christianity; we now know that
her votaries (of the higher order at least) regard not the precepts,
_reverence not the ordinances of Christiariity, and blaspheme tho
'God whom Christians worship. If at first we
suspected ber pu-
rity; we now know that she is filthy, disgusting, and full of un-
iouudness-strippad by her own votaries of all her borrowed
westrnents of pretended holiness, she at last stands before us na-
oserkin all her native pollution and deformity.
~_
'
H
`
' D- _
p
w citizens, reversing the order of nature, and the
H
_ =~ -of
þÿknowled¬ie,
.we trust light has
arisen
in
tthe
'
'_ , '_ -soon prea its rays over our w ole coun y.
L-_'_ 'é
`
`
_1_ -»~
,which shall not be soon extinguished,_but
_
_ a
_
9' _tmievpread gh,-qughthp fields oferror, delusion,
'4 a-.-ni--n.. -°- "*---
,_,i
192 IJGBT ON KABUIIIY.
md'
'
lice;
consuming'
therirliilrotiliasonicllill ,and pour-ing
adrgxiuflightnpon the rkrecesses ofthe lodgerogms;exposing
th, mysesryofiniquitywrhichhas-soloag beenshroudedin right;
awgspirg awsythe
recxlaoles
of follyythe haunts of idleness, did
dryingup 'thwsomoes mischief tothe weak and ignorant-as
thedevourhrg element, when it rages ina »-great city, is ohm
heaolieial, bycoasunringthe receptacles of vice, thehiding places
of 'orimo,~aud-making the erection of useful edilices and
oomtbr-table dwellings.
'
', 'fellow citizens, these good effects
cannot be produced .without your aid and perhaps your unceuiag
exertions. it is an
important truth which we must never lose
sightoli thatourciviland political rightsand privileges cesrbe
preserved unimpaired only by constant We oweit to
our fathers, and shall disgrace' their memory if we do not try all
lhemeans in our power to transmit ihose 'rights and privileges
unimpaired to our fposterity. It will be in vain that any of the
eempirators have been, or that any of them shall be, exposed and
punished, if the motives which actuated them ati! eontinue to
operate in full force upon others. It`is in vain that we have aa-
oertairied those motives to be corrupt, if"tlrey=aie to operate um~e~
sisted, and are notcousteracterl by examining and exposing their
pernicious tendency.
But our civil and political rights Ire notleonly proper objects
of our
regard and fwatohfulnsss. Dearto us as they are, and
highly as we do and ought to prize them, their value will 'be di-
minished to ourselves and our~oll'spring, iftheir inlluence ofmoral
principles, shall _hewgradually relaxed aadlinally destroyed; and
the still more important inlluence -ol' Christianity shall beeeati~
_nually ceunteracted by constant ellbrta to connect its institution
with oneto which it can hone no affinity whatever-an institution
which ooimts among its 'active supporters and warmestuadvoeates,
a large number ol' men, who, both bytheir words and
tions, not only manifest an entire disregard of the injunctions of
Christianity, but openly deny the divinity df its origin, andgmalce
n mock of its most sacred mysteries.
W'it:hout intending to occupy your time by unnecessaryvdetails,
let nie barely say, -that no two institutions can be selected whose
distinguishing characters are so entirelydisslmilar. The one-de~
lights in parade and show; the other in simplicity udretirement.
The benefits of the one are freely olfored to all 'without money
and without price.' From the advantages of'the other, (if any
there be,) all are excluded who cannotfopen lrerfdoors bylreys of
silver or gold. One drawing eagerly to"itsell`Lie'p0or and -dis-
pised of this world; the othercnurting the rich and the great. One
. _»._ .ans .»...»¢..a|.'
'
'nxcnr os M.soNar.'
493
rigidly excluding the most amiable part of our species; the other
peculiarly adapted to their natural sensibilities and best
feelings,
and calculated to promote their importance in
society, their com-
fort in this world, and their happiness in
eternity. Away, then,
with this and all other vain pretensions and idle claims of Ma.
sonry to our
regard or reverence. The more
they are examined
the less will they be valued. They cannot bear the test. of truth;
they shrink from it, like the sensitive plant from the rudetouch of
the inoautious examiner, and when exposed to its
fullinfluence,
will wither like the sickly plants when first brought from the ob.
scure light of the hothouse, and exposed to the full power of the
meridian sun.
To 'counteract and destroy the baneful influence so
opposed Q0
morality and religion, is a
duty not less sacred than to preserve
our civil and political institutions from the secret attacks which
we 'believe are
constantly aimed at them. Nor let it=be said that
these apprehensions are
unfounded;'that=these2fears are the more
chimeras of~distempered minds; that 'Masonrythasno means of
injuring our
rights or
undermining our institutions. It is most
manifest that the influence of fthis association has already been
extensively exercised in our
county, although -the manner of its
operation has -not-always been visible. That it has been exerted
(br the purpose of giving authority and consequence to men who
'were not fairly entitled to them. That bad men have fromsthis
source found support and countenance, which they ought not to
enjoy, and could not receive, »from any other source. That the
influence of good men is diminished, -and their attentionwith-
-drawn from those objects most worthy of regard. That by pro-
moting, and in a
good degreerequiring, the promiscuous assem-
blage of the wicked and the good, the profane and the pious, the
iniidel and the Christian, the profligate--and moral, the sober and
the intemperate-it is calculated to weaken the influence and
-diminish the respectewhich is due to virtue. That it promotes
useless expense among those who are least able to bear it, and
incites »to vicious excesses by the seeming necessity 'of assem-
blages at the houses of entertainment. That it erects a false
standard of excellence, by substituting a useless knowledge of
absurd customs and ridiculous legends, for true wisdom and
valuable aequirements. That it diverts the attention of its voter
ries from objects of real and permanent utility, by placing it on
objects too frivolous to deserve the regqd of reasonable and
_en-
lightened minds. That far from being the handmaid of religion,
her progress is impeded by it, becauseit deludes by its _SlPP°¢0¢|*
morality;
divergs
the mind from examining and þÿattend1" ¬
'° the
s
>__,...|¢..|gL_4¢»-____
gg.; LXGUT ON susnxnv.
'
precepts and sanctions ot' the Divino law; and because in truth it
substitutes the words of man for the words of God. Nor can wo
now sntertlin any doubts that the relativeobligations which Ma-
ggnry imposes upon its members are inconsistent with the obli-
'ons of men to society at large, to their country, and their
mam. That their alleged duties to each other are inconsistent
with the higher duties which they owe to the laws of thdr coun-
try, and the obligation of charity and humanity to all their fel-
low creatures. Let me add, that the_peculiar structure of the
institution qualifies it to eH'ectuate designs and accomplish plans,
such as to its members may seem good, however hostile those
designs may be to the rights of others.
If these evils, or any of them, may, and in fact do, arise from that
source, it will be readily granted that while the fountain remains
the impure streams will not cease to flow from it. That while
the corrupt tree is permitted to grow, it will continue to produce
comrpt fmit. That as the vigor of its growth is -increased, its
mischievous etlbcts will be more extensively felt. Ifeven one of
these evils do in truth originate in that source, its pernicious ten-
dency is abundantly evident. The woods of unen-ing wisdom
have assured ue, that the same spring cannot send forth bitter and
sweet waters.
Let it not be urged, that impcrfection is the characteristic ofall
human institutions. The most zealous advocate of Masonry
has not dared to attempt proving, even by the semblance of argu-
ment, that she can claim a
right to our favor or regard, bythe
benefits she confers on mankind at large. But, say they, her ex-
cellence is concealed from vulgar. eyes; her beauties can he seen
only by the initiated; her virtues are not .blazoncd forth to the
world: all these are hid by the veil of secrecy. They ure indeed
secret. 'For eye hath not seen, nor manlreard, neither huth it
entered into the heart of man to imagine, their loud assertions,
pompous culogiums, and swelling declamations. Bold claims
are indeed made on her behaltl But the time for these to avail
her has passed by. Her pretentious will be brought to the test
of truth. They can no longer escape rigorous investigation;
and if they are found false, they will he pronounced so, by the
intelligent people of these United States. It may be matter of
just pride to Americans, that it.has been reserved for them to
destroy the influence of an institution which has continuall
boasted of its ability to withstand all the power of kings-which
proudly asserts that no human force can weaken or
destroy her.
Let not her votaries deceive themselves bythese idle supposi-
tiens. She has now a ditierent force to contendwith. She may
u..1 ...___ ,_,,.|
LIGHT on nusonnr. _
491
have cvaded the power of kings by taking refuge in the ignorance
of their subjects. Her vainglorious boastings may have im-
posed upon those who had no means ot' investigating their truth,
and no interest in exposing' their falsehood. What matters it to
the poor peasant of Germany, who hercises the authority by
which he is not protected, but oppressed. He has no hopes ol'
avoiding the misery which he endures, if indeed his moral sus-
eeptibilities arc not so deadened by tyranny that hefeels not his
wretchedness. What interest has the ignorant Seri' of Russia in
the question, whether the secret recesses of the lodge can be, or
over are, used to conceal the conspiracies and cabals by which
one military despot is strangled, and another elevated to his place.
He is still to remain a slave, and, like the beasts ofthe field, be
bought and sold with the land which he cultivates. Why should
the oppressed Spaniard endeavor to expose the dark designs and
treasonable projects of Free Masonry. They may sometimes
shield him from the power ol' a detestable tyrant, or save him for
zi time from the torture ofthe inquisition.
Shall we be told that no such inlluenco is claimed or can he
exerted by Free Masonry in America? What then is American
Free Masonry? For what purpose have two thousand _lodges
been organized in'thesc United States? To what use is then'
vast annual income appliedt* ,
,,
,
,
Why are six hundred thousand men united together by mysted
rious ties, the nature of' which are studiously concealed from
their countrymen. Studiously concealed, did I say? Nay, they
are concealed at the peril of life itself ; and recent events have
proved that these perils are by no means imaginary. But Free
Masonry vauntingly points us to the names of distinguished men
whom she has enrolled among her members. It is so, fellow
citizens. And are all these lodges organized merely for the pur~
pose ot' private charity? Is all this income exhausted in deeds
of benevolence? Are allthese men united so
closely, merely to
promote conviviality and provide cheer? Are their lives subject
to be sacrificed for the preservation of secrets in which the com-
munity at large have no interest?
`
Have the great men of our
country sought forher highest honors, merely to bear a part in
her gaudy shows and pompous prooessionsl ~Does 'the states-
-man of the north and thewvarrior of the 'south become rival can-
didates for the highest iodine that Free`~'Hasonry can bestow,
areaa.ff..r°,:.f;,~°:.;a¢.f'.:'<.»~*;f*"~",f,°.=%:
is Q20 ooo dulhril i-_
year. smilebe me by mfr
euzzapgftliegltnttdil States whoregards tltemtellkreioflis country-
_J
Dig.n;ea ny
_,_
r-
496 Lrour ON ansoirar.
merely that one may wear a higher cap or broader sash than the
other? Do republicans condescend to receive the empty title of
kings and high priests, illustrious knights and princes, for no
purpose but to gratify a corrupt taste for insignificant distinctions!
Are all these the mere pihrile amusements of full aged children?
Is it for mere amusement that so
many who desire to enjoy the
esteem and respect of their countrymen-who claim and obtain
the otlices and honors she has to bestow-bear a part in the idle
parades of Masonry-partake of her profane ceremonies, and
load their conscience with her blnsphemous obligations? Rather
let me ask, is there no -secret and well organized influence which
can readil make itself felt from one end of the Union to the
other? Nlb method of writing to eH`ect a common object, by
means which will not bear investigation. No secret obligations
to aid one another in projects which are not known to the world.
No plan of action which subjects not the agent to that responsi-
bility for their actions, attached to all who are not initiated into
the order.
It is our
duty and our privilege faithfully to examine these
questions; and enough, I trust, has been said to show that they are
the grave attention of intelligent freeman. It may, indeed, be true
that correctopinions on these subjects do now prevail in alarge
_portion of our state; but the work is not therefore finished-our.
duty is not therefore performed. We are bound hy every tie that
connects as with our country and -our fellow citizens, not to limit
our exertions to the district we dwell in. Such selfishness finds
no place in the breasts of freemen._ If our own minds have been
disenthralled from these delusions-if light has arisen upon us-
we cannot contentedly see our fellow citizens groping in dark-
ness. It will, I trust, be our delight to keep alive the sacred
dame, and guard it cautiously, as the Roman vestals watched the
sacred fire. It may indeed be entering upon an arduous task,
and to accomplish it may require patience,,fortitude, industry,
and zeal. Those who engage init must be prepared toencouu-
ter didiculties not now
foreseen. Their motives may and pro-
bably will be misrepresented; their objects misstated; their efforts
impugned; but in the end they will reap the fruits of_ their exer-
tions-secure the applause of their own consciences, and the
commendation of the good. The period in which we live is fa-
vorable to the discovery oftruth, and unfriendly to the endurance
of error. The Various systems of superstitionand delusion seem
to have had their day; their influence is dec; '_' rapidly, and
they are daily giving evidence of their tends
`
to moral dissolv-
rion. All false lights are fast extinguishingfto make way forthe,
v . ...Alai-wi
~
.
mem* os Mssomun'
'
497
true light that 'lighteth every man that-cometh 'into thc world.'
The dark clouds of superstition and
ugnorance
are rolling away.
The clear and beautiful atmosphere o
religious knowledge is oc»
cupying their place; and the wprds of the Saviour himself hath
assured us, that 'there is nothing hidden that shall not be re'-
vealed.'
Let it not be said that in promoting these investigations-in
attempting to dispel this moral darkness-we persecute our fellow
citizens: It is not so. We war with the ahomiuations of Ma-
sonry. We will not that an authority exists among us, which
elevates itself abovethe laws of our
country; which can with
impunity trample upon those, and which violates without remorse
the principles of humanity. We moum _over the delusion which
prevails in the minds of so
many whom we
regard with kindness
and esteem. 'We long to see them freed from the chains of dark-
ness by which they have been bound. We rejoice that they shall
soon befree. We would say to them in the language of inspira-
tion, 'Come out of her, that ye be not partakers of her sin.'
As well might the benighted Indian cry oppression against the
humble missionary who labors to infuse into his mind the light
of the gospel. As well might the Hindoo widow ery oppression,
because she is urged to descend from the funeral pile which is to
consume the body of her deceased husband. As well might the
deluded worshipper of Juggernaut cry oppression, because he is
withheld from being mangled under- the bloody wheels of the
idol god.
`
"
We may indeed oflehd the pride of some who have chosen-to.
give a consequence to Free Masonry which she does not possess.
And perhaps the blushfof shame may sutfuse the cheeks of some
who see her folly-and her nothingness exposed. But the emotion
will be salutary, and be succeeded by self congratulatien at their
removal from a
sickly=delirium. g
-
But, _fellow,citizens, we have heard much ofeexcitement, and
we have been accused ,of keeping up an ezxitement in relation to
Masonry. The advocates-,of Masonry who reprohate excitement
so violently, seem to have forgotten that excitement is not fana-
ticism. And what great moral benefit, let me ask, was ever
conferred upon mankind which was not produced by excitement?
How was the Christian religion itself-
propagated but by excite-'
ment? Are we not assured inthe volumeof inspiration, that it
is good to be zealously affected in a good cause? What but
er:-
citement to ameliorate the condition ofmankind has sent the mrs-
sionary of 'the Cross to the frozen shores of Greenland and the
burning sands of Africa? What but excitement MS '°"5°d dw
S,s2_,
l'
'HB MEET QU' NASQNRX-
Glarintian world from the lethqgyoioontsirivel 9til`Pmsn§te<l them
to send the Bible to the natives that still set ioiarliaeee, to xe-
_ioice that
hearts
witgitlr news
of
"glen
the
_emi plunder, wi, e _
eye a ur' ng my
at lq{end_iu imeiiiilgent 41,7 ending lupplnesef--teguude
the roving Indian along the true
rouge
to
tl;_e&;:sidenc&
ef
;he
Greet Spirit- revive the saddened. arto poor eat n-
dima slave, ali;teaoh him that
angst
ho shell be
froe;MdWl3nt
but excitement against- tymury oppression prom ,
,l our
fathers no resist the emotions of Great. Britain, to risque their
M?/»;'flJ"°»~T.'ii""'f'3""'*"~""*'Zfll1Z"°U"'*lil§°§'l1L"""".la. full
. , p , All _
Q U ,
Q J
enieitmenfof £&Zooiflilmy,be seized upon in opeiyiey-~tem
H058 his
wifeood
family-gomiad
in unholy
triulrgcirllx through wr
Country# e iiwmoernte in t very eddiee,
. w was erected,
todefers
che liberty ol'
hi;;coi;ntry--'gig seorsgig andgrcretly
oxoeut , vi'1tlJ,' tevee o ormso aw., ego yper-
rielpatoilin those foul crimes iustle nie in the streets"-sneer gt
our reproeff-laugh at our elforte to prodooe legal proof of their
guilt., and defy our attempt to bringtbem before the oolmtry; and
shall this be
Yessod by in silence lest some ahoidd cry out eseite-
xnent. 183183ulltbwrenormitieabeiidrlyanddistimtlyWood ull tbwr enormitiea be iidrly and distimtly Wood
tothe clark r¢oeeseeof'the~ lodge roomsq-shall we knew, from
testimony deivemerl iaeouru ufjustiee, that the praotiesliiiity aed_
:lm proper means of sacrificing lives and destroying the liberty ol
ihe press, were coldly discussed in Masonic lodges, and dolibe-
retoly fosolvedlen--that all this was done to prevent bringing
the institutieoof Masonry into disgmeo by publishing a true ec-
:oont of thorn. And shall no excitement mise io our brout--
up swelling of the heart--no booting of the bosom. We be to
-iirreoontry when all these things can take place without being
lbllowed by excitement. Shall im S99 all these rank .%01'iP'
tions boil and bubble in this mldron of aloorniontions; and shell
we mirko no effort to extinguish -them,
I would not, sir, hare it supposed tbatl advoeatebarsh or
severe measures to -etieet even this .holy purpose. None _oueh
arejustiéable--norae.si1ch ought to he seed-mono auch will be
used. We may confidently assert tbatom' fellow citizens who
have engaged in this investigation esnootibo made iaatrirrriontel
in eiiieetmg any unjust rneasumsiowards their fellow emzens,
however elevated or humble may be their station Their obiect
has beentlie discow'y~»nd'the puhlioléitaneftnihs mtl if well
diseovlerios_laave_ convinced that secret usoeidions ought-not to
1-xlsein ii republic, and have diminished their respect, for the ed?
-~
ann. -
Mtn.
._-Q. ..
LIGHT ON MASONBY. 499
hetentaof sueh soeieties. these elfeets have necessarily resulted
from their-cansem No exeitements have been used to produce
snelr. eenwietions- They have beenthe preduetinns of right rea-
snn deliberately entrained, The frets fnirly presented te them,
they bailed not to drew _From them legitimate conclusions; and
Free wwnnry must abide the ennaequenees, We see nothing
sacred in herwlaieh shmtld exempt her frem these. With much
ditlienlty she has ntlmgtb beenbrenght to the bnr ofifutb; and
leti-hor nothone to return iifem it ttntilsll her pretensions tp ex-
cellenesrend all her onanbilities fer mme, have been thoroughly
investigated- Neitlm theehameless felseheods and vwellen ver-
bisgo of St- Jobifs defy enters, nor the pompous enlagiums ot'
_sehoolbey deelnimersr es! nnylenger solve hen Herbonowed
plumes will be nhteked from her shnmelees fqentr and her silken
evestrnents entree hanger eeneeel her impnnxtieet She will be
weighed in the bChllQ¢r1Ild iffostnd wanting she will be eenrigned
to merited dean-notion-_ These who have undertaken the task
cannot be driven from it by fenrner by fervor- They believe the
investigation to beennnected with the substantial gond ef their
coutxtrymnd they will not recede: they have-put their bands to
the plow, and they will not look beelrt No motive of selfinzerest
_prompted them to action, ml no feer of loss will deter them from
proeeedmg. They ere not seekers Ihr honors or eliiees. and ne
fears nf such accusations will deter them from inquiring and decid-
ing for Jhemsnlvea hew tht the influence of Free Masonry may
disqualify their fellweitinens for fulfiiling the duties of o&ce-
lrew far usenet and .constant intercourse with a smell body of
men distinguiehedifrom their fellow eitizens at large nsaaeparate
soeiety. governed, by seperate laws and bound to enebfother by
peculiar obligations, may, and of necessity will, irrirunqe their
minds inthe distribution of etlicial favors, er.wnrprtheirjudgments
from nhastraightpath ofintegrity. How for those Bet/Ntsilligations
may t`etter~t»heit' minds and be pnrnmoent to with
their known obiigatione to their coun1ry,in~g¢tnernl»,»§5¢7 know and
they will remember when called upon te gitveimir sntfrnges;
that the mere habit of frequent and intimate interepnrse with 8
select body of men using the imposing, howeyer abused, name
of brother, is not without its influence even upon strong minds;
that it improperly contracts the £5915-Qtrilfthn heart and limits
the extension of that good will which atnte patriot n d a wise
stntelmsasmill ldssineto Kool. *lib his countrymen, UH'
ibtnnrghndspruuaineiby opposinginluenees- I NPN, Sir,
thaaaaetihnhonn-we not in this matter are not need! Ofiw
seekers. We can point with prido and with pleasure to the great
_____
_4.»..
..
500 Lrcnr 'oN nnsortnr.
body of our most efficient friends, as men who never have and
never will desire oflice. We can number among them many
whose elevation of mind and self respect have 'never pennitted
them to use the ordinary and most successfiil methods ofprocu-
ring ofiices, however well they were qualified to perform their
duties; who will not sacrifice their independence at the shrine of
party, though they are willing to serve their country.
It may perhaps be expected that I should, in the course of my
remarks, take notice of`an attempt made by some ofthose veuders
offalsehoods and tools of party who disgracefour country, to ore-
ate an impression that this impulse, which-has roused a whole com-
munity to action, can-be used for mere party purposes; and that
an eminent statesman had made an-attempt' to buy it for his own
purposes. I carmot consent to occupy your attention by a serious
effort to refute a calumny so absurd in itself'-so contemptible by
the source from which it originated-and so
insulting to the pa-
triotism,
integr%
and understanding, of manythousands ofmy
countrymen. . itkriown to those who have madethe assertion
and those who have pretended to`repel it, that the freemen =who
have been influenced by this excitement can neither be bought or
sold; They aim not to elevate one man or depress another-to
:iid one political party or injure another. They have higher and
holier objects in view, from which they cannot be terrified or di-
verted by such insignificant accusations. They aim to rid their
country of n noxious pestilence which walks in darkness through
the land-to take fiom all parties the power to A
wield this 'black
engine of night'-to dispel the moral darkness in which so
many
of their countrymen have so long groped-to strike off thebase
chains which have so
long held in ignoble bondage the minds of
many thousands of' their fellow citizens, and restorethem to the
rhll enjoyment of those privileges purchased by the blood of their
fathersfto seize this many headed monster by the throat, drag it
forth fiom the murky den in- which- she has so long concealed her-
self] and strangle it in open daybefore its venom had been scattered
over the land to corrupt 'the very fountain of all' that is good and
valuable in our, civil and 'religious institutions. We may not in-
deed live fo see -these objects completely effected; but they are
worthy to employ the energies of every generous mind; and he
who shall assist to accomplish them wilrnot lnve lived_witl;out
benefit to his country.
But, sir,will it be seriously contended, or can it he expected, that
all who have aided to lay the foundation for accomplishing these
_gtlorious objects, are therefore to be excluded from the service of
J en-
country? By what means shall they know that their _exerg
l..,....»~ ...._,.~4n-
ISIGHT on JIASONBY. 501
tions are appreciated and favored by their fellow citizens? How
shall the dishonest or deluded advocates of this system of error
and deception be convinced that they can no
longer uphold it with
impunity? Do you expect aid from the timid, the selfish, or the
wilfully ignorant? Will the profane altars of Free_Masonry be
overthrown by the hands of her General Grand High Priest?
Think you that those who have contributed to erect her idle tem-
ples will themselves assist to tumble them into ruins? Such is
not the usual course of action. What we have cherished as valua-
ble, we are unwilling to believe has at last become worthless.
Even tlie useless bauble which has long hung aboutns ve» reluc-
tantly part with. ,
,
There are indeed some, and not a few, among us, whose clear
perceptions and strong minds have enabled them to discover their
true situation-who have nobly dared to be free and to throw oil'
by one
vigorous effort the fetters which have so long bound them
to an institution to whose iniquities they could not he blind. With
such men we can
cheerfully and gladly co-operate in the good
work we have engaged in. We feel that for ourselves and' our
country we owe them much, and we shall not be reluctant to dis-
charge the debt to our utmost ability. We know, in part, what
they have encountered, and how they have overcome.
Away then, sir, with all your poor attempts to deter us from
performance ofthe sacred duties which circumstances have xm-
_posed upon us. Let not our
opponents amuse themselves with
such hopes. They are vain. We trust, that we have counted
the cost, and, that we shall not shrink from the consequences.
Our cause is good: we will not abandon it. Our motives are pure:
we fear not to have them investigated. Let us be united and we
shall be strong. Let us be prudent and firm and we shall be suc-
cessful. May Hn who has the hearts of us all in his hands, guide
and direct us in all our deliberations, and so control all our exer-
tions, that they may be productive of lasting benefits to our`bc»
lasted country.
L
»p|¢_ _.-- ._
(sos)
V
_
TRIAL OF ELI BRUCE AND OTHERS,
FOR A CONSPIRACY T0 KIDNAP AND CARRY OFF WM. MORGAN.
[From the Ontario Mmsengenl
Tm. following report comprises all the material testimony ta-
ken on this interesting and important trial. It is proper to state,
thd Willis Tumer was called after Mrs. Hall had testified, but
not being then in court, other witnesses were swom before him;
and that his testimony has been introduced next to her's because
it relates to the same part ofthe case.
ONTARIO GENERAL SESSIONS-Arm. 20, 1825.
Present, Hon. Nathaniel W. Howell, Hon. Chester Loomis,
Hon. John Price,and Hon. Samuel Rawson, judges of the county
courts of Onturia county.
The indictment against Eli Bruce, Ommus Turner, and Ja-
red Darrow, for a conspiracy to kidnap and carry away William
Morgan from the county ol' Ontario to parts unknown, was
brought on for trial at the opsning.ol` the court in the aftemoon.
Counsel for the people, Daniel Moseley, -Esq., special com-
missioner; Bowen Whiting, district attorney of Ontario county;
and Charles Butler, Esq. _
Counsel for the defendants, Hon. Dudley Marvin, and Mark
H. Sibley, Esq., of Canandaigua; William H. Adams, Esq., ol
Lyons; and Vincent Matthews, and Ebenezer Gritlin, Esq., of
Rochester. _
»
The following persons were sworn as jurors:--Hiram Anson,
Nathan Cary, Jasper W. Peet, Levi Smith, Amasa Spencer,
John Stults, Evert Green, Abraham Dodge, Henry Lincoln,
Daniel Short, John Pennal,-jun., and Samuel Reed.
Mr. Whiting having opened the case to the jury, on behalf of
the people, the following testimony was introduced.
Israel R. Hall, swom.--The witness was jailer of Ontario
county in 1826. He knew William Morgan who was committed
t.o the jail of said county, on the tenth of September, in that year,
und discharged on the twelfth ofthe same month, as this witness
has beeninformed. _
Witness was absent from the jail at the time
of
M,organ's comtmtment and discharge. _
..._ .... .a..n
LIGHT ON DIASOXBY. 503
J#'ey Cldpman, sworn.--Witness was a justice of the peace
in Canandaigua, in, September 1826. On the morning of thc
tenth of that month, ,it being Sunday, Nicholas G. Chesebro
came to the witness' house and requested him to go to his otiice.
He did so. Chesebro came in soon, nnd shortly after him, Ebe-
nezer C. Kingsley, who made a
complaint against William Mor-
gan for larceny: Chesebro stated that Morgan had come from
Batavia, and was, at that time, about six miles west ot' Canandai-
gua. Witness issued a warrant against Morgan, directed to the
sheriff,or either of the constahlesof Ontario county, 0| 10 Ni-
cholas G. Chesebro, one of the coroners thereoti by virtue ot`
which he was apprehended, brought before witness on
Monday
evening, and by him discharged for want of sudicient proof to
convict him. ~
,Chcsehro then requested ol' witness a warrant
against Morgan, on a demand which he held against him as as-
signee of Aaron Ackley. A warrant was
accordingly issued,
Morgan onested,judgment entered up against him by his consent,
execution thereon taken out and given to Holloway Hayward,
then being a constable in Canandaigua.
Holloway Hayward, sworn.-The witness was a constable of
the town ol' Canandaigua in 1826. He received the warrant is-
sued against Morgan on the charge of larceny; went to Batavia
with tive others, of whom Chesebro was one, arrested Morgan at
that place, brought him bethre Mr. Chipman on Monday, was
present during a
part of his examination, received the execution
against Morgan, fn-rested him by virtue ol' it, and committed him
to the jail of Ontario county, between eight and nine o'clock in
the evening of the eleventh of September.
Jlfaijq W2 Hall, swom.--She is the wife of' thejailer. She was
not at home when Morgan was committed; but came home on
Tuesday the twelfth of September, and found him in jail. Mr.
Hall went out about dark on the evening ot' that day. A person
came to the jail and inquired for Mr. Hall; she told him he had
gone from home.The person thenwished to gointo Morgan's room,
which she refused. He then asked pennission to have a private
conversation with Morgan, which was also refused. He then in-
-sisted on paying the debt for which he was
imprisoned, and taking
him away; this too-was refused. The person then went in search
of Mr. Hall, and soon returned without finding him, and again
urged witness to permit him to pay the debt and take Morgan
swento which she would not consent. Hethen asked her whether
she Wouldzfdischargeliim it' Col. Sawyer would say it was right;
witueliidihiot say she would or would not. The
perm;'PDQ
.dwly Stldloon came back with Col. Sawyer. Ches¢b¥° 3 use
lq_.- -_ _
.
-.,
554 Lions on misomw.
-wtmess fo M Morgan go. Lawson paid the aruount'for whililt
Mqrgm was imprisoned, which was alittle more than three dol-
-lays, Smnger went to the door and whistled. Witness unlocked
the door of Morgan's room, and Lawson went in and led Mor-
gan into the hall ofthe jail by the arm. After they went out ofthe
door, and before it was shut, she heard the cry of murder. She.
went to the door and saw three men taking Morgan east; he was
struggling, his hat fell oil] and oneof them took it up. She saw
no other person about the"jaiL An unknown person rapped on
the well curb, and a carriage soon passed bythe jail from the-
west. It went east, and shortly returned, driven with great rapi-
dity. This took place about nine in thefevening of the twelfth
of September. She has not seen
Morgan since. r
Willis Tumor, swom.-In September 1826, witness livedwith
Mr. Freeman Atwater in the street on
which_the jail is situated, a.
little west of it, and on the same sideof the road. As became
out of Atwater's gate one evening, he met Chesebro and Sawyer
going west. Saw Sawyer pick up a stick. Theyturned about and
went to the west comer of the jail, and were there whispering to-
gether. Witness wentto Mr. Hall's well, which is in the street
alittle west of the jail, for water; and as he was-tuming the wa-
ter into his pail he heard the cry of murder. He saw three men
coming down the jail steps withtheir arms locked. Heard the cry
of murder once while they werecoming down the steps, and twice
after they had left them. Mrs. Hall was standing in the door.
Some one, he believes Chesebrofstepped the mouth of the man
who cried murder. When ~they had gone a little distance from the
steps, the middle man of the thne appeared to hang back; his hat
fell Ulf, and a Mr. Osborn took it up and gave it to Sawyer. Asked
Sawyer what the rumpus was, who -replied that a man had been
arrested for debt' and was unwilling to go. Saw Sawyer rap on
the well curb. Hubhard's caniageaoon drove by rapidly to the
cast, with Hubbard driving; the horses were gray, and the cur-
tains down. The carriage went a little beyondthe pound, east of
the
'
jail, and tumed about. A man was put in by four others,
who then got in, and the carriagevdrovewest and went round the
corner of the tavem then kept by Mr. Kingsley. Witness followed
the men as they went east; and was near the pound when they 'got
-into the carriage. 'It tumed round before they got in. AS the-can
riage was returning west, some one in it cried out, 'Hubbard,
why don't you drive faster; damn you, why don't you drive fasten'
Hubbard then cracked his whip. H_ad seen Morgan, but did not
,know whether he was the man taken from thejnil. Did not know
those who came down the'steps. The moon-shone bright.
.»...>
"
LIGHT on mssonar. 505
Ikran Hubbard, swom.-In September, 1826, the witness
kept a livery stable in Canandaigua. He was applied toby Mr.
Chauncey H. Coe to take a party to Rochester on the tweltthot'
September, and was paid for it last ummer or fall by Mr. Nicho-
las G. Chesebro. His was a
yellow two-horse carriage. His
horses were gray. They were at the barn near Mr. Kings|ey's
tavern, west of' the jail. About the time he was ready, some per-
son on the side walk, then and now unknown to the witness, told
him to go on the Palmyra road when he was
ready, for the party
had gone on. This was the only direction he had as to setting
ont. He did not hear a
rap on the vell curb. He started about
nine o'clock in the evening. It was pleasant andthe moon shone.
No one was in the carriage when he left the barn. He went be-
yond the jail east fifty or
sixty rods, and stopped opposite the
long house. His party, supposed to be five in number, there
opened the carriage and got in. He heard no noise. He pre-
sumed the people in the road were his party. . He knew none of
them then, nor where they came from, and has not known them
since. He cannot say whether he saw them get into the car-
riage. He was not very particular in noticing them. After the
party had got in, he turned round. On his way to Rochester he
first stopped at Brace's, six miles from Canandaigua, to water;
the people had not gone to bed; some of the company went in;
he don't know but he saw them by candle light; he don't know
how many went in. He stopped again at Bacon's, in Victor, or
at the house beyond; people had gone to hed. Stopped also at
Mendon; nobody was
up. Did not feed his horses at either ofthesc
places. He stopped at Stone's, in Pittsford, long enough to
water.
The bar keeper was
up waiting the return of some
young men
belonging to the house. Don't.remember whether any ofhis party
got out beyond l§race's. He stopped in Rochester, at the large wa-
tering place in Main street, tenor twelve minutes; it was just at
twilight Some of the party got out here, but he _don't know
whether any went from the carriage; he saw no one of them then
that he knew, and has seen none since to recognize
thegi.
The
party desired him to go on
heyond Rochester. He con ented to
go; he took the Lewiston road. On arriving at Hant'ord's, which
was then a tavern, one nt' the party got out. He called for feed
for his horses, but got none;he went about eighty or one hundred
rods beyond the house and stopped near a
place ot' woods. It was*
not a usual
stopping place; the party got out before he turned his
carriagef he thinks he must have seen them, but he saw n0 04°
that lldkhewyand has seen no one ot' tlt||n_since. He dqll'¢ |f"°"
why lieqtnpped at that place, but presumes his pn-cymld ham ta
Tr -
ff'
`
ngmzea ny
Googl
i
n
506 . moat Ol tusonr.
do so. Returning he stopped at Hanford's and endeavored lo
get feed for his horses, but could not. He saw twoor three carria-
ggg ping out of Rochester when he did, which turned round and
went back. One was a 'small carriage; its color he cannot re-
collect. Alter he had turned -round he met a hack with two hor-
ses, near the house; thinks it was
green; did not she it stop, nor
hear it hailed; thinks it was not the hack be sew going out of'
Rochester. He beard nothing from 'hi party about carriages
coming from Rochester. Knows Mr. Platt, who kept a
livery sta-
ble in Rochester, but not his carriages. N o one returned in his
carriage to Rochester except two transient persons whom he
took in 'on the road, neither of- whom was known to him. An
unknown man on horseback passed his carrriage between Ca-
nandaigua and Rochester.
'
Ezra Platt, sworn.-ln September, l826, the witness kept a
livery stable at Rochester; He is a Mason and a member of a
Chapter. A lodge had previously been established at Lewiston.
A Chapter was
expected to'be installed in that place, and the Ro-
chester Chapter had been authorized to install it. It is usual for
the Grand Chapter to issue to suitable persons a special commis-
sion for such a
purpose. The first officers of a
Chapter would
be proper commissioners. After the fact of the Rochester Chap-
ter having received a commission to install one at Lewiston had
been for some time known. and about ten days before the instal-
lation, the witness was asked if he could furnish carriages to take
the commissioners to Lewiston; and he said that he could, but
advised that he should take the stage. He stated he could not
go himself by reason of ill health. About four or five o'clock in
the moming of the day, or day but one, before the Lewiston instal-
lation, some person called at hisfront door and said be waqeda
carriage to go to Lewiston, and desired it might be sent to Ens-
worth's, where the company was. He then went away imme-
diately. The witness called up his driver, whose name was
Parker. The driver had been in witness' employ several months,
but left him a month or two afterwards on account of sore eyes.
He don't know where he lives nowf The carriage was sent
soon after it was called for. The witness did not see it start.
He had two
carriages, one of a cinnamon color, or yellow, and
the other green. He thinks 'the first was taken. The horses
were black, or of avbrown bay color. They were gone several
days. He supposed the carriage was for thacomrnissionen,
and had no intimation that Morgan was
going in it. He did not
see the person that called for the carriage, and has never been
able to ascertain who he is. The only charge he made wason the
'
I-lem- on nusounv. 507
paper in his wallet, in these words, 'Grand Chapter pro tempore,
to carriage to Lewiston! He supposed the carriage was for the
Chapter, and expected some one, in its behalf, would pay him; but
he-has not been paid, and has never asked any person to pay him.
He has heard that some of the Chapter went in a steam boat to
Lewiston. He knows Hiram_ Hubbard, but did not see him or
_a carriage with gray horses that day. He let to George Ketchum
a carriage and horses to go to Batavia, the day before Morgan went
to that place. Il' the installation was the fourteenth, hiscarriagc
must have gone the eleventh, or twelfth. It was not engaged on
Sunday evening, nor any thing then said about it. Reuben Leo-
nard kept tavern in Rochester at that time. l)on't know that any
persons were at Leonard'e in relation to carriages to go to Lewis-
ton. Wtas not there himself. He knows nothing of a
carriage
_and horses being employed, on the Friday evening previous, tn
goto Batavia. A
n
Harry Olmstead, sworn.-He resided at Greece, near Hand-
ford's landing, in September, l826.~ One moming ofthat month,
just at daylight, he saw a carriage with a pair of gray horses in
the road south of Handford's. The horseswere very sweaty and
appeared to be much fatigued. Thecurtains of the carriage were
drawn. There were two men on the box. He did not know
either of' them. Does not know how far it went beyond Hand-
ford's. About fifteen minutes afterwards he saw the caniage
standing under Handford's shechnppnsite his house. About an
hour after sunrise he saw the same carriage come on the Ridge
road, take the River road, and proceed towards Rochester. lts
curtains were up, and live- or six men in it. He was
standing in
the road. He saw no other carriage that moming coming from
Rochester. The end ofthe Ridge road is a few rods from Hand-
ford's house. _ A person passed on a brown mare, whom he has
since ascertained to be Edward Doyle.
Silas Walker, sworn.--Witness lives on the River road, directly
opposite 'the point where the Ridge road intersects it. On the
morning oi' the twelfth of September, 1826, while talking with
Mr. Olmstead, he saw a
yellow carriagewith gray horses pass by.'
When it retumed the curtains were up, and three, four, or five
persons in it, one of whom he knew to be Burrage Smith. A
person on Mr Platt's brown mare was forward of' the carriage.
He saw no other carriage that morning, having been fiom home
most of the time. 1
Silas Walbridge, sworn.--Heilived, in 1826, in ClarkS0ll,
about fifteen miles from the River road. Near the titlw of me
aces, which commenced that year on the fourteenth of S°P"
f
._
503 menu' ON masonav.
ggmba, bg was applied to »by`a gentleman for a
pair of horses to
gg befgrg a hack, which he_ stated would arrive between eight and
ten o'clock in the moming. The gentleman said he did not want
a driver. ~
Witness, at firstdeclined letting his horses go withouta
driver, but finally consented, bamessed his horses about eight
o'clock, and tied them under his shed. The hack came along be-
tween eight and nine o'clock,~and when it approached his house
the gentleman went along by the sideof it and had some conver-
sation with the driver who soon drove on. He then said he did
not want the horses. A person, since dead. 'told witness what
was to'take place, and when the hack came in sight, pointed _it
out to him. The hack was of a dark color, and the horses
dark bay. ..
f
'
Sarah Wilder, sworn.-The witness lived, in September, 1826,
with Capt. Isaac Allen, about five miles east from Clarkson..
Allen does not keep tavern, and there are no houses near
About the eleventh or twelilh of September in that year, at ten or
eleven o'clock in the forenoon, Mr. ---
came and inquired
for Capt. Allen. Did not know where he was. Mr. +
went hastily in pursuit ol' him, hallooed for him, soon 'found him,
and retumed after the hack. The hack came up before the house
in about fifteen minutes. lt was brown,and the horses were brown;
the curtains were down, and the day was
very warm. 'Did not
know the driver. Capt. Allen's horses were
brought up, and
Capt, _Allen and Mr. '---
changed the horses; those that
came with the hack were put in Capt. Allen's barn. The hack
went west, and Mr. 51- with it, and returned about an hour
before sunset the next day. The curtains were up and no one
in it. Capt. Al|en'had gone to Clarkson but hadtold witness
where the horses that came with the hack the preceding day
might be found. They were put to it again, and the hack returned
to the east. Don't know who vas with it when it retumed.
William Cooper, swom.+Witness lives in Clarkson. About
the middle ol' September, 1826, coming from the west he passed
a carriage and two pair of horses inthe road about tour miles
west of Clarkson, and about one third of the distance from Capt.
Allen's to Mr. Spencer's. It was between eleven and twelve
o'clock in the forenoon. Does not recollect the day of the
month, but it was near the 'time ofthe races
thaayear. They
were then training horses on the race
grounds, .' e cannot
say
whether the horses were attached to the carriage or-not; they ap-
peared `to be changing them.- A man on the Fox, w»bbm`1iie'had
never'seen before, was
holding thelines; one 'of horseswvas
Capt. Allen's, the other he did not know.
'
e
W88.thQ§3§Y3S
r
,.
_
f
. 1
___ _.,...¢.. x-..
neun' on iusomw. »5Q9
very warm, and the curtains of the carriage were
down. Them
were four or five men in alot south of the Ridge road
convening;
me about fifteen rods from the carriage, the others nearer. Two
_ofthem were sitting, the others standing. Witness knew'eeve-
ralof the men: Capt. Allen, Mr. Spencer, and Mr. l. He
afterwards thought that another's name was
Augur, but is not
positive of it. The carriage did not start while he saw it.
Solomon C. Wright, swom.-He kept a public house =n Nia-
gara county, in September, 1626. His house is on the norm side
gf the Ridge road, in the poimof its intersection by the Lockport
road, six miles east of Col. Mollineux's, and three and a half
miles north of Lockport. ln the month of September in that
year, on the day befbre the installation at Lewiston, _just at night,
a two-horse pleasure carriage or hack drove under his she<l_ and
atterwards into his bam, which is a few rods farther from his house.
The bam doors are usually shut. The feeding troughs in the
shed were broken down, and the carriage was driveuinto the
bam to feed the horses, and they ate from boxes placed before
them on the floor where the carriage stood, in the farther end of
the bam. Don't know whether'they were taken from the car-
riage. 'I'he horses were not changed. Did not see tho e who came
in the carriage get out orin. Don't know where they got out,n0'r
how many there were. Did not know any of them or the driver.
Has never seen the driver since. All who came in the carriage,
including the driver, took supper at his house, and each paid his
own bill to him. His bar keeper was gone, and he tended bar.
Was i.n the har when they first came in, and saw them go through
the bar room to supper. _The driver obtained food for the horses.
Witness does not know that any persons came in the carriage.
Did not see the door open. Don't know whether the curtains were
down or not. Don't know that any one was in the carriage during
supper. Sawino one
go to the carriage during supper, and did not
go hiinseltf He once went into t.he barn to find a servant while the
egrringe was there. Neither saw nor heard any person. Passed
the shed in going to the bam. There were horses under it. lt was
dark when they finished supper. After supper they proceeded
mist, Did not see them get into the carriage. His house, shed,
and barn, are on the same side ofthe road. Theinstallation was
talked oil Don't know how many went in the carriage. -
There
wereless in his house after the had gone than before.
Did not see it start. Nothing mysterious about it that attracted
particular attention. There were persons at his house who did not
some in the carriage. He did not know them or their business.
Imc
Fareweiiiiame
to witness' wall to get water about the ture
T2
--¢--u¢-~.- --- ~.
- _
519 LIGHT on masonnr.
the carriage came. Had no conversation with him. He has since
mgygd gg Canada. , Witness knew Eli Bruce at thattime. "Did
not see him at his house that evening. »
He knows Elisha Mather
did not see him that night. He was at witness' house about that
time. Thinks it was before. Saw him the next day, or next day but
we. The next day a
carriage passed his house from the west'to
the east Don't know whether it stopped, nor whether it was the
same that was at his house the preceding night.
l
A hack stopped
at his house the next day. It is usual for carriages to stop there.
William .Molline1n, swom.-In september, 1826, witness
lived in Fleming, Niagara county, on the Ridge road, at a
point
where it is intersected by the road from Lockport; a little more
than twelve miles from Lewiston, six li-om Solomon (J. Vlrighfs,
and six or seven from Lockport. On the night before orthe
night after the installation, about twelve o'clo< k, } li Bruce, who
then lived at Lockport, came to witness' house with two stran-
gers. Bruce came up stairs where witness was in bed, and said
some of his friends were
going to Lewiston, and asked him for a.
chnngeof horses. Bmce told witness that they should be used
caretiilly. Witness called up his son, and after consulting with
him concluded to let Bruce have his horses; Bruce and witness'
son got up the horses. Docs not know from what place the car-
riage came, nor whether Bruce went on with it. One of Bruce's
companions stayed over
night at witness' house, and took care
ofthe horses that were with the carriage, and helped change then
when it retumed. Does not know who drove. Bruce spoke of
Brown as the driver. The horses returned the next moming l
little betbre sunrise, in the charge of Brown. 'lhe carriagewas
large and of a dark brown or black color. He saw no
persons
but Brut-e and the two strangers that came with him. Lan't say
which road the carriage took in the morning, nor how many were
in it. Did not see Bruceagain till .next winter. Brown said
Bruce would pay for the horses. Witness has llul been paid.
Has an account with Bmce.»
Corydon Fox, swom.-ln September, 1826, the witness lived
at Lewiston, with Mr. Barton, in the capacity of a stage driver.
The night before or
night after the installation, between ten and
twelve o'clock, Mr. Barton called witness up and told him to get
his hack and horses ready to goto Youngstown. When he was
ready Bruce got on the box with him and directed him to drive
into a back street to
acarriage which hffound standing them
without any horses attached to it. He drove by the carriage in
fthe back street. Some persons werestunding near it. t
One or
Clvogot out of it, md after they and Bnice had got in his back,
»-
Vu
LIGHT UN MA80NBY» 511
Bruce told him to drive to Col. King's, about six miles distant.
He would have noticed violence. if there had been any. but he saw
none. Saw nothing brought from the carriage in the road to his
hack. On arrivingat King's he stopped, by direction of Bmce,
who got out and called to King, who came down into the hall,
where he and Bruce conversed together. While they were con-
versing, .some one in the carriage asked for water in awhining
Voice, to which Bruce answered, 'You shall have some in a mo-
ment/ King and Bmce then got in, and he drove to the burying
ground, about three quarters of a mile from King's, 'and half 3
mile from the fort, where he stopped, by Bruce's direction. There
were no houses near. The party, four in number, got out and
proceeded side by side towards the fort, and witness, by Bruce's
orders, retumed to Lewiston, where he arrived before
daylight.
The witness was often called up late at night, and
frequently
drove passengers whom he did not know; but it is not usual to
take up a
party in the back street: and he never betore left aparty
at the burying ground, vhich`1s not an
ordinary stopping place.
The next day he saw Bruce at the Frontier House, in Lewiston.
Knows not what became of the carriage in the road. Saw no-
thing unusual in the manner of getting in and out of his hack.
The witness was asked whether he was taken into the lodge
soon after this occurrence; but the court said the question was
improper, and it -was not answered.
Ebenezer Perry, sworn.»-Lives in Lewiston, on Back or`Ridge
street. On the night fhllowing, the l3th of September. 1826,
after twelve o'clock, he saw a
person harnessing a carriage at
Barton's stable; lieard it start. and went to the door. Saw acur-
riage coming, which went a little distance beyond another stand-
ing in the street without horses, and stopped. Two men were
on the box. One of them he knew to be (Jorydon Fox, and the
other he recognized at an examination at Lockport about two
months afterwards, and ascertained to be I* li Bmce. Witness
thought something strange was going on and went into his garden
near his house, where he had a view of what took place in the
road. Saw a man
go from the box of the carriage which had
driven by, to the one standing in the street, and opened the door.
Some one
got out backwards by the assistance of two in the car-
riage. He had no hat, but a handkerchief on his head, and ap-
peared intoxicated and helpless. They went to Fox's carriage
and got in. The man he supposed to'be drunk was helped Ill-
,One went hack and took something from the carriage ¢l'leY had
left; he thinks a
jug; retumed, got in, they drove 052 and he "W
no more of them. Witness saw no person in the unlllmossod
A
512 uurrr on lnonnr.
V
carriage, tbeemtains being down. Seidnotliing about whatbc
had seen for four or tive months.
[Tm prosecution then called Edward Giddins, but the defend-
g|;¢'| counsel objected to his being swom because he had no
mligious belief whatever. After hearing the testimony respecting
his religious opinions, and the arguments of counsel on both sides,
the court unanimously decided that he was not a competent wit-
ness, The evidence in relation to Mr. Giddins is subjoined. It
is not introduced in its order as given in court, because it has no
direct bearing upon the main question]
Elisha addllll, sworn.-He lived in Porter, Niagara county,
in 1826, about two miles down the lake from the village of
Youngstown. l'he troops left the fort in June, except one old
soldier who died there soon after they had gone. About the mid-
dle of September Giddins went to York. Was absent three or
four days, and witness took charge of the ferry and his house
during his absence. Giddins' house was on the tlat below the
fort, twenty or thirty rod-i distant from it. 'l`hat part of tire fort
nearest to his house is the magazine, which fonns part of the wall.
There were ammunition. quarter mastePs stores, &c. in the fort.
He went away the day before Giddins carrie home. Was frequently
at the ibrt in September. Giddins had charge of the fort and pub-
lic property there. Don't know where the key ofthe magazine was
while Giddins was absent. Supposed it was in the mess house,
which is to the lett of the magazine as viewed from Giddins'
house. Heard no one in the magazine while tending feny. Don't
know that any one was there. Heard, about the time of Giddins'
return, of N1organ's having been brought there. Never hear eo
fiom either of the defendants. Don't know that food or drink was
carried to the magazine while Gitldins was absent. Was in it both
before and since the troops left the fort. About the time the pub-
lic property was sold, he was
employed to put things in order at
the fort. Witness went to Q-iddins' house at his request, but at
what time he cannot tell, and saw there Col. Dr. Max-
well zmd Obed Smith had nothing to do with them. Giddins said
he had some work for him to do; showed it to him. Went home
without doing it, having no tools with him.
`
,
John Jackson, swom.-ln the fall of 1826 he lived in Lock-
port. The night before the installation he stayedat Giddins', his
brother in law. Went to installation. Dnn't knoll whether Gill-
dins went. Before going to the installation he went with Giddins to
the magazine- TWGIUY Orthitty minutes previously to setting out,
Giddins had a pistol. Requested witness to take it; he deulinii
Did notseaGiddins laytt aside. Didnotseeitahertlrey lditbe
o
- .- ._
_._-A-_.onlin-..__,y|.,,_
LIGHT ON MASONRY. 513
house: _Giddins carried something with him. Don't know what,
Witness approached within about two rods of the magazine, Gid-
dins went up to the door. Don't know whether it was
opened by
Giddins or not. Something was said inside of the door. He heard
a man's voice not uncommonly loud, and supposed a man was in
the magazine. Don't know what was said, nor whether he heard
the voice before or after Giddins reached the door. Thought he
had better be missing. and immediately retreated.. Giddins soon
followed him. Witness started in ten or twelve minutes for Lew-
iston. Giddins informed witness whose pistol it was that he
showed him, but the defendants' counsel objected to his repeating
what Giddins had told him. He never had any conversation with
either of the defendants respecting their participation in the ab-
duction of Morgan; , _ ,
William Hotchkiss, sworn.--Three or four days' after the in-
stallation, went tp the fort to make inquiries respecting a man's
being confined there-found out nothing. Did not go to the
magazine-nor did Giddins while witness was there. ,
.
The testimony on the part of the people closed here.
Mr. Whiting stated that the bill against Tumerg and Darrow,
two of the defendants, had been found on the testimony of Gid-
dins alone, and that he having been excluded. the prosecution has
no evidence whatever against them. »` ~
Mir. Adams addressed the'jn-y in behalf of Bruce,~and Mr.
Mosley for the people.
'
The jury retired at nine o'cl0ck on
Friday evening, after receiving a charge from his honor Judge
Howell; and having been absent about three hours, returned a
-verdict of GUILTY' against Bruce, and Nor GUILTY in favor of
Turner and Darrow.
'
'
,
The court suspended their judgment against Bruce in order to
take the advice of the Supreme Court on some
important quest.
tions of law which were raised during the trial.
___.;~.~.A. _
(514)
A UANDID APPIAI. T0 PROFBBSUR 01' RELIGION,
7P0l Tlll QQIIICT UI '
'
'SPI-ICULATIVE FREE MASONBY.
I
`
n,||s»sn.u°f¢nu,a=aagata¢rs»¢t¢nammtbg¢¢-mt
cant qf Le 11.4, .me mu.
Tal Christian religion has ever been marked for its plainness
and simplicity; and il' there be any difference is the degree ofthe
excellence of the characteristics which are attached to it, the
comprehensiveness of the doctrines which it inculcates, and the
reasonableness of the demands which it makes upon the services
of its votariee, hold n prominent place amdng these characteris-
tics. The church which is founded npon this religion has, in ful-
filment ol prophecies long since uttered respecting her. been called
to pass through the fires of persecution, and has been almost over-
whelmed by the billows of aliliction; to which truth many a ran-
somed soul that now mingles with the glorified throng of 'the just
made perfect' can bear testimony. But there are evils to which
the relkion ot' the gospel is subject which can bear no compari-
son with these/ For these outward tribulations can affect only
its t--mponl condition, and they ultimately produce good rather
than evil. They serve as.l`uel to feed the dame of its spirituality,-
and to enliven that lire which is to purify it and purge it from the
dross ol` error and hypocrisy. The days of Zion's prosperity
are the days of her danger; and when foes are fewest from with-
out, it hecomesher friends tw watch with the most assiduous care
over her purity, and to guard her with the strictest scrutiny from
the innovations of those heresies and delusions which, if f`oster»
ed, will render her odious to God, with whom all other foes.
whether in heaven, on earth, or in hell, are not to be compared,
Not that the vigilance of her members alone is to preserve ,her
from such contaminations, for it is the province of' her Guardian
above to preserve her internal as well as outward prosperity, and
speed her march from triumph to triumph, until all the glorious
things that are spoken in her behalf' shall be consummated. But
it is the privilege as well as_the duty of all the true disciples ol`
the Cross, to endeavor to seek out and unveil every latent iniquit}
that lurks within her bosom and pollutes her sacrcdness; and hap~
_,
Lisle Ol ranonav. 515
py are we ell, if this privilege of co-operating with our covenant
God in fulfilling his will, be ours.
It is-not my present design to comment
upon all the evils of
this description which at the present day exist in the church, and
claim and receive admission into her sanctuaries. To make a
few passing remarks upon one of them, which has long lain un-
molested within her embrace, deadening the spiritual vitality, es-
tranging the hearts and alienating the affections of her members,
is the business to which I have now assigned myself. This evil
is the institution of speculative Free Mdsonry; and it has been so
long upheld by the charities and the countenance of professing
Christians, that to undo the evils which it has hitherto created,
and is still creating, in the religious world, will require no
ordinary
degree of Christian exertion. The publicsmind is already some-
what awake to its dangerous tendency upon our civil liberties,
and my voice has been mingled with.that of many of my fellow
citizens in opposing it upon patriotic principles; but in attempting
to expose' its gross impiety, I am well aware that I am
touching
another and more delicate chord which may vibrate in tones oi
opposition that have never yet been awakened. But it would be
a
poor fulfilment 'of the duties which, as a patriot and a professing
Christian, I owe to my country and my God, were I to confine
my feeble energies to commenting upon the anti-republicanism oi
Masonry, when] have so much reason to fear that it is wresting
from 'very many of my fellow creatures their inheritance to those
'incorruptible joys which shall endure when earthly dynasties and
temporal kingdoms shall be for ever
forgotten. It is the princi-
ples of Masonry alone that I combat; for in them do I believe
the great evil consists,'and nothing but their entire eradication
can arrest its fearful progress. The rights and benefits they
confer are sordid and temporal alone. They foster crime, feed
avarice, and promote social divisions Beyond the grave they
hold forth no- rational hope, nor can the utmost extent of their
powerimpart a
single ray of peace to the departing soul. If any
of its former votaries are now
enjoying the rewards ofthe blessed,
(and such Irtrust and believe there an-e,) it can
only be accounted
for upon the presumption that although they were Masons in
name, they were not such in reality. Masonry itself could never
have sped their coursethither, nor are
they now exalted above
those who nevvr bowed at its shrine. But that those remarks
may not seem rash or uncandid, I shall subjoin a few of the rea-
sons which have induced me to believe them correct. _
~My first reason why I consider Masonry as warring Sglmflt N'
ligion, is, that it prostitutes the Holy Scriptures to'unh0|Y P""P'-79°5-
.|..,...|...,_,_ .1
~
515 mon? ou msonnv.
Instead of receiving them as the simple and unadulterated 'man
of our counsel and rule of our
guide,' it has mingled them witha
mass of fables; and upon this impure and motley collectionit
has founded a series of ceremonies, which, to say the least,~are`
not Divine institutions, and no others should claim their and
their warrant from that Holy Word. Of~
this character is the
building of' Solomon's temple, and the fabled story of the death
of Hiram Abitf; and upon these the foundation of a
ceremony
amounting in line to the discovery of an all-important word, which
probably was never' articulated until long afl,er'Solomon and Hi-
ram were laid with their fathers, and the fair stmcture they had
reared crumbled to ruins. The improbability of this story will
appear from the circumstance that the murderers of Hiram Ahilf
wished to obtain the Master's word, that by its aid they might ob-
tain employment in foreign countries, while the word _was not
known abroad, and therefore could be of no service to them what-
ever. Also that Solomon, upon finding the work in confusion,
then, and not till then, remembered that certain men had appeared
before him and confessed themselves conspirators in the transac-
tion. Also that but twelye men were despatched to make atho-
ro h search throughout the whole land of israel. In going from
th:§'laster's to the upper degrees, the investigation of this point
is still more painful to the feelings of the Christian. ln the Mark
Master's, the parable ofthe laborers in the vineyard (See Matthew
xx, l-16) is coupled with the story of the rejection of a stone
presented by the candidate in the building of the temple. The
absurdity of this will be apparent to every sacred chronologer.
In the Most Excellent Master's or sixth degree we find to our
astonishment that the offering of sacrifices" and oblations are not
yet done away, although our
only Great High Priest has long since
made the last propitiatory sacrifice, and has left his word that
none other are now well pleasing in his sight. This degree is
chiefly founded upon 2d Chronicles, vii, l-4; and in imitation of
the solemnity ofthe scene there described the incense is laid be-
fore the Lord; but no lire comes down trom heaven to consume
it, nor are the priests unable to enter the room because it.is lilled
with the glory of the Lord. In the Royal Arch degree, the wan-
ton levity with which the sacred names of Jah, Jehonqlpv-pd God,
are introduced and used, is truly trying -to Christian-sensibility;
and in the degrees of Knighthood, where the intqestig scenes of
the New Testamentare burlesquedwith the s Q
»
,
tlessuess
and indecorum, we see still more to deplore
`
condemn- It
ought certainly to be a serious question with devout Chris-
tian, in what light he ought to view this prostrfon of the original
»~-.. .....--,_.¢.. i_.».»¢.~.
'
1 ..-
ucirr DN nusosrw. 511'
ind holy design of the Scriptures of his sxilvation, and what de.
,greeof crime he ought to allix to such an unholy commingling
of Divine truth with human invention.
The second reason that I shall name is the unchristian nature
gf Masonic oaths. Upon this point my-remarks will be very few,
because the most, if not all of those who will read this, have pe-
rused the remarks of an abler pen upon the same
subject* But
I cannot forbear-appealing to the conscience of every Christian.
whether in< the face of the Divine mandateto 'hold no fellowship
with the unfniitful works~of -darkness/ he can swear to fulfil the
desires and follow the 'loadings of those whose deeds are, for
ought herknows, works of .darkness _and impiety. And though
his Christian brethren may -tell him to the contrary, where, I
wvouldaskfis his warrant to take their declarations upon trust
when his Spiiitualdirectory-informs him that he needs noarher
'light to his feet and lamp tohis path' than that 'sur/W0l'<l_0i'
prophecy# in taking heed to which hedvee Well? Wim °"*h°f§f§`
has. he- from the word of God, 'tobmd himself1100-0P¢fH¢° Wllh
tho" who gre (hen his upoiates, or may anerwardsbecome so,
in,f||I{i"ing qw mandy, of Masonic ruler, and keeping all
gh; gqcfgtg of his ippthren, murdersad high treason alone exl
¢9p¢¢d, #nd not wig that in the upper degrees! But if
the pro-
'missnrypnrt of the obligations are inconsistent with-'Christian
¢hgm¢¢|;pud Christian duty, how much more criminal must be
than qnsal imprecations which constitute their penalty. With
wlmffselings ofahhorrenceshould we view alegal contractwhere
life vas the penalty of a failure in its fulfilment; or would a,
chmch he fellowshipped in the Christian community, whose mem-'
bars were required to covenant, upon pain'ofthe most harbarous
and inhuman death from the hands-of their brethren, that they
ivouldfaithfully observe all its commands and ordinances! Yet
themoialigaiit, in these cases, as heinous as it would be,- would
not be commensurate with the crime of invoking the same pe-
nalty, for the promiser's failing to fulfil, he knows not what. In
this particular, like every other, the higher we ascend in the scale
of 'Masonic wisdom, the more weeee that is inconsistent with
-gospel piety, as well as degrading to humanit . The imprecu-
,tionshecomemore and more awful as the cand{thte's conscience
becomes less 'andiess susceptible of their horrors, until he has
tansriylo lddtoltis temporal death, 'mn nvennssriuo ren-
DINING! lswlounl Let every Chnstian, before he extends his
institution, examine whether such an Impre-
éi-notlghzl, tm 1
"
,
'
UU
--¢"'l¢»¢|_....-........, ». __
518 mens fox nusounv.
cgign mg lhig is warranted in the Holy Scriitxres, or whether
God an smile with complscence upon the administration ofsuch
oaths as claim in their penalty the disposition of 'the life .that now
is, and that which is to come.'
My third reason is the sacrilegiousnature of Masonic ceremo-
nies. And here it will not be consistent with the Hmits to
which
I must coniine myself; to follow the institution through all its
senseless mummeries, and point out their bearin upon theChris-
tian character, or their inconsistency withthe
'
religion.
Suice it to say that-theyare all, aswesbefose remarked, founded
in part upon _Scriptnreecenesvand in part upon fold ssives'fahles.'
Witness the representation of God in the burning bush, 'in the
Royal Arch degree, wheres frail mortal is made »to.repreeent.the
immortal Jehoveb, and in his presence the trembling candidate
is commanded by this would-be deity, 'Put -06 .thy shoes. from
05° thy feet, for the place wbereon thou standeat is holygroundf
and as 9. reason Why he should meh deference to his assumed
divinity, he ldds, 'I AM 'run £3 es- :ral nrrnn, run Gomer
~Ana.uuM, 'rim Genes' I.lnc,_Au»xg; .Gon.¢sJi.eon.' ~Ho=w
many of -these mortal gods weuM§'at iuqfq ,_ Qqmgng, shrink ui
mes# illb Being WIIOII ¢ll0y l16lllPi0 p§,_1q||;t3, is known only
to the searcher of all hearts; but I am sig in
'
qmghs
number of Christians who woulichooee such; time an
,plsee to
exchange worlds, is ,few indeed. The same rem 1
,
-
_ .
a
to the ceremony qt' three times three, in the suns;
ly
the most solemn appellation by which the Supreme is
known, that .word which the Jews dared not to speak hu with
thedoepest reverence, is used to give a zest to one of the -mst
fulsome ceremonies in the =whole catalogue. In the degrea gf
Knighthood the ctmdidateis brought before s.
triangular tahle, on
which is -laid something that is not exposed to him, and the when
iscovered with a. black cloth. He then drinks four lihetions oi
nvine, the iirst to Solomon; King of Israel, the second to Hiram
Ahim the third to ,Hiram, King of Tyre, the fourth .to Simon of
Cyreno, who was compelled to beer the Saviour's cross. Pre-
vious to drinking .the fifth, the cloth is removed, andhe illilifihd
by the
sight
of s. corrm, upon which lies 0. luunalukuil and thigh
bones. fter .some preliminary ceremony, among which is a
mock exhibition of the Saviour rising, the Wino for this lihation is
presented him in another skull, which he kneeling takes and says,
.'This .pure wine I now take in testimony of my belief in the mor-
tality of the body and immortality ot' the soul;¢ and may this libs-
tion appear as a witness against me, both here and hereafter; and
as the .sins of the whole world were laid upon the head ofthe
i'_ t
_
_
__
' Y --
`
4
_
LIGHT on nrssonm: 519
Saviour, so' may all the sins committed by the person whose skull
this once was, be heaped upon my head, in addition to my own,
should I ever knowingly or wilfully violato or
transgress any obli-
gation thatl have heretofore taken, take at this time, or shall at
any tirture period take, in relationto any degree of Masonry or
order of Knighthoodi After this, the candidate still kneeling,
the Sovereign Master puts-wine upon his head in the form of
baptism, and says, 'I now dedicate thee to the service of
God, in support of truth, honor, and justice, in defence of
innocent virgins, destitute widows, helpless orphans, and the
Christian religion.' If there can be any piety in scenes like
these, I have yet to learn where it is evinced, or to entertain en-
tirely diiferent notions respecting the sacredness of the gospel,
iiom what I now possess.. _On the contrary, I see much that is
calculated to excite theabhorrence of all who have a
holy jea-
lousyfor thesanctity of the institutions of the Christian religion.
The path`oi` Christian duty is given so
plain that 'the wayfaring
man; though a fool, need not err therein;' and this path will lead
to all the needful privileges of life, and to ultimate glory, without
wandering through the dark mazes of Masonic mysticism. No
offering of incense, no adoration ofa pretended deity who show
his naked back through a
buming bush, no invocation of tempo-
ral -and etemal wretchedness over a skull filled with wine, and in
a style at which humanity revolts, is required in the simple word
of Divine truth. There the plain system of moral duty is given
in all its length and breadth; and let the man who adds thereto
beware lest its author add unto him the plagues which it denoun-
ces against such a sacriloge.
-'
My fourth reason for denouncing Masonry is, its religious as-
sumption of titles to which it has no claim, and its confounding
knight erranlry with Christianity. The objection naturally di-
vides itselfinto two paragraphs.
lst. With regard to theirreligious assumption of titles, we find
but little to condemn until we arrive to the third or Master's de-
gree. To the appellation of 'Worthy,' which I believe is all that
is claimed before this,I shall not at this time demur. '-Whether
it is, or is not, in most cases well applied, I shall not take it upon
me to say, my present business being with the principles and not
the individual members of the Masonic fmtemity. In the third
degree we tind ourselves introduced to the Worshipful .Maxim
and with a few ignoble exceptions, it is upon the records of Ma-
sonry alone that we lind so bold and so sacrilegious an
assump-
tion. The proud king of Egypt, the splendid ruler of Persia,
the haughty monarch of Babylon, the impious Herod of Judea.
_.nn- ~-°°- -
-
'r
330 uenfr on nusormr.
neva- laid dn? claim to the adulution of their dependants; norde
all the annals ot' Sacred or profane history furnish a
correspond
ins gggmplo, save those instances where men arrogated to them-
selves |aper~humanity. We readindeedot those-who worshipped
they knew not what; but only in idolatrous nations do wefind that
children of mortality are esteemed worthy of adoration. From
tho word of God we have the most indubitable evidence that wor-
ship is due to One alone; and sure I amtliat no true Christhn will
attempt to compete with the Sovereign of the universe for the
praise ol' the creatures of his power. Next this worm ot' the
#lust is presented to us as not only Worshiptill, but .Most Excel-
lent; superlative in excellence, without a superior, without aper-
nllel! Well may we tremble for the purity of our holy religion
when its supporters can hear, and especially can receive, such
expressions of unqualified devotion, without a blush of shame for
the utter unworthiness of the object upon whom it is bestowed.
But the saddening picture ends not here. Though modesty has
:already fled from the exhibition, and Christianity weeps at this
wanton violation ot' her sacredness, yet we have only to turn n
little farther to behold greater evils than thehe.
'
Else what means
those pomegranates and bonnets and robes of olden time? What
means that mitre and breast plate upon which is inscribed, 'Hou-
wass 'ro 'rss Lonn,' with all the other insignia of' Jewish High
Priesthood. Ycs, it is even so. Though the blood of hulls and
-.=f` goats is no longer an
expiation of sin, though the altars ot' sa-
crifice are broken down and the Priesthood abolished by the great
sacrifice ofthe last High Priest, yet here ve find it revived with
threefold pomp, and with an ostentation which Aaron and his sons
never displayed. And has the ministration of Jesus, our Great
High Priest, who forever abolished the order, become insuHicient
in
accomplish the great object for which it was
designed! Trem-
ble, Christian, lest thou 'limit the Holy One of Israel] by giving
to another that High Priesthood which is for ever done away.
Upon this point, like every other I have touched upon, I have
only given two or three instances as
specimens of the-whole. I
know not but there may be some who will attempt lifapology
for the assuming ol' such sacred titles, but for mysslihlflzln con-
'ceive of none. If one was smitten with rt most-` A - '1
iillllgment
from the hand of the Almighty for even liste- ~<', iiioinpla-
cency to the responce ot' the multitude to ~ »= f §i'h5il`f\8
voice of a God,' what must be the me
=» f l ir" I
who
bear these titles which are little less assu
perhaps none in reality. 1 F1
"tj <G'l'§"'l?'4m¢
2d. With regard to its confounding knight' T" ~
trywith
» _
i_.a._¢4~...--
Liear on mnsonnr. 521
!iani,ty,I need say but very few words. Intho degrees ofKnight-
hoodthe Saviour is for the first time brought .into view, and re.
ferenoeis often made to his life, sufferings, and death; indeed
'Niles token from the New Testament form their most prominent
fggturos. Hence its pretentious to Christianity are not to be
called is questitmr ind I am not aware that thoyhave ever been
denied. _ Its atI;ioi.ty.to tho chivalrous spirit of kliight errsntry is
equally obvious, as the protection of females at the hazard of life
and limbs, and upon the penalty of temporal death and eternal
pei-dition, forms aoonspicnous part of the obligations. There is
np impigty ng;-_impropriety in risking .life to protect the weak and
del`eocale,ss,~and it is certainly suitable that the fair put of crea~
tion should receive such protection from 'the sterner song' but
that chi;/alrous gallantry upon which the ancient; and I may add,
the modern linights built their renown, was .far from being n. kind~
ness to the objects of its professed care; and no triioltlhristian
could wish to see it identiiod with the religion he protbsses,
orclnimiog pa.tronage't`rom that holy namowhereby heis called.
My fifth reason is that Masonry is coneiderlid os a saving in-
stitution,,and makes a religion of the performance of. outward
duties. This mason also divides itself into two -parts.
lst. It is regarded'-as a'-saving institution. No where in their
whole catalogue of duties enjoined,or doctrines ineulcated,is there
tho least reference to any thing but the observance of Masonic
rules as necessary to a-preparation for eternal glory; nor is there
any other way or
any other hope of salvation held forth to the
trembling sinner, but that which. leads through the Lodge, the
Chapter, and the Encampment.. In accordance with this, the
Almighty is styledthc Great .Hrchitect of tlw universe and the
Grand .Master abofue; and the abode ofthe blessed is denominated
the Grand Lodgs abuse, and; the attainment of its joys is.often
spoken of as the perfection of .Masonic wisdom. Hence -it is
evident that whatever may ho the external professions of its
members, its true principles, when divested oflhat ostentatious
sho,w of gospel religion which gives .tho genius of Masonry its
, semblance to an
'angel of light,' do recognize 'no other way given
under heaven, among men, whereby any can -be saved/ but that
whigh is displayed _within the pale of thc Masonic churn/i, and em-
.
liraoed hy charity. The Grand Lodge above, accord-
doctrine, is designed for tho eventual reward of
wgrzthg _§r¢lnreq;; hence the expulsion of a brother from the lodgo
onapgpn of unworthy and unmnsonic conduct, implies a dc-
ltuworthiness of that ,glorious reward; and hence
itrnlyttklltssip reality, to a
religious exeomnumicahon. To dc..
U02
_~u~n»__ _,-,. _-....
'
""""
Q2 mam' ou srasonarr.
gd, regpedipg the piety or
impiety of all this, venoed onlylre-
gbr 1° the Perfect law of God, and see whether the Lord of Glory
gm, cimsen the appellation of Grand-Jlfaster ofa Mamie society
1° mggnify his honor,-or whether the celestial paradise is nothing
mars than a Lodge of worthyllliasons. No such representa-
tions ofthe character or nameof the Almighty are there made;
'I .M,' is his name, and the redeemed will sum
ap his character
and his most glorious title in ~'J2U¢luio,for the Loan Gov Ousiro-
nnr reigneth !' Nor are the gates of the New Jerusalem
goarded by 'a tyler with a drawn sword;' nor do the pillars of
Jachin and Boaz, the square. and compass, the level, theplnmb
line, or the gavel, adorn the celestial city. In all things, but
above-all, in regardto the way of salvation and the true character
of the God he worships, does it become the Christian to take
heed how he believes. ~
'
2d. It makes a religion of theaperformance of outward duties.
It is already shown that it is regarded as a means.of salvation,
and hence the inference is plain that it makes a
religionof so;ne~
thing. The question then- arises, is it of free and undessrved
grace, or the performance of extemal duties? It is not to be de-
nied that after arriving to the degrees ol' Kaighthood, (to which
very few arrive,) we find the Saviour introduced, and his sufferings
and death typilied, or rather burlesqued. But~he is not exhibited
as the vicarious sacrifice for sin. Else why is not the entire de»
pravity of the human heart, and the utter helplessness of-human
nature, made thc first lesson of Masonic instruction and the foun-
dation ofthe whole system! Why is the Mason made to fhllil
the duties ofthe Entered Apprentice, the Fellow Craft, the Mas-
ter Mason, the Mark'Master, the Past Master, the Most Excel-
lent Master, and finally to 'tread through the rough.way' of the
Royal Arch, before he is pennitted to hear the glad tidingsot"
salvation through the Redeemer? And even then, why is he not
taught that lesson of deep humility and of his -native and entire
thraldom to sin, without which he needs no* such redeeming
sacrifice? Why is he not made to deplore those sins which were
visited upon the head ofthe Saviour,-'in sad-cloth and ashe.r,'in-
stead of carelessly reciting the interesting truth over askull hone
iilled with pure wine? These are
important questions in decid-
ing upon the nature of the Masonic religion; and a moment's
reflection upon them cannot fail to convince every candid mind
thatit is not founded upon the doctrine of
gi*
'
'_ ' ,
_ p _
,_
'
l
offer noifurther proofthnt it is ofworks. _
i
l
gf
this withihe Scriptures is a truth which is, or . C 'fb
"
o
be, familiar-
with
every Christian. That entire dependeneknponthe Saviour,
i_.. __.._AAs-in
rmom' on nuonnr. 523
whichhxeludes' all boastingand givesnll-glory to that grace. which
begins the workzof sanctification, 'and forvvards it until 'the top-
most stone is brought in with shouting, crying grace, grace unto
il," finds no place in this selflsutlicing system; but it is allied to
that spirit which'the~Chaldean king evinced when in the fulness
of his- pride he said, 'Is not this great Babylon that I have
builti' l
a
,
My sixth' reason is, thatthe institution is blasphemous. In
proof of this. I ,shall only extracta. diploma which has recently
met my eyes, and»which~is~here given correct, wordyfor word, the
signature alone excepted.
° 4'
_ 'Jima Cin seu Covt. 896,
,C F ,
'-me
M C ANCIENT COUNCIL ,OF THE TRINITY,
S , C ,
sr 'ruem srccnssons
A 0_ R ,
in 'mnuurren sn-rss or siuzurcs.
'
Sr. Annervr-~To every Knight Companion ofthe Holy and
'Thrice Illnstrions Owen or 'ms Cnoss: Beit known unto
you, that, with regard ftounqusstionable vouchers, we have con-
firmed the induction1..otT~ the Knight Templar Mason into the
Councils of' the said-order of Knighthood, and herein do war-
-rant him. as
aworthy and Ir.t.U 'ruovs Companion thereof? and
hoping and couiiding thatdie will ever sodemean himself as to
conduct to the-glory of L S., the Most Holy and Almighty
God, and the honor of his ment, we do-recommend and submit
him to the confidence ot! all those throughout the world who can
truly and deservedly say, 'lam a Christian# and that no unwar-
rantable benefits-.shall arise from this diploma, we charge all
concemed, cautiously and prudently to mark the bearer on the
mystic letters therein.-contained, and to regard only the result, in
its application and privileges.
-
_
'Done in Council at Le Roy, in the county, of Genesee and
state of New York of these U. ,S..A;, August lst, 1827.
-» .
-- V
'Sm ---'
+---,
_
,
.
Sovereign Pre/ict.
'Commnsnnrons 'Sm ---4
----,
Sm Kmcurs COMPANl0NS.' þÿ»'1¢l' ¬Pfflm-
I did not see the above document until afterl had finished thc
preceding reasons; and although frorrl many things there related
[_ felt perfectly satisfied of' the blasphemous nature of' the institu-
"°"» yet had I not perused this degree of the 'ANcrnN'r COUNCIL
or-' 'rim
Tmsrrv, by their successors in the United States ofJime-
"'¢"'r' I should not have made against it this dir¢¢¢ and
h011vy;,
--'¢i-lg--n-._-.-_ . .._.._....
__
-- _
524 _
morn- on IAIOBBYI
charge of sr.ssrum|1.- And I can 'hardly say -whether I an
gratified with this exposure ofsuoh daring §and~imsiousepresuu|p-
tion, since it does really exist; tor whether I could .have wished
that my Christian :friends rightihe ,spredfrom thedrial ofsron-
tompluting this awful ~wiebdne|s. A£iallnvelts,itslanguage is
plain and unequivocal, and enemy heart .poslessarllof trneChris-
tian sensibility, will shudder at its repetition. Let these succes-
sors ol' the 'Ancient Council of ehe`T.rinity' shmrme their order
from the '1`riouo-Godin issuadeeaees in his »name,amd then, nor
until then, will I acknowledge the 'falsityofimynharge.
In addition to the charge of blasphemyrrhich this document
most abundantly substantiates, I might, had I seen it in season,
have brought it forward in support of some of the declarations
before made, particularly in support of the charge made in the
lirst part of my fifth reason for considering theinstitution of Ma-
sonry as opposed to the Christian religion. It will be noticed
that the bearer is recommended and submitted 'to the confidence
of Am. those throughoutthe-world who :an trulyzand deservedly
sny, 'I am a Christian! lt will not he denied 'tint thlasonry,
with respect to the privileges it 'confers .upon its rmerobers, is
entirely a~ selfish imtitution, amltthxt Masoniemsnomuiendatloiu,
diplomas, 850. are designed to avail the banner smongfhis breth-
ren only, and cannot be considered assaddressodlto any others.
The one before us is addressedfto every iisdioidiml who can truly
and deservedly say, 'I am a Christian# while-from its very nature
it'cun be addressed to rionebut brethren ofvthe order. Hence
the inference is plain, that none oth¢1rsFcan:tmlymndfdes¢m¢dly
say, 'I in A Crmis'rrsi~i.' '
But .upon this.pnint,as.well asall
the others, I consider the pmol' as having been suiiiciently posi-
tive; and lecannot-but believe that those to whoseconscienoes
these remarks are addressed, willaclmowlcdge ihereaaoning to
he conclusive.
'
.
I have now done, for this time, with my reasons,
fotrcgarding
the Masonic institution as~I do, upon religiousprineiples. Those
I have mentioned, although some of the most prominent, are
very far from being all that have influenced my belief respecting
it. But I do not wish to burden the subjectwvith any thing more
than is necessary to exhibit it in its true fund unndomed light,
believing that suchan exhibition, in its siuiplestforru,-will D8 Sl1f°
iicient f'or»myrChristian brethren, fomvhose heneiit these remarks
are especially designed. .For the same re8S0n.I have avoided
all unnecessary comment upon the reasons mentioned, and have
satisfied mywlf by Simply laying downthe propositions and then
ustablishing their correctness. ,lf those to whom my appealis
»~»--H-ek.-4. ~J~ié-nil.. le'
` ' '
-ut, .
'ucnr on mssonnr. 525
made are indeed what their professions indicate, it will not be
necessary for me to meet them upon the ground that I should
such as are disposed to quibble and prevaricate. The unsophis-
ticated tmthl is all that they ought to require, and I submit it to-
their Christian candor whether such is not here given.
Before taking leave of this part of the subject, I ought, per-
haps, to anticipate an inquiry respecting the -correctness of my
extracts from the upper degrees which have never been publish-
ed. For the entiresatisfaction of all who may have the least
misgivings on this point, I will add, in addition to my solemn
declaration, that from the most unquestionable evidence I do
Know tlzcmfto be true, I believe I can satisfy any candid inquirer
who will communicate to me his incredulity, that I do indeed-
possess this knowledge.
'
It may now be proper to introduce a few words in answer to
the objection. 'If the institution of Masonry be so awfully wick-
ed, why are so
many good men connected with iti' Should such
a remark be introduced as a conclusive evidence ofthe purity of
Masonry, I should not feel myself obligated to pay any regard to
it; for no' point can be more seltievident than that the virtue
_of
the members of any society cannotbe conclusive proof that its
principles are
equally virtuous. But if it be offered as circum-
stemtiai evidence-against the correctness of my remarks, I admit
its plausibility and notice itaccordingly. The institution of Ma-
sonry, though fraught with absunditieswhich falsify its preten-
sions to antiquity, doessnevertheiess evince in its design and
establishment noordinary degree of cunning and witchery. With
respect to the means by which good men are allured into it,
nothing need be said, its external professions and ostentatious
display of piety being notorious. Upon thefirst induction ofthe
candidate, he finds to his disappointment, that he has made no
remarkable discovery, but the good' still lies before him. He
sees some things to condemn, but is disposed to believe that
when he shall attain the great object ofehis search, these apparent
improprieties may be reconciled with his ideas of propriety; and
on the whole, an impetus is given to his curiosity. ln the third
degreehe finds still more to disgust his feelings, but having
already advanced to the dimensions of his mantle of charity, ho
is themore ready to widen it still farther. But here he finds
himselfno nearer the object of his wish, while the thing is S0
devisedtht his curiosity is vastly increased. Thus onward from
deghoo1ta'~degree~ until the last, which is attained by very few.
in two- thousand,) whose perseverance in at-
taining thisiammit of Masonic greatness evinces that they have
r
_ __ ___,,__,__ _ ,,______ A .___sa....--»-,___ .,__..
526 LIGHT ON MASONBY.
mgdg Masonry their great concern; and they doubtless find sulfi-
gignt ghmmg in the honors which attend their attainment, todeter
them from informing the deluded aspirants for that station that
their labors and expense will end in mere nothing; er else they
have too much shame to confess the fruitlessness ot' their tedious
labors. But by far the- greater part of Chrmtians become dis-
gusted long before this, and are contented to leave the wisdom
of Masonry to those who choose to search forit, and for them-
selves to seek that which cometh from above, and rest satislied
with the simple knowledge of 'Christ and him crucified! There
may be other causes which lure Christians into this abode oi
darkness, but the above is certainly a very probable one, and it
accords with the experience of some whom I esteem for their
apparent piety. The reason why those who have become disf
gusted with the institution have not until recently expend its
abominations, is doubtless their apprehensions respecting the
result; and after taking a Masonic oath and learning .the nature
of Masonic principles, it is not to be wondered that they should
tbar Masonic 'vaNonsca.' -
'1'he foregoing objection is the only one which I anticipate to
my rernarlgs; and having endeavored to answer it, I shall dismiss
the ar mentative part of this subject. As my address is to the
candiginquirerfor truth, l have endeavored to manifest an*appro-
priate coolness and candor. My investigation has been confined
to the principles of the institution alone; and all reference to bad
members or Jfaeonic outrages has been studiously avoided.
These things might have added to the force of many of my argu-
ments; but I chose rather to expose the corruptiom-of the foun-
tain, that others might be spared the trouble of philosopbising
upon the impurity ol' streams. I have aimed' to give a fair per-
trait of Masonry itself, and without visitingupon its head the sins
ot' its devotees, to di play it in its unclsd moral deformity, that
no Christian reader who may be beguiled by its external embel~
lishments to
worship at its idolatrous shrine, may hereatler charge
his sad delusion te my account. And in doing this I am con-
scious of entire purity of motives. Had I looked no farther t`or~»
ward than the many frowns which I shall doubtless receive from
those who are esteemed good and great, I should probably never
have raised my waming voice against the dark catalogue of Ma-
sonic impieties. But I remember that the timehshort. in which
I shall be awed -
by the frowns or flattered bygtiilmilestof the
good and the great of this world, and that
hed will be as
narrow and as low as
mine."'§°llect alsotht
it is the mandate of him whom we are fore
`
f Qofesr, flith
-_
-
4-L
A
_-- -- »~»--~ m...--i.illlui*l
ijrcxrr on xsusonnr. 527
morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thy hand,"
and after the performance of this duty to commit the event and
the consequences to him 'who is a faithful keeper! And while
I call forthe candid and impartial attention of every reader to
this momentous subject, I would impress upon his mind also the
same great truth, that in deciding upon it he is acting for eternity.
If the order of Masonry be indeed so blasphemous against the
God of Heaven, and so destructive to the immortal soul, let him
beware of smiling with complacency upon an institution which
iies 'beneath the 'frowns of the Almighty; and since he has the
unerring declaration of Him 'who cannot lie,' that 'he will not give
_his glory to another, nor his worship to graven images,' let him
not, upon the peril ofhis soul, dare ~to worship a mortal or ascribe
Divinity to a worm ofthe dust.
`
V
_-.»»gQ|¢»-
"PHE TWO GREAT QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
If the .Masonic institution be so great an end,-why have good mm united with,
and continued to countma-nee it aa long? and, I
.Ere Masons justifiable br breaking their .Mlsonic oaths, and publishing the se,
crats afqtltc order tothe world? ~
_
A
p
Br Beans B. Horcurm.
Paar I. Ifthe Masonic institution be so
great an evil, why have
goodmen united with," and continued to countenance it so
long?
The above question is based upon the supposition that the
Masonic institution is charged with being a great evil. It also
supposes that it has attracted the favorable attention of good men
.who have united with it, and some of whom still continue its sup-
-porters. Both of these positions are matters of so common re-
mark, thatlittle more need be aid than that they are facts granted
-by all. In attempting to answer one of the chief objections against
the charge entertained in the first, I, of course, stand committed
among the oppbsers of Masonry. But I tnist that I shall ever
exercise a mildness -
and forbearance, and address myself to the
heart rather than the passions of men, both at this time, and when-
ever else I shall have occasion to remark upon the subject. But
~to the matter before us.
-It is an unsafe rule to make the general virtue of the members
-Of my association the test of its merits, although it is not to be
_rlepiedlhutit may be a circumstance in its favor. But are
Ma-
sons
really willing ,thpt the question should be tried
upon -this
-ground?-that the institution should be judged by 01° '1"°l*l1@S 0V
___
..;
_s..-,...¢ _..;_ _
...___ »
_Y-
v--K
523 naar on susoxsv.
its mqmbgfg gs a. whole? For it' they dee to this resort, they cer-
gaingy canmg expect us to set aside any whom they hold in good
fellowship; they cannot place before us the good, the great, the
profound, the enrdite, and the exemplary, and say these are the
materials ofour fair fabric, while the miredmallilade-theimpious,
the ignoble, the superficial, the ignorant, and the licentious, are
for n brief moment, disclaimed, to be again received with open
arms when the ordeal shall have been passed. Unless I am
much mistaken, the welkin has already rung with loud complaints
of the institution's having been condemned for the acts of its
members, and that must be a poor rule which is unequal inits ap-
plication to different sides ofthe same subject. For the sake of
the order, then, as well as our own, be it repeated, that it is nn-
snfe to make the general virtue of the members cf any associa-
tion the test of its merits. True, we do not 'gather grapes from
thorns, nor figs from thistles,' but we frequently see men ofhonest
hearts and exemplary lives ensnared in toils laid by some evil
hand; and, what is still more to be deplored, we sometimes dis-
cover the show ot' virtue where there is a heart of guile. I will
not, therefore, condemn the institution for the waywardness of
some ot' its devotees, nor will I Isud it for the praiseworthy quali-
ties ofothers. I judge Masonry, not Masons; let the principlesof
the institution determine its moral worth or prodigocy, and as for
the members, abstracted therefrom, 'honor to whom honor is du.
However, as the question noticed at the head of this article has
been, and doubtless will continue tobe, pressed hard and display-
ed in triumph upon the banner whose streaming-colors wave above
'the outer wsll,' it may perhaps be worth the whde to gise it a.
passing notice. ~
Why, then, have good -men united with the institution!
It is one ofthe most prominent characteristics ot' the mind, to
be dissatisfied with its present condition, unsatieted with know-
ledge, and incessantly upon the alert for new foodfor its propen-
isties. Its quality determines the .nature ofthe object of itsram-
hition. If vicious, it willfdevise new plots of wickedness; it'sor~
did, it searches for some new and hitherto nntrodden read to
wealth; if virtuous, it studies the mast efeotual method of pat-
ling its noble prilwiples into active operation; ifheavenly minded,
'its 'being's end
ant'}_aim'
is to leam how it may most rapidly grow
in ace and ripen or the fruition of its hopes-Qhe'
"
general as-
seglmlyof the church of the first horn'-the New Jerusalem and
the society of those who dwell therein. Thegood man is, in
some degree, aware
thatmany unholyfeelingsholdtheir sway over
htm, he camcstly desires deliverance therefronnyand siezes with
`
s
" *' ' " '
-~'-----
r , LIGHT ON
mztsormv. 529
uvidity upon whatever bids fair to speed his conquest over his dir-
rest foes, 'the world, the Hesh, and the devil,' While pondering
in sadness upon his present infirmities, and looking for somewhat
toinfuse vigor into his spiritual strength, his attention is arrested
by an institution claiming to be the handmaid of the religion he
Profegges-to point out new beauties in the God he ado]-35-beau.
ties too vived for the gaze ofthe wienlightened eye-to open the
avenues and direct the pilgrim steps of the novitiate to a sub-
limer field for benevolence and a more refined state of morality;
and displaying over its portals a
wily allurement for a heart like
hiS-"FAl'I`H,_}IOPE, t7HARI'I`Y.' Already hungering forarepast
like that promised in such a
bill of fare, forgetting for the moment
the history of our mother Eve, which is set forth as a
timely
warning to all her offspring, and perhaps, too, unmindful of the
monition to seek counsel from above, he looks wistfully; he sees
among the inmates some with whom he has erst taken sweet
counsel and walked to the house of' God in company; and though
commingled in the same group are _those whom his soul abhors,
yet. there he may pcradventure approach, conciliate, and reform
them; and full of brilliant expectations, and keenly set for new
and richer consolations, he enters, he bows before the altar reared
within, and immolates himself' in the strange abode. Now is he
grappled to the car of that deity he had thought to clasp with un-
impelled and fond adoration; instead of the live coal from God'S
own altar, the seal of silence is put upon his lips, and however
sickening his thraldom may be to his heart, it is only in the si-
lence of' his closet he dare say, 'Wo is me, for I am a man of
un¢an lips, and my dwelling has been in the tents of`Kedar, and
among the children of Meshec.'
Why have good men, after having had an
opportunity to dis-
cover the nature of the institution, continued their connexion
with it? Various circumstances may have contributed to pro-
duce such a result; some
may have been swayed by one influ-
ence, others by another, and others still by the combination of a
pgrit or all that do exist. ,The great objection that by some is
made against Masonry is that it is frivolous and obscene. Such
isdoubtless the case, and, although it is reprehensible, yet, in our
estimation, it comes far, very far, short of the extent of the evils
embodied in that society. Still, however, as the faults ofgreater
magnitude are so
warily arranged that, at the first view, they
do not strike the mind so
forcibly as those of the lesser kind, it
is notto be wondered that the first impression of the new
made
votaryshouid be formed by the frivolity, &c. of'
thescenes which
transpireaheforehim, rather than by the deeper laid, but more
'
'WW
-snug. _
_...__ _._ ___
_ ......._..- ,J
530 ucnr on nnsosnv.
'
crying sins; and experience proves that men are
prone to make
up ;h¢i|- judgment from first impressions, and ever afterwards to
rest satisfied therewith, unless some extraordinary circumstance
Should perchance wam them to renew their examination.
The novitiate is awake to asense of the foolishness of many
things that he beholds_ in this his new
sphere, and could wish
that they were not there; but the natural aversion of the heart to
being taken in error, the boasted renown that is emblazoned on
the escutcheons of the order, and the retribution that is held in
terrorem over the head of the disquiet member, one or all prey
like a canker upon his resolution, and induce him to content
himself with the solecism that the institution is trivial in its nature,
and therefore unworthy of the labor of a careful examination.
Hence he deems it wise, so faras personal considerations are con-
cerned, to continue a nominal patron of the society, without
taking any active part except on daysof festivals, funerals, Src.;
at the same time
contrivinp
to compute with his better judgment
by his
Masonic laxity. here is a still more
crafty feature of
the institution, which has led on another class from one step to
another, until they have advanced well nigh to the summit ofMa-
sonic knowledge. Masonry pretends to teach some new _V and
valuable science. A thirst for knowledge has induced many to
swallow the bait; and the degrees are so constructed, that each
on'e foils their expectation, but, at the same time, sharpens their
appetite for the promised feast which is ever held before them,
inviting them onward. They pursue until theybecome convinced
that they are chasing an illusion; they turn to retrace their steps,
but now, for the first time, they bethink themselves ofthe vows,
which, in the ardor of their curiosity, they heedlessly made, nor
do they forget that a
penalty was annexed thereto. They see
that they are in fault, and that it would have been better for them
to have been satisfied, at the first, with the simple knowledge of
'Cnmsr AND mm cnUc1r1nn.' 0fthese,some continuetheirheart-
less attachment to the order on account ofa mistaken apprehension
of the nature of their obligations; others, half convinced of their
nullity, neglect to attend to the 'customs and usages' prescribed
for them, and become the silent, but hearty enemies of the institu-
tion. I can conceive of another reason which may induce the
Christian to continue his connexion with the fraternity, viz. a
feeling of shame which prevents him from publishing openly (or
by a silent renunciation, virtually) his folly and delusion to the
world. I say, I can conceive of such a reason; but I dismiss it
without any further remark, hoping and trusting that the world
does not furnish a
solitary case in which
i,t¢¢§pp§q|,b|w
.» ~
u -.5`-lm-
LIGHT on masoumr. 531
And l dismiss this subject by commending one simple, but im-
portant question tothe reliection of those whom I have thus far
patiently heard and answered, viz. lf the Masonic institution be
pure in its principles and congenial to the nature ofour
holy re-
ligion, why do so many men of sound judgment, and whose piety
has never been questioned, renounce and denounce it?
_..
Part II. Are Masons justitiable in breaking their Masonic
oaths, and publishing the secrets ofthe order to the world?
The Masonic institution has long stood the pride and glory
of its followers, the wonder ofthe curious, and the admiration of
the superficial observer. The curtain ofmystery which has been
thrown around its sanctum sanctorfum, the drawn sword which
has warned the unbidden to beware that they enter not therein,
and the seal ofeverlasting secrecy that has been put upon the lips
of its members, that its principles and the practices of its secret
conclaves might never meet the scrutiny ofthe world, have only
served to render it more imposing. Its novitiates, from the mo-
ment they crossed its threshold, seemed bound by a. magic spell.
The witchery ot' gold, the splendor of courtly favor, the threats of
punishment, the munitions of conscience, and the most abject
proiiigacy of principle, were alike unable to break their bonds, or
draw from them a
single developement. Was this steadfastness
a virtue? If their cherished secrets were immaculate in their
nature, it might not have been an offence of the grossest kind,
although the established principles of general benevolence forhid
us to commend aught that excludes any one from participating in
what is calculated to promote temporal enjoyment, or fit the soul
for heaven. It' otherwise, no
sanctity or grandeur which the pate
ronage ofthe good and the great may have attached to it, should
for a moment deter us from answering, No.
But that strange enchantment is now broken; that spell is dis-
solved; the acts, the principles of Masonry have ceased to be
secrets; the veil ot' mystery is rent in twain, not by the ruthless
hands of a
stranger, but by those who have been cherished in-
mates, who have bowed before its altar, and paid their vows at
its shrine. For this act the unpricileged commonalty have spon-
taneously given them their thanks, and lauded their patriotism.
For this act, many of their brethren have heaped the stores of
their wrath upon their heads, and ascribed to them guilt of
the deepest dye. Here, then, are conflicting opinions-not a
diiference of feeling with regard to non-essentials, bu! Swti-
ments as
widely distant as the east from the west--not louching
matters of trivial moment, but involving þÿC0¥lS ¬q"¢"°°S
°f UU'
4_
_
_'up ._-:L_
._.».;
582 uonr on mssoivar.
speakable importance. Who, then, is right, and who wrongl
Or in other words, V
Are Masons justifiable in breaking their obligations, and pub-
lisliing the secrets of the order to the world? And, lirst of all,
be it remarked that the truth of their expositions is a settled
preliminary. I am not under the necessity of asking any one to
grant me that point; it is gratuitously done in the very charge
made against the offending members, and which is now under
consideration.
It appears that Masons have sworn, under the most horrid
penalties, to perform a
variety of duties, and to keep certain
secrets. It is an established and undisputed principle in
moral philosophy, that promissory oaths are not binding, unless
the promise itself is so. A promise is generally deemed, and
perhaps actually is, more sacred, and the breach thereof a more
glaring crime, when it has been sealed by an oath; but it cannot
change its nature or render it valid, when it would otherwise
be unlawful. So that the case rests entirely upon the claims of
the promise to fulfilment Promises are not binding where the
performance is unlawful. The Mason swears to conform to all
the customs and usages of the order; and of the nature of these
he must be entirely ignorant at the time, as he cannot he entrusted
with them until he has made this oath. Without waiting to in-
quire into the nature of these customs and usages, I will here
ash whether such a transaction as this can commend itself to
the judgment of any reflecting man? whether an
obligation of un-
qualified observanee, and adoption of rules and principles yet to
be unfolded, can be other than nugatory? They may, perhaps,
embrace nothing that is nefarious, but in that case they must he
the opposite, and consequently among the common obligations
of life-obligations which the receiver was ever most sacredly
bound to fulfil, and hence, in fulfilling them, is only discharging
a common duty, without rendering any credit to the interference
of Masonry in the matter; and she would doubtless be clear
enough of sharing any part of the blame, in case of the profliga-
cy of her follower. If Masonry enforcedall that is
pure in mo-
rality-all that is lovely in virtue-all that is holy in religion-no
man could dispute the obligations of her followers to 'conform to
her regulations in the practice of these virtues; but what consti-
tutes this obligation? and when was it first laid upon him in its full
strength? and what is his duty in the case, morethan that of the
man who never knelt and laid the offering of hisviervices upon the
altar of midnight sacrifice? .
`
,
But if the circumstances under which the Mason received his
"'"*-~---- ~-- ----- »~ ~-
--»~, ,.....»»s-rata-5.-v,
'
morn on mlsoxav. 533
obligation nullify, how much more
completely does its nature
absolve him from all obligation to fulfil it. The reader will not
here interrupt me with the inquiry, 'What, is thisits natur-el' He
has, doubtless, ere this perused it, and he would rather avoid than
court so horrid a recital here. Respecting its import, let every
man be his own umpire; I wish not to judge for an omg. At
present, I can only say that the violators have honestlyjudged it
unlawful to conform to them. They, after a careful examination
of the subject, in all its bearings, have come to the conclusion
that a strict adherence to Masonry would involve them in legal or
moral transgression; and if such be the case, every patriotic 0|-
moral principle wams them to absolve themselves from so unna»
tural an allegiance. I do not mean
by such a remark, that their
private opinions constitute the propriety of such a course, but
from all circumstances, I give credence to the correctness of their
views, and draw the conclusion accordingly.
Promises are not binding, when a fulfilment of them would
constitute a breach of prior and lawful engagements: so
says
the leamcd Dr. Paley, and so
say we all. I should be paying
but a
sorry compliment to my fellow citizens, were I to spend a
moment in proving that they are under the most sacred obligations
to support the institutions of the country whose fostering care
they enjoy. If therebe aught in Masonry which comes in CDU]-
petition with our common duty to the regulations and laws of the
land. then no
promise of fealty to its mandates can cancel the
prior engagement. Seceding Masons judge that such is the fact,
and have acted under the influence of that opinion. If their views
respecting the tendency of the laws of the order be correct, then
their conduct, so far from being censurable, is worthy of all
praise.
Promises are not binding, which are obtained by means of'
misrepresentation on the part ofthe promisee. I promise a man
my vote on his professing himself' favorable to the passage of an
act which I have much at heart; but before the day of election I
discover that he was insincere, and will, if elected, oppose such
an act. He obtained my promise fraudulently, and I am cer-
tainly under no
obligation to fulfil it. The Mason is assured,
previous to taking his oath, that it will not interfere with his reli-
gion, or his duty to his country. Whenever he becomes satisfied
that such is not the case-that this assurance was only an allure-
ment to entrap him and secure his devotion to an
extra-_legal or
irreligious power, then so far from being bound by a promise thus
extorted from him, it is his privilege, his most sacred duty, to
rlisfintallgle himself from the evil snare into
vwiéhicgi
he YIRS þÿf"j ¬I-
w
-A|hhn;¢.._..__.-.....4, , __ ___
nr
¢
534 LIGHT on Masomtr.
and to denounce the lawless power which east upon his neck the
img yoke ot' its unnatural thraldom.
This subject might furnish a theme for more remarks, and
perhaps more to the purpose; but I have not set myself down to
-write a book, but to record a few of the most prominent arguments
in defence ol' the course' which hasvmet with so free and unme-
ritgd censure. For those that have been brought forward, I am
indebted to others; indeed they are nothing more than long estab-
lished and indisputable principles applied to the case before us;
and as fast as the public shall be made acquainted with lacts that
are before the world, they will be better enabled to judge of the
appropriateness of the application. I ask them not to take any
of my conclusions upon trust; I would rather that they would
stay their decision, until they shall lie in possession of all the
infomation they need to enable them to form their judgment.
Truth, not my simple assertions, but disrobed and unadomed
~rnu'rH, fresh from the fountain, has been given to the world-
gcnuine Masonry has been presented to their view; lt-t them
read that, and then judge whether l am
guiltless in attempting to
open the door and bid the inmates ot' the dark abodes of mysti-
cism Hee, and yet bear off the triumphs of honor and the meed of
their fellow t`reemen's praise with their escape. But let no man
say that, in attempting to render Masonic oaths void, I am intro-
ducing a
dangerous precedent, breaking asunder the bonds which,
in this depraved world, hold men to fidelity, hurling contempt at
the sacredncss of that 'which confirmeth all things] and 'with one
tell swoop,' rnzing one ol`the_ surest sail guards ofour peace, and
disannullit g pledges of whatever name- or nature. Such a
charge,
if made, I shall throw hack upon the institution that first estranged
the hearts of our citizens from their duty. My object is to re-
store, not to devastate; to build up what has been laid waste; to
arrest the ruthless hand of the spoiler; and to re-stake the lend-
marke that have been removed.
,
t
-an-..______. _--__
,_______
(5353
SIXTEENTH DEGREE,
on -
'PRINCE OF JERUSALEM.
Prerogatives of the Princes.-Princes of Jerusalem have a right to inspect
all lodges or councils of an interior degree, and can revoke and annul all tho
work done in such councils or lodges, if the same shall bc inconsistent with
thc regulations of Masonry.
In countries where there are no Grand Lodges, they have power to confer
the blue degrees, They are the suprenn- judges of all transactions in the
-lower degrees;_ and no
appeal can be made to the Supreme Council of thc
thirty-third degree, until an opinion has been give-n»by the Grand Council ot'
Pnnces of Jerusalem, and the result ot their opinion has heen made known.
A Prince of Jcrnsalcrn who visits an inthrior lodge~ r council, ought to pre-
sent himse-lfin the dress and ornaments ofthis degree. When his approach
is announced, the prfsiding oflicvr must send a Prince of Jerusalem to exa-
mint- him, and if hc rf-ports tn his favor, thc-arch of steel is to
he formed, and
he- is conducted hcncath it to Ins seat on the le-ft ofthe presiding officer.
An entry of his name and rank is made on the rt-cords, that he may hence~
forward receive our honors without any examination.
Five Princes are necessary to lbrm a Grand Council.
Duties of Princes.-They are-carefully to observe the rules of justice and
good order, and to maintain irreproachablv lives. lf guilty of unmasonic
conduct, they are to be punished at the discn-tion of the Grand Council.
Expulaions arc to be notiti: d to the Grand Council of the thirty-third degree,
and to all inferior Masonic bodies within the district.
If a Prince solicits a vote at an election,he is to be punished with perpetual
exclusion.
The annua.1 election is totake place on the twenty-third day of the Jewish
month Adar. The meetings of the Councils are termed Convention _ 4
./Iparlmmh used in this degree.-There are two apartments, connected by a
long narrow passage. 1'he»western represents the court of Zerubbabel, at
Jerusalem. The hangings are
yellow. Over the thmne is
mellowcanopy.
On a triangular pedestal before the throne, are
'placed
a nak sword, an ar-
row of justice, a balance, and a shield on whic ia an equtlateral triangle, s.
seeptre,
a chandelier of five branches, which are all lighted in the latter part
sf t e ceremony ot reception. The eastern apartment represents the cabinet
of Dariis. lt is hung with red; the canopy. is red. Before the throne is a
lull square pedestal; and in it a drawn sword, a sceptre, paper, pew, 356-
The Chief Minister of State sits near Darius. _
Qllcm of the Grand Uoundl.-The tirst otlicsr is styled *MDG* 5'}""*5l¢
Prmce,' and is on the throne. The Senior Warden and JIIIIIUT W W ¥¢
Styled 'Most Enlightenedf seated in the west. The other otlicers and the
member! are styled 'Valiant Princes'
_,...»¢»
..._ ._ ._
a;l¢||a¢__ ...__ _¢.a4_ , ______ ____ _
530 LlGHT ON MASONRY.
Dr¢5g_.-The 'Most Equitable' wears a
yellow robe and turban. The aprm.
.5 red; on it are painted the temple, a square, a buckler, a triangle, and a
hand; qw agp is yellow; on rt a balance, and the letters D. Z. [Darius and
Zcmbbabd] Gloves are red. Sash isyellow, edged with gold, embroidered
by g bajuwe, a hand, a poniard, five stars, and two crowns-it isworn fiom
'
ht to' left.
ngbwzl.-A golden medal; on one side a hand holding a balance in equili-
bris; on the other a two edged sword, with tive stars around the point, and
the letters D. Z.
Alarm.-The alarm is three and two. V
(lil !!)
Openi _-The 'Most Equitable' strikes one, and sa s, 'Valiant Grand
Muster dl`gCeremon|es,what is the first business ofa GmrrdCouncil of Princes
uf Jerusalem? Grand Master of Ceremonies. To see that the guards are at
their
.proper
stations. M. E. Attend to that duty and inform, &c. G. M. C.
It is one, Most Equitable' M. B. strikes hoo; the Junior Warden rises
'VL E. 'Valiant Junior Warden, what is our next business? J. W. To see
that all present are Princes of Jenrsalem. M. E. Attend to that duty. J. W.
We are all princes ol' Jerusalem. M. E. (striking thrice) Valiant Senior
Warden, what is the hour? S. W. The risingof the sun. M. E. Wlnt duty
remains to be done? S. W. To arrange the Princes in twd columns, for the
proper discharge of' their duties. M. E. Attend to that duty. S. W. Most
Equitable, it is done. M. E. Valiant Junior and Seinor Wardens, inform
your respective columns that l am about to open this Grand Council of Prin-
ees of Jerusalem, by three and two. (That is done.) M. E. Attention, Valiant
Princes! (The signs are given; the Most E uitable strikes three and two:
this is repeated
by
the Wardens.) M. E. I declarethis Grand Council duly
opened and in or er for business.'
Reception.--The candidate being hoodwinked, is lcd by the Master of
Ceremonies to the door- the alarm rs
given-rthe door is opened without any
ceremony, and the candidate is led to the east, and thus addressed;-Most
Equitable. 'What is your desire? Candidate. I come to prefer the complaints
of the people of Israel against the Samaritans, who have refused to ay the
tribute imposed on them for defraying the expense of the sacrifices o£red to
God in the temple. M. E. (who represents Zerubbabel) I have no power
over the Samaritans; they are subject to king Darius, who is at Babylon;
it is to him that such complaints must be preferred; but as we are all inter-
ested in this thing, l will arm you, and cause you to be accompanied by four
Knights, that you may more easily surmount any difficulty which may prewit
itselfin your journey to 'he court of the king of Persia! The ban/ ago is novi
rcnpwd from thc eyes ofthe candidate; he is armed with asword and buck-
ler, and decorated as a Knight of the East. The four Knights who accom-
pany him are armed in a similar manner.
They commence their jnumey,
and are attacked by some armed ruflians, whom they repulse. They arrive
at the door of the cabinet of Darius. The candidate enters with one ofthe
Knights, and thus addresses the king:-#Might lringl'the Samaritans refuse
to pay the tribute imposed on them by Cyrus, hing of Persia, for
defraging
the expenses of the sacrifices which are offered in the temple whidr we ave
rebuilt: thc people of Israel entreat that you will compel to
*perform their duty. Darius. Your request is
just and p
I order that
the Samaritans shall immediately pay the tnbute im _
on them. My
Chief Minister shall deliver to you my decree forthisp G6 it pelwel'
'I'he candidate retrres;_ the
Chief Minister follows, an an thedecree lb
him. Afwr surmountmg various obstacles, candidalq ton hisreturu by
the Knights with hghtvd torches, and is |_h"3¢m|¢]'
'
img dw
presence of Zcrubbahcl, and says;--¢| dglgyw N ,M Mg" °f Du-ig;
*mg of Persia, which we have obtained alter defeating ou.r enemies, and el-
--_~ -...,. an
Lrour on rvrasomw. 537
countering
may dangers in our journey! Most Equitable reads the decree
ns fol|ows:-- e'Danus, 'King of Kingst' willing to favor and protect our
people at Jerusalem, alter the example of our illustrious predecessor, king
Cyrus, do will and ordain, that the Samaritans, against whom complaints
have been made, shall punctually pay the tribute money which they owe for
the sacrifices of the temple-otherwise they shall receive the punishment duo
to their disobedience. Given at Shushan, the palace, this fourth day ot' thi:
second month, in the year 3534, and of our reign the third, under the seal ol
our faithful Darius. [r.. s.]' M. E. 'The
dpeople
of Jerusalem are under thc
greatest obligations to you for the zeal an courage displayed by you in sur-
mounting the obstacles which you encountered in your journey; asa reward
we shall confer on
you the m steries of the degree of Prince oi' Jerusalem.
Are you willing to take an obh ation, binding you to an exact observance ol'
our laws, and a careful conceainent of our
mysteries? Cand. I am. M. R.
Kneel before the altar for that pu ose.' '
'
Obligation.-I, A. B., do solcmrlilnypromise and swear in the resencc of Al-
mighty God, the Great Architect of heaven and earth, and ofpthesc Valiant
Princes of Jerusalem, that I will never reveal thc mysteries of the degree ot
Prince of Jerusalem to any one of an inferior degree, or to any other person
whatever. I promise and swear, as a Prince of Jerusalem, to do justice to
my brethren, and not to rule them tyrannically, but in love. I promise and
swear that I will never, b wordqvdeed, attack the honor of any Priucc oi'
Jerusalem; and that I not assist in conferring this degree except in it
lawful Grand Council of Princes of Jemsalem. All this I promise and swear,
under the penalt of bein stripped naked, and having my heart pierced with
a
poniard. So help me Amen! Amen! Amen!
The Most Equitable raises the candidate, and gives him the signs, tokens,
and words. _
First sign, _+-. First token, ---. Second token, --.
Pius word, --. Sacred word, ---.
The »MEYCh, -in
Steps on -_--_
`
.Hge.-The ago of a Prince of Jerusalem is ---.
'
Most Equitable. 'I now
appoint and constitute you, with your feurcornpa-
nions, Princes and Govemurs of Jemsalem, that you may render justice to all
the
peoplle.
I decorate you with s.
yellow sash, to which is attached a gold mo-
dal. T c 'balance? on it is to admonish you to make equity and justice your
guides. The 'hand of justice' is a mark of your authority over the people.
The 'cmblems' of the 'ap,ron' with which l now invest you, have reference tr.
the works and virtues of Masons, and to your duty in the high othce with
which you are invested. As Princes of Jerusalem, you will assemble in two
chambers of the temple. Be just, mernjid, and wise!
_
LECTUR E.
Question. Are you a Prince of Jerusalem? Answer. I know thc road to
Babylon. Q. What were you formerly? A. A Knight of thc East. Q. Ilow
did you arrive at the dignity of a Prince of Jerusalem? A. By the favor ot
Zerubbabel, and the courage which I manifested in many conflicts. Q.
Where did the Prince of Jemsalem travel? A. _From Jerusalem to Babylon.
Q Why? A. The Samaritans having refused to y the tribute imposed on
them for defrayin the expense ofthe sacrilices otgeii-edto God in the temple.
an
embassy was des tched to Babylon, to obtain justice of king Purlllf-
Q. How many Knigliliii constituted this embassy? A. Five. Q- Dlfl thck
encounter any ditiiculty in their joume ? A. They did. The Samaritans
against whom they were to prefcra complaint,armed themselves and
þÿ¢1f¢1Cl ¬§l
the ambalndors, but were defeated. Q. What did they obtain fr0II{ D1l'US?
K. A decree ordering the Samaritans to pay the tribute, or sutlcr !"'"'Sl'mf""
"__ ._ ..»-f'
<
535 LIGHT ON MASONRY.
Q. How were the ambassadors received on their return toJeru.sa.lsm? A. N
some distance fiom the city they were met by the who
accomdpanieti
them to the temple, singing songs ofjoy. On reac
`
the temple an mak-
ing their report, and presenting the decree of Darius, they were constituted
Pnncca ofJ¢'rl|St1lBm. Q. How were they habited as Princes of Jerusalem?
A. In cloth of old. Q. What were their decorations? A. Ayellow sash
trimmul with goidfrom right to left; to which was attached a 'golden medal,'
on which was was engraved a 'balance,'a 'sword,' 'live sta.ra,' and the letters
'D. Z.' Q. Vhat is signilied by the Eve stars on the sash? A. They are
emblematic of the five Knights who journeyed from Jerusalem to Babylon.
Q, What is thc age ofa Prince of Jerusalem? A. Five times fifteen.
Closr.-Most Equitable. 'Most Enlightened Junior and Senior Wardens.
announce to your rcs cctive
columns that I am about to close this Grand
Council byfive times jyrieenl Each Warden strikesfive; all nse and the notice
is given. M. E. 'Attcntion, Princes of Jerusalem! (The signs are given.
The Most Equitable strikes five times jijlem, which is repeated by the War-
dens.) Be just, merciful, and wise! l declaretbis Grand Council duly closed'
_mu .
i
THIRTY-SI-1C0l;l' DEGREE, _
OB `
Pnnvcn or 'run novar. SECRETJ*
Tn: assembly of Princes is termed a
'Comi.1tary.'
Qflcers.-The lirst otiicer represents Frederick ll. king of Prussia; he E
st led 'Sovereign of Sovereignsj 'Grand Prince,' 'illustrious Commander in
Cgielf' The two next ollicers are
styled 'Lieutenant Commanders' The
fourth officer is the 'Minister of State( who acts as the order. The fifth
oflicer is the 'Grand Chancellor! Then the 'Grand Secr~eta.ry;' the 'Grand
Treasurer;' the 'Grand Captain of the Guardsf a 'Standard Bearer# n
'Grand Master Architcct;' and two 'Tylers.'
Place qf meeting.-This is to be a
building atleast two stories in height.
situated on elevated ground, in the opcn country. Three apartments on the
*
It will be recollected, that in calling this the thirt -second degree, lP
degrees conferred in a
Royal Arch Chapter and Grant?Encampment, with
those of the Thrice Illustrious Order of the Holy Cross, are not numbered-
_
The ostensrlle object of this degree is the invasion of' the Holy Land, and
its
deliverance from the infidels. 'I`his is to be effected by uniting all the Ma-
sons, ancient and modem, under one
commander, and directing them 'en
masse'
upon the
Mahometans, who have wickedly established themselves in
that sacred region. Hence the com
lexion of this degree is nilitary- The
draft or
carpet contains the plan of tlie, camp of this 'Masonic uunl' The
watchwords_are to servo the purposes of countersigm. lt is believed that
the ceremonies of initiationlrave never been committed to writing, or
prac-
ticed in
North America; hence, though many have received the obligation.
words, s1gn:|,_&c. formally, they remain like the rest ofthe world ignorant ol'
the peculiar
rights
ofthe deg-ree, It mn be proper rp 'se the reader that
this degree, w ich is now
numbered as the thirty-
'
was filiy years ago
fm' less) the tWe"tY°5f¢l~ _All those degrees whidiontervene between the
K<H, or Kadosh, and this
degree, have been intqlolated, and robablv
:nnnnfactnrcd within that period.
'
` `
` P '
i...|i.- _...u» ». __
_
Liam* on Mssormv. 539
second floor are
necessary in this degree. In the first of these the Guards
are stationed. The second is used
ns a
preparation room. The third is oc-
cupied bythe members of the Consrstory. This last apartment is hung with
black, sprinkled with tears, 'death's heads) 'cross bones,' and 'slreletonsf
The throne is in the east, elevated by seven
steps. On the throne is the chair
of state, lined with black satin, flamed with red. Before the chair is a tublc
covered with black satin, strewed with tears. On this cloth, in front, is n
'death's head' and 'cross bonss;' over the 'death's head' is the letter I; and
under the 'cross bones' is the letter M. On the table is placed onaked sword,
ri buckler, a
sceptre, a balance, and a book
containing- the statutes of the
order. In the west is laced another table covered with crimson, bordered
with black, and strewed)with tears; on the front of this cloth are the letters
N. K. M. K. in gold.
Dress and .stations of ojlieers.-The 'Sovereign of Sovereigns' is dressed in
royal robes, and seated in the chair of state. The Lieutenant Commanders
dressed like the modem princes of Euro e, and seated at the table in the
west; their swords are crossed on the table. The Minister of State is laced
at the Sovereign's right hand. The Grand Chancellor stands on the leflhand
of the Sovereign. Next to the Minister of State is placed the Grand Secre-
tary. Next to the Grand Chancellor is placed the Grand Treasurer. Below
the lust named officers are laced on one side the Standard Bearer, the Grand
Master Architect, and the lgaptain of the Guards. Below these ofiicers are
placed six members dressed in red, without aprons, wearing the jewel of the
order, suspended on the breast by a black ribbon.
Collar of the order.-The collar is black, and edged with
silver. On its point is embroidered in red, a teutonic cross,
On the middle ofthe cross is a double headed eagle in silver. The
collar is lined with scarlet, on which is embroidered a black teutonic cross.
Around the waist is girded a black sash, embroidered with silver. The cross
is embroidered on that part of the girdle which is in front. -
Jewel.-The jewel is a golden teutonic cross.
Quah]'icatimn of candidate.-The candidate who receives this degree must
be faithfully examined in that of 'Kadosh,' previous to admission. The Mas~
ter ofCeremonieswi1l acquaint him with the 'pass word,' which he is to give
to the Lieutenant Commander. The Master of Ceremonies will then lead
him to the 'Sovereign of Sovereignsé
Opening and closing.-The Sovereign of Sovereign says, 'Sal i.1:.' The
Lieutenants reply, '.N`oni.' They than together say, 'Tengu..' All give the
The Sovereign of Sovereigns says:-Let us imitate our Grand Master
Jacques DeMolay, Hiram AbiH§* who to the last
"placed
all his hopes in the
Great Architect of the universe; and pronounced e
following words just as
he passed from this transient life into etemal bliss:-'Spes men in Deo est,'
(My hope is in God.) r
Description of the
carpet representing' the camp.-On the carpet is drawn an
'enn::gen,'
in which ismscribed a
pentagon; within this is an equilateral trian-
gle, inthe triangle a circle. Between the heptagon and
penttgon, upon
the sides of the latter, are laced the standards of the five Stands Besrers,
and the pavilitrns the letters T. E. N. G. U. The emblems on
the standard T. are the 'ark ot' the covenant# an 'olive tree,' and a 'lighted
csndlestickf on each side. The ground color of this standard is purple. On
theark is written the motto 'Laus Deo.' The standard E. bears a golden
lion holding in his mouth a 'golden ltey;' wearing around his neck a gol-
den °0l1ll'. 0D which is engnved '515.' The ground is azure; the m0¢¢0 'Ad
* In the sublime degrees Hit-smAbid' is considered merely us an allegm-ies!
personage.
'
A
_
'540 mom' on rusossr.
majm-em Dgj gh;-inm.' On thestnndud N. is an 'influmdhearvin red, with
two wings, gm-mimded by s laurd_crown. The grourtd is white. The ting
G, bgg-5 ujouble heeded eagle, crowned, holding a sword in his right ciaw,
:ind in his left a bloody heart. Ground is ses
green. 'I'hellagU. has an
ox,
3,515 (blnglg) on a
igden ground. On the sides of the snnagen are nme
tents, uid on its ang nine
Eendsnts,
each belonging to itsuppropriatc tent.
The pendsnts are distinguis ed by numerals, and the tents bythe letters
l. N. 0. N. X. I. L. A. S., fromright to left. Thesetents sig.
nify the different grades of Masonry. Thus:
Tenn. .N'amcs of Tents. V
Pendants. Represents,
Knights ol`RoseCroix
S. Malachi, White, spotted with red, Kts. ofEast &.West
-
`
and Pr's of Jerrrfm.
A. Zerubbabcl, Light green,
'
Knights of the East.
'»- N=~"f°1»» M 'i.'S3"é.?l§§I".§f£;
I. Hobben orJohaben, Black and red, s;l;;3';.
md
X- PM "'~=*» i
"ii"§§.Z§'Xi."§stZZf"
N. Joiada, Red and black inlozcnges, Provost and Judges.
ntendant ofthe buil-
0. Aholinb, Red and geen, dings :md lntimatc
Secretary.
N. Joshua, Green, erfect
l1ah<ter,Cm_
_
Master Fe ow t,
I'
-Ezm' Blue'
_
`
and Eriter'd Appren.
The equilatersl triangle in the middle- represents thecentze of thearmy,
and shows where the Knights of' Malts are to be placed who have been ad-
mitted to our mysteries, and have prsved themselves fgithlirl guardians.
They are to be joined with the Knightsof Kadosh; Thecorps in thecentre
is to be commanded by tive Princes, who commend jointly or in rotationac-
cqrding to their degrees, and receive their orders immediately hum tlre»SOV&
reign of Sovcreigns. These tive Princes must place their stnndnrdsis the ive
angles of the pcntagnn, as above described. These Princes, who are.Stan-
dard Bearcrs, have the following names, viz. .
------- -
Bezsleel, -
h
_ ,_ . - - »
Abolish,
f _
E
Standard. N; - - - -~-
Mahuzen, '
Names. .
~
G. ---- - »~-
Garimont;
U. -~-~ =--- Amariah. .
,
The lxeptagonpoints out the Encampment fdestined for the Princes of Li~
bafllli, Jenlsllvm, Sw.; and these are-to receive their orders ibm 019. Sve-
Pnnces. The ennesgcn shows thegeneral order of Masons of all degrees.
Instructions for the reunion of the brethren, Knights, Princes, and Com-
manders, of the Royal Secret or Kadosh, whicltreallysigniil, 'Holy brethren
qfall degs'eessepar¢rtzd.'
~
~
.
Frederick ui. king ufrmsu, Gi-maMum ma.cqmm¢nderinchie£ S0-
vereign of Sovereigns, with an.
arrnycomposedi ofthe
-Fights,
Princes bf ill
White and Bleek Eagle, including'Prus|irm, Englislqm French; .
likewise
Joined by the Knights Adepts of the Sdn, Princes of-Libanxs_ or the Royal
Axe, the Knights of the Rose Croix or: St. Andrus, lights of the Rest and
West, the Princes of Jerusalem, Knights of ¢h¢.E;gt, or Sword, the Grmd
..._.
-,.¢. _.
_
_
". I
'
we
LIGHT ON Masormv. 541
Elect, Perfect, and Sublime Masons, the Knights of the Royal Arch, (ninth
Ar~ch,) Sublime Knights Elected, kc. &c.
The hour for the departure or march ofthe
army is the fifth after the set-
ting ofthe sun; and is to be made known by the tiring of tive great guns in
the following order (0)-(0 0 0 0)-that iq with an interval between the first
and second. The first rendezvous is to he the port of Naples-from Naples
to the rt of Rhodes-from Rhodes to Cyprus and Malta, whence the whole
naval fries of all nations isto assemble. The second rendezvous is to be at
Cyprus, Ste. The third rendezvous is to be at Jerusalem, where they will be
joined by our faithful guardians. The watchwords for every day ofthe week
are as follows; and they are not to be changed but by express order from the
king ofPrussia: »
Protectors of Masonry. Prophets.
Sunday ----------
Cyrus, Ezekiel,
Monday ------~--
Darius, Daniel,
Tuesday ---------
Xerxes, Habakkuk,
Wednesday -------
Alexander, Answer. Zephaniah,
Thursday ~ - - - ----
Philadelphus, Haggai,
Friday -------~---
Herod, Zechariah,
Saturday ---------
Hezakiah. Malachi,
Sig-"_ __._, is _.._. Sacred words. One says '-£9 ff,
which the other replies '---;' both then repeat the word, '-,'
_Pass wryrdg, '_-T-,' '---,' which Blgnlfieil 'Sepa!'ai.e<l§' '--,' '-iq'
which signifies, 'reunitedp '-»--,' '--,' 'f-if which signifies, 'to
avenge# Each then letters the word '---;' which signifies, 'Omnipotenth
Charge addreaszd to the candidate.-My dear brother: The Saracens having
taken possession ofthe Holy Land, those who were engaged in the Crusades
not being able to expel them, agreed with Godfrey DeBouillon, the con-
ductor and chief of the Crusaders, to veil the mysteries ofreligion underem-
blems by which they would be able to maintain the devotion of the soldier,
and protect themselves from the incursion of those who were their
enemies,
after the exam le ofthe Scriptures, the styleofwhich is figurative. Those zeal-
ous brethren cfiose Solomon's temple for their model. This buildinghas strong
allusionsto the Christian church. Since that
dperiodthey (Masons) have been
known by the name of Master Architecb an
they have
employed themselves
in improving the law of that admirable lciaster. From hence xt a s dm;
the mvsteries of the craft are the mysteries of religion. Those hum were
careful not to entnist this important secret to any whose discretion they had
not proved. For this reason they invented different degrees to try those whg
entered among them; and onl gave them symbolic secrets without explana-
tion to prevent treachery, audio make themselves known only to each other.
For this purpose it was resolved to use diherent signs, words, and tokens, in
every degree, by which they would be secured against cowans and Saracens.
The di.B`erent degrees were fixed first to the number of seven by the exam-
pleotlths Grand Architect ofthe universe, whopbuilt all things in six days md
rested on the seventh. This is distinguished by the seven points of recep-
tion in the Master's degree. Enoch employed surdays to construct the arches,
and on the seventh, ha
`
de 'ted the secret treasure in the lowest arch,
was translated to the abv:iges oiothle blessed. Solomon employed six years in
his temple; and celebrated its dedication on the seventh, with all
the solemmty worth 'of the Divinity himselfl This sacred edifice we choose
tomgkattllsiisyis stytigurstive Mano . In the first degree are three 'sym-
bols,to|I0 llllliiid- First, Thstirst creation whichwas only chaos, ig
Sgsndiy tbecudidateks coming out the cha-lnber, neither
nor clothed, dqlmed,
&.c.;indhis sndhnng the painful tml at his
reception,
X
542 Lrorrr ON masortrtr.
`
&c_ The gnndidate sees
nothing before he is brought to light; and his powers
of imagination relative to what hc is to go through are suspended, which :il-
lndan tn me figure ofthe creation of that vast luminous body confused among
the other parts of creation before it was extracted from darkness and fixed
by the Almighty nn. Secondly, The candidate approaches thefootstool ol
the Master and there renounces all cowans; he promises to subdue his pas-
sions, by which means he is united to virtue, and b his regularity ofllfe dc-
monstrates what he proposes. This is figured to him by die steps unit he
takes in
apglrpnaching
the altar; the symbolic meaning of which is the separa-
tion ofthe ament from the earth and water on the second day of creation.
(The charge proceeds by.
giving
a
tiiurativeinterpretation of the ceremonies,
&c. ofthe first and secon part of t e third degree, which I pass over
as sn-
interesting to my readers, and commence with an interpretation which willhe
as novel
tiithe
Cratl ofthe lower grades as to the Coums.*) -
ln the aster's degree is represented the assassination of Hiram by lil"
brethren. This
opght to put us in mind of the fate of Adam, occasioned by*
perverseness in his disobeying his great and awful Creator. The symbolic
mystery of the death of Hiram Abih'represents to us that of the Messtah; for
the three blows which were given to Hiram Abitf at the three gates of the
temple
alludes tothe three ints of condemnation against Christ, at the
[gag P|iest's, Caiphas,_Hero§:)and Pilate. It was from the last that he was
I to that most violent and excruciating death. The said three blows Wllh
the
square, guage, and gavel, are symbols of the blow on the cheek, the ill-
gellauon, and the crown of thoms. The brethren assembled around the tomb
of Hiram, is a representation of the
disciples lamenting the death of Christ
on the cross. The Master's word, which is said to be lost, since the death01
Hiram Abifl§ isthe some that Christ pronounced on the cross, and which the
Jews did not comprehend, 'Eli, Eli, lama sabachthanif 'My God, my GNL Wlll
hnst thou forsaken me! 'have pity on and forgive my enemies'-lnstcad_0l
which words are substituted,M. B. N., (Mac-he-nac,) which in Arabian Hg'
nifics, 'The son ofthe widow is dead) The false brethren
(iegfssem
hd"
lscariot, who sold Christ. The red collar wom bythe Gran leetv Pefiwf.
and Sublime Masons, calls to remembrance the blood of Christ. Thespné' °l
acassia is the figure of the cross, because of this wood was the cross made.
The captivity of the Grand Elect, and Sublime Masons, (i. e. by the Cllll'
tleans,) shows us the persecution of the Christian religion under the Roman
emperors, and' its liberty under Constantine the Great. -lt also mill! \° W'
remembrance the persecution of the Templars, andthe situation of -llcqlm
DeMolay, who, l 'ng in irons nearl seven
years, at the end of which our
worthy Grand Mldster was burnt alive with his four companiollh 0"
lb"
eleventh of March, 1314, creating pity and tears in the people, who QIW hm*
die with firmness and heroic constancy, sealing his innocence with ll{lbl°°d-
My dear brother, in passing to the degree of Perfect Master, in which .VW
shed tears at the tomb of Hiram Abift; and in some other þÿdegre ¬§,
l1""°¢
your heart been led to revenge? has not the crime of Jubelum A|U|'°P bw"
represented in the most hideous light? Would it be unjust to oomP"° the
conduct of Philip the Fairtohis; and the infamous accusers ofthe Template,
to the two rutlians who were accomplices with Akiropi Do UW! fm
bag"
kt
your
heart an equal aversion? The different stages you bl" Ui"
.li
an the time you have tahen in leaming these historical UYUIBJ "° d°"bh"
lead you to make the proper applications; and by the degrowfMUN* F'l°°l'
rankto
learn the eri 'n and definite meaning of this word; but have obtained \}° 'F
Fllfactory ingrntltion on the
subject. »
However, fmmthe manner Whltll
$8 used, should suppose that tt referred to' the 'non-initiated]
*
lhave consulted a number of authors 'and man Muon! Df hill*
'
a
__-.__.4.. _ _-|_.{.....nn»*--HM
maxim ON Masomw. 548
and Kadosb, you are roperly disposed to fulfil all your engagements, and
'to bear an implacablellatredto the Knights of Malta,* and to
avenge
the death
of Jacques DeMolay. Your extensive acquaintance with symbohc Masonry,
which you have attained by
your
discretion, leaves ou nothing more to de-
sire here. You see, my dear rother, how, and by whom, Masonry has come
to us. You are to endeavor by every just means to regain our rights, and to
remember that we are joined by asociety of men, whose courage, merit; a'nd
good conduct, hold out to us that rank that birth alone gave to our ances-
tors. You are now on the same level with them. Avoid every evil by 'care-
iixlly keeping your obligations, and carefully conceal from the vulgar what you
are, and wait that happy moment when we all- shall be reunited 'under the
same Sovereign in the mansions of eternal bliss. Let us imitate the example
of our Grand Master, Jacques DeMolay,whoto the end put his hope in God,
and at his last dying moments ended his life saying, 'Spes mea in Dao estl'
Obligation.-I dn, of
my own freevwill and accord, in the presence ofthe
Grand Architect of the universe, and this Consistory of Sovereign Princes of
the Royal Secret, or Knights of St. Andrew, faithful guardians of the faithful
treasure; most solemnly vow and swear, under all the different penalties of
my former obligations, that I will never directly or indirectly reveal or make
known to any person or persons whatsoever, any or the least part 'of this
Royal degree, unless to one
duly qualified in the body ofa
regularqy
consti-
tuted Consistory of the same, him or them whom l shall find such a er strict
and due trial. lfurthermore vow and swear, under the above
(penalties,
to
always abide and regulate myself agreeably to the statutes an regulations
now before me; and when in a Consistory to behave and demean myself as
one worthy of being honored with so high a degree, that no part of my con-
duct may in the least reflect discredit on this Royal Consistory, or disgrace
myseltl So may God maintain me in
equity and justice! Amen! Amen!
Amen! Amen! Amen!
..»gQ|a<~.
THIRTY-THIRD DEGREE,
on _
'SOVEREIGN GRAND LNTSPECTOR GENERAL.-
Trrs number of inspectors in a kingdom or republic is not to exceed nine.
They claimjurisdictionover nll the inedhble and sublime, degrees, and in rea-
lity form an aristocratic body, with power to appoint their own successors, and
act as 'Sovereigns of Masonry)
-
Decorations ofthe place of meeting.-The hangings are purple, embroidered
with 'skelctons,' 'death's heads,' and 'cross bones.' Before the canopy is a
tran sparent delta, (equilateral triangle.) ln the middle of the room is a grand
triatnfularpedestal,
near which is seen a skeleton holding in his left hand the
sta ard o the order, and in his right hand a poniard in the attitude of strik-
mg. Above the door or
place of entrance is the motto of the order, 'Deus
meumque jus.' In the east is a chandelier of five branches; in tho south
one of two branches; in the west one of three; and in the north a single one.
0fl¢¢1'a and titles.-The assembly is termed 'Supreme Council.'
'I`|{§l`;l1'S1£
officer 'Thrice Puissant
Soqereign Grand Master] He represents Frederic ll.
_
*The reader must not suppose that the Masonic Knights of Malta ure herc
mtended; the reference is to the ancient order of that name, which, wl1e'~
the order of Templurs was suppressed, received their estates..
1_,___.__. __
544 near on rnsormv.
`
The second otncsr is termed 'Sovereign Lieutenant Comma.nder.' Besides
these there is a
f'l`r¢0{I1l'6l' ofthe Holy
Elwllw'
an 'Illnstrious Grand Secre-
tary ofthe Holy lZmp|re;' an 'lllnstrious ester ofthe Ceremonies# and an
llllugu-ions Captain of
the Guards'--inull seven otlicers.
Dress.-The Thrice Puissunt Sovereign wears a crimson satin robe, ber-
dcrcd with white-a crown on his head, and a sword in his hmd. The
Lieutenant Commuuder wears a
ducahcrown.
Sash.-Tile srssh is
black, edged with gold, from left to right; stthe bottom
a rose ofred, white, and green. On the part crossing the breast is s. ddte with
rays traversed by a poniard, and inthe midst the ligure '33.'
Jewel.-A black double headed eagle holding a sword. His beak, claws,
and the sword, are of gold. ~
Signs.-First sign, '--.' Second sign, '--.' Alarm.-Fine, thm,
one, two.
Sacred words. '--,' '-,' '---,' "--,' signifying, 'Whois
like imtlo thee amongthe mighty, 0 Lord!'
Pass words.--Ques. 'D-ly] Aus. 'H----i.' Ques. 'F--c.'
Aus. 'D-1-c.'
[The Grand Ins ectors for the United States of America, issued and pulr
lished on the 4th iihyof December, 1802, s
circular, from which the following
extracts src made:]
'
,
CIRCULAR
`
THROUGHOUT THE TY0 HEMISPHERES.
I.`nirer.1i terrarum orbrlv .drchiteclonis per Gloriam Ingmtis,
PEUB MEUMQUE JUS.
olwo sn case.
From thc cast of the Grand and Su reme Council of the Most Puissant
Sovereigns, Grand Inspectors General: under the celestial canopy of the
Zenith, which answers to the 32d degree, 45 minutes, N. L.
To our lllustrious, Most Valiant, and Sublime Princes of the Royal Secret.
Knights ot' K-H, illustrious Princes and Knights, Grand, lnetiible, and
Sublime, Free and Accepted Masons of all degrees, ancient andmodem, OVGY
the two hemispheres.
To all whom these letters shall como:
HEALTH, STABILITY, AND POWER.
At a. meetinv of Sovereign Grand Inspectors General _in Su reme Councu
of the thirty-third degree, duly and lawfully established ami)
corzgregnfell,
held at the Grand Council chamber, on the 14th day of the seven month.
called Tisri, 5563, Anno. Lucis, 5802, and of the Christian era the10th day ol
October, 1802:
UNION, CONTENTMENT, WISDOM.
The Grand Gommander intbrmed the lnspectors that they were convened
for the purpose of taking into consideration the propriety of addressing cn'-
culor letters to the different Symbolic Grand Lodges, and Svbllllm Grand
Loc§es and Councils throughout the two hemispheres,
%¥l91°léY °f_¢h"
sublime' degrees of
Mason? and their establishment il l!0lM=
when a resolution t8 that e ect was
imniediately adopted, and a committee
Consisting of the illustrious brethren D;-_ Frederick DMD, Dr. Issac
and Emanuel De Le MGM, Evq-, Grand Inspectors General, wsu appointee
to
flnft and submit such lettverto the Council at their next. meetng~- --
~-
A
~f
~-~,.¢._.¢h
'LIGHT ON MABONRY. 545
At a meeting of the_Suvereign Grand Inspectors General, in Supreme
Council of the thirty-third degree, kc. kc. on the 10th day of the eighth
month, called Chislen, 5563, .A. 5802, and of the Christian cm this 4th
day of December, 1802, the committee to whom was referred the foregoing
resolve, respectfully submitted, &.c. Sw.
as it \ * lt * 'tl k 1 * 4: uc at
The names of the Masonic degrees are as follows, viz:
lst degree called Entered Apprentice, _
"d
`
" "
Fellow Craft, Given in the Symbolic Lodge.
3d Master Mason.
4th Secret Master,
5th Perfect Master,
6th Intimate Secretary,
7th Provost and Judge,
Sth lntendant of the Building,
9th Elected' Kni hts of Nine, Given in the Sublime Grand
10th Illustrious Eiretedof Ffteen, Lodge.
1 lth Sublime Knight Elected,
12th Grand Master Architect,
13th Royal Arch, [Knightsofthe
Ninth Arch,]
-
14th Perfection. j 4
15th Knight ot`=the East, Given by the Princes of Jemsalem,
16th Prince of Jerusalernu which is a
governing council.
17th Knight of the East and West, _
18th
Sovereign
Prince of Rose Croix de
Her on,
19th Grand Pontifl; _
20th Grand Master ot' all Symbolic Lodges,
21st
Patriarch Nonchitc, or Chevalier Prus-
sian
22d PrincelofLibanus,
23d Chief of tho Tabemucle, Given bythe Coun~
24th Prince ofthe Tabemacle, cil of Grand In-
25th Prince of Mercy, spectors, who are
26th Knight oi' the Brazen
Serpent, SovercignsofMa-
27th Commander of the Temp _e, sonry.
28th Knight of the Sun,
»
.
29th Knight of St. Andrew,
30th Kill, [Hnly,]
31st " "
Grand Inq. Commander,
32d
" "
Sublime Prince of the Royal Secret,
Prince of Masons,
33d
" "
Sovereign Grand Ins ctors General;
Officers appointed gi' life.
5 I 'I Q | U | O I I I I
Charleston, South Carolina, the 10th day of the ei bth month, called Chis-
len, 5563, A. L. 5802, and ofthe Christian era this 4thday of December, 1802-
FBEDERICK DALCHQ.
K---H, Sovereign Grand Inspector General ofthe thirty-third, and Lieu-
'Kenant Grand Commander in the United States of America.
'
ISAAC AULD.
K'*H1 P- R. S-, Sovereign Grand lnspector
G¢!Eer;1£f£lX°
K--H, Sovereign Grand Inspector General of the thirty-!lild» Wd Illuf-
trious Treasurer General of the H- empire.
.`lg____ -__
--»
LIGHT ON MASONRY.
Lu! of .Masonic degrees conferred in France in the year 1796, to ilu
work entitled '.Maponrw|-ie .ddanhiraniiqud
lst
degree aged Apprenti ----
Ap renticeq
Compagnon, - -
Fesow Crati, Symbolic degrees
Mlritre, -----
Master.
" "
lhitre Purfaite, ------
Perfect Master,
" ll
" "
Elu des Nauf; _
-~---~-
Elect of Nine,
" "
Elu de Perignan, -----
Elect of Perignm, E
" "
Petit Architect, ~-----
'Sub Architect, '§`
" "
Grand Architect, ----~
Grand Architect,
°
" "
lhitre Ecossois, -----
Scotch Master, 'ii'
" "
Chevalier do l'Orient, - -
Knight of the East, E
" "
Chevalierde Rose Croix,- Knight of the Rose Cross, o
" "
Chevalier Prussien, ~---
Prussian Knight. j
P
degree: acknowledged end conferred under the sanction of the Grand Orient
`
qf France, in the yea-r 1804.
gree called Apprenti,
" "
Compegnon, Symbolic degrees.
" "
Muitre. .
" "
Blu Secret, ----~----
Secret Elect. '
" "
Grand Elu Ecossois, ~ - -
Grand Scotch Elect,
°' "
Chevalier de l'0;ient, - -
Knight of the East.
(S (I
Rose Croix, --------
Rosy Cross.,
f_1im¢_4_______,___ _
(54:13
ISTORY 0F FREE HASUNRYS
Being the substance of remarks made in the State Convention, at
Jllbany, and
reduced toform for the ./Inti-.Masonic Review and .Monthly Magazine,
Br Haan Dana Wann, A. M.
Tun early history of Free Masonry, like that of Rome, is involved in ohm"-
rity. The conquerors of the world were not satisfied with the plain tmlh of
their-_ national origin. To have spning from a band of lawless marauders,
stained the pride of the Caesars. They taught that the 'Eternal City' was
founded and tirst ruled by the son of Mars, whose name was Romulus- who
was taken to the 'gods in a
tempest of lightning, and became Juirinus, the pa-
tron saint of the heathen city, and one of the chief gods of Rome. This was
lofty, and sonorous, and mi ht beunexceptionable were it true.
Our modern power, which seeks with Roman ambition to lord it over the
whole habitable earth, also styles itself etcrna1,as did Rome; deduces its ori-
ginfrom heaven; claims an
inspired man for its lawgiver, and some mighty
thingin the nature of the philsopher's stone for its secret-all which is equally
credible, and as well attested, as that Romulus was nursed by a wolf, or Ju-
piter was a god that could save. And these Masonic fables are likewise told
to cover the meanness nl' Free Masonry's origin: for she too sprung from a
coufederacy of lawless plunderers; and it mortities the pride of the High
Priests, it tops the vanity of the Grand Masters, and it makes the Puissant So-
vereigns of Free Masonry to tremble for the security of their thrones, to be
told that their boasted order s
rung from the mire of the Rosicrucians, and
spread abroad over the face ot?the earth, from the licentious cupidity of its
speculative fathers; that Free
Masonryoriginated within the eighteenth cen-
tury among men who sold Masonic c iarters for an
appearance of mystery,
but in truth lor money.
Stone masons, in common with ninety-one other trades and crafts, inthe
city of London, have been in thu habit, lor centuries, of meet ingin club for the
purpose of improving in the elements of their business, :md of architecture.
,Each craft has its public hall, itsadmissiou tee, its coat of arrns,anditscharity
limtl. The companies are
given by name,in the orderoftheir rank, in Rees'
Cyclopedia, art. Company. And out of eighteen
only
whose form ofgovern-
ment is particularly mt-ntioned, sixteen are governei by a
./Kanter, two Waf-
dens, and a various number of assistants. So Free Mason lodges are govemed;
and the titles Worship/ill, and Most Worshipjid, now
peculiar to Free Masonry,
were common to gentlemen of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, as
Esquire, and Honorable, are at the present day.
The Lord Mayor ot' London, at his election, makes himself free, that is, be-
comes a member of one of the twelve principal societies, (if he were not a
member of one of them belhreg) 'for these twelve,' says the
þÿgycl0P¬dl"»
'5'0_
not only the oldest but the richest; many of them having h tht? |l0ll0l' of
kings and princes to be their members; and the apartments of their halls be-
ing fl! to þÿ ¬H¢ ¬¥'f-sin
u monarch! But Masons are not among me twelv? fires
Their rank i9H°-ll, No. 31, in Basinghall street; charter, A' D' 16771 "' me
reign of Charles ll. _
_
.
A.. __i_s__ _¢_ ___.¢-
548 nicrrr on snsoxar.
Some of 'these
companies
meet by
prescriptive right. The oldestcharter
is that ofthe Parish C erks', A. D. 1233, in e
reign
of Henrylll. The Ba-
kers', A. D. |30 7, Edward ll. Five others were c artered inthevfourtcenth
century; sights en in the fifteenth century; twelve in the sixteenth century;
lbrty, and amon them the stone masons, in the seventeenth century; and some
in the eighteenthcentury. Masonic historians claim the men for Freelhsons,
against whom a statute was passed in the 25th
'yur
of the reign of Ed-
ward Ill.; and again, in the reign of Henry I., forbidding them to
assemble in, congregations and chapters. (See Free Jtlaumvyhr Librfg,
p. 85. Ilardle's Monitor, p. 20. Laurie's History of Masonry, p. 94. Ency-
clopedia, Brittanica, art. Masonry, sec. 62. ct alias.) Now Edward lll.
dealt with Englishmen of that day, as
George Ill. would have dealt with
Americans in his da -as if they were his slaves. A plague had swept away
a fearful portion of the English pulation; and the scarcity of laborers caus-
cd all classes of mechanics to d):ma.nd an increase of wages. Edwardlisd
several castles and magnificent editices in building; and to make his money
hold out, must compel the masons and mechanics to work at the old rates.
To ellect this, he issued an ordinance, and enforced it by his sheritfs, who
rctnmcd masons for the king's buildings, as
they are wlmt to retum juror's for
the king's courts. This was equally agreeable to the lords of Parliment asto
himself; and accordingly it was enacted, A. D. 1350, that 'as servants un-
willing ntter the pestilence to serve without taking excessive wages, had been
required to serve in their accustomed places at the rate they had recened in
the 20th year of Edward Ill.; and as it is given the king to understand,
in this present parliment, that the servants have paid no
regard to the said
ordinance but to their case do withdraw from the service ol` t men and
others, unless they have
livery and wages to the double or trilglezifthat they
were wont to take in the said 20th year, and before, to the great dannge
of the great men, Sic.; be ohhined and established the things underwritten.
Chap. 1. Fixes the day and year wages offarm senmnts.
Chap. 2. Fixes the prico ofthreshing all sorts of grain, by the quarter.
Chap. 3. Prescribes the wages of several sorts of artilicers, and laborers;
among whom 'carpenters and masons' are
particularly specified.
Chap. 4. Requires artiticers to make oath that they will use their crafts, as
they had done in the 20th year ofthe same Edward Ill.
`
Seo Riq#7t¢ad'| English Statutes, vol. 1,p. 251.
Seventy-four years alter the enactment of this statute, which plainly is ap-
plicable only to handicraftsmen and servants, Henry Vl., in `psrliment, at
Vestminster, ordained that no confederacies and congregations shall be made
by masons in their general chapters and assemblies, whereby the good cours:
and effects ofthe statute of laborers (25th Edward lll.) are violated and bro-
ken in subversion of law; and if any be they that cause such chapters and
golngregatgcgnpto_he assembled and holdem, shall be adjudged felons;( Che's.
ust. p. .
-
_
The
common pretence of Free Masons, that these statutes wcrelevelled pa.r~
ticularly against their mystic order, b the ignorance of bigoted priests, hc-
cause t e secret was not betrayed in the olilce of auricular confession, is too
shallow alter once reading the statutes, to cover the nakedness ofthe lilse-
hood, or to conceal the evident dnplicity of its first
publishers.
But one
thing
these statutesconclusively show, with the aid of t e Masonic historians, viz.
frhat in the reign of Edward Ill. and Henry VI. there were no Free .Masons
in
England, but stone masons, who met in eneral
chapters,
and assemblies,
not to cultivate tho
knowledge ofa wonderlizlm
stery, tit te impsdethe exe-
cution of the lnwl, ll!-ld to
violate the statutes ot,their ootmt _
`
'
_
Wllh this view faithful-h1lt°l'y concurs. That a society, gaining the`glo-
Uvs ot' Free Masonry, should have existed for ages unnoticed by any yn-ner,
-__,..u»».|»_..a. .st-_..._ _}_
,
LIGHT on mssozmr. 549
noble or contemptibie, foolish or leamed, is wholly incredible and unworthy
of belieli To say nothing of former centuries, but confining our attention
to the three last, the Puritans and the Presbyterians, the Cabalists and the
Rosicrucians, the Gypsies and the Necromancers, the Alchymists and thc
Jesuits, are liberally and often noticed by various authors; but Free Masonry
has not so much as avname until the eighteenth century, when it is frequently
descanted upon, with an interest and copiousness increasing to this dn . To
n. sound historical scholar, this fact alone is_enough to overset the cob house
ot' Masonic pretentious to antiquity, a fact which cannot he cnntroverted,
except by miserable shifts not worthvour notice. In the books of an earlier
date, we read of thefratemilas latlwmomm, or company of brick layers; but
it requires not a lawyer to discem that these are the men
against
whom the
statute of laborers was directed, in the 25th year of E ward, Ill., and
are not the men who have at this day in their lodges the language of Eden,
and the mysteries of the antedeluvian world. This is irresistible truth; and
I challenge any man to turn its edge, or to break its point, or to shov one
particle of evidence to the contrary, except it proceed from the vainglorious
boastings of the mystic order itself, which is not evidence, the witness being
confessedly interested, and now stand publicly convicted of shameless du-
plicity, and of atrocious falsehood in its book of constitutions, and its autho-
rized publications. Of the same tenor is the fact that Papacy and
Free
Masonry cannot dwell together in peace; but we hear not a word of their
disagreement until the eighteenth century. Certainly Papacy is older than
one hundred years; and if' Free Masonry be much above that, how did it
previously escape a cnnliict which has never ceased since tirst it com-
menced, A. D. 1730 to 1740? The canons of the church require full
and free confession to the priests from every good Catholic. The oaths
of Free Masonry require absolute secrecy upon the transactions ofthe
brethren, and of the lodge room, from every good Mason. Now, these
canons and oaths nowhere abide together without discord, and a depri-
vation of church privileges, and they could never harmonize for one
moment. Therefore 'he time when they first fell out and contradicted
each other, must have been near the beginning of one or both of them.
That tiine is determined by the Pope's bulls, A. D. 1738, and 1739.
Wring and twist you may, brother Mason, but there is no escape; the
date is correctly stated-uenenteen hundred and thirty eight. (See La1v~
-rie's History qf Miuonry, p. 122. Ency. Brittart. Masonry, last ed.)
What has been said is proof, not only that the account which Free
Masonry gives of itself is erroneous, but is grossly erroneous; not only
that the order was not organized by Solomon, and patroniied by St.
John, but that it had no existence in the days of Edward lll. and ot'
Henry VI. of England. The question becomes interesting: Whencc
did it originate? and who first promulgated its falsehoods?
The Rosicrucian mania sprung- up in Germany, A. D. 1610, nearly.
This put? of indeiinable extravagance originated from the writings oi'
-_
Andrea. a German, who amused himself with tales of soiritual
wonder, and .of mystical glory, as a literary hoax, in the style oi Baron
Monchausen's wonderful adventures, in his memoirs. The visionary
minds of that day took Andrea's work in earnest,
Trey
claimed fi»r`
the Rosy Cross philosophy in general, whatever is ow particularly
claimed for Free Masonry-a heavenly origin, a magic influence, a won-
dertiil secret, and unbounded excellence. The universal medicine and
the philosopher's stone, were gravely professed for the glory of
its
mystical laboratory; and to so great a pitch of extravagance did
its vain
--...___ _..._A _A
_,
;
550 ucur on mssonxr.
pmfeggorg |-gn, that modern Free Masons are sober men in the compari,
son. This folly was greatly admired in England, by some men ofa
atrgn fancy, and of great learning; and by others publicly professing
an big;ut. Among the former, the name of Hia:
Jlihiuole, the anti-
quary, stands conspicuous; and among the latter, William Ltlfg, the
aatrologer; and somewhere between them is Robert Fludd.
_This Ash-
mqle ig greatly accounted of as a brother, by Masonic hiatonans; and is
the first accepted Mason, claimed by Professor Robison. (See Pro¢
ofa Conspiv-acy,) Ashmole himself says, 'I was elected in \l50l,lh8||,
Ihsingball street, A. DL 164-6.' (See Bing. Britt.) This is
tbeliallof
the Stone Mason's Company, London; chartered A. D. 1677, thirty-one
years after Ashmole's admission into its livery, and remaining tothis
day, as it ever has been, in the possession of Stone Masons, acompsny
distinct from, and independent of, the modern I-'ree Masons; and itis
evident that Ashmole was only made free nf the Mason's company, ss
his friend Lilly was madefree of the Salter's company; and as thehun!
Mayor is usually made _/ree of some one ofthe twelve principal compa-
nies of tradesmen or mechanics, in the city of London; and that Asb-
mole was not initiated, passed, and raised to the sublime degree of a
Master Mason, as in a modern lodge of Free Masons, Therefore the
record must be wrong which makes Ashmole a Free Mason of the
modern type. But Ashmole was made free of the Mason'sc0mpl!1ya
and was a Rosicrucian, and a famous zealot for the philosophers stone,
which, in his own words, 'is to convert the basest metals into perfect
gold and silver, and Hints into rubies, sapphires, emeralds, and dis-
monds.' He further treats copioualy upon 'the vegetablei m*§"
cal, and angelic stones, with which Adam and the fathers before the
flood, with Abraham, Moses, and Solomon, doubtless
wrought
many
wonders; yet the utmost of their virtues they never understan .' (Biog-
Jfritt.) This Mr. Ashmole is honorably mentioned in the biographical
dictionaries, and wana very learned man. I-le wrote a tremendous [0110
history of the order of the Garter; and founded the celebrated museum
at Oxford. lt is an undeniable fact, that the conceited mystery of U16
Rosicrucians, and their
vainglorious pretences to every thing good,
and great, and magical, or oly, are united with the emblems and
working tools of a handicraft mason; the trowel and level, square and
compasses, and leather apron, to form this lying wonder of li1¢4m"¢'
teenth century, commonly called Free Masonry. This union dd_u0!
take place in one day, nor until the false philosophy of the RosicruciaIS
fell into merited disgrace, and the sect run out. Ashmole died A. D-
1692, and with him the last of the Rosy Cross philosophers; but the
spirit of this order, after lingering afew years among men of165111001
passed by a
species of metempsychosis into a new body, the °°mP"")'
of handicraft Masons, with whom it first appears in the early PIR °fl1¢
eighteenth century.
At the time of Ashmole's death, Sir Christopher Wrm W" at 51°
head of the English architects; holding the oiiice of aD¢|{l¢? S""¢Y°'
of the king's buildings. In 1698, he was made by Wilham lIl._§ur~
veyor General of the public works; and in 1714 to 1713, fm' P°1'"°§l
considerations, he was removed from oliice by George I. All Masonic
historians call Wren, Deputy Grand Master, at the time when he 21155
Deputy Surveyor; and Grand Master of the I-'ree Masons, at the LUN
when he was Surveyor General to the throne. But in doing this WY
_________ ___ -4--uar.4¢`__,.
i
ucnr on nnsonnv. 551
make a very-short rope to hang themselves; for by their own
showing,
the first Grand Lodge was formed A. D. 1717. Then how could Wren
be Grand Master, A D. 1698, nineteen years before there wasa Gr-and
Lodge? (See any Masonic history ofthe year 1717, Preston, Dermott,
Lawrie, et alias.)
During this period, the Rosicrucian pretentions were seeking, like n
troubled spirit, for some resting place. The age was one'0f the most
extravagant speculation; and moved by a
strange desire of fame, and
money, and conviviality, four companies of stone masons, who were
left of those who had been associated in building the proud edifice; of
London, after the tire of 1666, met, the lodge that had worked on St.
Pau1's church being at the head, and formed the Grand Lodge of Lon-
don, in February, and elected their ollicers June 24, A. D. 1717,
With a view to (ill up their ranks and to increase their importance, they
voted to accept men of other trades and professions, as membersof the
society. (See Preston, Lawrie, Hardie, Tannehill, et alias; and pa;-_
ticularly the .dhirimn Rezon, of Lawrence Dermott, quoted in the 4th No,
of the Anti-Masonic Review, and Monthly Magazine.
Three years they struggled, accommodating the Rosicrucian preten-
sions to the emblems of a handicraft Mason; and then, in 1720, burm;
their papers for the benefit of the mystery. (See each ofthe above'
writers.) They give out that this bonfire was made 'by some too scru-
pulous bl'6fflT61l,, who feared that the secrets of 'Masonry would be ex-
posed in the 'Book of Constitutions about to be published. But the
smoke of that fire was not thick enough to envelope the origin of their
mystic order in' impenetrable obscurity. No doubt they hoped by burn-
ing their pretended parchments to destroy all evidence disproving their
claim to immemorial customs, and to imprescriptible rights; which
claim was in a course of preparation for the public, in the dreaded Book
of Constitutions.
`
After three years more the dreaded volume came forth from the
hands of Anderson, and Desaguilliers, or Desaguliers, and blowed. the
first strain of Masonic vainglory, and unearthly mystery, which is heard
from any book, or printed treatise! Anderson and Deraguilliers, a. Scotch-
manand a Frenchman, in London, were the men who lirst publishedto
the world the high pretensions of Free Masonry-men of a low charac-
ter and of a base spirit; whose book of constitutions of Masonry, was
ushered from the press, A. D. 1723, and is hardly older than our grand-
fathers! For the mean repnte of the men and of- their works, see
Pr# Robieo1|'s Proofs
saga Conspiracy, p.p. 19 and 20, N.York edition;
and Lawrie, p. 92. T is volume ot' mock constitution is the basis of
all Masonic history; and its delusive statements have been servilely
copied, and greatly magnified, until the mystic wonder has grown be-
yond the size and
power of the fabled monsters of anti nity.
Now the false spirit ofthe Rosy Cross philosophy wasaairly embodied
with the emblems of a mechanics' society, and was brought forth by
the Book of Constitutions in the form of Free Masonry. From the time
of its birth the lying wonder began to run to and fro in the earth wher-
ever British commerce could convey it; and charters for holding Ma-
sonic lodges, were every where sold at a cash price, and an annual sti-
pend by the Grand Lodge of London. To that Grand Lodge the in-
_habitants of most part of continental Europe, of the East md West
f, Indies, of Africa, and ofAmerica, paid an annual tribute f°1' fh¢ "Em W
552 ucrrr os nusoxnv.
ggffgf me dugg dq-ree: of Jlforganh Masonry! The date, and the
Grand Master who inued the warrant, are carefully recorded in Pres-
ton, Smith, Inwrie, Tannehill, and others, for holding lodges in all
quarters of the earth. A. D. 1729, I-'ree
Huongy
was first introduced
into the East Indies; 1730 the Grand Lodge o Ireland was formed;
1731 a
patent was sent from England to erect a lodge at the Hague;
1733 Free Masonry established itself in North America, at Boston;
1736 at C-lpe Coast, in Africa, and at Geneva, in Europe; in Scotland
the same year the Erst Grand Master was elected; and so the triple
headed monster went round the world, while in its teem-
The higher degrees began to be added in France; the first notice bf
rhem is near A.D. 1740, in connexions with the enthusiastic and learned
chevalier Ramcav. (See Robi.nm'.v Proof? qf a
Canqdrapy.) They were
received and modified under the hand of Frederick of Prussia, and by
the school of Voltaire were introduced from France into the United
States, through the channel of Jews, A. D. 1760, and afterward. (See
the grand circular of the Sublime Sovereigns of Masonry, J. M Re-
view, No. 4.) They first appear in a distinct shape in the United States
A. D. 1796, and 1797; and already, in thirty years, the Grand High
Priests, and Man Excellent Kings, and General Grand Commander: of
the Order are as plenty as blackherries, and are in their own estimation
superior an an order to the legal authorities of the country.
The unlawful seizure, the violent abduction, and the felonious mur-
der, ofCapt. William Morgan, for publishing the pretended mysteries
of the order A. D. 1826, brings both the life and the history, with the
nluence of Free Masonry in this country, suddenly to an end.
APPENDIX.
i
No.1. » -
Genesee County, Lucmmt Moncas, aged twenty-three, the
ss: wife of William Morgan, of Batavia, in said
county, being duly sworn, deposeth and saith-that on
Monday
last, about, or a short time before, sunrise, her said husband left his
house, and went into the street of the villagezthat finding he did not
come home to his breakfast as usual, she made inquiries for him,
and was told that he had been forcibly taken away by six men,
and put into a carriage and taken to
Canandaigua. V
That during
the whole of Monday she remained in ignorance of which way he
had been taken, or who had taken him, excepting by loose informa-
tion, that an oflicer from Canandaigua had taken him: That on
Tuesday morning soon after breakfast she sent for William R-
Thompson, the sheriff, and requested to know of him if he knew
on what pretext her husband had been taken away. Said Thomp-
son told her he understood he had been taken under a
charge ot'
having stolen a shirt and cravat, and that he presumed it was mere-
ly a pretext to get him away, or carry him away; that thereupon.
this deponen; asked him if he thought Mr. Morgan could be got
back, or brought back, if she gave up to the Masons the papers she
had in possession; said Thompson answered that he thought it
was very likely that Mr. Morgan would be brought back if she
would give them up; but he would not obligate himself, or under-
take to say that he should be brought back. That thereupon said.
Thompson proposed that this deponent should go to
Canandaigua,
and take the papers, and give them to Morgan, or to them, or
give them up; and deponent agreed to go and take the papers ac-
cordingly. Thompson then asked this deponent if there was
any
pg;-gon or friend whom she would like to have go with her. She
mentioned Mr. Gibbs, (meaning Horace Gibbs,) and asked if it
would do for him to go; said Thompson said it would not do for
himto go, as he was not a
Mason, and added, it would not do for
any person to carry her there but a Mason. She asked him twice
if Mr. Gibbs was not a Mason, and he said he was
not, and then
asked deponent if she was acquainted with Mr. Follett; deponent
said she was not. Thompson said he was a nice man, and a gen-
tleman with whom she could safely trust herself. Said Thompson
departed, and soon returned, and told deponent that Mr. Follet
._ ._-
-
Annlli
A
:',.....a....,..._ --1-" -
¢ s
'
APPENDIX.
was ng( willing to go, unless she would let him (Follet,) and Mr.
Ketchum see the papers; he did not want to go on a Tom fool's er-
rand. This deponent then objected to the papers being seen by
them; Thompson then said it was useless; he should do no more,
and he could not send her out there unless they could seethepnpers.
Deponent then, with great meluctance, tinally consented to let them
see the papers, if they would take her to see her husband. This
second visit lasted about 20 minutes, during which time Thompson
wged the deponent to let the papers he seen.
Deponem told him
she was afraid they would take the papers away from her, if she
let them see them. Thompson said they would not. She offered
to let Mr. Thompson see the papers; he said that would notan-
swer, they would not take his word. Thompson then told herhe
would go to Humphrey's and stay until she had got the papers, and
she must then make a sign to him when she was
ready. Accord-
ingly, a short time afterwards she made a sign to Mr. Thompson,
then standing on Humphrey's stoop, and immediately after, he,
with Mr. Follett, and Mr. Ketchum, came to her apartment, when
Thompson introduced Follett= and Ketchum, and said they had
come to see the papers, which this deponent then handed to them.
They all looked at them a short time, and Thompson then asked
her if she was
ready to go, saying, Mr. Follettwas ready to take
her. Follett then said he would go home with the papers, and
look them over, and told Ketchum to stop for him at his gate.
Accordingly, about four o'<;lock in the afternoon of Tuesday, depo-
nent started with said Follett and Ketchum in a small wagon, and
proceeded to Stalford, where they stopped at a
house, where she
was conducted intoa back room, into which Follett and Ketchum
came, and were joined by one Daniel Johns, and by James Gan-
son; all of whom immediatety proceeded to _examine the papers
with '
much earnestness, 'and held much low conversation with
themselves in under voices. Ganson appeared to speak the most.
One of them then asked Johns if those were the papers that were in
the ofiice when he was there. Johns answered there was one de-
gree back, and then took a piece of paper, and folding it up, said
the papers that were back were folded so.
They then held consid-
erable more conversation in vuites too low to be heard. Follett then
turned to deponent, and -told her he did not see that he could go
with her; that Mr. Ketchum was going to Rochester, and would
be willing to take her to Canandaigua to see Mr. Morgan; said he
was not much acquainted with him, (Ketchum,) but took him to be
a gentleman,-and Ketchum then said he called himself a gentle-
man, and she need not be afraid to trust herself with him. Ketch-
um then took the papers, and tied them up in his pocket handker-
chieg and took them with him into the wagon in which they.rodf~
l
*H-_ t¢»»--._ _
__,.ins-ish _~_»,-._ ,_....¢-._ __ -lan
APPENDIX., iii
Johns then got into the wagon, and rode to Le Roy, when he got
out, and bid Ketchum good-bye, saying, I hope I shall see you day
alter to~morrow. They then proceeded to Avon, and staid all
night. The next day they again started for Canandaigua, when
Ketchum put the papers into this deponent's trunk. They arrived
at Canandaigua about twelve, at noon, and stopped at a tavern at
the cornerof the main street. After being there some time, this
deponent asked Ketchum if hehad heard of Mr.Morgan. Ketchum
said he had not; that the Masons could not talk to him; he could
no( see them; they seemed jealous of him; thought him a friend
of Mr. Morgan, and was afraid he had come to get him away
from that place. Then asked her where the papers were; he took
them, and said he would go and make further inquiries for Mr.
Morgan; and if he could find him, or where he was, or where they
had taken him, he would let her know all he could find out. This
was about dinner time. He returned again a short time before
night,'and told her he had heard Mr. Morgan had been there; had
been tried for stealing a shirt, and cleared, had been then put in
jail for a debt'of two dollars; and that Tuesday night a tnan had
come from Pennsylvania, who 'said he had a warrant against him
for a debt he owed there; that he, the man, had paid the two dol-
lars, and had taken him away ln a' private carriage on Tuesday
night, and he had no doubt he was
gone; and asked_ this deponent
when she would go home again. The deponent then expressed
het' anxiety to return speedily on account of having left her child
of two year's old, and having with her a baby of two months old.
Ketchum then went out; as he said, to take a
passage in the stage,
and returned after candle light. This deponent was then walking
the room in great distress, and in tears. She asked him if he could
hear nothing of Mr. Morgan. He then seemed to pity deponent,
and told her not to be uneasy, and after looking at her a short time,
told her to come and sit down by him, and asked her if she would
feel any better if he told her what he knew. Being answered yes,"
he then said that Mr. Morgan would not be killed-that he would
be kept concealed until they could get the rest of the papers. She
asked him what papers were back. He said there was some sheets
on the Mark Master's degree back; and they wanted-also to get
the printed sheets that Miller had printed on the three degrees. He
then said he wanted to take the'papers he had received from this
deponent to Rochester, and he thought through the means of them
he could ind out where Mr. Morgan was; it was a secret where
he was. Said he -had paid her passage, and then gave her IWO
dollars,to bear her expenses home. He then wrote his name with
a
pencil on a
scrap of paper, hereto. annexed, as follows: 'George
Ketchum, B.ochester,' and promised to write to her if he could hear
1
..||..»
iv APPENDIX.
of Mr. Morgan: he then told her if she would, by any eans, get
hgld gf the papa; that Miller had, or find out where they were
deposited, so that he could get hold of them, he would give her-her-$255
out of his own pocket, and be had no doubt the lodge would give
her one hundred if she could get what Miller had now.
Deponent
told him she would not try to get the papers that Miller had, and
wgqld take no money, and would not let him have the papers she
had delivered to him, but on condition he would try and find out
whgre Mr. Morgan was, and let her see him. He then repeated
hi; promise to try and lind our, and said he would write to her as
soon as he got to Rochester, and urged her to write to him imme-
diately on her return, and let him know about the papers, and
what the people were
doing generally in Batavia, and whether they
were making a great rumpus about Mr. Morgan. Deponenttbm
expressed her fears, that if she did give him any information abwl
the papers, he would not keep his promise about letting hersee him,
but would keep him concealed until they got all the papers, and
finally kill him. Ketchum then said, 'l promise before my God'
that I will not deceive you, but will do all I can to find out where
he is, and let you see him. I have no doubt when I get beck to
Rochester I can find out more, and I think I can find out þÿw|l0f ¬ll¢
is.' He then again urged her to lind out where the papers WW,
and let him know. In the course of his conversation he said, llllf
if Mr. Morgan had managed rightly he could have made a mllllm
of dollars, if the work had been published. Ketchum then deplu'
ed for Rochester, leaving this deponent at the tavern-She, lf"
same day, started for Batavia. The papers taken away hythesald
Ketchum were numerous, and formed a very large bundle-they
were written in the hand writing of her-husband, excepting afew,
which were written by a person who sometimes assisted her hus-
band by copying, or taking down, as he dictated to him. Tlrede-
ponent further says she has no knowledge of the place where _her
husband now is, or what is his situation, and feels the most anXl0l15
fears for his life-that she was born in Virginia, and is a
Strifllge?
without any intimate friends or relations in this country, Md
Fl?
with two infant children, without any money, except what rs e
v
of that given to her by said Ketchum, and has no
proper!! "°{,§:3'
means of supporting herself and her children, herconsuturwll
I 8
very feeble, and her health being bird most of the time-
-
L_ Monum-
Sworn the twenty-second day of September. 1825»
befmpme'
Damn. H. Calunnsn, 5- ~
l»l»h¢msl-sA- 1--1;
l
I
|
.KPPENDlX» V
NO. 2.
State ofNew York, Ontario Mau W. HALL, of Canandai-
County, ss.» 'W
gua, in said county, being duly
sworn, deposeth and saith-that she is the wife of lsrael R. Hall,
keeper of the common jail of said county; that she, this deponent,
the said keeper, her husband, and family, reside in the jail of. said
county; that she, this deponent, and her husband, had been absent,
and returned home on the twelfth of September instant, in the
afternoon; that in the early part of the evening of the said twelfth
day of September, her husband went out from the jail; that soon
after her husband left the jail, and about seven o'clock in the eve-
ning, or a little past, a man'who, afterwards and during the game
evening said his name was Lawson, called at the jail and inquired
for Mr. Hall, the keeper, and she, this deponent, informed the said
Lawson ;hat_Mr. Hall was not at home, and that she did not know
where 'he was; that the said Lawson then said that he wanted to
see Morgan, alluding, as this deponent supposed, to a man in pris-
on by the name of William Morgan; that this deponent then went
to the door of the room in which the said Morgan was confined;
that the said Lawson requested to go into the room where Morgan
was, but this deponent told him he could not, for it was against the
rules of the prison; that the said Lawson said he wished to have a
few moments private conversation with Morgan, but this deponent
told Lawson he could not say any thing to Morgan but what this
deponent should hear; that the said Lawson then spoke to. Morgan
through the grates of the door, and said he wished to have some
private conversation with him, the said Morgan, but this woman,
alluding to this deponent, would not let him; that this deponent
then said to Lawson, who be you? do you live in the village? t'o
which the said Lawson made no reply, but the said Morgan said
he is a neighbor; that the said Lawson told Morgan he had come to-
pny the debt for which the said Morgan was committed; and Law-
son asked Morgan if he would go home with him; to which Morgan
answered, yes; that Lawson then said, when Mr; Hall, meaning
the said keeper, came in, he (Lawson) would satisfy the execution,
and take him, the said Morgan, out, and carry him home; that
the said Morgan answered it was no matter about it that night; he
could wait till morning; that Lawson said no, he would rather take
him, the said Morgan, out, and carry him home with him that night,
for he had been running all day for him, and he was so tired he
could hardly stand on his feet; that the said Lawson then went
away, and said he would look for Mr. Hall, the said keeper; that
in about half an hour the said Lawson returned, and said he had
been to the hotel, conference room, and' every other place in which
he thought he
sholpld
be likely to find Mr. Hall, but he could not
1
¢q¢...|l¢-1-° _._-Quan-. ..._
vi AIPIRDII.
find him; that the said Lawson tlidn requested that this deponent
should |-¢¢¢iv¢ rhe amount of the execution on which Morgan was
committed, and discharge him; but this deponent refused to do this,
and told Lawson she did not know the amount; that Lawson told
lm- it was 5 gmail sum, and he (Lawson) would leave ive dollars,
which he knew was more than sutlicient; that this deponent then
gold Lawson that she, this deponent, had understood that Morgan
was 3 rogue, and that she did not like to liberate a rogue; that she,
this deponent, understood great pains hadbeen taken to secure Mor.
gan, and that the public or individuals were interested in having
.him kept secure; that what she (this deponent) should do would he
considered the same as if it had been done by her husband, the said
keeper; and if she (this deponent) should discharge Morgan, she
was afraid her husband would be blamed; that Lawson said no,
Mr. Hall would not be blamed, and represented to this deponent
that Mr. Hall understood it perfectly, and if he was at home
would discharge Morgan; and further, he, Lawson, said he would
pledge himself that Mr. Hall should not be injured or blamed; that
he, Lawson, would pledge himself to the amount of titty or an
hundred dollars that Mr. Hall should not be injured if this depo-
nent would discharge Morgan; but this deponent refused, and toid
_Lawson she valued public opinion more than money; that Lawson
then asked this deponent if she would discharge Morgan if Col.
Sawyer (meaning, as this deponentsupposes, one Edward Sawyer,
of Canandaigua aforesaid) would say she-could safely do it, and
that it would be right, or if he would pledge himself that Mr all
should not be injnred, or would run no risk in discharging Morgan;
'that she, this deponent, answered that she did not know Col. Saw-
yer any better than see did him, (Lawson,) and that Col. Sawyer
was not plaintiff in the execution upon which Morgan was commit-
ted, and that he, Col. Sawyer, had nothing to do with it; that,
however, Lawson then went away, and said he would goandsee
Col. Sawyer; that Lawson then went away, and was gone but a
few minutes whenhe (Lawson) returned, and Col. Sawyer with him;
that Col. Sawyer requested that this deponent would' discharge
Morgan, and said there could be no kind of risk in doing so;'that
Mr. Hall should not be injured; that Lawson would pay the debt,
and there could be no harm in discharging the prisoner when that
was done; that this deponent said she did not wish to keepa man in
jail who ought to be let out, but she did not wish to liberate a
rogue,
as 'she understood Morgan was one; that nearly the same conver-
sation again took place as had before passed between this deponent
and Lawson; that Col. Sawyer and Lawson appeared to be offend-
ed; that this deponent would not discharge Morgan; that Lawson
Said the debt f0l' WlliCl1 Morgan was committed was
assigned to
""` "" °-< -A
--- --~ -
Ave
La; ~.. --.t..¢g___.__.-- ._-a. .....§_.
-,-
APPENDIX. vi;
Chesebm; (meaning, as this deponent supposed, and afterwards
learned, Nicholas G. Chesebro) that Lawson said to Sawyer, 'let us
go and find Chesebro;' that they both went to the door, and this
deponent also, and saw two men a few rods from the jail coming
towards it; that this deponent observed that, perhaps, one of them
might be Mr. Hall, upon which Lawson went towards them,' and
directly one of the said men came to the door of the jail where this
deponent and Col. Sawyer were standing; that this deponent asked
if it was Mr. Chesebro, to which the man answered yes; and this
deponent immediately recognised him to be the said Nicholas G,
Chesebro; that this deponent said to Chesebro, there is a man in
jail that these men
(meaning Lawson and Col. Sawyer) want me to
liberate, and they say you are interested, or that you have bought
the debt; that Chesebro said let him go; these men will pay the ex-
ecution; Idon't want to see him; I have no demands upon him; that
this deponent in the early part of the evening, and betore Mr. Hall
left the jail, had observed Mr. Hall and Chesebro in low conversa-
tion, and supposed that probably it was understood between them;
she, this deponent, then consented to receive the amount of the ex-
ecution, and discharge Morgan; that during the evening a man had
been to the jail with Lawson; that Lawson called Foster, but un~
known to this deponent; that Lawson, after this. deponent consented
to receive the amount of the execution, and discharge Morgan,
paid to this deponent the said amount ofexecution, or laid it on the
table; that then this deponent took the keys and was
going to liber-
ate Morgan; that Lawson spoke to this deponent and said, 'wait,
and I will go with you;' that Lawson then stepped to the door and
whistled, and then followed this deponent; that when they came to
the outer door ofthe prison, Lawson said to this deponent, 'you
need not fasten this door after ass' but this deponent said she should,
for there were other prisoners in the room; that this deponent and
Lawson went into the hall adjoining the room where Morgan was,
and Lawson spoke in a low voice to Morgan through the grates,
'get yourself ready to go with me-dress yourself quick:' that Mor-
gan was soon ready, and this deponent let him ont, and Lawson
took Morgan by the arm and went out of the prison to the outer
door; that while this deponent was fastening the_ prison door she
heard, at or near the outer door of thejail a most distressing cry ol'
murder; that this deponent ran to the door, and saw Lawson and
the man that he called Foster, one on each side of Morgan, having
hold' of Morgan's arms; that Morgan continued to scream or cry in
the most distressing manner, at the same time struggling with all
his strength, apparently, to get loose from Lawson and Foster;
that the cry of Morgan continued till his voice appeared to be sup-
pressed by something put over his mouth; that dur-ingthe time that
. 1
# ~, _
viii APPENDIX.
Mo,-gan was gg-uggling, and crying murder, the said Col. Sawyer,
and the said Chesebro, were
standing at a short distance from the
jail door, near the well, and in full view and hearing of all that
passed, but offered no assistance to Morgan, nor did they attempt
to release him from Lawson and Foster; but one of them struck
with a sticks violent blow upon the well curb, or a tub, standing
near; that soon after this deponent saw a carriage pass the jail in
the direction that Lawson and Foster took Morgan; that the eve-
ning was quite light in consequence of its being about the full of
the moon; that she, this deponent, could distinguish from the iail
door the horses in the carriage which passed to be gray; that this
deponent supposed the striking upon the well curb, or tub, by
Chesebro or Col. Sawyer, was a signal for the carriage to come, as
it came immediately after: that when the carriage passed, Lawson
and Foster could not have got but a few rods with Morgan; that im-
mediately after the striking upon the well curb, or tub, Col. Sawyer,
and, as this deponent thinks, Chesebro also, passed the jail door in
the direction that Lawson and Foster took Morgan, but not appar-
ently to render Morgan any assistance towards being released from
Lawson and Foster; but Col. Sawyer, however, picked up Morgan's
hat, which had fallen 05' in the struggle; that when Morgan was
taken from the jail it was about nine o'clock in the evening, or a
little past: that this deponent has since been informed that Lawson
lives about two or three miles from the jail; that this deponent has
never seen Morgan since he was taken from the jail as aforesaid,
and knows nothing about where he was taken to, or where he now
is. and further saith not. Maav W. HALL.
Subscribed and sworn to, this
twently-third day of September,
1826, before me, anna! Cnu»uAN,J- P-
State of New York, NO. 3.
Ontario County, ss. Datum. Tannuaoan, being duly sworn,
deposetb and saith-that he now is, and on the eleventh day of Sep-
tember instant, was, a prisoner in the jail of said county, at Canan-
daigua; that on the evening ofthe said eleventh day of September,
a man, whose name this deponent learned was William Morgan,
was committed to said jail, and put into the room with this depo-
nent; that during the following day Morgan asked this deponent
whether Mr. Hall, the jailer, was a Mason, and said if he was, he
(Morgan) would fare hard, as he was
suspected of an intention to
reveal the secrets of Masonry; that early in the evening of the same
day, being the twelfth, Mrs. Hall, the wife ofthe said jailer, togeth-
er with a man whose name this deponent understood to be Lawson,
came tothe door of 'he prison room, in which this deponent and
Morgan were; that Lawson said he came to pay the debt on which
__,,,
nrrsnnrx. ix
Morgan was committed, and let him out; to which Morgan con-
sented; that after Lawson went away, as this deponeut understood,
to find Mr. Hall, the jailer. Morgan said to this deponent, if that
man_(Lawson> was a traitor to him, (Morgan) he would not give
much for his life; that Morgan had some doubts about trusting
himself with Lawson, but upon the whole concluded he would; that
some time after, during the same evening, Lawson came again to
the room where this deponeut and Morgan were, and Mrs. Hall,
the wife of the jailer, let Morgan out, and Lawson went out with
Morgan; that in a moment after, this deponent heard a
cry of mur-
der, which appeared to be near or at the outer door ofthe jail; that
the said cry of murder, was
repeated two or three times till it ap-
peared to be suppressed, and further this deponeut saith not.
_
_
Daman Tnnnuancn.
Subscribedond sworn
to, this twenty-third day qfSepte1nber,
1826, before me, Jarrnev Cullman, J. P.
State of New York, NO. 4.
Ontario County, ss. Marvraa Dav|s,wife of Nathan Davis, of
Canandaigua, in said county, being duly sworn, deposeth and saith
-that she resides nearly opposite the jail, in Canandaigua: that on
the evening of the twelfth day of September, instant, she, this de-
ponent, saw a number of men walking, standing, and sitting in the
street, and by the fence by the side of the street,about and near the
jail; that this deponeut could recognise but three ofthe men, to wit:
Col. Edward Sa_wyer, Nicholas G. Chesebro, and Chauncey Coe,
all of Canandaigua aforesaid; that at one time this deponent was-
out at the door, and spoke to said Chesebro, but he made no an-
swer; that 'there were in all about eight or ten men; that they seemed
to be consulting together in an under tone, as this deponent thought,
and she expressed her fears to her husband that something was go-
ing on about thejail which was not right; that about nine o'clock in
the evening this deponent heard the fastenings of the prison doors,
as she frequently does when the doors are opened; that at the same
time this deponent discovered two men near the jail door, and also,
two men on the opposite side of the street from the jail, and but a
little distance from the house of this deponent; that immediately
after, this deponent heard a cry of murder near the jail door, and
discovered men
apparently in a scufiie; that at the same time she
heard a violent rap apparently upon the well curb, near thejail door,
and one of the men who were seated near the house of this deponfrnt
Immediately ran past the house of this deponent, and in a dl|'¢Ctl0D
from the place from which the cry of murder proceeded; that the
cry
0_f murder seemed to be suppressed as by d hand, 0' S"m°'h"'g
similar, upon the mouth, which appeared at times to be Paflly ff
,_-.__
_...a.-»--
X APPENDIX.
moved in the snuggle, and then this deponent could hear an inar-
ticulate sound, indicating great distress; that immediately after, the
rap upon the well curb, this deponent discovered a
carriage, which
she supposed to be the carriage of Mr. Hubbard, who keeps horses
and carriages to let, with two grey horses, coming down the street
very rapidly, but could not discover any one in the carriage; that
the carriage passed the house of this deponent towards the place
where this deponent had heard the last cries of distress, as aforesaid;
that the carriage was
gone a few minutes, and then returned with
tnen in it, and passed hack again by the house of this deponent; and
further this deponent saith not. Mantua Davis.
_Subscribed and sworn to, this twenty-third day of September,
l826, before me, JBFFREYCHIPMAN, J. P.
State of New York, NO. 5.
l
Ontario County, la. Lssma I. Osnolw, daughter of Seth Os-
born, of Canandaigua, in said county, aged about twenty-fouryears,
being duly sworn, deposeth and saith-that on the evening ofthe
twelfth of September, instant, about nine o'clock in the evening, she,
this deponent, was in the chamber of her father's house, which is
but a few feet from the jail in Canandaigua; that this deponent
heard some bustle about thelhouse, apparently near the jail door;
that this deponent then heard a cry of murder, apparently about in
ti-ont of her father's house, in the street, and but a few feet from the
house; that the distinct cry of murder, which this deponent first
heard, was soon
suppressed into an inarticulate sound of distress,
and soon ceased; that just before the time that this deponent heard
the said cry ofmurder, she heard some one whistle, and then, or soon
after, a loud rap upon the well curb, as this deponent supposes, as
It
appeared to be at the well, a few rods from the jail door; that
this deponent then heard a carriage- pass in the
streft; that this
deponent soon after came down from the chamber, and a carriage
passed the other way, having two grey horses before the carriage;
and
further this deponent saith not. Lsssuta I. 0snonN.
Subscnbed and sworn to, this twcntyftltird day of September,
1826, bf2f0f¢ IM, Jeanna! Carman, J. P.
Sfale 0/'Nw York, No. 6. _
'
Ontario Counly, ss. Sara Osnoms, of Canandaigua, in said/
county, being duly sworn, deposeth and saith--that on the evening
of the twelfth of
September, instant, about nine o'clock, or between
"me and
_i¢"_°'°|°°k» he, this deponent, went to the door of his
house, winch is
near thejail in
Canandaigua; that he saw some men
';
few rods frum
his door; that one ofthe men appelted to be partly
t own and strugglmga and making a taint noise of distress; that this
, l
_m.__, .....__~_..s _,_ __
A
Arrnunxx. xi
deponent went towards the men, one of whom was a little behind
the rest, and this deponent asked him what was the matter? to
which the man, whom this deponent understood and believes to
have been Col. Sawyer, of Canandaigua, aforesaid, answered,
'nothing, only a man has been let out of jail, and been taken on u
warrant, and is going to be tried, or to have his trial,' upon which
this deponent went back into his house, and further saith not.
Sara Ossons.
Subscribed and sworn to, this twenty-third
rig; of September,
1 826, before me, Ju-'FnI~:¥ uirnuu, J. P.
Genesee County, NO. 7.
A
ss. TIMOTHY Frrcu, of Batavia, in said coun-
ty, 'being duly sworn, deposeth and saith-that on the twenty-third
day of Septembw' instant. he-, the deponent, wa at
Canandaigua,
and saw Hiram Hubbard, and this deponent asked Hubbard if he
knew any thing about William Morgan ,being taken away from
Canandaigua, and Hubbard said he did not., but on the evening
that it was said Morgan vas taken away, he, Hubbard, was
applied
to, to carry some men to Rochester, and he agreed to go with his
darrlage, as he did frequently; but he did not know who applied to
him on this occasion; that he expected they would get into his car-
riage at Mr. Kingsley's tavern, in Canandaigua; but in the evening,
about nine o'clock, a man whom he did not know, came to him,
and said the party had gone down the road towards Palmyra, and
wished him to come along, and they would get into the carriage
when he overtook them; that he, Hubbard, then drove down the
road as he was
requested, passed thejail a few rods, until he saw
some men in the road, vho told him to stop, and tive or six men
got into the carriage, but he did not know one ofthem; that they
then told him to turn about and goto Rochester, which he did gthat
he stopped twice on the road, and passed through Rochester about
day light, and continued on to Hanford's Landing, about three
miles below Rochester, where the men said they wanted to take a
vessel; that he then left them, and returned home to Canandaigua;
that he did not know one of the men_ whom he carried, though he
saw them on the road when they stopped, and also when they got
out of the carriage at Hanford's Landing; that he had never been
paid any thing for going with said party to Hanford's Landing;
and did not know who to look to for pay; that one of the men
said to him he would see him another day and pay him, but he
did not know who it was, nor had he ever seen him since, or
any
one of the party; that he, Hubbard, kept a
livery stable, and
horses and carriages, and frequently carried people to different pla-
ces. And this deponent furtliersaith, that he asked Hubbard te
-nn.-n-H»,___.._._..-____ _ _
_
-__ __
xii APPENDIX.
make amdavit of what he had said, but Hubbard said he had rather
not,and dually declined. And this deponent further saith, that the
place degeribed by Hubbard where he took the party into his car-
riage, was but a few rods from the jail, and near the place where
Mrs. Hall and Mrs. Osborn deposed they saw
Morgan last, on the
evening he was taken from the jail, and further saith not.
Tmornv Fires.
Subacried and sworn to, this twentyminth day of September,
1826, before me, C. Canranrzn, J. P.
NO. 8. .
ONTARIO OYBR AND TEBMINER.
Nl¢H°|»A9 G- CHlSl"°»l Nicnonss G. Cnasmaao, being_du-
Ed'°"d 3°WY°"» L°'°"
ly sworn, deposeth and saith-that
L3W3°"» J°l" Sh°ld°"s since the tinding of the indictment in
"d'- the above entitled cause, and in the
The P°°P|°~ course of last week, this deponent has
been served with a capias ad rea ondendum, issued out of the Su-
preme Court, of the state of New gork,at the suit of William Mor-
gnu, for assault and battery, and false imprisonment, to the damage
to the said William Morgan, of ten thousand dollars; and this de-
ponent has been held to bail in virtue of said writ, and an allow-
ance of bail thereon endorsed, for fifteen hundred dollars; that this
deponent doth verily believe that the said capiac was issued against
this deponent, as the commencement of a suit by the said William
Morgan against this deponent, for his private damages sustained,
by reason of the facts disclosed in'the indictment, in the above en-
titled cause; and this deponent further saith, that he saw the said
William Morgan in the otiice of J. Chipman, Esq. a justice ofthe
peace, in the village of Canandaigua, on the evening of the llth
Sept. last, during his examination before the said justice, and that
he has not seen him since that time:-this deponent knew that it
was intended to release the said Morgan from jail, and was inform-
ed, and verily believed, that the said Morgan had consented to go
away; and that the only object of this deponent, in assisting to get
said Morgan out of jail, was to keep him from falling into the
hands, or under the influence of one, David C. Miller, of Batavia;
that he, this deponent, had been informed, and believed, that said
William Morgan was
compiling a book on the subject of Masonry,
at the instigation, or with the concurrence, of said Miller, who was
to print the same, with a viewto pecuniary profit, in which book
the said Morgan pretended to disclose secrets which he averted
that he had most solemnly engaged never to revejlf that dbeming
such publication calculated to
degrade the institution of Qsonry,
and to bring disgrace on the members thereod this deponent was
-_i_»-- _I.;......¢d¢a|n|.--
'
Affllfblle t xiii
desirous to remove the said Morgan to some place beyond the
reach of the said Miller, where his friends and acquaintance might
endeavor to convince him of the
improprietvyhof
his conduct, and
prevent the consequence before mentioned. at this deponent was
not concerned, directly or indirectly, in using any force in the nr-
moval of the said Morgan from the said jail; and that he has had
no concern whatever, in any transactions concerning tht; "id Mm-.
gan since that time. That all he knows of said removal ia, that he
has been informed that the said Morgan was carried into the coun-
ty of Monroe; and that this deponent does not know where said
Morgan novris. And this deponent further saith, that he is some-
what in debt, hasbut little property, a family to provide for, and
feels, in common with his fellow citizens, the pressure of the times:
And further saith not.
_
_
N. G. Cuasaanq,
Sworntlaia /ada o Januar1,l827, be oreme,
.fn Rings Lund, Clerk ofjf)ntario County.
Ontario County, NO. 9.
ca. Enw/mo Sawna, of Canandaigua, one of the
above natncd defendants, being duly sworn, depoaeaand says, that he
hever to his knowledge sawWilliam Morgan, mentioned in the indict-
ment in this cause, until the evening ofthe eleventh day of September
last past, when he saw him at the office of Jelfrey Chipman,
in the village of Canandaigua, under examination; on a complaint
against him,a| this deponent was informed,for larceny. And thisdov
ponent further says, that he had no knowledge or intimation, in any
manner whatever, that any person or
persons were to go for the said
Morgan, or that they had gone for the said Morgan, to bring him
to Canandaigua, until he was informed that he was at the oflice of
the said Chipman on the said examination. And this deponent
further says, that he took no part, either directly or indirectly, in
the said examination, or in any subsequent proceedings by which
the said Morgan was
committed, as this deponent has been inform-
ed, to the jail nf Ontario county. And this deponent further says,
that he had no
knowledge or intimation of any design or intention
to liberate or remove the said Morgan from the said jail in any
manner whatever, until the evening of the twelfth day of Septem-
ber last, when Loton Lawson met this deponent in the street near
the
dwelling of this deponent, and informed this deponent that
M°'gan had agreed to go away with him, and that he was abvut
10 be
discharged from the jail, and would voluntarily leave the
Place with the said Lawson. And some time after that, in the
°0Urse of the same
evening, the said Lawson called on this deP°'
llent and informed him that he had been to the jail, and that Mr
2 _
xi,
A
nrssntx.
Hall, the jailer, was not at home; and that Mrs. Hall was not af~
quainted with him, Lawson, and was not willing to let Morgan
go on his application; that he had asked her if shewould dis-
charge him provided this deponent would come to the jail and say
it was proper; and that she said on that condition she would let
him go,
And the said Lawson requested this deponentto go to the
jan fm dnt purpose. And this deponent believing the statement of
the said Lawson to be true, did accompany him to the jail for the
purpose above expressed, and fur no other, and at the jail stated
to Mis. Hall that in his opinion there would be no harm in dis-
¢||a|-ging Morgan, provided the debt for which he was committed
was paid. And this deponent further says, thatihe verily believed
that the said Morgan was voluntarily going away with Lawson.
And this deponent had no
knowledge or intiination of any design or
intention on the 'part of any one to use
any force or violence in
carrying away Morgan; nor should this deponent have gone to the
jail aforesaid except on the solicitation above mentioned. And this
deponent further says, that when Morgan came to the outer door
of the jail, and had descended the steps, to the great surprise of
this deponent, he, Morgan, as
appeared from his exclamations,
made resistance, and was taken down the street east from the jail;
but what kind of resistance he made, Br what force was used to
compel him to go, this deponent does not know, tiir he was not
near enough to Morgan at any time after he came out ofthe jail to
see or know what was done to him. But this deponent freely and
without any reserve acknowledges that he was near
enough to hear
the noise, and might have interfered to endeavor to prevent any
abuse of Morgan; and tlzat he did follow at a distance of some rods
behind Morgan and the persons with him, until the carriage came
up, and he, Morgan, and the persons with him, got into the car-
riage. And this deponent then verily believed, and still does believe,
that Morgan get into the carriage without any force whatever. A nd
this deponent was at no time nearer than within several rods of
Mgrgan on that evening before he got into the carriage. And this
depongnt further gays, that this omission to
interfere and assist
Morgan, was the first and only act or omission of this deponent in
which he is conscious of having been guilty of any criminal or im-
proper conduct, or
participation in the matters contained in the
indictment in this case. And this deponent says, that he was taken
wholly by surprise, and had no time for retiection; that he did not
expect, and had no reason to expect, any such occurrence; and he
did sincerely and deeply regret that he had been guilty of any such
improper conduct as soon as he saw what had been done; and he
still does with deep and unfeigned regret acknowledge and lament
the part which he so took in said transaction. And this deponent
-»~ ---~~
f -
"¢-»»-=e_a-n------b--»~l'l°¢lH--r~4»-Ru»lt.¢~nqi|'i
1
_
'
nrznnrx. 'mi
further says, that attire time aforesaid he understood and believed
that Morgan was§voluntarily going away with Lawson to some
place in this or the 'adjoining county, but to what place he did nc!
know, for the purpose of being* out of the reach and influence of
David C. Miller, who, as this deponent was
informed, was engag-
ed with said Morgan in publishing a book, which, as this deponent
considered, would be calculated to bring the institutions of Masonry
into disrepute, by professing to reveal secrets which be was bound
by solemn obligations not to disclose. And this deponent was desi-
rous to prevent the publication of such book, provided Morgan could
be persuaded to keep out of the way of said Miller, and not to per-
ruit -himself to beinduenced by him or his. friends; and it was with
this view, aadsno other, that this deponent was desirous to have Mor.
gan depart withLa.wson. And this deponent further says, that he has
never seen Morgan since he got .into the carriage as
aforesaid; nor
does he know where he is at present; nor has he known any thing
of him since the time he so got into the carriage. And this de-
ponent further says, that in going down the street, after Mor-
gan and those with him had passed from the' jail, heanet a msn
who was, as he supposed, a Mr. Osborn, who asked this deponent
what was the matter; to whichsthis deponent replied, that a man
had -been releasedfrom jail, and he believed they had another prel
cept for him, or words to that eiiect. And this deponent also picked
up a hat which he found in the street there. And this deponent
further says, that the foregoing is a true and impartial account of
all the participation of this deponent-in the matters contained in
the said indictment, and of themotives which influenced him in
the same, according to the best of his knowledge and beliefl. '
And this deponent further says, that an action of assault and
battery and false imprisonment has been commenced in the Su-
preme Court of the state of New York, in the name of William
Morgan, plaintiii, against this deponent. And this deponent has
been arrested on a capias issued in the same, in which the dama-
ges are laid at ten thousand dollars, and on which this deponent is
held to bail in the sum of fifteen hundred dollars, by order of judge
Birdsall. ,
And this deponent further says, that he has a family of four chil-
dren,and is in,moderate circumstances as to property; and the situ-
ationyof his pecuniary affairs is such as to require his constant and
unremitted attention to business to meet the engagements and re-
SP0l1Sibil5i§ies into which he has entered. y
`
~
_ And thigdeponent tiarther says, that he never knew, Ml' has he
an! _EBSQ believe,_that the said John Slieldnn, the above nam-
¢¢_%f§Rad,any part or concern whatever, either dilemly
OI ID
iq:5;ly;_ of the transactions above referred to. And this
|51-_..|.»»-dv.
e
gi anlzcmx.
depots' lnheeawelncquniled 'ththesuidlohugsddolior
,"¢;|;¢||g, Andtitrtherthis dornnentsaysurl.
Enwuo Sswun.
þÿ"(|t¢ll¢60a'ibed
tlliuidhduyq/` J¢nuary,A. D. 1827,
Leg" gg, Rams Lures, Clerkof Ontario County.
Gum-io No. 10.
n.
'
'Loran Lenox, being duly sworn, up that
bg hp no of any agency or
participation hy John Shel-
d¢|in_thems.tteroractschnr¢ed` inthefo
'
entitledintlict-
pmt; that he lever had
any conversationrgitoriim in relation
hereto beforeaaid Sheldouwuarrestedonsaidehsrge; thsthc
doesnot knew, or believe, that said John Sheldon was at Batavia
in the month of September last.
hfbzron
Lnwson.
SKY# thinizth o J , 1827, be me,
byline: Unzmsu, Commissioner, &c.
Ihr'--1--ur-I
f
NO. ll.
The following ll the address of judge Throop, upon hbstm
tsndng the prhonerszv .
You have been convicted of a daring, wicked, and presumptuous
crime--such Asn one as we did hope would not, in our day, have
polluted this lend. You have robbed the state of a citizen; a tili-
zen of his liberty; a wife of her hushend; and a family of helplee
children ofthe endoernents sad protecting are of aepafenr. And
whether the unfortunate victim of your rage has been immolltvd,
or is in the land of the living, we areignorant, and even you done!
lphrrtelig
to know.
gt
is
aaimittedui;
this case, and
smeglégrovedé
t o was, a ,
ri f pretence of iii 3 l
that, tag,in th'?i.;|posing shape of pecuni|ty_r&efiq
adistreused and poverty -hound prisoner#-heguiled to entrusthlmitll
tonne of your number, who seized him, as soon as a
arrived to his sid, almost at his prison door, and in the night till!
hurried him into a carriage, and forcibly transported him outvf
the Stale. But, greet as are the individual wrongs which you lil"
indicted on these helpless and wretched human beings, UIQ! l|'¢"?*
the heaviest part of your crime. You havedisturhed l|l§P"N'°
peace; you -have dared toraise your pnrraeidal arms aglllliy Wi
laws and constitution of your þÿg(W ¬1l!l!¢B!'§
you have l¢lll\°d 3
power which is incompatible with a due subordination t0 the HWS
and public authority of your Stale- He was a citizen, under the
Prbteetion-of our laws; you were citizens, and owed Obedlemie to
them. What hardihood and wickedness then Pmmpted i'°" l°
°¢¢0|your hearts against the claims of humanity, and to dare Sell*
d¢§lh9e thuge laws to which you owed submission, and which Ci!-
.W »~
Hive- »
-
v
Y
,
Arrznorx. Xvii
not suder a citizen's liberty to be restrained with impunity, Without
violating its duties of
rwotection
assured to every individual under-
the social compact? ill you plead ignorance? Some of you, at
least, have had the advantage of education, and moral instruction,
and hold respectable and responsible stations in society; and all of
you have learned vhat every school boy in
thishappy land, this
free and intelligent community, knows: that the unrestrained enjoy.
ment of»
life, liberty, and property, is guaranteed to every indivi.
dual living obediently, under our laws. »
Our constitution shows it;
and the declaration of our independence declares, that the unmo-
lested enjoyment of liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, at-eihe
unalienable rights of man. So sacred do we hold personal liberty,
that even-the impressment of a seaman -from one of our
ships, has
been considered a sutiicient cause for national war: man here is
not like men in other countries, a submissive vassal, but every citi.
zen is a sovereign; and I am happy to say that here he possesses
that intelligence and high sense of feeling which beiits his elevated
station. »
Our laws will resent such' attacks as you have made upon
their sovereignty.
f
Your conduct has created, in the people of this
section of the country, a strong feeling ot' virtuous indignation.
The court rejoices to witnessit--to be made sure that a citizen's
person cannot be invaded by lawless violence, without itsbeing felt
by every individual in the community. ,It is a blessed spirit, and
we do hope that it will not subside; that it will be accompanied by
a ceaseless vigilance anduntiring activity, until every actor in this
proiligate conspiracy is hunted from his hiding place and brought
before the tribunals of the country to receive the punishment me-
rited by his crime. 'We think that we' see in this public sensation
the spirit which brought us into existence as a nat-ion, and a
pledge
that our
rights and liberties are destined to endure. But this is not
all; your otlence was not the result of passion suddenly excited,
nor the deed of one individual. It was preconcerted, deliberated
upon, and carried into eilect, by the dictates of the secret councils
and conclave of many actors. It takes its deepest hues of guilt
from a
conspiracyf-a crime most dreaded, from the depravity ot'
heart it evinces, the power for unlawful purposes which it combines,
and from its ability to defy the power of the law, and ultimate dan-
ger to the public peace. Hence it is, that the crime is considered
full, when the wicked purpose is proved to have been formed; and
the subsequent carrying into effect the object of the conspiracy,
does not, in the eye of the law, elevate the degree of the crime.
_
The legislature have not seen tit, perhaps, from the supposed
lmprobability that the crime would be attempted, to make your of-
fence a
felony. Its grade and punishment has been left to the
provisions of the common law, which treats it as a
misdemeanor,
21:
_»j>» ____ -a...-~.
- -'
APIENDII.
and pwigmigwiah ins and imprisonment inthwuman jul.
Th; mg gpg gf opinion that your lihcrty ought to 'be undo gg an.
gpg- fm- gh;
libgrgeofMorgan: person was by fume;
md qw mum in exercise of its lawful powers, ought not to be
mg" |e||dg|~ afyour liberty, than you, in the plentitude oi lawless
f gfhis.
'
'
.
nrce were
Wig; ,gud to you, Lamson-It appeared, in proof, thatyou
was gp odive agent in this affair; you went forward and; tookthis
mantrollthsjaihanddeliveredhimover to thosewho stood wait.
ing with a carriage to receive hin. Whether you accompatiud
dm carriago or not, is not in prootl But in your excusuory afi-
dlvit you say nothing about it, leaving it to fair inference that you
did accompany him in that carriage.
t
There is. nothing, either in
your aliidavit, or your proof to the court, which does much to miti-
gate your oE'ence, exceptso far as they show that your poverty has
not been accompanied by idlencss, and your character has not been
stained hy other transgressions. Under all the cucumstaaccs of
your case, the court feel it their duty tosentonce you totwoyears
imprisonment is the common
jail of this county.
-
As to you, Cloeaebro-It appears, by your aidavit, that you did
not lay your hands upon this man, to carry into effect the conspi-
racy; and it appears by unquestionable proof that you did not leave
this village with the carriage. But you admit, at least tacitly, in
your anidavit, that you were one of the conspirators; and your lan-
guage to the jailer, when he called upon you the next day to ac-
count for your conduct, and warned you that the puhlic would de-
mand an explanation, showed an unsubdued spirit. It has been
satisfactorily proved to us that you are a thriving mechaniv-that
you have a respectable standing in the community; and up to the
period of this transaction your character for industry, honesty, qm-
et and moral department, was without reproach. Under the cir»
cumstances of your case, the court sentence you to oneyenr im-
prisonment in the common jail of this county.
A8 to you, Sawyer-Your aiidavit, which, from the uniform
good character you have proved, we fully believe.-tube true, states,
that you had no
knowledge of this conspiracy, and tookno active
pall in it. But your accompanying Lawson, at his request, to
the
jail, to inform the jailer's wife that she would he safe in
rnftivlng
the amount of Morgnn's ~
dcht from Lawton and- go,
with the other circumstances, were suihcient to #DIN-lnttd
you, if you had stood trial; and you acted wisely in
l
Aggltiity.
You state that you had no idea. that-he.was.u
`
`
,_ Tlhdiitil
you saw him enter the .can-iage, ;_;1m|¢¢
'
lquysg,-_and
yw did-not uupeetthashe was f ceo' 't- 'intlmungress
°r your walk, YW Pi°k°¢l-UP his lliat; th:t°;&§l
--_ _ .. ..,.
Arrarmxx. xix
and confounded, and did not therefore give the alarm; but you spent
the lest of the evening at a public house, and gave no intimation ot'
what you had seen. This, then, was
your 'offences--You should
have given the alarm; you should raised the hue and cry, and en-
deavored to etfeet a rescue. You, however, expressed in your alli-
davit, and have alwaysnevinoed, a feeling of remorse. The court,
therefore, sentence you to one month imprisonment in the common
jail of this county.
As to you, Sheldon-You denied any participation in the con-
spiracy, and put yourself upon trial. 'As to all the acts proved
against you, there was mystery; and I doubt whether you were the
man. You were at the time confined on the limits of the jail-you
were most strongly identified inan appearance at Batavia; and al-
though your proof of an alibi was not complete, there was much
in it to shake our faith in the fact that you were tho mysterious-
stranger whom the witness saw.
~
Your confessions of guilt, how.
ever, were clear and indisputable, and fully warranted the verdict;
and _the only explanation of them you olfered was the ungracious
one, that your confessions were the vainglorious boastings of a
drunkard and a liar. Taking all things into consideration, the
court have adjudged you to three months imprisonment in the com-
mon jail ofthe county.
-
NO. 12. _
To 'run PUBL1c.-On the 11th day of September, William
Morgan, a native of' Virginia, who had for about three years past
resided in this village, was under pretext of a justice's wari°a.nt
hurried from his home and family and carried to Canandaigua.
The same
night he was examined on the charge ot' petit larceny,
and discharged by the justice. One of the persons who took
him away immediately obtained a warrant against him, in a civil
suit, for an
alleged debt of two dollars, on vhich he was com-
mitted to the jail of Ontario county. On the night ofthe 12th of
September he was released by a
person pretending to be his
friend; but directly in front of the jail, notwithstanding his cries
of murder, he was
gagged and secured and put into a
carriage, and
after travelling all night, he was left (as the driver of the carriage
says) at Hanford's landing, about sunrise on the 13th; since
which he has not been heard ofi His distressed wife and two
infant children are left dependent on
charity for their sustenance.
The circumstances of the transaction have given rise to the most
violent fears that he has been murdered. It is however hoped
by his wife and friends, that he may be now kept concealed and
imprisoned _in Canada. All persons who are willing to serve' the
..¢_.,
xp;
'
srrsumx.
cause of humanity, and assist to t8m0ve the appre-
hcnsions of his unfortixnate wife, are earnestly requested to com-
municate to one of the committee named below, directed to this
place, any facts or circumstances which have come to their know-
ledge, gud are calculated to lead to the discovery of his present
situation, or the particulars of .his fate, if he has been murdered -
Batavia, October 4, 1826.
T. F. Tax.ao'r,
'
Jon. Liv,
-
D. E. Evans,
T. Frrcn,
T. Cans,
L. D. PRINDLE,
Wm. Karas, QF E. SOUTHWORTH,
Wm. Davis,
4° Jas. P. SMITH,
N. B. It is hoped that printers throughout the state, in Canada, and elsbf
where, will give the above a few insertions, and thus serve the cause of
tice and humanity.
~
State of New York, NO. 13.
Genesee County, as. Joan K. Laaxm, of the town of By-
ron, in said county, being duly sworn, deposeth and saith, that ua
the morning that William Morgan was carried off from the village
of Batavia, he, this deponent, went to Andrew Adams to borrow
a saddle; before the said deponent had got far 06; said Adams
called to him and said he must have his sadde, for he, Adams,
was notified to attend aspecial meeting ofthe Masons at Le Roy,
at 10 o'clock, same morning-Adams also understood to be a
Free Mason. And this deponent asked Dr. Taylor what the
fuss was; to which Dr. Taylor replied, they, the Masons, had
orders from the Grand Lodge to notify a special meeting. And
this deponent further saith not. Joan K. Laaxm.
Subscribed and swam to this ninth day of March, 1§2"l, bqbre
Amiamv Dianna J. P.
"Wa _
~ 1
State of New York, (corv.)
A
Genesee County, sa. Joris Sourawonrn and Lurnsa Win-
ona, of the town of Byron, in said county, being duly sworn,
depose and say, that some time after the abduction of William
Morgan from the village of Batavia, in the month of September
last, they, the deponents, with others, had a conversation with
Dr. Samuel Taggart of said town, (whois reputed and understood
to be a Free Mason,) about the carrying ofl" said Morgan; in which
Dr. Taggart said there had been a rumpus at Batavia; that Mor-
gan was taken away; and Miller's oilice (meaning as the depo-
pents understood, the printing oiiice of David C. Miller, sprinter,
In Batavia) had been set on fire: and onaomc person present
»--Ji--.-. ;,, _ _ h§_,_
_
srrlttmx. .
lin
dying hehad not heard any thing ofthe ailhir, Dr. Taggart said
he_hed'known it for a
'length of time. Dr; Taggart further stated
that he should not he afraid ao bet a thousand dollars that Mor-
gan was not in the land ofthe living: that he bad taken s voyage
on
lake Ontario without tloat or boat, and would never be seen
again-by any human being. And further saith not.
Joan Sourrrwoanr,
LUTHER WrLpER.
Subscribed and sworn to, this ninth day ofMarch, 1827,before mo,
,
Asmuiw D1ssx.e,J. P.
Slate ofNm York,
} (corn)
'
Genesee County, ss. Emss Winona, of the town of Elba, in
said county, being duly sworn, deposeth and saith, that about two
or three weeks before William Morgan was carried from Bata-
via, he, this deponent, had a conversation with one Cyrus Grout,
(whom this deponent understands and verilybelieves to be shes
Mason,) on the subject of said Morgan's attempt to publish the
secrets of Masonry; and that the said Cyrus Grout told this de.
ponent that the Masons had senttothe Grand Lodge for instruc-
tions, and when they got word from them, (meaning said Grand
Lodge, as this depenent understood,) there would be something
done. And this deponent further saith, that after the abduction
of said Morgan, he, this deponent, had another conversation with
said Cyrus Grout, and others, .on the subject of what had become
of said Morgan; and Grout said be, Morgan, was gone a
fishing
on the Niagara river of lake Ontario. And further saith not.
'
Euss Winona.
Subscribed and sworn to, this ninth day ef.Ma1-ch, 1827, befbreme,
'
Aunanw Dianne, J, P.
Genesee County, ~
NO. 14.
-
ss. Lvmul D. Pnxsnn, being duly swom, saith
that 'onthe 4th day of October lest he met with James Ganson
at Rochester, who beckoned to him to come-to him, Gauson; he
entered into conversation with him, thisdeponent, relating to the
disturbances at Batavia, about the taking away ot' William Mor-
gan. This deponent expressed his opinion that he could have
rescued Morgan if he had known it. Ganson said, 'Let me tell
you, you know nothing about it. Suppose there had been carriages
ready at every road leading into Canandaigua ready to receive
Morgan, in case he had been pursued he could have been shifted;
and let me tell you it was the case; or let me tell you it is likely
ilmtwas the case. Let me tell you, if you could hang, draw, and
-¢sh;_,_,__ ~
'
-*-->..__ ¢nn...__ _
__
xxii APPENDIX.
quarter; or gibbet the Masons, (them that has a hand in it,) it
would not fetch Morgan back. Ha is not dead; but he is put
Wim-g hg will my put until God Almighty calls t`orhim.' And
further saith not- Lyman D., Panrrnrc.
Su-en; W eleventh day of October, 1826, before me,
C. Caarz1vraa,~`l. P.
NO. 15. .
Lnrrna rams GIGIGI
nrcnaxczo Masé MOB::b1;`- 4, wie
.
'
ester epte r 1 .
'J|l'rs. Morgan--Make yourself contented: I have learned your husband
is well, but cannot learn where or which wa he went: when I can learn,I
will give you the earliest information. Be to
what I said to yon, and
you will find friends: keep your own
council, and communicate to me through
the
postodice,
When I wnte to you rt
willbe handed to you by
thpngerson
I dc iver it to-you must not
pass a \vord with him; but write all the
'
mn-
tion you can obtain by following what I advised. 'lf you want money, write
tome,and Iwillsendit.
Committhistorkbleiltilamesassoonasyonread
rt.
'Your 'en ---
--.
'You have the name on s small paper I gave you.'
N. B. A line was run through the postscript as above, but the words are
perfectly legible.
Geitesee Cotmly,
}
NO. 16. __
sa. Joint Mum,of Buffalo, blacksmith by trade,
deposeth and saith, that in the latter part of August last, orearly
in September, and very shortly before he heard that an attempt
had been made to burn the printing nice of David C. Miller, at
Batavia, he was riding with one Richard Howard, of Butiiilo, a.
book binder, who then worked with Mr. Haskins; and in the
course of the ride he, said Howard, asked deponent to purchase
or
procure a
keg of spirits of turpentine, (as he thinks,) sayinglte
wanted to switch Miller's oliice with it, avowing at the same time
his object to be to destroy the building for the purpose of sup-
pressing a
publication, which he said Morgan and Miller were a-
bout making, relating to Free Masonry. ~This deponent declined
to assist in the act, intimating to him (as he believes) that ha had
no
money to do it with. After he heard that such attempt had
been made on the otlice of Miller, said Howard told this~ depo-
nent that he had, with others who aided and assisted hill, ai-
tempted to burn said oiiioe--that he had called at a stop W8S\;0l`
Batavia and bought a broom or brush tospread _
With, and with his dark lanthorn had set 'mire to
»<`;.f `l- thmile
was lighted up, and he ran o{i§,thgt some \~ -
, _ ~"=
°
_
and he supposed was about to overtake him, ~'
;t I
I,
Bild
flashed his dark
lanthom into his face, while s
"
-ed
That upon reflection since he concluded thiit was 8;f$'t\¢l»,\!lt9
-~_..,f; ___...¢.|;:_.._..__._... ,. '_ ,'
nrannxx. Xxiii
ran after him,'but had never found out. He believed then, and
still does believe, that said Howard's object was to implicate him
in the transaction. JOHN MANN_
Sworrrthe twenty-first day ofFebruary, 1827, bqfgrg me,
War. H. Trsnlma, First Judge of Genesee.
State of New York, NO. 17.
`
,
Genesee County, ss.~ Tnolvns G. GREEN, late of the tgwn of
Henrietta, in the county of "Monroe, and _state aforesaid, caypen-
ter, being duly sworn, deposeth and saith, that during the suxumel-
and until November in the fall of the year 1826, this deponent
resided in the village of Buffalo; Sometime between the fwen_
tieth day of August and the seventh day of September last, he, this
deponent, was requested 'by Richard Howard of Buffalo, atb,-e.
said, to attend the lodge of Free Masons in that place; but
Howard did not state to this deponent for what purpose the lodge
was requested to meet-said there would be but a few there. In
the evening this deponent started to go to the lodge, and on the
way fell in with said Howard and went to the lodge with him.
After the lodge was organized and had proceeded to business, it
being then understood that William Morgan and David C. Miller,
of Batavia, were about 'to publish at that place a book purporting
to be a disclosure of Masonic secrets. This deponent was in
the chair and presided for the time. Howard proposed that
something should be done to prevent the publication of said book.
B. Wilcox, of Buffalo, who was present, opposed the use of any
rash or violent means for that purpose. Wilcox wished to know
what measures it was intended should be adopted. Howard pro-
posed that he and one other person, not now recollected by this
deponent, should be a committee to attend to the business; and
that they should be left to use such measures as they should think
proper, so that the book should be suppressed. Wilcox proposed
that they should be restricted from the use of any violent rnea~
sm-es; and it was so concluded at that time that no rash or violent
measures should be used to suppress the book.
A short time afterwards Howard requested that this deponent
should go to the lodge room with him that evening- that a few
were to meet there. In the evening this deponent started to go to
the lodge room, and on the way fell in with Howard, but did not
go to the lodge room. They walked together as far as the Frank~
lin House, thence to the terrace back of the village, where How-
ard and this deponent had the following conversation:-Howard
asked this deponent if he was willing to aid him in suppressing
the book above alluded to. This deponent said he was
'willing
xxiv
'
Arrsnnti.
gg "gin gg far aswss reasonable and proper, or according to
what was proposed by Wilcox. Howard said he wanted a ded#
give mgwer que way or the other-he wanted to know whether he,
mi, depgngnt, was for them, the Masons, as this deponent sup-
posed, 0; qsinst them. This deponent said he was for them,
and was willing to aid insuppressingthebookifitweretopro-
mote the interests of the Masonic institution; and asked Howard
what
glen
he intended to pursue. Howard said theyintendsxl to
go to atavia and get the papers; which this deponentundardood
to mean the manuscript papers ofthe book; and they were to get
them peaceably if they could--if not, by force; andif they could
not get them without, they would take Morgan and Miller, and
carry them off too. This deponent Iinally consented to join the
party and go to Batavia, for the purpose of gating the'papers as
aforesaid. The time for this expedition was not agreed upon at
this time; but Howard afterwards informed this deponent that it
was arranged to be in Batavia for the above purpose on the Fri-
day evening following, being the eighth day of September last.
This deponent does not recollect how many were _going from
Buffalo. This deponent accordingly get into the stage at Bute
falo on Thursday evening, the seventh of September, for Batavia,
and arrived iu_ Batavia on
Friday morning. During the day this
deponent iemained in and about Batavia, but conversed with
none on the subject of his being at that place, except James
B. Towsley, to whom he communicated the plan of attacking
Mi1ler's otiice. In the early part of the evening this deponent
was informed that Towsley had told George W. Harris of the
contemplated attack npon Miller's oiiice; and that this deponent
was the author of this information. This threw many ohstrucq
tions in the way of the expedition, and was a
principal cause of
its total failure; and for which Howard blamed this deponent. In
the evening a number of men were assembled in the vill of
Batavia--how many this deponent cannot say-there mighifhve
been forty or
fifty, and perhaps more; but they were mostly stran-
gers to this deponent; nor did he know where they came fiom.
This deponent understood from some of them that it was expected
that there would have been twenty-tive from fort Georgevand its
vicinity; but, as he understood, they did not come. or .ten
were put under the immediate direction of thisyglepoqgt,
remainder were in different parts of the village, ,by_
different persons. The whoie party did not, into
nn nearly two (meek in the moming of so
'
,; mgifsygg
"mined 9:50111 two hours and till the wes
h
M
c
"
B
' N `
the whole company dispersed in different " `
A
_,J
'
'F' -1
APPENDIX. XXV
about four o'clock in the morning. During the time they' were in
the village no attack was made upon Miller's otiice. It was under-
stood that Miller and Morgan, in consequence of the information
communicated to them by way of Towsley, had been alarmed, and
were on the watch; which caused some consultation and consequent
delay, until the stage come in. When the party dispersed, this de-
pnnent made his best way to Buffalo-went west to the brick tavern,
about fourteen miles; thence south to what is called the south Pem-
broke road, and pursued his way to Monroe's tavern, about (ive
miles from Buffalo. At this place this deponent saw Col. Joseph
Shaw, who spoke to this deponent, and asked him what he was
doing there: This deponent then took Shaw one side and
requested
that .he would not call him, this dcponent, by name again, or men.
tion to any one that he had seen him at that place; for he, this de-
ponent, had been in a bad scrape, and wished him not to speak of
it. _ Shav asked this deponent what it was; but this deponent re.
fused to tell him, but said he would at some future time, and that
Shaw vould hear about it. From this place this deponent went to
Buffalo, where he arrived the same evening. And this deponent
further saith, that he has never been personally concerned other-
wise than above stated, in any`mcasures to suppress the publication
ofthe book, or for the carrying away or disposing of Morgan. And
further saith not. THOMAS G. GREEN.
Subscribed and sworn to, this sixteenth day of July, t827,
before `mc, C. Canrurvrcn,
One ofthe Justices of the Peace in and for Genesee Co.
.Niagara County, NO. 19.
ss. Divm MA'XWELL, being sworn, saith that in
the night of the thirteenth day of September last he was at
home attending to the keeping of the turnpike gate on the Ridge
road, so called, about nineteen miles distant from Lewiston.
About eleven o'clock, P. M. he was sitting in the toll house and
heard a
carriage pass through the gate very slowly; and upon
opening the door he saw Jeremiah Brown, of Ridgeway, standing
directly in front of the door, and saw the carriage standing in
the road, about three rods west of the house. He, Brown, had
a shillingiu his hand, which he handed to him, being the exact;
amount ofthe toll on the carriage. Deponent said, 'How do you
do, captain Brownl' he made no answerand turned away quickly
and went towards the carriage. Deponent called to him quite
loudly, and said, 'What is the .matter?' Brown answered, 'Nothing.'
D _' ent took notice of the carriage because he had never known
Br
'
1
"ftp have any thing to do with a coach before; and it struck
him asilthing
otgot'
the usual course.
~
He thinks the curtains were
"vi srrnnmx. I
closed. Brown joined the carriage; but whether he got into it, or
got on the driver's seat, deponent cannot say. The carriage drove
gli' quickly, when deponent entered into the house: himself and his
wife had a conversation, and expressed to each other their wonder
as to the course that should take captain Brown west with a coach
5° lags gg night. He, Brown, is a farmer, in good circumstances,
,aiding about thirteen miles east of the gate, and well known to de-
ponent and his wife, and passing the gate frequently, and never to
the knowledge and recollection of deponent with any other car-
rigge than a common two-horse farm wagon. They eventually
concluded that he perhaps had gone on to Lewiston to an installs-
tion. The next morning before breakfast, and not far'-from sunf
rise, the same carriage, as he thinlrs, arrived at the gate, driven by
a person he did not then know. The middle curtains were then up,
and deponent distinctly saw the said Jeremiah Brown sitting on the
back seat of the carriage, appearing to be asleep and leaning back;
he saw no other person in the carriage. Deponent said to the dri-
ver, 'How far did you go out; did you go to Lewistoni' He hesi-
tated a little and said, 'No, we did not go to Lewiston? Thede-
ponent and his wife then observed to each other, that they had not.
gone to the installation. Deponent took notice that the coach was
a chocolate color; it appeared to be a hack carriage that had been
much used. Dsvtn Msxwnu.,
Sworn the twenty~second day of Marcia, 1827, before me,
DANIEL Seamus, J. P.
.Niagara County, NO. 20.
sa Pun. Mosulm, of Lewiston, in said county,
being duly sworn, doth on his oath declare that previous to the
month of December last past this deponent had been in the em-
ploy of the stage proprietors at Lewiston,{his special business be-
ing to regulate and superintend the arrival and departure of the
stages,) for more than one year. That while in such employ, on the
morning of the fourteenth day of September last, (about four o'cloclr,
A. M.,) one ofthe drivers informed him that he hadjust returned from
Youngstown. This driver was Corydon Fox, who further stated that
Samuel Barton, one of the sta e proprietors, had called him up some-
time that night, and directed liim to get up a
carriage and drive it to
Youngstown. Fox also stated that Eli Bruce, (sherif of Niagara.
county,) or as he called him, Bruce, came with Mr. Barton, when
he was called up-that after the getting the carr` ready, Bruce
told him (Fox) to drive round to a back street. Ee did so, and
found a carriage in the street without horses-(Ht there was some-
thing curious about it; he thought there was afian in the carriage
Who was gagged and bound. That there were two persons who car:
:ae--_----5 -f
»~-
-~~~--_...___
"
""-it
Arrzumx. xxvii
out ofthe carriage standing in the street; and both, with Bruce, got
into the one he was driving. Bruce told him to go or drive on: he
was directed to stop at the residence of Col. King. He halted ac-
cordingly in ti-ont of the door or house at
Youngstown. Bruce got
out and called up King. Bruce and King both got into the car-
riage. That he heard a man in the carriage call for water, and Bruce
said he should have some; he also thought heheard King say, 'Mor-
gan, are you her¢~.' That he (Fox) was directed to drive on; and
when about half way from Youngstown to the fort, Bruce told him
to stop: he did so, and they all got out, and he returned to Lewis-
ton. Fox has more recently stated that it was near the grave yard
where he stopped. This deponent thinking it strange that passen-
gers should leave the carriage distant from a house, in the night,was
led to inquire of a Mason present (this deponent being also one)
the reason of it; he answered that he believed it was Morgan. The
deponent inquired of another Mason, and was told it was
Morgan,
for Bruce told him so. In the forenoon of the same day (14th
September) the deponent saw Bruce and asked why he was so im-
prudent as to have the driver he did, for he was not a`Mason; t0
which Bruce replied that Sam. (meaning Samuel Barton) was more
in the fault than himself, for he told him to send a Mason. The de-
ponent then asked Bruce if he actually had Morgan; he said he had.
And the conversation ended here. Samuel Barton asked this depo-
nent the same day if Fox mistrusted Morgan was in the carriage:
the deponent told him that Fox was
telling about the village the
circumstances of his having driven the carriage, &c.; which led this
deponent to believe and probably would others, that it was Mor-
gan Barton then told the deponent to go and say to Fox that if he
know any thing to keep it to himself and hold his tongue, or he
would discharge him; and further stated that there must be another
man smuggled away to blind that transaction; he further said that
the deponent being a Mason. was the man who ought to have been
sent as driver, but being called up in the night in a hurry, he did
not think. In the afternoon of the same day said Barton came to
the deponent, and directed him to borrow a saddle and bridle- and
'put them on a horse as soon as possible, and hitch it by another
horse standing under the shed, pointing that way, and which horse
appeared as if he had been rode fast; he added that he had heard
from the fort, and must send a man down, for he was afraid there
would be trouble yet. He did as directed, and the two horses were
rode nfl' soon after: the one
put there by this deponent, by a Mason
resident in Lewiston; the other by a
person not knovn to this depo-
llent. Next morning the deponent asked said Barton if there was
any trouble at the fort; to which he replied, 'I guess it is still
enough! Fox, the driver before mentioned, within, say three or
--~
_-_-¢»_... e
Xxviii APPENDIX.
four weeks afterwardshioined the lodge in Lewiston, at a
special
meeting called for that purpose; and on being solicited so to do by
3 AIHSOR who was sent to Fox to induce him tojoin,and who, pur-
suant to instructions, told Fox that if he wanted funds, meaning for
his gdgpinnnce, he should have them. This deponent further saith,
that in relating the above facts and circumstances which he heard
from several individuals at different times and places, he has not
pretended to
give the exact words in all cases; but verily believes
the substance is truly and correctly set forth. And further saith not.
. PAUL Most-ren.
Subscribed and sworn to, at Youngstown, Niagara County, the
twenty-serond of March, 1827, bqfore me, A. G. HINMAN, J. P.
Slate of New York, N0. 21.
Niagara County, ss. Jostnn TRYON, of said couuty, being
swan., saith, that on the evening of the fourteenth of September
last past he attended a dance or ball at Lewiston, there having been
on that day a considerable collection of ladies and gentlemen at
Lewiston on the occasion, of what was called the installation ofa
chapter,{so called.) That at the same ball were
present a Mr. Ed-
win Scrantom. a friend of deponent's, who wished to leave
town in time to
get on board of tltestcam boat for York, U. C.;
and to induce him to remain at the ball, this deponent had promis-
ed to take him there: as soon as the ball closed, he would start right
off with him td"Youngstovn, that he might be in time for the boat.
Accordingly he started front Lewiston with his friend in a onehmsc
wagon. 'l'hztt the night was clear, and the moon was remarkably
bright. That about two miles from Lewiston, he met five men walk-
ing towards Lewiston, of whom he then distinctly recognized and
believed to be Timothy Shaw,Samuel Chuhbuck, and GeneralParlt-
lturst Whitney, who keeps what it is called the Eagle Hotel, at the
Falls of Niagara; and he has since been informed, and has ascer~
tained to his own perfect satisfaclion,thz1t the other two were James
L. Barton, of Black Rock,and Noah Beach, of Lewiston. It was,
as he thinks. between the hours of three and four of the clock, in
the morning of the fifteenth of said September. The deponent
drew up his horse, and said to one of them who were a little behind
the rest, 'What are you here this timeof niglttfori'-or wards to
that purport. He answered, as l think, 'We have ltada set down
dl Yvflftgfstown'-and passed on. That this deponent mentioned
the circumstances to others in the village of Lewiston, and \1¢Sl0ry
soon enlarged by report, so as to implicate the above named men
in the extraordinary disappearance of William Morgan. And
three of them have had conversation with him in relation thereto;
and one of them requested him to correct erroneous reports of what
)
~
_.; _
_H
,. .
___u_
""~'~»'f`
'
_
'tue-ft
tt"
V
nranmx. _
*XIX
he had said. But in none of those conversations did either of then;
attempt to say where they had spent the night, or how it happened
that they were on their way to Lewiston on foot nt that time of the
morning. He further says, that all of the said men are men hav-
ing families, and following business with ordinary regularity, and
of ordinary good habits. He further says, that according to his re-
collection and belief, none of the above named persons have given
to him any explanation of the above circumstances.
Jostau Tmron.
Sworn the twenty-second day qf March, l8t?7', before me,
A. G. Human, J. P.
Niagara County. N0 23.
ss. I, A. G. Hmmm, one of the justices of the
peace, of said county, do hereby certify, that on the 29th of last
December, compliant was made on oath before me, setting forth in
substance that there was full cause to suspect that Eli Bruce, sheriE
ofthe said county, had, on or about the thirteenth or fourteenth of
last September, forcibly and without due process of law, held Wil-
liam Morgan in duress for some time, within the said county, and.
had secretly and illegally conveyed him thence to parts unknown.
Whereupon I issued a warrant against the said Eli Bruce, who was
brought before me, for examination, on the thirtieth of said Decem-
ber And I do tiirther certify that the information taken on such
examination was
substantially as follows, to wit, that the said Eli
Bruce came to Mollineux's tavem, about twelve miles Past of Lew-
iston, on the Ridge road, on the night of the thirteenth of said Sep-
tember, at about ten or eleven o'clock. in a PNCK Ol' Coach, the cur-
tains of which tvgrt- closed quite around lle went lit and inq ed
tor tht- l.iutlltn~tl, who was in bed; was shown into his room; afler~
wards calletl up the l:tndlord's sun, who was also in bed, and re~
qneqtt-tl litiu tn
put a
pair of horses hethre his carriage. to r ~Ii,»m
'tliose tha' came with it, to
go as lar as Lewiston; which was done,
The mn askotl if he should drive; Bruce replied he hgd 3 ,driver
who w is a can-|'ul man, pointing to a man whom the vvitnessg knew
to be .Ieremiah Brown. Bruce was also asked by a hired girl, what
the matter was; he 2IlSVPl'9d,_yl)l1 cannot know at present. He
'soon left there- with the carriage, driven by Brown towards Lewis-
ton. At Lewiston the some night, but the hour not
ascertained,
the said Bruce went with Samuel Barton, a
stage proprietor, to the
~1ig¢'oiii:e to ascertain what driver could be had to go to Youngs-
'°W|l- On being informed hy.loshua Fairbanks who slept there, 'hat
H009 but Fox was there, Fox was called up and directed to harness
a
carriage, which he did, and drove up to the Frontier House, where
=aid Bruce got in, and ordered the carriage driven to a back street.
3%
.,.>£§lc
'"'-°. li _ :-, _ ,f W)
-
A
4
.ill-
xg; arrsnntx.
On arriving there, in front of said Barton's dwelling house, acar~
riagc was lbund in the street without any horses attached to it, and
two
men, either one or both of whom were in it, got out, and went
into the other: one was
helped in by the arm-nothing was _said.
When, together with said Bruce, being seated, the driver was order-
ed by Bruce to drive to Youngstown. Witness heard noconver-
sation ti-out the passengers that he could distinguish, On arriving
at Youugstotvn, Bruce directeu him to stop in front ol Col. King's
house in Youngstown. He did so, and Bruce got out and called up
Col. King; went in, and ina lew minutes, say rilieen, came ott,o-
gether with King, and both got into the carriage, when Bruce told
the driver to go on. While at this house the driver he-ard a
strange
kind of sound from one of the persons in the carriage, which he
thought was at cnll tor water, though he could not say that the arti-
culation was
sulhciently distinct to be understood; Bruce answered
he sltould have some presently-none was, however, given or
brought. The carriage proceeded to within a short distance of
Fort Nin_g:irn, neat' the- grave yard, when the driver was.dlrected to
stop, and the persons within, tour in number, he thought,got out-
ont- was assisted as betort--and they proceeded oH` from the side
ol' the carriage, closely together, towards the tort. Bruce told the
driver to go back; and he immediate-l_y returned. The next morn-
ing (the Iourteenth) the said Eli Bruce being at Lewiston, he was
asked it he went to Youngstown the night before; he said he did.
He was thvn .isltcd if he took Morgan down; he replied he did, and
observed that Sam., meaning said Barton, was
very imprudent in
sending Fox-that he told him his business, and that he had not
ought to have s' nrany but a Mason.
There were tive witnesses sworn, whose testimony is included in
the above statement. No attempt was made to impeach either of
them, nor was there any evidence offered on the part of Mr. Bruce.
As tht-re was no proo|` adduced on this examination, that a Wil-
'liam Morgan had been forcibly seized and carried away from Ca-
nandaigua, or elsewhere; nor that force, violence, or
restraint, had
been exercised upon the person of any individual in the carriage,
the said Bruce was discharged. _
Given under my hand, at Youngstown, in the said county, tltc
twentyg'irst.day of March, 1827, A. G. Hitman, J. P.
State of New Yorlc, ,i
i
it
'
Niagara, County, ss. Wrnntax 'I3srr.r.x,,of Niagara, province
of Upper Canada, dfllggist, being. dttly.sworn,_ doth depose and
Bax. that in the month of, September or-Otwberlast this dqnoneat
was, in ill bsllth °ll~d'§°'lfl!lQd-YP, his -dnt¢lli|§» lvdithldebesltss
Sotuetime. That about this trmea ne,ighh|r.q¢}t|is dgggpgtg iffgmg
i
5
`
"err
*ii
_
srrannrx. xxxi
him that a man had engaged, in some part of the state of New
York, in publishing a book concerning Masonry, or disclosing the
secrets of Masonry, or words to that eifect. This deponent does not
recollect the name_ mentioned at this tlme by his intormant, but has
now no doubt that it related ,to the abduction of William Morgan.
This depouent was further informed at the same time, by the same
person, that the person so taken and carried away had been killed,
and sunk in lake Ontario. This deponent's informant was of thc
traternity of Free Masons, as is also this deponent, which this de-
pouent believes was the reason why this story was related to him.
That this deponent at the time disbeliewed the facts related, and told
his informant that it could not be possible, but was
assured it was
a fact, and said he (the informant) would relate more about it at
another time. Some few weeks afterwards, when this
deponent
was recovering, the same informant added, or further related, that
Morgan had been brought to Fort Niagara, or to the other side ot
the river opposite this. (meaning the town of Niagara,) and was
there put to death. This deponent again expressed doubts of the
truth ofthe relation, and expressed himself in warm' terms of dis-
approbation, denying the right of the society of Nlasotis. or
any
members of the traternity, to commit such a deed. The relator
was, however, of a ditferent opinion, and said it was right.
Some time in the month of December last, this deponent was
further intormed by another member of thesociety aforesaid, who
also resides in the same town with this deponent. that Morgan had
been taken at Batavia, was brought to Fort Niagara. and trom
thence to the town of Niagara, and was taken before another Ma-
son ofthe same place-that the Masons in Canada retirsed to re-
ceive,Morgan,or to have any thing to do with him-|nd that Morgan
was returned to Fort Niagara-that after. Morgan was tried by some
sort of a council, or tribunal, which sentenced him to death-that
he was executed by having his throat cut; his tongue was torn out_,
and buried in the sands of the lakes or lake; and that his body was
also sunk in the lake or deep water opposite, oif, from, or near the
fort; which is as near the substance of what was said as this depo-
nent can recollect. The relator further added that Morgan did not
know where he was-»-that he was blinded-that the boat was rowed
about the river for the purpose ot' deranging the man-that while
at Fort Niagara, Morgan asked permission of a Bible, and a short
time in the light, in order that he might peruse it. This deponent
askedwhat was- the resultofthe request; to which the relster added,
that he was soon-despatched. This deponent asked howtthose who
had been engaged in the atfoir felt about it; the relator observed
ilhtfthey felttbad, andmoma had expressedso much contritian as to
Sayfthst they voukkhmz given allthey.wer¢~W0l1h if the affair ha*
T
'
T T"
xxxii ursnnix.
not happened, or if Morgan could be produced again. And this
deponent further saith, that tho relator added that one ol the per-
sons concerned was sick and delirious in consequence of it, and
had to have watches, according to the best belief ef this dsponent.
Further, the relator stated that those engaged at Canandaigua, and
there indicted, were to be kept harmless by the General Grind
Chapter of the state of New York; and that all expense requisiteto
pay any fines that might be imposed was to be defrayed bythe
said chapter; and that the actors in the alfair of the abduction ol
Morgan so acted in obedience to the erder, (or by the consent or
knowl¢dge,) or directions, of the said Grand Chapter. The relator
also stated that it was the intention of those who had Morgan to
have taken Miller also. This deponent, at the time he heard the
last relation, did believe the substantial part of it, and still does most
lirmly believe it.
This deponent further saith, that another member of the Masonic
society also related the same facts substantially, and said be derived
his information from a
gentleman of Bulfalo, (a Mason,) now de-
ceased. This latter part ir intended to be restricted to the fact ol
the death of Morgan, and the place of depositing the body. This
deponent further saith, that the foregoing was
prepared and signed
(though not sworn
to) some time since. Subsequent to that period
further information has been received by this deponent,which has in-
duced him to believe that the manner of putting Morgan to death was
different from the relation of Stocking. WILLIAM Tatar-
Sworn before nse,at Niagara. Upper Canada. this twentieth day
Qf`.MarrI», 1827, J. B. Cannon, J. P-
Gcnesee County, N() 25.
se. Joust Mann. being swom, depeseth and saith,
that about the time that he heard and understood that William
Morgan had been taken away from Batavia, he bad n conversalltm
with Richard Howard. of Bnlfalo, bookbinder, (who works, Or did
work, with Mr. H»tsltins,) who then informed this deponent that
Morgan was confined in Fort Niagara. And he believes. ill the
same conversation with said Howard, he informed him that 5"
persons had drawn lots to see who it would fall upon to execv1¢
the laws of Masonry upon Morgan: that the lot fell upon him He
seemed much distressed, and clasped his hands together Md 'I'
claimed, My God! must it be done! or some words to lllll
"5i9°l'
He appeared to be under an
impression that his Masonic obliga-
tions plsced him under a
necessity of submitting to do an act Wlllflll
seemed abhorrent to his natural feelings. In subsequent convffill-
tions said Howard gave this deponent to understand that the C10-
cution had been performed, but said nothing more as toltis 0101
<w~v
_
_
1te1>aNn1x. xxxiii
agency in the transaction. This deponent further saith, that until
within a few days past his mind has been very unsettled as to the
course which he ought to have pursued in relation to the communi-
cations so made to him; and he has been operated upon in some
degree by fears for his personal safety, and doubts as to the extent
of his obligations to observe secrecy in respect to the statements so
communicated to him. That a few days ago he held at consultation
with a friend, as to the general duties of a
person so situated; and
he at last determined to communicate the facts to some
person who
might feel bound to act upon them as
public good should seem to
require. .
.louis MANN.
Sfvorn, the twentyjirst day of February, 1827, before me,
, Wii.t.|Atu H. TISDALE, First Judge of Genesee.
Niagara County, NO. 26.
ss. Eowaao Grooms, of the county aforesaid,
being duly sworn, saith, that he has resided at Fort Niagara from
the year eighteen hundred and fifteen till the present time. with the
exception of about eight months. That from the year sixteen to the
year twenty, this tleponent had charge of the building, called the
tnagazine,the greater part ofthe time. That when the United States'
troops leli the fort in the month of May last. this deponent again
took charge of the building, and continued so in charge until about
the first of August, when he gave up the keys to Col. E. Jewell,
who yet retains the care of it. This building stands on the southerly
side of the tort-is built of stone, about the height of a common two
story building, and measures about fifty by thirty feet on the
ground
-is arched over-the side and end walls are about four feet t ick--
the wall over the top is about eight feet thick, and is considered bomb
pronil-covered with a
shingle roof. There is but one door, around
which there is a small entry,to which there is a door also. There
are no windows or apertures in the walls, except a small ventilator
for the admission of air, and one small window in each end about
ten feet from the ground-they are
usually kept closed, and locked
on the outside with a padlock-these shutters are made of plank,
covered with sheet iron-the floor is laid with plank, pinned to the
sleepers with wood pins. That at the time certain persons were
at the fort in January last, Col. Jewett being unwell, this deponent
was
requested to visit the magazine, which they wished to examine.
That on
entering and examining the said building, one of the floor
planks, supposed to be one and an half inches thick, was observed
by some of the committee to have been newly broken, directly on
One of the sleepers, and about six feet from orie end; and this de~
ponent was inquired of by some of the committee how that plank
became broken. This depouent told them he did not know: far-
fl
sxxiv . srreumx.
ther, he has new no recollection of its being broken when he gate
up the keys, and believes it was not. This deponenthas
also been
inquired nf whether a loose door, which the committee saw in the
building, helonged there, or was there, when he gave up possession;
to which this deponent answeredthat it did not belong to the build-
ing, nor did he recollect of its being there at the time
hesunendered
the key. Farther, whether it has been usual to admit anyhquid
within the building; to which this deponent answered that he never
admittrl any while he had charge, npr was it usual, so far
as_l\S
knowledge extends; and he should suppose it one of the last things
to be admitted to such a place The chief aim ought to be to keep
it dry; the utmost care has always been taken, and the
key of tht
building only intrusted with particular persons. On entering lllf
building it has been usual to remove or leave the shoes at
the_do0r,
or else draw on woollen socks over them. There is, nearly In the
middle of the tloor, frame pieces upon which to lay fixed
Blllmu'
nition. The usual arrangement of the boxes, kegs, &c. contamtlg
powder, is to place them round the building on the floor, soflr 1119*
tant from the wall as to prevent them contracting dampn¢SSt 535'
from one totwo feet, unless empty, when they are set next the Will-
Enwnan GIDPINS-
Subscribed and sworn to, al Porter, in the county 0 N'"L""f
flue nineteentliday of.March, 1827, before me, A. G. INMAN-
No. 27.
W
Niagara, [L C. JlIarch3l 1-
Gentlemen-On my return from my parliamentary duties at Yoill, Nl"
served in the Albany Observer a letter datcd 'Lewiston, N. Y.
J|nuar,;
18273 in which I
perceived some indirect allusions to the name 0f'M'" '.
a member of Parltament,' to whose house, it is stated, a William Morgmt °t
Batavia, was brought, 'blindfolded and tied.'
Now, gentlemen, I beg leave to declare through the medium Of y0\f P"
per, to your readers and to the world at large, that no such occurrefwe eff
took place-that on the night of the 14th of September, 1826, nor atm)
other time, was Morgan in my house to my knowledge. And I
fllfl-llefgfi
clare the said Morgan is to me an utter stranger, except as to rep0'l§ an.
never exchanged a word with the man in my life, and would not know lil!"
tifom the greatest stranger in existence.
`
_
'
_
as
In justice to my own reputation, as well as tdthat of my family and fnen
A
I
hereby
most
solemnly assert the whole statement to be
utter? fungi
unfoun ed. And further, thatl neverconverscd withthe hrothero *'f` an
(Stccking,) of Buffalo, on the affair of Morgan, as to his obdl0U0|'r "l
h."
the appearance of the letters alluded to in that paper, ivhe1.|¢¢"°d °"
T;
tor that purpose; and he then most explicitly declared tlllfb' md
"Th
given me as his author to Dr. ******, and admitted that] neverhad
h°
slightest conversation with him on the subject previous. |C°"ld dd mi
ff
foregoingdeclarations and assertions, my own afhdavit, ifll@C@HS¥"Y» as We
as that of my
family; consisting of three
persons, and a worthy and l'¢9P°°"i"
ole gentleman and dy who slept that night at my house. I cannot ruff!-I1
#rom
expressing my belief; before I close this letter, that malint, P11791 W'
i
~v~~
wiv-,__ _
'
Arrnxnix. xxxv
foul revenge, are at the bottom of the heart of him, whoever he may be, that
would thus villainously attempt to assassinate the character of any man in
society. I mean to cast no reflection on the characters of the gentlemen
who formed the committee of vigilance, but on him to. whom it justly be-
longs. ./Ind from declarations made wen on the uso or neun, that he, the
Dr. ******, would be revenged ofme, for aulrling to destroy a den of rogues and
coiners, with whmn. he was omplkated, has been his only inducement tluw lo do.
As, gentlemen, I am the onl member of Parliament residing in Niagara
whose name commences with the letter M., I have come
to, the conclusion
that I am
particularly referred to; and beg you will insert in your paper this
refutntion of the infamous and iiiul charges.
I am, with respect, your obedient servant,
Enw. M'Bmns, M. P. P.
N0. 29.
First Proclamation of the Governor.
Di: Wrrr Cusrou, Governor of the state of New York, to state oilicers
and ministers of justice in the said state, and particularly in
L. S- the county of Genesee and the neighboring counties: Greeting.
Wannsss information, under oath, has been transmitted to me
by Theodore F.Tnlbot, Esq. and other citizens ofthe county ofGenesee, acting
as a. committee in behalf of the people of that county, representing that divers
outrages and
oppressions
have been committed on the rights of persons re-
siding in the vil
age
of Batavia; and that disturbances have ensued which
are injurious, an may prove destructive to peace and good order in that
iarter:-Now, therefore, I enjoin it upon you, and each of you, to pursue
gl proper and edicient measures for the apprehension of the offenders, and
the prevention of tiiture outrages. And I do also request the good citizens
of this state to co-operate with the civil authorities in maintaining the ascen-
dancy ol' law and good order.
Second Proelmnution ofthe Governor.
Witness, it has been represented to me that William Morgan, who was
unlawfully
conveyed
from the jail of the county of Ontario sometime in the
month of Septem er last, has not been found; and that it might have it bene-
fical effect in restoring him to his family, and in
promotinfg
the detection and
punishment of the
,perpetrators
of this violent outrage, i ,
in addition to the
proceedings hereto ore adopted by me, a
proclamation was issued oilering a.
specific reward for these purposes:-.N°ow, therefore, in order that the ofl`en~
dere may be brought to condign punishment, and the violated majesty of the
laws thereby effectually vindicated, I do hereby oder, in addition to the as-
surances of compensation heretofore given, a reward of three hundred dollars
for the discovery of the oH'enders, and a reward of one hundred dollars for
the discovery of any and every one of them-to be paid on conviction; and
also a further reward of two hundred dollars for authentic information of the
place where the said VWlliam Morgan has been conveyed. And Ido enjoin it
upon all sheritis, magistrates, and other otiicers and ministers of justice, to
be vigilant and active in the discharge of their duties on this occasion.
IN witness whereof; I have hereunto set my hand and tho
L- 5- privy seal, at the city of Albany, this 26th day of October, Anno
Domini 1826. _
Ds Wrrr Currrou.
Third Proclamation ofthe Governor.
Wusnsss, the measures adopted for the discovery of William Morgan,
after his unlawful abduction from Canandaigua in September last, have not
been attended with success; and whereas many of the good citizens of thi
xxxvi urssnrx.
state are undcr an impression, from the lapse of time and other circumstan-
ces, that he has been murdered:-.N'ow, therefore, to the end that, if living.
hc may bc restored to his family; and if murdered, that the
perprltratorsmay
be brought to condign punishment, I have thought tit to issue t
'
proclama-
tion, promising a reward of om: 'movsarm no|.Lans for the discovery of' the
sand William Morgan, if alive; and, if murdered, a reward of 'rwo raousarvn
n:u.t.Aas tor the discovery of the offender or offenders: to be paid on convic-
tion and on the certiticutc of the attomey general, or ofliccr prosecuting on
mc pan gf the_state, that the person or persons claiming the said last men-
iiunrwl reward rs or are justly entitled to the same, under this proclamation.
_-nd I further promise a tree pardon, so far as l am authorized under the
constitution of this state, to any accomplice or
co-operator
who shall makea
rhll discovery of _the otiender or otlenders. And I o
enjoin it upon all 05-
rcrs and ministers of justice, and all other persons, to be vigilant and active
in bringing to justice the perpetrators of a crime so abhorrent to humanity,
:Lvl so derogatory from the nsccndency of law and good order.
ln witness whereof; I have hereunto set my hand and the
L. S. privy seal, nt the city of Albany, this 19th day of March, Anno
Dumini 1527. Da V|-rr Cnrxrox.
NO. 30. [Referred to in page 2l.]
'l`he onl ~
passenger who went in the stage from Rochester to Lewiston, on
the 13th ol?Septcmbcr, 1826, the day, ofcourse, after
Mor§an
was taken away
trom Canandaigua, and the day on which he was carrie from Rochester to
Lewiston, was a reverend clergyman of Rochester, who otiiciated in some ea-
pzicity at the Lewiston installation on the 14th. The stage
stopped
at Mur-
|lock's tavern, near the residence of Brown. Ahoy was immediate y despatch-
vd on horseback with a note from this gentleman to Brown, and a request that
he would come without any dclay onthe same horse which the boy had ridden.
Brown cnme accordingly, and had o
private interview with the reverend gentle-
man. Tlus was but a short time before he brought his horses to the same
tavern, where he fed them, and waited for the carriage.
At Buffalo, a man, high in otlice, declared that he was astonished that Mil~
lar had been permitted to go so far in printing the hook; and that if Morgan
should come there, there were twenty men who would take his life in less
than half an hour.
In Attica, a former member of the legislature declared as follows:-'lf they
are
publishing the true secrets of Masonry, I should not think the lives of
half a_ dozen such men as Morgan and Miller of any consequence in sup
pressing the vvork.'
'
ln Le Roy, a
physician, formerly sheriffof the county, declared at a public ta-
hle, 'That the book should be suppressed if it cost every oneofthem their lives/
In Batavia, a
person holdin a respectable ollice declared to another odi-
cer-'That Miller's otlice would not stand there
long!
A justice of the
peace
in Le Ro said--'If he co d catch Morgan on the
bridge in the
night
e would find the bottom of that mill pond.'
A judge of e
county court of Genesee said-'That whatever Morgau's
titte might have been, he deserved it--he had forfeited his life.'
A high
priest
of the order at Le Boy said-'That Morgan deserved death-
he hoped e had received it-a common death was too good for him.'
A justice of the
lpeace
in Middlebury, a sober, res ectable man, said
pub-
iicly-'Thataman rad a right to pledge his |ife;' andpthen observed to t ose
who answered him-'What can ou do? what can a rat do with a lion? who
are your judges? who are your she;-ids? and who will be your jurymenl'
_,.;_4_¢a~
